C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Frequently Asked Questions 

 Frequently Asked Questions 
 Q: What are some of the other Jung societies in the Pacific Northwest? 
 A: The following organizations cater to the general public: 

 C.G. Jung Society of Victoria 
 P.O. Box 5532 
 Victoria, BC V8R6S4 
 CANADA 

 C.G. Jung Society of Vancouver 
 P.O. Box 51506 
 911 Park Royal 
 West Vancouver, BC V7T2X9 
 CANADA 

 (604) 739-0131 

 C.G. Jung Society of Olympia 
 P.O. Box 7571 
 Olympia, WA 98507 

 Oregon Friends of C.G. Jung 
 811 N.W. 20th 
 Portland, OR 97209 

 (503) 223-3080 

 Q: Are there any local Jungian professional organizations? 
 A: The following organizations are in the Seattle area: 

 Jungian Psychotherapists Association 
 (206) 784-9977 

 North Pacific Institute for Analytical Psychology 
 (206) 860-1461 

 Q: How can I find a list of Jungian therapists in the area? Can the Society provide such a list? 
 A: The Society does not currently offer such a list nor does it provide therapist recommendations. However, Society events are a good place to meet analysts. Instead, we would refer you to the two professional organizations listed above (JPA and NPIAP), which should be able to provide you with lists. Q: I'm interested in lay training. Do any local Jung organizations offer this? 
 A: Both of the above-listed local organizations (JPA and NPIAP) offer such training. Please contact them for details. 

-->

 Q: I may be too late to preregister for a workshop. Can I still attend? 
 A: We do not request preregistration for lectures; however, preregistration for the Saturday workshops helps the Society anticipate attendance. It also ensures a place for you. Preregistration is due two weeks prior to the workshop date. However, preregistration for workshops is not required, and there is no penalty for registering later. An online preregistration form is provided. 
 Q: I see that there is a discount for memberships for seniors. At what age is one considered a senior for the purposes of the discount? 
 A: The senior discount begins at age 62. 
 Q: Are the Jung Society lectures recorded? I missed one that I really wanted to attend. 
 A: Yes, most are recorded on audio tape. Members may borrow tapes from the Society library. 
 Q: I see that many of the books mentioned on your site are linked to Amazon.com. Why is this and what is your relationship with Amazon.com? 
 A: To learn more, please see Direct Links to Online Book Information . 
 Q: I'm interested in credit for attending Society lectures and workshops. Is this possible? 
 A: 

 Q: 

 A: 
-->

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 23 December 1999 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org