C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Home Page 

 About the Society 
 Membership 
 Preregistration 
 Directions 
 Volunteers & 
 Donations 
 The Board 
 Quarterly News 
 Fall 2005 
 Archives 
 Inside Pages 
 Winter 2006 (.pdf) 
 In-Depth Edition 

 All Editions 

 Library 
 Book Lists 
 FAQ 
 Related Links 
 Winter 2006 Events 

 January 8 
 Twelfth Night Festivities for members 
 January 13 
 Dreams, the Life Blood of the Psyche . Lecture by Eberhard Riedel, Ph.D., D.C.S.W. 
 January 18 and 25, February 1 and 8 
 Dreams, the Life Blood of the Psyche . Class by Eberhard Riedel, Ph.D., D.C.S.W. 

 January 28 
 The Evolution of the Centro de Desarollo Integral, Ecuado (.pdf, page 2). Joseph Campbell Roundtable by Greg Shaw, Ph.D. 
 February 10 
 The Myth of Narcissus and Depth Psychological Understandings of Narcissim . Lecture by Christine Downing, Ph.D. 

 February 11 
 Revisioning Narcissism . Workshop by Christine Downing, Ph.D. 

 March 3 
 Psyche in the Garden: The Mythic Power of Place . Lecture by Shirley McNeil, Ph.D. 
 March 8, 15, 22, 29 
 Psyche in the Garden: The Mythic Power of Place . Class by Shirley McNeil, Ph.D. 
 April 1 
 Dream Rem Therapy Workshop for Seniors. Workshop by Jonathan Gerson, M.A. 

 Bulletin Board 

 Greece trip with Downing 
 Toronto Jungian conference 
 Horne and Ulanov in Seattle 
 Therapist group forming 

 The Society is a nonprofit educational corporation formed to provide a forum for the ideas of C.G. Jung. The Jung Society sponsors lectures, workshops, seminars, and study groups by both locally and nationally known Jungian scholars, and its events are, for the most part, intended for the general public. Most events take place at the Good Shepherd Center. More about the Society .

 Office/Library: Good Shepherd Center, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Room 222, Seattle, WA 98103 
 Phone: (206) 547-3956 Fax: (206) 547-7746 
 Office e-mail: office@jungseattle.org Webmaster: webmaster@jungseattle.org 

 Carl Gustav Jung, Swiss psychiatrist (1875-1961), was one of the great pioneers in the area of depth psychology and the field now known as adult development theory. His ideas probe beyond the rational description of human problems and behavior to the inner focus and meaning of our lives. Jung's contributions to psychology include the concepts of introversion and extraversion, synchronicity, archetype, and the collective unconscious. 

 When so many devoted their genius to creating the means to destroy the world, Jung went inward on a lonely and dangerous journey, discovering those creative synthesizing forces within the human psyche that might enable the world to survive. He learned that by honestly facing personal conflicts on the most everyday level, we each confront the deepest spiritual problems of universal human concern. 
 Jung's life, his mission, and his voice are a challenge and a source of illuminating hope. 

 Today's Date 

 Search Amazon.com: 
 Books
 Popular Music
 Classical Music
 Video

 Enter keywords: 

 Updated: 
 7 January, 2006 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org