C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Inside Pages In-Depth 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Inside Pages: In-Depth 

 Special Edition on the Web 

 Inside Pages: In-Depth is an online journal that provides an open space for the sharing of ideas, observations, and research in the field of archetypal psychology. Members of the Jung Society are invited to submit writings that are intended to inform, entertain, and intrigue. If you have read a book, attended the theatre, a dance performance, an art exhibit, or a movie, and you have noticed archetypal themes in the work that
 are particularly meaningful to you, consider writing a review and submitting your work to Inside Pages: In-Depth . 

 Inside Pages: In-Depth on the Web will be able to post essays from 500 to 
 4,000 words (2-20 pages). Accompanying illustrations and photographs can be 
 included; please verify permission to use copyrighted images. 

 Submissions will be accepted and reviewed on an 
 ongoing basis. Please send 
 essays as email attachments to Connie Eichenlaub at 
 connieei@u.washington.edu . 
 Note that these essays can be viewed as Acrobat (.pdf) files. 

 Volume 4: Jung and the Eastern Traditions 

 The I Ching does not offer itself with proofs and 
 results; it does not vaunt itself, nor is it easy to 
 approach. Like a part of nature, it waits until it is 
 discovered. It offers neither facts nor power, but for 
 lovers of self-knowledge, of wisdom &#8212; if there be such &#8212; it seems to be the right book. To one person its spirit appears as clear as day; to another, shadowy as
 twilight; to a third, dark as night. He who is not 
 pleased by it does not have to use it, and he who is 
 against it is not obliged to find it true. Let it go forth into the world for the benefit of those who can discern its meaning. 

 &#8212; C. G. Jung, Zurich, 1949, from
 the Foreword to the Wilhelm/Baynes translation of the 
 I Ching . 

 Jung was no stranger to the East; we see how greatly 
 influenced he was through his many reflections on 
 Taoism, Buddhism, and Hinduism. Volume 4 of Inside Pages In-Depth honors Jungs investigation 
 into the East. We thank our contributors, James 
 Gossett and Joseph Cambray, and hope you are inspired 
 and renewed by the wisdom and spirit of the East 
 through their explorations of Jung and his journey
 Eastward. 

 NEW " An Analytic Compass " (.pdf) is an essay by James Gosset, Ph.D. 
 " The Place of the 17th Century in Jungs Encounter with China " (.pdf) is an essay by Joseph Cambray, Ph.D. 

 Volume 3 
 Welcome to Inside Pages In-Depth, Vol. 3. Psyche and the Spirit of the Times is a series of Community Conversations on the state of the American psyche created in cooperation with Antioch University, Seattle. 

 At the May 20, 2005 event, Maxine Anderson, M.D. and George McGrath Callan, Ph.D., presented opening remarks, "Human Violence: Origins, Emergence, and Rescue." An article (.pdf) by George Callan based on those comments is now available. 
 At the July 23, 2004, event, George Callan, Ph.D., presented opening comments. An article based on those comments, The Poetics of Destruction (.pdf), is now available. 
 Full versions of comments by panel members at the November 5, 2004 session are included in this issue of Inside Pages: In-Depth . 
 Also see the event page for 
 more information about the 
 speakers and the series. 

 Volume 2 
 Welcome to Inside Pages In-Depth, Vol. 2. To celebrate the Seattle Jung
Society's 30th anniversary, this on-line journal will be exploring the theme
of "Archetypal Psychology and the Arts." The first submission
is a review of the play Howard Katz by Patrick Marber. This comes
to us from John Woodcock, former Seattle resident and Society member, via
Sydney, Australia. 

 Note that these essays can be viewed as Acrobat (.pdf) files. 

 This
 essay is a review of the play Howard Katz 
 by Patrick Marcker (2001). John Woodcock, Treasurer of the Jung Society
 in Sydney, Australia, has submitted this for our enjoyment. Sydney's Jung
 Society Web page can be found at www.jungdownunder.com .

 Volume 1
 In the Fall 2001 and Winter 2002 seasons, the C.G. Jung Society was fortunate
to hear lectures from different psychological perspectives on the events
surrounding terrorism. All of us have been affected and have come together
in different forums to try to understand the many dimensions of what is
happening, collectively and personally. A special edition of Inside Pages 
around the theme of "Terror" is presented on the Web as an extension
of the Newsletters Inside Pages: Member-to-Member . 

 The first member essay in this special, " Liberating
 Psyche in the Aftermath of 911 " is contributed by Randy Morris,
 from a presentation given on December 11, 2001 at Antioch University as
 part of a special lecture series addressing the events of September 11,
 2001.
 The second essay is " The Psychology
 of Terrorism and the Third Chakra ," contributed by Charles Zeltzer,
 Ph.D., and is based on a lecture and workshop presented for the C.G. Jung
 Society, Seattle on January 11 and 12, 2002.
 The third essay is " Terrorism ,"
 contributed by John Van Eenwyk, Ph.D., and is based on a lecture presented
 for the C.G. Jung Society, Seattle on October 11, 2001.

 Please also visit the Inside Pages: Member-to-Member 
page. 

 Download Acrobat Reader
if you are unable to view .pdf files. 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 21 August 2005 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org