C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Links to Related Resources 

 Links to Related Resources 
 The C.G. Jung Page (was C.G. Jung, Analytical Psychology, and Culture) 

 Good general-purpose site run by Jungian analyst Donald Williams. Comprehensive guide to resources and a bulletin board. Updated frequently. 

 Kristine Mann Libray 

 Includes a database called JungCW, which allows you to search for keywords in Dr. C.G Jung's Collected Works. 

 The Archive for Research in Archetypal Symbolism (ARAS) 
 Centerpoint at The Education Center 
 NEW 

 Centerpoint is an integral part of The Educational Center, a not-for-profit institution dedicated to the field of transformational learning since 1941. Since the early 1960s, The Center has developed curricula based on two interlocking models: 
 the process of individuation elaborated by depth psychologist C. G. Jung, and 
 a patterned sequence of planning and Socratic delivery that connects the inner world of the &ldquo;student&rdquo; with the archetypal content of sacred and secular literature. 

 West Coast 

 North Pacific Institue for Analytical Psychology 
 (d.b.a. Jungian Analysts-North Pacific) 

 Based in Seattle, this non-profit organization provides professional seminars and analyst education programs, and the web site has a list of member analysts. 

 Jungian Psychotherapists Association 

 A mutually supportive organization of psychotherapists actively engaged in the study and application of Analytical Psychology. The central purpose of the JPA is to further the professional growth, development, and education of its members. 

 C.G. Jung Institute of Los Angeles 

 Programs, bookstore information, and more. 

 Central Coast Jung Society (San Luis Obispo, California) 
 C.G. Jung Institute of San Francisco 

 Programs, Library Journal, continuing education, and psychotherapy services. 

 Pacifica Graduate Institute 
 Oregon Friends of C.G. Jung 

 Web site of this Portland-based group. 

 Other North American 
 Phoenix Friends of C.G Jung 
 The Salt Lake City C.G. Jung Study Group 
 C.G. Jung Educational Center of Houston 
 The Washington (D.C.) Society for Jungian Psychology 
 C.G. Jung Institute of Chicago 
 C.G. Jung Institute - Boston 
 Jung Society of Austin 
 Jung Society of Atlanta 
 Assisi Conferences and Seminars (Vermont) 

 Conferences in Vermont and Assisi, Italy. 

 C.G. Jung Foundation of Ontario 
 C.G. Jung Society of Montreal 
 4361 Wilson Avenue 
 Montreal H4A 2V3 Canada 
 International 
 International Association for Analytical Psychology (Switzerland) 
 The Society of Analytical Psychology (London) 
 The Independent Group of Analytical Psychologists (London) 
 CEPEI, an association of Italian Jungian psychoanalysts who promote research and study in Analytic Psychology 
 The C.G. Jung Institute of Zurich 
 Publishers 
 Inner City Books 

 "Studies in Jungian psychology by Jungian analysts." 

 Spring Publications 

 "Publishing psychological ideas for over half a century." 

 Blackwell Publishers 

 Publisher of the Journal of Analytical Psychology . 

 Other 
 Jung, in Your Dreams 

 Have you ever had a dream in which Carl Jung appeared? Sue Wheeler is collecting and studying these dreams. 

 Archetypal Psych Talk 

 A chat site for discussing Archetypal Psychology, particularly the ideas of James Hillman, C.G. Jung, and others. 

 Temenos Greece 

 A site based in Greece that offers information about classes, seminars, tours, and more. 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 17 April 2005 
 webmaster@jungseattle.org