The March-April What's News Page 

 The March - April 1995 What's News Page 

 NEW! EXCLUSIVE! 

 SLUG TALES: THE FIRST BACK-MASKED PAGE ON THE WWW!!! 
 Must be viewed with Netscape 1.1N 

 April 29, 1995 

 ?ehcuoT ...Right Wing talk shows host have been stung
by President Clinton's charge that their incendiary rhetoric
fuels the hate underlying violence like the Oklahoma City
bombing. G. Gordon Liddy (Watergate felon who suggested on air
that listeners "shoot for the head" of BATF agents to
avoid bullet-proof vests)denies the charge. "I engage in
persausive speech. We must learn to differentiate between speech
and action. As anyone on the right knows, speech does not equate
to action -- unless it's turned around backward on a rock and
roll record." 

 April 26, 1995 

 Doh! 

 In his recently published memoir, "Honey, I Sent the
Kids to a Pointless War", Robert MacNamara reveals that the
Vietnam War was actually a "terrible mistake". 
Oops, indeed! Bob's contrition is doubted by some who've noted
the sponsorship of his book tour by Dominos' Pizza. MacNamara is
reportedly to appear in Dominos' commercials which counter the
recent Pizza Hut spots by Rush Limbaugh. Limbaugh's Pizza Hut ads
have him eating the stuffed crust pizza "wrong" (crust
first). MacNamara's spot reportly has him saying, "Cheesy,
backwards, wrong, full of it -- now you're talking my
language." 

 April 17, 1995 

 Can't you imagine the copy writing discussion that went into
this ad... "OK, now, we need to project an image that's
professional, caring... and an unforgettable 800 number." 

 The foregoing and the following are both from the 4/17/95
"Seattle Times". 

 COPS... in Bothell 

 April 7, 1995 

 Rush Limbaugh is featured in new Pizza Hut commercials for
the "Stuffed Crust Pizza". According to Pizza Hut
spokesperson Will Infarction, "It was a match made in
heaven: our crust is stuffed, and he's full of it." 

 April 6, 1995 

 Bomb's Away? In an attempt to renew the Non-Proliferation
Treaty, President Clinton promised that the U.S. would not use
nuclear weapons to attack any nation which did not possess
nuclear weapons or was trying to acquire them. He didn't promise
he wouldn't change his mind -- but he did say he anticipated no
complaints from subject nations if he did. 

 Comedy Central's "Politically Incorrect" added Kato
Kaelen to the panel discussion for the evening. Despite the fact
that his good friend O.J.'s in jail and on trial for his life,
Kato had a grand old time. Kato nearly fell on the floor laughing
when host Bill Mahr innocently used the phrase, "I'm gonna
take another stab at this..." Kato also fawned over fellow
guest Gary Shandling. Kato came across as the kind of venal,
empty-headed guy who you always speculated might be hiding behind
that blank stare. Give this guy an escalator and a Slinky and
he's got an evening's entertainment. 

 March 26, 1995 

 Is Clinton Bushed? With the massive electoral losses
last November, and the Republican majority in Congress, is
Clinton another one term President? Some have suggested that
Clinton just reconcile himself to this, and just do as much as he
can to annoy the right wing. Evidence to possibly support this
theory is the recent proposal to update U.S, currency, as shown
in the illustration below. 

 March 25, 1995 

 Welcome to Bob95? Even as Microsoft is releasing its
"social interface" called Bob, work is underway to
prepare the next version of the program, which will provide both
more photorealistic characters and support the new features of
Windows95. Such early-stage development work is obviously highly
confidential, but "Slug Tales" has learned a few
details. Support for the "plug and play" feature (which
allows for easy addition and removal of hardware) will be
provided by a new character, Microsoft Bobbitt. 

 March 21, 1995 

 "Oh No" J. Update: Well, Brian
"Kato" Kaelen is facing not only his moment in the
spotlight at the OJ trial, but also public perception that he's a
vapid opportunist. The first round in the PR war may have been
lost. Kato had offered to volunteer to teach disadvantaged school
children in Los Angeles, which certainly could have worked
wonders on his image. Unfortunately, Kato's proposed classes --
"Hollywood on $0 a Day" and "The Art of
Mousse" -- were nixed by school officials. 

 One rap on Kato isn't deserved, the "deer caught in the
headlights" appelation often applied to former Veep Dan
Quayle. To be fair (to deer and Quayle), Kato's more like a Ken
doll caught in the headlights. 

 March 13, 1995 

 The Contract Contracts? One of the most hyped aspects
of the Republican "Contract" -- term limits -- is
having a rocky time. The problem isn't the Democrats this time.
There is division within the Republican party on term limits.
"Term Limits Classic" was a proposal for "Six
Years and You're Out" for the House and "Twelve Years
and You're Out" for the Senate. Some House Republicans felt
that twelve years should apply to both the House and Senate. Now
the word is that an amendment is in the works to allow for
serving twelve years, followed by one year off, and then another
twelve years. What's next? "It would be best if you didn't
spend your entire adult life in Congress." I can hear the
battle cry, "Support Term Limi...er...Guidelines!" 

 March 11, 1995 

 The withdrawal of the nomination of Michael P.C. Carns as CIA
Director once again highlights flawed staff work at the Clinton
White House. Carns' problem was -- surprise -- hiring
undocumented domestic help. Apparently staff screening on this
nominee went no further than the observation that anyone whose
middle initials are "P.C." can't be that bad. 

 How bad is the staff work? Slug Tales submitted three
hypothetical nominees for staff background checks. Staff caught
problems only in the potential nomination of Madonna to succeed
Jocelyn Elders (should the troubled nomination of Henry Foster
fail). Approved without question were the new CIA nominee Rosa
Lopez ("strong knowledge of Latin America") and R.
McDonald for the ficticious position of Burger King. In unrelated
news, Ms. Lopez's attempt to cash in on her O.J. noteriety will
come next month as her tell-all book, "No, Really, Right Now
I'm Telling the Truth", is published. 

 Meanwhile, embattled Surgeon General nominee Henry Foster is
facing new allegations. This time, it's rumored that Foster was
the second gunman on the grassy knoll in Dallas. For good
measure, Foster also denied involvement in the recent Baring's
bank debacle and the Denny's "$1.99 are you out of your
mind?" commercials. 

 March 3, 1995 

 Bob Doleful? Bob Dole has lost some points as
front-runner in the GOP Presidential Futures market because of
the narrow failure of the Balanced Budget Amendment in the
Senate. Dole thought he had an unbeatable 1 - 2 punch with the
Balanced Budget Amendment and Term Limits (require a balanced
budget in 2003 and ensure that no one voting for it will have to
be around then to do the dirty deed.) 

 Clinton and Co. actually appeared competent in narrowly
defeating Bob by asking him to make just one promise about how
they'd do it: don't touch Social Security. The Republicans for
years had cultivated the art of the Virtual Ballot Box Bribery
(vote for me today and I promise you a tax cut tomorrow.) The
Democrats Brain Trust apparently finally woke up and turned the
tables: vote for me today and I won't take away your retirement. 

 Other bad news for Bob Dole is the entry of Richard Lugar
into the '96 cadre of GOP hopefuls. Lugar's entry may be less
than meets the eye, however. Insiders report that his entire
electoral strategy is to capitalize on name familarity with NRA
members, a core GOP constituency. 

 Dole's campaign was also reported troubled by focus groups
testing potential Dole television ads. Focus groups members
reactions to the ads generally showed a low interest level in
both Dole and the '96 campaign at this point in time. The most
common response highlighted Dole's problem as 22% viewing the ads
asked, "Hey man, where's Beavis?" 

 February 26, 1995 

 Exactly a year before the New Hampshire primary, Republican
Wannabee Prezs unofficially kick off the campaign with a series
of appearances. Despite Clinton's obvious weaknesses, the
Republicans at this point seem to lack a compelling alternative.
Front-runner Bob Dole has tried and failed in a Presidential run
before. Before officially entering the race, he's got to fight a
list of negatives including: he's too old, too moderate, and too
mean-spirited. 

 Of course, the charge that Dole is too moderate must be
considered in the context of Republicans party politics, where a
moderate position on abortion is outlaw except to save the life
of the mother or if performed with a semi-automatic assault
rifle. 

 How bad is the talent gap for the Republicans? In a straw
poll of NH Republicans the second-place candidate (Colin
Powell)has just two negatives: isn't running and he may not even
be Republican. The other aspiring Republican candidates each have
less than 10% support. 

 Still, they're an interesting crew. With the departure of Dan
"huh?" Quayle from the race, the hard-core
conservatives are split between Phil Gramm and -- on the Rabid
Right -- Pat Buchanan. Of these two, Phil Gramm is the most
interesting, if only because by all appearances, he just could be
the love child of Mr. Magoo and Yoda. 

 Within a day of Dan Quayle's departure from the race, Newt
Gingrich was pondering entering the fray, but he decided to keep
out. Apparently, Quayle's loss left the Forrest Gump vote up for
grabs, which explains why a bell went off in Gingrich's mind. 

 So, where was Clinton while all this was going on? Why, he
was in California, playing golf with Jerry Ford and George Bush.
At least Clinton didn't bean anybody with a ball (which is more
than Ford or Bush can say.) Still, somebody's got to talk with
Clinton's PR crew. What a photo opportunity: Clinton, Bush, and
Ford -- looks like an organizational meeting for the Single
Termer's Club. 

 Return
to the What's News Page! 

 Return to the Slug Tales' Home Page! 

 Return to Steve's Home Page