C-PERT Home Page 

 Welcome to the C-PERT
Home Page: 

 Committee for
Personal Empowerment 
and Responsibility
in Telephony 

 Remember to
Ask Your Presidential Candidate 
Where He Stands on the "Free Call" Boondoggle! 

 Why C-PERT? 

 A re-awakening is under-way in America. Lulled into passivity
and dependence on government hand-outs and quick fixes, the
1990's saw a re-birth in awareness of the importance of that
most basic of traditional values: Personal Responsibility . 

 We believe that in the New Century the Personal Responsibility Revolution shouldn't
be limited to the legislatures and churches, but to be
meaningful, it must be brought into the homes and lives of us
all. That's why we started C-PERT. 

 What are C-PERT's Goals? 

 Quite simply, we want to spread the simple message that
there's no "free lunch". If we want to achieve
self-sufficiency in the Big Things, we must not neglect
self-sufficiency in the "small things." And that Pull
Your Own Weight ethic shouldn't stop when you pick up the phone. 

 Just as decades of food stamps and welfare have brought us a
vicious cycle of poverty and dependency, the false promise of
"toll free" long distance calls obscures the true cost
of so-called "800 service" for businesses and society
as a whole. The misapprehension that such calls are
"free" leads to drastically escalated phone charges for
business which are inevitably passed on to those who really pay
the bills: customers. 

 What Harm Could 800 Numbers Do? 

 Many people think of 800 numbers as a simple convenience ,
but sophisticated economic analysis and tendentious dissembling
by experts show that nothing could be further from the truth. 

 In addition to increasing business phone cost, 800 numbers
have actually been shown to distort the free market and interfere
with the normal operation of unfettered capitalism. 

 For example, the lack of distance-based tolls encourages a
fiction that geographic location is irrelevant. So a supplier -
which might otherwise rationally locate its business location
physically near its major customers - is artificially subsidized
in its decision to choose a remote locale. The resulting
consequences include increased shipping costs for both the
business and its customers, waste of energy associated with
shipping and transport, and a dampening of economic growth
synergy in the area where both supplier and customer would
otherwise be located. In short: it's bad for communities, bad for the
environment, and ultimately bad for business. 

 The fact is that in an increasingly competitive global
economy, we cannot afford shackling ourselves with inefficiency
and waste. America's dirty little secret is that the celebrated
800 number may inexorably launch us into a downward spiral of
higher prices, non-competitiveness, pollution, and job loss. 

 Who Pays for 800 Number Calls? 

 Ultimately: you do. The cost of 800 (or 888 / 877!!!) calls is paid by
the party called. This means that the cost of 800 number calls is built
into the price you pay for everyday goods, whether you use the 800 number or
not. It may be "convenient" for you, but remember that in
the cost of the goods you buy are the interminably long 800 calls from lonely
people who choose to live in remote parts of the country. That
"free call" is costing YOU money! 

 What About 888 and 877 Numbers? 

 Few things are more revealing about the self-consciousness of the telephone
companies than their recent "stealth" 888 and 877 numbers. Don't
be fooled! These are just 800 numbers that are attempting to
"pass" as ordinary phone numbers. 

 My God! 
 What Can I Do About
This? 

 First and foremost, you must take Personal Responsibility 
for your telephone use and you must urge others to do so also: 

 If you must use an 800 number, do so briefly - and only
 long enough to determine a non-800 number through which
 you can contact the company. 
 Do business only with companies that don't offer the
 "luxury" of a "toll free" number: in
 the long run it will cost you less. Tell them you
 appreciate their stand: on your own dime! 
 Contact your legislators today and let them know how
 you feel on this vital issue. Democrats must hear
 that you will not support this welfare state shifting of
 costs from one group of consumers to another. Republicans
 must hear that you expect their Personal Responsibility
 rhetoric in other areas to be matched with action on
 Personal Responsibility for Telephony. 
 Don't fall for Red Herring arguments! Truly needy
 telephone users can be helped by local charities and
 churches. Cost shifting and "toll free" numbers
 in the long run only hurts those it is intended to help.
 Be generous in your personal charity, but don't be duped!

 Access your Internet Service Provider through a long
 distance call, even if they offer a "local
 number". Virtually all Internet connections travel
 over what should rightly be long distance data circuits.
 Again, voluntary Personal Responsibility should be your
 guiding principle. 

 How Can I Get Further Information? 

 You can email us at C-PERT. Email: responsible@C-PERT.org 

 1997-2000, Committee
for Personal Responsibility for Telephony 
All Rights Deserved. 

 Return to the Slug Tales Home Page 

 The
Latest Nonsense....