Our Trip to Ukraine, June - July 1996 

 Our Trip to Ukraine 
 June - July 1996 

 In June and July of 1996 our family made a trip to Ukraine, visiting
Lviv, Kyyiv, and Odesa. Here are a few of our photographs. During our trip, we travelled
with my wife's parents, Omelan and Maria Hrab, and visited many members of our family in
Ukraine. We were also fortunate to be in Ukraine at the time the Constitution was adopted. 

 Obligatory Educational Content: 

 Link to the latest news about Ukraine from the
 Washington
Post or link to the best general interest resource Oleh Baran's Ukraine homepage . 

 Click on the small pictures to see a larger
picture... use your browser's Back button to return to this page. 

 Lviv & Surrounding Village Scenes 

 Omelan Hrab at a memorial in his home village
 of Zashiv. 

 Various family next to bus rented from a
 collective farm for our visit to the village. 

 Here is a picture of Maria with cousins Michosh
 and Irena. 

 A picture of Maria, Steve, Maria Hrab in their
 room at the Grand Hotel in Lviv. 

 The spectacular Opera House in Lviv. 

 The folklore museum in Lviv. 

 The village of Zashiv has a beautiful small church, here
 are exterior and interior views, and a photo of the bell tower at the church. 

 Ukrainian fast food? Stopping to snack on currants as we
 walk through Zashiv. 

 A stunning wood church at Shevchenkivskiy Hi, a preserve of
 many historical buildings in Lviv. It was constructed entirely without nails. 

 The cultures meet! Maria and her cousins share macaroni and
 cheese -- and perohy -- in Lviv. 

 Kyyiv, Kaniv, & Odesa 

 St. Andrew's Church 

 St. Sophia, exterior view 

 St. Sophia, a beautiful photo inside the church

 A doorway at St. Sophia. 

 One of hundreds of frescos at St. Sophia 

 Portion of iconstasis at St. Sophia 

 The bell tower at St. Sophia 

 Maria and friend at the Kyyiv Train Station,
 heading out for an overnight trip to Odesa. 

 Steve, at the statue of Kay, Schek, Khoriv,
 & Lebid' at the Dniepro River. 

 Visiting the grave of Taras Shevchenko at Kaniv. 

 Maria, placing flowers at the grave. 

 Building at Turkish fort on the Black Sea an hour from
 Odessa. The left tower was used as a prison, (a particularly unpleasant thought on the 98
 degrees F day we visited.) 

 Return to Steve's Home Page.