Welcome to The Slug Tales' What's Not New 1996 Pages 

 What's Not News Any
More: 
1996 Archive 

 Capitol Chatter from Roger Locust Amherst III ... All The News We're In a Fit to Print 

 What Price Buchanan? 

 Losing the Nomination, but Gaining Influence 

 (Washington, DC, NNS; April 1st) With the Republican
nomination wrapped up, Dole's problem is retaining the
anti-choice segments of his party without alienating the moderate
voters that will make or break his third run for the White House.
Washington was abuzz with a bombshell from the network Sunday
morning public affairs shows. Pat Buchanan, who refuses to end
his candidacy, despite having no mathematical chance of winning,
suggested on the Fox program, "Face the Nation" what
would be his price for Dole's support in the Fall campaign. 

 In response to a question from Leslie Stahl, Buchanan
announced, "You know, Leslie, I've been thinking about it
and there's one thing Bob Dole could do to make himself square
with the good people who've supported this campaign. "If Bob
Dole wants those working people out there to come out for him,
he's just got to do one thing to send the message that Dole's
Republican party is going to remain 110% pro-life." 

 Buchanan then unveiled what he referred to as "The
Paramount and Ultimate Human Life Act" Sweeping far beyond
any previous proposals, the new law would declare that potential
human life begins not at conception, but at the moment of
production of sperm. Further, a provision of the Act - which
Buchanan described as "aimed directly at the pro-abortion
lobbies" - calls for "civil rights" for sperm,
including the right to vote. Jaws on the journalist panel went
slack when Buchanan announced that he'd personally talked with
Bob Dole, "And Bob has assured me that as President, we'll
see this proposal become law of the land." 

 Following a hasty commercial break, the panel peppered
Buchanan with questions about the new proposal. Reporter Rita
Braver asked, "If you are serious, how would this all
work... who's going to complete the ballots for sperm?"
Buchanan replied that "pre-conceived Republicans"
should have every right given to gang members and immigrants and
that his pro-family values dictate that the future fathers of the
sperm be granted parental rights to vote for them. "We're
not going to have some liberal out there telling us that they
know what's in sperm's best interest." 

 The Dole campaign kept a low profile on the issue, but a
spokesperson issues a written statement confirming that the
candidate had, "in principle" endorsed the Buchanan
proposal. "This is a difficult issue for all Americans, but
I think we have to decide this one in favor of our potential
children and our potential children's potential children." 

 At the White House, Clinton advisors at first gleefully
ridiculed the proposal, declaring that Clinton might go with the
slogan, "When condoms are outlawed, only outlaws will have
condoms," referring to the implications of the "civil
rights" provisions. Later, a more circumspect George
Stephanopolis told the panel on "David Brinkley's This
Weak", that the President was studying the proposal and
would have a response shortly. In a day when campaign advisors
maneuver for even the smallest segment of swing voters, the
Clinton crowd was considering its options. "We're seriously
thinking of giving eggs the vote," according to
Stephanopolis. 

 When later questioned about the Stephanopolis comment,
Buchanan chortled, "If Clinton wants to give every radical
feminist a couple thousand extra votes for their eggs, we'll be
more than happy to see right-minded Republican men with a few
hundred million more votes each." Facing an outraged group
of women's leaders later in the day, Clinton vowed to re-examine
this position. "Maybe we'll have to try one of those
affirmative action deals," the President observed. 

 March 20 th : 

 Republican Recap... With the primary
"season" over, we're into the desperate months for
presidential politics. The primaries were even more
"compressed" than hoped for, with the major revelation
being that these guys could probably work most of America up to
disgust and political apathy even if they did the whole delegate
selection process in a half-hour infomercial. 

 The big loser in all this, of course, is Steve Forbes, the
jolly junior media baron who proved that any kid can grow up and
run for President, provided they're born into a few billion.
Forbes' longshot strategy of hanging in and waiting for Dole to
either blow his temper or a cranial artery turned into the
Republican version of "Ishtar"... or was it
"Heaven's Gate? 

 The fate of Pat Buchanan is less certain. It's entirely
possible that Dole will give Buchanan a major role at the
Republican convention. Right. You'll see Buchanan reprising his
cultural war diabtribe right about the time you see Dole pick a
gay running mate. Both conventions will be 100% sterile and
minutely planned to a finely honed yawn. So, look for a lot of
wacky, we-gotta-say-something media coverage. We're probably only
a few days away from a CNN analysis of the Internet presence of
the candidates. It'll a be serious piece of work, but they'll
never ask the central question: Bob Dole Web Site? Somehow this
is even a bit more of an embarassing stretch than Clinton on MTV
in '92 (not to mention what will undoubtably be even more so as
Bill ' n Al ply the "tried and true" formula again this
year. But, c'mon: Bob Dole web site? Isn't that a little like
Amish Software? 

 But, of course, there really is a Bob Dole Web Site, and
unless they've changed it recently, it features a neato
"Make Your Own Campaign Poster" page where you can
declare your own -- or Hitler's and Satan's -- devotion to Dole,
complete with a photo and Dole for President Committee credit. 

 February 18, 1996 

 GOP Fat Cats on the Dole? OK: let's see if you've been
paying attention.... Phil Gramm dropped out because nobody voted
for him in the Iowa caucus. Although a hard right conservative
himself, Gramm has endorsed Dole in the New Hampshire primary.
Logically this means that since nobody much voted for Gramm in
Iowa, the endorsement means that Gramm's throwing nobody much's
support behind Dole in New Hampshire... Got it? 

 February 12, 1996 

 Dole's narrow victory in Iowa spells trouble for him, with Pat
Buchanan running strong. Meanwhile, Steve Forbes spent something
approaching $10 million dollars on television spots in the Iowa
Caucus. For Forbes, this amounted to about $1,000 per vote he
received at the Caucus. As disappointed as the Forbes camp might
be, Phil Gramm's performance reminds one that when it comes to
political heavyweights, you can fit 28 Gramms and still come up
short of an ounce. 

 The big question for many is how will Forbes' campaign play
out. Was he just the media's Flavor of the Week? Are the media so
used to listening to Ross Perot that they assume that any rich
guy trying to buy his way into the field is a story owrth
reporting? Or was it just a big media joke&#133; and once they
had that picture of Steve Forbes eating a Big Mac, was it all
over? Looking at Forbes, a part of you just wants him to stay in
long enough to answer that hard ball question from CNN's Bernard
Shaw, "Well, you know, Bernie, I've always wondered why if
there's so much poverty in Somolia, why don't they just get
themselves a Capital Gains tax cut?" 

 February 9, 1996 

 With the Pat Buchanan victory in the Louisiana Caucus, Phil
Gramm has thrown down the gauntlet in Iowa, and it looks like
Iowa will be the site of the Battle for the Spleen of the
Republican Party. 

 February 5, 1996 

 With all the griping about "special
interests" these days, at least one constituency has been
rather poorly served until now -- check out The Mad
Scientists' Web Page and see just
how "special" an "interest group" can be! 

 To quote from the home page: 

 Topics of interest
include, but are not limited to: 

 - Creating life to
satisfy egocentric motives. 

 - Unleashing entities
beyond human control and comprehension. 

 - Tampering with the
life-sustaining forces of the Universe. 

 - Exceeding the
limitations of the human body via grotesque metamorphoses. 

 - New applications for
old technologies (alchemy, necromancy, etc.). 

 - Ill-advised
collaboration with alien and/or supernatural intelligences. 

 - Life-long devotion to
researching the pointless and inane. 

 - Callous disregard for
human experimental subjects. 

 - Exacting bizarre
revenge on contemptuous and derisive peers. 

 And, in case you're wondering, it's NOT sponsored by the
Buchanan for President campaign. 

 February 4, 1996 

 THE INTERNET "DOH!" AWARD: Commenting on the
passage of the Telecomm Reform Bill (with its provisions for
Internet censorship), PC Week's John Dodge writes,
"(T)elecomunications deregulation in this country is
comparable to the death of communism in Russia." Except
that, in Russia the death of communism was marked by the end of
government censorship of the media. 

 February 3, 1996 

 "On the Road Again&#133;" For the fifth time
in a year, another NFL team is on the road&#133; the WHOLE team,
that is. We are to understand that Seahawks' owner Ken Behring
was suddenly struck with inconsolable worry over the potential
for harm to athletes and fans a major earthquake strike Seattle.
All of which would be a tad more convincing, were Mr. Behring
moving the team to anywhere other than smack dab on top of the
San Andreas fault in Southern California. What the hell is this
about? Why not just say that he'd like to move the team closer to
OJ? 

 February 2, 1996 

 "But you can fool 51% of the people enough of the
time&#133;.." New polls show Steve Forbes pulling ahead
of Bob Dole in the crucial New Hampshire primary race. Of course,
pulling ahead of Bob Dole in political terms is something akin to
passing a VW bug racing up Pike's Peak. With half the Republican
field represented by the likes of Dole, Gramm, and Buchanan, one
would be forgiven for thinking that instead of primaries and
caucuses the Republicans were going to decide the nomination with
a Scowl-Off. 

 Return to the Slug Tales' What's News
Page! 

 Return to the Slug Tales' Home Page! 

 Return to Steve's Home Page 

 VISIT THE 1995 WHAT'S NOT NEWS ANYMORE
ARCHIVE