Demian's Photos 5 - Stereoscopic 

 Photography V 
 Stereoscopic Images by Demian 

 H ere are two stereo pictures for your viewing pleasure. They are viewable by either using the cross-eyed technique, or with red/cyan anaglyph glasses. Both techniques have their drawbacks &#151; the cross-eyed can be hard to focus and leave you with eye strain or a headache &#151; for the anaglyph, you need to have the red/cyan (or red/blue or red/green) glasses and the colors never filter completely cleanly, leaving irritating ghost images. 

Boy, what we stereophiles won't go through for a 3-D thrill! 

 Gasworks Park 

 cross-eye anaglyph 

 Cactus 

 cross-eye anaglyph 

 All images are &copy; 1995, Demian 
Please do not copy by any print or electronic media. 

 F antasy was a big part of my childhood. Feeding that was the worlds created by comic books. Those comics that employed 3-D techniques held a particularly strong interest for me. 
When I was 12, I looked through a hand-held Holmes stereoscopic viewer in an antique store and was smitten. I somehow talked my parents into buying it for me &#151; an odd toy for a child. 

The stereo viewer came with a bunch of cardboard-mounted stereo photos from around the world. It seemed to me an easy task to replicate the three dimesions, but with scenes from around my home. To do so, I borrowed mom's Brownie Hawkeye and started my lifelong passion for photography. 

To make stereos from the Brownie I used the following process. If my subject was human, I asked them to hold the same pose for a full minute while I:

 shot,
 moved lateraly about two inches,
 looked at the small red window while I wound the film to the next frame, and then
 framed the shot as close to the first shot as possible,
 squeezed off the second shot.

Great care was used to keep the two shots similarly framed and parellel. Often there was a moving arm or a tree limb swaying between shots, which sometimes added to the mystery of a stereo shot &#151; sometimes. 

Many stereo experiments and devices later, I find I occassionally employ the same technique for distant landscapes &#151; only moving several feet apart for hyperstereo. 

Of all the stereo cameras and stereo attachments I've ever run accross, the best is the Prism Stereo by Tri-Delta. This device screws onto the lens of a 35mm camera and orients the images in a head-to-head fashion onto one slide frame. The slides are processed and cardboard-mounted as usual. 

When the slide is looked at through the prism viewer, the image is almost twice as wide as high, a closer match to the way we see than the vertical formats from most other camera stereo attachments. Also, the slide (containing both right and left eye images) never gets cut and thereby never gets out of alignment. I never got the projection device, to my regret, and haven't been able to find it since Tri-Delta went out of business.

 Return to: Photography and Illustration Table of Contents 

 Entire contents &copy; 2003, Demian 
Please do not copy by any print or electronic media. 

Demian 
Box 9685, Seattle, WA 98109-0685 
206-935-1206 
 demian@buddybuddy.com 
 www.buddybuddy.com