Partners Task Force for Gay & Lesbian Couples - Religious Blessing 

 Where to get a Religious Blessing 
 Gay-welcoming denominations in the United States 
 &copy; 2001, Demian 

 Partners Task Force 
for Gay & Lesbian Couples 
 Box 9685 
Seattle, WA 98109-0685 
206-935-1206 
 demian@buddybuddy.com 
 www.buddybuddy.com 

 A lthough same-sex marriage has at times been commonplace in other parts of the world, church weddings for gay and lesbian couples are a recent phenomenon in America. No national church acted sooner to encourage same-sex unions than the Metropolitan Community Church, which was founded to primarily serve the gay community. MCC&#146;s founder, Rev. Troy Perry, conducted what was probably this nation&#146;s first church ceremony for same-sex partners on December 3, 1968, in Los Angeles. 

Since then, a growing number of mainstream churches and synagogues have begun performing ceremonies of same-sex marriage, union or covenants. Unitarian Universalists led the way on June 26, 1984, when their general assembly approved union services for same-sex couples. In 1996, the Reconstructionist Jewish Rabbinical Association endorsed same-sex marriage. In addition, marriage or blessing rites are increasingly available within individual congregations. 

If you want to be married in a church or synagogue, consult the minister or rabbi where you worship, or call local congregations with a record of acceptance. In most cases, you&#146;ll be asked to undergo counseling sessions intended to prepare couples for the marriage commitment. 

If you encounter resistance, you may want to share with your congregation the statements from the church groups listed below. 

While marriage ceremonies are powerful social and familial events, they do not in any way give any of the more than 150-350 rights and responsibilities of legal marriage offered by each state &#151; nor of the more than a thousand rights built into federal laws that are triggered by legal marriage. 

A Quick List of U.S. Religious Denominations that have 
Endorsed or Held Ceremonies for Same-Sex Couples 
 Individual congregations may vary. 

 American Apostolic Catholic Church 
 American Baptist 
 Bretheren/Mennonite 
 Buddhist 
 California Council of Churches 
 Catholic Apostolic Church in North America (CACINA) 
 Covenant of the Goddess (Wiccan) 
 Episcopal Church 
 Evangelican Anglican Church in America 
 Evangelical Lutheran
 (The Greater Milwaukee Synod became the first ELCA synod to endorse blessing same-sex unions in 2000) 
 Hawaii Council of Churches 
 Humanist Society of Friends 
 Reconciling Congregations (United Methodist) 
 Reconstructionist Jewish 
 Reformed Catholic Church (USA) 
 Reform Judaism
 (Central Conference of American Rabbis affirms the legalization of same-sex marriage) 
 Methodist 
 Metropolitan Community Church 
 Orthodox Catholic Church 
 Presbyterian Church
 (affirms the legalization of same-sex marriage) 
 Quaker (Society of Friends) 
 Unitarian Universalist Church 
 United Church of Christ 
 (As of April 2000, 321 of its 6,100 congregations have declared they welcome gay men & lesbians) 
 Unity Fellowship Churches
 Universal Life Church

Religious Organizations Actively Supporting 
Ceremonies for Same-Sex Couples 

 Affirmation (United Methodists for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Concerns) has created the Covenant Relationships Network (CORNET). Cornet seeks to continue the tradition of hosting worship services that celebrate and witness to same-sex &#147;covenant relationships&#148; in United Methodist churches. They maintain lists of clergy and laity committed to the ministry of covenant services, and are campaigning to change the United Methodist Church&#146;s official position on homosexuality. 

Cornet 
Box 1021, Evanston, IL 60204 
847-733-9590 (voice-mail) 
 umcornet@hotmail.com 
 www.umaffirm.org/cornet 

 Dignity (Catholic-based) supports same-sex relationships and marriages through social and spiritually focused activities at the local level, offering Guidelines for Holy Union services, and maintains a National Registry of Couples whose relationships have been blessed by Dignity clergy. 

Dignity / USA National Office 
1500 Massachusetts Ave. N.W., #11, Washington, D.C. 20005 
800-877-8797; 202-861-0017; fax 202-429-9808 
 dignity@aol.com 
 www.dignityusa.org 
 Couples&#146; Ministry Resource Guide 

The Unitarian Universalists have maintained an Office for Lesbian & Gay Concerns at its headquarters in Boston since 1976. It remains one of the most affirming religious bodies in North America today in its outreach and celebration of gay and lesbian people. 

Office of Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual & Transgender Concerns 
Unitarian Universalist Association of Congregations 
25 Beacon St., Boston, MA 02108 
617-742-2100 
 obgltc@uua.org 
 www.uua.org/obgltc 

 Ceremonial Marriage Resources 

 Individual U.S. Congregations which offer a Religious Ceremony for Same-sex Couples .
 Vows: Marriage Ceremonies for Same-Sex Couples 
 Celebration and Affirmation of a Covenant Relationship &#151; by the Episcopal Diocese of Rochester&#146;s Department of Social Ministries.
 Religious Marriage Resources in Print .

 Legal Marriage Resources 

 Statement on Same Gender Marriage &#151; an interfaith perspective from the Hawai`i Council of Churches.
 Resolution of Immediate Witness &#151; from the Unitarians in support of the right to marry.
 Quaker Support for Legal Recognition of Same-Sex Marriage .
 Marriage: Legal Versus Ceremonial Rights .
 Legal Marriage Resources in Print .

 Return to Table of Contents