Partners Task Force for Gay & Lesbian Couples - Episcopal Affirmation 

 The Celebration and Affirmation of 
a Covenant Relationship 
 Episcopal Diocese of Rochester&#146;s Department of Social Ministries 
 adopted 1990 

 Partners Task Force 
for Gay & Lesbian Couples 
 Box 9685 
Seattle, WA 98109-0685 
206-935-1206 
 demian@buddybuddy.com 
 www.buddybuddy.com 

 T he celebration and affirmation of same gender couples are offered as an opportunity for persons of homosexual orientation to participate in faithful relationships. The support of significant same gender friendships and committed relationships 
is essential for the well being of gay and lesbian persons. 

Biblical theology and Christian tradition support the basic need of all persons to have a wholesome, intimately affectionate, and long term relationship with another person. This reality goes far deeper than sexual orientation. Basic Christian compassion presses us to affirm and support this tenet of health and wholeness for all persons. Thus, the church is called upon to celebrate and affirm friendships, marriages, and same gender commitments for both the spiritual and human health of the people of God. 

By tradition and theological precept, couples are themselves the ministers of their covenants. By the grace of God these couples aspire to be life long and faithful in mutuality and support through their covenant. The church celebrates and affirms that which already exists. It is the two persons who minister to each other and bless God &#151; that is, give thanks to God for their mutual love and their covenant with one another. Considering these principles, the church is not called upon to endorse or bless sexual orientation. The church, however, does act appropriately and for the good of the people of God when the church upholds and celebrates, in the name of Jesus Christ, any two person who are willing to make a life long covenant of fidelity and love with each other. 

 Ceremonial Marriage Resources 

 Where to get a Religious Blessing &#151; Gay-welcoming denominations in the U.S.
 Vows: Marriage Ceremonies for Same-Sex Couples 
 Individual U.S. Congregations which offer a Religious Ceremony for Same-sex Couples .
 Religious Marriage Resources in Print .

 Legal Marriage Resources 

 Statement on Same Gender Marriage &#151; an interfaith perspective from the Hawai`i Council of Churches.
 Resolution of Immediate Witness &#151; from the Unitarians in support of the right to marry.
 Quaker Support for Legal Recognition of Same-Sex Marriage .
 Marriage: Legal Versus Ceremonial Rights .
 Legal Marriage Resources in Print .

 Return to Table of Contents