Partners Task Force for Gay & Lesbian Couples - France: Civil Solidarity Pact 

 Civil Solidarity Pact 
 The French Approach 
 &copy; 2000, Demian 

 Partners Task Force 
for Gay & Lesbian Couples 
 Box 9685 
Seattle, WA 98109-0685 
206-935-1206 
 demian@buddybuddy.com 
 www.buddybuddy.com 

 &#147;C ivil Solidarity Pacts&#148; were instituted in France on November 9, 1999. The French acronym for this legal status is &#147;PACS.&#148; 

While not the same as legal marriage, these PACS do provide far more than just symbolic significance. PACS offer some of the tax, welfare, and inheritance rights that married couples enjoy. Registered couples are able to share such things as joint auto insurance, extend their social-security coverage to each other, file joint tax returns, and leave each other property in their wills on favorable tax terms. 

There are some striking differences between registered couples and legal marriage. PACS registered couples must wait for three years before receiving tax benefits. They do not have any rights to adoption, or to procure medically-assisted conceptions. The registrations are not recognized outside of France. And because most mayors in France have wanted nothing to do with same-sex marriage, the ceremony has been relegated to the back rooms of court buildings, unlike
marriages that take place at City Hall. 

Air France announced that it will offer lower spousal rates to employees and clients who are registered same-sex couples. Other French airlines and the national railroad already offered job benefits to same-sex domestic partners before PACS were instituted. 

46,000 couples registered between November 1999 and October 2000. Because of privacy protections, it is unknown what percent are same-sex couples. Officials estimate that 50-70 percent are same-sex couples. The lobby group PACS Collective has estimated that 75 percent of the Paris registrations are same-sex couples, with only 40 percent in the Paris suburbs. 

Nearly 14,000 couples registered during the first four months that the PACS have been offered. While privacy laws bar gathering detailed data, it has been estimated that 40 percent of the couples are opposite-sex couples, many of them deeply cynical about traditional marriage, and some of them using the registration as a trial marriage. 

Civil Solidarity Pacts do not work as a model for America because it would involve duplicating 150-to-250 laws in each state and over 1,040 laws on the federal level [See U.S. Federal Laws for the Legally Married .]; the whole idea is completely impractical. 

Also, such pacts are an attempt to create a &#147;separate but equal&#148; approach to addressing access to a country&#146;s laws. Because &#151; like domestic partner status elsewhere &#151; it is clearly un equal, we consider this to be a manifestation of apartheid. [See Marrying Apartheid: The Failure of Domestic Partnership Status ] 

If you find this information of service, please consider 
sending Partners Task Force a $11 donation. 
[See How You Can Help Support Us Support Same-Sex Couples. ] 

 &copy; 2000, Demian 

 Return to : 
 Domestic Partnership Benefits 
 Table of Contents