Sweet Corn Productions - Gilgamesh & Enkidu - Treatment 

 Gilgamesh & Enkidu 
 The Oldest Love Story Ever Written 

 Written and Directed by Demian 

 Story Treatment 

 &#151; Introduction &#151; 

This is a treatment for a feature video, Gilgamesh & Enkidu , that combines fantasy, historical docu-drama, biographical, gay content, religious, and action-adventure genres. This treatment and the script are written by Demian. [For more information on Demian, please see The Company .] 

The video tells the story about an arrogant ruler who is transformed by love &#151; transformed, once again, by its loss &#151; and thereby becomes a legend. 

Dreams figure very prominently in the landmark, historic, epic poem and are shown as part of the texture of the storytelling in this video. The photography&#146;s emphasis throughout is on the lyrical and visually poetic elements. 

 &#151; Story &#151; 

Gilgamesh is the king of the city-state Uruk. He is part god &#151; beautiful, energetic, huge-boned and muscled &#151; and has used his great energy to create a well-fortified city. He has brought wealth and security to his people. 

His energy is also a source of complaint. He drives the workforce too hard, and he takes the kingly right of having sex with new brides before they are married to their husbands. 

His subjects pray for a force to temper Gilgamesh&#146;s energy. 

Gilgamesh has a frightening dream in which he is toppled by a rock from the sky. While he cannot defeat the rock, he finds himself attracted to the rock, as he would be attracted to a woman. 

He goes to his mother, who is a high priestess in the temple, and capable of interpreting dreams. She tells him he will soon meet someone who will be the most important person in his life, his greatest and truest friend. They will become inseparable. 

One of the chief gods has heard the prayers to temper Gilgamesh, and orders the creation of a wild man out of mud. 

The wild man, called Enkidu, must be civilized before he can interact with humans, and this is done with the aid of the temple love-priestess. She entices the wild man to eat human food. To further civilize him, she has sex with him for six days and seven nights. 

On a chance meeting, Enkidu challenges Gilgamesh and they battle. Nearly matched in strength, they become friends and lovers. 

The arrogance and callousness, once part of Gilgamesh&#146;s behavior, is gone. Because of his love for Enkidu, he becomes compassionate. 

To open the trade routes, Gilgamesh and Enkidu take on the task of freeing the woods from a demon, who has been on a killing rampage. Unable to defeat the forest demon, Gilgamesh has a dream of failure. However, on awakening, he and Enkidu&#146;s combined force defeats the demon, and behead him. 

Back in the city, the goddess Ishtar appears to Gilgamesh and proposes marriage to him. He refuses. Insulted, she sends the Bull of Heaven to kill him. 

Once again, Gilgamesh and Enkidu team up and are able to vanquish an enemy. But Enkidu further insults the goddess and she sends him into a fatal coma. 

Enkidu dreams of his death. He awakes to say goodbye to Gilgamesh, and dies. 

Grief-stricken, Gilgamesh stops eating for six days and seven nights. 

Terrified of being dead like Enkidu, he throws off his kingly crown and makes a pilgrimage to find the sage who has the secret to immortality. 

Gilgamesh&#146;s journey takes him to the Scorpion-Beings, guardians of the tunnel gates through the twin-peaked mountain. Against their dire warning, he enters the tunnel into which no light can shine. This leads him through the mountain to the jeweled Garden of the Gods. 

He is then aided by the Tavern-Keeper-by-the-Sea. She directs him to the Ferryman and his crew of Stone-Men. A misunderstanding leads to the killing of the Stone-Men. Along with them, the safe passage through the Waters of Death also dies. 

By a feat of great strength, Gilgamesh is able to transverse the Waters of Death, and finally locate the sage and his woman. 

The sage tells Gilgamesh how he came be immortal. It is told in the story of how he survived the great flood. 

The sage had built an ark, packing seed, animals, family and friends, and road out the storm. After seven days, the rains stopped, and the ark landed. After making offerings to the gods, they granted the sage and his woman immortality. 

The sage makes a test for Gilgamesh to see if he is worthy of receiving the knowledge of immortality. Gilgamesh fails the test. 

The sage&#146;s woman encourages him to tell Gilgamesh a way to gain immortality through a plant found in deep waters. Gilgamesh finds the plant. However, he looses the plant to a hungry snake. 

It is with this final loss and discouragement Gilgamesh returns to Uruk. 

Gilgamesh dreams Enkidu is yet alive in the underworld. However, because Enkidu does not follow instruction, the dead forever claim him as one of their own, and drag him back to the underworld. Gilgamesh begs the gods to bring Enkidu back from the dead. 

They meet for one last embrace, and a vitally important message. 

 &#151; Historical Background &#151; 

This video feature is based on the Epic of Gilgamesh . This epic poem was found in Iraq, at the turn of 1900, in the form of fragmented clay tablets that were created about 2,600 BCE. They had writing on them that consisted of a wedge-shaped design known as cuneiform . These writings are among the earliest known on earth. 

The text told of a real king &#151; Gilgamesh &#151; who ruled over the Sumerian city-state of Uruk, in ancient Mesopotamia some time during 2,700-2,500 BCE. Remnants of the city lie beneath the present-day city of Al Warka in Iraq. 

The Sumerians were true pioneers of civilization, developing cities and a system of writing. Sumerian culture included the invention a lunar calendar, the wheel, and bronze (a combination of copper and tin). They also created the system of dividing time and degrees into the number 12, and common measurement of a &#147;dozen,&#148; all of which are still in use today. 

Eight versions of the Epic of Gilgamesh have been discovered, often grouped into early, middle and late periods, and they were written in the Sumerian, Akkadian, and Hitite languages. The writings had been worked and re-worked for about two thousands years and appear to be the earliest epic poems written, predating Homer and the Bible by at least a thousand years. 

The Gilgamesh story contains the roots of the legends of Orpheus, and the Biblical stories of the flood, the snake in the Garden of Eden, and others. Interestingly, the sage&#146;s ark landed on Mount Nisir, thought to be modern-day Pir Omar Gudrun, south of Zab in Turkey, which is sometimes identified as the biblical Ararat. 

Gilgamesh is also a likely source for the Jewish folk tales of the &#147;golem&#148; &#151; a mud sculpture brought to life &#151; which we later see reflected in the gothic story of Frankenstein . 

The Gilgamesh stories appear to have been very popular, judging by the number of different versions and spread of the fragments across the Ancient Near East.

 Click here for: 

 Production&#146;s Progress 
 Casting & Crew Requirements 
 Donations & Investments 
 The Company 

 Return to: 

 Gilgamesh & Enkidu 
 Sweet Corn Productions 

 Graphics & Photography &copy; 2002, Demian 
Contents &copy; 2001, Sweet Corn Productions 

 Sweet Corn Productions 
Box 9685, Seattle, WA 98109-0685 
206-935-1206 
 demian@buddybuddy.com 
 www.buddybuddy.com/sweet.html