Partners Task Force for Gay & Lesbian Couples - How you can Help 

 How You Can Help Support Us 
Support Same-Sex Couples 
 &copy; 2002, Partners Task Force 

 Partners Task Force 
for Gay & Lesbian Couples 
 Box 9685 
Seattle, WA 98109-0685 
206-935-1206 
 demian@buddybuddy.com 
 www.buddybuddy.com 

 R ight now, you are probably asking yourself, &#147;What can I do to support the good works issuing forth from Partners Task Force for Gay & Lesbian Couples ?&#148; 

Well, seek no further. Here is how you can help: 

 Consider purchasing the various useful products we produce. (See our Orders page.)
 Send us a donation.

 Partners operates at a deficit of about $3-to-5,000 per year. Our product sales support only a tiny portion of our production expenses.
 If you make use of the data in a survey or article, or received information by phone or e-mail, please consider sending a contribution. After all, we saved you research time and expense.

 Submit scholarly articles, editorials or other compositions you write that would be of interest to same-sex couples.
 Do not copy anything on our Web site to any Web site, or use in fee-based work shops, or use in any publication. It is all protected by copyright law .

 Your Contribution at Work 

Through our communication efforts, we are able to provide enlightening data and rationale supporting same-sex couples to lawmakers, reporters and students, as well as to same-sex couples. 

On an average weekly basis, Partners Task Force responds to 10 phone calls and more than 30 e-mails from couples, reporters, students, TV show producers, etc. 

We are frequently quoted by the press on issues of concern to same-sex couples, such as, domestic partnership, couples surveys, legal marriage. We also appear on television and radio as experts on couples issues as well as &#147;your average, friendly, neighborhood male couple.&#148; 

Anyone working on domestic partner ordinances, or legal marriage for same-sex couples, looks to our resources. Our Domestic Partnership Benefit List , for instance, has given weight to scores of personnel departments&#146; plans to support equal treatment in their company. Our Web pages have given them data to back up their benefit proposals. Our phone advice has saved them weeks of searching. 

Our National Survey of Gay & Lesbian Couples provides groundwork for therapists, clergy, teachers and researchers who seek to understand the nature of same-sex couples. 

Most encouraging is the fact that we are continuously contacted by high school, college and graduate students and teachers who are debating or reporting on discrimination in legal marriage, adoption, and immigration. The data and essays we make freely available have given a whole new generation exposure to the truth about our relationships, and they, in turn, are better able to support our families and theirs. 

Your financial support helps us continue these efforts and generate new projects. 

Thank you.

 Return to Table of Contents