Sweet Corn Productions - Scaredy-Kate - Company 

 Scaredy-Kate and the Monsters 
 &#151; or &#151; 
 How to Pay the Rent 

 A Marionette Opera Written and Directed by Demian 
 With Music by Joseph Haydn 

 The Company 

 Sweet Corn Productions was founded by Demian in 1971. Since then, Sweet Corn has developed and produced a broad range of video, film and radio drama, as well as live productions and workshops throughout New England, in San Francisco and Seattle. With the addition of Steve Bryant as music director in 1982, Sweet Corn added music concerts to its repertoire. 

 Demian (writer-director and the &#147;Dragon&#148;) 

 Films and Videos Written and Directed: ; Juicie (people animation); Leggo (people animation); Fog (fantasy); Summer 1968 (docu-fantasy); Gertie Takes a Trip to the Moon and a Man Recycles (animation); T&#146;ai Chi Chuan (with Master T.T. Liang, a documentary); Timeless Wisdom: Being the Knowing (Buddhist lectures); Why do They Have to be So Blatant? (documentary); The Fight Before Christmas (musical); The Right to Marry (documentary) 

 Theater Projects Directed: Oph&eacute;e (Jean Cocteau); UBU (Alfred Jarry); Scaredy-Kate and the Monsters &#150; or &#150; How to Pay the Rent (Demian); The Voice of an Angel: A Castrato Remembers (Demian); Ondine! &#150; Theda! (Yar&oacute;k [John Green]); Our Old Gang Grows Up (Demian); Assorted Shelters &#150; or &#150; Do you have Nightmares When You Sleep on Your Back? (collective); Inseparable Pieces: A Sequence of Power Plays (collective) 

Demian&#146;s artistic experience encompasses videography, filmmaking, photography, theater, puppetry, radio production, cartooning, and rabbit wrangling. His doctoral thesis was based on the video-documented theater workshop series he created. His BFA is in painting. He also graduated a course in clock and watch repair &#151; which actually comes in handy repairing cameras and rigging up cheap booms. 

For more information, please see: Demian&#146;s Directing R&eacute;sum&eacute; 

 Steve Bryant (music-director) 

Steve Bryant has directed many concerts, including: Orf&eacute;o ed Euridice (Gl&uuml;ck), 3 CounterTenors Celebrate Purcell, and Baroque Music for Voices. His musical direction for theater projects include: The Voice of an Angel: A Castrato Remembers (Demian), and Our Old Gang Grows Up (Demian). For more information, please see: Steve&#146;s Music R&eacute;sum&eacute; 

 Maija Durr (&#147;Kate&#148;) 

Maija E. Durr is most recently graduated from Pacific Lutheran University with a Bachelor of Arts in French and a minor in vocal performance.During her time at PLU she played the part of Suzanna in a concert version of The Marriage of Figaro (Mozart) and Adele in Die Fleidermaus (Johann Strauss).She is currently singing with Choral Arts Northwest, working as a Barista for Starbucks, and enjoying her post-college freedom!

 Mary Jo DuGaw (&#147;Kate&#146;s Mother&#148;) 

Mary Jo DuGaw has sung Guest Artist spots with Seattle Symphony, Northwest Sinfonietta Chamber Orchestra, Philharmonia Northwest, and Seattle Choral Company, to name a few. Theater appearances include leading roles with Light Opera of Manhattan (Off-Broadway), 5th Avenue Theatre, Village Theatre, Seattle Rep, and Civic Light Opera. Known for her versatility, Mary Jo has appeared in several commercials as well as the ABC-TV miniseries, Rose Red (Stephen King), which aired in February 2002.

 Dennis Saffer (&#147;Berrybush&#148;) 

Dennis Saffer studied instrumental and vocal music at Indiana University, where he was privileged to study with Eileen Farrell and Harvey Phillips. Mr. Saffer is a well-trained, sought-after singing-actor, who can also dance (with two extra weeks of rehearsal). He has appeared in leading and character roles in productions mounted by the Seattle Opera, Tacoma Opera, Everett Opera, Civic Light Opera, 5th Avenue Theatre, The Bathhouse Theatre, The Group Theatre, and A Contemporary Theatre, to name a few. But he has never been a berrybush before. This was one juicy leap!

 Peter McDonnell (&#147;Bigfat&#148;) 

Peter McDonnell has sung with the vocal ensembles The Esoterics and Opus 7. He performed in Ophilia (Tom Baker) at Seattle Experimental Opera, as well as in numerous musical theater and cabaret productions, including the original casts of The Texas Chainsaw Manicurist (Scott Warrender), The Lights of Arnold, and Bridge to Terabithia. Peter&#146;s first puppet character &#151; and probably not his last &#151; was the walrus, Horrible Henry, in Carnival.

 Stephen Wall (&#147;The Landlord&#148;) 

Stephen Wall has appeared with the opera companies of Seattle, Portland, Utah, and Tacoma. His oratorio credits include the Seattle Chamber Singers, Seattle Choral Company, Seattle Bach Choir, Choir of the Sound, the Symphonies of Seattle, Spokane, Everett, Bellevue, Yakima, Pendelton (Or.), Great Falls (Mo.), Vancouver (B.C.), and Sapporo (Japan). Stephen has a private voice studio in Seattle, and has been a guest clinician at Whitman and Whitworth Colleges, and Pendleton and Yakima Community Colleges.

 Lane Galloway (piano) 

Lane Galloway holds degrees in music education, piano, and choral music from Syracuse University, Westminster Choir College, and the University of Colorado at Boulder. He formerly taught at the University of New Orleans and at Eureka College in Eureka, Illinois, and currently is music director of the vocal chamber ensemble Winter Sky.

 Brad Hawkins (cello) 

Brad Hawkins is a composer and cellist who performs with orchestras as well as avant-garde, jazz, rock, and folk groups and whose pieces have been performed in the United States, Canada, and Europe with upcoming performances in Seattle and Freiburg, Germany. He also runs Dialekt Recordings, a custom music production company and recording studio. In his spare time he goes on road trips and reads Conrad, Kerouac, and Chomsky.

 Theresa Moore (flute) 

Theresa studied flute in college and for a few years thereafter, but then took a break to pursue a long and illustrious career as an actuary. She has since come back to the flute, and currently plays with chamber groups; a quintet, a trio, a pianist, occasionally with a guitarist and a harpist, and she will soon be playing with the Kirkland Choral Society. She is also a mother to nine-year-old Nellie.

 Sandy Saathoff (flute) 

Sandy graduated from Pacific Lutheran University with a degree in music education, and is finishing up a Master's degree in Music Education from the University of Washington. She has been a public schools band director, and has performed with several community music groups. She serves on the board of directors for the Seattle Flute Society, and will play piccolo with the Seattle Philharmonic Orchestra in February 2002. Currently, Sandy teaches at Music Works Northwest , where she offers private instruction and directs two flute ensembles, and continues to perform as often as she can.

 Peggy Monroe (percussion) 

Peggy played percussion in various community symphony orchestras throughout the country, and then in 1972 brought this interest to Early Music. Now a respected authority on Historical Percussion, she performs and plays regularly in the Seattle area, in the United States, Canada and in Great Britain. She also plays the recorder, flute and other early instruments and has developed several school programs through the Early Music Guild of Seattle. She adores almost everything related to theater.

 Bob Pajer (basoon) 

Bob Pajer is a freelance bassoonist in the Seattle area. He regularly plays with the New Wind Ensemble. Past engagements include the Virginia-based Winds of McLean Octet, the United States Air Force Band, the Brooklyn Symphony, the Mannes Orchestra, the District of Columbia Orchestra, the Washington Symphony Orchestra, and the Sammamish Symphony Orchestra. He currently resides in Snoqualmie with his wife Andrea, where they are often visited by, or visit, surely the world&#146;s neatest grandchildren: Christopher, Nicholas, and Kristina Maria.

 Steven Noffsinger (clarinet) 

Steven, a Seattle free-lance musician, is currently principal clarinet with the Lake Union Civic Orchestra, Cascadian Wind Quintet, and the Pacific Chamber Ensemble. In June 2001, he toured Italy with the Everett Symphony Orchestra as principal clarinet performing in Rome at the American Academy of Music, as well as in the resort towns of Montecatini and Abano. Steven holds a Bachelor of Music Performance degree from Bowling Green State University, and performs on the Buffet-Crampon R-13 Clarinets.

 Click here for the: 

 Story 
 Production&#146;s Progress 
 Purchase 

 Return to: 

 Scaredy-Kate 

 Graphics & Photography &copy; 2002, Demian 
Contents &copy; 2002, Sweet Corn Productions 

 To Demian&#146;s R&eacute;sum&eacute;s for: Directing - Visual - Writing - Acting 

Demian &#151; Sweet Corn Productions 
206-935-1206 &#151; demian@buddybuddy.com 
P.O. Box 9685, Seattle, WA 98109 &#151; www.buddybuddy.com/sweet.html