Sweet Corn Productions - Retouched Image Samples 

 Video - Still - Sound 
 Retouched Image Samples 

Retouching changes everything. Details sharpen or receed. Colors shift or change altogether. As soon as an image is altered, the world becomes a better, or more terrifying place. Your choice. 

 Spa and Sunroom I 

 Eliminate obstructive furniture 
Subdue flash glare on glass 
Balance contrast 

 Crop 
Draw tub wall, windows, floorboards 
Place rubber duckie and its reflection 

 Hot Tub 

 Scan print 
Remove the extensive print&#146;s surface mold 
Balance color and contrast 

 Crop 
Draw new background due to frame shift 
Detail sharpened 
Eliminate foreground pipe 
Draw replacement arm, snow, etc. 

 Spa and Sunroom II 

 Reduce distracting details 
Crop 

 Blur window views 
Change chair color 
Dissapear many small objects, ends of drapes 

 Rates 
 Editing services: $50/hr. 

 Other services of interest: 

 Shooting and Recording Studio Rental Space 
 Studio space for your shooting and sound recording needs.
 Digital Recording and Editing Services 
 Quality video, still, and audio recordings of your special events.
 Web Site Programming 
 Communicate through the use of clean, direct layout.
 Video Advertising Services 
 Joint venture with GraphicCypher Productions. 

Demian, has been a Photographer, Filmmaker, and Videographer for more than 35 years. He has experience photographing drama, dance, mime, music, interviews, and documentaries. 

Demian has a doctorate in education, and is available for a free, initial consultation about your project, suggesting the most cost-effective technical solution.

 Call Demian at 206-935-1206 to discuss how the digital technology and his expertise can serve your needs. 

 Demian&#146;s Directing R&eacute;sum&eacute; 
 Demian&#146;s Photo Gallery 

 Sweet Corn Productions 
 Box 9685, Seattle, WA 98109-0685 
206-935-1206 
 demian@buddybuddy.com 
 www.buddybuddy.com/sweet.html 

 Return to: Sweet Corn Productions 

 All contents &copy; 2004, Sweet Corn Productions