Geelong 

 Locations 

 Rob McNeilly MBBS was in a suburban Melbourne general medical practice for 10 years, had the privilege of learning directly with Milton Erickson , was inspired by his human approach to therapy, and created his own interpretation to assist clients in a respectful, dignified way with the human dilemmas that affect individuals, couples and families. He founded the CET in l988 to introduce Ericksonian Hypnosis and the Solution Oriented Approach to hypnosis, counselling and coaching in Australia. For more than 30 years, the contribution he brings i his teaching style, writing and unique approaches to learning and therapy allow for a ready application into everyday living and are recognised locally, nationally and internationally, including repeated invited presentations at the Milton H Erickson Foundation&rsquo;s International Congresses in USA since 1980 and workshops in Singapore and Denmark since 1999. He is co-author, with Jenny Brown, of "Healing With Words", "Healing the Whole Person" was published by Wiley, republished as &ldquo;Doing Change&rdquo; by St Luke&rsquo;s Innovative Resources, and Crown House have published a series of DVD demonstrations of counselling and hypnosis. Students comment on his easy, respectful manner and his elegant ability to make complex issues approachable while retaining their essence. Gabrielle Peacock MBBS FRACGP is a general practitioner with 17 years experience, the last 10 spent predominantly working with mental health issues. She has 5 years advanced training in Solution Oriented and Ericksonian psychotherapy with individuals, couples and families. She runs workshops locally and internationally teaching Solution Oriented Family Therapy to health professionals, and has been a presenter at ASOCHA, PACFA and AFTA conferences around Australia. She also teaches counselling skills to medical students at the clinical school in Hobart. Gabrielle works with all issues in individuals, couples and families. She has a wide experience in working with every day human dilemmas to severe chronic mental illness. She has developed a special interest in working with children, adolescents and families. She is particularly interested in interventions which assist families and individuals to regain their strength and resilience in problem situations such as child and adolescent behavioural problems, bullying, school issues, illness in a family member, and relationship breakdowns within the family. &lsquo; Rob McNeilly studied with Milton H. Erickson M.D. ... is one of the most knowledgeable practitioners of Ericksonian methods in Australia. His teaching is clear, entertaining and edifying.&rsquo; Jeffrey K. Zeig, Ph.D. Board of Directors, The Milton H. Erickson Foundation, Inc., Phoenix, Arizona. &ldquo;Rob McNeilly worked with Milton Erickson, has been an invited presenter at International Ericksonian Congresses, and is a passionate and skilful teacher of the Solution Oriented Approach. I know him and his work, and value his personal and professional contributions." Bill O&rsquo;Hanlon MS LMFT A highly skilled presenter whose unique perspectives and playful demeanour make for a delightful learning experience.&rsquo; Michael D. Yapko, Ph.D. &lsquo; .. Your clear and practical teaching of the solution oriented approach has enabled me to achieve more effective interventions with greater ease ..... the approach is applicable in many different contexts...&rsquo; Peter Thorneycroft, Psychologist. 

 Solution oriented hypnosis and mindfulness skills a 2 day intensive building on an Ericksonian approach Geelong with Dr Rob McNeilly Mindfulness has been around for centuries and is experiencing a wave of new interest. Originally a spiritual practice, some components are becoming a popular adjunct to psychotherapy with a growing accumulation of evidence for its efficacy in helping a wide range of clinical problems from anxiety and depression to more extreme problems. When we explore the benefits that the Ericksonian solution approach to hypnosis offers - creating a direct experience of a preferred outcome [a solution] - and integrate this with the healing experiences of mindfulness, each extends the depth and breadth of the other, taking our effectiveness and personal satisfaction to the next level. This 2 day intensive offers a unique opportunity to be immersed in the experience, principles and applications of two of the most rapidly growing treatment models in contemporary psychotherapy. The scope of the program is comprehensive, and presents the essential elements in an elegantly accessible way. This workshop is open to practitioners of all levels of experience who are passionate about their work. The workshop includes lectures, demonstrations and recurrent practice in a safe and supportive environment, and includes: an introduction to the principles and practice of the solution orientation experiences of mindfulness skills exploration of ways of tailoring our approach to each unique individual playing with invitational language forms a session outline to start from and vary from Participants will learn to: learn and use simple mindfulness skills in daily life engage the client in their therapeutic process generate an experience of the client&rsquo;s preferred outcome to create a lasting resolution improve their therapeutic efficacy and personal satisfaction immediately and confidently apply the principles and practices of this approach to specific clinical situations Registrants will have free access to a 4 hour recorded conference on mindfulness with contributors including Michael Yapko, Buddhist monk Thupten Lekshe, Ronald Segal and Douglas Flemons. Dates: Saturday September 21st 9am - 5pm & Sunday 22nd 9am - 3pm. Venue: Empire Grill 66 McKillop Street Geelong Cost: $ Payment: to For more information, please contact Jane Reyn at janereyn@live.com.au or 0406 358 952