SeattleOtaku: Review - Urusei Yatsura (Those Obnoxious Aliens) 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Urusei Yatsura (Those Obnoxious Aliens) 

 A classic romantic comedy with plenty of innuendo
and hijinks, Urusei Yatsura (US title often listed as
 Those Obnoxious Aliens or simply Lum ) is a fun romp
through insanity lasting nearly 200 television episodes, six movies, and an OVA
series. It's probably the best known of the creations by Takahashi Rumiko, who
also created other favorites of mine, Ranma 1/2 , Maison
Ikkoku , and Inu-Yasha . 

 Story Intro 

 An unlucky high-school letcher named Ataru is chosen at random to
participate in a race to save Earth from invasion by a group of alien Oni
(demons). At first he refuses. But when he sees the opponent, a bikini-clad
curvaceous oni-girl named Lum, he accepts; after all the game is tag, and in
order to win Earth's safety he needs to grab her small horns -- figuring he'd
need to grab her body first. Unfortunately, no-one happened to mention that
Lum could fly. 

 On the last day of the race, nearing sure defeat, Ataru's girlfriend Shinobu
promises to marry him if he can win the game. Spurred on by this (after all,
we all know how marriage is consumated), he resolves to win by any means
necessary, including a trick only a letcher would try. When that works, and
Ataru wins the game, he declares that he can finally be married. Unfortunately,
Lum misunderstands the declaration as a proposal and accepts; and she has a
shocking method of retribution if her new fianc&eacute; even looks at
another woman. 

 What's a high-school letcher to do? 

 Other Notes 

 Top it off with a large ensemble cast of aliens and humans, and a new bit of
wackiness in every episode, and this show has something for nearly everyone.
The early episodes have two short-but-related stories each (the synopsis above
covers only the first half of the first episode). 

 A great database of information about the various incarnations of this
series (manga, TV, movies, etc.) can be found at http://www.furinkan.com/tomobiki/uy/ . 

 An email list hosted at the same site as this one has just started up as
well. Subscribe at
 urusei-yatsura-list-request@eskimo.com 
(for the individual posts) or
 urusei-yatsura-digest-request@eskimo.com 
(for the digest collections) with the word "subscribe" in the Subject. 

 Distributed by AnimEigo: 

 Urusei Yatsura (196-episode TV) 
 Urusei Yatsura: Only You (Movie) 
 Movies 3-6 

 Distributed by Central Park Media: 

 Urusei Yatsura 2: Beatiful Dreamer (Movie) 

 Urusei Yatsura Copyright (C) Kitty Films 
 All rights reserved. Distributed by AnimEigo. 

 Permission to use these images on this site provided by: 

 USED WITH PERMISSION: Images of anime programs
on this page are used with permission of the copyright holder or the legal
distributor of the represtented work. Copying from this page for your own
use is prohibited -- please contact the copyright holder or distibutor
cited to gain permission from the proper people. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.