Lost Youth 

 Title: Lost Youth 
 Author: MsAllegro 
 Author Email: shawna @insanity-inc.org 
 Author Website: www.bagendinn.com 
 Category: RPS, First-time, a bit of angst, a bit of light 
kink 
 Rating: A big ol NC-17 
 Summary: Sean revisits his youth. Via 
his favorite one. 
 Characters: Sean/Lij, with cameos from Orli, Billy, Dom and 
even Peter! 
 Warnings: RPS, Kink, cheating, not entirely safe sex. Some 
blood but not sex related. 
 Disclaimer: Would these guys ever actually do this?
 Probably not. I don't make money from my stories, 
either 
 Feedback: Love it. Feedback is my crack. Lij is my crack 
pimp 
 Story Notes: In the midst of writing the next angst-filled 
episode of New Roles, Damn VB gives me this challenge. It was supposed to be a 
simple PWP. It ate me alive until I stayed up all night to write it. Veebs, you 
owe me one ;) I suppose some of this is sort of New Roles 
universe. Everything but the smut would make a good prologue for it, perhaps.

 *** 

 Lost Youth 

 It was a couple of months into filming. Theyd already done 
much of their Shire scenes and some of the outdoor battles and were exhausted. A 
couple of days off, just as the New Zealand summer was starting, were quite 
welcome. Theyd spent the previous day roaming around Wellington, and today 
decided to stay in and just enjoy each others company. Theyd even managed to 
convince Sean to join them this time, which was rare, as he spent most of his 
free time with his wife and daughter. 

 Elijahs head was just a little woozy from drinking two 
beers in rapid succession. He sat on the floor in Orlandos apartment, in front 
of the couch, where Sean was sitting, with a leg on either side of him. His 
stomach was warm and full of a few too many slices of pizza. Dom and Billy were 
fighting over the last slice in the kitchen and Orli suddenly got up and shut 
off the stereo. 

 He cleared his throat, Ahem! In honor of the old married 
bloke finally joining us for an evening, weve decided to have a little film 
festival! A teasing grin came across his face as he held up a bag from the 
video-rental store down the street. Me and my mates here, 
he cocked his head toward Dom and Billy, exiting the kitchen, found some 
truly exciting entertainment to keep us all occupied tonight. 

 A rush of dread washed over Lij. Given the thoughts hed 
already been having-- and trying unsucessfully to repress-- about every last one 
of the people in the room, the idea of sitting around watching porn with them 
was far too much. He neednt have worried, though. 

 Orli stuck his hand in the bag, What shall we have first, 
lads? He grinned and rummaged between the boxes. He picked out one and held it 
up, Ah ha! he exclaimed triumphantly, displaying the box cover, It looks like 
Seans the first guinea pig! 

 Sean moaned as he recognized the cover art. One of his 
lesser-known and rather embarrassing works from when he was only
 20, it involved a cast of more-or-less unknown guys, 
with the exception of himself and Will, just coming off his Star Trek run. The 
dialogue was awful, the plot predictable and stale. He tried hard to remember 
what posessed him to take the part. Oh, right. He was having trouble breaking 
out of his kid roles and needed the money. And it *was* a starring role, after 
all. Still, he wasnt so sure he wanted these new friends of his to watch it. 
Especially not with that ..um .. 
one scene. 

 Oh, please, Orli. Not that, Sean whined, squirming on the 
couch. Couldnt you have gotten Rudy or something? I could live with that. 
Geez, even Goonies would have been ok. 

 Hell, no! Dom piped up. I 
want to see this one! Especially if you dont want us to! 
He added cheekily. 

 Lij grabbed Seans knee and turned around, Hey, it cant 
be that bad, right? I gotta see this. 

 Orli nodded, Yeah, you should. Besides, otherwise were 
watching Flipper. 

 Lij spun back around and howled in protest, No! Seans 
movie first! He has to be punished for avoiding us for so long. 

 Hey! If this is what I get when I finally do hang out with 
you guys, Im not going to do it anymore! Sean complained. But it was too late. 
Orli had already stuck the movie into the player, and the opening credits were 
rolling. 

 Lij had watched a few of Seans old movies when hed found 
out that theyd be working togetherto get an idea of Seans style and such, and 
to try to figure out exactly who it was hed be working so closely with over 
nearly two years. This was one he wasnt aware of, though. It looked to be one 
of the more obscure ones, and judging from Seans reaction, one of the ones hed 
rather forget. An evil grin crept over Lijs face. The torture of making Sean 
sit through this was going to be very fun. He got up and sat next to Sean on the 
couch, the better to watch him wince. 

 By the time they got to the phone sex scene, the whole room 
was howling with laughter. Sean, however was getting 
a bit queasy. He remembered the rehearsals for that scene. 
The private ones with Will, where he was taught quite a bit about what could 
happen when two guys listened to phone sex alone together. He later found 
out that Will had been doing that stuff for years, after learning it from River 
Phoenix when he was just a boy. It wasnt long after that shoot, though, that 
Sean had met Christine, and hed put all that stuff behind him. It had been fun, 
certainly, but it wasnt something he thought about much anymore. Well, at least 
not until he got to New Zealand. Even with Christine and Alex around, being 
surrounded by all these young guys felt so much the same as his youth. He 
chanced a look over at Lij, who was squirming with giddiness, fixated on the 
screen. The boy was nearly the same age as when his own randy experimentation 
had started. He wondered briefly what went on in Lijs mind, and if maybe it was 
the same kind of thoughts hed had then 
 No--best not think that way. He turned back to the screen. 

 There were plenty more hoots and cheers every time one of 
the underwear scenes came on. He began to wonder whether or not those scenes had 
any real reason for being in the movie other than to be gratuitous. He hadnt 
thought about it much at the time, but it was painfully obvious now. And then 
there was That Scene. 

 Orli shouted in disbelief and paused the video, Bloody 
hell! he cried out in glee, What the fuck is that? 

 Dom was sitting on Billys lap in the chair in the corner, 
bouncing around and wracked with laughter, My god! Seans got an arse on him, 
lads! A lily-white tight little arse! 

 Billy tried to still the gyrating Dom, to keep him from 
bruising his thighs in his excitement, Steady now! Move aside! I want a better 
look at that! 

 Sean sunk as low as he could on the couch, wishing he had 
the Ring so he could become invisible at that moment. Yes. Thats my ass. So 
what. He mumbled as his face burned. 

 Lij nearly leapt into his lap as he turned and threw his 
arms around Sean, Thats so cute! he squealed, almost like one of his 
obnoxious teenage fans. He ruffled Seans hair and gave him a quick kiss on the 
cheek. 

 Just play the damned movie, Sean grumbled. He was 
drowning in embarassment, and Lijs little kiss wasnt helping. 

 Orli started the video again, not that the rest of the 
towel scene was much better. They all laughed again at the caning scene moments 
later, and Sean swore the temperature in the room was growing by several 
degrees. He felt Lij squirming around next to himin sympathy? 

 I rather think he liked that, Dom commented naughtily. 

 Finally, things quieted down for a while as they watched 
the predictable action progress onscreen. Lij was utterly amazed at the amount 
of athleticism his friend was showing. Hed seen quite a bit of agility and 
strength as the group had been doing their training and fight scenes, but what 
Sean was displaying in this movie blew him away. He looked like a gymnast, and 
like he could very easily have become an action film star if hed been a few 
inches taller, and perhaps not so blessed with a 
goofy grin and tendency to be a wiseass. It no longer surprised him how easily 
he was able to play an athlete in Rudy, nor how easy it was for him to be 
running around the countryside during their current shoot, leaping fences with a 
huge packalbeit stuffed with newspaperson his back. He had certainly bulked up 
for the part, but Lij swore half of the new weight must be muscle. He glanced 
down at Seans arm, flexing as he nervously rubbed a seam on the side of his 
shorts. That *was* muscle there. And lots of it. Lij 
found his insides quivering just a little as he wondered about exactly what Sean 
could do with those arms. He found himself greatly looking forward to shooting 
the scenescoming up soonwhere he was toted around Mordor on Seans back. 

 Another shout from Dom turned his attention back to the 
screen, Pause that! Rewind it! I want to see that again! 

 Orli obliged and rewound, then paused 
the video on a shot of Sean standing atop a bathroom stall, his legs splayed 
wide, and leaning over, nearly grabbing his ankles. It was an almost inhuman 
pose, especially in the jeans he was wearing that seemed as if theyd been 
spray-painted on. 

 Lijs heart nearly stopped, and he felt a rush of blood to 
his crotch. Strong *and* flexible. Oh, god. 

 Can ye still do that, Sean? Thats pretty impressive! 
Billy asked eagerly. 

 Sean, who was finding it impossible to blend in with the 
couch cushions, just shook his head, Nope, he croaked dryly, Not anymore. 
Its been 10 years! 

 Oh come on! Orli teased. I bet you still can! Ive seen 
you in the gymyou can do it! 

 Lij wanted to see this, but knew Sean wouldnt agree so 
easily. Hey! Ill bet he *cant* still do it! he piped up, appealing to his 
friends sense of pride. 

 Yer on, mate! Orli pulled a 
fiver from his pocket. 

 I dont think he can, either, Dom piped up, adding his 
own cash to the bets. 

 Ill say he can, then, Billy joined. 

 Sean hung his head. He was a game now, apparantly. Still, 
his pride had kicked in, and he thought that maybe he could actually hold that 
pose. He was in pretty good shape these days, even after gaining the extra 
weight. He stood up, to cheers from the rest of the guys. He bent over and 
stretched, loosening up his thigh muscles. He was glad of the few beers hed 
had, and the fact that he was in loose shorts instead of tight jeans. Finally, 
he started spreading his legs, inching his feet out toward the sides. It took 
him a little while, as he was wary of pulling a muscle, but eventually he got 
his legs as wide as hed had them in the shot. Then he slowly leaned over, and 
rested his hands on the ground in front of his feet. The guys exploded in 
applause and shouts. 

 Lij stood up, clapping wildly at the sight. Damn, but did 
Sean look good like that. His heart pounded in his chest, and he felt his crotch 
grow tight. Suddenly he realized that maybe hed better sit down again. It 
wouldnt do for any of the guys to see how turned on he really was. Hed so far 
managed to keep his interests in them a secret, since he didnt want to muck 
with anything. That, and he wasnt so sure how well 
he could deal with the concept of actually following through on what he kept 
thinking about. Aside from a few passes from one of his perpetually stoned 
co-stars last year, he hadnt even so much as gotten close to getting involved 
with a guy, and he wasnt sure he could cross that line yet. 

 Sean finally pulled himself out of position. I think *I* 
ought to take that bet money, yknow, he proudly asserted. Billy grabbed the 
handful of cash and threw it in his direction with a laugh. He stuffed it in his 
pocket and sat back down again, and they finished watching the movie. No more 
teasing happened. Heh. Hed finally impressed the 
little bastards. 

 The shoot wore on. Theyd mercifully had a break over 
Christmas, and Sean and his family flew back to LA to be with their friends and 
family there, and to hunker down in the living room with the TV, waiting for Y2K 
chaos to happen. Thankfully it didnt, and a week later he was back in New 
Zealand. 

 Ian arrived then, and the whole rest of the cast flocked 
around him like moths to a flame, getting advice and insights on everything from 
acting to food. They filmed most of their Amon Hen battle scenes then, and 
finally wound up the month by filming Frodo and Sams boat scene. Unfortunately, 
things didnt exactly go as planned. On the first attempt at a shot of Sam 
running down the hill to Frodos boat, Sean plunged into the water and 
immediately screamed. 

 Oh god oh god oh god .. he 
groaned, hauling himself out of the water and collapsing on the shore of the 
lake. He was immediately descended upon by Peter and half the crew. Lij quickly 
paddled the boat back to shore and jumped out. 

 There was a large twig sticking out of a huge, blood-soaked 
gash in the bottom of Seans prosthetic foot, which was quickly being torn off 
by a crew member. Sean writhed around in pain as some of the first-aid crew 
looked at the wound on his foot. Lij tried to paw his way through the crowd to 
get a look at him, but was pushed away. 

 Sean! Lij cried out, frustrated that he couldnt attend 
to his friend. Are you okay? He paced around, looking for an open spot between 
people, never cursing his lack of height more than that moment. 

 Sean wailed again as someone manhandled his wound to try to 
see how deep it was, Lij! Where are you? he moaned, unable to see through pain 
and tears. 

 Shoving aside a PA, Lij wormed his way over to Sean and 
knelt beside him, grasping his hand, Im here, Sean. Im here. He picked up 
the hand and kissed it, stroking it on his cheek. Sean looked green and almost 
sick with pain, his face screwed up and tears streaming down his cheeks. The 
sight made Lijs stomach clench. What if Sean had ripped a tendon or broken 
something? Lij continued to stroke Seans hand, holding it tightly to his chest.

 Sean still couldnt focus, but he felt Lijs pounding heart 
against his hand, and the warm, soft lips as they kissed it occasionally. 
Though his foot was still wracked with pain, the comfort of having Lij close 
helped ease his panic. He felt his thundering heartbeat begin to slow as the 
endorphins and soothing sound of Lijs voice took over. 

 Its deep. Theres no question about that. I dont know if 
well have to get him to a hospital or not, though. It depends on whether it 
stops bleeding, one of the first aid guys stood up and told Peter. Someone had 
grabbed a large gauze pad from one of the first aid kits and they held it 
against Seans foot to try to get the bleeding to stop. Someone handed Lij a 
costume-covering robe, so he wouldnt get dirt and debris on it as he knelt on 
the ground, and he quickly slipped it on, never breaking contact with Seans 
hand. 

 For a few minutes, assistants kept pressure on the wound, 
changing the gauze as was necessary. Some had decided to call for the actual 
production doctors for advice on what to do. At any rate, there was no question 
that the shoot was over for the time being, and people were starting to pack up. 

 The small blonde who was attending to Seans foot was asked 
to help pack up some of the lighting equipment and she turned to Lij, Can you 
take this for a while? She tossed him a towel and a fresh pack of gauze. 

 Lij shifted around so Seans foot was resting in his lap on 
the towel, properly elevated, and he held the gauze tightly against the 
still-bleeding gash. With his free hand, he stroked Seans forehead, damp with 
sweat. Is it still hurting a lot? he asked gently. 

 Sean nodded, still dizzy with pain, Uh-huh. It feels like 
my whole foots been skewered. 

 Peter came over, cell phone in hand, The doctors want to 
know if the bleeding has stopped yet. 

 Lij peeled off the gauze, which was becoming soaked 
through. As he did, a small flow of blood oozed from the dime-sized wound.
 Less than before, but still there. Nope, not yet, 
he said sadly. 

 Fuck. Peter never minced words. He went back to his 
phone, Yeah. Still bleeding. I dunno. He looks like 
it. Poor bastard is crying like an infant. Ok. Well, were miles from 
Queenstown. We werent going to be driving back until tomorrow. Yeah. Good idea. 
Thanks. He flipped the phone closed and looked at his two stars, Well, dammit. 
We need to get a helicopter in here for you, Sean. They need to get you to at 
least a clinic where they can give you an antibiotic and tetanus shot and make 
sure there isnt any debris left in the wound. He sounded angry for a moment 
that his shoot had been interrupted, but he soon softened, Im sorry, Sean. We 
should have had someone check underwater for anything dangerous. I hope it all 
patches up okay. 

 Sean just nodded, still unable to speak much. It took a 
long time for the helicopter to get there, and in the meantime, Seans wound had 
actually stopped bleeding. Lij hadnt left him for a moment, and thankfully 
someone had brought some water over, and he and Sean were sharing a bottle. Lij 
watched the wound carefully for any signs that it might start bleeding again. 

 Sean was finally almost coherent, and started joking a 
little. Someone had brought a cel phone over to him and he called Christine back 
in Wellington to tell her what had happened. He tried to sound like it was no 
big deal that he was about to be airlifted to a hospital. 

 Now that the initial panic was over, Lij found himself 
actually fascinated by the gash. He was looking at it very closely, eyeing how 
the edges were ragged, and coated with a thick slush of blood and serum. A large 
blood clot was jelled up in the center. He stroked Seans foot delicately, 
though trying not to tickle. Does it still hurt? he asked quietly. 

 Much of the pain had started to ebb away at that point, 
thanks to endorphins and a large handful of acetominophen that one of the PAs 
had given him. Its getting better, Sean replied. Its just kind of throbbing 
a bit now. 

 Lij leaned over for a closer look at the blood. A weird 
impulse took him and he picked up a small stick laying 
on the ground next to him. He gently poked at the blood clot, wondering how firm 
it really was. It resisted the prod, and moved slightly, the consistency like a 
gumdrop that had been left on the dashboard of a sun-cooked car. 

 Sean felt the prod, and though it didnt hurt, it felt 
strange. He lifted his head up, straining to see what Lij was doing to him, 
Lij? he asked, confused. 

 This is actually kind of cool, Sean. I wish you could see 
it. Lij poked at the clot again, watching it quiver, Theres this enormous 
blood clot on youits like it has a life of its own. 

 Sean laid his head back down, Yknow what, Lij? Youre 
weird. Really fucking weird. 

 Lij smiled at him; that odd, faraway look on his face, when 
it was clear his mind really wasnt part of normal human reality at that moment. 
Yeah, I know, he said slyly. But you like me this 
way. 

 Sean had to admit he did. He had grown more and
 more fond of this freaky kid as the shoot wore on, 
and it wasnt just because of their characters closeness. He was amazed at how 
mature and thoughtful the boy was even at his young age. It appeared Hollywood 
hadnt done anything terrible to him, with the possible exception of making him 
withdraw somewhat from a social life outside of his family and castmates, and 
into a kind of strange mental world of his own creation. Sean smiled, thinking 
of some of the weirder things that were known to come from that 
seemingly-innocent mouth. Yeah, Lij. I like you. You 
know I like you. He sighed heavily, and muttered, almost to himself, Too much 
for my own good, I think. 

 Lij paused for a moment at that, wondering what on earth 
Sean could mean. He started to say something when Peter came up behind them. 

 Elijah? What the hell are you doing? Peter demanded. 

 Lij tossed the stick aside, Nothing, he lied. Hes 
stopped bleeding now. 

 Good. Lets get him up and get him into one of the vans. 
Theyre going to take him down the hill to the clearing where the helicopter is 
going to pick him up. Go ahead and head over to your trailer for now. Well pick 
up again in the morning. 

 Lij and Peter and a PA helped Sean to his feet, and got him 
to hop down the hill to the waiting van. Sean embraced Lij closely and kissed 
his cheek, Thanks for sitting with me while I was being a baby. It helped a 
lot. 

 Hey, sometimes Frodos got to help out his Sam, too, Lij 
grinned back. 

 Lijs thumbs were sore from far too much Playstation. He 
finally tossed the controller on the floor after losing yet another round to 
Sean. Even wounded the guy was quick. They had come back to his hotel room in 
Queenstown for the weekend, after the busted shoot at the lake. Hed managed to 
shoot a few of his own scenes the next day, but Peter decided to wait a few more 
days to see if Sean was going to heal before doing much else. He flew back to 
Wellington with some of the rest of the cast and crew to work on another set, as 
they were getting ready to work on the Helms Deep scenes in a few more days.

 So, bored, Sean and Lij had spent most of that Saturday 
sitting in the hotel room waiting for something to happen and playing endless 
rounds of video games. Seans foot was wrapped up in bandages, still too sore to 
really walk on, but fortunately healing quickly. 

 Lij got up and stretched. He was feeling like a total 
schlump, since hed woken up late, and hadnt even had a shower yet. Sean had 
appeared, banging on his door at the ungodly hour of 8 am, wrenching him away 
from a comforting morning piss. Sean was so animated and social he couldnt 
stand being alone, and being away from his family back on the North Island was 
bugging him, so he had latched onto Lij. 

 The remains of half a donut were all that was left from 
their room-service breakfast, and Lij consumed this last bit standing up, 
brushing his sticky hands off on the t-shirt hed slept in. 
He scritched his tummy, sticking a hand down into the top of his boxers to reach 
a particularly evil itch where his pubes were matted up. 

 Sean watched all this with amusement. Lij was so incredibly 
casualdidnt seem to even notice when people were looking at him unless he had 
a camera pointed at him. He didnt fuss much with personal grooming or 
appearance unless he absolutely needed to. And when with friends, he completely 
let go, belching and scratching whenever he felt the need, and, as evidenced by 
this mornings attire, not bothering to really get dressed when he had company. 
The robe he put on when other people came by lay draped over a chair, unused yet 
today. It was all rather disgusting in a way, but Sean actually found it 
endearing, and even a little flattering that Lij felt comfortable enough around 
him to be so at ease. 

 Lij stretched his arms up to the sky and yawned. He 
suddenly caught a whiff of the odor emanating from his armpits, shuddered and 
scrunched down again, Holy fuck, thats rank. I had no idea. Im sorry, Sean. 

 Sean just laughed. He hadnt wanted to say anything, 
because hed enjoyed being close to Lij as they sat on the floor in front of the 
TV. The slightly off scent didnt even bug him much. 

 Im gonna go hit the shower, Lij said, peeling off his 
stinky shirt and tossing it into a pile at the side of the bed. 

 K, Sean shrugged. He intended to turn back to the game 
and play a solo round, but found himself watching the boy strip instead. Hed 
seen him shirtless a few times already, but this situation was a little 
different, and watching the boys small muscles flex under his pale skin as he 
casually tossed his shirt aside was really quite something. Sean noticed that 
Lijs nipples were stiffening with the sudden rush of cold air, and he briefly 
wondered what they might feel like. 

 Ack. No. 
Cant think those things. With an effort, he tore his eyes away and 
picked up the game controller. 

 Lij stepped into the bathroom and closed the door solidly 
behind him. He stopped there for a moment, feeling the cool tile on his feet. He 
could have sworn Sean was watching him. Or maybe that was wishful thinking. It 
must be. Sean was married, so he was straight, right? He couldnt have been 
watching. Could he? Lij turned on the shower and pushed his boxers to the floor. 
Just the idea that Sean may have been appreciating the view he unconsciously 
gave him was making his dick a little hard. He tried not to think about it. He 
only intended a quick shower, and didnt have time for taking care of a problem.

 He washed up quickly, giving himself a thorough cleaning, 
but trying not to linger too much on his more sensitive parts, so as not to stir 
anything up. He was failing miserably. He couldnt help but give the 
now-swelling head of his cock an extra swirl or two with a soapy hand. He darted 
a hand deftly into the crack of his ass, soaping up just a little more deeply 
than absolutely necessary. Before long, he was a minor wreck. He worried himself 
into a tizzy, wondering if, should the opportunity present itself, he could 
really go through with it. He knew he couldnt ask for it, at least. It would 
have to be something Sean asked for. Or maybe even demanded. 
That thought made things even more unbearable. 

 Sean meanwhile numbly played his game, dying every few 
minutes because he couldnt focus on it. All he could think about was Lijs 
naked, soapy body in the shower mere feet from where he sat. This wasnt 
happening, he tried to think. He was a grownup now. The time for boyish fooling 
around was over. Why on earth was this guythis kiddoing this to him? And yet, 
he couldnt deny it. His back teeth ached every time he pictured Lijs creamy 
skin under his hands. All the long weeks of teasing and 
flirting and kisses and embraces all smushed together in his mind and his head 
swam with the desire growing inside him. Hed been wondering about 
Lijabout how straight he really wasbut he was too afraid to say anything. Lij 
flirted with *everyone*, even (hell, especially) Ian, and he couldnt imagine 
that his targeting was any different than anyone elses. No, it couldnt be. And 
he certainly couldnt ask, much less press the issue. If he was wrong, Lij would 
freak out and give him shit about being married. No, he couldnt. He just 
couldnt. 

 And then it hit him. Lij hadnt taken a change of clothes 
into the bathroom with him. All he had was his dirty boxers, and he doubted 
those would get worn again. His fluffy robe was still casually tossed over the 
chair next to the bed. Hed be at least wearing nothing but a towel when he came 
outOh god. He tried hard not to picture himself tearing off that towel and 
throwing Lij down on the bed, naked and wet. 

 About the same moment, the same realization came to Lij. 
The fear of what hed have to manage to do to get dressed shrank his problem 
rather quickly. He rinsed off and shut off the water, stepping out and grabbing 
a towel. He dried off somewhat and then wrapped the towel around his waist. He 
paused for a moment, wondering what to do. He opened the door just a crack and 
stuck his head out. 

 Sean breathed in the puff of steam that came from the door 
and eyed Lijs sopping head, which was wearing a sheepish grin. 

 Um. It seems Ive forgotten 
something, Lij blushed. Can you hand me my robe? 

 Sean got up, turning quickly so Lij couldnt see the bulge 
at the front of his pants. He grabbed the robe quickly, but didnt notice that 
the tie for it had come out of the loops, and it dropped to the ground as he 
brought it over to the bathroom door. 

 Lij grabbed it gratefully. On impulse he reached over and 
kissed the tip of Seans nose, Thanks! he smiled, and ducked back in. He left 
the door slightly ajar, however. He kept one eye on it, wondering if Sean would 
try to spy on him. He didnt even have to try to look. Sean obviously was still 
standing there, thinking he was out of the line of sight. Hed have never 
actually asked, or said anything, but at that moment, Lij had to make an offer. 
He unhitched the towel from around his waist and let it casually drop to the 
floor. He made a show of brushing his teeth and hair while in this state, and 
wondered how long Sean would watch him. He half-hoped that Sean would just burst 
in and take him right there. In fact, the thought of just that was something he 
dwelled on for more than a moment, imagining those strong arms lifting him up 
onto the counter. The thick hands caressing his shoulders, 
pulling on his hips. That warm, lightly furry chest pressed up against 
him. That did it. His cock began to rise. There was no way in hell Sean could 
miss that if he was still watching. What? Was brushing his teeth a turn on? He 
waited. And waited. Sean was still there, still as a 
mouse, watching but doing nothing. Dammit. Lij finally gave up and put the robe 
on. As he made to come out, he caught sight of Sean scurrying back to his place 
in front of the TV. Lij opened the door, and brought his hand around, reaching 
for the tie. He found it wasnt there, and so he clutched the robe around him 
clumsily, letting it gap in places. 

 He looked around the room for a moment, wondering where the 
tie had gotten to. He spied it on the floor next to the other side of the bed, 
Hey, he nodded to Sean, who waved a fake-absentminded hand in his direction. 
Can you reach that tie on the floor? It must have come off. 

 Sean leaned over and grabbed the tie from the floor. As he 
did so, Lij noticed the thick bulge in his pants, which couldnt be easily hid 
unless he was hunched over. His heart leapt. Sean *did* want him. Or at least he 
was turned on by something, and it was highly doubtful that it was the insipid 
video game he was pretending to play. 

 Sean stood up, balancing gingerly on his sore foot, and 
came over to Lij. He paused for a moment as they were just a few inches apart. 
He held out the tie, but kept his eyes locked to those huge baby blues. Here, 
his voice nearly cracked. 

 Thanks, Lij whispered. It was so stupid, this little 
game. Why couldnt they say it? Why couldnt they ask it? He wanted to be 
seduced, taken, ravaged, and Sean just wasnt taking the hint. Exasperated, he 
got an idea. He took one end of the tie and, grasping it as it was still in 
Seans hand, he quickly wrapped a couple of loops around his wrist and pulled 
his hand down and behind him, pulling Sean into him. 

 Sean gasped as he nearly stumbled into Lij, but he quickly 
recovered. Something about that little flick of the wrist, and the resulting 
appearance of the dark blue terrycloth tie around that narrow, pale wrist, now 
safely locked behind Lijs back, sent him over the edge. With a strangled 
whimper, he bent his head and kissed Lij, hard and fully. 

 Lij smiled into the kiss, relieved and amazed at the 
strength behind it. He opened up and snaked his free arm around Seans waist, 
his other still pinned behind him. Sean meanwhile brought a hand up to steady 
and caress Lijs face. The robe Lij wore gaped open 
with no hands to hold onto it, and Lijs hardness pressed into Seans hip. He 
pressed back, making Lij moan and wrap his tongue further around Seans. They 
made out like this for several moments, tasting each others mouths and grinding 
hips. The rough feel of Seans jeans against Lijs sensitive cock made him 
quiver and whine into that warm, sucking mouth. Every bit of the strength hed 
sensed in Seans body was there, though it was under a layer of the softest 
flesh. Lij caressed Seans sides, stroking and kneading the softness there, and 
feeling the hard, sinewy oblique muscles just under the surface. He slid a hand 
under Seans shirt and around his back to knead and massage the strong muscles 
there, and now and again slipped the tips of his fingers below the band of 
Seans briefs, stroking just the top of the crack of his ass with one deft 
finger. 

 Sean slid his hand down Lijs neck, caressing the 
always-sore muscles there. He slid his hand under the edge of the robe, and 
began pushing it down off of Lijs narrow shoulder. He pulled back from the kiss 
and began planting firm, sucking kisses down the side of Lijs neck and onto his 
shoulder, now and then nibbling a bit of the tasty, moist flesh. Lij gasped 
heavily every time those teeth came into use. 

 Lij stopped for just a moment. Now that things were 
actually happening, a sharp wave of panic came over him. Wait, he breathed, 
trying to regain some sense of sanity, Sean, we cant do this. Youyoure 
married. Christine 

 will understand. Its okay. 
She knows I was with guys before we met, and it doesnt bother her. Hell, we had 
a very funny conversation once where she told me if Brad Pitt ever asked for a 
blowjob I should give him one. Sean smiled and resumed chewing on Lijs neck, 
Besides, he mumbled, she thinks youre cute. I cant imagine shed grudge me 
this. He hoped that sounded real. He actually wasnt totally sure how Christine 
would feel about this. She was a very generous woman, and very cool about his 
past, butwell he hoped shed be okay with it. He wasnt going to lie to her, 
at least. 

 Lijs head swam. He was with guys before?
 Holy shit. Then that meant that he would know what 
he was doing. That it wasnt a brand new experience like it was for him. It was 
far more than just fantasy and what stories and porn hed managed to get when he 
first started thinking about guys like this only a couple of years ago. Sean was 
*experienced* in comparison, and the idea made Lijs knees, already weakening, 
crumple. 

 Sean felt Lij slump underneath him and caught his weight. 
As it was, his foot was growing sore from standing, so he decided perhaps the 
bed was a better place. Gripping the end of the tie in his right hand, he tugged 
on it. Lijs eyes grew wide and a broad, syrupy grin crossed his face. He liked 
where this was going. He let himself be led by his bound wrist over to the bed, 
where he was gently pushed down. Sean knelt on the bed in front of him and 
pushed his robe down from his shoulders, nibbling a path down his upper arms as 
he went. Soon, the robe was off, and he lay there, naked in front of Sean. The 
feeling of being fully naked and vulnerable while Sean, easily stronger and 
certainly in control was still fully clothed was nerve-wrackingly intense. His 
stomach trembled, waiting for the next touch. 

 Sean sat back on his heels briefly, eyeing the end of the 
tie in his his hand. This was certainly a side of Lij he hadnt quite expected 
to see, but now that he was seeing it, it lit a flame inside him he didnt know 
he had. Hed never been with anyone who was the least bit kinky in this respect. 
You *are* a bit weird, arent you Lij? he purred teasingly. 

 Lij felt himself blush from top to toes. He couldnt say 
it. Just couldnt say it. But oh, he wanted it. Those evil little fantasies hed 
had. So many of them that involved this man right in front 
of him. He squeezed his eyes shut and barely nodded. He felt a sharp tug 
of the tie around his wrist. 

 That wasnt an answer, you know, Seans eyes narrowed 
almost menacingly. 

 Lij gasped and he felt his cock jump. Ahhhmmm, he 
couldnt form words. 

 What do you want? Sean asked, pulling the bound wrist up 
above Lijs head, Is it this? Is this what you like? 

 Language was impossible at that moment, but he tried, 
Mmm-hmm. Yesss he let the air slip past his teeth, but his delicious 
embarrassment grew as he breathed the word. 

 Well, isnt that fascinating. You sure are one complex 
guy, you know that? I knew there was a reason I liked you. Oh, but wait. It also 
could be because youre so fucking hot. Sean was getting into this, enjoying 
the hell out the reactions he was getting from the squirming boy. Yes, you are 
certainly hot. He eyed the length of Lijs lean frame, his cock longer and 
thicker than seemed proportional, and a slightly darker tone than the rest of 
his thin, washed-out skin. Seans own cock throbbed painfully in its cloth 
prison and he took a moment to adjust himself, giving himself a good squeeze 
while he could. Without much warning he suddenly grabbed Lijs other wrist and 
brought it up to meet the already-bound one. He looped more of the tie around 
and then tied the loose end to the bedpost. 

 Lij squirmed and his hips bucked involuntarily. Now he 
really was at Seans mercy, and, though he trusted him completely, he couldnt 
help but be just a little scared. He had no idea what the much older and more 
experienced man had in store for his nearly-virginal body. The few girls hed 
been with were all passivethey just laid there like dead fish while he fucked 
them. This was entirely different, and entirely amazing. 

 Sean finally stood back up for a moment, and decided that 
he felt overdressed. He slowly stripped off his shirt, running his fingers 
through the soft hair on his chest and stomach. He then peeled off his jeans, 
and slid his briefs to the floor. Lij watched all this, his breathing growing 
deeper and more ragged. Sean got on his knees on the bed again, at an angle to 
Lijs prone form, his hips on a level with Lijs shoulders. He bent over, 
bracing himself with his left arm, dangling his cock in front of Lijs mouth and 
stroking himself with his free hand. 

 Lij tried to raise his head to take that thick, meaty cock 
in his mouth, but with his arms above his head, it was nearly impossible. The 
best he could do was to extend his tongue and gently lap just the very tip of 
the swollen, purplish head. He caught a drip of honeyish precum on his tongue 
and tasted it, the sweet saltiness a bit of glory in his mouth. He ached to be 
touched himself, but at the very least, he wanted to touch Sean, too. 

 Sean quivered slightly at the first touch of that soft, 
velvety tongue, and briefly considered simply stuffing himself into that eager 
mouth. But, he didnt know how many other opportunities he might have to do 
this, and he wanted this experience to last. He drew back, after squeezing 
another drop onto the outstretched tongue below him. He looked over Lijs body, 
wondering where to start. Those velvety nipples stared out at him like beacons 
and he smiled, diving down to suddenly capture one in his mouth. 

 That warm mouth on his sensitive nipple made Lij erupt in a 
high-pitched shriek, and he then moaned musically with each suck and lick. Sean 
was surprised at the intensity of response and eagerly delved into his task, 
bringing a hand up to caress and pinch the other 
nipple. Lij gasped and flexed, pressing his chest into Seans mouth. Just as an 
experiment, Sean began gently using his teeth, nibbling and sucking the nipple 
between them. Lij screwed up his face and began keening and mewling, an edge of 
pain in his voice, but the writhing and twisting his hips were doing made clear 
his true response. Sean redoubled his efforts, and roughened the attentions he 
was giving the other hard nub, and it was all Lij could do to keep from bucking 
his way completely off the bed. 

 It hurt. Oh god it hurt, but it hurt in the most incredible 
way. He had played with his own nipples several times, but no-one had yet done 
that to him, and certainly not the biting and pinching that was going on now. 
His nipples felt like two little match heads, connected to a thread of fire that 
went straight into his cock. He almost thought he might come right then and 
there when Sean finally slowed and began kissing his way down Lijs stomach 
instead. Lij could feel the bit of sandpapery stubble on Seans chin as it 
scraped over his tender tummy, and the rasp made his skin come alive. 

 Sean moved around to the end of the bed and pushed Lijs 
thighs apart, to lay on his stomach in between them. 
Lij obliged quickly, raising his knees. He anticipated a blowjob, perhaps, but 
what he got instead made his stomach quiver and roll. Sean stroked and kneaded 
his inner thighs for a moment, and caressed the tender area behind his balls 
with deft fingers, stroking and squeezing the root of his cock there. At the 
first stroke of a finger across his asshole, Lij twitched involuntarily. He 
wasnt so sure he was ready for anything like that, and his mind raced, 
wondering if he shouldor couldsay something about it. He tensed up, waiting 
for the inevitable push at his shy opening. It didnt come. But what he did feel 
was warmth and wetness. With a shock he realized that Sean was licking and 
sucking his ass. Now *that* was something he could handle! 

 Ohhhh wow he cried, the fluttery feelings welling up 
inside him. He never had any idea he had so many nerve endings there.
 Or in his entire body for that matter. When Seans 
tongue slipped inside him, he didnt resist at all, though he had to do his best 
to keep from squirming around in delight. Instead, he clenched and unclenched 
his hands, twisting them in their bonds. Soon, the feeling of a moistened finger 
sliding inside him was not only not uncomfortable, but amazing. He relaxed and 
let his body be invaded in a way hed never known. When Seans long, thick 
finger found a sweet spot inside him, he thought he 
might go mad. Suddenly everything between his navel and his knees went to jelly 
and there was a satisfying thud in the pit of his stomach. His cock felt alive 
from the inside out. 

 Somehow Sean clambered around on top of Lij. The throbbing 
in his own crotch was becoming far too much to bear, and he ached for some sort 
of touch. It was a good thing that they were both the same height, because it 
was very easy for him to situate himself so that his cock was within easy reach 
of Lijs mouth if Lij turned slightly on his side, which he did, once hed 
recovered from the initial wonderful shock of having a wiggling finger up his 
ass. He hungrily suckled the big cock offered to him, needing something to do 
with his mouth besides moaning and unintelligible babble. 

 Sean then took Lijs cock into his mouth, and eased another 
finger inside him, rhythmically pressing upwards to the resilient ridge inside. 
Lij whined low in his throat and the vibrations felt wonderful cascading over 
Seans cock. Their paces quickened, and soon Sean felt Lijs ass clench his 
fingers and his balls draw up close to his body. The pulsing head of his dick 
swelled to maximum size, and Lij began to moan, long and steady, pulling back 
his head from Seans cock to avoid biting it off. As he finally crashed over the 
edge, he swore he felt his cum rising and shooting from somewhere inside him 
that had never existed before. The reverb of muscle contractions in his ass 
trembled and shook and he drained for a very long time. Just as he was riding 
the last wave, he greedily sucked down Seans cock again, taking it as deeply 
into his throat as his inexperience could manage. He sucked and stroked hard, 
and was soon rewarded by Seans own thick cum spurting in hot gushes into his 
mouth. 

 Sean could barely move, and he lay there for a moment, his 
head resting on Lijs rising and falling abdomen, soft whimpers coming from his 
mouth, which was still alive with the sweet, sharp taste of Lijs cum. Reality 
seemed so far away, and he wanted it to stay there, but it soon crept back and 
he managed to disentangle himself. He untied Lijs wrists with one deft hand, 
and massaged a cramp out of the boys shoulder, caused by an uncomfortable 
twitch in that position. 

 They curled up around each other for some time, simply 
breathing and caressing, now and then kissing warmly and softly. Sean smiled to 
himself. There was certainly something to be said for finding ones lost youth.
 Especially when it was as weird, wild and wonderful as this 
one. 

 *end* 

 Return to Fanfics 

 Return to the Bag-End 
Inn