Polyfidelity 

 Polyfidelity 

 (Standard disclaimer: Any and all definitions and opinions
listed below are my (our) own and do not necessarily represent the views of
anyone else, nor should they be taken as gospel. So there.) 

 Note: This page has
recently been updated with an edited excerpt from a recent essay 
I wrote. 

 To
someone who has never heard of the concept, the idea of a marriage or
relationship that involves more than two people may seem pretty strange. Much of
Western culture is built on the concept of two-party male-dominant heterosexual
marriage- primarily oriented around property rights and child rearing- with
maybe some secretive affairs on the side. As people now focus on love, and
shared goals and interests as the basis, many things have changed. For some that
means acknowledging being gay or bi, some are creating more egalitarian and less
sex-role divided marriages, some choose to remain childless, and some people
have discovered that their capacity for relationships is not limited to just one
person. A couple of the better-known terms for this are Polyamory and
Polyfidelity. 

 "Polyamory"
has about as many definitions as people who identify that way, but most
agree that what it generally means is being open to the possibility of intimate
relationships with more than one person. Some also call it a blanket term for
responsible (honest) non-monogamy. This therefore includes a pretty wide range
of relationship constellations, which can be sort of confusing at first.
Polyamory can cover anything from swinging (a hotly debated inclusion,) to the
classic open relationship, to large hippie commune-style "families,"
to Heinleinesque Line Marriages, to extended relationship webs that have dozens
of people (It's been joked that six degrees of separation in the poly
community is usually more like two or three.) One of the most common forms is
for someone to have a "primary" relationship with one person (a
spouse, etc.) and then have other, "secondary" relationships that are
on a less involved level. There's also the subset of Polyfidelity, which comes
very close to how we feel about the subject. The most concrete definition of
polyfi is a committed relationship that involves more than two people, that is
closed to outside involvements. Kind of like a standard monogamous marriage or
relationship, only with more people. Others who identify as polyfi have a
slightly looser definition that allows for the possibility of eventually
including more people in the family, but with group approval only. Not all wait
until theyre married to have sex or anything, but overall, the main
goal is a primary level committed relationship, and not just sex or casual
relationships. 

 How
this applies to me personally- 

Well,
here's what it isn't: It isn't swinging, it isn't casual sex, (as we define it: sex with no emotional
connection) it isn't the classic "open relationship," where each partner has
more or less free rein to
do whatever. It isn't about cheating, lying or being deceptive or sneaky, it isn't about
sex for sex's sake, playing games with people, building harems, or going through a
partner-of-the-week. It also isn't the "traditional" one man, multiple wife
non-egalitarian verison of polygamy. 

Though we plan to be together for a long time, maybe even for the rest of our
lives, we made sure there was nothing in our marriage ceremony 
about forsaking all others. In our lives, we have loved many people-some as 
friends or relatives , some, like Dave and Steven, 
Chris and Diana, and Kim, that we have
adopted into our lives as chosen family, that we fully expect to be in our lives
forever (and we're always open to adding more to that
list!) but who can't be partners in a romantic or sexual sense, and of course, several romantic
relationships that, until we met, eventually fizzled out for one reason or another. One of
the things that both of us noticed is that when we were in a relationship with one person,
there were still others that we loved, and that being in a relationship did not diminish
or cloud the feelings we had for the other person(s.) The feelings we had also didn't
diminish the feelings we had for our partner, either. In some cases, these feelings were
nearly as strong as the feelings we had for the person we were in the relationship with!
We both, independently, came to the realization that it was possible for us to love more
than one person at a time, without any loss of love and caring to anyone. People can love
more than one child, more than one parent, friend or sibling, and we see no reason why it
shouldn't be possible to love more than one partner. Many, many bi people are
perfectly happy being monogamous, and being bi certainly isn't interdependent
with nonmonogamy, (though the two often correlate) but in our case, we realized
that it would be impossible to totally close off the queer parts of ourselves,
and just sit back and and enjoy the forced closet of het privilege. Even if he
never did actually sleep with anyone else, Mike still would have fairly strong
interests in men, though hes definetly not 100% gay, and hes attracted to
me regardless. I could probably be happy with just him, but I still do fall for
other people sometimes- usually the ones he falls for too. Besides, it would be
lying, and a disservice to ourselves and the GLBT community to try to pretend to
be straight. Not to mention that weve discovered that we cant exactly pass
as het anyway- especially not since we moved to good ol queer friendly
Seattle a few years ago. Im too dykey, hes too much of a Nancy boy, and we
hang out with too darn many gay folk anyway. We make their Gaydar go on the
fritz so sometimes they feel compelled to ask us, Umm.. how does this
marriage thing work with you two? (Quite well, thanks..) Even the old queen
that sold us our new car last summer asked us if we were sure our
friendship was really going to last for the 5 years it would take to pay
the car off! People think Im a just a fag hag, and that hes really
gay and just kidding himself about being attracted to me. That we just have a
marriage of convenience or something. Hmph. A lot they know. They should see us
in bed sometime. Usually I just answer rude questions by telling people Of
course youre right- we must both be gay, but, yknow, Im man
enough for him and hes woman enough for me. So there. People tend to get
all pissy about that, though. 

 Our
current arrangement is fairly simple, though it has gone through some morphing.
Early on, we agreed that if the situation was right, we would be open to having
other relationships that addressed the needs that we just couldnt fill for
each other. Barring the opportunity for a serious relationship, perhaps a
"threesome" or two with a close friend. Either way, we agreed that it
was going to be a joint effort, and wed only be with someone who wanted to be
with both of us- i.e. someone who was also bi or at least flexible. Easier
wished for than found, and we remained alone, after falling for a few people
that wanted nothing to do with us, or who were only interested in one of us
(usually him.) While
we both enjoy sex a great deal, and are very open about it, sex without an
emotional connection has never been very satisfying to either of us. When we
were doing casual sex (before we got together,) we always felt kinda empty
afterwards, because we had wanted to get to know the other person better, and to
be more of a part of their lives, and to be close to them in ways other than
just getting naked. Being loved by Mike has really spoiled me, and I now have a
lot more respect for my body and my sexuality, and Im not about to share them
with people I dont know and trust. Even if the sex itself is just for fun- or
even downright kinky (when Im in the mood)- I want people to consider me and
my body something special, and something to be respected and cared for. So, once
we realized that we both wanted caring along with the sex, we refined our
agreement and decided that what we really should look for was a serious
relationship with another bi person or couple where we all share our lives, and
perhaps, someday, even a house and childrearing when we were ready for it.
Utopian bliss, right? 

 Unfortunately,
we've had little luck finding what we wanted, since polyfi is still a pretty
rare philosophy. There are plenty of people
in the poly community who have real relationships and not just a lot of
emotionless sex, and there really are some very nice people involved in
it- some of whom were still friends with- but the prevailing local
flavors of poly are just not our thing. We have had a
few almost-happened three/foursome situations with friends, but none ever actually panned out,
and we've had a couple of heartwrenching near-misses with potential serious partners.
We've also had a couple of opportunities for V relationships, but the person involved
just wasn't right. We
had one girlfriend, briefly, but she wasn't ready for poly, and wasn't terribly
sure of her own sexuality either. She
remains the only other person either of us has had sex with since we got
together in 1994. Still, people come and go from our lives, and there is frequently a
person or two on the horizon that we consider in this capacity. When/if the time and person
is right, it will happen. We're also not naive enough to believe in love at
first sight, or instant intimacy or commitment. It will take just as much time,
effort and patience (probably more) to develop a true long term
multi-partner relationship as it would to develop one between just 2 people. It
would be silly to ask someone to marry us 3 weeks after meeting them :) All the
same, though, we don't like the idea of having sex on the first date, either (or
even the 3rd or 4th date- though I suppose kissing would be fine :) ) Even if
the relationship doesn't eventually work out, we'd like to limit our sexual
encounters to people with whom we think there's a strong possibility that
they're going to stay in our lives for quite a while. In short, we kind of feel that we're approaching this much the
same way that a single person would, when they're looking for Mr/Ms Right. We're open to
dating, and to creating connections with people, and also to adding to our non-romantic
family, and if we meet the right one(s,) we'll pursue it just as strongly as we pursued
each other. 
Through our experiences, weve also learned that our attitudes about
non-monogamy have really always just been based on falling for specific people
rather than a generic desire for other. The constant re-modifications of
our agreements seem to be inspired by fitting them to whomever were currently
interested in. 

 Is this something that we really need? No, not
exactly. It's something that we would like to see happen, and I think we'd be very happy
with, but we also realize that this is a pretty rare thing, and not many people can deal
with the idea of multiple-partner relationships. If we fall in love with someone, though,
it's really nice to know that we don't have to automatically discount the possibility of
creating a relationship beyond friendship with them just because we're married. Overall,
we've survived well in the time that we've been together, and if it ends up being just us,
then that's how we'll live. We love each other very much, and that love is quite enough to
sustain us for many, many years. Things also may modify again when we decide to have
children, as it may be difficult to incorporate another person into the family then,
unless the person is already a part of the family when the kids come along. The
basic tenets- doing it jointly, caringly and with an eye toward long-term
relationships or friendships- still exist, but we no longer are really
looking for someone to fill some empty space- just open to
possibilties. We believe that when/if the right
person(s) come along, we can and will create a place for them in our hearts and arms
where they'll fit just fine. While w ere
still theoretically poly, realistically were monogamous. Even if there never
is someone else, well be ok with just each other. 

 Glossary (see above disclaimer) 

 Triad: A committed relationship between 3 people where all 3 are
involved with each other. Usually this means involvement on a sexual level as well, but in
some cases can mean just a very strong emotional bond. Usually also means living
together or very near each other, and sharing day-to-day lives. 

 V- A relationship where one person is at the fulcrum of the V, and
has equal relationships with both others, but the other two are not involved with each
other. 

 Quad- Like a Triad, only with 4 people. 

 NRI-SO- A recently coined term meaning Non-Romantically Involved
Significant Other. Someone with whom you are not actually sexually involved with, but who
is nonetheless an essential part of your life. Perhaps the two "open" ends of a
V. 

 Primary- The person with whom you have a "primary"
connection with-usually a spouse, and who often takes precedence over other
("Secondary") relationships. 

 Falling all over yourself to see more 
of what I have to say about love, friendships and relationships? 

 If you'd like to use the Polyfi image above, please e-mail 
me. 

 back to About Us