Sean 

 Sean 

 The Dedicated Family Man and incurable Cuddle 
Slut 
 Everything one could want in a trusty manservant! 
Sean Astin has a list of credits, including writing and producing (even 
poetry!), as long as your arm. It's been years since he was just a cute Goonie , 
and also some time since his touching work in Rudy . He's had a few misses, to be 
sure, but he's been waiting for a breakout role. Sam is certainly it. Probably 
more than anyone else in the cast, with the possible exception of Ian McKellen, 
Sean is the perfect embodiment of his character, and is the most true to 
people's conception of the character from the books. He lives and breathes Sam 
every second he's onscreen, including in background acting, and thankfully 
didn't shy away from some of the scenes which most young actors would consider 
too mushy and open to bother playing fully. Playing a loyal, loving and 
committed character certainly isn't a stretch: he's been happily married to the 
lovely Christine for 
nearly 10 years and has a young daughter (Ali) who appears in ROTK, and a new child on 
the way soon. He certainly seems 
to be one of the most affectionate, as can be seen from the group pictures, and 
it's sweet to know that he and Lij still spend a lot of time with each other in 
LA. He seems like the nicest, funniest guy anyone could ever meet. Oh, and he's 
cute, too (Doesn't he look smashing in a tux? Wow...) 
 His official site:
 www.seanastin.com Lots of info on all his 
work, plus some great stuff about his other interests, including some poetry! 
 Bit Of Earth
 has the best centralized collection of Sean/Sam info 
 Go

here for a cute video interview with him. He sounds eerily like Jay Leno, 
and just as much of a wiseass. 

 Marci/Micki's pic from Brentano's. Rebecca has posted
 her story of 
her trip to BOE. 

 This? Is HOT! (wow...) 

 Sean and the lovely Christine 

 Some older pics 

 Some Toy Soldiers Screencaps (also featuring the 
lovely and talented Wil Wheaton ). Yum-my. And 
he's *still* a hottie :) 

 As Sam 

 Return to the Bag-End Inn 

 Return the Bag-End Boys 

 The other boys: Lij Orli 
 Dom Billy 

 all pics copyright their original owners. no 
infringement is intended.