From: an130890@anon.penet.fi


                 THE MOTHER OF ALL CIRCUMCISION POSTS


I have been watching the circumcision debate recurrently raging 
in several news groups, with unfounded assertions and
counter-assertions from both sides.  Thus (un)inspired, I went digging 
through the literature to find out what the prevailing opinion 
on the subject was.  

For the most part, I have limited myself to general medical books, 
family "doctor books" put out by reputable institutions, "baby books", 
and general reference works.

I did not attempt to dig through the medical journals; both sides
have engaged in "abstracts wars" that seemed to prove nothing.
Apparently, there are scores of articles that prove/disprove
a correlation between circumcision and a host of diseases.
Few of the articles take a comprehensive view and attempt to
balance the risks and benefits of the procedure and the severity
of the problems it purportedly prevents to answer the question 
"Should I have my kid circumcised?"

Anything between {curly braces} is mine; you may, if you wish, regard
it as biased; for the most part it just explains what I left out.

If you have friends who are having a baby, you might wish to show
them this, and strongly encourage them to go on their own reading 
expedition before they listen to anyone's advice, including their 
doctor's, and certainly before they heed any of the rantings they 
might read on Usenet.  Because this question comes up so often,
people interested in the subject might want to save this off and
repost it when the topic comes up again.

..............................................................
..............................................................
Book: The Merck Manual, 16th ed, 1992, Merck and Co.
Note:  a standard quick-reference for medical personell

p 1928 
Circumcision, if indicated, is generally performed within the first
few days of life but should be delayed indefinitely if there is
displacement of the urethal meatus,...,or any other abnormality of
the penis, since the prepuce may be used later in plastic repair.
Circumcision usually is requested by the parents, and is rarely
indicated medically.  An increase in UTI {urinary tract infection}
is cited as an indication by some. {instances when it shouldn't be done
deleted}
..............................................................
Book: The Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons Complete
      Home Medical Guide, 1985
Note: popular medical guide

p 192
{definition, religious origin deleted} While the procedure is 
probably painful for the baby (no anesthesia can be used) {the bit 
about "no anesthesia" is contradicted elsewhere}, it does 
not take long and healing is quick.  
  Circumcision became an almost routine procedure in this country 
in the years after WWII.  It is, however, not medically necessary to
have a son circumcised, nor is circumcision required by any law.
The procedure does not prevent penile infection or penile cancer.
Moreover, the rate of cervical cancer among the sexual partners of
circumcised men is no higher than usual, provided that the men 
practice good hygiene.
...............................................................
Book: Encyclopedia Americana, "Circumcision" 1987
Note: The article was written by Wallerstein, who wrote the book
      "Circumcision, an American Health Fallacy."  His work has 
      also appeared in medical journals, and he is referenced by 
      some the authors (incl. MD's) mentioned here.

{history deleted} In the late 19th century, circumcision came to be
viewed in the English-speaking world as a panacea to stop masturbation,
which was thought to cause many illnesses.  The American physician
P.C. Remondino, in his once oft-quoted and highly regarded book 
"History of Circumcision from the Earliest Times to the Present" 
(1891), claimed that circumcision prevented or cured about 100
ailments, including alcoholism, epilepsy, hernia, and lunacy.
  Circumcision for reasons of health continued in all English-speaking
countries well into the mid 20th century.  Today, however, the practice
has been virtually abandoned in Britain and New Zealand, and 
circumcision rates have been reduced markedly in Canada and Australia.
But in the United States about 80% {most say 60%; perhaps article is 
old} of infant boys still are circumcised in spite of authoritative
medical opposition to the practice.  In 1975, the American Academy
of Pediatrics reported that "there are no valid medical indications
for circumcision in the neonatal period."  In 1978, the American
College of Obstetricians endorsed the academy's position.   
Both of these groups reaffirmed this judgement in a 1983 report
"Guidelines for Perinatal Care."
  Nevertheless, some U.S. physicians claim that circumcision is 
essential for penile hygeine; that it prevents venereal disease and
premature ejaculation; and that smegma (the normal sebaceous gland
secretion under the foreskin) is a carcinogen, causing cancer of the
penis, prostate, and cervix.  These claims are not supported by 
epidemiological data.  Moreover, smegma is found under the clitoral
foreskin of women, as well as under the foreskins of other mammals
of both sexes, with no apparent harm.
  Circumcision occasionally is a medical necessity, and is so 
recognized worldwide.  However, among the 80% of the world's population
where circumcision is not practiced, the initial approach to 
foreskin problems is usually medical and rarely surgical.  As a 
surgical procudure, circumcision may result in hemorrhage, infection,
and even (very rarely) in death.
  {description of female "circumcision" deleted}
.................................................................
Book: Encyclopaedia Britannica, Micropaedia, 1984
Note: mostly deals with ritual, not medical, practice

{History deleted; very widespread ritual practice mentioned}
From the medical aspect, the operation of removing the foreskin
prevents the accumulation from a number of glands of an odoriferous
cheese-like substance called smegma, which can cause infection.
Routine medical circumcision of newborn males has been 
practiced primarily in English speaking countries, especially
the United States, though the practice is in decline.  
Cancer of the penis is rare in circumcised males, but it is
also rare in uncircumcised males with high standards of 
hygiene.
 {description of female "circumcision" deleted}
.................................................................
Book: The Pocket Book of Baby and Child Care, 1946    and
      Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care, 1992    
      by (the late) Benjamin Spock, MD
Note: The most famous baby book of all; I have included the 1946 
      edition and the 1992 edition because it is interesting to
      see how attitudes have evolved.

1946 Edition, p 154
{description of what it it, and definition of smegma, which can
cause "irritation or mild infection" if germs get into it}
I think circumcision is a good idea, especially if most boys
in the neighborhood are circumcised--then a boy feels "regular."
However, it is not absolutely necessary.
{advises against the practice of forcing the foreskin back to wash
it (if uncircumcised);  instead, advises to leave the foreskin alone 
until it retracts by itself; Advises, for psychological reasons, 
that the operation not be done after infancy "especially as a 
treatment for masturbation"}

1992 Edition, p 225
The foreskin is a sleeve of skin that covers the head (glans) of
the penis. The open end of the foreskin is already large enough
to let the baby's urine out, but small enough to protect the
opening (meatus) of the penis from diaper rash.  ......
As the baby grows, the foreskin normally begins to separate from the 
glans, and starts to become retractable.  It usually takes about 3 
years for this separation and retractability to become complete.  It 
may take longer for some boys, even until adolescence, to have 
a completely retractable foreskin, but this is no cause for concern.
Routine washing, even without retracting the foreskin, will keep
the penis clean and healthy.
If you do retract the foreskin up as far as it will go, you will
see a white, waxy material (smegma) on the head of the penis.  This
is perfectly normal.  Smegma is secreted by the cells on the inside of
the foreskin, as a natural lubricant between the foreskin and the glans
(It also lubricates the head of the penis during intercourse.)

{definition, history of circumcision deleted}
In the United States, in the twentieth century, circumcision has
commonly been performed for several reasons.  Some parents worry
that it will upset their uncircumcised son to look different from
his circumcised father, or older brothers, or friends at school.
In fact, it's not upsetting to the boy, if the parents are
comfortable with their decision.  You can explain how you learned that
circumcision wasn't necessary for his good health, so you didn't want
him to have a painful operation right after he was born.  
Many doctors believe that the normal accumulation of smegma under
the foreskin may cause occasional mild inflammation or infection, 
In fact, routine washing can be just as effective in preventing
these problems as circumcision.
  Scientists used to think that the wives of uncircumcised men were
more likely to get cervical cancer, but modern research has disproven
this.  Studies in the late 1980's suggested that uncircumcised
boys might get more urinary tract infections during childhood.
But this research didn't take into account whether the boys had
good routine hygiene, so there's no conclusive proof that circumcision
would prevent urinary tract infections.  (Circumcised boys also
get urinary tract infections.)  When caught early, these infections
are easily treated with antibiotics.  So it's best to keep in mind
that good genital hygiene (routine washing during the bath) is more
important than whether he's circumcised or not.  In the ten years
from 1980 to 1990, the number of boys being circumcised in the
United States decreased from 90 percent to 60 percent.  If you're
considering circumcision, you should know that it's a relatively
safe operation.  There are some risks from the procedure, such as
bleeding or infection, which usually can be treated easily.  
Circumcision is clearly painful for the baby, but anesthesia is not
used because of its own risk to newborns.  In general, babies recover
from the stress of the operation in about 24 hours.  If your baby
seems uncomfortable for longer than this, or has unusual bleeding
or swelling on his penis, report it to your doctor promptly.
  I feel that there is no solid medical evidence at this time
to support routine circumcision.  Some parents may choose circumcision
for religious reasons.  In other cases I recommend leaving the foreskin
the way Nature meant it to be.

{Care of penis, circumcised and not; usual warning about not pulling
back foreskin prematurely; how to deal with a child who has to be circumcised
later in life}

.................................................................
Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health Book, 1990, William Morrow pub.
Note: The entire discussion of circumcision contained in the book.

p 32, Circumcision: {in a text box}
Not long ago, male infants were circumcised routinely at birth.
It was believed that circumcision--the surgical removal of the
foreskin of the penis--helped prevent problems such as penile 
infection and cancer because a circumcised penis could be
kept cleaner than an uncircumcised one.  Today, however, we know
that circumcision is usually not medically necessary.  Good hygiene
offers the advantages of circumcision without the potential risks.
Thus, most circumcisions are performed for cultural and religious
reasons.  In considering whether to have your infant son circumcised,
consider the pros and cons.  
  One of the advantages of is that the glans (the end of the penis)
is easier to keep clean.  Also, a small percentage of males have to
be circumcised because of problems that surface later in childhood 
and even adulthood.  
  The disadvantages include the possibility of complications, even
though circumcision is a relatively easy procedure.  Complications
include bleeding that may require a dressing and occasionally 
stitches or an infection that may result in scarring or injury
to the penis.  Also, the procedure is painful.  
  If you choose not to have your child circumcised, be assured 
that the foreskin is easy to clean.  Understand, however, that
at birth, the foreskin is firmly attached to the glans.  Over 
time-an average is 3 years but often longer-the foreskin separates
from the glans.  Do not attempt to retract the foreskin during cleaning
or you could cause an injury.  Clean the uncircumcised penis
as you would any other part of the newborn's body.  Simply wash
the genitals thoroughly with a soft washcloth and soap and water.
Rinse thoroughly.
  As your child grows and the foreskin separates from the glans,
you can teach him the importance of keeping clean.  The foreskin
should be retracted and the surface underneath cleaned during the
daily bath or shower.
.................................................................
Book: The Parent's Pediatric Companion, 1985, Gilbert Simon &
      Marcia Cohen
Note: Another baby book

p 92, Circumcision:
There's no _medical_ reason for circumcision, but if you decide to
have your son circumcised, get ready to deal with the healing foreskin.
Infections in this area are very rare, but freshly circumcised penises
often look as if they were infected.  
  The circumcised penis appears ominous because, in the first place,
the foreskin consists of loose tissue, and can, therefore, swell
massively when traumatized.  Secondly, the healing skin is exposed to
wet diaper irritation repeatedly.  As a result, the cut heals slowly
and often develops a soft spongy puffiness around the wound, as well
as a heavy, soggy, yellow-gray scab at the healing point.  When the 
loose scab is dislodged by diaper changes, the healing tissues may 
ooze a thin bloody fluid.  All this is the normal healing of a 
circumcision.  
  An abnormally healing circumcision is quite different.  For starters,
infected wounds are red, warm, hard, and painful, and the discharge is
foul, yellow-green, and creamy. Fortunately, this is rare.  What isn't
rare is the suspicion of infection, since the freshly circumcised penis
can look awful even when it's doing fine.

Uncircumcised foreskin (Physiologic Phymosis):
Practically all mothers of circumcised babies are given detailed 
instructions on the care of the penis.  Practically all mothers 
of uncircumcised babies are given practically no instructions
on the care of the baby's foreskin.  To fill this void in doctor-
patient communication, I'll tell you everything you have to do.
Don't do a blessed thing.  Once it has been determined that the
urinary opening on the head of your baby boy's penis, the meatus,
is in the correct position, the foreskin should be left alone.
You'll probably find that the newborn's foreskin is tightly 
plastered to the head of the penis.  Only 6 percent of baby boys
have foreskins that can be retracted from the head of the penis,
called the glans.  The foreskin covering your baby boy's glans
is a good protection.  Irritations of the urinary opening occur
in 8 to 31 percent of circumcised boys, and virtually never in
boys with intact foreskins.
  In the past, doctors have maintained that circumcision makes
hygienic care easier.  This is certainly true.  What's questionable
is whether or not the baby gains anything by early hygienic care.
(In my opinion, if there is no ritualistic or symbolic reason
to uncover the glans, why do so?)
  Is there any reason not to retract the baby's foreskin? Yes, indeed.
Besides hurting your baby, you can produce dense scar tissue between
the foreskin and the head that won't spontaneously loosen later on.
The natural connection between the foreskin and the head loosens by
itself.  Baby boys start out the world with tight foreskins, but only
8 percent of boys 6 to 7 years old, and 1 percent of boys
at 14, have foreskins that are too tight to be easily pulled back
behind the head of the penis.  The tightness of the newborn's foreskin
is a natural condition and it loosens without any help from us.
Which proves once again that nature is wonderful, especially
when we don't look for ways to botch things up.

{discusses "Monk's hood foreskin", which is a cosmetic abnormality 
found in association  with (but not causing) a somewhat serious defect 
of the opening of the urethra; usual discussion about not worrying 
about smegma trapped under a not-yet-retracted foreskin}
.................................................................
Book: Babyhood, stage by stage, from babyhood to age 3, 1983, 
      Penelope Leach, Random House
Note: Leach seems to have written a major series of books on child
      care; this contains a long discussion of circumcision, which 
      I have reprinted in its entirety.  This edition is a bit older
      than I would prefer, but the one currently on sale in bookstores
      seems to be very similar (I could only copy the one 
      in the library)

If a newborn baby is a boy, he will almost certainly be circumcised
by the hospital staff {now 60%; old edition?}.  Most American parents
will take this procedure as much for granted as the cutting of the 
cord or putting drops in the newborn baby's eyes.  Those who
do discuss the circumcision with their obstetrician or pediatrician
will probably be doing so because the ritual operation is a part
of their Jewish faith.
  Circumcision for religious reasons is beyond the scope of this 
book; indeed, it is beyond the scope of an atheist.  Circumcision
for deeply felt but less describable reasons is beyond this book's
scope, too.  If a father feels that, it this respect, his son
should be like himself; a mother feels that she would not like
to handle an uncircumcised son; a grandparent would be likely to love
the child less because he was left as nature make him, then these
are good reasons for having the baby circumcised.
But many circumcisions in the United States are carried out without
any of these reasons.  And that seems a pity.  The facts that follow
are for people to think about if, having read this far, they find
that they are not sure that they feel strongly that boys should
be circumcised. 
  Circumcision has an interesting history.  It is practiced by about
one sixth of the world's population and dates back at least 6000 
years, having been started, according to Herodotus, by the Egyptians.
It has been used variously as a secret tribal marking, a way of
marking slaves, part of puberty initiation ceremonies, and, of course,
as a religious rite.
  But most people today have none of these reasons for circumcision.
The most usual medical reason is a tight (ie, non-retractable)
foreskin.  But prepuce are not meant to be retractable at infancy.
D. Girder, in his paper called "The Fate of the Foreskin", found 
almost no baby boys whose foreskins were retractable in the first
six months.  Only half could be retracted after one year, 
while a fifth were still non-retractable at 2 years.
  Normal or not, many people would maintain that an uncircumcised 
penis is difficult to keep clean; circumcision is more hygienic.
If one can manage to separate that argument from thousands of years
of powerful tradition, it is a curious one.  There are many parts
of our bodies which would be easier to keep clean of their normal
secretions if we opened them up--our nostrils, for instance.  Yet we
do not.
  A few years ago, the hygiene argument got a powerful boost from
research data which suggested that cancer of the penis was less
frequent in circumcised males, and cancer of the cervix far less
likely in their partners.  But these findings are now very much open
to doubt.  Recent work suggests that the findings of low cancer
rates in certain populations are due to chance rather than to cause
and effect.
  If little boys are not circumcised at birth, a few will, medically,
need circumcision later on.  On the face of it this is a the strongest
practical reason for the newborn operation.  Upsetting though it can
be, physically and psychologically, for a 3-day-old baby, it is
far more upsetting to a 5-year-old.  But even here the argument is
not simple.  Doctors who are not basically in favor of circumcising
everybody consider than many of these later operations are carried
out unnecessarily by doctors who are.  Bed-wetting and masturbation 
are two of the reasons still occasionally given.  Neither, of course,
could possibly be helped by circumcision.  Both would be likely to
be made worse by the trauma.  Certainly, though, many late circumcisions
are caused by parents' attempts to retract the non-retractable
prepuce.  If such attempts are made with any force at all, 
they tend to make minute splits in the skin between the prepuce and
the glans.  The splits heal leaving scar tissue which sticks the two
together, so that when the prepuce ought to retract in later life
it cannot.  Attempts at retraction are often the cause for the other
main reason for late circumcision: recurrent infection under the
foreskin.  So it does seem that parents who do decide _not_ to
have a newborn boy circumcised should be very sure that they are
able to go the whole way with this idea and leave the infant penis
strictly alone; simply giving it the ordinary external hygiene the
rest of the boy gets.  If this is done there is no greater chance of
later trouble than of, say, peritonitis.  We do not whip out newborns'
appendixes in case of that.
  Circumcision is not a dangerous operation, but, like all surgical
procedures, however small, it carries certain risks.  Although
the risks are obviously necessary and acceptable when the procedure
is _needed_ by the patient, few newborn babies _need_ circumcision.
In many countries, including Britain, doctors decided long ago that
while those who felt strongly in favor of circumcision should, of
course, be able to arrange it, the operation should no longer be
carried out routinely.  They saw no benefit to the babies, and some
bad side effects.  They felt that the net sum balanced against the
routine operation.  
  Actual figures on side effects are difficult to assess.  In a country
such as Great Britain, where doctors are largely against the operation,
every little problem is recorded.  In a country such as the United 
States where it is taken for granted, only serious side effects
like sepsis or hemorrhage will reach the statistics.  In fact the 
actual reported figures for these two countries are 22 percent for
Britain and 6 percent for America.  An emotionally laden subject 
produces emotionally biased statistics! 
  Probably, it is only safe to say that while serious side effects
are extremely rare, minor ones are quite frequent.  The baby is bound
to be sore for at least a few days and may be so for much longer if 
mild infection or diaper irritation sets in.  Certainly the 
circumcised baby boy will need much more careful diaper care than
his uncircumcised friend.  The foreskin protects the delicate end
of the penis from the abrasive effects of ammonia in the urine;
without it, irritation of the glans is much more likely and will
remain so until he abandons diapers for good.  Some pain on passing
urine, or when bathed, is also likely; it will last until the wound
is healed.
  But these practical considerations are not the only ones which 
will sway many parents one way or another.  It is hard to see why
anyone should have a newborn boy circumcised for _practical_ reasons
alone, so the basic reason must be traditional, cultural.  I am not
concerned to persuade parents one way or another, but I am concerned
to persuade them to _think_ about circumcision.  At present {1983},
in the United States, hospitals circumcise babies because they assume
that parents will want it done.   Parents accept it perhaps partly
because they assume the hospital knows best.   There may be a failure
in communication here.  It may that the hospitals are taking upon 
themselves a decision that should really be made, positively, by
each set of parents for each son.  After all, if you had a baby
who was born with a tooth, would you expect the hospital to extract
it without asking you whether you would prefer to have it left alone?
  If the operation is to be carried out, even as early as the third
or fourth day, non-Jewish parents may like to discuss the question
of analgesia with their obstetrician.  Babies feel pain from birth.
Of course, they do not _anticipate_ pain, nor as far as we know do
the _remember_ it.  But at the time when it is inflicted, they feel
pain and respond to it.  Many authorities feel that circumcision
without pain prevention is thoughtlessly cruel.  However, the 
prevention of pain is not an easy matter, which is why discussion
is necessary.  To give a baby of this age a general anesthetic is to
introduce well-known if minor dangers.  On the other hand, the 
infiltration of the penis with local anesthetic may well cause as
much pain as the removal of the foreskin itself.  In some centers
techniques have been developed by which the skin which must be
removed is frozen with a topical application of a local anesthetic
spray.  It may be that this will become the pain prevention method
of choice in circumcision.
.................................................................
Book: Oxford Textbook of Medicine, 1987, Oxford Univ. Press
Note: What appears here is the entire discussion of circumcision 
      in the book, in the context of penile and cervical cancer. 
      This excerpt violates a bit my rule about sticking 
      to general references, but the cancer question has come up before 
      and this at least contains some numbers.  I've appended some
      back-of-the-envelope type calculations at the end.

4.109 {Cancer of the cervix}
The rarity of the disease {cervical cancer} in Jewesses and its relative
rarity in Moslem women suggest that male circumcision might materially
reduce the risk of its development, but this is unlikely to be true
as the state of circumcision of her husband has no substantial effect
on the risk a woman runs of developing the disease in religious 
communities where only some of the men are circumcised.  Cleanliness
is likely to an important factor, as the disease may be relatively
uncommon in communities that practise ritual ablution before and 
after intercourse and, within each community, it becomes less common
with increasing economic status.

4.111 {Cancer of the Penis}
0.1% of all cancers, and 0.1% of all cancer deaths {apparently refers
to the British population; also a plot of the annual incidence of the 
disease, starting at <1 per 100,000 at age 40, rising to 10 per 100,000 
at age 80; the age of onset, from this plot, and from two other sources, 
is typically >60, at least in developed countries}
The most striking fact about the epidemiology of this disease 
is that circumcision protects against its development. Carried out
within a week or two of birth, the protection is almost complete; 
carried out later in boyhood, the effect is obvious, but less marked.
Circumcision is not the only way of preventing disease, as marked 
variations in incidence occur among tribal groups in Africa who are 
alike in not practicing circumcision, but otherwise have different
social customs.  In some the disease accounts for as much as 10%
of all cancers in males; in others it is only slightly more common
than in developed countries.  Personal cleanliness may be an important
factor, as it is in relation to some forms of cancer of the skin, and
it seems that as long as the glans, coronary sulcus, and foreskin
are kept clean, the risk of developing the disease is remote.
  An observation that suggests the possibility of venereal (and hence
perhaps a viral) origin is an association between cancers of the 
penis and cervix uteri in marital pairs.  The association is not 
strong, but it has been observed in several countries and cannot be
accounted for simply by confounding with socio-economic class.
The human papilloma virus (types 16 and 18) is commonly found 
in the malignant cells, and probably causes the disease.  

{My Comment, as well as some more info about penis cancer, since the
subject has been discussed before, with few actual facts being presented.
Readers are encouraged to visit the original sources, because they
are rather complex and a mite difficult to simplify.

  It might be of interest to perform the following (rather cold and
clinical) economic exercise, allowing for the possibility that
all males will _not_ practice the hygiene necessary to ward off
penile cancer.
  Suppose we have 2000 babies.  If we circumcise them, assume that
none of them will get penis cancer.  If we don't circumcise them,
about 1 of them will get penis cancer, typically at the age of 60
(In Japan, it would be 0.6 men, in Poland, 1.0, in Denmark, 1.2,
according to Cancer_Medicine, by Holland & Frei.  The rates for the
white US men, Canadians, and Brits are no higher, but it is not clear whether
the 60 year old men in these countries who were getting penile cancer 
when these numbers were compiled circa 1970 were circumcised or not,
because they were born circa 1910, when the practice may not have
been widespread.  I got these numbers by muliplying the annual incidence
per 100,000 men as given in Cancer_Medicine by a 75 year life span.)

The two possibilities are circumcise, and get no penile cancer, or don't
circumcise, and get one case.  If we circumcise, at $250 per 
circumcision, we pay $500,000 up front, and in 60 years we have
no penile cancer.  If we don't circumcise, we can (hypothetically)
place the same money into the bank at 5% per annum (above inflation) 
interest.  In 60 years we would then have 9.3 million inflation-adjusted
dollars in the bank, and one case of penile cancer. 

An economist, I believe, would argue from this gedankenexperiment
that the cost of prophylaxis is $9 million per cancer, in large part
because you have to pay in advance for a payoff that comes much later.

If we assume a 100% mortality rate from penile cancer, and we assume
that a person who dies of penile cancer at age 60 would have been dead at 80
of something else anyway, a bit of arithmetic shows that circumcision 
adds an average of 3.7 days to the male lifespan.  I suspect that the 
difference in longevity between a society that circumcised and one that 
didn't would be quite undetectable.

Penis cancer is dicussed in some detail in the "Comprehensive Textbook of 
Oncology", (1991,Satterfield ed., Williams & Wilkins pub). 
Evidently, if caught early (StageI/StageII, defined by a surface tumor
and a tumor that has invaded the body of the penis but not the
lymph nodes, respectively), it has a 95%/75% 5 year survival rate.
The problem is that reporting is often delayed because of fear and
embarassment.  The treatment of choice seems to be radiation, to try
to preserve normal sexual and urinary function, with amputation of the 
penis if radiation fails or if the cancer is caught late.

From the Oxford text, penile cancer is about as common as lip cancer 
or male breast cancer;  Prostate cancer is about 20 to 100 times more 
common (increases with age), bladder cancer is about 40 times more common.}
....................................................................
Book: 300 Questions New Parents Ask, 1991, William Sears MD
Note: baby book, in Q&A format

Q13 We are still undecided as to whether or not to have our baby
    circumcised.  Can you give us some pros and cons to help us
    make the right decision?

A13 The Am.Acad. of Ped. advises that routine circumcision is
    medically unnecessary and we agree with this decision.  
    First the cons: Circumcision is a surgical procedure and 
    generally a very safe one, but, as with any surgical procedure,
    there are occasional problems, such as injury of the shaft of
    the penis, bleeding, or infection.  Circumcision without the use
    of an anesthetic clearly causes pain to the baby.  Lastly,
    circumcised babies often experience more irritation to the 
    tip of the penis from strong urine or abrasive diapers.  
    Normally, the foreskin covers the glans (the tip) of the penis
    and protects the glans from irritation.
      Now the arguments in favor of circumcision: Parents feel the 
    foreskin is easier to keep clean when the baby is circumcised
    (Actually, this is not true-see question 15).   Parents want
    to make him look like all of the other males in his
    circle or like dad.  In response to this concern, I feel parents
    need not worry about the baby being different.  If the current
    trend toward fewer circumcisions continues, our guess is that
    within the next decade about half the males will be circumcised
    and half will not.  In our experience boys do not compare circumcised
    versus intact foreskins.  Modern teenagers have a much more mature
    outlook about individual differences than we give them credit for.
      Parents may worry about the possibility of the uncircumcised
    child needing circumcision later on when it is a much more painful
    procedure.  It is true that some boys need circumcision when they
    are older, but it is rare.  Even so, if circumcision is necessary
    later in childhood or adulthood, the boy is involved in the
    decision-making process and anesthesia is used. Except in 
    cultural or religious customs, routine circumcision is unnecessary.
      Your decision for your baby should be given the same attention
    that you would give to any other cosmetic surgery.

Q14 We would like to have our baby circumcised, but don't want to 
    put him through the pain.  I've heard about using a local 
    anesthetic.  Is this possible?

A14 Yes.  It is a myth that newborns do not feel pain during 
    circumcision.  Studies comparing the physiologic effects of
    circumcision on anesthetized and unanesthetized babies show the
    following:  Babies who did not receive a local anesthetic 
    cried more, developed higher heart rates, had higher levels 
    of stress hormone, showed a drop in blood oxygen, and generally
    seemed much more stressed.
    {Description of local anesthesia, and reference to journal
    article deleted}

Q15 We have chosen not to circumcise our child.  How do we care for
    the foreskin?

A15 We call this the "uncare" of the foreskin. {In brief: leave it
    alone until it retracts, don't force it back, wash it as 
    it retracts, don't worry about smegma that might accumulate 
    because the foreskin doesn't retract yet, teach the kid to 
    wash it when he takes a bath}
..................................................................
Book: Take Charge of Your Child's Health, 1992, George Wootan MD, Crown
Note: typical child care book

{Foreskin care: warns parents, rather sharply, about doctors who 
might try to force the foreskin back, thereby damaging it; once it 
retracts, kid should retract it and clean it daily; tells parents 
not to worry about smegma under an unretracted foreskin}

Circumcision: {says that he won't relate pros and cons because they
are extensively discussed elsewhere; refers readers to Wallerstein 
article in  "Urologic Clinics of North America" 1985, Vol 12 No 1;
see Encyclopedia Americana article above for what Wallerstein thinks} 

I do have a few points to make on the subject, however.  First, while
there is no medical reason a male infant needs to be circumcised, 
in countries where babies are not routinely circumcised, 25 to 30%
do require the operation in adolescence and adulthood. When performed
after infancy, the operation involves the use of general anesthesia
and a two-week recovery period.
{the 25-30% figure seems to be contradicted by some other sources,
including the next one}
At the present time, there is a controversy brewing over a recent
study that concluded that the incidence of urinary-tract infections
is significantly higher in uncircumcised males than in those who
are circumcised.  Critics of the study consider its conclusions
invalid, and I tend to agree with them.  At this writing, however,
the issue remains unresolved, and may warrant further investigation
on your part if you are considering circumcision for your child.
  If you decide to circumcise your child, I believe that it should be
done according to the traditions of Judaism, most of which make sense
for medical or psychological reasons. {parent should hold baby, baby
should nurse afterwards, mentions sugar ball dipped in brandy as
a sort of anesthetic}.  There is no doubt in my mind that babies do
feel pain during circumcision.  However, I don't agree with those
that argue that the pain permanently damages the male psyche.  If
this were true, we ought to be able to develop a psychological test
to distinguish circumcised males from uncircumcised men, but so
far this has not been done. 
....................................................................
Book: Encyclopedia of Childbearing: Critical perspectives, 1993, 
      ed. Barbara Katz Rothman, 1993, Oryz Press
Note: medical encyclopedia with a slightly political bent
      Much of Wallerstein's contribution parallels the 
      Encyclopedia Americana article, so I've abbreviated a lot.
      I've deleted most of Milos's description of
      the procedure because it is something of a diatribe; for 
      a more clinical description, see Wallerstein's book.

Circumcision, male: {By Wallerstein, and Marlyn Milos, RN}
Circumcision is a surgical procedure in which the sleeve of skin that
covers and protects the head of the penis is removed.  

{risks: error, infection, even death; routine practice is unique to U.S., 
Victorian reasons for doing it mentioned (masturbation, lunacy, etc);
rate was 85% in late 1970's, now it is less than 60%}

Currently, unsubstantiated assertions that circumcision prevents STDs
and AIDS are being made.   The Am. College of Ped. neutralized its
stand in 1989 by stating that "newborn circumcision has
potential medical benefits and advantages as well as disadvantages and
risks." 
  Today, almost all circumcisions are performed to prevent potentially 
and statistically and unlikely future problems.  Such thinking is 
reminiscent of the prophylactic tonisillectomies recommended for
children a generation ago.... As the public and the medical profession
learn more about the risks and reputed benefits of medical circumcision,
it, too, may pass from the scene to join blood-letting and cupping {?}
in medical history.

Circumcision Surgery: {By Marilyn Milos, RN}
During a newborn circumcision, the infant is fastened spread-eagle
to a plastic board with straps and the elbows and knees. 
A nurse scrubs his genitals with antiseptic and covers the groin 
area with a surgical drape which has a hole in it to expose his 
penis. If a dorsal penile nerve block is used, two injections 
are given at the base of the penis.  Although not always effective,
the  anesthetic reduces the stress response - if and while it is
working.  Once the effect has worn off, though, urination and 
defecation into the raw wound during the healing period caused 
obvious discomfort.  Usually the surgery is done without anesthesia
and is undeniably painful.

{rather gory and emotional description of the procedure deleted}

Specifically, how often is post-newborn circumcision necessary for 
therapeutic reasons? Wallerstein (1986) writes "The Finnish Board
of National Health in 1970 showed that 0.023% of males required
hospitalization for foreskin problems (99.977% of Finnish males did 
not.)  The US rate is at least 50 times or 5000% that of Finland...
{ellipsis Milos's} The question is not foreskin problems, but the 
attitude of the American medical profession in pushing what most
physicians throughout the world consider unnecessary surgery.
Worldwide, foreskin problems are treated medically, not surgically."
{Compares circumcision to tosillectomy, excessive radical mastectomy,
and excessive hysterectomies}.
....................................................................
Book: Captain Sir Richard Francis Burton, 1990, by Edward Rice, 
      Scribner's
Note: This one isn't a med book; it is a biography of the
      British adventurer R.F. Burton that I read a month or so 
      ago (and that made me perk up my ears at the cirucumcision debates
      that I saw going on).  To be the first European to visit the Islamic
      holy sites and survive, he adopted the guise of a Moslem,
      which included obtaining a circumcision.  Being an adventurer
      of more than one sort, he was well equipped to relate
      (one man's view of) the erotic effects of the operation, 
      which is something none of the medical books discuss.

p 105
{Burton's discussion of ceremonies that precede the procedure deleted}
Here Burton added a note, most likely based on his personal experience.

  No evil results are expected from the circumcision of adults; it 
  has often been tried in the cases of African slaves.  The cure,
  however, is generally protracted for a period of at least six
  weeks.

A few years later Burton expressed a different opinion about the 
physical results of adult male circumcision, with possible regrets for
lost pleasures.

  Male circumcision makes love slow and difficult.  For the softness
  of the gland {sic} is hardened by friction, hence coitus is painful,
  slow, and not energetic enough. 

{An aside: In "Human Sexual Response", Masters and Johnson compare, 
using standard tests, the tactile response of circumcised and 
uncircumcised men, and find no clinically significant difference.
How such tests relate to subjective erotic pleasure is rather uncertain.
Masters and Johnson also state that there no truth to the belief
that circumcised males are less susceptible to premature ejaculation.}
.....................................................................
.....................................................................

Everything that follows consists of my personal ravings; feel free, if
you wish, to ignore it.

All of these sources were books that I found in the library; there
were other books in the bookstore that I couldn't photocopy that
were in a similar vein.

I can honestly say that I didn't find a single recent book 
that could be paraphrased as "We believe that routine neonatal
circumcision is medically advisable." 
Those who support the practice are challenged to find and post
such a source (preferably, several such sources).  Remember, 
_recent_ and _general_, and  giving an _overall_view_ of the costs 
and benefits.  Clearly, in recent years, the discussions of the 
practice have become longer, more thoughtful, and increasingly opposed.

On the other hand, the anti-circumcisionists will be disappointed
because the mainstream literature makes little mention of any
severe adverse effects. (though the Leach book should be noted as far
as the freqency of less serious side effects is concerned, and Burton's 
account isn't necessarily to be ignored)

I will now take the opportunity to make myself a few enemies, and
simplistically divide the Usenet debaters into the "pro" side and
the "anti" side, and attack both.

The "pro" side seems to be divided into people who delight in sophistic
arguments about trees falling in forests, and rights of parents, and
manage to turn the discussion in some sort of abstract debating contest;
and into people who simply state "I support the practice because it has 
health benefits" without backing up their assertions with one whit of 
evidence.  I strongly suspect that with many of these people, the dominant 
factor in their fondness for the practice is an aesthetic preference 
brought about by a familarity with nothing else, and unspecified medical 
reasons are really little more than a rationalization.  Such people should 
at least be honest about it, so that people who _are_ interested in the 
medical truth are not misled.

The "anti" side seems to be the very epitome of the "victim" mentality
that is so fashionable in current American culture.  I would wager
that few of them would be willing to trade places with an uncircumcised
Chinese peasant or African refugee.  They mix some valid medical facts with
information gleaned at an Iron John drum beating session to make
a farce of the case against circumcision.  Their "in your face" attitude
is exactly what will convince those who are undecided that the only
opposition comes from lunatics.

For people who are actually interested in learning more than is covered
in general references, one reasonably good book that I came across seems 
to be Wallerstein's book "Circumcision: An American Health Fallacy." 
(Springer,1980).  It approaches the practice from a health consumer's 
perspective rather than with the victim mentality of the radical 
anti-circers.  It is certainly not the last word on the practice, and it 
probably has its own biases, but it gives the only historical examination
of medical circumcision that I have seen.  Furthermore, it appears that at
least some doctors take him seriously, because he was cited in a
handful of the sources above.

Medical circumcision seems to be very much on the decline.  Several
of the above books state that the circumcision rate fell from
85 or 90% to under 60% in the decade of 1980-1990.  Wallerstein's book,
written at the very beginning of this decline, attempts to tabulate
the circumcision rate, and finds it to have been steadily rising
from 1870 onwards; in this last decade, the rate appears to have fallen back
to where it was between 1930 and 1940.  The prevailing medical opinion
now seems to be that it is an unnecessary, essentially cosmetic
surgery that doesn't seem to really prevent anything, and can introduce
some problems of its own.  I suspect that most parents who read up
on the current literature will simply feel disinclined to have unnecessary
surgery performed on their son.  Once the rate falls below 50%,
the "he'll look funny in the locker room" argument will undoubtedly work 
in the opposite direction.

It would be _really_ nice if this debate were taken out of the hands of
the fanatics.  Perhaps if more parents who decided not to have it done
were to post, it would help to demolish some of the mythology that
has developed over what seems to have been a hundred years of
dubious medicine. 


					Anon

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind, any mail replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
Please report any problems, inappropriate use etc. to admin@anon.penet.fi.

