Llost Llama Lloves, Cassie 

 Owned By David Armer, 
 Berryville, AR 

 Cassiopeia SPL (Cassie) 

 July 14, 1998 

 I began my quest for llamas when I was 8 and when I was
 finally acquired llamas I knew just exactly how fun and gentle they were. My
 first female I ever owned was named Cassiopeia SPL, we called her Cassie for
 short. When we got her on a cold November day, I figured out what it was like
 to re-train a big female llama. Cassie was big and solid white, and very skinny
 and malnourished. She had also been abused. I thought I was the luckiest kid in
 the world especially to own a Fiduciary and King Solomon Granddaughter, a
 great-granddaughter of Chief Sitting Bull, and Dr. Doolittle, with a little
 Orly, I had one great girl. 

 I hardly ever caught her because I was so scared of her
 but I later found out she would have a great impact on my life and that a piece
 of my heart would be lost forever. As time went on I could catch her in the
 field and lead her with my arm around her neck, a very sweet llama. I learned a
 lot about llamas from Cassie, my big gentle girl. I often called her big sister
 because she was so close to me. I thought more of Cassie than some relatives.

 On July 13, 1998 Cassie went down never to rise again.
 She fell victum to menengial worm which is a worm that affects the spinal cord
 of llamas and many other innocent animals. On July 14, 1998 around 1:00 AM
 Cassie died. She didn't struggle or anything, she was finally at peace with no
 sorrows or burdens to bare. Cassie was a sudden and very sad loss, Cassie was
 replaced by another Llama but she will never be replaced in the hearts of those
 who loved and cherished her. She will live in our hearts forever as Cassie the
 one Llama that was loved by many. 

 Good bye big Sister, Love
 David 
 David Armer 

 Index Of Llost Llama
 Lloves Peaches |
 Chloe | Levi |
 Miranda | Echo |
 Shaquille | Senta Spoo-Kay | Captain Kidd 
 | Topper | Chile |
 Laramie | Cassie 

 Home |
 E-Mail Sandy 

 Rainbow Bridge |
 Rainbow Bridge Sequel to Original |
 Request From The Rainbow
 Bridge 

 Web Design & Graphics by: 
 PNW Web Design 

 Copyright &copy; 1997-98, by Sandy
 Stillwell. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or
 in part, in any form. This document can not be reproduced without the written
 consent of the owner.