Llost Llama Lloves, Chile 

 Owned By Jack & Tracy Pearson 

 In Memory of Chile 

 Pearson Pond Ranch & Llama Co. 

 Dependency comes so easy when you add love and trust. Communication
becomes so refined that you move and think as one. I experienced this with our
Chile. She was the matriarch of our herd. Exotic to say the least... a bawdy
wench that knew everything....an old soul in the true sense of the word. She
watched over her herd and gave comfort and companionship to any and all llamas
that were in need. Every lady in the barn looked up to her and gave her
respect. Chile was a very loving and patient teacher to all the babies,
weanlings and lesser prominent llamas on the social scale. 

 Then Chile lost her sight. The day it happened was upsetting to not only
Chile, but to every lady in the barn. There was confusion that led into
rejection as she bumped into one after another. Suddenly Chile was at the
bottom of the pecking order. Things had to be turned around, for she would not
last long emotionally at this rate. We confined her to her own little portable
stall right in the middle of the ladies barn; fed her shredded vegetables and
raisins and grain by hand with lavished and pronounced affection; primped and
groomed and fussed over her daily - - just treated her very special and
important in front of all the ladies. 

 We would take walks, always starting from square one, out to each
pasture and back so that Chile would get her bearings. This we would do only
with an arm around her neck so we could communicate with not only our voice,
but with our bodies as well. Then we would walk among the ladies and babies so
she would be able to sense their presence. Putting a large cow bell around the
neck of her best friend, Angel, was the best form of introducing her to the
herd again. As Angel would walk and ring the bell, Chile and I would follow.
Almost immediately, Chile caught on and was able to stay with her best friend
by following the tinkling sound of the bell. At this point, we let Chile be on
her own each day in the pasture. She seemed comforted and ever so much more
confident, being able to see with her ears. Chile progressed to being able to
follow our voices as well. Soon she was able to even run a little to the
pastures because her senses really began to sharpen. One of Chile's favorite
pastimes was swimming. She would stand for long periods by the edge of the lake
and soon thereafter started swimming again. She would follow our voices and
that way she could tell where the shore was. 

 Then a summer storm came up and the ladies all started running to the
barn. Chile was napping along the edge of the lake when she was awakened
suddenly as the ladies ran past her. She became startled and jumped into the
lake and started swimming far out to the center. Everyone ran to the edge and
called to her. Chile immediately responded by swimming towards shore. Two feet
from the edge, she suddenly weakened and after we got her to the bank, she died
in our arms from shock. 

 Our time with Chile was special indeed. Even the sightless
part of her life was full and rewarding to some degree. At that time in her
life, Chile was able to see clearly into the heart of the human and know she
could trust and depend on them. Her communication was at a different level that
ever before. Chile, in turn, was able to give so much joy and pleasure to her
ladies and to her humans. She was indeed ever so special...Chile will be dearly
missed by all. 

 by Tracy Pearson 

 Index Of Llost Llama Lloves 

 Peaches | Chloe |
 Levi | Miranda |
 Echo | Shaquille | Senta 
 Spoo-Kay |
 Captain Kidd | Topper | Chile |
 Laramie | Cassie 

 Home | E-Mail Sandy 

 Rainbow Bridge | Rainbow Bridge Sequel to Original | Request From The Rainbow
Bridge 

 Web Design & Graphics by: 
 PNW Web Design 

 Copyright &copy; 1997-98, by Sandy Stillwell. All
rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or in part, in
any form. This document can not be reproduced without the written consent of
the owner.