Llost Llama Lloves, Chloe 

 Owned By Jay and Kelly Van Allen 

 Chloe 

 November 25, 1989 - April 30, 1997 

 ILR number is 73204 

 Wind Dancer Llama & Herb Farm 

 We lost our 8 yr. old momma llama Chloe Belle 2 weeks ago today.
She was a llama in every sense of the word, pretty much on her own except at
feeding time, then she was right there in the midst of all the excitement. I
had known her for a couple of years before she came to live with us. She was
owned by friends who I fed for when they would vacation. She came to live with
us about 3 months ago and fit right in with the other girls. 

 I didn't know her real personally until the week I was caring for
her. She would let me do whatever was needed to care for her and never once
complained or spit or anything else. I really fell in love with her that week
while spending time soaking her foot and just talking to her and comforting
her. I had a bad feeling the day we had to take her to the hospital, she layed
her head on my chest while waiting for the vet to show up and I just knew
something was really wrong. I tried to comfort her as much as I could but in
the end she died at a hospital in the middle of the night by
herself. 

 I know people who tell me animals don't have feelings, animals
can't reason, and animals are basically stupid creatures and I shouldn't get so
attached to them, but I will argue against these people until the day I die.
Every domesticated animal on this earth relies on us humans for love and care
and that I will and can give no matter what the animal. I miss Chloe and know
that she touched us all in ways that only the heart can feel. 

 Index Of Llost Llama Lloves 

 Peaches | Chloe |
 Levi | Miranda |
 Echo | Shaquille | Senta 
 Spoo-Kay |
 Captain Kidd | Topper | Chile |
 Laramie | Cassie 

 Home | E-Mail Sandy 

 Rainbow Bridge | Rainbow Bridge Sequel to Original | Request From The Rainbow
Bridge 

 Web Design & Graphics by: 
 PNW Web Design 

 Copyright &copy; 1997-98, by Sandy Stillwell. All
rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or in part, in
any form. This document can not be reproduced without the written consent of
the owner.