Ed's Experiment - Bubba's The Best 

 Ed's Experiment 

 [ Home ] [ Kobe ] [ Bubba ] [ MX6 ] [ Weather ] [ Diecast ] [ Links ] 
[ Message
Board ] 

 Up 

 I
first saw Bubba at a pet store in Tanforan Mall (San Bruno, California) during
one of our lunch walks. 
She was just a little white ball of fur. I was hesitant buying her at
first, but my friend Ward had previous experience with Samoyeds assured me that
they were smart, did not shed a lot and were self-cleaning. 

 Here I am
holding her at the pet store. 

 I decided to purchase her as a early
Christmas gift to my wife. At the time, she was working at a
hospital. When I went to picked her up, I wrapped a red ribbon around
Bubba's neck and presented her. She was so excited, she had
to bring Bubba into the hospital to show her mother. How she got the puppy
into the hospital, I'll never know. 
 Bubba, where did that name come from
you ask? Especially when he is actually a she. Well, lets just say
the wife and I failed canine anatomy. It also didn't help that the papers
provided to us from the pet store also said "male". I wanted to
name her after the Antarctic explorer, Admiral Byrd. But we settle on
Cupertino's Puff of Snow, naming her after her mother, Rockwood's Puff of
Snow. Oh yeah, Bubba ... I guess it started with us calling to her with
"Hey Bub!" and asking "Whats up Bub?" Bubba just kinda
stuck to her. 
 When we first got her, we lived in a
townhouse with no yard. At first, during the day we kept her in a
crate. You know, dogs will not soil their home theory. Wrong. 
Not only will they soil it, they will roll around in it. So, after a long
day at work, one of us hosed out the crate while the other hosed off the
dog. Okay, so the crate thing wasn't working out. We decided to
block off the kitchen. Thats when Bubba the Carpenter showed up. She
chewed the baseboard off, dug a hole in the drywall, and ripped up the
linoleum. Strangely, the ripped out linoleum was in a shape of a steak ...
As she got older, she was given more freedom in the townhouse. Her
favorite spot was on the tile hearth. Nice a cool. She would lay on
the tile and pick at the carpet edge. Eventually unraveling a good portion
of the carpet along the tile. 
 The townhouse was 3 levels. When
Bubba was a youngin', we could limit her damage to one floor. Then one day
the sister-in-law taught her how to navigate the stairs ... gee, thanks. 
 As a youngster, Bubba swallowed the
wife's leather slipper. That earned her a day long stay at the vets. 
Fortunately, she was able to pass it through. 
 One of the saddest days was when she
had a couple of her teeths removed because of my negligence. I got lazy
and wasn't brushing her teeth as frequently as I should have been. I felt
terrible ... 
 One year we decided to drive to
Placerville and cut down a tree for Christmas. We got only like 30 miles
from home when I noticed Bubba was looking kinda sick in the back of the
truck. We stopped to check to see if she was okay. We decided to
abort the trip to Placerville and go to Santa Cruz Mountains for a tree
instead. First, we put Bubba on the floorboard at the wife's feet on the
passenger side. Well, Bubba was not having any of that. After a
brief tussle, Bubba won the passenger seat and the wife had to sit in the cramp
Xtracab portion behind the seat. All was right in the world, order had
been restored. 
 Once she ate a whole plate of chocolate
chip cookies. The wife had baked a batch of cookies and placed them on a
plate. She pushed the plate all the way to the back of the kitchen counter
thinking no way Bubba can get that. Wrong. No more than 10 minutes
later, empty plate. 
 She had an iron stomach. Ate
anything. Only thing she wouldn't eat is corn chips. Doritos,
Cheetos, etc. she would eat. But Fritos? Nope. Beats me. 
 She was scared to death about bodies
of water. During one warm
day, we tried to get her into my mom's swimming pool. She wasn't going in
willingly, so we picked her up and placed her on the first step into the
pool. Only about a couple of inches deep. Poor dog, she was shaking
in fear. 
 She was a pampered pup too. Once
a month, she went to the groomers. At first we brought her to Classic Dog
Cuts in Mountain View. But after every grooming, Bubba would sleep the
afternoon off. Apparently they were giving her something to relax (without
our knowledge). Took her to De Anza Dog Saloon in Cupertino and she loved
it there. Greta and gang took good care of her. Funny thing is Bubba
would get all excited going there. I imagine it was something like
visiting with the "girls" and catching up on the gossip. But
when we picked her up, she could hardly wait to leave. One time the
mother-in-law washed Bubba and used blueing fluid on her. Not sure that
was safe, but man, she was blindingly white! 
 It was funny watching her walk from
behind. She would swing her hips. "Swish, swish,
swish." Such a tease! 
 Speaking of walks ... typical
Sammie. Who is taking who for a walk? And walking in the straight
line is not possible. Sniff here, sniff there, sniff everywhere. Oh,
is that a squirrel? Lets go there! Oh, is that a cat? Quick,
before it gets away! And did she like to pull! One time my mom
decided to take her for a walk. Didn't even make it to the end of the
driveway before Bubba pulled my mother to the ground. Once I had the great
idea that I would hop on my bike and have her pull me. She pulled alright
.... pulled to the right, pulled to the left, pulled through the bushes. 
Outa control! That was a short lived experiment as was the skateboard
idea. 
 Don't remember if she had a favorite
toy or food (other than Doritos). Dog food was Pro Plan fed twice a day
(breakfast and dinner). Prime rib days were exciting for her as she knew
there were choice bones coming soon. 
 Loved car rides. 
 She was the queen of the house. 
I was just the doorman. She would come up and nudge me if she wanted to go
out. If she wanted in, she would bark. Sometimes it got ridiculous
... in, out, in, out, in ... arg! When nobody was home, she stayed outside
in the yard. At night she would normally sleep on the bed or next
to. Oh, she just didn't sleep on the bed, she slept smack dab in the
middle! She liked to cuddle too. When or not if I was laying on the
bed or laying on the floor, she would plop herself right next to me or on
top! 
 October 1989 earthquake - I was home
at the townhouse starting to lay down on the couch to watch the World Series, then
the earthquake hit. The first thing I did was grab Bubba and we watch
things fall over. She didn't freak at all. After the shaking
stopped, I put the harness on her and we walked around the complex. She
didn't like the harness and in no time, she had chewed threw the nylon straps. 
 Didn't listen to the wife much. 
It was funny because the wife would try and give her commands and Bubba would
ignore her. This was an endless source of frustration for the wife. 
Yet, I could come right after and Bubba would obey. Too funny. 
 This one is too funny. You tell
me who has who trained. At night, if Bubba needed to go outside, she would
bump the bed a couple of times. Well, one time my sister slept over when I
was out of town. It was early in the morning when Bubba started bumping
the bed. Well, it was apparently too early in the morning for my sister so
she tried to ignore her. Bubba kept on bumping, my sister kept on
ignoring. Bubba jumped on the bed and began to lick my sisters face and
that just pissed off my sister. So what did Bubba do? As she looked
my sister in the eye, she squatted on the bed and pee'd on the comforter. 
Needless to say, from that day on, when Bubba bumped the bed, my sister got out
of the bed to let her out. 
 [more memories to come] 
 With the arrival of the first nephew
in February 1998, Nicolas, Bubba was very well behaved. Naturally she was
very curious, but always gentle. Here are a couple of photos of Nicolas at
10 months with Bubba - 

 "Uh-oh!" 

 "YUCK!" 

 Bubba died during a record heat (113
degrees F) on June 14, 2000. A couple of weeks prior, she had started
exhibiting problems getting up, specifically her hind legs. I struggled
for a while whether or not to put her to sleep. I decided that as long as
she was not in pain, I would care for her. On June 13th, I made an
appointment with the vet. The next morning, I placed her outside in the
shade with a bowl of ice water next to her, and left for work. I came home
at noon to take her to the vet for her appointment. From the kitchen, I
saw her lying on the grass and knew something wasn't right. She had past
away sometime during the morning. 
 After her death, I decided I wouldn't
get another dog until Christmas time. The first week without her, I
thought the house was way too quiet and needed some mayhem. Thus the
arrival of the white tornado, Kobe. 
 Here are some pictures of my best
friend and companion - 

 Last updated
on October 31, 2004 

Copyright 2000-04 Ed's Experiment