Dog Humor 

 Ed's Experiment 

 UTC : 

 PST: 

 CET (Paris): 

 Dates/Times are from your computer. 
Click here
for the official
U.S . Pacific coast date and time. 

 [ Home ] [ Kobe ] [ Bubba ] [ MX6 ] [ Weather ] [ Diecast ] [ Links ] 
[ Message
Board ] 

 Up Pup Pics Picture 1 Picture 2 Picture 3 Picture 4 Survivor Haiku Humor Shows 

 DOG
DEFINITIONS 

 LEASH: A strap which attaches to your collar, enabling you to lead your
person where you want him/her to go. 

 DOG BED: Any soft, clean surface, such as the white bedspread in the
guest room or the newly upholstered couch in the living room. 

 DROOL: Is what you do when your persons have food and you don't. To do
this properly you must sit as close as you can and look sad and let the drool
fall to the floor, or better yet, on their laps. 

 SNIFF: A social custom to use when you greet other dogs. Place your
nose as close as you can to the other dog's rear end and inhale deeply, repeat
several times, or until your person makes you stop. This can also be done to
human's crotches. 

 GARBAGE CAN: A container which your neighbors put out once a week to test
your ingenuity. You must stand on your hind legs and try to push the lid off
with your nose. If you do it right you are rewarded with margarine wrappers to
shred, beef bones to consume and moldy crusts of bread. 

 BICYCLES: Two-wheeled exercise machines, invented for dogs to control
body fat. To get maximum aerobic benefit, you must hide behind a bush and dash
out, bark loudly and run alongside for a few yards; the person then swerves and
falls into the bushes, and you prance away. 

 DEAFNESS: This is a malady which affects dogs when their person want them
in and they want to stay out. Symptoms include staring blankly at the person,
then running in the opposite direction, or lying down. 

 THUNDER: This is a signal that the world is coming to an end. Humans
remain amazingly calm during thunderstorms, so it is necessary to warn them of
the danger by trembling uncontrollably, panting, rolling your eyes wildly, and
following at their heels. 

 WASTEBASKET: This is a dog toy filled with paper, envelopes, and old
candy wrappers. When you get bored, turn over the basket and strew the papers
all over the house until your person comes home. 

 SOFAS: Are to dogs like napkins are to people. After eating it is polite
to run up and down the front of the sofa and wipe your whiskers clean. 

 BATH: This is a process by which the humans drench the floor, walls and
themselves. You can help by shaking vigorously and frequently. 
 BUMP: 
The best way to get your human's attention when they are drinking a fresh cup of
coffee or tea. 

 GOOSE BUMP: A maneuver to use as a last resort when the Regular Bump
doesn't get the attention you require.....especially effective when combined
with The Sniff. See above. 

 LOVE: Is a feeling of intense affection, given freely and without
restriction. The best way you can show your love is to wag your tail. 
If you're
lucky, a human will love you in return. If not, you can always sniff their
crotches. 

 THINGS
FOR DOGS TO REMEMBER 

 I will not play tug-of-war with Dad's underwear when he's on the toilet. 

The garbage collector is NOT stealing our stuff. 

I do not need to suddenly stand straight up when I'm lying under the coffee
table. 

I will not roll my toys behind the fridge. 

I must shake the rainwater out of my fur BEFORE entering the house. 

I will not eat the cats' food, before or after they eat it. 

I will stop trying to find the few remaining pieces of clean carpet in the house
when I am about to throw up. 

I will not throw up in the car. 

I will not roll on dead seagulls, fish, crabs, etc. 

I will not lick my human's face after eating animal poop. 

"Kitty box crunchies" are not food. 

I will not eat any more socks and then redeposit them in the backyard after
processing. 

The diaper pail is not a cookie jar. 

I will not wake Mommy up by sticking my cold, wet nose up her bottom end. 

I will not chew my human's toothbrush and not tell them. 

I will not chew crayons or pens, especially not the red ones, or my people will
think I am hemorrhaging. 

When in the car, I will not insist on having the window rolled down when it's
raining outside. 

We do not have a doorbell. I will not bark each time I hear one on TV. 

I will not steal my Mom's underwear and dance all over the back yard with it. 

The sofa is not a face towel. Neither are Mom & Dad's laps. 

My head does not belong in the refrigerator. 

I will not bite the officer's hand when he reaches in for Mom's driver's license
and car registration. 

 How
Many Dogs Does It Take to Change A Light Bulb? 

1. Golden Retriever: The sun is shining, the day is young,
we've got our whole lives ahead of us, and you're inside worrying about a stupid
burned out bulb? 

2. Border Collie: Just one. And then I'll replace any wiring that's
not up to code. 

3. Dachshund: You know I can't reach that stupid lamp! 

4. Rottweiler: Make me. 

5. Boxer: Who cares? I can still play with my squeaky toys in
the dark. 

6. Lab: Oh, me, me!!!!! Pleeeeeeeeeze let me change the light bulb! 
Can I? Can I? Huh? Huh? Huh? Can I? Pleeeeeeeeeze, please,
please, please! 

7. German Shepherd: I'll change it as soon as I've led these people
from the dark, check to make sure I haven't missed any, and make just one more
perimeter patrol to see that no one has tried to take advantage of the
situation. 

8. Jack Russell Terrier: I'll just pop it in while I'm bouncing
off the walls and furniture. 

9. Old English Sheep Dog: Light bulb? I'm sorry, but I don't see a light
bulb. 

10. Cocker Spaniel: Why change it? I can still pee on the carpet in
the dark. 

11. Chihuahua: Yo quiero Taco Bulb. 

12. Pointer: I see it, there it is, there it is, right there ... 

13. Greyhound: It isn't moving. Who cares? 

14. Australian Shepherd: First, I'll put all the light bulbs in a little
circle... 

15. Poodle: I'll just blow in the Border Collie's ear and he'll do it. By
the time he finishes rewiring the house, my nails will be dry. 
 The Cat's
Answer: 
"Dogs do not change light bulbs. People change light bulbs. So,
the real question is: How long will it be before I can expect some light, some
dinner, and a massage?" 

ALL OF WHICH PROVES, ONCE AGAIN, THAT WHILE DOGS HAVE MASTERS, CATS HAVE STAFF. 

 Last updated
on August 22, 2004 

Copyright 2000-04 Ed's Experiment