Caveats 

 Caveats 
 = Index DOT Css by 
 Brian Wilson = 

 Main Index |
 Property Index |
 CSS Support History |
 Browser History &#160;&#160; 

 Site Reflects CSS2 Views 
 The site reflects the point of view of the CSS2 Recommendation. Differences
 between CSS1 and CSS2 are noted where they are known.
 Site Design Using CSS1 
 The site currently uses CSS for the majority of its rendering effects.
 What this means is that all non-CSS browsers will see rather boring looking
 pages, but the information and structure will all be intact. For CSS enabled
 browsers, you can use the default stylesheet or choose another to use as the 
 default.
 Platform Information 
 The information for this site concentrates predominantly on browsers
 made for the Windows platform (win32 mostly.) There are often significant
 differences in support between the various platforms, so the support and
 version information here will not always be valid for respective
 browser versions on different platforms.
 Page Validation 
 As of August 1999, I have spell-checked the entire site and validated
 all of these pages against the HTML 4.0 "loose" DTD with the
 W3C HTML Validation Service . I
 will not do this very often, so as I add or update content along the
 way and massage some of these pages it is possible that this may fall
 out of date.
 Slight Regression in HTML/CSS Support
 in some browser betas 
 Most browsers have historically only added support and functionality as time
 progresses. But special cases have occurred. In the case of Microsoft
 Internet Explorer 4.0, the rendering and parsing engine was re-built from scratch.
 This led to a few idiosyncrasies between the betas of IE4 and the IE3 releases.
 These cleared up by the final release, but I try to document these discrepancies
 where known. Early versions of Netscape 6 also used a brand new rendering
 engine, and support discrepancies also occured in this process too.
 Inspiration/Source for Many Documented CSS
 Bugs 
 There are many resources on the Internet that also document CSS bugs in the
 various browsers. In researching browser bugs, I consulted many of these
 resources as well as creating my own test files. Here is a listing of
 resources consulted, along with a heartfelt thanks to the authors for their
 existence - browser makers seldom go out of their way to make bugs in
 their products public. 

 CSS Pointers Group's CSS Bugs and Workarounds 
 Eric Meyer's CSS
 Master Compatibility Chart at Webreview.com (now dr. dobbs journal.com)
 Style Master's House
 of Style resource
 David Baron's CSS tests 
 Stephan Nedregaard's CSS support in popular browsers (site now gone)
 Braden McDaniel's Support for
 CSS1 in MSIE 3.0, Win32 
 Ian Graham's CSS
 Bugs and Implementation Problems, with Workarounds 

 Boring Copyright Stuff...