Donate to support the site 

 Donate - Help Support the Site 
 = Index DOT Html by Brian Wilson
[ indexdot@blooberry.com ] = 

 Index DOT Html: 
 Main Index | Element Tree |
 Element Index | HTML Support
 History 
 Index DOT Css: Main Index |
 Property Index |
 CSS Support History |
 Browser History 

Do you get tired of pop-ups? Pop-unders? Obtrusive ads?

I know I do. I did even when on-line advertising was booming and I was 
turning down a significant extra income stream by keeping it off the site - 
this sort of advertising is getting worse lately, finding new ways to irritate 
readers. I did not want to subject readers here to these annoyances, so the 
site has always been ad-free.

So basically this site flourishes only on (digital-) word-of-mouth mention and 
repeat loyal users. I have rarely seen much in the way of compensation 
for it.

It DOES cost a lot to produce this site though - in ISP storage and transfer 
fees, in personal hardware and software costs to set up test environments,
and above all, the huge amounts of time it takes for one person to investigate
all of this on their own. I have probably put in a couple of solid work-years
into this web site (to the order of several thousand work-hours at least.) 
It also costs from the viewpoint that I could be out doing other things - having 
a real life =)...maybe spending time learning new technologies that would serve 
me in a full-time employment arena which could mean more actual money for me.

This page is not here to make you feel sorry for me nor is it here to beg for 
donations - it is more to make you realize how much effort goes into the 
site's creation, and to realize that, somewhere in all of that effort, there 
 IS a cost.

If you feel that effort has been useful to you, perhaps you will consider 
giving something back?

-Brian 
 (Donations of any size gladly accepted) 

 Amazon Honor System 

 PayPal 

 Donate using 
 PayPal to retail@blooberry.com . 
 Contributions via PayPal are accepted in any amount.

 If you are new to PayPal, consider using this 
 referral 
 link to sign up (PayPal will add $5 to your donation.) 

 Boring Copyright Stuff...