Index DOT Html - Glossary of Terms 

 Glossary of Terms 
 = Index DOT Html/Css by 
 Brian Wilson = 

 Index DOT Html: 
 Main Index | Element Tree |
 Element Index | HTML Support
 History 
 Index DOT Css: Main Index |
 Property Index |
 CSS Support History |
 Browser History 

 ASCII 
 Acronym for 'American Standard Code for Information
 Interchange.' ASCII is the dominant character set encoding used by present-day
 computers (this may slowly change.) Current ASCII uses 7 bits of data for each
 character, allowing for 128 distinct character code points. 

 BNF 
 Acronym for Backus-Naur Form. This was originally a 
 syntax used to define the ALGOL programming language in the late 1950s/early 
 60s. First created by John Backus and refined a year later by Peter Naur. It 
 soon became the de-facto presentation method of conveying the formal syntax 
 of a programming language, and many programmatic syntax analysis tools (such 
 as LEX and YACC) also use variations of this syntax. 

 Browser 
 Also known as a web client or User Agent. A World Wide Web
 access program that can request documents or other files from a web server, and
 render/execute them on a user's display device. 

 CALS 
 Acronym for Continuous Acquisition and Life-Cycle
 Support (formerly known as Computer-aided Acquisition and Logistics Support.)
 CALS is a Department of Defense (DoD) strategy for achieving effective
 creation, exchange, and use of digital data for weapon systems and
 equipment. Parts of the HTML table model were modeled after the CALS table
 implementation. More information can be found from the US Navy CALS home
 page at
 http://navysgml.dt.navy.mil/cals.html 

 CDATA 
 Abbreviation for Character Data. CDATA is a data type model 
 used in SGML and XML with DTDs. According to HTML 4.0,
 "CDATA is a sequence of characters from the 
 document character set and may include character entities. User agents should 
 interpret attribute values as follows:

 Replace character entities with characters
 Ignore line feeds
 Replace each carriage return or tab with a single space.
 User agents may ignore leading and trailing white space in CDATA 
 attribute values"

 The documentation for HTML 4 also places many additional constraints on 
 various attribute's values which are often not expressable using DTD syntax 
 or data types. On this site, the constrained set of values are described. 

 Note: In HTML 4+ and XHTML, the "document character set"
 is Unicode. In HTML 2.0, 3.0 and 3.2, it is ISO-8859-1. 

 CERN 
 Acronym for 'Conseil Europ&#233;en pour la Recherche
 Nucl&#233;aire.' This is a research center for high energy physics in Geneva,
 Switzerland - It is also the birthplace of the World Wide Web. See also
 http://cern.web.cern.ch/CERN/ 

 CGI 
 Acronym for 'Common Gateway Interface'. This is the
 specification governing how Web browsers can communicate with and request
 services from Web servers. CGI also includes the format and syntax for
 passing information from browsers to servers via forms or document-based
 queries in HTML. 

 Dither 
 Color dithering simulates a color value that can't
 be displayed using a mixture of displayable colors, eg: gray can be
 created by mixing black and white values. This allows non-displayable
 colors to be implied to the eye - it is tricked into blending the
 color mixture into the intended color. The ratios and pattern of the
 color mix, along with the resolution of the display device are factors
 determining the quality of the dithering effect. 

 DTD 
 Acronym for Document Type Definition. This is a
 formal SGML specification for a document. A DTD defines the structural elements
 and combinatorial rules that can be used to create instances of documents. The
 HyperText Markup Language is defined using one of these formal definitions. 

 ECMA 
 Acronym for European Computer Manufacturer's
 Association - a standards body. One standard they have created is
 EcmaScript (the standards-version of JavaScript.) 

 Editorial 
 Review Board 
 Formed in March 1996 by the W3C and composed of
 experts from W3C member companies, it was created to develop HTML standards. 

 FTP 
 Acronym for File Transfer Protocol. A TCP/IP-based protocol
 used on the Internet to copy files to and from FTP servers elsewhere on a network. 

 Gopher 
 A program/protocol developed at the University of Minnesota
 which provides for a menu-driven presentation of a variety of Internet services,
 including WAIS, Telnet, and FTP. 

 HTML 
 Acronym for HyperText Markup Language. HTML is defined using
 SGML and is the markup language used on the World Wide Web. Its most distinguishing
 feature is the ability to create hypertext links (hyperlinks) for joining disparate
 documents and files together. 

 HTTP 
 Acronym for HyperText Transfer Protocol. The protocol used
 to communicate between Web clients and servers. HTTP can convey the MIME type
 of the transferred file(s), and many other identifying attributes along with
 the file itself. 

 Hypertext Link 
 More commonly referred to as its shorthand form: Hyperlink.
 A hyperlink is defined by HTML markup that creates an element that can be activated
 by the user to change the user's focus from one document (or part of a document)
 to another. 

 ICADD 
 Acronym for "International Committee for Accessible
 Document Design." This group developed the ICADD DTD markup language for
 use in converting SGML documents to a format that is easier to handle
 by non-visual rendering devices. See Spyglass' " Description
 of the ICADD mechanism " document for more details. [Now links to archive.org's last known snapshot due to Link Rot.] 

 IETF 
 Acronym for Internet Engineering Task Force.
 The IETF is the protocol engineering and development arm of
 the Internet consisting of a large, open international community of network
 designers, operators, vendors, and researchers concerned with the evolution
 of the Internet architecture and the smooth operation of the Internet. The
 IETF was the main oversight body for HTML during much of the HTML 2.0 era
 timeframe. It is open to any interested individual. See also
 http://www.ietf.org . 

 Internet 
 A worldwide collection of networks that began with
 technology and equipment funded by the US Department of Defense in the
 1970s (called ARPAnet) that today links users in nearly every known country,
 speaking nearly every known language. 

 Internet Draft 
 An Internet Draft is released by an arm of the Internet
 Engineering Task Force (IETF.) Internet Drafts exist only as discussion documents
 with no formal status. They are valid for a maximum of six months and may be
 updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any time. An Internet Draft
 is often released before a Request For Comments. 

 ISO 
 Acronym for International Standards Organization. This is
 the 'granddaddy' of standards organizations worldwide, and is composed of
 standards bodies from countries all over the world. Most important
 communications and computing standards are the subject of ISO standards. 

 MIME 
 Acronym for Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions.
 A standard for multi-part, multimedia electronic mail messages and World-Wide
 Web documents on the Internet. MIME provides the ability to transfer
 non-textual data, such as graphics, audio and fax. 

 PERL 
 Acronym for Practical Extraction and Report Language. A
 powerful, compact programming language that draws from the capabilities of
 languages like C, Pascal, sed, awk, and BASIC, Perl is emerging as a main
 language of choice for CGI programs. This is partly due to its portability
 and the many platforms on which it is currently supported, and also due to
 its ability to easily manipulate text and ease of use of system services
 in UNIX. 

 Property
 Value 
 The Property Value is the specific value(indicated result)
 of a given Property Name using Cascading Style Sheets. Each Property Name will
 have its own set of allowable values. 

 Replaced
 Element 
 An element that a browser only knows the intrinsic
 dimensions of. In HTML, 'IMG', 'INPUT', 'TEXTAREA', 'SELECT' and 'OBJECT' elements
 can be examples of replaced elements - the content of the 'IMG' element will
 be replaced by the image that the SRC attribute points to. 

 SDA 
 Acronym for "SGML Document Access" conversion
 methodologies. SDA attributes were added to HTML 2.0 to aid accessibility
 for users with visual disabilities. These attributes were dropped from
 the HTML standards in favor of other, more powerful methods of
 accessibility-enabling mechanisms. For more information on SDA, see
 Spyglass' " Description
 of the ICADD Mechanism " document. (Now linking to Archive.org's last known good snapshot due to Link Rot.)

 Selector 
 An Identifier that binds a style assignment to one
 or more HTML elements in Cascading Style Sheets. A Selector can represent
 one or more HTML tags or Style classes. 

 SGML 
 Acronym for 'Standard Generalized Markup Language'. This is
 an ISO standard [8879:1986] document definition, specification, and creation
 mechanism that makes platform and display differences across multiple computers
 irrelevant to the delivery and rendering of documents. 

 Style Declaration 
 One or more Style Property Name/Value pairs in
 Cascading Style Sheets. A Style Property Name is separated from a
 Property Value by a colon [':'] character. 

 Style
 Property Name 
 This is one of over one hundred rendering
 characteristics used to control layout and appearance of HTML documents
 in Cascading Style Sheets. Some Names are only applicable to certain
 element types. 

 URL 
 Acronym for 'Uniform Resource Locator'. This is the
 primary addressing scheme used to identify unique Web resources. A URL defines
 the protocols to be used, the domain name of the Web server where a resource
 resides, the port address to be used for communication, and the directory
 path to access a named Web file or resource. 

 World Wide Web 
 Also known as WWW or W3. This is a term coined by Tim Berners-Lee
 to describe his original project for CERN. It now refers to the collection of all
 interconnected Web servers available on the Internet. This group of interconnected
 documents creates a global 'web' of information. 

 World Wide Web Consortium 
 Also known as the W3C, this is an international
 industry consortium founded in 1994 to develop common standards for the
 evolution of the World Wide Web. It was initially established in
 collaboration with CERN, where the Web originated but is now hosted by
 other concerns. See also http://www.w3.org 

 Note: 
 Much of the content on this page was pulled from existing glossaries on the
 net and is by no means comprehensive. If you are having any trouble with a
 particular term that is not all that self-explanatory, you are encouraged
 to search the vast resources of the net for more information. 

 Boring Copyright Stuff...