Whats New at Index DOT Html and Index DOT Css 

 What's New at Index DOT Html/Css 
 = Index DOT Html/Css by 
 Brian Wilson = 

 Index DOT Html: 
 Main Index | Element Tree |
 Element Index | HTML Support
 History 
 Index DOT Css: Main Index |
 Property Index |
 CSS Support History |
 Browser History 

 Last Archive Date: 
 Index DOT Html: Oct 1, 2003 
 Index DOT Css: Oct 1, 2003 

 Welcome! 
 Welcome to Index DOT Html and Index DOT Css - technical references about
 the HTML and CSS languages.

 What's new in this version 

 Updated the general attribute section of the site
 Updated the browser histories to reflect the recent upheaval

 Other recent changes 

 The HTML half of the site has been updated for XHTML 1 and 1.1, as well as 
 the newest browsers
 The CSS half of the site has been updated for the newest browsers. (I 
 contemplated adding CSS 2.1 to the support information, but it is not 
 mature enough yet.)
 All browser histories have been updated, including a new skeleton history
 for Mac IE (I need to do a lot of research here to fill in this history
 page so that will have to wait.)
 All HTML/CSS specification history pages have been updated
 The main indexes have received a significant facelift: 
 added a site search capability via Google's sitesearch; 
 The new toolbar at the top makes some of the functions much more prominent;
 Sidebar on the right side has been created to allow me to communicate 
 "breaking news" more easily. 
 Style sheet changing mechanism should be less visually annoying to most 
 users when it applies its effects, and now works in Mozilla too.
 Added a bunch of resources to the "Chat" button, including many helpful
 external discussion sites, newsgroups and mailing lists.
 Cleared some of my huge email backlog of things to add to the site. I 
 still have a long way to go on this.

 Future plans for the site 
 Here is my current to-do list: 

 Support for Bidi has been added in Opera - I need to change the support charts to reflect 
 this.
 Bring more contributing authors into the mix so that this site does
 not consume so much of my life. 8-}
 Create test files for every browser "peculiarity" assertion I list, 
 so that I can check them more easily with each new browser version.
 [The HTML code creator javascript 
 page has been useful in my global testing, but I need to document the 
 browser errata in a much more formal way that can be documented.
 Wrap up all the email issues regarding information to add to the 
 site that I have still pending.
 Write a few CSS articles on topics I have wanted to cover for a very long time.

- Brian, 
 October 1, 2003