HTML Support Key Page 

 HTML/CSS Support Notation Conventions 
 = Index DOT Html/Css by 
 Brian Wilson = 

 Index DOT Html: 
 Main Index | Element Tree |
 Element Index | HTML Support
 History 
 Index DOT Css: Main Index |
 Property Index |
 CSS Support History |
 Browser History 

 How it Works 
 Throughout the site you will find notation like this:

 Support Key: CSS1
 | CSS2 | IE4
 | N4B2 | O3.5-3.6x 
 This legend indicates the history of feature support in the reviewed
 standards and browsers. The codes and notations are described below.

 Specification and Browser Abbreviations 
 In addition to the abbreviations listed below, there will usually be
 an additional number directly after the browser code notation that
 indicates the specific version number when
 support for the feature began (eg: N4B2 
 = Netscape 4.0, Beta 2.) If no version number is present, the browser does not
 support the feature.

 2 
 &#160;&#160;&#160;&#160; HTML 2.0 
 3 HTML 3.0 
 3.2 HTML 3.2 
 4 HTML 4.0 
 1.0 XHTML 1.0 
 1.1 XHTML 1.1 
 CSS1 CSS 1 
 CSS2 CSS 2 
 IE Microsoft Internet Explorer 
 M NCSA Mosaic 
 N Netscape Navigator 
 O Opera (Opera Software) 

 Formatting Schemes 
 Differentiation of feature support consists of four levels: first support,
 support (support exists, but the browser/standard was not the first
 to support it), support range (browser supported at one time but no longer
 does) and no support at all. If a particular feature is not supported
 in a browser or standard, the notations will not list the browser/standard.
 I have tried to make the difference between the support levels clear and
 obvious - even to users of older browsers, but some explanation is necessary.
 Simple font styles are used to differentiate between first support (italic, bold),
 support (bold), and support range (underline) while additional colors are
 attached for these settings via style sheets for browsers that support this
 feature. Color coded differentiation is much more visually obvious to a
 reader than plain font styles, but the colors should not be necessary in
 order to read this information properly. The colors I mention below are the
 default style sheet colors I have chosen for the site. If you are using a
 downloaded version of the site, these colors are
 customizable .

 NOTE: For any given feature a browser and 
 single standard can claim first support.

 First Support: Style:
 Italics. Default CSS: BG - Green, FG - Red 
 The feature was first specified or implemented by this standard or browser
 Support: Style: Bold.
 Default CSS: BG - Green, FG - White 
 The feature is supported by this standard or browser, but was not
 the first among those reviewed to do so.
 Support Range: Style: Underline.
 Default CSS: Black Border, BG - Black, FG - White 
 The feature WAS supported before but is not now. Indicated by a beginning
 browser version and an ending browser version.
 No Support: Style: Plain.
 Default CSS: BG - None, FG - Gray/white 
 The feature is not supported by this standard or browser

 Boring Copyright Stuff...