Thanks to.... 

 Thanks To... 
 = Index DOT Html/Css by 
 Brian Wilson = 

 Index DOT Html: 
 Main Index |
 Element Tree |
 Element Index |
 HTML Support History 
 Index DOT Css: Main Index |
 Property Index |
 CSS Support History |
 Browser History 

There are many who have helped me create these documents,
in the form of advice or suggestions as well as sanity checking and
proof-reading. In no particular order...

 Tapio Markula 
 I've been corresponding with Tapio for some time about CSS matters, and
 the bugs/browser behaviors we both try to document. His own
 site on CSS 
 in Finnish/English is a similar resource to my own in that we both are
 trying to get to the bottom of just WHAT the browsers do and don't support
 from the standards.
 Ronald and "Engineer
 Dave" 
 In the early days of the site for providing tons of ideas,
 encouragement and content as well as feedback as to whether the pages
 were readable to the common man.
 Stephen LeHunte 
 Who created the HTML Reference Library (a wonderful resource, but it is sadly 
 no longer being updated.) Through many emails on the latest goings-on in HTML 
 and CSS he was one of the few not to have that glazed over, bored, 
 "uh-huh" response to conversations about this subject. =)
 He also was kind enough to let me borrow heavily from his site license
 concept and wording (thankyouthankyou.)
 CSS Browser Bug Site creators 
 There are many resources on the Internet that also document CSS bugs in the
 various browsers. In researching browser bugs to document on this site,
 I consulted many of these resources as well as creating my own test files.
 Here is a listing of resources consulted, along with a heartfelt thanks to
 the authors for their existence - browser makers seldom go out of their way
 to make bugs in their products public. 

 CSS Pointers Group's CSS Bugs and Workarounds 
 Eric Meyer's CSS
 Master Compatibility Chart at Webreview.com
 Style Master's House
 of Style resource
 David Baron's CSS tests 
 Stephan Nedregaard's CSS support in popular browsers (site now gone)
 Braden McDaniel's Support for
 CSS1 in MSIE 3.0, Win32 
 Ian Graham's CSS
 Bugs and Implementation Problems, with Workarounds 

 The HTML Writer's Guild and
 Comp.infosystems.www.authoring.* 
 Great minds and even better feedback in these forums for authors.
 Tim Berners-Lee For sending a response regarding
 the early days of HTML when I ran into a bunch of dead links on the
 subject on the web. Oh, and of course he also created the WWW and HTML -
 For that we should all be grateful! =)
 The Mirror Site Maintainers For the space
 and their time - all donated. The web isn't totally 
 commercialized yet.
 There were many others that kept me pointed
 in the right direction, gave feedback and alerted me to undocumented
 browser behaviors. If I tried to list them all, I would inevitably forget
 someone. For all of you, this is a general, genuine THANKS!! =)

 Boring Copyright Stuff...