American Rifleman Woodsman Howto: May 1953 

 COLT MATCH TARGET WOODSMAN 

 From THE AMERICAN
RIFLEMAN, MAY, 1953 

 REPRINTED WITH PERMISSION FROM THE
NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA 

 It took about 37 years to evolve the 22 caliber Colt Woodsman
semi-automatic handgun into the beautifully designed pistol it
is today. The exterior shape has been changed to keep pace with
the demands of American shooters. 

 The original Woodsman target model suffered from a small grip
and a light barrel. It was designed for low-velocity ammunition.
Any Woodsman with a serial number under 83,790 should not be
fired with high-speed ammunition until the main spring housing
has been changed. An attempt was made in 1938 to obtain a better
grip by extending the stocks below the frame and to give more
weight by adding a slab-sided barrel. But it was in 1947 that the
Woodsman really had its face lifted! The gun was redesigned
externally and many improvements made. 

 Even though the outside shape of the Woodsman handgun has been
changed, the interior mechanism, with the exception of the
magazine safety and the slide stop, is basically the same as in
the original model. The fact that the interior mechanism has
changed very little is another tribute to the genius of John
Browning, designer of the original Woodsman in 1915. 

 The Match Target Woodsman of today is made in .22 long rifle
caliber only. Naturally, .22 shorts can be fired in it, but the
shorts haven't enough power to operate the blow-back type of
action used in the Woodsman. Made in two barrel lengths, 4-1/2
inch and 6 inch, the gun weighs 36-1/2 ounces and 41 ounces,
respectively. The current Colt Match Target model, Woodsman
target model, and sport models are equipped with a magazine
safety and an automatic slide stop. The magazine safety prevents
a lot of the "Oh, I didn't know it was loaded" type of
accidents, for when the magazine is removed, even though there is
a cartridge in the chamber, the gun cannot he fired. This type of
safety would be a desirable feature in all non-military automatic
pistols. These safety features plus the fine balance, sights, and
above all the flawless finish, leave little to be desired. 

 Like other .22 caliber semiautomatics, the chamber and breech
face of the Colt Woodsman must be kept clean. Greased or waxed
ammunition leave deposits that cause extraction troubles and, at
times, misfires. 

 The field stripping procedure for this gun is the same as the
early models, with the exception of one point. The grips must be
removed and the upper housing lock pin (PP) pushed out of the frame.
This housing lock pin was added to the Woodsman, at the request
of the Marine Corps, to prevent the back strap being forced
inward and pinching the soft skin between thumb and forefinger
when the pistol is gripped tightly. 
 Push the NEXT button for illustrated takedown instructions.

 ">