Featured Colt Woodsman 

 Experimental Woodsman With 10" Barrel and Detachable Shoulder 
 Stock 

 This Woodsman, formerly in the Robert Q. Sutherland collection and 
 illustrated in The Book of Colt Firearms by Sutherland and 
 Wilson, is one of only two known factory shoulder stocked Woodsmans. This 
 one is unblued, "in the white." The other one is fully blued and finished, 
 and is part of the Colt Collection in the Connecticut State Museum. 
 Due to the fact that it has a shoulder stock, like a rifle, along with 
 a barrel less than 20 inches long, it meets the legal definition of a 
 "short rifle" according the the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms 
 (BATF). It has, however, been reclassified by the BATF as a "Curio and 
 Relic." According to the BATF, concerning this Woodsman and three other 
 guns formerly in the Sutherland collection: 
 "Since all four of the stocked handguns currently registered 
 to you are experimental prototypes, we find that, by reason of their 
 rarity and date of manufacture, they are primarily collector's items and 
 are not likely to be used as weapons. They are, therefore, excluded from 
 the definition of a firearm under 26 U.S.C., Section 5845(a) and are 
 exempted from the provisions of the amended National Firearms Act." 

 Since this experimental gun has no serial number, it was assigned an 
 identification number by the BATF. The BATF identification medallion is 
 the round device attached to the trigger guard. 

 Medallion and plaque awarded this Woodsman as one 
 of the "10 Best Arms" at the 1990 NRA 
 Convention. 

 The above two photos, by Mike Nesbitt, are 
from Colt Woodsman Carbine by Mike Nesbitt in the Jan/Feb 1987 
issue of Rifle magazine. The Colt Woodsman has also been shown in Guns magazine 
and Guns and Ammo magazine. 

 Previously Featured Woodsmans 

 Factory 
 engraved Pre_WWII Woodsman Sport 

 Charles 
 Askins' center fire Woodsman 

 A 
 highly customized Bullseye Match Target 

 Woodsman Home Page 

 Last updated on December 2, 2000