Woodsman Parts Order/Inquiry 

 Woodsman Parts Order/Inquiry 

I will be travelling extensively during May, June, July, and August of 2007, with my first departure being May 1, returning on May 24, and departing again a few days later. While travelling I will have limited Internet access to answer email. Please be patient and I will try to catch up after I return. 

 First Name: 

 Last Name: 

 Shipping Address: 

 City: 

 State: 
 Zip: 
 Country: 

 E-mail Address: 
 REQUIRED 

 Model: 

 Pre-Woodsman 
 Woodsman Target 
 Woodsman Sport 
 Woodsman Match Target 
 Challenger 
 Huntsman 
 Targetsman 
 Don't know 

 Series: 
 First: 
 If the serial number contains only numerals, with no alphabetical characters, it is a first series. If the only alphabetical characters in the serial number are MT, it is a first series. 
 Second: If it is marked Challenger, it is a second series. 
If it has a push button magazine release just aft of the trigger guard, it is a second series. 

 Third: If it is marked Huntsman or Targetsman, it is a third series. 
If the magazine release is at the heel of the butt, AND the pistol has an S at the end of the serial number, it is a third series.

 Serial #: 
 (For privacy, use xx for the last two digits if you wish.) Be sure to include any alphabetical prefix or suffix, if present. Also include any leading zeroes, if there are any. This is important. For example: 1001, 001001S, 1001-S, MT1001, and 1001-C are all valid serial numbers for the Woodsman series, but for very different guns. 
For the pre-WWII Target and Sport models, the serial number will be on the front grip strap. For the pre-WWII Match Target, the serial number will be on either the front grip strap or the butt, where the magazine is inserted. For post-WWII guns the serial number will be on the right hand side of the receiver. 

 Barrel Length: 
 4-1/2" 
 6" 
 6-5/8" 

 Barrel shape: 

 Round 
 Flat Sided 

 Barrel length is measured from breech to muzzle; ie, from where the bullet goes in to where the bullet comes out. It is NOT measured from where the barrel emerges from the frame.

 Front sight: 

 Fixed 
 Adjustable 

 Rear Sight: 

 Fixed 
 Adjustable

 Markings: (check all that apply) 

 THE WOODSMAN 
 WOODSMAN 
 HUNTSMAN 
 TARGETSMAN 
 CHALLENGER 
 MATCH TARGET 
 None of the above 

 Rampant Colt on slide, aft of serrations 
 Rampant Colt on slide, forward of serrations 
 Rampant Colt on frame, left hand side of receiver 
 One 1903 and two 1918 patent dates on top of barrel 
 One 1903 and two 1918 patent dates on side of barrel 
 Colt name and address on top of barrel 
 Colt name and address on side of barrel 
 PAT DES 110887 on top of barrel 
 U.S. PAT. D-121,317 on side of barrel 

 Slide Markings: 
 COLT 
 AUTOMATIC CAL. 22 LONG RIFLE 

 Other Markings (specify): 

 Part name, part number, and description: 

 Add me to the Woodsman email list: 
 Yes 
 No 

 Modified on ... Sept 20, 2006