Recommended Anime Not Rated 

 Eric's Recommended Anime Not Rated 

 A quick word about non-rated anime -- this can run
the gamut between kids-fare shows that just didn't happen to have a rating on
the packaging I found, to adult-fare shows with sexual situations or graphic
violence. I won't list the X-Rated shows (since that's a rating) or shows that
would have had an X rating based on graphic sexual content. Some of the below
may contain nudity or off-screen sexual content (sounds); I'll try to give
warnings to folks looking for content ratings in those cases. 

 Armitage III 
 Multiple OVA/Movie(s) 

 A hotshot police officer and her new partner go up against "Thirds", robots designed to appear human, and a line of assassins; but what is her own relationship to the thirds?
 Not Rated -- contains violence, language, brief nudity 

 Cowboy Bebop 
 TV/OVA (26 eps) 

 Two bounty hunters, Spike and Jet, travel the planets in search of bounties, rewards, and clues to their own dark pasts. A few episodes went straight to video due to Japanese TV standards disallowing them.
 Not Rated -- contains violence, language, brief nudity, brief drug use 

 Ghost in the Shell 
 Movie 

 Two mechanically-augmented police officers race against a criminal from stealing humanity itself; but with such augmentations, just what is humanity?
 Not Rated -- contains graphic violence, language, nudity 

 Grave of the Fireflies 
 Movie 

 Two youths attempt to survive during the WWII firebombing of Japan, in spite of shrinking rations and supplies. Award-winning animation about kids isn't necessarily for kids.
 Not Rated -- contains wartime violence 

 Hades Project: Zeorymer 
 OVA (4 eps) 

 A young man learns he was born to pilot a large robot designed to take over the Earth; but what will he do with it once he's in the pilot's seat?
 Not Rated -- contains violence, brief nudity 

 Jin-Roh (The Wolf Brigade) 
 Movie 

 An officer in a militaristic-police brigade and a young woman from a resistance movement are hunted down by both sides in this anime "Red Riding Hood" allegory. (In theaters 6/2001)
 Not Rated -- contains graphic violence, language 

 Neon Genesis Evangelion 
 Multiple TV/Movie(s) 

 Shinji Ikari is called by his estranged father to pilot a huge robot against invading aliens; but what are his real reasons for piloting it?
 Not Rated -- contains wartime violence, brief nudity 

 Perfect Blue 
 Movie 

 A young pop-music star, quits the stage for the lights and cameras of television and film, much to the chagrin of a fan stalking her.
 Not Rated -- contains graphic violence, language, nudity 

 Tenchi Muyo! 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 Poor guy, Tenchi has six alien girls move in with him to help save the galaxy, at least when they're not fighting eachother over his affection.
 Not Rated -- contains violence, brief nudity 

 The Wings of Honneamise 
 Movie 

 A nation's newly-formed space force struggles to reach the stars before an approaching war puts an end to their dreams.
 Not Rated -- contains wartime violence, brief nudity 

 Recommended by Title 
 Titles A-G 
 Titles H-M 
 Titles N-S 
 Titles T-Z 

 Recommended by Type 
 TV Series 
 OVA (Videos) 
 Movies 
 Multiple 

 Recommended by Rating 
 PG/PG-13 
 R/NC-17 
 Not Rated 
 Unknown/Multiple 
 X-Rated shows do exist but are not listed here. 
 Reasons for Rating Notes 

 Neon Genesis Evangelion Copyright (C) GAINAX, Project Eva., TX, NAS 
 All rights reserved. Permission for image use provided by: 

 Hades Project: Zeorymer Copyright (C) Morio Chimi, Artmic, AIC 
 All rights reserved. Permission for image use provided by: 

 USED WITH PERMISSION: Images of anime programs
on this page are used with permission of the copyright holder or the legal
distributor of the represtented work. Copying from this page for your own
use is prohibited -- please contact the copyright holder or distibutor
cited to gain permission from the proper people. 

-->

 Home 
 Anime 
 Genealogy 
 About 
 External Links 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2001 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.