Recommended Anime Rated PG/PG-13 

 Eric's Recommended Anime Rated PG/PG-13 

 A quick word about PG/PG-13 rated anime -- I've
included "official" (package-listing) "PG" and "PG-13" here as well as a close
approximation of the this-age-and-up ratings, using a cutoff of 15 (listing
"16+" as "R" elsewhere). 

 Blue Seed 
 TV (25 eps) 

 Young Momiji was born to save the world from demons, but can only her death by sacrifice stop the demons from ruling the Earth? What really happened to her twin sister?
 Rated 12+ -- contains violence, lingerie humor 

 Boogiepop Phantom 
 TV (12 eps) 

 A series of disappearances and grisly murders took place five years ago, and those acts, and the mysterious sudden halting of them, still affect people in the present. Each episode tells the story from a different character's point of view (much like Rashomon ).
 Rated 15+ -- contains graphic violence 

 Gasaraki 
 TV (26 eps) 

 Two youths, Yushiro and Miharu, find themselves tangled in a web of military experiments and an encroaching horror from their pasts.
 Rated 12+ -- contains wartime violence, language 

 Gunsmith Cats 
 OVA (3 eps) 

 Rally Vincent, a Chicago gunsmith, and her explosives-fanatic partner go up against a Russian hit-woman on the streets of Chicago.
 Rated 15+ -- contains violence, lingerie 

 Kacho Ouji (Black Heaven) 
 TV (13) 

 A mid-30s businessman is recruited to help save the galaxy in an interstellar battle; like a satire of Macross using heavy metal music, only his "groove" can power the ultimate weapon and save us all. Fair animation (digital) but better as the story progresses.
 Rated 13+ -- contains wartime violence, brief nudity 

 Metropolis 
 Movie 

 Loosely based on the silent film of the same name and the classic manga by Tezuka Osamu, a future society where humans and robots live together gets a wake-up call when a group of humans organize a revolt.
 Rated PG-13 -- contains violence 

 Mononoke Hime (Princess Mononoke) 
 Movie 

 A prince finds himself in a battle between men of industry, the gods of the forest, and a girl fighting against the humans for her own reasons.
 Rated PG-13 -- contains violence 

 Nadia: The Secret of Blue Water 
 TV (39 eps) 

 Based on Jules Verne's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea , a French inventor helps a young circus performer in a quest to find the secrets of her past and her unusual pendant.
 Rated 12+ -- contains violence 

 Otaku no Video 
 OVA (2 eps) 

 Gainax studio's "mockumentary" of itself; Kubo and Takaka set out to "otakunize" the world. How many studio inside-jokes and external anime references can you find?
 Rated 13+ -- contains brief nudity 

 Roujin Z 
 Movie 

 When a prototype bed, designed to cater to the needs of its patient, goes too far by accepting every need, including escape, a young nurse may be the only one able to save the patient.
 Rated PG-13 -- contains mild violence 

 The Vision of Escaflowne 
 TV (26 eps) 

 High-school athlete Hitomi is transported to another world where robots and dragons fight against power-mad foes; but how will she get back home, and does she really want to?
 Rated 13+ -- contains violence 

 Recommended by Title 
 Titles A-G 
 Titles H-M 
 Titles N-S 
 Titles T-Z 

 Recommended by Type 
 TV Series 
 OVA (Videos) 
 Movies 
 Multiple 

 Recommended by Rating 
 PG/PG-13 
 R/NC-17 
 Not Rated 
 Unknown/Multiple 
 X-Rated shows do exist but are not listed here. 
 Reasons for Rating Notes 

 Sol Bianca: The Legacy Copyright (C) AIC, Pioneer LDC, PEA 
 All rights reserved. Permission for image use provided by: 

 USED WITH PERMISSION: Images of anime programs
on this page are used with permission of the copyright holder or the legal
distributor of the represtented work. Copying from this page for your own
use is prohibited -- please contact the copyright holder or distibutor
cited to gain permission from the proper people. 

-->

 Home 
 Anime 
 Genealogy 
 About 
 External Links 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2001 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.