Authors' Abstracts From the JNE, Vol. 1, No. 2

 Return to the INE Main Page 

 SELECTED AUTHORS' ABSTRACTS FROM 
THE JOURNAL OF NEW ENERGY, Vol. 1, No. 2 

Summer 1996, Published September 1996, ISBN 1986-8259. 

Selected ABSTRACTS from NEN, Vol. 4, No. 4: 

From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 4, August 1996, pp. 6-10.

New Energy News (NEN) copyright 1996 by Fusion Information Center, Inc. 
COPYING NOT ALLOWED without written permission. 
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

 The Rediscovery of Cold Nuclear Reactions 

J. O'M. Bockris and G.H. Lin (Dept. Chem., Texas A&M Univ., College Station, Texas), and R. Bush (Phys. Dept., Cal. St. Polytech. Inst., Pomona, CA) 

AUTHORS' ABSTRACT 

The word transmutation is often associated with medieval alchemy. Nevertheless, the change of one metal into another is a common event of modern nuclear chemistry carried out in nuclear reactors or in high energy cyclotrons. In the last few years a number of pieces of information have arisen which suggest that there is a low temperature way of provoking nuclear changes. There are several titles at present being used to describe the reported phenomena. They are: chemically stimulated nuclear change; lattice assisted nuclear change; low temperature nuclear change; cold nuclear reactions. This latter term will be used in this article. Such reactions embrace also the D + D reactions discussed since 1989, in the so-called cold fusion literature, but include a wider swathe of systems, characterized by observation of changes in solid systems, not far (e.g., up to 1000 degress K) from room temperature which seem only explicable on the assumption that a nuclear change has occurred although none such would be expected based on the current theories of nuclear chemistry. 

 Use of Asymmetrical Regauging and Multivalued Potentials to Achieve Over-Unity Electromagnetic Engines 

T.E. Bearden 

AUTHOR'S ABSTRACT 

Asymmetrical regauging and multivalued potentials (MVPs) occur widely in nature and may involve fields that are nonconservative, i.e., the free production of excess force fields. Yet conventional electric and magnetic engines are designed with gauge frozen and utilizing conservative fields and single-valued potentials. Self-induced change of potential, as by an MVP, can be utilized to accomplish asymmetrical self-regauging (ASR) (A-regauging) of the engine's stored energy at a certain point or sector. This is equivalent to free refueling of the engine, at each regauging position in its cycle, with excess energy furnished from the vacuum. During asymmetrical regauging, the system is an open system receiving excess energy from a known external source, so it can exhibit a COP > 1.0 without violating the laws of physics. One or more additional force fields will appear, and they may be used to assist the operation of the system, by deliberate design. 

When Maxwell's equations are expressed in (A, Phi) form, two equations result in which A and Phi are coupled and the variables are not separated. Electrodynamicists then arbitrarily alter these equations by making two simultaneous asymmetrical regaugings, designed so that the net regauging is symmetrical -- i.e., the net force fields are unchanged. The variables are separated by this net symmetrical transformation. These regauged Maxwell equations are then widely utilized in the literature, without further regauging. The net symmetry of the overall regauging curtails and closes Maxwell's EM model and the operation of any designed Maxwellian system to further regauging, particularly asymmetrical self-regauging. In short, it eliminates the system's permissible free collection and use of potential energy from the external environment (i.e., the vacuum), by asymmetrical self-regauging. 

 Segner-Marinov Turbine as a Perpetual Motion Machine 

Stefan Marinov (Inst. Fundamental Phys., Graz, Austria) 

AUTHOR'S ABSTRACT 

I devised the historic Segner turbine as a system with a closed energetic circle. If leaving the water in Segner's turbine to have a paraboloidic surface and if pouring the squirted-out water into its centre (in such cases I call it the Segner-Marinov turbine), the system becomes self-accelerating. The energy win comes from the "tunnel transition" of water under the hydrostatic "potential barrier." 

 Return to the INE Main Page