Cold Fusion: Fire From Water: The New Videotape By Infinite Energy Magazine

 Return to the INE Main Page 

 COLD FUSION: FIRE FROM WATER: THE NEW VIDEOTAPE BY INFINITE ENERGY MAGAZINE 

By Patrick Bailey 

 COLD FUSION: FIRE FROM WATER 

A New Videotape!!! Copyright 1999. 

A Documentary about one of the most controversial scientific discoveries of all time. 

"I've become convinced, from my original skepticism, to 99% certainty that [cold fusion] is for real. The evidence now is really overwhelming." - Sir Arthur C. Clarke 

A 70 Minute Videotape, NOW AVAILABLE! 

See: www.infinite-energy.com 

From the back of the videotape box: 

THE BIRTH OF THE WATER FUEL AGE? 

In this fascinating documentary narrated by James Doohan, "Scotty" of Star Trek fame, find out what happened to the Cold Fusion discovery in the years since the announcement at the University of Utah. On March 23, 1989, respected chemists Drs. Martin Fleischmann and Stanley Pons claimed that a table-top, glass cell filled with heavy water, fitted with a palladium electrode, produced so much heat beyond the power put in that the mysterious energy source had to be nuclear. They said it was probably related to nuclear fusion, which powers the stars. The new "fire" from water could not be coming from ordinary chemical reactions; it was far too much energy. Nuclear reactions in a jar of water, producing heat but no deadly radiation? If the shocking claim was real, the world might have a source of infinite, clean energy from the abundant fusion fuel in all water. Thus began the Cold Fusion controversy, one of the greatest revolutions in the history of science. The facts of Cold Fusion's birth are far more dramatic than any fiction! 

LEARN THAT... 

* Cold Fusion is the ultimate renewable energy source. It promises the beginning of a Water Fuel Age early in the 21st Century. 

* Vested interests in Academia launched a "Cold Fusion War" against the new science that continues to this day. 

* What Fleischmann and Pons discovered in the mid-1980s was probably merely the tip of an iceberg of a much larger discovery that might be called "Modern Alchemy." 

* Dozens of scientific theories have been put forth by top scientists to explain Cold Fusion. 

* Cold Fusion is very much alive. It has been confirmed in hundreds of experiments done in many countries. Commercial activity is underway to develop this revolutionary clean energy source and the other discoveries it inspired...such as the potential to neutralize radioactive waste! 

* This real discovery will drastically change the world early in the 21st Century. By exploring the history of the discovery and witnessing people working in the field today in laboratories and companies, decide for yourself whether Cold Fusion is one of the greatest discoveries of all time - really a "miracle" in water. 

"It could be the end of the fossil fuel age: the end of oil and coal. And the end, incidentally, of many of our worries about global pollution and global warming." - Futurist and author, Sir Author C. Clarke. 

 Infinite Energy Magazine
P.O. Box 2816
Concord, NH 03302-2816
 www.infinite-energy.com 

 SPECIAL PROMOTION! 

Available postpaid in the U.S. for $34.95 (USD) 
and 
Shipped to foreign destination for $44.95 (USD). 

The Video Tape Promotion Website at 

 www.mv.com/ipusers/zeropoint/IEHTML/promos.html 

includes: 

* An internet order form (Visa, M/C, AmExp) 

* A picture of the videotape box 

* and more information!!! 

 Return to the INE Main Page 

www.padrak.com/ine/NEN_6_9_17.html 
June 2, 1999.