INE Database Guide

 Return to the INE Page 

 INE DATABASE GUIDE 

Database Guidelines file for: 

Additions, Changes, and Your Supportive Input into the data in the INE Database Files. 

The INE Database of Devices and Inventors is undergoing constant revisions - 

Based on YOUR INPUT! 

All supportive and constructive information and data are welcome. 

Please email any supportive data to: 

 INE Database Input Data 

To aid in the process of including your input, please note the following: 

 You can submit entries and/or changes using our Device Database Template File . Just copy this file to text, and enter in the proper data in text-only format after the colon for each entry. 

 All of the data is maintained as text in a spreadsheet (Excel) database, using tabs as the column delimiters. 

 Each device is given one row in the database. 

 The text data is stored in the database in consecutive columns, in the order that is seen in any of the Device File listings. Input data received is "transposed" into that order. 

 For printing purposes with long data entries in a data cell, periods and semicolons are used to create new lines when the opportunity arises. 

 The database includes an assessment of the interest level and the commercialization level for each device. These data are determined independently from the information and data given for each device. The exact definitions of these criteria are given below: the Interest Criteria , and the Commercialization Criteria . 

 All of the data is subject to the review and the approval of the INE staff supporting the database, before the data may be entered into the database. 

 Criticisms and opposing points of view are welcome and will be included. 

It is noted and understood that this database and these data are both new, and will undergo substantial revisions and updates. Many aspects of each device, and the interest and commercialization criteria rankings may change significantly. This is to be expected in the near future, and also hoped for in the future - as new and additional information and data continue to become available. 

Together, let us make this an worthwhile effort! 

Please be positive and supportive with your participation in this effort. 

Thank you! 

 The INE Database Files: 

 Devices Listing . 

 Inventor's Names Listing . 

 Interest Criteria Listing . 

 Commercialization Criteria Listing . 

Each device entry has a link to a separate HTML file, that contains and displays all of the data input into the database for that device. 

All of these HTML files are automatically generated and dated by one computer program from the INE Database, and these files will all be updated periodically, as additional data is received and input into the database. 

 Interest Criteria: 

 0 to 10, with an M and a N; as follows:

MORE INFORMATION IS NEEDED

 N - No Information.
 M - Incomplete: More Information is Needed.

LOWEST INTEREST

 0 - Not Substantiated.
 1 - Evidence That It May Be Not Substantiated

LOW INTEREST

 2 - Being Researched By Only One Person.
 3 - Something Unusual Was Demonstrated By One Person.

MEDIUM INTEREST - New Physics, Small Impact; or:

 4 - That Something Was Again Demonstrated
 By One Person.
 5 - That Something Was Again Demonstrated And
 Witnessed By Others.

HIGH INTEREST - New Physics, Large Impact; or:

 6 - That Something Was Replicated By Another.
 7 - The Operational Techniques And Measurements
 Are Being Refined.
 8 - The Phenomena Is Repeatable.

HIGHEST INTEREST - New Physics, Great Impact; or:

 9 - The Device Seems To Be Scaleable To A Larger Size.
10 - A Larger Size Prototype Seems To Be Proven. 

 Commercialization Criteria: 

 0 to 10, with an I and a N; as follows:

 N - No Information.
 M - Incomplete: More Information is Needed.

 0 - Found To Be Lies.
 1 - Evidence That It May Be Lies.
 2 - Being Researched By Only One Person.
 3 - Something Unusual Was Demonstrated By One Person.
 4 - That Something Was Again Demonstrated
 By One Person.
 5 - That Something Was Again Demonstrated And
 Witnessed By Others.
 6 - That Something Was Replicated By Another.
 7 - The Operational Techniques And Measurements
 Are Being Refined.
 8 - The Device Works: The Phenomena Is Repeatable.
 9 - The Device Can Be Scaled To A Larger Size.
10 - Proven Prototype. Commercialization Is Now Possible. 

 Return to the INE Page 

www.padrak.com/ine/DBGUIDE.html 
Oct. 29, 1997.