The Institute For New Energy: Advanced Physics and Applications

 THE INSTITUTE FOR NEW ENERGY 

 Last updated: May 25, 1997. 
See the List of all Additions and Revisions . 
See the NEN Latest Issue's Table of Contents . 
See the Newest and Most Recent Articles and Files . 
Confused? See the INE Web Site Map . 

You are the 119,564th visitor to access this site, 
Since this site counter was installed on January 27, 1996. 
 Register to be automatically and anonymously (BCC) notified of all future INE Site Updates! 

The INE supports the protest of the assault on the U.S. Constitution represented by the recent Communications Decency Act, and also of the many other violations of the U.S. Constitution that have occurred and continue to occur. We shall, however, in the interests of our readers, keep our pages the default gray - instead or turning them black as others who support this cause are continuing to do. See the Constitution Society Web Site for additional information. See also Your Own Rights under existing American Common Law .

 Keywords 

 Subjects: Advanced Energy Conversion, New Energy, Free Energy, Free-Energy, Over Unity, Over-Unity, Cold Fusion, Cold-Fusion, Space Energy, Space-Energy, Zero Point Energy, Zero-Point-Energy, ZPE, Aether, Ether, Electric Vehicles, Electric-Vehicles, Advanced Physics, Advanced-Physics, Vibration, Cavatation, Sublimation, Etherization., Rotational Magnetics, Rotational-Magnetics, Rotational Electromagnetics, Rotational-Electromagnetics, Earth Electromagnetics, Earth-Electromagnetics, Gyroscopes, Gyroscopic Effects, Vortex Mechanics, Antigravity, Levitation, Counterbary, New Energy News, Journal of New Energy, US Patent Law, Title 35, Part II, Chapter 17, Sections 181-188. 

 People: James C. Maxwell, Nikola Tesla, T. Henry Moray, T. Townsend Brown; 
Robert Adams, Alan Ames, Harold Aspden, Wolfram Bahmann, Patrick Bailey, Terence Barrett, Paul Baumann, William Baumgartiner, Thomas Bearden, John Bedini, Bob Beutlich, Timothy Binder, John Bockris, Paul Brown, Otis Carr, Bruce Cathie, David Childress, Melvin Cobb, Hans Coler, Paulo Correa, Jorge Cure', Jerry Decker, Bruce dePalma, Reidar Finsrud, Gene Fisher, Martin Fleischmann, William Fogal, Hal Fox, Mark Goldes, Peter Graneau, Ashley Gray, Toby Grotz, Josef Gruber, Bernhard Haisch, James E. Hartman, Josef Hasslberger, George Hathaway, Lester Hendershot, William Hooper, Alfred Hubbard, James Hurtak, John Hutchinson, William Hyde, Shiuji Inomata, Rhetta Jacobson, Oleg Jefimenko, Paul Jensen, Gary Johnson, John Worrell Keely, Donald Kelly, Sandy Kidd, Moray King, Ronald Kovak, Wingate Lambertson, Paul LaViolette, Edward Lewis, Ken MacNeill, Joseph Maize, Eugene Mallove, Jeane Manning, Stefan Marinov, Michael McKubre, William McMurtry, Methernitha, Stanley Meyer, Andrew Michrowski, Henry Monteith, William Muller, Joseph Newman, Hans Nieper, Panos Pappas, Leroy Pea, Eugene Podkletnov, Dale Pond, Stanley Pons, Harold Puthoff, Bill Ramsay, Donald Reed, Troy Reed, Wilhelm Reich, Glen Rein, Nicholas Reiter, Walter Rosenthal, Jed Rothwell, Walter Russell, Erwin Saxl, Victor Schauberger, John Searl, Bob Shaubach, Kenneth Shoulders, Rho Sigma, Norman Silliman, Rollo Silver, Pierre Sinclaire, Edmund Storms, Floyd Sweet, Paramahamsa Tewari, John Thomas, Thomas Valone, Donald Walton, Michael Watson, Dennis Weaver, Charles Yost.

 The Institute for New Energy Mailing Address 
The Institute for New Energy (INE) 
P.O. Box 58639 
Salt Lake City, UT 84158-8639 
TEL 801-583-6232 
FAX 801-583-2963 
Email: ine@padrak.com 
Web Site: www.padrak.com/ine/ 

 New Energy News 
The New Energy News (NEN) is the Monthly Newsletter for the Institute for New Energy. 
 NEN Sample Issue: October 1995 - On Cold Fusion and Other Usual Topics 
 NEN Latest Issue's Table of Contents 
It Contains 20 to 30 Pages per Issue. 
It is Free with Your Membership,
and is sent Non-Profit Bulk Rate Mail within the US. 
Single issues are available for $3.00 each, sent via 1st class mail. 

 Membership 
Membership to the INE (a non-profit corporation) is: 
$35.00 per Year for Individuals; and 
$60.00 per Year for Corporations and Institutions. 
First Class Mailing and International Mailing is $15.00 Additional. 
Checks in only U.S Dollars ($USD) are acceptable. 
Credit Cards are as yet not accepted. 

Read the INE Information Flyer for a description of the Institute, it's purpose, philosophy, the advanced energy topics of interest, and it's affiliations with other organizations. 

 Call the INE Office for Additional Information. 

 Please email your comments and suggestions to: 
 Dr. Patrick Bailey , President, Institute for New Energy, at ine@padrak.com. 
Thank you. 

 QUALITY INFORMATION 

 Announcements and Meetings 
 Announcements of future meetings, summary information, dates, and locations. Important past meetings are also retained for linked reference material (after the listings for the future meetings).

 Subjects Index: Within This Site (With Active Links) 
 A subject index of the major topics contained within this web site.

 Authors Index: Within This Site (With Active Links) 
 An author index of the major authors whose material is contained within this web site.

 Web Sites: Advanced Energy and Related Subjects (With Active Links) 
 The file where ALL subject and author related web sites are listed that are external to this site, even though they may be referenced elsewhere within this site. All of these links are tested periodically to make sure that they indeed are active and work.

 People, Addresses and Data 
 A list of people that have volunteered their mailing address, telephone numbers, FAX numbers, email addresses, and web site addresses to be publicly listed our site! Alphabetically listed. Thank them!

 Organizations, Addresses and Data 
 A list of organizations that have volunteered their mailing address, telephone numbers, FAX numbers, email addresses, and web site addresses to be publicly listed our site! Alphabetically listed. Network!

 Books, Reports, Videotapes, et. al., Available 
 Information and materials that are available through the INE.

 Fabulous Facts Worth Remembering! 
 A list of "Fabulous Facts" that we should always reflect upon. If you have any good ones that are not listed here, send them in !

 INE WEB SITE AND RELATED ORGANIZATIONS INFORMATION 

 Additions and Revisions 
 The dated list that describes what files have been added, expanded, or revised since this page was initially uploaded in November 1995. Review this list first to see what's new since your last visit!

 INE Information 
 A one-page flyer that describes the purposes and objectives of the Institute For New Energy (INE), located in Salt Lake City, UT, USA.

 IANS Information 
 A one-page flyer that describes the purposes and objectives of the International Association for New Science (IANS), located in Ft. Collins, CO, USA.

 ANE Information 
 The home page website for the Academy for New Energy (ANE), which operates under the dictates of the IANS and now hosts the International Symposium on New Energy (ISNE) conferences, located in Ft. Collins, CO, USA.

 PACE Information 
 A one-page flyer that describes the purposes and objectives of the Planetary Association of Clean Energy, located in Ottawa, Canada.

 Space Energy Journal Information 
 A description of the Space Energy Journal, a quarterly journal dedicated to "Space Energy", offering top quality free energy information, progress reports on projects, plans and construction information, support through communications with the inventor and/or developer, and plans to build such systems. Edited by Jim Kettner and Don Kelly and Mike Marino consultants.

 Infinite Energy Magazine Information 
 A detailed file that describes the purposes and objectives of the Infinite Energy (Cold Fusion) Magazine, and also includes a Table of Contents of all past issues, videotapes of important "Cold Fusion" Conferences, and ordering information. Courtesy of Eugene Mallove, Editor of Infinite Energy Magazine.

 IMPORTANT PAPERS AND CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS 

 The Best Paper To Start With 
 The best paper to read to get a balanced overview of these advanced technical fields and somewhat confusing ideas.

 The Next Best Paper To Start With 
 After reading the better paper above, read this one carefully.

 ISNE 1993 Proceedings and Table of Contents 
 The table of contents for the 1993 International Symposium on New Energy, held April 16-18, 1993, in Denver, CO. The 534 page bound Proceedings is available. Videotapes of most of the speakers are available as listed here.

 ISNE 1994 Proceedings and Table of Contents 
 The table of contents for the 1994 International Symposium on New Energy, held May 12-15, 1994, in Denver, CO. The 656 page bound Proceedings is available. Videotapes of most of the speakers are available as listed here.

 ISNE 1996 Proceedings and Table of Contents and Audio & Video Tape Ordering 
 The table of contents for the 1996 International Symposium on New Energy, held April 25-28, 1996, in Denver, CO. The 466 page bound Proceedings is available. Videotapes of almost all of the presentations and workshops are available as listed here.

 Ordering INE Proceedings and Video Tapes 
 Instructions on how to order each ISNE Proceedings (cheap) and the video tapes that are available from each ISNE conference.

 The 1994 T. Townsend Brown Conference 
 A report on the T. Townsend Brown Conference: "Focus on Unconventional Energies: A Symposium on Electrical Propulsion & the Technology of Electro-Gravity", held April 15-16, 1994, at the Philadelphia Community College, Philadelphia, PA.

 The 1995 Low Energy Nuclear Reactions Conference 
 The privately organized and privately held "Low Energy Nuclear Reactions Conference," held June 19, 1995, in College Station, Texas. This is a review and summary of that conference, and includes the Table of Contents of the Proceedings, which is now available. The conference was entirely devoted to experimental and repeatable "cold fusion" and "atomic transmutation" results and theories, in that order. All of the written papers in the Proceedings include results of successful experiments and explanations of the results.

 The New Horizons in Technology Proceedings (Mostly in German) 
 A summary of the 1995 Conference Proceedings, published in February 1996, of the "New Horizons in Technology and Higher Consciousness" conference, "Neue Horizonte in Technik und Bewusstsein," published almost entirely in German. Several very interesting papers were presented, including two good summary papers written in English on "cold fusion" (posted elsewhere within this INE Web Site): 

"Cold Fusion and New Energy Technology Resource Guide" [in English] , and 

"One Kilowatt Cold Fusion Reactor Demonstrated" [in English] . 
Information on how to order these Conference Proceedings is included.

 NEW ENERGY NEWS INFORMATION (Monthly INE Newsletter) 

 NEN Latest Issue's Table of Contents 
 The table of contents for the latest issue of the New Energy News monthly newsletter. Single issues of New Energy News are available for $3.00 each, sent via 1st class mail. See just below for all other issues.

 NEN Table of Contents 
 The complete table of contents for all of the New Energy News monthly newsletter, from the first, Volume 1 Number 1 in May 1993, to the present. Given as six-month groupings for smaller file sizes. Single issues of New Energy News are available for $3.00 each, sent via 1st class mail.

 NEN Sample Issue: October 1995 - On Cold Fusion and Other Usual Topics 
 The complete issue of the October 1995 NEN, which publicizes the advances and current status of "cold fusion". All of the text is here, and the Figures are not, as we will be adding B&W and color pictures to the web site later.

 Information Sources 
 A list of information sources that are expressing interest in developing enhanced energy devices. Taken from the 'Information Sources' column in all past issues of New Energy News, and also from other sources.

 Commercial Sources 
 A list of commercial companies that are expressing interest in commercializing cold fusion or other enhanced energy devices. Taken from the 'Commercial Column' in all past issues of New Energy News, and also from other sources.

 IECEC New Technology Area's Table of Contents 
 The complete table of contents for the papers published in the international annual Intersociety Energy Conversion Engineering Conference (IECEC) in the New Technologies For Energy Utilization Area and Innovative Technologies sessions from that Areas inception 1991 through the present.

 MOST RECENT POSTED IMPORTANT ARTICLES AND FILES &#160; 
Most Recent Listed First (Past Additions are listed below) 

 A Challenge To Supporters Of New Energy 
 A Must Read! The lead article in this special June 1997 NEN to honor the attendees at the Forth International Symposium On New Energy. A 5 Point Challenge to all editors, researchers, and people interested in advanced and new energy technologies! By Patrick Bailey and Hal Fox. From NEN Vol. 5, No. 2, June 1997.

 A New Cold Fusion Experimental Device 
 Two theoretical models have been developed to explain the new phenomena of cold fusion and sonoluminescence are generally more immediately useful if they lend themselves to experimental testing in the laboratory. Successful tests then would have a much better chance of leading directly to a marketable invention in the commercial areas of energy production or element transmutation. From NEN Vol. 5, No. 2, June 1997.

 Biological Transmutation Patent 
 Patent RU 2052223 C1. Method for producing stable isotopes due to nuclear transmutation, such as low-temperature nuclear fusion of elements in microbiological cultures; Vladimir I. Vysotskij, etc.; issued 10 Jan 1996, appl. 18 Jan 1995. From NEN Vol. 5, No. 2, June 1997.

 Radioactive Waste Amelioration Patent 
 Patent JP 07239397 A2. Transmutation of radioactive waste by muon-catalyzed fusion reaction; Hideo Harada, Hiroshi Takahashi (Doryokuro Kakunenryo, Japan); issued 12 Sep 1995. From NEN Vol. 5, No. 2, June 1997.

 Light Is The Ghost Of Mass 
 A new theory for the aether must provide an answer to the obstacles encountered, such as manifested by water filled telescopes, stellar aberration and the Michelson and Morley null result. One approach to this overall goal is to invoke the property of quantization (or discrete particles) to the fundamental structure of the aether From NEN Vol. 5, No. 2, June 1997.

 Texas A&M Refuses Seminar (On Cold Fusion) 
 An alternative energy seminar featuring Dr. John O'M. Bockris, Distinguished Professor of Chemistry, was denied the use of the Engineering/Physics Building on the night of Friday, April 18, on the grounds that the credentials of its four speakers were questionable. The faculty spokesperson quoted by the newspaper was Frank Cotton, also a Distinguished Professor of Chemistry at Texas A&M, who told the reporter that faculty members and administrators had forced the cancellation of seminar plans after learning who the speakers were. "They're all kooks and charlatans," Mr. Cotton was quoted as saying. [The speakers were: Dr. Bockris (Texas A&M) and Dr. Patrick Bailey (INE), Dr. James J. Hurtak (Academy for Future Science), and graduate student Todd Hathaway, who was also an organizer of the seminar. I was there. I have the clippings. PB.] From NEN Vol. 5, No. 2, June 1997.

 $100,000 For Demonstration Of A Free Energy Machine 
 Zenergy Corporation announces a challenge to all scientists and inventors developing advanced energy machines. Zenergy offers to pay US$100,000 to any individual or corporation who can demonstrate a working "free energy" machine. From NEN Vol. 5, No. 2, June 1997.

 Charge Cluster Transmutation, 4th ISNE Paper 
 A Featured Paper at the 4th International Symposium on New Energy, May 23-26, 1997, Denver, Co. High-density charge cluster patents are now pending on inventions that will reduce radioactivity, produce thermal energy without neutrons, create scarce elements from plentiful elements, and make table-top particle accelerators practical. Data from independent replication of nuclear reactions produced by charge clusters will be presented together with professional reports detailing the mechanisms involved in plasma-injected transmutation. From NEN Vol. 5, No. 2, June 1997.

 Videotape: Free Energy: The Race To Zero Point 
 New Videotape! A comprehensive 110-minute broadcast-quality documentary featuring the most promising devices, processes and theories from brilliant visionary scientists and the most persistent independent inventors on the planet! From NEN Vol. 5, No. 2, June 1997.

 Conference on the Fundamentals of Physics and Cosmology 
 An email received on this conference to be held 30 May to 2nd June 1997, near Grass Valley, CA.

 International Cold Fusion Forum (ICCF-7) 
 A description and the planning deadlines for ICCF-7: the International Cold Fusion Forum, to be held in Vancouver, B.C., Canada, April 19-24, 1998.

 Promotion By Destruction - On Cold Fusion 
 We greatly regret to report that the Clean Energies Technologies, Inc. has directed attorneys to file an objection to the issuance of the Pons-Fleischmann patents in Europe. What can possibly be the concept behind this technology destroying decision? The background is that almost no U.S. patents on cold fusion have issued to any inventors in the U. S. except to Dr. James Patterson. By contrast over a hundred patents on cold fusion have issued in Japan. From NEN Vol. 5, No. 1, May 1997.

 The New Energy Spectrum 
 Harold Aspden comments on three topics that he believes contribute to the New Energy Spectrum: "I had planned that two of these would be the subjects of my Energy Science Reports Nos 11 and 12. Also I intended to keep writing such Reports until I had exhausted the material I have in my files, particularly on the themes of cold fusion and thermoelectricity." From NEN Vol. 5, No. 1, May 1997.

 Fusion Briefings: Playing The Lose-Lose Game 
 Many (or maybe only some) scientists being funded by tax money for over the last four decades decided that cold fusion was not to be tolerated nor allowed to have any of the over $500 million per year allocated to hot fusion. Now, it seems the hot fusion program is being closed down... From NEN Vol. 5, No. 1, May 1997.

 Gene Mallove In The News 
 In the movie, The Saint, you will see Dr. Eugene Mallove, Science Advisor, in the long list of credits. Gene Mallove is quoted in the Concord Monitor (Friday, 4 April 1997, in article by Sarah Schweitzer, "Passionate About Cold Fusion") as saying: "People don't go to the movies to hear a science story. But they'll say 'I wonder why they're talking about cold fusion? I thought it was dead. Maybe those producers know something I don't know'." From NEN Vol. 5, No. 1, May 1997.

 R&D Magazine Looks At Cold Fusion 
 A fair and good referenceable article discussiing cold fusion. The Patterson Power Cell (TM) is featured in the article, as is George Miley's work to show that there are lots of nuclear reactions associated with cold fusion. From NEN Vol. 5, No. 1, May 1997.

 Einstein Would Have Called It "Cold Fission" 
 All types of known and newly discovered mass-energy reactions are emerging from low temperature table-top experiments, including a new type of fusion consisting of collisions with protons or deuterium ions into larger atoms in lattices and/or electrolytes. ... "Einstein would have wanted it this way." From NEN Vol. 5, No. 1, May 1997.

 New Patterson-Cravens Patent 
 A summary of the new US Patent: 5,607,563; System for Electrolysis; James A. Patterson, Dennis Cravens; issued 4 Mar. 1997. From NEN Vol. 5, No. 1, May 1997.

 Finnish Gravity Research Summary in Nexus 
 A short summary discussion by Martin Gottschall of Nexus Magazine of the current research in superconductors, likely experimental processes in, and replication of, gravity experiments along with anomalous observations. From NEN Vol. 5, No. 1, May 1997.

 What Are Characteristics Of The Aether? 
 If there is an aether, what are the characteristics of that aether? Here are some ideas (supported with experiments we can do). From NEN Vol. 5, No. 1, May 1997.

 Electrostatics Newsletter 
 This issue of the Electrostatics Newsletter mentions the Institute for New Energy and New Energy News. Other news is the announcement of ESA's annual meeting scheduled for the University of Georgia, June 29-July 2, 1997. From NEN Vol. 5, No. 1, May 1997.

 Apologies To Dr. Bockris Letter 
 "On behalf of faculty, staff and students that were involved with the decision to cancel the "Alternative Energy Resources & Technology" seminar, please accept this humble apology for the poor judgment that resulted in reversing the decision to not hold the seminar on campus." 
[The meeting was originally and formally scheduled by the ME Dept. to be held in their large Engineering Physics Auditorium. It was kicked off campus by the President of Texas A&M after he had received "other input" from a different Prof. in the CE Dept. That Professor called such researchers "Kooks and Charlatans" in an article in the local paper. I know. I was invited. I was there. I have the clippings. Apology letters are easy. Let's see what happens next time Dr. Bockris wants to hold a meeting or conference on "cold fusion" or "transmutation" experiments! Some people still think the Earth is flat! PB.] From NEN Vol. 5, No. 1, May 1997.

 Letter From Don Kelly on Advanced Energy Projects 
 "We have witnessed a number of past N/E projects which have been based on flawed or unworkable theory, such as the "man from Mississippi," the "man from New Jersey," the "two guys from Texas, and the conman from California," and some others who get lost in the backwash of N/E history! The irony in this present situation in the new energy field is that there are a considerable number of past projects which have somehow been overlooked or "trashed" by researchers over the years. It is difficult to understand why certain past projects have not been restudied and re-started due to their major degree of credibility." From NEN Vol. 5, No. 1, May 1997.

 Letter From Steve Smith Regarding P&F and Cold Fusion 
 "If there is any one way to confess one's own mediocrity, it is the willingness to place one's work in the absolute power of a group of one's professional colleagues. Of any forms of tyranny, this is the worst..." From NEN Vol. 5, No. 1, May 1997.

 Steven Mark's Device: Known Data from AU 
 An email received on April 28 from Raymond Dale in Australia, summarizing all of what he knows on the "Steven's Coil" device being marketed by Steven Mark (Los Angles) and his attorney friend Paul G Stemm (Philippines). Does not look good for this device, given this data. We want more data. People are interested! Videotapes are floating around.

 Orgone Energy Seminars Offered in Aug. 1997 
 An email received April 28 summarizing four seminars that are being offered in August 1997 on: (1) Wilhelm Reich's Last Years - The Oranur Experiment, Cosmic Orgone Engineering, Contact With Space, and the FDA "Investigation; (2) The Orgone Energy Accumulator - History, Construction & Experimental Use; (3) Remembering Wilhelm Reich - the Man and His Work; and (4) Bions and The Reich Blood Test - Introductory Laboratory Microscopy.

 Joseph Newman's Electric Lift Device Experiment 
 An email received in Feb. 1997 that decribes how to reproduce an anti-gravity experiment that Joe Newman conducted in a demonstration. Is it real? Or just hot air? (as in heating the air in the ballons...). We need further study on this one.

 A Compilation of Anti-Gravity Articles And References 
 These 5 articles are included in this file: 1. "CONQUEST OF GRAVITY AIM OF TOP SCIENTISTS IN U. S.", New York Herald-Tribune: Sunday, November 20, 1955, pp. l & 36; 2. "SPACE-SHIP MARVEL SEEN IF GRAVITY IS OUTWITTED", New York Herald-Tribune: Monday, November 21, 1955, pp. 1 & 6; 3. "NEW AIR DREAM-PLANES FLYING OUTSIDE GRAVITY", New York Herald-Tribune: Tuesday, November 22, 1955, pp. 6 & 10; 4. "Towards Flight - without Stress or Strain... or Weight", By INTEL, Washington, D.C.; and 5. THE GRAVITICS SITUATION (Theme of the science for 1956-1970), By Gravity Rand Ltd., December 1956.

 Edward Lewis's New Web Site About Plasmoid Marks on Electrolysis Cells 
 Edward Lewis's New Web Site About Plasmoid Marks on Electrolysis Cells with several new pictures, posted May 16, 1997. 

 Additional Plasmoid Marks on Electrolysis Cells 
 Additional photographs of possible "Plasmoid Marks on Electrolysis Cells, posted by Edward Lewis on his new web site, posted May 16, 1997. 

 PAST POSTED IMPORTANT ARTICLES AND FILES 
Most Recent Listed First 

 So You Want To Be Involved In New Energy? 
 What can you do to help promote new energy? First, support those valiant few who are striving to provide the world with the latest information about new-energy devices, systems, and discoveries. Here are some other things that you can do to get prepared or to help promote new energy technologies... From NEN Vol. 4, No. 12, Apr. 1997.

 Calibration For Cold Fusion 
 An abstract from the paper by: S. Pons, M. Fleischmann (Ctr. Sci., IMRA Europe SA, Valbonne, France), "Calibration of the Pd-D2O System: Effects of Procedure and Positive Feedback," J. Chim. Phys. Phys.-Chim. Biol., vol 93, no 4 (1996), pp 711-730 (in French). Chem. Abs., vol 124 (1996). From NEN Vol. 4, No. 12, Apr. 1997.

 Cold Fusion Bibliography Updated! 
 The most complete bibliography of New Energy research papers and articles [predominantly cold fusion] is available again from the Fusion Information Center on disk [PC]. From NEN Vol. 4, No. 12, Apr. 1997.

 NASA Preparing For The Future 
 Abstract of the paper: Marc G. Millis. "The Challenge to Create the Space Drive," NASA Tech. Mem. # 107289, prepared for the Interstellar Flight Symposium, May 1996. From NEN Vol. 4, No. 12, Apr. 1997.

 Gravitation Shielding Possible 
 From the abstract in the paper by: E.E. Podkletnov (Moscow Chem. Scientific. Ctr.), "Weak Gravitation Shielding Properties of Composite Bulk YBa2Cu3O7-x Superconductor Below 70K under E.M. Field," Univ. Cincinnati Engineering, report # MSU-chem 95, abstract cond-mat/9701074; 19 pages, 12 refs, 7 figs, 1 table. From NEN Vol. 4, No. 12, Apr. 1997.

 The Nature Of The Aether 
 What scientific evidence do we have that there is an energetic aether? We would like to compile a list of experiments that show there is an aether, zero-point-energy, zero-point fluctuations, energetic space-time continuum, or whatever label you care to use. From NEN Vol. 4, No. 12, Apr. 1997.

 World Energy Report 
 The U.S. has long passed the peril point where oil imports threaten U.S. security, as designated by Congress The peril point was established as when the level of oil imports exceeds fifty percent of the oil used in the U.S. "Who ya gonna call?" Read on... From NEN Vol. 4, No. 12, Apr. 1997.

 Letter From Hal Puthoff (On SHARP Drive) 
 A feature in A. C. Clark's new book "3001" is an inertia-canceling drive known as the SHARP Drive. SHARP standing for "Sakharov, Haisch, Alfonso, Rueda, and Puthoff." (See the back opf the book for details.) Here is a letter from Hal Puthoff about this. From NEN Vol. 4, No. 12, Apr. 1997.

 Update to: Fabulous Facts Worth Remembering! 
 A large update to these gems of wisdom! So YOU think you know it all?..Hah!...

 International Conference On New Ideas In Natural Sciences, Proceedings Forward , Conclusions , and the Videos Available. 
 Three text files provided by Alexander Frolov, Technical Manager of this very significant conference , held in St.-Petersburg, Russia, June 1996. Also see the outline and the availability of the Proceedings !

 Letter From Water Fuel Cell (regarding Stanley Meyer's Water Fuel Cell Project) 
 A letter received from Stan Meyer regarding the article printed in the last NEN on the WFC: "WFC Notice To Retract and WFC Cease & Desist Order Hereby Given - Due to the New Energy News article [last printed] distorted and unbalance bias statements, WFC hereby demand that The New Energy News Editor, Hal Fox, print an article in the next issue of the New Energy News with regard to the confirmation of WFC tech-base"... (etc.). From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 11, March 1997, p. 1.

 More On Antigravity 
 Report of an experiment that results in 5% weight loss. "This together with the earlier reports of similar results by Eugene E. Podkletnov, a Russian materials scientist, has created consid- erable interest in various laboratories, including at NASA." [Need to catch up on all this? See: Subjects / Anti-Gravity ]. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 11, March 1997, p. 4.

 T. Henry Moray And the Transmutation of Elements 
 "The mechanism of elemental transmutation held by T. Henry Moray was similar to that proposed by Walter Russell. Russell was able to demonstrate the transmutation of gases in the Bloomfield, New Jersey research laboratory at the Westinghouse Lamp Company on Sept. 30, 1927." From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 11, March 1997, p. 5.

 Tulsa Company Makes Syntroleum 
 "Syntroleum, a Tulsa, Oklahoma company founded in 1984, makes synthetic crude oil from natural gas at competitive prices to oil at $15 to $20 per barrel. Turning the natural gas into synthetic crude oil could be one method of extending the life of existing oil fields." From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 11, March 1997, p. 8.

 Proceedings of The 1996 International Conference On New Ideas In Natural Sciences (Ordering Information and its Table of Contents) 
 How to order the Proceedings (in English!) and its Table of Contents! The Conference was held in St. Petersburg, Russia, in June 1996. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 11, March 1997, p. 14.

 Space Energy Receivers. Power from the Wheelwork of Nature (Book Review) 
 Richard A. Ford, author. "This booklet is an interesting historical summary of inventions that would have changed the world except ... They didn't work, they weren't practical, or they were prevented from being developed by some real or imaginary entity. The contents cover inventions by Tesla, Moray, Yglesias, Roy J. Meyers, Perriog, Ammann, Anonymous, Hans Coler, and the electric car supposedly made by Tesla." From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 11, March 1997, p. 15.

 An Astute Letter On Cold Fusion To the IEEE US Activities Board 
 An Important Letter! "DOE is not funding research on cold fusion and is threatening to cancel other kinds of contracts with groups who undertake cold fusion work. There is also a stop order preventing the U.S. Patent Office from issuing patents on cold fusion, though a single patent was issued to Patterson before the shutdown. The patent offices in Japan, Europe, and elsewhere are doing a landrush business. Many workers in the field report positive results and fully expect large scale commercial production in less than five years." [Need to catch up on all this? See: Subjects / Cold Fusion ]. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 11, March 1997, p. 17.

 A Letter About Patents and Classification, from Dr. Brian Dodson at PatentWorld 
 An Important Letter! "All patent applications go thru a security scan ... and the Patent Office splits them out to be forwarded to appropriate designated classifiers ... [such as] an Air Force classifier [or] to the NSA. The criterion is, roughly, "If we'd classify it going out of here, it gets chosen for a Security Order" [See: SECRECY ORDER (Title 35, United States Code (1952), Sections 181-188) ]. [And:] "...it's still a keyword-based system, and, as such, is pretty easy to avoid getting trapped inadvertently." Also discusses the problems with filing a foreign patent first. Thanks Brian! [Need to catch up on patent information? See: Subjects / Patents Information ]. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 11, March 1997, p. 19.

 Photographs of the Some Components of an Electrolysis Cell 
 Email and photographs received from Edward Lewis on March 11 and 13: Dec. 20, 1996 revised Dec. 29, 1996 Jan. 2, 1997, and Feb. 18, 1997. Are These Plasmoid Marks? Moved to his new web site in May 1997. 

 Space Energy Journal Report 
 Don Kelly summarizes the latest information as reported in his Space Energy Association publication: the Space Energy Journal. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 10, February 1997, p. 7.

 Greenpeace News - Nuclear Disarmament 
 Information provided by Greenpeace on proceeding to nuclear disarmament. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 10, February 1997, p. 7.

 Occult Chemistry & Modern Science 
 A summary and review of the 11 page paper by William Patrick Bourne: "A Possible Reconciliation of Theosophical Occult Chemistry With Modern Physical Science", The Theoscientist, vol 3, no 1-2 (1996) From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 10, February 1997, p. 8.

 New Experiments On Gravity Reduction 
 Replication of the Podkletnow's gravity-reduction has been reported to be achieved by an Ohio researcher. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 10, February 1997, p. 12.

 Energy-Efficiency Day, March 6, 1997 
 Information from Austria about the World Energy Efficiency Day to be held on March 6, 1997 in Wels, Austria. Speakers from five continents will give papers. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 10, February 1997, p. 15.

 Journal of New Energy, Vol. 1, No. 3 
 The Table of Contents and other related information from the Journal of New Energy, Vol. 1, No. 3, dated Winter 1996-1997.

 The Stevens Device: A Proposed Earth Resonance Over-Unity Machine 
 The "Stevens Device." What we know so far. An over-unity energy device that taps into the 7 Hz EM field of the Earth? Coils of wire around a permanent magnet seem to light 100 Watt light bulbs. At least one videotape is making the rounds now (or again)...

 New Energy Scientists of the Year, 1996 
 This has been a momentous year for new energy and especially for new discoveries in cold fusion. Four persons who have provided exceptional service to the advancement of new energy are two scientists and two inventors. New Energy News is pleased to name Professor and Editor George H. Miley and Kenneth R. Shoulders as New Energy Scientists of the Year - 1996. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 9, January 1997, pp. 1-2.

 The New-Energy Year In Review 
 As demonstrated by the awards of New Energy Scientists of the Year, two of the top new energy discoveries of 1996 were the large number of nuclear reactions that are being produced in cold fusion electrochemical cells and the discovery that high-density charge clusters can produce nuclear reactions. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 9, January 1997, pp. 2-3.

 Anti-Gravity From Finland (No Doubts About It) 
 Mr. Podkletnov ... told me: people are afraid of the word anti-gravity. When reading my NET'93 speech he said, "You have an original and convincing approach to the mechanism of gravity and I find some confirmation in my experiments." From this it may be clear to readers that I was not too happy with the Henry F. Dart, III, article [NEN, vol 4, no 7], in which he expresses doubts about the experiment. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 9, January 1997, p. 14.

 Over-Unity Motor Design, by Harold Aspden - Book Review 
 A review of his new book: There is energy stored in the air gap between the permanent magnet and the bar electromagnet. That energy from the air gap is used to create a back EMF in half of the cycle. The key is to do something so that one uses the energy of pulling the magnets together, and also the energy stored in the air gap without that energy going to create a back EMF. Aspden shows how that can be done by winding a coil around the entire room in which the experiment is running: "...that winding around the room is all embracing and hardly any flux escapes as a linking flux through that winding. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 9, January 1997, pp. 14-16.

 The Adams & Aspden Motor Patent 
 A MUST READ! A very good review of the Robert Adams Motor, the history amd theory of the aether, and the author's interest and work in these areas. By Harold Aspden in the UK. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 8, December 1996, pp. 1-7.

 Review of the Sixth International Conference On Cold Fusion (ICCF6) 
 A very good and in-depth review of this land-mark conference by Jed Rothwell, with the good and the bad points clearly identified. The Sixth International Conference on Cold Fusion was held 13-17 October 1996, Hotel Apex Toya, Hokkaido, Japan. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 8, December 1996, pp. 7-15.

 Fuel For Fraud Or Vice Versa? [on Stanley Meyer] 
 An Ohio court ruled against Stanley Meyer due to his lack of showing anything that works or any new progress. The case was brought against him by "disgrunteled" investors. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 8, December 1996, p. 17. Also see Mr. Meyer's response (published in the March NEN) to the printing of this article in Letter From Water Fuel Cell (regarding Stanley Meyer's Water Fuel Cell Progect) .

 Anomalous Weight Measurements of A Toy Gyroscope 
 The difference in the spinning and at-rest measurements was 0.05%. The at-rest measurements were taken after the gyro was stopped and replaced on the scale. The effect was observed with the gyro spinning in either direction. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 8, December 1996, p. 18.

 Reward For Any 'Free-Energy' Device Passing Test 
 Did you know that Eric Kraig has announced an "Open Offer To Validate Claims Of Free Energy?" He says, "I offer to pay travel expenses and $1000 to anyone who can pass the following test...". From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 8, December 1996, p. 20.

 Resonance Effect [from Russia] 
 Alexander Frolov emails from Russia: "I am glad to say some more news from Russia about free energy research. Inventor Andrew A. Melnitchenko made some devices powered by small primary source like 1.5 VDC battery and demonstrated that resonance effect is the way to free power output." From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 8, December 1996, pp. 23-24.

 From: Review of the Sixth International Conference On Cold Fusion (ICCF6) 
 FLEISCHMANN RETIRED, ALIENATED: Martin Fleischmann has retired from active research and returned to England. He was originally scheduled to give a one-hour keynote lecture at the [ICCF6] conference, but this was canceled. I asked him why. He replied he "has already said everything there is to say." He feels alienated from mainstream research in the field, which he thinks is politicized. He feels that people have not listened to his advice and ideas. I told him that people do not understand him because his lectures are so technical and because he sometimes talks in riddles, like the Delphic Oracle. I said the message does not get through, so he should consider writing a paper in collaboration with someone who communicates in simpler, more understandable prose. (By Jed Rothwell) 

 Inertia Theory - Magic Roundabout - On The Meaning Of Mach's Principle by Paul Davies, Dec. 1996. 
 A research paper on interia: "Fill a bucket with water, grab it by the handle and whirl it in an arc above your head. If you do it right, you will stay dry. A mysterious force seems to glue the water into the upside down bucket. Scientists are still unsure about where this force comes from."

 U.S. Patent Law: Title 35, Part II, Chapter 17, Sections 181-188 
 The text. Very difficult to believe! - YET TRUE! Provided to us by Stacey Enderle, who writes: This Title 35 has been used for years to ensnare any inventor out there who's invention will threaten the industry the U.S. government protects. --- Spread the warning! ! ! - Thick, Far and Wide! The Full Legal Text (via the Cornell Law Library) is also available for you to read.

 The Influence of Vedic Philosophy On Nikola Tesla's Understanding of Free Energy 
 A Paper by Toby Grotz, President, Wireless Engineering . "Nikola Tesla used ancient Sanskrit terminology in his descriptions of natural phenomena. As early as 1891 Tesla described the universe as a kinetic system filled with energy which could be harnessed at any location. His concepts during the following years were greatly influenced by the teachings of Swami Vivekananda."

 Nobel Prize Nominations For Energy 
 "Now that we understand the importance and nature of cold fusion, it is time to nominate B. Stanley Pons, Martin Fleischmann (Fellow of the Royal Society), and Kenneth R. Shoulders for a Nobel Prize. A summary of these fundamental discoveries illustrates how important they have been and will be in the rapid advancement of the treatment of radioactive wastes (especially radioactive slurries); the production of thermal energy without neutrons; and probably the development of factory-made scarce elements." From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 7, November 1996, pp. 1-3.

 Anomalous Effects in Deuterated Systems 
 Summary of US Navy Report of Research (R&T Div., Naval Air Warfare Center Weapons Div., China Lake, CA): "Our results provide compelling evidence that the anomalous effects in deuterated systems are real. Nevertheless, we have not been able to solve the reproducibility problem. This research area will remain highly controversial until reproducibility can be demonstrated." From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 7, November 1996, pp. 4-5.

 Towards Zero Emissions and Sustainable Transport 
 A meeting in the British Parliament, inside the House of Lords, with Stanley Meyer to speak about his "Water Fuel Cell" and the prospect of generating hydrogen from water with a "free energy" gain - is scheduled - and then canceled at the last minute. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 7, November 1996, pp. 6-7.

 Anti-Gravity Machine (Eugene Podkletnov) 
 Although Podkletnov has said that tests ruled out the possibility that the claimed weight loss was the result of magnetic fields or air flow, his statement is suspect. The controversy continues. Is it a planned cover-up? From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 7, November 1996, pp. 7-8.

 Electric Propulsion Patents, 1928-1995 
 From the Electric Spacecraft Journal, July/Aug/Sept, Issue 19, published Sept. 30, 1996, page 16ff From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 7, November 1996, pp. 9-10.

 Journal of New Energy, Vol. 1, No. 1 
 The Table of Contents and other related information from the Journal of New Energy, Vol. 1, No. 1, dated January 1996.

 Journal of New Energy, Vol. 1, No. 2 
 The Table of Contents and other related information from the Journal of New Energy, Vol. 1, No. 2, dated Summer 1996.

 "Recent Experiments That Produced Fundamental Anomalies For Novel Hypotheses Concerning the Production of Elements, Superconductivity, and Anomalous Radiation" a paper by Edward Lewis 
 Presented in the Theory Session of the 2nd Int. Conference on Low Energy Nuclear Reactions, Texas A @ M, College Station Texas, Sept. 13-14, 1996. Mailed to the INE by Edward Lewis, October 1996.

 "The Periodic Production of Rationalized Phenomena and the Past Periodic Depressions" a paper by Edward Lewis 
 An abstract of a book he is trying to publish. He thinks that a scientific revolution is currently going on, and that these have occurred at about every 80 year interval since 1506. Emailed to the INE by Edward Lewis, October 1996.

 Posted updates of four of the five papers already included as written by Edward Lewis:

 "Concerning Production of Elements and Plasmoids," a paper by Edward Lewis, June 1996, Revised. Oct. 1996. 
 "Tornadoes and Ball Lightning," a paper by Edward Lewis, June 1996, Revised. Oct. 1996. 
 "Gorgons, Tornadoes, and Plasmoid Phenomena," a paper by Edward Lewis, June 1996, June 1996, Revised. Oct. 1996. 
 "Considerations about Plasmoid Phenomena and Superconductivity Phenomena," a paper by Edward Lewis, June 1996, June 1996, Revised. Oct. 1996. 

 INE Web Site Wins CCI Web Site Link Award 
 The INE web site has been chosen by Computer Currents Interactive (CCI) as one of the Links of the Week for the week starting November 18, 1996. The site has been chosen based on its originality, content and quality. Thanks!!! Now do something with all of this information!!!

 Plasma-Injected Transmutation - Paper 
 A very recent paper by Hal Fox, et. al., that is VERY IMPORTANT! . This paper presents a hypothesis and computations that explains these various discoveries and experimental results that have resulted in the filing of a broad patent application . Excess heat from various so-called cold fusion discoveries are substantiated . Posted October 22, 1996. Withdrawn October 28, 1996. Reposted November 7.

 Second Low-Energy Nuclear Reaction Conference 
 A summary of the conference. About fifty scientists, engineers, and interested business leaders attended the Second Conference on Low-Energy Nuclear Reactions. This important conference was held at the Holiday Inn, College Station, Texas on September 13-14, 1996. "Twelve papers gave evidence that nuclear reactions take place in solid lattices in the cold. ... It has the potential radically to change the ideas of nuclear stability." From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 6, October 1996, pp. 1-2.

 Anti-Gravity Comes And Goes In Less Than A Month 
 Three articles on the reported anti-gravity work in Finland. The last article sheds considerable doubt on the validity of the reported research. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 6, October 1996, pp. 7-8.

 Texas - Energy Security 
 Offshore exploration activity is growing at a feverish pace worldwide. The U.S. drillers, plagued for nearly a decade by oversupply, have suddenly found that their industry has been reborn. Oil demand will out-reach supply. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 6, October 1996, p. 11.

 Texas - Tubular Balls 
 A good review of "Nanotubes" (or Buckytubes), consisting of 60 carbon atoms at the vertices of a shape known as a truncated icosahedron, in which each carbon atom is linked to three of its neighbors. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 6, October 1996, pp. 11-12.

 Simple Home Ionizer Experiments 
 An experiment with very interesting and intriguing results provided by James Edward Hartman in the US. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 6, October 1996, pp. 17-18. An email from James is also included.

 Perplexed About Cold Fusion? 
 A review of "A Dialogue on Chemically Induced Nuclear Effects: A Guide for the Perplexed About Cold Fusion," by Nate Hoffman, 1996. Hoffman models the book on some classic texts in solid state physics by Hume-Rothery, written in dialogue form, with an "Old Metallurgist" and "Young Scientist" engaging in an extended conversation about cold fusion, the technical questions it raises, the available information to resolve those questions, the uncertainties remaining in the field, and various other related bits of information. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 6, October 1996, pp. 18-19.

 Date Change for Conference:
 THE GERMAN ASSOCIATION OF VACUUM FIELD ENERGY had planed a conference in the Singapore Hyatt, Singapore, in early October 1996. This has been postponed until September or October of 1997. Inquiries may be directed by Fax to Germany: (05 11) 31-84-17.

 Lee, Dennis: An Examination of His Claims 
 The text (only) of Eric Craig's web site Page examining the amazing claims of Dennis Lee of Better World Technology - declaration of energy independence. "For the sake of the world I wish he would succeed, but I'm concerned for his many investors if this will go the way of most similar claims I've studied. On September 23 1996, 3 friends and I went to hear him speak at the Philly Corestates Center. My investigation showed he spent somewhere around $100,000 to put on that show. I found the style intriguing - it caused me to think of shoppers home network, professional wrestling, Jim Bakker and Uri Gellor, Among the many things we think deserve further skepticism are: (16 listed). Dennis should be open to my offer to personally test his devices in the presence of main stream press people... I encourage anyone looking at any fantastic claims to first be aware of critical thinking ..." 
Eric Craig's web site Page examining the amazing claims of Dennis Lee of Better World Technology.

 Theft of Newman Technology: Update 
 An email message sent to us dated 26 Sept. 1996, from Newman Energy Products that describes how former researchers that were working with Joseph Newman are now (allegedly) trying to steal; his technology for themselves. We all would just like to see it work - before it gets bogged down in court!

 Breakthrough As Scientists Beat Gravity 
 A MUST READ! The entire newspaper article as published in the Sunday Telegraph (UK), September 1, 1996, page 3, entitled: "BREAKTHROUGH AS SCIENTISTS BEAT GRAVITY". Summarizes recent results that will be published by a team in Finland led by Dr. Eugene Podkletnov. They are evidently doing repeatable experiments with a one-foot (approx.) diameter ring of a YBa2Cu307-x superconductor in liquid nitrogen, spinning at 5,000 RPM, and getting large weight loss effects above the unit. The results have been accepted, approved, and are to be printed in the technical publication Physics-D. 

NOTE: The use of Barium! Floyd Sweet used Barium-Ferrite magnets! Others have also reported that they used Barium in their metals for successful esoteric experiments! I understand that the U.S. has recently banned the use of Barium in magnets for "Health Reasons" (while tobacco is still not a drug...). Hummm...

 UseNet sci.physics.research Posted Articles 
 In the moderated UseNet newsgroup "sci.physics.research", several emails can be found that relate to the Podkletnov anti-gravity research. Here are ALL 6 of those articles. Note that this research has been going on for some time, and the weight loss reported is greater than previously reported!

 "Construction of The Gravito Magnetic Device (GMD)" 
 A MUST READ! The paper that Pierre Sinclaire presented that is in the Proceedings of the 3rd ISNE, held in Denver, CO, in April 1996. The paper reportedly describes FULLY and in detail how to build a working anti-gravity disk. Go for it!

 Vimana Aircraft of Ancient India and Atlantis 
 This book was translated from ancient Sanskrit texts, and discusses IN DETAIL how to generate anti-gravity effects using spinning mercury and iron containers! This relates directly to the spinning electrical currents used in Podkletnov's anti-gravity research in Finland! Hummm...

 "Change The Rules Not The Rulers" 
 A MUST READ! "Change The Rules Not The Rulers" feature article by Hal Fox. Very, Very Good!!! From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 5, September 1996, pp. 1-3.

 "Advanced Electromagnetism: Foundations, Theory And Applications" Book Review 
 A MUST READ! A review of the NEW book: "Advanced Electromagnetism: Foundations, Theory and Applications," Terence W. Barrett & Dale M. Grimes, Editors. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 5, September 1996, pp. 17-19.

 "Calibration of the Pd-D2O System" 
 Yes, it works! Abstract of a recent article by S. Pons, M. Fleischmann (Cent. Sci., IMRA Europe SA, Valbonne, France) entitled "Calibration of the Pd-D2O System: Effects of Procedure and Positive Feedback." From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 5, September 1996, p. 9.

 "Cold Fusion and Transmutation of Nuclei: Recent Achievements and Old Problems" 
 An abstract of the paper: "Cold Fusion and Transmutation of Nuclei: Recent Achievements and Old Problems", by V.A. Filimonov (Chem. Dept., Belarus St. Univ., Minsk, Belarus). From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 5, September 1996, pp. 6-7.

 "Nickel-Metal Hydride Batteries. The Preferred Batteries of the Future?" 
 "Nickel-Metal Hydride Batteries. The Preferred Batteries of the Future?" article, by Paul Ruetschi, Felix Meli, Johann Desilvestro (Leclanche S.A., Switzerland). From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 5, September 1996, p. 9.

 "Hydrosonic Power Generation" 
 "Hydrosonic Power Generation" article by Harold Aspden, resulting from the recent research interest in sonoluminescence. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 4, August 1996, pp. 1-3.

 Selected Authors' Abstracts From The Journal Of New Energy, Vol. 1, No. 2 
 Selected abstracts from the recently NEW published Journal of New Energy, Vol. 1, No. 2. Includes: "The Rediscovery of Cold Nuclear Reactions," by Bockris et. al.; "Use of Asymmetrical Regauging and Multivalued Potentials to Achieve Over-Unity Electromagnetic Engines," by Bearden; and "Segner-Marinov Turbine as a Perpetual Motion Machine," by Marinov. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 4, August 1996, pp. 6-10.

 "Aetheric Science Papers" Book Review 
 A MUST READ! A review of the NEW book: "Aetheric Science Papers," by Harold Aspden. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 4, August 1996, pp. 18-20.

 "Newtonian Electrodynamics" Book Review 
 A MUST READ! A review of the NEW book "Newtonian Electrodynamics," by Peter Graneau & Neal Graneau. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 4, August 1996, pp. 16-18.

 "Maryland - Magnetic Antenna" 
 "Maryland - Magnetic Antenna" article atating that search coils can be improved by the used of metallic glass - and that: "Three such coils can be used to measure three orthogonal components of the magnetic field." From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 4, August 1996, p. 5.

 Push-Gravity Video Tape and Book 
 A video tape and a bokk are both NOW avaiable explaining how W.C. Wright's "Push-Gravity Tide Model" demonstrates the Earth's 14 tides and operates under its own mutual repelling energies. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 4, August 1996, p. 12.

 Florida - Space Energy Journal Articles 
 The following articles are abstracted from Vol. III, issue II, June, 1996 of the Space Energy Journal: "Editorial", by Jim Kettner, Editor; "On the Matter of Energy", by Ralph Hovnanian; "On Plasmoid Phenomena", 3 articles by Edward Lewis; and "Joseph Newman's Theory", by Roger Hastings. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 4, August 1996, pp. 4-5.

 "Review of Sierra Club Books" Books Review 
 A MUST READ! "Review of Sierra Club Books." In particular, a good review of the book "The Sierra Club Green Guide, Everybody's Desk Reference to Environmental Information", in which it is pointed out that the Sierra Club has no infomation and says NOTHING about advanced energy concepts , and this article lists some of the best sources as to where that information can currently and freely be found. Hint Hint! (Make It So...) From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 4, August 1996, pp. 20-21.

 Orgone Accumulator, Materials & Construction Plans 
 Information is provided on the various materials and construction plans for the orgone accumulator - which are available from their mail-order firm, Natural Energy Works. Email received on July 20, 1996.

 Three Articles on the Finsrud Perpetual Motion Sculpture 
 Three articles describing facts and history of the Finsrud "Perpertual Motion Machine" sculpture in Norway. Contains: (1) PERPETUAL MOTION SCULPTURE; (2) THE PERPETUAL STORY ABOUT PERPETUAL MOTION; and (3) THE MARINOV BATTLE CONTINUES. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 3, July 1996, pp. 1-3. 
See also the Finsrud Web Site.(Keelynet) that has additional information.

 New-Energy Discoveries That Will Change The World 
 An article by Hal Fox summarizing the new-energy technologies that look most promising. Four new energy-related technologies are being developed: "new hydrogen energy" (the Japanese name for cold fusion); solid-state electro-magnetic or plasma-type devices; super motors based on super magnets; and low-energy nuclear reactors. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 3, July 1996, pp. 3-5.

 P.A.C.E. - 20 YEARS OF ENERGY 
 A. Michrowski (President of P.A.C.E), "The Planetary Association for Clean Energy, Twenty Years of Science," The AEN Newsletter, vol 3, no 1, March 1996, pp 8-12. AUTHOR'S ABSTRACT: The Association is now entering its 20th year of existence. It began as an initiative by Hon. Chesley W. Carter, chairman of the Canadian Senate Standing Committee on Health, Welfare and Science, "to encourage maximum utilization of science and technology to the problems that face us... to keep [ourselves] as well informed as possible about what was being done in this respect, particularly with regard to the development and possible application of new technology, new devices and new approaches to current problems." [P.A.C.E. is a non-profit, charitable corporation whose objectives are to facilitate the discovery, research, development, demonstration and evaluation of clean energy systems.] From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 3, July 1996, p. 15.

 The Revolution Is Coming: New Book Review 
 A review of the new book by Jeane Manning (freelance journalist): The Coming Energy Revolution, c1996, published by Avery Publishing Group, Garden City Park, New York, 230 pages, illus., resource list, glossary, indexed, ISBN 0-89529-713-2. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 3, July 1996, pp. 18-19.

 Seventh Annual Energy Efficiency Forum Review 
 A summary report by Hal Fox of the one-day Seventh Annual Energy Efficiency Forum at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. Wednesday, June 19, 1996. A summary of comments including the following: Pollution by power plants is deemed to damage the health of 54,000 persons each year. Acid Rain and particulates also cause some premature deaths. A sixteen member advisory committee is studying the transition to new pollution control standards including the abatement of mercury pollution in 44 states. Global warming due to carbon-dioxide emissions is a long-range fossil fuel problem. There is a Presidential Committee on Environmental Quality and a 37-state group which will meet next year. The goal is to cut emission by an additional 20 percent by the year 2005. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 3, July 1996, pp. 5-7.

 Searl Announcement On Internet (Received: 12 June 1996) 
 This phenomenon will set the scientific world on its ear. It shows that you can draw power from the surrounding space fabric, the area around the segment. It will continue to pulse just by using the elements. There is no photoelectric effect. It is not a solar cell. It is not a conventional capacitor. There is no energy input into it. Yet it is giving out energy, consistent and repeatable, that is, energy from the surrounding space fabric. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 3, July 1996, p. 8.

 Announcing the Newman-L Mailing List 
 We are starting another mailing list about Joseph Newman. We like to think of this list as being the "official" list for information about Mr. Newman and his inventions. Here's why...(Go for it)...

 Implications Of The Bockris-Minevski & Mizuno, Et Al. Papers 
 An in-depth review of a recent paper by Bockris and Minevski and Mizuno (Infinite Energy Magazine, Vol. 1, Nos. 5 & 6, 1996, pp. 67-68) (which is also in NEN, Vol. 4, No. 2, pp. 1-3). This is causing the research of "cold fusion" reactions to become one of the most explored subjects in nuclear physics! From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 2, June 1996, pp. 3-6.

 New Fusion Plan In Washington D.C. 
 5% of the budget for basic research is being set aside for small and medium scale experiments, instead of the large scale " hot fusion" type experiments that are traditionally funded. This will cause an almost immediate new funding source for many researchers in the "cold fusion" areas! From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 2, June 1996, p. 8.

 A Cold Fusion Review (June 1996) 
 Edmund Storm's new book (formally with Los Alamos National Laboratory) is summarized. More than 190 studies reporting evidence for 'Cold Fusion" are evaluated. Eleven conclusions are presented, including that: It Works! From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 2, June 1996, p. 7.

 Latest Deutsche Physik (June 1996) 
 Portions taken from the latest issue (Vol. 5, No. 18) of this German publication (in English), that is forcing new mathematics and new view-points to be made in modern physics; particularly in E&M theory. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 2, June 1996, pp. 8-9.

 Testing Invitation for Over-Unity Devices In Germany 
 Dr. Josef Gruber (INE International Committee) and Diplomat W. Bahmann, both in Germany, formally invite anyone with a promising "free-energy" device to allow unbiased testing at their facilities in a Northrhrine-Westfalian university or research institute. Such an opportunity probably would allow "FAIR" testing and eliminate the interference that several inventors have encountered from "officials" at the (so-called) U.S. Patent Office [such as Joseph Newman, for one example]. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 2, June 1996, pp. 18-19.

 Environmentalists Misinformed about Emerging Energy Technologies 
 A very good letter by journalist and book author Jeane Manning that has taken the time to review the "advanced and new energy technologies" covered by the INE, that summarizes her frustrations and concerns that she sees and feels as she talks to and interview the "experts" in other energy and environmental fields. They just do not know what is going on around them. Do you? From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 2, June 1996, p. 17.

 Letter & Poem From Donald P. Walton 
 An impressive and could-be-extremely-important letter with poems from Don Walton. Several people have proposed (and I have been told) demonstrated that gravity can be over-come using interference fields from various sound waves. The exact relationship of the frequencies may be included in these quatrains. We need experiments to check this out! From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 2, June 1996, pp. 19-20.

 "Cold Fusion Research: Models and Potential Benefits," Paper by J.J. Hurtak and P.G. Bailey 
 A paper that examines the latest experimental results from several international researchers, and summarize several new theories of nuclear model interactions that have been put forth to explain these intriguing results. Submitted before the paper deadline to the 1996 IECEC (IEEE) to be held in August in WDC, and was not accepted by the Chairmen as the "paper topic does not fit into the 'already configured' program". Also submitted for publication in the Proceedings of the New Ideas In Natural Sciences Conference to be held in June in St. Petersburg, Russia. From the authors, June 1996.

 Mr. K on John R. R. Searl 
 A series of emails during May and June that summarize details of a conference given Prof. John R. R. Searl in London on June 1, as summarized by a "Mr. K.". Thank you! I am keeping Mr./Ms./Mrs. K's identity confidential for obvious reasons.

 "Concerning Production of Elements and Plasmoids," a paper by Edward Lewis 
 The first in a series of papers regarding plasmas and vortex theory emailed to the INE by Edward Lewis, June 1996.

 "Plasmoid Phenomena," a paper by Edward Lewis 
 The second in a series of papers regarding plasmas and vortex theory emailed to the INE by Edward Lewis, June 1996.

 "Tornadoes and Ball Lightning," a paper by Edward Lewis 
 The third in a series of papers regarding plasmas and vortex theory emailed to the INE by Edward Lewis, June 1996. Updated August 20, 1996.

 "Gorgons, Tornadoes, and Plasmoid Phenomena," a paper by Edward Lewis 
 The forth in a series of papers regarding plasmas and vortex theory emailed to the INE by Edward Lewis, June 1996.

 "Considerations about Plasmoid Phenomena and Superconductivity Phenomena," a paper by Edward Lewis 
 The fifth in a series of papers regarding plasmas and vortex theory emailed to the INE by Edward Lewis, June 1996.

 A Review of the 3rd ISNE 
 Highlights of the 3rd International Symposium on New Energy: A review of the conference and a listing of the abstracts of the thirty-four papers in the Proceedings of the International Symposium on New Energy, held in Denver, CO, April 25-28, 1996. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 1, May 1996, pp. 1-9.

 Pons and Fleischmann Lose an Italian Court Fraud Case! 
 The results of Pons and Fleischmann were called false and fraud in Italian newspapers. They sued!!! This may be the first time, or one of the first times, that a law court has been asked to decide on a scientific issue. DECISION - The decision of the court has just been received. It rejected the plaint of Fleischmann, Pons, Bressani, Preparata, and Del Guidice. It condemned the five to pay the legal expenses of 28 million lire (less than $20,000) of the defendants. [The Earth is STILL flat folks...] From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 1, May 1996, pp. 9-11.

 Space Energy Journal - March 1996 
 Space Energy Journal, Vol. VII, Issue 1: the contents and the NEN editor's comments. From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 1, May 1996, pp. 12-13.

 Canadian Breakthrough In Power Generation 
 A Canadian Breakthrough In Power Generation. The technical basis for the extraction process has been a carefully guarded secret until full disclosure was secured through the granting of three US patents: US Patent Numbers: 5,416,391, issued May 16, 1995, entitled "Electromechanical Transduction of Plasma Pulses;" 5,449,989, issued September 12, 1995, entitled "Energy Conversion System;" and 5,502,354, issued on March 26, 1996, entitled "Direct Current Energized Pulse Generator Utilizing Autogenous Cyclical Pulsed Abnormal Glow Discharges." From: NEN, Vol. 4, No. 1, May 1996, p. 13.

 Welcome to the Academy For New Energy 
 The Academy For New Energy has been formed by the IANS to publish information from their Ft. Collins, CO, area. This file summarizes their first newsletter, dated April 1996.

 Marinov: Annus Horribilis 
 By his half-a-century experimental and theoretical work, Stefan Marinov, editor of the international journal DEUTSCHE PHYSIK (located in Germany and Austria) shows in detail that:
 1. THE PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY IS WRONG.
 2. THE PRINCIPLE OF EQUIVALENCE IS WRONG.
 3. THE ENERGY CONSERVATION LAW IS WRONG.
 4. THE LORENTZ EQUATION IS WRONG.
 5. THE LORENTZ-MARINOV EQUATION IS THE RIGHT ONE.
 6. THE ANGULAR MOMENTUM CONSERVATION LAW IS WRONG.
 7. IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO VIOLATE THE MOMENTUM CONSERVATION LAW
 ELECTROMAGNETISM.
 8. DISPLACEMENT CURRENT DOES NOT EXIST.
 9. THE GAUGE TRANSFORMATIONS ARE ILLEGITIMATE.
10. THERE IS NO PROPAGATION OF INTERACTION.
11. POTENTIAL, RADIATION AND RADIATION REACTION ELECTRIC INTENSITIES.
12. THERE ARE NO "FIELDS."
 and he discusses:
13. CURRENT CONDUCTING WIRES BECOME CHARGED POSITIVELY.
14. B-MACHINES AND S-MACHINES.
15. THE PERPETUUM MOBILE SIBERIAN COLIU.
 and he shows that:
16. ALL CONVENTIONAL THEORIES FOR THE ORIGIN ON EARTH'S MAGNETIZATION
 ARE WRONG.
17. MAGNETIC ENERGY DOES EXIST.
18. THE RECESSION HYPOTHESIS FOR THE GALAXIES IS WRONG. 

 The Possibility of Interaction of Tachyon Gravity Fields 
 The Possibility of Interaction of Tachyon Gravity Fields in the Newman Motor and Other Energy Releasing Devices Using Moving Magnets. Rotating magnet Newman Motors exhibit a variation in the power output which seems related to the physical position of the magnet when compared to the earth's surface. Various tests are tried to determine the reason for this behavior. It may be connected to the interaction of the motor and the tachyon field described in the Shielding Theory of Gravity. Other machines which release energy in excess of 100 percent of the input energy may also utilize tachyon power in the manner described in this paper. Received by email, May 2, 1996.

 The Self Accelerating Plasma Tube 
 Referring to Stefan Marinov's recent flyer titled, "MARINOV: ANNUS HORRIBILIS", which accompanied the April 1996 NEN newsletter and also appeared in the March 28th 1996 issue of Nature magazine: I would like to bring to your attention one of his devices he calls the SIBERIAN COLIU. Following is a small extract from the advertisement which describes its components in principle. Received by email, April 22, 1996.

 "Keiretsu, Space Energy Style." 
 An abstract from a paper that suggests the formation for a Keiretsu in order to move forward and proceed with "Space Energy" and "Advanced Energy" research. It would only take agreement to: Make It SO! From: NEN, Vol. 3, No. 10, April 1996, p. 13.

 "Speculations on the Gravitational Constant." 
 A great and VERY IMPORTANT paper written by Greg Hodowanec that supports the idea that gravity is caused by waves from outside of the Earth. [Several early researchers in the "free-energy" field this century that also believed in such ideas were able to demonstrate working and repeatable "over-unity" devices, such as T. Henry Moray, ...] Includes: I. Speculations on the Gravitational Constant, G., II. Some comments on this interpretation of G., and III. Conclusions. From: NEN, Vol. 3, No. 10, April 1996, pp. 15-17.

 Four "New Patents Issued in "Cold Fusion." 
 "Cold nuclear fusion apparatus", "Cold nuclear fusion apparatus", "System for Electrolysis", and "Porous metal cathode for cold fusion chain reaction, its manufacture, and electrolyte for reaction". From: NEN, Vol. 3, No. 10, April 1996, pp. 5-6.

 "Electric Spacecraft Journal - Jan./Feb./March 1996." 
 This issue of the quarterly ESJ magazine contains an excellent review of small, specialized publications in the new energy research field. From: NEN, Vol. 3, No. 10, April 1996, p. 12.

 "News From China." 30 Successful "Cold Fusion" Experiments Reported at a Conference! 
 March 2, 1996 there was a national symposium on "normal temperature nuclear fusion" in China. The terminology "Normal Temperature Nuclear Fusion" reflected the Chinese view about the "cold fusion" phenomena. Most of us believe that it is a kind of nuclear fusion reaction, but it happens in the "normal temperature." A major feature of this symposium was that the "excess heat" detection appeared in almost every research group. From: NEN, Vol. 3, No. 10, April 1996, pp. 6-8.

 "Faraday's Effect In Space." 
 "Why was the tether connecting the space shuttle Columbia and the satellite blown apart? One of the possibilities, I think, is the following:..." From: NEN, Vol. 3, No. 10, April 1996, p. 9.

 "On Geometry." 
 A short paper summarizing some of the definitions and geometrical constructs in "Sacred Geometry", and how they may relate to "Advanced Energy Conversion". From: Patrick Bailey, March 1996. 

 The Internet Pilot to Physics Homepage Web Site 
 The premiere web site for placing and reading about physics and related conferences! Contains: The Physics Calendar; Physics Around the World:; Physics Forum:; The Virtual Laboratory: and Physics On-Line. Allows users to post conference announcements through the web site!

 Book of Abstracts available from the New Ideas June 1996 Conference 
 A booklet is now available that contains the abstracts of the coming conference "New Ideas in Natural Sciences" to be held in St. Petersburg, Russia, June 17-22, 1996.

 University of Science and Philosophy (Walter Russell) Homepage Web Site 
 Walter Russell is known as the "Man Who Tapped the Secrets of The Universe," "The Modern Leonardo," and "The Most Versatile Man in America." He was a poet, painter, sculpture, author, musician, architect, aquestrian-athlete, and scientist. The great electrical genius Nikola Tesla told Dr. Russell, "Bury your ideas in a vault for a thousand years to await the unfolding of human consciousness to comprehend your vision." That thousand years has figuratively passed, and today his wholistic vision of universal processes is being understood and used by thousands in their daily lives for personal development, for business and personal relations, and by scientists to create a new non-polluting and sustainable technology.

 Unofficial Homepage of Walter Russell Web Site 
 An "Unofficial Homepage of Walter Russell". Includes: Interesting Images and Ideas; The Periodic Table of Walter Russell (c.1926); The basis for structure of Atomic, Solar, and Stellar systems; The cube - the wave formula for octaves of matter and light is 9; Complete octave of carbon rings, as manifested in the wave; The electric universe is a harp of nine wave-strings; The connection between sound, light, and matter; Life/Death Cycle (vortex imagery); This Chart explains how matter is created from light; and other Russell-related links.

 Commutators For Newman Motor/Generators - An Overview 
 This discussion assumes that you have some knowledge of the design and general construction of standard commutators as used on electric motors and generators. It also assumes that you have read enough about Mr. Newman's design and theory to know the differences between his commutators and standard commutators, as well as the general circuit connections he uses. This discussion considers only the standard circular rotating drum-type commutator, and not Mr. Newman's reciprocating commutator (nor the recent magnetic rotor design). Received by email April 21, 1996.

 Design Considerations for Rotating Magnet Newman Motors 
 The motors demonstrated by inventor Joseph Newman to date have been of two types. The rotating magnet armature version, similar in appearance to a conventional DC electric motor, and the reciprocating or "vertical" design, which resembles a giant solenoid magnet. This discussion will concern itself with the first type of motor, the rotary Newman machine. Received by email: April 16, 1996

 "Newman's Theory: A Report." 
 A report that briefly provides interpretations of his ideas and experimental results. Newman came to the conclusion that if electromagnetic fields consisted of tiny spinning particles moving at the speed of light along the field lines, then he could explain all standard electromagnetic phenomena through the interaction of spinning particles. Since the spinning particles interact in the same way as gyroscopes, he called the particles gyroscopic particles. These provide a qualitative description of electromagnetic phenomena, and his model is useful in understanding complex electrical situations. Received by email: April 11, 1996.

 "Utilization of the Newman Motor/Generator." 
 Concerning the Commercial Application of The Energy Invention of Mr. Joseph W. Newman: "I have recently had the opportunity to visit with Mr. Newman at his workshop and take a close look at a new application of a particular embodiment of his energy invention. I believe that this unit which he demonstrated for me has definite commercial possibilities. I was able to make my own measurements to verify his claims." Received by email: April 9, 1996.

 "The Energy Machine of Joseph Westley Newman." 
 A nine-parts long file describing the energy machine of Joseph Newman, as sent to us from Evan Soule, Director of Information, Newman Energy Products, per our request for available information for posting. Received by email: March 26, 1996.

 "Cold Fusion and New Energy Technology Resource Guide." 
 A paper written by Eugene F. Mallove and Jed Rothwell, of Infinite Energy Magazine, contained in the Proceedings of the 1995 "New Horizons in Technology and Higher Consciousness" conference held in Germany. A very good summary and questions-and-answers review paper concerning aspects and results of "hot" and "cold" "fusion"! Published in 1995. Information about these Proceedings .

 "One Kilowatt Cold Fusion Reactor Demonstrated." 
 A paper written by Jed Rothwell, of Infinite Energy Magazine, contained in the Proceedings of the 1995 "New Horizons in Technology and Higher Consciousness" conference held in Germany. A summary of the "Cold Fusion" exhibit at Power-Gen '95 in Anaheim, CA, and of actual test results obtained with the Power-Gen cell. Published December 1995. Information about these Proceedings .

 "Space Energy Blows NASA'S Fuse." 
 Space Shuttle 'Columbia' Encounters Excess Energy? An article by Dr. Harold Aspden regarding the recent failure of the $442 million "tethered satellite" NASA experiment whose cable melted and why! From: NEN, Vol. 3, No. 9, March 1996, pp. 1-2.

Other researchers think that the HAARP Program was and still is involved in this effort, by transmitting energy into the upper atmosphere, and may have also been a factor in melting the cable. See the HAARP Home Page for their version of what some people think they are doing up there: 

server5550.itd.nrl.navy.mil/projects/haarp/index.html : 
About the HAARP Program: A scientific research facility devoted to the study of the Earth's ionosphere is being built under the HAARP program at a location in Gakona, Alaska. The program is jointly managed by the Office of Naval Research and the Air Force Phillips Laboratory.

 Wall Street Journal Reexamines Cold Fusion Due To the Patterson Power Cell 
 A summary of the Wall Street Journal article dated Monday, Jan. 29, 1996, from NEN, Vol. 3, No. 9, March 1996, p. 2. It appears that someone in the establishment is actually beginning to "think" again...

 Free Energy Machine Demonstrated!!! 
 Article taken from the San Jose Mercury News newspaper, February 23, 1996, in which a free energy machine is described that actually has been shown to work! [Well, free money anyway... (and not really FREE...)!]

 "Infinite Energy Meeting." Review Article. Feb. 1996 NEN 
 A review of the "Cold Fusion Meeting" held near MIT on January 20, 1996. From NEN, Vol. 3, No. 9, February 1996, p. 3.

 "'Cold Fusion' Breakthrough." Article. 
 A review of the 'Cold Fusion' demonstration of the Patterson Power Cell at the Power-Gen Conference in CA. An outstanding magazine article written by Jeane Manning and recently published in 1996.

 "Three Energy Technologies For The Twenty-First Century." Jan. 1996 NEN. 
 A current review of the three most promising technologies in the advanced energy field. From NEN, Vol. 3, No. 8, January 1996, pp. 1-2.

 "Major Developments In Cold Fusion." Jan. 1996 NEN. 
 A review by Dana R. Rotegard of the history and most recent developments in the areas of "Cold Fusion." From NEN, Vol. 3, No. 8, January 1996, pp. 5-6.

 "Meeting The One-Watt Challenge." Nov. 1995 NEN. 
 A review of how several current advanced energy devices may be able to meet the "One-Watt Challenge," and hence be classified as true "Over-Unity" energy production devices! From NEN, Vol. 3, No. 6, November 1995, pp. 19-21.

 "'Free Energy' As Seen On British T.V." Feb. 1996 NEN. 
 A review of what has been shown on British TV about "Free Energy," and how an educated and advanced energy researcher, Dr. Harold Aspden, feels about that! It has been said (by Arthur C. Clarke) that there are four stages in the way scientists react to the development of anything of a revolutionary nature. "Free energy" is now working its way through these four stages of reaction, which were said to be: (a) "It's nonsense,"; (b) "It is not important,"; (c) "I always said it was a good idea,"; and (d) "I thought of it first." From NEN, Vol. 3, No. 9, February 1996, pp. 10-12.

 "Letter From Arthur C. Clarke." Feb. 1996 NEN. 
 [So much for Einstein. I always knew that.] A letter to NEN from Arthur C. Clarke, where he points out that: "by 1890 Heaviside had already arrived at a rigorous proof of E = M C-Squared in his "Electromagnetic Theory." From NEN, Vol. 3, No. 9, February 1996, p. 19.

 "MRA And Measuring Methods." Feb. 1996 NEN. 
 An article containing interesting information on the possible link between "Sacred Geometry" and advanced energy conversion technologies - worth thinking about! From NEN, Vol. 3, No. 9, February 1996, p. 3.

 Infinite Energy Magazine: Cold Fusion And New Energy Technology. Feb. 1996 NEN. 
 The description of Infinite Energy magazine, the newest and most exciting advanced energy magazine out today! From NEN, Vol. 3, No. 9, February 1996, p. 23.

 "On Free-Energy Developments, The IANS And The INE." Nov. 1995 NEN. 
 An article describing the IANS, the INE, and the similarities and differences of these two non-profit organizations. Taken from a presentation by Brian OLeary, a co-founder and Board member of both the IANS and INE. From NEN, Vol. 3, No. 6, November 1995, pp. 3-4.

 "INE World Wide Web (WWW) Site." Dec. 1995 NEN. 
 The published article describing the INE web site [this is it!] and its advantages and possible disadvantages. From NEN, Vol. 3, No. 7, December 1995, pp. 13-14.

 "Lest We Forget!" Nov. 1995 NEN. 
 Fabulous Facts that we should never forget!!! From NEN, Vol. 3, No. 6, November 1995, pp. 4-5.

 ADDITIONAL DATA, PAPERS, REPORTS, TALKS, AND REFERENCE FILES 

 Related Published References 
 A list of references compiled from IECEC, INE, and IANS conferences, as well as other related conferences, that are all related to the advanced technology areas.

 Related Scientific Fields 
 An outline list of scientific and related areas that are of interest to the INE, IANS, PACE, and other related organizations.

 Electrogravitic References from Robert Stirniman (Lots of Large Files!) 
 An electrogravitic reference list -- copied ad hoc from various other files and sources. Prepared by: Robert Stirniman (robert@wwa.com). Thank you Robert for these very interesting files!!! (Stored separately and updated when he sends them to us.)

 SECRECY ORDER (Title 35, United States Code (1952), Sections 181-188) 
 The "Secrecy Order" that has been sent out to many inventors and researchers who have tried to develop advanced and new technologies, who inventions were publicly "suppressed", because those inventions have been thought to be important to the "National Security" of the US by the US Patent Office and other related US federal government agencies.

 "Insights Into The Proprietary Syndrome", Ken MacNeill, 1983. 
 A paper presented by Ken MacNeill at the Second International Symposium on Non-Conventional Energy Technology, September 23, 1983, pp 125-126 in the proceedings. This paper contains a discussion of the Secrecy Order (Title 35, United States Code) described above. Mr. MacNeill was the principal organizer of that conference.

 "On Solving the Great Problems of the World", A Speech by Llewellen King, 1991 
 The 1991 IECEC Invited Key Luncheon Speech given by Llewellen King, Publisher of The Energy Daily, Defense Week, and Environmental Week, all located in Washington D.C., at the Intersociety Energy Conversion Engineering Conference, the 26th IECEC, hosted by the American Nuclear Society (ANS), Boston, Massachusetts, August 7, 1991. A very good overview of how and why this country has "no energy policy."

 "... And Promises To Keep", A Speech by Dr. J. Stuart Fordyce, 1992 
 The 1992 IECEC Invited Key Luncheon Speech given by Dr. J. Stuart Fordyce, Deputy Director, NASA Lewis Research Center at the Intersociety Energy Conversion Engineering Conference, the 27th IECEC, hosted by the Society For Automotive Engineers (SAE), San Diego, CA, August 3, 1992.

 "An Open Letter To All Working On Alternate Energy," An Open Letter by Paul Brown, 1991 
 An Open Letter by inventor and US Patent holder Paul Brown to all interested in the technologies, history, and underhanded politics that plague the advanced energy fields. He knows. He has been abused by this illegal system first hand.

 "Urgent Appeal: An Appeal To The American People," An Open Letter by William Hyde, 1992 
 An Open Letter entitled "Urgent Appeal To The American People For Help With Government And Big Business Suppression Of New Emerging Energy Technology" by inventor and US Patent holder William Hyde to all interested in the advancement of new technology fields.

 "An Open Letter" by Bruce dePalma, 1992 
 An Open Letter, untitled, by inventor Bruce dePalma to all interested in the advancement of new technology fields.

 Stefan Marinov's Letter RE: The Arrest of BECOCRAFT, 1992 
 An Open Letter sent to the President of the German Federal Republic, published in No. 7 of DEUTSCHE PHYSIK by the publisher, Stefan Marinov, describing how the German Government illegally closed down a legal and privately funded alternate energy company named BECOCRAFT in Cologne, Germany, in 1992, and illegally arrested and imprisoned it's President. You think it can't happen here?

 "A Critical Overview," A Paper by Patrick Bailey and Toby Grotz, 1993 
 The paper entitled "A Critical Review of the Available Information Regarding Claims of Zero-Point Energy, Free-Energy, and Over-Unity Experiments and Devices," presented by Patrick Bailey and Toby Grotz at the Intersociety Energy Conversion Engineering Conference, the 28th IECEC, on August 12, 1993, in Atlanta, GA, pp 2.905-2.910 in Volume 2 of the proceedings. The best paper to start with and the best overview paper in these fields, so far. A definite "Must Read!".

 "Other Voices," A Paper by Patrick Bailey, 1994 
 The paper entitled "Other Voices, A Summary of Research Not Present," presented by Patrick Bailey at the 2nd International Symposium on New Energy, on May 14, 1994, in Denver, CO, pp 21-47 in the Proceedings. This paper was an attempt to summarize the research and findings of other scientists and inventors whose material was not being covered by the other presenters at this conference. Refer to the 2nd ISNE Conference Proceedings file above for additional information.

 "Where Electrical Science Went Wrong," A Paper by Bruce dePalma, 1993 
 The paper entitled "Where Electrical Science Went Wrong," dated July 1993, that became the lead article in the September 1993 issue of New Energy News, Vol. 1, No. 5, pp 1-4.

 "Electrogravitics Systems," The Definitive Report, 1956!!! 
 The must-read report entitled "Electrogravitics Systems: An examination of electrostatic motion, dynamic counterbary and barycentric control", prepared by the Gravity Research Group, Aviation Studies (International) Limited, Special Weapons Study Unit in England, Report GRG-013/56, dated February 1956. This report was found by a researcher (way to go!) in the stacks at the Technical Library at the AF Wright Aeronautical Laboratories, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio a few years ago. It was NOT LISTED in the card catalog! It appears to be the LAST PUBLICLY AVAILABLE published serious report that attempts to connect electro-magnetic energy fields with the control of gravity.

 OTHER INTERESTING AND RELATED INFORMATION from PADRAK 

 Alternative Facts and Reference Information 
 A reference file of important facts and data regarding alternate information from various areas that are usually unknown and unpublished. As to not offend anyone, these areas of concern include only: Politics, Religion, Sex, The US Federal Government, and the US and World Press.

 The Dangers of Senate Bill 1028 
 The truth about the very bad language in Senate Bill 1028 that has already passed the Senate. Senator Cohen from Maine added language into the Senate version of that bill that legally will make it a felony for non-MDs to suggest or to practice ANY form of Alternative Medicine. No kidding!!! Do something NOW! Email addresses of all Senators and Congressmen are linked.

 The Devices of Robert C. Beck 
 Robert Beck has developed several devices that may be useful in your own personal research program regarding your own personal health. These devices DO NOT cure anyone or anything; however, their positive effects are well documented. Three of these devices are generally known by the public at the present time: (1) a non-intrusive blood purifier device (the "black box"), (2) a non-intrusive lymph-node and lymph fluid purifier device (the "magnetic zapper"), and (3) the colloid silver maker (with the "silver wires"). All of these operate using standard 1 1/2 V or 9 V batteries. Many researchers have indicated that the proper use of these devices have made dramatic changes in their heath, that may have been best explained by someone who wrote: "the effects of the viruses in my blood were all removed within one month."

 The International UFO Congress 
 Information regarding the yearly international week-long "world's best" UFO event that focuses on the best videotapes, pictures, first hand sightings, first hand data and knowledge, and other information regarding UFOs, flying disks, advanced technologies, "alien" beings, extra-terrestrials, ETs, etc.

 TradeNet 
 A description of the TradeNet Marketing Inc. organization that promotes only scientific products that will help the environment. This is a multi-level marketing (MLM) organization that has just begun that is similar to how Amway was in its beginning - and with a much more noble purpose. Independent distributors can enroll for as little as $100.00 and can make up to $1,000.00 per week in assisting to promote these products.

 COMMENTS AND FEEDBACK 

This is the Institute for New Energy Home Page. 

--- Undergoing Continuous Improvement --- 

 Please mail your comments and suggestions to: 
 Dr. Patrick Bailey , President, Institute for New Energy, at ine@padrak.com. 

 Go to the TOP of this INE Main Page 

Do or DoNot, there is no "try". - Yoda, Star Wars Episode V.

 Internet Link Exchange 

Member of the Internet Link Exchange 

www.padrak.com/ine/index.shtml 
May 25, 1997.