Date: Wed, 12 Apr 1995 19:18:41 -0400
From: CircInfoNe@aol.com
Subject: Action Alert, 95.04.10 (backdated)

Date:  95-04-10 11:36:42 EDT
From:  TOMMOR
Subj:  Circ-sheet


Richard DeSeabra, PHILADELPHIA, AAP Convention  April 10, 1995.
The NOHARMM demonstration was a success. NOHARMM Members of Philadelphia
and New York protested the AAP's position on circumcision. A street
theatre was staged in which dolls were handed over to a nurse while
parents signed a consent form. The dolls were repeatedly strapped to a
circumstraint and a Gomco circumcision was emulated by a doctor wearing a
mask. Philly's CBS and ABC local news carried the story in short serious
and sober segments showing our side of the story only. Nobody from the AAP
was featured. 

ACTION ALERT: 
One of the first displays one sees when walking into the AAP convention is
a large picture of the new "Circ-sheet" made by K.BowMed in North Carolina
selling for 100 dollars. At their exhibit booth they are pleased to show
you a picture of Olympic's circumstraint and say how hard and
uncomfortable it is for the baby. One demonstrator told me that this
device is soft, they lay on a pad soft like a pillow and it is so
comfortable they hardly cry when strapped to the new Circ-sheet. I was
kind, listened and asked for their free video which they claim has
circumcisions going "smoother" on the circ-sheet than on the
circumstraint. Today I go back to get pamphlets to send to the main NOCIRC
and NOHARMM chapters. The last day of the convention however I intend to
talk with the inventor herself about what she is really doing and I'll let
everyone know how that went. 

Their pamphlet reads:

K Bow Circ sheet:
The K Bow Circ sheet provides simple means of gently, but firmly
restraining babies for procedures- particularly circumcisions. 

Features: 
Launderable soft urethane backed sheet / Velcro strips with soft loops
hold infant in flexed position / Fits on soft foam pad / Adaptable for
infant size / Meets OSHA requirements

Advantages:

Easy set up / Easy clean-up / Head elevated to reduce spitting / Comfortable

The product was invented by Pediatrician Karolen C. Bowman.
Write to her at 
K.BowMed
1218 13th Street
PO BOX 216
N. Wilkesboro, NC 28659

or call them at 1 800 755-KBOW and let them know that whether the baby is
on soft foam or hard plastic, IT IS STILL GENITAL MUTILATION. 
 




