Date: Fri, 25 Nov 1994 16:27:54 -0500
From: CircInfoNe@aol.com
Subject: Positive Alert

OB.GYN NEWS, 1 NOVEMBER 1994  (From P8 of the letters page)

"I would like to address two items on circumcision that were published in
your newspaper.  In the 15 July 1993 issue, Dr. George Denniston hoped for
reaffirmation of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists'
long-standing position against routine circumcision when Dr. Ralph W. Hale
became the new executive director ("Stopping Routine Circumcision," letters,
OB. Gyn. News, P7).

"In March 1993, I submitted the following position statement to Dr. Richard
Jones III, who was then president.  The text was drawn up in collaboration
with the [NOCIRC].  Our intent was to draw up something concrete as a basis
from which the college could begin this important mission.

"Recommended Position Statement On Neonatal Circumcision
"'The ACOG supports the conclusion that routine circumcision of the newborn
is an unnecessary and harmful surgical procedure with no proven medical
benefit and unacceptable risks and disadvantages.  Circumcision causes pain,
trauma, and a permanent loss of protective and erogenous tissue.  Expressions
of resentment and aguish from thousands of adult circumcised males
demonstrate long-term psychological effects.

"'Removing normal, healthy, functioning tissue for no medical reason has
ethical implications:  Circumcision violates the UN's Universal Declaration
of Human Rights (Article 5) and the UN's Convention on the Rights of the
Child (Article 13).

"'The physician's first responsibility is to the health of the patient, who
in this case is the nonconsenting infant.  For these reasons the college
calls on its members to inform themselves thorougly and to educate parents
about the effects of circumcision.  The college recommends that parental
request for circumcision be refused.'

"No further communication from ACOB on this matter has occurred, despite Dr.
Jones' admirable high profile on domestic violence.  I would urge members to
support the publication of such a statement.

"Unfortunately, most ob.gyns. are not aware of the structure and function of
the prepuce and the growing number of men across the country who are
undergoing foreskin restoration.  They also are not generally aware of the
disbelief and scorn by physicians in the rest of the 'civilized' world
because circumcision is a medically condoned procedure in the U.S.

"Most physicians in the U.S. would not perform female circumcisions.  Indeed
Rep. Pat Schroeder of Colorado has a bill in Congress to outlaw it.  Yet the
majority of infant males in this country become sexual amputees (an average
of 12 sq. in. of erogenous tissue is lost in the adult male) without their
consent.

"Although the 15 Feb. 1994 article 'Circumcision:  Whose Job is it Anyway?'
(P1) said that 'nationally, no one really seems to want the job,', the
circumcision rate was 61% in 1991, so there are still plenty of phsycians
after such blood money.

"Let ob.gyns. lead the way not only in refusing to perform circumcisions
themselves, but also in refusing to teach the procedure to ob.gyn. residents
and pediatricians.  Once the law against female genital mutilation in this
country is in place, males will become similarly protected as they cannot be
discriminated against on the basis of their gender."

Leo Sorger, M.D.
Stoneham, MA

Dr. Sorger is the president of Women's Medical Arts

Ob.Gyn. News values your opinion, no matter how it gets to us.  E-mail:
cpierce@cpcug.org.  Of course, you can also write to Editor, Ob.Gyn. News,
12230 Wilkins Ave., Rockville, MD 20852, Fax 301-816-8738.

Write your letters of support!





