From: "RichANGELL@aol.com"
Subj: Action Alert:  G-spot

Dear Activist, here is an action alert.  (These action alerts should only be
going out to other activists within our movement.)

This is from the October 1994 issue of Men's Health magazine.  On P133 there
is a column entitled "Ask men's health."  The first question from a reader:
"Lately, I've heard that some men might have a G-spot similar to women's.  I
wouldn't mind knowing if I'm one of them.  What's up with this?"  G.N.,
Dallas, TX.

Answer:  "This whole fascination with the G-spot has its roots, as far as we
can tell, in the fact that some women (some, not all) have a hard time
reaching orgasm, so any help is usually welcome there.  The G-spot actually
gets its name from Ernst Grafenberg, a German OB/BYN guy who claimed there
was a secret erotic hot spot on the 'roof' of the vagina, about 3 to 5 inches
in.  He argued that this region was so erotically charged that pressing on it
could produce orgasm completely independent of clitoral stimulation.

"Is there a male equivalent?  Actually, yes.  Not just one, but two.  (If
women can have them, why can't we?)  For educational purposes only, we turned
to Judith Seifer, Hph.D., R.N., president of the American Association of Sex
Educators, Counselors and Therapists.  The hottest spot of all, you probably
wouldn't be surprised to know, is the frenulum, that little ridge of skin
running down the underside of the penis below the head.  Here's why:  This
region contains bundles of sensitive nerve endings, more nerve endings per
inch than any other are.

"The other supersensitive spot is a small, soft dimple, about the size of a
dime, tucked just underneath the scrotum...."

Isn't that interesting?  But here's what they DON'T tell you:

1)  The purpose of the frenulum is to hold the foreskin in place over the
glans when the penis is flacid, keeping it soft, moist and sensitive, much
like the eyelid does for the eye.  When the foreskin is amputated during
circumcision, usually part, most, or all of the frenulum is amputated along
with it, depending on the severity of the circumcision.

2)  During intercourse, the foreskin acts as a moveable sheath, gliding up
and down the shaft.  This greatly reduces friction and therefore the need for
artificial lubricants (a big business in the U.S.).  The skin makes the penis
feel bigger and more fulfilling (so to speak) inside the vagina.  Also, on
the back stroke, the foreskin is pulled up over the glans, providing extra
pleasurable sensation not only to the glans itself, but to the walls of the
vagina...including, needless to say, the woman's G-spot.

Write Men's Health, 33 E. Minor St., Emmaus, PA 18098.
