Date: Sun, 22 Jan 1995 22:39:01 -0500
From: CircInfoNe@aol.com
Subject: Action Alert, 95.01.22, Mayo Clinic

A new book entitled "Mayo Clinic Complete Book of Pregnancy
& Baby's First Year" published and issued by MAYO Health
Information, 200 First Street Southwest, Rochester, MN
55905, Phone: (507) 284-4730, FAX (507) 284-5410 has the
following "Misinformation" on the subject of Circumcision:
 
Health Issues:   Researchers have attempted to learn more
about whether circumcision prevents infection and certain
types of cancer, but more studies need to be done to
to answer some of these questions.  It is known that
circumcision prevents infection and inflammation of
the foreskin.  And it seems to decrease the risk of cancer
of the penis.  This disease occurs fewer than one of
every 100,000 men in the United States.
 
Some studies have shown a greater risk of cervical cancer
in female sexual partners of uncircumcised men who are
infected with human papillomavaris.  Circumcision might
also have a role in reducing the risk of sexually
transmitted diseases.  Practicing safe sex is a far more
important factor in preventing these diseases than whether
a man is circumcised.
 
Recent studies suggest that infants who are not circumcised
may be more likely to develop urinary tract infections.
These infections early in life may lead to kidney problems
later in life.  Infants who have abnormalities of the
kidney or bladder are at higher risk for urinary infections,
so circumcision may be advised for these babies.
 
Occasionally, problems can occur with the uncircumcised
penis which require circumcision at an older age.  These
problems include inflammation of the foreskin or
adherence of the foreskin to the tip of the penis.  These
problems occur in about 2 to 6 percent of uncircumcised
males.  Circumcision in infancy eliminates the possible
need for the procedure at an older age.
 
Cleanliness:  Circumcision makes it easy to keep the end
of the penis clean.  However, the shedding skin cells that
naturally accumulate on the glans of an uncircumcised boy
are not harmful.  Do not force the foreskin back to clean
the penis of an infant or young boy.  Washing with soap
and water is all that's necessary.
 
After you son's foreskin is fully retractable, then washing
under the foreskin during a bath or shower is part of
good hygiene habits.  The risk of penile cancer appears
to be linked to personal hygiene.  Uncircumcised males
with poor hygiene have a higher risk, whereas uncircumcised
males with good hygiene have a lower risk.
 
Other factors:  Many Jewish and Muslim parents throughout
the world continue to have their sons circumcised for
religious and cultural reasons, as they have done for
centuries.  One reason why some parents choose circumcision
is so their son will be like his father or his peers.
Some parents prefer to have their sons make this decision
later in childhood or as an adult.  All of these are issues
that depend on personal preferences.
   
Circumcision does not prevent masturbation or increase
fertility.  The belief that circumcision enhances their
sexual partners may not be true, either.
 
Risks: Like any minor surgery, circumcision poses some
risk to the newborn.  Excessive bleeding or infection
occur in fewer than one in 1000 cases.  Circumcision
does cause pain for the baby.  Local anesthesia is
frequently used.  If you decide to have your son
circumcised, you may want to talk with your doctor
about whether local anesthesia will be used.
 
Reasons to postpone circumcision:  Sometimes
circumcision must be delayed.  In premature boys, for
example, the procedure is usually delayed until the
baby weighs about 6 pounds.  Babies born with birth
defects of the penis such as hypospadias, usually
should not have circumcision done until the time
that corrective surgery is planned.  Other reasons
to delay circumcision include illness or bleeding
problems, such as hemophilia.  If your baby is
hospitalized or requires special care after birth,
your doctor will advise you as to when circumcision
might be done.
 
Making your decision:  In deciding whether to have
your son circumcised, it may help to talk to other
parents of boys about what they decided and why.
Health and hygiene issues, personal preferences
and religious beliefs all must be weighed when deciding
for or against this procedure.
 
If you choose circumcision, it usually will be done
within days after delivery.  Your consent must be
obtained, either orally or in writing, before
the procedure is performed.
 
Whatever your decision concerning circumcision of your
son, it should be based on what is currently known about
risks and benefits.  Your personal views and beliefs
 
Address to: Michael Casey,
Manager, Corporate Sales, and Robert V. Johnson, MD
Editor-in-Chief copy also Robert R. Waller, MD
President and Chief Executive Officer, Mayo
Foundation.
 
This book is advertised as:
 
   "The Ultimate Guide For Expectant Parents"

Thanks to JPERON@delphi.com
