From DYKS96A@prodigy.comThu Oct 26 15:51:26 1995
Date: Thu, 26 Oct 1995 18:02:12 EDT
From: MR GEORGE HILL <DYKS96A@prodigy.com>
Reply to: noharmm-l@mail.eskimo.com
To: CircInfoNe@aol.com, noharmm-l@eskimo.com
Subject: Action Alert - Boston Globe



BOSTON GLOBE

OUTLAW FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION

By Ellen Goodman - Syndicated Columnist

     BOSTON - We don't want want to believe it happens here.
 Stories about this most brutal of traditions are supposed
to carry foreign datelines.
     Female genital mutilation - a label as grisly as it is
accurate - only happens in places where ancient ritual still
overwhelms reason.  It happens among people who regard a
woman,s sexuality as so dangerous it must be eliminated.  It
happens in communities where women are taught that
mutilation is the price of belonging.
     Across the world, somewhere between 100 million and 130
million woman and girls have been mutilated in infancy, at
puberty, in pregnancy.  They've had their clitoris
amputated, their labia cut away, and then were sewn together
in ceremonies too painful even to read about.
     This is the fate of nearly every woman and girl in
Somalia.  Of 90% of the females in Ethiopia.  Of half of
Egypt.  YOu can read all about it in reports at
international conferences.
     But now we are learning that female genital mutilation
has been imported to America.
     The numbers are still uncertain.  No one has yet
properly gathered data from the immigrant communities where
daughters are being mutilated by the dictates of their
homeland tradition.  The estimates rage form the hundreds to
the the thousands.  But the anecdotes and the testimony are
piling up.
     When Rep. Pat Schroeder first began talking about FGM
in America, many of her colleagues regarded it as, as in her
words, "more feminazi ranting."  Even an aid refused to
believe that it was a serious problem until he went with
Schroeder to a Denver school, where a teacher said, "You see
those two Somali girls, let me tell you what happened to
them last week."
     Now evidence comes from horrified doctors who encounter
mutilated women on the examining table or in the delivery
room.  It comes as well from immigrant women themselves,
telling their stories and trying to save the next generation
of children.
     In October's Atlantic Monthly, Linda Burstyn writes
about families who import someone from home to perform these
so called "circumcisions" in America.  She repeats the words
of a taxi driver in Washington who approved this practice
because he "wasn't going to let my daughters have those
things!"  She tells about mothers who believe that without
FGM their daughters will be grotesque, unmarriageable, and
tells about a grandmother who fears her baby granddaughter
"will grow up horny.  She'll be like American girls."
     By every measurement, genital mutilation on a minor is
child abuse.  In England, Sweden and much of Europe, it's
been made illegal.  In France, a mother was jailed fro
having her two daughters cut.  But not a single case has
been prosecuted in America.  Indeed, just three states - New
York, Minnesota and North Dakota - have made FGM on minors a
felony.
     Our reaction has been muted by ignorance and
squeamishness.  It's been tempered as well by some perverse
respect for cultural "differences" - that neutral word which
can lump together clitoridectomies and folk dances.  It's
been tamped down by a bizarre analogy made between female
circumcision and male.
     But at last human rights groups like Equality now are
supporting the work of activists who live in the communities
where FGM goes on.  At the same time, Congress is finally
confronting this reality.
     Two bills, sponsored by Pat Schroeder in the House and
Harry Reid in the Senate, would make it illegal to perform
FGM on a child in America.  As part of the foreign
appropriations bill that's now in conference committee,
these bills would also provide funds to find out how
widespread the problem is and in which communities.
     Another strategy proposed by Schroeder would try to
stop FGM at the border by adding a requirement to the
immigration bill.  All new immigrants would be told they
cannot bring this "tradition" with them.
     Just weeks ago the UN conference in Beijing was full of
talk about gender and violence.  The speeches were sprinkled
with painful references to the horrors of this ancient rite.
 Schroeder was not the only women to listen, wince and
realize "how lucky I was to be born in America."
     We have to make sure that luck holds and extends to
every female.  The U. N. plan of action was indeed a
take-home document.  This country too has to say no.  Not
Here. Not anymore.
=====================

Write:         Ellen Goodman
               Boston Globe
               P. O. Box 2378
               Boston, MA  02107

