Date: Thu, 8 Dec 1994 13:11:29 -0500
From: CircInfoNe@aol.com
Subject: Positive Alert:  Susan Powter Show

POSITIVE ALERT
SUSAN POWTER SHOW, SHOWN 7 DECEMBER 1994  

I never watch the Susan Powter Show, but I stumbled across it yesterday at
the very beginning.  She was holding a baby girl and said that they were
going to discuss unnecessary procedures that are done to babies behind closed
doors in hospitals.  I decided to record the show.  Good thing I did.

She and guest speaker Dr. Jay Gordon, pediatrician talked about how babies
should never be taken away from their mother, how many intrusive, unnecessary
procedures are inflicted on infants--like sticking things in the eyes, the
nostrils, the rectum, etc.  Parents have a right to keep their infants in
sight and to decline any procedure.

Then Susan brought up the topic of circumcision.  A pregnant mother named
"Olga" (who had a foreign accent) lamented that when her first son was born
he was left intact, but later developed an infection and a foreskin that
stuck together.  They were then advised to have him circumcised, which was a
traumatic, painful thing.  Should this next baby be circumcised?

Dr. Gordon, said that nothing should be cut away from a baby's body, whether
it be a foreskin or the left ear lobe.  Furthermore, the reason that the boy
developed problems with his foreskin was because it was prematurely retracted
(by the parents or misguided doctor).  It should have been left alone.

Susan then jumped in and said that circumcision is a very important issue
these days and that the purpose of the foreskin is to cover and protect the
glans.

Not only that, said Dr. Gordon, but it secretes chemicals, which protect the
penis from infection.  The studies which suggest that circumcision prevents
disease have all been disproven and most were done by doctors who had an "axe
to grind" and were searching for a reason to continue the operation, which
brings in a couple of hundred dollars for a few minutes of work.  Also,
regardless of what anyone says to the contrary, circumcision is very painful.

Finally, Susan chimed in, that when her first son was born, the doctor asked
if she wanted him circumcised.  "I'll make a bet with you," she told him,"you
put your penis on the table, we'll put his penis on the table, and we'll both
cut."  Her boys are intact.

Support the Susan Powter Show, 2220 Colorado Ave., Santa Monica, CA 90404,
(310) 315-4350, or (310) 264-7835.  

You might want to suggest that she address the issue again, but more
thoroughly (this was only a five- or six-minute segment) and feature men
undergoing foreskin restoration.


