On Thursday, 14 September 1995, Oprah Winfrey devoted the first two thirds
of her show to female genital mutilation (FGM).  For those unaware of the
practice, the show was shocking waker-upper, and served its purpose well. 
For those of us who are aware of both male and female genital mutilation,
it was an annoying reminder of just how ignorant, sexist, and ethnocentric
America is when it comes to genital mutilation. 

The guests on the show were our friends Soraya Mire and Mimi Ramsey, both
survivors of FGM, and Dr. Nahid Toubia, also an activist.  Dr. Toubia is
aware of the male genital mutilation (MGM) issue, as she has been talked
to by our friend Dr. Anastasios Zavales of Ecumenics International, but
she hasn't taken a firm stand on the issue.  Both Soraya and Mimi have
taken a very firm stand against MGM ("mutilation is mutilation, cut is
cut...") but the viewer would have no way of knowing it by watching this
show. 

This morning, 15 Sept., I talked with Soraya.  She told me that she tried
to call attention to MGM as an equal rights issue and that she also
addressed non-traditional FGM right here in America (clitorectomies to
curb masturbation, surgical alterations to "correct" hermaphroditic
anatomy, hysterectomies and episiotomies), but her wisdom on the subjects
was edited out. 

As for Oprah, she showed a wanton disregard for the rights of males.  In
her opening statement, she passionately proclaimed "What we think of as
male circumcision is nothing like [FGM].  This is really mutilation of the
female sex organs if you can imagine that.  And it's often done with no
anesthesia, and has devastating, long term health consequences."  This set
the pace for the entire show, which was loaded with facts and statements
that could easily be associated with MGM -- once sexism, ethnocentricity
and ignorance are stripped away. 

This might be excused as ignorance, but NOCIRC and others have repeatedly
sent Oprah information over the years. 

Write your feelings on the subject to Oprah Winfrey, c/o Harpo
Productions, 110 N Carpenter, Chicago, IL 60607, or the TV station she
works for, WLS-TV, 190 N State St., Chicago, IL 60601, (312) 750-7777. 


