For Badgeholders Only 

 The Led Zeppelin Mailing List is 
 now being run at zoso.net on a server owned by Bob Rood. Bob, along with Jeremy 
 Mixer, and Bruce "the Buckeye" Deerhake are the co-administrators. 
 The list was formerly at Stanford University, but had to be moved due to problems 
 with the server there (particularly a lack of digest capability), and apathy 
 by the owners of the server. It is expected that we will soon grow back in 
 membership back to the original over 1500 fans worldwide, including authors 
 and editors of several Led Zeppelin publications. One never knows who might 
 lurk about the Led Zeppelin List! For Badgeholders Only is the premier grapevine 
 of discussion and news that no Led Zeppelin fan should be without. If you 
 are a big Led Zeppelin fan and have an email account, then you need to get 
 connected with us! This is a free service, all you need is email. 
 Enjoy the list and if you have any questions 
 or problems, please send an email to the list administrators at 
 owner-zeppelin at zoso.net or here: 
 Bob at mirader at zoso.net 

 Jeremy Mixer at mixer at zoso.net 

 Bruce the Buckeye at fbohelp at buckeye-web.com 

 Note: in the above email addresses, make 
 sure you substitute the @ symbol for the word " at " 
 (this is done on this page to guard against spam) 

 To subscribe to The Led Zeppelin Mailing 
 List: 

 Please read this carefully - 
 You can Subscribe by sending an email message to: 
 majordomo@zoso.net 
 with the text: SUBSCRIBE ZEPPELIN 
 For the "Digest Mode", where you receive one larger message at the end of 
 the day, instead of individual messages in near-real time. In the body of 
 the email, use this text: 
 SUBSCRIBE ZEPPELIN-DIGEST 

 If your browser is configured properly, 
 you can use the link below to subscribe. 
 The only thing you need to do is type SUBSCRIBE ZEPPELIN OR SUBSCRIBE 
 ZEPPELIN-DIGEST depending upon your preferred method of delivery. This can 
 be changed at a later time. Please keep the welcome message that you will 
 momentarily receive, as it will contain important information about changing 
 your options. 

 SUBSCRIBE! 

 Please DO NOT include your email address 
 in the body of any subscribing emails to the system. Your address will be 
 obtained automatically from the return address of your email. 

 To send a message to The Led Zeppelin Mailing 
 List: 

 Simply send your message the following 
 address: 
 zeppelin@zoso.net 

 To UNsubscribe from The Led Zeppelin Mailing 
 List: 

 If you ever want to remove yourself from 
 this mailing list, you can send mail to majordomo@zoso.net 
 with the following command in the body of your email message: 
 UNSUBSCRIBE ZEPPELIN 
 or 
 UNSUBSCRIBE ZEPPELIN-DIGEST 

 To Change your Delivery Mode from The Led 
 Zeppelin Mailing List: 

 If you ever want to change from 
 Digest to Single Messages (or vice-versa): you first UN-subscribe from whichever 
 mode you are in (see directly above) then you RE-subscribe using the method 
 near the top of this page, to the mode you wish to be in. 

 To View the Old Messages of The Led Zeppelin 
 Mailing List: 

 Go to the "official" FBOArchives! 
 If you want to sample the List before you subscribe, see what you missed 
 when your Email crashed, or just simply get caught up, this is the place 
 you want to go! You can read each day's posts for the current month on-line. 
 Previous month's digests may be downloaded and unzipped. 
 Go 
 to the Zeppinhood FBO Archives! 
 Here is another way to sample the FBO archives, via a threaded digest reader. 
 Thanks to Joe Hect and the folks at Zeppinhood 
 for making this available. While a more convenient way to read the archives, 
 this does not contain archives going as far back as the above link, it is 
 more appropriate for reading recent messages posted to FBO. Please note, 
 in order to post, you must subscribe. 

 To View the Charter of the Led Zeppelin Mailing 
 List: 

 Go 
 to the Charter - brought to you by Eddie Edwards 
 Here is the written, loose, "rules of conduct" that we ask our members to 
 follow.