Led Zeppelin Gallery 

 Proud member of 
 The Ring Of Zeppelin . 

 Led Zeppelin Gallery 
 This is a gallery of Led Zeppelin related 
 items. These are all contributions from various people around the world. 
 If you would like to make a submission, please email Webmaster Jeremy 
 Mixer at mixer@zoso.net . 

 Left : A ticket from February 12, 1975 that cost only $8.50, 
 courtesy of Steve Z. 
 Above : An unused ticket for a concert scheduled for November 
 15, 1980. Sadly, less than two months earlier, the tour was cncelled due 
 to Bonzo's death, courtesy of Steve Z. 

 Above Right : A ticket stub from the famous Led Zeppelin 
 show known as Earls Court , courtesy of Steve Z 

 Left : A ticket stub from "Bonzo's Birthday Party" 
 on May 31, 1973. ht is a ticket stub from the famous Earl's Court show 
 on May 17, 1975. This show has been heavily bootlegged and is a favorite 
 among Led Zeppelin collectors. Courtesy of Steve Z. 

 Right : One cannot visit Manhattan without visiting this 
 Landmark of the world of Zep, located on East 8th Street in Lower Manhattan. 
 If you compare the building to the album cover, you will notice that the 
 only difference is that the third floor was removed from the album cover. 
 Even the fire hydrant faces the same direction! Located in the lower right 
 hand corner of the building is the "Physical Grafitti" used 
 clothing store. As well as being the building used for PG, this building 
 has also been spotted in Rolling Stones videos, as well as a couple of 
 movies. Zoso Net webmaster Jeremy Mixer is standing near the door on the 
 lower left of the building. Apologies for the "odd distortion" 
 of the building, this was scanned from two photos taken at seperate angles. 
 Photographed by Rainn, this photo courtesy of Jeremy Mixer. 

 Right : This is a reproduction of the Object from the collection 
 of webmaster Jeremy Mixer 
 Below : One of the many promotional photos released of Jimmy 
 Page and Robert Plant to promote Walking Into Clarksdale when it was releaased 
 in 1998 

 Right : One of the many obviously fake concert poster reproductions 
 that are often found on store shelves and on ebay 
 Below : Another concert poster, this one for a concert at 
 New York's Madison Square Garden in 1977. 

 Right : Jimmy Page and his doubleneck 
 Left : This is a black and white photograph of a painting 
 by William Rimmer called Evening: Fall of Day . Owned by the Boston 
 Museum of Fine Arts, Led Zeppelin's Swan Song logo was based on this painting 

 Thanks for visiting the Zoso Network Led Zeppelin Gallery. 
 If you have anything you would like to contribute, please contact our 
 webmaster Jeremy Mixer at mixer@zoso.net