int main() vs. void main() 

[This article was originally posted on August 23, 1996,
and again with annotations on January 14, 1997 and March 20, 1998.
I have edited the text further for this web page.]

[A few of the points I make in this article are becoming dated.
It is
becoming less and less kosher to assume that a function declared
without an explicit return type will be implicitly declared as
returning int ; or to fail to return a value from a non- void 
function.
In fact, the new revision of the ANSI/ISO C Standard
("C99") actively disallows the first of these, and at least
partially the second.]

Newsgroups: comp.lang.c

From: scs@eskimo.com (Steve Summit)

Subject: Re: int main() ???? wrong?

Message-ID: <DwLyC9.5w5@eskimo.com>

References: <321b9857.75314178@news2.microserve.net> <321cc6d4.152763064@news2.microserve.net>

Date: Fri, 23 Aug 1996 20:31:21 GMT

In article <321b9857.75314178@news2.microserve.net>,
sidlip@lip.microserve.com writes:

> I see alot of reference to int main () being incorrect syntax..

> Ive gotten into the habit of doing it and would like to know what

> errors could pop up in my code from not voiding main .

I assume you mean, "what errors could pop up from not declaring
 main correctly." Speaking generally, the same sorts of errors
could pop up as occur any time a global variable or function is
misdeclared.

Turning for a moment from main() and void to int s and double s,
let's consider the (incorrect) code

 #include <stdio.h>
 extern int sqrt();
 main()
 {
 printf("%d\n", sqrt(144.));
 return 0;
 }

This code is clearly trying to compute and print the square root
of 144, but it almost as clearly will not work. It declares
that the library function sqrt() returns an int , and it tries to
print sqrt 's return value using %d which expects an int . Yet,
in actuality, sqrt() of course returns a double . The fact that
 sqrt() returns a double , while the caller acts as if it returns
an int , will almost certainly prevent the program from working.

Why won't it work, exactly? It depends on the details of the
particular machine's function call and return mechanisms. We
haven't said which machine we're using, and we shouldn't have to
know the details of these mechanisms (they're the compiler's
worry, and to worry about them for us is one of the reasons we're
using a higher-level language like C in the first place), so we
can speak only in general terms. Perhaps the machine has one
general-purpose register which is designated as the location
where functions return values of integer types, and one
floating-point register which is designated as the location where
functions return values of floating-point types. If so, sqrt() 
will write its return value to the floating-point return
register, and the calling code will read a garbage int value from
the general-purpose return register. Or, perhaps integer and
floating-point returns use the same locations. sqrt() will write
a floating-point value to the location, but the calling code will
incorrectly interpret it as an integer value. You'd then get
approximately the same result as you'd get from executing

 double d = 12.;
 int *ip = (int *)&d;
 printf("%d\n", *ip);

In both cases, the bit pattern of the floating-point number is
interpreted as if it were an integer. Since the bit-level
representations of integer and floating-point data are invariably
different, confusing and inaccurate answers result. (Note that
in neither case -- the incorrect declaration of sqrt() , nor the
 int / double pointer game -- does the compiler emit any code to do
 double -to- int conversion. Any such conversions have been
effectively circumvented by the peculiarities of these two code
fragments. In the case of calling sqrt() , you'd get a proper
 double -to- int conversion only if sqrt() were properly declared
as returning double , and the return value were assigned or cast
to an int .) Finally, suppose that values are returned on the
stack, but that sizeof(double) is greater than sizeof(int) 
(as is usually the case). sqrt() will push a double -sized result
on the stack, but the caller will pop an int -sized one. Not only
will the caller print a garbage answer (interpreting those bits
it did pop as if they represented an int ), but the shards of the
 double remaining on the stack could screw later uses of the stack
up enough that the program could crash.

In the preceding example, the calling code was incorrect, because
it misdeclared the return value of the sqrt() function. We're
not allowed to choose what we want the return value of sqrt() to
be, because neither the defined return type of sqrt() (as fixed
by the Standard and long practice) nor the actual return type of
 sqrt() (as implemented in the library provided with our compiler)
are under our control. Issuing an external declaration for
 sqrt() declaring that it returns an int does not make it return
an int . (Nor does the misdeclaration instruct the compiler to
convert sqrt 's return value from double to int ; if the
declaration is wrong, how could the compiler even know that the
type to be converted from was double ?) Abraham Lincoln used to
ask, "If we call a tail a leg, how many legs does a dog have?"
His answer was "Four -- calling it a leg doesn't make it one."

When we write an implementation of main() with a return type of
 void , the situation is similar, but the roles are reversed.
Now, it is the caller that is fixed and beyond our control, and
that caller is assuming that main() returns an int . You may
imagine that somewhere (it's actually in the compiler vendor's
source for the C run-time library) there is some code which
looks something like this:

 extern int main(int, char *[]);
 int argc;
 char *argv[MAXARGS];
 int status;
 ...
 status = main(argc, argv);
 exit(status);

If the caller declares main() as returning int , and you define
 main() as returning void , the declarations are mismatched,
just as the declarations of sqrt() were in the previous example.
In theory, the resulting program can fail in just the same sorts
of ways. But, to reiterate, here we can't fix the problem by
fixing the caller (because the caller is, er, fixed). Instead,
we have to fix main's declaration, which is under our control,
to match the caller's expectation.

Even if the program with the misdeclared main() "works" (that is,
compiles without error, and runs without crashing), it does
result in a garbage (random) exit status being returned to the
calling environment. You or your command invocation environment
may not be noticing that particular glitch right now, but it is a
glitch, and it may bite you later.

At one time, I had not gotten into the habit of making sure that
 main() called exit() or returned an explicit value. (I wasn't
declaring main() as void , but I was getting the same sorts of
random exit status values.) Whenever I wrote a little program
(usually a special-purpose preprocessor) to automate some step in
the building of a large program, and stuck the program into one
of the productions in a Makefile, make would randomly abort the
build, saying that there had been an error, whenever the random
status returned by the little program was nonzero (i.e. not
 EXIT_SUCCESS ). Eventually, fixing enough of those drove home to
me the importance of always exiting with an appropriate, explicit
status, even in seemingly trivial programs.

Another place you'll notice the effect of a random exit status
is if you run a program with one in the background using a
job-control shell under Unix; when it finishes, you'll get a
message like "Done(1)" or "Exit 1" which, if you've gotten used
to the presence of the number indicating the presence of an
error, will mislead you into thinking that the command failed.

Yet other ways to see the results of particular exit statuses
(that is, to depend on their being deterministic) are when using
errorlevel in DOS batch files, or when using DCL in VMS.

> several books use int main() as examples and others use void main(void) 

Indeed.

> main returns an int i assume?

Yes. More precisely, main is supposed to return an int ; what
it actually returns is what you declare it to return (and what
your return statement(s), if any, say it returns). But if you
implement main as returning something other than what its caller
expects it to return, you run the risk of its not working
correctly.

In article <321cc6d4.152763064@news2.microserve.net>,
sidlip@lip.microserve.com goes on:

> Im curious why do i see void main(void) so much?

I honestly don't know.

The first few times I ever saw void main() , it was clear that
the programmer was trying to avoid warnings. The program

 int main()
 {
 printf("Hello, world!\n");
 exit(0);
 }

does not return a value from main() , but it doesn't matter,
because control flow never falls off the end of main() , because
 exit() never returns. But the compiler usually doesn't know
that exit() doesn't return, and may warn that "control reaches
end of int -valued function without returning a value." In the
program

 int main()
 {
 printf("Hello, world!\n");
 }

the compiler is likely to issue the same warning, and here it's
perfectly appropriate, but the programmer may not care, if the
program isn't ever to be executed in an environment where the
exit status matters. In either case, declaring main() as void 
effectively shuts off that particular warning message, but at the
cost of making the program incorrect. (Indeed, some compilers
will issue other warnings when main() is misdeclared.)

It's because of this particular argument that the question
currently known as 11.12 in the FAQ list is worded the way it is,
but this line of reasoning is not sufficient to explain void
main() 's unaccountable popularity today. It's become some kind
of a meme plague: the "popular" textbooks all use it, so hordes
of unsuspecting C programmers learn it, and some of them go on to
teach classes or write more books which then spread the virus.
In fact, my initial supposition (outlined above) of why people
might write void main() is now not only insufficient, it's almost
completely forgotten! Today, when people who use void main() are
asked why they do, none of them ever mention shutting off
warnings about main() not returning a value. They all mumble
something like "but everyone else uses it" or "but it works on my
compiler" or (particularly in the case of misguided teachers and
textbook authors) "that way we don't have to introduce the full
complexity of return types right at first." (This last
justification is particularly specious, as we'll see.)

> what exactly is it saying? and why does it work ?

It tends to work (even though it doesn't have to and is not
guaranteed to) for a combination of three reasons:

1.
Once upon a time, C did not have the void type.
Functions which did not return values were declared
(usually implicitly) as returning int , but did not
actually return values, and their callers did not use
the (nonexistent) return values. That's why, even today,
the ANSI Standard does not flatly prohibit falling off
the end of a non- void function without executing a return 
statement, or issuing an expressionless return statement
within such a function. (The behavior is undefined only
if the caller tries to use the value, and never requires
a diagnostic. Good compilers will emit warnings.)
In the old days, it was up to the programmer to remember
which functions returned values and which didn't,
although this was of course one of the things which lint 
checked (and, for those few who use it, still checks).

2.
Partly because of #1, the actual low-level calling
mechanisms for void -valued and int -valued functions are
usually not different. A void -valued function simply
omits to place a value in the designated return value
location, and the caller doesn't try to fetch a value
from that location. In these cases, the worst thing
that happens when a function is incorrectly declared as
 void is that the caller gets a garbage return value.
Misdeclaring main (or any function) as void will
typically only result in catastrophic failures if values
are returned on the stack: if the caller pops a value but
the caller didn't push one, the caller may instead have
popped something vital from the stack, such as a frame
pointer or return address, such that when the caller
later returns, chaos results.

3.
Since so much code (including the examples in some compiler
manuals!) does misdeclare main() as void , compiler
vendors pretty much have to arrange that it works.
(Alas, this strategy is an "enabling" one; it allows the
users of void main() to perpetuate their rationalizations.)
Posters to comp.lang.c can arrogantly state that "Your
code is broken. Fix it.", but compiler vendors who
believe that "the customer is always right" cannot
(particularly if the vendor's offerings to date have
permitted void main() ).

(As an aside, these three reasons conspire to require
nonstandard " pascal " keywords in compilers for environments where
code written in C must call libraries written in Pascal, or vice
versa. I gather that many Pascal compilers do use different
calling conventions for procedures and functions. If C
compilers didn't have to coddle broken code by making void -valued
and int -valued functions compatible, they could arrange that
 void -valued functions were completely compatible with Pascal
procedures. Instead, a C program that calls a Pascal procedure
must typically declare it as

 extern pascal void f();

or some such. Similar arguments apply to " fortran " and " basic "
keywords, and to fixed versus variable-length argument lists.)

> also if type int is implied and () is implied as an empty delaration (in ANSI)

> why not main() (although ive never seen it)...

"Plain" main() is in fact pretty common. When I taught
introductory C programming, I used to leave the return type off
of main() in examples, because was a distraction to have to
explain what a function's return type is at all at first,
particularly in a function like main() where it isn't obvious who
the caller is or what would happen to the return value. (Alas,
a certain amount of handwaving is still required if the main() 
function includes an explicit return statement, as it must to
keep all compilers quiet.)

We can see, then, that an instructor or textbook author who
doesn't want to "introduce the full complexity of return types
right at first" could and should demonstrate main() without an
explicit return type, and that using void instead is doubly
counterproductive.

The situation is completely different, by the way, with respect
to a function's declared parameters. The declaration

 extern main();

is an old-style declaration saying that main is a function taking
unspecified (but fixed) arguments. The definition 

 main()
 {
 }

, on the other hand, is an old-style definition saying that main 
takes zero arguments. Since the caller (as we saw earlier) is
going to be passing two arguments to main() , how can we get away
with this misdeclaration?

The answer is that main's parameter list is a very definite wart
in Standard C. Anywhere else, if a function is called with a
number of arguments not matching its definition (and if the
function does not accept a variable-length argument list), the
behavior is undefined. In this one case, however, main() is
allowed to be defined as accepting either zero arguments or two,
of type int and char ** . The reason for the wart is of course to
support old code, but a wart it is, and it may require some
compilers to treat a function named main specially.

> is return; implied return 0; ?

No. A return statement without an expression returns no defined
value, and is valid only in void -valued functions or in
functions where the caller doesn't use the return value.

 Steve Summit 

 scs@eskimo.com 

[
Addendum:
Despite the length of this article, it only barely gets around to
explaining how, precisely, declaring main() as void could fail.
Besides the problems of a garbage exit status being received by
the calling environment, a more serious failure could occur if
the compiler used different calling conventions for void - and
 int -valued functions. If so, then for main() to push no return
value on the stack, and for the caller to pop an int value that
 main() hadn't pushed, could conceivably "screw later uses of the
stack up enough that the program could crash."]