The Counterpane Fairy 

 How Mom Got A Copy of The Counterpane Fairy 
 A Fairy Tale by Laura Gjovaag 

 Where do you start a story like this? There is no real beginning...

 In 1898 a book was first published. The Counterpane Fairy by Katherine Pyle was apparently a popular book at the time, it went into at least 15 printings, maybe more. Mom read the book at the home of her Aunt, and loved it as a child. It was one of those pieces of memory that can be tied to a real object.
 When Mom learned about book searches and found that people could get old books, she decided to try to find a copy of The Counterpane Fairy . Book-sellers she talked with said it was rare, and a copy never surfaced.
 When I started collecting books and comics, Mom mentioned the book to me. She said she'd never been able to find a copy, and had been looking for some time. Her aunt's copy was lost to her, though she had photocopies of the book. I put it on every book search I ran across, but never got an answer.
 Then I started working and playing on the internet at school. I discovered book searches there, and put the book in every one I ran across. I honestly couldn't tell you when I found ABE , but it was just another book search, and I put The Counterpane Fairy in it as well. I also found an audio version of the book on Amazon.com, which I gave to Mom for her birthday or something. When I married Eric, an avid Wizard of Oz collector, I met his friends, many of whom were book dealers. None of them had even ever seen a copy.

 On Oct 21st, 1997 I got a strange e-mail: The following wants have been matched by ABE: Your Want Title: Counterpane Fairy; Author: Pyle Has been matched... I was at work, and stared in disbelief at the computer screen. My heart leapt! I knew Mom wanted the book, and here was a copy, possible for me to get.
 One problem, the price. I'm not exactly poor, but I didn't know if it was a good idea to spend it without consulting the husband. I went to the office of a co-worker and talked out the problem with her. During our conversation, she reminded me that I have siblings... That clinched it, I called up Arch Books, glad they were open, and ordered it.
 Now came the next problem: asking the siblings if they would pitch in. Luckily, every single one of them is on-line. I asked them in a massive e-mailing to everyone except Daniel (who lives at home and therefore risked having Mom peek over his shoulder). I quickly got positive responses. Daniel I called on the phone, and unfortunately, that got Mom suspicious. Oh well.
 The next problem was presenting the gift. I have no ability to keep a secret, and Mom has a special ability to ferret out any secrets I try to keep. I wouldn't last a ten minute conversation with her without blurting it out. So I felt I needed to give her the book the instant it was in my hands.
 When the book came in, Eric and I were about to go to Mom's house anyway, so I called up Chris and Janette, both of whom couldn't make it, and let Daniel know that tonight was the night. 

 After we convinced Mom to dig out her camera so we could record the moment for out-of-towners and people whom my impatience had left out, I handed her the box...

 "What's this?" Mom says. "A gift from all your children," I explain, "that's why we needed the camera."

 Mom's shoots me that look and starts to open the box. The book is wrapped in white paper nestled in brown packing in a sturdy cardboard box.

 As mom lifts the paper-wrapped book out of the box, a look comes over her. She chokes up as she says, "I think I know..."

 Mom is speechless as her suspicion is confirmed.

 I start bouncing up and down with glee as Mom continues to stare at the book like it will vanish if she doesn't watch it. "How?" she asks, and I go into the gruesome details, including asking my sibs to pitch in. "I thought you were going to pull another library on me!" she says, referring to the portrait we had done (we got out of the house by telling her we were going to the library. All of us. At once. She believed us. Even when we came back with no books).

 I take a hug for all my siblings, as Mom still stares at the book in disbelief. "You found it." she keeps saying, much to Daniel's and my amusement. "How much did it cost?" she asks. "I'm not telling," I respond. Later, Eric says something about spending that much for an Oz book and Mom says "A-ha!" She still doesn't know the exact cost, I hope.

 Mom tells us that she's been looking for this book for 27 years (that's 7 years more than I thought). She poses for Eric, who's been shooting the pictures.

 Nobody could ask for a better Mother, and we hope that this book repaid a little all the years you've put up with us. 

 The Counterpane Fairy in HTML 
 A labor of love, it cannot replace having the real thing, but should salve the needs of those who cannot find it.

 Postscript 

 Date: Thu, 30 Oct 1997 19:13:18 -0600
 From: Arch Books 
 Organization: Arch Books 
 To: Laura Gjovaag 
 Subject: Re: The Counterpane Fairy
 Dear Ms. Gjovaag:
 Thank you for your kind note. I am glad your mom appreciates this wonderful book and a wonderful, generous daughter.
 After you reserved the book, for the next 2 days, the phone rang and rang; our e-mail was popular, too -- all trying to order the book. This title obviously retains special memories for many people. I am glad you got it!
 Much sunshine,
 Ruth Hendrickson
 Owner/ARCH BOOKS
 P.O. Box 24642, Minneapolis, MN 55424. 
 Ph: 612-927-0298

 ...and they all lived happily ever after.