Newsgroups: sci.physics,alt.sci.physics.new-theories,sci.edu,sci.skeptic,sci.astro,sci.space,sci.fractals
Path: columba.udac.uu.se!sunic!pipex!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!sarfatti
From: sarfatti@netcom.com (Jack Sarfatti)
Subject: re:Kip Thorne's New Book
Message-ID: <sarfattiCnrI6v.DHE@netcom.com>
Followup-To: sci.physics
Keywords: time warps
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
Date: Tue, 5 Apr 1994 01:16:07 GMT
Lines: 99
Xref: columba.udac.uu.se sci.physics:4955 alt.sci.physics.new-theories:561 sci.edu:240 sci.skeptic:4548 sci.astro:3870 sci.fractals:407

Revised and Expanded 2nd Draft
Kip Thorne's Time Warps
Comments on his new book BLACK HOLES & TIME WARPS  (W.W. Norton, 1994) 
by Jack Sarfatti (sarfatti@netcom.com).

Thorne is Feynman Professor of Theoretical Physics at Cal Tech. I only 
discuss here Chapter 14 Wormholes and Time Machines.  The bottom line is 
that we need to understand quantum gravity before we know whether 
electromagnetic quantum vacuum fluctuations travelling backward in time 
through the wormhole will destroy it making practical time travel 
impossible. Stephen Hawking bets that this is the case (i.e., his 
chronology protection conjecture). Thorne refuses to bet and I squarely 
oppose Hawking based on the ultra anthropic conjecture that the universe 
is self-created by advanced intelligence using primordial wormhole time 
machines from the Big Bang in addition to communication on nonlocal 
quantum connections. The latter is forbidden by standard quantum 
mechanics in the absence of the kind of "self-reference" discussed by 
David Albert. It is not clear what happens if there is "self-reference" 
of the kind we experience in our own consciousness. It is also known 
that nonlinear corrections to the quantum laws (which may be caused by 
gravitation) allow such communication.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
re: Kip Thorne's Time Warps
#2 Comments on his new book BLACK HOLES & TIME WARPS  (W.W. Norton, 
1994) by Jack Sarfatti (sarfatti@netcom.com).

Although Steven Hawking proposes the chronology protection conjecture 
that time travel to the past is forbidden in the yet to be understood 
quantum gravity, he does write in the forward to Thorne's book:

"There is much we still don't know, such as what happens to objects and 
information that fall into a black hole. Do they reemerge elsewhere in 
the Universe, or in another universe? And can we warp space and time so 
that one can travel back in time? These questions are part of our 
ongoing quest to understand the Universe. Maybe someone will come back 
from the future and tell us the answers."

Some interesting relevant recent papers in new physics:
Leonard Susskind .... "Gedankenexperiments involving black holes" in Jan 
15, 1994 Phys. Rev. D. One possibility that Susskind does not consider 
is that the in-falling information carried by subluminal and luminal 
mass-energy gets converted to superluminal exotic (possibly dark) matter 
and even undergoes a metrical signature change from Lorentzian to 
Euclidean.

e.g. "Why is spacetime Lorentzian?" by Carlini and Greenstein in same 
issue of Phys Rev D.

See also Sandu Popesu "Bell's Inequalities vs Teleportation: What is 
nonlocality?" Phys. Rev Lett 7 Feb 94 p. 797 perhaps, somehow, the 
information is teleported (1) out of black holes via the virtual 
electron-positron pairs at the horizon?

S Kar ... also in Jan 15 94 Phys Rev D shows that nonstatic Lorentzian 
wormholes are possible without exotic matter that violates the weak 
energy condition (i.e. negative energy in local frame of light rays 
passing through the wormhole or radial tension > energy density in frame 
fixed to throat of wormhole etc).

Finally, of interest, is Hegerfeldt's "Causality Problems for Fermi's 2 
Atoms" in Phys Rev Lett 31 Jan 1994 in which we find:
"If the effect .. is real, it could in principle be used for 
superluminal signals" provided that source and detector are in disjoint 
spacelike separated regions with no wave function overlap.

In any case it may well be that quantum gravity permits the escape of 
in-falling information faster-than-light from black holes, and that time 
travel to the past through wormholes is not only possible but is 
necessary for the Universe to come into being from the future in such a 
way that we will be created and evolve in a self-creating globally self-
consistent loop-in-time.

(1) Alice is given a spin 1/2 particle in state & unknown to her. She 
helps Bob (far away from Alice) prepare another spin 1/2 particle in the 
identical but unknown state &. Alice is not allowed to send her particle 
directly to Bob, nor can she send a different particle that has 
interacted with her particle. However, Alice and Bob do share a 
nonlocally correlated pair of particles in a spin singlet state. Alice 
can make a local measurement on both her particle and her half of the 
correlated pair. She can communicate the result of her measurement to 
Bob causally using a light signal. Therefore, teleportation is not 
faster-than-light communication. Bob is able to reconstruct the state & 
because he receives both classical information on the causal light 
signal and nonlocal quantum information due to the entanglement of the 
shared pair between them. Violation of Bell's inequalities and 
teleportation are two aspects of nonlocality but they are not equivalent 
aspects.

Hawking has suggested that quantum gravity is fundamentally nonunitary 
making pure states into mixed states. If that is true, then faster-than-
light communication will be possible if there are mesoscopic quantum-
gravitational effects possibly because of some kind of hypothetical 
fractal self-similarity that de-amplifies the ultra-high energy Planck 
scale down to very low energy perceptable scales. Penrose speculates 
that this may happen in human consciousness in his book THE EMPEROR'S 
NEW MIND. 
