JBM - Software

 [Ballistics] 
 [Bibliography] 
 [Downloads] 
 [JBM] 
 [Links] 
 [MPM] 
 [PM] 
 [Personal] 
 [Software] 

 JBM - Software

 Pointers to ballistics software available on the web (and elsewhere). 
 I haven't used most of these programs, so I am not attempting to review 
 or even recommend any of them. This page is meant to be a central place 
 for people to find what is available. If you have or know of any other 
 software that isn't listed here, please let 
 me know. Dead links are removed
 from time to time -- usually if 
 Google can't find them anymore.

 Programs are listed alphabetically by name in two sections. The 
 first section, Programs lists those commercial
 and free programs that I currently know about. The second section,
 Web Based , lists web based calculation programs.

 Programs 

 Air Rifle Ballistics 

 Exterior ballistics software specifically written for air rifles.
 About $59 plus shipping charges.

 ATEAM 

 A T eam E asy A irgun B allistics
 Program. $20 on 3.5" floppy.

 Balcal 6.2 

 Windows ballistics program written in Visual Basic. Has a lot of 
 features (like many of the programs here). Price is $49.95 on a 
 CD.

 Ballistic Basics 

 "Ballistic Basics is a complete reloaders program that stores, graphs 
 and prints all reloading data and calculates trajectory, energy, time 
 of flight and other parameters." The price is $40.00 US. There's an 
 additional $5.00 if you want them to send you floppies.

 Ballistic Explorer by Oehler Research 

 External ballistics programs for DOS and Windows with demo. $60-$70.

 Ballistics Solutions 

 A suite of ballistics software "designed by air gun shooters for air
 gun shooters". $32.95.

 Ballistik Pro 1.1 

 A shareware ballistics program by Helge Peters for Apple/Mac. 
 The program containes 8 different functions for sport shooters, 
 hunters and reloaders. The price is $20.00 US.

 Barnes Ballistics for Windows 

 Barnes' Windows based ballistics program, version 2. Runs on Windows
 '95 or higher. Price is $49.95 ($19.95 upgrade is available).

 Border Barrels 

 They have some ballistics programs available, including a 22
 caliber program, barrel twist and powder equivalence chart. Free.

 ChronoCap 

 Provides the capability to interface to a chronograph (Alpha, Beta
 and Gamma Shooting Chrony) and store shot information in your Palm
 or PC. Price is $19.99 for either and $34.99 for both (Palm and PC).
 There is a note about DropTables being under development.

 Chrony Ballistics II Software 

 Exterior ballistics program from Shooting Chrony Inc. $19.95 to $54.95. Used to be
 PC/Bullet.

 EB4 (Exterior Ballistics 4) 

 A DOS based program from R. Nennstiel. This program uses a modified point 
 mass trajectory and is capable of doing simulations. There is now a demo
 version available for 
 download 
 Price is 300 DM (about $180 US). 

 Exbal 

 Windows based ballistics program. Also has a program for the Palm
 Pilot. From $30, accepts Pay-Pal.

 Hornady Reloader for Windows 

 I found a reference to some Windows software at the Hornady site, 
 but it seemed to be the reloading manuals on disk. I have found their
 ballistics program at 
 Midway . 
 Midway price is 
 $31.99 (June 1997).

 Horus Vision 

 A number of software packages for PDAs. They also sell rifle scopes
 to use with their software.

 Keystone Enhanced Ballistics System 

 Exterior (there is an interior ballistics program available)
 Ballistics program for DOS. $12.95. Demo available for download.

 Load From A Disk for Windows 

 Windows based Interior and Exterior ballistics program. $74.95+S & H

 McTraj4 

 A rewrite of Bob McCoy's McTraj with drag models loaded from
 disk. Free and includes source code (BASIC) and executable.
 There is also a "Stopping Power" terminal ballistics program.

 Modern Ballistics 

 Currently in beta. Cost is $45 for the first year and $10/year
 thereafter, including free upgrades.

 MPM 

 Currently in beta. It is a command line program I write (am writing)
 that uses the modified point mass equations to find the trajectory
 of a bullet. There are currently Windows and Linux executables
 available. It's free.

 Numerical 
 Advanced Internal Ballistic Model (NABM) 

 Free and shareware software (price is $29 + $2 S &amp H), interior ballistics
 info and other references.

 On Target Software 

 "Windows based computer program for rifle, handgun, and shotgun shooters 
 and reloaders." $49.95-$69.95. [NOTE: This is in no way associated with
 the software, On Target!, which I used to sell.]

 PCB 1.8 

 DOS based ballistics software. FREE!

 Pejsa Ballistics 

 Exterior ballistics software for Windows, Macs, and PDAs, $29.95 - $49.95 depending
 on platform.

 Point Blank 

 ...a Windows PC Ballistics and Reloading program. Free!

 PRODAS 

 Prodas, PRO jectile D esign and A nalysis 
 S ystem. A professional system used by many countries.
 I can't find a price anywhere -- I'm sure it's not cheap!

 Projektil 2 

 Freeware ballistics program from Reinhard Becker.

 QuickTARGET and QuickLOAD 

 External (QuickTARGET) and internal (QuickLOAD) ballistics programs.
 You can read more about it here .

 RCBS.Load 

 RCBS' new program. The guys at GMDR have provided some nice graphs
 and drawings from their bullet design program: 
 168 gn Int. , bullet and
 Stability ,
 338 Millard case
 drawing, and
 75 gn VMax . The software
 is now available on CD-ROM.

 Recreational Software Inc. 

 Ballistics, Reloading and Recreational software for Macintosh and Windows.

 Rob's Reloading Organizer, v3.0 

 Combination reloading data storage and ballistics program. Price is 
 $30.00 US.

 RODBALL Small Arms Ballistics Calculator 

 A new ballistics program from Rod Wiederin. Not shareware, price is $20.00.

 Shoot! 

 "Ballistics software for the hunter, reloader and target shooter". Free
 30 day trial. $39.95.

 Sierra's Infinity Exterior Ballistics Computer
 Software 

 Sierra's new Window's ballistics program. It is supposed to be available
 January, 1999. $59.99 + S &amp H.

 Silhouette Ballistics Version 9.0 

 A set of ten Window's programs for competitive and high power shooters. 
 $38.50.

 Small Arms Ballistics 

 A new, free ballistics program for Unix and Windows. It is 
 distributed under the GNU public license. Distributed as
 a compilable "C" program, or in Python.

 Tioga Ballistic Program

 DOS ballistics program from Tioga Engineering, Pennsylvania. You can 
 contact them at P.O. Box 913, Wellsboro, PA, 16901, (505) 724-3533 (thanks
 Don!)
 Lilja 
 $24.

 Trajectory Plot 

 Shareware exterior ballistics software, $10 Registration Fee.
 There is also a group size calculator, also $10.

 WinBallistics 

 Freeware ballistics program.

 Web Based 

 Big Game Info Advanced Ballistics Calculator 

 An ASP.Net version of my online 
 programs (the online versions are available under the GNU Public License
 and are available for download .

 fullbore-list Range Table Calculator 

 An ActiveX ballistics implementation, using Art Pejsa's drag function.
 It appears as though it requires Internet Explorer.

 JBM Small Arms Ballistics 

 My site dedicated to small arms ballistics (You're already here!). 
 You'll find online calculations for Ballistic Coefficients, Maximum 
 Range, Trajectories, etc. My online programs have been ported to 
 the Zaurus by Patrick Heim and are available 
 here .

 Lost River Ballistics Ballisticator 

 Java based ballistics program. NOTE: This link doesn't currently work. I'm trying
 to find out if the service is still available before I remove the link.

 Norma Ballistics 

 Java based ballistics program that provides data for hunting and match
 bullets.

 NTInnovations 

 "The ballistics website for reloaders and competition shooters."

 Renegade Rifle Ballistics 

 Small arms ballistics with graphical output! "...Based on the 
 article Ballistics for the Home Computer by William 
 C. Davis Jr. published in American Rifleman, June 1983."

 Last update 29 June 2004, Copyright &copy; 1996-2004
 JBM 
 [V]