Biodegradable Technology Links 

 Biodegradable Technology Links 

This field is currently exploding. Doing a search on the
word "biodegradable"
will now show several dozen serious companies adding resources.\

NOTE: 
I realize many of these links have probably gone down or have been
changed. However, if you do a search on the article words you may find
its new location, or if you simply take off the far right part of the
address down to the first "/" and hit return, and then if that doesn't
work try to take off the second, you
may find the main site still there and the article somewhere else on it.
I've found simply copying the title of the article and pasting it into a
search engine to be the best way to find outdated pages. 
I will leave some bad links up so you can at least know the article
exists. Good
luck and send us any updates you may have. 

Note: Now it is possible to view any page written in foreign language
by going to the Alta-Vista
Translator. 

 The best
essay I've seen which clearly shows ideas from the BDT Essay here
are coming true. -- Save a copy in case it disappears. (Currently
down) 

Interesting long technical article. 
 Biodegradable
plastic from tapioca starch -- Down 

Development of biodegradable lubricants. 

Terresolve provides a broad
 spectrum of non-toxic,
 biodegradable products for a full
 range of industrial and consumer
 applications. 

 Synthesis of
Biodegradable Plastics 
 Argonne National Laboratory. Synthesis of Biodegradable Plastics. Converting Starchy Wastes into Degradable Plastics.
 Production of Nonpolymer Degradable.. 

 Biodegradable polymers 
 Biodegradable polymers. P.J. Barham. The question of how best to dispose of domestic waste is now becoming increasingly
 important. 
 BIOMOLECULAR SELF-ASSEMBLING MATERIALS 
 The Production, Purification, and Development of Nontoxic, Biodegradable Chemicals 
 Argonne National Laboratory. Programs and Capabilities 
 Auto Shop Cuts Waste by Using Biodegradable Detergents and Solvent Distillation 
 Auto Shop Cuts Waste by Using Biodegradable Detergents and Solvent Distillation. Case Study: HML13019. 1.0 Headline. Auto
 Shop Cuts Hazardous Waste by 95%. 
 U.S.National Environmental Technology Strategy
 This is the paper I mentioned regarding future technology that has strains of the BDT essay. 
 Biodegradable Polymer Development 
 Biodegradable Polymer Development. Related Web Pages. Environmental
 Technology Program. 

 Survey of Biodegradable Polymers 
 Survey of Biodegradable Polymers. SRI gathered detailed information on the product characteristics of 30 selected biodegradable
 materials. 
 Evaluation of Biodegradable Oils for the Lubrication of Powersaw Chains 
 P3.08-00 Forest Operations and Environmental Protection. Theme: Forest Operations on Sensitive Sites 
 Biodegradable Crayons From Soybean Oil 
 Biodegradable Crayons From Soybean Oil. Bernard Y. Tao, Project Leader. Use of Soybean Oil as a Substitute for
 Petroleum-Derived Paraffin. 
 BIODEGRADABLE POLYMERS 
 CEH Abstract BIODEGRADABLE POLYMERS. Second-generation biodegradable polymers are promoted by the industry as being
 fully biodegradable. 
 Air Force Reduces the Need for Toxic Solvents by Using Biodegradable Solvents 
 Air Force Reduces the Need for Toxic Solvents by Using Biodegradable Solvents. 
 Biomedical Polymer Research Laboratory 
 Biomedical Polymer Research Laboratory. KOREAN 
 Search techniques based on biodegrable technology issues from ABIL Services.

 Plant Polymer Research Unit 
 MISSION STATEMENT. This MU conducts research on plant polymers such as polysaccharides and proteins to identify and
 develop new uses and expanded markets. 
 Technology Spectrum 
 B-TIP Technology Spectrum is published ten times per year. It is aimed primarily at the information needs of business managers. 
 Textbox: DOC biotechnology R&D projects include...
 use of marine natural products in development of models and
 processing technology for biodegradable polymers. 
 Magazine: Bio/Technology Issue This
has overlap in different uses of biodegradable technology and biotechnolgy. Note: these "www.de.enews" addresses
have been gobbled up by Microsoft and are now some kind of free, I beleive, login access. 
 Pollution Prevention Case Studies . $500,000 a Year Saved by Using Non-Hazardous Solvent. 1,1,1-Trichloroethane is Eliminated by Aqueous-based Cleaning. 

Mazin Resins for Printing Industries 

 The Brainstorming Software for the Scientific Community

 Back to Biodegradable Technology's
Contents Page 
 Back to Creative Virtue Press's
Contents Page 

 E-mail .