Find Word To Substitute 

 The "Find Word to Substitute"
is an automated search of the categories in the directory that you are
in at the time. It will only search one group at a time. So, check the
"Category Type" to see if you are in a "General" category
or "Business," "Science," "Home" or "Other."
You may want to select on the "All" category for this feature. 

 "Find Word to Substitute"
is a useful feature which allows you to import any text into ParaMind to
brainstorm upon. You simply import the text by cutting and pasting it from
another Windows application, or by opening it as a text file from the File
menu. 

 Select "All" in the "Category
Type" to make sure that a large portion of the ParaMind categories
will be used, or perhaps use a custom database of Word Categories. You
can also use it to go over the text that you've typed onto the ParaMind
screen. 

 This feature goes over the text
on the ParaMind screen and looks for any of the words in the Word Category
lists. It goes over one "Category Type" at a time, so if you
don't find many words you might want to go into the "Category Type"
and change it to "General 2" or "Science" or any other
category. 

 To give you an example of this program
in use, go ahead and mark the above paragraph or any other text you like
in any document you like. Like any computer text, you can work on this
manual in Window's Write, but be sure not to change it in any way because
Write will save it for you in a Write format. You can get around this by
selecting "No" if it asks you to save. 

 Select "Copy" in Windows
Write and in ParaMind go to Edit and select Paste. Paste it into the editor
and then go into the "Create" menu and select "Find Word
to Substitute." 

 You will see a "highlighter"
automatically come up on the screen which will block each word as it goes
into "All" or whatever category you selected in "Category
Type" and looks for your words. You will see it find several Word
Categories in "All" that contains words in the paragraph. When
it does it will come up with the word category unhighlighted. 

 Click on the Word Category in the
left-hand box and see if you would rather use those words instead of the
one you have already written. If you would like one, highlight the new
word you like and click on "OK." This will replace your old word
with the new one. If you don't like it, just hit cancel. 

Use your back button or click here for 
 Table of Contents Page