Creative Virtue Press -- Writer/Composer R.S. Pearson 

 Creative Virtue Press -- Writer/Composer R.S. Pearson 

 All work is copywritten 1985-2004
by R.S. Pearson 

Click here
 for R.S. Pearson music page. Major overhaul done on September 15, 2004.

Newly published: the book: "Philosophy and the Aesthetics of Virtue." 

Newly published: the book: "Lushness of Soul." 

Emotive Virtuism Art Theories 
 This links to the home page for a discussion on Emotive Virtuism , which is an aesthetic theory
developed by R.S. Pearson . It states that acts of virtue
produce
the aesthetic experience. That is, when you see someone doing something
especially
beneficial for someone, inside you feel something that is like when
you're in a great museum, and see a great work of art. Linking these two ideas together
in various implications is the motivation behind this artistic and
philosophical theory.

 Biodegradable Technology

Other works we support are those surrounding Biodegradable
Technology . They describe that very possibly in the future we
will develop a technology from the fusion of electronics,
plant genetics, and other sciences which will be totally advanced
technologically but which will be very good for the earth, providing
fresh air in the process. 

Computer-Generated Writing.

We also include 
computer-generated texts, a recent art form 
among our
texts. Find here such works as 
"Rubber Blue Biodegradable 
Robot."

Para-Literature -- The Exhaustion of the
Interactions of Words 

 The Exhaustion of the
Interactions of Words . If we exhausted in meaningful ways the
interactions the words of our dictionary, would we come up with every
idea
possible for us? A collection of writings on the TWIE theory (telical
word-interaction
exhaustion). This is the theory by R.S. Pearson that is behind the
ParaMind program. 

ParaMind Brainstorming Software

 ParaMind Brainstorming
Software 
ParaMind is a Windows and Mac program that is
great for
developing new logical ideas that we might not have found otherwise.
ParaMind is a fun and useful program. It was built by working with 
the idea of getting every idea possible by the "exhaustion of 
the interaction of words." 
Support the innovative work on this site by buying a Registered Copy
 of ParaMind Brainstorming Software. ParaMind is owned by R.S. Pearson,
the author of all the works on this site. 

 Beautific, Non-indentified and Entranced -- R.S. Pearson's
Prose and
Poetry 
Here is Creative Virtue's Prose
and Poetry collection. 

 Miscellaneous Writings by R.S. Pearson 

Novalis Online. Novalis is an 18th Century German Romanticist. 
We are host of the Novalis e-mail discussion Group. 
 Links 

R.S. Pearson, the founder of Creative Virtue Press, is a writer/composer influenced by the French Surrealists
and studies of philosophy and spirituality. He is the creator of the
popular ParaMind
Brainstorming Program and the Emotive Virtuism art theories. 
R.S. Pearson's main concern is
to bring the reader or listener to a state of regenerative beauty.

From Feb 26, 2001 to May 03, 2002 these web pages at eskimo.com alone received 63,898 hits! 

 Lionel Guego/Robert Pearson
exhibit in Quintin, France June 2000 

 A R.S. Pearson press release and some
photos. 

Recommended: 
 25 Tips to Help Those Facing a Serious Illness 

How the Homeless Can Find a Home 
 Prayer Blaster -- Multiple Prayer Requests via One Page 
 A NEW WAY TO PROMOTE ART/WRITING/MUSIC/CREATIVITY 

Contact 

 love is power 

Mirror Sites: 
 www.rspearson.com 

 www.eskimo.com/~telical