New Level of Love by R.S. Pearson

 Creative
Virtue 

 R.S. Pearson Miscellaneous 
Writings 

New Level of Love R.S. Pearson

 Plato said in the republic of a certain type of philosopher who:
"in the storm of dust and sleet...seeing the rest of mankind full
of wickedness, he is content, if only he can live his own life
and be pure of evil" 

 Oh, why can't I do this too? 

Why do I have to be greedy and demand that I received what others
have received, largely by acting in the evil of the world? 

 I am always seeming to look for a pattern these days, a pattern
so that people will like me. I find this despicable in myself --
and it's not me, deep down. The reality, the real ground, is the
clinging to the productions of the artistic soul, the anti-hate
sentiment as in my early days -- the revolution is my self. That is
my pattern: I am the continual revolution, never acclimatized
into a product. It is my reality, my identity is the constant revolution in the human soul and this revolution never comes to an end. I am never beaten to it, it can't be stolen from me by other artists, because it is so deep
within the fountain of my soul. The revolution of human
consciousness, a further perfecting of love and understanding. 

 I'm just going to this place called Love to die. Where
does this power of Love come from? I know anyone if they chose
can live in Love. The joy of Love, the radiance of Love -- look
at the positive thinkers. It's a spiritual seeker's responsibility. If
it's God who gives this love then let's work for God. I got hurt
a few times but hurt myself worse by not asking Life
to let me feel the joy of love. When you're in it you want to
prolong it for eternity. Now I know that the power of love for me
is even stronger than the world's power to degenerate a person. Love
will get me out of here. 

 I want God to love me -- to help me out of any rut I may find. 
I expect God to help me. Even tonight. Could it be He wants what I want for myself? 
The challenge against love is less than love. I think of some perfect world for me here 
on earth and I realize that this hope brings me into a realm of inner hurt. 
A radiance of love is a safer, more perfect world for me to live in. 
The outer circumstances of my life may change little, only I will not lose my 
love to make them more impressive to worldly minds. 

 In a way I want to accept the death of the hope that
some things will change. Will this bring me more groundedness in
love? Isn't God telling us He has faith in us, doesn't God build us 
up into the joy of love? Why do I emulate or fear others when my choices 
have been good? What would it be like to have this joy of love in me every day 
for the next fifty years? How can I have this joy of love in me for that long? 
But this seems to bring a degeneration of the power I am feeling because 
this joy of love is a present gift only. Its so precious that it almost destroys
it to not be absorbed with it as it presents itself in its hour. 

 This love is going to invade my town and other places
in the world. My stay here is going to affect this place for the
better and by doing so my soul also will be blessed. Negative
forces only try to make us angry at the souls we should be
pitying. We live in a greater dimension of spirit and joy then
they. We can only pity them and let them see our joy of love. 

 Today, I'm faced with the joy of not being stressed. 

 There is really nothing for me in this life, on this
earth, but this joy of love. I have tried to have good romances,
good relationships with people, to get ahead financially,
to achieve order and discipline in my life. I see the attempts at 
a different kind of life for myself and I see in certain things I sometimes feel
defeated. The only thing that takes me out is what Kierkegaard talked 
about: not despairing to be oneself. I can only be an alternative spirit. 
I can only feel whole when I feel a joy of love that I know breaks me out of any
conditioning a culture of ignorance knowingly or unknowing springs on me. 
I failed at many things, but I don't feel a dejection from this. 

 God did not answer many of my prayers the way I wanted, but I don't feel a hatred for 
Him or lack of faith. Any knowledge of God I have is first colored by an existential understanding 
of the joy of love and the power that it gives me personally, and this in itself is larger than any cause
and effect regarding any prayers or requests I may have. I largely feel God as some force that wants me in the serenity of this joy of love, this joy of loving all people like He loves them. 

 I feel cheated and cheapened when I'm ignorant of
this joy of love, probably just like anyone else. I don't think it 
would be wrong to say that there are many people, successful in the glare of the
TV set, but who are miserably weak spiritually. 
Yet it seems when we are not in the joy of love that these people try to rule our presence. 
I think this is a delusive way of looking at it. When we are feeling the joy of love that life wants 
us to feel, our presence shines on them and they can't be evil, or they can't be seen as evil by us. Our
life and light gives them a rest from the evil they may be enduring. 

 So, today I feel that all aspirations I've had are relatively 
bankrupt compared to being in this joy of love. I longed to be some kind of inspiration of man, but 
this isn't in my heart. What is in my heart is to feel this transforming power that I have experienced from time to time. 
It made my assurance of eternal safety very real to me. It's made me feel a real
wonder in being alive. 

 Creative
Virtue 

 R.S. Pearson Miscellaneous 
Writings