Lesson 2 

 Lesson2 

 The Find Word to Substitute feature
has made it possible to simply put in your sentence and be shown Word Categories
that contain the words in your sentence. This speeds up the process by
which you can find related Word Categories. Make a note of the ones that
come up and select them when you go into Large Merge. You can also select
the Replace by Category for a list of words to come up in Small Merge. 

 We will use this sentence: 

 we need to find business for product
by want 

 We select the Find Word to Substitute
feature and it looks at the first word in the sentence "we."
If the Word Category Type has the All category selected we will get this
for the first word: perspro and pronoun. They stand for: 

 perspro -- personal pronouns 

 These are such words as: he, her,
him, she, their, they, we, you, some, them, each, me, some, anyone, himself,
herself, I'm. your. themselves, I'll and I'd 

 pronoun -- general pronouns 

 These are such words as: 

 all, another, any, both, each, several,
some, few, many, I, he, you, anything, itself, we, they, our, their, mine,
your 

 Select Continue and the next word
"need" will come up. These categories have the word need in it: 

 mark-seg -- a business category
related to marketing segment comnou5 -- a common noun group 5 require --
a general Category Type related to nouns related to the noun requirement
but not meaning the same thing pstvrb2 -- a category of past-tense verbs
water quality --a list of adjectives related to water quality, as in "needed"

 The program will examine each word
that you have selected in a similar fashion. If you select a Word Category
that comes up you will see the words in that category in the left column.
You can select a word in the left column and select "OK" and
it will substitute the original word in your sentence with the new word
you've highlighted. 

 We will use this sentence again: 

 we need to find business for product
by want 

 If you select the word "product"
while in the "All" Category Type you will see 18 Word Categories
appear that have the word "product" in them. Some will come up
twice because they use the word "product" more than once. Select
the one you want, lookat the words in that category, and select an individual
word in the right column. It will then replace the word you've selected. 

 Click Here
For Lesson 3 

Use your back button or click here for 
 Table of Contents Page