Motvated for the Cause
R.S. Pearson 1985

Motvated for the Cause
R.S. Pearson 1985

This is only the first half. I've been reluctant to put it on since it
was written so long ago by such a younger person. The theme of the work
is how to acheive a life that breathes new innovative power into the human
community. The formatting was destroyed and is now in need of
correction. Still, it is some of my best work and I wanted to include
it to make my website more complete. All Rights Reserved Copyright
1985-1999 R.S. Pearson

-- 1 --

 There is no literature that will forever and for once end the
street riots of hate and street riots of power envy. There is no
literature that will produce the effect... get it? So why do I want to
write? 

 To attempt to produce such an effect is the only honest answer.
 It is said that some people are only nice to others so that they won't be hurt by them. Is this the effect I want to produce? Some might say that we write to justify the life we've
been living, or to justify our intellect. 
 What about wanting to write only for the sake of art? Is there a reason to write like others write, or is there only a reason to become a missionary and help the starving infected? 
 Perhaps if I did I could help two people go out and help the starving infected.
 Still, "riots of hate" fill my streets. Many are seen in condescended categories. 
Afraid of having any honest power, others manipulated with calculated and polite scheming, pulling the wins out of each other's subliminal treasure chests And this here, what I 'm writing, is my scheming intending to be inciting. 
 If we were not numbed to the call of virtue.we could now just walk to nearby phones and volunteer our lives and resources to helping the starving infected. 
 We have found our causes, we have found the cause of art. It is the disguise that a day at the beach or in the mountains could see through for weeks. But what are our motivations? What is left for my pen to say? It must say much; it must fill this book! 
 I should introduce myself. The reasons for this become clear as I attempt to provoke you
with my words. I am the one who was too young at the distribution of the great Western liberal consciousness yet too old for the durations of the ball games. 
 We can all be happy with such biological fulfillments but we rightly deserve our eternity
This is one ground these words hopes to tread: after biology, what? Do we know what we think about that question? 
 Some said we exchange word for life.
 What else is there to do?
 Biology?
 I could be the philosopher and say that the reason why no concrete answers about the noumenal are given is so that we can develop our reasoning power. That is being beyond biology. Perhaps, it is even a virtue. The world that has been laid down is beyond our reasoning power, because in our individuality it is impossible to understand a thing that we can only see fractionally. 
 The forbidden question is: is this a good world or a bad world? Could we be so brave to be like a miserable, suffering soul, who when hearing that question could emphatically state, "It is a very good world." And they would not be saying it sarcastically. 
 We see so little of the noumenal. When we do look at philosophical material, skimming the surfaces of this or that, do we tend to want to just want to stop, smoke, eat, make a phone call, or whatever? 
 If I am getting boring fine, I won't always be here in this book in this explicit way. Regarding your assessment of this book and my talents as a writer, it is best to remember that all
our present collection of literature, both ancient and modern, could be vanished and be replaced with works just as good in every aspect. We have not reached any type of saturation point. The possibilites of the muses of literature are limitiess, but why is our literature so redundent? I am not well-read enough to write a redundent book. With that statement in mind, will this be the book that gently documents. the scream of the noumenal without conventional modernism? 
 Our eyes now look down to the planet, and we chose to look in these four categories of recognizables: 
 1. The literatures 
 2. The histories 
 3. The religions 
 4. The sciences. 

 How are we to understand the world of these four? Where is our pen to begin anew? With the literatures, that our young brave men with brain flowered pens exposed to our shores? The histories, that human nature revealed with its screams and its blood and 
its weak attempts to stifle it? The religions, with the answers questions backwards in time until the fade melts? The sciences, with the obssession and the utilization of ultra-photography? 
 So, my dear models, where do I leave you with my pen -- with a nude dawn of a new emotion? What I do know is that the enrollment of yet another quater in the schools will enclose our fresh young bloods to tell us of our lawns and cars and houses. The playground and swingsets of each hundred years document the history of our human natures. The church doors open to quiet lonely eyes from wandering; to ease our jaws from wracking our headframes. &nbspThe sciences rip apart our vital areas to increase our potential for warmth. 
 I believe in the abstract. trace the slight movements it makes. It makes these movements as a reaction to prayer, or when it is aware that I want to play a game with it. I fell in 
love with the abstract. It cared and cares for me still. It lays hopes for the best. I know what the abstract is: it the common Lord of mankind. It is the God of my childhood. 
 This God says "Call unto me and I will answer you, and show you great and mighty things that you have not known."

Our multiple choice answer is: 

A) Impossible. There is no God, there are no new things to be shown to us. 

B) Impossible. There is a God, yet I have seen all new things available 

C) Impossible. There is no God, but there are new things, which I can find for myself 

D) Possible. There is a God, but I am experienced. I give God one-third and he gives me one-third in return. There is too much sacrifice for the viewing of new things.

E) Possible. There is a life for me always. The concept of God is a little archaic in this 
age of Post-Freudian bliss, yet I have a healthy curiosity and I will call. 

 Soon, I (or is it you), won't be here in this obvious way I'll show up now and then, but, for the most part, you'll on your own. But for now here I am and there you are. You might have real friends and you might not. You may live with your parents who yo
u may or may not respect. You may be in your backyard garden or in a studio apartment. I doubt that you are helping the starving infected. I doubt this repetitive utterance disturbs you in any way -- you'll be on the street "rioting" next Tuesday. 
 Strength boundless virtue, creative youth; boundless love and passion for the air in their hair. Thoughtfulness, concern and compassion. Charity; boundless youthful ideals. empty the mind, soak in the aesthetic of the outdoor environment. Strength boundless virtue. No cultural ties. Work good work. Die for one's God. 
 It's almost like I could say its O.K.. to be the way we are, but I can't. We are not the children we once were, nor, are the adults which we had planned on being, Pardon me, there I 
stereotyping my reader. 
 Yes, I am not the child that I once as, nor am I the adult I planned on being. The reason for this has only to do with law of niceness that I had originally set up and then gradually transgressed. Certain types of people in high places have oftened argued against this law, and their influence is felt in all of our lives. I don't think this is so nice. 
 And by the way, I think there is difference between being nice and being polite. I said nothing about being polite. 

-- 2 -- 

 The convenience stores, various shops, affordable modern paradise for the young consumer. All the strength returns upon knowing he can pay the price. Many months rent paid food; sundries and clothing to last months also. And a car, gas and more money. 
But his loneliness doesn't end. The mood he would get was a heavy gloomy feeling like someone not quite relaxed not quite at home. At times he didn't t know if this was good or bad. 
 The cars go together the jeans, faster than that, but not for the youth; the crust now lives. A society of personifications of television commercials live close by. They have become the Animation of the Inanimates. 
 Popular interest invested in our youth. Cultural virtues constantly leaving. In the trials of the future will all faith run tried? 
 Up before dawn, getting dressed, down the steps, on the public sidewalk I go. The town, painted brown, I'm contained. Past an all night video game arcade . . . I could get a cup 
coffee there--I've got the money now. I'm walking with ease -- what is there to see in a land with no memories? No dime store that I went to at age eight with what was once known as glee. The local, small shopping complex appeared to my mind before I understood capitalism. The stores were innocent and offering before me. 
 Memory lanes embroidered into the eternal. City parks and memories of people in the library fields. The days in a junior high. The kissing of a new season. The road runs long. 
the heart beats on. 
 (Etching in events. Cleansing regrets for new experience. Hopping aboard a decision's train. Opening up the door and walking outside). 
 Oh! The closeness of a childhood home! Where now? Are there any tricks that God can play on my present scenario, a wave of his mighty hand and I am a happy man? Instead, I imagine a thousand killing times: 
 "It's your fault human, it's all your fault. God can't help you. He won't care if you act like you do." 
 "But I can't help it, I really can't." 
 "I am a holy God. I will help you only if you don't resist the change."
 "We have been working on it like this for years, there is such little progress."
 "I think there has been much progress."
 "But, there are lots of times I want to just die, if life Earth will always be this boring. "
 "That's right; you must die to yourself."
 "I once loved this life. When I was a child, life was a joy. It seems that I was a different creature then, and the life was made of a different substance. There were acres of wilderness near my home and I had many extremely accessible friends. I've changed. I don't want to die, but I do want that which is dead in myself to live again." 
 "But, remember mystery, remember strength. These things don't have to be lost when you die to oneself." 
 I only want to chose the good, but I get so tired. There are various factions thinking they must mold me for the better. And the proposed, "God who there is doing all that He can." 
 It is just that I am so ignorant. Most of the time, I feel He is working so slow yet He expects me to be satisfied with what He is doing. Rarely am satisfied and then I feel I am walking after my own lusts -- that my soul's desires are held in ignorance of the true Life. 
 I've been walking for twenty minutes, and I could walk twenty minutes more and be at some docks. But, these docks are not like the docks at home. The town here has no class, yet 
is I who have developed complexes because of this lack. Could it be the change of the generations? Do I bring this spotlight with me? 
 What happened to my land! The terrain, the trees, groups of trees, grasses, bramble? Where is my field! Get me out of this urban mess. Where is the ground that brought forth the 
nourishment of my soul? Do I no longer deserve my landscape? Am I a new essence of human, lowered to a new classification: adult? 
 The fields of childhood -- further description would defile the intent. My way back to the past sometimes seems purely a financial question, yet this is only a symptom of the problem which I've acquired 
 Poverty would not be so bad if you could travel around the world and sleep in communal housings and do a hours labor everyday for cheap food. Idealism never stops. So be it; never stop. We need the practice. Freedom doesn't seem to be too good anymore if nothing in us was ever restrained. Soon the prison really is in our hearts. Purity is the only way out. And watch out for semantic prejudices, but holiness is for the gentle. Holiness is for the small. 
 Look at this hole! -- this circus house of wanting. The swirls of oppressive function of human haste and hurl -- some flourish and are kept in waves of air surrounding, most are
brisk and removed from their doubts. Carnival Carnivore -- there is little real wisdom in store. 
 Places like this, they erode our facial structures which were genetically given. The members here, individual yet forming tissues of symbiotic structures of new tradition. There
are earthly rounds, the eternal seasons, seasoning the manufactured world artfully. The dream of consumers just goes on and on. The fantasy of nihilistic and popular philosophers sings the same corrupt song. Enough for a chance for Jesus? Will you now seek His rest, or continue in opinion of his supposed meaning? 

-- 3 -- 
 There is no reason for the saintly carnival to exist in our lives, yet I will continue to post up hand-bills for it all over my town and future towns. 
 The Earth is in a prefect state of balance, yet human life is a mess with wars, car accidents, venereal diseases and consciously malicious deeds. If the popular concept of God is true, then it is free will that has got us into all these problems. 
 Take one universe, one planet; existence: a light that shines and gives light inside the eyes that see. The eyes that see are more than the burlap sacks of matter will ever be. Activate one trillion souls, over hundreds of thousands of years of human growth. Allow the knowledge to be given, the judgment to reign high over all confusion centers. A home is a castle is the hide away for our tunnels of existence. 
 The end of this world comes in curious ways. As he finished urinating into the toilet he lifted his head and focused his eyes out the window. He noticed it was dark and lifted his hand to see it was only 4:45 on his watch. 

 "It's only 4:45 and its dark already? Seems like it's getting darker earlier everyday. It is Seattle and there are a lot of clouds, maybe that's why its dark so early." 
 The next day, as he was walking home after playing baseball in the park, he noticed how dark it was. 
 "Four o'clock and it's almost pitch black. And there wasn't a cloud in the sky today. " 
 That night he heard on the news that they were reporting the strange phenomenon. As the days passed by, it got darker and darker earlier and earlier until there was no more light at all. 
 Yes, here we are, now, back to each others arms again. You softly say into my sweatered chest, "Espresso at the cafe at three?" No more to say to the unknown, no more to say to the patient winds of the earth. 
 Come out with me like when we were fourteen, the rarest year of all human life. A gift, the gifted together we were censored outlaws, seasoned children together on the road and 
words, ideas, swirling around our red (mine) and blue (yours) jackets. Forgotten road with houses, lost in sequences of techno-progress--it's still there where I remember it! I open 
the door to one of the houses and look into the early nineteen seventies A field of photographs, I seem to have stumbled upon. All deserve my time and attention. My time and attention desire 
them. But there's one there I sense, I've been eager to see it all my time. Forget common sense (that would be too good to true), the walls that ignorance erected, had kept my life well 
away from you. 
 You come into the room, and the more rooms you enter in and sleep and stay and kiss and then walk with me through the forest where we had stayed for days complete. The power of poem splashes around a mysterious wordbath, while we adventure on the road with autumn air and temperature. 
 I saw a girl with strangely beautiful facial features; a document from an unknown race. The skeletal, cartilage, and musculature structures of the face were exquisite, with the skin a tone of golden brown. Such beauty is luscious beyond compare. Some faces are very rare, perhaps one in five-hundred thousand exhibit such an original appearance. These faces are actual non-human looking. They are not your common all-America beauties, not-glamorous, more like divine. These people's faces are the tools for expressing a wide range of emotions that may be lost to most of us. Perhaps some of these emotions are extremely rare, and require the proper facial musculature, for the facial expression that accompanies the emotion. I remember some odd emotions from childhood. My face has not since been exercised in such serenely alert positions. 
 Her. I save it for her. A million ocean dreams, a blue sun for filling out the dripping window rains. Lacey warmth blanket scenes. A thousand memories with her in a land, an
epoch during which we kiss the trees and climb. Nothing become of my memories of earth; they are undone. 
 Friends: running around games on the grass I play with them. For my life I would give; I would fight to the death for them, in a world where emotion means truth and the actions are
uneasily undone. 
 Myself: an eternity shopping for myself. Ceiling orange promenades, I go walking through these blisses sustained, in rememberings of past compacted and fermented into finesse nostalgia. The proper aging of real time events. 
 Her, friends, and I. Grasses of blue, pink, and green grown in perfect rectangles on the ground, on the flat ground of a future front yard. I-You relationships through thirty million 
years of joy, pain, boredom, awe. So while your here, mind: dance, sing, explore; become 
a historical personality. Don't fade in a minute and a half, squirt the paint out and move. 
 I knew my muse and she loved me more than any other, were both artists in love with God and the universe of awe. How come we didn't grow up next to and with each other, my Little 
Lost Love? How many of you exist out there? Out there are forgotten Fridays (off for the weekend!). You never left me. I never insulted you. Perhaps I'll go to a planet of you's when 
die. Think of the days we could have spent together....so many days, so many weeks. You are not forgotten, although we have not yet met. 
 Days and nights out of the rain. Saturday spent in the clubhouse made of old woods that we found in the large fields near our houses. 
 Poetry survives and opens virtuous eyes in us. 
 This love I'll never accomplish alone. I go up the front porch and ring the doorbell on an old friend's home. After dinner I go out again and play in the quiet suburban streets. 
I watch the cloudless sky's dusk. It is slightly blocked by telephone and electric wires. The cooler air sets in. I wave goodbye to friends and go home. 
 All aboard life game! Here! we shout as it calls our names from the roster. God is good, oh, bound intellects, God protects like an older brother would. I know to you He seems too good to be true, but can't you believe all the testimonies that He is true? 
 Who wishes to be young right now? We can go back in time. "Verily," Jesus says to us, "Unless you enter heaven as a little child, you shall not enter in at all." The Garden of Eden exists today at the supper table, the fruits of right and wrong are
still upon the tree. 

-- 4 --

 Slowly in pieces. One by day by day by one day of singular achievement. There are days of similar slothfulness. The way that you've got to look at it is that there will be 
millions of inventions after your dead. You don't want to miss out. So the more you invent, the less you'll miss. 
 A Dictionary's keyboard tapped into our melancholy emits nine-Hundred New Words which are transformed into chromosomes which effortlessly, fully, perfunctorily, fill out the 
organism which the genes predict. The organisms are obviously poems, short stories, novels, manuals and other types of books. But is that all they are? Surely, we can see our very
full plates on the dinner table in front of us! I will elaborate further on this: 
 Imagine a fish tank with tropical fish and pure water. Then imagine pouring in a small bit of pink dye into the water ever day for two months. This pigment would be of a type that the
fish would both survive and also be saturated with the pigment Imagine this pigment did not effect their health in any way. 
 Second, imagine every wave of matter is actually a type of vibration and it becomes vibrated at one-and-one-tenth times its current "pitch." Everything would be in the same relationship as it was previously but if one crea

ture was taken out before the 

rise in pitch occurred, and was placed back in the landscape after. it would notice a difference. 
 Now connect these two examples with their preceding paragraph. After this settles, connect the new combination with the words pragmatism, virtue, orthodox, and truth. You 
have just seen something very rare upon the Earth. 
 Poets! Do the world a big favor: stop writing poetry start writing textbooks, instruction manuals, and encyclopedias with the nature of the other half. Examine it like a textbook 
Can you be so large? Science has too long held the monopoly of luscious organization. A table of Contents outlines more than we could ever produce, but which we will produce in spite of what 
praised pessimistic intellects who have digested themselves attempt to infringe on our neo-intelligensic playgrounds. 
 Occasionally, not very often, you'll hear some artist or poet talk about an unearthly fruit, like a cross between a strawberry and a watermelon, or a cross between a papaya and 
grape. Well, somehow I got hold of some unearthly fruit, I got enough to last me months. I really thought they were great for the first few days, but, you know, eventually I'd leave some 
half uneaten in the refrigerator, and some of them ended up to ripe too eat after the first month. I guess it's like anything else, the magic can wear off. 
 Millions of tinted notes of smell sweetened my bedroom upon awakening, one morning. A heavenly device, it reminded me of the flower petal rains that surprised us all one mourning. 
The scents in general reminded us of the synthetic candies which we used to eat on the Earth as children; it refreshed me of our small purchases and sensuous savoring. 
 The showers of smells were so bright, meticulous and moist, my nose was breathing so slow and softly. I never woke up in quite this way before, yet the mornings never were 
the average part of the day. One morning the sun was seen through the ceiling of my room, on the first floor of a ten story building! Some mornings, granted, are much less interesting. 
 Walnut and silver are the thought contents around your castle in blue skies. Conveyer belt to the turning point. Continual blastings of beautied opening. In hazy heat, oak grove trees spreading. Orange refreshments and oran

ge globular architecture is me

shed in between the trees for maximum oxygen efficiency. Furlongs ahead of the eternal next month away from death's progress, hounds crypt Neptune and its magma of blues. Turquoise: other planets as organisms. Realities that are none of my business. 

Orange globular architecture, again all against the blue sky. Standing on blackish purple ground, with peach and lavender pebbles, I am breathing in heaven after being there a mere eternity. 
 Robotic groundwork maze, purposeful efficient fun, works quicker than that, apogee form of run! Puddles and gravel and a little boy sitting nearby with a rubber space monster doll. 
 The openness of heaven yet contains all the elite's souls, perhaps we will have planets where twenty of us might stay. The infiniteness of His creation is our eternal inheritance. The pondering of His glory brings assimilat

ion of it into our being. Aft

er He paid the price we gained permission, that we were agreeably hid and disregarded under His glory. 
 Pondering heaven, what can we not do there? Beyond what we can imagine as technology, the architects of a galaxy, they could be we one day. With flavors and textures and color, scent and sound, and five or six others, imag

inations burst ... unwound. I

 hope for the eternal present to elapse softly, or cascadingly, in a river current, aloft in gentle air breezes. 
 Now we are all here, and then we are all dead. We hope in You, oh Lord. 

--5-- 

 A thousand parches of summer, pebbles and sand on street sides, a rocky tan soft-hard soil crumbles under pressure from hands and feet. We unite the street stories, houses surround our streets. 
 Play out in the streets, be not afraid, cultured adults! Mystical sequencer, open the doors and quench our various thirsts. 
 I may again live as good as the memories indicate. I just remembered: the heart beats on; the road runs long. 
 Privacy on a flat land. Should it mean that much? Than, than, than. Comparisons always forget to lift that clutch. 
 The journey is like eating delicious foods. Reflect on current love all around. Are you safe now? Just for this moment? Reflect upon current love all around. 
 Some of their lives must be such a bore, if allowed to be already processed and packaged, routined and telecasted; selected activities for the young married couple. Should we hope they find satisfaction with a life that

 they presume they already kno

w everything about, forty years before it ends? Will they have painful despair, should we hope they do? 
 They are busy fulfilling biology. They succumb constantly to the biological impulse and the behavioralistic impulse. However this might not be all that bad; I believe in preference. If someone enjoys being average is tha

t a bad thing? Do the majori

ty state that they are average? The average may enjoy themselves more than the artist. What type of qualitive comparison am I making? 
 Owned by us were I and you. We never wanted the future to play its game of chance to threaten the present. A rare season for mortals, a common memory for them. Economy ruins 
our horizons, another day of coming dusk. But, the winds dusk are a beautiful sight-taste-touch-smell-sound. All five senses blend me at once. Sense perceptions I'm looking forward to in heaven. Heaven is a thousand desires happening everyday, that be

fore, and till the moment they reoccur, were lost. 
 It's not unusual to want to go out at any time, to live any place. But must we scrounge to feed our roots? 
 Sweetness decline, a modern supper at home; no air-raids, letting memories die, that I've outgrown? No fun on bicycles. I've moved to a new hometown. Too many hills? Seeking that plateau of my native land, doesn't my patron

 know what he is doing? 
 We undissolvable, no reliance on a chance for not. Unable no lie, some work harder and are blessed with a curiosity not cursed with a ______ . 
 Zero home paste, canvas forgotten. Hopeful but depressed the paradox. Actually I don't get depressed anymore, I just get angry. I don't know if this is better or worse. After this, I'll probably learn patience. 
 Several parallel universes, there are thousands of ones with musical feelings. There are hundreds of variations of mellowness, of indignation, of exuberance. Aspects of the sustain, shift our transitions into countries: I 

am washed. 
 Listening to a documentation of Certain Chord Progressions I imagine that all over the world, all over the time, there are a few who saw the loveliest chord progressions, and 
therefore have the inalienable right to write a book. Singing lovely songs against backdrops. Melodic structures of effortless recharge. 
 You see, we missed entirely. we started off talking about virtue and then digressed to art and then digressing further until who knows what the bottom line was. It wasn't even that sequential Let's avoid doing it constan

tly. Let's attempt to regain i

nterest in the virtuous -- it was our original pursuit. 
 So I must catch myself before the acts are created, to shout out about things as they are wrong. 
 Why do you stand so far away, you can't see what's going over here -- come closer. 
 Is there really anything called Help? Is there anything can do to help Anyone, or do we all die a Mortal's Death? Some people don't see that as the bottom line, but I do. Shall 
we help the immortal human or not? Another way of peering life and hope. 
 There was a young man who thought he could help calm the belligerent nature of some people by this song he wrote. He worked hard on the arrangement a chose his words and their intonation with extreme care. He was doing som

ething specific to help people. The 
specific people were affected for the better. Another went through many pains her whole life. By these types effortless introspection who was eventfully able to be bold bold enough to go downtown and preach on the street corner. I saw this woman do thi

s and he was greater in courage than any other I have seen. 
 Proclaim in front of the most potent Van der Graaf generators the immortal doctrine of embarrassment; make it known. You won't be affected at all, they will think that you cringe inside as they would if in such an embarrassi

ng situation. The excessive t

endency towards, and great fear of embarrassment is only due to their insidiously misplaced egotism. But still, we are motivated for the cause of virtue, change lives by embarrassing yourself in front of them. Heal 
the sick, encourage the feeble, feed the hungry, by accumulating these strange mental energies from others. 
 One is only embarrassed if one embarrasses oneself; shaming comes from inside. Few realize this pragmatically. when you are no longer easily embarrassed at being someone great, 
you will have gained new power. The psychotic frame of reference enters in; caution is advised. 
 Perhaps the revelation of this is too sacred, too potent -- only revealed under confined initiation. 
 We can all do things in the future if we pay the price time and patience, in every aspect of our lives to Salvation; saving. 

-- 7 --

 The idea of bad faith not being true opens wider the floodgate of secular beauties. The streams gush in. A Halloween at home and housewife: mystical, ethical, sexual. 
 Bloated millions may not be mine. I believe in the skeletal future: our skeletal future. 
 The faithful stand firm in trial, and though I have not yet denial, how many desires of my heart are coming though? Although through poetic license, and genetically-encoded good
intention, the remaining suspicions are few. 
 I start out strong (asceticism or grace?) to look with objectivity (optimism or pessimism?) on the seas of proposed wisdom (reincarnation or hell?). There are Harbors contradiction (poor or rich?), and sometimes they don't

 even agree with themselves (

friend or foe?). 
 And so much good Christ did for me today, yet now again I feel empty. But Christ does live here in Braintown. And the Alchemy of Soul can be another hole, parts empty and alone is that truth.
 A friendly girl cross my midst. I refused her company. A prescribed muse is too jealous. Existence, you've won, you're winning. There never was a game. Existence, you're winning.
 Hey, damn it, why is reality like this? It is. is not fault. If every human on Earth got down on his hands knees, and prayed to God, would He end the charade? Could He open-up the shop for good -- for at least five minute

s while I get a pack of batter

ies? If every human on Earth prayed to God the same time, would God then pull up the curtain and start the show? 
 And the T.V. and radio news proclaimed, "the rapist was set free on bail reduced to ten thousand dollars." Christ will set straight. If Christ doesn't set straight, then this reality exists, unchanged as we now see it. 

 If Christ does set things str

aight, then this reality is not as we now see it. 
 Nutrition is secondary. Hairstyle is secondary. Teeth are secondary. A spouse is secondary. A home is secondary. Self-esteem is secondary...if God is who He says He is. 
 I traveled to glorify myself by creating my immortality. I cursed others who cared for me the most. I those as ignorant who were on the finest path. I was misled. I misled myself as much as others. The first thing You did 

was to accept me. The second t

hing You did as to 
me out of the religions of the enemy. the third thing You was to tell me the truth. he fourth thing You did was life itself. 
 Will confining addictions of lust last forever? Even though the change came into life and heart? I continue in my iniquity and claim to know Him. I'm pretty sure He is carrying 
through. You say we can't know Him and continue in sin. you think you've shed your skin of sin? 
 There is a monotheistic force which created our lives at least for His and our pleasure, but to enable our souls to be complete, He gave us free ill thus enabling him to have the 
heated praise of a free creature. Thus some souls might actually be "damned" in some way -- archaic and barbarous this idea is. 
 Believe not the damned; its never been a good idea. Their plagues shall not be upon you, if you can care about your end. He that gathers in summer is wise. Turn not our ear
from another human's cries. Bring them into house appointed for all the living. The light no man can approach, yet it approves of all things excellent: it is a gift. How could pay for it? What would we use for currency? A friend closer than a Brother.

 None on earth desire besides You. To this end, we were born. Save us from the chaff, the lies, the scorn. Save us from the chaff, the lies, the scorn.
 What is there to be experienced in opening the door; opening the door. waiting on You in more ways than one Impatient and bored. A sudden exposure might crisp my cells
my eyes are too vet. Some southern hair spray, got to it first; some Southern Millionaire, is poor in spirit. Art is outlaw in your town; Fresh cooked chicken receive my frown, in a
southern kitchen, in a southern town.
 T.V. evangelist bless my bowl, empty me of my filth lucre; urine test of my soul, open my allowance. Atheistic humanism seminar, I see my mother there, I see her in her
secret car. The modern school steals her heart, and gives her new recipes. The signs of the times are standing still with viewing range. 
 Through an entire Earth's existence resisting temptation common, You fell not once in view of the final production, souls for eternal redemption, by the contamination of You for
Us. While a certain group of Your followers say they can the same because now they know not to sin, so they don't do anymore, making Your work seem like just a good upbringing
he transfusion of Your blood to ours, You've saved us taking ion the bad, and giving out the good. I ve with Your blood in my veins. I circulate Your blood in my veins. I am washed. 
 Flowers blossom and then fade away. Branches fall off trees in the storm. The learning of man gets outdated. But my love for You will never corpse. There are more of us that know
You than the ones of us that do. It seems impossible for them to change. The lies that carry them are soon through. Friendship with the world is hatred toward Him. Calling for utopian anarchy is more of a deception than silently hoping for His rule. Just

ified by faith alone is the key. If they only new that He does it for us. They have never heard it so simple, yet neither did hen I as one of them. 
 Habit is gluttonishly blocking out that which seeks to preferred. The world around me has created me more than I have created it. God opens his arms to me, but I know of no welcome
since I hold up cardboard images of "him" in front of Him. These cardboard images are given to me by arbitrary and crass thelogy. The dream is to be at peace. The dream is to be restful
sheep? Like a sixteen year old cat at serene rest on its owner's lap. We are told to cast all our cares upon God and He will care for them. 
 Recalling the pastimes we used to do. There is no substance to them now. Understanding the waste of time; we just live now like all the rest. Mutually submissive, I guess that sums it up. Weaken our wills and open us up anew. The war never ends and true 
peace never begins. But I'm beginning to learn how to wait for You.
 When sunken into darkness, there is something inside me that is the proof of the change. The ugly realities can't affect it! but they can sometimes affect me. we all know about
opening the door and the supper, perfect indescript metaphor. Why do people also imply things more clear, like "turn or burn"? 
 Blue promises never seconds away -- always later. Days turn into years into heaven's promises for the faithful. My mind is alive; my heart is half dead. I am forever in the test tube until death, in the puzzle that will not be solved until the death of the individual pieces. 
 We get rewards when we are acting the part. We find results when we shape to the mold. I've got very little emphasize except life can be a waste of time, because Heavens so much better, and I know I believe the right stuff ... this party boat is anchored.

 The truth helps and the truth hurts; the rain cools a the rain helps. The girls breath and the girls are left There is no safe door out of here, yeah, blindness can be such fun. You can't buy God's love with money, but there are some things that it 
does cost. It requires patience, and not a whole lot of thought, just a reflection on what a great guy God is, and how much fun His
love is.
 Now if we had the keys to the universe, we'd make it a sunny breezy day in autumn or spring. We'd connect each girl with each boy, and make energetic toys for the puppies.
 What we inwardly want from philosophy is not to study man's wisdom, but the revealed wisdom from the source of all wisdom whatever this source may be, one thing is for certain, it
not man! Man gets his own wisdom from the level of his intellect's capacity, or better yet perhaps if these semantic are friendlier, his own soul's understanding. It seems clear
from history at a beyond certain point, logic stops and one's own preference begins.
 So with all seriousness imaginable, we must ask ourselves is it true that truth can only be found by intellectual discovery, a progression in the realm of human idea, or is there something on earth in which the source of wisdom has revealed itself clearly?
 I expect you to fulfill every selfish whim that comes comes my way and of course you don't. This makes me get very angry at you (thank you for not getting angry at me! I say that you keep me poor, but yet you fulfill all my necessities -- more than the 
starving and the cold. Make me content, keep me in patience, so then my mouth won't lie and I will see you glory.
 &nbsp

--8--

 All over the different galaxies, we are created in the image of God. We exist in a type of qualitative of his image This s not a physical image. And the strangers, like on earth, but except in a different galaxy (even the closest far enough for me), the
strangers are no different from you or me, because an eye is an eye; a soul is a soul. 
 We took the child with the Cri du Chat syndrome upon a stand, and asked him, tried to understand all that we could gather from inside us, about him. Such a rare child, in first twenty years this disease had been isolated, only nine cases had been observed. And here we have one to be kind to. The syndrome produces humans with a round, moonlike face, physical and mental retardation, and plaintive cry, hence the name "Cry of a Cat." 
 Oh, Cri du Chat child, from where do you come from? Do you come from the same factory that produced the rest of us? Do you somehow deserve your strange appearance and manner? All the mysteries of life are imprisoned in you. 
 The Biological Accident has made an unalterable impression on your soul. For some the impression is too bright, and to think that they would destroy you like a fifteen year old cancerous dog. All in the name of goodness, no less! 
 You are still beyond animals in every respect. To say human life is not beyond cosmic value of animal life would cause too much weight to come crashing down upon the spine of my conscience. None of you have been given the chance to mature by one 
understands you. I would not treat you like they have treated you -- even though they had good intentions. 
 I expire my muscles obligatory responses when I hear the way the strong men treat the weak. 
 I arise in my indignation only to smile at the back of God who is approaching the scenes, already having retributions allotted. 
 The concept of the vastly different on this sun baked shore, the vastly different, many humans of yore. The vastly different, we keep them hidden. 
 God in His mercy has given us the vastly different to build higher our emotions and hearts. 
 When we see humanity meaning more than idea, the obvious virtues shine through. When we destroy all expectations of sociological organization and just learn to care for the needs of our moments and the planet's and its seasonal regeneration. 
 When all humans who desire such find a loving spouse and do what they want and must. When all humans keep the doors of what we now call youth open. When the scientists reconsider the work they are doing and do an about-face to save the planet. When a 
concentrated effort has been made to fix what's broken. 
 When we can actually begin to ascend the pyramids and inverted pyramids of imagination. When our imaginations heart-trained in the sciences, ethics, and aesthetics. When we have begun to take seriously the idea of documentation and supporting originality in the information of the imagination. When our hope is used to keep the doors of imagination open. 
 When all these things happen, we will be on a different planet. 
 Down here, the huddling pool, names of some of our most sacred characters. Down, down, the huddling pool, the more the planets, the millions of more existences, the ways of
patchwork communications mutating our lives for the better. The more of the planets, the millions more of the planets: keep quiet! The earth, the inner layer, here we are, within the millions of existences also exist millions. 
 It starts out this way. Along the days in a course I was on, I made mistakes, I didn't confess the tangents, excuses were made. I left the faith and sought out the myriads of systems utilizing the joyous methods of philosophical improvisation. 
 But today my thoughts are different. I see the truth as something that can't be just improvised. The truth exists regardless of my type of relationship we have pretensions
having with it. Here are some of possible conclusions: 
 (B) The Christian idea of the wheat and the chaff is true. There is a monotheistic force that created our lives for his and our pleasure 
 (C) All life is both supporting a larger life and also enjoying its own little existence. The cells of our body enjoy acting out the programming that they possess, perhaps as much as we enjoy the programming that we possess. 
 Which is true? Can only one can be true? Which one? Does it matter? It is reality that is going on. Does it matter? I know which of my versions of the reality that is going on more correct? Will reality affect us all in the same way, and will it really matter? 
 One thing is certain: that the fulfillment of pleasure is a major factor in the meaning of life -- do the lessons learn come as a by-product? 
 We seem to forget though that we have knowledge and even seem to have understanding. We are not wise beings though, and to top this off, it seems the dummies are in charge of the Earth. Why are the dummies in charge of Earth? Is that something the
 Earth does to whoever happens to be in power at the time? Does the Earth metamorphisize all nations leaders into selfish numb pigs with no appreciation of the aesthetic? It seems the history of our world is a shining example of the worlds power given to the wrong people. 
 Is the only to look at this problem only in human psychology? Is what makes a person want to be a powerful politician the agent that will intrinsically make them a bad force in world? It is said that the types of people who seek power most make the worst leaders. To give anyone this power politics is dangerous in the first place. We are in need of stupendous revelations in common sense. 
 Anyway, to be happy is so important, yet to screw up your lifetime by not giving religion and philosophy an important place is very bad. Likewise, so many people think
that religion and philosophy are only contrived for selfish purposes; to make one feel better, have found out that half of the time they do the opposite. Moment by moment, we must 
seek the truth, and realize human psychology. We put some emphases on this so it does not cloud the glory of whatever is the noumenal. 
 The danger of being alive is the danger of be accountable to a righteous judgment. As one philosophic school attempts to prove its predecessors incorrect and each new school stands on this ground -- that it is right and others are wrong, we can now 
detect that the doctrines that culturally called false are not necessarily false because it is being pushed aside by a mechanism that doesn't give them a chance in the first place. Some things obviously do progress. I have got to find a country where they will accept Jesus (so it will rub off on me'). Imp so weak (but not weak to confess, and it's a sin that materializes; easily give in. But if they would all be like you, then maybe I could, too. 
 You can remake me, not to hope for things to remake me. 
 I have learned it was silly not to think that there was anyone hearing my prayers. I have learned that it was silly for not believing in a God. Why? Because it is such a major either/or type of decision in all of our lives and the vote for atheism 
is senseless compared to the possibilities of getting an answer from this God. 
 Did I get an answer from this God? 
 Although the certainity is a different type of what it is like to be one-hundred percent certain, I understad it as believing I actually did. 

--9-- 

 The only thing that will hold us back from enjoying a beautiful, technological and environmental future is that humanity will not be virtuous. Space flight is possible in its fullest extreme if virtue is humanity's guiding light. To build spacecraft capable of supporting a thousand humans is already within humanity's reach, but instead humans are preoccupied with destruction and mediocrity. Mediocrity is what must be destroyed -- everything in moderation -- but, what that everything currently is must be expanded. 
 I don't want to waste my efforts in repeating the mundane. When the vision dies, the people perish by the mechanism of paranoid mediocrity. 
 If you have that love in your life and you know what friends are for, come over here and we'll play alight. We'll diminish and we wont keep score. Seasons like this we've had in the past, and seasons like this, you know, they may never last. Realize this and they'll come back some more. 
 There might be a new scandolous science that would describe those who retain certain aspects of childhood and who do not indoctrinate themselves into every aspect of the status-quo adulthood, and what these aspects are, new terms for individuals who re
jected many aspects of the adult conformity, while retaining their sanity and social interface-ability. The term "eccentric" just won't do. 
 "Three generations from now, the people for whom I raise my brow. Away, away, oh current day, I spoke again my seeming hay. I ask of you, do I beg of you, oh Future Humans.....speak to me, too!" 
 If this life is a breeding ground for souls, then examine the polemic against experimentation for its own sake, and the plus of virtue. 
 Can there be non-violent explosions on page? If there are any, I hope some will leak out into my life -- crank call, ring and run. Money rains from a friendlier sky. The discipline of the Spirit is to make me better. Oh, how I shall be that day! 
 Yes, most people really don't understand. There is some natural law that works in the foreign realm of self-image, being at peace.... The reason is that some coat their relationships with a power which is false to each other -- the only people that are free can't be enslaved to any self-confidence problem; they accept the truth. 
 They had mapped out the brain and the cells that did what, they had spoken a science, wishing a pleasure -- the technique of dream planning was not in its infancy. By certain chemical 
compounds, and certain electrical messages, they revived some vivid childhood, adolescent, and young adult memories, in slightly forgetful two-hundred-some-odd-year old man. 
 One day they will have a phone, that is, they (who are they?) will have a communication device that can transfer sight, sound, taste, smell, and touch. I was thinking of putting flower petals of various kinds which I find in my yard. and in the woods in
 a jar before they evaporated away. Look, I thought: how could I communicate to someone how beautiful this was? My mind was altered into a beautiful smelling future. 
 Magnificent airplane of the forty-second century -- will the future always exist as it has existed? Expand wing. You're are always the same, now be glad. Optimum loved one: reality 
is always vigorous, Illusion is fragile. Journey into your colored future. journey into your colored past. Stupendous building of the thirty-first century -- virtue also exists in the past. Don't be deceived, you saw five years ago like you saw now. You are always the same. Now be
glad. 
 Horrible war of the twenty-seventh century -- another tale of science fiction? Is anymore than this real to us? 
 If this future does exist, what a load of information mankind will have stored. Intricate indexes of discs, of cartoons, news programs, situation comedies, and a multitude
of documentaries. Five hundred years from now, if the masses don't try to be one individual, putting all their eggs in one basket, there will be much information. 
 And what will you do, oh, pop theologian, when the flowers eyes find your Armageddon lies out? When the future stumbles onto the barber's chair and gets cropped in the latest hairdo.
What shall you then do? Three-hundred years will elapse like the three-hundred that have just, and even mankind alive somewhere in the course of the merciful justice. 

--10-- 

 Too many head trips going on? Thinking about qualities that don't I exist? About vacant situations, or empty encounters? None of that overpowers me, although I went
through seasons when it did. 
 Yesterdays and the days before were summer dreams in love united, with crisp cool iceberg lettuce winter days that we were younger in. Times like this is when the poetry flows. I
understand my salvation and I understand my cardinal sin: the sin of hypocrisy. The poetry flows because I am created in the image of God by the act of the Spirit, breaking the chains of sin,
death, and hell. I am to be perfect as He is perfect. I confess past imperfections -- but all of me is of the Spirit right now, and sin consciousness, the pondering of sins, will ruin all that I have gained by having the Spirit living within. 
 Christ is the word of God incarnate, which means He is the living manifestation of what it would be like if a human could follow the Law. He requires not worship as I am doing now, but worship in the form of doing the things that he would do. Thus, by taking part in His life and the suffering that sometimes comes from seeking to be caring in the dark edges of the world, I will be worshiping him in truth. 
 In my path to God I have found that I am not to exalt myself to Godhead, but to understand that God loves me and cares for my soul even more I ever can. 
 Outside human philosophy conclusions, to see all things outside of our human categories. Man, the subordinate of depth, despair and hairstyles. Planet Earth, planet Earth, 
planet Earth -- won't anyone speak to planet Earth? 
 "But God did, young son." 
 We are on a train that requires tickets all along the way down the track, not just at the beginning.
 It almost happened: despair. Something I did, I thought was a failure. Yet, I caught it, and examined the situation, and saw I could fight it. 
 There is time amongst me and a place where there is no poetry nor music, no philosophy nor art. There is a season caused by a stuffed belly. where is a season of strength, caused by documented fantasy, strenuous sobriety. 
This breaks through the numbness, drenching it for days. Hope is in these periods, as hope is in the Word. 
 We should have mercy on those who give us mean looks. We should not go after those who want us to know that they look down on us. They fuel up on every slander, considering maliciousness deliciousness. We should not cast our pearls before swine, to receive an opinion of our pearls that leaves a harmful memory. 
 Attitudes of unsatisfaction, the attitudes are a season. Opposite is in their lives rarely, the season of acceptance. Acceptance brings pleasure, even if reality is not perfect. Although accepting imperfection in some are as is not what the wise care to
 do. 
 The Zenish reason will state, "The truth is with us here. Die and go down, the truth is with us there." See, this does not have to be my axiom. Truth is more than a current security gained through a multitude of self-help books. 
 Trapped in the self-help destruction chamber, I've searched for areas of my deadness. Sturdy areas of post enlightenment (if seen in a good light), are eaten by the promise of a
freshstart. 
 Hove you heard abut smile therapy? Up they go, sagging muscles need exercise. Let's face it, life's constants aren't always worthy of the pleasure which brings its crown, a smile.
And the kinesilogists say, "it's good for you." Holding up a smile for five to ten minutes is like depositing money in the bank. 
 Common experience in smile therapy is to get burst of smile depthening dharges. Similar to the laugh, but not laughter. Common experience in smile therapy is to gain clarity Of
vision, and a pleasant feeling of light. Shivering sensations are common to humans who practice Smile Therapy for more than five minutes a day. Partial reconstruction of youthful facial
features is possible by the strengthening of the facial musculature. 
 Adept at rerouting impressions that usually end in despair: seasoned, experienced, no junior. Nostalgia doesn't exist, because it is caught and enjoyed as the first cause. Memories metamorphisize into incident and sensation. I have studied exotic self-help techniques along with the crude and sometimes amoral ones you are familiar with. From my studies I have amassed the skills needed to invent hundreds more. 
 Rejuvenated sight expands into the room, to touch the things as a child you could touch. The quickness of muscle follows commands, stretching allowing yourself to explore. The dried shell crack off piece by piece, each month it crack off some more. I poured the liquid substance on; it dried while I was in hell. Now I'm not, I can explore. 
 Walking along a crowded street, I walk it calm like a treey wood. Or laying in sand absorbing heat -- it's my muscles that resume command. 
 There was this old man who use to say to me, "I'm glad that everything isn't perfect, think of how boring it would be if every thing was perfect." I used to say to him, "No way. How would we know anyway? We have no way of knowing what it would be like if everything was perfect!" Meanwhile, a day drags on and we asked, but again we were left to improve. Seasons change and that's the problem: I'll be happy tomorrow, but I wish not so I could stop the clock end continue in ascetics, until I get an answer. 
 I am so sick of the patterns of choice that we fall into, planned by an unknown generation, thousands of generations before even our last names were contrived. The Earth is in need of several non-political revolutions that will make other such movements seem so damn naive. 
 Delusion intrusion, upon a clear and shining day. A clear slate once again dipped into the cauldron containing the stew of the holy war. The amniotic sac of the salvation in Jesus Christ was burst open by the weapons of intellectual despair. The frustration is almost too intense to write a poem. I stay on the fire ball; I stay on the glacier. This is not as planned. I am living my enemy's life. I have died a million minutes all. What is this homesickness? 
 Today, I felt like a failure as I saw you. Big, fresh and manufactured by millions, for you. I felt my mistakes, guilt still adhered to my life and face; I saw sin clear as day, over and out I'll never say. l also had hope today. Dualism is my only way. 
 I've been down this far a year ago, and before it was three years ago. So, I know that it will pass. I might as well hate it, while it lasts. 
 While it lasts it's painful, but it is inevitable as the spring in the fall. There is something that we can enjoy in it; a new constitution. 
 I lose myself in another's perfection. Yet what is there is just like all other pretense. What is all this concern about impressing total strangers? Mutually misguided egotism. The ways of the ego-feeds and ego bleeds. 

--11-- 

 Gurgling burgling torrents vibrates the loveliest teacher, who is out to feast on the recluse beach boy art-teen. 
 "Stifle! Compare! Criticize the form over content -- not even that good, processed in a different way. 
 "--Fashion in literature will destroy us all eventually, when we give in our fruitless rebellion--" 
 Huh? "Oh, I was that way, too." 
 If you were this way, you'd still be this way. There is no turning back. 
 Why is it that all they can say is "was" -- we don't need it, and we're not running. (The logical linear scares the hell out of me). As sure as the day that we die, most will compromise just to appease some maestro manikin, because we can't even take thirteen seconds of its immobile stare. "Gee, I'm glad >you 
 Art is valid, but you constantly try to shove it in your mold. You only want to shave edges off it, until it "resembles something." 
 When I was a teenager I had an idea of what was cool. This color of cool applied to music, art, philosophy, girls, and just about everything else. When things were cool, they convulsed and glowed. Now I witness much of the cool leave me. 
 Sometimes it seems so, but the battle is still on. What would be something I could do that would be totally cool? Maybe I could spray paint something real bizarre on a wall, or cause playful havoc of some sort in a huge shopping mall. This would require planning. But would it be cool? Seems our ideas change. But my idea of cool has gotten a little bit common place, and thus embarrassing. For instance, eating is now cool, when before it was only a necessity. Seeing this, perhaps one in-the-know could say, "I believe you've hooked onto a counterfeit, because the real thing is much more refined, and more difficult to come by." 
 My peers' life-blood-youth-hope is destroyed in the most mediocre of schools in the guinea pig society of the successive television generations. Most of my peers believe that conformity in existing non-conformities is the only other consolation they could seek. They can not recognize those who have not conformed to either. 
 My repression ends when I realize there are they are those who don't mean a thing to the Cause! I could rattle off their patron saints and they'd gasp, punch, or shout. Why must I be faced with their non-option of the linear progression of their forms of "intelligent" "rebellion"? Why am I finding so few, and them so alone? Why do I want to believe that the Earth is only a lower sphere of existence, a training ground, so we will one day be able to hold our own weight in a higher sphere? 
 Yes, the child poetry can not be faked at your age. It is marked by a day that's real, never able to be cultivated. A diploma won't employ; it takes more than words to appreciate. We now know it takes a physical posturing of the body and neck and most of all facial expressions. Glares, stares, winces, squints, and more stares. A mouth gaping open. Tongues lying flat in the mouth. This physical aspect of the aesthetic is what your missing. But it is mandatory. But, it is something you must do in your secret closet. 
 To be the ones who abolish in ourselves the lusts of contemporaneousness and the obsession with the foods, and the historical gene pool that they are. We look not only through the eyes of the journalists of the magazine. Meta-history. Meta-critical. 
We are our lifetime of the whole world. We store all information even while one fact is not known. We are aware of human nature, of what we can still call original sin. When we think about a novelist we look at him as he/she stands as a philosopher. And who needs the documentation of these novelists? 
 Is music the closest thing to the soul's total freedom or artistic freedom, because music is all there is to sound? Painting is not all there is to vision. 
 And the reason to not publish and not think along certain lines are for me both to obey religion and sacrifice -- to pay for it! I may commit sin, so what? Have I truly given up what I repented of? What have I repented of? I will tell you, I have repented up an endless irresponsible imagination, I have given up my deluded sequences of reverie, the ability to say anything, like what most of the poets try to do. They think they will find convulsive beauty by opening all the doors without preference. 
 I am standing on a foundation, obviously. By sacrifice we do gain. It is a fact that the unwise really hate. Hating facts is not the way to go. 
 "Experience in intelligence gives us stored superiority," you say. Am I a trader or just an impostor? Did I get aesthetic experiences only beginning at age nine or have I never come out of my luscious childhood blur? And the bottom line is that many who are first shall be last, and many, who are first shall be last. Did we forget that somewhere along the line? 
 Cheating whatever it is that keeps information at this low level, we bursted and pounded the posh strawberry textures to hell-metal. Spilling in effervescent crystal abrasiveness, 
acidic liquid currents the unknown. The result of all this labor is a new type of plasma which connects our lives in a cerebral haze, a storehouse of says and loves. The ego-scores hinder the trolley car and aerial bus. We weep together, for those moments we are educated by the forgotten. 
 Observing a dull moment, a jumping joy song, or a one thousand kilogram sad song, dulled and dampened by being wrapped in soft thick cloth. Out of serious incorporation phase, fecund lips wet mine. 

--12-- 

 That feeling I get, when existence cries out, "The Universe exists, now isn't that weird?" 
 Thinking of what the world would be like if I wasn't born I realize that the world would not exist to me. Then I question, "Well, the world would go on, but what would the world go on doing?" What is it that the world does and why does it do it? Is it po
ssible that the world could stop doing what it does and, with all the living aboard, start doing something totally different? And how much of All-There-Is is being done by the world: Who makes the world do what it does, or who made the world do what it

 does? What is the world for except a place that we have our existence in? Is the world aware of us living inside of it? What in the world is going to happen to the world in fifty-billion years from now? (Just as every civilizations skyscrapers fall I ca

n't believe that ours will be inhabited forever). 
 Why does the world seem like it was set up by someone? Does God exist? And why doesn't this intelligence come down and have coffee with us sometime, and tell us what in the world is going on? 

NOTE: THE FORMATTING OF THIS PIECE WAS DESTROYED BY MICROSOFT WORDS TEXT TO HTML. IT WAS ALL HAND FORMATTED.
THE REST WILL FOLLOW SHORTLY. 
 The leveling of humanity. All six month old infants. We are equals. We are amorphous. Presidents, popes, geniuses, psychotics. Before in the mold, the liquids dry, before society paints on its paint from the palette of pai

n. The current whole mess seem

s funny, sad, accidental; incongruous with some sort of scripture. Enjoyment is the plasma that is weighed by each and all as the ultimate currency, denoting the might of our nakedness. Reality is that which is going on and on and on and on and on, rega

rdless of our opinions of it. Some say reality has yet to kick mankind in the face.
 Screaming at the reality of the universe, I start to ask questions: "What else do you do besides set up food chains?" Philosophers, artists and monks, we better start doing it right. Why are we here, becomes: what are we here? What is the meaning 

of life, becomes: what is the reason for life? Our souls did not have to be born human. We did not have to be born on earth. We did not have to be born on a planet.
 The life you gave me, God, I like it a lot. I like the possibilities it implies more than what I gather of man's orthodox design of your heaven. I want to go beyond being a human someday. I want to break genetic code completely, dissolving neural b

onding of mental limitations. If my eternity doesn't exist, I don't know what I'll do. Speak to the earth the ends of sins of man. Are any of us approaching static sainthood? Why are we so judged by the apple of evil and good?
 This existence that we are now doing on earth, above land, in respective countries, eating food, drinking liquids, having children, being brainwashed, hiding our eyes from dawn and dusk. What is it that floats out in space, that muscle beating insid

e, muscles on the surface beating under the white clouds? It floats around in space and it doesn't look like it is going to go away for at least a few billion years.
 Is convincing yourself on whatever-it-is-we-so--choose the only way to arrive at the ultimate truth? 
 When I leave this world, I hope I will look back with a sanctioned scornful yet relieved look, that many seek to devour with a gift of weakness. I had tried to prove that virtue was the meaning for the world's existence. I still sustain a philosophica

l optimism based on a benevolent God.
 If not one human has stumbled upon the truth already (and even if one did, how would we know which one?), then how can anyone think that a newcomer can bring anything of any
importance to philosophy? The advent of new technologies can perhaps enlarge our knowledge of the universe. Perhaps we can see the casting line at the edge of the universe, and be able to figure out something from that.
 The realization that absolute truth has either been found, or not, is where academic philosophy should rest a while and do its considering. It is very good that new blood comes in and takes over from the exhaustion of the old. We need not new versions of

 the old, but instead an examination of the original problem.
 As I remember it, the problem was: How is it that humanity is on Earth, with animal life and plant life, and how is it that there is no connection between the God and large groups of men so that proof of the existence of God is unnecessary, and his comm

unication to us would be universally accepted? The position that humanity finds itself in is frightening in some ways: why do so many say there are there no answers to theirr questions when they ask them?
 There is the general answer which is the answer of common sense, that a Wise God created the Earth in such a way that the humans who are moralistic, kind and understanding of their own accord will be rewarded for their virtue. With this answer we can 

also say that only by a relationship with this God on Earth can man assimilate virtue into his being. Answers to questions posed to God are given but only after a human learns from their own experiences in how to listen for them. 
 Thus, the question is incorrect in part. God answers human's questions but not large groups of humans, only individually or small groups, and no proof of the answers is allowed to survive for others to witness. The meaning of this outcome is such tha

t it is too meaningful
for one to develop a gruop opintion about.
 And then our questions may be answered in different ways such as dreams, conversations, street signs; a divination of the occurrences of one's existence.
 Is there another way to look at this whole problem? Is it a different problem all together? Are there few similarities in our Earth below and what there is further out in the universe? Does the universe have a big hall of mirrors set up so we can only

 see what want to see: the Christian will feel Christ inside his heart, the Buddhist will experience enlightenment, etc. And after Earth life is over the big hall of mirrors is still there forever; the Muslims go to Allah's heaven and the Buddhists go

 to Nirvana, etc.
 Some answers tend to annihilate the concept of dealing with a friendly God. If they are taken in a certain direction, these are blasphemies against the Holy Spirit; the sin of despair. Of course, some of these answers are very lightweight and are arri

ved at by people who can not seriously consider a Huge Intelligence that we call God. None the less, if the concept of hope is not included in these philosophies they would be a form of blasphemy against the Holy Spirit -- Unforgivable by way of the dete

rmination of the subjects.
 I don't like solitude, I just want to join with the King. To be in that country and forever; I will pay their taxes. Hating the deathly limitations that men have to offer, I don't dare to be by myself, isolation is not desired. Food chains of the t

rue aesthetic love, early genius death or physical fitness? 
 What is the God doing so far away from me? Jesus Christ, I want you to shout the truth at me in a vision so I that will finally understand.
 You could materialize shoes for the naked children's corroding feet. You could open up a life of beauty for those who so plainly don't have one. You could bring joy to the heart of the sincere philosophers. You could erase the tears of the broken. And

 You do, yet only when we allow yourself to do it through us.
 Over a diseased plateau, all our desperate words of "No!" -- do they seem to get a "so"? God helps and heals. All these thousands of diseases, leoimyomas, aneurisms, genetic syndromes, and other conditions. Motivated for the cause of a Cure?
 Waste the eternal scheme planned by those much larger than ourselves. Fry or cremate the gelatinous strands that short circuit our lives. I hope to not quench the dream of hope and look into the illusively consoling face of pessimism. Born in a world 

with few real doors out, our bodies get old and we die. Few miracles trespass the laws of nature; the laws of nature seem to trespass the miracle of our existence.
 Don't fret, one day we will know all things: all things in consciousness, or all things in our death of soul. In some sort of strange corner of the dimensions of various things known to us as the Universe, a chamber exists where various beings go about

 their business. A biochemical oddity among oddities; softened primates, their evolution caused by fear. Some strange lighting falls upon this corner of the dimensions of various things known to us as universes. A bread and cheese cafe. Some quaint

 functions of being. Some macrocosmic dimestore -- there is even optimism in this!
 Looking up at the moon through a window, I was lying on my back in an enclosed porch-like room. The dark, purplish clouds were lit up around the bright round moon. I admired the distance from the earth to the moon. I thought: I know there is more life

 in the universe than just this planet. Life is benevolent to our souls . . . if we are a little lucky? Does luck, blind random chance, have everything to do with it? Would God give birth to some with mental retardation, and O.K. I know that's not the wor

se one can have; a soul is a soul. . . but there are some that more miserable, and there is no doubt in anyone's mind. (Sometimes, if they are able, not even their's. Well, its not fair. Is it luck? Karma?
 Most of what we try to pin on God is myth; old fables that have nothing to do with what is the truth of such matters. We have our standard blasphemies. 
 Is the documentation of the thousand millions, in Earth time's progeny, kept in the eyes of the current generations?

--13--

 Science can be a fool's religion; paupers in the love of now.
Forever remember the simple sorrow, but emotional levels read nil. Because of all in said and softly, now whispers a toxic chemoblast. Forever remember our time alone doesn't own the Ear

th; scientist, you hold the vein. (Vein open upon the body, the planet spreads her yielding juice). Vault over the fence. Spring over your bounds: pity it is that so many of your kind hate man's religion. You can't believe in God, no, not if He's not

 you somehow.
 As intelligence dwindles, atheism grows. The reason thereof is the mind's rationalization of its insecurity's hyperactivity in ratio with the possibility and inclination of the mind to ponder the abstract. The abstract they ponder is not the real abstra

ct, even if it was, it gets interrupted and put down every ten minutes -- the linear progressions are not made. The mundane in insane has become growable in classrooms. Satan scars the good people into thinking they will be the Anti-Christ someday. 
 I am an eternal indestructible, did you remember you were too? A tree of thistles does not bring forth fruits of grapes. On and on. Falling off like shadows go the hurting dogmas. Which ones . . . it's always very hard to say. 
 Come on atheist, take some guess. What do you think? Show us those smarts. 
 "Well, hate and sex and pride and innocence." 
 Speak up atheist, let's see those answers, or at least reasons for your glorified agnosticism. I see, I must suffer the pain of asking more specific questions. Is your decision beyond trend? Is your life a dream that doesn't count? Is this next dea

th the only death? What is death? Granted that each soul is equally born on earth with no established answers, but are the answers here?
 "Being just a human, no one can tell you anything of the highest value." Being a human has nothing to do with it! Get me slowly nowhere trying to help you. Make the concerned look so stupid trying to bridge to their despair. They only have to open

 the door, God is knocking. Still, the slow sheet of water descends upon us.' We ask only forgiveness as we soak in the pond. As we soak in His splendor. 
 Sustenation, removing the guilt; turning to gold, cracking the hilt.
 Big bad killing philosophies erased the need for human hope, concerning the things that need to be explained to us. Do we have the possibility of understanding abstract mechanisms of function, or higher larger vessels of living? There may be no God im

ages only more parts to the whole; parts that are more elaborate than our part. And the part they play is more important to the unseen. Are our eyes able to see; can a neuron be told about the whole human? Big bad killing philosophies, clouding the c

oncerning about things that need to be explained to us.
 Now seeing Freud's fruits swell in the sanctified land, and as they are distributed, eaten and digested it is concieveable to imagine that the end is now at hand. 
 To some things, I want a closed mind, for too often straight and narrow is the way. Blind hedonism is too long for something you can't have. 
 The smiles are deceitful; an open house, an open invitation. They put out the bait, and set the trap. A hungry yearning for more fuel, more fuel for precarious security. They want a crown, but seem to envelope a grave. And they tell me there is no d

ifference between good or bad, but they never show me the fruits of their higher evolvement.
 The Hedonist, it draws a jab at them simpletons, the damage it does gives it a lift. Judged wise by its peers in its ability to despise. Does slander come easy everyday?
 It says, "Anti-man are we, here we see, limitations in thought abounding."
 Declaration of a Truce? Declaration of a Truce? 
 Psychological debris drainage system. Their end product has become decrepit. This is what has become of their ideas. Yet, they started out with such good intentions.
 Preposterous! -- the definition of these things, yet given in such plainness of the Universes' acceptability. Will you accept and be accepted? Will you deny and be forgiven? 
 To analyze my motivation for the cause according to sexual psychology would be to further to tightened your eyelids until your very eyeballs are squashed like grapes in a little boy's fingers. 
 Can you see still? Absolutes are absolutes. The only absolutes we can be sure about are absolute questions. Mighty eternal questions which can never be rationalized away, because their answers do exist!
 Now at the mood to write a poem, I snarl at the injustice around me. Another noble loser, another Franz Kafka. The vanity of the pathetic envelopes me. So I see all this and I become free. Not another human monument to the depths of despair. The Noble

 Loser muse flees from me for its life! 
 But some are not so lucky. The Opener-Table grants them free admission, and they rejoice at this, their first ecognition. The treatment is steady and long. The release of the bats produces contamination. Although they release the Bat Thoughts thinking, "

Key to Free," with the release comes the Gradual Bits of Death and the smiles now smell. This contamination comes from the Bats which carbuncled several small dwellings in their once pure smile. But wait! Not with New Books! Books that will grant them fr

iends. The 0pener-Table will provide Books for them. But still, too many second looks, too many reconsiderations. The Opener-Table opens their mind so the bat Thoughts can fly out.
 The bats fly out and return to them to land in dwellings in their once pure smile. 
 The scope of the system is not as real, as the Lies from the Pit seem it all to be. The conclusions are results from pollutions of evidence; the logic employed is thus denied its chance. 
 The facts are twisted then bloated into volumes of the historical novels they write with the ink they have extracted form the fears of the masses -- who only want to believe in something so badly. 
 In the way they laugh . . many birds of uncommon plumage flew into corrosive sheets. 
 In the way that they laugh . . . many who are earnest still hard work for their food. 
 The outcome is despair, confusion, frustration, insanity. The Lies from the Pit have gotten their desired results. But the escape was made well known, from the beginning we were shown, but we misunderstood the Work of it. The blind spotted vanity of the 

intelligentsia has captured its own into a thought-style without a real home. And every night their dream machine tells them: "Our end product has become decrepit. We resisted societal good and it changed us. We are sad and rotted. And that is the fruit o

f our labors."
 Another enemy of the people, we the people; the critics praise his warmth. Enemy in subtle instances; the essence though is all too obvious. He is the pretentious superstar of the art gallery, his name is shown to us with the barrel of their gun aimed

 on us, "this is art, do you understand?" A subtle new form of robbery.
 We will like what we are shown eventually. 
 All there is in the universe is shown to us in only what we remember. Some humans chose what most of humanity is shown. It is therefore up to us to get in there and reveal more information and vision.

--14--

 The masculinity and the relaxation of the facial muscles, with the ease of leisure and the eloquence of cash, encases our luxuries, in swirls and scarfs, and drapery. Entomb the frontal region. Rest in peace. 
 Craftsmanship: the eximious, the invaluable, the exorbitant, priceless, unconscionable. The skill of sweat jewell-cutters drip. Schooling in sequence from age two to twenty-five -- check one. Proper attitude learned--check two. Original technique of

 manipulation of medium -- check three.
 As they fasten the buckles in warm, painted, clothed, embellished rooms there is never contact with the millions more. As the maid, butler, and cook work to prepare the house for the pleasure of the family and guests, they are all enclosed, lucky to be a

way from the outside, where many humans are enclosed in a forest, outside in the elements, untamed, straggling in clothes made so coarse and of such a simple design.
 While the husband and wife live a life of fulfillment of will and wealth, in houses that sparkle, the motion of the masses goes on outside their door. 
 If contact is made, contamination of a sort occurs undoubtedly on both parts.
 "Behold the Spirit!" 
 The phrase is uttered to both worlds and each feel at home with it. 
 The vain coach travels down Shadybrook Lane in the fall. Landscapes are ignored, non-family members are deplored. Those who don't fit into the trend are harmless. Those who do fit into the trend are watched carefully. Do they fit in above or below? 

-- the essence of the show.
 So this where I'm so posed to be, in with the models, well done hair. The youth and the beauty. Perfection in appearance . . . it's so well done.
 So this is where I'm so posed to fit in. In with the girls in red and green dresses. 
 Such good young ladies; this must be perfection. 
 So this is where I'm so posed to fit in, the style council, wealthy poems of waters, the airs of rustic autumns with maple leaves on the ground and in the sky. 
 The soft breezes, the fitting ground, to the model's land -- the Fashion Show!
 Allowed to grow by doing; allowed to do by having money. Money brings with it respect. Respect puts a person in the spotlight, allows them to make decisions, exercising their minds. People think with their status and their abilities increase the more the

y act. Someone who doesn't make large decisions often, nor one who can act spontaneously at will, may be feel and act less intelligent than one who does all those things.
 The airport is like home to the prepared in overnight luggage loads and the assurances that the other luggage is on the way. 
 "The plane will take us to Egypt, once there there will be tables and fine cigarettes and cups of coffee."
 The will: necessary actions and lifelong desires; fulfillment, enjoyment progression. Will: the power to be actualized. Will; the right decisions, some sweet steady course. The first steps are in the home. Enough work already present. A home: an e

nvironment to work in. A job: the only way to get money, the pieces of your life if you work too hard and unhappily to get it
 A man should work. The work he does should provide him the power he needs to get his real work done: his own enjoyment; some fulfillment of his own will. Life has not considered many's art to be work. 
 Why? Why are they penniless? When they give and give and give of themselves on the pages and the tapes which are all they can afford to buy. 
 What about that lie: "the rich were good in the last life"? If years of asceticism will be wasted in reckless pleasures of the next life of rewards on earth, then what occurs in the life after that?
 What one misses in religious observation is impossible to gain in monetary expenditures and intercontinental ventures. The similarity in essences are many, but the frontal regions are only cultivated by religious devotions resulting in sincere losses. 

The last shall be first. The lost shall last.
 Those creeks with black mud, and branches with bright birds, see the life that the universe sets free for those who can't afford to live in big cities. The birds have better ears; their minds are shaped by the way they hear. their entire physical form 

is shaped by their constant thought. However one opens their eyes, hurricanes can be friendly still. 
 "Sorry, I made little money. Sorry, I will never walk those amber deserts with you. Sorry, I have to live my life in a relative silence. It's funny: I'm sorry for the popular way, although it's not my fault."
 The Earth is just a strange place, so much for us to say, to catch up for our own misguided criticisms of the status quo or the innocent stranger.
 Do you see what you have been doing, sneering in all faces, bland and cute? You still seek what you have, and you'll never find what your slowly losing. 
 Can't you see your folly, human? Do you really think you can sustain the good?
 Some may look at your life, looking at the things that you like to do, and the things that you have achieved and they will see enjoyment, they see the grass greener. Whomever you are, if you need a few kind words, listen to me and enjoy the things of y

ourself that they see. Enjoy it in a different way than you have known. Enjoy your life the way they have seen it.
 Zero mobility, how it get to be this way? You and I prisoners to a parent's house or studio apartment. Others talk about farms feeling like a long lost friend. Some enjoy a lesuirely plane ticket on alternate months. I guess there is a lesson to be le

arned either way. Hey, its good to be back home. 
 "I'll be good looking till I die. For the helpless and suffering, I'll be with them and we shall together cry. Money goes in my hand to buy my escape into an unpopulated land. Sell my soul
for a few years, provide the earth with the proper tears."
 Thousands of souls die every day, with their thousands of thoughts that had been thought. These thoughts -- much of them must have been so much the same! Each soul cared for so much -- and so many who cared so much for them! 
 The breeding ground's ground is getting harder, the thin green stem's thready white roots try to dig in. The lusts of this world are the UnSpirit's devices, to make us unable to live in our Father's Home. 
 Can we see that God creates us to be what we always wanted to be? If He didn't, than that would be a mistake in design.

--15--

 Exercises in pragmatic afters. Recluse from the winds of change, mono-unified in primordial sequence sustaining colossal chords of the ingredients of the planet. No concept of what it is like all at once, I take three steps back. Yellow winds with black

 white shadowing and showering and I'm warm. The rent is paid for all this month. Searching for the words that will turn on us, religious experiences should somehow be mandatorily desired. 
 Most final products are in a constant flux. How come I feel like this -- like it is so old? How come I feel it and it's like my own set of colors, but they are everyone's everywhere's colors? Is it to be gotten from a perfect recollection of childhood a

ttitudes and experiences?
 I want to stay here in touch with a me that was almost gone. I have manage to rescue it from the rambunctious wasteland of my peers as artists, poets, composers -- the dramatic effect is all I intend by this statement. 
 They will get nowhere without that which is of God. 
 Machine invented which unites our hope into a constant issuing out, a constant presence emitted from its blower into our living rooms.
 No, it is not quite that easy. And I know what its like. Are we are selling our souls for pretty cheap prices, paid labor, labor in vain. 
 I'm looking at my body, to see if it's sexy. Undesirable worries. Strain. Tension. Despair. There is much trouble and I know what it is like. The enjoyment of life is not a matter of status; the vanity of labordoes not equal success. Plan ahead. Take 

a Rest. 

Brought to you by ParaMind Brainstorming Software.