Miscellaneous Writings by R.S. Pearson 

 Miscellaneous Writings by R.S. Pearson 

 New Writings (2003) -- Temporarily Removed for Further Editing 
 New Level of Love 
 Spiritual and Philosophical Writings

 Recent
Psychological Writing by R.S.Pearson Complete Rewrite November 14, 2002.

I have not published on the web or in magazine
format any substantially new writings for about three years. One
of the main reasons is that I have been doing so many new literary 
and essay projects that I've been unable to finalize new works.
Not liking the feeling of vague disempowerment that comes from a writer
not publishing their works, I've decided to put these new writing projects
on the web in their present form. Hopefully the more glaring typos and
other problems will, in short time, be fixed.

My philosophical and spiritual patterns are in an ever-changing flux and
progression and this is another reason why I have had delayed in publishing. Because
the pragmatic need of personally taking some far-out worldviews and methods throughout my life, I have
seen the need at times to contract a bit into essential patterns which for me took
the form of Christian mysticism. But it has not been a basic form of
Christianity that I've wanted to express, and this has been hard to describe in
writing in a finalized way. 

Trying to unify my writings on these patterns of philosophy and spirituality
has taken a long time. The literary form of "the fragment,"
that Pascal used in his Pensees and Novalis used in the majority of his non-fiction
writing, has also been the form that I see works best for me in the short term. Fragment theory 
says that a total system for complex thought is impossible and the truth is only to be hit at 
by compiling short statements that may not seem to co-exist within a total form.
I know that compiling some larger forms for these fragements is possible, but that may be many years away.

In these writings there may be use of various patterns, some might seem
are like Christian mysticism, but they are not lost within
those forms in themselves because my views are not locked into them. Perhaps
someone like Robert Moore, the Jungian psychologist, especially in his taped lectures, comes
closes to an overall pattern that I would fit much of my thinking into, but again, I wouldn't want to 
limit what I write by pointing to him alone. 

The main problem with this writing for me is that I touch on several subjects
in certain fragments that I may later develop in better ways in following ones.

Be sure to check back for the launch of Telical Books.