Interview with R.S. Pearson from 1999 
 Interview with R.S. Pearson from 1999 
Interview done with "Tara" from Australia for an art school project.

QUESTION 1: 

Do you feel that Christianity expressed in art around the Renaissance
period lacked the depth and spirituality, and maybe maturity of
Christianity expressed in art today? In the sense that artists today have
more freedom to express individually?

No, I don't believe that Renaissance art lacks the depth and spirituality,
or maturity of
Christianity compared to today's art. The Renaissance was a time of
tremendous
innovation and spirituality. Individuality isn't a positive thing in
itself, as when
there is no listening to the inner law of God in people's hearts. Artists
can use the banner of individuality to be a cloak for aimlessness and
creating art that has a lack of meaning and aesthetic value. With the
Renaissance, artists were under some strong guidelines of meaning and
beauty.

Today's Christian art, as expressed in visual arts, doesn't always strike
me as better or deeper.
In fact, I'm usually more moved by Renaissance art, and the work of 19th
Century art, like the
Pre-Raphealite movement, than I am by modern Christian art I've seen.

QUESTION 2: 
Have you observed, or do you feel that there has been a drastic change in
the purpose for the expression of Christianity in art? 

There shouldn't be a drastic change, but sometimes I see today's Christian
visual artists as still
fairly immature. I run one of the oldest internet sites for Christian
Modern Art, and I don't
come across many artists who have a mature figurative style in describing
aspects of Christ's
relationship to man. Perhaps many are still in a stage of needing to
explore a new-found
freedom of artistic expression, and are forgetting the need the world has
for spiritual healing.

QUESTION 3: 

Do you feel that artists such as Andres Serrano ("Piss Christ") are more
associated with a rebellion against aspects of Christianity instead of
spiritual expression? Why? 

From what I've seen of Andres Serrano, I personally don't believe there
is much
value in any of his work. I think most people are basically sleep walkers
in this respect. They don't really look to see if there is anything of
value in his other works, they look only at his publicity gimmick, which
in itself really wasn't so original when you look at the last hundred
years of modern art. In seeing his other work which are mostly on the
themes of urine, supposed morgue shots, other sacriligious subjects, etc.
it seems like his cover-up statement that his work was for deeper values
was really just press-release material to make his work seem more
substantial. 

QUESTION 4: 

When do you feel an artist has gone too far with controversial Christian
portrayals in art? Is there a boundary? and when has it been
pushed/crossed? 

I think that any artist must be understanding of what the spectrum is of
how
his work will be understood. If an artist is incapable of that, he or she
really
dosn't have much intelligence, as one of the signs of intelligence is an
ability
to communicate effectively. I think it's not right that so many Christian
artists
seem to need to portray a certain darkness or painfulness in their art,
and we don't 
see much "Joy of the Lord" expressed intelligently in today's Christian
art.
I would say the main boundary is creating relatively meaningless work,
and then calling it Christian. We must remember to pray to God to make
us ministers to the needs of other human beings. We can't do it on our
own. 

QUESTION 5: 

Do you feel society places too many restrictions on artistic expression of
Christianity? If so, how do they do this? 

Well, the art society can be at times pretty accepting of Christian work.
I have a friend named Miska (www.miska.com) who is a Catholic artist
and she shows in secular galleries while still having Christian themes in
her
work. She's not exclusively painting Christian themes but most of her
work
is sunny and bright and shows the fruit of the Spirit. 

My biggest concern is that the new awakening of Christian artists seems to
be 
cut-off from communicating with the secular world. I don't know
everything about
what is going on out there, but from what I've seen, I've been a bit
angered that
there is so much of this "church speak" -- people talking more about
having
>art Christian art 

QUESTION 6: 

Is it these such restrictions placed on artists by society that are the
cause of much "controversial" Christian work? Has society's efforts to
conform to the glorified and idealistic portrayal of Christ, in fact
enticed
a rebellion against it? 

I'm not really aware of what controversial Christian work you are talking 
about. I could believe that some of the work I've seen on the web over
the years has been called controversial by some. 

About the second part of your question: the more society tries to
conform to the glorified and idealistic portrayal of Christ, the better it
is.
Trying to conform to Christ has caused more than half of the mental
and emotional evolution on the planet. It started in the days of the
ancient Romans, it was happening in the Middle Ages, and it is even
happening in this century, as we see the barbarism of the Nazi's and
the Communists, and even today, the barbarism of the teens in American
high schools, and sadly, much of the adults in their lives. Sadly, in 
America, we have some real clowns on TV who portray themselves
as ministers of the gospel, and yet to some people, they actually are
doing the job. But to most unchurched people, there aren't enough
Christian role models to understand what to conform to and why this
way is better. They can't yet see how becoming one with God's plan can
make their lives more beautiful, harmonious, enjoyable and effective. 

Perhaps the rebellion against what Christ is really about isn't at stake
here. Most people say they're against
Christian people's hypocrisy. Yet we all have to learn to not make
accounts of how we imagine someone to be on the inside, because 
mistakes in communication is really humanity's biggest problem.
Everybody is fighting their own battles. I have a lot less respect
for people who are just rebelling for their personal ideas of
righteousness 
than I use to. I used to be one of them and in awe of them. But
today, and even for many years, a stack of rebellious attitudes 
and expressions inside a person is often just divisiveness against
well-meaning people 
and therefore blindness. It's the creation of alternative types of
power-structures
more than working for charity and doing what God needs done.
Being an alternative-type isn't righteousness in itself anymore than being 
any other type of person. 

QUESTION 7: 

Under what circumstances might the government or other bodies be justified
in censoring or prohibiting such critical expression? 

Good governments do what they can do to keep the most number of 
people happy while still having some control over people who cause
problems. Most
people don't understand art's potential for good or harm, or have
something at stake --
perhaps they enjoy violent movies. Many are saying that we have given
people
too much freedom, that the profit motive is overrunning any sense of moral
responsibility
of not creating a narcissitic violent youth sub-population. I personally
don't think it's
a problem that is going to be easily solved and I don't envision that many
people sacrificing themselves to such hostility by advocating censorship
of any kind. I myself don't think about
censorship being the solution, I see the solution in educating the souls
of men towards not creating and liking violent reptile-brain garbage. 

QUESTION 8: 

Do you feel there is more need for the regulation of Christianity in
contempory art? Why? 

No, I don't see any need for regulation in Christian comtemporary art. 

QUESTION 9: 

Patronage played a major role in art created in the Renaissance period. Do
you feel that because of this fact, artists of this time lacked a
spiritual
depth and understanding in their works? Why? 

No, I am very appreciative of Renaissance art in general. In the
Renaissance,
the structure of faith was often more open at that time and embraced areas
of depth and understanding that some Christians might lack today. For
instance,
it seems in the Renaissance, Christians could understand the use of
mythology,
say as Carl Jung had understood it, and I think we've lost touch with that
today. 

QUESTION 10: 
Do you feel that society's perception of religious art is too conformed as
a result of such religious depictions found in the Renaissance? 

That is true. There needs to be some way to break this stereotype.
Only very great artists are capable of doing it, since very great artists
created
the art that produced the stereotype.