Search 

 Search 

 The "Search" menu includes "Find," "Replace,"
and "Next." "Find" allows you to find a word or any
occurrence of words. "Replace" allows you to find a certain word
or occurrence of words and replace them with new ones. This can be very
useful in ParaMind. "Next" allows you to move from occurrence
to occurrence. 

 One feature that can be used with great effect is the "Search"
functions. What might look like a useless ParaMind page can be fixed easily
with the "Search-Replace" routine. You can also turn adjective
Word Categories into adverbs by adding an "-ly" next to them,
and change present tense verbs into past tense by adding an "-ed".
Sometimes you may want to even create a type of grammatical shorthand by
adding other suffixes or prefixes that might look like typographical errors
but put things in better context for you. 

 For instance, if one has a verb that is written in the Word Categories
in the singular, one can use the "Replace" to make those verbs
into plurals. First merge with a word using it as an adjective, or have
another word as a reference around it that will be repeated in each section.
Then use that reference word for the word to search for in "Replace."
Put the word plus an "s" to be replaced. The result will be something
like this: 

This is the cutest little program around because of the way it increases
ideas. 
This is the cutest little program around because of the way it enlarges
ideas. 
This is the cutest little program around because of the way it advances
ideas. 
This is the cutest little program around because of the way it rises ideas.

This is the cutest little program around because of the way it mounts ideas. 

 Then take out the space next to the "s" and the word it is
pluralizing by looking for a " s" (that is a space and a "s")
and replacing that with a "s" that will very effectively take
out the spaces, and you will have salvaged a file. 

 Search And Replace 

Use your back button or click here for 
 Table of Contents Page