Anonymous Writing Sent to R.S. Pearson

Anonymous Writing Sent to R.S. Pearson

The writer of this work wished to remain anonymous but I felt
it was so good that I had to put it on this site. 
R.S. Pearson Janurary 1999 

"I really like the fact that virtuism focuses on areas that have been
considered less important or central to 20th-century analytic philosophy:
namely, metaphysics, ethics, aesthetics. i could not agree more that
these are at least as important as the study of epistemology and logic.
(perhaps they are even more important?) virtuism, if it caught on, would
constitute a major shift in western philosophy, especially in england and
america, which have been focused on positivism and a metaphysics-ignoring
pragmatism. the continental european philosophers have done better at
opening philosophy to a broader range of human experience and meanings,
i.e. existentialism, postmodernism, etc. -- but i am sure that we can go
farther. i also like the idea that a new metaphysics would not
necessarily be the same as the old, but would indeed be something new.
this goes along with my idea of the true "post-modern", which may more
closely resemble the pre-modern (since it would be non-modern), but which
would be something new, not a mere revival of pre-modern elements. (in
other words, to be truly post-modern, it would not be merely
"neo-premodern", although it may be that in part.)" 

"it is good to affirm the important role that philosophy plays in shaping
human institutions and human life. many people today see philosophy as
perhaps impractical and too esoteric to be of any interest or use to
society as a whole, or to the "common man". it is worth noting that many
think the same way about modern art, and along with modern philosophy,
they might even consider these things to be vain and pretentious. perhaps
they have some justification for thinking so? what needs to happen is the
return of philosophy to a role that more fully addresses human experience
(which would include the renewed emphasis on metaphysical, ethical, and
aesthetic theories), as well as the return of art to an aesthetic
emphasis, instead of being an increasingly self-referential,
self-indulgent, self-consuming, and ultimately suicidal project. virtuism
would indeed be the great liberator of art, its breath of fresh wind, its
new lease on life. this is not to say that there are not already artists
out there who are doing constructive, aesthetic-based art. it is to say,
however, that the dominating trends of modern art have been largely
destructive of the aesthetic focus of art, and that virtuism is a
philosophy of art that encourages a revival of aesthetics in art.
virtuism, as it is based on the word "virtue", and on the idea of the
aesthetic experience being found in "acts of virtue", would seem an
appropriate remedy for the self-focus of modern art, since virtue, in the
judeo-christian sense, is a self-less, giving, loving quality. it is
moving art away from an adolescent, even masturbatory, stage, on to a more
mature, responsible stage. for artists, like it or not, must accept the
responsibility of that office in our society (as must philosophers accept
theirs). in much of modern art, we see a total abandonment of social
responsibility, to the point where much of 20th century art becomes
anti-social, and the desire to shock is placed as a higher priority than
the desire to help others with one's work. now that i think of it, this
seems to be directly related to the emphasis on ugliness and the
abandonment of beauty, and this connection would seem to confirm virtuist
theory -- the direct connection between virtue and beauty ". 

"it is important to realize, too, that adult maturity and responsibility
do
not equal the abandonment of innocence. innocence is often lost in the
course of adolescent experience, and disillusionment and even nihilism can
set in (a state of post-experience emptiness in which, sadly, many adults
spend the remainder of their lives). we often call this being "jaded".
it is the source of cynicism and pessimism. now what i am getting at is
that much of modern art has been stuck in this mode. however, it is
possible for adults to regain some of what was lost -- to revive and
cultivate many childlike qualities, such as innocence, the sense of
wonder, imagination, carefree-ness, spontaneity, etc. these childlike
qualities find a new home in the life of an experienced, mature,
responsible adult, a home in which, because of their earlier loss, are now
much more appreciated, and which even have greater intensity and meaning
to the person than before. in the same way, a post-modern, virtuist art
could rise above the ashes of modernity, wherein lies all the cynical,
pessimistic, nihilistic, disillusioned, negative art of our times, and
move beyond that to a matured, wiser, stronger kind of innocence. the
rediscovery of beauty, the realization that the holocaust of modernity has
not defeated it, will make our appreciation for it all the greater, and
make these affirmative statements of art all the more powerful. this
return to beauty and innocence, far from being naive, is something on the
other side of "realism", disillusionment, nihilism... starting with
naivete, we move through experience and devastation, and go on to learn
the true value of all that is good, and to reaffirm it. that is, if we do
not give in to defeat and despair. the affirmation of innocence and
beauty and meaning in the face of destruction is a powerful and beautiful
thing. this is the potential power and beauty of virtuism." 

"i realize that there are many works, in all fields of the arts, which
could be cited as examples of the virtuist aesthetic (the movie
"schindler's list" comes to mind -- a perfect example of how virtuism is
not at all naive, but takes into full account the horror and ugliness of
evil, but thereby shows the true power and beauty of good.) what we are
doing with virtuism that is different is choosing this as the central
focus of our artistic project." 

"Well, I read the letter to you from _____. It's obvious that there is no
shortage of bad
philosophy out there. There was plenty I found annoying in his response,
but the thing I found
the most distasteful was his ethical ideas. The idea that things like
pity and duty are immoral or
evil is nothing short of a lie, i.e. a flat-out reversal of the truth.
(Although I'm sure Mr. _____ is
sincere and truly believes it.) And his bias against Christianity &
religion in general is obviously
distorting his view of them. His attitude toward them seems very
irrational." 

"To me, one of the best points he made was the issue of technology &
nature, and how can we
describe anything as "unnatural". This is a very good question indeed.
However, this does not
automatically prove that technology is all good and well. I believe that
there are degrees of
technology, and that the problem is not one of technology in itself (for
this would mean we
couldn't use forks to eat, or fire to cook, etc.), but the way in which
technology, as it becomes
more and more advanced, has a tendency to distance man from his natural
environment and his
dependence and interconnectedness to that environment (and by "natural"
here I mean the
environment outside of man's influence and manipulation). The distinction
between "technology"
and "nature" is based not on the definition of nature as "physical
reality", which technology is
obviously a part of, but on the definition of nature as the physical world
apart from our
manipulation of it. Of course, such manipulation, or technology, is not
inherently wrong. When it
becomes a problem is when we manipulate our physical environment in a way
that is destructive
to life, whether it be human life, the life of other species, or even the
planet as a whole; and also
when it is destructive of the non-physical, i.e. spiritual/psychological
side of life. It is not a
question of technology vs. nature, so much as it is a question of man's
relationship to nature and
to himself. It is a very real fact that modern technology tends more and
more to distance and
alienate us from our natural environment ("natural" can also be defined
here as: reality as it is
given to us, as opposed to how we re-make and re-shape it). From this
point, the issue goes
deep into major metaphysical issues, like the difference between the
Western and the Eastern
mindset with regard to nature, and others. For me, the bottom line is
love, which includes
concern for our fellow human beings as well as for our fellow creatures
and our planet, and it is
also concern for oneself. Unfortunately, in Mr. ______'s and many
others' ethics, there is no
room for true concern for anyone outside of oneself. That is a very
limited and oppressive ethic
indeed, and knows nothing of true freedom. It is, in fact, the ethic that
leads ultimately, in its
grossest form, to totalitarianism, ironic as this may seem (as Camus
pointed out in his critique of
Sade)." 

These are only some excerpts of the work,
Emotive Virtuism, which can be ordered from our web page
in both hard copy and ebook on May 15th, 2002. .

 Email .

 Creative Virtue