Word Categories 

 Word Categories 

 In the "Word Category"
database included with ParaMind there are nouns about many different subjects.
Also there are many groups of verbs, adjectives, and adverbs as well as
prepositions and conjunctions that you can use to merge into the sentence
you typed. 

 Knowing about what's in your "Word
Category" database is essential to getting the most out of ParaMind.
And to know what's in it you must first know a little about how it is arranged. 

 One special note that you must know
about the category structure is that you are required to have your "Word
Category" title be the same in DOS as it looks in the top of the "Edit
Categories" screen. That is, if you have a category called "pretflow.cat"
which to you is "pretty flowers category," you can't call it
"pretflow.cat" in your "Edit Categories" screen, and
then go to DOS and rename it niceflow.cat" -- it must stay the same.
This can be the cause of your category changing its shape over time. 

 Make sure that if you change the
name of your category to a better name over time, you go out to DOS and
find the old name, and use this DOS command, "Ren [oldname.cat] [newname.cat]"
-- that way ParaMind will be able to access the correct old category. 

 You can also edit the Word Categories
by highlighting the Word Category and selecting "edit." Likewise,
by highlighting a Word Category you can also choose to delete it. You will
be asked to rebuild the category. Like other database programs that build
indexes, it may take a few minutes on slower machines. Don't be alarmed,
this is normal. You can go to other Windows applications while it is building. 

 The Word Categories are three kinds:
 General 1 - specific groupings related to parts of speech General 2 - general
groupings related to parts of speech General 3 - specific groupings not
entirely related to parts of speech 

 Types like "adjaffect"
or "advtime" stand for "adjectives relating to an affect"
and "adverb relating to time" respectively, then some are general
like "comnou1" or "abnou1" stand for "common noun
group #1" and "abstract noun group #1" respectively. 

 You can customize the "Word
Category" database by a simple, user-friendly interface that lets
you title a category and type in your own list of words. You can do this
as many times as you want, and organize them in their own directories. 

Use your back button or click here for 
 Table of Contents Page