HyperFaceted(tm) 

 Hyperfaceted&#8482; 

 Hyperfaceted is proud to present custom songs and single tracks from 
 artists who have original and unique work. 
 We actively seek local artists* to record their original songs, concepts, 
 and live productions. 
 It doesn't matter how big or small though admittedly we have a preference for 
 Rock, Metal, Techno, Folk and especially work that features stringed 
 instruments such as guitars, violins, base, banjos, etc. 
 Contact: Jill England 
 * What do I mean local artists? I'm in Seattle, 
 which is on the coast of the Pacific, which is on Earth. If you can read this 
 you are close enough. It's a small universe. ;)

 Jill England 

 Download -> 
 The Spell v1.0 stero (guitar only) 
 mp3, 1.01MB, 1min 6sec. 
 Copyright & Distribution for "The Spell" 
 Copyright (C) 2004, Jill England and Hyperfaceted Productions, Seattle. 
 Free Worldwide distribution to everyone. Ownership of song and lyrics remains 
 with Jill England. Unlimited rights granted to everyone for preformances both 
 public and private. 
 Contact: Jill@eskimo.com 
 (Jill England) 

 Phone: (206) 427-2620. 
 Guitar: Jill England

 Lyrics and Music: Jill England

 Drums: Marsha Thue.

 Perfomance and Production: Jill England and Hyperfaceted Productions, 
 Monday, Febuary 3, 2003

 Lyrics 
 Our Worlds are One,

 Our Love is One,

 Our Lives are One,

 Our Souls are One. 
 Worlds

 Thoughts

 Hearts

 Souls

 Artist Comments 

 Music is Magic, every note, every nuance, every touch on the strings brings life 
 to the universe. With every song you write and perform you cast a spell, which 
 effects yourself and those who hear it. Can you rip this simple rift from your 
 mind? I can't, I hear it over and over, with different chords, different fills, 
 new bass tracks, differnt lyrics. 
 Every song is a spell. They are Magic of the oldest kind. The ancient symbol of 
 a pentagram inside a circle is a representaion of basic music theory. Wield 
 songs with care, as with all spells they will cut from both sides. 
 I can't help it, it's just the way it is. 

 Copyright (c) 2004, Jill England 
 and Hyperfaceted Inc. 
 The words Hyperfaceted and Hyper-Faceted are 
 Trademarks of Jill England and Hyperfaceted, Inc.