Articles on "Electricity" 

 SCIENCE HOBBYIST 

 GUESTBOOK 

 AWARDS 

 GOOD STUFF 

 NEW STUFF 

 Articles on "Electricity" 
 William J. Beaty 
 Electrical Engineer 

Jump down to Build-it Projects .

 What Is
"Electricity?" 
 There is a simple answer to this question. Really. Not the one you
expect, though.

 Electricity FAQ
(Frequently-asked Questions) 
Browse these Frequently Asked Questions, or submit a new one. 

 Barriers to
Understanding Electricity 
 Twenty misconceptions which prevented me from understanding simple
electrical science as a student. Maybe they cause trouble for you as
well? 

 Electricity mistakes and 'nitpicking' 
 My encounters with elementary-school electricity, and how I
started my "electricity debunking" articles.

 "Static" sparks 
Doorknob sparks and zapping yourself on the car door... and people who
suffer from an "electric shock" disease.

 Explaining "electricity"
visually 
 A simple classroom activity using red and green plastic sheets.
Here's a way to visualize Electric Current, "Static", and the electric
charge which creates both.

Right Angle Circuitry 
 Do Lenz' Law and the Right Hand rule still work... after
you've been turned INSIDE OUT by that Evil Grey Fog?

What is Voltage? 
 What the heck is VOLTAGE? What the HECK is voltage? Charles Fort 
said that when investigating a circle you can start at any point.

 Where does EM energy flow in a circuit?

 The schematic of a flashlight looks simple, but only because the
electromagnetic energy flow is invisible.

 Sparks and
Lighting 
What would lightning look like if we could slow it down?

 How is "static"
different from "current?" 
 Not the usual answer found in most textbooks!

What is the relation between Watts, Ohms, Amps, and Volts? 
 Trying to tie it all together. Ohm's law and electrical energy.

 Electricity is not a form of energy 
 How can so many textbooks and encyclopedias make a major mistake?

J.C. Maxwell quotes 
 Maxwell says that electricity is not energy.

 "Static Electric"
misconceptions 
 A list of things which gave me a warped view of Electrostatics. Once
I recognized their existence, I was able to fight free of them. 

 Sticky
Electrostatics 
 Use sticky tape to demonstrate the behavior of electric charge. 

 The "Electricity"
Map 
 How are batteries different than static cling? Perhaps this diagram
will
"generate" some insights.

 Which way does
'electricity' flow? 
 Charge REALLY flows from negative to positive, right? RIGHT???

 Speed of
"Electricity"? 
Everyone is sure that charges flow in wires at nearly the
speed of light. All the books say so, and that many books can't be wrong,
can they? Ah, but science is not settled by voting. 

"Acoustimagnetoelectricism" 
A long rant about sound, work and electrical energy

 Capacitor complaints 
 Why I never really understood capacitors... 

 How transistors REALLY work 
 Problems with traditional transistor explanations... 

 Why three prongs? 
 Why do wall outlets have three holes? "Grounding" and safety. 

 LED explanation 
 How are Light Emitting Diodes like thermocouples and solar
cells? 

 Are Amperes
"Fundamental?" 
Everyone learns about "Amps" but never remembers what a "Coulomb" is.
This is totally backwards.

 Flowing "static
electricity." 
If "static electricity" could flow along, would the world end? Maybe
not...

 Discussing Electrical
Energy 

I'm always getting into flamewars about this stuff...

 How should we
teach "electricity?" 
Doing something, rather than just whining. ;)

 Why "Electricity" is
Impossible to Understand 
Gigantic collection of thoughts on learning-barriers in electrical
education.

 Triboelectric
Series 
If a cat gets trapped in a clothes dryer full of nylon pantyhose, which
way do the electrons flow?

Electricity educational links collection 
Part of my Electronics Hobbyist page.

 ELECTRONICS HOBBYIST 
A whole large pageful of links for the electronics freak. Online 
discussion groups, schematic and project archives, etc.

LOOKING FOR BOOKS? Try searching

amazon.com : 

 (try "science fair" too) 

Help Support the Science
Club ,
 use the above form to buy your books. 
(We make a few $$ on any books ordered via these links.) 

 Electrical Devices 

 Electrostatic
Loudspeakers 
by Mark Rehorst. No magnets, no magnetism, they use voltage-force.
Almost like wiggling the air itself.

 Ultra-simple Electric
Generator 
Spin the magnet, light a bulb. The complement to the "Beakman Motor". 
Challenge: make the one run the other.

 Ridiculously
sensitive charge detector 
 Build this simple circuit and detect miniscule levels of electric
charge at large distances. Befuddle onlookers with the the "mysterious
voice commands" trick by holding it and scuffing your shoes on a rug.

 The Duluc Drypile 

A "battery" with so many cells that Electrostatic effects appear.

 3D E-field 
viewing bottle 
Actually SEE invisible electrostatic fields and magnetic fields by
harnessing the amazing powers of Baby Oil.

 Dangerous experiments
with a big capacitor bank 
Nobody died from simply reading this. But stay away from actually 
performing any of these demos.

 Acid/Base Goldenrod
secret 
Use a battery to draw red lines on wet yellow paper

 ELECTROSTATIC
GENERATOR , Kelvin's Thunderstorm" 
An electrostatic generator based on dribbling water. Also see the 
 INLINE VERSION 

 VandeGraaff
Generators 
Instructions for having fun with 500,000 volts, including plans sources , FAQ , 
 debug ...

 MAGLEV CRADLE 
Lifts a bar magnet from below. Use this to perpetrate a Room Temperature
Superconductor hoax?

 ELECTROSTATIC MOTOR
made from plastic pop bottles. 
Who says "static electricity" must remain static, or that it's useless and
feeble?

 ELECTROSTATIC
GENERATOR , a simple one 
A simple device which can be used to power the pop-bottle motor.

 Hints for
electrostatic device construction 
Building 500,000 volt devices in your basement? Avoid these pitfalls.

 Solving Humidity
Problems 
Egor! Activate the Dehumidifier Array!

 ARRAY
ELECTROMETER 
Build this and SEE electrostatic fields! 

 VISIBLE
CURRENT 
This device makes the flowing charges visible in wires. Wouldn't
"electricity" be easier to understand if you could SEE it moving? 

 Plasma Globe with no
vacuum pump 
The Radio Shack "Eye of the Storm" device would be REALLY impressive if it
didn't need that glass globe... 

 Incredibly easy way to
make a 100-amp cable .
 Around the world, the physics teachers look at this and say
"Doh!" 

 Rotating disk
device makes e-fields visible 

Idea for dangerous whirling mechanisms which reveal invisible field
patterns.

 ENTIRE WEBSITE 

 SITE MAP 

Created and maintained by Bill
Beaty . Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com .

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email.