Evil Genius Hoaxes 

 PREV PAGE | 

 GOOD STUFF | 

 NEW STUFF | 

 SEARCH | 

 EVIL GENIUS' 
 LIST OF PRANKS AND 
 HI-TECH PRACTICAL JOKE IDEAS 
 WILLIAM J. BEATY 

(convenient proof that everything in WEIRD SCIENCE must ALSO be a hoax, right?!)

I've neither built nor prototyped any of the following devices. Some are 
hazardous and should not be built or operated. Others can be misused. This 
list is for your information only. If you choose to build any of these, 
you do so entirely at your own risk. 

Hey, wanna help bring these into reality? I'm looking for funding. Give
me a buzz if you can help.

Also see: MORE SCREWY IDEAS 

BOOK: 
RE-Search PRANKS 

 Road Music 
Carve computer-generated ripples in the surface of a main highway, and
when vehicles pass over the surface, mysterious voices whisper, and 
distant music plays. Two ripple-tracks, one for each tire, should give 
stereo sound. Two tires each makes it all echo-y. Is this already being
done? Little sub-threshold voices which say "Buy popcorn." "I will vote for Bush" "All your base belong to us!" Also see the Halfbakery 

 Broken UFO parts 
Embed numerous "repulsor" coils and a power supply in a small, fake UFO
crash remenant, so that small independant segments of the object hang
unsupported in the air nearby, via the battery-powered "Meissner effect" 
generator. (independant segments must be magnets, of course) Take it to a
mainstream researcher, but don't let them look at it in detail. Visions
of alien room-temp superconductors should haunt the person forever after!

 "Stink Beam" projector 
A large, hollow-ended cylinder is attached 
to a bass loudspeaker. The open end of the cylinder is covered with a flat
plate, and a 3in. hole is put in this plate. This forms a vortex launcher, 
and when a pulse is applied to the speaker, an invisible ring-vortex or
"smoke ring" of air will be launched. Pulses can be repetitive, so a
continuous beam of vortices is projected. Pulse waveform can be tailored
to produce robust, fast, silent vortices. Each vortex incorporates air
from within the cylinder, and carries this air along as it travels. If a
scent is placed in the cylinder, you have a "stink gun" which can target
a distant nose without being intercepted by others, or can surround a
distant object with any desired scent. If specific gases are added, then
when the "stink beam" encounters a distant source of ignition, such as a
cigarette, the vortices (and maybe the launcher device!) will explode. A
computer, video grabber, IR camera, and some stepper motors could be
assembled into an IR-seeking cigarette-targeting acetylene gasball 
launcher. No Smoking! 

 Yucky ions 
If a sharp point is attached to the dome of a VandeGraaff generator, the 
point will spew charged wind. If you stand in this air stream, it will 
charged your clothing and hair, which will start clinging to your body. 
Ewwww!, feels like you've been dipped in vegetable oil. So, bolt a 
 VDG 
upside-down within the ceiling, with ion-needles pointing downwards, and 
a "stand here" sign on the floor below. (only works in fairly low humidity, 
the lower the better.) 

 "Free energy" hoax 
Fake device is composed of complex structures and materials, a tiny
battery-powered spark generator, and in the distance, a hidden, "stink 
beam projector device" rigged for acetylene. The projector shoots gas
pulses which cause occasional loud and unexplained explosions within the 
device. If both an ion projector and an acetylene launcher are used, it 
may even be possible to create sparks and explosions in a 
distant device which contains no power supply at all! 

 Even better "Free energy" hoax 

Use the 'Energy
sucking receiver' effect to gather power from a special transmitter.
The receiver has an array of tuned circuits with the coils acting as loop
antennas. The transmitter has an identical array. The tuned frequencies
are scattered all over the band, and will seem like low-level white noise. 
However, since the transmitter and receiver are coherent, each tuned
circuit provides significant energy, and if all of them are passed through
rectifier diodes, the total energy might be enough to run a small motor. 
At the same time, the EM field of the transmitter would be almost
immesurably small. 

 Elvis Miracle 
Use my whitelight abrasion hologram method to encode an image of
Elvis or other religious icon holographically into an everday surface,
(car hood?) Announce the miracle, charge admission, and even befuddle the
experts who come to debunk it. Impossible!, a real hologram, but encoded
into a crude painted surface! 

 Roadside Kilovoltage Source. 
Build a sturdy VandeGraaff generator into a metal and plastic column,
with a handcrank on the top metal terminal and a large label saying
"TURN." When the crank and stepup gearing is turned, the generator
operates. Place it outdoors, and surround it with a thick plastic
insulating plate. Anyone who cranks it will feel a prickling sensation,
their hair will stand up, and the next person they touch will get a 
huge "static zap." Better still: win the lottery and have thousands of 
them built and distributed around the country unannounced. Permanent 
Infamy! 

 4-Lane dot matrix printer 
 A truck-mounted device spits a row of
paint dots under computer control. Drive along the Interstate while
printing out political diatribes. Make our highways look likeUsenet. 
Use high-pressure water sprays instead of paint for
temporary, less illegal road gibberish. Can you be arrested for CLEANING
little spots on the highway?
Colored dyes would work well on
packed snowy roads (a little carbon copier toner or fluoricene dye goes a
long way.) Rent out ad space in fields near airports, then do your
printing in seeds for variously colored crops. Hang a stretched-out
version of one of these
devices as a long cable between widely-separated power boats for the
ocean graffitti printer (tiny bits of oil go a long way!)
Moon dust is supposedly dark grey, so electrostatically shoot charged
magnesium oxide (white) downwards from lunar
orbit for a more noticable and long-lasting advertising sign on the moon. 
"CHAIRFACE!" 

These guys independantly invented the 
 GraffittiWriter !

 Kindergarten Solar-powered Death Squad 

Take a large crowd of children out into the sunshine and give each one a
20cm square mirror. Show them how to aim all of their little spots of
sunlight at the 
same distant object , then stand back and see what they do. 
Better yet, run away. FAST! 

 Ball-lightning incident 
 Ed Harris on
usa-tesla has discovered that
argon gas lets you make a large 'plasma globe' effect at ambient pressure. 
Build a battery-powered Tesla Coil, clip it to your belt, and run a wire
out to an argon-filled mylar sphere. When turned on, the tip of the wire
will grow a large blazing white ball of lightning filaments. Run
screaming through the night, chased by a ball-lightning in a
hardly-noticable clear bag. Charred, smoking clothes would be good too. 
Ahhhhhhg! It's biting me! 

 Build a Borg The Yale psychologist 
Stanley Milgram discovered what he called the "Cyrano Effect", and
experimented with strange group-organism he dubbed "Cyranoids." Build one
as follows: provide the "brain person" with a radio transmitter. Give a
radio receiver and earphone to a second or "body person," then have the
'body' agree to carry out all orders spoken by the distant 'brain.' Even
better would be a video RF link so the 'brain' can see and hear through
the 'body's' eyes, and maybe add a radio channel which controls vibrating
transducers on the 'body' person, so that the 'brain' can silently command
their movements with a joystick rather than verbally. If one 'brain' runs
several 'bodies,' you've got the start of a small Borg civilization! If
you could rent the equipment for cocktail parties, would you pay more to
be an amoral central controller, or a brainless puppet who might do
ANYTHING? 

The same psychologist discovered the power of this closed causality loop
common in World War II:

 NOT MY FAULT, ONLY FOLLOWING ORDERS.
 ONLY GAVE ORDERS, DID NOTHING MYSELF.

This can be used to convert a pair of people into a psychopath. 
Responsibility for actions becomes a closed loop and evaporates. Ordinary
"good" people can be convinced to give lethal shocks if a superior
authority figure gives the orders and SEEMS to take responsibility. If
anything bad happens, both people are certain it was the OTHER person's
fault. As a consequence, the radio-controlled 'Cyranoid' pair is very
dangerous. 

So David Letterman has built himself one? Just wait until Dave gives an
unwise order to his puppet and finds that the person ACTUALLY CARRIES IT
OUT! The 'slave' trusts the 'master' to give only benign orders and stops
thinking, but the 'master' may order something terrible, just to see how
far the 'slave' will go. When Letterman's slave commits a crime, whose
fault will it be, the one who only followed orders, or the one who did
nothing himself? 

 Phaser Weapon 
If pure argon is injected into a laminar stream of air, the argon stream 
will support sparks of enormous length. If connected to a fair-sized 
Tesla coil, the argon stream should produce linear arcs many feet long. 
This would be easily disrupted by wind or by a small fan. Indoors use only?
Reach out zap someone! A similar effect can be had by running an 
argon stream through a 
hose connected to a distant tesla coil. 
Hot dangerous arc-plasma will pour from the hose end. "Don't unplug 
that rubber hose, its not full of water!" Fill an entire small
room with Argon or even Neon. Hook yourself to a small tesla coil
and enter the room, and you'll look like something inside an "Eye
of the Storm" plasma globe. (Hold your breath, of course!) 

 Longrange Defacement Ray 

CO2 lasers of hundreds of watts rating are very small and not that
expensive. With a large-diameter beam and the proper collimator you could
create a "woodburner" which leaves a charred black mark several hundred
feet away. Mount it in an old rusty van along with computer and XY scan
mirrors (might have to install pneumatic jacks to keep the van steady.) 
Drive to a spot with a clear view, use your joystick to set the anamorphed
position of your artwork on yon billboard, then hit the return key and
slooooowly the original propaganda is modified or replaced by that of your
own design.

 Duck-plunge Mechanical Fountain 

When a large rock is flung into a pond, the waves spread into a series of
ripples of descending wavelength, as if the water has "Fourier
Transformed" the splash signal. It has! The water surface is not a
linear medium, therefore any signal becomes "chirped" in a similar way to
the "whistlers" produced in ELF radio sets by distant lightning pulses. 
If an "antichirp" series of ripples could be made on the water's surface
(a temporally-reversed version of the ripples from a big splash,) then as
the ripples moved, they would slowly compress together and finally create
a little explosion of spray. 

Ripples also take the form of an expanding circle. Rather than just
reversing the "chirp", we could also reverse their direction.
If water ripples could be created as inwards-curving rings, so that they
focussed themselves to a point, so much the better. 

Therefore build a bicycle-powered wave generator which can be placed at
the
shore of a pond. It would slowly vibrate a long, curved wall which floats
half-immersed in the water. When aimed at a distant unwary duck, a series
of ripples is created. The duck sees the distant ripples approaching, and
contracting, and concentrating, then... DOOOSH! WAAAK-Aaak quaaak
quackquack... 

Or build the device onto a large fountain pool. Design the wave-generator
to produce several superimposed "antichirp" patterns per revolution of the
flywheel. Then, if you pedal at the right speed, a mysterious zone of
violent splashing would appear out in the middle of the pool. 

Suppose the wave-generator was adjusted to produce a *line* of splashing,
and every so often the antichirp waves would contract and produce a long
burst of "chop". This line might act to reflect other water waves,
especially if the event was repeating at the same frequency as the waves.
Perhaps we could trap a standing wave between the shore and a nonlinear
barrier made from "chop." Design the wave generator to temporarily create
a square *hole* in the water. Make a really big one, so small 3rd-world
countries can tickle the ocean for awhile and have it swallow approaching
aircraft carriers. 

Soliton waves can exist on the surface of water. The "tidal bore" is one
such soliton wave. Perhaps a soliton can be assembled from many smaller
waves. If so, then a bicycle-powered wave generator could create the
smaller waves which contract together, then sum nonlinearly to build a
travelling soliton. Very cool museum exhibit! 

 Hidden images on videotape This one isn't so useful. A cool
trick for techies? If you view a television signal on an oscilloscope,
you see a froth of squiggly shapes. Also, as objects move around on the
TV screen, the squiggly shapes on the oscilloscope move and flow. Suppose
you write software that changes the TV signal so the reverse happens? 
Then the television picture will be a mass of wavy moving shapes. But if
you observe that signal using an oscilloscope, the signal will contain a
perfectly clear television picture. 

DOH! The musician Aphex Twin figured out a use for this. Don't apply it
to TV signals and scopes. Instead apply it to sound and spectrum
analyzers! That way you'll get weird swervy noise, but when the noise is
viewed with a spectrum analyzer, you'll see some clear images. The
results were recently posted on memepool, see chaosmachine and cleth 
pages.

 LINKS: 

 MORE SCREWY IDEAS HERE 
 Culture Jammers encyclopedia
 Museum of Hoaxes 
 Book: RE-Search PRANKS , big compendium of famous hoaxes and practical jokes, interviews, inspiration.
 Book: Happy Mutant Handbook 
 DILBERT: ideas from the lazy entrepeneur 
 Applied Autonomy 's streetwriter performance art
 Project Paradise telepresence cyborgs
 BURNING MAN gigantic artist/prankster convention
 Rotteneggs.com: pranks 
 Building Fake UFOs 
 Science Jokes Page: Pranks Section 
 Yahoo: Practical Jokes 
 Bizarre childhood brain-modification techniques 

If we freeze a can of shaving cream and then saw away the metal can, will
the "brick" of ice expand into foam as it thaws? 

Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com .

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email