SCIENCE HOBBYIST: fun with neodymium supermagnets 

 SCIENCE HOBBYIST | 

 GOOD STUFF | 

 NEW STUFF | 

 HELP! 

 NEODYMIUM SUPERMAGNETS 
 SOME DEMONSTRATIONS 
 - BILL BEATY, updated: 7/2002 

Supermagnets once were fantastically expensive. Tiny cobalt-samarium magnets were priced far higher than any educator could
afford. But there currently is another type of magnet that is
stronger than C-S magnets and costs far less. This is the
Neodymium-Iron-Boron supermagnet. The NIB magnet, or neodymium
magnet, is so strong that eye protection must be worn when working
with them, because if they slam together, they can shatter and eject
chips at dangerous velocities. Many new science demos become possible with NIB magnets because inductive braking effects and 
repulsion/levitation effects become so strong that they can be
directly felt and observed. A 1/2" neodyimum disk magnet costs 
between $2 and $10. 

Try 
MAGNETS FORUM at Wondermagnet

 WARNING: if you mess with TWO neodymium magnets,
you are bound to pinch your fingers if you let them come together. This
REALLY HURTS, it's like pliers. Also, you should wear safety glasses,
since when two NIB magnets slam together, they tend to launch tiny chips
at high velocities. I've had 3/4" magnets acidentally fall together and
be completely shattered. The things are brittle! NOT FOR UNSUPERVISED
CHILDREN!

Always keep magnets away from computers, floppy disks, credit cards,
wind-up watches, etc. I've erased several credit cards by accidentally
passing an NIB magnet near my pocket, or letting one fall into my lap.

 SUPER COMPASS 
 MAGNET RACES 
 MAGNETIC BRAKING 
 FEEL THE DRAG DIRECTLY 
 VISIBLE, SLOW FALL 
 HOVERING FALL 
 INSIDE-OUT COPPER TUBE (new 7/2002)
 INVISIBLE GEAR TEETH 
 ELECTROMAGNETIC LEVITATION PLATE 
 SIMULATED 2-DIMENSIONAL "FLUID" (new 7/2002)
 GIANT "AUDIO TAPE" (new 7/2002)
 FAKE MONOPOLE 
 DIAMAGNETIC WATER 
 DIAMAGNETIC WATER II 
 DIAMAGNETIC LEVITATION 
 DIAMAGNETIC EVERYTHING 
 WHERE TO GET 'EM 
 LINKS 

 Links: 

 Levitating graphite 
 Wooden magnet toys 
 Comparison of magnetic materials 
 Levitating graphite chunks (Dr. Martin Simon)
 More levitating graphite 
 Levitated Seismograph 
by M. Lamb 
 Levitation with slabs of silver 
 Passive Diamagentic Levitator 
 back issues of MAGNETS IN YOUR FUTURE 
 Exploratorium grape-pushing 
 Cool Experiments with Magnets 
 Fun with NIBs from Mike's Electric Stuff
 Levitating Diamagnetic Frog 

 SUPER COMPASS 

Place a Neodymium disk magnet on edge upon a level glass plate (and far
from iron
objects and other magnets.) The disk will twist around and aim
north/south. To guarantee success, you may have to tap upon the glass to
lower the static friction momentarily, or place a drop of oil where magnet
touches glass. The alignment force for an NIB magnet is so strong that it
acts like a compass even when provided with a very crude bearing! If you
suspend an NIB magnet from a thread, it will promptly start swinging in
its attempt to aim north. A long stack of NIB disk magnets exhibits even
stronger north-south alignment forces. Since the earth's field is not
parallel to the ground in most locations, expect your magnet stack to both
tilt at an angle and swerve into a n/s orientation. 

If you close your eyes, hold a stack of NIB magnets in your hand, then
wave your hand slowly around in different directions, Earth's field is
just strong enough to feel directly. With practice, you can FEEL the
particular north/south alignment where the tiny torque on the stack
vanishes. 

 MAGNET RACES 

Get a piece of 1/4" thick aluminum, 1/16" thick aluminum, and 1/2" thick
wood. Each can be 4" to 6" wide and a couple of feet long. Tilt each
piece at 45deg or so. Roll or slide an NIB (neodymium, iron,boron) magnet
down each plane, or if you can afford to buy them, roll three magnets
simultaneously (judiciously separated to prevent interaction!) The
effects of the Lenz Law electromagnetic braking will be pretty obvious. 
The NIB magnets act as if the 1/4" aluminum is coated with invisible
syrup! Try hiding a couple of pieces of thick aluminum behind a thin wood
or posterboard plane, and the magnet will suddenly slow down as it slides
down the wood and encounters the hidden metal. (Note: thick copper works
even better than thick aluminum, but it's harder to find a source for
copper plates.) 

 MAGNETIC BRAKING 

Roll your Neodymium magnet cylinder down an inclined wooden plane. Now
roll it down a piece of aluminum "U"-shaped extrusion (1/2" x 1/2", or
whatever size fits your magnet.) The magnet will move much slower in the
aluminum. And if you affix a couple of thick aluminum plates to different
spots on the extrusion (or even below the wood!) you will see obvious
braking effects. 

 FEEL THE DRAG DIRECTLY 

Get a thick slab of aluminum or even copper (thicker than 1/4".) Hold an
NIB magnet in your hand and slide it back and forth. You can definitely
feel the "syrupy" friction caused by electromagnetic inductive braking
effect. If you rub the magnet back and forth for long enough, you will
even feel the metal plate's temperature begin to rise. 

 VISIBLE, SLOW FALL 

Get a length of copper plumbing pipe and drop a small neodymium magnet
into it. The magnet will fall slowly. If you choose the magnet and the
pipe to give a slip-fit on the magnet, the rate of fall will be very low.
If you glue several NIB cylinder magnets end-to-end with repelling faces
superglued together (a trick in itself!), the rate of fall will be even
slower. And last: purchase some sheets of that green "magnet viewing
film" from Edmund Scientific or other edu. supplier, cut them into strips
and tape them around your copper tube, and the audience will be able to
"see" the falling magnet as the field pattern moves along the seets of
micro-encapsulated film. Or a messier version: wet the copper tube with
ferrofluid, and watch the pattern as the magnet slowly falls. 

 HOVERING SLOW FALL 

Get a piece of thick-walled copper pipe about 1-1/4"OD, 3/4"ID, with 1/4" 
wall thickness, and 8" long. REALLY thick walled; more than 1/4" wall
thickness is best, but 1/8" thick will work. Hold the pipe vertically and
drop a thick 1/2" neodymium disk into it, and it takes a loooong time 
before it
drops out the other end. This demo is well known. However, thin-walled 
copper
pipe is usually employed, and the magnet usually must be a slip-fit on 
the tube (like a piston within a cylinder.) Now drop the magnet
again, but LOOK INTO THE TOP
END OF THE PIPE. The neodymium disk will be hovering in space as it falls,
repelling from the walls as well as being slowed by electromagnetic
braking. If you tilt the pipe a bit, the disk magnet will slowly tumble
end over end as it floats downwards without touching the sides. Stick two
1/2" NIB disks together for an even slower fall.

If you can manage to
place a TV camera on the top end and set it for macro close-focus, the
whole lecture-hall will be able to see the strange effect. 

If you cover the copper tube with green "magnet viewing film", you'll be
able to see the leakage fields as the magnet settles slowly downwards. 
(If the copper was a perfect conductor, the eddy currents would create a
perfect shielding effect.)

I obtained my copper pipe from 
ALASKAN COPPER AND BRASS , Seattle WA,
1-800-552-7661. (They have a $50 minimum order.)
The exact size isn't too important, but the pipe
should have a VERY thick wall, 3/16" or 1/4" thick if possible, and the
inner diameter should be large enough to allow a 1/2" neodymium disk to
have large, obvious clearance all around it as it falls (approx. 3/4" ID.
pipe or larger). Ask for "schedule 40" pipe, then pick an inner diameter 
that clears your supermagnet with at least 1/8" space all around it. If 
they don't stock the exact dimensions, see if they have anything that's close. 
[ P. Ledlie found another supplier: "Copper and Brass Sales" at
503-254-2600, $65/ft for pipe that's 1" ID. WHEW! EXPENSIVE! It should 
be more like $10-$20 per foot. ]

 INSIDE-OUT MAGNET TUBE 

In the previous demo, a magnet falls down through a tube. To reverse this 
effect, build a long stack of neodymium magnets which have their repelling 
poles stacked adjacent. This will create a stack like: N-S-N-S-N-S-N.
(Use crazy glue, or find some magnet disks which have a central hole, and 
clamp them with a brass bolt.)

Now drop a small sebment of copper pipe down your magnet stack. It will 
fall sloooowly. Each pole of the magnet induces a ring of large electric 
current in the copper. Do the same with a copper washer. Now try it 
again, but this time cut a slot in the pipe or washer which breaks the 
electric circuit. It falls faster. Try a plastic pipe (perhaps painted 
copper-color) and the falls very fast. 

 INVISIBLE GEAR TEETH 

Carve a lump of wood or plastic into a 3" cylinder, drill four shallow
3/4" holes in the cylinder surface, and glue four 3/4"-dia. neodymium
magnet slugs in the holes. Stick the assembly on a drill bit (even use a
hand-powered drill) so you can spin it. 

When spun near a metal plate, this device acts as an electromagnetic
friction drive, or a gear with invisible teeth! Hold a Cu or Al plate
near it, and it will push the plate along without touching. Support the
spinning cylinder horizontally over a table top with a 1/2" space between
table and cylinder, then stick various nonferrous metal plates under it. 
They will be launched forward.

I made a "top" from a 1/4" x 6" aluminum disk with a plastic rod
through the center. With practice, one can spin this top up to
high speed WITHOUT TOUCHING IT by using the above magnet "gear teeth" 
cylinder mounted on a power drill.

 ELECTROMAGNETIC LEVITATION PLATE 

Attach a large Cu or Al disk to a motor or power drill. Affix this
assembly under a plastic or wooden plate for safety, with the spinning
metal disk parallel and almost touching the plastic plate. Run it up to
speed and hold a neodymium magnet over the plate. You will feel both
magnetic drag forces AND repulsion forces. Don't drop the magnet or it 
will be hurled across the room!

Tie your neodyimum magnet to a string, a piece of tape, etc, and affix the
other end of the string or tape to the plastic plate so the string stops
the drag but not the repulsion. THE MAGNET WILL LEVITATE! Watch out
though, if the string lets loose, the EM drag will fling your brittle NIB
magnet. 

Clue: there is a way to levitate a bar magnet above two spinning metal
objects which requires no strings. Can you figure it out? See my 
 Maglev page elsewhere on this site, under DOING IT MECHANICALLY.

 TWO-DIMENSIONAL "FLUID" Place several
disk-magnets in a slippery bowl so they repel each other. They form
patterns. It's almost as if the magnets were the "atoms" of a gas or
liquid. We can bring out this behavior even more strongly. Clamp a large
number of tiny disk magnets between two glass plates. Put spacers around
the edges of the plates so that the magnets can slide around. Now place
the sandwitch on edge. The magnets lift up and "crystallize" in a hex
array! But they can also slide around. WIth enough magnets, the region
of "fluid" will exhibit surface waves (and also sound waves within the
bulk "liquid", and even cavity resonances!) It might help to
lubricate the glass surface a bit. Also, place a row of fixed disks all
around the edges in order to form the walls of a two-dimensional "beaker"
which repels the "fluid" within.

 GIANT VISIBLE "AUDIO TAPE" 

Obtain some green "magnet viewing" film. Place it on the back of a rubber
refridgerator magnet sheet (such as a magnetic business card.) The green
film shows that the rubber magnet has a pattern of NSNSN stripes. This
increases the overall attraction for metal. Now slide a large neodymium
magnet across the rubber sheet, then "view" it again with the green film. 
Hey! The neodymium magnet ERASED THE POLE PATTERN! It's now all one 
north pole (or perhaps an S pole.) Don't worry, you can
put it back again by sweeping small neo. magnets across the "erased" area. 
Or better yet, why not erase the entire rubber magnet... then write a
secret message upon it? Or try drawing various NSNS patterns and see
which one attracts a ferrous plate most strongly. Or try drawing a
pattern of very fine parallel stripes (using a tiny neo. magnet fragment),
then sweep the magnetic head from a tape recorder across it. Will it make
noises? 

Hey, why not put the rubber magnet sheet on a rotating cylinder, 
and magnetize the sheet with a pattern of parallel stripes. Spin the 
cylinder, hold a small NIB magnet near it, and the magnet should vibrate. 
Put the tiny magnet on a sounding-board, and the spinning cylinder should 
create a "magnetic siren". Try various patterns of stripes to make 
various noises.

 FAKE MONOPOLE 

Have you ever magnetized a nail by stroking it with a magnet? Well,
neodymium magnets are so powerful that you can magnitize A BAR MAGNET by
stroking it with a neodymium slug. A stack of NIB cylinders works great
for doing this. Teachers can strengthen their dead classroom bar magnets. 
You can use a small piece of NIB magnet to write your name on the face of
a large ceramic loudspeaker magnet (then use iron filings or a "magnaview
sheet" to see the writing.) You can mess with your teacher's mind by
reversing the poles of one of those classroom magnets so the "N" lable is
actually south, and vice versa. Teachers can mess with students' minds by
making a "monopole" magnet: use one end of your NIB stack and stroke a
classroom bar magnet from the center and outwards. Do this to both ends
and both sides of the bar, always starting from the center of the bar
magnet and stroking towards the end, and always using the same pole of the
NIB magnet stack. The result will be a bar magnet which is marked "N" and
"S", but in fact both ends will be North, and there will be a big fuzzy
South pole in the center (or vice versa, depending on how you held the NIB
stack). If you wave your "monopole" magnet near a compass, the compass
will show that both ends are the same! (Maybe you'll want to make another
one which has two "S" poles. Maybe you'll want to paint "N" on both ends
of your physics-joke magnet!) 

 DIAMAGNETIC WATER 

Place a neodymium magnet in a shallow dish. Fill the dish with water so
the magnet is completely covered (about .5cm water above the magnet). 
Bounce light from a distant small source off the water surface and onto a
wall or screen. (sunlight works well.) You will see a uniform oval
projected spot of sunlight reflection from the water surface. In the
projected oval of light, right at the location of the submerged magnet,
you'll find a small bright splotch. 

The bright splotch is caused by a concave dimple in
the water surface. The magnet repels the water slightly, which creates
the concavity. Try using less water so there is just 1mm between the
magnet face and the surface. This gives a bigger effect, but some people
might then suspect that surface tension plays a role. Try looking down
into the bowl so you see the reflection of the ceiling. If you move your
head back and forth, you will detect a small distortion at the location of
the magnet. C. Brown suggests placing the bowl in front of a screened
window, then looking at the reflection of the wire mesh within the bowl.
The distorted water surface will cause Moire' patterns to be seen. 

Add more water so there is 1cm between the surface and the magnet, and the
dimple will be *very* shallow and subtle. But it will still be
detectable. Repeat the experiment by using a thin plastic dish with the
magnet BELOW the dish (no surface tension effects possible!) Idea: use a
large number of magnets to write some initials, perhaps cast them into an
epoxy block so their faces occupy the same plane. When this is submerged,
the magnetic field will spell out the initials in the reflected sunlight.
A sort of "chinese magic mirror" image, with the "mirror" being the
surface distortion created by magnetism. (Note: put the bowl on a sturdy
countertop to stop the water ripples caused by floor vibrations.) 

Neodymium magnets will repel ice cubes slightly. Hang an ice cube from a
thread, and let it stretch the thread and cease spinning. Now bring your
NIB magnet stack near the side of one end of the cube. You can push it so
that it slowly turns. Cast a long icecube (or use an icicle in winter),
which increases the lever arm and makes the effect more obvious.

 DIAMAGNETIC WATER II 

Haven't tried this one (inspired by John Shurner.) Levitate a ball of oil
submerged in an alcohol/water mixture adjusted for neutral density as
follows. Fill a jar with rubbing alcohol, put in a small drip of oil
(which promptly sinks.) Next, add small amounts of water to the alcohol
and mix slowly (don't break up the oil drop.) Repeat until the oil drop
neither sinks nor rises. (This is achieved with only a small percent
water in the alcohol.) Use a pipette to add many more oil droplets, so
the jar is full of them. Now approach the jar with an NIB magnet. Does
it attract the oil? Or, does it repel the water which causes oil to
approach the magnet? John S. may have replicated the Finnish Antigravity
experiment: he finds that an HTSC disk chilled in liquid nitrogen causes
the oil balls to "convect" when the jar is held above the superconductor.
But does this occur even if electrical shielding and thermal shielding is
provided?) 

 DIAMAGNETIC EVERYTHING 
Hang a small object from a long thread. Bring an NIB magnet near it. If
the material is diamagnetic, the object will be very slightly repelled.
If the object is paramagnetic, the object will be very slightly attracted. 

 DIAMAGNETIC LEVITATION 

Use a really huge NIB magnet to lift a tiny NIB magnet from below. 
The small magnet will float in the air.
Adjust the distance so the small NIB magnet is *barely* attracted upwards,
then place a piece of diamagnetic material immediately below the small
magnet. The large magnet will cancel gravity, but an "energy well" will
be formed because the small magnet is weakly repelled upwards by the
diamagnetic material. The small magnet will hang in space. Earnshaw's
theorem is apparantly violated! There is a
photo of it in SCIENCE NEWS, 7/24/99, and a paper on it in NATURE,
7/22/99, author A.K. Geim. The authors use graphite plates (and even
human fingers!). Bismuth slabs give a similar effect. The
info about this is now on John Lahr 's page.
There's also a new build-it article on the SCITOYS site.
Buy graphite plates from WONDERMAGNET 
Also see the collected links below, for experiments where graphite chips
are levitated by magnets.

 WARNING: if you mess with TWO
large neodymium magnets,
you are bound to pinch your fingers if you let them come together. This
REALLY HURTS, it's like pliers. Also, you should wear safety glasses,
since when two big NIB magnets slam together, they tend to launch tiny 
chips
at high velocities. I've had 3/4" magnets acidentally fall together and
be completely shattered. The things are brittle! LARGE MAGNETS NOT FOR 
UNSUPERVISED
CHILDREN! For kids, use NIB magnets under 1/4" across.

Always keep magnets away from computers, floppy disks, credit cards,
wind-up watches, etc. I've erased several credit cards by accidentally
passing an NIB magnet near my pocket, or letting one fall into my lap.

 WHERE TO GET 'EM 

Try MR. GEORGE'S MAGNETS, 
http://www.engconcepts.net/Magnets/Magnets.htm 

Inexpensive surplus NIB magnets from WONDERMAGNET , go 
 here to order.

 "Amazing Magnets" 

Arbor Scientific ( www.arborsci.com 

There is also an industrial supplier named Tridus in
Paramount, California where you can get them for $3 each, but there is a
$90 minimum order. (see below) 

Herbach & Rademan (mail order surplus) 800-848-8001 ($25 minimum purch)
 http://www.herbach.com 
a science/electronics surplus supplier, they carry several inexpensive
odd-shaped NIB magnets including an extremely strong 1" disk for $25.
Call for their current "this month" catalog

 Arbor Scientific, Ann Arbor, MI, 1-800-367-6695 http://www.arborsci.com 

Lee Valley Tools http://www.leevalley.com 

DuraMag, http://www.duramag.com/rawmat/fr_neodymium.htm , large inexpensive 
disks and blocks

Tridus International, 310-408-2222, Paramount, CA (VERY low prices, but
$250 minimum. Ask for MgOe:30 neodymium, its plenty strong but not
hyper-expensive) www.tridus.com 

Master Magnetics ???

Magnet Sales Inc., 1-800-421-6692, 
 http://www.magnetsales.com 

Magnets aRe Us Inc
South Bend, IN
1-800-470-3350

Surplus suppliers: many mailorder suppliers carry 1" trapezoidal NIB
magnets removed from computer hard disk head position motors. H&R, Am.
Sci. Surplus, All Electronics, and others. See:
 http://www.eskimo.com/~billb/supliers.html or try Wondermagnet. 

Or as Mike H. suggests, find old hard-disk drives and tear 'em apart to
get those magnets for free! NIB magnets are used in the head-positioning
linear motor. They are arc-shaped and flat, stack them for extra
strength.

Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com .

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email.