Recurring Traffic Bottlenecks - Merge Principles 

 Table of Contents 

 Recurring Traffic Bottlenecks: A Primer 
 Focus on Low-Cost Operational Improvements 

 Merge Principles 

 Can we increase the efficiency of merging prior to the discharge point? In two words &ndash; be orderly. Not surprisingly, safety improves too. It is repeatedly shown that traffic is inherently safer when all vehicles are traveling at or near the same speed. Think of an orderly progression on a crowded escalator. Everyone is safely cocooned because they are going the same speed. Now imagine the bumping and chaos that would occur if impatient folks pushed past others. 

 For What it's Worth 
 Webster's on-line dictionary defines "merging" (using 'traffic' as the colloquial) as "to blend or come together without abrupt change ." 

 (Emphasis added) 

 Principle #1: &ldquo;Go Slow to Go Fast&rdquo; 
 &ldquo;Go slow to go fast&rdquo; is an increasingly trendy expression in traffic circles. It speaks to the seemingly paradoxical idea that if we slow down the rate of our &ldquo;mixing&rdquo; we can get past a constriction faster. A well known example (actually the winning entry in a 2006 contest to demonstrate the meaning of &ldquo;throughput maximization&rdquo;) is the &ldquo;rice&rdquo; experiment. In the first case, dry rice is poured all at once into a funnel. In the second case, the same amount is poured slowly. Repeated trials generally conclude about a one-third time savings to empty the funnel via the second method. And, it should be noted, there is a tipping point reached as one graduates from a v-e-r-y slow pour, to a medium pace, and so on. What lesson does the rice experiment teach us about traffic? 

 The densely packed rice (or traffic) in the first trial creates friction in the literal sense and the practical sense, respectively. The denser the traffic, the smaller the safety cushion around each driver, and the more cautious (i.e., slower) he becomes. A classic &ldquo;bell curve&rdquo; diagram also serves to explain how traffic throughput reaches an apex up to the point where traffic friction and conflict conspire to begin a decline in the rate of throughput and speed. There exist some examples of validation of this principle at intersections (e.g., traffic signalization, roundabouts, vehicle detection) that demonstrates that slowing or stopping some traffic benefits the aggregate flow, and is far better than the free-for-all converse. In the bottleneck and corridor genres, we have ramp metering and speed harmonization (see below), respectively, providing examples on freeways. 
 Principle #2: Keep Sufficient Gaps 
 Keeping sufficient (or ideally, the largest possible) gaps leads to uniform and free(er) traffic flow. Gaps allow for small adjustments in braking, accelerating, and drifting. The larger the gap, the lesser the &ldquo;ripple&rdquo; affecting adjacent and following vehicles, which otherwise would react by slowing. Gap maintenance is achieved by rote in high-occupancy vehicle (HOV) lanes or high-occupancy toll (HOT) lanes; by selective admittance in the former, and by dynamically shifting the price every few minutes in the latter. The target benefit is to allow qualifying vehicles the guarantee of a free flow trip, versus the hit-or-miss prospect in the adjacent general purpose (GP) lanes. Both cases have the added (and intended) benefit of removing vehicles and or person-trips from the GP lanes too; so all traffic streams win when these practices are employed. Absent out-and-out violators who can muck up the system, agencies can tweak the lane mandates to keep the systems running at optimum levels. 
 How does this apply to localized bottlenecks? Theoretically, the same &ldquo;gapping&rdquo; principles would hold true in backups; to wit, leaving progressively larger gaps would allow for progressively better progression. (Taken to the extreme, no &ldquo;bottleneck&rdquo; would even exist!) The point is that in congested situations the constant brake-tapping in bumper-to-bumper traffic works to self-perpetuate the problem. No one can get much momentum before he or she has to react to the vehicle directly ahead or adjacent. The ripple effects are short, abrupt, and inefficient. The obvious problem with this is that human nature simply won&rsquo;t allow for the patience and orderliness to make this work. The second I create a sufficient gap between me and the car ahead, some &ldquo;profiteering&rdquo; lane jumper will fill it. Which is a nice segue into the next principle; zippering. 

 Principle #3: Zippering 
 Unlike principle #2, which is noted to be fairly impractical to expect, this one could easily be melded into our regular practice; namely, to take turns, or &ldquo;zipper&rdquo; merge at the front of the line. The fairness &ndash; and simple visualization &ndash; of this principle speaks for itself. And there is already precedence that we have been schooled in this; witness the &ldquo;Yield&rdquo; condition and many recurring locations where this is the unwritten rule; newcomers quickly adapt! Advocates of zipper merging are proponents of &ldquo;late&rdquo; merges; i.e., staying in your lane until the last possible moment and taking turns to get through the chokepoint nozzle. One enterprising fellow in California has gone so far as to adorn his car with a zipper graphic and messages promoting this method. But is this latter day Don Quixote merely tilting at this traffic &ldquo;windmill&rdquo;? To be fair, &ldquo;late&rdquo; merging seems the slightly favored method in web blog research, although as noted prior, there are unyielding stout proponents of the early merge too. Let&rsquo;s take a closer look. 

 Imagine two lanes of cars. The left lane (L) is the continuous lane and the right lane (R) is the dropped lane. You are 6th in line in the R lane. If everyone stays put, and the zipper order is L, R, L, R. etc., your neighbor to the left will be 11th and you will be 12th to merge. If, however, you &ldquo;early merge&rdquo; and cut in front of him into the L line (and your fellow motorists in the R line all move up in succession) then you will become 11th, the person originally behind you (formerly 14th) now becomes 12th, and your neighbor will have dropped to 13th. You win. Your neighbor loses. But the real winner is the guy originally behind you; he&rsquo;s gained two spots. 
 Now consider the same scenario except the zipper order is R, L, R, L... etc. In the orderly scenario you would be 11th and your neighbor would be 12th to merge. If you cut in front of him as in the first scenario, the guy behind you (who moves up to fill your space) becomes 11, you are 12, and your neighbor is slotted at 14. You lose. Your neighbor really loses (drops two slots) and the guy behind you (formerly 13) really wins; he gains two spots &ndash; again. 
 Congratulations! In both scenarios, by &ldquo;early merging&rdquo; you have definitely improved the slot for the guy behind you! You may or may not have improved your slot. And either way you made your neighbor mad! Of course, in real life, the permutations are mind boggling when one considers multiple jockeying for position in a long queue by you and others, or the dynamic created by multiple lanes. You may think you are making progress one line jump at a time, but your move(s) may have been canceled by someone way up ahead of you; or the woman opposite him. And so on. It effectively becomes akin to playing the lottery &ndash; you are at the mercy of others&rsquo; actions equal to, or more so, than your own. And all for the perceived benefit of getting a few spaces ahead through the nozzle. Of course, there&rsquo;s another way to look at it too; it&rsquo;s all a wash when said and done. It&rsquo;s hard to know. All you may have accomplished by line jumping is to elevate yours or others&rsquo; stress. Better to sit, wait, take your turn, and put your radio on some calming music. 

 Principles Put Into Practice: 
 Variable Speed Limits and Speed Harmonization 
 Variable speed limits (tried in work zones; i.e., nonrecurring conditions) and the European concept of &ldquo;speed harmonization&rdquo; (nonwork zones) both intend to &ldquo;harmonize&rdquo; traffic by regulating speeds. In the latter case, a series of overhead gantries gradually adjust speeds through congested highway segments in order to flatten the sinusoidal effect of traffic speeds bouncing between open sections and interchanges. Speed harmonization is typically effected as the open highway approaches the denser central business district. A great expense is incurred by the cost of the overhead, spanned gantries, the necessary detectors, the interconnectivity, the necessary operational overhead, and the sheer number of gantries required along the multi-kilometer corridor; a smart highway, as it were. At the end of the day however, such a system is not transferable from facility to facility, so you had better have good justification and need to install it where you did. But that&rsquo;s the bad news too; that such pervasive congestion exists in the first place. What if the congestion disappears (e.g., a parallel facility opens up or a large traffic generator goes away)? The agency is stuck with an expensive boondoggle. 
 Specific to the question at hand, speed harmonization does not seek to control driver behavior to switch lanes, or mandate how to merge, but rather only to control speeds. &ldquo;Go slow&rdquo; (harmonize) as a means to move more traffic than otherwise might have gotten by. As of 2009, this system has not been employed in the United States, although there is intent to try it in the Seattle, Washington area as part of a Federally funded demonstration project. 

 So How Does One Merge Safely? 
 What methods work best for motorists to merge traffic efficiently in bottlenecked conditions? The answer, it seems, is largely &ndash; perhaps only &ndash; dependent on the flow rate of the continuing lane and less-so the dropped lane next to it. The debate between &ldquo;early&rdquo; or &ldquo;late&rdquo; merge seems more appropriate for human behavioral studies of aggressiveness, impatience, self-indulgence, and simple preference for one method over the other. However, there is general agreement in the engineering community on which method works best for each of two scenarios. Early merges work best under &ldquo;Scenario 1&rdquo; (see following page) when traffic is generally free-flow. Late merges seem to work best under &ldquo;Scenario 2&rdquo; when traffic is stop-and-go. 

 Scenario 1: 
 In at-speed, or nearly free-flow conditions, it is best to merge upstream of the constriction 
 Motorists in the thru-lane: Allow gaps. By allowing gaps you allow the merging vehicle the opportunity to adjust his/her speed to fill a gap. 
 Motorists in the dropped lane: Keep up speed and fill gaps at-speed. Use the dropped lane as an acceleration lane; i.e., as an opportunity to match speed with upstream traffic and merge at-speed at earliest and best opportunity. 

 Benefits: Traffic is safest when all vehicles travel at or near the same speed. 
 Potential pitfalls: 1) When a vehicle in the dropped lane can't or won't move into the through lane in time, then the dropped lane ends, forcing the vehicle to suddenly slow or stop. This will invariably cause a dangerous ripple as the stopped vehicle now must join moving traffic from nearly a dead stop; at risk of causing a through vehicle to slow to allow it in. 2) Pitfall #1 above also has the potential to cause following vehicles to queue behind the "stopped" vehicle due to an increasingly shortening merge lane. Motorists now forced to slow in the dropped lane become anxious to merge and may cause further ripples. If not allowed to remediate itself, pitfall #2 will morph into "Scenario 2" below. 3) Motorists in the thru lane won't yield (usually by way of speeding up). 
 Bottom line: Relax. Allow motorists to merge at-speed or fill gaps as opportunity allows. 

 Scenario 2: 
 In heavy congestion (stop-and-go conditions) it is more efficient to fill both lanes and zipper-merge at the point of constriction 
 Benefits: Drivers experience less stress when they understand that each in-turn will have a chance to get past the point of constriction. The zipper merge is orderly and fair. 

 Potential pitfalls: 1) Queue jumping. This can occur in a number of ways; a) by bypassing cars in line, the "jumper" infuriates others because he is out of turn; or b) by having a second or third vehicle try to fill a single gap, this frustrates altruistic motorists who now feel they are being taken advantage of. 2) Lane blocking. This occurs when a motorist in the continuous lane fails to fairly permit his neighbor to zipper ahead. 3) Line jumping back and forth, as it recalls the old axiom "the other line is always moving fastest." This only serves to disrupt the continuity of the merge ahead. 
 Bottom line: Remain orderly and fair. Do not line jump. 

 previous | next 

 US DOT Home | FHWA 
 Home | Operations Home | 
 Privacy Policy 

 United States Department of Transportation - Federal Highway Administration