JBM - Calculations

 Bibliography 
 |
 Calculations 
 |
 Downloads 
 |
 FAQ 
 |
 JBM 
 |
 Links 
 |
 Personal 
 |
 Software 
 |
 Topics 

 A new topic, Elevation , has been added. It shows
 the differences in trajectories when zeroing at different atmospheric conditions and how to calculate
 a trajectory for different atmospheric conditions.

 about these ads... 

 JBM - Calculations

 NOTE: I will not guarantee these calculations for ANY purpose. 
 Remember to use common sense at all times and to check loading with 
 current manufacturer's data.

 If you think the functionality has changed, check the list of
 changes because it probably has!

 Ballistic Coefficients (Time) 

 Calculates the ballistic coefficient for a near velocity,
 time of flight, atmospheric conditions and drag function.

 Ballistic Coefficients (Velocity) 

 Calculates the ballistic coefficient for near and far 
 velocities, atmospheric conditions and drag function.

 Bullet Drag and Twist 

 Calculates the bullet CD, and CD components, BC required twist and
 stability for input twist. Inputs required are the bullet measurements
 including nose length, total length, boattail length, meplat diameter,
 base diameter, caliber, weight, atmospheric conditions and drag function.
 This algorithm is based on the McDrag work done by Robert McCoy. 
 See bibliography 

 Drag Function Conversion 

 Converts a ballistic coefficient for one drag function to a ballistic
 coefficient for another drag function.

 Maximum Distance 

 Calculates the maximum range a bullet can travel given the 
 muzzle velocity, ballistic coefficient, weight and atmospheric
 conditions.

 Modified Point Mass Trajectory 

 Calculates a trajectory from bullet dimensions. This type of trajectory
 provides a good estimate for things like spin drift and stability.
 I have also added coriolis effects. It has a considerable number of 
 inputs, so beware. This online calculation replaces my previously available
 MPM program.

 Power Factor 

 Calculates the power factor and checks divisions for IDPA,
 IPSC, TSA and USPSA.

 Recoil 

 Calculates the free recoil energy and velocity using firearm
 weight, charge weight, bullet weight and firearm velocity.

 Trajectories 

 from bullet BC and firearm info. Inputs include muzzle velocity,
 sight heights, chronograph distance, ballistic coefficient, drag 
 function, line of sight and cant angles and atmospheric conditions. 
 Output options include variable ranges and choice of units for windage
 and drop (inches, MOA, and mils). Calculations are performed assuming
 the bullet is a point mass. Elevation and azimuth are iteratively 
 corrected to ensure a correct zero.

 Trajectories -- Basic 

 Not really "basic", but simpler. Many people don't use all the terms
 in the trajectory calculation page listed above, so this page invisibly
 sets defaults for variables like drag function (G1), sight offset, etc.
 The calculation is done with the same program as the trajectory page 
 above.

 Trajectory Cards 

 Very similar to the other trajectory programs on input, but the output
 is currently limited to range, drop and windage (if you have suggestions
 email me ) suitable for printing
 on a 3"x5" card.

 about these ads... 

 JBM Small Arms Ballistics . 
 Last update 30 June 2007, Copyright &copy; 1996-2007
 JBM 
 [V]