JBM - Ballistics - FAQ

 [Ballistics] 
 [Bibliography] 
 [Downloads] 
 [JBM] 
 [Links] 
 [MPM] 
 [PM] 
 [Personal] 
 [Software] 

 JBM - Ballistics - FAQ

 Topics

 Ballistics... 

 CGI/Bugs 

 Using the programs 

 Ballistics 

 (Q) 
 Why can't I calculate BC from bullet drop at different ranges? 

 (A) 
 You can, but not very accurately. If you look at the bullet drop for
 two bullets, one with a BC of 0.5 and the other with a BC of 0.55, you'll
 find that the bullet drops at 300 yards with a muzzle velocity of 3000 f/s 
 and a 100 yard zero, are -10.9" and -10.7" respectively. So if you can shoot
 groups less than 0.2" at 300 yards, have at it. Of course you'll still
 only know the BC within about 10% (the BC calculation CGI can be as
 accurate as 2%!).

 (Q) 
 Why doesn't the air density change when I change the altitude? 

 (A) 
 The altitude is only used when you check "Standard conditions at
 Altitude". If this is not checked, the density is calculated from the
 Temperature, Pressure and Humidity you entered.

 (Q) 
 Where can I get the formula for these programs? 

 (A) 
 The source code to my CGI programs is now available under the
 GNU public license -- see my downloads page. I have also put 
 the programs that I received from Bob McCoy in the 
 downloads 
 page of this site. The "formula" for the trajectory program
 is available in various sources, including the downloads page. It
 does involve "numerical integration" of the equations of motion (as
 I have implemented it...). The Sierra Reloading manual has a 
 section on Exterior Ballistics which provides the differential 
 equations of motion, as does "Exterior Ballistics" and "Mathematics
 for Exterior Ballistics". Calculation of a trajectory also requires
 calculation of atmospheric density as a function of temperature,
 pressure (sometimes humidity, if you want). I would recommend the
 ICAO Standard Atmosphere (see 
 U.S. Standard Atmosphere 
 for governing equations).

 I have recently written a page 
 outlining certain equations.

 (Q) 
 Can I change the drag function to a better one for my bullet? 

 (A) 
 Yes and No. Ballistics Coefficient and Drag Function go 
 hand in hand. The Drag Function specifies the "standard bullet" that
 the BC is comparing too. You must enter the correct Drag Function of 
 that BC. Typically, this is the G1. There are however some 
 manufacturers that specify different BCs using different drag functions 
 because the force on the bullet is modeled better with the different 
 drag function. (For instance, Berger uses the G7 for some of it's VLD 
 bullets.)

 (Q) 
 How is the energy calculated? 

 (A) 
 Energy listed in the trajectory calculations is the kinetic
 energy of the bullet. This is discussed more in depth on the 
 Equations - Energy page.

 CGI/Bugs 

 (Q) 
 Have I found a bug? 

 (A) 
 Possibly. I would recommend that you recheck your numbers on
 the data page and ensure you are calculating what you think you are. 
 If you still can't see the problem, let 
 me know.

 (Q) 
 The requested URL /cgi-bin/jbm/jbmtraj was not found on this server 

 (A) 
 My ISP recently changed domain names. Although I believe it is supposed
 to work with the old addresses (roadrunner.com and lascruces.com) it 
 appears to only work with the newest address: 
 http://www.eskimo.com/~jbm .

 (Q) 
 What are the programs written in? 

 (A) 
 All of the on-line calculations are written in C and compiled
 with gcc (GNU C Compiler). Most of the calculations are math intensive 
 and require numerical integration. This (in my opinion) makes any non-compiled 
 language unsuitable for this kind of CGI.

 (Q) 
 Can I have a copy of your programs? 

 (A) 
 Yes and No. The on-line CGI programs have been GPL'd and are
 freely available for download from my "Downloads" page. The 
 MPM program, I have not released publicly (source code that is).
 I may again write ballistics programs for commercial use
 and therefore don't really want to give away my MPM source code.
 Besides, you'll learn much more doing it yourself. (Now, if
 you want to buy it, that's a different story...)

 Using the programs 

 (Q) 
 Where can I get an explanation of the terms used 
 in your calculations? 

 (A) 
 At the top of each data page (the left side) are instructions 
 for the particular calculation. Directly under the instructions paragraph 
 is a link to an explanation of terms used in the input and output of the 
 particular calculation.

 (Q) 
 Why doesn't the text print? 

 (A) 
 The output of the programs has white lettering on a dark 
 background. Printing white lettering on white paper will result in 
 nothing being printed. To fix this, configure your browser to print 
 black text. (Netscape users can configure this from the 
 Page Setup dialog opened from File | Page Setup menu 
 command.) NOTE: I've changed to a white background and this shouldn't
 even be an issue anymore.

 (Q) 
 Why are my input numbers different in the output? 

 (A) 
 Each input value has a certain allowed range. This range is
 given above each input on the data page (the left page in the frame). 
 The following line above the muzzle velocity input shows the name of 
 the variable with a minimum value of 500 ft/sec and a maximum value of 
 4500 ft/sec.

 Muzzle Velocity (500 to 4500 ft/sec) [3000.0]

 If the value falls outside this range, it is set to the default value
 shown in brackets. Note the units are also given for the value.

 (Q) 
 How important is the measurement of sight height and offset? 

 (A) 
 Not very. At longer ranges it can add a few inches of error. Measuring with
 a ruler is certainly accurate enough.

 Last update 4 August 2004, Copyright &copy; 1996-2004
 JBM 
 [V]