Mullspace | Non-Fiction | Book Review: The Demon Plague 

 Portal | Kat Litter | Tales | Lectures | Eye Candy | Accretions | Kat Who? | Poke 

 Book Review 

 created: August 16, 2003 

 The Demon Plague 
 Joreid McFate, copyright 2002, Be-Mused Publications, 2003.

This review was originally written for Books N Bytes . I admit to feeling bad about this one, in that it seems I pan all of the books I receive from BNB. It's not them, I assure you; it's me. 

 In modern-day Salem, Massachusetts, young Crystal Donovan has inherited a curious crystal pendant from her grandmother. No sooner is she made aware of this, but strange and frightening events begin to occur. She is informed that she is the "Star," guardian of the crystal, and anointed envoy to bring the mysterious object to its proper place in history. She is quickly plunged into a series of horrifying events and finds herself flung through the past and future in the company of her faithful dog and a mysterious young girl on the trail of an inhuman creature, on a quest to "end the demon plague." 
 Alas, this is as good as it gets. Once the initial premise is established, the story moves ahead with grinding predictability, relying on stock characters and entirely expected twists. The writing is workmanlike, rising to the level of unintentionally bad when it attempts to be artistic or clever. The characters are flat, yet manage to be inconsistent. Dialog and description suffer from a lack of cohesion and, occasionally, a lack of understanding on the writer's part. Research into the Township of Salem and the history of the Salem Witch trials, which figure in the plot, was very good, but no research was done into modern police investigation methods or procedure, in spite of the fact that the police investigation is vital to moving the plot forward. Both magic and fictional science figure in the story with no attempt to reconcile the apparent discrepancies between the two. The Sci-Fi explantion given for the horrors of the future is pure space-opera bolognium and quantum physics is introduced to explain time travel, and then dismissed as "too hard for me" by the heroine in an obvious attempt by the writers to move past their McGuffins as quickly as possible. Other examples of hedging abound, as well as numerous attempts at clever phrasing which fall flat when the reader realizes that "sprawl" is not a reasonable synonym for "scrawl" and no one, no matter how greasily pubescent, should be afflicted with "hordes of pimples". The book suffers from frequent changes of POV in the early sections and introduces so many characters who turn out to be one-scene walk-ons that it's hard to care about anyone. Perversely, a couple of the characters are charming, but they are given almost no part to play except ornament or plot device. 
 It's not the worst book I've read this year, but it's far from what I expect of a book in the current, competitive publishing market. It's readable, but only if you don't have particularly high standards. The plot mostly holds together, most holes get plugged, most strings tied up, but it is uninspired and mechanical. The writing, including the word-choice, grammar, punctuation and structure, might be acceptable for a High School creative writing course, but never rises beyond that level. 
 I cannot recommend this book, in good conscience, to anyone, except students and then only as an example of what they should strive to surpass. 

 Back to top of this page, please. 
 Back to Index 
 &copy; 2003 M. Kathleen Huffine/Kat Richardson. All rights reserved.