Chris's Excellent Internet Adventures! 

 Visits since 01/01/2000 

 Hello Planet Earth! 
 Welcome to Chris's Home on the Net! 
 It's been over a year since I last changed this page, 
 and I still don't know what to put on it! I'm tired of the color and the 
 logo, and I'm tired of most of the other pages too. What this place needs 
 is a total slash-and-burn job! 
 There are no flags here. I'm tired of seeing flags all 
 over the place after September 11. It was a horrible, evil thing that 
 happened that day. Unfortunately horrible, evil things happen every day 
 someplace on earth and most never get noticed. The sudden rush of "patriotism" 
 that followed brought to mind this lyric from (who else?) Rush ("Territories" 
 from Power Windows, 1986): 
 Better the pride that resides 
 In a citizen of the world 
 Than the pride that divides 
 When a colourful rag is unfurled 
 Feel free to look around. Like I said, this so-called 
 web site has its days numbered in current form. The page I put the most 
 effort into would have to be my r&eacute;sum&eacute; , 
 which I completely re-worked and updated just the other day. It's probably 
 no coincidence that it also gets the most page hits (even in our depressed 
 economy). 
 I also wrote a little bit about my experiences 
 with Linux , which I intended to develop further but never did (maybe 
 because there were so many other cool things to do!). Since writing that 
 page, the hard disk that held my Windows 98/Linux dual-boot configuration 
 became corrupted and unbootable and my focus has been shifted to Windows 
 2000. I'm different in that I stradle the fence on the Windows vs. Linux 
 debate. I like Windows 2000 alot, and use it for all my daily work. I 
 got a brand new 40 gigabyte, 7200 rpm hard drive for Christmas. Ten of 
 those megabytes are earmarked for a brand new Debian installation (assuming 
 I can get it to work correctly with my current hardware and partitioning 
 scheme, we'll see...). 

 Contained 
 Herein: 

 Bio-Web 

 Uncensored! 

 cmkinc@eskimo.com 

 PGP Public Key 

 Updated 
 Saturday, January 5, 2002