VeNoM [home] 

 V e N o M I N T E R A C T I V E 

 Model: 
 Eggdrop 1.1.5.mod 

 Host: 
 Eskimo North, Seattle, WA 

 Available: 
 24/7, T1 connection 

 Uptime: 
 98%+ 

 Features: 
 Full channel protection (text-floods, clone detection); Chanop automation (user
 management, dynamic banlist, temp-bans, instant shitlisting, etc.); Channel statistics
 reporting; "seen" user tracking for all nicks; customizable, multiple or
 random auto-greets; and much more! 

 Proudly
Serving the StarLink IRC Network 

 [ VeNoM Command
Help ] 

 YoU eVeR gOnNa uPgRaDe?!? 
 That's a fair question. Everyone knows that the new versions are out and the 1.3 is reasonably stable, so why is VeNoM lagging behind the pack at 1.1.5? 
 The easiest answer is that I simply can't compile any higher a version on the Eskimo shell. The chat box runs SunOS, just like the main machine, and it has something to do with its C compiler not being ANSI compliant. (I'm probably not precisely correct on that, any polite corrections are appreciated :)). Actually, the bot isn't actually compiled on chat, it's compiled on the main machine. Chat has next to nothing installed, for security reasons or so they say. 
 That is soon to change, however, as chat is replaced with a brand new box running Sparc Linux. It will apparently have emulation software installed so it can run Sun compiled binaries. Getting a 1.3 up would be a cakewalk. But there is another issue. 
 It's hard to believe how long VeNoM has actually been around. Must be close to a year and a half. During that time a tremendous amount of user data has been collected. Although the user list is periodically scrubbed of no-shows, there are still easily over a hundred legitimite user records. VeNoM's ban list is also extensive and contains some of the lamest people I've ever seen on IRC. 
 For you non-insiders, the ban list and the user list are actually stored in the same file. And that file, as far as I can tell, is not transferable to 1.3 from 1.1.5. That means all user and ban data would have to be recreated from scratch, or just start all over from zero and gradually op everyone up who deserves it. I don't know; this is one of the many areas where bot operations rub up against channel policies. I really prefer not to go there. 
 In short, my inclination is to stick with 1.1.5 after the chat box is upgraded to Sparc Linux. I would certainly recompile the binaries under Linux so it doesn't have to run in emulation, but right now I simply don't see the compelling benefit in upgrading to 1.3 and losing all that data. VeNoM has proven stable and reliable (though it does get lagged from time to time), and running on the new chat box it should become more nimble as well. 

-->

 Thanks for
stopping by the VeNoM INTERACTIVE home
page! 

 V e N o M I N T E R A C T I V E 
 VeNoM INTERACTIVE is an
 independent producer of interactive, entertaining and useful Internet products and
 services. Stay tuned!