Four Winds Kite Shop - Aerie Sport Kites 

 Aerie Sport Kites 

With all the talk, with all the hype, it's sometimes hard to know exactly
 what separates one kite design from another. It's true they fly differently
 but oftentimes it's hard to know why. With Aerie kites you can make a
 determination sitting in your house.

All Aerie kites have an aerodynamic shape cut and sewn into the sail itself.
 Nearly every other kite in the world is sewn flat and is dependent upon the
 wind to "inflate" the sail and create an airfoil. Aerie kites have an
 optimum airfoil shape even before the wind stars to blow. To test this,
 simply pull all the spares out of an Aerie kite and try to lay it flat on a
 table. It can't be done.

Why don't other kite manufacturers make kites in this manner? Two reasons:
 Hundreds of hours of testing are required to attain the correct profile for
 each sail shape and the construction of each sail is a painstaking process. 
 Hand-cut panels are individually taped, bonded and sewn. All stress-points
 are mylar reinforced. These kites are not cheap.

So what's this built-in airfoil mean to you? Simple, tremendous light air
 performance. Aerie kites generate lift from the moment the wind begins to
 slide over their surface. So why are you still sitting in your house? Get
 flying!

 Air FX 
This is the kite that made the company. Built with the philosophy that form
 follows function the three-dimensional shape of the wings also creates an
 elegant graphic pattern. Of all the Aerie kites, the Air FX is the most
 precise, straigthest-tracking model. It's a great team precision kite.
 Available in a standard Icarex sail or with reinforced mylar panels, or
 with ultralight frame sets.

 Wingspan: 94 in. 
 Height: 46 in. 
 Sail Area: 11.0 sq.ft. 
 Sailcloth: Icarex 
 Spar type: G-Force / 9.25 oz. 
 Wind Range: 1.5-18 mph 
 Suggested Line: 80-150# Speed line 
 Expertise level: Intermediate - Comp 
 Price: $299. 95 Tapered Carbon 
 $299. 95 Ultralight (A B & C Only) 

 Includes lines, straps and winder! 

 Diablo 
O.K. you slack-line junkies, this is your kite. A high-aspect flat sail
 with a tricked-out bridle makes the Diablo as radical a flyer as you could
 possibly want. But "radical" doesn't adequately describe the Diablo style
 of flying. "Slash and burn" is a bit closer to the point.

 Wingspan: 91 in. 
 Height: 41 in. 
 Sail Area: 10.2 sq.ft. 
 Sailcloth: Icarex 
 Spar type: Carbon / 10.0 oz. 
 Wind Range: 2-20 mph 
 Suggested Line: 80-150# Speed line 
 Expertise level: Intermediate - Comp 
 Price: $209. 95 Carbon 
 $259. 95 G-Force 

 Includes lines, straps and winder! 

 K3 
It tracks straigther than a Diablo and is much more radical than the FX or
 Mystic. The K3 is a perfect modern team ballet kite. Fly axels, turtles,
 fades or square corners with equal ease. On second thought, forget the team
 and go enjoy this kite by yourself.

 Wingspan: 97 in. 
 Height: 44.5 in. 
 Sail Area: 12.2 sq.ft. 
 Sailcloth: Icarex 
 Spar type: Carbon / 10.25 oz. 
 Wind Range: 3-18 mph 
 Suggested Line: 80-150# Speed line 
 Expertise level: Intermediate - Comp 
 Price: $259. 95 Carbon 
 $309. 95 G-Force 

 Includes lines, straps and winder! 

 Mystic 
Your first impression of the Mystic is its simple, beautiful graphics but in
 the air the kite becomes more complex. A medium-aspect wing combined with a
 deep keel and advanced bridles make the Mystic tight, precise and crazy.

 Wingspan: 97 in. 
 Height: 45 in. 
 Sail Area: 10.75 sq.ft. 
 Sailcloth: Icarex 
 Spar type: Carbon / 10.25 oz. 
 Wind Range: 3-18 mph 
 Suggested Line: 80-150# Speed line 
 Expertise level: Intermediate - Comp 
 Price: $219. 95 Carbon 
 $269. 95 G-Force 

 Includes lines, straps and winder!