Four Winds Kite Shop - Sport Kite Accessories 

 Sport Kite Accessories 

 Shanti Straps - $7. 50 to $13. 95 
 There's a new invention in the world of flight straps -- Shanti Straps.
 They look similar to other straps on the market but they are very different.
 Shanti Straps are adjustable in size. This means that you can now easily
 adjust the loop size of your flight strap and simultaneously change the
 length of your fly line.

Everyone knows that your fly lines have to be exactly even for you to have
 good control over your sport kite. Everyone also knows what a hassle it is
 to make line adjustments in the field. This is a problem for beginners and
 experts alike.

Imagine. No more tiny knots to untie. No more sleeving to lose. No more
 flying with uneven line lengths. Shanti Straps will revolutionize how you
 think about your line equipment. They will also give you the one thing you
 want most -- more time to enjoy flying.

 Padded Straps - $13. 95 per pair 
The ultimate in flying comfort. Shanti's cloud-soft, Padded Straps provide
 the perfect solution for sport kite flying fatigue. Assorted colors.

 Flat Straps and Finger Straps - $5. 95 to $8. 95 per pair 
Need a break from handles? Check out these alternatives for dual-line sport
 kite flying. Shanti's popular flat Wrist Straps and Flat Finger Straps are
 constructed of strong, high-quality webbing. The smooth webbing is easy on
 your wrists and fingers. Straps pack flat. Specially harnessed for easy
 handling. Assorted colors.

 Sky Claw Sport Handles - $13. 95 per blank set 
Shanti's Sky Claw sport handles are essential equipment for the serious
 dual-line kite flyer. Sky Claw handles give flyers the two things they want
 most: foam-cushioned grips for flying comfort and the fastest dual-line
 rewinding system in the world. Sky Claw handles are available blank (with
 harnesses for easy line attachment) or with an assortment of high performance
 lines. Complete instructions are included. Foam grips come in red and black.

 Dual Spool - $5. 95 per pair 
Dual Spool handles are made of sturdy plastic and are good for single or
 dual-line kites. These economic handles have the advantage of allowing the
 flyer to quickly adjust line length by securing under the "mushroom" tie
 point, Available blank or with a complete assortment of lines -- Dual Spools
 are popular with beginners or pros. Assorted colors.

 Strong Grip Handles - $5. 95 per pair 
Did you ever wish you had a sturdy plastic handle that was smaller and
 cheaper than a Dual Spool? Now you do. Shanti's StrongGrip handles are
 available with or without line.

 Fatso & Skinny Winders - $2. 95 (Skinny) $3. 50 (Fatso) 
The most economical flat winder available. Made of brightly-colored plastic,
 Skinny (3" x 8") and Fatso (3.75" x 9") make line storage easy and
 affordable. Easy to pack -- Shanti's Skinny winder is designed to fit into
 most kite bags. Assorted colors. We add a bungee chord to hold the wound
 line in place! 

 Crazy 8 - Blank $4. 95 
Shanti's Crazy 8 winder provides an inexpensive and efficient way to wind
 multiple lines. Its edges are rounded smooth so that you won't damage your
 line. Lines are easily secured with elastic band or bungee cord. Crazy 8
 winders come with simple instruction for rewinding lines in a figure-eight
 motion. Sold blank or with a wide assortment of line or strap sets. Assorted
 colors.