Garden BirdBath 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 ...back 
 to garden store 

 Heated Garden Birdbath 

Birds need open water in winter to drink and to keep their feathers clean for better insulation -- that's why this heated bird bath always draws 
a crowd. A thermostat control prevents freezing to -20 degrees F, and saves energy on warmer days. ... 

 Antiqued Brass Birdbath 

With its aged two-tone brass finish and hand-wrought botanical shape, this elegant birdbath is a rare and lovely addition to any garden. Ground stake included. ... 

 Heated Birdbaths 

Birds need water in winter as well as summer, and with this heated birdbath you won't disappoint them. It features an energy-efficient 60-watt thermostatic control and heat absorbing, foam-insulated bowl. That means you can give birds water to drink and clean their feat ... 

 Effervescent Bath Balls 

Drop one of these scented spheres into your bath water and it bursts into effervescence, releasing natural exfoliants and sea salts to leave your skin feeling pampered and silky smooth. Each set contains three balls lightly scented with natural lavender, cucumber, or re ... 

 Austrian Backscrubber 

Preferred in European spas for over 150 years, the Austrian Backscrubber has medium-stiff brushes that stimulate, tone, and exfoliate, leaving your skin tingling with energy and glowing with health. Large hand loops make it easy to reach all the way around your back. ... 

 Soap Rocks 

These handmade Soap RocksT look almost too lovely to use. Go ahead and enjoy them, though - their patterns change beautifully as new layers emerge. Very mild and extra long-lasting, with natural herbs plus aloe, vitamin E and essential oils. Sold individually or as a se ... 

 Blue Ceramic Birdbath 

Made entirely of ceramic with a deep cobalt 
glaze, this birdbath is a breathtaking focal 
point in a flower garden. It's practical 
too, with a 4 1/2-quart bowl that has the 
wide lip and gentle slope songbirds prefer. 
Made by a century-old pottery studio whose 
 ... 

 Lavender Bouquet 

In late summer, vast fields of waving lavender transform the hills of southern France into a panorama of brilliant color and dreamy fragrance. This aromatic Lavender Bouquet is an inspired accent for the kitchen, living room, or bath. It will keep its fresh color and sc ... 

 Copper Birdbath 

With its mellow antiqued finish, classic column pedestal and beaded-ring design, our Copper Birdbath brings an understated elegance to your garden. The 5-quart bowl is the wide, shallow shape that songbirds prefer, with terraced steps to give them plenty of perching spa ... 

 Bee and Flower Bath Beads 

Treat a tired gardener to a relaxing scented bath with these delightful bee and flower bath beads. The flowers are infused with the calming scent of lavender, the bees with skin-smoothing honey-almond. When the bath beads are gone, the bamboo mat bento box will hold pot ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]