Christmas Ornament Candles 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 ...back 
 to garden store 

 Pine Cone Candles 

These Pine Cone Candles are so realistic you'll have to touch them to believe they're made of wax. Made of the highest-grade paraffin with coreless German wicks, they burn for over 12 hours. ... 

 Storm Jar 

This stoneware storm jar stores emergency supplies within reach in case of a power failure. Its lid keeps contents dry, and reverses to hold taper or votive candles. Gift-boxed.
 ... 

 Electric Candle 

Nothing symbolizes warmth and welcome like a candle in the window at holiday time. Our Electric Candle has a built-in timer to greet you with lighted windows when you come home. It lights for 8 hours, then repeats every 24 hours. 

 Energy-saving 7-watt bulb. 
 Ele ... 

 Mini Pinecone Candles, set of 12 

At this great price, you'll want several sets of our realistic-looking pinecone candles to give and to keep. They burn for 1-1/2 hours. ... 

 Ornament Candles, set of 4 

THey look like they should be hanging on the Christmas tree, but these pretty ornaments are actually candles that burn an amazing 15 hours. Use them to adorn the mantle or accent place settings at the holiday table. Set contains 2 red and 2 green. ... 

 Christmas Tree Candles 

Perfect in a table centerpiece or to dress up a gingerbread house or Christmas village, these delightful candles are intricately detailed and decorated with tiny red berries.
Our Brass Candle Saucer is the perfect holder for these candles.
 ... 

 Snowflake Luminaries 

The intricate designs on our metal luminaries are faithfully reproduced from actual snowflake crystals. And unlike most luminaries, the sleeve lifts off the candle base so you needn't risk burned fingers reaching in with a lit candle. Each is made from 1-3/4 lbs of shin ... 

 Power Strip with Timer 

End power cord clutter and confusion with this ingenious Power Strip with Timer. One side has four timed outlets you can program from 15 minutes to 24 hours; the other four outlets are on a standard on/off switch. Ideal for light gardens, home office, and indoor holiday ... 

 Feathered Friends Candelabra 

Light up your dinner table with our unique woodland candelabra. Lifelike birds perch on a tree branch that holds three glowing tapers. Extinguish the candles with our bonus gift &#150; a matching bird snuffer! Display singly or in pairs. ... 

 Bird's Nest Taper Holders, set of 2 

Our handcrafted candlesticks, fashioned of intricately twisted wire to resemble a songbird's nest, will charm the bird-lovers on your list. Notice the speckled eggs and tiny ladybug! Matching pair. 
 ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]