Christmas Garden Gifts 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 ...back 
 to garden store 

 Vermont Natural Fruitcake 

If you have a low opinion of fruitcakes, this all-natural fruitcake will change your mind. Made in small batches at a farmhouse in Cavendish, Vermont, it starts with an old-fashioned spice cake batter, sweetened with honey, orange juice, orange liqueur, brandy, and lemo ... 

 Wrought Iron Tabletop Tree 

Every home has a collection of really special ornaments, each one with its own story. This wrought iron tree lets you display up to 48 of your favorite ornaments on a tabletop or shelf, where they won't be lost, broken, or hidden among the greenery. It makes a terrific ... 

 Gift of Kings 

On the first Christmas, the Three Wise Men gave gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh. Our Gift of Kings is a handcrafted wood treasure chest with gold-colored brass accents. It's filled with nuggets of frankincense and myrrh, fragrant resins from the ancient trees of A ... 

 Vermont Balsam Wreaths 

During the holidays, there's nothing more inviting than the scent of a really fresh balsam wreath. Our traditional Vermont wreaths have longlasting color and fragrance because they're cut and hand-tied only after first frost, when the air is crisp and the trees have har ... 

 Tin Icicles, set of 50 

Adorn your tree with our shiny tin icicles, and you'll wonder why you ever put up with messy clumps of modern plastic "tinsel." Two colors -- Silver and Gold -- each comes as a set of 50 in an old-fashioned metal storage canister. ... 

 Artificial Blue Spruce with Lights 

If you haven't the space for a large-diameter Christmas tree - or the patience to clean up all those needles - this one's for you. At 7 feet tall, it has the grandeur and fullness of a real tree, yet its slim profile won't overwhelm the living room. Unlike the garish ar ... 

 Birdseed Ornaments 

These festive ornaments are superior in every way to ordinary birdseed balls! Five solid ornaments pack an amazing amount of peanuts &#150; over 1-1/2 lbs in each set! Packaged in a handsome wooden crate. Birds love them! ... 

 Cardinal Wreath 

At holiday time or any time, these nesting cardinals are full of good cheer. Our handcrafted iron sign is lacquered to protect the bright colors; hang in a protected location for best rust resistance. 
 ... 

 Vermont Farmstead Maple Breakfast 

Serve a holiday breakfast they'll remember for a long time! You'll receive two classic New England pancake mixes-buttermilk and apple cinnamon - made with all-natural stoneground flours, 8 oz of pure Vermont Grade A medium amber maple syrup, plus two maple leaf-shaped p ... 

 Woodland Bulb Collection 

Brighten your home in mid-winter with an explosion of color and luscious floral fragrance. This charming pinecone basket arrives fully planted with 20 spring bulbs &#150; 5 miniature 'Tete-a-Tete' daffodils and 15 grape hyacinths &#150; already showing an inch or two of ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]