How to Compost, Soil Composter 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Soil Composter 
 ...back 
 to garden store 

 Pyramid 
 Composter&#153; 
 Think you don't have time 
 to make your own compost? The Pyramid Composter 
 will change your mind. This exclusive continuous 
 composter &#150; designed by the compost experts 
 here at Gardener's Supply &#150; makes big 
 batches of dark, nutrient-rich compost with 
 almost no e ... 

 SpaceSaver 
 Composter 
 If you don't have space in 
 your garden for a compost pile, or the time 
 to tend it, we have the composter for you. 
 The SpaceSaver Composter has every feature 
 gardeners like you have been asking for. It 
 holds a full 7 cubic feet of leaves, garden 
 waste and kitchen ... 

 Tumbling 
 Compost Mixer&#153; with FREE Super Hot 
 This Tumbling Batch Composter 
 is the sports car of composters. It has the 
 end-over-end action of similar models, but 
 with a shorter, rounder body that is easier 
 to turn and mixes more thoroughly. Load it 
 up and tumble every few days, and you can 
 have finished compost in ... 

 Kitchen 
 Compost Crock 
 Collecting kitchen scraps 
 for composting shouldn't detract from your 
 kitchen decor. This sleek ceramic crock is 
 attractive enough to keep on the kitchen counter, 
 so there's no need to hide it under the sink. 
 Glazed inside and out, the crock will never 
 stain or absorb fo ... 

 Country 
 Compost Crock 
 No one will guess this handsome, 
 rustic crock is collecting kitchen scraps 
 for composting, so you can keep it right on 
 the kitchen counter. An activated charcoal 
 filter in the lid traps odors, and it's dishwasher 
 safe, too. Made of glazed ceramic, the crock 
 comes with 2 ... 

 Odor-Free 
 Compost Pail 
 Collect kitchen waste for 
 your compost pile without collecting flies. 
 This Odor-Free Compost Pail has a snap-lock 
 lid and easy-to-replace carbon filters to 
 eliminate food odors. Put it on your countertop, 
 or mount it under your sink (screws not included). 
 Light tan colo ... 

 Super 
 Hot Compost Starter 
 This 100% organic activator 
 will "rev up" your compost pile with a high-energy 
 blend of nitrogen and hungry micro-organisms. 
 It's a powerful two-part system of energizer 
 (including peanut meal) and activator (micro-organisms, 
 alfalfa, cocoa meal, and other ingredients). 
 ... 

 Compost 
 Filter Accessory Kit 
 Eliminate the odors that 
 can attract animals to your compost with this 
 easy-to-use filter kit. You'll receive 2 charcoal 
 filters (which last 6-8 weeks each) and clips 
 to hold the filter in place. Fits both sizes 
 of our Pyramid Composter with no drilling 
 needed. E ... 

 Compost 
 Aerator 
 You won't find a better-designed 
 compost aerator anywhere. It has not one, 
 but two sets of "wings" that fold back to 
 plunge deep into the pile, then open to create 
 new air passages. A must-have accessory for 
 any composter! Padded handles provide comfort 
 an ... 

 Compost 
 Pile Aerator 
 This Compost Aerator mixes 
 and aerates your compost pile for faster, 
 more complete results. Its two hinged wings 
 fold back to plunge deep into the pile, then 
 open to 7" W to pull material out, creating 
 new air passages. ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]