Decorative Garden Products 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Decorative Garden Products ...back 
 to garden store 

 Floating 
 Fountain 
 This completely self-contained 
 floating fountain creates a festive spray 
 pattern without any external power, wires, 
 hoses or pumps. Turns on automatically in 
 full sunlight. The case is completely watertight, 
 so the electronics are protected for years 
 of service. R ... 

 Copper 
 Lily Sprinkler 
 With gracefully sculpted 
 petals of warm copper, this lovely Lily Sprinkler 
 is a work of art for your garden, and waters 
 with a fine spray as gentle as spring rain. 
 Waters in a 30-foot circle (over 700 sq ft) 
 to keep your garden lush and healthy. Heavy-duty 
 gr ... 

 Rhine 
 Maiden Statue 
 She rises from the cool waters 
 of the river to bask in the sunshine and converse 
 with her songbird companions. She is one of 
 the Rhine Maidens, beautiful river fairies 
 of Norse mythology who understood the language 
 of birds and animals, and had the power to 
 charm mortal ... 

 Hi-Rise 
 Copper Sprinkler 14809"> 
 Stripped of all unnecessary 
 gadgets and failure-prone moving parts, this 
 360 degree sprinkler is a perfect blend of 
 form and function. It stands 5-feet tall and 
 waters silently in a 30-foot circle (over 
 700 square feet), simulating a gentle rain. 
 ... 

 Terra 
 Cotta Birdbath 
 Make your garden or yard 
 a popular social spot by providing your feathered 
 friends with water for bathing and drinking. 
 Should not be left out in freezing temperatures. 
 Regular catalog price was $44.95 ... 

 Copper 
 Obelisks 
 Prized since antiquity for 
 its warm rosy glow, strength, and malleability, 
 copper takes center stage in today's garden! 
 These elegant tuteurs create an instant focal 
 point and support your flowering vines with 
 great style. The Copper Obelisk is topped 
 with ... 

 Tulip 
 and Berry Fairies 12487"> 
 These adorable childlike 
 fairies are based on the illustrations popular 
 in Victorian books of nursery rhymes. Like 
 the originals, they have sprightly poses, 
 lifelike expressions, and great attention 
 to botanical detail. The Tulip Fairy peeks 
 around the leaves of her fav ... 

 Bamboo 
 Harvest Baskets, set of 4 
 Beautiful enough to be conversation 
 pieces, yet sturdy enough for everyday use, 
 our Bamboo Harvest Baskets make ordinary chores 
 a pleasure. They display a level of crafts- 
 manship that is rare these days: tightly woven 
 by hand of tough, resilient bamboo, then smok 
 ... 

 Split 
 Cane Fencing 
 Maintain your privacy or 
 define an Asian-themed area of the garden 
 with this handsome fencing. Naturally durable 
 split cane is interwoven with galvanized wire 
 for added strength. Secure to your posts with 
 Black Lashing Cord (sold separately) for an 
 economical fence you ... 

 Leaf 
 End Hose Guide, set of 2 
 Hose guides can save your 
 flower beds from being leveled by a heavy 
 hose, but they're usually so unsightly that 
 they detract form the look of your flower 
 beds. Our Leaf End Hose Guides keep plants 
 safe, and look pretty, too. Regular catalog 
 price was $11.95 ... 

 Flower 
 Aquariums 
 This handblown glass aquarium 
 enhances and magnifies intricate floral details 
 and lets you enjoy your favorite blossoms 
 days longer. A perfect gift for anyone who 
 loves flowers! The genuine gemstone quartz 
 base (sold separately) fits both sizes of 
 our flower aquar ... 

 Pebble 
 Fountain with Pump 
 Even a small garden deserves a place where 
 water flows and gurgles, delighting eye and 
 ear alike. Our beautiful Pebble Fountain enhances 
 intimate garden spaces with its modest size 
 and clean geometry, and it's easy to install. 
 Fill the fountain tray with pebbles o ... 

 Blue 
 Ceramic Birdbath 
 Made entirely of ceramic with a deep cobalt 
 glaze, this birdbath is a breathtaking focal 
 point in a flower garden. It's practical too, 
 with a 4 1/2-quart bowl that has the wide 
 lip and gentle slope songbirds prefer. Made 
 by a century-old pottery studio whose ... 

 Bamboo 
 Edging 
 Interest in Asian gardens has 
 made bamboo a popular landscaping material. 
 Its reed-like appearance complements pathways, 
 water gardens and ornamental grasses. This 
 edging is made of individual canes cut at 
 the "knuckle" to seal out water, then wired 
 together; the varyin ... 

 Wigwam 
 Pot with Finial 
 These smart-looking terra cotta pots have 
 feet cast into them, eliminating casters or 
 saucers. Inside the pot, the feet form holders 
 for a "wigwam" of bamboo canes capped by a 
 terra cotta finial, Hidden wire clips make 
 the canes even more secure. Great for growing 
 small ... 

 Stratford 
 Planter 
 Give plants the royal treatment 
 with the Stratford Planter, a modern version 
 of the ironwork planters that give British 
 gardens their distinctive style. Free standing 
 or can be mounted on matching Stratford Brackets 
 (brackets sold separately below, can also 
 be used for ... 

 Glow 
 Stone 
 By day it looks like a granite 
 rock placed casually in the landscape, but 
 as darkness falls it glows an intriguing foxfire 
 green. Our Glow Stone path marker is made 
 of durable stone-like resin, coated on one 
 side with space-age phosphorescent polymers. 
 Unlike the ... 

 Copper 
 Post Caps 
 Our post caps are so handsome 
 that most gardeners buy them for looks alone. 
 But they pay for themselves by extending the 
 life of fence posts by protecting the vulnerable 
 end grain. Fits any standard 4 x 4 post. Choose 
 genuine copper with shiny or verdi ... 

 Hummingbird 
 Feeder Mobile 
 This contemporary work of art 
 combines brightly painted metal with glass 
 "jewels" that gently move in the breeze. But 
 here's the real beauty: each glass vessel 
 holds 10 ounces of nectar to attract hummingbirds 
 and keep them coming back. Regular catalog 
 price of ... 

 Quartz 
 Candle Stones 
 These beautiful quartz stones 
 are nature's own creations, individually cut 
 to hold a tealight so they glow from within. 
 Felt bottom to protect furniture. Each includes 
 one candle. Regular catalog prices were: Candle 
 Stones $21.95 and Tea Lights $4.95. ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]