Garden Flower Supports 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Garden Flower Supports 
 ...back 
 to garden store 

 26-in 
 Grow Through Supports 
 Position these supports over 
 your plants in early spring and let stems 
 grow up through the grid top. Recommended 
 for long-stemmed flowers like peonies, foxgloves, 
 echinacea, veronicas, and carnations. Regular 
 catalog price was $24.95 ... 

 Single-Stem 
 Supports 
 Ideal for glads, irises, 
 tulips and roses, our Single-Stem Supports 
 keep individual flower stalks upright. Regular 
 catalog price was $11.95 ... 

 Linking 
 Stakes 
 These are our most popular 
 plant supports. The ingenious design will 
 support most any annual or perennial, from 
 asters to zinnias. You can link together as 
 many stakes as you need, and they can be easily 
 moved or adjusted as the season progresses. 
 Regular catalog p ... 

 Y 
 Stakes 
 The arms of these Y-shaped 
 flower stakes can be bent for custom support 
 and moved easily as new flowers come into 
 bloom. Regular catalog prices were: 35" Y-Stakes, 
 $16.95; 47" Y-Stakes, $19.95 ... 

 Support 
 Rings 
 The double-ring design of 
 our Support Rings provide sturdy support for 
 lilies, foxgloves, asters and tall annuals. 
 Set of 3. Our Mini Rings are great for snapdragons, 
 campanulas, and weak-stemmed flowers like 
 larkspur and bachelor buttons. Regular catalog 
 p ... 

 Gathering 
 Rings 
 These sturdy wire rings gather 
 together long stems, providing gentle support 
 for lilies, taller foxglove varieties, and 
 other tall plants. The unique drop-leg closure 
 opens wide to accept bundles of flowers without 
 damaging stems. Regular catalog prices were: 
 6" di ... 

 Deluxe 
 Grow-Through Supports 
 We've had many requests for 
 an extra-durable flower support that can handle 
 flowers of all kinds, from a vigorous clump 
 of delphiniums to mature peonies. These new 
 supports have longer legs and a sturdier construction 
 than any others on the market. Durable wire 
 support ... 

 24" 
 Y Stakes 
 This 2' tall Y-Stake is perfect 
 for providing custom support to tulips, cosmos, 
 delphiniums, floxgloves or lilies. The arms 
 are flexible and can be used to wrap around 
 stems, or extended straight out for borders 
 -- or to link two together. The wire is soft 
 enough ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]