Seasonal Flowers Delivered 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Seasonal Flowers Delivered 
 ...back 
 to garden store 

 3 
 and 6 Months of Flowers 
 Imagine one gift that brightens 
 the home with colorful flowers all through 
 the gray winter, and right into spring! We 
 time the shipment of our flower gardens carefully 
 so that your Christmas, Valentine's Day, Easter 
 and Mother's Day gifts are all taken care 
 of, for one ... 

 Four 
 Months of Flowers 
 (This product no longer available) 
 When skies are gray 
 and snow piles up outside, a basket of spring 
 flowers brightens a home like nothing else 
 can. Now you can give 4 months of spring cheer 
 for one very reasonable price: In December 
 you'll receive a chorus of 5 spring flowers 
 &#150; red tulips, pur ... 

 Spring 
 Bulb Garden 
 (This product no longer available) 
 Enchant someone you 
 love by sending this living bouquet of colorful 
 Spring flowers. Our Spring Bulb Garden includes 
 red tulips, purple crocuses, blue and white 
 scilla, daffodils, and fragrant hyacinths 
 &#150; 19 bulbs in all &#150; planted in an 
 8" pot and nestled in a ... 

 4 
 Months of Flowers 
 (This product no longer available) 
 Here's a touch of 
 spring to brighten the dreary months of winter. 
 In December, the colorful Spring Bulb Garden 
 (sold separately) arrives cradled in a natural 
 willow basket. January brings a collection 
 of creamy 'Apricot Ruffles' narcissus. In 
 February, 12 yellow baby tu ... 

 3 
 Months of Mushrooms 
 (This product no longer available) 
 Good cooks prize fresh, 
 flavorful mushrooms for soups, salads and 
 sandwiches, and they'll have the satisfaction 
 of growing their own using these surefire 
 kits. They'll receive meaty Portabellas in 
 December, delicately-flavored Button Mushrooms 
 in January, and Oyster Mus ... 

 Natural 
 Slug Trap 
 When people see this attractive 
 earthenware vessel in your garden, they'll 
 never guess that it's really a slug trap. 
 Just add 2 cups of our Liquid Slug Bait and 
 slugs will be lured to a watery death. Made 
 from natural terra cotta, its hand-glazed 
 interior is easy to cle ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]