Seasonal Garden Decoration - Seasonal 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Garden Decoration - Seasonal 
 ...back 
 to garden store 

 Nesting 
 Baskets 
 Songbirds are in desperate 
 need of habitat, and every gardener can help. 
 These hanging baskets hold nesting material 
 so birds don't have to forage so far. As a 
 bonus, you get to observe birds as they flit 
 in and out collecting material-they may even 
 decide to nest in yo ... 

 Heated 
 Garden Birdbath 
 Birds need open water in 
 winter to drink and to keep their feathers 
 clean for better insulation -- that's why 
 this heated bird bath always draws a crowd. 
 A thermostat control prevents freezing to 
 -20 degrees F, and saves energy on warmer 
 days. ... 

 Great 
 Blue Heron 
 It's exhilarating to spot 
 a Great Blue Heron in the wild, standing motionless 
 at water's edge. Bring that excitement to 
 your pond or water garden with this lifelike, 
 life-size sculpture of the stately bird. Like 
 a well-made decoy, it has features handpainted 
 in bright, ... 

 Armillary 
 Sundial 
 Armillaries date back centuries 
 to the early French astronomers, who used 
 them to chart the movements of the celestial 
 spheres. Placed in your garden, this handsome 
 Armillary Sundial will not only record the 
 movement of the sun, it will also add formal 
 elegance to its ... 

 Antiqued 
 Brass Birdbath 
 With its aged two-tone brass 
 finish and hand-wrought botanical shape, this 
 elegant birdbath is a rare and lovely addition 
 to any garden. Ground stake included. ... 

 Courting 
 Cranes 
 Many public conservatories 
 and estate gardens embellish their water gardens 
 with statues of cranes. Made of bronze or 
 copper, these statues can cost hundreds &#150; 
 even thousands &#150; of dollars. Handcast 
 in aluminum, so they're more durable and affordable. 
 ... 

 Moose 
 on the Loose 
 Fool your friends with this 
 realistic yet unlikely spectacle peering over 
 the garden fence or hanging from the porch 
 wall. His head is nearly 19" long, the removable 
 antlers are over 30" wide! Because he's 10-1/2 
 lbs, please mount securely. Protect from freezing. 
 ... 

 Heated 
 Birdbaths 
 Birds need water in winter 
 as well as summer, and with this heated birdbath 
 you won't disappoint them. It features an 
 energy-efficient 60-watt thermostatic control 
 and heat absorbing, foam-insulated bowl. That 
 means you can give birds water to drink and 
 clean their feat ... 

 Three 
 Little Pigs 
 They're playful! They're 
 portly! They're pork! You can't resist a smile 
 when you see this trio of characters enjoying 
 themselves in the garden. The Giggling Pig 
 rolls on the ground in mirth. With a wink 
 and a smile, the Dancing Pig does a little 
 jig to lead guests d ... 

 Hummingbird 
 Wind Sculpture 
 Even on a still day, this 
 hummingbird sculpture is a striking work of 
 art. But in the slightest breeze it comes 
 alive, drawing fascinating patterns in the 
 air as it dips and turns on its brass stake. 
 Handcrafted of brushed aluminum by acclaimed 
 metal artist Arthur Higgi ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]