Snow Gauge 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Snow Gauge 
 ...back 
 to garden store 

 Copper 
 Snow Gauge 
 Our Copper Snow Gauge adds 
 interest to your winter landscape, and also 
 tells you how much snow has fallen. The depth 
 of snow is measured from the bottom of each 
 easy-to-read 2-inch number, so you can tell 
 current snowfall at a quick glance. The stylish 
 curving numbers a ... 

 Snowflake 
 Gauge 
 Our new Snowflake Gauge is 
 both a striking sculpture of falling snowflakes 
 and an easy-to-read marker that measures snowfall 
 up to 3 feet deep. Crafted of pure copper 
 with intricately cut numerals, the gauge measures 
 snow depth in 2" increments, with each foot 
 clearly ... 

 Copper 
 Compost Pail 
 In its native Turkey, all-purpose 
 copper pails like this one haul water, kindling, 
 fireplace ashes and more. Our slightly smaller 
 version takes up only a little space on the 
 kitchen counter, yet holds 5 quarts. It makes 
 an attractive vessel for storing kitchen scraps 
 an ... 

 Gas 
 Gauge & Funnel 
 (This product no longer available) 
 This cap has a red 
 float indicator that shows your fuel level 
 as you mow. When it's time to refill, attach 
 the funnel, and its indicator will show when 
 your tank is full. Fits Briggs and Stratton, 
 Quantum, Kawasaki and LawnBoy mowers (1-7/8" 
 OD Male Filler Necks.) Regu ... 

 Freestanding 
 Rain Gauge 
 (This product no longer available) 
 Has there been enough 
 rain for your plants? You'll always know the 
 answer with this attractive gauge that measures 
 up to 5 inches (12 cm) of rainfall. The weighted 
 brass base won't tip over, so you can set 
 it right out in the garden. ... 

 APS 
 Water Level Gauge 
 Get an instant reading on 
 APS water levels &#150; and visual assurance 
 that your seedlings aren't going thirsty. 
 Just slip this gauge into any size APS, and 
 the red float will display the exact depth 
 of the water in the reservoir. Indicator is 
 red & is easily ... 

 Graphing 
 Rain Gauge 
 (This product no longer available) 
 This ingenious wireless 
 sensor not only tells you how much rain has 
 fallen in the last hour, and the total for 
 the current storm, it also displays 7 days, 
 7 weeks or 7 months of rainfall history. Also 
 displays date and time. Please note: Color 
 of the monitor is not a ... 

 Vermont 
 Weather Instruments 
 (This product no longer available) 
 This brass Pear Thermometer 
 displays temperatures from -30 degrees to 
 100 degrees F. and includes Celsius readings. 
 The matching Rain Gauge mounts on its own 
 24" stake. Clear protective coating. Approx. 
 8" H. Exclusive. ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]