Garden Landscaping Items 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Landscaping Items ...back 
 to garden store 

 Edge 
 Border 
 Put away your string trimmer! 
 This border mulch gives you a crisp edge around 
 raised beds, walkways or foundation plantings, 
 and your lawn mower will roll right over it. 
 Suppresses weeds while allowing air, water 
 and nutrients through. Made of durabl ... 

 Solar 
 Sundown Lights 
 These solar-powered lights 
 come on automatically at dusk, softly defining 
 a flower bed, patio, deck or pool. Each light 
 has an energy-efficient lifetime LED light. 
 Color inserts let you choose bright white 
 for best illumination on deck or stairs, soft 
 candle-like amber ... 

 Reed 
 Fence 
 Cover up an unsightly chain-link 
 fence, or create a privacy screen on your 
 patio with this natural Reed Fence. Made from 
 pencil-thick reeds woven together with vinyl-coated 
 wire, it can be attached to an existing fence 
 or to posts of your own. As with all fences, 
 it's b ... 

 Garden 
 Kneeler 
 The Garden Kneeler makes 
 it easy and comfortable to lower yourself 
 down for weeding or planting, then raise yourself 
 up again without strain. Turn it over and 
 it becomes a convenient bench. Both the bench 
 side and the kneeling side are cushioned with 
 dense 3 ... 

 Tree 
 Rings 
 Even if you could lay a perfect 
 ring of bark mulch around your tree, it would 
 soon look ragged and need replenishing. These 
 tree rings look just like bark mulch, but 
 they're actually thick mats of recycled tire 
 rubber that will stay in place year after 
 year &#150; you c ... 

 Mock 
 Rock & Faux Boulder 
 No one but you will know 
 that the landscape boulder in your yard conceals 
 a well cover, water shut off, electrical box, 
 or other unsightly mechanism. Made of ThermostoneT 
 plastic composite, these faux stones withstand 
 the harshest elements yet weigh only 10 lbs, 
 so you ... 

 WaterWells 
 Professional landscapers 
 plant trees in large wells to make sure that 
 nutrients and water get to the roots without 
 running off. WaterWells give your plants the 
 same benefit without all the digging. Holds 
 in water, fertilizer and mulch to prevent 
 wastefu ... 

 Goose 
 Neck Hoe 
 Ordinary hoes make you work 
 hard, alternately chopping at weeds and plowing 
 through resistant soil with a flat blade. 
 What's worse, you do all that work bent over! 
 Our ergonomic Goose Neck Hoe is designed to 
 use standing up, making weeding almost effortless. 
 ... 

 Lifetime 
 Trowel 
 Our rugged trowel is made 
 to last a lifetime, with an exceptionally 
 keen hardened steel blade. It's slightly larger 
 than an ordinary trowel to make big jobs easier, 
 and the smooth wood handle is longer than 
 usual to keep your knuckles out of the dirt. 
 A ... 

 Cape 
 Cod Weeder 
 The Cape Cod Weeder has been 
 used by generations of New England gardeners. 
 Its knife-like blade slices weeds and loosens 
 crusted soil with just a flick of your wrist. 
 The pointed tip is great for working in tight 
 spaces and for removing grass from walks or 
 driveways. Th ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]