Garden Container Planters 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 ...back 
 to garden store 

 Did you know we have hundreds of Planters & Pots on our new Planter page ? 

 Arrowsmith 
 Cupid 
 Cupid's arrows must be perfectly 
 crafted to fly straight to the heart &#150; 
 that's why he makes each one himself. An exclusive 
 design in the classic Italian style, our Cupid 
 statue is a romantic accent for any garden, 
 formal or casual. His blacksmith's equipment 
 includ ... 

 Hose 
 Bowl 
 As decorative as it is useful, 
 this Hose Bowl keeps up to 75' of 5/8" hose 
 neatly coiled and ready to use. Though it 
 looks like terra cotta or stone, the bowl 
 is actually made of tough polyethylene. A 
 side hole allows you to leave your hose connected 
 to the faucet. To u ... 

 Self-Watering 
 Window Box 
 Our Self-Watering Windowboxes 
 let you create a smart, consistent look around 
 your home, while ensuring your plants don't 
 dry out. They have big water reservoirs that 
 keep soil moist and plants healthy. An easy-to-read 
 water level indicator helps you keep the reservoir 
 f ... 

 Wigwam 
 Pot with Finial 
 These smart-looking terra 
 cotta pots have feet cast into them, eliminating 
 casters or saucers. Inside the pot, the feet 
 form holders for a "wigwam" of bamboo canes 
 capped by a terra cotta finial, Hidden wire 
 clips make the canes even more secure. Great 
 for growing small ... 

 Stratford 
 Planter 
 Give plants the royal treatment 
 with the Stratford Planter, a modern version 
 of the ironwork planters that give British 
 gardens their distinctive style. Free standing 
 or can be mounted on matching Stratford Brackets 
 (brackets sold separately below, can also 
 be used for ... 

 Fiore 
 Planters 
 To find durable plastic planters 
 with the perfect lines and proportions of 
 Italian terra cotta, we went straight to the 
 source- Italy! Our "Fiore" Planters are as 
 lovely as their name (Italian for "flower"). 
 Special design ensures that water is absorbed 
 in tw ... 

 Terrazza 
 Trough Extension Kits 
 Our exclusive Italian Terrazza 
 planters offer classic styling with self-watering 
 convenience. In Italy, where style is everything, 
 these innovative planters beautify residential 
 terraces, side-street cafes, hotel lobbies 
 and hotel courtyards. Our customized Terrazza 
 Tr ... 

 Storage 
 Chest 
 Our exclusive Italian Terrazza 
 planters offer classic styling with self-watering 
 convenience. In Italy, where style is everything, 
 these innovative planters beautify residential 
 terraces, side-street cafes, hotel lobbies 
 and hotel courtyards. Our customized Terrazza 
 St ... 

 Terrazza 
 L-Conversion Kit 
 Our exclusive Italian Terrazza 
 planters offer classic styling with self-watering 
 convenience. In Italy, where style is everything, 
 these innovative planters beautify residential 
 terraces, side-street cafes, hotel lobbies 
 and hotel courtyards. Our Terrazza L-Conversion 
 ... 

 Bulb 
 Insurance 
 Voles, mice, and squirrels 
 have a particular fondness for tender spring 
 flower bulbs. You can discourage these pests 
 from dining on your tulips, hyacinths and 
 crocuses by sprinkling in some all-natural 
 Bulb Insurance when you plant. Made from coarsely-ground 
 oyster sh ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]