Garden Shoes, boots, mocs & clogs 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Garden Shoes, boots, mocs & clogs 
 ...back 
 to garden store 

 Vented 
 Clogs 
 When you garden in the summer 
 heat, your feet will appreciate these innovative 
 convertible clogs. Just pop out the inserts 
 to open up 8 vent holes on each shoe. "Three-quarter" 
 backs grip your feet more securely than open-back 
 clogs, and a "massager" insole ad ... 

 Orbit 
 Mocs 
 Since Merrell introduced 
 these all-terrain moccasins, a lot of imitators 
 have cropped up. But only the original has 
 the advanced engineering that keeps your feet 
 comfortable in any weather. Handsome pigskin 
 outers resist water, while PolarTec lining 
 and breathable Airm ... 

 Boot 
 Trays 
 This jumbo tray makes it 
 easy to leave mud and mess at the door. Made 
 of tough recycled plastic, it is big enough 
 to hold boots or shoes for the whole family. 
 Hoses off in a jiffy. Made in England. ... 

 Scrusher 
 Boot Brush 
 This rugged, hardworking 
 boot brush is made of steel and solid maple. 
 The stiff polyethylene bristles on sides and 
 bottom quickly removes dirt, grass clippings, 
 and even caked-on mud. For added stability, 
 it can be mounted on wood or concrete. (Hardware 
 is included.) ... 

 Breathable 
 Muck Shoes 
 Whether it's a sweltering 
 85 or below freezing, you'll be equally 
 comfortable in these innovative garden shoes, 
 thanks to a breathable "airmesh" lining. Natural 
 rubber outers make them 100% waterproof, and 
 deep treads provide sure footing on wet ground. 
 ... 

 Muck 
 Boots & Scrub Boots 
 Gardening chores don't end 
 just because the weather turns cold. That's 
 why you need slip-on footwear that stands 
 up to mud and slush. These 100% waterproof 
 Muck Boots and Scrub Boots are insulated to 
 keep your feet dry and cozy warm, and deeply 
 treaded so they grip ... 

 Splogs 
 What do you get when you 
 cross fleece slippers with lug-sole clogs? 
 Splogs, the indoor/outdoor footwear that take 
 you from hearthside to mailbox and back in 
 total comfort. The plush uppers are made of 
 four layers &#150; warm Polartec 200, water-resistant 
 Hytrel&#174;, l ... 

 Primo 
 Clogs 
 If you're like a lot of people, 
 you've taken to wearing athletic shoes everywhere 
 because of their light weight, arch support 
 and breathability. Now all that comfort is 
 available in a European-style shoe that will 
 be welcome where sneakers aren't. Primo slip-on 
 clogs fe ... 

 Classic 
 Garden Clogs 
 The ultimate in all-weather 
 footwear, our Garden Clogs stand up to the 
 heaviest chores and last for years. They're 
 made of one-piece construction that leaves 
 no seams to split. Closed heels and a rugged 
 tread grip on wet ground. Inside, there's 
 a form-fitting cork insol ... 

 Ladybug 
 Shoes 
 Treat your feet to a great 
 gardening shoe &#150; without pinching your 
 wallet. These cheerful Ladybug Shoes are 100 
 percent waterproof for drizzly days in the 
 garden, with a serious lug tread for a secure 
 grip on wet, slippery ground. Their low backs 
 make them easy to s ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]