Sun Sphere and sundials 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Sun Sphere & sundials 
 ...back 
 to garden store 

 Scented 
 Sun Spheres 
 These exquisite glass spheres 
 beautify your home two ways. Hung in a sunny 
 window, they glow with rich blue, soothing 
 sea-green or lavender. Within the globe, a 
 smaller glass bubble holds scented oil, which 
 releases its therapeutic aroma when warmed 
 by the sun. Handblo ... 

 Grecian 
 Amphora 
 Of course this Grecian Amphora 
 can be used as a regular pot, but we like 
 the way it looks as a "ruin," partly hidden 
 by ground covers. 13-5/8" L. Combine with 
 the Architectural Spheres to invoke an atmosphere 
 of antiquity. Painted terra cotta with an 
 aged finish. In ... 

 Copper 
 Ball and Stand 
 Our gleaming copper gazing 
 ball is a work of art that invites attention 
 and admiration. Handmade and burnished to 
 a warm glow, it has a richness and subtlety 
 not found in glass gazing balls. Polish to 
 maintain its shine, or allow it to mellow 
 with age. A hole in the bot ... 

 Home 
 Orchard Kit 
 These highly effective traps 
 developed by researchers at the University 
 of Massachusetts literally fool certain insects 
 into settling on them...only to be caught 
 on the sticky surfaces. In tests conducted 
 on non-sprayed orchards, only 2% of the fruit 
 was injured by appl ... 

 Armillary Sundial 

Armillaries date back centuries to the early French astronomers, who used them to chart the movements of the celestial spheres. Placed in your garden, this handsome Armillary Sundial will not only record the movement of the sun, it will also add formal elegance to its ... 

 Sun Clock Sundial 
(This product no longer available) 
Sundials appeal to us for their symmetrical beauty and simplicity of function. The Sun Clock updates this classic with an elegant, much more readable design. The usual shadow-casting gnomon has been replaced by a unique time band with cut-out numbers. The shining sun pr ... 

 Birdbath Sundial 
(This product no longer available) 
This beautiful Sundial Birdbath invites visiting birds to frolic in the cool water while it traces the sun's lazy path across the summer sky. The deep basin features a textured bottom for sure footing, and supports an elegantly simple gnomen. Three 12" steel ground spik ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]