Weather Thermometer 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Weather Thermometer 
 ...back 
 to garden store 

 Easy-to-Read 
 Dial Thermometer 
 This precision weather instrument 
 is designed to be read at a glance, and is 
 guaranteed to last a lifetime. The clean, 
 functional styling was inspired by the speedometer 
 in a vintage sports car, and the solid brass 
 housing adds a touch of luxury to your window 
 for easy ... 

 Wireless 
 Min/Max Thermometer 
 This digital thermometer 
 not only tells the current temperature indoors 
 and out, but displays the day's highs and 
 lows, and the time of occurrence, at the push 
 of a button. It includes one wireless probe 
 and will take up to three probes, so you can 
 check temperatures in ... 

 Weather 
 History Station 
 This record-keeping weather 
 station displays current temperature, humidity 
 and atomic-clock time, plus: Temperature and 
 humidity highs and lows, with time and date 
 they occurred Whether your indoor humidity 
 is in the "comfort zone" Weather trend and 
 f ... 

 Lifetime 
 Wall Thermometer 
 This copper-framed precision 
 instrument is handcrafted here in Vermont, 
 with high-contrast numerals that are easy 
 to read indoors or out. The copper will acquire 
 a rich patina over the years. ... 

 Vermont 
 Dial Thermometer 
 Even a simple device can 
 benefit from a facelift, like this precision 
 dial thermometer inspired by the speedometer 
 of a vintage sports car. Easier to read than 
 ordinary thermometers. Solid brass housing 
 adds a touch of luxury. Mounts on a swi ... 

 Jumbo 
 Inside Outside Thermometer 
 (This product no longer available) 
 See both outdoor and 
 indoor temperatures at a single glance, and 
 get the day's high and low temperatures at 
 the push of a button. The Jumbo In-Out Thermometer 
 features large, 1-1/4" high LCD numbers, easily 
 readable across the room, and a waterproof 
 outdoor temperature ... 

 Galvanized 
 Thermometer 
 (This product no longer available) 
 Check the current 
 temperature with this precision instrument. 
 It features galvanized steel casing that is 
 maintenance-free and ages gracefully to a 
 soft, pewter gray patina. Includes a "comfort 
 zone" indicator; barometer has a "set-point" 
 needle and rotating dial. Desi ... 

 Digital 
 Min/Max Thermometer 
 (This product no longer available) 
 Accurate temperature 
 measurement is a crucial part of greenhouse 
 climate control. Our digital Min/Max Thermometer 
 takes the guesswork out of effective greenhouse 
 temperature monitoring. It features a meter 
 display with big easy-to-read temperatures 
 in Fahrenheit and Cel ... 

 Min/Max 
 Thermometer 
 With its big 6" dial and 
 large numbers, our Min/Max thermometer is 
 easy to read from across the greenhouse. No 
 straining to read the high, low or current 
 temperatures so vital to the growth and maintenance 
 of your plants. Thermometer indicates temperature 
 in both Fahre ... 

 Easy-Read 
 Galilean Thermometer 
 (This product no longer available) 
 In the early 1600s 
 the famous astronomer Galileo discovered that 
 the buoyancy of objects in a liquid changes 
 with the temperature. This intriguing glass 
 thermometer was inspired by his experiments; 
 it uses floats filled with colored liquid 
 to display the indoor temperat ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]