Tomato Growing kits 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Tomato Growing Equipment - Kits 

 ...back 
 to garden store 

 Tomato 
 Success Kit 
 Our Research and Development 
 team has combined our best-selling Self-Watering 
 Planter, our Tomato Booster Mulch and our 
 steel Tomato Cage to create a foolproof success 
 kit, all at a savings of over 15%! Best of 
 all, there's no tilling, no weeding, no dried-out 
 plants - ... 

 Tomato 
 Ladders 
 Unquestionably the toughest, 
 best-made plant supports we've ever used, 
 these heavy-duty plant stakes let you maximize 
 your growing space and minimize your problems 
 with pests and disease. Unlike regular stakes 
 or poles, they have eight cross-braces and 
 an enclosing "V" ... 

 Tomato 
 Cages 
 These heavy-duty galvanized-steel 
 cages are strong enough to support full-grown 
 vines loaded with tomatoes. You can even stack 
 one cage on top of another to support the 
 tallest tomato plants. ... 

 Tomato 
 Teepees 
 Of all the season-extending 
 products we've used over the years, we've 
 had the best results with water-filled teepees. 
 The principle behind them is ingeniously simple. 
 During the day the water absorbs heat, moderating 
 temperatures inside. At night, the water releases 
 hea ... 

 Tomato 
 Booster Mulch 
 Developed jointly by the 
 USDA and Clemson University, and proven effective 
 in tests by a leading consumer magazine, this 
 specially engineered red mulch is an exciting 
 breakthrough for anyone who grows tomatoes. 
 The red plastic actually reflects far-red 
 light wavelengths ... 

 Wooden 
 Tomato Cage 
 We designed this wooden cage 
 as a rugged, no-nonsense support for tomatoes. 
 But we also like how it looks in the garden- 
 simple, natural and timeless. Made of rot-resistant 
 Douglas fir. Pre-drilled for easy assembly. 
 ... 

 Prize-Winning 
 Roses 
 Roses thrive on Greensand 
 because it supplies marine potash, silica, 
 iron oxide, magnesia, lime, phosphoric acid 
 and 22 trace minerals. Loosens heavy clay 
 soil and prolongs bloom. Great for all other 
 flowers too. Apply 2-4 lbs. per 100 sq ft. 
 In our tests, Rose Def ... 

 Plant 
 Caddy 
 Constructed of durable pine 
 with big easy-swivel urethane wheels, this 
 caddy helps move your biggest planters &#150; 
 holds up to 200 lbs! Perfect for our Self-Watering 
 Patio Gardens . ... 

 Tomato 
 Spirals 
 If you're like most gardeners, 
 you want your garden to be attractive as well 
 as productive. These stylish spiral stakes 
 support tomato plants just like wooden stakes, 
 but you don't need to tie them &#150; just 
 train plants as they grow. They will never 
 split or crack li ... 

 Tomato 
 Saver 
 This four-in-one device saves 
 you time and effort while giving your tomato 
 plants everything they need to perform at 
 their peak. These deceptively simple devices 
 work 4 ways: They suppress weeds. They block 
 cutworms and many other pests. They concentrate 
 wat ... 

 GSC 
 Organic Tomato Fertilizer 
 Our slow-release, 100% organic fertilizer 
 (5-6-5) gives your tomatoes all the nutrients 
 they need, including plenty of phosphorus 
 for big, abundant fruit. Mix a small handful 
 into the soil at transplant time and side 
 dress when tomatoes begin to set fruit. ... 

 All-Purpose 
 Fertilizer 
 Avoid the stressful "boom and 
 bust" cycle of chemical fertilizers with our 
 own all-natural formula. It's the best choice 
 for established plants because it releases 
 nutrients consistently. Contains only naturally 
 occurring minerals, peanut meal and animal 
 ... 

 Plant 
 Health Care for Vegetables 
 Give your vegetable plants a quick boost 
 of the nutrients they need with Plant Health 
 Care. We especially recommend it for drought-stressed 
 plants, transplants and container gardens. 
 Water-soluble 8-8-12 fertilizer gets to roots 
 almost instantly. Benef ... 

 Vegetable 
 Ladders, set of 5 
 Our newest vegetable support is made of 
 the same tough, powder-coated steel as our 
 popular Tomato Ladders, but is sized for shorter 
 plants like squash, peppers and lima beans. 
 ... 

 NPK 
 & pH Test Kits 
 Spot-testing your soil throughout the 
 season is a good way to monitor the health 
 of your lawn and garden. Our ph Test Kit supplies 
 you with 10 tests, one test tube, and easy-to-follow 
 instructions. Our NPK Test Kit includes 10 
 tests each for pH, nitrogen, phosphorus ... 

 Diatomaceous 
 Earth, 1-1/2 lbs. 
 Made from the mineral remains of single-cell 
 aquatic plants, Diatomaceous Earth is a super-fine 
 dust that kills by abrading and dehydrating 
 crawling insects. Controls slugs, ants, cockroaches, 
 earwigs, fleas, and other crawling insects. 
 ... 

 Plant 
 Health Care for Vegetables & Tomatoes 
 Strong root systems encourage 
 plants that can better withstand the stresses 
 of the growing season - naturally. PHC for 
 Vegetables & Tomatoes is a biofertilizer 
 and beneficial root-zone bacteria combo designed 
 to produce more nutritious tomatoes and garden 
 vegetable ... 

 Italian 
 Tomato Press 
 Our Italian Tomato Press is 
 the ideal tool for many puree jobs. It's lightweight 
 and sets up in minutes. Just place halved 
 or quartered ripe tomatoes in the top, turn 
 the handle, and the screen separates tomato 
 pulp from skins and seeds. It will also process 
 cooked appl ... 

 Charlie's 
 Tomato Accelerator Kit 
 You'll grow your best tomatoes yet, weeks 
 earlier than ever before, with the Tomato 
 Accelerator Kit. Named in honor of customer 
 Charlie Mace, this kit includes 4 of our best 
 garden-tested products to jump-start your 
 tomatoes, and keep them thriving. GSC ... 

 Tomato 
 Rot-Stop 
 Your tomato plants appear lush 
 and healthy and almost ready for harvest, 
 when brown decay appears at the blossom end, 
 spreading rapidly and spoiling the fruit. 
 Blossom-end rot is very discouraging, but 
 it's easy to prevent with Rot-Stop. This all-natural 
 for ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]