Watering Tools and Accessories 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Watering Tools and Accessories ...back 
 to garden store 

 Aqua 
 Cones 
 Turn your old soda bottles 
 into a super-easy, super-efficient irrigation 
 system. We designed Aqua Cones to target each 
 plant's root zone and to work with any soil 
 type. Use 1-liter bottles for light watering, 
 2-liter bottles for deep watering. Pun ... 

 RainCatcher 
 Water Barrel 
 Rainwater is healthier for 
 plants and saves on water bills, too. Our 
 compact barrel fits on a deck or patio, yet 
 has all the features of larger, more expensive 
 models. Debris screen and child safety lid. 
 Hidden overflow tube. Built-in hose has co 
 ... 

 Green 
 Aqua Cones 
 Turn your old soda bottles 
 into a super-easy super-efficient irrigation 
 system. Our innovative Aqua Cones fit 1-liter 
 bottles for light watering or 2-liter bottles 
 to deeply water thirsty plants. They save 
 time over conventional watering, and because 
 they target each pl ... 

 Automatic 
 Patio Watering Kit 
 If your busy schedule keeps 
 you from watering your patio plants every 
 day, you'll be relieved to know that this 
 easy-to-use, inconspicuous system is doing 
 it for you. The kit includes everything you 
 need to tend up to 20 potted plants: tubing, 
 slow-release w ... 

 Great 
 Blue Heron 
 It's exhilarating to spot 
 a Great Blue Heron in the wild, standing motionless 
 at water's edge. Bring that excitement to 
 your pond or water garden with this lifelike, 
 life-size sculpture of the stately bird. Like 
 a well-made decoy, it has features handpainted 
 in bright, ... 

 Copper 
 Lily Sprinkler 
 With gracefully sculpted 
 petals of warm copper, this lovely Lily Sprinkler 
 is a work of art for your garden, and waters 
 with a fine spray as gentle as spring rain. 
 Waters in a 30-foot circle (over 700 sq ft) 
 to keep your garden lush and healthy. Heavy-duty 
 gr ... 

 Aqua 
 Plant 
 Come home to lush, carefully 
 watered houseplants, even after a week on 
 vacation! Aqua Plant is the best solution 
 we've found for tending plants over long periods. 
 Combination capillary wick and florist's oasis 
 releases water as plants use it, over we ... 

 Sprinkler 
 Hose, 100' 
 Turn this double duty hose 
 side up and it delivers an even, gentle spray 
 to your plantings; holes-down it soaks the 
 ground without flooding or running off. Weighing 
 just 2-1/2 lbs, the soft, flexible vinyl hose 
 curves easily around corners and rolls up 
 for storage. Spri ... 

 English Rain Barrel 
 In England, antique "dollies" 
 or wash tubs have found a new purpose: collecting 
 rainwater for the garden. Our version has 
 the charming design details of the original, 
 including distinctive ribs that add strength 
 as well as character. But we've also added 
 featu ... 

 Garden 
 Waterfall Kit 
 Installing a water 
 accent doesn't have to be hard work. This 
 all-in-one kit adds the allure of moving water 
 to your landscape, and takes just an hour 
 or two to set up. The three shallow pools 
 create the illusion of depth without digging. 
 You can even install on flat gro ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]