Weather Snow Gauge and tools 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Weather Snow Gauge and tools 
 ...back 
 to garden store 

 Porch Rocker and Loveseat 

Bask in the comfort of warm, natural wood 
with no worries about maintenance. These 
porch rockers are crafted of eucalyptus 
grandis, a sustainably harvested tropical 
wood that's so durable it can even be left 
out on the lawn, deck or patio. They're big 
and co ... 

 Copper Snow Gauge 

Our Copper Snow Gauge adds interest to your winter landscape, and also tells you how much snow has fallen. The depth of snow is measured from the bottom of each easy-to-read 2-inch number, so you can tell current snowfall at a quick glance. The stylish curving numbers a ... 

 Wireless Weather Station 

Thanks to advanced wireless technology, this one compact unit tells you the exact time and date, transmitted by satellite from the U.S. Atomic Clock in Colorado; plus indoor temperature, indoor humidity, outdoor temperature, and the weather forecast. It even has an alar ... 

 Yaktrax, pair 

When you have to struggle across an icy parking lot, you don't want to fool with frozen buckles and straps. Yaktrax slip on instantly, so you can walk with confidence over ice and snow. They're lightweight and flexible, and because they have steel spring grips instead o ... 

 Wireless Min/Max Thermometer 

This digital thermometer not only tells the current temperature indoors and out, but displays the day's highs and lows, and the time of occurrence, at the push of a button. It includes one wireless probe and will take up to three probes, so you can check temperatures in ... 

 Weather History Station 

This record-keeping weather station displays current temperature, humidity and atomic-clock time, plus: 
 Temperature and humidity highs and lows, with time and date they occurred 

Whether your indoor humidity is in the "comfort zone" 

Weather trend and f ... 

 Snowflake Gauge 

Our new Snowflake Gauge is both a striking sculpture of falling snowflakes and an easy-to-read marker that measures snowfall up to 3 feet deep. Crafted of pure copper with intricately cut numerals, the gauge measures snow depth in 2" increments, with each foot clearly ... 

 Black Forest Weather House 

You may remember your parents or grandparents having one of these folk art weather houses. The secret is a hygrometer hidden inside. When Frau Fairweather comes out to gather flowers, you can look forward to sunny skies. Expect rain when Herr Stormy emerges with his sli ... 

 Muck Boots & Scrub Boots 

Gardening chores don't end just because the weather turns cold. That's why you need slip-on footwear that stands up to mud and slush. These 100% waterproof Muck Boots and Scrub Boots are insulated to keep your feet dry and cozy warm, and deeply treaded so they grip ... 

 Classic Garden Clogs 

The ultimate in all-weather footwear, our Garden Clogs stand up to the heaviest chores and last for years. They're made of one-piece construction that leaves no seams to split. Closed heels and a rugged tread grip on wet ground. Inside, there's a form-fitting cork insol ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]