Christmas Wreath's, Garden Wreath, Flower Wreath 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Christmas Wreath's, Garden Wreath, Flower Wreaths 
 ...back 
 to garden store 

 Vermont Balsam Wreaths 

During the holidays, there's nothing more inviting than the scent of a really fresh balsam wreath. Our traditional Vermont wreaths have longlasting color and fragrance because they're cut and hand-tied only after first frost, when the air is crisp and the trees have har ... 

 Cardinal Wreath 

At holiday time or any time, these nesting cardinals are full of good cheer. Our handcrafted iron sign is lacquered to protect the bright colors; hang in a protected location for best rust resistance. 
 ... 

 Sunflower Wreath 

You can enjoy this wreath indoors during the holidays, and then hang it outdoors as a nutritious treat for the birds. It's made from a real sunflower head, garnished with milo, cracked pecans, wheat and millet. ... 

 Merry Berry Seed Wreath 

Packed with chewy dried cranberries, crunchy roasted peanuts and rich sunflowers, this edible wreath is a treat no bird can resist. Solid, not hollow, it's nearly two pounds of top-quality seed. Hang it on a garden gate or shed door where it will invite birds to the hol ... 

 Holly Wreath 

A classic English Christmas decoration since Charles Dickens's day, fresh holly is a symbol of the winter solstice as well as a good-luck charm. This lush Holly Wreath blends freshly cut glossy green and variegated holly to stunning effect, accented with natural and fau ... 

 Squirrel-Proof Platform Feeder 

Platform feeders attract a wider variety of birds than any other type - from big, bright cardinals to tiny nuthatches - but most are vulnerable to rain and marauding squirrels. This ingenious platform feeder solves both problems. It thwarts even the most persistent squi ... 

 Birdseed Vault 

This ingenious feeder foils seed-stealing squirrels with a weight-activated baffle. You can even adjust the perch tension to exclude blue jays or other large feeder hogs. The Birdseed Vault works on a stainless steel spring that never corrodes. 
 Serves from both side ... 

 Pumpkin Wreath 

This delightfully different holiday wreath is made with dozens of faux miniature pumpkins to bring the warm colors of autumn to your decorating. Hang on a sheltered front door, in any room of your home, or use as a centerpiece for Thanksgiving dinner. ... 

 Harvest Feast Wreath 

Our all-natural Harvest Wreath is handcrafted from sprigs of grain, each variety adding its own lush texture and rich color. There is green amaranth, millet, broomcorn, flax, green durum, and black, red and beige sorghum - all the birds' favorites. Hang it indoors to ce ... 

 Chili Pepper Wreath 
(This product no longer available) 
Bring the feeling of spicy Southwestern cuisine to your kitchen when you hang this festive chili pepper wreath. The all-season wreath features bright red chili peppers against a background of basil flowers, lemon leaf and life-like garlic. Hand lacquered to preserve the ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]