Explanations 

 Explanations 

 On December 20, 1999, I removed Ronald Hoeflin's Mega Test (and
Mega27) from my website. In the weeks prior to that, many
solutions to the Mega were proposed in public forums that get a
lot of traffic from people who might wish to take such a test. In
light of this compromise, the Prometheus Society revised their
admission requirement to exclude scores on the Mega27 obtained
after November 27, 1999, and I no longer felt comfortable
featuring the test on my website. The Mega Test can still be
obtained directly from Ronald Hoeflin, and he still scores it for
a fee and uses it as an admission tool for his societies, TOPS
and OATHS. 

 I asked the person who proposed the Mega Test answers if s/he
would be willing to explain the motivations for doing so, and was
granted permission to publish the following on my website. I have
edited it to remove any references to solutions or proposed
solutions to Mega Test questions. My comments are in square
brackets. Note: I don't mean for this page to imply that others
should follow suit and publish answers to tests. 

 1. The Mega Test is not copyrighted -- one person
 responded by incorrectly accusing me of posting copyrighted
 material. 
 [Here are some comments
 of mine regarding copyright: In Omni magazine, it says that
 the entire contents of the magazine are copyrighted,
 presumably by Omni. When I talked with Ron Hoeflin about this,
 he said he didn't remember what the agreement was between
 Omni and him. But he didn't register his test with the U.S.
 Copyright office, nor did he append a copyright notice to his
 test. The latter was required before 1989 in order to gain
 copyright protection. I'd guess that Omni magazine, at least,
 is not interested in suing anybody over the Mega Test.
 Copyright protection means little if the copyright owner is
 unwilling to assert his/her right in court. Note that the law
 changed after March 1, 1989, making the copyright notice
 optional. Works are now protected from the moment they are
 created and set to paper (or hard disk). This means, for
 example, that Ron Hoeflin automatically gained copyright
 protection for his Titan Test. -- DTM] 
 2. Answers to numerous Mega Test questions have been [available] for years. In
 fact, this was the genesis of the Mega27. The interested
 reader should be referred to the Prometheus advisory report
 that discusses this in detail. 
 3. Even analogies that were included as part of the Mega27,
 have been widely published in books available at any garden
 variety bookstore. 
 4. Due to the nature of the test, there are any number of
 ways people can cheat, if they choose to. 
 5. Posting ANSWERS, for the purpose of clearly showing how
 the Mega Test is biased as an intelligence test, to assuage
 feelings of inadequacy of many people who seem to think the
 Mega Test is a genuine IQ test that exposes them as imbeciles,
 would seem to be a far greater good than humoring a handful
 of people who, so far as I can tell, have accomplished no
 more than to get a certain score (in many cases probably at a
 far lower level than is now used ... as you well know)
 allowing them admission into an exclusive high IQ society. 
 [further paragraphs
 deleted] 
 6. To provide some perspective, organizations like
 Princeton Review make millions of dollars every year by
 publishing speculative solutions to unpublished QUESTIONS
 that may have been obtained through questionable (pardon the
 pun) means. Publishing QUESTIONS that have not been made
 public is, of course, [a
 different matter] . 
 7. Although the score reports for the Mega Test report an
 "IQ", this has been declared illegal, at least in
 California and New York. Chris Langan goes into considerable
 detail about this issue (i.e. that the use of the term IQ is
 fraudulent). I think that his web page should be directly
 referenced, because after reading some of his comments (which
 I would have a hard time stating any more clearly than he has),
 the objective reader would most likely have a much clearer
 perspective on the issue. 
 [Chris Langan's page is:
 On the Meaning and Utility of IEQ 
 Also see: IQ Testing and State Laws ] 
 8. My personal opinion is that all of the IEQ tests should
 be accompanied by a caveat (just like any book that is
 published on intelligence, or that includes intelligence
 tests), in bold, up front, that qualifies what IQ and IEQ
 tests are and are not ... e.g. that a given score may reflect
 a number of factors including amount of time spent, access to
 resources, education, native language, age, sex etc (unless
 all of these factors have been well controlled for). 
 There are many people on the web now (perhaps most) who
 would have trouble answering more than two or three of the
 questions on many of the tests on your web site. These people
 are just as sensitive, if not more sensitive, than we are.
 Unfortunately, they do not always have the perspective that
 we have (or should have). Some are only teenagers, others
 speak little english and are from other cultures, and yet
 others have little formal education and may hardly be able to
 understand many of the questions even if they do speak the
 language and know the culture. None of these people want to
 feel stupid, and nearly all want to feel smart or special in
 some way. 
 In my mind the Mega Test was well-suited for its original
 readership (Omni). However, of all of Hoeflin's tests and all
 of the IEQ tests on your website, the Mega Test seemed to be
 the most likely to reinforce the poor self-image that
 oftentimes attracts a person to such a test in the first
 place. 
 In general the tests are a poor reflection of native
 intelligence because they are heavily biased in terms of sex
 (due to an overwhelming emphasis on math/science ... even in
 the verbal questions), religion and, most of all, post-secondary
 education. These "IQ" tests not only lack
 credibility in academic circles (e.g. none have ever been
 published in peer-reviewed academic journals or are
 referenced in established compendiums of intelligence tests),
 but they are and, have been, administered illegally (cf. IQ
 Testing and State Laws ). 
 Incidentally, I think that, of all of Hoeflin's IEQ tests,
 the Ultra Test is the best (and the Titan Test and Power Test
 are both far better than the Mega Test). With respect to the
 Ultra Test, it is the only one that doesn't require knowledge
 of scientific concepts to answer the questions. 
 [The Mega Test was
 reviewed in Test Critiques, Volume VIII , by Roger D.
 Carlson, Ph.D. (PRO-ED, 1991, pp 431-5). -- DTM] 

 Return to the Uncommonly
Difficult I.Q. Tests page.