ASPDEN PHYSICS WEBSITE 

 PHYSICS WITH ASPDEN 

 Hello....My Name is HAROLD ASPDEN and I live in SOUTHAMPTON, HAMPSHIRE, ENGLAND. 
 Welcome to my Physics Website 
 I am a RETIRED CORPORATE PATENT DIRECTOR having a long-standing interest in fundamental physics, the subject of many papers of published record. My English university background is: Manchester (B.Sc., 1945-1948), Cambridge (Ph.D., 1950-1953) and Southampton (Visiting Senior Research Fellow, 1983-1992). This Web page is headed 'Physics with Aspden' because in 1969 I published a book entitled 'Physics without Einstein'. I sought then, and still seek now, to show how much further we can progress if we follow a course not depending upon Einstein's philosophy. Its 2,000 copies having been sold long ago, it is out-of-print and, as these Web pages grow, I shall be compiling my concluding work, which revises and builds on the theme of 'Physics without Einstein', its title being 'The Physics of Creation'. 

 Here you will discover some of the truths of physical science that have eluded mention in standard textbooks on physics. I believe there are two intermeshing worlds, both having three space dimensions, the material world that we can see and the unseen ghost-like underworld that we can sense by phenomena which the orthodox physicist cannot explain, notably gravitation. My subject is 'Creation' and the related quest of 'Unification', that Holy Grail of the theoretical physicist, which can only be found by those willing to wander in the darkness, probing the fluid-crystal-like structure of the aether, the oscillatory jitter of which accounts for the electrodynamic character of the force of gravitation. 

 What you will see emerge as these web pages grow is not a book which advances in orderly fashion, chapter by chapter. That will follow in due course as the items I shall present reach a stage where they can be merged into an edited composition. Instead, I shall present, stage by stage, what I shall term 'LECTURES'. Posting each on this website as it is written and in the hope of attracting feedback which can assist in clarifying and, where necessary, correcting, my message. I request such feedback and expect it will guide me in assigning priorities from topic to topic as I choose the subject for the next LECTURE. Gradually I shall be extracting the physics topics that feature in my early presentation under the heading of ENERGY SCIENCE and putting them in these Physics pages. They are presently to be found under the TECHNOLOGY heading, but already it can be seen that I have transferred the set of 10 Tutorial Notes. These stand together, separate from the Lectures, as a concise course study providing a snapshot analysis of the physics on which my theory is based. Also since most of the topics discussed in the RESEARCH NOTES are in the realm of physics I include these in this section on physics. 

 If at some stage a publisher of repute discovers these Web pages and invites me to submit a version for book publication, then I will feel I have succeeded in some measure in my quest. I cannot, in the light of my experience in the past, expect the physics community to welcome the views I am expressing here. My physics has deeper roots than those of currently-accepted theory and the fruits of my endeavour have yet to blossom above ground, as it were, as they climb from the obscurity of that aether underworld and come to be seen in their full glory by those who live above ground, and not in the far-off imaginary world of the Big Bang, the Black Hole and Four-Space. 

 Press to see the TUTORIAL NOTES 
 Press to see the RESEARCH NOTES 

 Press to see Part I of my book: AETHER SCIENCE PAPERS 

 The LECTURES here presented are: 

 No. 1: The Physical Significance of Fermat's Last Theorem 
 No. 2: Gravitation: An Introduction 
 No. 3: The Photon: The State of the Art 

 The URL of these Internet Web pages is: 
 http://www.energyscience.co.uk