We invited the top 20 engine manufacturers for diesels.
Rolls Royce, Cummins, Cat, Detroit Diesel.
All of them showed up.
We got them all to sign in on our sign in book.
And then we fired up a 480 horsepower diesel engine on junk.
Pickle juice, Mountain Dew, coffee, soda pop, anything we could throw in the fuel tank.
Fired it up, no pollution.
Well, the big corporations didn't send CEOs and presidents that make decisions. They sent their engineers out
Now on film with hidden cameras in the room
We turn the main camera off and we said now. What do you think of this? Well, we don't understand it
Well, are you going to go back and tell your bosses what you saw? No
No. Why not? Well, we go back and tell them we see zero pollution after we just spent
$50 million to get 1% or 2% improvement, and we look like dummies. So we're going to go
back and tell them this shit doesn't work. You were talking about putting this thing
on a diesel for a monster truck, right? Well, we've had them on trucks. I sold one diesel
Peterbilt I had here, or Freightliner. I sold that for $65,000. Now, is the size of the
tube and the gate, is that almost like the displacement of a cylinder normally, kind of?
Well, you're comparing it to an engine again. Sort of, kind of. It makes fuel for anything
that uses fuel. I can fire up a little three horsepower engine and make enough fuel from
that engine to power a city. Yeah, because now it produces hydrogen, right? It's a hydrogen-like
substance and weight, but it does not explode, it implodes. Oh, okay, okay. So once you have
perfect burn going no pollution coming out the tailpipe and in most cases actually more oxygen
coming out the tailpipe than there is in the air at that point you're making so much energy
you don't need it all yeah we have more energy coming off the exhaust pipe than you get off the
shaft of the engine yeah so we're doing uh when william shatner called up and we chatted with him
he said it sounded like star trek technology and i laughed i said well if you remember the first
few episodes where they sent scotty up the tube up the plasma reactor to fix the plasma reactor
you saw this big glass crystal tube with a pipe inside it and a rod inside it
the shape of the rod wasn't right but everything else was right and when they were showing the
lightning bolts going through it that's exactly what's happening in the geek so he starts laughing
and go, you need to tell me this is another invention that we first got to show on Star
Trek?
I'm writing a book about this.
