C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Spring 2005 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Dr. Robert Sardello and Dr. Cheryl Sanders-Sardello 

 Forgiveness : The Soul Deed of Healing 
 Seminar: Friday to Sunday, April 15-17, 2005 
 Antioch University, Room 100, 2326 Sixth Ave., Seattle 
 $200 full tuition 
 For more details on this event, and to register, see the Spring 2005 Inside Pages (pdf) . 

 Preregistration is required. Space is limited. 
 Co-sponsored by the C.G. Jung Society, Seattle, The School of Spiritual Psychology, and Antioch University. 

 This seminar works to establish an understanding and practice of forgiveness as an aspect of spiritual psychology. First, we look at why forgiveness is of importance to you and then begin to explore why it is considered perhaps the deepest mystery of the soul. We describe the spiritual background of forgiveness in the myth of Parzival and in the life story of Kaspar Hauser, an individual of extraordinary capacities of forgiveness. We look at the illusory benefits, often unconscious and very powerful, that prevent attempts to forgive others. 
 We then examine the ill effects of living with resentment on our emotional, physical and spiritual life. We look at what harming others and being harmed by others does to the soul. The central nature of forgiveness as requiring the development of new soul capacities is discussed, and ways to identify and develop this mode of imagination are suggested, with exercises and practices for developing these capacities. We look at some extraordinary stories of forgiveness to show how the most unimaginable atrocities have been met with deep resources of love. Finally, we look at the effects forgiveness has in the world. 
 Robert Sardello is the author of several books including most recently The Power of Soul: Living the Twelve Virtues . He is the author of some 150 articles in scholarly journals and cultural magazines. He is an independent teacher and scholar whose body of work is unique. Along with Cheryl Sanders-Sardello, he has taught in America, England, Ireland, Canada, Philippines, Holland and Australia. He serves as a consultant to several cultural and educational institutions, and as dissertation advisor at several institutions. 
 Cheryl Sanders-Sardello specializes in the spiritual psychology of the senses and has recently completed her dissertation on this subject. She has written and published extensively on the sense of movement in children and play as an important indicator of this sense. She is a regular contributor to the magazine Lillipoh , a health journal emphasizing anthrosophical, homeopathic and naturopathic medicine. 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 18 March, 2005 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org