C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Spring 2005 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Dennis Slattery, Ph.D. 

 "Pengrimage": The Art of Journeying and 
 Journaling in Pilgrimage 
 Lecture: Friday, April 8, 2005, 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
 Good Shepherd Center, Room 202, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 
 $10 member, $15 nonmembers 
 2 CEUs

 When I had journeyed half of our life&rsquo;s way, I found myself within a shadowed forest, 
 For I had lost the path that does not stray. (Dante , Inferno 1. 1-3) 
 Consciousness brings with it an impulse to leave the familiar confines of family, 
 neighborhood and routine in order to journey down unfamiliar paths and to enter 
 the woods where no one has yet trod. The pilgrim is not the tourist, the road 
 warrior or one mobile for movement&rsquo;s sake. Pilgrimage is questing to satisfy some 
 appetite in the soul that things, possessions, or success will not assuage. It is a 
 double journey, both into the world and deeply into one&rsquo;s self; further, it is a 
 journey which insists on some documenting, some recording of itself in memory, 
 in the act of writing. I call this action &ldquo;pengrimage.&rdquo; Through both journeying and 
 journaling its trace, we can satisfy a sacred restlessness through an experience that 
 transcends the normative everyday reality we inhabit. 
 Jung reminds us that &ldquo;the quality of inwardness is missing today.&rdquo; This lecture will 
 attempt to reclaim some of that inwardness through a remembered pilgrimage. 
 Seeking Destiny: Finding One&rsquo;s Bliss and Nursing One&rsquo;s 
 Blisters 
 Workshop: Saturday, April 9, 2005, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Good Shepherd Center, Room 202, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 
$40 members, $50 nonmembers, $35 student/senior members, $45 student/senior nonmembers 
5 CEUs 
 To learn about preregistering for the workshop, see Preregistration Policy and Form . 
 Journeying and journaling are both mythic activities. This workshop will explore 
 specific pages of two journals by the renowned mythologist Joseph Campbell: 
 Baksheesh and Brahman as well as Sake and Satori . Together they track in almost 700 
 pages his round-the-world pilgrimage of 1954&ndash;55. On that journey he discovered 
 his life&rsquo;s major work as a comparative mythologist. 
 We will then engage 3&ndash;4 journal exercises. The intention here will be to make 
 more fully conscious parts of one&rsquo;s personal mythology and identify what in our 
 own myth is no longer serving us. Those souls bold enough will be invited to read 
 their entries. 
 Please bring a journal, if you keep one, or paper and pen if you do not. 
 Dennis Patrick Slattery, Ph.D. , is Core Faculty, Mythological Studies and Depth 
 Psychology Programs at Pacifica Graduate Institute. He holds an M.A. in 
 Comparative Literature from Kent State Universe as well as a second M.A. and 
 Ph.D. in Literature and Phenomenology from the University of Dallas. He is the 
 author of 240 articles and author or editor of 9 books, the most recent of which 
 include Grace in the Desert: Awakening to the Gifts of Monastic Life and Just Below the 
 Water Line: Selected Poems . He is co-editor and contributor, with Lionel Corbett, of 
 Depth Psychology: Mediations in the Field and Psychology at the Threshold . 
 This program has been approved for 7.0 CEU&rsquo;s by the Washington Chapter, National Association of 
 Social Workers (NASW) for Licensed Social Workers, Licensed Marriage & Family Therapists and 
 Licensed Mental Health Counselors. Provider number is #1975-157. The cost to receive a certificate is 
 as follows: 7.0 units for lecture and workshop $15; 2.0 units for the Friday lecture $10; 5.0 units for 
 the Saturday workshop $10. 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 18 March, 2005 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org