C.M. Connelly: Blog: Archive for August, 2001 

 &#160; 

 Blog | 
 Debian | 
 Work | 
 R&eacute;sum&eacute; | 
 About... 

 Blog: Archive for August, 2001 

 August 4, 2001 (Sat) 

 We ventured to the Apple Store in Glendale today . M wanted to get an
audio-video cable for her iBook, and, I think, also just wanted to see
the place. The drive there wasn't bad at all, but once we got to the
parking garage for the Glendale Galleria, it was chaos. More SUVs
than you can imagine vying for parking spaces, with people stopping in
the middle of the ramps and waiting for cars to leave (holding up
between three and five other cars). Also assorted idiots blowing
their horns in frustration, which was, of course, utterly pointless. 

 After driving around and around and up and up, M spotted a space,
which was, alas, on a ramp going the wrong way. But we drove down and
around, and, after dodging around some waiters, found that the space M
had seen was still open! Hurrah! 

 The Galleria seemed like a nice enough mall. Now, I hate malls, and I
wasn't all that impressed by this one, but it was big enough that
people weren't crashing into each other all the time. It was also
clean, and carpeted, so that the noise wasn't as bad as it is in some
malls. In retrospect, the mall may have been less collision-filled
than I'd gotten used to in Vancouver because most of the people there
were white (or Hispanic), rather than Asian. 

 After consulting a map (there were actually lots of maps, which was
another nice change from Vancouver), we navigated our way to the Apple
Store. You've read descriptions elsewhere, I'm sure, perhaps on
Apple's site, or maybe even been there yourself, so I won't bother.
The people working there were well-trained, however, far better than
the people in your average computer store. They also had lots of
shiny Macs on display, along with various shiny accessories, including
some of the smallest video cameras I've ever seen (smaller, I think,
than our digital stil camera!). 

 We chatted with an employee, who took us to the cables (they're in the
back, if you don't want to chat), then he showed us one of the new
867s. The dual-800s still aren't shipping, and they didn't have any
to show off either. We talked about NeXT, Mac OS X, and Apple in
general. It was one of the more fannish conversations I've ever had.
Then he left us to play a bit (we got to see a 17" LCD, which we
hadn't seen yet, and to play with iMovie a bit). When we were done,
we went to the checkout desk, which reminded me of the Gap. They
wanted ID to go with my credit card (is this some new annoying thing
in the States, or what?), and I had to sign my name on a digital pad.
Luckily they didn't want to compare the signature, because I wasn't
about to do my real signature on a digital capture device. 

 We ended up with a light blue plastic bag with a drawstring at the
top, Apple logo emblazoned on the sides. They also threw in two fancy
spiral-bound notebooks with the Apple logo on the first page, which
probably cost at least $5. The receipt was lovingly ensconced in a
fancy cardboard holder with a quote from Abraham Lincoln and a
business card in a slot on the front. 

 After that, we checked out a teddy-bear shop that gave buyers the
opportunity to &#8220;build their own bear&#8221;&#8212;choosing a &#8220;skin&#8221; from
one of a number of bins, selecting (or not) from a variety of sound
boxes (playing music, talking, or allowing the buyer to record a
message), stuffing the creature (including a prestuffed heart), then
cleaning it up, choosing clothes, obtaining a computer-generated
&#8220;birth certificate&#8221;, and, finally, paying. 

 We had to check it out because it looked so much like that pet-cloning
store in The Sixth Day . 

 After that, we headed home, with a side trip to drop off a marked-up
manuscript of a paper my only SoCal friend had written. After first
going the wrong way, then missing a turn and having to turn around in
a lot on the periphery of one of the largest horse-racing tracks I've
ever seen, we found my friend's apartment building and left the paper
in his door. 

 That evening we ventured out our for dinner at one of M's colleagues'
houses. The food was excellent (Indian-insprired), as was the company
(several folks from other departments or schools in the consortium).
The toaster-oven fire was a spectacular addition. 

 I learned all sorts of things about the College and the other schools,
was able to marginally impress some people with my work on George
Gratzer's books, and had a good time in general. Before we left, we
took advantage of Josh's invitation to borrow DVDs of American
Beauty (whose beginning we'd missed in the theatre) and the
Criterion Collection version of Brazil . That night, we
made the mistake of watching American Beauty , followed by
the director's and writer's commentary, which kept us up quite late. 

 August 5, 2001 (Sun) 

 Made up for last night by watching Brazil three times.
First the director's cut, followed by the version with Terry Gilliam's
commentary. Then the &#8220;Love Conquers All&#8221; version, with commentary
on. What an incredible hack job. Everything nasty Terry Gilliam had
to say about Sid Sheinberg was true. 

 Then we stayed up extra late watching a documentary and looking at
some of the other material. Ugh. 

 August 6, 2001 (Mon) 

 Paying for last night's foolishness, we were up very late today. It's
supposed to be over a hundred, and, even with the air conditioning on,
I can believe it. Today is a day of list making, checking, and
checking off. 

 August 7, 2001 (Tue) 

 Project Muse provides
online access to a swath of interesting academic journals. 

 &#8220;I've enjoyed hating
Nixon my entire life,&#8221; Groening said. &#8220;It's so great that even
though he's dead, we can still kick him around.&#8221; 

 We went to the nearest Fry's location&#8212;Anaheim. Clearly Fry's has
changed, or perhaps it's just a difference caused by being down
south. Several employees actually approached us at various points to
ask if they could help us find something. 

 We spent hours wandering around, and left empty-handed. The selection
was vast, but the prices were awful. By the time you add in the trip
to Orange County (including hellish stints on three different
freeways), the advantages of instant gratification versus shipping and
handling costs start to pale. 

 Their selection was interesting, too. They had unopened ISA cards
that have been out of date for years. They had a huge display of
Ricochet modems, pushing Metricom's
wireless Internet service . They neglected to mention, however,
that Metricom has filed for bankruptcy and that their network was in
the process of being shut down. (According to the Metricom site, the
network should be black as of tomorrow, the eighth!) 

 On the way back, we passed a sign announcing the Richard M. Nixon
Presidential Library. Grr. 

 August 8, 2001 (Wed) 

 After doing some business at the colleges (signing up for health
plans, mainly), we went to the bank to deposit a check, change M's ATM
card PIN, and find out why I got a Visa check card when I asked for an
ATM-only card. 

 The WaMu here has the most amazing slow computer system I think I've
ever seen. I've been around for a while, and I've actually used
systems that used punch cards, and punching cards, feeding them in,
and waiting for output didn't take much more time. I don't know
exactly what the deal is, whether WaMu's system is under strain
because of their fierce acquisition policy, or whether the particular
bank we go to has a 2400-baud modem soldered into it, or what, but
it's pathetically slow. 

 After that, we walked over to the Full of Life bakery, which everyone
in Claremont has raved about. We've had some of their bread, and
found it to be very, very dense. Good, mind you, but awfully heavy.
As it turns out, their bread is also outrageously expensive. They
charge US$4 for a tiny loaf of bread (something like 8" long by 4"
wide and 4" high). I'm sorry, but I don't think I could justify
paying that much for bread if it were the best bread in all the
world. I mean, it's bread . I can make bread, and
it's really not that hard. And after being able to pay CN$1.65 for
wonderful airy bagettes within walking distance in Burnaby, US$4 for
less bread is just not happening. 

 If we can't find a reasonable bakery, I suspect we're going to be
doing a lot of bread baking in the future. 

 Sam's Club is evil. You probably knew that, but I can now attest to
the fact myself. M got a business membership through the college. We
were planning to check it out yesterday, but by the time we spent
hours wandering aimlessly around Fry's, it was too late. As it
happens, it would've been too late had we left Fry's a couple of hours
sooner. 

 In their infinite wisdom, you see, Sam's Club (aka WalMart) had closed
the location near us, but hadn't bothered to update their website. So
today we drove down Monte Vista looking for the place. Believing it
would be easy to spot, we didn't bother to take the map I'd gotten
from the 'Net. (Okay, okay, we forgot it, but you wouldn't think it
would be hard to spot a huge warehouse store, would you?) We drove
down Monte Vista, past the 10, through a suburban neighborhood, and on
out into a bad patch, complete with &#8220;adult bookstores&#8221;, strip clubs,
and divey bars. Then we turned around and drove back. On the way
back, we spotted a huge building in a shopping center that appeared to
be abandoned. We pulled in and marvelled at the empty stores. I
noted that the parking lot would be a good place to come once M gets a
learner's permit. The huge building had no hint as to what it had
once held. We left and drove home to get the map. 

 With the map in hand, we drove back down Monte Vista. It turned out
that the correct location was the very abandoned shopping center we'd
discovered earlier. 

 We continued down the road, turned near the mall, and looked for a pay
'phone to call them and ask for directions to the next nearest store.
We spotted a Verizon store, and stopped to see if they had any
telephone books. (They didn't; new ones are due out at the end of the
month.) We asked about Sam's Club, and it turned out that the nearest
one was out in Ontario. 

 We drove out to Ontario on the 10. We found the Sam's Club, parked,
and went in. M went to customer service to get a proper card, and
they grilled her for information&#8212;name, address, date of birth, name
of firstborn or closest ransomable relative, etc. And her driver's
license number. Without it, you see, she would be allowed to pay any
way but with cash. Now, M doesn't have a driver's license. Nor does
she have a California ID card, which would apparently count, too. 

 As far as I can tell, this whole driver's license thing is totally out
of control. When we bought a cable at the Apple Store, I had to show
my license. Sam's Club wants it, too. Meanwhile, I've been buying
groceries and gas by swiping my own card in a machine, without even
bothering to show it to the clerk. Mobil (and some of the other gas
stations, too, I think) has a dongle that you can wave at their gas
pumps and cash registers that automatically charges your account
without having to show ID, sign a slip, or punch in a PIN. Is the
system a bit schizophrenic, or what? 

 Oh, and Sam's Club sucks, anyway. Not nearly as full of stuff as
Costco, and considerably more evil. Although some of their deals on
drinks seemed pretty tempting, and they had the best selection of
frozen fish we've seen so far. But, they're evil, and inconvenient,
too, so we're safe. Probably. 

 I'm really appalled by the way things seem to be going in the States.
People seem to be giving up freedoms left and right for what seem to
be very minor gains. I think I'm already at the point where if
someone insists on seeing my ID before letting me use my credit card,
I'm going to tell them to stuff the things I was planning to buy where
the sun doesn't shine and buy stuff off the Web, where they don't
check my ID and don't demand personal information they're not entitled
to have. 

 I'm probably overreacting, but it really pisses me off when people
jerk me around. I'm handing them a credit card. The credit card
people will tell them whether or not they can have the money for the
purchase. If there's a problem, the transaction will be declined. If
my card is stolen, I'm liable for&#8212;at most&#8212;US$50. When my card
was actually stolen, they didn't charge me anything. Even if they
had, I'm willing to eat $50 if necessary in exchange for not being
treated like trash. The only people they're protecting by demanding
my ID are the credit card company and, maybe, themselves. As the
customer, I don't particularly care whether they're protected. And if
they lose my business, and others' business, and go out of business
because people take their business elsewhere, I'm just not going to be
losing any sleep. 

 Whatever happened to &#8220;the customer is always right&#8221;? 

 Appleby's gains a place in the nice food, not too expensive chain
list. We had some really yummy food, cost about US$27, which amounts
to two meals because the portions were way too big. 

 I am a genius. Well, I have my moments of inspiration, anyway. 

 Here's the deal: Our new apartment has a fan in the bathroom that goes
on when you turn on the light. Very annoying. Even more annoying is
the fact that the fan is very noisy. And even worse than that, when
our air conditioner is on, the fan cover vibrates loudly. It vibrates
when someone else's air conditioner is on, too. 

 My idea: pad the cover so it doesn't rattle. After a trip to the Home
Depot, we came away with some rubber washers and some foam
weatherstripping. I took the cover off, put weatherstripping along
the edges, added a rubber washer to the screw holding it on, and
 viola! , the cover doesn't vibrate, even when the fan is on,
and you can now hear yourself think when nearby. 

 August 9, 2001 (Thu) 

 An inside day. We emptied a slew of boxes, tucking their contents
away and breaking the boxes down for storage. We also moved the bed
over a foot and a half, opening up more space around the desk (and
tucking a desktop and several storage containers underneath). 

 M moved petrain (our LaserJet 4000N) to the living room (where we now
have space, as the stuff we used to have on the entertainment center
has been replaced by my stereo or moved atop some bookcases), and
moved tenby to the floor (in preparation for getting another underdesk
mount). As a result, there's now more desk space on my large
(240 cm x 80 cm) desk than ever before. 

 In the evening, I spent a couple of hours looking into X-10 options. 

 August 10, 2001 (Fri) 

 Ordered some X-10 stuff from the evil x10.com and the not at all evil
 homecontrols.com . x10.com
had a good deal on the ActiveHome interface (which connects to a
computer and allows you to program macros for home automation events)
in the form of a set that also includes one lamp and one
transceiver/appliance module along with a couple of different remotes.
Homecontrols.com had a great deal on the IBM Home Director Expansion
Kit, which includes several lamp modules, an appliance module, a
remote, a wall-dimmer switch, and a desktop controller. Should be fun
once it all arrives. 

 I really wanted to be able to add a remote switch for the kitchen
lights, as the idiots who built this place felt that the appropriate
place for the switch was in the dining room area, next to the bedroom
door, and about ten feet away from the kitchen itself. Unfortunately,
the only switches that work with fluorescent cost at least US$50, and
maybe as much as US$80 for one that would definitely work with our
system. While I may change my mind about the annoyance level of
having to remember to flip the switch on the way to the kitchen (or go
back to flip it when I forget), at the moment, it's closer to the
US$20 level. 

 We did our grocery rounds, as well: Albertson's (English muffins,
cream cheese, and frozen juice) and Trader Joe's (most everything
else), with a stop at the Home Despot for some felt pads for
appliances (for the printer, monitors, and so forth). 

 We also made an abortive attempt to order a shelf for my desk and an
underdesk computer mount from Ikea. The City of Industry location
 still doesn't have the hardware for the shelf, but Ikea
apparently does have the stuff in their warehouse, which just happens
to be in Ontario, and is therefore closer to us than the store.
Theoretically, once I can actually talk to someone at Ikea (who
doesn't claim they're working with another customer and then not call
me back), I can order the necessary bits and arrange to pick them up
at the warehouse. Coincidentally (?), the various and sundry
documents M pulled out and put on the desk will just fit atop the
shelf.... 

 August 15, 2001 (Wed) 

 See the mighty BSOD (and its
friends) in many different public places! 
 Via RISKS
Digest . 

 Hey, M was just talking about getting a Macintosh Plus, and here's someone selling
one ! 

 Looks like Dean is moving to France
from Vancouver. Too bad, I was looking forward to being able to read
his accounts of events around and about Vancouver. Guess I'll have to
read about France, instead. 

 You can also read about Dean and other Vancouver designers in an article on
Adobe's site . I miss Vancouver. 

 Speaking of Vancouver, Jess is
back. 

 The Ned Blog covers all
your Luddite news. 

 Although I'm completely dependent on technology (this 28.8 connection
is driving me nuts!), I'm still strongly attracted to the idea of
traditional arts & crafts. I still sometimes wonder about
apprenticing myself to someone doing something cool&#8212;metalwork,
calligraphy, hand printing, or somesuch.

 Via Rebecca . 

 Also: The Luddite Reader . 

 So, we have a &#8220;severe weather alert/excessive heat warning&#8221; here
now. Temperature is supposed to be about 102 (Fahrenheit degrees; 39
Celsius). Possible high 110! What better time to do laundry? 

 Actually, it does seem to be a pretty good time&#8212;no one else has
been around the two times I've been over so far (once to wash, once to
transfer to dryers). Of course it could be that everyone else has
more sense than I do. Add in the fact that I didn't bother to put on
sunblock, reasoning that I should be outside for less than twenty
minutes altogether, which may yet turn out to be one of the dumbest
decisions I've made in a while.... 

 August 16, 2001 (Thu) 

 Whoo-hoo! Another Zeppelin
article on Slashdot! 

 We're wiring our apartment like crazy. We received our X10 stuff, and
now have remote control over pretty much all of our incandescent
lamps. Network-wise, we'd set up our 10-Base-2 (thin coax) network to
connect the computers in the bedroom with the laser printer in the
living room. With M's iBook, however, we ran into a problem. 

 With our older machines, we either had 10-Base-2 connectors built in,
or could easily add them (with a Mac AUI adapter for the two Mac
clones we had). When we had DSL, we added a second ethernet card to
tenby, and got a combo card with all three options. 

 When M was interviewing, she borrowed a PowerBook 3400 from her
advisor, which only had a 10-Base-T jack. So we borrowed an ancient
10-Base-2 hub, and plugged a 10-Base-T transceiver into its AUI port.
The hub was huge (the size of a standard stereo component) and noisy
(it had a powerful fan to keep it cool). Not an ideal solution, and I
was happy to leave it behind. In any case, we didn't need it. 

 Until M got her iBook. Since we don't have DSL yet, we could use a
crossover cable and the second card in tenby. But doing so put the
iBook on its own subnet, which required tenby to route packets, as
well as requiring assorted tinkering with the DNS stuff in order to
allow us to go back and forth. 

 So we decided to buy a switch. Switches are dirt cheap these days&#8212;anyone who buys a hub instead of a switch has to be crazy. M did her
usual thorough research (too thorough, perhaps, as she spent most of
the day looking for reviews and prices). In part, she was spurred on
by the &#8220;back to school&#8221; rebates available from some manufacturers.
In the end, though, she ended up advocating a combination
switch/router/firewall, which we bought at a small shop in Pomona for
less than US$100, and which, of course, was not covered by any of the
rebates. It's only a four-port switch, and we've already used all the
ports, so if or when we get another machine for home (current
candidate is an 867 MHz G4 PowerMac, but we'll see what Steve
announces in September), we'll need to get another switch, by which
point they may be giving them away. 

 (If you care about these things, we ended up with the D-Link DI-804 .
Among other things, it has a serial port and can be configured to
initiate a dialup session when your broadband connection goes down.) 

 August 17, 2001 (Fri) 

 The Top
100 Banned Books of 1990&#8211;1999 . I'm happy to say that I've read
(and own) a lot of these books. I'm also really glad that I read a
lot of these books when I was in grade school&#8212;unlike some schools,
my school taught some of these books. 

 I might try to read The Catcher in the Rye for Banned
Books Week (September 22 -29). Some of these are bizarre, though:
 Where's Waldo? ?!

 Via Rebecca . 

 Oh, no! These
weird jelly snack things have been pulled from the shelves. I
remember seeing them in Vancouver and wondering what they were like.
But I never tried them because you could only buy them in large lots,
and I seriously doubted I'd ever want to eat more than one. Maybe I
missed the boat, but, then again, something nicknamed &#8220;deadly
mouthful&#8221; doesn't sound all that attractive, anyway.... 
 Via
 Rebecca . 

 Laurie Anderson is on Weekend Edition Sunday 
(on NPR ). She has a new album (!),
which I guess I'll have to find. I'll point to the steaming audio
when it's made available. 

 Speaking of music, while M was fiddling with the switch, trying to get
ssh to work, I was idly flipping through television channels and
stopped on the Claremont Colleges channel, which was showing a list of
upcoming programs. None of the programs sounded all that interesting
(which is pretty standard for the whole cable system), but they were
playing a cover of Joy Division's &#8220;Love Will Tear Us Apart&#8221; that I'd
never heard. Of course they cut it off fairly quickly (in favor of a
&#8220;music video&#8221; featuring a laser show set to Debussy's &#8220;Clair de
Lune&#8221;), but hearing it threw me into a strange mood. I ended up
putting on a tape of Joy Division's Closer (to hear
&#8220;Heart and Soul&#8221;), and opening my box of records (glorious vinyl!),
pulling out random albums and reminiscing. I have a lot of weird
things, some of which I had completely forgotten about. 

 Some random examples: 

 Coil's How to Destroy Angels , a one-sided 12" 
 Throbbing Gristle's Grief , an interview disc (I
believe), one side &#8220;Camera&#8221;, one side &#8220;Telephone&#8221; 
 Laurie Anderson, William S. Burroughs, and John Giorno's
 You're the Guy I Want to Spend My Money With (I have this
one on CD, too) 
 Love and Rockets, Seventh Dream of Teenage Heaven 
(original UK album) 
 More Psychic TV than you could shake a stick at 

 We stayed up 'til about 2 AM, while I played a variety of tracks from
Cabaret Voltaire, Tackhead, Siouxsie and the Banshees, This Mortal
Coil, Talking Heads, and ending with tracks from the Until the
End of the World soundtrack (Can, of course, along with Neneh
Cherry, Julee Cruise, and another Talking Heads track&#8212;I'd put the
CD on to hear &#8220;Last Night's Sleep&#8221;, and couldn't be bothered to
change it because I was busy taking a wrench to the stereo rack. It's
finally feeling somewhat solid.). 

 Looking back, though, I'm amazed that I survived my youth. 

 M got her machine! Apparently she's one of the very first to receive
one of Apple 's new dual-processor machines. We went down
to the bookstore to pick it up, and found that it hadn't actually been
paid for yet, and the person who knew what was going on was out of the
office. M somehow persuaded them to let her take it, though, so we
loaded it in our car and drove back to her office. 

 Pretty cool machine, especially with the Cinema Display and SoundStick
speakers. Now all we have to do is get her some furniture (leaning
toward Ikea Effectiv office furniture) and a chair (probably an Aeron)
and all she'll be missing is an actual office. 

 The excitement wears off pretty fast, though&#8212;in the end, it's only
a computer, not the key to world peace or even personal happiness. 

 We went to see my friend Greg Pagel at the Art Center College of Design 's
Senior Show. &#8220;Fun&#8221; freeway driving, followed by driving around
winding roads in the dark. But we eventually found the place, and as
we approached the main building I was struck by the idea that it had
to be the Reston Industries building from the Michael Crichton movie
 Looker . 

 We found a place to park, and found an entrance, and ended up having
to walk across the road (on the level above) to get to where the
action was. Zillions of people, all trying to out art-student the
next. I don't think I've ever seen so many tatoos, though it may be
that piercing is on its way out, as I don't recall noticing those
nearly as much. 

 We eventually found Greg, and saw some of his stuff, including some
furniture he'd designed and a model of the building he described in
his paper (which I'd done an edit of). Cool stuff&#8212;seeing it made
me remember how glad I was when I heard he'd left the CMA , where we used to work. He was
so wasted there, used by a lot of people who knew they weren't going
to be changing their lives, and jealous of those who were young and
creative enough to be able to do so. 

 Anyway, we'd found his stuff, but not him, so we hung around until he
appeared. He looked great&#8212;happy and in his element. We talked for
a bit; he introduced us to some people. Eventually he suggested we
check out some of the other rooms so he could schmooze, and we did. 

 We saw some cool stuff, including some crazy product design and really
funny ad mockups. We also saw a sort of backwards tricycle that
looked a bit like a unicycle with a pair of wheels extending in front.
Although there was a post coming up in front, with a handbrake, you
apparently steered by leaning in the direction you wanted to. I think
it could be popular at Harvey Mudd (where unicycles are a preferred
mode of transportation). 

 Although we'd initially thought we pop in, find Gregory, and pop out,
we ended up staying until the staff started locking doors and throwing
people out (around eleven o'clock). The trip back home on the freeway
was lots better than the trip out. 

 August 18, 2001 (Sat) 

 Yet another computer problem. It started when we shut down the
machines so we could turn off the power to the bedroom and living room
so that we could install an X10 dimmer switch in the bedroom. That
went fine, but after bringing the power back up, tenby started
complaining about problems with disk access. M ended up tearing the
machine apart again, and ended by thinking that the problem might be
with the Ultra-ATA cable connecting the drives to the Promise
controller, which may have been damaged during the move or, maybe,
even sooner. 

 We ended up making a trip to CompUSA, a place I hate, partly to see if
they had a cable, but mostly because I thought that they might have a
decent selection of laptop cases (M still doesn't have a case for her
iBook). They had the cables, but only in one size, and for US$15 more
than a small local place we'd stopped at last week. They supposedly
did price matching, but they didn't actually bother to have anyone
working at the counter where they did that magic. Their selection of
cases sucked, too, so we left (dodging past the drone checking the
bags of people who were dumb enough to actually buy anything there),
and went to the other place, which had the cable for $20. 

 We then did some grocery shopping (at Pavilions, one of two faces of
Safeway in Southern California, which M believes has better bread than
some of the other options; and at Trader Joe's), and went home, where
we watched Rock 'n'
Roll High School . Besides the Ramones, who are the main
attraction, I should point out the presence of Barbara Walters as a
cafeteria lady. Seriously. That Barbara Walters. 

 The rest of the day faded into night&#8212;M tinkered, I ended up setting
up an Amazon
wishlist . I know, I know, Amazon is evil, and I don't think I've
ever bought anything from them (not from their U.S. operation, anyway&#8212;their European side is governed by Europe's more strict privacy
laws, and less evil). But I look a lot of things up on Amazon, and
it's easier to make Amazon remember some of this stuff than to try to
find a pen and some paper to write on. 

 Amazon has some scary software running their site. After adding a
handful of items to my wishlist, their recommendations page was full
of books I actually own. On the other hand, their music and film
selections were terribly far off. 

 August 19, 2001 (Sun) 

 I spent a lot of today asleep, probably because we were up until
something like three o'clock in the morning while I fiddled with
Amazon and M fiddled with her machine. Needless to say, we missed the
Laurie Anderson segment on Weekend Edition. Luckily, it's available
as streaming audio from
this page . (Not that it works on my machine, of course.) 

 August 20, 2001 (Mon) 

 M's academic regalia arrived this morning. They look pretty snazzy,
and are definitely much nicer than the ones she wore at graduation.
Now she can take her place with the rest of the faculty and still
stand out. :) 

 Spent some time this morning building freeamp and verifying that it
still segfaults on PowerPC. While I was at it, I noticed a better way
of dealing with upstream changelogs than the one I'd hacked together,
so I modified my packages to use dh_installchangelogs, and updated
their Standards-Version fields while I was at it. 

 I also spent some time brainstorming questions for a Debian teTeX FAQ. 

 August 21, 2001 (Tue) 

 Some alternative
food pyramids to the official USDA
pyramid . 

 When I was a kid, the pyramid seemed vaguely believable. Since then,
though, it's been revised in such a way that I can't begin to imagine
how can eat what it says to eat and not become hideously
obese. According to the current USDA pyramid, you should have 6&#8211;11
servings of grain-derived foods, 3&#8211;5 servings of vegetables, 2 -4
servings of fruits, 2 -3 servings of milk, cheese, or yogurt, and 2 -3
servings of meat, poultry, dried beans, fish, eggs, or nuts. Anyway
you look at it, that's a hell of a lot more food than I could eat. 

 On the other hand, having been in a number of restaurants since
returning to the States, it seems that many restaurants are doing
their best to adhere to the guidelines by serving enormous amounts of
food. The plus side of that is that we often get two meals out of a
visit, which makes them marginally more affordable. 

 Anyway, Rebecca's spur was this article , which argues
that the USDA&#8212;which, like most U.S. &#8220;regulatory&#8221; agencies, is in
bed with the industry it's supposed to be regulating&#8212;is hopelessly
biased in favor of red meat and other not especially healthy foods (at
least when consumed in the amounts the USDA food pyramid recommends).

 Via Rebecca . 

 &#8220;Why Gnome
and KDE Are Misguided&#8221; . I tend to agree with this article, which
argues that what people need today are computer systems optimized for
networking&#8212;passing information around quickly, easily, and
transparently. The key to that, of course, is good old fashioned
ASCII text. The author talks about a Mac-based system using several
tools that can accept and generate text; Mac OS X, being based on
NEXTSTEP, goes that system one better by allowing any application to
take advantage of command-line Unix text-manipulation tools, through
Terminal Services.

 Via CamWorld . 

 Wow&#8212;I just heard two songs I never would have expected to hear on
television within five minutes. One was Television's &#8220;Marquee
Moon&#8221;, playing in the background during Dead Last , a
silly show on the WB that's somewhat similar to
 FreakyLinks . Fox continues to be stupid for cancelling
that one. 

 Song number two was Tones on Tail's &#8220;Go&#8221;, in a Starburst candy
commercial. 

 I don't know whether I should laugh or cry.... 

 August 22, 2001 (Wed) 

 In pain from a canker sore in the back of my mouth. I apparently bit
the side of my mouth. That would be bad, but I have this faulty
feedback mechanism that causes me to lock my jaw in order to avoid
irritating the sore, which results in amazing headaches from the
muscle tension, as well as talking through clenched teeth. Oww. 

 Started looking at building a website for M for HMC. Rapidly ran into
problems as apache and Netscape fight to thrash the machine. 80 MB of
RAM is clearly not enough, but the last time I looked, RAM for this
poor old (but wonderful!) machine was more than a dollar a meg, and
the largest size was 64 MB. M suggests I look again. I do. Wow&#8212;128 MB DIMMs available for US$35! The company won't sell, though, at
least not and guarantee it will work (their info is out of date). Other World Computing , though, has
the RAM for $45, and does guarantee it will work in my PowerCenter
132. We order. 

 Meanwhile, the books I ordered from Subterranean Press still
haven't arrived. My stalling around has left me with nothing to read,
so last night I decided to tackle The Lord of the Rings 
again. Now that I've been able to read KSR's Mars 
trilogy, Infinite Jest , Mason & Dixon ,
 A Tale of Two Cities , and other giant books, I figure I
might be able to handle Tolkien. I hedged, though, leafing through
the appendices, before giving in and trying the foreword and dipping
into the start of the book. My lack of committal is registered by the
gods, and my books do not arrive. 

 August 23, 2001 (Thu) 

 The morning is shattered by the doorbell ringing&#8212;my books! 

 No, turns out to be a couple of Jehovah's Witnesses. Damn. 

 Having read the first twenty or so pages of the actual book last
night, I start to get into it, and read another couple of dozen. I
fall asleep (still in pain, remember) committed to reading The
Lord of the Rings . That afternoon, the books arrive, delivered
by UPS in their patented drop-and-run style. Still, they're
beautifully set and bound. I reluctantly put them on the shelf for
later. 

 I meet up with M at the school to go to the grocery store and to a
drugstore in hopes of finding something for my mouth. She's not done,
and recruits me to install Mac OS software on her machine. Here's a
warning about the new Quicksilver Macs, kids: Be very careful about
making sure that CDs are placed in the right place in the tray.
Jiggle them around to make sure, otherwise the drive will happily
grind its hub on the surface of the disc as it tries to spin it. So
much for our Adobe Illustrator CD, which no longer allows installs.
On a whim, though, I discovered that the entire set of installation
diskettes is on the CD, and could be copied. Install
successful. Still not cool, Apple. 

 Kanka is the bomb when it comes to canker sore aids. It has massive
amounts of benzocaine, and also leaves a sticky film coating the
wound. No one will be surprised that it tastes funny, I'm sure. But
suddenly I can move my jaw again! I can eat without worrying about
pain. I can talk ! Hooray! 

 August 24, 2001 (Fri) 

 Ugh. I had a bizarre dream in which the Shrub had come to a college I
was attending, and was supposedly answering any and all questions put
to him. I remember showing him up by vacuuming some substance off a
pizza, which apparently was the key to understanding that his ABM
system couldn't possibly work. I then had a dream involving
discussions about (and experiences with) Ecstacy (MDMA). Turned out
that Bush was on the radio, answering any and all questions,
and that was followed by a call-in show about Ecstasy. Bleah. 

 Oh, yes! My RAM arrived this morning, and I added it, checked
to make sure I could boot to MacOS, and then reassembled the machine,
slung it back under the desk, rearranged the myriad cables and cords,
and rebooted into Linux. 

 Everything is amazingly faster. Even with X, emacs21, and
bunches of Netscape windows open (forget about the apache and other
server processes), I haven't come close to touching swap. Things
within programs work fast&#8212;I loaded mh-e in seconds. Even GPG
(running under exmh) seems to be faster. 320 MB of RAM is the way to
go.... 

 Hmm. My ISP seems to be unreachable, which means that you're not
reading this entry. (Or, if you are, things have been fixed.) Oh,
well, I guess I won't be distracted by mail.... 

 August 27, 2001 (Mon) 

 For M: An
interview with Professor Yaffle ! 

 At some point we're going to have to get a region-free DVD player so
we can buy the Bagpuss DVD....

 Via found . 

 Wow. Salon is so naive they actually think that their &#8220;premium
service&#8221; is worth US$15 a month . I just subscribed to The Atlantic
Monthly for a whole year for less than that. And The
Atlantic is a consistently better publication, too. I haven't
been bothering to check Salon much lately (largely because most of the
articles fall into one of two broad categories: predictable political
nonsense or sleazy sexual nonsense), and I guess I'll stop feeling bad
about that. (Note: Way back when, when Salon first started, M sent
them some money and we got some nice things back from them.) 

 Wow, Dave Winer said a bunch of stupid, sexist things on scripting
news . Some people are surprised, although I can't imagine why.
After five years or so of reading his stuff, it's clear that Dave is
an idiot. His company makes some useful and generally good software.
Dave is clearly quite bright. But there are some issues that are just
beyond him. One of the big ones is women. (Another one is
anthropology. Yeesh.) 

 The only sane way to read Dave's stuff is to always remember that Dave
doesn't understand some things, and that he'll get them wrong every
time. Try to laugh, instead of crying. And don't waste too much
energy being outraged. 

 That said, Meg
makes some good points . I'm glad she did, so I don't have to.

 Via Megnut . 

 Mm&#8212;one more reason women don't bother to attend computer
conferences: I happened to pop onto the #debian channel on
IRC the other day (because I was really bored). I was ever so amused
to see that one of the primary topics of discussion was a new tool
based on Debian's apt package tool, designed for downloading
pornography. Hey, boys, try growing up. 

 With all my new RAM, Konqueror is much more usable. Maybe I'll try
using it more. At some point I should probably try Mozilla again,
too. 

 Anyone who's trying to call us at home these days has almost certainly
gotten a busy signal. That's because we don't have DSL, and because
we now have the modem attached to the switch/gateway, and it cleverly
keeps the connection up unless we turn the modem off. My suggestion
to you is to just send e-mail, which is almost certainly more likely
to reach us, anyway. 

 We're supposed to get DSL sometime around the 10th of September.
Although I can't wait for the increase in speed, I'll miss having
people be unable to call us. I hate telephones, and I really hate it
when people call me out of the blue. Especially when they're selling
something (has anyone ever called you to sell you something
you wanted ?, or when it's a wrong number. 

 I'd much rather know someone's going to call&#8212;then I can look
forward to it all day, or even all week. (Hi, mom!) 

 I'm having annoying problems with ssh. I'm not sure whether it's my
fault, the remote site's fault, or the College's crappy dialup. 

 August 29, 2001 (Wed) 

 I'm busy lusting after fountain pens and being annoyed by our
fantastically slow connection. On top of that, sendmail is acting up,
leading me to seek information. 

 Sendmail.com is really only
useful if you're a giant corporation, but they point the rest of us to
 sendmail.net (which is, I
guess, kind of a news site for sendmail-related information) and sendmail.org (which is the support
site for the &#8220;freeware&#8221; release of sendmail). 

 I was amused to see a link on the front page of sendmail.net to a &#8220;sendmail
knife&#8221;, which turned out to be broken (because you can't link to it&#8212;if you care, go to store.sendmail.com , click on
&#8220;Sendmail Gear&#8221;, and then on the &#8220;Sendmail Knife&#8221; link). Yes,
kids, after wrestling with sendmail for a few hours, you can just
finish yourself (or others!) off with the handy sendmail knife! The
police and courts, as well as your family, will understand when they
pry the knife from your cold, dead fingers and see the sendmail logo
(a sort of dragon/Concorde crossbreed) shining through the blood.... 

 (Fixed it. I just love how that m4 crap has made it &#8220;easier&#8221; to
configure sendmail. Easier for their expensive graphical
configuration tool to write configuration files, I bet, but certainly
not easier for an administrator without that tool.) 

 (Nope. Still screwed up.) 

 Speaking of pens, by the way, Deutsche Pen has lots of
German pens, fountain and otherwise, including several that are really
quite inexpensive (< US$20). (They even have my core, which is
quite a nice pen, and would go well with some rave pants or whatever
it is skaters wear these days.) 

 August 31, 2001 (Fri) 

 Salon on the (U.S.) Copyright Office's report
on the effects of the DMCA . 

 The
report itself (in PDF). 

 Like most U.S. government agencies, there's a lot of conflict between
the twin goals of supporting the industry being regulated (in this
case, largely publishers) and supporting the public interest. This
report is yet another example of that conflict, and, as usual, comes
out the side of corporations over individual rights. 

 The comments Salon has solicited mirror that impression completely:
industry spokespeople are thrilled that their rights to limit access
to information have been &#8220;upheld&#8221;, and everyone else is dismayed by
the Library of Congress's gutlessness.

 Via Red Rock Eater mailing list . 

 PR
Nation &#8212;an account of the Center for Media and Democracy's John Stauber's attempts to expose the evil PR machine
that constantly spins the information you receive through the media. 

Well, [the Water Environment Foundation] turned out to be the sewage
sludge industry, and she was calling because she said, &#8220;I heard that
you have this book coming out, Toxic Sludge is Good for
You , and I'm really quite concerned because, frankly, it's not
toxic anymore and we don't call it sludge. It's now bio-solids, and
it's a natural organic fertilizer. And we're very concerned that your
book title is going to interfere with our education campaign to get
farmers across the country to use bio-solids as a fertilizer on their
farm fields.&#8221; 

 So, that became a chapter in our book called, &#8220;The Sludge Hits the
Fan,&#8221; and we actually broke nationally this whole story about how
this toxic sludge&#8212;mountains of it building up at sewage plants all
across the country that the Environmental Protection Agency had deemed
too toxic to landfill or incinerate or dump in the ocean&#8212;has
basically been renamed &#8220;bio-solids&#8212;a natural organic fertilizer.&#8221;
And now half of it is being spread all across the country on
farmlands, despite the fact that it's still as toxic as ever.

 Via Red Rock Eater mailing list . 

 Without
Sanctuary: Photographs and Postcards of Lynching in America . Look
at these photographs. Be sure to read the accompanying notes. Be
sickened. America has a nasty history, and it doesn't seem to be
improving much over time. 
 Via Red Rock Eater mailing list . 

 Criticism
of David Broder's silence about Jesse Helms's racism prior to
Helms announcing his retirement. (The original article .) 

 Jesse Helms, of course, is one of the most evil people in America, and
that's saying a lot. But the media (in general) never bothered to
point that out when he had power and they felt that they needed to
suck up to him to retain access. We need a media with teeth. Fuck
access. Make it clear that the evil bastards in power are refusing to
be open about what they're doing when they're covered thoroughly.
Maybe if the media stopped sugarcoating everything, the populace would
wake up and realize that the people they're electing aren't
necessarily working for them. But probably not.

 Via Red Rock Eater mailing list . 

 John
Shirley on Jin-Roh: The Wolf Brigade , a new anime
film from Mamoru Oshii and Hiroyuri Okiyura. 

 Also, his review
of A.I. , a film lots of people didn't get. I have to
admit, I was one of them at first: I was annoyed that David never
figured out that the humans were incapable of caring about him, and
that he continued to believe in them, and then in his delusion about
the Blue Fairy. 

 But that was the point. David was built that way&#8212;incredibly
capable, but still limited by human shortsightedness. He wasn't a
person, he was a toy, a tool, a device, a thing, and the programmers
only allowed him to &#8220;grow&#8221; so far. Even during the horrors of the
Flesh-Fair (compare with the lynching photographs bookmarked above),
David never really understood what was going on, nor did he understand
Gigolo Joe's plight (a robot who was set up to take the blame for a
man's murder of his wife&#8212;Joe knew he didn't do it, but he also knew
that no one would believe him). Ultimately, David only understood his
lack of individuality when he went to confront his creator. 

 All the humans in the film are damaged in some way. We see parents
traumatized by their son's illness. A creator driven by memories of
his dead son, who ends up endlessly replicating his son as he was,
forever frozen in a moment of time. Technicians who question the
advisability of the project, but go ahead anyway. Men who murder
their wives because of their jealousy of machines. People who destroy
robots in spectacular ways to try to compensate for their own feelings
of inadequacy. 

 Damaged people create limited, damaged artificial intelligences. 

 There are links on the Shirley review to other reviews of
 A.I. in Locus and elsewhere that are also
well worth reading. Gary
Westfahl's reaction , in particular, is very similar to my own. 

 Several of the reviewers note the lack of roles for women in the film&#8212;in a world with many specialized robots, women apparently stay home
and clean, do laundry, and wash dishes. 

 For extra points, think about the people and robots in
 A.I. and the people and corpses portrayed in the lynching
photographs. 

 Something bad happened to our telephone line. No dialtone, only a
hum, but people can try to call in, which results in the telephone
ringing, but, when answered, all you can hear is a far away sound of a
telephone ringing or of &#8220;9&#8221; being dialled on a rotary telephone. 

 M came home all accusatory&#8212;&#8220;Where were you!&#8221;&#8212;just as I was
about to go out to call Verizon from the office and then drive over to
campus. I called and reported the problem using their awesomely
stupid voice mail tree (&#8220;Press 1 if you have no dialtone&#8221; *1*; &#8220;If
you can be reached at the number you're reporting a problem with,
please press 1 now&#8221;) before reaching a human&#8212;why do I fall for
those things instead of pretending I don't have a touch tone 'phone? 

 Anyway, their computer came up with &#8220;line problem&#8221;, and they're
supposed to send someone out tomorrow to fix it. Best guess is that
(1) they let Earthlink hook up our DSL on their end, and someone
screwed up, or, (2) while hooking up 'phone service for someone moving
in before classes start, their installer knocked one of our wires
loose. The second option is the best bet&#8212;had I known where our
'phone box is, I would have gone over and checked to see if there was
someone messing with it. I did look to see if I could see a Verizon
truck in the lot, but couldn't. 

 Built new version of my packages with a tiny change to their
debian/copyright file to make the latest lintian happy. Of course I
can't actually upload them just now. 

 newer entries | older entries 

 Activity 

 << 
 August, 2001 
 >> 

 Mo 
 Tu 
 We 
 Th 
 Fr 
 Sa 
 Su 

 1 
 2 
 3 
 4 
 5 

 6 
 7 
 8 
 9 
 10 
 11 
 12 

 13 
 14 
 15 
 16 
 17 
 18 
 19 

 20 
 21 
 22 
 23 
 24 
 25 
 26 

 27 
 28 
 29 
 30 
 31 

 More Archives... 
 March, 2004 
 February, 2004 
 January, 2004 
 December, 2003 
 November, 2003 
 October, 2003 
 more... 

 Copyright &copy; 1998&#8211;2004, C.M. Connelly. 

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons License .

 Last modified at 4:53 PM PST, Wednesday, March 3, 2004; last rendered at 
 4:53 PM PST, Wednesday, March 3, 2004 with Mason 
 and Perl . 

 Please e-mail me about problems with this page . Thanks.