C.M. Connelly: Blog: Archive for January, 2001 

 &#160; 

 Blog | 
 Debian | 
 Work | 
 R&eacute;sum&eacute; | 
 About... 

 Blog: Archive for January, 2001 

 January 1, 2001 (Mon) 

 Amazingly, we are somewhat back on track! I fiddled with Gronk a bit
more, and Melissa got some work done. We also got our landlord to
help us charge up the battery on the car, speculated on the cause of
the problem&#8212;which may be related to the alarm I didn't know I had&#8212;and took a turn around the neighborhood, discovering that the evil
Safeway was closed, as was the dollar store, so we're still
dangerously low on milk. Oh, well. 

 January 2, 2001 (Tue) 

 I received a terrifying telephone call around noon from Immigration
Canada, who were finally processing the application for an extension
to my vistor status I filed last September. Lots of questions, but in
the end they said they'd issue a new document. Afterwards I felt
pretty ill (adrenaline'll do that), but that's a huge load off my
mind. 

 Also, the car seems to be behaving with its new charge. We've tried
flipping the mystery switch to its other position, and we'll also try
to be sure to drive it a bit more often (as it is, we often only drive
it once a week, and over the Christmas&#8211;New Year's holiday, we
actually left it for close to two and a half weeks). 

 We went to the grocery store today, and also checked Grand and Toy in
hopes of finding some of these Stabilo
's move pens that Phil Agre 
mentioned in a recent
message he sent to his Red Rock
Eater list. They sound neat, but I don't know if anyone actually
sells them. I did send mail to Stabilo, though, so maybe they'll get
back to me. 

 While we were in the mall, we also stopped at the T&T Supermarket ,
a wild Asian food store that features (among other things) live fish
(killed for you on request!) and more kinds of bizarre snack and
dessert foods than you can shake a stick at. We went in search of
rice crackers, because I just couldn't believe that CN$5 was a
reasonable price for a 500 g bag. We ended up paying about CN$4.50
for some &#8220;Cajun-flavoured&#8221; ones that claim to be &#8220;North American's
Favourite Snack!&#8221; Unlikely, but they're pretty good. 

 There was a lot of traffic&#8212;all the people who
had to work today heading home plus all the people who didn't have to
work and decided to shop?&#8212;and we were diverted by the police due to
some sort of complicated accident. 

 January 3, 2001 (Wed) 

 The Great Massager Debacle! Or, The Customer Is Never Right! 

 After suffering assorted aches and pains, we thought we'd get a
massager with a heater, which led us to London Drugs. After some
debate, we got it down to three models, a small handheld Dr. Scholl's
(CN$19.95), a medium-sized Pollinex (CN$19.95, on clearance), and a
large Dr. Scholl's (CN$39.95). They all seemed to do roughly the same
things&#8212;they had heat, they had massage, they plugged into the wall. 

 But were they any good? 

 The obvious way to answer that question is to plug 'em in and see.
But the folks in the pharmacy were too self-important to help out
customers, and the folks on the floor couldn't find an electrical
socket that was less than seven or eight feet off the floor (above the
top shelf, basically). So they sent us to the customer service desk
at the front of the store. 

 The woman there was willing to let us try, but the nearest socket was
near the closest cash register, and she couldn't leave the customer
service desk 'til someone else appeared to cover her. So we cooled
our heels. After a few minutes, another young woman showed up, and
searched in vain for the socket. After some calling back and forth,
she found it (way back in the cabinet beneath the cash register). We
opened the small massager, she plugged it in, and we turned it on. 

 At first I wasn't sure it was on, but by putting my hand
directly on its active end, I could feel it. Barely. It was clearly
not strong enough. Okay, then, on to the next one. 

 The girl decided we should try the $40 one next, but she couldn't get
the box open. And, while trying, she managed to create a huge tear
down the front of the box. Whoops. She claimed the box couldn't be
opened, and moved on to the medium-sized (and priced) one, which
proved to be enclosed in a plastic bag that was &#8220;sealed&#8221; with a
piece of cellophane tape. Which she refused to remove, as doing so
would mean that no one would buy the massager, and they would have to
return it to the manufacturer to be resealed. 

 I pointed out that we could easily reseal it; that if we bought it and
returned it, they'd still have to send it back; and, finally, that if
she wouldn't open the thing so we could try it, we were most
definitely not buying it, but she wouldn't budge. So we didn't (try
it or buy it), and they'll have to send the $40 one with the torn box
back (or mark it down substantially). Who won, exactly? 

 January 5, 2001 (Fri) 

 We got to see The 6th Day tonight, and it was pretty
good. I'm not sure what happened here, but I definitely sensed that
there was a deeper movie (&agrave; la Gattaca ) just
beneath the surface, and big echoes of Blade Runner (the
question about the turtles in the desert and the syncording devices)
as well as purer Dickian ideas, poking through from time to time. But
still fun, especially the amazing Vancouver locations! (Some
notables: The giant sulfur pile in North Vancouver, seen behind
Arnie's head in the autopiloted truck scene; the whisper jet pad in
Stanley Park; the big car chase scene that involves crashing through
the middle of the Simon
Fraser University complex (in front of the library); the exterior
of police headquarters (B.C. Place stadium) and its interior (West
Mall Complex at SFU); and, of course, evil headquarters, played by
downtown Vancouver's Library Square.) 

 We're looking forward to seeing Antitrust , which was also
shot in and around Vancouver (including SFU (mostly exteriors&#8212;that
ziggurat-like building you can see in the promos is at SFU) and UBC's
CompSci department). 

 January 6, 2001 (Sat) 

 Melissa's birthday! We went out to see
 Best in Show ( also shot in Vancouver!) at the
Hollywood with some friends. It was funny, but perhaps not quite as
funny as the crowd seemed to think. Afterwards, we sampled yet
another approximation of Mexican food adjusted for the Canadian
palate. Sometimes I miss California. 

 Melissa's big present was a pretty nice SCSI/USB scanner, so someday
maybe I'll add some photographs to the site.... 

 January 8, 2001 (Mon) 

 Caleb Carr (author of The Alienist ) believes that it's
time to regulate the Internet to prevent it from being taken over
completely by corporations. 

 I can't say I agree. Like pretty much everyone who argues in favor of
government intervention, Carr believes that everyone's freedom should
be sharply curtailed so that children and stupid people who can't
evaluate the veracity of information can be protected from themselves,
and so that &#8220;evil&#8221; people (i.e., paedophiles) can be prevented from
gaining access to children. 

 No thanks. I'm all for the end of corporate domination, and I'm not
especially enthused about the idea of children being abused, but
having &#8220;the government&#8221; (as if only one government has jurisdiction,
and any government could really control anything in a meaningful way)
dictate what can and cannot appear on the 'Net is hardly a reasonable
solution, nor do I think that suspending the constitutional rights of
the majority to protect a minority is justifiable. Maybe, instead of
licenses for content, we should have tests to verify that people are
smart enough to evaluate what they read instead of accepting it at
face value before they're allowed on the 'Net. Why should a lie told
by a Web author be considered more heinous (and receive less
constitutional protection) than one that appears in the pages of the
 New York Times or Wall Street Journal ? Can
anyone really believe that the same lie told in all three places would
be more readily accepted when read on the Web site than in the pages
of one of the two &#8220;papers of record&#8221;? 

 On a happier note, Salon also has an
interview with Ian MacKaye , of Fugazi and Dischord Records fame.
&#8220;Most people I know who use Napster listen to stuff they've never
heard before. And then they get psyched and go out and buy the damn
records. It's more like a sampler.&#8221; Exactly. 

 And, in the interest of adding more links to balance the excessively
personal content of previous entries, if you like maps, check out TopoZone.com , which offers
topographic maps of the U.S. It's a great way to show your SO all the
places where you used to do crazy things (such as skip along the edge
of thirty-foot cliffs, leaping from rock to rock as though you were
immortal&#8212;remember those days?). 

 January 9, 2001 (Tue) 

 Today we bought an Ultra-66 IDE controller for tenby, our PC, and hit
the grocery store. Melissa spent most of the day and evening getting
it working&#8212;PC hardware is unbelievably horrible, especially when
you're plugging it into an older machine. We'd already substituted an
ISA network card for one of our PCI network cards, freeing one PCI
slot, and that adventure had required assorted gyrations with DOS and
BIOS tinkering to get it to work properly. Installing the IDE card
was much easier, since the PCI stuff handled the IRQs and other evil
PC settings more or less transparently. It did need patches for ther
kernel, though, and it turned out to be extra fun to get both of the
main drives working on the new controller, and required using the
built-in controller to boot the machine (and for nothing else,
really).

I opted to save both of us from extra angst by letting her handle it
herself (I had my fill of PC hardware long ago). On the plus side,
the machine is now lots faster (or at least less sluggish during disk
accesses), but, wow, do I ever hate PC hardware.... 

 January 10, 2001 (Wed) 

 Today we realized we'd probably gotten everything exactly backwards.
Seems we should have been getting job applications for Melissa out all
last year, instead of waiting 'til she'd pretty much finished her
dissertation. Oops. 

 On the other hand, there's still time for the jobs we know about
(about twenty days), and there will probably be more jobs posted as
time goes on. She may have to take a position at SFU or UBC as a
lecturer this summer and maybe next fall, too, however. Goddess knows
how much fun dealing with Immigration Canada will be this time.... 

 At least you can learn from our mistakes! Some academic job-hunting
links: 

 Tips
for a Massive Academic Job Search . Great summary of the whole
process, with tons of links and lots of good advice. 
 By Ellen
Spertus 
 Networking
on the Network . How to use electronic mail, Web sites, and
conferences to get to know (and be known by ) other folks in
your field who share your interests. 
 From Phil Agre 
 Getting
an academic job . More good advice, along the lines of that in
Ellen Spertus's piece, but more general. 
 By Michael Ernst 
 Discipline-specific
resources for job hunting . Great page of pointers for more
information for specific academic disciplines, including
 humanities, social sciences, and hard sciences.

 From University of Michigan Career
 Planning & Placement 

 That said, if you're looking for someone who knows lots about
functional languages, parallel programming, and loves to teach,
consider getting in touch with Melissa 

 January 11, 2001 (Thu) 

 Scott Rosenberg responds
to Caleb Carr's call for censorship . (Also: responses
from readers .) 

 Melissa's birthday presents from her parents arrived. She got the new
 Lloyd Cole (warning: all Flash site) CD, The
Negatives , and much to our surpise, an electronic
scale . These scales are all the rage in the UK, but pretty hard
to find in Canada. 

 January 12, 2001 (Fri) 

 Salon has an article about independent
casket dealers and their battle with the funeral industry, which
believes that 500% markups and pressure sales tactics are just the
thing for dealing with shellshocked relatives. Just burn me, okay?
And a cardboard box is fine. 

 A nice page
on Barbara Kruger , one of my favorite artists.

 Hidden in a Salon
review of AntiTrust 

 January 13, 2001 (Sat) 

 We just visited good ol' LG1, the launching gantry that's been putting
up SkyTrain sections near us. It's now well into the Home Depot's
parking lot, and they're apparently suing SAR because they claim that
their business is being disrupted. Looked pretty busy to us, with
people whizzing around the parking lot all the time we were there. 

 January 15, 2001 (Mon) 

 It's Martin
Luther King, Jr., Day . Think about what King was working for, and
how much fun the next four years are going to be.... 

 Hmm. My Debian packages don't seem to be
making it into testing, for reasons that I'm not sure I can do
anything about. :-P 

 January 16, 2001 (Tue) 

 Salon has a profile
of Karlheinz Stockhausen , a musician and composer who's influenced
(directly or indirectly) almost all of the musicians I admire (BTW,
the &#8220;German art rockers Ca&#8221; mentioned in the article are almost
certainly Can). 

 Amusingly (?), &#8220;Kurzwellen&#8221;, a piece featuring randomly tuned radios
first performed in 1968, is even more evidence for my frequent annoyed
response to fawning tributes to the &#8220;innovation&#8221; of one or another
currently popular (and terribly derivative) group by DJs and VJs&#8212;&#8220;It's been done! Ages ago! By much better musicians!&#8221; 

 Stockhausen was also involved in the Fluxus movement, which was great fun&#8212;crazy performances draped with the banner of Art. ( SFMOMA had a great Fluxus exhibit a
few years back.) 

 See also www.stockhausen.org .

 Via Salon 

 Also in Salon, Janelle Brown has an article
on &#8220;infiltration&#8221; , a concept I first learned about by creeping
into places we probably shouldn't have been with my friends. I also
learned how to get from almost anywhere to almost anywhere else in
SUNY-Albany (and, to a lesser extent, Binghamton) without setting foot
outside (a very useful skill given winter's snow, ice, and wind).
Later, I learned about the Paris
catacombs from Jonathan Littell's Bad Voltage . 

 Also, having spent a fair number of afternoons on roofs, I can assure
you that almost no one looks up no matter where you are. 

 January 22, 2001 (Mon) 

 Took a longish walk out beyond the PNE grounds to New Brighton Park,
which is hidden behind and beneath a tangle of freeway overpasses,
ramps, and tunnels near the Second Narrows Bridge and the big grain
silos. There was a kids' television show filming there, and we were
taken for film folk by the guard, which was kind of amusing (she
greeted us with, &#8220;Don't get the linguine&#8212;it's cold!&#8221;). The park
was all soggy and had parts fenced off for construction (looking
pretty much as it had when we first found it&#8212;about two years ago)
so we didn't stay long. 

 People have finally started to work on a house a couple of blocks away
that was torn down a couple of months ago and left wide open ever
since. I'm amazed they could get away with it&#8212;in the States some
kid would fall into the cellar and break an arm or a leg and the
owners would be sued for creating an &#8220;attractive nuisance&#8221;. Now
they've cleared away the debris, dug out a larger cellar, and started
to build wooden forms for pouring a concrete foundation. 

 January 23, 2001 (Tue) 

 After a couple of panic attacks, I decided to bite the bullet and see
if I could pay my automobile insurance over the telephone. 

 Step one was to check the mileage, as they've always wanted to know
what it was. While I was in the car, I had an intuition, tried to
start the engine, and discovered the battery was dead again. Damn. I
guess I flipped the mystery switch the wrong way. 

 Step two was to make the call. I got through to a human quickly (!),
paid my AAA membership, and then asked to pay my insurance. I ended
up talking to a clerk in the Richmond office, and discovered I didn't
owe anything&#8212;that is, I hadn't been billed yet for next (this)
year, and I'd paid my bill in full last year. Luckily, she was able
to guesstimate how much I'd owe (US$200 more than last year due to my
not having an uncashed check from them like I had last year), and I
paid it. Now all I have to do is get the paperwork, and I'm set. Oh,
yeah&#8212;they didn't ask about the mileage this time. 

 We borrowed the trickle charger again, and I sat in the car for a
couple of hours while it charged. We get a lot more foot traffic on
our street than I thought we did&#8212;I guess we just miss most of those
folks when we're out and about. 

 While I was at it, I completely disconnected the wires that appeared
to be for the alleged alarm, insulated the ends with tape, and bundled
them away from everything. Maybe that will stop the battery
drain. I hope so, because spending a couple of hours charging the
battery before driving the car is already old. 

 We hit the grocery store (and T&T for more rice crackers and
wasabi shrimp chips&#8212;yum!), and also had to pop out to the bakery
for some rolls for garlic bread. On the way back we noticed a
fluorescent pink sign at the top of a stake with some other papers
below it&#8212;the pink sign turned out to be an ad for the lumberyard
supplying the material for the forms, but the other pieces of paper
were for a couple of bathroom supply places. On one of them was one
of the most bizarre devices I've ever seen: The STYLBAD , a tall spinning
brush that you mount in the corner of your shower. It's kind of like
a car wash for your body. 

 I, of course, forgot the name of the thing when I sat down to do some
research, but after going back out with a flashlight and pen and
paper, I managed to turn up the manufacturer's site and some places
selling the Stylbad. Apparently it goes for about CN$1,800.00, which
seems like an awful lot of money to me. I'd say this item is every
bit as indispensable as a bidet. (BTW, be sure to check out the other
pages on that site if you're into softcore porn&#8212;you've got to love
European advertisers....) 

 January 24, 2001 (Wed) 

 We went up to campus today so Melissa could talk to one of her
committee members about being a reference (and also get some feedback
on her CV and base letter). While she was doing that, I returned a
whole bunch of heavy library books, then popped into the bookstore,
where I ended up buying a copy of Structures: Or Why Things
Don't Fall Down (J.E. Gordon) from the &#8220;Hurt Penguins&#8221; table
(only CN$3.99), and gave in and picked up the Oxford University Press
edition of A Tale of Two Cities (Charles Dickens&#8212;only
CN$6.95). Tim Powers' Earthquake Weather quotes
liberally from A Tale of Two Cities and warps the story
into what I imagine is a radically different interpretation, and I
wanted to check it out for myself. (Powers also inspired me to borrow
Walter Otto's Dionysus: Myth and Cult .) 

 We missed the Junkyard
Wars final. Damn. BTW, it's on Mondays, now, instead of
Wednesdays. 

 January 25, 2001 (Thu) 

 We buckled down to work on creating a database of information about
prospective jobs for Melissa, and, somewhat to my surprise, we may not
be as screwed as I first thought &#8212;there were quite a number of jobs whose deadlines we hadn't missed,
and quite a few that had been posted since the magazine went to press.
After a lot more work than you might think, we had over a hundred
entries. Melissa's now working on scripts to manipulate the
information to create letters, as well as her statement of teaching
philosophy and research interests and plans. Keep your fingers
crossed! 

 January 26, 2001 (Fri) 

 I just put my finger on one of the things that bugs me about Greg Bear&#8212;he refers to women as &#8220;females&#8221; and men as &#8220;males&#8221;. Now,
that's fine if you're talking biologically (as in &#8220;the victim was
female&#8221;), or if you're talking about some non-human species (&#8220;the
male baboon is displaying aggressive behavior&#8221;). But we have words
for male and female humans, and those words are &#8220;man&#8221; and &#8220;men&#8221;
and &#8220;woman&#8221; and &#8220;women&#8221;. Remember that sex is not gender and use
the right words for the concepts you're describing! 

 Taking advantage of what may be one of my last opportunities to do so&#8212;rumor is that Fox is planning to cancel the show&#8212;let me say nice
things about FreakyLinks , which
airs on Friday nights at nine o'clock. I expected to hate this show,
but I really like it. It's made by some of the people behind
 The Blair Witch Project , which I wasn't particularly
excited by (no, I didn't get sick, but by the time the remaining kids
were murdered, I was rooting for the killer), and it promised to be
incredibly cheesy&#8212;about a bunch of wannabe supernatural
investigators who have a lame website (not to mention that it's on
Fox). 

 So we not only have openings for silly supernatural stuff, but also
silly computer stuff! 

 But it turns out to be an okay show&#8212;lots better than, say,
 Dark Angel , which has an unbelievably lame backstory,
uninspired plots, and cookie-cutter characters, or Level
9 , which was so boring we forgot to watch it, or
 Freedom , which we've all seen before a dozen times, with
different clothes, but identical storylines. The first couple of
episodes of FreakyLinks were every bit as awful as we
expected, but the show has gotten a lot better, and very quickly
(c.f., ST:TNG , which was unwatchable for at least two
seasons). 

 Anyway, if you don't have anything better to do, check it out. It's a
fun show, with some interesting people (of the four main characters,
two are black!), some clever ideas, some annoying cinematic styles,
and a lot of silliness (intentional and otherwise). 

 (One more thing that impresses me&#8212;they've spent some time on the
website. FreakyLinks.com 
 is the website on the show&#8212;complete with video footage,
Derek's stories, and lots of links to junk you can buy to &#8220;support
the site&#8221;. Unfortunately, that doesn't seem to include any of the
coffee mugs you can see scattered around the set.) 

 January 30, 2001 (Tue) 

 For the first time in a few days, Salon had several articles worth reading, including: an
article about a spousal abuse awareness campaign and followup
about the &#8220;toxic&#8221; marketing techniques aimed at women . Also, an
article about the California power crisis , and a
profile of Matt Groening . (While I was looking up the URL, I
noticed profiles on Lou Reed and Ursula K. LeGuin .) 

 A couple of days ago, crunching on some corn nuts
included in a bag of Cajun-flavored rice
crackers , I got one that reminded me of the taste of Kellogg's
Corn Pops, which I haven't had for years. As it happens, they were on
sale at the grocery store, so we picked up a box. 

 It turns out that Canadian Corn Pops are almost
completely different from American Corn Pops! They taste fairly
similar, but where the American cereal consists of shiny, smooth,
kernel-shaped pieces, the Canadian version is more like the
crunchberries in Cap'n Crunch Crunchberry cereal, only yellowy-orange.
They also have a surface texture that is similar, if less
destructively abrasive, to the surface of crunchberries. 

 I'm not sure why I'm surprised&#8212;other Canadian
cereals are different, too. Trix, for instance, one of my all time
favorites, is really yucky here. And Canadian Special K is more
closely akin to corn flakes made of rice than the bowl-shaped American
pebbles. 

 The press corps slimed
the Clintons one more time, claiming that they &#8220;looted the White
House&#8221;. Hope they're happy with what Shrub'll do to the country. How
'bout that economy? 

 January 31, 2001 (Wed) 

 I took the car into the dealership today, and it looks like the
culprit may not be the alternator (it's on its third (since I bought
it)) after all, but the battery. Amazingly, the battery, which we
bought back in 1997, is still under warranty (albeit not replaceable
for free). Still, I'd rather it be a CN$75 battery than the CN$500
alternator, even if the alternator, too, is under warranty (since the
shop charges CN$45 an hour for labor). 

 The find-M-a-job odyssey continues, as we fight to complete the
various components necessary for a complete application. It looks
like we've nailed most of pieces&#8212;left is some fine-tuning on the
letter for researchy schools, rewriting the letter for teachy schools,
and finishing the revamp of her website (which is pretty much all
mine). It's actually going pretty well, with any luck, we'll be able
to start mailing things tomorrow. (*knock, knock*) 

 newer entries | older entries 

 Activity 

 << 
 January, 2001 
 >> 

 Mo 
 Tu 
 We 
 Th 
 Fr 
 Sa 
 Su 

 1 
 2 
 3 
 4 
 5 
 6 
 7 

 8 
 9 
 10 
 11 
 12 
 13 
 14 

 15 
 16 
 17 
 18 
 19 
 20 
 21 

 22 
 23 
 24 
 25 
 26 
 27 
 28 

 29 
 30 
 31 

 More Archives... 
 May, 2003 
 April, 2003 
 March, 2003 
 February, 2003 
 January, 2003 
 December, 2002 
 more... 

 Copyright &copy; 1998&#8211;2002, C.M. Connelly. 

 Last modified at 10:38 PM PDT, Monday, May 12, 2003; last rendered at 
 10:38 PM PDT, Monday, May 12, 2003 with Mason 
 and Perl . 

 Please e-mail me about problems with this page . Thanks.