C.M. Connelly: Blog: Archive for May, 2001 

 &#160; 

 Blog | 
 Debian | 
 Work | 
 R&eacute;sum&eacute; | 
 About... 

 Blog: Archive for May, 2001 

 May 1, 2001 (Tue) 

 Wow! Apple came out with a cool new toy . 

 I hope to have a new machine by the end of the year, and while I
really like the idea of having a notebook computer, I don't really
want my main machine to be a notebook. The new iBook is cheap enough
that I can probably justify getting a really nice desktop machine, and
also get the iBook for those times that having a notebook would be
nice (going on trips, doing some writing in the backyard or at a cafe,
etc.). 

 Not, mind you, that I would say no if someone gave me a Titanium G4
PowerBook. I still might win one , after all.
(Although the chances of that are, admittedly, pretty slim.) 

 I did kind of like the old iBooks, though. They were fun in a way
that the new design isn't. On the other hand, the new design is much,
much sexier. 

 When the Titanium G4 PowerBook came out, I dissed its keyboard, based
on having played with the keyboard on an iBook. It's not that bad,
although the keys are really large&#8212;larger than those on a normal
keyboard&#8212;which I find bizarre. 

 Foo Tom Bihn has some really cool
laptop bags, including some that fit the G4 TiBook. 

 An interview
with the Bros. Quay . 

 Via the theremin chronicles . 

 May 3, 2001 (Thu) 

 Noam
Chomsky talks sense about Third World debt, biotech and
pharmaceutical companies, &#8220;free trade&#8221;, the modern protest movement,
dismantling of state universities and colleges, privacy in the Internet
age, and more. Chomsky has a wonderful way of saying things that sound
like conspiracy theories, but are usually true.

 Via the null device . 

 A history of Linux
on the PowerPC architecture . 

 May 4, 2001 (Fri) 

 Salon has an
interview with Eugenie Scott (executive director of the The National Center for Science
Education ) about a new bill the Louisiana state legislature is
trying to pass that claims that Darwin's theory of evolution is
responsible for racism. Um, yeah&#8212;Louisiana wants to ban evolution
because it would justify their history of slavery and racism. 

We went to see Wo
Hu Zang Long ( Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon )
at midnight. On the way, we passed some huge police kerfuffle on the
Lougheed Highway. I initially thought it was a drinking-driving
roadblock, but it turned out that they had the westbound side of the
road blocked off with a police car, so we figured it must have been
some kind of serious accident. 

 The film was okay, but I didn't think it even began to justify the
hype. In fact, I'm sure I would have enjoyed it a lot more if I
hadn't been hearing how great it was for several months. M, who liked
it a lot more than I did, wondered if it wasn't doomed from the start
because it starred Chow Yun-Fat, who bored us in The Replacement
Killers , which was technically brilliant, but left me being
impressed more by some of the background detail. (Such as the
architectural features of Mira Sorvino's office or apartment or
whatever it was. Similar observation from this movie: the clothes
looked pretty comfortable.) 

 After seeing the police (not to mention the fact that that part of the
Lougheed Highway is awful at night), we'd decided to take a different
route home. Unfortunately, it turned out that the intersection we
needed to turn at was the one the police had blocked off (on the far
side). The turn lane was blocked with cones so I decided to turn from
the head of the intersection. 

 I pulled up behind a car stopped at the intersection, and waited
through one and a half light cycles while the woman in the car sat,
frozen by the strobes and the need to choose a different route. I
finally pulled around her, and turned right from the second lane. The
rest of our trip was fine, and we arrived home at about two-thirty in
the morning. 

 May 5, 2001 (Sat) 

 Wow, what a day! 

 Around nine o'clock this morning, the immigration lawyer working on
M's visa called. She got up and talked to him while I tried to get
back to sleep. 

 We got up officially around eleven o'clock. We messed around with
computers a bit, ate breakfast while watching an episode of Daria we'd
seen several times before (the one where Daria falls asleep with the
television on and dreams about Kevin being murdered), and finally left
around one o'clock for downtown. 

 The traffic was pretty heavy, but survivable (the bus strike is a
drag, and it's really obvious that the government doesn't really feel
like it has a stake in solving it). M had problems with her credit
card in the parking meter, so we ended up using mine and calling to
get a new one for her (my best guess is that the &#8220;problematic till&#8221;
in the new Save On Foods partially demagnetized her card). Then we
headed to Gastown, wading through tourists, to look for cards. 

 We ended up with quite a selection&#8212;I found several that I thought
were amazingly cool, although none of them were Mother's Day cards, as
usual. I have a hard time with cards in general&#8212;I usually either
find cards that are too cool to send, or nothing that even comes close
to communicating my feelings. It's pretty rare for me to find a card
that works for both me and the recipient (the last big exception was
the amazing Edward Gorey Christmas cards I found for our brothers). 

 From the card shop, we ended up in the downtown SFU bookstore, which
was pretty much out of remaindered books (I had picked up a copy of
Daniel Dennett's Brainchildren for about CN$3 on my last
visit). We still managed to spend quite a while there, marvelling at
a new book by Larry Niven, looking at various children's books, and
wandering into the stationery area where we scribbled with some new
gel pens from Stadtler-Mars. As we drifted out, we looked through the
gifts, which included the sarcastic magic 8-Ball and various tin
&#8220;snackboxes&#8221; I'd seen in the Archie
McPhee catalog. The best of these was the &#8220;The Enemy is
Syphilis&#8221; box . We should have bought it, but it was just too
weird. Maybe we'll go back, though.... 

 Next up was A&B Sound, where we were roundly ignored at the
digital camera display (granted, we weren't buying today, but it's on
our list of things to do sometime soon). We did, however, find a
Lloyd Cole CD, Love Story , that M hadn't even heard of,
along with lots of copies of his latest CD, The
Negatives , which M got for Christmas from her parents. (It's
really good!) 

 We checked Sam the Record Man (right next door), but the only Lloyd
Cole they had was The Collection , which we have. Neither
store, of course, had the new New Order single, which I gather is out
to radio stations (at least in Australia, as Andrew has apparently heard
it). [Insert rant about Vancouver radio here.] 

 On the way to the Granville Book Company, we stopped at the downtown
London Drugs store (in the building that used to be the flagship
Duthie Books). They turned out to have all three of our top digital
camera candidates (or earlier models), which are, if you care, the
Canon ELPH S300, the Canon G1, and the Nikon CoolPix 995. So we got
a chance to actually hold the cameras and play with the controls a
bit. 

 They also had a G4 Mac with the 22" Apple Cinema Display. Wow. I'd
never actually seen one before, only pictures, and it seems like most
pictures of monitors don't have any useful clues as to their scale.
This monitor is huge. You can fit six 80 character x 24 line
Terminals on it with loads of room above and below. You can fit two
letter-size print previews next to one another with room for half of
another. It's amazing. If only it were about US$2000 cheaper.... 

 GBC turned out to not have Tim Powers' Declare , my number
one birthday obsession, but they did have the latest Pratchett in
paper ( The Fifth Elephant ) and, in the remaindered
section, a strange CD based on Iain Banks's novel The
Bridge , for half off CN$30. So we got them both. I still
haven't heard enough of the CD to know what it's meant to be. 

 So we went to Chapters (Evil Chapters), who, it turned out
 did have two copies of Declare . Of course they
weren't actually filed where they belonged, and where their clever
computer stock form said they should be. (Theoretically,
 Declare , which deals with the sinister events behind the
Cold War, is a &#8220;mainstream&#8221; book, and Chapters (Evil Chapters)
claimed to have filed it as such. It turned out that their two copies
(now only one!) were in the science fiction section, although I
thought we'd looked there, too. What can you expect from a store that
shelved Donald Norman's Turn Signals are the Facial Expressions
of Automobiles in the automotive section?) 

 Anyway, as much as I hate to give Chapters (Evil Chapters) money, I
really wanted the book, and I was annoyed at Granville for not having
it, and at Duthie's for overreaching and forcing them to close all
their downtown stores. (And I just know that had we gone out to their
only remaining store, they wouldn't have had it&#8212;now, of course,
they'll have a dozen copies.) M chatted to the clerk, who'd tried to
pitch their lame membership program, which gives you a pathetic 10%
discount and costs money to join, to boot! (I view all such programs
as crap after having had a 30% off deal for next to nothing from
Twilight Book and Game in Syracuse, where I spent tons of money, and
having an absolutely free membership from Stacey's Books in San
Francisco, where I got 10% off plus 10% of my purchases toward a US$10
gift certificate after I spent US$100! If the discount isn't at least
a little bit more than the sales tax, it's not a discount. And sales
tax here is 14% (7% PST; 7% GST).) 

 Anyway, the clerk told her that Chapters had been bought (we'd heard
about the offer, but not that it had gone through), and that the new
owners were planning some major changes. He pointed out that they'd
already begun a program to discourage people from hanging around in
the store&#8212;they don't let people take books or magazines into the
cafes on the top two floors anymore, and they've gotten rid of most of
the chairs and couches they used to have to discourage browsing. I
pointed out to him that without those features, people might as well
buy from Amazon. But, hey, if Chapters (Evil Chapters) wants to
commit suicide, I won't stand in their way. 

 Back to the car, with a stop at Worldwide Books and Maps to see what
they had (some interesting big wall maps, but not as cool as the
Defense Mapping Agency map on the wall of Hagen's Travel here in
Burnaby). 

 Then we went to the grocery store, bought various staples (milk,
bagels, cookies) and various naughty things (ice cream, Cap'n Crunch,
Fry's Cocoa Powder), and got home about twenty minutes before
 Buffy . 

 We had two new messages on the machine. The first was bizarre&#8212;it
seemed like some sort of industrial music performance: voices faded in
and out, snatches of music, strange grinding, tapping, and windlike
sounds. Finally, though, I heard a voice I recognized: M's advisor.
Our best guess is that he'd called with his cell phone, reached the
answering machine, and hung up, only he hadn't really hung up, and the
machine kept recording everything it could hear while he walked around
with the phone in his pocket. (Thanks to Second Sight ,
a BBC mystery that aired on PBS last week, whose most important clue
came when Ross Tanner didn't close his mobile phone properly and his
wife was able to figure out where he was to call and let him know by
listening 'til she recognized someone's voice.) 

 The other message was from my California landlord, who also wasn't
sure whether he'd reached the machine or we were listening to him but
not talking. After trying to get someone to answer, he said that he'd
gotten mail from the DMV for me, and that it was marked &#8220;Open
Immediately, Important Information Inside&#8221;. My heart sank, so I
called him back right away so I could know , and get on with
planning an extremely inconvenient trip. 

 But it turned out that they'd actually sent me my license! And not
just a piece of paper with the real thing to come later, but the real
thing itself. Now all I have to do is arrange to get it into my
hands. 

 The only downer of the day was poor Tara being mindsucked by the evil
Glory on Buffy . Willow's response was impressive,
though, and the wackiness of Scooby Doo on Zombie
Island , a loving tribute to the show (which I never really
liked that much) helped, too. (Highlights include: the gang breaking
up because learning that all the creepy stuff was caused by greedy
people in masks got boring; Shaggy's suitcase full of those green
shirts he always wears; Fred's trying on that stupid scarf, looking at
himself in the mirror, and saying, &#8220;Nah!&#8221;; no Casey Kasem.) 

 May 6, 2001 (Sun) 

 Happy birthday to me! Actually, all went well, despite some fluster
over the (free-range, hopefully happy) chicken that M and I roasted (a
first for both of us). It turned out yummy. 

 I still haven't started reading Declare or The
Fifth Elephant , opting instead to continue my somewhat insane
program of skimming Iain Banks's books for character names to use as
machine names. (I also have an even crazier idea about assembling an
&#8220;encyclopedia&#8221; of Iain Banks work, but I think I'd need some help
with that one....) 

 perosteck or balveda ( Consider Phlebas )
are high on the list for my next desktop machine; sharrow 
( Against a Dark Background ) is still the top candidate
for my next notebook. 

 For context, my current machine, a PowerCenter 132 running Debian GNU/Linux , is called diziet . Our (totally wonderful)
LaserJet 4000N is petrain ( Use of Weapons ;
&#8220;State of the Art&#8221;). At my last full time job, I had a desktop
machine running Windows NT called dloan and a laptop called
 zefla . Before that, I had a Linux box (Red Hat 2.1) called
 quincy and a Windows 95 box called sam . 

 May 7, 2001 (Mon) 

 Right-wing christianist fundies have decided to take
their anti-gay message to the schools . Believe it or not, they
believe their children are being prevented from expressing their
hatred of gays and lesbians, and that's just not fair! What's next&#8212;sponsorship of high school Klan groups to talk about the good ol' days
of slavery? Maybe some anti-Semitic groups, too....

 Via the null device . 

 The obligatory link to the new NoLogo
site . 

 Via the null device . 

 The remains of the chicken we roasted on Sunday turned into chicken in
a mushroom, garlic, and red pepper sauce, wrapped in crepes, with more
sauce on top, and a pot of stock. 

 May 8, 2001 (Tue) 

 Got my new license today. California has changed the card a bit&#8212;zoomed out the main picture so you can see more than just my face,
added a second, smaller picture, added state seal holograms all over
the place, and used a flimsier, thinner card. I'm not sure whether i
like it as much as the older one, but at least I can drive again. 

I'll be building the new Mozilla 
sometime today (or maybe tonight&#8212;it takes several hours to build on
my poor machine). I would really love to be able to use Mozilla, but
so far it's been completely unusable&#8212;too slow, too buggy, and too
likely to die. Still, I give it a try every time they release a new
milestone. My old Netscape (if you find a newer Netscape than 4.73
built for PPC Linux, please e-mail me ) is also
buggy, dies at random intervals, and is utterly non-standards
compliant, but is reasonably responsive. I've also been experimenting
with Konqueror , which is
(mostly) standards compliant and reasonably fast when it's in use, but
uses tons of memory that can cause my &#8220;poor, pathetic, old&#8221; machine,
which is probably a hundred times faster with way more memory than the
machines I started on that served hundreds of users at a time, to
thrash fiendishly. 

 While I'm thinking about web browsers, if anyone knows of tools that
can produce *.ico files, let me know. I thought it might be
fun to have a favicon.ico file for my site, but haven't been
able to find any non-Windows tools to produce the files. 

 Most of the stuff I did find involved Linux people speculating on
whether they could crash Internet Explorer or even Windows by placing
 favicon.ico files containing batch files, Windows
executables, or huge amounts of random data. Nice attitude, guys. 

 May 9, 2001 (Wed) 

 I built Mozilla overnight. It
took&#8212;no kidding&#8212;7 hours, 41 minutes to build, and ate about 600
MB of disk space. 

 And it was completely unusable. Pages I can view in tens of seconds
in Netscape (including Dave Winer's complicated Scripting News ) took an average
of 400 seconds to render in Mozilla. Mozilla's memory demands also
caused my machine to start thrashing. A dpkg -r later, and I
was once again Mozilla-free. Maybe next time, kids. 

Meanwhile, M broke our doorknob. Granted, it had been acting up for a
while, but M made the definitive break. I took it apart to see if we
could trivially fix it, and had the central shaft fall out, followed
by the lock cylinder popping off. 

 So we bought a new knob from the somewhat evil, but mighty convenient,
Home Despot. It even turned out that we could have the lock rekeyed
to match our existing locks, thus saving us the cost of a deadbolt.
The new lock and knob is much nicer than the old one&#8212;shiny and
solid. 

We also made pilgrimages to FedEx, to pick up some envelopes and
forms, to the university so M could pick up some documents, and then
to FedEx again to send them off (alas, too late for that day's
pickup). And another visit to our local London Drugs in search of
videotapes, which involved a sidetrip to poke at digital cameras and
wonder at Mission Impossible 2 on LCD monitors (looking
for ghosting). 

 May 10, 2001 (Thu) 

 M got it in her head that having a CD-RW drive would be a Good
Thing&#8482; after looking through The
Computer Paper . It wasn't hard to convince me&#8212;I haven't got
recent backups of most of my stuff, and my system is very unstable
(kswapd can very easily be pushed into permanent thrashing, requiring
a hard reboot and lengthy fsck s to recover). Not to mention
that I promised my cousin a tape of stuff he hadn't heard but should
about four years ago, and then ended up moving around and leaving my
stereo in storage (I still don't have it back). A CD could make it up
to him. 

 So off we went to our semi-local small computer store in search of a
Panasonic drive. While we were there, some guy came in to buy an LG
8120B, which he claimed was better. After some poking around on the
Web at the store, M decided she agreed, and bought the LG drive. 

 When we got home, she tried to install it and get it to work. As
usual, I stayed out of her way. 

 Physically installing the drive was a breeze. But actually getting it
to work with Linux, well, that hasn't actually happened yet. I tried
not to ask too many questions, but here's my understanding of what's
happened so far: 

 With the 2.4 &#8220;stable&#8221; kernel that shipped with Red Hat 7.1, using
 cdrecord (the standard Unix CD burning program), M got
interrupt errors and disk corruption. 

 Trying the latest 2.2 series kernel still resulted in interrupt
errors. 

 So her latest venture is to install *gasp* Windows, in hopes of
discovering whether the drive works at all. And she's caught up in
the wonders of Windows 95, running on a machine that was high end when
Windows 95 came out. So, among other fun consequences, I am offline&#8212;my machine can't talk to the 'Net, I can't get or send e-mail, and
I can't even TeX anything using Kepler , Cronos , or any of our other multiple-master fonts. 

 May 11, 2001 (Fri) 

 What with not having real 'Net access and all, I've finished my crazy
Banks' character names project, and now I'm teetering on the brink of
working my way through How to Think Like
a Computer Scientist , which is an &#8220;Open-Source Textbook&#8221;.
I was able to download the LaTeX source, do a bunch of work to make it
look vaguely attractive, and print it out. Although the content is
sound, I think that the book needs some serious editorial attention,
if only to fix the LaTeX code to conform to the standards. The images
in the book, although they're in EPS format, were clearly made using
bitmap fonts and generated at screen resolution, which means they're
terribly foggy in my 1200 dpi printout.... 

 In any case, I think it might help me learn Python, which seems like
an interesting and somewhat more formal language than Perl, which I
can flop around in. (I actually understood Perl 4 pretty well, then
Perl 5 came along and introduced lots of complex features that I've
never been able to get a logical hold on, although I can figure things
out well enough to get some fairly complicated scripts working.) One
of M's longtime criticisms of me is my lack of ability to think like a
computer scientist (OTOH, one of my longtime criticisms of her is her
tendency to think like a computer scientist, leading her to an
otherwise inexplicable fondness for puns and deliberate
misinterpretations of perfectly sound English statements), and Python
and this book might help me to get some perspective on the topic. 

 M is active in the functional-programming community, and at one time
was enthusiastic about my learning Standard ML, but was forced to
admit that none of the books she was familiar with were very good for
beginners (not, mind you, that they aren't meant for beginners, just
that they aren't very good). 

 I'm still putting off diving into Powers's Declare in
hopes of increasing my enjoyment of the book when I do make the
plunge. 

 After installing Windows, M rebooted to Linux so she could copy a data
CD image over so she could try a burn (or at least a test). The copy
attempt resulted in a hang, so it looks like the culprit is not the
kernel, per se, nor the CD burner, but the driver for the Promise IDE
controller. (something to do with the driver getting confused or
confusing the card when both the primary and secondary channels a
re in
use). 

With that information, she was able to find a reference to the
 noapic kernel option. So now, booting a single-processor
kernel, and specifying that option, you can use both channels on the
Promise card. 

 I still haven't figured out this miso thing, but adding a bit of salt
makes the broth a bit more drinkable. I suspect that adding some
green onions, tofu, and seaweed would make it quite acceptable as miso
soup. 

As usual, I'm finding the book tough going because it starts out with
the very most basic basics (and is, therefore, less than wholly
engaging). For example, the authors talk about creating new lines by
defining a new_line function as 

 def new_line():
 print

 and doing three new lines by defining a new function 

 def threeLines():
 new_line
 new_line
 new_line

 Then they go on to ask me, the reader, to think about how I could do
nine blank lines the same way, and then wonder about 27 lines. 

 My response was to define a new function 

 def new_line(lines):
 while (lines > 0):
 print
 lines = lines&#8211;1

 and call it as new_line(27) . So there! 

 After assorted fiddling, M has been able to burn a CD successfully.
Hurray! Now all we have to do is figure out how to be able to do it
without having to boot into a special state every time.... 

 Funny line from The Fifth Elephant : 

The crowd watched silently. If it was funny, clowns wouldn't be doing
it.

 May 12, 2001 (Sat) 

 Douglas Adams has died of a heart attack. I haven't
thought about him for a while, but I was thrilled to discover that he
was supposed to speak at Harvey Mudd
College 's commencement ceremony. Tomorrow. 

 After some Perl wizardry courtesy of M, my whole site should be valid
HTML 4.01 Transitional. Finally. 

 May 13, 2001 (Sun) 

 One of the fascinating things about living in Vancouver is the way
that the west is treated by Canadian television networks and cable
stations. 

 In the States, both coasts are roughly equal in importance (the
midwest is the ignored region). In Canada, though, the world revolves
around Toronto (and Quebec), and lots of cable channels not only don't
have Pacific time zone feeds, but ignore western audiences almost
completely. 

 That leads to some bizarre programming, such as commercials for shops
and restaurants that can only be found in Ontario (or maybe Quebec)&#8212;Life is a prime example here. The History Channel assumes that
midnight EST is &#8220;tomorrow&#8221; everywhere they're seen, resulting in
promos for shows airing at &#8220;9 PM today&#8221; showing at 9 PM Pacific time
the night before. 

 It also leads to commercials for Canadian Club and Crown Royal
(whiskeys) airing at 6 PM our time, during a show aimed primarily at
teenagers ( Roswell ). I'm amazed by seeing hard liquor
ads on television in the first place (I haven't seen enough TV in the
States over the last few years to know if those ads air there now,
too), but I'm especially amazed that they'd be shown during
programming aimed at people who aren't even allowed to legally drink
beer. 

 May 14, 2001 (Mon) 

 Dover Books finally
has a website! The site looks a lot like Amazon's. I found it by
looking to see if George Bickham's The Universal Penman 
(1741) might be available in some format. Bickham's book was
mentioned in Georges Jean's Writing: The Story of Alphabets and
Scripts (Harry M. Abrams, 1992), a book my brother and
sister-in-law gave us for Christmas. 

 If you're interested in recapturing the cursive handwriting you were
taught in school, abcteach.com 
has a section on D'Nealian
style handwriting , complete with examples to download. There's
lots of other fun stuff there, too (graphics for worksheets, classroom
decorations, and so forth). 

 Ever wonder how to pronounce &#8220;Magdalen College&#8221;? (&#8220;Maudlin&#8221;.) How
to report a broken streetlamp (in Oxford)? How to filter your e-mail? Count the
number of words in a LaTeX document? What kind of lights you need to
have on your bicycle to ride legally at night? Whether you can end a
sentence with a preposition? Whether Scottish pound notes are legal
tender? Where to give blood? 

 These questions and many more are answered in the Oxford
ox.FAQ file. 

 May 16, 2001 (Wed) 

 Our Internet connectivity has been flaky since yesterday. Combine
that with a storm that made the lights flicker, and I haven't been
spending much time with my computer over the last few days. 

 Instead, I've been reading Declare , which is good. I'm
not sure if it will be in my top five list of Powers books yet (top
two are The Stress of Her Regard and The Anubis
Gates , with the Last Call / Expiration
Date / Earthquake Weather trilogy close behind), but
it's definitely holding my attention. 

 While looking into a bug report I made the other day, I came across
the lincity and lincity-x packages. LinCity , it turns
out, is a free SimCity-like game. Alas, like SimCity, it's horribly
addictive. Sit down in front of it, and time passes in a flash. I'm
not exactly sure, but I think I spent four to six hours playing it
today. I removed it from my system. That's also why I never got
around to buying SimCity for MacOS, and why I avoid any other similar
games (Black & White would probably fall into the same category,
if it were available for an OS I'd run in the first place). 

 B.C. is the proud (?) owner of a new right-wing government. Not that
anyone is remotely surprised, but it's hard to understand what the NDP
was thinking calling an election with not only a nurses' strike but a
bus drivers' strike they've shown very little interest in settling. I
wonder if there's something really awful about to happen that they'd
prefer the Liberals take the blame for. 

 The season finale of The West Wing had some surprisingly
powerful moments. The scene in the National Cathedral (which is an
imposing place, except for the fact that most of the stones have the
names of the people who &#8220;bought&#8221; them carved into them) was
impressive&#8212;not only do we see a president speak Latin off-the-cuff,
but he's challenging God openly&#8212;very apropos a conversation I had
with M earlier today relating to the Book of Job (which is the source
for an important quote in Declare : &#8220;Where wast thou when
I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare, if thou hast
understanding.&#8221; (Job 38:4). 

 I also really like the way that flashbacks are used in The West
Wing . Not just the way they're edited, although that's
impressive, too, but the way that they fill us in about important
events that really shaped the characters. I had always thought that
Mrs. Landingham had worked for Bartlet when he was governor of New
Hampshire, but it turns out she'd had a profound effect on him far
sooner. We also got to see his bastard father in action, giving us
some insight into why he's as driven as he is. The flashbacks
featuring Josh and Sam's recruitment into the campaign (in a different
episode, of course) were also excellent. We need more shows like
 The West Wing &#8212;smart, well-written, and hopeful.
Goddess knows we can't look to the real White House for that kind of
respect and power. 

 May 18, 2001 (Fri) 

 I spent most of today actually working! I filed some bugs against
Debian packages, sent additional information to some other bugs (both
ones I'd filed and some others had filed), helped out the guy who runs
the m68k autobuilder with problems with one of my packages, reassigned
a bug against one of my packages to another package, and built and
uploaded a newer (Debian) version of my thoughttracker 
package. 

 May 19, 2001 (Sat) 

 Today we ventured downtown in search of a Rotring
core fountain pen and a copy of Rudyard Kipling's
 Kim . As I wrote
earlier , I've been messing around with my handwriting, and I
decided it would be fun to have a fountain pen again. As my ArtPen
died a terrible death (which, after investigation, appears to be my
fault for not having made sure I'd cleaned it out first), I need a new
one, and the core is deeply funky. 

 Unfortunately, the Vancouver Pen Shop didn't have any of the turquoise
ones in stock. They did have the black and the silver pens, though,
so I was able to try them out and see how they handled. They'll do.
The shop is supposed to call me when they get the turquoise ones in,
but they don't know when that will be. So much for that 
impulsive purchase. 

 We then checked out the new Canon Digital Elph S300 ,
which is leading the pack of digital cameras we're considering. It
takes good pictures, and it's tiny, which means that we'd be more
likely to have it along when we needed it. I actually like the Canon PowerShot G1 and the Nikon CoolPix 995 better,
but M is swayed by the size argument. (To be fair, I've kind of
wanted an Elph ever since I saw one in a drugstore in Sun Valley,
Idaho&#8212;I've always loved tiny electronic things.) [Note that both
the Canon and Nikon sites love to open pop-up windows.] 

 On to Granville Book Company, in search of Rudyard Kipling's
 Kim . Apparently Kim Philby, notorious British spy, was
named after the main character in Kipling's novel. Powers quotes
liberally from Kim in his chapter headings. Alas,
Granville Book struck out, but we ended up with a copy of Douglas
Coupland's City of Glass , a book of photographs of
Vancouver with commentary from Coupland (who's a resident).
 City will have a practical use for us, as well: we can
hand it to people who ask stupid questions such as, &#8220;Vancouver? Must
get a lot of snow up there!&#8221; 

 Anyway, back, once again, to Chapters (Evil Chapters), where we spent
some time comparing the merits of four different editions of
 Kim . (One Wordsworth (CN$3.99), one Oxford University
Press (CN$7.95), and two Penguins (one CN$7.99 and one CN$9.99).) In
the end, we ended up going with the OUP edition. My OUP A Tale
of Two Cities has wonderful notes and introductory material,
and the only thing against the OUP edition was its ragged typesetting.
(It looks like they took an older edition, shot plates directly from
the bound book, and printed 'em up.) 

 After that, we walked to Chinatown, which was swarming with tourists
and shoppers clustered around the Chinese food shops (bins of shredded
fish and meat, dried fish, chickens and pigs hung in windows, strange
non-Western vegetables, etc.). We made a feeble foray into one shop
with Japanese toys, but left unsatisfied. On the way back, we
ventured into Dr. Sun Yat Sen's Chinese Park, which we'd never been in
(it's the Garden that costs money, it turns out), and then stopped off
at the T&T in International Village (a high-rise apartment
complex), where we marveled at wacky imported foods. 

 Then back to downtown, a brief stop in A&B Sound, then to the car
and home. 

 May 20, 2001 (Sun) 

 Baked brownies from scratch. Yum. 

 May 21, 2001 (Mon) 

 Victoria Day 

 I just lost a lot of respect for Roger Ebert, who has come out in
support of the Cartoon Network's decision to drop &#8220;offensive&#8221; Bugs
Bunny cartoons from its &#8220;retrospective&#8221;. Roger is under the
impression that these cartoons could damage children and hurt people's
feelings. Never mind that these cartoons were supposed to be shown
late at night, surrounded by warnings. Never mind that the real
reason for dropping them&#8212;as stated by Time-Warner-AOL executives&#8212;is to avoid pissing off the masses who buy Warner Bros.-branded
products and not out of any concern for people's feelings. 

 Banning these images gives them power they don't deserve. Why not
show them, and include some commentary before and after that talks
about the origins of the stereotypes and explains how things have
changed? Why not offer parents an opportunity to talk to their kids
about these important topics? Because it damages the brand, and the
brand is all. 

 We saw The Tailor
of Panama , which was interesting. There was something
weird about the way the film looked that I have to believe was
deliberate. On the other hand, it was great to see Pierce Brosnan
playing a real bastard for a change. He was perfect for the part. 

 May 22, 2001 (Tue) 

 Before I finally got my hands on Declare , I was getting a
bit desperate, and seriously contemplated reading The Lord of
the Rings . Like everybody else (well, everybody else
 I knew), I had a whole bunch of Tolkien books when I was a
kid. I managed to read The Hobbit a couple of times,
along with The Tolkien Reader and Smith of Wooton
Major , but I was never able to get more than about a third of
the way into the first book of The Lord of the Rings ,
 The Fellowship of the Ring . 

 As it happens, I'm not the only
one to question Tolkien's relevance . While some trumpet him as
the most influential writer of the twentieth century, others condemn
his prose style as &#8220;archaic&#8221;, his politics as &#8220;reactionary&#8221;, and
his work as a whole as distinctly un-Modern.

 Via Virulent Memes 

 May 23, 2001 (Wed) 

 Hmm. My bag ( my bag ), which I've had for something like
seven years, surprised me yesterday when it suddenly dropped to the
ground. I was walking toward the bulk section in the grocery store,
hoping to find plain unsugared ice tea mix (here in Canada, &#8220;ice
tea&#8221; generally means Snapple or sugary Nestea&#8212;they warn you if you
order ice tea in a restaurant and it isn't loaded with sugar). I felt
a tug at my shoulder, and heard a soft bang. I stopped, looked
around, and saw my bag on the floor. 

 It turns out that after seven years, the threads holding the strap to
one side of the bag had given out. I never noticed any warning signs.
Now I have to find another bag (assuming I have one&#8212;lots of my
stuff is still in Seattle), and arrange to have this one taken apart
and put back together again. 

 Not that exciting, I know, but it's pretty much the most exciting
thing that happened to me yesterday. 

 May 24, 2001 (Thu) 

 Judith Donath's &#8220;Being
Real&#8221; , an article of interest in light of the whole Kaycee thing. 

 I think anyone who's been online for any length of time, especially if
they've spent time on IRC or some other chat forum, has come across
people who may or may not have been robots. The sad thing is, an
awful lot of the &#8220;people&#8221; you talk to online who seem like robots
really are people after all....

 Via CamWorld . 

 Peripherally related, according to this
purity test , I am 31.0% online pure (or 69.0% online corrupt),
thanks to spending several years post-graduation &#8220;living&#8221; on the
'Net. If I'd ever heard of some of the people and things mentioned on
the test that were UK-specific, or had to pay for my 'Net access for
much of that time, I'd be even worse off. 

 Still, I think I survived fairly well&#8212;I made some good friends, got
through a really nasty period of my life, managed to find work, and am
now once again capable of looking down my nose at computers and
contemplating spending time improving my handwriting and reading
classics. ;-) 

 Via the Null Device . 

 I spent some time last week working on cleaning up and checking in the
various components of this website. I use HTML::Mason , a Perl module running
under Apache as the main engine,
with a whole slew of components that take the place of various
features I got used to from using Frontier . The blog component
and archives are built using a Perl script that chews through a
hierarchical directory structure (standing in for a real database),
and spits out files that are shaped by other Mason components. 

 The site you see is the result of yanking out completed HTML
pages using wget and magicking them to eskimo with
 rsync . 

 This has been a bulletin from the Infrastructure Illumination
Division. 

 May 25, 2001 (Fri) 

 Spent all day going through bug reports against various Debian teTeX packages. 

 May 28, 2001 (Mon) 

 The Guardian has one of the best articles I've seen about
the scientific
journal boycott . Among other things, it makes a very clear
statement about the costs involved in publishing a scientific journal: 

As a rule, neither the scientists who write the papers,
nor their colleagues who peer review them, nor the editorial boards
who vet them, are paid. The publishers' costs are printing, the tiny
full-time staff on each journal&#8212;typically two people&#8212;marketing,
and distribution. 

 But journal prices are insane: 

A year's subscription to Alcohol &#8212;nine issues&#8212;comes
in at about &pound;100 an issue. One Elsevier journal, Brain
Research , costs more than &pound;9,000 a year. Another,
 Preventative Veterinary Medicine , is now &pound;713 a
year, an increase of more than 300% over its 1991 price of &pound;171.

 I would love to work on a university-sponsored, peer-reviewed
journal. The only reason we haven't seen any yet is that it's been
seen as easier to let other people do the work. Maybe that attitude
is finally changing. 

 Clearly I missed the boat on this
job opportunity . No, wait&#8212;these people are evil.... 

 The
Republican party is getting nervous about its ability to maintain
a national role. Seems that more and more people in the northeast and
northwest&#8212;and the north, in general&#8212;are becoming more and more
distrustful of the goals and ideals of the party, which has moved
sharply toward being controlled by Southern white men adhering to a
fundamentalist Christian ideology. Like that wasn't pretty obvious. 

 A great
op-ed piece by James Carville and Paul Begala tells it like it is:
Bush is a radical, bent on undoing decades of pro-people reform in the
Federal Government, damaging the environment for corporate profit, and
awarding massive tax cuts to the rich while continuing to screw the
poor and middle class. Democrats need to wake up; call a spade a
spade; fight back by pushing to spend the &#8220;surplus&#8221; on paying down
the debt and improving services (education, health care); and obstruct
the Republicans' moves to appoint radical right-wing judges, passing
of legislation that undoes existing programs and harms the
environment, and works for large corporations and against ordinary
people. The only sad thing is that this program needed to be spelled
out in the first place. 

 These links, and many more that I couldn't bring myself to
follow, can be found in the latest
message from the Red Rock Eater mailing list list. 

 Roger Ebert has a devastatingly
funny review of Pearl Harbor , a film I was deriding
just based on the early commercials. 

"Pearl Harbor" is a two-hour movie squeezed into three hours, about
how on Dec. 7, 1941, the Japanese staged a surprise attack on an
American love triangle. Its centerpiece is 40 minutes of redundant
special effects, surrounded by a love story of stunning banality. The
film has been directed without grace, vision or originality, and
although you may walk out quoting lines of dialogue, it will not be
because you admire them.

 Given its utter lack of historical verisimilitude, you won't be
surprised that the film had one of the highest grossing openings of
all time. I am so looking forward to living in the States
again. Sigh. 

 Salon figures out that X-10
is cool . We use some X-10 stuff to control a light in our living
room and two bright halogen torchieres as a &#8220;dawn simulator&#8221; in the
bedroom. (Sadly, they don't seem to really be helping us wake up any
earlier.) 

 May 29, 2001 (Tue) 

 After some searching, I discovered that the Morrow edition of Tim
Powers' Declare is set in ITC Berkeley
Oldstyle . The giveaway is the amazing italic capital &#8220;Q&#8221;. 

 While thinking about type, and poking around with Google, I came
across a column by Dan Margulis that originally appeared in the
December, 1999, issue of Electronic Publishing that I
really enjoyed reading. Margulis sums up the millennium from the
perspective of graphic design, typography, and publishing. It's a PDF
file, but I think that others may find &#8220;The Age
of the Enlightened&#8221; interesting reading, as well. 

 [He also has nice things to say about Adobe's Kepler ,
which is our &#8220;house face&#8221;. I usually pair it with Cronos ; M
prefers Myriad .] 

 We took my bag in for repair, along with a pair of boots I'd had in my
closet for the last couple of years. While at the Lougheed Mall, we
discovered a large spread of books&#8212;remaindered or damaged&#8212;at
significant discounts. I ended up with a copy of Margot Adler's
 Drawing Down the Moon , which has been on my mental
&#8220;acquire someday&#8221; list for around twelve years. Sadly, the only two
copies of T.H. Lawrence's Seven Pillars of Wisdom were
too beat up for me; it would have been interesting reading as
background material to Declare . 

 May 30, 2001 (Wed) 

Jeff Veen talks about the importance of stalking
your user when designing web applications. In other words,
user-centered design, which is the best way to build things. 

 We took the plunge and bought a Canon
PowerShot S300 Digital Elph . It's a really nice camera, and it's
incredibly tiny. M spent a bunch of time looking online, and then
called several places. It turned out that the places with the best
prices were selling grey market cameras (no warranty), or charged huge
amounts for shipping, or had some other nasty hidden costs. In the
end, the difference between buying it locally and having it in our
hands now and ordering it from someplace and having to wait
to have it shipped and make it through the border amounted to about
CN$60 for the camera alone, even with 14% sales tax (as opposed to the
7% border fees). When we found out we could get an extra battery for
CN$70, that clinched the deal (as the lowest price M found for the
battery in the States was US $70; about CN$108). 

 We still have to get a larger compact flash card&#8212;8 MB is kind of a
joke with one of these things&#8212;and figure out a way to get images
from the camera into a computer (we can see them on TV, though!), but
at least we (especially me) can spend a bit of time practicing so that
we (I) can get some photos at M's graduation ceremony. 

 May 31, 2001 (Thu) 

 After wrestling with various mailorder sites, we discovered that MicroConcept had really good
prices on Compact Flash cards that work in our shiny new camera&#8212;~CN$135 for a 128 MB! So we dashed out just before six, dodged
through Vancouver's horrible traffic, found a place to park a block
ahead of the store, and dashed in five minutes before closing. The
card works great&#8212;at highest resolution and standard compression, we
can get 401 images on that one card. The mind boggles. The camera
now has more RAM than any of our computers. 

 newer entries | older entries 

 Activity 

 << 
 May, 2001 
 >> 

 Mo 
 Tu 
 We 
 Th 
 Fr 
 Sa 
 Su 

 1 
 2 
 3 
 4 
 5 
 6 

 7 
 8 
 9 
 10 
 11 
 12 
 13 

 14 
 15 
 16 
 17 
 18 
 19 
 20 

 21 
 22 
 23 
 24 
 25 
 26 
 27 

 28 
 29 
 30 
 31 

 More Archives... 
 September, 2002 
 August, 2002 
 July, 2002 
 June, 2002 
 May, 2002 
 April, 2002 
 more... 

 Copyright &copy; 1998&#8211;2002, C.M. Connelly. 

 Last modified at 12:26 AM PDT, Sunday, September 8, 2002; last rendered at 
 12:26 AM PDT, Sunday, September 8, 2002 with Mason 
 and Perl . 

 Please e-mail me about problems with this page . Thanks.