C.M. Connelly: Blog: Archive for April, 2001 

 &#160; 

 Blog | 
 Debian | 
 Work | 
 R&eacute;sum&eacute; | 
 About... 

 Blog: Archive for April, 2001 

 April 2, 2001 (Mon) 

 It seems that a lot of the articles I'm likely to find interesting are
no longer advertised on Salon's front page, which means I'm less
likely to see them at all. At least they have room for all the sleazy
stuff now. 

 Anyway, they had another
&#8220;wacky marketer&#8221; article , this time about the corporate pursuit
of &#8220;trendsetters&#8221;&#8212;people who don't actually use their products,
but seem &#8220;cool&#8221;. The idea being that they might want to incorporate
some aspects of the trendy people's interests into their staid
products, so that Joe Sixpack and Susie Housewife can feel &#8220;cool&#8221;,
too. But not too cool. 

 April 3, 2001 (Tue) 

 Bleah. It seems that I may have caught the cold (or 'flu, or
whatever) that M brought back from sunny California. 

 We went out for a walk anyway, picking up bread for dinner, depositing
a check, and then heading down to get popcorn from our somewhat nearby
London Drugs (our supermarket of choice no longer carries Pop Secret
popcorn). 

 On the way, we discovered that the new Save-on-Foods store was open,
so we checked it out. It's all shiny, since it's only been open for
two weeks. It's also smaller than our regular store, and seems to be
more yuppie-oriented, with lots more organic food, drugs, and hygiene
products. Also bottled milk (!) and more organic (but perhaps not
free-range) eggs than the other store. And it has much nicer
displays, especially in the meat and bakery sections. 

 It's actually a really nice store, and I almost envy the people living
in the &#8220;quality concrete&#8221; tower blocks nearby. 

 In London Drugs, I finally got a chance to play with Mac OS X . I'm impressed. I
can now easily imagine happily using this operating system, especially
once Adobe and some of the architecture software companies get their
software ported to run natively. It still has all the cool NEXTSTEP
features, with a nice Mac OS like surface. Most of the reviews I'd
read are by people who are either coming from the Mac OS world or the
Linux world, with the people in the first group not having any
appreciation for the coolness that is Unix, and the people in the
second group not having any appreciation for the coolness that is the
Mac. And none of these people have ever really used a NeXT. Needless
to say, their opinions aren't terribly useful in judging what the
system would actually be like for someone who loves Unix, deliberately
bought a Mac, and has lusted after a NeXT since calling and ordering
their very first brochure. 

 I'm happier running Linux on my Mac than I was running Mac OS&#8212;it's
much more stable (although there are a variety of bizarre and annoying
problems that still crop up on PowerPC Linux). I have access to some
applications I didn't have on Mac OS (notably Emacs, which is both
light years ahead and behind editors for Mac OS). Most
importantly, I have terminals, where, if you know the right commands,
you can create incredibly powerful chains of them to process text and
change files. 

 But I also miss the power and ease of use of applications such as
Photoshop (for which the GIMP is a challenger in power, but not even
in the same galaxy for ease of use) and Illustrator (for which I not
aware of an equivalent). I also like some of the aspects of the Mac
OS Finder (although I prefer to do most things on the command line,
it's nice to be able to organize files graphically). 

 Mac OS X looks like it will handle all my needs elegantly. I'm sure
it's full of frustrations, like all operating systems, but it has the
advantage of being open enough to allow fixes to be made, and the
advantages of being corporate enough to retain a consistent look and
feel and overall polish. 

 ArsTechnica has the
best review I've read so far . 

 April 4, 2001 (Wed) 

 William Gibson provided a pointer to an interesting online shop: Muji . He also claims that Muji
has the best toothpaste available anywhere. 

 Thanks to the null device 
for the pointer to the Gibson interview . 

 April 5, 2001 (Thu) 

 Looks like we're probably heading for Cali .... 

 April 7, 2001 (Sat) 

A shot of me standing next to an extension arm for launching gantry
LG-1. The arm was used to keep the launcher from sliding off the
track on the curved and banked sections. According to the crew, it
wasn't really very useful. 

 April 10, 2001 (Tue) 

 If you've been in a university or college library, you've almost
certainly seen the vast numbers of journals covering every imaginable
subject area (and many more you'd never guess if you weren't a
specialist). 

 What you may not know is that most of those journals are published by
companies that obtain their content for nothing&#8212;authors receive no
compensation beyond publication and (sometimes) a number of reprints.
Those companies then sell that work back to the universities and
colleges where the work was done at an impressive profit in the form
of printed, microform, or electronic journals. (Subscriptions can
cost hundreds or thousands of dollars a year for a single title;
publishers' costs are mostly for production&#8212;copyediting,
typesetting, printing, binding, and mailing&#8212;as the journals'
editorial boards are generally made up of academics who may or may not
be compensated financially. The production costs are also offset by
advertising.) Some journals actually charge authors to publish their
research. 

 Furthermore, the contracts that authors are asked to sign usually
include significant restrictions on their rights to republish their
own material (on, for example, their own website). In many cases, the
publisher becomes the owner of the copyright on the material, even
when the research was funded by public funds. 

 Some publishers have begun, after pressure from contributors and
subscribers, to make the contents of recent issues of their journals
available online (for free or at a charge) after some period of time
has passed (typically 6 or 12 months). That access comes only through
their websites, however, and generally can only be had on an
article-by-article or issue-by-issue basis&#8212;it's not possible to do
a general search across all journals in a field (let alone across all
journals) and find pointers to electronic copies of all the relevant
articles. Instead, you must do such a search using other resources
(electronic or paper indexes) and then track down articles
independently. 

 A group of biological scientists have issued an open letter 
for scientists to sign to persuade publishers of biological and
medical journals to make the contents of their archives available in
an independent, cross-linked electronic form so that broad searches
can be done efficiently, and so that published scientific research can
be made available to everyone, including people who cannot afford the
journals. 

 You can read more about this initiative in an
article in The New Scientist . You may also be
interested in the
editors' response to the
original open letter in the AAAS's journal Science ,
which, not surprisingly, is critical of the idea. Be sure to check
out the response
to that response , as well. 

 Similar open databases already exist. The largest is High Wire Press , hosted at
Stanford University. They include a list of other
databases for a variety of fields. 

 A more distributed effort is ResearchIndex (CiteSeer), run
by the NEC Research Institute ,
which indexes PDF and PostScript versions of computer science research
reports available on the Web. 

 Thanks to Red Rock Eater mailing list for the initial message. 

Back in April, the New York Times Magazine ran a special
&#8220;how to&#8221; issue with some amusing and interesting articles. 

 April 16, 2001 (Mon) 

 Joey Ramone dies . The Ramones were the first band I saw live.
Granted, I was chicken and stayed near the top of the bleachers in the
gymnasium, and was, consequently, less bruised but possibly more deaf
than some of my friends, but it was still a great show. 

 I've never been a huge concert fan&#8212;mostly because I think it's
crazy to pay a lot of money to sit in a building with thousands of
other people so far away from the band that you'd have a better view
on television. My favorite concerts have been the ones that cost
US$10 or less and were in small venues. I saw Psychic TV in a bar,
which made for a fun &#8220;what I did on my vacation&#8221; talk in my Spanish
class, since no one else had ever heard of them; Love and Rockets in
another gym; Negativland in a small cafeteria at my alma mater; the
Pixies at the Schine Student Center at Syracuse University (clearing a
10' circle as I was spun around and around and well off my feet); and
Bim Skala Bim at yet another bar. 

 The Ramones were a great start. 

 April 17, 2001 (Tue) 

 Phil Agre distributes lists of URLs via his Red Rock Eater mailing list list. He
 also archives
 them , as well as election-related
 links . 

 Some of the more interesting links from the last list include: A 
 Guardian article about Ian Thomas , the cartographer
fired for revealing the environmental impact of George Bush's
oil-drilling plans in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. The Muse of
Mopar , a critical review of The New Dodge Caravan Owner's
Manual . An article on the
increasingly hairy question of who owns the copyright on courses
developed by university professors . An article about Cecil
Balmond , a structural engineer whose work has helped to warp the
world of architecture into new and strange forms. 

 Amusing, but scary, is this
article from The
Onion . 

 April 20, 2001 (Fri) 

 Mmm. Crepes for breakfast. 

 More cool links from Phil Agre! 

 Footnotes to
History , describing many small nations that &#8220;you didn't learn
about in high school&#8221;. Examples include the Republic of Vermont, the
Soviet Republic of Bavaria, and the Conferderal Republic of the Tribes
of the Rif. 

 Fundy
Christianists invade a peaceful gathering of sunset drummers on
Easter . Also talks about the lovely Johnny Hart, and his awful
cartoons. (My personal favorite was the one where the &#8220;punchline&#8221;
of a strip involving cave people talking about RU-486 (?!) was that it
was short for &#8220;Are you for 86ing the kid?&#8221; Gag.) 

 Not enough cameras watching you all the time? Soon every cell phone will have one, too! 

 Another
uncontroversial Bush appointment is Otto Reich, new head of the
Latin American office of the State Department. Reich was the head of
the &#8220;Office of Public Diplomacy&#8221; under Reagan, whose main purpose
was to help the media understand that the Sandinistas were evil
incarnate, worse than Hitler and the Nazis (as, of course, were
reporters who told the real truth (as opposed to the OPD's lies) in
their stories). 

 &#8220;War
Driving&#8221; for open wireless networks&#8212;the next big thing. I
like the idea of wireless&#8212;it would be great to be able to wander
around the house and yard with a laptop&#8212;but clearly there are some
serious problems to be overcome before it's actually safe . 

 April 21, 2001 (Sat) 

 I may be making a trip to California in the next couple of weeks. My
driver's license expires in early May, and I still don't know if
they've accepted my renew-by-mail application (I passed all their
requirements, but it's the DMV). I haven't been able to get through
to my California landlord to see if they've responded at all. 

 Martha
Stewart had a
segment on making miso last week that was fascinating. I've been
enjoying miso soup for the last few years, and have recently been
tempted by bottles of imported miso paste in the supermarket. 

 But I never really knew what miso was. It turns out that it's
basically mashed cooked soy beans mixed with koji (salted
steamed grain (usually rice or barley) innoculated with Aspergillus
oryzae ) and allowed to sit and ferment in wooden vats for
some amount of time before being packaged and sold. 

 South River Miso has a tour 
that shows the whole process. 

 April 23, 2001 (Mon) 

 Word from the immigration lawyer is that we might be screwed. He says
that the EB-1 visa is only for Einsteins with dozens of publications,
and takes 18-24 months, anyway. The quicker route, an H-1B, will
still almost certainly take longer than we have (we have to leave
Canada by July 31), and probably won't come through before the
semester starts. Which means it's likely that M will have to go back
to the UK and wait; I'll have to go back to the States and find some
kind of a job, however temporary (especially since I'd rather be near
family than go all the way back to California without M); and we'll
have to put all of our furniture and such in storage somewhere. 

 In other bureaucratic jousting news, I apparently never received
anything from the DMV, or maybe my landlord forwarded it into the
void. The DMV hasn't cashed my check. The telephone number I'm
supposed to call &#8220;for more information&#8221; on the renewal-by-mail
process is long-distance and constantly busy. 

 Oh, yes: the weather here has turned dark, cold, rainy, and generally
dreary. 

 April 24, 2001 (Tue) 

 Looks like we'll be going the H-1B route and hoping they'll get it
done in time. We may be forced to take a vacation in Britain, which
wouldn't be the worst thing in the world. 

I got through to the DMV and spoke with a woman who told me,
essentially, nothing, and that they wouldn't be able to tell me
anything until they actually got around to opening my letter. They
apparently run 6&#8211;8 weeks (48&#8211;56 days) behind schedule, despite the
fact that the form says &#8220;do not submit this form if your license
expires more than 60 days from today.&#8221; In other words, don't submit
the form soon enough that you could actually expect a response before
your current license expires. I hate the California DMV. 

 April 26, 2001 (Thu) 

 Yay! The DMV cashed my check. With any luck, that means they'll
actually send me a new license.... 

 Today's fortune: &#8220;Matter cannot be created or destroyed, nor can it
be returned without a receipt.&#8221; 

 April 30, 2001 (Mon) 

 Part of me really looks forward to being back in the States: I can
work, vote, not worry about missing important mail. 

 But most of me is scared. George Bush weaseled his way into power,
against the wishes of the electorate and with the help of the most
activist Supreme Court in history. And reports show that things are
getting worse, not better. Far from being humbled by losing the
election but having Dad's friends hand it to him anyway, Georgie has
been up to no good in every way possible. 

 The Village Voice will
terrify you with greater insight into Attorney-General John Ashcroft's
fervent belief in Jesus (as defined by evangelical Christianists
who apparently never read the New Testament). 

 The American Prospect Online has an
article about the right's claiming that Anti-Federalists&#8212;who
opposed the Constitution&#8212;are Founding Fathers, too . They also
suggest a strategy
for preventing Bush from packing the courts by forcing the
processing of Clinton's Federal court appointees and stalling Bush's
appointees. 

 The L.A. Times has an
editorial by Bruce Ackerman outlining a way that Bush can be
prevented from packing the Supreme Court. From the same source, some
insight into the Supreme Court's decision to allow cops to arrest
people for petty crimes . 

 Meanwhile, the Guardian 's Jonathan Freedland sums
up the Bush administration's first 100 days . 

 These links, and far too many more, are available from the Red Rock Eater mailing list site. 

 The Nation has a
speech Bill Moyers made to the National Press Club about journalism
and democracy during a dinner celebrating his thirtieth year in
broadcast journalism. Good stuff.

 Via CamWorld . 

 newer entries | older entries 

 Activity 

 << 
 April, 2001 
 >> 

 Mo 
 Tu 
 We 
 Th 
 Fr 
 Sa 
 Su 

 1 

 2 
 3 
 4 
 5 
 6 
 7 
 8 

 9 
 10 
 11 
 12 
 13 
 14 
 15 

 16 
 17 
 18 
 19 
 20 
 21 
 22 

 23 
 24 
 25 
 26 
 27 
 28 
 29 

 30 

 More Archives... 
 May, 2003 
 April, 2003 
 March, 2003 
 February, 2003 
 January, 2003 
 December, 2002 
 more... 

 Copyright &copy; 1998&#8211;2002, C.M. Connelly. 

 Last modified at 10:38 PM PDT, Monday, May 12, 2003; last rendered at 
 10:38 PM PDT, Monday, May 12, 2003 with Mason 
 and Perl . 

 Please e-mail me about problems with this page . Thanks.