C.M. Connelly: Blog: Archive for June, 2001 

 &#160; 

 Blog | 
 Debian | 
 Work | 
 R&eacute;sum&eacute; | 
 About... 

 Blog: Archive for June, 2001 

 June 1, 2001 (Fri) 

 FreakyLinks !!! 

 One of your last opportunities to catch an episode of FreakyLinks comes
tonight at nine on Fox as they show the remaining few episodes. 

 I know, I know, FreakyLinks is cheesy and lame, but I
thought it improved dramatically. It has some nice underlying
creepiness that hasn't been explained too thoroughly (cf., the whole
UFO thing in The X-Files ), the people are cute and
enthusiastic (if not that bright), and the show has real 
computers. And, hey, compare it to The Lone Gunmen . I
don't think there's any doubt which one's better. 

 In other TV news, please continue to stay away from C.S.I.:
Crime Scene Investigators . Although it has William Petersen,
who was great in Manhunter (Michael Mann's take on Thomas
Harris's Red Dragon &#8212;and let me just say that Brian
Cox's Hannibal Lector kicks Anthony Hopkins' ass), and two veterans of
 E.R. , including Carter's almost-girlfriend from several
seasons ago, Maggie Doyle, it has some of the crappiest writing on
television. I think the producers must have seen an episode of
 Quincy, M.E. (the all-time champ), and maybe an episode
of Snoops (another failed David E. Kelley show). They
certainly don't seem to have watched Law & Order ,
 Adam 12 , or even Barney Miller . Anyway,
suffice it to say that the show is awful, and the previous episode was
not a fluke. 

 Some idiot (who happens to be an international graduate student) sent
an &#8220;anonymous&#8221; message via Hotmail to an SFU mailing list
complaining about these damn workers in Canada thinking they have a
right to strike, and calling for them to all be fired so &#8220;poor,
unemployed immigrants&#8221; could take their jobs. Now, yes, the bus
strike has gone on far too long, but it's more due to the bus drivers
refusing to allow their union to be broken up by management
outsourcing their jobs one-by-one than anything else. The NDP
government also had no apparent interest in solving the strike, and
anyone who voted for the Liberals in hopes that they'd fix things was
a fool. (Remember: in Canada, everything is upside down. The
Liberals are a right -wing party.) 

 Besides, it's pretty tough to be a &#8220;poor, unemployed immigrant&#8221; here
unless you're fleeing oppression back home. Trust me, you don't get
to immigrate to Canada unless you've got a job lined up or family that
can support you already here, and even then Immigration Canada and
HRDC might sandbag you. 

 So M responded to the guy, quoting him and calling him by his real
name. It's easy, kids: Hotmail records the IP address you connect
with in every message. M traced the address to one of the SFU dialup
lines. You can see who's logged on via the dialups, and what IP
address is assigned to them, along with (here's the kicker!) what time
they signed on. Since the guy had signed on at 9:30, and the message
was sent at 10:00, and he was still on when she checked, it was pretty
obvious who'd sent the mail. Various folks at SFU are amused and
embarrassed today. 

 My beloved TurboMouse 
stopped moving the cursor down today. If I got it down to the bottom
of the screen (with a second mouse), I could go up, but never down. 

 In the end, I took it apart, and discovered a whole bunch of fuzz
clinging to the little wheels. Best guess: there was a bit of fuzz
that would be pushed away from the sensor when moving the mouse up,
but that would be pulled in front of the sensor when trying to move
down. 

 There's very little to the guts of the trackball&#8212;a single circuit
board with one big chip, a few resistors and other bits, and two
wheel/sensor units&#8212;one for horizontal and one for vertical
movement. While I had the thing apart, I cleaned it out, polished the
wheels, and blew out any extra dust that might have been hiding. Put
it back together, rebooted, and everything's fine. I love that
trackball. 

 Tomorrow is Hats
Off Day in Burnaby Heights again! It's usually fun&#8212;a parade
with kids, and cops on motorcycles doing tricks, SFU's famous bagpipe
band, lots of places selling sausage sandwiches, plus salmon on a
stick and much, much more! 

 If you're nearby, and it isn't pouring with rain, come check it out! 

 June 2, 2001 (Sat) 

 Hats Off Day went pretty well, although it got off to a damp start.
It rained quite hard during the beginning of the parade, causing the
police (Seattle & Vancouver) motorcycle teams to totally wuss out,
just driving down the street in formation. 

 Soon after, though, the rain slackened, and the parade got underway.
Lots of unusual groups of people, often not quite identifiable as
signs seemed to be optional. By the time the parade ended and the
crowds were released to throng the street, the rain had stopped and
the sun started to come out. The salmon-on-a-stick from the Pear
Tree was excellent as ever, and sausage sandwiches abounded. 

 We walked about for a while, then headed home before hitting London
Drugs for a partial refund on our camera, which we'd found for even
less than we paid. In the end, the camera was &#8220;only&#8221; CN$810 (plus
PST/GST), making it about as good a deal as we could have gotten from
the States. 

 One more story from Friday: We were getting ready to go out (we got
our hair cut) when someone knocked on our door. It turned out to be a
guy from UPS, with a package for M from HMC , with CN$35 owing for duty and
brokerage fees. The duty was about CN$3&#8212;the rest went to UPS.
Inside was a really nice sweatshirt and a card signed by the folks
from the department. Clearly it was meant as a gift, but because they
naively used UPS Ground, it ended up costing M about half what it
probably cost to buy. The lesson here is to never, ever use UPS to
send stuff to people in Canada from the States, or vice versa. And
never be fool enough to order anything shipped by them. 

 You see, UPS figured out that they could make a huge amount of money
by charging for their customs brokerage services. FedEx doesn't do
that. Canada Post and the U.S. Postal Service don't do that. But UPS
does. You can avoid forcing your recipient to pay that charge by
paying for UPS express delivery instead. If you look carefully at the
numbers, you'll find that UPS express delivery costs just as much as
UPS ground, except that the brokerage fee is added in. 

 Even better, don't use UPS. Don't do business with people who only
ship UPS. Explain, in exquisite detail, why UPS sucks, and why you
won't do business with them. If they won't make an exception for you,
shop elsewhere. 

 This has been a message from the Hidden Postal Rates Awareness
Committee. 

 June 3, 2001 (Sun) 

 More TV tips: ABC is showing Harriet the
Spy tonight at 7:00 PM. I loved this book when I was a
kid, and read it to death (it's one of the few books I had that
literally fell apart). I have some hopes for the movie version&#8212;it
stars Michelle
Trachtenberg , who was wonderful as Dawn thoughout the just-ended
season of Buffy . 

 Also, on A&E, there's another Nero Wolfe
mystery . I read lots of these when I was a kid, borrowing them
from the library, and as far as I can tell, the show is very true to
the source material. The shows look great, too, capturing the look,
feel, and sound of the early fifties as I imagined it from the books.
The acting is good, too&#8212; Timothy Hutton , who
plays Archie Goodwin, is also a director and executive producer, so
he's got an investment to protect. 

 June 5, 2001 (Tue) 

 There are some things that make me feel like I've completely wasted my
life&#8212;missed an opportunity to really do something worthwhile and
fulfilling. One of those things is watching a craftsman at work.
Programs such as Modern Masters and Martha Stewart
Living show people who do amazing things, and clearly love
doing that work. 

 I occasionally wonder whether I should try to find someone to
apprentice myself to, or maybe just try to figure out how to do some
obscure craft on my own, and give up on these bloody computers.
But it will probably never happen. 

 M is working on making Adobe Jenson
MM work with TeX. Getting the basics was easy, but Jenson
includes a bunch of old-fashioned ligatures (such as the ct, ft, and
st ligatures), as well as those wonderful long-Ses you'll remember
from reproductions of seventeenth and eighteenth century documents.

 Anyway, looking for an example to use to determine what the rules were
for the use of the long-Ses reminded me that we had Milton's
 Aeropagitica (1644), from a company called Octavo . Octavo sells CD-ROM
versions of various famous books, photographing them and turning the
images into PDF, then adding the text beneath to make them searchable
and quotable (via copy & paste). The Aeropagitica 
CD-ROM was part of a package of premiums that Salon sent out when they were first
starting, and first asked for people to &#8220;join&#8221;. (The others were a
T-shirt, two bookmarks, and a small notebook.) 

 Octavo also has some Shakespeare editions, along with Bodoni's
 Manuale Tipografico , Copernicus's De Revolutionibus
Orbium Coelestium , Gallileo's Sidereus Nuncius ,
Palladio's I Quattro Libri dell'Architettura , Vesalius's
 De Humani Corporis Fabrica , and many more. 

 Fun work: 

 Updated the teTeX manpages I wrote with some new
 information about authorship 
 Fixed the script that generates this blog so that it

 Sets permissions properly (so that the annoying error
 messages from Mason that some of you may have seen
 earlier today should never happen again) 
 Fixed the archive subroutine so that entries appear in
 date order, rather than reverse date order 

 I sent
my mom a really cool birthday card from Rabbits of the Rainbow . I even sent it a week early. But she still hasn't gotten it.
Canada Post truly sucks. 

 June 6, 2001 (Wed) 

 Lame
teachers object to gel pens : 

&#8220;Males were covering their fingernails with ink. Writing their rapper
names on themselves. Girls were writing their best friends' names on
their arms, writing which boys they like, which bands they like,&#8221;
said Lynnette Moore, an eighth-grade math teacher.

 As we all know, regular pens can't be used to do those things.
Regular pens also don't leak. And they allow elementary school
students to complete art projects with the brushwork of a Da Vinci or
Rembrandt. Yeah.

 Via Red Rock Eater mailing list . 

 June 7, 2001 (Thu) 

 M was convocated today! Complete with squashy hat and scarlet robe!
Pictures to come (we filled a whole 128 MB Compact Flash card!),
perhaps.... 

 Saw the new iBook , at last.
Pretty neat. Nice screen, okay keyboard (although it still has those
huge keys&#8212;what's up with that?). Maybe a good bet down the road,
but I'm still reading enough about teething pains on Macintouch to make me willing to
wait. I'm also eager to hear about any changes in Apple's line up
post-MacWorld before getting too wedded to any one plan. 

 June 8, 2001 (Fri) 

 Another creak of the wheel: Someone from the moving company will be
coming next Wednesday to take a look at our apartment and give us (or
HMC, anyway) an estimate on the costs to move us, as well as briefing
us on the intricate bureaucratic rituals that must be performed to
bless the passage of our goods into the United States. 

 June 9, 2001 (Sat) 

 Wow! Airships rise
again ! See also the Slashdot
article , and the official
CargoLifter site . I love airships, but it seems like every few
years we have a new company spring up and announce that airships will
save the world, complete with documentaries explaining the history of
airships, their promise, and how this time things will be
different . Then you never hear about the company again. 

 While delivering fully assembled fast-food restaurants to third world
countries doesn't seem like a very noble use&#8212;&#8220;We're live! From the
new Taco Bell at the epicenter of the most devastating earthquake to hit
Mexico in recorded history!&#8221;&#8212;any reason to have airships floating
around seems like a good one to me. They're too cool not to have, and if
we want to keep pretending we're moving toward The Future, we need 'em. 
(The Future according to 1930s speculative fiction, anyway.) 

 Via Slashdot . 

 I found this report on
LED flashlights really interesting, and fun to read, as well. 

 Also of some interest, perhaps, is this review of USB flash
RAM devices . I've wondered about getting something like one of
these devices to store various important information on&#8212;crypto
keys, password lists, pictures of my sweetie, my r&eacute;sum&eacute;,
and so forth. 

 June 11, 2001 (Mon) 

 Whoops. Cameron pointed to a
funny essay on Jamie's site , and I
ended up spending hours poking around reading other essays . 

 Ikea seems to have a new site that
challenges HP for slowness and general
unusability. It's loaded with ASP pages that take forever to load and
don't look quite right when they do. Given that I have DSL here, I
don't think it should really take five minutes to load a page. 

 Edmund Scientific's
site is also crappy, but in a low-tech way. It wants you to make
choices from a list of top-level categories, which are pretty general,
then from a list of slightly less general categories, and so on.
Which would be fine if I had the paper catalog and knew roughly what
was in each category and subcategory, but it's really not conducive to
browsing through their whole catalog online. 

 Oh, yeah, and the categories are pretty obscure. For example, 

Navigation : Other Navigational Tools&#8211;Sunglasses 
Unique Lighting: Unique Lighting : LAVA Motion Lamp: Red Lava in Yellow Fluid

 Yeesh. 

 June 12, 2001 (Tue) 

 As much as I despise Ziff-Davis, this
essay , by Joshua Bauchner, does a good job of summarizing today's
state of the art in copyright, and why it's wrong. 
 Via the null device . 

 M has pictures on her site of Hats
Off Day (taken by her) and her
convocation (mostly taken by me). 

 Today we cashed in our vast number of Save-on-More points for a blender . It's apparently a
Canada-only model, featuring a glass jug marked in ounces, cups, and
litres and exciting French labels on the controls! 

 We also spent much too long shifting piles of books around on a
remainder table, coming up with a collection of wacky Dover books : 

 The Psychology of Visual Illusion , J.O. Robinson 
 Geometry,
Relativity and the Fourth Dimension , Rudolf v. B. Rucker 
 One
Hundred Problems in Elementary Mathematics , Hugo Steinhaus 
 Topology:
An Introduction with Application to Topological Groups ,
George McCarty 
 The
Art of Rigging , Captain George Biddlecombe 

 That's US$45 worth of books for CN$10! 

 (If you were wondering, they're all M's, primarily, except for
 The Art of Rigging , which I just thought looked neat.
(The next time I read a book about pirates, I can check to see if the
author got his rigging right!)) 

 Oh, yes, we also bought some food, including some vanilla ice cream so
we could try out our new blender. (Combine with some milk and the
bananas we bought last weekend and viola! &#8212;yummy banana
milkshakes!) 

 An additional food tip: Adding Rice Krispies to ice cream (especially
Breyer's banana chocolate chunk ice cream) adds crunch and general
pleasantness! 

 June 13, 2001 (Wed) 

 No one who knows me will be in the least surprised to know that I fall
firmly into the &#8220;libertarian left&#8221; quarter of the Political Compass .

 Via Virulent Memes 

 Salon's Charles Taylor has a great
rant starting from Marjorie Heins' Not in Front of the
Children: &#8220;Indecency,&#8221; Censorship, and the Innocence of
Youth . 

 TidBITS has an interesting discussion about choosing
between Apple's new iBook and PowerBook G4 (TiBook) . Mike Whybark
and I agree on most things&#8212;while the TiBook looks slightly cooler
(they're all the rage with some of the computing science faculty up at
SFU), the iBook is a better deal, especially if you have a solid
desktop system for real work, and just use the iBook for roaming/take
home stuff. 

 June 14, 2001 (Thu) 

 Suddenly everything makes more sense: &#8220;Unhappy
people `make the best workers&#8221;' . Still, I doubt my managers knew
that then....

 Via the null device . 

 Hmm... 

Residents and critics have long described the bombings as a health
threat, but the Navy says its bombs are not dangerous, and that the
range is vital for national security.

 Naval bombs aren't dangerous? What about those nukes, then? Maybe
they're safe, and the whole Cold War was a misunderstanding? Yeesh.

 Via Rebecca's Pocket . 

 June 15, 2001 (Fri) 

 M laughingly read aloud from this Register
article about a former Republican senator's wife, who foolishly
believed she could use HotMail to slander her husband's opponent and
get away with it. Too bad for her she was caught by the same method
 M used to expose an anti-union
poster recently. Also too bad for her that her messages violated a
state election law (in Minnesota), and she'll be paying some
pathetically tiny fines. 

 Oh, and if tracing her via her IP address wasn't easy enough, some of
her messages also included Microsoft Word attachments that included
her name and the names of other staffers embedded in the document. 

 Remember, kids: HotMail and Microsoft don't do anonymous! 

 A track-by-track
review of New Order's forthcoming album, Get Ready .
I still love New Order&#8212;not only do the albums released when I was
younger still speak to me, but the newer ones do, as well. I hope
that's true for this one, too. 

 I know some people who think that bands should just pack it in once
they start to get old. But I think that&#8212;when things work out just
right&#8212;having a band stick around can be a good thing. The people
in the band change as they get older and experience life, and if their
experiences mirror or complement yours, their music can affect you as
much as it did when you were all young. It's great to be able to
listen to a song that came out when you were a teenager, and remember
what that was like, and then listen to a song that came out when you
were thirty, and be able to feel like that song captures some of your
feelings, hopes, and dreams at that time of your life.

 Via the null device . 

 &#8220;Three
Myths of XML&#8221; addresses some of the bizarre hype surrounding XML,
which is, after all, just a way of formatting data, not a miraculous
cure for all that ails the world. 

 Looking just at documents, I have to say that while I appreciate the
idea of splitting content from appearance, in practice SGML and XML
(via something like DocBook or DebianDoc) just don't cut the mustard.
For electronic access, they're fine&#8212;browsers aren't typographically
sophisticated enough to be able to display text that is particularly
well formatted, and there's no real expectation of quality when using
such a tool. When it comes to printing, though, people do expect that
things will be done right, and the current method of transforming
documents from SGML to paper misses the boat on all too many of those
criteria. 

 When you combine the poor rendering tools with the incredibly horrible
or nonexistent authoring tools, you can see why I choose LaTeX when I
need to create a document. I define lots of commands so that I can do
some level of structural markup, but I also maintain tight control
over the final appearance of the document. Maybe some day it will be
possible to write a document in SGML or XML and get high-quality
output without having to spend hours tinkering with some intermediate
form (usually TeX or LaTeX code, at this point), but until that day
comes, I think I'll stick with LaTeX.

 Via CamWorld . 

 Nature has
commentary from lots of people about the debate surrounding electronic
access to primary scientific literature , a topic I find very
interesting, especially since I can see an interesting and rewarding
job there for me. 

 One of the arguments against the idea that I see repeatedly is the
claim that peer-review will somehow go out the window without a
professional publisher riding heard on an editorial board of volunteer
academics. Why? How can anyone seriously believe that a group of
experts can't coalesce on its own, or with a little help from one or
two knowledgeable folks who can recruit volunteers directly or point
out good candidates. 

 I'm not convinced that any journals launched under this banner have to
be free in the monetary sense, either. Simply charging
 reasonable subscription fees (covering the costs of
production) would be a dramatic enough change. Having electronic
versions is important from the perspective of granting access and
searchability, but paper is still likely to be easier to read and
refer to than articles in electronic form for some time. 

 My views are bound to be a bit skewed, since the work I'm most
familiar with these days comes from people working in computer science
and mathematics, probably the most computer- and web-savvy groups
around. It's already the case that a huge amount of research is
available on the Web though the personal websites of individual
scientists, collections of &#8220;technical reports&#8221; at various
institutions, and relatively inexpensive subscription services (e.g.,
the ACM 's Digital Library ). Services such as
 ResearchIndex provide
indexes of these papers, and often include quick links to download the
original PDF or PostScript document. 

 There's no reason that scientists in other fields couldn't do the
same. Without going so far as to exhort the magical possibilities of
the Internet, it seems obvious to me that any significant improvement
in access to information could lead to new cross-disciplinary
discoveries or other advances. One scientist's curious result could
be another's miraculous solution. Why not give it a try?

 Via Slashdot . 

 June 16, 2001 (Sat) 

 M and I went for a walk to see if we could get a passport-style photo
for her visa application and some bread for dinner. Since we were
already out, and the sun was shining brightly, and there was a slight
breeze so it wasn't that hot, we decided to walk down to the
office supply superstores and see about getting some more photo paper
for our inkjet printer. 

 On the way, M expressed some doubts about leaving Vancouver. I countered
by pointing out that however nice Vancouver is, there are still some awful
things about it that we won't miss. She demanded examples, and I
suggested (1) the drivers, (2) the Canadian government, and (3) the B.C.
government. She pointed out that you could say much the same about
California, and I agreed completely. We ended by deciding that anywhere
you could go would have some positive things that made it better than
anywhere else, and some negative things that were worse than anywhere
else. The key is balance. 

 On the way back home, we noticed some confusion at an intersection a
couple of blocks away. As got closer, we could see that the
intersection was blocked. Closer still, and we could tell it was an
accident. Still closer, and, gosh! There was a minivan on its side,
with a smaller minivan stopped in the middle of the intersection with
its hood up and airbag deployed. 

 We took pictures while speculating on the cause, which was, almost
certainly, the following: Two roads intersected at right angles. One
road was a through road, with no stop signs. The other road had stop
signs. What had happened was that the overturned minivan had either
run their stop sign (which is standard practice here) or had somehow
missed the oncoming minivan and pulled out in front of it. There's a
fair chance the minivan with the right of way was speeding, too, just
so we're not being totally biased. 

 The most amazing thing about this accident is that it's really the
first one of its kind that we've seen. I'm guessing that there are
lots more, but most people don't actually flip their vehicles, so can
avoid calling the police. 

 June 18, 2001 (Mon) 

 A somewhat amusing review 
of Ian Stewart's Flatterland , a followup to Edwin
Abbott's classic Flatland . 

&#8220;Don't worry.&#8221; The cube had returned. &#8220;We'll put him back again. Just
decided to get a bit Lovecraft on his ass after all that business with
the Kyoto accord, and the tax plan and everything. He seemed to lack
...&#8221; The cube might've been chuckling. &#8220;Perspective.&#8221;

 Exciting new versions of mminstance 
and t1utils 
will appear in Debian unstable within the next
couple of days. The main change in mminstance is that it
can now be compiled with newfangled compilers, such as gcc 
3.0 , which was released today. The new t1utils 
package fixes problems with calculating the CRC for the Mac font
tools. 

 It's computer cleanup time today, as well. I finally got around to
figuring out why several of my function keys haven't worked since
switching to XFree 4 (no keysyms). It also turns out that my
machine's extreme sluggishness was being caused by a lack of swap
space. Everything was fine until I upgraded to XFree 4, which grabs
considerably more memory, a few months ago. Hmph. 

 June 19, 2001 (Tue) 

 Hmm. Adding more swap seemed to help, but not as much as I think we
were hoping. Apparently it's too much to ask that you be able to edit
files, work in terminal windows, and browse the web on a machine with
a mere 80 MB of RAM with Linux these days. Color me unimpressed. 

 On the bright side, my pen 
has apparently come in at the Vancouver Pen Shop, so I can pick it up
tomorrow while M is talking to the folks at the consulate. Wish her
luck&#8212;we need something to work soon if we're ever going to get down
to California in time for the start of the semester.... 

 June 20, 2001 (Wed) 

 What an exciting day! 

 It all started when we were awakened by M's ancient but still
functional Psion organizer at 6:25 AM. I had set the main alarm for
6:00 PM. Whoops. 

 Anyway, we struggled to consciousness, gulped down Instant Breakfast,
and drove off for M's nine o'clock visa appointment. We parked in the
nicest parkade in Vancouver (beneath BCIT&#8212;it has the most
wonderfully friendly signage in Officina
Sans ), and set off on foot to find the Consulate, which turned out
to be in an ugly gold-glass office building complete with a Starbucks
at the base. 

 I couldn't go in, of course, so M got in line, and I wandered away to
find something to amuse myself with for an indeterminate period of
time. I ended up in a small park overlooking the Burrard Inlet, with
a good view of the floating gas station, seaplanes landing and taking
off, moored freighters and tugs, and docked luxury cruise ships.
Along with a slice of Stanley Park and a glimpse of the sulfur piles. 

 I ended up taking a bunch of photographs, including a panorama that
features all of the above. I also took some individual photographs of
various mountain peaks, a 'plane landing, and so forth. Then I
wandered around some more, taking pictures of other random items that
looked interesting enough to be worth the trouble. 

 Despite what seemed like hours passing, only about forty-five minutes
had gone by before I ended up near the Consulate again. I walked by a
 Herman Miller store, and
peeked in the windows. Finally I ended up back in the park between the
consulate and the Herman Miller store, where I sat and waited. (I was
hoping to get a shot of the empty concrete wasteland along with the
&#8220;No Skateboarding&#8221; sign, but wasn't able to get an angle.) 

 Suddenly, M appeared! She was done already, and had a sticker
telling her to come back at three o'clock that afternoon to pick up
her passport and visa. She told me about her experience (which
sounded about par with our experience at the San Francisco Passport
Agency Office (except with a lot more riding on it)), and we wandered
down to the Vancouver Pen Shop, where I picked up my neat Rotring core
pen, but discovered that my credit card had expired, when I'd never
received a new one. Luckily I had M there, and she bailed me out. 

 We headed down to Kimprints in Gastown , where we bought more Rabbits of the Rainbow cards (my mom wanted some). 

 From there we went to London
Drugs , where we inquired after the case for our Canon PowerShot S300 (they still don't have it), bought some water for much-needed
rehydration, and played with a PowerMac G4 attached to a projector.
Following a tip from the guy at the photo counter, we walked through
the mall to check another photo store (which also didn't have the
case); on the way we stopped in an IBM store to poke at various IBM
desktops and ThinkPads. 

 Then we walked to Granville Island , which
seems close to downtown, but is actually quite a ways away. It took
nearly half an hour just to walk across the bridge! 

 We had lunch at the Public Market (turkey sandwich for me;
sausage-on-a-bun for M), then checked out some of the shops. I saw a
Bill Reid book in the window of Blackberry Books that screamed
&#8220;Douglas & McIntyre&#8221;, especially with the note about it being
edited and with an introduction by Robert Bringhurst: Solitary
Raven: Selected Writings of Bill Reid . It turned out to be the
only copy, and after having someone get it from the window so we could
look at it, we ended up buying it. (Leaving aside its general
coolness&#8212;various pieces Bill Reid wrote over the years, along with
photographs of him and his work&#8212;at CN$40, it was considerably
cheaper than the US$35 cover price.) 

 After popping into Paper-Ya 
(nothing exciting) and Mesa 
(who no longer had the earrings I'd seen just before Christmas), we
headed back to downtown. 

 We picked up M's passport, complete with shiny new visa. I don't know
what most places use for visas, but Canada's &#8220;immigration documents&#8221;
seem to be letter-size sheets of elaborately decorated paper with
information printed on them with a dot-matrix printer (based on the
ones I've seen). The US, in contrast, puts a passport-sized,
laser-printed sticker, complete with a scanned photograph of the
holder, in the passport. Wild stuff. 

 Once we had the passport, we were done, and headed back to the car and
drove home to recover from the heat. 

 M got in touch with the movers to let them know we would be moving
sooner than later. I called Citibank to find out about my credit card&#8212;it had supposedly been &#8220;returned&#8221;. After some discussion, the
woman I spoke to arranged to have a new card sent to me by UPS so I
should have it by Friday. 

 Meanwhile, M has been looking into the cost of airline tickets so we
can fly down to Claremont and find someplace to live. In her search,
she came across the Airline Ticket
Consolidators and Bucket Shops FAQ , which may be of some interest
the next time you're planning a trip. Among other things, this FAQ
will tell you why Priceline is a bad risk, what the IATA is and why
it's evil (and how the airlines get around the agreement), 

 The IBM store I mentioned above had an 8
MB IBM-branded &#8220;Memory Key&#8221; like the ones I mentioned a couple of days ago . It turns out
that these devices are actually made by M-Systems , and are also available
in 16 and 32 MB versions (only available from Dell ,
however). I might get one of these once I have a machine with some
USB ports. 

 June 21, 2001 (Thu) 

 Since I'm going to be flying soon, I thought I'd check into whether it
would be safe to take my new fountain pen. The best source I found
was the alt.collecting.pens-pencils 
Fountain Pen FAQ . It seems it should be fine, especially if I put
it in a ziplock bag and keep it nib up. 

 Our packing material has arrived&#8212;there's tons of it!
There are (no kidding): 

 5 wardrobe boxes (for hanging clothes) 
 10 6 cubic foot boxes (for quilts, pillows, and other lightweight
stuff) 
 20 4 cubic foot boxes (for clothes and miscellaneous stuff) 
 50 2 cubic foot boxes (for books and other small, heavy stuff) 
 50 lbs. of 2' x 4' newsprint sheets 

 And we live in a small one-bedroom apartment. And that's not counting
my stuff in Seattle (mostly books, and a stereo, all of which is
already packed up). Or my stuff in New York (which, regrettably,
still won't be joining us). 

 Broken down, the boxes take up about 72 cubic feet (4' x 6' x 3').
Taped up, they should absorb most of the scant free space we have.
Yikes! 

 June 22, 2001 (Fri) 

 Up at 8 AM (after going to bed at 2) because I'm waiting for UPS to
show up with my new credit card. Yuck. 

 Microsoft's most solid
OS .

 Via M, who saw a link on Red
Hat 's Seawolf list. 

 Various things have thrown our plan to fly down to California
 soon into chaos. We're still not sure what we're doing. 

 Graham , whose site doesn't
work in the newest version of Netscape that runs on my machine (4.73),
but which is generally worth the trouble of loading in Konqueror or
Lynx, had a pointer to the results of a survey asking
about the best flag in North America that was conducted by the
North American Vexillological Association. New Mexico was the winner,
and, after refreshing my extremely vague memory of what the flag
looked like, I think it is coolly iconic in a way that most U.S. state
flags aren't. It actually looks very corporate. 

 My favorite state flag, however, remains Maryland's. I was happy to
see that it made it to #4. I suspect that it didn't do better, in
part, because it would be very hard for people to draw
without help. Still, I think it's one of the most active flags&#8212;it
has verve, energy, vim, vigor! 

 I quite like British Columbia's flag, too, although more the sun than
the Union Jack. The New York (where I grew up) and California (where
I lived for several years and am moving back to) flags don't do much
for me. 

 Zannah pointed to The Slot: A Spot
for Copy Editors . I sometimes think that editing two books was
one of the worst things I ever could have done to myself. I've always
been bothered by bad English, especially in print, but after
concentrating on syntax and grammar and spelling for several months,
I've become hypersensitive. I don't fly into a rage or anything, but
I am constantly amazed and disappointed by the mistakes I see,
especially when they come from people or places I admire. 

 The errors that annoy me the most lately are various incorrect uses of
the dreaded apostrophe. Now, messing up &#8220;its&#8221; and &#8220;it's&#8221; is
pretty sad&#8212;I mean, hey, it's one little rule. But for some reason
an awful lot of people in the Lower Mainland seem to believe that
plurals are formed by adding &#8220; 's&#8221; to words. Even worse, some people
seem to think that any word ending with an &#8220;S&#8221; should have an
apostrophe. The very best (or worst?) example of this mistake was on
a set of huge banners made for Save-on-Foods by Pepsi Canada,
which stated that &#8220;Save-on-Foods Welcome's You&#8221;. I mean it.

 Via /usr/bin/girl . 

 Things are looking up! Yesterday's panic and depression have been
replaced by mild elation, as we found a good deal on airfare on
Tuesday. Looks like we'll be driving down to Seattle this weekend,
catching the 'plane down to Ontario on Tuesday, looking around for a
week (and, hopefully, signing a lease and maybe getting some other
bureaucratic stuff out of the way), and flying back to Seattle the
following Tuesday. We'll either fail utterly after rushing around for
a week or find a place that's perfect on the first day and have to
amuse ourselves in Greater L.A. for a week. I'd prefer the latter, of
course! 

 I am once again a member in good standing of our evil capitalist
society. I have to say that my new card is pretty cool-looking&#8212;new
&#8220;citi&#8221; logo, menacing Darth Vader color scheme, and all. 

 Nick Petreley on Microsoft's
amazing co-option of network computing .

 Via CamWorld . 

 I was, well, interested, but I think I'm too jaded to really have been
horrified by this
tale about a major mistake made by Coca-Cola, and their efforts to
cover it up. Coca-Cola, it turns out, is the not friendly corporate
giant they'd like you to think, but, among other things, a frequent
collaborator with the CIA, a corrupter of lawyers, and, perhaps, a
briber of judges. 

 Also via CamWorld . 

 An important meme to spread&#8212;the following code snippet will
supposedly turn off Microsoft's &#8220;Smart Tags&#8221;, which can rewrite your
Web pages to make selected words and phrases become links to sites
they choose (or are paid to choose): 

 <meta name="MSSmart TagsPreventParsing" content="TRUE"> 

 Unlike Dave
Winer , I don't have a violent objection to the annotation services
that allow people to attach the electronic equivalent of Post-It Notes
to other people's Web pages. The number of people who would actually
go to the trouble of finding, downloading, installing, and configuring
the necessary plugin is going to be pretty small, and, frankly, as
long as there's a clear distinction between what I've written and what
other people have written about what I've written, I'm okay with it.
(I'm even willing to entertain discussions via e-mail, and, if I felt
it was appropriate, I'd quote stuff on my pages or link back to other
people's pages. Check out the C.R.E.W. for another
approach.) 

 But Smart Tags are clearly evil, for several reasons, including the
fact that authors have no input into the links added; the option is
likely to be turned on by default in Internet Explorer, which is
unquestionably the market leader; the keywords and phrases that
trigger the linking will, presumably, be sold to the highest bidder;
and, last and least, it's Microsoft, and no one really trusts them not
to do even worse things (tracking, maybe?) these days. 

 From where I sit, the worst aspect is that the Smart Tags links are
indistinguishable from the original author's links. Thus my reference
to Post-It Notes here and above could become links to 3M's website,
and a reader would have no idea whether I'd made those links or
Microsoft had inserted them in the page. (Hint: They shouldn't be
links; I couldn't be bothered to give a free commercial plug to a
product that's pretty much ubiquitous.) 

 The second worst aspect is that it's an opt-out system: in order to
stop Microsoft from messing with your work, you have to add
code to every single page on your site to tell the browser not to do
its (black) magic. 

 Beyond a token objection on the Microsoft-is-evil&#8482; front, I
honestly think that I wouldn't have that much of a problem with
Smart Tags provided that they made a very clear distinction between my
links and Microsoft's links. Smart Tags would be even more acceptable
if, instead of requiring people to opt-out, Microsoft required people
who wanted their work messed with to add a tag that said,
&#8220;Sure, go ahead and spatter ads throughout my page!&#8221;

 Inspired by inessential.com . 

 June 30, 2001 (Sat) 

 We're still in Claremont. We've found a (smaller) one-bedroom
apartment that's pretty close to campus, and are on the waiting list
for a two-bedroom apartment in the same complex. 

 The people in the department are really nice, and have taken us to
dinner and lunch, driven us around town, and offered tons of advice. 

 It's very hot here, but it doesn't seem nearly as bad as it has in
Vancouver lately. 

 Not that it's news to anyone, but Microsoft's &#8220;Natural&#8221;, Apple's
first generation iMac/G3, and Sun keyboards all suck. The Apple
Cinema Display, however, is quite nice, although a bit difficult to
read after a while (at least with Mac OS X). 

 newer entries | older entries 

 Activity 

 << 
 June, 2001 
 >> 

 Mo 
 Tu 
 We 
 Th 
 Fr 
 Sa 
 Su 

 1 
 2 
 3 

 4 
 5 
 6 
 7 
 8 
 9 
 10 

 11 
 12 
 13 
 14 
 15 
 16 
 17 

 18 
 19 
 20 
 21 
 22 
 23 
 24 

 25 
 26 
 27 
 28 
 29 
 30 

 More Archives... 
 May, 2003 
 April, 2003 
 March, 2003 
 February, 2003 
 January, 2003 
 December, 2002 
 more... 

 Copyright &copy; 1998&#8211;2002, C.M. Connelly. 

 Last modified at 10:38 PM PDT, Monday, May 12, 2003; last rendered at 
 10:38 PM PDT, Monday, May 12, 2003 with Mason 
 and Perl . 

 Please e-mail me about problems with this page . Thanks.