C.M. Connelly: Blog: Archive for March, 2002 

 &#160; 

 Blog | 
 Debian | 
 Work | 
 R&eacute;sum&eacute; | 
 About... 

 Blog: Archive for March, 2002 

 March 1, 2002 (Fri) 

 They've been grating trees out front. Yesterday they were butchering
trees near the entrance to our apartment complex; today they've moved
to the core. They had a huge pile of what looked like perfectly
healthy tree limbs piled up in the middle of the parking lot (another
reason to park in the garage!), and, after having lunch, they fed them
one by one into one of those Fargo -style
chippers. 

 I'm not sure what the deal is here. I think, maybe, charitably, that
the idea is to force some trees that would otherwise grow into a kind
of fan-shape to grow more upright. But we can now see all the across
one of the pools to another set of apartments we couldn't see before,
so I'm not convinced it's a worthwhile pursuit. 

 There are two interesting articles in this month's issue of The Atlantic Monthly (so far). 

 &#8220;1491&#8221; (Charles C. Mann) isn't available online (for free), but talks about the
archaeological evidence that North America may have once had a larger
population than Europe&#8212;before Europeans arrived and brought new
diseases that devastated the population, killing up to 95% (according
to the most radical claims). There's also a fair amount of evidence
that much of both North and South America's landscapes aren't natural
at all, but were extensively tailored by the people living here for
thousands of years. 
 &#8220;The
Apocalypse of Adolescence&#8221; (Ron Powers) talks about the
increasing number of &#8220;ordinary&#8221; teenagers jumping on the
ultraviolence bandwagon. It's kind of interesting, because elements
of my own childhood and teenage years predisposed me to see the point
of pointless violence, but my distaste for peer pressure (and the
relative affluence of the school district where I grew up, no doubt)
went a long way toward preventing me from taking the easy path.
Still, anyone who can't at least imagine why someone would kill a
teacher or make bombs to plant in a school was almost certainly a
cheerleader or jock, &#8220;on top&#8221; (in their minds and those of the
school administrators), and meting out most of the pain. 

 March 2, 2002 (Sat) 

 Much rushing about as M finished off the midterm for her class. Then
we walked over to campus, photocopied and assembled the exams, put
them outside her office, and checked the library for Jeff Zeldman's
book, which is in limbo. We found Robin Williams Web Design
Workshop on the shelf where Zeldman's book was supposed to be,
though, and borrowed it on general principle. 

 Then we walked down to Claremont. As it was about 5:00 PM, most
everything was closing up, with the exception of a few restaurants.
After some back and forth, we decided to have dinner at Walter's, and
had some excellent Afghani food. Then home. 

 While I was proofing the exam, my mom called, and while I was talking
to my mom, a postman brought the Aspherilux torches I'd ordered from
the UK. They're pretty neat&#8212;bright white light that projects in an
almost perfect circle (thanks to the aspherical lens). As long-time
readers will know, Kate Telman (from Iain Banks's The
Business ) has one of these on her bedside table at all times. 

 Also in today's mail: BAD II's The Globe (1991) and Big
Audio Dynamite's This Is Big Audio Dynamite (1986). 

 March 3, 2002 (Sun) 

 A brief argument about the state of our apartment led to a trip to
Lowe's and the purchase of a peg rack, a drill, and a set of drill
bits. 

 My attempt to fix the IE problems appears to have made them worse.
I've started to redo the design from scratch, and I hope I'll be able
to balance things out a bit better. Expect an upload soon. 

 March 4, 2002 (Mon) 

 There are still some oddities with IE, but overall things should have
improved considerably. So long as I'm producing standards-compliant
HTML and CSS code, I'm not sure I really want to bother hacking around
trying to get one particular browser to work the way it should. 

 One weird thing I did have to add: for some reason, the top header in
the sidebar would extend the white stripe across the page if the
 <h2></h2> tags were at the top of the
 <div> . If I stuck another tag between, the banner
renders properly. 

 I have to go vote tomorrow, so spent some time going through the
sample ballot and voter-information booklet I received in the mail.
There seem to be lots of pretty scary candidates&#8212;and that's on the
Democratic Party ballot! I could easily cross off anyone who bragged
about being in the CIA, or lead a push to create a huge DNA databank,
or did other non-privacy/freedom-respecting activities, but that still
left quite a few. I tried searching for LGBT group
endorsements, but there doesn't seem to be much in the way of
political activity here in Deep Southern California. (Apparently
keeping one's head down out of the line of fire is the preferred
survival strategy.) I was able to get some clues about some
candidates from a Bay-Area group (the Alice B. Toklas Lesbian and Gay
Democratic Club , if you wanted to check for yourself), but I'm
just punting on all the judges and such, because I can't see any point
in voting for people I can't find anything out about. (And, big
surprise, most of these people couldn't be bothered to share any
information with the LWV 's Smart Voter project.) 

 So tomorrow I'll wander off in search of someone's garage, where I
will sign a book, get a ballot, and proceed to vote with a machine
that's almost identical to the Vote-O-Matics that helped screw up the
2002 Presidential Election in Palm Beach County. Don't ever let
anyone tell you California is sophisticated, 'cause it ain't. (Mostly
they're just dirt cheap, because the LA area has the votes and the
decided rightwing tilt to scupper almost any progressive plan,
especially anything that might cost them money.) 

 But, hey, I'm not bitter, even though people in the part of New York I
grew up in vote using proper voting machines where you close a curtain
and flip levers to vote, even in the most local of local elections. 

 March 5, 2002 (Tue) 

 After spending an hour or so mending a couple of shirts and my
favorite garment of all time (a one-off Mishi jacket), I got myself
sorted and went out to vote. Yup, same Vote-O-Matic machines as in
Florida. And I was impressed with the way the card had to be pushed
in against its own springiness&#8212;presumably designed that way to make
it easy to remove, but disconcerting. 

 The people running the poll station pegged me as a Green, but of
course I'm registered as a Democrat. I have this feeling I'll be
voting Green in November, though. 

 March 6, 2002 (Wed) 

 Started back at work on the teTeX documentation stuff. I've pulled
the problem entries out of my main database and into a little database
of their own, cleaned them up a bit, and started to gather some
additional information I need to figure out who to contact about
clarifying their licensing. What fun. 

 March 7, 2002 (Thu) 

 On the other hand, Bill Simon, who seems like a fairly evil guy, has
been chosen as the Republican gubernatorial candidate. That, of
course, means that when the time comes, depending on the numbers, I
may well feel compelled to vote for Gray Davis in order to at least
attempt to keep someone who is anti-abortion, anti-gay-rights,
anti-immigration, and anti-a-bunch-of-other-things out of office. 

 Wouldn't it be great to live somewhere where you could vote
 for someone instead of against the scariest choice? I
suppose that if you're a wealthy, straight, white man, of course, you
already do. 

 Waking up to NPR is once again looking like a bad idea. 

 March 8, 2002 (Fri) 

 David
Cronin dismisses dance music in the European Cultural
Digest . 

 Sadly, it's pretty much the standard rant by someone who has seen the
world pass them by and doesn't like it. (I've said much the same on
many occasions.) Sure, a lot of dance music sucks. A lot of
rock'n'roll sucked, too, and most &#8220;punk&#8221; music sucked, as well.
(And all disco, of course. ;-) ) Such is life. 

 When I saw Better
Living Through Circuitry (warning: Flash), I was a bit
surprised by just how boring the audience was, but I tend to think
that most people are pretty dull, so it wasn't a devastating
revelation. There definitely seems to be a lot of &#8220;let's dress up in
cutesy clothes, take drugs, and pretend we love everyone&#8221; going on.
On the other hand, I always thought that the whole business of
dressing up in torn-up clothes covered with band names and pretending
to be scary was pretty sad, too. 

 Punk qua punk had a pretty short life and a tiny audience.
It's not unlikely that punk wouldn't have registered at all on most
people's lives if it hadn't been so outrageous at a time when most
people were so very conformist. (The famous Sex Pistols interview on
 Today is laughably tame compared with pretty much any
episode of any modern sleazy talk show.) 

 The punk bands that have survived best, it seems to me, are the ones
that evolved to incorporate other musical threads into their own work.
Groups such as The Clash and Siouxsie and the Banshees (to name two I
liked then and still enjoy) changed their sound completely, but still
had a razor's edge hiding just beneath their smoother, more complex
musical surface. 

 Other groups that were inspired by punk changed, too, often for the
better. Cabaret Voltaire, starting as experimental noise, with
grating guitars, tape loops, and distortion, incorporated funk and
synthesizer sounds into their music, evolving into what Cronin would
probably dismiss as a dance band. 

 Throbbing Gristle broke into Chris + Cosey (scintillating pop with a
dark underbelly), Psychic TV (pagan ritual dance music, then more and
more electronic, creating &#8220;acid house&#8221;), Coil (complex music with
pagan overtones, moving into dancier stuff), and so forth. 

 If dance music is mindless&#8212;and most of it is&#8212;at least it's less
annoying than most of the &#8220;new&#8221; crap that gets played on the radio,
MTV, and other outlets, much of which is totally derivative. I've
heard &#8220;new&#8221; music lately that sounds like it could have been
recorded in the sixties or seventies by some second-rate band. 

 On the other hand, there are plenty of groups (e.g., the Chemical
Brothers, Underworld, Single Gun Theory, the Grassy Knoll) that are
making music that I find interesting, creative, and, goddess forbid,
 fun &#8212;music that builds on, rather than just copies, music
done by older bands&#8212;even if it doesn't necessarily have a political
or social axe to grind.

 Via the
null device . 

 While I'm bashing Cronin, what's with his glorification of copyright?
While &#8220;Good artists borrow, great artists steal&#8221; can be taken too
far, it's foolish to pretend that newer culture doesn't build on the
old. The Sex Pistols used guitars and drums instead of inventing
their own instruments and covered Frank Sinatra tunes. Cabaret
Voltaire sampled freely from films and television. Throbbing Gristle
borrowed from ritual music. The Clash stole reggae songs and sounds. 

 Andrew gets the Negativland reference wrong&#8212; The Letter U and the Numeral 2 was the original version
of a booklet describing Negativland's battle with Island Records,
Casey Kasem, and their own label at the time, SST Records, over their
parody EP U2 . Island Records claimed that naive U2 fans
were buying it in the belief that it was a new U2 album, and demanded
that it be recalled and destroyed. In the end, SST complied, even
though U2 themselves seemed to acknowledge the legitimacy of the EP.
(Casey Kasem proved to be the sticking point&#8212;he was angry about the
 outtakes from his American
Top 40 radio show that were used in the track.) 

 The Letter U and the Numeral 2 included a CD, &#8220;Crosley
Bendix Discusses the U.S. Copyright Act&#8221;. There's a transcript on
Negativland's site. I think the essay sums up the issues pretty well. 

 The Electronica Primer 
has a good overview of &#8220;electronica&#8221;&#8212;what it is, where it comes
from, who makes it&#8212;that supports both my and Andrew's
interpretations of the term. (In that it includes some bands I
wouldn't have (e.g., New Order, although I'd agree some of their stuff
counts), but still emphasizes the danceability of the music.) 

 I apparently failed to bash Moby a bit over his new show on MTV, Se&ntilde;or Moby's
House of Music . We stumbled on this gem late one
weeknight, and were irresistibly drawn to it. Could Moby be lamer
than his live performance on Sessions at West 54th ? He
could. 

 I still like many of Moby's songs&#8212;they're not stunningly innovative
(Little Axe pretty well did the definitive electronica meets the blues
thing, if you ask me), but they hum well, and they're nice background
music for working or driving. But he really should stick to the
studio, as his attempts to make laid back songs exciting in live
performance are just sad. Give me Underworld any day. 

 One more music note&#8212;recording 120 Minutes and then
fast-forwarding through it on the off-chance that something halfway
decent might have been played continues to be the best way to watch
the show, nearly ten years after it started. It's much easier with a
Tivo, though. 

 March 9, 2002 (Sat) 

 An interview
with Karl Berry on GNU-Friends .

 Via Linux Today . 

 March 11, 2002 (Mon) 

 There are men with chainsaws climbing ladders outside my windows.... 

 (Yes, they're killing trees again.) 

 Derrick Story on &#8220;The
Changing Mac Community&#8221; . 

 Mike Kuniavsky: &#8220;It's
the User, Stupid&#8221; . Good stuff to take to heart. Cameron says he's working on an O'Reilly book, too. 

 March 13, 2002 (Wed) 

 Andrew points to a page about the London Underground , replete with facts and colourful details. 

 We spent several days tramping around in the Underground (over
Christmas), as well as nearly a whole day in the London Transport
Museum, and they were both wonderful. Trains rock. 

 In entertainment news, the
Winona thing continues to be utterly bizarre. 

 March 14, 2002 (Thu) 

 I've cleaned up and updated a number of peripheral files, including my
 .plan and my Wishlist . I've also added
some links on the blog's sidebar. 

 It may well be that Debian won't be able to
distribute LaTeX much longer. It's becoming increasingly
clear that the LPPL is non- DFSG -free, which
means that we can't include files licensed with it in
 main . 

 Ideally, we could persuade whoever it is that's in charge over there
to change the license to make it DFSG-free, but given the long history
of closed development, I'm not sure we'll be able to make that fly. 

 In the meantime, I'm working on e-mail messages to be sent to the
authors of documents (and packages) that I've found in our teTeX
packages that aren't even being distributed under the LPPL, many of
which actually have no copyright or distribution information in them
at all. With luck I'll be able to get in touch with these authors and
persuade them to license their materials under a genuinely free
license, such as the GPL (for code) or the OPL or FDL (for documentation). 

 All the acronyms in the last entry inspired me to modify my
 gr component so that it automatically insert
 <abbr> tags if I've defined an explanation in the
glossary. 

 Wow, crazy. Steve
Mann , Canadian cyborg and University of Toronto computing science
professor, is roughed
up by airport security (Warning: NYT ).

 Via Slashdot 

 March 15, 2002 (Fri) 

 The Mighty Tackhead covers
Tackhead (duh!) and On-U
Sound news. Among other good news, Little Axe's third album,
 Hard Grind , is coming out in June on Fat Possum . There's even a link
to an MP3 of one track. Great stuff&#8212;blues & dub. Mmm. 

 More cool music&#8212; Emigre , makers
of some great fonts, also have a magazine featuring articles about and
examples of graphic design. Some issues include CDs, including the
latest, which features a CD by The
Grassy Knoll . I first heard snippets of The Grassy Knoll's work
back in '97, when I was between jobs, homes, and (almost) friends,
housesitting and surfing the web to stay sane in a place without a
television and with 95% of my possessions locked away in storage, 50
miles away. 

 Oh, yes, and the teTeX mess made it into the latest issue of Debian Weekly
News . 

 University of Northern Colorado's Native American intramural
basketball team strikes
back against the &#8220;Fightin' Reds&#8221; mascot of a neighboring (white)
high school with the &#8220;Fightin' Whities&#8221; . Also, Google ;
 T-shirt images 
(possibly a ripoff).

 Via Red Rock Eater mailing list . 

 March 18, 2002 (Mon) 

 Cleaning frenzy! 

 M swept up the pile of leaves that's been rotting on our balcony for
the last few months, while I vacuumed everything&#8212;shelves,
appliances, books, CDs, tapes, computers&#8212;even the floor! 

 And we finally hung up some posters and photographs, as well as our
full-length mirror! Yeah! Only nine months after moving in!
Woo-hoo! 

 March 19, 2002 (Tue) 

 Damn!
Missed again... Oh, well, turns out it would only have
obliterated a city the size of Atlanta, not spun the Earth into the
Sun. Better luck next time. 

 It's spring break at Mudd, which means that M and I could go off and
do some exciting vacation thing, only we're not. We seriously
considered going to San Simeon to see Heart Castle, but in the end,
it's just a big house that costs a hell of a lot to tour, and not
really worth 8&#8211;12 hours of driving all by itself. 

 Instead, I think we're going to try to get excited about some of the
museums and other sights in the L.A. area, and maybe actually make it
to some of them. 

 Perl Advanced Techniques
Handbook (Mark-Jason Dominus)&#8212;&#8220;functional programming
techniques in Perl ... functions that can modify and manufacture other
functions.&#8221; Fun for the whole family! 

 Via a Randal Schwartz column , via
 Jon
Udell's blog . 

 Hey, why not boycott
Slashdot ? Apparently Rob Malda said that half of all Slashdot
readers don't read comments (which I can well believe), so rho thinks that users should show
him that's not true by neither posting nor reading comments during the
week of April 21&#8211;27, 2002. 

 Slashdot's been pretty marginal for a long time now (before I even
heard of it, to be honest). While the articles that make it to the
front page often have links that are worth reading, there're only a
couple of articles a week that are interesting enough to click through
to the comments page and don't have comments that are
completely predictable. (Slashdot articles with titles such as
&#8220;Microsoft Imposes Will on God&#8221; or &#8220;Apple Thwarts Open Source&#8221; are
unlikely to be worth checking.) 

 But, hey, why not? I can essentially continue my current relationship
with Slashdot and appear to be supporting a community-based boycott! 

 March 20, 2002 (Wed) 

 There are days when you'd be better off staying in bed. 

 Such days are not good days to drive twenty miles on the freeway to
joust with the most demonic bureaucracy in the State of California. 

 March 21, 2002 (Thu) 

 Somehow, the whole point of a dishwasher seems missed if you keep
forgetting to turn the thing on... 

 March 23, 2002 (Sat) 

 Plowing through Zeldman 's book,
which has some good tips (and some wacky stuff, as well). 

 Thinking about moving to New Zealand.... 

 M's burning CDs, trying to get a good one to send to her brother.
Turns out that something doesn't like the MP3s we made with LAME with
variable bitrate turned on&#8212;apparently the system guesses that a
track should be considerably longer than it actually is, based on
multiplying an incorrect rate by the size of the file. The result is
a CD with tracks that end with long chunks of silence. Re-ripping
with iTunes fixed the problem. 

 March 24, 2002 (Sun) 

 After a few hours of tinkering, the whole site should now be
valid XHTML 1.0. 

 One not-cool thing was that I had to change the format of the
 id attributes assigned to blog entries. As I mentioned before , the
 name attribute for some elements has been deprecated in
favor of the id attribute. Unfortunately, the argument
of an id attribute must begin with a letter
( A-Za-z ). Because my blog script assigns numbers to
these attributes, links to entries will break when the code is altered
to be XHTML -compliant. 

 So, in what I hope will be the last change I need to make to the
format of the permalinks on this site, I have modified my script to
add the string entry: to the permalinks for entries.
(I've also added the string day: to the id 
and name attributes for the <h*> tags. 

 If you had links to my blog entries, you'll need to edit them to add
the entry: string to the URL. So 

 <a href="archive/2002-03.html#24-1"> 

 would become 

 <a href="archive/2002-03.html#entry:24-1"> 

 March 25, 2002 (Mon) 

 Buckled down and got out e-mail messages to almost all the authors of
packages or documents in teTeX that aren't DFSG-free. 

 March 26, 2002 (Tue) 

 Sick today, but talked about the LPPL issues with some LaTeX people. 

 March 27, 2002 (Wed) 

 Added code to my blog script to create those fancy-schmancy calendars,
ala CamWorld , for the archive
pages. 

 There may still be some bugs to iron out, but I'm prepared to call it
a preliminary success and a pretty good use of the day. 

 J.E. Gordon's Structures, Or Why Things Don't Fall Down 
is both interesting and amusing. To tell the truth, I think
old J.E. is a bit of a nut. For example, 

What we find difficult about mathematics is the formal, symbolic
presentation of the subject by pedagogues with a taste for dogma,
sadism and incomprehensible squiggles.

 Or, 

Nowadays these ideas [stress and strain] can be understood by anybody,
and it is hard to account for the bewildered and even resentful
attitude which is sometimes taken up by laymen when `stresses and
strains' are mentioned. I once had a research student with a nice new
degree in zoology who was so upset by the whole idea of stress and
strain that she ran away from the university and hid herself. I still
do not see why.

 March 28, 2002 (Thu) 

 RMS on
software patents . A clear, calm, and rational explanation of the
demerits of patents.

 Via Slashdot . 

 The SFWA brings us an
amusing (if insane) guide to professional manuscript
submission . 

 In it, Roger MacBride
Allen recommends the use of laser-etched enameled steel plates to
ensure your perfect manuscript lasts forever and can't be marked-up by
arrogant editors. 

 (Found while looking for a source for paper
welders , a particularly cool paper-fastening device. My last
landlord-but-one had a version of this tool, for which I've harbored a
secret desire.) 

 March 29, 2002 (Fri) 

 While composing a reply 
to a
Slashdot review of Philip Pullman's &#8220;His Dark Materials&#8221;
trilogy , I found that a link to a list of changes between the
British and U.S. editions of the Harry Potter books that I'd posted earlier had changed (and updated it). 

 I also found some rumors
and gleanings about the characters and plots in the upcoming fifth
book, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix . 

 On a related note, I've quite enjoyed the first two books of Pullman's
&#8220;Sally Lockhart&#8221; trilogy ( The Ruby in the Smoke and
 The Shadow in the North ), but decided to take a break to
prolong the enjoyment and let the ending of the second book soften. 

 Once again, if you find yourself a supporting character in a novel,
think very carefully before getting involved with the main
character.... 

 Dealt with our taxes via H. & R. Block. Expensive, but worth it
as M had a complicated and bizarre situation and they pointed out that
I count as a dependent. We should be getting a big chunk of money
back. 

 Saw Blade
II , which was pretty good. Lots of action, somewhat
menacing bad guys, and an interesting (if improbable) story. They did
a pretty good job of resurrecting Whistler, who died in the first
movie. (The first thing I said when I saw a commercial and caught a
glimpse of Whistler was, &#8220;Hey! He's dead!&#8221;) 

 I could've done without most of the music, which has moved from the
interesting mix in Blade (intense New Order remixes,
Shonen Knife, some okay rap) to solid annoying rap/techno
combinations. 

 There were enough holes in the logic of the film to drive a semi
through, but that's hardly a surprise. (UV light works against
Reapers when they're underwater, but not against Blade's vampire
&#8220;allies&#8221;?) 

 Ate at Walter's. Yummy Afghani food, with leftovers for tomorrow.
Everything there is good, and the building is fascinating. We sat in
yet another area we'd never seen before. 

 March 30, 2002 (Sat) 

 Watched The
Cell , which left me a bit cold. They did a good job with
the serial-killer story, and the movie looked great, but it didn't
feel as together as I would've liked. 

 newer entries | older entries 

 Activity 

 << 
 March, 2002 
 >> 

 Mo 
 Tu 
 We 
 Th 
 Fr 
 Sa 
 Su 

 1 
 2 
 3 

 4 
 5 
 6 
 7 
 8 
 9 
 10 

 11 
 12 
 13 
 14 
 15 
 16 
 17 

 18 
 19 
 20 
 21 
 22 
 23 
 24 

 25 
 26 
 27 
 28 
 29 
 30 
 31 

 More Archives... 
 September, 2002 
 August, 2002 
 July, 2002 
 June, 2002 
 May, 2002 
 April, 2002 
 more... 

 Copyright &copy; 1998&#8211;2002, C.M. Connelly. 

 Last modified at 12:25 AM PDT, Sunday, September 8, 2002; last rendered at 
 12:25 AM PDT, Sunday, September 8, 2002 with Mason 
 and Perl . 

 Please e-mail me about problems with this page . Thanks.