C.M. Connelly: Blog: Archive for March, 2003 

 &#160; 

 Blog | 
 Debian | 
 Work | 
 R&eacute;sum&eacute; | 
 About... 

 Blog: Archive for March, 2003 

 March 3, 2003 (Mon) 

 Our TV died today. I was in the other room, but apparently it was
fine and then it started displaying a wide horizontal white band. No
sound, either. 

 M thought the TiVo had died, and tried switching channels to no avail.
Tried the DVD player and VCR, too. Sigh. 

 Of course now probably isn't the best time to be buying a television.
The government is pushing to force broadcasters to go digital, and
broadcasters and manufacturers are dragging their heels. Most
television is broadcast in the standard 4:3 ratio we all grew up with,
but cool DVDs and HDTV use 16:9. Choosing now is kind of hopeless,
although not quite as bad as buying a cellular telephone, as we're
promised workarounds for everything now available to keep it all
working once we're past the digital singularity. 

 March 6, 2003 (Thu) 

 We've been to a bunch of stores and done a ton of research online.
There are damn few TVs worth having, from what I can tell, but strong
in the running after our first night were a 32" Sony widescreen plasma
TV ($4500), a 27" and 24" Sony tube TV ($400-600), a Samsung 30"
widescreen ($1000), and a couple of others. 

 We live in a tiny one-bedroom apartment, which was all we could find
when we first came down here from Vancouver to find a place to live in
a week. It's not ideal, but we don't spend a huge amount of time
there, and we haven't, so far, been bothered enough to actually leap
into the void and do the house thing. 

 Anyway, with the size of our place we can't really have a big 4:3 TV.
Not so much because of the screen size, although we would have to
rearrange our furniture to get further away from a larger screen, but
because of the depth of the set, which would put the front of the set
even closer to where we sit. Even if we could, I don't think we'd
want one. But a widescreen TV might be doable, as I don't think that
it's quite as overwhelming as a huge 4:3 TV would be. 

 So I was really excited about getting a widescreen HDTV TV of some
sort. We looked at a bunch of sets, and by the end of the night I was
surprised to find that M was even seriously considering a plasma TV. 

 The problem, though, as we found after a bunch of tinkering with
various sets, is that watching regular television on a widescreen TV
is pretty lame&#8212;you've got huge black bars on either side and a
pretty small picture (with a 30" 16:9 display, I think the effective
size of a regular 4:3 image is equivalent to a much smaller regular
TV). If you want to use the whole screen, you can zoom in on the
image and lose the top and bottom, or you can stretch the image
horizontally, and all the people look like they're four feet wide and
weigh 2 tons. 

 Not only that, but it turns out that plasma TVs actually suck, anyway.
They have a very noticeable grid effect that you can easily see from
regular viewing distances, even with HDTV signals. (There was a
hockey game playing with a lot of white ice and a lot of moving
stuff.) So they don't really look much better than a tube TV, but
cost four to eight times as much. (Their big advantage is that
they're only a few inches deep, which would allow us to fit one into
our apartment easily.) 

 The next best thing would be a large LCD, but those have their own
problems, mostly to do with fast motion causing blurry images&#8212;the
same things that people complain about when they talk about LCDs not
being good enough for games. (My general impression from the LCD
computer monitors I've been working with lately is that they're way
better than they were. The LCD TVs, though, don't seem to have kept
up as well.) 

 So back to tubes. There aren't very many widescreen tube TVs that are
smaller than 32", which is too huge. In fact, I think there's one: a
30" Samsung. Unfortunately, that set turns out to only have one
S-video input, cleverly located on the side near the front so that you
can connect your camcorder or video games or something. Since we
currently have three things we might want to drive the TV at their
best possible output options&#8212;the Tivo, which has S-video; the DVD
player, which has component video; and the VCR, which has composite
video, the Samsungs are out. 

 So we started looking at 4:3 TVs again. After much web searching, M
was pretty excited about a 27" HDTV-capable Philips set ($800), with
lots of inputs and capable of doing something with the DVD player's
progressive scan output. After a bit of poking around and discussion,
she even managed to convince me that it was a pretty good choice, but
after we got home she started backpedalling and talking about getting
an ordinary 24" TV, which led to an argument and, finally, our just
dropping the whole discussion for the last couple of days. 

 So at the moment my new computer is headless (and therefore fairly
useless), and we're using my monitor for video and the stereo for
sound. I don't know what we'll end up doing in the end. 

 March 7, 2003 (Fri) 

 Dave Hyatt on tabbed
browsing . Interesting stuff, especially his discussion of the
different ways that tabs can be (and have been) implemented. 

 When I first came across the idea of tabs, I thought they were
ridiculous. After all, I had a reasonably large screen, and I could
just open separate windows. But when you start looking at pages with
multiple related links, or when you're browsing through documentation,
it's really nice to be able to pop those links open in separate tabs
within the same window, thereby giving you a bit of organization you
wouldn't have otherwise.

 Via Slashdot . 

 Expedia's site is confusing. When you're booking a flight, it
presents you with a list of possible flights at different times and on
different airlines, each with its own price. You choose one of those
and go on to a page presenting similar information for your return
flight, including the prices again. A naive user (*waves*) might be
excused for believing that each leg of the flight has a separate
charge, meaning that an estimate would be twice as high as the actual
cost. (Going all the way through the selection process gives you the
correct total, of course.) 

 March 14, 2003 (Fri) 

 Off to Seattle. By 'plane, always an enjoyable experience in our
post-9/11 world. 

 As usual, the smaller airports are more paranoid than the big ones
(presumably because they have fewer passengers, and can therefore
devote more resources per passenger to harassment). This time, I was
flagged because I was carrying&#8212;get this&#8212;nail clippers. I'd
already taken my tiny Swiss Army knife and my metal nail file out of
my purse and stowed them in my checked luggage. But nail clippers, I
thought, were safe. Apparently not. At least, not if they were &#8220;too
big&#8221;, because, apparently, some nail clippers have knives on them.
As if I'd be dumb enough to try to carry something like that onto a
'plane. 

 But, still, they had to see the clippers for themselves. But
 I couldn't just get them out and show them to the inspector.
No, I might pull them out and menace the entire airport with a knife
that could be, oh, an inch long? So I had to stand on one side of a
table while an inspector gingerly poked at my luggage, being rebuked
every time I tried to help him get to their location. Oh, yes, and
smile and be polite and thank him for searching my luggage. 

 Needless to say, there was no knife, so I was allowed to proceed,
clippers and all, to the gate, where M and I sat and made snide
remarks about the useless security as we watched other, more
unfortunate passengers trying to get their shows back on, or threading
their belts back through the belt loops of their pants. 

 After the usual interminable wait, we got on the plane, flew off to
Seattle, arrived safely, got our rental car, drove it around the
garage and back to its spot, traded it for an ever-so-slightly-smaller
rental car, and headed off to B & J's house. 

 March 15, 2003 (Sat) 

 Off to Portland for a hockey game between B & J's beloved Seattle Thunderbirds 
and their main rivals, Portland's Winterhawks . The teams had
played in Seattle on Friday, and Seattle had won. Feelings were
running high, and B & J's Seattle jerseys drew some attention from
the home team's fans. Luckily, we were sitting near lots of other
Thunderbirds fans, so no one tried to attack them (or us). 

 Hockey is wacky. I hadn't seen a game since I was a really little
kid, and remembered almost nothing about it. It's fast &#8212;the players are all whizzing around at high speed, skating full-out
towards the puck, then backwards to keep an eye on things. The puck
itself is tiny&#8212;about three inches in diameter&#8212;and devilishly
hard to keep track of, especially at first. 

 March 16, 2003 (Sun) 

 After a late start, involving breakfast around two or three o'clock in
the afternoon, M and I spent a long time wandering around this
fantastic toy store a couple of blocks away from B & J's house.
We were on our way into the nearby grocery store to fulfill our
original mission&#8212;buying orange juice&#8212;when we realized we needed
to get back immediately, lest B & J leave for the Thunderbirds
game without us. 

 Luckily, they'd waited, and we tore along Seattle's streets, arriving
at their favorite parking garage just in time to miss out on their
preferred parking spot. Superstitious grumblings about doom for their
team proved unfounded, as the Thunderbirds beat the Spokane team 6 to
1, with 5 goals in the first period. This game was a lot more
exciting than the Portland game&#8212;I'm not sure whether that was
because of our seats, which were much closer to the action (only five
or six rows above the ice) or because the teams were more into it. 

 I still maintain that hockey would be more exciting if it was
accompanied by seat-shaking dance music for the whole game, instead of
just during the breaks while the teams lined up for a face off. 

 March 17, 2003 (Mon) 

 We hit downtown Seattle. My main goal is checking out the bags at the
new Tom Bihn store; everything
else is gravy. 

 I had been looking at the bags from Tom Bihn for a couple of years.
Brian got himself a Brain Bag to carry around his
laptop and a bunch of other equipment. I was in the market for a
briefcase format bag to replace my Novell briefcase, which was pretty
awkward, most notably because it didn't have a compartment you could
pop a book into without opening the main flap, and because without the
flap closed with at least one of the two clips, picking it up caused
it to hang badly. 

 Anyway, I had been looking at the Empire
Builder . I had some worries, though, as the FAQ warned about it
being kind of large for people my size. Then came the ID ,
which was smaller, and also came in some interesting colors. 

 I probably would have bought one around Thanksgiving last year, but we
ended up not going to Seattle after all. After getting back from the
UK, I asked B to check the bags out in the Seattle store, which wasn't
far from his office. He gave me some useful information, but I still
wasn't sure. Then M suggested going to Seattle over spring break, and
I decided that the most sensible thing to do was to check them out
myself. 

 It turned out that the Empire Builder was pretty big&#8212;not its height
and width so much as its depth: the bag has padding so that it stays a
few inches deep even when unloaded. I suspect that if I ever filled
it, I wouldn't be able to move it. 

 The ID, however, is small, and the colors turned out to be even more
interesting then they looked on the website. (I got the one with the
purple patch on the outside and the wasabi (gold/green) interior.) 

 And I got to meet that man himself&#8212;Tom Bihn was running the store
that morning, and we spent about twenty minutes talking to him about
the impending war and America's place in the world. 

 This day was one of the finest I've ever seen in my visits to Seattle&#8212;no rain! Sun! But still pleasantly cool. Definitely my favorite
weather in months. 

 Needless to say, the fine weather made our visit to the Space Needle
worthwhile. We could actually see for miles and miles, and M took a
number of panoramas. B was asked to take pictures by several groups
of people, despite his claims that he was a terrible photographer. 

 We also spent a fair amount of time in Pike Place Market . We ate
lunch at the Pike
Pub , then wandered around the Market. We looked at reproduction
and original posters in one shop, pen and ink drawings in another, and
cloisonne jewelry in another. 

 We also hit REI , a cooperative
based in Seattle that sells equipment for camping, rock and mountain
climbing, skiing, bicycling, kayaking, and so forth. I had joined
years ago, but hadn't kept my address up to date with them. After
some searching around, they actually found my records under my
Canadian address. 

 I had been hoping to get a fleece I could keep in my office, but
everything I looked at was either a pullover (hard to slip on and off)
or, well, a bit too sporty. The best example of the latter
category was a jacket in an interesting pinky-purple color. Alas,
when worn it bore a startling resemblance to a uniform from a recent
vintage Star Trek . 

 March 18, 2003 (Tue) 

 Off to the new Washington State
Historical Museum in Tacoma. The museum itself was okay&#8212;a bit
heavy on the &#8220;white folks killed the Indians&#8221; guilt trip&#8212;but it
had some interesting exhibits about the internment of Japanese
Americans during World War II, and a surprising amount of material
about Hanford's nuclear work. 

 March 19, 2003 (Wed) 

 Back from Seattle! 

 We did the Seattle
Underground tour, which was both fun and interesting. Having read
about Seattle's crazy history, I never quite understood how things
worked; the tour helped a lot. 

 Despite being built on a mudflat, Seattle, it seems, burned down.
Business owners wanted to rebuild immediately in stone and steel to
prevent future fires from wiping them out. The city council and
engineer, however, saw the fire as a great opportunity to completely
remake the city by pushing the hills down to the city's site, raising
the city's core, along with much more land, above sea level so that
flooding wouldn't be a problem in the future. 

 Both sides did what they wanted&#8212;the merchants built their shops and
hotels of stone, and the city went ahead with the regrading. Walls
were built a few feet away from the buildings' walls, and the space
between them was filled in to form the street, a dozen feet or more
above the sidewalks&#8212;and the first floors of the buildings! 

 After a number of people had died (from &#8220;involuntary suicide&#8221;), they
decided it was time to cover the original sidewalks with new sidewalks
at the same level as the streets. The main entrances moved up to the
second floors of the buildings, but the original first floors and
sidewalks were still used, especially during the Yukon gold rush
(during which, apparently, Seattle fleeced every miner it could). In
the early twentieth century the underground was closed (because of
fears of bubonic plague), but it was &#8220;rediscovered&#8221; when Bill
Spiedel started tours to help get Seattlites interested in getting
Pioneer Square on the historic preservation rolls. 

 Less fun was the trip to the airport. We wanted to be sure to get gas
before returning the rental car (lest we pay $5 a gallon&#8212;European
gas prices!), which led M to suggest going via 99 instead of 5. Alas,
we were a block from the only downtown onramp, and turned the wrong
way from the garage. After a frustrating and unpleasant tour of
Harbor Island, we ended up back downtown, on the 99, and on our way.
Part of the confusion came from the fact that Seattle has two large
airports located fairly close together&#8212;Boeing Field and SeaTac. As
we were using a map that had been refolded to expose two panels at a
time, all I could see was Boeing Field, which I took to be our
destination. Only when I unfolded the map a bit more did I realize my
mistake. 

 Needless to say, we made it to the airport, checked in the car, and
rushed to the check in desk. We were able to get seats together (in
the last row), and then went through security to wait by the gate.
Every television in the airport (and there were a lot) was tuned to
news of the war, which was about to start. Correspondents excitedly
reeled off lists of weapon systems they expected to be used during the
opening days of the war. 

 Once on the plane, we had a bit more insight into the true
effectiveness of airport security. Being in the back of the plane,
near the flight attendants' seats, we got to hear both sides of a
little situation&#8212;it seems that two men had been assigned the same
seat. After questioning them, the flight attendants figured out that
one of them had checked in first; the other had checked in with the
touch screens, then gone to the counter to try to switch his seat.
One was named &#8220;Barton&#8221;; one &#8220;Braton&#8221; (or something like that).
Apparently the counter person picked the wrong name, assigned the
second guy to the first guy's seat, and issued a boarding pass with
the wrong name on it. Despite a number of ID checks before boarding
the plane, the guy with the mismatched ID and boarding pass had never
been questioned, let alone stopped. 

 Oh, well. As long as things look secure, right? 

 March 21, 2003 (Fri) 

 Saw one of the Goodyear blimps doing crazy maneuvers&#8212;diving and
climbing and making sharp turns&#8212;over Cable Field. My guess is that
they're training a new pilot. I'm jealous. 

 I've never seen a blimp maneuvering like that&#8212;usually they're just
puttering along sedately. I had seen a television program showing
the controls and the blimp's reactions, however, so I could tell what
was going on. It's still pretty amazing to see a blimp pointing
downwards at about 45 degrees and powering down toward the ground. 

 March 23, 2003 (Sun) 

 Our new TV, a Philips ,
was delivered today. It's amazingly better than the Sony&#8212;images
are smooth and clear where the Sony had very visible horizontal lines
and tended to look a bit &#8220;flashy&#8221;. M's theory is that the Sony tube
was designed to work well with digital signals, where it wouldn't have
to deal with interlacing, and thus uses a phosphor coating that fades
more quickly. (DVDs looked pretty good on the Sony, but regular TV
looked terrible.) 

 The Philips even has a pretty good set of speakers. Maybe not quite
as nice as the Sony's, but still very adequate. 

 newer entries | older entries 

 Activity 

 << 
 March, 2003 
 >> 

 Mo 
 Tu 
 We 
 Th 
 Fr 
 Sa 
 Su 

 1 
 2 

 3 
 4 
 5 
 6 
 7 
 8 
 9 

 10 
 11 
 12 
 13 
 14 
 15 
 16 

 17 
 18 
 19 
 20 
 21 
 22 
 23 

 24 
 25 
 26 
 27 
 28 
 29 
 30 

 31 

 More Archives... 
 April, 2003 

 February, 2003 
 January, 2003 
 December, 2002 
 October, 2002 
 more... 

 Copyright &copy; 1998&#8211;2002, C.M. Connelly. 

 Last modified at 3:32 PM PDT, Tuesday, April 22, 2003; last rendered at 
 3:32 PM PDT, Tuesday, April 22, 2003 with Mason 
 and Perl . 

 Please e-mail me about problems with this page . Thanks.