C.M. Connelly: Blog: Archive for June, 2003 

 &#160; 

 Blog | 
 Debian | 
 Work | 
 R&eacute;sum&eacute; | 
 About... 

 Blog: Archive for June, 2003 

 June 6, 2003 (Fri) 

 My sister-in-law pointed me to Tha
Shizzolator , a Snoop Dogg filter. Here's a sample from a run on
this site: 

And I finished reading Ships of da Sky , which is yet
another wickedly depressing history of airships, know what I'm sayin'?
Every chapter wuz pretty much, &#8220;Behold da bomb diggity 'n glorious
airship, xxx ! See that shiznit conquer da skies! See da
crowds ooh 'n ahh! Oh, whoops, damn, there that shiznit goes, lots of
dead muthas, hell, guess we'll has try again, know what I'm sayin'?&#8221;

 June 23, 2003 (Mon) 

 Got some more books from Amazon today, but still waiting on two more&#8212;one on Haida Art , and, of course, the new Harry
Potter. Ours is coming from the UK, to match the others, so we'll
just have to wait. 

 Apple disappointed me by not announcing new laptops today
(mostly because I want one for work). However, they did announce a pretty awesome new 64-bit
machine , as well as show a bunch of cool new features in Panther , the next
version of Mac OS X. In fact, the new machines are so stunning that M
ordered a new dual-processor box to replace our 867 MHz single
processor Mac. Should be cool. 

 She's also part of Apple's developer program now, so we should get the
prerelease versions of Panther early. I'm looking forward to the user-switching
feature , which might actually make sharing a Mac with M almost
practical. 

 June 24, 2003 (Tue) 

 Gosh, what fun! 

 I logged out of my home machine this evening, and when I tried to log
in it informed me that my settings had to be wiped out for GNOME2.
Needless to say, I'm nowhere close to having a working environment
like the one I had. 

 Grr. 

 In the end, I was forced to upgrade a whole slew of packages from
unstable. The results, however, are pretty stunning. Fonts are now
antialiased, which means the whole thing looks good. I finally have
reasonable key repeat rates (for some reason that was broken before).
The mouse scrolls smoothly. 

 I miss my WindowMaker dock, but I was going to lose it sooner or
later, and I think I can cope (I wasn't really using most of its
functionality, anyway). In the meantime, pretty Linux is a wild thing
to consider.... 

 June 25, 2003 (Wed) 

 After much tinkering, a screenshot. 

 June 29, 2003 (Sun) 

 Sometimes you have to wonder about coincidence. Last night I noticed
that I was having some framerate issues. M suggested I try rebooting.
When I did, the system decided to fsck most of the
partitions (not surprising, as it claimed that some of them hadn't
been checked for 200 days). And damned if it didn't find unrepairable
problems on not one, but two partitions. One of which, of course, was
 /home . 

 The machine still ran, though, so I was able to backup the partition&#8212;doing manual backups of some special directories, such as my e-mail
and my CVS repository. So that's good, at least. 

 I also backed up a couple of other parts of the disk&#8212;some of
 /usr/local , /etc &#8212;and dumped a list of the
packages I have installed. 

 And, it turns out, the other damaged partition was /var ,
and, not coincidentally, some of the problems were with files in
 /var/lib/dpkg/info , which strongly suggests that the problems I had in early May were
caused by the disk degradation. 

 Oh, and our home Mac decided that now would be a good time to have its
drive (or drives, we're still not sure) die, too. Apparently it's
spinning its drives down, and sometimes they're not coming back up
again. In fact, not long after we'd started investigating the
problems with my machine, the Mac decided to pretend it had no drives
at all. 

 Luckily, again, I talked M into buying a FireWire disk a few weeks
ago, and she'd done some backups. She's managed to get the machine to
come back again and is busy doing newer backups of everything on both
drives, just in case. 

 And we thought it was because of buggy drivers for the iSight . 

 By the way, although I am somewhat pissed off at Apple right now, I do
have to say that the iSight is a nice webcam. Would've been nice if
they'd provided a way to mount it on one of their LCDs that didn't
involve sticky disks, though (maybe suction cups?). I expect that the
market may fill in the gaps, as it has with the iPods, for which there
are an amazing number of products available, from cases to extra
battery packs to miniature radio broadcasting station attachments. 

 Yes, I spent way too much time wandering around the Apple
Store last Friday. 

 Meanwhile, I've gotten lots of reading done. 

 I finished Erik Larsen's The Devil in the White City 
yesterday. It was every bit as good as I'd hoped after hearing about
it and then watching Larsen read from it on C-SPAN. 

 Everyone I've told bits of stories from the book has expressed
disbelief&#8212;&#8220;And this is a true story?&#8221; 

 Well, yes, it is. Technically, it's two true stories wrapped around
each other. On the one hand, we have the devil, Herman Mudgett, MD,
better known as H.H. Holmes, a serial killer before anyone had ever
heard of serial killers. And on the other we have the creators of the
White City, Chicago's World Columbian Exposition of 1892&#8211;1893, Henry
Burnham and his collaborators&#8212;Frederick Law Olmstead, Charles
McKim, Louis Sullivan, et al. While Holmes manipulates and murders,
the architects design and build a fantastic, iconic architectural
wonder that had a massive impact on American architecture (good or
bad, depending on your school of thought). 

 Larsen is an excellent writer, and, while the book is extensively
documented with end notes, the book reads almost like a novel. 

 I've just finished William Gibson's latest, Pattern
Recognition , which is easily his best book since Count
Zero , and with many of the same themes. 

 I can't say that I was that fond of the last few Gibson books. They
all had some good stuff in them, but never quite struck a chord with
me. Pattern Recognition , though, reminds me strongly of
Banks's The Business , D.F. Wallace's Infinite
Jest , and various bits of Pynchon, especially the more
accessible Pynchon, such as Vineland . 

 The main character, Cayce Pollard, is a &#8220;coolhunter&#8221; , hired by corporations and advertising agencies to
sniff out the next cool thing that will sweep the global market.
She's lost her dad in the World Trade Center attack, and suffers from
some odd psychic allergies to spokesthings, logos, and labels. I
sympathize. 

 She's hired to vet a new logo, then to seek out the creators of some
mysterious &#8220;footage&#8221;, apparently parts of an enigmatic film, that
appear in different locations on the web and are sought after and
obsessively discussed by cliques on various websites. 

 Meanwhile, we get some nice insights into how such collectives work
(that mesh with my experiences, anyway), some interesting theories
about how the Sinclair ZX-81 fueled the creation of British computer
programmers, and nice pointers to interesting products, past and
present, such as Curta calculators 
(which I've thought looked cool since I saw some in a display case at
the school I work for) and Buzz
Rickson's otaku esque reproductions of U.S. military
clothing. 

 Next up, the new Harry Potter, in original UK hardback. BTW, the site
 I mentioned that had a list of
differences between the UK and US editions seems to have died and been
taken over by some scummy site squatters. Looks like the list is now
available from a Geocities site 

 My Initial is going to have to go
back to the factory for repair. The pen itself is fine&#8212;it's
actually gotten nicer and nicer to use as time has gone on&#8212;but the
clip has come loose and I can't get it to stay in place. It's really
a shame, especially as I finally gave in and admitted that no one else
was going to buy me an ErgoDesk . and bought one myself.
Of course it arrived on Friday, and I haven't yet had a chance to use
it to see if it works for me or not. 

 newer entries | older entries 

 Activity 

 << 
 June, 2003 
 >> 

 Mo 
 Tu 
 We 
 Th 
 Fr 
 Sa 
 Su 

 1 

 2 
 3 
 4 
 5 
 6 
 7 
 8 

 9 
 10 
 11 
 12 
 13 
 14 
 15 

 16 
 17 
 18 
 19 
 20 
 21 
 22 

 23 
 24 
 25 
 26 
 27 
 28 
 29 

 30 

 More Archives... 
 March, 2004 
 February, 2004 
 January, 2004 
 December, 2003 
 November, 2003 
 October, 2003 
 more... 

 Copyright &copy; 1998&#8211;2004, C.M. Connelly. 

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons License .

 Last modified at 4:53 PM PST, Wednesday, March 3, 2004; last rendered at 
 4:53 PM PST, Wednesday, March 3, 2004 with Mason 
 and Perl . 

 Please e-mail me about problems with this page . Thanks.