Tinnitus Retraining Therapy 

 Tinnitus Retraining Therapy 

 Tinnitus Retraining Therapy (TRT), is a fairly new procedure for managing
tinnitus and/or hyperacusis. It happens to be the treatment I chose for my own
tinnitus & hyperacusis. The process normally takes 1-2 years and as I write this
in 1997 I've just begun, so there are no comments here about my own "results". 

There is a lot of interest and some debate about this treatment, and it
doesn't lend itself to a one-line description. My own interest in TRT
and questions from friends and from other people with tinnitus,
prompted me to collect some information about it in one place. 
It is NOT an attempt to "explain" the treatment; I don't have the expertise.
Primarily it is a description of my own experience of the initial stage. 

 References to Tinnitus Retraining Therapy 

Theoretical basis of Tinnitus Retraining Therapy 
and

Further reading 

 Partial list of clinics offering Tinnitus Retraining Therapy 

Note: Despite the disclaimer attached to the earlier version of this list, 
I have changed it to include only the clinics of the originators
of this treatment, Dr. Pawel Jastreboff and Dr. Jonathan Hazell.
Others can be found via referral and web search. As with any treatment or
clinic, please use care in selection should you wish to pursue it yourself.

Tinnitus & Hyperacusis Center, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia

The Tinnitus and Hyperacusis Centre, London UK

 One patient's-eye-view 

 This is a description of my own experience visiting one clinic in early 1997
to begin tinnitus retraining therapy, answering the questions I've been
asked most frequently. Note that the clinic visit is only the beginning of
the habituation process, which generally takes 1-2 years or so. This
description is written about 2 months after the visit.

 Before the clinic visit 

I filled out a questionnaire covering tinnitus and hyperacusis onset and
symptoms, medical history, lifestyle and other questions. Shortly before my
appointment I was asked to obtain earmold impressions and send them to the
clinic. The impressions were needed to tailor the habituator devices for me,
should I choose to try them. Since the clinic I attended was not local to me,
this saved time and/or an extra trip.

Obtaining the earmold impressions was simple. I went to a local audiologist
who put thick goo in each ear, let it set, took it out, and handed both
impressions to me in a mailing box. It cost me $30.

 Clinic Visit 

I visited the clinic on two consecutive days; each appointment lasted several
hours.
 The first day 
The first hour or two were spent with an audiologist. After reviewing my symptoms with me and explaining basic anatomy of the hearing system, she performed
several tests. She explained the purpose and procedure of each test before
beginning the test. Many of the tests were similar to various hearing tests
I'd had when first seeking help with tinnitus. They also measured (matched) my
tinnitus pitch and loudness, and tested noise tolerance to measure my 
hyperacusis. Much time was devoted to explanation of the tests and to any
questions I had.

One of the tests which startled me, involved applying increasing levels
of white noise to each ear, individually. My tinnitus was in my right ear
only, so I was not surprised when the tinnitus increased slightly when the
noise was first applied. I was surprised when my tinnitus reacted 
the same way when white noise was applied to my left ear. This makes perfect
sense according to the explanations I'd received about both physiology and
the theory/model behind habituation treatment -- however it still took me
by surprise and is one of my clearest memories from the battery of tests.

When the tests were completed I had some "time off" while the preliminary 
results were 
analyzed. I spent the rest of the appointment with another audiologist,
beginning the "directive counseling". This required intensive listening,
as a LOT of information was being transferred. The audiologist showed and
explained to me the results of my tests and explained the theory behind the
treatment. I had read all I could find before going to
the clinic, but this information was in more detail and was being related
directly to my situation. Throughout, my questions were encouraged.

At the end of the appointment the audiologist explained the general sequence
of events for the next day's appointment. This included the fact that I would
choose, at that time, whether or not to try wearing the habituator devices to
help manage my tinnitus and hyperacusis.

 The second day 

My second appointment began with an examination by an ear/nose/throat doctor.
(All normal, in my case, as was expected based on history & the results of
previous examinations, obtained before I 
came to the clinic.) Then I received more directive counseling, particularly
focused on questions I had from the previous day (and night's thinking).

At that point I was to choose whether or not I wanted to use the Viennatones
devices as part of habituation treatment. I chose to use them, so the rest of
the appointment was spent with the audiologist on this subject.
 She explained how to use, put on, & care for the devices.
I was told that Viennatones are sold as maskers, and are useful in habituation
because of their broad-spectrum noise and because their volume
could be set to the lower levels they prescribed for habituation. My tinnitus
existed in one ear only, but I was given two habituators with ear inserts
made from the impressions I sent the clinic before I arrived. (After my
previous day's experience with one-ear tinnitus being affected by noise in the
other ear, this didn't surprise me.)
I practiced
putting the devices on and setting their volume to a level that blended with,
but did not cover, the sound of my tinnitus. I also received information about
the return policy, warranty and insurance. She mentioned that in some
patients, tinnitus gets louder soon after using the devices, but that this is
temporary and is in fact considered a positive indication that habituation
is/will take place. She went over the schedule of followup appointments, as
applied to patients like me who were not local to the clinic.

The audiologist finished the appointment by making sure my questions had been
answered and emphasizing the importance of follow-up contact.

 Viennatones 

This is a picture of one of the devices I'm wearing as part of Tinnitus 
Retraining Therapy. (Actually it's one of the photographer's pair; thanks 
Andy!)
This one would be worn with the tan noise generator behind my right ear. The 
noise generator is
attached by tubing to a clear insert shaped to my ear (from the impressions
made before I went to the clinic). It
fits into my ear without blocking any sound, and its
purpose is to position the tubing so that the white noise is audible.
The length of tubing is adjustable; in my own pair the tubing is shorter
past the earmold insert.

The wheel on the back is the volume control;
below that is the on/off switch and the cover of the battery compartment.

Ed. Note, 1999: White noise generators for TRT are now available as in-the-ear models
as well as the behind-the-ear model shown here.

 Money 

Unless circumstances have changed since my clinic visit, the facts are that
tinnitus retraining therapy is expensive and that medical insurance coverage
can be difficult to obtain. Based solely on limited hearsay, I haven't
personally heard of treatment in the USA for much less than $2,000, not counting
any followup visits. 
The Viennatones themselves were about half that amount when I got them;
remaining fees varied depending on the extent of the tests & examinations
performed and the amount of time spent in directive counseling etc.

USA medical insurance coverage for Tinnitus Retraining Therapy appears to
be rare as well. The treatment is relatively new and most insurance companies
lump it in with prescribing hearing aids, which they often do not cover.
This may be changing, slowly, as insurance companies are educated, and 
I have heard of cases where insurance coverage was complete.

 After the Visit 

In the weeks following my visit to the clinic, I gradually increased the time
I wore the Viennatones until I was wearing them all waking hours. 
Per the clinic's advice, I continue to keep some level of background noise
around me as much as possible, in addition to the Viennatones.
I checked back with the clinic at a prescribed interval.
I had the apparently infrequent reaction of soreness at the top of my ears from
wearing the Viennatones for extended periods. This was fixed by adjusting the
length of the tubing. I still periodically contact the clinic and will be
returning for an in-person checkback in several months.

 Some personal impressions 
These are in response to questions I get asked. Your mileage may vary! 

Viennatones noise 
Many people have asked me how I tolerate the "white noise" sound of the 
Viennatones, when I already hear tinnitus sounds. For some reason I never
expected to be bothered by this. I had already discovered that white noise
doesn't mask my tinnitus well (water sounds work better for me), but I had also 
discovered that low-level background sounds help me tolerate tinnitus better.
This was a hard lesson for me -- like most of us, I crave *silence* -- but since
my tinnitus doesn't currently allow that, it's not an option, and background
sound + tinnitus is less intolerable for me than no-background-sound + tinnitus.
The Viennatones do not bother my hyperacusis at all; for that matter I can 
tolerate sounds slightly better with them on.

Immediate benefits for me personally 
(Gotta say it again: this is about me, not anyone else.) 

Tinnitus Retraining Therapy is known to be a time-intensive treatment, so that little
short-term benefit is expected. At least this was my 
impression; the knowledgeable may differ.
However I was pleasantly surprised by some benefits immediately, none of which involved
any change in the tinnitus itself. 

First, there was relief associated with the directive counseling, which built on
the information and support I had gathered after my first ignorant tinnitus
days. I found that it helped me to listen and talk with the people who treated
me at the clinic, no matter how much I had learned about TRT
beforehand. Also, when the tinnitus is especially distressing or
circumstances change, it helps to have access to people who are familiar with
my individual case and have the relevant expertise.

Second, my mild but annoying hyperacusis bothers me less when I'm wearing the
Viennatones.

Third, wearing the Viennatones frees me from the need to spend so much time
making sure noise is around me. Before I went to the clinic, I had already
discovered that having some sort of noise (TV, radio, some kinds of music,
pc fans, sound machine) around me made it easier to tolerate my tinnitus.
However I began to feel chained to these noisemakers. Going outside was
unpleasant; it was either too loud for my hyperacusis or too quiet for my
tinnitus. Now, I still keep noise around me, but I don't think about it
so much. Transiently quiet surroundings aren't so threatening. Situations
which alternate quiet with noise, such as meetings at work, are less
unpleasant. I used to practically plan my route through the house to be near
something making noise at all times. Now it's a relief not to have to do that,
and not to feel so constrained.

 Home 
 | 
 Tinnitus Info 
 | 
 Chats (IRC) 
 | 
 IRC Help 

 Chat People 
 | 
 Tinnitus Retraining Therapy 
 | 
 Yahoo Chats 

 #t Meet #1 
 | 
 Chat Babies 
 | 
 Chat Sounds 

This page last modified: