Tinnitus Online Community 

 Tinnitus Online Support 
 Some of the best help comes from other people who've been
there. 

These pages are an attempt to aid online communication
between people with tinnitus.
They're oriented to English-speakers, though I have listed some
 German- 
and French- 
language tinnitus resources.

 These pages are dedicated to the memory of
 -->
Susan Moreland. 

 Chats 

 Talk (type) to each other in real-time. 
Most chats require a java-enabled web browser, and in the past that has prevented
WebTV and AOL users from participating. However both these groups can join
IRC chats. If you don't know what IRC is don't worry, help is available.

Chat times are given in USA Eastern time. USA time zone offsets from Eastern: 
Pacific is 3 hours behind, Mountain is 2 hours behind, Central is 1 hour behind.

#tinnitus chat (IRC NewNet) and (Web NewNet) 

 These web pages were created in response to the help given me by this group,
which meets on the
 NewNet IRC network channel #tinnitus.
The scheduled English chats are on Fridays starting about 9:30 pm
Eastern time.
German chats at times convenient for Europeans were added in January 1999.

Other pages on this site give details such as the 
 chat schedule ,
 help with IRC , and other information
useful to the chat group.

 Yahoo Tinnitus Support Chat (Web) 

Requires java-enabled web browser. Started January 1999 by participants in
one of the Tinnitus Message boards.
Chats Wednesdays at 10 pm Eastern time.

 The Tinnitus Support Chat Room (Web) 

Requires java-enabled web browser. Mondays , 9-9:30 pm Eastern time.

 America Online Tinnitus Chat 
 (AOL only)

 Mondays from 8:30-9:00 pm, Eastern time. 
You cannot reach this chat unless you have an AOL account and are running
AOL software.

 America Online Chat, Meniere's (AOL only)

For people with or interested in Meniere's disease.
Chats start Sundays at 9 pm Eastern time.
You cannot reach this chat unless you have an AOL account and are running
AOL software.

 Email Lists 

To use one of these lists, you must subscribe by sending email in a special format
to the list's request address. Subscription is free.
After subscribing, you'll get email from other list subscribers and any email you send to the
mailing list will be seen and can be responded to by anyone who subscribes to the list. 
 You'll usually want to save the subscription acknowledgement email
you receive, as it will probably contain:

 the email address you'll use to send mail to list subscribers. 
 This is almost always NOT the address you used to subscribe. 
 instructions for unsubscribing,
if you decide you no longer want to receive email from the list. 

Tinnitus Mailing List

To subscribe , 
mail requests@smtp.cochlea.com 
and put subscribe tinnitus as the subject of the message. 
No message body is needed. You will receive a reply to which you must respond in
order to confirm your subscription.

DizziNews Mailing List

To
 subscribe ,
mail majordomo@samurai.com 
and put SUBSCRIBE DIZZINEWS in the body of the message.

Hyperacusis Mailing List

To 
 subscribe ,
mail majordomo@utdallas.edu 
and put subscribe hyperacusis in the body of the message.

 Message Boards 

Read and write messages on an Internet "bulletin board". Most of these are 
used with a web browser. Usenet Newsgroups can be used with a newsreader program
or a web browser.

 Tinnitus WWW Messages Board 
 Tinnitus
 Support Messages Board 

 Tinnitus Message Board 

 Meniere's Message Board 

for people with Meniere's disease, which includes tinnitus in its symptoms.

 Usenet newsgroup: alt.support.tinnitus 

Usenet newsgroups are the original/largest message boards. You use them with
a newsreader program, activated by the link above -- or you can
read them with your web browser (see the "archives" entries below.)
 There is also a German newsgroup. 
 WARNING: alt.support.tinnitus is an uncensored, unmoderated newsgroup.
There is help there, and by far the largest audience, but you have to wade
through some appalling nastiness to find it, at a level unusual even for
newgroups and worse than other message boards. If some saint would like
to start a moderated tinnitus newsgroup and serve as impartial moderator,
 new tinnitus sufferers will be in their debt. 

 Newsgroup archives, Web 

Google web archive of Usenet newsgroups, which they call "discussion forums".
Search on "tinnitus".

 Advanced Newsgroup search, Web 

Google power search: can search the "forum" of alt.support.tinnitus only,
by dates or other criteria

 Short list of tinnitus pages 

 American Tinnitus Association 

Books,tapes, brochures. Referral and support group list
with membership.

 Tinnitus FAQ 

Frequently Asked Questions and pointers to more
information

 Tinnitus
Retraining Therapy 

A paper on one of the promising treatment methods

 Oregon
Tinnitus Data Archive 

Statistics on people with tinnitus

 The "Tinnitus Info" page contains more tinnitus references.

 Home 
 | 
 Tinnitus Info 
 | 
 Chats (IRC) 
 | 
 IRC Help 

 Chat People 
 | 
 Tinnitus Retraining Therapy 
 | 
 Yahoo Chats 

 #t Meet #1 
 | 
 Chat Babies 
 | 
 Chat Sounds 

 If you have questions about these web pages please
 email the website
 administrator. 
 However, first note my Disclaimer: 
I have tinnitus; I don't treat it. I have no medical background.
Information contained or linked on these pages proved helpful and/or
interesting to me personally; nothing more is intended or implied.
As with any mass media, you will find lots of true and false
tinnitus information on the Internet; please use with care.

Spammers, particularly health-product spammers,
can be especially harmful to a group like ours. Check an
 anti-spam page 
for information about protecting yourself from
news & email spamming.

This page last modified: