Style Sheet Media Types 

 CSS Media Types 
 = Index DOT Css by Brian Wilson = 

 Main Index |
 Property Index |
 CSS Support History |
 Browser History 

 Introduction 

In CSS1, all of the CSS properties were targeted to the then-dominant
paged/visual rendering paradigm. Already, alternative web navigation
devices are on the market, offering much more variety and capabilities
than was common in the past. This crucial fact was recognized in the
creation of CSS2, and the expectation is that the variety of rendering
platforms for CSS will only grow as time goes by.

CSS2 now allows for the targeting of style rules to specific media types.
This means you can explicitly request that one or more style rules will
only apply when rendering to certain device types, such as a printer, an
aural browser or a handheld device. Several methods exist to target one or
more style rules to one or more media rendering device-types:

 Some CSS properties only apply to specific media types.
 Some property values have different meanings in different Media contexts.
 The @Media At-Rule
 specifies a target rendering media for a group of style rules.
 The Media component of the @Import 
 At-Rule syntax specifies the target media for an imported style sheet.
 The MEDIA attribute for the HTML
 LINK and
 STYLE elements
 specify target media for an entire style sheet.

 CSS2 Media Types and Descriptions 

The following list of Media type keywords is given in the CSS2 spec, and
that same spec also does not consider this list to be definitive. If a
browser claims to support a specific media type, it should implement all
of the CSS properties that the CSS spec should apply to the indicated media. 
 Note: All media keywords are considered to be
case-insensitive.

 Media Keyword 
 Description 

 All 
 May be rendered using any media-type device. 

 Aural 
 Rendering targeted for speech and sound synthesizers. 

 Braille 
 Rendering targeted for Braille touch-feedback devices. 

 Embossed 
 Rendering targeted for Braille paged printing devices. 

 Handheld 
 Rendering targeted for small or handheld devices (eg: devices with
 small screens, limited bandwidth or display capabilities - perhaps
 monochrome screens.) 

 Print 
 Rendering targeted for page-by-page use, typically printed on paper. 

 Projection 
 Rendering targeted for projection (eg: screen projections) using
 transparent media (eg: slides.) 

 Screen 
 Rendering targeted for continuous (non-paged) color computer screens. 

 TTY 
 Rendering targeted for media that uses a fixed-pitch character grid
 (eg: terminals and teletypes.) 

 TV 
 Rendering targeted for television-like devices (eg: color, basic
 sound capabilities, limited resolution and scrollability.) 

 CSS2 Media Groupings 

The CSS2 specification specification defines which media groups
that each CSS property applies to. It does so by aggregating the various
media types by function and form

 Interface 
 Description: This category describes the way
 a user experiences the entirety of a document with a given Media type.
 Options: 
 Continuous - The document is experienced using
 a movable window/portal on the content with the Media type. 
 Paged - The document is experienced a page at
 a time with the Media type. 
 Both - CSS properties are applied using either
 continuous or paged media with the Media type.
 Sensory 
 Description: This category describes the human
 senses used to experience a document with a given Media type.
 Options: 
 Visual - A document's content is experienced
 primarily using the eyes with the Media type. 
 Aural - A document's content is experienced
 primarily using the ears with the Media type. 
 Tactile - A document's content is experienced
 primarily using the sense of touch with the Media type.
 Layout 
 Description: This describes the method used by
 a Media type to render character content.
 Options: 
 Grid - Content is laid out using a character grid
 with the Media type. 
 Bitmap - Content is rendered as a bitmap with the
 Media type. 
 Both - Content can be rendered with a character grid
 or bitmap device.
 Interactivity 
 Description: This category describes the
 level of interaction possible using a specific media type
 Options: 
 Interactive - Media types which allow interactivity
 with the user 
 Static - Media types which do not allow interactivity
 with the user 
 Both - Applies to both Static and Interactive Media types.
 "All" 
 Description: Applies to all Media types.
 Options: All 

 Media Types versus Media Groupings 

 Each CSS property indicates the Media grouping that it applies to. The
 grid below, taken from the CSS2 specification, is a guide to which Media
 types belong to which Media Groups.

 Media
 Groups 

 Media Types 

 Interface 
 Sensory 
 Layout 
 Interactivity 

 Aural 
 Continuous Aural N/A Both 

 Braille 
 Continuous Tactile Grid Both 

 Embossed 
 Paged Tactile Grid Both 

 Handheld 
 Both Visual Both Both 

 Print 
 Paged Visual Bitmap Static 

 Projection 
 Paged Visual Bitmap Static 

 Screen 
 Continuous Visual Bitmap Both 

 TTY 
 Continuous Visual Grid Both 

 TV 
 Both Visual, Aural 
 Bitmap Both 

 Boring Copyright Stuff....