Private Idaho Online Help 

Version 2.8b Online Help 
 3/04/98 - copyright (c)1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 Joel
McNamara ( joelm@eskimo.com ) 

 Overview 

 What's new in 2.8 

 System Requirements 

 Where to Get Private Idaho 

 Installation 

General Configuration 

 Updating Remailer/USENET Info 

 Specifying e-mail information 

 Connecting to the Internet 

 Using an Address Book 

 Using Expert and User modes 

 Using OS/2 delay 

 Installing the remailer and nym server
PGP public keys 

 Controlling the behavior of the PGP DOS box 

 Setting PGP options 

 Loading your passphrase into memory at start-up 

 Using ViaCrypt PGP 

 Changing e-mail transfer settings 

 Adding your own e-mail software specifications 

 Saving Private Idaho settings 

 Auto encrypt/decrypt of settings 

 Auto encrypt/decrypt of secret and public key rings 

 Sending feedback 

Encrypting & Decrypting 

 Encrypting a message 

 Encrypting and signing a message 

 Signing a message 

 Using multiple keys to sign a message 

 Decrypting a message 

 Using multiple keys 

 Using "encrypt to self" 

 Using "eyes only" 

 Using conventional encryption 

 Using "obscurity" 

 Using word wrap 

 Using a file as input 

Key management 

 Creating a new key pair 

 Adding a key to your public ring 

 Deleting a key from your public ring 

 Inserting a public key in your message 

 Updating Private Idaho's public key ring information 

 Requesting a key from the MIT key server 

 Adding a key to the MIT key server 

Messages 

 Sending mail 

 Sending attachments 

 Transferring a message to your e-mail software 

 Importing or exporting a message 

 Using a header or signature (sig) in a message 

 Using word wrap 

 Using X-Headers 

Remailers 

 Sending mail through a single remailer 

 Sending mail through multiple remailers 

 Encrypting mail and sending it through a remailer 

 Using the Append on Send option 

 Using Cypherpunk remailer advanced features 

 Encrypt to remailer(s) 

 Replace subject 

 Use latent time 

 Use cutmarks 

 Post to USENET 

 About Mixmaster remailers 

USENET 

 Posting anonymously to a USENET newsgroup 

 Posting anonymously through a USENET gateway 

 Using gateways that require a newsgroup header 

Receiving PGP messages 

 Introduction 

 Scanning for PGP messages 

 Showing PGP messages 

Using Nym Servers 

 What is a nym? 

 Creating a nym account 

 Deleting a nym account 

 Adding an existing nym account 

 Changing your nym reply block 

 Changing your nym password 

 Encrypting a nym message 

 Preparing a nym message 

 Showing nym server statistics 

 Nym notes 

 Nym/USENET FAQ 

Miscellaneous information 

 Accessing a Web browser 

 Anonymously accessing Web pages 

 Troubleshooting 

 General 

 PUBKEYS.OUT 

 Mail server and Winsock connections 

 Scanning for PGP messages 

 Windows NT 

 PGP doesn't use correct key 

 PGP and Mixmaster icons in Win95 taskbar 

 USENET messages don't get posted 

 Messages or Web links don't transfer correctly 

 NYMS.TXT not formatted correctly and "File past end
of input" in NYMS.TXT 

 No "To:, From:, Subject:" headers appear in main window 

 Temp file problems 

 Mixmaster doesn't run correctly 

 Command line greater than 128 characters 

 Multiple .ASC files for attachments 

 Known issues 

 Command Summary 

 Credits and other things 

 Private Idaho Overview 
 What it does 

 Private Idaho makes private e-mail easier. It simplifies using PGP,
various anonymous remailers and nym servers. You can send e-mail messages
with it (if you have access to a SMTP mail server) or you can use it in
conjunction with many Windows e-mail applications. You can also download
and decrypt PGP e-mail messages if your Internet provider is using a POP3
mail server (most are).

 PGP is fairly well known. Remailers and nym servers are getting increased
exposure, but are still not widely used. If you use PGP, they are worth
knowing and learning about. For a good introduction, refer to:

 http://www.sendfakemail.com/~raph/remailer-list.html 

 What it doesn't do 

 Private Idaho isn't full featured e-mail software (and likely never
will be). It doesn't support many options a package like Eudora or Pegasus
does. It is meant to be a simple, easy to use tool for sending secure e-mail.
(The latest version of Pegasus does have hooks for a PGP drop-in module
and it appears as if Eudora will have similar capabilities in the future.)

 Private Idaho isn't a "complete" PGP shell. It's designed to make sending
private e-mail easier and incorporates the basic PGP features for doing
so.

 Why it's free 

 I'm a strong believer in privacy, especially electronic privacy. Electronic
privacy on the Internet is extremely fragile and can easily be abused.
That's why I wrote Private Idaho. To provide people with an easy to use
tool that enhances their on-line privacy. Private Idaho is free because
I want to make it available to as many people as possible. No strings attached
(aside from those included in the GNU General Public License).

 Sometimes I get asked if I'll accept donations to support continued
development. In the past, I've declined, but after giving it some thought,
if you want to support Private Idaho, please send a check to the Electronic
Privacy Information Center (EPIC) and include a note that you're doing
so because of Private Idaho. I personally feel this organization is doing
some great things, standing up for a variety of rights that are critical
to the continued growth and success of the Internet. Check out their Web
page ( http://www.epic.org ), and I think
you'll agree. And as a bonus, since they're a non-profit organization,
your donation is tax deductible. Reduce your taxes and support strong crypto
and electronic privacy. What a deal!

 The source code is available & 32-bit versions 

 Due to a variety of projects and other directions, I've had to considerably
cut back the amount of time I devote to Private Idaho. Because of this,
I've decided to make the Visual Basic source code available under the terms
of the GNU General Public License agreement. If you're a developer, you
might be interested. Here's
the details. 

 All the work I did on Private Idaho was centered around a 16-bit version
that would run under Windows 3.x and Windows 95. Since releasing the sources
to the public, several folks have released 32-bit
versions .

 What's new in 2.8 
Although it may look the same, version 2.8 has a lot of new features. Including:

Auto encrypt/decrypt of configuration files - If started with the command
line PIDAHO.EXE C:\WINDOWS\PIDAHO.INI (or whatever the path of the INI
file), PI will PGP decrypt the following files on startup, and decrypt
them on exit: PIDAHO.INI, NYMS.TXT, ADDRESS.TXT, and PUBKEYS.OUT. Recommended
for high security requirements. 

Support for auto-encrypt/decrypt of PGP's secring and pubring files. Conventionally
encrypts the key rings on exit, and decrypts them when PI first runs. This
prevents someone from examing your secret key ring to view your nym keys,
or your public ring to see who you correspond with. 

Keys menu added - A new menu called Keys now supports key related commands. 

Generate key pair command added - Support for creating PGP key pairs is
now available. 

Load passphrase at startup (in PGP Options) - Prompts for passphrase at
start. Keeps in memory so you never need to enter in the DOS box during
encrypt and decrypt operations. 

Update PUBKEYS.OUT command - Renamed from update public key to be more
accurate in meaning. 

Submit key to server command - Submits the public key in the message box
to the MIT server via an e-mail message. 

Get key from server command - Attempts to retreive a public key from the
MIT server based on the user ID in the To: box. 

Update remailer info command - When connected to the Net, this command
downloads the REMAILER.HTM file (a copy of Raph's Web page) and updates
current remailer info. This eliminates the RMINO and CPMAILER files and
the need to manually update them. If Mixmaster type remailers are selected
in the Remailers menu, information is updated about them from Raph's MM
page. 

Support for private remailers - Remailers that are in operation but are
no longer displayed in Raph's pinging list may be listed in a text file
named PRIVATE.TXT in the PI directory. Each line should contain only the
remailer address. These remailers will be appended to remailers shown in
Raph's list. 

Get remailer keys command - Connects to the remail key page and downloads
the contents to the message box. Keys can be added with the Add key from
message command. 

Remailer newsgroup header command - Adds a "Newsgroups" header in the message
body to support news gateways such as mail2news@anon.lcs.mit.edu. 

X-headers command - Allows user defined headers to be inserted in a mail
message. 

Append on send command - When checked, automatically appends remailer info
(including encrypting to remailers if selected) to the message before sending.
Eliminates the need to manually use the Append info command. 

Transfer options command - To transfer a message to an application, only
scripting is supported now. The tabbed, message headers have been eliminated. 

nym.alias.net support - The nym.alias.net nym servers (newnym type) are
now supported. An "Edit existing alias.net nym" command has been added
once a nym has been created. Creation of this type of nyms works is identical
in interface to the alpha nyms. Note: Advanced features such as multiple
and probability-based reply blocks are currently not implemented. 

Delete nym command - This command deletes a nym from the NYMS.TXT file
and optionally sends a delete message to the nym server. 

Attachment support - Users can now attach files to mail messages. These
are encoded as Base 64 MIME compliant. Attachments may be encrypted or
not. Note: Remailers and newsgroup postings do not support attachments. 

Add system info command - When you use the "Send feedback" command in the
Help menu to report a problem, check this menu item first. It adds system
and configuration information to the message to help me resolve problems. 

ViaCrypt support removed - Due to compatibility problems in getting PI
to work with the 4.0 version of ViaCrypt, and a small user base, support
has been removed. ViaCrypt users should simply put a copy of the DOS version
of PGP in their PGP directory to continue to use PI. 

Windows online help removed - PIDAHO.HLP is no longer shipped. Users are
encouraged to go to: http://www.eskimo.com/~joelm/pihelp.html and use a
browser to access the help file. The file can be printed or saved locally
if the user wants a copy on their hard drive for reference. The HTML file
is distributed with Private Idaho. 

Anon.penet.fi support removed - As of September 1996, Anon.penet.fi is
no longer operation. Because of this, support has been removed from PI. 

Font changes - Ugly FixedSys font has been replaced by MS San Serif. 

Under the hood - The IPP20.VBX file is no longer required. The following
controls enhance PI's Internet connectivity and performance and should
be placed in the C:\WINDOWS\SYSTEM directory: HTTP20.VBX, NETC20.VBX, POP20.VBX,
SMTP20.VBX 

 System Requirements 
 Microsoft Windows 3.x, Windows 95 

 Some users have reported success with Windows NT, but at this time,
it is unsupported.

 A Windows e-mail package 

 (Eudora, Pegasus, etc.) - optional

 PGP 

 (Pretty Good Privacy - 2.6.2 is the latest MIT version, or use the latest
"I" version out of the United States - if you're using the commercial ViaCrypt
Windows version, see the section on Using ViaCrypt
PGP .)

 VBRUN300.DLL (Visual Basic runtime) 

 Most people seem to have a copy of this file. It isn't included with
Private Idaho because of the size. If you need it, get it here .
Then move it to the \WINDOWS\SYSTEM directory.

 Where to Get Private Idaho 
Latest releases of Private Idaho are available from the main distribution
point:

 FTP - ftp.eskimo.com /u/j/joelm 

 World Wide Web - http://www.eskimo.com/~joelm/pi.html 

 Mirror sites include:

 ftp://ftp.rivertown.net/pub/win/privacy/ 

These sites may not have up-to-date releases:

 ftp.cts.com/pub/jrcffmn 

 ftp.ox.ac.uk/pub/crypto/pgp/pc 

 ftp.nus.sg:/pub/zq/pidaho 

Or, try an FTP search for Private
Idaho or PIDAHO.EXE (lots of European sites).

 Installation 
Private Idaho is distributed in a self-extracting .ZIP file (PI28b3.ZIP).
Create a directory, move the distribution file to it, and run it to uncompress
all required files. You can delete these files after you've installed Private
Idaho. The PI-Setup program will automatically install Private Idaho and
all required support files for you. The files copied to the PIDAHO directory
include:

PIDAHO.EXE (the application) 

PIHELO.HTM (HTML help file) 

REMAILER.HTM (remailer info) 

MIXMASTE.HTM (Mixmaster remailer info) 

RMKEYS.TXT (recent remailer PGP keys) 

NYMKEYS.TXT (recent nym server PGP keys) 

USENET.TXT (list of mail to USENET newsgroup gateways) 

EMAIL.TXT (list of e-mail software settings) 

URLS.TXT (list of Web URLs) 

PIPGP.PIF (for easy shelling to DOS PGP) 

PIPGPX.PIF (shell and autoclose) 

Files copied to the \WINDOWS\SYSTEM directory include:

CMDIALOG.VBX (common dialog control) 

HTTP20.VBX (HTTP server control) 

NETC20.VBX (Base64 encode/decode control) 

POP20.VBX (POP e-mail control) 

SMTP20.VBX (SMTP e-mail control) 

You can also choose to run PGP QuickStart from Setup . This utility will
help you download and configure PGP.

 If you're updating a previous previous of Private Idaho, Setup will
only replace older files. You'll be prompted to replace each existing file.

 If for some reason you have problems with the installation, you can
manually copy the files.

 When you run Private Idaho for the first time, it will prompt you for
configuration information (to be saved in the PIDAHO.INI file). You will
only need to go through this process once. The steps are fairly self-explanatory.
PIDAHO.INI is written to the C:\WINDOWS directory.

 Updating Remailer/USENET Info 
Remailers and USENET mail gateways come and go and vary in reliability.
You'll want to make sure you have the most up-to-date information before
using a remailer.

 The best source of information is Raph Levien's automatic pinging service.
Raph publishes statistics on remailers, including their response time.
Private Idaho uses this data. It's all contained in the REMAILER.HTM file.
This is the HTML file found at: http://www.sendfakemail.com/~raph/remailer-list.html 

 You can update the contents of this file in realtime by choosing the
Update remailer info command in the Remailers menu. If you have a Net connection,
Private Idaho will attempt to make a connection to the Web server and download
the current information to your hard drive. The date and time of the last
update is shown beneath the remailer list. The previous version of the
file is stored as REMAILER.OLD. If you have problems downloading a new
version, rename REMAILER.OLD to REMAILER.HTM.

 Note: Remailers that are in operation but are no longer displayed
in Raph's pinging list may be listed in a text file named PRIVATE.TXT in
the PI directory. Each line should contain only the remailer address. These
remailers will be appended to remailers shown in Raph's list.

 In addition, Private Idaho also updates the following Mixmaster-related
files:

MIXMASTE.HTM contains statistics on Mixmaster Type II remailers. 

PUBRING.MIX contains Mixmaster remailer keys. 

TYPE2.LIS contains list of Mixmaster remailers. 

 To get the latest Mixmaster infomation, make sure Mixmaster is checked
in the Remailers menu. Then choose the Update remailer info command in
the Remailers menu.

 (File information comes from the following respective sources: http://kiwi.cs.berkeley.edu/mixmaster-list.html ,
 http://kiwi.cs.berkeley.edu/pubring.mix ,
 http://kiwi.cs.berkeley.edu/type2.list 
. In addition, http://www.jpunix.com 
is a good source of Mixmaster information.)

 Note: If a remailer is listed without any statistics, there's
a good chance it currently isn't running. Unless you know for sure, don't
use it.

 Automatic updates of USENET gateways currently aren't supported (you'll
need to update the USENET.TXT file by hand). You can get the most current
USENET gateway information (as well as additional remailer info such as
PGP keys) by:
 E-mailing mg5n+remailers@andrew.cmu.edu 
(no subject or text in the message body required)

 or

 http://students.cs.byu.edu/~don/mail2news.html 
Look at the file contents before you replace it. Copy the information you
need and paste it to the updated file.

 Connecting to the Internet 
You can send and receive e-mail messages over the Internet directly from
Private Idaho, as well as check a variety of remailer and key information
sources. To do so:

you must be connected to your Internet provider through a Winsock stack 

your Internet provider must support a SMTP mail server for outgoing e-mail 

your Internet provider must support a POP3 mail server for incoming e-mail 

Once you are connected to the Internet, run Private Idaho. You now can
send and receive mail and access remailer and key information sources.

 Note: Older versions of Private Idaho required you to choose
the Connect command from the File menu to establish a Net connection. This
is no longer required.

 Which mail servers you use depends on the information in the Options
dialog box in the File menu. For example:

E-mail address - joelm@eskimo.com 

Real name - Joel McNamara 

SMTP server name - mail.eskimo.com 

POP account name - joelm 

POP server name - mail.eskimo.com 

 Note : If you have problems connecting, try using the IP numeric
address instead of the server name.

 Using Expert and User modes 
When Private Idaho is initially installed, it asks you whether you are
an experienced user. If you are, it instructs the user interface to display
Expert mode. Expert mode contains all of the Private Idaho menu commands.
If you're new to PGP and anonymous remailers, you should specify User mode.
This mode only displays the most commonly used Private Idaho commands.

 You can switch between Expert and User mode in the File menu. That way,
once you're experienced with Private Idaho, you can access the complete
set of features.

 Using an Address Book 
You can store commonly used e-mail addresses in a user-editable address
book. Choose the "Address book" command from the File menu. This displays
the Addresses text edit window where you can add e-mail addresses. These
addresses appear in the To: combo list.

 Each line should contain a unique address. E-mail addresses appear in
the To: combo list in the order they appear in the Addresses window.

 Addresses are stored in the ADDRESS.TXT file in the Private Idaho directory.

 Using OS/2 Delay 
Another option in the Options dialog box is the "Use OS/2 delay" checkbox.
Some versions of OS/2 may run the shelled DOS PGP process and Private Idaho
simultaneously, causing errors (for example, PGP isn't through encrypting
a file, but Private Idaho decides to display it). If this box is checked,
Private Idaho will pause and display a dialog box. When PGP has completed
its processing, click the "Resume" button to continue.

 If you are running OS/2, you may (or may not) need to check this option.
If you are running Windows (by itself), make sure this option is not checked.

 Installing remailer and nym server PGP public
keys 
With Private Idaho you can easily send encrypted mail to certain remailers,
using their public keys. The ciphertext is decrypted when received, and
then sent on to the next destination. In addition, if you use a nym server,
messages sent to the server must first be encrypted with the server's key.

 The file RMKEYS.TXT contains copies of remailer PGP keys. Use the "Import
message" command in Private Idaho's File menu to read the file into the
message area. Then use the "Add key from message" command in the PGP menu.
All of the keys will be added to your key ring. If you already have some
of these keys installed, PGP will skip them and only install new ones.

 The file NYMKEYS.TXT contains copies of nym server PGP keys. Use the
same procedure as listed above to install these keys.

 You can also get a current list of remailer keys by using the Get remailer
keys command in the Remailers menu. This makes a Net connection and downloads
a list of current keys to the Message box.

 Specifying e-mail information 
If you use an Internet provider that supports sending e-mail through a
SMTP (Simple Mail Transport Protocol) mail server, the most commonly used
type, you can send messages directly from Private Idaho without using another
e-mail application. If your Internet provider supports receiving messages
through POP3, you can have Private Idaho check your mailbox for PGP encrypted
messages.

 To do so, you need to enter some setup information when Private Idaho
is first run. This includes:

Your e-mail address - i.e. joelm@eskimo.com 

Your real name - i.e. Joel McNamara 

Your SMTP server name - i.e. mail.eskimo.com 

Your POP3 account - i.e. joelm 

Your POP3 server name - i.e. mail.eskimo.com 

You can get these settings from the current e-mail software you are running.
These settings can be changed with the Options command in Private Idaho's
File menu.

 Save Private Idaho settings 
The Save Settings command in the File menu writes all of your current settings
(such as remailer type, whether to minimize PGP, encrypt to self, latent
time setting, etc.) to the PIDAHO.INI file. These settings will be "remembered"
the next time you run Private Idaho, with the various options activated.
Private Idaho automatically saves the current settings when you exit.

 Auto-encrypt/decrypt of
settings 
Private Idaho stores a variety of information in the PIDAHO.INI, NYMS.TXT,
ADDRESS.TXT, and PUBKEYS.OUT files. Some people are concerned about the
privacy aspects of leaving information about who they are communicating
with or clues as to their nym identities on their hard drives.

 If you start Private Idaho with the path containg PIDAHO.INI (i.e. C:\WINDOWS\PIDAHO.INI)
as the command line, it will automatically decrypt the PIDAHO.INI, NYMS.TXT,
ADDRESS.TXT, and PUBKEYS.OUT files on start-up (you'll be prompted to supply
a passphrase) and encrypt them with your primary public key when you exit.
Encryption/decryption is performed on the files using the primary public
key you specified in Private Idaho. You can set a command line in either
the Program Manager or Explorer.

 If you enter an incorrect password during start-up, Private Idaho will
exit (no three strikes you're out). This process may take awhile, depending
on the size of your files.

 Warning : It would be wise to back-up these files.

 Security Alert: Since you're entering your secret key within
a Windows program and not the DOS box, there's a chance the passphrase
may be written to the Windows swap file. If you have a high threat model,
be sure to wipe the swap file before you shut down your computer.

 Auto-encrypt/decrypt of secret and public key
rings 
You can have Private Idaho automatically encrypt your public and secret
key rings when you exit and decrypt them when you run Private Idaho. This
is a useful feature if there's a chance your key rings might be compromised.

 To auto-encrypt/decrypt:

 1. In the PGP menu, choose the Options command.

 2. Check the Auto encrypt/decrypt key rings box.

 When Private Idaho exits, you'll be asked to enter a passphrase (this
can be any passphrase you'd like). Private Idaho will then go the PGP directory
specified in the Options dialog (this should be the same as the PGPPATH
environmental variable in AUTOEXEC.BAT), and conventionally encrypt the
SECRING.PGP and PUBRING.PGP files.

 The next time Private Idaho runs, you'll be prompted for a passphrase
to decrypt the files. Remember it. It may or may not be the same as your
secret key passphrase.

 To turn this option off, uncheck the box in the Options dialog and click
OK.

 Note: If you use other PGP shells, this option is likely not
a good idea unless you manually decrypt the key rings before using with
another shell.

 Warning: If you forget the passphrase used to encrypt the key
rings, you're going to be out of luck. That's a 128 bit IDEA key which
will roughly take 5.4 x 10 18 years to brute force based on 10 6 
encryptions per microsecond. Otherwise, be sure you've got a back-up of
your key rings.

 Security Alert: If you use the same passphrase as your secret
key's to conventionally encrypt the files: Since you're entering your secret
key within a Windows program and not the DOS box, there's a chance the
passphrase may be written to the Windows swap file. If you have a high
threat model, be sure to wipe the swap file before you shut down your computer.

 Sending feedback 
Choose the "Send feedback" command from the Help menu. Text in the message
box will be erased, and a new message will be addressed to me, ready for
your comments.

 If you find a bug, be sure to check the "Add system info item" in the
Help menu, then choose "Send feedback." This adds information about your
system and Private Idaho configuration.

 Due to a variety of other projects, I've had to drastically cut back
on the amount of e-mail support I provide for Private Idaho. Bug reports
will be logged and suggestions will be noted, but at this point, don't
hold your breath waiting for an e-mail reply from me. If Private Idaho
doesn't seem to work right, check the Troubleshooting 
section in the on-line documentation. I'll try to keep this current with
common problems.

 Another excellent source of information is the alt.security.pgp 
USENET newsgroup. There's quite a few Private Idaho users there, and often
they'll answer posted questions.

 Encrypting a message 
1. Enter the e-mail address of the person you want to send the encrypted
message to. (Since most people will use their e-mail address as part of
their PGP user ID, Private Idaho will search through the public key ring
looking for a match. If it finds a match, it will encrypt off of that key.
If it can't find a match, user IDs in the public key ring are displayed,
and you select one.)

 2. Compose the message you want to encrypt in the message box.

 3. Choose the "Encrypt message" command from the PGP menu.

 Private Idaho will create a temporary file containing the message, shell
out to PGP and encrypt the file with ASCII armor, copy the encrypted text
to the message box, and delete the temporary file with the PGP wipe command
(yes, wipe only performs a single pass at overwriting the data before deleting,
if you need more security, try a shareware memory resident app called Real
Delete).

 Note : Clicking the cursor on To: will display a dialog box listing
the contents of your PGP public key ring. Since most user IDs correspond
to e-mail addresses, this is a quick way to enter an address.

 Encrypting and signing a message 
Same as encrypting a message (only you choose the "Encrypt and sign message"
command from the PGP menu).

 If Multiple User IDs are specified in the PGP Options dialog box, you'll
be prompted for which key to use to sign the message.

 Signing a message 
Same steps as encrypting a message (only you choose the "Clear sign message"
command from the PGP menu). This adds your signature to the text contained
in the message box. The text is not encrypted.

 If more than one user ID is specified in the PGP Options dialog box,
you'll be prompted for which secret key to use to sign the message.

 Important Note : Some e-mail packages (notably Eudora), hard code
carriage return/line feeds when mail is sent and Word Wrap is turned on.
This means if you sign and message, the signature will be invalid when
the receiver gets it, because CR/LFs have been added. I've found most e-mail
software is pretty smart these days, and will automatically wrap lines
without CR/LFs. Consider turning Word Wrap off if you have this problem
with clear signing.

 Using multiple keys to sign a message 
You might have several keys on your secret key ring, and want to select
one of them to sign a message with. A good example might be if you have
multiple nyms and want to associate a key with each nym.

 Private Idaho supports up to 8 PGP keys that can be used for clear signing
a message. You need to enter the user ID of each key. To do this:

 1. Choose "Options" from the PGP menu.

 2. Click the "User IDs" button.

 3. Enter the user ID from your secret key ring.

 4. Click "OK."

 Now check the "Prompt for user ID on signing" checkbox and click "OK."

 When you choose the "Clear sign message" command from the PGP menu,
a dialog box is displayed containing the user IDs of the keys. Select the
key you wish to sign the message with.

 Decrypting a message 
1. Paste the encrypted message you received to the message box.

 2. Choose the "Decrypt message" command from the PGP menu. You will
be prompted for your passphrase.

 Private Idaho will create a temporary file containing the message, shell
out to PGP and decrypt the file, copy the decrypted text to the message
box, and delete the temporary file with the PGP wipe command.

 Importing or exporting a message 
The "Import message" command in the File menu reads a text file from disk
into the message box.

 The "Export message" command saves the contents of the message box to
a text file on disk.

 Using a header or signature (sig) in a message 
You can store frequently used headers and signatures and insert them directly
into messages composed with Private Idaho.

 Headers could be:

 X-Anon-Password: <whatever>

 X-Anon-To: <the addressee>

 Such as those used with the anon.penet.fi remailer.

 Signatures are text with your name, e-mail address, and other information.

 Choose the Options command in the Edit menu to enter a header and signature.
These are saved to the HEADER.TXT and SIG.TXT files in the Private Idaho
directory.

 Once entered, the header/signature can be inserted into the message
text box with the Insert header and/or Insert signature commands in the
Edit menu.

 Note : A header with a password or a signature used in the wrong
place can compromise the security of your e-mail. Please use these features
carefully.

 Using multiple keys 
This option encrypts your message with multiple keys. When it is checked,
a dialog box will prompt you to enter which keys to encrypt the message
with. The List button will display a list of keys in your public ring.
Use the List button to specify one key at a time.

 You can also manually enter full or partial user IDs, with each ID separated
by a space.

 Multiple user IDs will be inserted in the To: line. If the creator of
the key has followed standard PGP conventions, these will be "mailable"
e-mail addresses.

 Using "encrypt to self" 
This option encrypts the message with your own key in addition to the key
of the person you are sending the message to. PGP can encrypt a message
with a multiple number of keys. This effectively makes the message decipherable
by the person you are sending it to and yourself.

 This feature is handy for archiving encrypted messages you have sent.
You will need to provide your secret passphrase in order to decrypt any
messages "encrypted to self."

 Using "eyes only" 
This option sets a flag in an encrypted message so when it is decrypted,
the contents will only be displayed in the DOS box, and not saved to disk.
Although there are ways to get around this, the idea is to use this option
if you're concerned about someone you send an encrypted message to, leaving
the decrypted text file somewhere that could be compromised.

 If you use Private Idaho and get an "Eyes only" message, decrypted text
will not be placed in the message box. After it is displayed in the PGP
DOS box, an error message will appear stating a file could not be found
and the decryption couldn't take place. This is normal.

 Using conventional encryption 
When "Conventional encrypt" is checked, Private Idaho instructs PGP to
use conventional versus public key encryption on a file or a message. This
encryption relies on a single passphrase to encrypt and decrypt the information.

 Using "obscurity" 
When PGP encrypts text with ASCII armor on (almost required for sending
e-mail), it adds a header that identifies the message as being PGP encrypted.
This obviously clues anyone in to the fact that the message is encrypted.
There are times when a user might not want a message to be obviously identified
as encrypted.

 When Obscurity is checked, Private Idaho will strip off the identifying
PGP text headers when a message is encrypted. It will also add the headers
before it calls PGP to decrypt ciphertext in the message text box.

 Obviously, the sender and receiver of the e-mail are both going to need
to be using Private Idaho and know they need to have "obscurity" turned
on.

 Note : The format of a PGP message is very distinctive to a trained
observer. Don't count on the "obscurity" feature fooling a knowledgeable
and suspicious person.

 Using word wrap 
If the "Word wrap on encrypt/sign" menu item is checked, Private Idaho
will insert carriage returns at the end of each line in the message text
box. This is useful when sending messages to users with mail software that
doesn't support automatic word wrap. The actual word-wrapping is performed
only before a message is encrypted or signed.

 You can also manually word wrap a plaintext message with the "Word wrap
message" command in the Message menu.

 Word wrap length is set in the Options dialog box in the Edit menu.

 Using a file as input 
When "File as input" is checked, Private Idaho uses a file versus the contents
of the message box as the source to encrypt or decrypt. You'll notice the
encrypt/decrypt menu items display "file" instead of "message" when this
option is checked.

 You will be prompted to supply the filename to encrypt/decrypt. File
are encrypted with ASCII armor (to allow easy attachment in mail), and
tagged with an .ASC extension. The plaintext file is not deleted or wiped
after encryption. The file will be encrypted with the key in the To: line.
The Encrypt to self, Eyes only, and Obscurity options are not used, even
though they may be checked.

 This option is useful if you have a message over 32k (Private Idaho's
maximum message box size).

 Creating a new key pair 
To create a new PGP public and secret key pair, choose the Create key pair
command from the Keys menu. This launches PGP. Follow the steps to create
a new key.

 Adding a key to your public ring 
If the message box contains someone's PGP public key that they mailed it
to you, the "Add key from message" command in the Keys menu will add any
key(s) in the message to your public ring and update the PUBKEYS.OUT file.

 Deleting a key from your public ring 
You can delete keys from your public key ring. To do so:

 1. Choose the "Delete key" command in the Keys menu.

 2. Select which public key to delete from the user ID list.

 PGP will remove this key from your key ring and update the PUBKEYS.OUT
file.

 Inserting a public key in message 
There are times when you'll likely want to send someone your public key
so you can exchange messages. You can easily do this by:

 1. Choosing the "Insert key in message" command in the Keys menu.

 2. Selecting the public key (from a list of user IDs) you want to insert.

 This extracts a key from your public key ring, and inserts it at the
cursor in the message text box.

 Updating Private Idaho's public key ring information 
When you first run Private Idaho, it copies information from your public
key ring to a text file named PUBKEYS.OUT. If you add or delete keys from
PGP or another shell, you need to update the file. To do so:

 Choose the "Update PUBKEYS.OUT" command from the Keys menu.

 The PUBKEYS.OUT file should always be in the same directory as Private
Idaho.

 You don't need to use this command if you add or delete keys from within
Private Idaho.

 Requesting a key from the MIT key server 
You can directly request a key from the MIT key server. This is useful
if someone sends you an encrypted message but you don't have their key
to reply with.

 1. Enter the user ID to search for in the To: box. This is typically
an e-mail address. For example, joelm@eskimo.com

 2. In the Keys menu, choose the Get key from server command.

 Private Idaho will connect with the MIT key server at http://swissnet.ai.mit.edu
and make a request to search for a key. If a key is located, it will be
displayed in the Message box. If a key isn't in the data base, an error
message is displayed.

 After you have successfully downloaded a key, you can add it to your
public key ring with the Add key from message command in the Keys menu.

 Note : Be very specific with the search text. If you enter "john"
on the To: line, the server will try to return all of the keys containing
"john." Private Idaho won't be able to handle such a request.

 Adding a key to the MIT key server 
You can add your public key to MIT key server. The MIT key server is a
central repository for public keys where people can download your key to
send you encrypted messages.

 1. Insert the public key to submit in the Message box. You can extract
a public key from your key ring with the Insert key in message command
in the Keys menu.

 2. In the Keys menu, choose the Add key to server command.

 Private Idaho will send an e-mail message to the server, requesting
the key to be added. You'll be notified by e-mail if the key is successfully
added. If you aren't connected to the Net, transfer the message to your
normal e-mail application for later sending.

 Controlling the behavior of the PGP DOS box 
When encrypting and decrypting, Private Idaho needs to shell out to the
DOS version of PGP. You can control the appearance of the DOS box and its
behavior with the "Run PGP minimized" and "Auto-close PGP" commands.

 When "Run PGP minimized" is checked, the iconized window is displayed
at the bottom of the screen when PGP is run. When this option is not checked,
the full-screen, Windows DOS box is displayed.

 When "Auto-close PGP" is checked, the PGP DOS box is automatically closed
when PGP finishes running. When the option is not checked, you must manually
close the window when PGP is done running.

 These features are useful for viewing PGP diagnostic messages.

 Setting PGP options 
Choose the "Options..." command from the PGP menu.

 The PGP path (which is extracted from the PGPPATH environment variable,
which you should have set if you followed the PGP installation instructions)
is the directory path where the PGP .EXE is located.

 Your PGP user ID is just that. You can use the entire user ID (i.e.
Joel McNamara <joelm@eskimo.com>) or a portion of it. You are prompted
for this when Private Idaho starts.

 The User IDs button supports up to 8 PGP secret key ring user IDs. When
"Prompt for user ID on signing" is checked, a dialog box is displayed that
prompts for the key to use in clear-signing the message.

 There is also a temporary file name. This is the file Private Idaho
uses when encrypting and decrypting text from the clipboard. PIDAHO is
the default, and you should leave that setting unless you have any name
conflicts (which you shouldn't). Temporary files are written and deleted/wiped
from the PGP directory. Do not add a file extension to the temporary name.

 You can specify a full path for the temp file (i.e. e:\temp\pidaho).
This is provided for users who want the additional security of having their
temp files written to a RAM disk. If a full path is specified, that directory
is used.

 You can specify to load your PGP passphrase at start-up (see below).

 You can also specify to auto-encypt/decrypt 
your secret and public key rings for additional security.

 If you want to use key rings that are located somewhere other than the
default PGP directory, you can specify their location in PGP's CONFIG.TXT
file. See the PGP documentation for details on this.

 Loading your passphrase into memory at start-up 
You can optionally enter your PGP passphrase when Private Idaho starts.
In the PGP Options dialog, check the Load passphrase into memory at start-up
box. The next time you use Private Idaho, a dialog will prompt you for
your passphrase. The passphrase will automatically be used each time you
decrypt and/or sign a message (you won't be prmpted for it in the DOS box).

 Security Alert: There are obvious risks with this feature (the
passphrase potentially written to the Windows swap file, someone accessing
your messages if you leave the machine unattended, etc.). You need to judge
the trade-offs of security versus convenience.

 Note : This feature is disabled if you choose to use multiple
keys for signing and encrypting.

 Using ViaCrypt PGP 
Previous versions of Private Idaho supported ViaCrypt's PGP for Windows
version 2.7.1. Unfortunately, the latest 4.0 release has been changed significantly
so Private Idaho can't support it. Because of this, and the relatively
small number of users, Private Idaho 2.8 no longer supports ViaCrypt.

 If you're using ViaCrypt, place a copy of the DOS version of PGP in
your ViaCrypt directory and use Private Idaho to interact with it.

 Sending mail 
If your Internet provider uses a SMTP mail server, you can send e-mail
directly from Private Idaho. Before running Private Idaho, you should have
a PPP or SLIP connection to your Internet provider.

 To send a message, make sure the proper "to:" mail address is specified
and either click the Send button above the message text or use the "Send
message" command in the Message menu.

 As Private Idaho communicates with the mail server, you'll see parts
of the conversation displayed above the message box.

 Mail sent directly from Private Idaho is currently limited to the size
of the text box (roughly 32K). There are no limitations on attachment sizes.

 If you use Private Idaho with a non-SMTP mail server or wish to use
a full-featured e-mailer, you can use the Transfer commands in the Message
menu to transfer a composed message back to your primary e-mailer for sending.

 Sending attachments 
You can include attachments with e-mail messages you send directly from
Private Idaho. Attachments are Base64 encoded and are MIME compliant.

 To send an attachment:

 1. Compose the message and enter the recpient's e-mail address on the
To: line.

 2. In the drop-down list box below the Attachment check box, select
the whether not to encrypt the attachment, encrypt the attachment with
the key belonging to the person on the To line:, or encrypt the attachment
using PGP conventional encryption.

 3. Check the attachment box. A file dialog will prompt you to select
the file you'd like to attach. The file's name will appear next to the
Attachment check box after it's been selected.

 4. Send the message. The file will first be encrypted (if specified),
then Base64 encoded.

 If you decide not to attach a file to a message, uncheck the Attachment
box.

 Note: Private Idaho currently does not support sending uuencoded
attachments. Sending attachments through anonymous remailers is also not
supported.

 Using X-Headers 
Some mail systems process messages based on special headers (frequently
called X-Headers). This is optional information that accompanies the required
To, From, Date, etc. headers. You can add your own defined headers to messages
with the X-Headers command in the Message menu.

 When X-Headers is checked, the user-defined X-Headers are inserted into
the message headers. When X-Headers isn't checked, no additional headers
are inserted into the message.

 Sending mail through a single remailer 
You have a choice of different types of remailers to use. They include:

Cypherpunk - the largest category of remailers. 

Mixmaster - the most secure type of remailer. 

Eric - another type of remailer 

 Note : Anon.penet.fi is no longer in operation as of September 1996.
If it appears again, Private Idaho will support it at that time.

 I really don't want to get into the differences between the various
types or make suggestions on which to use. See: http://www.sendfakemail.com/~raph/remailer-list.html 
for some good information sources on remailers.

Check which type of remailer to use in the Remailers menu. 

Compose the message and specify who you want to send the mail to in the
To: line. 

Select a remailer from the Remailer: combo list. 

Choose the "Append info to message" command from the Message menu. 

The appropriate remailer instructions are added to the contents of the
message box.

 If you are using a SMTP mail server, you can click the Send button or
use the "Send message" command in the Message menu.

 If you are using another e-mailer, the "Transfer to app" command in
the Message menu moves the message to your e-mailer. The "Append and Send/Transfer"
commands appends and sends/transfers in one menu selection.

 Sending mail through multiple remailers 
This option currently only works with Cypherpunk and Mixmaster type remailers
(although you could chain to anon.penet.fi as your final destination if
its address is specified in the To: line).

 1. Follow the same steps as with a single remailer, but choose "chain"
from the Remailer: combo list box.

 2. Choose the "Append info to message" command from the Transfer menu.

 3. A list of remailers is displayed. Select the ones you wish to chain.
You can choose the order you wish to chain the remailers.

 The appropriate remailer instructions are added to the contents of the
message box.

 Using the Append on send option 
If the Append on send item in the Message window is checked, the message
is automatically formatted for sending through a remailer when you send
the message directly from Private Idaho (you don't need to choose the Append
info command). Keep in mind you still need to encrypt the message with
the recipient's key, if you plan on sending an encrypted message.

 Encrypting mail to send through an anonymous mailer 
1. Encrypt the message first.

 2. Select the appropriate remailer(s) and choose the "Append info" command
from the Message menu.

 If you don't follow this order, you'll end up encrypting the remailer
instructions. The remailers are smart, but not that smart.

 Using Cypherpunk remailer advanced features 
The Cypherpunk remailers offer some advanced features to enhance e-mail
privacy. When the "Cypherpunk" option is checked in the Remailers menu,
the "Advanced Cypherpunk" cascading menu item is available.

 By checking one of the options, it filters the remailers in Remailer
list box. For example, if you check the "Use latent time" option, only
Cypherpunk remailers that support the latent time option will be displayed
in the list box. If no options are checked, all Cypherpunk remailers are
displayed.

 Select advanced options, then select which remailers to use. (Each time
an option is checked or unchecked, the list is reset, and the default value
is "none.")

 Encrypt to remailer(s) 
These remailers have PGP public keys. If you send mail encrypted with their
key to them, they will automatically decrypt the mail and pass the decrypted
message to the next destination. This is a fairly secure form of communication,
since there is no plaintext transmitted to the remailer.

 When this option is checked, the text in the message box will be encrypted
with the selected remailer(s)' key.

 You must first add the remailer keys to your public key ring. See the
installation instructions.

 You can also chain remailers with this option. Each text block will
be encrypted with the appropriate remailer's key. This was a fairly tedious
task to do by hand, but Private Idaho completely automates the process.

 Keep in mind this level of encryption is totally separate from you encrypting
a message to an individual.

 Replace subject 
The "Replace subject" option removes the subject on the Subject: line,
and adds a user-selected subject to final mail destination. This is useful
if you really don't want someone to guess the contents of the mail by the
subject line.

 A dialog box will prompt you for the subject title.

 Use latent time 
The "Use latent time" option instructs the remailer to delay sending the
message after some set period of time. This is useful if you suspect traffic
analysis is taking place (watching the flow of messages to and from you).

 A dialog box will prompt you for the amount of delay.

 You can either specify a local time for the mail to be sent (in 24 hour
clock format). For example, entering 18:00 would instruct the remailer
to send the message at 6:00 PM, the local time of the remailer. (Don't
add AM or PM.)

 You can also specify a set number of hours and minutes after the mail
is received. For example, entering +10:30, would delay sending the message
10 hours, 30 minutes after it was received by remailer. You can enter values
of up to 24 hours.

 If you are chaining remailers and use the latent time option, the same
value will be used for all remailers. A future version will allow you to
enter unique time values for each remailer.

 Use cutmarks 
Some e-mail packages automatically attach a signature (sig) to the bottom
of each sent message. This obviously reduces the anonymous nature of using
a remailer.

 When the "Use cutmarks" option is checked, the remailer will search
for a line beginning with a certain character string. It will remove that
line, and all subsequent lines. For example, if you specify the cutmarks
to be "--", the line containing "-----------------------" and any lines
after it, would be stripped from the message.

 You specify the cutmarks string in a dialog box.

 If you are chaining remailers, cutmarks will only be removed from the
message received by the first remailer. This is because a message composed
in Private Idaho will not have any sigs attached to it.

 Note : Be careful of using cutmarks with encrypted messages. PGP
encrypted messages start with "-----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----", so if you
used "---" as the cutmark, your message would be removed.

 Post to USENET 
Some remailers can post anonymously to USENET newsgroups. When this option
is selected, a list of remailers that support this feature is displayed
in the remailer list. Read the Posting anonymously to a USENET newsgroup
section for details.

 About Mixmaster remailers 
Mixmaster (or Type II) remailers offer a high level of security (see http://www.obscura.com/~loki 
for complete details). Up until now, Mixmaster has only been available
to UNIX users. Mixmaster's author, Lance Cottrell, has recently released
a DOS client version of the application that works with Private Idaho 2.7b
(and later).

 Since the Mixmaster client uses export-controlled cryptography, it is
not included with Private Idaho. Refer to http://www.obscura.com/~loki 
for information on how to get a copy of MIXMASTE.ZIP (the compressed version
of Mixmaster and its support files).

 Note : Although Lance and I have taken every reasonable precaution
to assure that DOS Mixmaster was not exported, it appears that one or more
persons unknown to us have exported the DOS version of Mixmaster (in violation
of US law). We intend to continue to abide by the letter of US law in this
matter, however I will list non-US ftp sites from which Mixmaster can be
obtained as a public service:

 ftp://utopia.hacktic.nl/pub/replay/pub/remailer/mixmaste.zip 

 To be able to send messages through Mixmaster remailers you need several
files:

MIXMASTE.EXE - the Mixmaster client 

MIXMASTE.CON - a support file 

PUBRING.MIX - the list of Mixmaster remailer keys 

TYPE2.LIS - the list of Mixmaster remailers 

MIXMSTR.TXT - statistics on Mixmaster remailers 

MIX.PIF - the PIF file for shelling to the DOS application 

These files are included in the MIXMASTE.ZIP file. Uncompress the files
and move them to the directory containing Private Idaho.

 After you've installed these files, in the AUTOEXEC.BAT file add the
following line:

 SET MIXPATH=C:\PIDAHO

 with the directory path specifying the Private Idaho directory. Reboot
your computer and run Private Idaho.

 Note: If you have problems getting Mixmaster to run correctly,
set the working directory path in the MIX.PIF file to the the directory
containing Mixmaster and Private Idaho.

 Using Mixmaster remailers 

 Using Mixmaster remailers is no different than using Cypherpunk style
remailers. Select "Mixmaster" from the Remailers menu, compose and address
your message, select the remailer(s) from the drop-down list box to use,
and choose "Append info" from the Message menu.

 Private Idaho will shell out to the DOS version of Mixmaster, and prepare
the message for sending.

 You'll need to update information about Mixmaster remailers, just like
Cypherpunk remailers. Specifically the PUBRING.MIX, TYPE2.LIS, and MIXMSTR.TXT
files.

 Updated Mixmaster information can be found at:

 http://www.sendfakemail.com/~raph/remailer-list.html 

 and

 http://www.jpunix.com 

 Notes: Mixmaster remailers chain differently than Type I Cypherpunk
remailers. All of the remailer formatting information is encapsulated into
a single message. This is unlike the Type I remailers, which you watch
go through seperate formatting passes as each link in the chain is encrypted
and formatted.

 Because Mixmaster creates a fixed size message, text in the message
box is currently limited to approximately 8 to 10k. This will be addressed
in a future release.

 Posting anonymously to a USENET newsgroup 
You can prepare a message for anonymous posting to a USENET newsgroup.

 1. Enter the name of the newsgroup you want to post to in the To: combo
box (i.e. alt.2600).

 2. Enter the subject and message.

 3. If you are posting through the Anon.penet.fi or Eric remailers, you'll
need to make sure the remailer is checked in the Newsgroup menu.

 If you are using a Cypherpunk remailer, select the "Post to USENET"
option in the "Advanced Cypherpunk" cascading menu. (You can also choose
the Encrypt and Subject options to further enhance privacy.)

 4. Select the remailer you want to send the message through.

 5. Choose the "Append info to message" command from the "E-mail" menu.

 6. If you'd like to chain your post, select which Cypherpunk style remailers
to use and choose "Append info to message" again.

 Note : I frequently get e-mail from people who are having difficulties
posting to a USENET newsgroups. If you follow the instructions, this usually
isn't a problem with Private Idaho. The most common reasons why people
don't see there anonymous messages posted include:

When test posting to alt.test or another high traffic newsgroup, sometimes
articles seem to disappear into a black hole. 

 Try alt.anonymous for your tests.

The speed of your Internet provider's newsfeed impacts when you will see
your article. It may be hours or days before you actually see an article
you posted. This depends on which server you posted the article to, and
the amount of time it takes for the newsfeed to reach your Internet provider's
news server. 

If you chain an article, a single remailer that is down will prevent the
article from reaching its final destination. 

The bottom-line is you get what you pay for. The remailer services are
free. It's only when some Internet providers start charging for their privacy
services, will you see a higher level of reliability when posting anonymous
USENET articles. Until then, be prepared to experiment to find the right
remailer that is the most reliable for you.

 Posting anonymously through a USENET gateway 
USENET gateways are mail servers that support posting to USENET groups
through e-mail messages. To post through a gateway with a Cypherpunk style
remailer:

 1. Enter the name of the newsgroup you want to post to in the To: combo
box (i.e. alt.2600). Note : Don't use someone's address. A gateway
isn't a remailer.

 2. Enter the subject and message.

 3. Select the "E-mail gateway" option in the Newsgroups menu. If you
select None, specific information needed to create a newsgroup posting
will not be added.

 4. Select a remailer (or "chain") from Remailer: combo box.

 5. Choose the "Append info to message" command from the "E-mail" menu.

 IMPORTANT NOTE : Sending a message to one of the USENET gateways
will not anonymize the mail. You must send it through a remailer first.
Please test by sending mail to someplace like alt.anonymous before doing
it for real.

 USENET gateways are getting increasingly harder to find. Many have shut
down due to abuses. Others don't support all newsgroups. You may have to
try several before finding one that works for you.

 Wil Ussery has put together some pretty good FAQs 
on how to use Private Idaho to post anonymously to USENET newsgroups and
how to use it with nym servers. Thanks Wil!

 Using gateways that require a newsgroup header 
Some e-mail to USENET gateways require a "newsgroups" header (for example,
mail2news@anon.lcs.mit.edu).

 To use these gateways with Private Idaho, compose your message, then:

 1. Enter the gateway address on the To: line.

 2. Make sure Replace subject is checked in the Advanced Cypherpunk remailer
menu (Encrypt to remailers can optionally be checked for more security).

 3. Check the Remailer newsgroup header item in the Newsgroups menu.

 4. Specify the remailer to send the message through, and choose "Append
info" from the Message menu. ( Note : Do not select "chain." If you
want to send the message through multiple remailers for additional security,
it is a two step process. AFTER the message has been formatted,
select "chain" in the remailer list and choose "Append info" again from
the Message menu.)

 You'll will be prompted for the subject and newsgroup name. Private
Idaho will then enter these in the body of the message. If you're cross-posting
to a series of newsgroups, seperate them with commas. This is better than
sending many different individual messages.

 Note: You don't need to go through these steps with gateways
that are listed in Private Idaho's Newsgroup menu. See http://students.cs.byu.edu/~don/mail2news.html 
for a complete list of gateways that require a newsgroup header.

 Transferring a message to your e-mail software 
1. Make sure the e-mail software (Eudora, Pegasus, etc.) is running, a
blank, new message in the e-mail software is in front, and the cursor is
on the To: line. Do not minimize/iconize the e-mail application.

 2. In the Private Idaho "E-mail" menu, choose the "Transfer to e-mail
app" command. If you've specified multiple applications, a cascading menu
with the application names is displayed. Select the application you'd like
to transfer to.

 This transfers the address information and message contents you entered
in Private Idaho to your e-mail software.

 If you don't have the new message window open or the cursor is somewhere
other than the To: line, Private Idaho will happily try to paste the data
in whatever e-mailer window is active.

 Changing e-mail transfer settings 
The Transfer Options command in the Message menu contains the settings
used to transfer a message from Private Idaho to the e-mail software you
are using. This information must be correct for a valid transfer to take
place.

 The information in the dialog is fairly self-explanatory. Make sure
your e-mail application is running before you run Private Idaho. You may
need to experiment with which window to transfer to. Use your common sense
in selecting a window name from the list.

 Private Idaho supports up to 4 applications to transfer messages to.
Click the "Multiple" button at the bottom of the dialog. Then fill in the
application's name, window name, and the script to use.

 The script language has the following commands:

to - to: header line 

from - from: header line 

subject - subject: header line 

cc - cc: header line 

bcc - bcc: header line 

msg - text in the message window 

tab - Tab 

+tab - Shift+Tab 

enter - Enter 

right - Right arrow 

left - Left arrow 

up - Up arrow 

down - Down arrow 

escape - Esc 

+ - Shift 

^ - Ctrl 

% - Alt 

Each of the commands instructs Private Idaho what information or key should
be sent to the e-mail application. (Header lines are automatically sent
with a following Tab.)

 Each command (with the exception of the last entered command), should
be followed by a comma.

 Run your e-mail application and list the key sequences required to transfer
the information. Usually, the cursor should always start on the first line/item
of the new message window. However, if you like, you could write a script
to execute a variety of menu commands to open a new message window.

 For example, if you were using Free Agent, the following script would
correctly transfer your e-mail from Private Idaho:

to,subject,tab,tab,tab,tab,tab,tab,tab,tab,msg 

 Adding your own e-mail software specifications 
The EMAIL.TXT file contains specifications for a variety of e-mail packages.
Up to 12 e-mail apps will be displayed in the dialog box when you choose
Options from the Transfer menu.

 The file is a text file, with each line representing e-mail information.
The file format is simple. A record consists of:

line 1 - the name of the app to appear on the button (i.e. MS Mail) 

line 2 - the program name as it appears when you ALT+TAB (i.e. Microsoft
Mail) 

line 3 - the script used to transfer the information from Private Idaho
(see above) 

Private Idaho reads 3 lines in at a time and associates it with a button.
When you press the button, the information is filled in.

 Introduction to receiving PGP messages 
If you are connected to the Internet, and your Internet provider uses a
POP3 mail server (the most frequently used), Private Idaho can check your
mailbox for any messages that have been encrypted with PGP. If a PGP message
is in your mailbox, Private Idaho will download and store it on your hard
drive. Messages are displayed with the Show PGP messages command and you
can decrypt the message immediately or wait until later.

 While this makes accessing encrypted messages easy, there is one hitch.
Private Idaho only processes PGP encrypted messages, and leaves all other
messages on the server. This means you'll need to use a full-featured e-mail
application such as Eudora or Pegasus to access any messages that aren't
encrypted.

 For people who periodicially log-on to their Internet provider to check
mail, this isn't a problem. Simply run Private Idaho first to check for
any PGP messages, then run your normal e-mail application to access the
other messages.

 For people who leave their e-mail application running in the background,
this presents a sequencing problem. Currently, with Private Idaho, you
can only manually check for PGP messages. There isn't a timer option to
periodically check for messages at some set interval. Viewing this, it's
very possible your regular e-mail application will download a PGP message
before Private Idaho can.

 The only solution to this problem would be to turn Private Idaho into
a fully functional e-mail application, so you could send, receive, and
manage your encrypted and regular mail. Unfortunately, I don't have the
time to do this. However, if someone (or a group) is interested in taking
this on as a project, I'd be glad to share the source code.

 Scanning for PGP messages 
The Scan for PGP messages command in the Message menu connects to your
POP3 mail server and scans the message headers for any PGP messages. If
an encrypted message is found, it is downloaded, added to a file on your
hard disk, and then deleted from the server.

 The first time you scan for messages, you'll be prompted to supply your
password to access the mail server. Private Idaho remembers this password
for subsequent scanning, but "forgets" it when you exit the program.

 Status about the scanning process is displayed above the message text
box.

 Showing PGP messages 
The Show PGP messages command in the Message menu displays a list of all
of the PGP messages that Private Idaho has downloaded. A list containing
message status, who the message is from, when it was sent, and the message
subject is displayed.

 Unread messages have an "n" to the left of the message.

 There are several actions you can perform to a selected message with
the command buttons at the bottom of the dialog box.

Delete - flags the message to be deleted. A "d" will appear to the left
of the message. Deleted messages can be accessed until they are permanently
erased using the Compress PGP messages command in the Message menu. 

Undelete - flags the message to be undeleted, removing the "d." Use this
command to mark any deleted messages undeleted before you compress the
file. 

Save - copies the entire message to the main Private Idaho message text
box. You can then copy or export the message if you want to save it to
disk. 

Decrypt - decrypts the encrypted message and inserts the cleartext in the
main Private Idaho message window. Double clicking a message performs the
same action. 

Compress - compresses the file storing the PGP messages. Any messages marked
for deletion will be permanently removed from the file. 

Options - displays a dialog box that indicates whether deleted messages
will be left on the server. 

 Note : The encrypted PGP messages are stored in a file named PGPMSG.PID.
The MSGIDX.PID file is an index to the messages.

 What is a nym? 
Nym is simply another term for an alias or pseudonym. Various people offer
a no-charge service that allows you to create a nym account (where e-mail
can securely be forwarded to you).

 This is similar to setting up an old anon.penet.fi account, only much
more secure. Instead of using a data base of users associated with account
names (like penet.fi), the service works by rerouting through remailers
and conventionally encrypting messages forwarded to you with PGP. There
are currently two types of nym servers that Private Idaho supports. The
first generation alpha type and the more secure newnym (alias.net) type.

 Briefly, you supply the nym server with a chain of remailers (PGP encrypted
being the most secure), you'd like to use to have any messages forwarded
to you. You also provide a nym account name and a PGP passphrase to encrypt
the forwarded message.

 For example, if you used a nym server and selected "casper" as a nym,
you could send anonymous e-mail or post anonymously to a USENET newsgroup
and have people reply to casper@nymserver.com. When someone sends a message
to that address, it is PGP encrypted, then sent through a series of remailers
you specified. It is eventually forwarded to you through the remailers.
You'd then use Private Idaho to decrypt the message.

 Once you have an account, you can also send mail or post articles from
the nym server. In such cases, your nym account name would appear in the
From: line of the message/article.

Important 
Private Idaho made it easy to use nym servers. Most of the nym server code
has been written by UNIX programmers, without a lot of thought given to
making easy to use interfaces for novice to moderately skilled Net users.

 Unfortunately, due to quite a bit of abuse (spamming, mail-bombing,
etc.), many nym servers have shut down. This is a case of a few individuals
ruining a valuable privacy enabling tool for many Internet users. I really
don't want to get on a soap-box, but when people start abusing free, privacy
services, they will disappear faster than through any lawsuit or government
regulation.

Adding new nym servers 
Private Idaho determines which nym servers and remailers are available
from Raph's remailer info. This info is stored in the REMAILER.HTM file
in the Private Idaho directory. Nym servers are either identified by "alpha"
or "newnym" in their description.

 For example, alpha.c2.org's entries looked like this:
 $remailer{'alpha'} = '<alias@alpha.c2.org> alpha pgp'; 
and later in the file:
 alpha alias@alpha.c2.org +++*++**-+ 1:08:55 82.67% 
If a new nym server comes online, and isn't in Raph's list yet, you can
easily add it to the REMAILER.HTM file with a text editor. Just individually
add lines that follow the above respective formats. Once you've modified
the file, run Private Idaho. It will recognize the nym server when you
create a new nym.

 Note : Nym server information relies on Raph's remailer list.
If a new nym server comes on line, be sure to add its PGP key to your public
ring before using Private Idaho to create a nym on it. The Add Keys button
in the step-by-step creation dialog only adds keys of those nym servers
listed in the NYMKEYS.TXT file.

 Creating a nym account 
Creating a nym account was a bit complex, but Private Idaho has simplified
the process. Just select "Create nym" from the Nym menu and follow the
instructions in the dialog boxes. (If you don't already have the nym server's
public key in your ring, Private Idaho will install it for you during the
nym setup.)

 Private Idaho will step you through the entire account request process,
and when you're through, you can send the message to the nym server.

 If you were successful, you'll receive an encrypted confirmation message
back.

 After you receive confirmation, send mail to your new nym account to
test it. Remember, response time may vary.

 Notes: Make sure "Encrypt to self" is unchecked before you create
a new nym.

 You must supply a "full nym" for Private Idaho to work correctly. If
you're not feeling creative, just use the nym account name.

 Adding an existing nym account 
If you already have a nym account(s), you can add it to the NYMS.TXT file
instead of using Private Idaho's step-by-step procedure. Just create a
text file named NYMS.TXT and put it in the same directory as Private Idaho.
The file format is simple. The first line is the nym account (followed
by a carriage return), the second line is the full nym name (followed by
a carriage return), the third line is the nym server (followed by a carriage
return). The format looks like this:
 mrree
 Mister Ree
 alias@alpha.c2.org 
Add as many nym accounts (following this format) as you have.

 Note: You must include a full nym name. Don't leave this line
blank.

 Deleting a nym 
To delete an unwanted nym, choose the Delete nym command from the Nym menu.
A list of nyms are displayed.

 The nym will be deleted from the NYMS.TXT file. A message will also
be prepared to send to the nym server to remove the nym from the server
itself. Send the message to the server to remove it.

 Changing your nym reply block 
You can change your nym account reply block with this menu item. You may
need to do this if a remailer you originally specified in your reply block
no longer is operating. To change your reply block.

 1. Enter the final destination e-mail address in the To: text box.

 2. Specify the new remailer or chain in the Remailer drop-down list.

 3. From the Nym menu, choose the "Change reply block" command.

 4. Select the nym you want to change.

 If you are changing an alpha type nym:

Enter your nym password in the Message text box after Password:. Make sure
the reply block is correct. 

From the Nym menu, choose the "Encrypt nym message" command. 

(These steps aren't required if you are changing a newnym type nym.)

 Send the encrypted message. If you want to be real secure, send it through
a chained series of remailers.

 Changing your nym password 
You can change your nym account password with this menu item. If you're
changing an alpha type nym password, the command pastes a template in the
message window. Simply enter your current password and a new password in
the message. Encrypt the message and send to the nym server. If you don't
provide a value for New-Password, the account will be deleted. You can
also change mail routing with this command. First specify the remailer
routing (put your e-mail address on the To: line, select a chain of remailers,
and use the "Append info to message" menu item), then select Change nym
password to append the password change information to the routing message.

 If you want to change an alias.net (newnym) password, use the Change
nym reply block command in the Nym menu.

 Encrypting a nym message 
All messages sent to nym servers must be encrypted with the nym server
key. Any plaintext messages will not be processed and be deleted. As a
reminder, whenever you prepare a message to send to the nym server, Private
Idaho displays a red encryption reminder above the message window. After
you encrypt the message, the message disappears (you can also click on
the reminder message to make it disappear).

 Note : If you're preparing a newnym type message, you don't need
to encrypt it. This is automatically done for you.

 Preparing a nym message 
To send a message through a nym server, first compose your message in Private
Idaho's message window. If you are sending e-mail, put the address on the
To: line. If you are posting to a newsgroup, enter the USENET gateway on
the To: line. Select the "Prepare nym message" item from the Nym menu.
If you're using an alpha type nym server, fill in your nym password and
the Subject: lines and select the "Encrypt nym message" menu item and send
the message.

 After the message is prepared, send it through a series of remailers
if you'd like a high level of security.

 Showing nym server stats 
To check latency and uptime statistics for a nym server, choose the Show
nym server stats command in the Nym menu.

 As with remailer stats, if a nym server doesn't have any information
associated with it, it may not be operational. Otherwise, don't use the
nym server unless you're sure it's running.

Configuring an alias.net nym 
Alias.net (newnym) type nym servers offer a variety of secure features.
Use the "Edit existing alias.net nym" command in the Nym menu to configure
a nym you've already created.

 Send e-mail to help@nym.alias.net 
for complete documentation.

 Nym/USENET FAQ 
 thanatopsis@nym.alias.net 
provides this excellent FAQ on using nym servers to post to USENET newsgroups:

 There are several ways one can send messages to newsgroups. It doesn't
neccessarily take 48 hours as mentioned in other FAQs. One can see messages
show up in as short a time as 10-15 minutes. The latency between sending
the message and seeing it show up in a newsgroup depends on the speed and
number of remailers you're using.

 The following will send an anon message via one remailer to alt.anonymous.messages
with or without sending it through <send@nym.alias.net> :

 CHECK: "Remailers/Cypherpunk"

 CHECK: "Remailers/Advanced Cypherpunk/Encrypt to Remailer(s)"

 CHECK: "Remailers/Advanced Cypherpunk/Replace subject" (you can also
check "Use latent time", though it's not necessary) (In that menu leave
"POST to Usenet" UN-checked)

 CHECK: "Newsgroups/Remailer newsgroup header" (If you forget this one
you won't get the "...newsgroup to post to" window after you "Append info".)
(In that menu leave "E-mail gateway" UN-checked)

 Scroll down the "To:" window and pick a mail-to-news remailer... (<mail2news@nym.alias.net>
is quite reliable)

 Pick one remailer from the remailer window. Always check Raph's remailer
page for a fast remailer that is up.

 One again if you don't choose a remailer, the E-mail address you're
sending from will show--blowing your anonymity. It's the remailers that
provide the anonymity--not the mail2news gateways. Also, if you pick "chain"
at this point, you won't have a chance to put in the newsgroup the mail
will be sent to.

 Put whatever you want in the "Subject:" box, something only you can
recognize in a newsgroup. You'll be prompted for this again later.

 Create a test message and either encrypt it or leave it plain-text.

 DO... "Message/Append info"

 Enter the Subject/Header in the appropriate box that will pop up. <return>

 Enter the newsgroup when it's box pops up. <return>

 Before the message is encrypted, you should see the following before
the DOS box closes.....

 Example 1. 
 Request-Remailing-To: mail2news@nym.alias.net 

 ## Subject: <whatever> Newsgroups: alt.anonymous.messages 
- -----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----
 Version: 2.6.2
 (your encrypted or plain-text message)
 - -----END PGP MESSAGE-----

 At this point, I would suggest adding the following X-header just below
the newsgroups line: X-No-Archive: Yes This will end up as the first line
of your message.

 After remailer encryption you'll end up with...

 Example 2. 
 :: Encrypted: PGP 

 - -----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE----- 
Version: 2.6.2
(a bunch of remailer's encryption) 
- -----END PGP MESSAGE----- 
The remailer you're sending through should still be in the "To:" box.

 Go online and hit the send button, or pick another remailer, or "chain"
remailers, then send.

 How fast you see your message arrive depends on the speed of the remailer(s)you've
chosen to send through.

 If you want to send an anon message to alt.anonymous.messages through
your nym, complete the above procedure, but instead of sending it right
away, add the following to the top of the encrypted message you've created
above:: - ---------------------------< cut >-------------------------------------
From: <your_nym@nym.alias.net> To: <remailer you have chosen> Subject:
<whatever or nothing>

 :: Encrypted: PGP - ---------------------------< cut >-------------------------------------
Leave a <space> between "::/Encrypted: PGP" and the message.

 Encrypt with <send@nym.alias.net> and sign with your nym.

 You'll end up with an encrypted message to <send@nym.alias.net>

 You can then send this through another remailer to <send@nym.alias.net>
if you so desire; but, if you do send through another remailer, be sure
to do the following:

 Un-check "Remailers/Advanced Cypherpunk/Replace subject"

 Un-check "Newsgroups/Remailer newsgroup header"

 You can also use the "Nym/Create nym message..." command in PIdaho.
If you do, remove the "Password:" header, unless of course, you're using
<alias.cyberpass.net>; <nym.alias.net> doesn't need a password.

 Nym notes 
Private Idaho stores the nym and expanded nym of the last nym account created
in the NYMS.TXT file. The password is not stored for security reasons.

 Your nym passphrase should be different than your everyday PGP passphrase.
You are compromising your security if they are the same.

 Make sure the nym passphrase does not have any spaces in it. The server
will truncate the passphrase at the space.

 If you don't get an encrypted reply back in a few days, it's likely
someone else already has a nym account with the name you requested or one
of the remailers specified in the reply chain is down. Try submitting a
request with a different nym or changing the remailer chain. You can get
a list of nyms by e-mailing used@ the nym server address.

 If you have questions/comments about the Private Idaho interface to
nym servers send e-mail to joelm@eskimo.com. If you have comments or questions
about the nym server, send e-mail to admin@ the nym server address. You
can get additional information about the nym server by sending mail to:
help@ the nym server address.

 Accessing a Web browser 
One of the main purposes of Private Idaho is to provide an easy environment
that encourages people to use PGP and remailers with their e-mail. The
more people that use these tools, the less likely it is governments will
be able to take them away.

 The Worldwide Web is becoming an increasingly important means of distributing
information around the world. There are a number of free, important electronic
information sources and services that reside on the Web.

 If you use a Web browser, Private Idaho can interact with your browser
to provide links to sources where you can access tools and information
to increase your electronic privacy.

 Using the Web menu 

 The Web menu comes with a series of menu items I feel are important
if you use Private Idaho. Each menu item corresponds to a Web link (or
technically a URL - universal resource locator). When you select the menu
item, Private Idaho will load (if necessary) and activate your Web browser.
It will then pass commands on to your browser to go to that particular
URL.

 Private Idaho's default settings assume you use Netscape as a browser
(located in c:/netscape/netscape.exe). If you don't use Netscape, or if
you do and it's located in a different path, see the "Configuring Private
Idaho for your Web browser" section below.

 Obviously, you must be connected to the Internet for a browser to display
a Web page.

 If your browser is not running, Private Idaho will inform you and then
load it. Once the browser is running, select the menu item again, so the
information will be passed on the the browser.

 Default menu items 

 Here are the default menu items that come with Private Idaho. I encourage
you to spend some time exploring them, particularly the sites for the EFF,
EPIC, and CPSR organizations. They contain a wealth of information on cryptography,
privacy, and government issues.

 Get the latest PGP
(US residents) - accesses MIT's PGP distribution page. You must be
a US resident to download PGP from this source.

 Get the latest PGP (rest
of world) - accesses a page of links with sites outside of the US where
PGP can be downloaded.

 Access the
MIT key server - accesses a page where you can store your PGP public
key in a database as well as search for other people's. This is a free
central database that get's global use.

 Read
the official PGP FAQ - accesses the official PGP Frequently Asked Question
list. Most of your questions can be answered here.

 Get the short PGP FAQ 
- accesses a shorter version of the PGP FAQ, with information on the latest
version, where to get PGP, and different types of shells to use.

 Learn about crypto and privacy 
- accesses the privacy and cryptography section of the WWW Virtual Library.
Excellent information on PGP, crypto, and electronic privacy issues.

 Browse alt.security.pgp - accesses
the USENET alt.security.pgp newsgroup. This is the place for breaking information,
answers to easy and hard questions, and interesting political discussion.

 Get remailer
information - accesses remailer information you can use to update the
RMINFO, CPMAILER, and Mixmaster files Private Idaho uses. Also provides
links to other remailer information sources.

 Go to EFF - accesses the Electronic
Frontier Foundation's home page. An excellent source of information on
electronic privacy issues.

 Go to EPIC - accesses the Electronic
Privacy Information Center's home page. An excellent source of information
on electronic privacy issues.

 Go to CPSR - accesses the Computer
Professionals for Social Responsibility home page. An excellent source
of information on electronic privacy issues.

 Get the latest Private
Idaho - accesses the central page for Private Idaho distribution. You
can check for any updates and download them.

 You can also add your own menu items and links. See the "Adding your
own links to the Web menu" section below.

 Configuring Private Idaho for your Web browser 

 As previously stated, Private Idaho's default Web browser configuration
is Netscape. To configure to your own browser, choose the Options command
from the Web menu.

 This dialog box may look complex, but really isn't. First, a little
background on what happens when you select a menu item from the Web menu.

 Private Idaho interacts with a browser by sending a key sequence to
it, much in the same way it works when you transfer information to your
e-mail software. While some browsers like Netscape support DDE, I wanted
to provide more flexibility for use with other browsers that didn't.

 When you select a menu item, it looks to see if the browser is running
by seeing if a window exists in the Windows task list. (If the browser
isn't running, it will attempt to load it, and ask you to select the menu
item again after the browser has loaded.)

 If a window is present, it sends a series of keys that tells the browser
to provide some form of input for specifying a URL. For example in Netscape,
the CTRL+L key opens a dialog box for a URL to be entered. Next, Private
Idaho sends the actual URL that corresponds to the menu item to the browser,
plus a key sequence that tells it to go to the URL (in Netscape's case,
the return/enter key).

 With that in mind, here's information on the parameters in the Web Options
dialog box.

 Web browser path - Enter the full path of the Web browser you
use, for example, c:\netscape\netscape.exe (which is the default). If you're
using Windows 95 and have long file names, use the DOS file path. For example,
C:\Program Files\Netscape\Navigator\Netscape.exe would be C:\Progra~1\Netscape\Naviga~2\Netscape.exe.

 Browser window search string - This is the name of the window
that Private Idaho will pass the key sequences to. Depending on the browser,
you can just put its name here. (HINT: Run the browser then select the
Transfer options command in Private Idaho's Message menu to get a list
of all of the current window names. Use the name that corresponds to the
browser.)

 Here's where things can get a little tricky. Some browsers (such as
Netscape) use a parent window and a child window. If you specify the parent
window (named "Netscape") to pass the key sequences to, nothing will happen.
This is because the child window (that's name contains the current URL)
is active, and receives any key messages. The problem with browsers like
this, is the window name constantly changes, so you never know which window
to send the key sequence to.

 The solution is to look for a command pattern that all child window
names have. In Netscape's case, child windows names always start with "Netscape
- [", so if you specify this as the Browser window search string, Private
Idaho will always be able to activate the correct window.

 You may need to do some experimenting with this, to find the correct
search string to use. The window list in the E-mail, Transfer options dialog
can help.

 Key sequence to prompt for URL - This is a series of keyboard
commands within the browser that allows the user to enter a URL. For example,
typing CTRL+L in Netscape brings up a URL dialog box. You will need to
enter the key sequence that is appropriate for your browser.

 Certain keys must use special characters.

For the Ctrl key use a ^ 

For the Alt key use a % 

For a tab use {TAB} 

For a return/enter use ~ 

For the Shift key use a + 

For keys to be held down at the same time, enclose then with ( ) 

For example, in Netscape a CTRL+L opens the URL dialog box so you'd enter
^l

 Key sequence to get URL - This is the key sequence that will
tell the browser to go to the URL. In Netscape, pressing the return/enter
key after the URL has been entered closes the dialog box and goes to the
URL. So, for this parameter you would use a ~

 (The corresponding special keys shown above also apply to this parameter.)

 All parameters are written to the PIDAHO.INI file when you click the
OK button.

 Note : The settings for Microsoft's Internet Explorer are:

C:\Program Files\Microsoft Internet\IEXPLORE.EXE 

Microsoft Internet 

{TAB}{TAB}{TAB} 

~ 

(You'll need to figure out the correct "short" path name based on your
own machine.)

 Adding your own links to the Web menu 

 All items that appear in the Web menu are stored in the URLS.TXT file.
You can add to or modify the contents of the file with any text editor,
following these rules:

Each line represents a menu item. (UNIX folks, this is a DOS CR/LF terminated
line.) 

A line containing a "-" is an unselectable menu divider. 

The menu item name is followed by a comma (,) and then the URL, for example: 

 Get the latest Private Idaho,http://www.eskimo.com/~joelm 

Don't use multiple commas in a menu item name, as Private Idaho parses
the URL after the first comma. 

 Anonymously accessing a Web page 
 NOTE: This service may or may not be available. 

 Community Connexion - http://www.c2.org 
(a privacy oriented Internet Service Provider) offers a free Web "anonymizing"
service . It's relatively easy for someone to track what information
you access on the Web. However by using the anonymizer with your browser,
the owner of the Web page you accessed won't know your identity.

 You should have a connection to the Internet, with your browser running
and not minimized.

 Enter a URL in Private Idaho's message box, select the text, and choose
the "Anonymous jump to URL" command from the Web menu. This will load the
URL into your browser and anonymously access the Web page.

 Hint : You can store frequently accessed URLs in Private Idaho's
address book.

 The C2 Web anonymizer port may change in the future. You can reset the
value by choosing the "Options" command in the Web menu.

 Troubleshooting 
If you have problems running Private Idaho, try these things first:

Verify that PGP is working correctly at the DOS prompt 

Make sure the AUTOEXEC.BAT file has the PGPPATH environment variable 

Make sure the AUTOEXEC.BAT file has the PGP and Private Idaho directories
in the PATH environment variable (make sure the Private Idaho path setting
occurs before Windows is called) 

If Private Idaho still isn't working correctly, try moving the files in
the Private Idaho directory to the directory containing PGP.

 Due to a variety of other projects, I've had to drastically cut back
on the amount of e-mail support I provide for Private Idaho. Bug reports
will be logged and suggestions will be noted, but at this point, don't
hold your breath waiting for an e-mail reply from me.

 Specific problems:

 PUBKEYS.OUT 

 When Private Idaho is first run, it creates a file called PUBKEYS.OUT
and places it in the same directory as the application. This is a required
text file that contains the contents of your public key ring. If for some
reason the file isn't created, you can usually create it with the Update
PUBKEYS.OUT command in Private Idaho's PGP menu. If this still doesn't
work, it's possible your system hasn't defined the COMSPEC environment
variable. At the DOS prompt, type SET. If the COMSPEC variable isn't displayed,
add the following line to AUTOEXEC.BAT: COMSPEC=C:\COMMAND.COM (or where
ever the COMMAND.COM file is located).

 Another common problem is the PGP directory not being specified in the
AUTOEXEC.BAT PATH statement. If it is, try modifying the values of the
PIF files that comes with Private Idaho. By default, they point to PGP.EXE,
but you might try changing their values to point to the fully qualified
PGP path (such as C:\PGP26\PGP.EXE).

 The PUBKEYS.OUT file is created by piping the information from the DOS
pgp -kv command to a file. Some users running NDOS and 4DOS have reported
compatibility problems with this piping procedure.

 Some users using PGP language files other than English have reporteded
PUBKEYS.OUT problems have been resolved when the English language file
is used.

 Finally, if nothing seems to work, you can manually create the file
by going to the DOS prompt, connecting to Private Idaho directory, and
typing:

 pgp -kv >pubkeys.out

 Move this file into the Private Idaho directory. This will at least
get you running until you isolate the problem.

 Mail Server and Winsock Connections 

 First, make sure the WINSOCK.DLL file is in either the \WINDOWS or \WINDOWS\SYSTEM
directory. I've heard of some applications renaming the Winsock file.

 If you have difficult connecting to a mail server, try using the IP
address instead of the actual server name. Also, be sure your account name
is correct.

 If you still are having problems sending mail, try this test to see
if there might be a problem interacting with your server. Temporarily set
the SMTP server to mail.eskimo.com and try sending e-mail. If you
are successful, there's likely some type of incompatibility with the mail
server your ISP is running.

 Note : The mail server address shown above is my ISP's. Please
don't abuse it.

 Some mail servers seem to choke on e-mail when the sender's address
isn't enclosed in brackets. Try adding brackets to your address. i.e. <joelm@eskimo.com>
versus joelm@eskimo.com

 If you're still having problems with sending e-mail directly from Private
Idaho or scanning for PGP messages, add the following line to the [Options]
section of the PIDAHO.INI file:

SMTPLog=true 

 This will create a log file in the directory containing Private Idaho
that lists the entire SMTP and POP3 conversation between the mail server
and Private Idaho. If you have problems, e-mail me a copy of the log file.
It should help in trying to debug what's happening.

 Scanning for PGP messages 

 If you have problems scanning for PGP messages, it's possible one of
the files containing message information may have been corrupted. MSGIDX.PID
is an index file. PGPMSG.PID contains the actual messages, and can be accessed
with a text editor. Delete MSGIDX.PID and rename PGPMSG.PID (so you can
still access the messages).

 Windows NT 

 Users have successfully run Private Idaho under Windows NT, but others
have reported problems I haven't been able to replicate. At this point
(since I don't have an NT box), Windows NT is an unsupported platform.
I am planning a 32-bit version, which I'm hoping will resolve any problems.

 PGP doesn't use correct secret key 

 In certain circumstances, PGP will use the first key found in a secret
key ring containing multiple keys. To avoid this, specify the key ID instead
of the user ID. For example, 0x123456 instead of mrbill@snl.com. To view
the key ID, use the -kv command. There is a hidden command in the About
dialog box. If you click the mouse on the first line of text, a dialog
box appears that allows you to enter PGP commands.

 PGP and Mixmaster icons in Windows 95 taskbar 

 If the "Run PGP minimized" item in the PGP menu is checked, and you're
running Windows 95, when you encrypt a message, the PGP icon will appear
in the taskbar at the bottom of the screen. You must click on the icon
for PGP to be run (this applies to running Mixmaster also). You can avoid
this step by changing the PIF settings in the Win95 Explorer. For example,
in the Explorer, select the PIPGP file and right click the mouse button
to set properties. Go to the Misc tab. Under Background, make sure "Always
suspend" is not checked. Perform the same steps with the PIPGPX and MIX
PIF files.

 USENET messages don't get posted 

 I frequently get e-mail from people who are having difficulties posting
to USENET newsgroups. If you follow the instructions, this usually isn't
a problem with Private Idaho. The most common reasons why people don't
see there anonymous messages posted include:

When test posting to alt.test or another high traffic newsgroup, sometimes
articles seem to disappear into a black hole. Try posting to alt.anonymous
as a test. 

The speed of your Internet provider's newsfeed impacts when you will see
your article. It may be hours or days before you actually see an article
you posted. This depends on which server you posted the article to, and
the amount of time it takes for the newsfeed to reach your Internet provider's
news server. 

A single remailer that is down will prevent the article from reaching its
final destination. This is especially true with reply blocks used with
nym accounts. 

A mail to USENET gateway may not be accepting articles to a specific newsgroup
or from your domain (for example, the demon gateway does not accept articles
from c2.org accounts). 

The bottom-line is you get what you pay for. The remailer services are
free. It's only when some Internet providers start charging for their privacy
services, will you see a higher level of reliability when posting anonymous
USENET articles. Until then, be prepared to experiment to find the right
remailer and gateway that's the most reliable for you.

 Messages or Web links don't transfer
correctly 

 The e-mail application or browser must not be minimized for a message
or URL to transfer. If the application is maximized, it's likely the window
name specified within Private Idaho is incorrect. With the e-mail application
running, go to the Transfer Options command in the Message menu. Look for
the correct window name of the application in the dropdown list box. This
is a common problem with Eudora. QUALCOMM always seems to change its window
name with each update. If you update to a new version of Eudora and transfer
stops working, you'll need to update the window name in Private Idaho.

 NYMS.TXT not formatted correctly and "File
past end of input" in NYMS.TXT 

 All nyms must have three lines of information. The nym (mrree), the
full nym (Mr. Ree), and the nym server (config@nym.alias.net). Each line
should be followed by a carriage return. The full nym line must have some
information on it, and not be left blank. If you modify the file by hand,
too many lines, or two few lines, cause an error.

 Temp file problems 

 Private Idaho uses "pidaho" as the default name for its temp file during
encryption and decryption operations. If you place Private Idaho in a subdirectory
named "pidaho" (for example,C:\PGP\PIDAHO) this can confuse DOS during
file operations. Rename the directory or the temp file name to avoid this
problem. Also, don't specify the full path name if you want the file to
be written to the PGP directory. This is were it will be written to by
default.

 Mixmaster doesn't run correctly 

 First, make sure you have all of the files that Mixmaster needs to run.
Then try setting the working directory in the MIX.PIF file to the directory
path that contains Mixmaster and Private Idaho. Also, make sure MIXPATH
is set in your AUTOEXEC.BAT file.

 Nym servers only use Cypherpunk style remailers for reply blocks. If
you try to specify Mixmaster type remailers, you will get errors.

 The Private Idaho interface to Mixmaster is currently limited to plaintext
messages approximately 10k in length.

 Command line greater than 128 characters 

 DOS applications have a limit to the size of a command line that can
be passed to them. When Private Idaho shells to DOS PGP, it passes commands
that identify directory paths, user IDs, etc. In some cases, the command
line may surpass the limit, and cause a PGP operation to fail. A dialog
box notifies you of this. If this happens, try: (1) reducing the length
of your PGP user ID (i.e. use <joelm@eskimo.com> instead of Joel McNamara
<joelm@eskimo.com>, or (2) relocating Private Idaho to a directory with
a shorter path name (i.e. C:\PGP versus C:\APPS\CRYPTO\WIN\PIDAHO).

 Multiple .ASC files for attachments 

 When PGP encrypts a file and uses ASCII armor, it will split the file
up into multiple files, each containing 720 lines. If you have a large
attachment, you'll get numerous .ASC files. To force PGP not to split a
file, in the PGP config.txt file, set the ArmorLines variable to 0.

 Known issues 

 I haven't gotten around to fixing these yet. They'll hopefully make
the next incremental release.

If any of the Advanced Cypherpunk menu options are checked, Eric remailers
will not be displayed in the remailer list. 

Mixmaster messages composed with PI currently appear to be limited to ~10k
of plaintext. 

There still appear to be some parsing problems with e-mail addresses. If
you're having difficulties, use addresses in the form of: joelm@eskimo.com
instead of the fully expanded: Joel McNamara <joelm@eskimo.com> 

In the Show PGP messages dialog, a message must be selected before clicking
Delete, Save, or Undelete. 

When scanning for PGP messages, Private Idaho will truncate any PGP message
over ~32k. If you frequently receive large messages, be sure the "delete
from server" option is turned off inside of PI. 

During nym creation, if no remailers are specified and Encrypt to remailers
is checked in the Advanced Cypherpunks menu, PI will first encrypt the
nym creation message with the user's public key. 

If you select Mixmaster type remailers, then select Cypherpunk type, the
remailer list may not be formatted correctly. Select Cypherpunk from the
Remailers menu again to correctly format. 

I've received a few reports of word wrap not behaving properly but haven't
been able to confirm. 

 Command Summary 
File

Import message - reads a text file into the message area 

Export message - saves the contents of the message area to a text file 

Print message - sends the message to the printer 

Address book - displays the user-editable address book 

Expert/User - toggles the user interface between expert and user mode 

Options - sets e-mail and other information 

Save settings - saves program settings, which are restored on running 

Exit - just what it sounds like 

Edit

Cut - standard 

Copy - standard 

Paste - standard 

Clear all - clears headers and message box 

Clear message - clears any text in the message box 

Copy message - copies any text in the message box to the Clipboard 

Paste messages - pastes Clipboard text to the message box 

Insert header - inserts a predefined header in the message 

Insert signature - inserts a predefined signature in the message 

Options - sets header and signature 

PGP

Encrypt message - encrypts text in the message box 

Encrypt and sign message - encrypts and signs text in the message box 

Clear sign message - attaches a signature to text in the message box 

Decrypt message - decrypts PGP ciphertext in the message box 

Use multiple keys - encrypts message with multiple keys instead of To: 

Encrypt to self - also encrypts with your key for archiving 

Eyes only - only allows DOS box display 

Conventional encrypt - uses single versus public key encryption 

Obscurity - adds and deletes PGP headers from ciphertext 

File as input - uses a file as encrypt/decrypt source 

Word wrap message - word wraps the message before encryption 

Run PGP minimized - keeps the PGP DOS box minimized 

Auto-close PGP - automatically closes the PGP DOS box window 

Options - sets PGP path, your user ID, and temp file 

Keys

Create key pair - creates a new secret and public key 

Delete key - removes a key from your public key ring 

Add key from message - adds any keys in the message box to public ring 

Insert key in message - inserts a selected public key in the message 

Update PUBKEYS.OUT- updates PI's key ring file 

Submit key to server - submits a key in the message box to the MIT key
server 

Get key from server - attempts to get a key from the MIT server based on
the To: box 

Remailers

Cypherpunk - displays Cypherpunk-style, Type I remailers 

Mixmaster - displays Type II remailers 

Eric - displays Eric-style remailers 

Update remailer info - establishes a Net connection and updates current
remailer info 

Get remailer keys - establishes a Net connection and gets remailer keys 

Advanced Cypherpunk - more Cypherpunk-remailer options

Encrypt to remailer(s) - encrypts message with remailer PGP key 

Replace subject - uses a different subject line 

Use latent time - delays sending the message 

Use cutmarks - removes specified signature lines 

Post to USENET - displays remailers that support posting to newsgroups 

Newsgroups

None - if you're not posting to a USENET newsgroup 

E-mail gateway - displays e-mail gateways to newsgroups 

Eric - fills in information for posting through Eric remailers 

Remailer newsgroup header - uses a newsgroup header for certain types of
remailers 

Message

Send - sends the message through a SMTP mail server 

Append info - adds remailer info to message 

Append on send - when checked, automatically remailer formats message when
sent 

Reply - adds ">" to the message 

X-Headers - when checked allows user defineable mail headers to be inserted
in a message 

Transfer to app - transfers the message to an e-mailer 

Transfer to - activated when multiple transfer apps are specified 

Append and transfer - adds remailer info and transfers 

Transfer options - options for specifying e-mailer 

Scan for PGP messages - scans your POP3 mailbox for PGP messages 

Show PGP messages - displays downloaded PGP messages 

Word wrap message - inserts carriage returns at the end of each line 

Nym

Create nym - steps you through creating a nym account 

Change nym password - provides a template for nym passowrd changing 

Change nym reply block - provides a template for changing a nym reply block 

Delete nym - deletes the nym from NYMS.TXT and the nym server 

Show nym server stats - provides current info on nym servers 

Edit existing alias.net.nym - configures an alias.net nym type account 

Prepare nym message - prepares a message for sending through the server 

Encrypt nym message - encrypts (mandatory) a message sent to the server 

Web

Anonymous jump to URL - uses C2's "Anonymizer" for Web browsing 

Options - sets Web browser parameters 

Help

About... - brief info 

Information... - where to get this file 

Step me through... - provides step by step instructions for common tasks 

Send feedback - prepares a feedback message to send 

 Credits and other things 
Thanks to Colin Tan for help with the Setup application, John
Deters for the NT fix, John Coffman for help with AOL settings
and distribution and a mirror site, Ned Brickley and Paul Leyland 
for mirror sites, Robert Fries for doing the original Windows help,
 Lance Cottrell for a DOS version of Mixmaster, Jim Ray for
many owed beers, Fred Ringel for the PGP Users list and a mirror
site, the faithful and brave beta testers from PI_LIST, and everyone that's
taken the time to send me feedback.

 Other things:

There's more to this site than just Private Idaho, check
it out ... 

Practical limitation of text in the message box, approximately 32K. 

Total anonymous mailers to list for chaining, 30. 

The name Private Idaho comes from a catchy B-52s song. No deep social meaning,
just had a nice ring to it. 

Why is Private Idaho always in beta? Because it's never finished. 

Real Cypherpunks write code and spread crypto... (and don't engage in petty
flame wars)