The Complete, Unofficial TEMPEST Information Page - Sources 

 The
Complete, Unofficial 
TEMPEST Information Page 

 This page is about surveillance technology. 
 If a search engine mistakenly led you here, try Shakespeare , Pontiacs , or Arcade Games . 

 TEMPEST Sources 

 TEMPEST Hardware
& Consulting 
 US Government Information
Sources 
 Department of Energy 
 Department of Justice 
 Geological Survey 
 Department of State 
 Treasury Department 
 National Security Agency 
 National Institute of Standards and Technology 

 US Military Information Sources 

 U.S. Navy 
 U.S. Air Force 
 U.S. Army 
 U.S. Coast Guard 
 Department of Defense 
 Other Countries 

 TEMPEST
Hardware & Consulting 

 Here's some of the players in the billion dollar plus a year
TEMPEST industry (this is by no means a complete list): 

 ADI
Limited ( O ) is a big
Australian defense contractor that does some TEMPEST testing. 

 AFC (Antennas
for Communications) manufacturers TEMPEST shielding enclosures
for antennas. 

 Advanced Technology System
Corporation sells TEMPEST equipment and provides consulting
services. 

 Aerovox 
manufactures a variety of EMI filters. Nice downloadable catalog
(Windows help format) with photos. 

 Allied
Signal Aerospace performs Canadian TEMPEST testing. 

 Austest Laboratories 
is a down-under company that provides TEMPEST testing. 

 DEMCOM 
provides Soft-TEMPEST fonts in their Steganos II security suite. 

 Cabrac 
makes TEMPEST enclosures (nice picture). 

 Candes Systems
Incorporated ( X ) produces TEMPEST products, including
monitors, printers, and laptops. Nice photos and specs. 

 COS provides
TEMPEST design and consulting services. 

 BEMA Inc. produces
shielding products including a slick portable TEMPEST tent. 

 Braden 
produces shielded room components. 

 Computer Security
Solutions is a women owned business in Virginia specializing
in TEMPEST products. 

 Compucat 
( O ) is an Australian company that provides a variety of
TEMPEST products and services. 

 Compunetix ( O ) produces various TEMPEST rated
product. 

 Conductive Coatings , a
division of the Chromium Corporation, produces a variety of
shielding solutions. 

 Corcom makes a
variety of shielded jacks (RJ type) in its Signal Sentry line. 

 Corton Inc .
manufactures TEMPEST keyboards. 

 Cryptek ( O ) sells TEMPEST photocopiers and
communication products. 

 Cycomm sells
TEMPEST workstations, terminals, printers, and more to folks like
the State Department. Recently merged with Hetra. 

 D2D/Celestica ( O ) is a British TEMPEST testing,
design, and manufacturing firm. 

 Dina distributes Emcon
TEMPEST products. 

 Dynamic Sciences 
( O ) is another TEMPEST-oriented company. Among other
things, they produce a piece of hardware called the DSI-110 ,
for surveillance and testing purposes. 

 Einhorn Yaffee Prescott is
an architecture and engineering firm that has built TEMPEST
buildings for defense contractors. 

 Elfinco SA ( O ) is a British company that
produces shielding products. Most notable is electromagnetic
shielded concrete. 

 Equiptco
Electronics ( O ) sells a variety of general electronic
equipment and supplies, some TEMPEST standard (but you need to
dig through their catalog to find it). 

 EMC
Technologies is an Australian company that provides TEMPEST
testing. 

 Emcon Emanation Control
Limited , in Onatrio, Canada, has been providing TEMPEST
equipment to NATO governments for the past 12 years. 

 EMP-tronic is a
Swedish company specializing in shielded rooms. 

 ERS is a
recruiting service that finds jobs for TEMPEST engineers (and
others). 

 Filter
Networks produces inline TEMPEST line filters. 

 Framatome
Connectors International manufactures TEMPEST cables and
connectors in the UK, especially suited for marine use. 

 GEC-Marconi
Hazeltine ( O ) 
produces COMSEC products as well as TEMPEST design and test
facilities. 

 Glenair 
is a multi-national company that produces some shielding products.

 Greco Systems 
manufactures factory tools and ruggedized TEMPEST computers. 

 GSCG . Formerly GRiD
Government Systems. Tempest laptops, desktops, and printers. 

 GTE, the phone people, make a TEMPEST version of their Easy
Fax ( O ) product, complete with a STU-III (encrypted
phone) gateway. 

 HAL Communications Corp. 
provides TEMPEST shielded modems and radio equipment to the
government. 

 Hetra Secure Solutions 
( X ) sells
lots of TEMPEST goodies. 

 Hewitt Refractories Limited 
produces Manta, a ceramic material that can be used for shielding.

 Hyfral is a
French company that specializes in room shielding. 

 IAM Secure
Data Systems ( O ) offers Tempest consulting services. 

 ILEX
Systems sells TEMPEST fax machines and other goodies. 

 JMK makes a variety
of filters (including those of the TEMPEST variety). 

 Kern Engineering makes
TEMPEST backshells for connectors. 

 Kontron Elektronic is a German company that offers a slick
little shielded
portable . ( O ) 

 LCR Electronics 
makes Tempest filters. 

 Lindgren-Rayproof 
is a British company specializing in shielding. 

 Logical
Solutions builds and sells Tempest cables. 

 Lynwood is a UK supplier
of TEMPEST and ruggedized PCs. 

 Motorola
SSTG EMC/TEMPEST Laboratory ( O ) 
- Arizona testing facility. 

 NAI Technologies 
( X )( O )
 produces a variety of TEMPEST standard workstations and
peripherals. 

 Nisshinbo 
is a Japanese company that provides quite a bit of detail on its
TEMPEST shielding products. The DENGY-RITE 20 wideband grid
ferrite absorber panels is especially interesting. 

 P & E Security Analysis 
- TEMPEST and security consulting. Some good links to government
pubs. 

 Panashield 
manufactures a variety of shielding enclosures. 

 Profilon 
makes a TEMPEST laminate that can be installed over glass. 

 Pulse Engineering 
manufactures shielded COMSEC and INFOSEC hardware. 

 Racal
Communications does TEMPEST evaluations. 

 Radiation
Sciences Inc. is a TEMPEST consulting and training firm in
Pennsylvania. 

 Raytheon
Systems Company provides TEMPEST testing services (not much
detail). 

 SCI Consulting has done
TEMPEST work for clients like the Department of Energy. 

 Schaffner EMC supplies
EMC filtering and testing devices. 

 Secure
Systems Group (SSG) has been around since 1986, providing a
variety of TEMPEST computer products. 

 Security
Engineering Services Inc. is a consulting firm that offers
TEMPEST courses and other services. The courses are only offered
to students who have a security clearance. The interesting thing
is the course books appear to be orderable by any U.S. citizen.
TEMPEST Hardware Engineering and Design and TEMPEST Program
Management and Systems Engineering, with over 800 pages of total
material are available for $200. 

 Seimens 
makes TEMPEST versions of HP LaserJets and other product. 

 Shadow Chaser
Investigations is a private investigation firm that
supposedly does TEMPEST work. 

 Solar Electronics 
sells a variety of EMI filters, including TEMPEST specific. 

 Southwest
Research Institute ( O ) (SwRI)
performs TEMPEST and other testing. 

 SystemWare
Incorporated is another consulting company that offers
TEMPEST consulting. Not much information at this site. 

 TRW Specialized
Services offers TEMPEST testing, both in the lab and field.
This site has a nice Acrobat brochure that describes their
services. 

 TSCM Consultant 
supposedly offers TEMPEST security consulting (page was under
construction). 

 Tecknit is one of
the leaders in shielding products. They specialize in
architectural shielding (copper coated doors, panels, etc.) and
smaller gaskets and screens for electronic devices. A very
informative site, with downloadable Acrobat catalogs. 

 Tempest Inc. has been
around for 13 years and produces TEMPEST standard hardware for
the government and approved NATO countries. Their catalog isn't
online, but as an example they offer an interesting Secure Voice
Switching Unit that's used in USG executive aircraft. Not much
technical information here. 

 Turtle Mountain
Communications makes a TEMPEST fax device and other
communications equipment. 

 TUV 
is a British firm that does TEMPEST testing. 

 Tempest Security Systems 
- Vendor of Pilkington architectural glass that reduces emanations. 

 Wang
Federal Systems ( O ) also
sells TEMPEST rated hardware as well as performs testing. This
site contains their product and services catalog. Some good
information. 

 Windermere Group 
performs government TEMPEST testing. 

 Veda Inc . ( O )
is a defense contractor who landed a 5.6 million dollar Navy
contract for TEMPEST and COMSEC services. 

 XL
Computing is a Florida company with a large catalog of
TEMPEST hardware. 

 ZipperTubing 
manufactures EMI cable shielding. 

 There's an interesting EMC-related site that has lots of job listings ,
many having to deal with TEMPEST. This is a good intelligence
source. 

 A truth in advertising note: Just because a piece of
hardware is advertised as "designed to meet NACSIM 5100A"
or "designed to meet TEMPEST standards" doesn't mean
the device has gone through the rigorous TEMPEST certification
process. "Real" TEMPEST hardware will clearly state it
has been certified or endorsed. 

 US Government
Information Sources 

 "The National
TEMPEST School (at Lackland Air Force Base - here's a map ( O ) ) is responsible for providing
training on TEMPEST criteria for installing, designing and
testing electronic information processing systems for all U.S.
Government departments and agencies, selected non-government
agencies, and approved personnel from allied nations." 
Check out their course listings and schedules (archived here ( O ) ). Gee, wonder if I can
enroll in a class or two? 

 Department of Energy (DOE) 

 The Department of Energy is an extremely security conscious
agency. A variety of their documents provide revealing glimpses
of TEMPEST procedures. 

 While not TEMPEST-specific, the DOE's Computer Incident
Advisory Capability (CIAC) has an interesting document called CIAC-2304
Vulnerabilities of Facsimile Machines and Digital Copiers (PDF
format). In it, TEMPEST threats to FAX machines and copiers are
briefly discussed. There are several papers referenced, including:

 DOE 5639.6A, Classified Automated Information System
 Security Program, July 15, 1994 
 DOE M 5639.6A-1, Manual of Security Requirements for the Classified
 Automated Information System Security Program,
 July 15, 1994 
 DOE
 5300.2D, Telecommunications: Emission Security (TEMPEST),
 August 30, 1993 ( O ) 

 The DOE's Safeguards and
Security Central Training Academy also has some relevant
classified training courses. 

 The DOE apparently uses a company called DynCorp ( O ) to perform internal TEMPEST
assessments. 

 Department of Justice 

 Ricoh 
supplies TEMPEST shielded FAX machines to the FBI , DEA, and
 U.S. Marshals Service .

 Geological Survey (USGS) 

 Even the map making folks get involved with TEMPEST. Check out
the National
Security Information Automated Information Systems section of
their manual. 

 National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) 

 In the 1989
Annual Report of the National Computer System Security and
Privacy Advisory Board ( O ) ,
NIST stated that "TEMPEST is of lower priority in the
private sector than other INFOSEC issues." It's fairly well
known that NIST is influenced by the NSA, so this quote needs to
be taken with a grain of salt. 

 NIST has a list of accredited laboratories) that
perform MIL-STD-462 (electromagnetic interference) testing. Some
of these also do TEMPEST testing. 

 While a bit dated (1986), A GUIDELINE ON
OFFICE AUTOMATION SECURITY has a few references to TEMPEST,
as well as other computer security nuggets. 

 Brief mention of the Industrial
TEMPEST program as well as contacts (may be dated). 

 National Security
Agency (NSA) 

 The NSA publishes something called the Information Systems
Security Products and Services Catalogue ( X ) . It contains a list of TEMPEST compliant
hardware (as well as other approved security products). The cost
of the catalog is $15 for a single copy or $34 for a yearly
subscription (four issues). Requests for this document should be
addressed directly to: 

 The Superintendent of Documents 
 U.S. Government Printing Office 
 Washington, D.C. 20402 

 NSA Endorsed
TEMPEST Product List part of the NSA's TEMPEST Endorsement
Program . 

 Unfortunately, several of the following classified documents
can't be ordered: 

 "Tempest Fundamentals", NSA-82-89, NACSIM 5000,
 National Security Agency, February 1, 1982 (Classified). 
 "Guidelines for Facility Design and RED/BLACK
 Installation, NSA-82-90, NACSIM 5203, National Security
 Agency, June 30, 1982 (Classified). 
 "R.F. Shielded Enclosures for Communications
 Equipment: General Specification", Specification NSA
 No. 65-6, National Security Agency Specification, October
 30, 1964. 
 "Tempest Countermeasures for Facilities Within the
 United States", National COMSEC Instruction, NACSI
 5004, January 1984 (Secret). 
 "Tempest Countermeasures for Facilities Outside the
 United States", National COMSEC Instruction, NACSI
 5005, January 1985 (Secret). 
 National Security Telecommunications and Information
 Systems Security Advisory Memorandum (NSTISSAM) TEMPEST/2-95,
 RED/BLACK Installation Guidance; 12 December 1995 
 NCSC 3 - TEMPEST Glossary (title UNCLASSIFIED; document
 SECRET) 
 NACSEM 5009 - Technical Rational: Basis for
 Electromagnetic Compromising Emanations limits (title
 UNCLASSIFIED; document CONFIDENTIAL) 
 NTISSI 4002 - Classification Guide for COMSEC Information
 (title UNCLASSIFIED; document SECRET) 
 NACSEM 5904 - Shielded Enclosures (title UNCLASSIFIED;
 document CONFIDENTIAL) 
 NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-91 - Compromising Emanations Analysis
 Handbook (title UNCLASSIFIED; document CONFIDENTIAL) 
 NACSEM 5108 - Receiver and Amplifier Characteristics
 Measurement Procedures (title UNCLASSIFIED; document FOR
 OFFICIAL USE ONLY) 

 October 25, 1999 - John Young 
filed a Freedom of
Information Act request for TEMPEST-related material on May
18, 1998. The US government denied access to 22 of the 24
requested documents on grounds of secrecy. Parts of the two
released documents ( NSTISSAM TEMPEST/1-92
- Compromising Emanations Laboratory Test Requirements,
Electromagnetics - Appendix A , Table of Contents,
Sections 1 - 5 , and Sections 6 - 12 , Appendix A , Appendices B-M , Distribution List 
and NSA/CSS
Regulation 90-5, Technical Security Program ) are now
available for review. John has filed an appeal in an
attempt to get additional material disclosed. 

 November 30, 1999 - John Young has acquired more NSA TEMPEST
documents. His growing collection now includes NSA Endorsed TEMPEST
Products Program , NSA
Endorsed TEMPEST Test Services Procedures , and NSA Zoned Equipment
Program . 

 One interesting tidbit in all of this is the use of the
codeword TEAPOT - "A short name referring to the
investigation, study, and control of intentional compromising
emanations (i.e., those that are hostilely induced or provoked)
from telecommunications and automated information systems
equipment." Who says the NSA doesn't have a sense of
humor. TEMPEST, TEAPOT, ha, ha... 

 Note : John's release was mentioned over at Wired
News and Slashdot ,
so be sure to check for insightful (or amusing) comments there. 

 State Department 

 While it's not hard to guess, the State Department uses
TEMPEST equipment in foreign embassies. There's a position called
a Foreign
Service Information Management Technical Specialist - Digital ( O ) , that pays between $30,000 to $38,000
a year. The ideal candidate should have a knowledge of TEMPEST
standards as well as the ability to repair crypto hardware. 

 Along with cryptography, the export of TEMPEST standard
hardware or devices for suppressing emanations is restricted by
the International
Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). However, there is an
exception in that: "This definition is not intended to
include equipment designed to meet Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) commercial electro-magnetic interference
standards or equipment designed for health and safety." 

 Treasury Department 

 The Treasury Department's Office of Security 
is mandated with handling TEMPEST and emissions security. 

 US Military Information
Sources 

 Part of the government's mandate to reduce costs is to make
information available online. While the average user doesn't have
access to Milnet or Intelink, there are a variety of
unclassified, military sources on the Internet that directly or
indirectly relate to TEMPEST standards. 

 Jargon alert. You'll sometimes see references to RED/BLACK
systems. A red system is any device that stores or transfers
classified data. Black systems store/transfer unclassified data.
Gee, with all of the black projects and helicopters around these
days, I would have thought it would be the other way around. 

 U.S. Navy 

 The Navy seems to be a further ahead then the other services
in putting content online, including: 

 Chapter 16 of the Navy's AUTOMATED INFORMATION SYSTEMS
SECURITY GUIDELINES manual is devoted to emanations
security ( X ) . Probably the most interesting section
in this chapter deals with conducting a TEMPEST Vulnerability
Assessment Request (TVAR). Completing the TVAR questionnaire
provides some common sense clues as to how electronic security
could be compromised. (The Navy seems to have pulled this. 
Try this alternate link . ( O ) ) 

 Chapter
21 of the same manual deals with microcomputer security.
Section 21.8 Emanations Security, reads: "TEMPEST
accreditation must be granted for all microcomputers which will
process classified data, prior to actually processing the data.
Your security staff should be aware of this and submit the
TEMPEST Vulnerability Assessment Request (TVAR) to COMNISCOM.
Microcomputers may be able to comply with TEMPEST requirements as
a result of a TEMPEST telephone consultation, as permitted by
COMNISCOM. Contact the Naval Electronic Security Engineering
Center (NESSEC) for further information to arrange a TEMPEST
telephone consultation. Use of a secure phone may be required and
your request will be followed with written guidance." This
leads one to believe that certain PC systems may not be as
susceptible as others to emanations monitoring. 

 C5293-05 TEMPEST Control Officer Guidebook - "Provides
guidance to the individual assigned responsibility for TEMPEST
implementation at a major activity." Unfortunately, not
online, and likely classified. 

 NISE East
Information Warfare-Protect Systems Engineering Division (Information
Warfare-Protect Systems Engineering Division - Code 72) puts on a
couple of TEMPEST
related training courses , ( O ) including "Tempest
Criteria for System/Facility Installation" and "Tempest
Fundamentals." These are targeted toward Department of
Defense personnel and civilian contractors who must comply with
TEMPEST standards as part of their business. 

 " The
Reduction of Radio Noise Emanating from Personal Computers "
( O ) is a thesis topic at the Department of Electrical
Engineering, Naval Postgraduate School. 

 Electromagnetic
Environmental Effects . While not security-related, some good
background information. 

 Check out Grumman Aerospace's spiffy TEMPEST building ,
where they do development work for the Navy on the EA-6B aircraft.

 The Navy's
INFOSEC site has lots of interesting information. 
There's even a TEMPEST
related services link . Information Warfare (IW) Protect
Systems Engineering Division (Code
72) appears to be the key TEMPEST players. 

 U.S. Air Force 

 The Air Force Emission Security Program instruction manual ( AF
Instruction 33-203 ) has a remarkable amount of information
about TEMPEST. My guess is this site won't remain available
to the public for very long. 

 Even though the DoD started shutting down Web sites back in
September for security reasons, there is still a tremendous
amount of material being made to the general public. 
Examples that came from Offut Air Force
Base these: 

 AIR
 FORCE EMISSION SECURITY PROGRAM (AFI 33-203) ( X )( O )
 or here ( O )
 in case it is pulled 
 EMISSION
 SECURITY ASSESSMENTS (AFSSI 7010) ( X )( O )
 or here ( O )
 in case it is pulled 
 EMISSION
 SECURITY COUNTERMEASURE REVIEWS (AFSSI 7011) ( X ) or
 here ( O )
 in case it is pulled 

 I really doubt these will be available very long. There
is a remarkable amount of detail in these documents. 

 The Air Force's Rome Laboratory 
has produced a variety of interesting defense related systems.
Some developments likely related to TEMPEST include: 

 In 1961 the Electromagnetic Vulnerability Laboratory was
 established. 
 In terms of emanation monitoring, circa 1965 - 70, a Wullenweber
 antenna ( O ) (called
 the "elephant's cage") is reputed to have done
 an excellent job of retrieving stray signals. While
 hardly a portable device, it does suggest the military
 was actively pursuing emanation monitoring during this
 period. 
 In 1964, Rome developed the AN/MSM-63 Electromagnetic
 Measurement Van (no information as to whether it just
 served a testing function, or could be used for
 surveillance). 
 In June of 1965, RADC a lightweight (350-pound)
 electromagnetic surveillance antenna was developed that
 was operationally equivalent or better than systems that
 were up to ten times larger and heavier. During that same
 year considerable progress was made in the area of
 reducing vulnerability to electromagnetic interference.
 Mr Woodrow W. Everett, Jr. was among personnel recognized
 for technological improvements in wave guides, electronic
 tube components, and greater electronic compatibility. 

 The Air Force is currently engaged in research
and development for building TEMPEST shielded vans and
command shelters using lightweight composite components. 

 Other Air Force documents: 

 "Ground-based Systems EMP Design Handbook",
 AFWL-NTYCC-TN-82-2, Air Force Weapons Laboratory,
 February 1982. 
 "Systems Engineering Specification 77-4, 1842 EEG
 SES 77-4", Air Force Communications Command, January
 1980. 

 Lately the Air Force has developed a program called SATE (Security
Awareness Training & Education) that integrates COMSEC,
COMPUSEC and EMSEC disciplines. 

 The 497th
Intelligence Group (497 IG), out of Bolling Air Force Base,
Washington DC, manages TEMPEST related issues for the Air Force. 

 U.S. Army 

 The U.S.
Army Information Systems Engineering Command ( O ) is headquartered at Fort
Huachuca, Arizona (here's the new link for ISEC , with
access password protected). The Fort engages in a variety of
spook-related activities. One of the classified documents that is
referenced is: 

 AR 380-19-1, Control of Compromising Emanations; 4
 September 1990 

 The Army Corps of Engineers released a publication called
" Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP)
and TEMPEST Protection for Facilities " ( X ) EP1110-3-2,
in December 1990 (unclassified). This is a treasure trove of
information related to shielding buildings. (Thanks to John Young
for digitizing parts of this massive document. It's also
available in sections, PDF format, from an Army
site .) 

 The Army Corps of Engineers, Construction Engineering Research
Laboratories, has also been experimenting with low cost TEMPEST
shielding technologies. Low Cost
EMP EMI Tempest Shielding Technology ( O ) fact sheet
link doesn't work anymore, but you can get a summary here ( O ) . 

 The Army's White Sands Missile Range has a Test Support
Division ( O ) that does
TEMPEST testing as well as other things. An interesting photo of
the inside and outside of a test truck is shown. 

 The Army's Blacktail
Canyon ( X ) EMI/TEMPEST facility at Ft. Huachuca (spook-related
location in Arizona), recently put up a Web page, with lots of
interesting info. Also check the main Electronic Proving Ground site
(why it is a .com instead of .mil or .gov site I have no idea). 

 The Army's Protective
Design Center in Omaha specializes in structure designs to
resist blasts as well as TEMPEST attacks. 

 Cute,
full color illustration of a military TEMPEST
secure room . 

 U.S. Coast Guard 

 The Coast Guard has a TEMPEST
security program ( O ) in
their Security Policy and Management Division (G-WKS-5) 

 Department of Defense 

 The Department of Defense's Defense
Technical Information Center has information regarding the Collaborative Computing
Tools Working Group (representatives from private sector and
the intelligence and defense communities). The CWG put together
some TEMPEST
recommendations for video-conferencing products . 

 From a post to the Cypherpunks list in April of 1994, by Steve
Blasingame: 

 An overview of TEMPEST can be found in DCA (Defense
 Communications Agency) Circular 300-95-1, available from
 your nearest Federal Documents Depository / Government
 Library. The section of interest in is Volume 2, DCS Site
 and Building Information, sections SB4 & SB5, (Grounding,Shielding,HEMP).
 SB5 though not directly covering RFI/RF Emanation is
 devoted to shielding for high altitude electromagnetic
 pulse radiation (HEMP). The documents discuss Earth
 Electrode Systems, Fault Protection Systems, Lightning
 Protection Systems, Signal Reference Systems, and RFI
 containment, they also briefly discusses radio signal
 containment (TEMPEST) as well. This is a must-read for
 anyone wishing to keep their bits to themselves.
 Discussions of testing and validation methods are not
 discussed in the unclassified documents. I have included
 the references to the Secret/Classified documents for the
 sake of completeness. It is possible that some of them
 are by now de-classified, or may be requested through
 FOIA. 

 DA
Pamphlet 73-1, Part One, 16 Oct 1992 (DRAFT) ( X )( O ) is
an obscure document that discusses survivability and mission
performance of military systems. The interesting thing in this
pamphlet is a fairly detailed description of the military's
Blacktail Canyon facility. 

 Other Defense Department documents: 

 MIL-STD-188-124, "Grounding, Bonding, and Shielding
 for Common Long Haul/Tactical Communication Systems",
 U.S. Dept. of Defense, June 14, 1978. 
 MIL-HDBK-419, "Grounding, Bonding, and Shielding for
 Electronic Equipments and Facilities", U.S. Dept. of
 Defense, July 1, 1981. 
 "Physical Security Standards for Sensitive
 Compartmented Information Facilities (SCIF), Manual No.
 50-3 Defense Intelligence Agency (For Official Use Only),
 May 2, 1980. 
 "Design Practices for High Altitude Electromagnetic
 Pulse (HEMP) Protection", Defense Communications
 Agency, June 1981. 
 "EMP Engineering Practices Handbook", NATO File
 No. 1460-2, October 1977 

 Some interesting FOIA Star Wars program computer security
requirements , including a TEMPEST separation table. 

 December 4, 1999 - John Young 
has found an excellent source for non-classified, military
TEMPEST information. The Defense
Automated Printing Service has a searchable Web database 
devoted to military specifications and standards (from nukes to
nylons). John reports some of the handbooks and standards contain
information the NSA removed from documents that were recently
released to him under the FOIA. Here are some of the
TEMPEST-related gems. Just enter a title and submit. 

 MIL-HDBK-232 - Red/Black Engineering-Installation Guidelines 
MIL-HDBK-411A - Long Haul Communications (DCS), Power and
Environmental Control for Physical Plant, MIL-HDBK-419 -
Grounding, Bonding, and Shielding for Electronic Equipments and
Facilities 
MIL-HDBK-1195 - Radio Frequency Shielded Enclosures 
MIL-STD-188-124 - Grounding, Bonding, and Shielding for Common
Long Haul/Tactical Communications Systems 
MIL-STD-285 - Attenuation Measurement for Enclosures,
Electromagnetic Shielding, for Electronic Test Purposes, Method
of 
MIL-STD-461E - (Replaces previous 461 and 462) Electromagnetic
Interference Characteristics 

 Warning: These are huge PDF files, so have lots of
bandwidth available. Also, if you're interested in these
documents, you might want to get them now. There's no
telling if and when the DoD might decide to shut down this open
source site. 

 Other Countries 

 The US isn't the only one playing the TEMPEST game. Here's
some additional sources from various countries. 

 Australia 

 A brief defense document on emanation security. 

 Canada 

 COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY ESTABLISHMENT PUBLICATIONS 

 COMSEC Installation Planning (TEMPEST Guidance and
 Criteria) (CID/09/7A), 1983, (English only)(Confidential) 
 Criteria for the Design, Fabrication, Supply,
 Installation and Acceptance Testing of Walk- In Radio
 Frequency Shielded Enclosures (CID/09/12A)(Unclassified) 

 European Commission 

 I love it when governments can't keep their acronyms/codewords
straight. There is an official TEMPEST
testing lab , but TEMPEST stands for Thermal, Electromagnetic
& Physical Equipment Stress Testing and deals with devices
used in animal tagging. Sheesh... 

 France 

 The French information security service (SCSSI) has a large
amount of information devoted to TEMPEST. Have BabelFish or
your favorite translator ready. 

 UK 

 The British Central
Computer and Telecommunications Agency ( O ) 
publishes a variety of computer security titles including: 

 TEMPEST: The Risk (Restricted) CCTA Library 0 946683 22 0
 1989 

 Last changed December 25, 2001 
Copyright 1996,1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 Joel McNamara 

 back to main TEMPEST