The Complete, Unofficial TEMPEST Information Page - Introduction 

 The
Complete, Unofficial 
TEMPEST Information Page 

 This page is about surveillance technology. 
 If a search engine mistakenly led you here, try Shakespeare , Pontiacs , or Arcade Games . 

 Introduction to TEMPEST 

 What is TEMPEST? 
 TEMPEST History 
 Just how
prevalent is emanation monitoring? 
 TEMPEST Urban Folklore 
 General TEMPEST
Information 
 EMSEC 
 HIJACK and NONSTOP 
 Online Sources 
 Patents 
 Paper Sources 
 Monitoring Devices 
 Do It Yourself Shielding
Sources 

 What is TEMPEST? 

 TEMPEST is a U.S. government code word that identifies a
classified set of standards for limiting electric or
electromagnetic radiation emanations from electronic equipment.
Microchips, monitors, printers, and all electronic devices emit
radiation through the air or through conductors (such as wiring
or water pipes). An example is using a kitchen appliance while
watching television. The static on your TV screen is emanation
caused interference. (If you want to learn more about this
phenomena, a company called NoRad has an excellent discussion ( X ) of
electromagnetic radiation and computer monitors (and Chomerics
has a good electromagnetic interference 101 page ), that you
don't need to be an electrical engineer to understand. Also,
while not TEMPEST-specific, a journal called Compliance Engineering ( O ),
typically has good technical articles relating to electromagnetic
interference. There's also the Electromagnetic
Compliance FAQ .) 

 During the 1950's, the government became concerned that
emanations could be captured and then reconstructed. Obviously,
the emanations from a blender aren't important, but emanations
from an electric encryption device would be. If the emanations
were recorded, interpreted, and then played back on a similar
device, it would be extremely easy to reveal the content of an
encrypted message. Research showed it was possible to capture
emanations from a distance, and as a response, the TEMPEST
program was started. (For some interesting perspectives on the
history of TEMPEST, see this timeline and do a
text search for TEMPEST at this UK
list archive .) 

 The purpose of the program was to introduce standards that
would reduce the chances of "leakage" from devices used
to process, transmit, or store sensitive information. TEMPEST
computers and peripherals (printers, scanners, tape drives, mice,
etc.) are used by government agencies and contractors to protect
data from emanations monitoring. This is typically done by
shielding the device (or sometimes a room or entire building)
with copper or other conductive materials. (There are also active
measures for "jamming" electromagnetic signals. Refer
to some of the patents listed below .) 

 Bruce Gabrielson, who has been in the TEMPEST biz for ages,
has a nice unclassified general
description of TEMPEST that was presented at an Air Force
security seminar in 1987. 

 In the United States, TEMPEST consulting, testing, and
manufacturing is a big business, estimated at over one billion
dollars a year. (Economics has caught up TEMPEST though.
Purchasing TEMPEST standard hardware is not cheap, and because of
this, a lesser standard called ZONE 
( O ) has been implemented.
This does not offer the level of protection of TEMPEST hardware,
but it quite a bit cheaper, and is used in less sensitive
applications.) 

 Emanation standards aren't just confined to the United States.
NATO has a similar standard called the AMSG 720B Compromising
Emanations Laboratory Test Standard. In Germany, the TEMPEST
program is administered by the National Telecom Board. In the UK,
Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ), the equivalent of
the NSA, has their own program. 

 TEMPEST History 

 The original 1950s emanations standard was called NAG1A.
During the 1960s it was revised and reissued as FS222 and later
FS222A. 

 In 1970 the standard was significantly revised and published
as National Communications Security Information Memorandum 5100 (Directive
on TEMPEST Security), also known as NACSIM 5100. This was again
revised in 1974. 

 Current national TEMPEST policy is set in National
Communications Security Committee Directive 4, dated January 16,
1981. It instructs federal agencies to protect classified
information against compromising emanations. This document is
known as NACSIM 5100A and is classified. 

 The National Communications Security Instruction (NACSI) 5004
(classified Secret), published in January 1984, provides
procedures for departments and agencies to use in determining the
safeguards needed for equipment and facilities which process
national security information in the United States. National
Security Decision Directive 145, dated September 17, 1984,
designates the National Security Agency (NSA) as the focal point
and national manager for the security of government
telecommunications and Automated Information Systems (AISs). NSA
is authorized to review and approve all standards, techniques,
systems and equipment for AIS security, including TEMPEST. In
this role, NSA makes recommendations to the National
Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Committee for
changes in TEMPEST polices and guidance. 

 Just
how prevalent is emanation monitoring? 

 There are no public records that give an idea of how much
emanation monitoring is actually taking place. There are isolated
anecdotal accounts of monitoring being used for industrial
espionage (see Information Warfare, by Winn Schwartau), but
that's about it. (However, see a very interesting paper written
by Ian Murphy called Who's Listening 
that has some Cold War TEMPEST spy stories.) Unfortunately,
there's not an emanation monitoring category in the FBI Uniform
Crime Reports. (While not TEMPEST-specific, the San Jose
Mercury News printed a November
11, 1998 article ( O ) on
how much money American businesses are losing to economic
espionage. Considering some of the countries involved, hi-tech
spying techniques are likely being used in some cases.) 

 Threat? 

 There are a few data points that lead one to believe there is
a real threat though, at least from foreign intelligence services.
First of all, the TEMPEST industry is over a billion dollar a
year business. This indicates there's a viable threat to justify
all of this protective hardware (or it's one big scam that's
making a number of people quite wealthy). 

 This scope of the threat is backed up with a quote from a Navy
manual that discusses "compromising emanations" or CE.
"Foreign governments continually engage in attacks against U.S.
secure communications and information processing facilities for
the sole purpose of exploiting CE." I'm sure those with
appropriate security clearances have access to all sorts of
interesting cases of covert monitoring. 

 Or not? 

 In 1994, the Joint Security Commission issued a report to the
Secretary of Defense and the Director of Central Intelligence
called " Redefining Security ."
It's worthwhile to quote the entire section that deals with
TEMPEST. 

 TEMPEST (an acronym for Transient Electromagnetic Pulse
Emanation Standard) is both a specification for equipment and a
term used to describe the process for preventing compromising
emanations. The fact that electronic equipment such as computers,
printers, and electronic typewriters give off electromagnetic
emanations has long been a concern of the US Government. An
attacker using off-the-shelf equipment can monitor and retrieve
classified or sensitive information as it is being processed
without the user being aware that a loss is occurring. To counter
this vulnerability, the US Government has long required that
electronic equipment used for classified processing be shielded
or designed to reduce or eliminate transient emanations. An
alternative is to shield the area in which the information is
processed so as to contain electromagnetic emanations or to
specify control of certain distances or zones beyond which the
emanations cannot be detected. The first solution is extremely
expensive, with TEMPEST computers normally costing double the
usual price. Protecting and shielding the area can also be
expensive. While some agencies have applied TEMPEST standards
rigorously, others have sought waivers or have used various
levels of interpretation in applying the standard. In some cases,
a redundant combination of two or three types of multilayered
protection was installed with no thought given either to cost or
actual threat. 

 A general manager of a major aerospace company reports that,
during building renovations, two SAPs required not only complete
separation between their program areas but also TEMPEST
protection. This pushed renovation costs from $1.5 million to $3
million just to ensure two US programs could not detect each
other's TEMPEST emanations. 

 In 1991, a CIA Inspector General report called for an
Intelligence Community review of domestic TEMPEST requirements
based on threat. The outcome suggested that hundreds of millions
of dollars have been spent on protecting a vulnerability that had
a very low probability of exploitation. This report galvanized
the Intelligence Community to review and reduce domestic TEMPEST
requirements. 

 Currently, many agencies are waiving TEMPEST countermeasures
within the United States. The rationale is that a foreign
government would not be likely to risk a TEMPEST collection
operation in an environment not under their control. Moreover,
such attacks require a high level of expertise, proximity to the
target, and considerable collection time. Some agencies are using
alternative technical countermeasures that are considerably less
costly. Others continue to use TEMPEST domestically, believing
that TEMPEST procedures discourage collection attempts. They also
contend that technical advances will raise future vulnerabilities.
The Commission recognizes the need for an active overseas TEMPEST
program but believes the domestic threat is minimal. 

 Contractors and government security officials interviewed by
the Commission commend the easing of TEMPEST standards within the
last two years. However, even with the release of a new national
TEMPEST policy, implementation procedures may continue to vary.
The new policy requires each Certified TEMPEST Technical
Authority (CTTA), keep a record of TEMPEST applications but sets
no standard against which a facility can be measured. The
Commission is concerned that this will lead to inconsistent
applications and continued expense. 

 Given the absence of a domestic threat, any use of TEMPEST
countermeasures within the US should require strong justification.
Whenever TEMPEST is applied, it should be reported to the
security executive committee who would be charged with producing
an annual national report to highlight inconsistencies in
implementation and identify actual TEMPEST costs. 

 Domestic implementation of strict TEMPEST countermeasures is a
prime example of a security excess because costly countermeasures
were implemented independent of documented threat or of a site's
total security system. While it is prudent to continue spot
checks and consider TEMPEST in the risk management review of any
facility storing specially protected information, its
implementation within the United States should not normally be
required. 

 The Commission recommends that domestic TEMPEST
countermeasures not be employed except in response to specific
threat data and then only in cases authorized by the most senior
department or agency head. 

 It's also interesting to note that the National Reconnaissance
Office (NRO) eliminated 
the need for domestic TEMPEST requirements in 1992. 

 Maybe 

 The main difficulty in tracking instances of emanation
monitoring is because it's passive and conducted at a distance
from the target, it's hard to discover unless you catch the
perpetrator red-handed (a bad Cold War pun). Even if a spy was
caught, more than likely the event would not be publicized,
especially if it was corporate espionage. Both government and
private industry have a long history of concealing security
breaches from the public. 

 As with any risk, you really need to weigh the costs and
benefits. Is it cheaper and more efficient to have a spy pass
himself off as a janitor to obtain information, or to launch a
fairly technical and sophisticated monitoring attack to get the
same data? While some "hard" targets may justify a
technical approach, traditional human intelligence (HUMINT)
gathering techniques are without a doubt, used much more often
than emanation monitoring. 

 TEMPEST Urban Folklore 

 Because of the general lack of knowledge regarding TEMPEST
topics, there is a fair amount of urban folklore associated with
it. Here's some common myths. And if you can provide a primary
source to prove me wrong, let me know (no friends of friends
please). 

 It's illegal to shield your PC from emanation
 monitoring . Seline's paper suggests this, but there
 are no laws that I've found that even come close to
 substantiating. Export of TEMPEST-type shielded devices
 is restricted under ITAR, and most manufacturers will
 only sell to government authorized users, but there are
 no laws banning domestic use of shielded PCs. 

 Emanation monitoring was used to snare CIA spy Aldrich
 Ames and also during the Waco incident . Winn Schwartau appears
 to have started the speculation on these two events.
 While conventional electronic surveillance techniques
 were used, there's no published evidence to support a
 "TEMPEST attack." 

 You can put together a emanation monitoring device for
 under $100 worth of Radio Shack and surplus parts. 
 Perhaps for a dumb video display terminal (VDT), but
 certainly not for a VGA or SVGA monitor. And definitely
 not for doing serious remote monitoring. There have been
 anecdotal accounts of television sets with rabbit ears
 displaying fragments of a nearby computer screen. Beyond
 that, effective, cheap, easy-to-build devices don't seem
 to exist. If they did, the plans would be available on
 the Net at just about every hacker site. 

 LCD displays on laptops eliminate the risks of TEMPEST
 attacks. Maybe, maybe not. The technology behind LCD
 monitors versus typical CRT monitors may somewhat reduce
 the risk, but I wouldn't bet my life on it. There have
 been anecdotal accounts of noisy laptop screens being
 partially displayed on TVs. If laptops were emanation
 proof, I seriously doubt there would be TEMPEST standard
 portables on the market. 

 TEMPEST is an acronym . Maybe. There have been a
 variety of attempts to turn TEMPEST into a meaningful
 acronym (such as Transient ElectroMagnetic Pulse
 Emanation STandard) by government and non-government
 sources. The official government line denies this, and
 states TEMPEST was a code word originally given to the
 standards, and didn't have any particular meaning. 

 There's virtually no information about TEMPEST on the
 Net because it's so secret . Nonsense. The world does
 not revolve around AltaVista. You just need to dig a
 little deeper. 

 General TEMPEST
Information 

 Online Sources 

 Ross Anderson and Markus Kuhn (from Cambridge, UK) have
 written a new paper that I consider one of the most
 definitive sources of contemporary research on TEMPEST. Soft
 Tempest: Hidden Data Transmission Using Electromagnetic
 Emanations ( X ) , looks at the software side of
 the topic, including TEMPEST viruses that can enhance
 interceptions. The most startling aspect, and the issue
 that has a lot of spook's knickers in a knot, is the use
 of special fonts to defeat monitoring. This .PDF
 file is a must read. You can now also download
 the anti-TEMPEST fonts . 

 One of the most distributed sources of TEMPEST
 information on the Net is a paper by Christopher Seline
 called " Eavesdropping
 On the Electromagnetic Emanations of Digital Equipment:
 The Laws of Canada, England and the United States. "
 It deals with laws relating to eavesdropping on the
 electromagnetic emanations of digital equipment. Seline
 postulates that it is illegal for a U.S. citizen to
 shield their hardware against emanation eavesdropping.
 There are no laws to support this contention. Other
 information in the Seline paper has been questioned by
 informed sources, however, there is good source material
 contained in it. 

 The other widely distributed source is Grady Ward's "TEMPEST
 in a teapot" ( X ) post to the Cypherpunks list
 that discusses practical countermeasures based on
 techniques radio operators use to reduce electromagnetic
 interference. Good technical source material. 

 " Electromagnetic
 Radiation from Video Display Units: An Eavesdropping
 Risk? " ( X ) by Wim van Eck, Computers &
 Security, 1985 Vol. 4. This is the paper that brought
 emanation monitoring to the public's attention. Van Eck
 was a research engineer at the Dr. Neher Laboratories of
 The Netherlands' Post, Telegraph, and Telephone (PTT)
 Service. His paper was purposely incomplete on several
 points, and modifications were required to actually build
 a working device based on his plans. (.PDF format) 

 "Electromagnetic Eavesdropping Machines for
 Christmas?" ( X ) Computers & Security, Vol. 7,
 No. 4 [1988] A follow-up article to the van Eck paper.
 Excellent source material regarding why (and what)
 certain details weren't included in the original. .PDF and HTML formats. 

 "The Threat of
 Information Theft by Reception of Electromagnetic
 Radiation from RS-232 Cables" , Peter Smulders,
 Dept of Electrical Engineering, Eindhoven University of
 Technology, 1990. Many people just think their computer
 monitors are vulnerable to emanation monitoring. This
 paper clearly shows that cabling is equally at risk. (.PDF
 format) 

 "Protective
 Measures Against Compromising Electromagnetic Radiation
 Emitted by Video Display Terminals" ( X ) by
 Professor Erhart Moller, Aachen University, Germany, 1990.
 A good introduction. Reprinted in Phrack 44. 

 " Data Security
 by Design " was written by George R. Wilson and
 appeared in Progressive Architecture, March 1995. It
 offers some interesting facts on shielding structures
 from emanation leakage. 

 PC Week, March 10, 1987 v4 p35(2) has an article
 by Vin McLellan ( O ) about emanation monitoring
 and TEMPEST. 

 TEMPEST
 Industry and People Grapple with Changing Perspectives 
 is a 1991 paper by Dr. Bruce C. Gabrielson (a very
 respected name in the TEMPEST community) that discusses
 some of the economic challenges of the industry. 
 Good background. Gabrielson also has a variety of EMC 
 and I NFOSEC 
 papers online. 

 Winn "Mr. Information Warfare" Schwartau gave a
 presentation at DefCon II (the annual Vegas hacker get
 together) in 1994. Some decent information. 
 The ~20 minute speech is available as a .WAV
 file ( O ) (a little
 over a meg - right mouse click to download). 

 TEMPEST
 MONITORING: A MAJOR THREAT TO SECURITY appears to be
 a university student paper. Decently written and fairly
 comprehensive. 

 Truthnet, Issue 2 (an e-zine) has a short, general
 layman's article on TEMPEST. 

 COMPUTERWOCHE, August 8, 1986, #34 Lauschangriff
 auf unbekannte Schwachstelle is a German article
 regarding TEMPEST shielded terminals. Thanks to Ulf Mller
 for the following summary: 

 The article says that authorities had long known about
 compromising radiation, but the information had leaked to
 business only recently. It was usually neglected by
 commercial computing centers and completely unknown to users.
 Experts estimate that screen contents can be received over a
 distance of 1 km, and of 300 m using amateur equipment. SCS
 GmbH gave recommendations on low-radiation screens determined
 in experiments. Room protection with Faraday cages is
 explained. Radiation-free computers, typically implemented by
 a Faraday cage inside the box, existed but were not available
 to the market. Beginning March 1 that year, authorities
 processing sensitive data were required by order of the
 ministry of interior to use only Tempest-protected devices
 approved by the ZfCH (= central office for encipherment, the
 predecessor of the BSI). The producers of those devices are
 obliged to secrecy and may deliver to authorities only.
 Ericsson was the market leader for security screens with a
 special version of the S41 terminal with an annual turnover
 of 10,000,000 DM. They would have liked to sell more of them,
 but were not allowed to deliver them to private companies. 

 Illegal Communications Interception Equipment Was
 Destined for Vietnam ( from iPartnership ) 

 7/9/99 
 iDEFENSE 
 By Bill Pietrucha 

 Vietnam was the intended final shipping point for
 restricted U.S. communications intercept 
 equipment, iPARTNERSHIP has learned. Shalom Shaphyr,
 arrested earlier this week for 
 allegedly possessing and selling Tempest computer
 intercept equipment, planned to first falsify the 
 nature of the equipment in export papers, ship it to a U.S.
 NATO ally, then to Israel, and finally to 
 Vietnam. 

 The Tempest computer intercept equipment, also known as
 a video intercept receiver, is 
 considered a defense article under the International
 Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), and 
 cannot be shipped to Vietnam without an export license. 

 In the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District
 Virginia late yesterday, Shaphyr, an Israeli citizen 
 living in the U.S. under a business visa, requested his
 detention hearing be postponed until July 20, 
 to give his lawyers "time to review the charges
 against me." 

 Shaphyr will continue to be held in the City of
 Alexandria, Va. detention center until the July 20 
 detention hearing date. 

 In papers filed with the court, FBI Special Agent
 Christian Zajac testified Shaphyr was "looking 
 for a Tempest monitoring system" capable of remotely
 capturing computer emanations. The 
 reason for the equipment, Shaphyr had said, was to view
 what was on a computer monitor from a 
 distance of "a few tens of feet maybe to a few
 hundred feet" away. 
 Zajac, an FBI Special Agent for the past two years,
 told the court Shaphyr indicated the 
 equipment would be used by the Vietnamese government
 "in a joint venture." Along with the 
 equipment, Zajac told the court, Shaphyr also asked for a
 syllabus outlining the training that would 
 be provided on the Tempest equipment, indicating the
 trainees would be Vietnamese. 
 Shaphyr, iPARTNERSHIP learned, operates a business with
 offices in Vietnam and England, and 
 is an FAA certified pilot, flight engineer and navigator
 listing his address in Ho Chi Minh City, Viet 
 Nam. 
 Zajac said the joint FBI-U.S. Customs Service
 investigation, which began in November 1998, led 
 to Shaphyr's arrest this past Wednesday after Shaphyr paid
 an FBI undercover agent $2,000 in 
 U.S. currency to export the Tempest equipment to Israel
 without a license. The total price 
 Shaphyr allegedly agreed to pay for the Tempest equipment
 was $30,000, Zajac testified. 
 Zajac said the investigation did not end with Shaphyr's
 arrest, and is continuing. 

 Slashdot 
 has a short thread on TEMPEST (7/19/99) with some
 interesting personal accounts of ex-military types. 

 Berke Durak 
 has some interesting test results as well as source code
 that demonstrates how easy a CPU can transmit data in the
 FM band. 

 Some general notes on a presentation 
 and workshop given by Professor Mueller (Moller?) during
 the 1997 HIP conference. Some interesting technical notes. 

 Tempest
 - een beeldige opsporingsmethode - 1997 Dutch article
 by Bert-Jaap Koops. Quick summary by an anonymous
 reader: 

 In the article Drs. B.J. Koops -- a researcher at the
 Katholieke Universiteit Brabant and the Technische
 Universiteit Tilburg (Catholic University Brabant and
 Technical University Tilburg, both in the Netherlands) gives
 a short introduction to what TEMPEST is, what it can be used
 for. 
 He notes that there are three ways of tapping info:
 wires (electrical), direct radiation and radiation emitted by
 screen-to-PC cable. 
 He continues talking about wether or not it is legal
 for individuals and the police to use TEMPEST monitoring. 

 It turns out that it is illegal for individuals (due to
 some amendments to wiretapping laws), and it is illegal for
 police (since they need explicit permission to do so, and
 TEMPEST nor radiation monitoring is mentioned in Dutch law). 

 He ends the article proposing a discussion in the
 parliament on wether or not PC-tapping would be allowed in
 the Netherlands, since that is a political decision. 

 c't
 interview (4/94) with surveillance expert Hans-Georg
 Wolf on industrial espionage. Some interesting
 TEMPEST tidbits. There's also another general article 
 in the same issue with some eavesdropped monitor photos. 

 November 13, 1999 - Issue 21 of the hacking magazine SET (think of a
 Spanish Phrack), has a lengthy text file on TEMPEST with
 some interesting schematics. Check out the Spanish
 version here ,
 or cut and paste interesting bits into Babelfish
 for translation here 
 (any readers more fluent in Spanish than I are encouraged
 to submit a decent translation). 

 November 8, 1999 - New Scientist has a short TEMPEST
 article , where Markus Kuhn predicts intercept devices
 for under 1000 within the next five years (and although
 not TEMPEST specific, an interview 
 with Ross Anderson included). Slashdot also has a thread 
 going regarding the article. 

 Patents 

 A quick search of IBM's patent server service revealed several
interesting patents: 

 Patent number 4965606 
 - Antenna shroud tempest armor (1989) 
 Patent number 5165098 
 - System for protecting digital equipment against remote
 access (1992) 
 Patent number 4932057 
 - Parallel transmission to mask data radiation (1990) 
 Patent number 5297201 
 - System for preventing remote detection of computer data
 from tempest signal emissions (1994) 
 Patent number 5341423 
 - Masked data transmission system (1994) 

 A note about patent 5297201. It references patent 2476337 that
was issued July 1, 1949. Unfortunately, the details aren't
available online, but the reference may be telling as to just how
long emanation monitoring has been taking place. 

 Paper Sources 

 "Cabinets for Electromagnetic Interference/Radio-Frequency
 Interference and TEMPEST Shielding" by Kenneth F.
 Gazarek, Data Processing & Communications Security,
 Volume 9, No. 6 [1985]. 

 Information Warfare, Winn Schwartau, Thunder's Moth
 Press, New York, 1996 (second edition) 

 Chapter 7, The World of Mr. van Eck, is devoted to TEMPEST-related
 topics. There's some good information, but it's painted
 pretty broadly, and really doesn't get into technical details
 (the second edition does present much more material on HERF
 guns and other topics, but nothing has been added to the van
 Eck chapter). Still, a good read, also some additional
 sources not mentioned on this page in the Footnotes section. 

 Computer
 Security Basics , ( X ) Deborah Russell and G. T.
 Gangemi Sr., O'Reilly & Associates, Sebastpol, CA,
 1991. Chapter 10, TEMPEST, provides an excellent overview
 of the risks of emanations as well as the government
 TEMPEST program. This is a must read. 

 I don't have a citation, but in 1997 the German computer
 magazine c't apparently published an article that
 described a home-built TEMPEST monitor. It
 consisted of an old Russian television (because it wasn't
 limited to receiving certain channels - stepless
 frequency tuning) and a piece of copper for the antenna. 
 The testers couldn't target invidual computers though,
 and received images from a variety of screens when
 cruising through a neighborhood. Anyone that has
 access to an original copy of the article, please contact
 me. 

 EMSEC Those in the know no longer generically use the term
TEMPEST to refer to emanations secruity. The current
buzzword d'jour is EMSEC, or Emissions Security. If you read
between the lines, the change to the term EMSEC is interesting. A
quote from an Air
Force site ( O ) : 

 "Emission Security (EMSEC) better known as TEMPEST
 has taken a drastic change over the past few years. These
 changes have necessitated a complete revision of rules and
 regulations, causing the need for new publications. While
 these new publications have been drafted and are in the
 coordination stages, we must continue to keep informed and up-to-date
 on EMSEC policy and procedures." 

 Hmmm. Just what drastic changes are we talking about? 
Idle speculation might include: 

 Budget cuts and directives 
 have cut back on TEMPEST use forcing new policies. 
 Other types of emissions have been discovered that pose a
 security threat. 

 From the same site comes this quote: 

 "WHAT IS COMPROMISING EMISSIONS (sic)? Compromising
 emissions are unintentional intelligence-bearing signals
 which, if intercepted and analyzed, disclose the classified
 information transmitted, received, handled, or otherwise
 processed by any information processing equipment." 

 It's curious that the term "electromagnetic radiation"
isn't used in the definition. So, there are other
monitoring vulnerabilities besides TEMPEST. Which leads us
to HIJACK and NONSTOP. 

 HIJACK and NONSTOP 

 In my quest for open-source material regarding TEMPEST, I've
started to run into two new codewords, HIJACK and NONSTOP. At
first there was only some sketchy information: 

 References to NONSTOP and HIJACK testing is starting to
 appear in outlines for TEMPEST training courses (with a
 reference to NACSEM 5112). Secret clearances are
 required for attending the classes. A Department of
 Defense course 
 description reads, "The course will train students
 in the operation of the Honeywell and HLDS test detection
 systems and in the fundamental requirements of NONSTOP/HIJACK
 testing." 

 An Air
 Force training glossary ( O ) 
 lists the definitions of HIJACK and NONSTOP as classified. 

 Countermeasures are apparently being used against
 NONSTOP, with a reference to
 NSTISSI 7001. 

 Then, thanks to publicly
available documents I found on the Net, we now know a little
bit more. Although the documents had classified information
excised, there were still enough tidbits to put together a
speculative guess regarding what HIJACK and NONSTOP related to. 

 NONSTOP is a classified codeword that apparently relates to a
form of compromising emanations, but involves the transmital of
the signals from radio frequency devices (handheld radio, cell
phone, pager, alarm system, cordless phone, wireless network - AM/FM
commercial broadcast receivers are excluded) in proximity to a
device containing secure information. There are specific
guidelines for either turning the RF device off, or keeping it a
certain distance away from the secure device (PC, printer, etc.).

 HIJACK is a classified codeword that apparently relates to a
form of compromising emanations, but involves digital versus
electromagnetic signals. An attack is similar in nature to a
TEMPEST attack, where the adversary doesn't need to be close to
the device that's being compromised. It does require access to
communication lines (these can be wire or wireless). The
adversary uses antennas, receivers, a display device, a recording
device, and one additional piece of equipment (a special
detection system that is supposedly very sensitive and very
expensive; and there are not very many of them in existence -
sorry, I don't have any other details). Also, the
technician using this special equipment will supposedly require a
great deal of training and experience. 

 Remember, the above is speculation. And whether the
guesses are accurate or not, at this point you'd need to have a
security clearance to know for sure. 

 Monitoring Devices 

 John Williams (Consumertronics, P.O. Box 23097, Albuquerque,
NM 87192) sells the Williams Van Eck System, an off the shelf
emanation monitoring device. He also has a demonstration video 
and and a book
called "Beyond Van Eck Phreaking ." The updated Consumertronics Web site
has a variety of interesting products (the $3 paper catalog is a
good read too). In past written correspondence with Mr. Williams,
he has provided a considerable amount of technical details about
his products. 

 Ian Murphy, CEO of IAM/Secure Data System wrote a very interesting
paper on TEMPEST, including a Radio Shack parts list for
building a receiver. 

 I'm currently looking for first hand, real-world accounts
of a monitoring device actually being used to gather intelligence
(not in a demonstration). PGP-encrypted e-mail through anonymous
remailers or nym servers perferred. 

 Legal News - November 15, 1999 - I just received an e-mail from a Terrance L. Kawles,
Esq. who is representing Frank Jones of Codex and DataScan
fame. Mr. Kawles takes exception to a note I recently added
to this page that states some people question Mr. Jones'
credibility. Mr. Kawles feels there is some type of smear
campaign going on against his client by persons unknown, and is
in the process of filing an action 
against various parties. In the note I suggested that
interested readers check USENET 
archives and decide for themselves about Mr. Jones (over the
years there has been a lively discussion on Mr. Jones, both pro
and con). Mr. Kawles feels this note is defamatory, and offers me
two options: " ... either remove the Note, or
remove your references and links to the Mr. Jones and Codex. "

 I'm going to indulge Mr. Kawles and remove all links and
information regarding Mr. Jones and his TEMPEST products from
this section. Not because I'm caving in to the demands of
some lawyer (my legal counsel states I have not published any
defamatory statements regarding Mr. Jones). But mostly
because anyone that resorts to these kinds of tactics on the Net,
really doesn't deserve to be mentioned in this site, which is
devoted to public disclosure. 

 And Mr. Kawles, in regard to your statement, " As I
understand, Mr. Jones was instrumental in providing information
when you began your studies of TEMPEST, yet you reward him with
this unnecessary editorial comment. " Ha! I'd
love to see you substantiate that by providing any logs of
communications between Mr. Jones and myself. 

 Update - See an interesting Forbes
online article that appeared August 10, 2000. 

 Do It Yourself
Shielding Sources 

 After you've read Grady's paper... 

 If you're handy with a soldering iron, Nelson Publishing
produces something called the EMI/RFI
Buyers' Guide . This is a comprehensive list of sources for
shielding material, ferrites, and other radio frequency
interference and electromagnetic interference type products.
There's even listings for TEMPEST products and consultants.
Unfortunately, most of the sources don't have links. But company
names, addresses, and phone/FAX numbers are supplied. 

 A more general electronics manufacturer data base is electroBase . They have
over 7,800 manufacturers of all types listed. 

 There's an interesting product called Datastop Security Glass,
that's advertised as the only clear EMF/RFI protection glass on
the market. It's free of metal mesh, so has excellent optical
clarity. This is the same stuff the FAA uses in air traffic
control towers. Contact TEMPEST
SECURITY SYSTEMS INC . for more details. 

 Just remember, effective emanation security begins with the
physical environment. Unless you can shield the wiring (telephone
lines, electrical wiring, network cables, etc.), all of the
copper around your PC and in the walls isn't going to stop
emanations from leaking to the outside world. In shielding, also
remember that emanations can pass from one set of wires to
another. 

 last changed December 10, 2000 
Copyright 1996,1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 Joel McNamara 

 back to main TEMPEST