SeattleOtaku: Review - Leiji Matsumoto's Sea of Stars 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Leiji Matsumoto's Sea of Stars 

 May the solar winds be always at your back. 

 L eiji Matsumoto's works are usualy intertwined
so deeply (and at times confusingly due to evolving rewrites), that they can
collectively be called "The Sea of Stars". Science Fiction with a
seas-and-pirates motif, Matsumoto's ships and heroes all have the same
distinct style and often appear in each other's series. 

 Space Battleship Yamato (aka Star Blazers ) 

 The Yamato, the famous sunken battleship from World War II, is given a new
life as a starship in this late-'70s series, Space Battleship
Yamato (also known as Space Cruiser Yamato and shown
in edited form here in the US as Star Blazers ). The story follows
the young crew of Earth's last hope for survival in an intergalactic war. 

 The TV series follows three story arcs, also compiled as movies, with two
additional stories as the final two theatrical movies. 

 In the manga version that continued beyond that point, one character
believed dead in the earlier stories was revealed to have disguised himself
for futher adventures as Captain Harlock (whether he is Harlock is
contestable); another link between this show and the others is the Yamato's
occasional appearance in the Galaxy Express 999 manga as well.
In recent OVA outings ( Queen Emeraldas and Harlock
Saga ), the Yamato appears briefly. 

 Space Battleship Yamato (TV, aka
 Star Blazers ) 
 Space Battleship Yamato (Compilation Movie) 
 Sayonara Yamato (Compilation Movie, aka
 Farewell Space Battleship Yamato ) 
 Space Battleship Yamato: The New Voyage (Compilation Movie) 
 Be Forever Yamato (Movie) 
 Final Yamato (Movie) 
 Other brief appearances: 

 Queen Emeraldas (1st OVA, in Tochiro's repair dock) 
 Harlock Saga (6th OVA, flying through debris) 
 Galaxy Express 999 (manga only) 

 Galaxy Express 999 

 Another of my favorites from Matsumoto, Galaxy Express
999 follows young Tetsuro and the mysterious Maetel on their
journeys aboard the titular intergalactic train. Captain Harlock makes
brief appearances, as does his eternally-linked pirate comrade, Emeraldas. 

 As mentioned above, the Yamato makes appearances in the manga continuation
of this series as well. Hopefully when new stories make their way to the
animated form, the Yamato will be kept in the loop to finally link them
fully in that medium as well. 

 Galaxy Express 999 (TV) 
 Galaxy Express 999 (Movie) 
 Sayonara Galaxy Express 999 (Movie, aka
 Adieu Galaxy Express 999 ) 
 Other brief appearances: 

 Harlock Saga (6-episode OVA) 
 Cosmo Warrior Zero (15-episode TV) 

 Space Pirate Captain Harlock 

 Exuding a high level of "coolness" and "style",
Matsumoto's Space Pirate Captain Harlock flies
among the stars under a skull-and-crossbones flag that perpetually waves
even in the depths of space. Fiercly loyal to his friends and lethal to
his enemies (oppressors everywhere, beware), he appears in his own TV
series, movie, and a recent OVA series, as well as making brief appearances in
other Sea of Stars shows as well. 

 Note that the list below is not in story-line order -- for example
 Cosmo Warrior Zero takes place at least before Arcadia
of My Youth (since Harlock doesn't yet have his eye patch). 

 Space Pirate Captain Harlock (TV) 
 Arcadia of My Youth (Movie, aka
 My Youth in Arcadia ) 
 Harlock Saga (6-episode OVA) 
 Cosmo Warrior Zero (15-episode TV) 
 Other brief appearances: 

 Space Battleship Yamato (manga only) 
 Galaxy Express 999 (Movie) 
 Sayonara Galaxy Express 999 (Movie, aka
 Adieu Galaxy Express 999 ) 
 Queen Emeraldas (2-episode OVA) 
 DNA Sights 999.9 (1-episode OVA) 

 Queen Emeraldas 

 Combining Harlock's level of "coolness" and "style" with a definite
 kawaii -ness (cuteness), Emeraldas, the pilot of the blimp-shaped
 Queen Emeraldas , uses a similar skull-and-crossbones flag
(hers is red) as her symbol of both fierce loyalty and tragic requiem. Her
lover, the man who invented the saber-shaped guns that she and Harlock use,
died shortly after designing Harlock's ship, Arcadia. 

 Linking the series together in yet another way, there are two other guns
that were made by Emeraldas's lost love -- his own gun (given to another youth
in this series), and the gun carried by Tetsuro in Galaxy Express
999 . Emeraldas is also the sister of 999 's Maetel. 

 In terms of cross-over appearances, Emeraldas often appears beside Harlock
in his cross-overs as well. 

 Queen Emeraldas (2-episode OVA) 
 Other brief appearances: 

 Galaxy Express 999 (Movie) 
 Sayonara Galaxy Express 999 (Movie, aka
 Adieu Galaxy Express 999 ) 
 Harlock Saga (6-episode OVA) 
 Cosmo Warrior Zero (15-episode TV) 

 DNA Sights 999.9 

 This one-shot OVA entry (so far?) introduces new characters into the
merged saga, as two youths and a cat find themselves at the next stage in
the Earth's evolution after the surface of the Earth has been bombarded with
asteroids. 

 A rumour that the Yamato would appear along with Harlock and the Arcadia
appears unfounded or scrapped; while Harlock does make the nearly-mandatory
appearance, I didn't find the Yamato in it after multiple viewings. 

 DNA Sights 999.9 (1-episode OVA) 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.