SeaScape Sailing Adventures - reports and reviews from our past sailors 

 Don't just take out word for it: read what some of our past shipmates have to say about their SeaScape experience. And if you'd like to contact some of our SeaScape references directly, just email us and we can send you a contact list. 

 (Have you sailed with SeaScape? Add your review! )

 G'day Diane and Rob:

 Queen Agrapina & I returned to reality physically but not mentally. We walk slower, panic less and smile more as a result of two weeks on Vassilis with you two and Punter Group 1. No time to elaborate now--but it was truly the best two weeks yet in our 30 yrs together. Thanks for all the effort and care you put into making this so; I know how much there is to it. 

 Off to the treadmill now--our souls are still sailing with you--have a terrific summer. You two are mighty special. 

 Terry & Nancy B , Virginia 

After just one day back in England, last week's fantastic journey seems an age ago; 5:30am alarm call this morning - followed by a day trawling through 476 emails with the rain lashing down outside! Many thanks to you guys for making last week such a fantastic holiday. I had so much fun - great people - no stress or deadlines.
Great experiences, learning how to jive, listening to Enya as we sailed with blue sky and sun...sleeping on deck looking at the stars. Superb holiday!

Many thanks again and c u again for sure.... Sue Rennie, Essex, UK

Thanks for the memories! I did use one of the shots from your screensaver on my screensaver. 

Im not sure I ever wrote to you after our trip to tell you how impressed I was by the caliper of your skipper and his first mate. They were 1st class in every single respect. Seamanship - Mathews boat handling was the best Ive ever seen. Teamwork - the way they communicated during maneuvers was a model for every cruising couple, Concern for their clients - when Barb returned to the Anna Maria the last day with a very bad abrasion from my motor scooter fiasco they were compassionate and medically agile. In summary, they instilled confidence and created a relaxed, fun environment for all of us.

Best wishes to you and all your crew for the holidays,

Phil von H, Massachusetts

...... and we'd just like to mention that our trips are now officially "Veterinary recommended"! 

Hello!

I hope you can pass this on the wonderful crew that we had on our two week trip in Sept/Oct. It was a trip of a lifetime for me! I was aboard the Anna Maria with Mathew and Jill. They were super hosts, guides, chefs, and friends to all of us on the trip. Diana was a first rate leader and organizer of chaos! How do you get bunches of people from one place to the next so smoothly? Ray, well , no one can order starters nor make his sailing companions more at ease then he can. Cheers to you! Darryl, the backgammon king and maker of outstanding bruchetta...good luck with your future endevours! I have and will continue to highly recommend Seascapes for the greatest sailing adventures! 

Thank you from the bottom of my heart!

Steva-the-vet 

(ps...Diana, let me know if you still need cats neutered..haha)

 Dear Matthew:

 Don't know when - or even if - you'll get this but I wanted to write
to thank you for the wonderful time my wife Jadis and I had aboard
 Anna Maria. You and Jill are terrific people who made our vacation so
 much better than it might have been. We've chartered a boat in Greece
before, with a captain, that was not one-half as much fun or as
 satisfying. Your and Jill's attitudes and professionalism made all of
 the difference.

 Best wishes, Craig Blurton (Hong Kong)

Hello Di and Ray ! 
Bradley, the girls and I wanted to drop you a note, thanking you for the two weeks we spent as mates on your crew. What an incredible experience for our family. We will forward you some worthy shots when we get them back from the photo shop this week. This was definitely a trip of a lifetime. 
In the meantime many thanks for an unforgettable experience. Diana you are quite gracious, it was a pleasure to serve on your "crew".

Warmest Regards,
Sandy Burkett, Seattle

Subject: Thanks lots and lots 

Dear Di,

Sorry for taking so long to write to say thank you for an absolutely 
brilliant holiday!! Stu and I had the best time and for me personally
it was my break of a lifetime. When I got back friends have said that
they haven't seen me this relaxed for years and years. The trip filled 
all my expectations and beyond. It is not often you get good company, 
good times, good food and wine in such a spectacular setting together 
all at the same time. There were a few tears when we got to Mamaris!!

We've been in touch with Tracy and Dan since we got back and I think 
that they will be good friends.

We've also got our photos back. Tell RJ we had a few decent sunset 
shots, and gratefully Cardiff gave us a beautiful one when we landed 
too, so it didn't seem so bad when we got back. The pictures have 
sparked a real interest with our friends. A couple are getting married 
next summer and have shown an interest in chartering one of your boats 
with along with me, Stu and some other friends for their honeymoon. 
Some people are very strange! The only potential flaw in this is that 
they want to go to Thailand too and can't decide! 

Sorry if this letter sounds a bit cheesy! We just had such a brilliant
time... we will be back.

Give my love and hugs to RJ, Deb and Dave, and see you next summer

Tanya & Stu (Cardiff, Wales)

Diana and Carole -

Just wanted to take the time to say a huge thanks and WOW for our trip with the company. As was witnessed first hand by Diana, our whole group had smiles plastered on our faces the entire time! We really appreciate all that was done to make our group's dream sailing trip come to fruition. 

The trip was everything we expected and more. We took to heart the information provided on the website and the wonderful document "101 things to know." It really was camping on water and was quite the adventure! Although our entire group were pretty much first time sailors, we were well-prepared for brief showers, shared spaces with others, and living life in our shorts, swimsuits, and sunglasses! Everything you said was right on - we were psyched for the wonderful time to be had!

It was also great to be put at ease about living on the boat for a week by our skipper and bonus first mate, Matthew and Jill! The entire group was thrilled with the personal attention and yet space they provided for our group. Really, whatever we needed they provided. Matthew and Jill kept us happy with fruit and nuts, Coke, Diet Coke, rum and beer (because that was all we ever asked for :>)! 

And they always made sure we were pointed in the right direction whenever we were at a new island. They arranged scooters for us, got us maps, even came with us at times to steer us in the right direction ! Yet we did have our own room and space on the boat as a group - we were all amazed at how we could still have peace and relaxation with eight of us on board!

We hope that we can someday return to sail those blue waters. I have submitted my story line to our military newspaper Stars and Stripes and certainly hope it gets some business coming your way!

If you ever need anything from us, just ask! We like to think we are part of the sailing family now - like alumni? HA!

And a huge thank you yet again! - Theresa (and Troy) Wesson , Germany

Diane, I just wanted to take a minute out of your busy day to thank you and Ray. We had an outstanding time. We are talking it up here in Wisconsin in hopes that it will bring you some business. We feel very lucky to have had really great boat mates. We all hit it off! If you and Ray do Thailand or Tonga, let us know...we want to go. Again, it was GREAT! 
Thank You! 
Tom & Sue Hoffmann, Wisconsin 

Deanna & friends on her next trip with us, our Feb '03 Thailand trip!

Just passing on my feedback from the recent Turkey/Greece trip I took with you from 5/27/02 to 6/9/02.

My biggest fears before I came on this trip were that I wouldn't like anyone (or no one would like me!) and that I wouldn't like being on a boat for two weeks. Both of these fears were immediately put to rest the first day. I had an absolutely wonderful time.

I was very nervous because it was my first trip overseas. I felt safe, comfortable, and confident the entire time, thanks to you and the other skippers. Ray, Matt and Jill, Charlie, and yourself were excellent at operating the boats; pointing out the best shops, bars, and beaches; stocking the boats with food and alcohol; and just trying to make sure everyone was having a good time. I really liked it that all of you were so laid-back and relaxed; I think that really influenced everyone else to be that way also. Ray was a great skipper and "galley bitch" - he made the trip fun and provided lots of laughter for the group.

I was a little worried about packing but found that I was able to get it all into a carry-on piece of luggage. There was nothing I didn't pack that I thought I needed. I was on the Angelina, and even though it was the smallest sail boat, it never felt crowded. I got along with 14 of the 16 people on my trip. We really became great friends. Many of us are still in contact (wishing we were back there on the boats) and will probably travel together again.

Turkey was my favorite, but I liked Greece a lot, too! My favorite parts of the trip were the Turkish massage in Datca, renting the motor scooters in Pandeli and Patmos, the lunch stops the last two days where we got to swim and explore, and the food (where else in the world would I get to eat wild boar stew, roasted goat, and homemade dolmades?). I thought the trip combined tiny destinations (like Dirsek) and large destinations (like Bodrum) well. Anyway, as our group got along so well, we had a good time wherever we went!

I hope to take the 10-day sail in Turkey either this fall or next, so maybe I'll see you all again. I am still going to send pictures and Udder Butter as soon as I get it all together, I'm still trying to get back into the swing of things in the real world.

Feel free to use my name and excerpts from my e-mail - i'm happy to answer any questions for prospective sailers 
if they want a traveler's point of view.

Deanna Sanvi , Illinois

 Dear Diane:

 Thank you for the trip of a lifetime. Who would have ever thought that a boatful of strangers could have so much fun and get along so well? Maybe it's because it takes a bit of "adventure in your spirit" to sign up&mdash;that and an Internet connection! 

 I'd say that the proof of our compatibility is that we've gotten together since our time on Vassilis! Barry and Tracy were houseguests for a few days when they came for a wedding in New York, and Fran and Michelle were here for dinner last August. It's amazing that even though we all came from different regions, we're able to stay in touch. Now it's you and Robert's turn! We'd love to see you again (either here or on a future trip)! 

 Hugs from both of us,

 Stu and Alex 

 As it is, I have not stopped talking about the trip since I got back and would love to talk about it some more. I had a wonderful time. It was everything I had hoped for. Hope everything is going well out there on the clear blue seas. Tell Christie that Mona and I now have a reputation for naked sailing. Every time someone invites us out they make sure to mention that it will be a clothed sailing trip and that we will have to control ourselves. I guess there are worse things that we could be known for. 

 Thank you for the wonderful time - 
 Genevieve V , San Francisco 

 I love talking about my adventure sailing trip to anyone who will listen...so much so that my friends have told me that they feel as if they were on the trip with Genn and I ! I am still walking around braless and topless as often as possible; in fact, some friends and I went out on the San Francisco Bay a few weekends ago and of course all the men kept telling me that they were just waiting for me to bare it all. Unfortunately, it was only about 60 degrees so they were all very disappointed. 

 I have also taught several party goers how to belly dance. It is quite a fun way to get a party into full swing....no pun intended.... Mona P, San Francisco 

 Coooooooooooooooooool! I just realized I never thanked you for our Greek trip this summer -- probably the best vacation I've ever had! Suzanne M , San Francisco 

 We're back in the mainstream without jetlag, and we are filled with love, memories and laughter. We shared our lives for what seemed like only a moment in time, but the experience and friendship will last forever for us. The trip was more than we thought it would be... a credit to your hard work, planning and sense of humor (which was tested on more than one occasion). Thank you for a fantastic trip which we will be sharing in detail with our friends at a dinner party this weekend. 

 Much love,

 Molly and Pam , Seattle 

 Just wanted to add my own thanks onto the others. Our vacation was truly incredible - it surpassed all my expectations thanks to you and Rob and all the others. Beforehand, I think we all had visions of killing each other after the 1st week! But instead the Vassilis was definitely a great place to be. I really hated coming back to grey old Seattle--the more I think about it, being a cucumber polisher doesn't sound half-bad! ;-) 

 We'll definitely have the party when you get back in town (hopefully I'll get my belly-dancer top to fit by then)! 

 P.S. one year later . . . "Of course you can use my email on your reviews page! That trip is pretty much the reason I now live on the tropical island of Guam...! :) " 

 Shelly Hughes , Guam

 Jack and Scarlett and I threw our Turkey party Saturday....We did it like a show and tell with Jack and me prancing around in our Muslim pants to demonstrate our new found freedom. Then we brought out photos of our artisans and told stories about Turkey and the products. It went smashingly well!! 

 And guess what? People practically accused us of keeping Turkey and SeaScape Sail as a long-lost secret and why didn't we share this trip with others. Well, to keep the peace, I said I'd e-mail you and find out when the next Turkey trips were scheduled, but I was making no promises that you'd want them on board (hee, hee, hee). 

 Well, here's to you and your fabulous business! Thanks for a wonderful, memorable time and all the directions. 

 Kate D , Kansas City 

 Sally & I REALLY enjoyed our week on Vassilis! Just an hour out of Kos Sally commented to me that both of you exude such relaxed competence we could see we were in good hands; could kick back, let the sun, wind, and that blue blue water (and Diane's tropical drinks!) do their magic. The group we had on board meshed together well too. I sit here & chuckle when I remember Bob saying he'd like to get Judy to massage his feet like Colleen was doing for Paul; I said "Well, Bob, you'll first have to learn how to wash your stinky feet," and Ken's whole body rumbled & quaked with laughter. 

 Many thanks for your hospitality, your friendship, and for organizing such a great trip. 

 Drake Pike (Hong Kong) 

 Jane and I want to thank you, Robert (and Mia of course) for a great vacation. As a matter of fact, it was the best one we have ever had. . .and we have had some wonderful ones. We really appreciate the efforts you all made to make it as flawless as possible. 
 Hopefully we'll see you again - not next year, but the year after - if everything goes well 

 Jon Emerson , Farmington, CT 

 As I sit at my desk on this cold, grey morning, it is hard to believe that I last saw you in the taverna on the back side of Leros where the sun was shining, the day relaxed, and the schedule nonexistent. Our boatmates Bob and Bonnie sent us a photo they'd taken of us drinking a glass of wine on the back of the boat. Drake and I both looked at the photo, at each other, and said, "Who are those people?" We couldn't believe how relaxed we looked. Karen Atkinson ,

 Seattle 

 We were cc'd on this msg to a "potential newbie"! :) 

 We had an absolutely great time with SeaScape. They were where they said they would meet us and the trip was better than we ever expected. I would really strongly recommend taking an adventure with them. You just need to be aware it is a very casual sailboat trip and not a cruise ship environment. The first one up usually makes the coffee and you will usually have to peel your own fruit, open your own yogurt and put on your own honey for breakfast. We also took turns cleaning up the kitchen. The rule was he/she who cooks does not have to clean!!!! 

 My husband and I went and everyone on the trip was new to us. They were a very diverse and interesting group and it really helped make the trip special. 

 The only advice I would give is pack light. We took a lot more than we needed to. Tevas, shorts, tops and swimsuits will pretty much take you everywhere. You only need to make sure and have a pair of long pants or for your wife a skirt and something that covers her shoulders if you want to go into the monasteries or other religious sights. They were really amazing and I would recommend you see them. 

 We went in late June/early July and it was very warm. We only had one evening when we needed something a little warmer. If you are going earlier, ask Diane. She knows everything and very helpful. 

 If you have any other questions, feel free to ask me. I would be happy to help. 

 Judy R , Seattle 

 More Reviews from Past Crews. . .