Bio    Hello, I'm Phyllis Smith.  I currently teach first grade at Naches Trail Elementary in Bethel SchoolDistrict in western Washington. Next year I will stay with my same studentsand be a second grade teacher, among other things.  Beliefs about Education:  --I believe that young children deserve to be schooled in an atmosphereof safety, mutual respect and excitement about learning. Parents, studentsand teachers should expect to work very hard to build bridges between homeand school to enhance learning.  --I believe that a teacher of young children (older ones, too!) must bean enthusiastic learner who learns from and with his/her students. I believethat both teacher and students need to be risk-takers in exploring and creatingknowledge.  --I believe that technology can transform education only if teaching istransformed as educators explore, with their students, ways that technologicaltools can make learning more efficient and joyful. I would like to see technologyused in my classroom as casually and as appropriately as pencils and scissors.I am trying to empower my students to manage and wisely use the classroomtechnology we are so fortunate to have.    Technology:  My technology project this year was to get all my students to: 1. Learn word-processing to enable the writing process 2. Set up computers, open and close programs, save and print files, andcorrectly shut down the room computers 3. Make their own webpages, in partnership with teacher and parents     Personal History:  --BA in Education.....Sterling College --M. Education ........University of Washington (Tacoma)  --Thirty years' teaching experience in Kansas, New Mexico, France (DOD Schools),and Washington (..and I know that I have a few good years left!)  --Bethel School District activities: Advisory Council for Technology, Trainerof Trainers, Webpage Project, Math Piloting and Data Gathering  --Building Committees: Site Council (1990-95), Chair of Tech Committee  --I am an elder in the Presbyterian Church, a former foster parent, a memberof AAUW, NEA, PTA and Phi Delta Kappa   My personal technology project is:  To create and post webpage backgrounds on the internet. I get responsesto these from all over the world. Sometimes I make custom backgrounds forteachers and students in other states and countries who do not have thesoftware to do that themselves. You can see them at thisaddress