Computer Cryptology 

 Computer Cryptology 
 Who am I? 
This is the World Wide Web site for Computer Cryptology, aka Turing
(from the email address turing AT eskimo DOT com), aka CC. Besides
these Web pages, my posts in alt.privacy.anon-server 
provide some idea of who I am.
 What is here? 
As the first two names (Computer Cryptology and Turing) imply, one of
my hobbies is computer cryptology, i.e., making and breaking codes and
ciphers using the computer. At the moment, only two parts of the CC
hobby are on the Web:

 The CC Pretty Good Privacy 
 RSA and
 DH/DSS public keys, and
 The CC Anonymous Remailer Page .

 Why is this here? 
I was born to educated parents, with a father who told me his opinions
but encouraged me to form my own. I grew up in a country that whose
judicial common law and whose constitution reflect a belief in the
freedom of speech and of the press, and the right to privacy. My
introduction to those freedoms and rights was my library card as
child. As a teen, I relied upon this access to satisfy my curiosity
about everything--from the hotly-debated political issues to the
unspoken mysteries of sex.

In the digital age, many interests oppose these freedoms and rights:

 Legislatures convinced of the righteousness of their laws seek to
eliminate online information that challenges the legitimacy of those
laws.
 Executive agencies unprepared for the expansion of technology
seek to monitor communications that might foster activity outside
their control.
 Judiciaries offended by the resistance of netizens seek to
control the content that permits disobedience to their dictates.
 Corporations wanting ownership extended into cyberspace seek to
possess the information that enables others to find enjoyment outside
their markets.
 Marketers wanting instant wealth seek to prevent the personal
data hiding that provides individuals with the opportunity to make
choices unmolested by their pleas.

I hope my interest in learning new technological skills can instead
support the freedoms and rights I value.

 Join the Blue Ribbon Online Free Speech Campaign!