SeattleOtaku: Review - Kacho Ouji (Black Heaven) 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Kacho Ouji (Black Heaven) 

 A spoof of anime cliche's. A late-night adult show.
A coming-of-age show. A mid-life crisis show. A music-saves-the-world show.
 Kacho Ouji (released here in the US as Legend of
Black Heaven , even though the true translation would have been
closer to "Prince Salaryman") is a bit hard to pin down. 

 Story Intro 

 "Ouji" is a middle-aged salaryman, bored with the inanity of office work,
when he learns that his wife of many years threw out his last remaining
electric guitar. Years ago, he was the leader of a heavy metal group named
Black Heaven, and family life brought out new responsibilities for almost all
the group members. Long gone are the days of rock and roll as "Gabriel
Tanaka" and all that remains is "Ouji" the businessman. 

 In a drunken slump over the loss of the last memoirs of those years, he
meets a beatiful woman who reminds him of his youth and knows the whereabouts
of his guitar. She asks him, Gabriel Tanaka, to play for her -- she needs
his particular sound to help battle invading aliens. 

 Other Notes 

 Like a spoof of Macross and other shows that try to make music
save the universe and be serious about it, this show makes light of
it from the beginning. Ms. Yuki and her assistants come off as the most inept
group this side of the Three Stooges at times; of course, Ms. Yuki looks
exactly like the leader in Gabe's son's favorite sci-fi TV show. 

 The animation is sparse at first, looking like an even cheaper than usual
digital show, but after a few episodes things start to progress. I recommend
this more for the music (guitar solos by Whitesnake's John Sykes), '80s music
references (mostly about Michael Schenker), with the story and character
designs during its better moments. 

 A good quick show to prove that anime doesn't have be all teenaged
angst, giant robots, and psychic powers. After all, sometimes it can be
 adult angst, spaceships, and "groove". One to rent, at least. 

 Kacho Ouji (13-episode TV) 

 Kacho Ouji Copyright (C) AIC / Pioneer Entertainment 
Distributed by Pioneer Entertainment as Legend of Black Heaven . 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.