Wackos, net.loons, and Kooky Kristian Kulture 

This bookmarks list is a collection of links to various fringe
religionists and other nutsoids that I happen to find
amusing. Something important to be noticed is that I have deleted a
link I once maintained to the Creator's Rights Party , a
bizarre fringe party whose web page was maintained at the Christian Gallery 
web site. I have done this for two reasons: first, due to a recent
court ruling, the site has gone up and down several times, and may
(hopefully) be gone for good now. Secondly, and more importantly, I no
longer consider Christian Gallery to be harmless and amusing kooks as
I once did. Prominently displayed on their website, they published a
list of information called the " The
Nuremberg Files ." These "files," while calling the "Army of
God" to a holy war against "baby-killers," list extensive personal
information of abortion doctors and prominent pro-choice
spokespeople around the country, including home phone number, names
and pictures of children, and home address ,
surrounded by images of dripping blood and aborted foetuses. Not only
has this information been a source for innumerable acts of vandalism
and harassment, it may even be linked to the murder 
of Dr. Barnett
Slepian . Thanks to the Nuremberg Files I have come to realize that
Christian Gallery are not just goofy fanatics; they are nothing less
than thugs, terrorists, and cold-blooded murderers . My mother
is a pro-choice Ob-Gyn who has worked in family planning, and I take
the Nuremberg Files publication as nothing short of a personal threat.
I am grateful that their filth has been taken off the net and I hope
that it will stay that way.

 Steve Lashuk has used the scholarship of his Lesbian Studies Institute to
uncover a new, blood-curdling threat to our nation's moral fibre and
national security: The Lesbian Mafia ! (and you thought the Yakuza was
bad)
 The Second Coming of Christ 
(or if you like Koresh, I guess the Third...)
 Dial-the-Truth Ministries
printed tracts ... new perVersions of the Bible, rock as the instrument
of Satan, 666 is coming, and more...
 For racialist and Christian-bashing inanity, check out
the World Church of the Creator !
 I had this recommended to me as an "atheistic revelation." The
result: one of the silliest, wackiest pieces of crap I've ever
seen. As seen on The Daily Show, behold: Rael !
 "ANSWERS" book 
 God does exist! 
And it's not just any God; it's YHWH, too!
 Yes! You too can be a member of the Brave Newt World with
 the Kri$tian Koalition !
 A documentary on the behavioral patterns of
 Brice
Wellington in the wild
 Publius doing his thing .
 More than you ever wanted to know about
 Publius