Guitar Lessons - Acoustic Guitar 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar Lessons , Acoustic Guitar 

 ACOUSTIC GUITAR 

 The acoustic guitar is a self-contained instrument. It can 
 play chords, solos, orchestral arrangements - even accompany 
 your own voice. It's almost like a portable band of musicians 
 that will travel along with you wherever you go. 

 What To Look For In An Acoustic 
 Guitar 
 By A-J Charron 
 When you are looking to buy an instrument which will 
 last you most of your life you should take the time 
 to make sure you&#146;re buying something good and something 
 that you will enjoy in the long run. This article will 
 educate you about the different parts of the acoustic 
 guitar, what they are made of, and most importantly 
 what you should look for when choosing which guitar 
 to take home. 

 [ Complete Lesson ] 

 Acoustic Guitar 
 By John Tapella 
 The acoustic guitar is a self-contained instrument: it doesn't 
 rely on electronics or effects to make its voice sing. It 
 can play chords, solos, orchestral arrangements--even accompany 
 your own voice. It's almost like a portable band of musicians 
 that will travel along with you wherever you go. 
 Pink 
 Floyd Unplugged 
 By Astoria 
 What many fans appreciate most about Pink Floyd is that the 
 band is equally magical in its quietest moments as it is in 
 its loudest. This online guitar lesson explores the 
 acoustic music of Pink Floyd. 

 Fingerstyle 
 Blues E-book 
 By Acoustic Guitar Workshop 

 Download this free e-book on fingerstyle blues 
 with 10 lessons in the art of Acoustic Blues. Contains 
 many links to MP3 examples so you can listen to how 
 the lesson should sound. 

 [ Subscribe 
 to Acoustic Guitar Workshop ] 

 Acoustic Guitar Workshop Lessons 
 Acoustic Slide Guitar - General 
 Technique and Tips 
 By Rick Payne 
 There have been many objects used to achieve the slide sound. 
 Knives, bottle necks, tubes of all kinds of metals and glass, 
 spark plug sockets, lighters, stone, marble, plastic... anything! 
 At sometime or other I've used them all but to keep things 
 simple and effective, I use a real bottle neck or metal tube, 
 cut long enough to be slightly longer than the pinkie. 
 How To Record An Acoustic Guitar 
 By Steve Elliot 
 Let's face it, capturing a decent acoustic guitar tone 
 is not an easy task. Here are some tips that will help you 
 cover the basics of this deft art and avoid the pitfalls that 
 will render your efforts a jangly and dolorous cacophony. 
 So if you don't want your Dreadnought to sound dreadful, read 
 on. 
 Origins of the Pentatonic and 
 Relevance to the Blues 
 By Acoustic Guitar Workshop 

 Like many guitarists, I was always confused as to what Pentatonic 
 this and Pentatonic that meant. Guitar books varied in their 
 interpretation of blues scales and Pentatonic, and still do. 
 Most of us get through in the end by using our ears and not 
 the grey stuff in between. It is, however, worth mentioning 
 a few points in connection with the birth of the blues. 
 History & Origins of the Slide 
 Guitar in the Blues 
 By Acoustic Guitar Workshop 

 There have been many claims to the origin of the slide guitar. 
 Its haunting sound can be heard across the whole spectrum 
 of musical styles, through blues, rock, country, Hawaiian 
 and even jazz. A sound so haunting, that as fans of Robert 
 Johnson might believe, was born from the devil himself. 
 Acoustic 
 Slide : D Tuning Workout 
 By Acoustic Guitar Workshop 

 This is a pretty cool lesson on open D tuning and has 3 great 
 slide instrumentals to try in the style of Blind Willie Johnson 
 and Ry Cooder. All the exercises and tunes have audio support 
 as per usual. 

 The 
 challenge to every guitar player : The 12-string guitar 
 By Acoustic Guitar Workshop 

 The 12-string guitar has a long history and we find some astonishing 
 playing among roots-musicians like Huddy Ledbetter (Leadbelly) 
 , Blind Willy Mc Tell and Big Joe Williams. Here I will give 
 you some basic information about the 12-string guitar, some 
 helpful tips and some examples in tablature. 
 Tim 
 Sparks Guitar Lesson 
 By Acoustic Guitar Workshop 

 Spice up your blues be-bop style with Tim Sparks. If you want 
 to get away from the old pentatonic try this free online lesson 
 for intermediate to advanced players. 
 Alternating 
 Bass Lesson (PDF file download) 
 By Acoustic Guitar Workshop 

 This technique is an essential for an aspiring fingerstylist. 
 It features exercises and an arrangement of Dylan's "Meet 
 Me In The Morning". It has real audios embedded in it 
 and also links to a CD quality mp3 of the tune. You can download 
 the lesson in pdf format from this 
 location . 

 Lessons 
 by subject... 

 Beginner 
 Absolute Beginner , Guitar Basics , Buying a Guitar , Easy Songs for Beginners , Chords , 
 Tablature , Theory , More 

 Intermediate 
 Guitar Columns , Songs for Intermediates , Soloing and Improvisation , 
 Maximum Musician , Guitar Principles , Songwriting , More 

 Styles 
 Acoustic , Blues , Classical , 
 Heavy Metal , Jazz , 
 More 

 Topics 
 Buying Equipment , 
 Careers , Genres , Jamming , The Joy of Guitar , Performance , Scales and Modes , Soloing and Improvisation , Sound Engineering , Teaching , Tuning , Women , More 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.