Masterclass 

 Locations 

 Rob McNeilly MBBS was in a suburban Melbourne general medical practice for 10 years, had the privilege of learning directly with Milton Erickson , was inspired by his human approach to therapy, and created his own interpretation to assist clients in a respectful, dignified way with the human dilemmas that affect individuals, couples and families. He founded the CET in l988 to introduce Ericksonian Hypnosis and the Solution Oriented Approach to hypnosis, counselling and coaching in Australia. For more than 30 years, the contribution he brings i his teaching style, writing and unique approaches to learning and therapy allow for a ready application into everyday living and are recognised locally, nationally and internationally, including repeated invited presentations at the Milton H Erickson Foundation&rsquo;s International Congresses in USA since 1980 and workshops in Singapore and Denmark since 1999. He is co-author, with Jenny Brown, of "Healing With Words", "Healing the Whole Person" was published by Wiley, republished as &ldquo;Doing Change&rdquo; by St Luke&rsquo;s Innovative Resources, and Crown House have published a series of DVD demonstrations of counselling and hypnosis. Students comment on his easy, respectful manner and his elegant ability to make complex issues approachable while retaining their essence. Gabrielle Peacock MBBS FRACGP is a general practitioner with 17 years experience, the last 10 spent predominantly working with mental health issues. She has 5 years advanced training in Solution Oriented and Ericksonian psychotherapy with individuals, couples and families. She runs workshops locally and internationally teaching Solution Oriented Family Therapy to health professionals, and has been a presenter at ASOCHA, PACFA and AFTA conferences around Australia. She also teaches counselling skills to medical students at the clinical school in Hobart. Gabrielle works with all issues in individuals, couples and families. She has a wide experience in working with every day human dilemmas to severe chronic mental illness. She has developed a special interest in working with children, adolescents and families. She is particularly interested in interventions which assist families and individuals to regain their strength and resilience in problem situations such as child and adolescent behavioural problems, bullying, school issues, illness in a family member, and relationship breakdowns within the family. &lsquo; Rob McNeilly studied with Milton H. Erickson M.D. ... is one of the most knowledgeable practitioners of Ericksonian methods in Australia. His teaching is clear, entertaining and edifying.&rsquo; Jeffrey K. Zeig, Ph.D. Board of Directors, The Milton H. Erickson Foundation, Inc., Phoenix, Arizona. &ldquo;Rob McNeilly worked with Milton Erickson, has been an invited presenter at International Ericksonian Congresses, and is a passionate and skilful teacher of the Solution Oriented Approach. I know him and his work, and value his personal and professional contributions." Bill O&rsquo;Hanlon MS LMFT A highly skilled presenter whose unique perspectives and playful demeanour make for a delightful learning experience.&rsquo; Michael D. Yapko, Ph.D. &lsquo; .. Your clear and practical teaching of the solution oriented approach has enabled me to achieve more effective interventions with greater ease ..... the approach is applicable in many different contexts...&rsquo; Peter Thorneycroft, Psychologist. 

 A one day Masterclass with Dr Rob McNeilly In this one day Masterclass there will be a mix of personal growth issues and case discussion in a safe and intimate setting. The group will be limited to around five participants with places allocated on a first come first served basis. Venue: Intra 1st Floor, 75 Johnson St, Byron Bay ( above the Wespac bank) Times: 9.00 - 4.30 Dates: February 28th, 2014 Cost: $270 Payment by direct deposit to CBA Elizabeth Street North Hobart 7000 BSB 067 028 account # 1023 2600 Dr Robert McNeilly & Dr Gabrielle Peacock or PayPal Registration [essential]: Please email me the following details - Name Address phone email location Contact: Rob McNeilly, 0433 273 352, rob@cet.net.au Robert Quinlan, 0409 235 391, r.e.quinlan@gmail.com back to CET home