SMALLnet post360 

 SMALLnet Posting post360

Date: Mon, 20 Nov 2000 17:23:09 -0600

...This is the third try at sending out this Posting! First attempt
was at 2 AM Saturday; tried again at 10 AM today without success;
this time it's going out via our webmaster Bill Lee...[JW]

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

...A clarification seems in order about the "6 1/2-inch" R/C
receiver antennas that Randy mentioned earlier as being available
via Ace. Ace unfortunately decided some time ago to discontinue
their mail-order sales to modelers. Now Ace acts purely as a
hobby distributor, mainly for Thunder Tiger products.

The antennas in question are made by W.S. Deans. You won't
find them (in catalogs I've checked) listed under "D". Look at
the "W" listings. Tower (e.g.) carries these antennas. [JW]

David Williams < > wrote:

I greatly enjoyed the posting on CO2. It makes a nice change
from Cox and Norvel!! Does anyone know how to get hold of a
plan for Helides, the small replica CO2 model, or any information
on the larger model? David Williams ENGLAND

Andy Woitowicz < > contributed:

Before winter locked in here, a youngster and his dad showed up
at the field with a Wingo. Initial inspection revealed a very well
engineered and executed design. Closer inspection showed that
the prop was on backwards. Not the fault of the "builder" it seems.

The prop is mounted to a spinner/hub and it was put on backwards,
seemingly, by the factory. The assembly could not be pulled off the
motor shaft easily, at the field, so a flight was attempted as is.

Flying characteristics were very good in the near calm conditions,
although obviously with more thrust the aircraft certainly could
handle a bit of wind.

Has anyone else encountered this problem with the Wingo, and
how can the prop be reversed if necessary?

Andy Woitowicz

Ron Fikes < > also talks about "pushers":

The Mouse inquired: "...I have an electric pusher question.
I recently purchased the Mirage 2000...but they run the motor
clockwise and use standard tractor props."

We sport Speed 400 flyers just reverse the connections on the 400
(and 280's) to get pushers. Turn the tractor prop around (so the
airfoil is facing the front) and go fly. Most little motors are
timed neutrally -- you can gain some performance by adjusting the
timing. That takes a special tool, order from New Creations R/C
at (409) 856-4630.

The Zagi prop is good, cheap and needs no adaptor -- I find them
a little heavy on pitch, and I like to use Master Airscrew
5.5" X 4" or 5.5" X 4.5" props.

For folders, there is not much choice - Graupner 6" X 3". You
should join the Ezone Digest at < http://www.ezonemag.com >
for more electric information -- also the SlowFlight Digest at
< http://www.sirius.com/~thayer/modelhp.html >.

Don't quit the SMALLnet digest -- there is a wealth of infor-
mation there too. Electrics work with lots of small stuff
(even gas, haha)...

Roy Clough mentioned short R/C receiver antennas. Here is
some information on building (assembling?) your own antennas:
< http://www.uoguelph.ca/~antoon/gadgets/gadgets.htm >.

To all - if you have ordered my plans, or asked for information --
I have to take some time off for a personal issue. I will answer
everything when I finish...

Thanks, Ron Fikes

Carlo Godel < > adds:

Regarding the paucity of pusher props: if you are, or once were,
a FreeFlighter, you may have had the experience of carving your
own balsa props. Gas props are much easier as the pitch is far
less, and not as much wood needs taking off.

I've been carving my own props for pushers for 20 years and they
work just fine. Find a lumberyard that specializes in hardwoods
and get some good maple. (Oak is too porous, but you can use
good dense walnut, peach, apricot or plum.)

Another approach is to reset the motor timing. I haven't used a
Speed 400, so I don't know if it will lend itself to that
procedure like Astros do. Carlo

Glenn Bolick < > amplifies:

The Mouse asked about Speed 400 motors and the effects of clock-
wise and/or counterclockwise rotation. Please be advised that
although the dealers will tell you that the motors come with neutral
timing (run the same either way) my experience with some dozen or
so is that rarely is this the case. Some furnished with gears are
better timed for straight and vice versa! Recognize that most
(if not all) Speed 400 size motors are capable of being timed to
the preferred direction by rotation of the back plate.

If anyone is interested, I will provide that information.

Glenn Bolick

Jack Dickerson < > inquires:

I have been involved in R/C flight for about 20 years, but the
recent loss of an R/C Airport forces me to get involved with Speed
400 electrics. This is an area where I am flying essentially blind.

I have read a great deal (both here and elsewhere), and found that
putting together a power package was not difficult until I came to
the charger purchase. I am hopelessly confused by the very wide
selection and complexity of this technology. There are so many
types etc.

I have questions about time lapse charging, peak detection charging,
source voltage and a host of other issues. If you are an expert in
this field, please email me direct. If this isn't possible, could
someone recommend a single book source which would address
these subjects? Thanks. Jack Dickerson

Joe Bodin < > asked:

Anyone flying the Norvel U-Can-2? It looks like a good model at
a pretty reasonable price. I'd like to hear if it is as good as
it looks. Joe Bodin

Jim Lemmers < > also has a question:

Looking for some information on a recent TV commercial (don't
even know what it was for) that showed a guy standing on his deck
or porch flying a small R/C model (vintage) plane, very neat old
design. It must have been electric-powered for lack of engine noise.

I would like to know if this was a kit or what ? Also, this could
have been computer-faked for all I know.

I would like to build up a small electric R/C plane, so am looking
for ideas.

Thanks for any assistance you may render; Jim Lemmers

Len Rozamus < > reports:

I put the old (c. 1966?) Fox .15X R/C back on my funfly testbed
machine. My previous flights with this engine were run with
disappointment because, now I have determined, the thrust washer
had worn through (apparently) and when tightening the prop nut,
said washer allowed the crankshaft to be bound up. Although the
engine struggled through a couple of flights, power was poor and
the engine ran hot, scorching the plug. Now I know why, and
with a new thrust washer, was amazed at the performance this
old mill delivered!

I used Rustoleum spray paints on a big R/C project, because articles
in MA and other magazines praised its lightness, ease of use, and
ability to withstand hot fuel. In this case, the plane's wings and
tail were covered with mylar coverings, but the curvatures of the
fuselage led me to painting.

The base was Silkspan applied with clear SuperPoxy (never again!)
(another magazine spiel), over which I used the old SuperPoxy
primer. After sanding this down to satisfaction, I used Rustoleum
spray gray primer, followed by more sanding and, Rustoleum gray.
Trim was Industrial Use Rustoleum blue spray.

The spray cans worked to a point where they'd spit. Respraying
resulted in the paint attacking itself. Finally, it became a contest
of trying to spray enough paint over the bubbling paint to subdue
and drown it into laying down. At times it seemed to be a psychic
battle between me and the paint.

Finally, the paint cured, and then I noticed the cracks and minute
peeling. Mind you, this aircraft was coming to the end of a two-
year building effort with lots of dough invested to make it work.

Well, things dried and quieted down. But now, the test of fuel
resistance raised its ugly head. So I inquired far and wide.
Would it stand up to fuel? Should I coat it otherwise? Should
I go with a four-stroke to allow lower nitro fuel?

Well, I caved. After applying decals, Xerox glue-ons, and the
decals from two bourbon bottles (there was $26 of the project cost
right there!), I used Aero-Gloss Hot Fuel Proofer. It has cured
(and gave everything a nice gloss), and still, I am trying to decide
whether to Armor-All the finish or wax it (what kind of polish to
use?) before I roll this project out at the Field for its test flight.

Will SMALLnetters please help me with this? In the meantime,
I am contemplating ordering a complete system of Brodak dopes
and using them exclusively on my next project (unless someone out
there has a discouraging word).

Len Rozamus Hopewell, Virginia

Michael Sommer < > contributed:

I was surprised someone else did not mention this, as the subject
comes up often on the usenet. The consensus seems to be that
there are several different formulations for Rustoleum, and that
cans with 'stops rust' on the label are the only ones that are glow
fuel resistant.

Allen Wiltz < > has also searched for the
"Holy Grail" of a perfect fuelproof finish for model airplanes:

For many years I have painted my aircraft which had all-solid
surfaces (balsa-covered foam wings and sheet balsa fuselage sides)
with acrylic lacquer. Since this lacquer is no longer available
I have tried several other paints. The best, so far, is Dutch Boy
acrylic enamel sold in spray cans at K-Mart stores for $1.97.

The finish is hard and gives a nice satin finish. I use fuel in
the 10%-15% nitro range, and have had no problems.

Tests with 25% nitro fuel were the same.

Pusher props 6" diameter x 4" pitch are available in the Grish
(Tornado) Tempest line. Allen Wiltz

Kenneth Phillips < > has a problem:

I really enjoy the Postings here. I have a question for the
multitude. I am 74 and have been building and flying since I
was 11. Radio control with a tone generator, rubber-powered
escapement, Pulse width/pulse duration (Galloping Ghost);
Reeds; and finally Proportional (1965).

I have recently started into small electric and have virtually no
experience. I have recently become extremely allergic to CA.
Bought a Sig R/C Rascal and wrote Sig with the question: "Will
using Sig-Bond or Franklin Titebond or Ambroid work with
this kit without making it unacceptably heavy for electric?"

Sig wrote back that these glues are all fine glues but really
didn't answer the question of weight. Maybe I missed some-
thing in their answer but it was a one-liner. I really don't need
another lead sled.

Kenneth G. Phillips, Chandler, Texas

...Kenneth, if you confine the glue in your Rascal to the actual
joint areas, the overall difference in weight between CA,
Titebond, and Ambroid would probably be too small to register
on a Postal Scale. Many modelers pile up glue in "fillets"
adjacent to their structural joints "to add crash resistance".

That's ineffective, and DOES add significant weight. But the only
place that glue really functions as it was designed to is within
the actual joint.

But technique must be learned in order to achieve maximum
strength. End grain balsa, for example, siphons thin glue --
CA or Ambroid -- from the joint. That's why "double gluing"
is needed.

In that, you apply a preliminary drop (or line) of glue to the end
grain and allow that to penetrate. When it dries, it seals off
the "capillary tubes" of the hollow wood fibers, so that the later
JOINING application of glue stays put.

Don't use wax paper to protect a model plan for a project that
you intend sing Ambroid on. Ambroid will absorb something from
the wax coating that prevents it from properly curing.

The best "plan protector" I know of is the "backing sheet" from
Monokote. That works with ANY kind of glue.

I don't know how the Rascal is engineered; whether it's necessary
to glue together large areas of sheet balsa face-to-face -- as with
fuselage doublers. For that kind of glue joint, DON'T consider
white glue or yellow. The water content of those will swell the
wood and make it become convex on the wet side.

Ambroid also has difficulties in sheet balsa laminating applications.
That's because it dries first around the outer edges, sealing off
the interior. The solvent can't evaporate easily from there, so
the glue near the middle of a sheet lamination may remain wet
(and non-adherent) for quite a long time -- perhaps DAYS, depending
on the weather.

DON'T try accelerating the drying time of any modeling adhesive
with a heat gun. That can weaken the joint severely.

Butt joints in balsa wood are always potential failure points.
I would never use a brittle-curing glue for those -- not any more,
I mean! I've learned my lesson with hand-launched glider wings
butt-joined at the dihedral breaks with Titebond.

Ambroid is my current favorite of the NON-CA types. As for a
water-thinned glue, I've found by careful testing that Sig's
"Super Weld" is far stronger than ANY of the white glues on
the shelves at K-Mart or your local Supermarket. Elmer's, for
instance, is too watery for reliable balsa joinery. [JW]

Gary J. Seckel < > wrote:

The recent talk of small biplanes suitable for slow-speed flight
prompts me to write. I am very fortunate to fly with Bill Brewer,
who is into SAM rubber and gas freeflight, as well as sport R/C.
He not only sells old-timer and nostalgia plans, but draws things
up when I can get him excited about a design. You should see
his work!

Recently I succeeded in getting him to draw up a biplane for
.049-.10 engines. The design is Ed Slobod's "Gahni" sport biplane
from the "59-61" Zaic Yearbook. The original was 24" span. Bill
drew it up having a 37" span @ 410 square inches, and a 32"
length. I have been in love with this biplane for 15 years.
I have Bill's plans in my hands. It will get built this winter.
I should say that this biplane is very simple to build, just like
the small freeflight it originated from.

I have test-run, but not yet flown, the very, very nice MP Jet
.061 in the glow version. However, I also fly diesels more than
I fly glow. I like up to the .19 PAW diesel, but have found less
merit to using my .60 PAW diesel for flying. My local hobby
dealer gets diesels from Carlson Engine Imports, whom I highly
recommend.

Anyway, the Gahni biplane with the MP Jet would be fun. Think
of a small, lightly-loaded slow flyer that is switchable from glow
to diesel! If others want a project to try diesel power on, the
Gahni with swappable glow and diesel MP Jet .061s sounds like too
much fun. Use a Perfect Brodak metal UC tank (clunk tanks are not
needed for non-aerobatic flight). I stopped using plastic clunk
tanks years ago.

Bill did say that he would need to contact Ed for permission to
use his design, before selling plans. I want Bill to do a magazine
article on the plane. If anyone is interested, let me know as Bill
is not connected to the Net.

Gary J. Seckel

Phil Davy < > submitted:

Joe Wagner's reference to Paul Plecan reminded me to ask about
the suitability of Paul's last series of 7 scale rubber designs for
conversion to small IC, CO2 or electric R/C. Has anyone tried
one of these? They include the: Page Racer, Sperry Messenger,
Arado AR76, Macchi-Castoldi MC72, Howard "Pete", Bede 4,
Turbo Porter and Paul's Tornado II .049 FF. Wow, what a lineup!

Concerning prostate cancer: I was told 3 1/2 years ago that I had
a PSA of 10 and it was urgent that I have an immediate biopsy.
Lesson: Ask your doctor what your PSA is and act when it
reaches 4. It's your life, you make the decision.

The Urologist that performed my biopsy wanted to surgically
remove my prostate ASAP. Two urologists and two radiological
oncologists later, I elected for external radiation and radioactive
implants.

My PSA is now 0.2. Lesson: Locate your nearest Prostate
Support Group, (check with your hospital) then attend several
meetings to learn from doctors (of various disciplines) and from
men who have had the various treatments, exactly what your
options are, and then pick the one that suits you best.

It's your life, you make the decision. You will discover that the
claims of the doctors are not always borne out by the experience
of their patients. Phil Davy

Randy Randolph < > asserts:

Re: Rubber powered R/C:

There was a construction article in Model Airplane News a few
years ago for a rubber-powered RC. The author's last name was
Valls. I can't remember his first name, but he lived in the Rio
Grande Valley of southwest Texas.

Randy

John Arbogast < > reports:

I have one rubber-powered remote-controlled plane that I've
flown, and another almost finished. I said "remote-controlled"
since these use infra-red receivers and magnetic actuators.

The one that has flown is based on a One Nite 16 with a carbon
fiber fuselage and weighs 12 grams, all up with rudder-only control.
Flight times are only about 40 to 45 seconds since that's as big a
rubber motor as I can fit properly.

The next one is based on a One Nite 28 and I am aiming at 2
minutes flight time. This will be rudder-elevator controlled.
It looks like 32 to 35 grams all up weight.

Receiver power is three LR41 sized alkaline cells for 4.5 volts.
These cells weigh 0.5 grams each and are rated at 32 mAh but
at microamp current. The receiver will operate on two new cells
but the micro-processor quits at 2.7 volts so there isn't much
reserve.

Three cells seem to last a long time. I get them from B.G. Micro at
$1.99 for a card of ten cells. The BIRD actuators from Cloud 9 work
fully proportionally with the newest infra-red receivers from Sergio
Zigras (ZTRON). These receivers, at one gram, provide fully-
proportional three-channel control and do not require a
separate ESC.

Incidentally, the infra-red receivers will work well in a lighted
parking lot after dark. I have even flown in the shade of a building.

The extensive description of CO2 motors in posting #359 was
interesting enough to make me decide to pursue this. The handling
and charging with CO2 seemed like a lot of bother; but then so does
the charging and handling of batteries to those who haven't done it
extensively. All you need is the correct equipment.

 Source: CO2, Equipment 

Sources: < http://www.ztron.com >, 
< http://www.bgmicro.com >, and
< http://www.rcmicroflight.com/cloud9rc/ >. John Arbogast

Roger Schroeder < > adds:

In response to a question about rubber-powered R/C models, I have
been flying a 30" Pacific Ace rubber model for the past 3 years.
I urge everyone to try rubber R/C because it is easy to do, and the
flights are beautiful. My Ace has a CETO receiver and a BIRD
actuator. It is very reliable and controls the Ace very well.

In years past I was limited in flying my Pacific Ace by the small
locally available flying fields, and could not enjoy a fully-wound
flight often. Now I can wind fully and let it soar in the local
park that is 5 minutes from home.

Before the Ace, I tried a Scientific Jitterbug for R/C. It has a
sharply-tapered wing and tended to stall upon rudder actuation.
Thus, it appears that a rubber RC model should have about 30"
span and a conventional wing and stabilizer planform.

Yes, blowing a motor is a concern. My Ace is 15 or so years old
and has survived several blown motors. The best protection is a
blast tube slipped over the motor while winding. The tube is
removed before attaching the prop. If anyone is interested in
my experiences, they can e-mail me directly.

Roger Schroeder

Mark Garvey < > suggests:

A note about schoolyard flying. I DO fly in a schoolyard about 2
blocks from my house. Just recently our local city council decided
to ban model rockets and airplanes from city property, including
schools and parks, due to the "danger involved".

When asked if they had any incidents of injuries, they replied,
"No, but there is the possibility." The Parks Commissioner was
unaware of the SMALL movement and had the impression that all
model airplanes were huge monsters with Weed-Wacker engines.
Those WOULD be dangerous in parks, I think!

Happily, local modelers showed up at the meeting and dissuaded
the city from taking this action for the present. I wrote the Parks
Commissioner (whom I know) and invited him along next time
I take my glider or Lazy Bee to the school.

He wrote back and said. "Well, we aren't going to send the
storm troopers out just yet! Go ahead and fly." He is actually a
fairly reasonable guy.

But this brings up a couple of points. We should possibly think
of seeing that some of the officials get a chance to see what we
are doing in parks. Take a Park Flyer or a small model to a city
council meeting or to the parks commissioner of your area.
Or make an appointment (Oh GOD don't show up un-
announced!) with such people and tell them what you do and
how you do it.

I am not an "activist" exactly, but maybe a little understanding
is what's needed. Mark Garvey

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

From - Wed Mar 21 06:35:18 2001
Return-Path: billlee@host3.absolute-hosting.net
Received: from host3.absolute-hosting.net (unnasigned.alabanza.com [209.239.42.4] (may be forged))
 by Ursa.USAC.net with ESMTP id CAA88791
 for ; Wed, 21 Mar 2001 02:28:18 -0600 (CST)
 (envelope-from billlee@host3.absolute-hosting.net)
Received: (from billlee@localhost)
 by host3.absolute-hosting.net (8.10.2/8.10.2) id f2L8SEu21554
 for billlee@usac.net; Wed, 21 Mar 2001 03:28:14 -0500
Received: from mx1.eskimo.com (mx1.eskimo.com [204.122.16.48])
 by host3.absolute-hosting.net (8.10.2/8.10.2) with ESMTP id f2L8SDt21550
 for ; Wed, 21 Mar 2001 03:28:13 -0500
Received: (from smartlst@localhost)
 by mx1.eskimo.com (8.9.1a/8.8.8) id AAA23500;
 Wed, 21 Mar 2001 00:19:06 -0800
Resent-Date: Wed, 21 Mar 2001 00:19:06 -0800
From: smallnet@juno.com
To: SMALLnet-list@eskimo.com
Date: Wed, 21 Mar 2001 02:16:36 -0600
Message-ID: 
X-Mailer: Juno 4.0.11
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Juno-Att: 0
X-Juno-RefParts: 0
Subject: SMALLnet Posting # 380
Resent-Message-ID: 
Resent-From: SMALLnet-list@eskimo.com
X-Mailing-List: archive/latest/428
X-Loop: SMALLnet-list@eskimo.com
Precedence: list
Resent-Sender: SMALLnet-list-request@eskimo.com
Reply-To: SMALLnet-list@eskimo.com
X-Mozilla-Status: 8001
X-Mozilla-Status2: 00000000
X-UIDL: de57bc05278f40f326c4eccc50c69be4

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

...Back again, gang -- with a couple of announcements to make
before getting to the submissions.

First, I'll soon be moving SMALLnet's "editorial department" to a
new server. Juno worked very well for quite a while for receiving
submissions and putting together Postings. But recent changes in
Juno's policies have made going to a new server imperative. (For
one thing, 80% of the SMALLnet in-box contents is SPAM now.)

This won't affect you in any way, except for those who have been
sending in their submissions direct, instead of through Eskimo.
And you won't be seeing that irritating Juno ad at the end of
the Postings any more!

There will probably be one more Posting from this Juno source.
In that I will provide the new SMALLnet e-mail address.

Second, here's more data on the SMALLnet CD. Everyone who has
received one has liked it, with one exception -- and he MAY have
gotten a defective disk; if so I will replace it.

However, at least one SMALLster didn't realize that this CD is
purely a data storage disk. It's like word-processor data stored 
on a floppy: you need another program to access the CD
contents. On the back of the SMALLnet CD's "jewel case" are
brief instructions for finding specific topics among the 376
Postings included. Those instructions will activate either
WordPad or NotePad (depending on how your Windows 
"Find" function is set up) for reading the Postings.

But you may find it more convenient to use WordPerfect or 
some other word-processing program. Whatever: the SMALLnet 
Postings are all stored in "plaintext", ASCII format, with 
70-characters-maximum-per-line, just like this Posting.

I have the pricing now for CD's shipped outside the USA. 
For Canada the price is $21 (US dollars); for all other countries
it's $23 US. The added charge is for postage, duty fees, and
my extra trouble in having to fill out the dagnab Customs
Declaration forms.

I've been using a copy of this CD myself lately. I've found
that it has advantages over the floppy disks that I previously
stored my Archives on. The CD is FAST !!! In fact, looking up
data (e.g. Speed 400 recommendations) on the SMALLnet CD is
considerably quicker than on our web site -- and you don't need
to be connected to the Internet to use it. [JW]

Bill Lee < > reports:

The list is at 1115 members now. Bill

Bob Severance < > announces:

Anyone interested in the upcoming PopGun SMALL event at 
San Antonio, please visit our web site and look at the schedule
of events -- or go directly to:
< http://propbusters.org/flyer_gif.GIF > to see the flyer.

Thanks, and hope to see a bunch of you guys there...

Bob Severance

David Williams < > wrote:

I'm trying to find model plans or 3-views of a General
Aircraft Monospar. Can anyone help?? THANKS

David Williams, Bolton, England

...David, there were quite a few different versions of the
Monospar made between 1931 and 1938. All were twin-engined;
but some had fixed landing gear; some retractable. Most had
single vertical tails, but a few had twin rudders. The first
ST-3 model looked rather bulky, but the fuselage was slimmed
down considerably on the ST-4 and most of the later models --
which extended to the ST-25 (first made in 1936).

A goodly amount of data, several photographs, and 3-views of
the ST-4 -- and ST-25 with twin rudders, can be found in
A. J. Jackson's "British Civil Aircraft 1919-59", Volume Two.
(Putnam, London 1960) [JW]

Gordon Counsell < > asks:

I have heard mixed reports about using the Hitec CG335
4-24 cell charger with NiMH cells. Can anybody out there give
me some reports based on personal experience?

Don Bailey < > contributed:

If no one else has stepped forth yet on this, I have a NIB
complete kit of the Comet 54" Taylorcraft in my kit stack, and
I would be willing to Xerox the die-cut parts Trent requested.
Ain't this list just the handiest thing since CA glue?

I also have built the Comet 54" Aeronca Chief (Mini-Olympus 2.33:1
with a Speed 400 6v motor, 9X4 Zinger, 7 600 mAh Sanyos, Sprite 25
with BEC, 2 HS81 servos, 24 ounces All-Up Weight). It flies great!

I covered it with white Micafilm and a blue pinstripe down the
sides, and blue N-numbers. Looks very scale up there, and it
thermals well, too.

When I get around to the Taylorcraft, I will be using my Thunder
Tiger GP07 engine in it. The OS10 will also work, for a little
more weight. You will need to beef up the forward fuselage with
a little sheeting. I did this on my Chief, and I also replaced
the balsa wing spars with hardwood. The wing panels and struts are
permanently glued in place (transport has not been a big problem).

I made a belly hatch for battery access, and a hatch on the top
of the cowl for motor access.

These things are large and lightweight, so avoid breezy days and
rugged flying sites. And watch where you grab the fuselage!

I just bought a NIB Enya .09 R/C, with muffler, at a swap meet.
It is mounted and ready to go in my brand-new Sig Colt. The
muffler is a clamp-on type (gasket included), with a butterfly
valve that can be swung 90 degrees to the open position.
There is no pressure tap.

So, all of you who have played with a muffler like this, should
I play with the butterfly valve, or just leave it closed? What's
it for? Are you supposed to open it for starting and then close
it once the engine is warm, or what? Maybe it is for priming
directly into the exhaust opening?

Also, do you recommend that I drill a hole somewhere and tap it
for a pressure nipple? Or does this motor not need tank pressure?
It's a nice engine, from the looks of it. I've owned several
O.S. .10 FSR and O.S. .10 FP motors. How does the Enya compare?

The Sig Colt, incidentally, was a pretty good kit. It fell
together when I turned the box upside down, and it seems plenty
strong and light. It looks like a cute Cessna. I expect it
should fly great on rudder/elevator/throttle.

Don Bailey, Seattle Area Soaring Society

...Don, the Enya's pivoting "butterfly" was intended to allow
priming directly into the exhaust. (I wish other modern engines
had that feature!) As for adding a pressure fitting to the
muffler, I'd try flying without that -- and see whether muffler
pressure is needed for dependable running. The modification is
easy enough to make if it turns out to be necessary. [JW]

Ken Park < > announces:

The Mosquito Squadron of the Ottawa Remote Control Club 
has updated its winter building project of the "Cassutt racer" with
notes on making your Cassutt Electric!!! Frank Reaume was kind
enough to pass his notes on, and they are now included in the
web page. Since I am not an Electric type guy, if you have
questions about it call Frank! < >.

You can still get a Cassutt kit if you want one; see
< http://www.ottawarcclub.com > and go to the Small airplanes
button for the juicy details

Also let it be known the little busy beaver known as Ken Park has
been working hard designing next year's winter project. And Yes,
the design is a SECRET!!! We want to be 100% ready long before
the snow flies so you can get yours before Christmas!

We got off to a slow start this year and we had many delays from
our sources that didn't help. So if you're good, you might see
the SECRET prototypes fly at the Mosquito Squadron SMALL fly-in
on July 28/29 2001. Ken Park

Steve Morris < > wrote:

I just finished building a Sterling Sopwith Camel (24 inch) 
from an old kit I won on Ebay. I installed a 3-channel radio
(Hitec 555 Receiver, HS-50 servos, 110 nicad pack) and a PAW .03
diesel. The finished plane weighs 11.5 ounces and is covered with
Japanese tissue, 2 coats of nitrate dope, acrylic paint for color,
and polyurethane clear coat.

It flies fine, although I should have enlarged the tail areas
by 20% for more stability. This is the fourth conversion to R/C
of a Guillow or Sterling rubber kit for me, and the combination of
the PAW .03 and a small 3-channel R/C set continues to work 
very well. Pictures of the model can be seen on the web at:

< http://www.sirius.com/~mlbco/Sopwith1.JPG >
< http://www.sirius.com/~mlbco/Sopwith2.JPG >
< http://www.sirius.com/~mlbco/Sopwith3.JPG >

I encourage more modelers to try the PAW 0.03 on small R/C 
models. It throttles very well and with an exhaust collector is 
as quiet as an electric! Steve Morris

Ron Fikes < > sent:

I was making up a set of carbon rod pushrods -- found the right
length, how to mark the rods? Picked up a Sanford Uni-ball 
"Gel" pen. It was a bright yellow color (remember, these pens 
are made to write on black surfaces) and makes a 'bright' yellow 
mark on the carbon -- problem solved! Ron

Michael Rolls < > contributed:

Talking about Vic Smeed's small F/F models: another one that I like
is his Paageboy (sic), designed for a 1 cc PAA-Load class here in
the UK in 1953. My version has an ED Bee and rudder/elevator.

Can't tell you how well it flies -- completed it in November but
awful weather, followed by all our local fields being closed due
to foot and mouth precautions, means that it is still awaiting
its first outing!! Mike

Sam Brauer < > submitted:

I can answer one of the questions that came up in the recent
Postings with regards to the Playmate, since I've still got mine.
I'll attest that it flies very well; I've lost count of how many
hours are on mine. Unfortunately, the plane is in storage, but
if I recall correctly, the weights given in the article were
reasonably accurate.

I've powered mine with two motors, an HB 25 (non-schnuerle) and 
a K&B Sportster 20. The 25 was way too much power -- 3-channel
airplanes with lots of inherent stability get pretty squirrely when 
they are really overpowered. The Sportster 20 is a nice 
combination, however, since I've been flying this airplane with
4-ounce battery packs (lazy) I'll lay long odds that a plain-
bearing .15, and a radio weight of around 6 ounces would do fine.

I'm a little dubious about electric conversions however. The
Playmate is a stout design, but with plenty of wing area. Adding
lots of weight will alter its marvelous flying characteristics.
Alternatively, weight could be stripped out of the airframe, 
but then it won't be so robust.

I was tickled to read about a Sterling Mambo being electrified.
I've got a soft spot in my heart for that airplane, since it was
the first airplane that I actually got some significant stick time
in a single flight. I've still got a Minnie Mambo kit lying
around, but the box is mighty heavy for an electric airplane....

Sam Brauer Norwalk, Connecticut

Ian L. McQueen < > inquires:

Who can give guidance about the angle (Z-plane) that a pylon-
mounted engine should make with the fuselage centerline? The Herr
Aquastar has the engine well ahead of the wing and at about zero
degrees (by eye). A pusher model ("Lake something") that I have
not yet built has the engine located close above the wing TE, and
angled upward maybe 15 degrees (from memory).

A speaker at our last club meeting said that some models have
downthrust. This seems counterintuitive to me for a pylon-mounted
engine. Are there any rules of thumb for choosing the thrust angle
of pylon-mounted engines? Ian M

...Ian, there's one general "Rule of Thumb" covering this sort
of thing: "If it works, it must be right, even though it may
seem to contradict 'established theory' -- and if it DOESN'T
work, it must be WRONG, even if it conforms absolutely to
'established theory'." There are simply TOO MANY variables
involved in pylon-engined flying boat design for any "recommended
thrust angle" formulas. Whatever WORKS is right. [JW]

John Rossetti < > asked:

I have been reading a few Postings regarding the Sig Rascal.
I would appreciate any input on its flying characteristics,
duration, etc. John Rossetti

Rick Ramalho < > contributed:

Andy Woitowicz asked about buying Marvel Mystery Oil in Canada.
Go to Canadian Tire; the product is in the Automotive Section
-- a red bottle -- about $3.00 Canadian. Rick

Dave Segal < > adds:

A quick Internet search turned up West Fleet Direct in New Mexico
which has a toll-free number for telephone calls from the US and
Canada: 877-235-3387. The web site is < http://www.westfleet.com >
and e-mail is < >. Dave Segal

Norm Dial < > wrote:

I don't know about Marvel Mystery Oil, but over the years I have
had very good luck with plain old automatic transmission fluid.
No trouble starting, and for long-storage use a coffee can of
the stuff, drop in the engine, and forget about it.

Norm Dial

LeRoy Bidgood < > askes:

I bought a Cox Conquest .15 back when it was new on the market
and I had delusions of becoming a contender in FAI. This engine
has languished in the box ever since, mostly because of inactivity
in FF power and because of the impossibility of obtaining the
insert plugs required.

I recently got an R/C head which uses a standard plug, and have
plans for finally using the engine.

Use of the R/C head is recommended in the original operating
instructions if frequent plug changes are anticipated, i.e. high
nitro fuel. Additional gaskets are suggested in this configuration
(Cox Part #28180) if high nitro fuel is to be used, or if piston/
head interference is experienced after parts are seated. Are these
the same as the insert plug gaskets?

The piston is a squeaky fit at the top of the stroke. Feels a lot
like a new ABC engine. Is this correct.?

I would appreciate hearing from people on the list that have had
some experience with this engine. BTW I bought an extra insert
plug with the engine. It is marked $1.75. Current glow head
prices make me thankful that I had the accidental foresight to
buy a bunch for my Tee Dees. LeRoy

Mark Lester < > sent:

I have three glow plug engines -- a Cox Pee Wee, an OK Cub 049,
and a Testors-McCoy 049. We also have one or two diesel engines
of similar size, and I find those tend to be more flexible in terms
of power adjustments. The noise levels are also more tolerable.

We fly Free Flight and a bit of control line. I observe at Free
Flight meetings that we attend here in the UK, the popularity of
reduced-size replica vintage diesels. Some of these tiny-engined
models seem to produce little more noise than that of electric
power. Glow engines seem to feature quite heavily on SMALLnet
Postings -- but perhaps more for radio control work than free
flight?

My question is: what is the general opinion on diesel conversions
for glow engines? I understand that one is available for the
OK Cub. I have also seen a Pee Wee converted to diesel, but
was unable to see it in action. I notice dark warnings in the
Cox instructions regarding diesel conversion and warranty
invalidation etc. Are they trying to tell me something?

Are diesel conversions a practical proposition, or are they a
quick way to destroy a good engine? I should be interested to
hear from anyone who may be able to advise.

Thanks for your help -- Mark Lester, Hampshire, UK.

...Mark, in previous Postings the topic of model diesels was
covered in great depth. Here's a quick summary to answer the
questions you have now.

In general, diesel conversions of designed-for-glow engines are
NOT worth the time and expense. True, I have ONE Cox 
.049 successfully converted to diesel. That uses a variable-
compression head from one source; a crankcase and shaft from
another source; and the remainder is "stock Cox". But I have
also wrecked six Cox .049's in trying to convert them to diesel.

The stock Cox reed-valve shafts are too weak for diesel use.
Also, the diesel conversion heads for Cox .020 and .049 sold
by Davis use Teflon disks for contrapistons! Those seldom last
long -- which is why the conversion kits used to contain about
half a dozen disks. (Davis called them diaphragms.)

As for OK Cubs, those were available in 1953-54 as factory-
assembled diesels in both .049 and .074 sizes. Those ran well,
but diesel power never became popular in the USA, and not 
many diesel-version Cubs were sold here.

To sum up: there are so many designed-as-diesel model engines
available today, there's no advantage whatever in messing with
"diesel conversions". [JW]

Brian Allen < > contributed:

Noticed in SMALLnet #379 mention of the clear mylar document
laminating film "Doculam". It was mentioned that Modelairtech
sold it. Tom Hunt still sells it; however, it is now called
Clearfilm. Don't know if it is different or the same as the
previously available Doculam, but it seems to be the same.

He has two weights available: the standard (for small light
models), and a heavier, stronger version called Clearfilm ES.
Go to: < http://www.modelairtech.com > for details.

Brian Allen

Al Lidberg < > sent:

Although I haven't seen Clear MicaFilm advertised for sale
recently, it really is a lightweight, pretty neat covering
material. Can't/won't say that it is easy to use, but it is,
IMHO, by far the toughest iron-on stuff.

I've used Clear Micafilm on some 1/2A Texaco scale models --
used two ways: painted before application (i.e. spray can paint
on the inner/fuzzy side -- you can paint with almost anything,
as it won't have to be fuelproof on the inside!) -- and painted
after application ('RC' rattlecan paint). In each instance, the
material has proven to be quite durable.

Regarding ease of use: On my Clear Micafilm-covered models 
you can still see imprints of my fingernails on the undersides of
wingtips as I tried to pull the stuff tight enough. But, with a
bit of heat, the covering bridged over those impressions and
they hardly show.

On another model, one that was painted on the outside, you can
still see some marks made by rocks from a field that had been
plowed/sort-of cleared -- and I know that with tissue or
moneycoat, these marks would have been sizeable holes. Again,
a heat gun restored the shape after the dents were made. (Yes,
a bit of paint would be needed to completely erase the problem.)

BTW: this stuff stays tight over time. In contrast, I have a
model covered in moneycoat that spends the summers in a storage
locker here in Arizona, where the temperature may get to 130+
degrees easily in there. This model, after a couple of summer/
winter cycles, has gone really saggy and can no longer be flown.

Polyspan (known as Salzer tissue in Europe, available at FAI
Model Supply in the US and several other sources) is also quite
tough, but application is a bit more difficult unless the model
is without compound curves. This stuff has a fuzzy side that can
cause some difficulty -- don't dare use it fuzzy side up or you'll
quickly be thinking about another hobby!

Unless you're really fond of the 'white' silkspan/tissue look,
this stuff needs paint, or at least dye dissolved in clear dope
(sprayed on, please).

Both of these materials can produce the joke situation we used to
talk about -- crash the model and end up with a plastic bag of
parts -- not at all the same as crashing a moneycoat-covered model.

AL

A. A. Lidberg model plan service, Tempe, Arizona; kits/plans
catalog at < http://members.aol.com/aalmps > --
and I don't sell either of the above-noted materials.

...Al, I learned a trick last summer about covering with
Polyspan. Even "shiny side up", Polyspan gets fuzzy when doped.
I tried sanding that off with 400-grit wet-or-dry, which seemed
to work. But after the next coat of clear dope the fuzz returned
worse than ever.

I was mighty worried, but my son David showed me the cure:
Micro-Mesh "Soft Touch" abrasive pads. These are available from
Micro-Mark < http://www.micromark.com >. They come in a set 
of six, 2" square soft foam pads with EXCEEDINGLY fine abrasive
om both sides. These feel so smooth, it's hard to believe that
they have any effect -- but the 2400-grit pad smoothed down
every trace of fuzz from my doped Polyspan. And added coats of
dope raised no more fuzz! [JW]

Floyd Harp < > informs us:

Gary Edson wrote about light coverings and the cost of
Oracover Lite. Horizon Hobby has Ultracoat Lite by Goldberg
for $12.99. Not as many color selections but the same product.

Floyd Harp

Carl Risteen < > contributed:

Adding to Gary Edson's interesting and well-researched
contribution on lightweight model coverings, we have been
manufacturing what I believe is the lightest available
iron-on, pigmented covering film.

MicroLite is not very well known, as we are currently only able
to produce a few hundred square feet per week; but are working
on machinery that will produce it much faster and cheaper.

MicroLite is aimed at lightweight electric or rubber-powered
models, with wing loadings under about three ounces per square foot.
The greatest weight-saving advantage of MicroLite is that it can be
no-wrinkle heat-shrunk on very light framework without noticeable
distortion, even on 1/20 inch square balsa framing. Warps are
easily removed with a sealing iron.

MicroLite 5 Micron weighs an average of about 0.035 ounces per
square foot, compared to the lightest covering that Gary
mentioned, lightly-doped Japanese tissue, at 0.060 ounces per
square foot.

Having used Japanese tissue quite a bit, I am well acquainted with
its propensity to drastically distort a lightweight structure,
unless you are exceedingly careful with pre-shrinking, and very
tolerant of wrinkles and slackness.

For models with wing loadings of one ounce per square foot or
under, we have MicroLite 3 Micron, weighing about 0.023 
ounces per square foot.

MicroLite is available from David Lewis < >,
telephone (216) 251-2517; Skyhooks & Rigging < >,
telephone (905) 257-2101; or directly from here (telephone
(506) 454-3675). Price from here is $15.00 US for 24" x 48" sheet,
or $8.75 for 24" x 24" sheet, including postage.

Clear hinge stock is $4.00 for 3" x 24" sheet. We try to keep
all of the colors in stock here for immediate shipment.

MicroLite is used exactly like the common self-adhesive, iron-on
plastic coverings in common use, such as Monokote, including
heat shrinking after application. Our website (still under
construction; hope to get more information and pictures on soon),
is < http://ramicrolite.com >. Carl Risteen

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

________________________________________________________________
GET INTERNET ACCESS FROM JUNO!
Juno offers FREE or PREMIUM Internet access for less!
Join Juno today! For your FREE software, visit:
http://dl.www.juno.com/get/tagj.

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index