SMALLnet post291 

 SMALLnet Posting post291

Date: Sat, 26 Feb 2000 02:01:05 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >.

Mark Vance < mvance@iglou.com > wrote:

Got one of the Norvel .074s of the first sales batch a few weeks
ago. Seems to be one great little engine. Its size may deter some
SMALL scale addicts, but the weight is still low, and really would
go great in some of those WWI birds that need an extra ounce of weight
in the nose, and need a 7-inch prop to get around those big ol' cowls.

Mine was turning a Master Airscrew 7x3 prop the first run at 16,200
RPM. Using the usual 35% nitro though. I expect 17k or better as it
loosens up. Maybe even 18k on an APC thin blade. Gobs of thrust
at even that rpm too. IMHO, the .074 is the perfect engine for that
Herr P-51. The noise is much more palatable compared to the .061, as
the muffler is a bolt on, and has a lower bark to it. It seems to use
the same carb as the .061, so a little rework might end up with more
top end. The idle looks like its going to be great (although I don't
have numbers) -- probably due to a small venturi.

The glow plugs aren't the same size as the .061, so order accor-
dingly. I swear I don't work for them, but the Norvel line has
been the best bang for the buck, for me anyway! But if they don't
release that .25 size soon, I'm going to lynch Ed! They promised us
them in AUGUST!!!

Parting question: Is there a source for some kind of exhaust
throttle for a C*x .020 PeeWee (the tank-mounted kind)? TIA!

Keep on SMALLing, Mark Vance

Randy Randolph < randyranman@juno.com > covers the same topic:

In reply to Jim Anderson's request for information on the Norvel
.074, my review is in the February 2000 Model Airplane News.
I liked it! Randy

 ....Randy forwarded the following query from < BuilderAir@aol.com >:

I have just joined SMALLnet. I need some help: I'm looking for a
discontinued Guillow kit: no. 1501, Cessna 170A. I have called
Guillow, and they are of no help at all; not even for a set of plans. 
This is a 48-inch plane, perfect for electric schoolyard scale. 
Can SMALL help me? I can find nothing in the net on kit
collectors. Thanks for just being there.

Adam Bryant < adamdb@juno.com > contributed:

Fred Reese asked what engine I planned to use on my Simple Series
Extra. I plan on using a Norvel .061. Would you recommend any 
down or right thrust in the engine?

Another consideration for me on this project was ease of cleanup
(unfinished foam can get pretty messy), and that I have never had any
luck painting foam wings. No matter how hard I try I always get the
paint on too thick in spots and melt the foam. My intention was to
cover with Tyvek, then paint the Tyvek -- but that is starting to
sound heavy. I would like to keep the weight down as much as possible
as I intend to make mine with a full 4 channels for control.

My parents had a set of Popular Mechanics Do-It-Yourself Encyclopedia
when I was growing up, and I spent many hours reading and re-reading
the very same articles by Roy Clough that David Felin mentioned.
I have plans around here somewhere for a hoopskirt (annular wing) like
plane that I drew up a few years back. I'll have to build the darn
thing one of these days.

I would be first in line at the bookstore for a chance to buy a
collection of Roy Clough's model designs.

Adam Bryant Parker, Colorado

John Meacham < Catboat15@aol.com > exclaims:

Oh Boy, wouldn't a collection of Roy Clough designs be a great book?
Are you listening, Randy and Joe? I could not think of a better
purchase than a three-volume set of books with Clough, Randolph,
and Wagner model designs -- one designer per volume.

If not a plans book, maybe just a photo and short description of
each model and an order form to order the full size plan set.

John Meacham

Carlo Godel < regiaero@gj.net > is also a Roy Clough fan:

In the past, the BlackSheep Exhibition Squadron at their Champs on
Memorial Day at Taft had an event called the Roy Clough Event; and
the trophy was given to the most unusual craft??? that will fly for
two minutes or more.

Roy's designs have won more often than not. I'm not sure that it is
still being held, but it sure was a fun event when it was....

Carlo

Joe Nagy < joshrl@hotmail.com > reports:

 Source: Plans, Old Midwest 

 Vendor: Midwest Products Co., Inc. 

I have a contacted Midwest Products and have ordered many sets 
of their older 'obsolete airplane' kit plans over the past year or so
without difficulty. Contact:

Midwest Products Co., Inc. 
400 South Indiana St., (P.O. Box 564) 
Hobart, Indiana 46342 

Phone: (219) 942-1134 or (800) 348-3497 

Fax: (219) 942-5703 

Attention: Cathy Driemeyer, Customer Service. (Always ask for
Cathy.) They accept credit card orders. The plans costs are:
1 plan: $7.95 each, 2-plan set: $12.00. The Sniffer is plan # 301,
and the Super Sniffer is # 304. Jon, I hope this is of help to
you, and all other SMALLsters.

Best regards from Phoenix, Arizona, Joe Nagy

Phil Oestricher < F4DPilot@aol.com > adds to the Sniffer data:

I'm sure that Roland G. Schmitt, the designer of the Sniffer, will
contact you regarding the origin of this great model. I had the
pleasure of flying indoor models and having lunch with Roland
today and am happy to report that he is as fine a person, modeler
and conversationalist as ever.

Best regards, Phil Oestricher

Larry Marshall < larrym2@earthlink.net > wonders:

Which came first: the British-made Veron "Cardinal", or the
Midwest "Sniffer"? They look like spitting images of each other.

Cheers --- Larry

Mark Garvey < Lazybee45@aol.com > avers:

I am intrigued by the Tyvek ideas and the strapping tape "spars".
While I have not tried covering with Tyvek (oddly, I never thought
of construction Tyvek!), I have used 3/4 inch strapping tape for
spars, and it does work very well.

I am infamous around my local flying field as having built a total
of 27 different "Wonders". My Lazy Bee count is far behind that,
at 6 or 7 (three under construction now, but they don't count!).

On a couple of my Wonders I tried strapping tape, and it seemed to
work well enough. I also do a couple of other things. Covering is
"tagboard" which is a very thin cardstock. Sturdy, not all that
heavy, and very strong. I have seen some of my models crash with
structural damage but only a little "dinkle" in a wing tip.

"When I get the urge to exercise, I lie down until it goes away."
Mark Twain

Larry < nova71@ruralcom.net > wonders:

 Source: Electric, Motor: HiLine 

 Vendor: HiLine 

While looking in some older issues of "Model Aviation", I saw a few
ads for small economy-type electric motors from HiLine of Goldsboro,
North Carolina. But in any issue after November 1999, their ad was
missing. Are they still around, and are the motors any good ?
Anyone ever have any contact with them ?

I want to try a few projects of electric R/C and not spend a lot of
money (I'm not cheap, just thrifty !!) and they looked like a good
source. Any help is always appreciated. Thanks-----Larry

....Larry, I've done a fair amount of business off and on with
HiLine; and so far as I know they are still doing business as usual.
The company is owned & operated by Dave and Marie Rees. The
phone number is (919) 778-6653. [JW]

Phil Thibodeau < phlyer@freewwweb.com > contributed:

Re the "R/C dead zone" subject: At NAF Whitehouse here in
Jacksonville, Florida we had similar problems at the east end of
the runway. There was a remote radar site just off-field that
transmitted to the ATC at Hilliard, right across where we were
flying; and at times it would raise 
Phil in Jacksonville, Florida

Ron Fikes < srfikes@earthlink.net > advises:

Something else to consider using in model building besides Tyvek.
Get some "clear" MicaFilm, use it to reinforce TE/LE joints and to
cover any place you want stronger. I fasten it down with CA, rough
side against the wood - apply glue, place MicaFilm on surface, cover
with clear film (I use Monokote backing) and press till cured. The
film makes for a smooth finish. MicaFilm is VERY tough and very thin.

Ron Fikes

Mike Woodhouse < MJWFFS@aol.com > informs us:

 Source: Hinge Material: TYVEK 

There has been a little correspondence of late re Tyvek and razor
blades. I carry both on my list. Take a look.

HINGE MATERIAL 
Spun bound olefin "Tyvek" (75 gms per sq. metre): paper-like material
that can be used as a lightweight hinge for rudders; can also be used
for paper fairings and reinforcements, etc. Can be glued easily with
PVA or cyano. 5 A4 sheets (210 mm x 297 mm) Pound 3.00, post free.

 Source: Razor Blades 

DOUBLE EDGED CARBON (BLUE) STEEL RAZOR BLADES 
Sharp edges: may be broken in half lengthways (take care).
Edge width 1.455" (36.95mm). Blade thickness 0.005" (0.127mm).
Pack of 10 Pound 3.50 or 35p each plus postage 38p.

DOUBLE EDGED STAINLESS STEEL RAZOR BLADES 
Sharp edges: may be broken in half lengthways (take care).
Edge width 1.69" (43.00mm). Blade thickness 0.004" (0.100mm).
Pack of 10 Pound 1.30 or 15p each plus postage 38p.

CARBON STEEL SINGLE EDGE RAZOR BLADES WITH SAFETY SPINE 
Pound 1.35 for 10, plus 38p postage.

Mike Woodhouse

Steve Morris < mlbco@sirius.com > reports:

I recently built a miniature electric-powered spy plane, and
pictures of it can be seen at:

< http://www.sirius.com/~mlbco/RT1.JPG > 
< http://www.sirius.com/~mlbco/RT2.JPG > 
< http://www.sirius.com/~mlbco/RT3.JPG > 

It has an 11.5" wingspan and is powered by a Wes-Tec DC 524-1 motor
with an 8.3: 1 gear reduction. The propellor is a Testors rubber band
plastic prop cut down to 5", and the battery is 8x50 mAH. I'm using
2 Wes-Tec 2.7g servos for the controls on the inverted V-tail and a
Sky-Hooks and Rigging receiver with built in speed controller.

The small pod on the left wing carries a .25-ounce video camera and 
a 1-gram video transmitter. The airframe is 1/16 sheet balsa and the
inverted V-tail is used because rudder deflection produces the correct
roll torque in turns (this is not the case on an upright V-tail).

The ready-to-fly weight is 3 ounces with video (10 ounces/sq-ft wing
loading) and the flight duration is 3 minutes with video and 3.5
minutes without. Flight speed is around 18 mph and it can handle
winds up to 10 mph if it's not too gusty. Climb rate is an accept-
able 200 feet per minute.

The model should be able to fly on 3 CR-2 Lithium cells, which would
give it a duration of 1/2 hour. I'll try this when I feel like
spending $40 on non-rechargeable batteries. The plane is a little
tricky to fly, being so small and somewhat fast. The propellor
effects make it spirally unstable in right hand turns and stable in
left turns. The range on the video system is only 1000 feet and this
probably exceeds the range of the receiver, so I can't fly very far
away. The video quality is pretty good with the small pin-hole
camera I'm using.

Steve Morris

Morris Lee < leehome@netscope.net > is curious:

I'm getting ready to start my next project, a Hobby Hangar Gee Bee 20.
The recommended engine is a .20 2-stroke. I have an O.S. 26FS four
stroke and a 25SF, which I think is an old lapped piston version.
I realize the 25SF would almost over-power the plane, but I'd like
the more realistic sound of a four stroke. Any opinions?

Morris Lee

Ron Vallejo < ronmaivallejo@ldd.net > inquires:

I am currently building an old Midwest kit, the A-4 Skyhawk,
designed for the RK049 ducted fan unit and Cox TD 049-051.
I am converting it to electric, using a Minifan 480 and Astro
Brushless 05 motor. My question to fellow SMALLsters who 
have built the kit before: On the side of the fuselage just aft of
the cheek inlet is a "hole" (on each side).

I'm wondering what the purpose of this hole is. It leads inside
the duct...is this a cheater hole? I've read that cheater holes
"kill" thrust. Any comment will be appreciated.

Thanks, Ron

Mark Wayne < mwayne@minolta.com > appreciates:

Thank you, Fred Reese, for all those great designs in the Simple
Series. I plan to try others in the series in the future. My
luck with them has been very good.

I am in the process of building a mixed bag plane. The fuselage
is that from the Simple AT-6, but made of corroplast. The tail
is from a crashed Staggerwing Biplane (about the same area as
that of the AT-6).

There are two wings I have for experimenting. One is from a Simple
Ultimate (Foam). The other is made of corroplast and has an
undercambered airfoil. I have added landing gear, in a tail-dragger
configuration, with a steerable tail wheel. (The original plans for
the AT-6 don't include landing gear -- it is a hand-launch model.

Any insight as to how it might fly with an OS .10 - .15? I don't
have a final weight yet. Full house radio and engine are not yet
installed. Mark

Andy Woitowicz < ajw@ntl.sympatico.ca > wrote:

My current experiment is to install the Hornet .09 liner and piston
into an MP Jets .06. This can be done quite readily (with the proper
machine tools) because the Jets was originally designed as a diesel.
Compared to glow, diesels need to be built much more ruggedly to
withstand the stresses imposed by the diesel combustion process.
The MP Jets engine was adapted to run on glow fuel and does so 
very well in this configuration.

However, as a glow engine it is really quite overbuilt. No harm 
in that, because it runs really well; throttles just fine; and would
probably last a long time under normal conditions.

Hopefully, this rework would give me an .074 or better, and allow
use of more modern ABC construction along with a very modern 
two-needle throttle. The ball bearing version would use the original
crank. The case is so beefy that a Cox .09 crank has been easily
adapted to the plain bearing version. This will give a true .09
(or close to it) at nearly the same weight; and again, allow the
use of the superb little two-needle throttle.

Both units will also be run with the diesel head, modified
appropriately. This can be done because the MP Jets conrod is one
of the beefiest and best-made rods made in the .049/.06 category.
This one sports a beautiful little brass bushing on the crank end.
A work of art.

I've been told that Mr. Doug Galbreath, somewhere in California,
has done some great work hopping up this engine, including making 
or adapting the head to take Nelson plugs. Would any SMALLster 
know where I can get in touch with Mr. Galbreath? Phone number
preferred, or e-mail address. Andy

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index