SMALLnet post281 

 SMALLnet Posting post281

Date: Wed, 19 Jan 2000 02:12:37 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >.

...Gang, it's Travel Time for me again. Tomorrow I'm off on another
2300-mile drive to Los Angeles. I'll probably be gone around 20
days. But I MAY be able to keep SMALLnet going -- if I can
mooch some computer time from my friends as I did last Fall.

Still, it would help to keep your SMALLnet contributions concise,
because I'll have a LOT of back-and-forth driving to do out West,
and that freeway traffic takes a bit out of a guy... [JW]

Dave Larkin < > responds to Posting # 280:

I'm sure the MVVS .09 and .12 were made by Modela for MVVS,
not the other way around.

By the way, Paul, I have a slightly used Cox Queen Bee for you if
you send me a postal address. It doesn't have a Cox head but has 
a normal glowplug fitted. I must check whether that is standard.

Regarding ED parts, I have an idea that they are still in business,
in a small way. John Goodall of Barton Model Products who produces
Model Engine News would know for sure. Don't know if they have any
spares for the older engines, but the ED 246 was in production until
comparatively recently, although it had been much modified.

I recently brought in a Schlosser 1cc (0.06 cu in) R/C for a
customer, getting it from David Owen in Australia (excellent
service). It was very expensive, about 2 1/2 times the cost of
the PAW, but is a delight, and apparently started instantly for
the owner, who is very pleased.

VA have just produced an R/C version of the 049 glow with a nice
muffler and a good looking if simple carb. I have one but haven't
run it yet. It's cold outside and I've done my share of outside
engine tinkering getting my snow blower to run. (Next spring I will
remember to drain the tank!)

As Joe says, Andy, lots of people have made little engines
originally designed as diesels, and certainly PAW have. The
PAW 049 idles at a much lower rpm than the Cox TD 05 R/C, 
though the throttle action isn't quite as linear or smooth.

One engine which might be worth a second look is the Australian
Philtech 09 diesel, which looks like a natural for the Lazy Bee.
It is a solid looking engine with a minipipe muffler and now
comes with a red enamelled crankcase (the glow version is 
orange). There have been a variety of other crankcase colours - 
mine is black. This is an early Philtech, but I have misplaced 
the R/C carb for it.

In any case the early R/C carb was rather primitive, it just varied
the mixture. I will look into getting another R/C carb and see
what it is like. I brought in two batches of Philtechs, and they
went very quickly, but mostly to collectors. The non-R/C version
engine was tested in AeroModeller and got a good write-up.

Best wishes for 2000, Dave

Rich Border < > contributed:

Sandy Frank is "seeking the power of an .049 with the silence 
of electric, but without the wing loading of electric!!!"

My friend Charlie had an .049 in a Ranger 42 that sounded like a
sewing machine. The muffler he used was a Tatone. This was in
the mid 70's, so I'm not sure of availability now.

I have OS .15FPs that I want to run APC 8x4 and 5s on. My problem
is the hole in the APC is bigger than the shaft of the .15, and the
prop hub is too thick to run the washer and nut. So far I've put
electrical tape, about two turns, on the shaft to keep it centered
and am using just the OS safety prop nut to hold the prop on.

Does anyone make a sleeve for the shaft? Can I thin the hub of the
props safely? I would think the best way to mate these two would be
a kind of safety nut shaft sleeve extension, but it's too much to
ask for one to be available.

Rich Border

....Rich, we used to have problems of this sort 50 years ago with 
control-line Team Racers, and solved them by making a "hollow 
bolt" to retain the propeller. 

Briefly, you take a suitable-size mild steel hex-head bolt long 
enough to have an unthreaded section adjacent to the head. 
Cut the bolt off to a suitable length (approximately the thickness 
of the thinnest prop you plan to use), and drill & tap it to fit your 
engine's shaft.

Concentricity is the major criterion, which means that doing this
job in a drill press won't be easy. A metal-cutting lathe is THE
way to go here...

It may be necessary to open up the APC propeller's central hole 
to fit the new "hollow bolt". If so, DON'T try to drill out the prop
with any kind of power drill!!! The bit will "hog" into the plastic, 
jam, and that sharp-edged propeller whirling around on
the drill can make a guy mighty sorry.

Enlarge plastic propeller hub holes ONLY with a hand drill. [JW]

Mike Kerry < > reports:

Flew my own design electric model on Sunday; temperature was 
just above 0 degrees (degrees C, that is). Must have had nearly 
an hour's worth of flying on 7 800 mAH cells (rescued from nearly 
two mobile 'phone batteries from ex-equipment units).

Details: span, 60 inch. Chord, 8 inch. Area, 480 squinches (3.33
sqft). Weight, a fraction over 20 oz (well, 20.2 actually).
Wing loading, say 6.1 oz per sqft. Powered by a Speed 400 6V 
with Mini-Olympus gearbox and a 9x5 folder. When trimmed for 
best glide it is really slow. People even suggested flying it at one 
of our indoor meets (!).

Full throttle climb angle about 30 degrees. I am impressed.

The wing is geodetic with ribs varying in thickness from 1/16,
1 millimeter, to 1/32. Leading edge is formed 1/32 sheet (1 1/2
inches wide). Covered in 5 micron mylar, and the weight is
1.75 ounces. The rest of the model is made from 1/16" and 
1/8" sheet balsa.

The electronics are two HS101's, a 20 Amp speed controller 
with BEC, and a 4-channel Futaba Receiver.

Two ways to go now: lighten the fuselage and tailplane (guess-
timate losing 2 1/2 ounces), fit a well geared 280, 110 mAH cells, 
and go Slow Fly. Or, increase the wing loading by fitting 7 2 AH 
cells, thus increasing glide speed, and go for a really boring 
afternoon's flying. I think I'll try the second. Colonial Mike

Tony Shepherd < > says:

Being a fairly new convert to the pleasures of electric free flight,
I am still at the stage of delving around to see what's available.
Over here in UK we can readily get hold of Knight and Pridham's
KP00, 01 and 02 and the Graupner and MFA ranges, but having 
trawled through Dick Miller's motor data pages, it would seem that 
you guys in the US have a fair bit more to choose from than us 
over here.

So does anyone know of someone in the UK that imports some of 
the other manufacturers' stuff? I'm sure there must be someone over 
here with a supply of VL equipment. If not, who is a good mail order
source in the US, preferably someone with a website...?

Tony Shepherd

....Tony, have you tried George Wallbridge at SAMS Models? By the
way, VL is a one-man operation -- and its owner-operator had severe
health problems last year, requiring major heart surgery. The last
I heard, he was making a good but slow recovery. [JW]

Phil Plumbo < > wonders:

I am returning to the hobby after leaving it in 1995. At that time
John Bell was selling nicely-drawn plans for rubber-powered models.
I heard that he sold his business. Does anyone know where I can
find these plans now?

Thanks, Phil Plumbo St. Paul, Minnesota USA

Tom Anderson < > asserts:

There was so much good stuff on #280 I find myself coming out
of 'lurk' mode for a few comments.

Dr. Mike Hawkins echoed the private E-mail I sent to the guy with
the HP21 problems. I wonder if we can get that individual to tell
us if his problem is solved.

The Hobbylab SR-71 described by Tony Turley sounds suspiciously 
like one that SMALLsters Tom Blakeney and/or Paul Willenborg 
designed for a (I think) short-lived outfit in Texas. Perhaps we can 
get one of them to emerge from 'lurk' long enough to comment.

Steve Vincent mentions woes with cold weather operation, and 
Joe gave him excellent expert advice -- but I wonder if it could be
something so simple as a bit of moisture in his fuel. Here in
north-central Arkansas, the summer weather is so humid that 
fuel stored in plastic seems to suck water thru the pores.

Andy Woitowicz must have read the message I sent to Dr. Sandy
Frank tho' it's far more likely that I have actually learned some-
thing from corresponding with Andy. In any case, for those who
were at the Maumelle SMALL meet in '99, Steve Staples had a
Pietenpol Aircamper with the MP Jet in it. When in the air with
other planes, the MP could not be heard unless it passed very 
near in a low, slow fly-by.

IMHO, the MP Jet in diesel form is the nearest thing we have at 
this time to the perfect Small IC engine. It is quite powerful, swings 
a variety of props and throttles impeccably. An ungeared electric 
is quieter, tho' not by much, and I've heard many geared electrics
which were actually louder than the Jet. What's not to like?

For Boris, who enquired about foamboard. Try a home supply 
center that carries vinyl siding. Ask to see the 'fan-fold' insulation
used as an insulating layer under the vinyl. It is in a 4'x 4'
sheet (AFIK) with a crease at the 2' point. All brands with which
I am familiar are 1/4" thick and weigh very close to 1 ounce/
square foot. This is the nearest thing to 'Depron' I have been 
able to find at an affordable price. BTW, if you find it thinner 
than a quarter inch, please let the rest of us know.

The idea of soldering the PAW throttle arm/spraybar is a real
forehead slapper. I've cursed that spraybar numerous times 
while trying to get it to line up properly. As you know, just as 
you have it all in line and try to tighten it in place, something
always seems to slip and you have to start over.

FWIW, after Eric Clutton told us to check the spraybar position,
I looked at a dozen PAWs that George Smith and I own. One, yes
ONE, was in the right place. All the rest had to be repositioned.

Each engine was then test-run, and all starting and idling problems
had magically disappeared. Years of flipping, sweating and cursing
were eliminated almost completely. Thanks for the solder method,
that should cure the last PAW curse.

Recently the Eiffel 400 and the RAF 32 airfoils were mentioned as
being good low-speed, high-lift sections. My question is: just
how slowly is it possible to sustain level flight, and what are
the parameters to achieve minimal airspeed?

Back to 'lurk' mode. Cheers, Tom @ Buzzard Bluff

....Tom, I haven't been soldering the throttle arm to the spraybar,
because the retaining nut is at that end! Instead, I clean and
"tin" the "inner" surface of the throttle arm and the mating end
surface of the carb barrel. I made up a wooden "fixture" to hold
these two parts together in their proper angular relationship while
I "sweat solder" the arm to the barrel.

Modifying the PAW's carb in this way eliminates the tendency of
the throttle actuation and/or vibration to loosen the retainer
nut. (For extreme permanence you could lock the retainer nut to
the spraybar with blue or purple Loctite.) [JW]

Mike Woodhouse < > is a source for Depron:

 Source: Foam, DEPRON 

WHITE DEPRON FOAM

Lightweight plastic foam for indoor models. Easy to cut and mould.
6mm x 300 x 210 (A4) 55p per sheet, 500 x 250 110p per sheet.
3mm x 300 x 210 (A4) 45p per sheet, 500 x 250 85p per sheet.
Plus 38p postage for A4 size, large sheets available on the field
only.

Michael J Woodhouse
Free Flight (we now take credit cards) Supplies -- for all your
free flight needs and more! A Happy New Year from FFS.
< http://members.aol.com/mjwffs > 
[New web site: < http://www.freeflightsupplies.co.uk > - Bill Lee]

The Wormwood Scrubster < > returns, with:

I have just completed a 4-channel overwing trainer of my own design.
It is powered by a Cox .020. It has a 28 inch wing span; radio gear
is a Jeti micro receiver, 4 very small 6 gram servos, and a small
battery pack. It weighs 8 3/4 ounces and it looks like a trainer,
with steerable tail wheel, windows and all.

The bonus part is it flies rather nicely too. We took it to the
De Havilland Factory (now British Aerospace) where there is a
1-mile runway; just about enough room for a little .020 trainer.

In the event we had some touch and go's and a full stop very nice,
as I am used to flying off the Wormwood Scrubs soccer pitch. Not
content with this, a 20-inch TD .010 powered 2-channel CAP 21 has
also been completed. It was another scratch build, and again, it
flies.

My question is can you direct me as where to get plans for aircraft
of the sub 20 inch wing span variety? I like scratch building but
I would also like to try some miniature scale. Any ideas?

Happy flying, Wormwood Scrubsters

Walt Buskey < > wrote:

For Steve Vincent -- Although I don't do it as much now, I used to
fly a well-used OS FP .20 year round. I found that Red Max will,
upon request, provide a fuel mix for cold weather use. I believe
the extra ingredient is propylene oxide. That fuel seemed to work
quite well for me, even in temperatures near zero F.

On another note, the new wing I created for the Ace Whizard
(slightly longer wingspan & chord, much less dihedral and a
thicker section) didn't work out quite as well as I had hoped.

Though it got airborne quickly, there was apparently a warp in the
wing which forced me to add stick to a max-right trim setting,
though the model had flown well with neutral settings on the
"original" (built-up) wing. The plane was also a bit tail heavy,
due to the wider wing's LE being at the same point as the original.

Oh well, back to the drawing board! On the positive side, the
larger wing did slow the model down as was intended.

Stay warm! Walt Buskey, Etna, New Hampshire
(currently -10 degrees F.!!)

Howard Metcalfe < > relates:

I've been quiet for a long while now, so will blurt out a lump!
First, I wanted to thank all of you who wrote so concisely on how
to start diesel engines; getting my memory glands all stirred up.

My first diesel was a Mills .75 I bought from Bert Pearce's model
shop in Slough Covered Market in the early 50's when I was in my
equally early teens. Bert was a lovely bloke and let me pay for it
at the rate of two and sixpence a week (about 20 cents then) from my
pocket money. I eventually picked it up and in the evening when my
parents went out I set to at starting it by clamping the engine in my
fist and forcing my hand onto the edge of the gas stove as firmly
as I could. Don't do this at home, folks!

It didn't help that knowing nothing about such matters I removed
the compression screw stop and immediately lost the settings
(impetuous youth -- I know). I flicked away all evening and finally
got it running, still in my hand and with very sore flicking finger.

Fortunately the Mills is a little gem and repays such abuse with
pure charm. When it did start I got the fright of my life and soon
was hoping it would stop. Luckily it did, as I only put a tiny
drop of fuel in it at a time. No harm done, and I bet plenty
of others have done the same.

When my parents got in a bit later they had a few quaint words 
to say about the smell in the room, but I got away with it.

Later I built a more respectable test mount and ran it in the 
garden. Strangely all of Dad's goldfish died. I wonder why 
goldfish can't survive with an oil slick on the surface of their 
pond? Dad never said a word, bless him.

What I'm try to get round to saying is that I learnt the hard way
with no one to turn to for help, and so learnt it instinctively.
If someone asked me then exactly how it was done I would 
have been hard pressed to reply better than 'I just start them'.

In truth there is an art to starting all model engines (diesel or
glow). It hinges on getting them to exactly the right state of
'juiciness'; well, that's how I think of it. I usually (not always)
know when an engine is about to start by how it feels: not too 
dry and not too wet; it has to be just right.

With larger engines you can almost adopt a fixed routine, but the
tiddlers need a little more understanding and sometimes a lot of
patience, just like kids really.

Once fuelled and primed, it should become second nature to
occasionally check for hydraulic locking by turning the engine 
over with the propeller gripped firmly in the hand (not trying to flip 
or flick it). If the engine only goes over stiffly or not at all then
there is probably too much fuel in it. On small motors with open
ports, lowering the piston and blowing hard through the ports 
easily rectifies this. Repeat until it feels OK.

If it has a silencer, tip the engine on its side and rotate the prop
backwards and forwards several times. After a while rotate the 
whole engine (and model) so that the excess fuel can drain from 
the silencer. Repeat until the 'lock' disappears. It will most likely
start straight away now.

Sometimes you can start a diesel with too much fuel in it, but it
runs rather strangely just sitting there with the prop oscillating
and not rotating, shaking like mad. If you are quick you can lower
the compression about half a turn (sometimes a lot more if it is
really flooded) and the engine will then break into proper running.

Speed is again needed to increase the compression to a more normal
setting or the engine will stop. You have to be careful doing this,
as with the engine shaking and the fingers slippery with fuel, your
digits can easily end up in the prop! Ouch.

In my half size Moonraker for free flight called Half Moon (sorry:
before you ask, it is not published) I have a .5cc Dart diesel
(another gem). This is side mounted and completely cowled in with
no access to finger choke it.

To start from dry I squirt fuel into the carb letting most of it run
out and turn the prop over a few times until it feels like it's
going to co-operate (nice and free). The externally mounted FF tank
is then filled to about half way, and a tiny squirt of fuel is aimed
into the ports. The compression screw is backed off about a quarter
of a turn and the needle valve opened about half a turn. A couple of
flicks and it's running.

If I'm lucky the fuel is now drawn up the fuel tube to the carb and
it keeps on running. As it warms up, the settings can be adjusted
for flight. A hot or warm start is much the same except the carb
prime can be left out.

Now must get on with my Su27 all 2mm foam rubber powered pusher 
for the next indoor meet.

Sorry to ramble on. Have fun, Howard
< http://www.metcalfehmm.freeserve.co.uk >

David Williams < > pleads:

Help please!!! I am thinking of building a lightweight 36-inch span
glider to be flown off a mini-bungee. I intend to fit a Jeti 9 gram
receiver, two 9 gram servos, and a 110 mAH pack. Can anyone give
any useful tips? (Apart from, "Don't bother!") David

Mark Garvey < > contributed:

My Buddy Steve from Iowa City is the proud owner of the largest
SMALL eligible model I know of. A .25 powered Big Lazy Bee.
Last conversation we had, he said he could probably land it on a
field of raw eggs and not break any! This is an improvement over
a couple of years ago when a broken airplane was his usual landing!
( ;-> Steve!)

On the other hand, I have a couple of things. Another friend who
cleans my engines in his ultrasonic cleaner (he is an amateur
machinist and a professional jeweler) has taken apart my .21 and
my .49 HP engines. Are they EVER cool inside! Very ingenious and
full of "fiddily bits". They needed cleaning too.

Current "wild hair idea" is my "Lazy Flea" a "Bee version" of the
Pou du Ciel. Can anyone tell me how you would SAY Lazy Flea in
French! This begs the question, do I have too many irons in the
fire? The answer is Of course!

But the Electric Bee is well under way, the fuselage at present weighs
about 2 ounces. Wing should come in at 3.5-4 ounces; RTF fuselage
at about 5, which gives me about 14-16 ounces total (I hope!)

My only non-concession to weight is the Trexler Wheels. They are
the ultimate "Bee signature!" Well, off to my workshop, Igor!

Mark

....Mark, in French, "Lazy Flea" would be something like "La Puce
Paresseuse". ("Le Pou du Ciel" means "Louse of the Sky", or
even "Louse of Heaven".) [JW]

Jeff Connor < > requests:

Tell us more about the two-tank CO2 motor. I've been thinking
about long-duration runs in P-30 type airframes, where tank
orientation within the airframe is a problem, and an expansion
tank might be the answer. TIA, Jeff Connor

....Jeff, while I'm in California I think I'll buy one of those
motors. That way I can provide a personal report about it to
SMALLsters -- and also use the information in my Model 
Aviation engine column. Stay tuned! [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index