SMALLnet post401 

 SMALLnet Posting post401

Date: Wed, 5 Dec 2001 04:07:18 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

Bill Lee < Bill@WRLee.com > contributed:

David Felin asked for a repeat of a vendor's address that had
appeared in a previous Posting.

This gives me an opportunity to once again point folks at the
SMALLnet website. One of the features you will find there is
a Source Index.

Whenever Joe (or Randy as the case may be) sends out a Posting,
I put the Posting in the Archive at the Web site. In so doing,
I annotate the Posting, so that the when someone says "You can 
get the Furble at Joe Littleplane's shop," the "Furble" shows up in
the index, and is a link to the posting where it was discussed.

I looked there, and perhaps I didn't catch the very latest source,
but there is one there under "Wings, ACE R/C mini-foam".

SMALLnet's web site URL is < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet/ >.

On the recent attempts to infect SMALLnet with a virus:

I am sure many of you already know about this new virus. The virus
grabs random subject lines from the infected system, but ALWAYS
adds the "Re:" to the front of them. The other thing that is a
dead give-away on this one is the space (really an underscore)
as the first character of the e-mail address in the "From:" line.

It is called the W32.Badtrans.B@mm virus. You can find out
about it at:

< http://www.symantec.com/avcenter/venc/data/w32.badtrans.b@mm.html >

A VERY IMPORTANT thing to note is that the virus is NOT,
repeat: *NOT*, coming to you through the
< SMALLnet-list@eskimo.com > e-mail list!

Since the virus picks up a random subject from a message that the
infected computer has received and uses it in the e-mail it sends,
it may APPEAR that the message is from the list. Since several
who have infected computers are on the SMALLnet e-mail list, it is
quite likely that they will send the virus using an old subject
line from a previous message that DID come through the list.

The many steps that have to be followed before a message gets to
you via eskimo.com guarantees that the list will NOT transmit
a virus.

The very FIRST of them catches this virus: the modified "From:"
line (where the leading underscore has been added) automatically
kicks the virus out since the name with the leading underscore
is NOT on the eskimo.com subscriber list, and only subscribers
can post to our list!

Each time I receive one of these messages (and I have received
quite a few), I respond to the originator by first removing the
extraneous leading underscore from his e-mail, and then passing
on the information on how to recognize and eliminate the virus.

Bill Lee
SMALLnet-list administrator

...Chris Murphy < chrismurphy@inet.net.nz > had his computer infected
by a virus, which sent three spurious e-mails to SMALLnet. But my
server blocked the evil content. I had my system scoured out anyway
by McAfee (they provide an on-line service) and it's clean. [JW]

Trevor Carey < tc240z@bigpond.net.au > has some tips on this problem:

Greeting from Oz. Re those virus attacks: they are bloody annoying.
I have found one that constantly keeps popping up but is easily
detected if you know how -- and here it is:

Firstly the Virus is "WORM-BADTRANS.B". It shows up as an 
attachment with zero bytes in it. I always open any attachment rather
than save to disc, as this isolates the information in one part of
the computer. When you try to open it, it won't; when you try to
use the "reply" function to sender; that won't work either.

If that happens, check your address book, and you should find a
duplicate of the sender's address (if they are known to you) --
but in any case the address will have a lower case bar at the
start of the address. My advice here is kill it then and there.

My virus protectors quarantine these nasties so I can look at
them, perverse curiosity I suppose.

Anyway, I hope that this is a help. Trevor Carey SAM 84

P.S. Can someone tell me how to stop people borrowing my discs
with all my saved "SMALLnet" sendings? TC

...Trevor, tell them that they can buy a CD-ROM from me 
($23 to Australian addresses, airmail postpaid) which includes 
392 Postings plus over a dozen SMALL-related articles -- and full
instructions for fast and easy searching to locate any and all
mentions anywhere in the Postings of a given topic, source, or
contributor. My mailing address is: Joe Wagner, 927 Pine Avenue,
Ozark, Alabama 36360. [JW]

Mike Gillihan < CFIIMEI@aol.com > inquires:

Does anyone have any experience with the Hobbico Sky Sailer
Rogallo ARF? My father is looking for something simple and easy
with which to cruise the back yard. The little thing looks cute,
but I'd love to hear someone's experience prior to his plonking
down 100 bucks.

Flying weather has been downright impressive for this time of
year here in southern Missouri!

Mike S. Gillihan 
Designs That Fly, Inc. 
< http://members.aol.com/DTFBiplane >

Glenn Bolick < rgb8@juno.com > wrote:

Let me add my thanks to both Joe and Randy for the SMALLnet!
It's a keeper!

 Source: Batteries, Nicad, sub-C 

Just ran across something that is too good to pass up if anyone
needs sub-C ni-cds in 1300 mAh capacity. Harbor Freight Tools
is selling a replacement 9.6V battery for their Drill Master
rechargeable drill at $3.99 per. Order number is 454943.

Opened one up and it contains eight sub-C size ni-cds marked
SC1300 mAh by Hunghy (made in China) -- not the hoped for Sanyo.
The cells have solder tabs and are made up in a "rolled-up"
configuration to fit the usual drill battery case, but could be
separated and made into any desired configuration. The charger
used with the drill is marked as 12V at 500 mAh.

Glenn Bolick

Trent Eyler < eyler@tulsaconnect.com > requests:

I have recently purchased three old kits from eBay. All three
appear to be complete, except *none* of them included the plans.

I would appreciate it if any of you can loan (for me to copy) or
make copies of the plans for me. Please contact me: Trent Eyler;
1906 East 13th Street; Tulsa, OK 74104-4422 (918) 592-0517
or by e-mail.

1. Black Bullet 40" from Schlueter Free Flight models (BB-40)
40" span (I assume)

2. Cavalier from Micro Models "for sport FF or single-channel
R/C" (F104) 36" span

3. PUP II from RN Models "Free Flight low wing sport -- suitable
for small R/C .020 power" (UA412) 35" span

Thanks for any help y'all can provide to Tulsa Trent.

Jim Rundle < jrr10@cornell.edu > asserts:

To answer Ed Stevens, I would buy an .03 that throttled well and
would swing a 6 x 3 prop if priced around $55. I like my little
diesels, but my PAW .033 weighs the same as a Norvel .061.

A lighter engine would fill a vacant niche. For me, it would have
to be pleasant to use -- easy to start by hand, steady running,
with a reliable idle and transition. There is so much new light-
weight gear coming out for electric park fliers, but we "wet"
engine enthusiasts can't take full advantage of it without a
lighter engine. Even an after-market exhaust sleeve for the
C*x .020 would be a big help.

Another note to manufacturers out there -- how about some small
spinners and new shapes? There seems to be a conspiracy to make
spinners no smaller than 1 inch diameter, and all in the same style.
But 1 inch spinners are too big for many of our small models,
and Wacos, TravelAires, Spitfires, Hurricanes, Pitts Specials,
Piper Tri-Pacers, Cherokees and Super Cruisers, and other popular
scale subjects need spinners shorter for their diameter than
anything on the market.

Ace advertises some of their planes with spinners they no longer
make, and Herr doesn't show spinners on some planes that should
have them. Currently-available spinners would stick out like a
sore nose. Even on some of the common sport types it would be
refreshing to see something different. Obviously the economics
depend on volume of sales, but if someone produced spinner sizes
and styles that no one else did, I think they could have a
"designer line" at a premium price and still get enough takers.
Or am I the only one who thinks so? Jim Rundle

Allan Leppanen < alepp@sympatico.ca > asks:

I was wondering if there are any SMALLsters familiar with
Rhoe Apt's Puddle Jumper. I've been building mine from the plans
in the May 2001 issue of Flying Models and have it ready to cover.
Man, it looks big for an OS .10 at 800 square inches!

I've been trying to keep it light as possible, and it tips the
scales at 23 ounces, less radio and covering. I should be close
to the prototypes' 41.6 ounce total. I guess there's no harm in
size, as long as the weight is low, and there's lots of lift.

I'd sure like to hear about anyone else's experience with this
unique design. Allan Leppanen

Michael Blott < mblott@san.rr.com > submitted:

Converted a Funcraft foam rubberband power to electric R/C.
14" wingspan, 3.2 ounces RTF. GWS IPS direct drive motor on
a U-80 prop. Reinforced the wings with Depron. Aileron torque
rods are direct-connected to the servo arm.

Wrapped transformer wire around a 1/64 ply stick for the
antenna. More data on my web page under "secret projects"

Michael Blott AMA# 2241
< http://rcguy.tripod.com/RadioControlProjects.htm >

Francis S. Person < persof@erols.com > wrote to JW:

I have read many articles, including yours, on home-brew diesel
fuel. Once I showed up at the field having forgotten to bring
any diesel fuel. I figured that "Nobody" would have Diesel fuel,
but lo and behold, I met DCRC's "other" diesel guy. He loaned 
me a couple of tankfuls of his home brew (don't know the mix).

My PAW .15 ran OK but it needed approximately an 1/8 turn extra
compression. I have been using John Deere 80% ether starting fluid
to pep up fuel that seems flat -- but have never made my own
diesel fuel from scratch.

A couple of questions. Can I use a kerosene substitute called
"Clear Lite" which is made by Gulf ? Is it just extra-pure
kerosene, or something else?

If heat is the enemy of oil and diesels tend to run cooler than
glow; why not use synthetic? I recently purchased a MP Jet .061
from Carlson Imports. The instructions recommend 40% oil, 40%
ether and 20% kerosene. To match this I will have to mix my own.
Would my existing PAW BB fuel be OK? Francis S. Person

...Francis, I don't know what Gulf "Clear Lite" is, and there are
no Gulf gas stations anywhere near here. The only "extra pure"
kerosene that I know about is aviation jet fuel.

The "extra purity" of jet fuel consists primarily of its
low moisture content. (Yes, kerosene does absorb water.)

The reason that this is important in full-scale aviation is that
the ambient air temperature is so low at the altitudes in which
jets normally cruise, kerosene with water in it can turn into
slush & overload the fuel pumps.

Plain old gas station kerosene (NOT truck diesel fuel!) works fine
in model diesels. People all over the world have been using it for
that purpose since 1945. Small amounts of moisture in kerosene
don't seem to matter much insofar as model diesel engine operation
is involved.

I tried some experiments in this line about 6 years ago. Starting
& running adjustments changed a little with my purposely
"moisturized" fuel -- but not enough to bother me.

Now for the castor oil question. NO model diesel engine maker 
recommends anything but castor oil for lubricant. I must have 
written this topic up more than a hundred times: in magazine articles, 
replies to readers, and in SMALLnet:

Castor oil is the ONLY -- UNIQUE -- commonly-available lubricant
which becomes MORE viscous with heat. And the place that this
extra viscosity ("film strength" is another way of expressing that)
is vitally needed is NOT between the piston and sleeve, but at
the wrist pin.

The wrist pin area is CRITICAL in all model engines, because 
every erg of mechanical energy that the burning fuel transmits 
to the piston has to be transferred via the wrist pin. It's the most
heavily-loaded part of the engine -- and almost the hottest,
because of its location so close under the piston crown.

Yet the lubrication the wrist pin receives is almost accidental.
There's no "free flowing" fuel/air mixture within the piston's
"underside cup". And an oscillating bearing is the hardest kind
to keep lubricated. Unlike rotary bearings, where lubricating
films tend to remain in place and renew themselves, oscillating
bearings squeeze their lubricant out.

It's to protect the wrist pin & con rod "little end" bearing that
Cox has always specified strictly castor-lubricated glow fuel for
their engines -- the Cox ball-and-socket connection between
piston & con rod becoming exceptionally highly-stressed and 
hot at typical 1/2A rpm.

Diesels have it worse. Mechanical pressure stresses are usually 
higher than with glows, especially while starting. And diesel 
combustion temperatures (especially when running "maximum
lean" for best throttle response) are hotter than in most glows.

Believe me, Francis, NO company that manufactures model diesel
engines owns castor oil processors. The reason they call for
castor oil -- and lots of it -- is that CASTOR OIL WORKS.

I've had letters from modelers all over the world in the 15 years
that I've been writing model engine columns, claiming remarkable
results in their motors from the use of "NEW" and "IMPROVED" 
oils of various sorts. Turbine oil; peanut oil; reclaimed deep-fry oil
from McDonalds; Teflon-augmented oil; gun oil...

I say, "Yeah, yeah," -- because these guys might just as well
learn the expensive way (which will help them remember) that
there's a REASON why castor oil has always been standard in
model diesel fuel.

And that reason is NOT that fuel engineers are too timid or
ignorant to want to try anything else.

To me, searching for a substitute for castor oil in model fuel 
is akin to trying to find a cheap, efficient substitute for water.

Your "existing BB diesel fuel" has about 20% castor oil. The
MP Jets people don't think that's enough to be safe for breaking
in their engines. I believe them. [JW]

Bruce Stough < sbs1@visi.com > inquires:

On the recommendation of a friend, I am planning to build a
Terrier (RCM March, 1984 plan 909). This a 58" span aerobatic
low wing plane, designed to be built light and powered by a sport
.25 glow. The author used a non-Schnuerle OS .25, although 
early '80s .40 4-stroke engines also worked well.

I want to use a PAW, but don't know which one. A .19 TBR might 
be big enough if I keep the weight down to around 3 pounds. 
The .19 is nice in that it only weighs 6.5 ounces and is SMALL. 
The next step up in the PAW line is the .29 (at 11.5 ounces) or 
the .35 (at 11 ounces).

Can a PAW .19 be counted on replacing a .25 sport glow?

I like to fly sort of slow, but also would like enough power to
do large loops and the like. Bruce Stough

...Bruce, I have two models powered by PAW .19 plain bearing
engines. One's an R/C biplane with about 400 square inches
of WORKING wing area (I no longer use "gross wing area" 
figures -- those that include the part of the wing that's covered 
by the fuselage); the other is a control-line stunter, 54" span, 
600 square inches, weight about 27 ounces.

Both models fly well. The C/L model will climb straight up (as
in wingovers etc.) and the heavier R/C biplane does nice "scale-
type" aerobatics. The best PAW .19 props I've found are 
Graupner 10-inchers; both 4- and 5-inch pitch work nicely. [JW]

Steve Cheney < slcheney@mindspring.com > wrote:

One of my 1/2 dozen or so "current" projects is an original
1930's biplane. I've never built a biplane previously because
I'm too lazy to build 2 wings, so the Ace was the trump on that
excuse:

ACE AS 6073 Tapered chord -- 166.25 square inches;
root 5.5 inches; tip 4 inches; span 17.875 inches

ACE AS 6074 Constant chord -- 192.5 square inches;
root 5.5 inches; tip 5.5 inches; span 17.875 inches

 Source: Wings, ACE R/C mini-foam 

Available through Quantum Models (Jan. RCM, pages 108-112).
These wings are not shown on their website as of my last check --
you must request them & expect to have them backordered.

< http://www.Quantummodels.com > or
< Quantum1@core.com >.

Good luck -- Steve

Ron Ferrer < armadilo@creative-net.net > adds:

 Source: Wings, ACE R/C mini-foam 

In response to David Felin's query about Ace foam wings: they
are indeed producing both versions, constant and tapered ones.
You can get them through anyone who carries Ace/Thunder Tiger,
or if all else fails, contact me! --
< http://www.creative-net.net/~armadilo/ > -- as I stock them.
Price is about 10 bucks.

Our local guys are showing a lot of interest in Ace Simple Series
after seeing my Simple Corsair fly. It does GREAT with a
Norvel .074. I put a 4-ounce slimline Hayes tank in it, as that
fit the space nicely.

This plane is fully aerobatic, flies over 20 minutes, and lands
with plenty of fuel left! We found that the Me109 makes a good
P-40 Warhawk with the addition of a shark's mouth, and a taller
rudder will further enhance the effect.

Built the Texan; next is a Hollywood Zero conversion; painted
olive drab green/gray with red meatballs! Kinda puts the fun back
into WW2 combat.

As most SMALLsters know, the Ace Simple Series kits were designed
by the late, great Fred Reese. He really knew his stuff!

Got a Whizard in stock a few days ago. I was surprised to see it
is a taildragger, as I always remembered it as trike with pants
on the mains. If anything it looks even better as a taildragger.

Keep 'em flying, Ron

Nic < littlepeople@space.com > is grateful:

Thanks again for the great information. Here I thought Campbell,
Blue Ridge, and Golden Age kits were nowhere to be found, but it
looks like they're distributed in several places. Very helpful,
and I appreciate the broad response.

Thanks to JW for writing back about your experience with Cox
Pee Wees and props. I'll let you know how it goes when it comes.
Pee Wees definitely do make a tiny mess. I was even thinking
recently of building a small drainage hole on the underside of
the cowl of a Fairchild 24, to prevent reservoirs of fuel from
accumulating there.

So far I've built four or five planes, and recently decided to make
a small powered micro R/C plane (not a lot of space in NYC, you
know..). The hardware and breadth of choices in electric is so
wide, I decided to go Pee Wee to simplify things. One thing at
a time. Once I get basic construction and flying down, electric
will be next. So I built a Guillow Fairchild 24 for two channels,
and Pee Wee power. It shot up to about 20 feet at like 60 degrees,
then stalled and plummeted.

The Nieuport is next. Joyfully, I notice each plane is
successively much better than the last. This time, my
transmitter is adjusted for lower sensitivity, plane is lighter,
balance is better, throws are smaller, control rod play is
eliminated, etc. Any general tips to make this work?

I was really glad to see your discussion of props. As you pointed
out, the plans call for a 4.5x2 which barely clears the cowl.
I have a nylon and carbon fiber Grish 5.5x3, and I am hoping one
will work out. I had no idea you could put a 7" prop on a Pee Wee
and use it to fly a 46" wingspan plane. Did you use special gearing
to get this to work? Would you expect that size to do the job?

One question on a Guillow Nieuport R/C conversion with Pee Wee.
Can this take off from the ground? Thanks, Sean

...Sean, I've seen two R/C conversions of the Guillow Nieuport 11.
They flew nicely, but had to be hand-launched: they ground-looped
viciously on attempted takeoffs.

I used essentially stock ORIGINAL-VINTAGE Cox Pee Wees on 
my models, modified only by replacing the paltry little fuel filler 
nipples on the tank back with screwed-in 3/32" hard-copper-tubing 
forward-facing vents.

The 7" props I use are old, WAY out-of-production Grish 7-2
Plasticote. They run great on Pee Wees -- developing THRUST
rather than maximum screech.

For the benefit of other SMALLsters with Pee Wee powered
projects in mind, here's a condensed collection of Pee Wee
information taken from my recent e-mail replies to Sean and
other "interested parties":

> Your difficult Pee Wee starting problems are probably due to
 oxidized castor oil gumming up one or two critical areas inside
the Pee Wee. This is COMMON on engines that have been 
stored away a while.

The critical areas are the reed seat and the fuel orifice. These
have always been problems in Cox reed valve engines. Cox tried
a couple of "preventive measures" to alleviate these -- one was
a Teflon reed, but that didn't work well in operation for long.

"Castor adhesion" remains troublesome for those who don't 
know what's gone amiss inside their little power plants.

Solvent or raw fuel will usually do the job -- the problem is
getting it in to where it will do some good. If the fuel
orifice is blocked, that prevents fuel from passing through to
rinse it clean. And if the reed is stuck, even partially,
to its seat, that makes the oxidized area hard for solvents
to reach...

I take my Pee Wees apart every once in a while & clean their
insides manually. I also replace the plastic fuel tubing, which
has invariably lost its flexibility -- and MAY even have a tiny
air leak where it fits over the nipple.

Gasket leakage can give Pee Wee owners a tough time too --
especially the little TEENY one between the tank back and 
the end of the intake tube.

Now you know why I prefer PAW .03 diesels to Pee Wees. 
They're SO much less finicky to keep running! (Also, have you 
checked the price of a Pee Wee glow head recently??????)

One more possible source of Cox starting trouble is the glow clip.
If you are using a stock Cox "bifurcated clip", modify it before
flipping one more prop! That design is the absolute VILEST
excuse for a glow plug connector that I've ever seen.

Remember that the plug needs lots of current to light brightly --
a couple of amps usually. (I forget what the .020 glow head draws
and am too lazy to go out to the shop right now to check.)

Anyway, here's how to fix the Cox glow clip so that it will be
capable of delivering amperes worth of current.

Along one side of the yellow plastic "joining sleeve", CAREFULLY
cut through. When the sleeve is split on one side, it can be
spread apart and the metal connectors can be pulled out. (These
have small barbs on them: be careful not to ruin anything.)

Now remove the stock wires from the metal connectors and discard
them. They are 24-karat JUNK. Instead, get a couple of feet of
thin-gage lamp cord (14 or 16 gage is fine) and SOLDER this
to the metal thingies (scraped clean first!) where the old
"pushed-in-place" stock wires were.

Now put everything back together -- and use shrink tubing to
repair the split in the yellow plastic sleeve.

NOW your Cox glow heads will LIGHT.

> The Pee Wee appears compact & simple. It really IS compact --
 but the simplicity is illusory. The operating principles and
actions are no less complex than on larger model engines;
and additional difficulties arise because of "scale" effects.

Two detrimental "scale effects" in all miniature
model engines are:

1. The smaller the displacement, the higher the ratio between
cooling surface area and combustion chamber volume. That 
causes small-sized engines to run cooler. That in turn makes it 
more difficult keeping the combustion process going, in both 
glow and diesel model engines.

2. The physical dimensions of model engines can be scaled up and
down readily enough. However, the properties of the "fluids" they
operate with: fuel and air -- remain constant. They don't flow
so freely through small passageways... (That's one reason it's
poor practice to use tiny fuel tubing on small model engines.
That just makes it harder for the engine to draw fuel.)

It's quite easy to design & manufacture a good-running & depend-
able .15-size glow or diesel; but FAR more difficult to produce
an .015 with those qualities.

One more "hidden complexity" in Pee Wee operation is common 
to all the Cox reed-valve engines with built-on fuel tanks. That's 
the varying fuel level in the tank. A full tank has its fuel level
above that of the needle orifice. Fuel then "gravity-flows".

If you adjust the needle on a fully-fueled Pee Wee for maximum
rpm, its mixture will become leaner and leaner the longer it runs.
This will probably cause the engine to lose noticeable power in
flight; and often to stop prematurely.

To sum up: the Pee Wee is a neat-looking little power producer --
but it has its quirks...

And run it -- and all other Coxes -- ONLY on all-castor-oil
lubricated fuel! (I use Byron's 25% nitro, all-castor fuel, with
5 fluid ounces of castor oil added to each quart. Cox engines
NEED lots of castor oil!)

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index