SMALLnet post330 

 SMALLnet Posting post330

Date: Sun, 23 Jul 2000 22:52:20 -0500

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

Carl Dowdy < > reports:

Thought the SMALLsters would like to know about another possible
fuel bulb for smaller engines. It is made by Sullivan and is an
8-ounce polyethylene bottle with a "squirt gun" type valve (part
no. 175, Bottle Pump). It has two exit tubes in the cap, one of
which has the one-way valve with fuel line and a brass clunk.
The other is the vent/return.

All you need is another length of tubing to reach the engine and of
course a nice fuel filter. The bottle is squeezable and can be used
to fuel and/or prime. Should not create the rubber deposits that may
be a problem with the Norvels.

Carl Dowdy < >

Dave Segal < > advises:

If anyone is looking for a simple, high-performing electric glider,
I recommend Don Srull's Skeeter 50. You do not need a big nicad pack
and a 100-inch wing to catch thermals. Construction is very simple
and a Speed 400 6-volt motor provides nice climbs. Wing span is 46
inches and wing area is 265 square inches. I am using a 6 x 500 mAh
pack and a nylon 5.5 x 4 propeller.

The plan is available from HiLine in North Carolina, and only costs
$6 plus $1 postage. There is a photo of my model in Randy Randolph's
column in the September issue of Flying Models.

Dave

Patrick LeRay < > informs us:

Awhile back there was a brief thread about ways to shorten Receiver
antennas. I'd asked, because some of my planes have 19"-21"
fuselages and the HiTec antenna is about 40-odd inches long.

There were several suggestions and I thank everyone for them. But
now here's something interesting.

I called HiTec about something else, and while talking with a person
who seemed quite knowledgeable, I mentioned some of the techniques
that'd been offered. Here is his input and the results of my test.

He recommended not a soda straw, but a popsicle stick. Said you don't
want it to form a true circular coil. And the loops should not touch
each other. He felt that any decrease in range would be very slight.
So I tried a test.

Wrapped the antenna wire around a tongue depressor (9 loops, about
18") and taped it onto the wood. With the plane in my kitchen,
surrounded by brick, wood, plumbing, and electrical wiring circuits,
I left my son in charge by the phone. I got into the van, drove about
100 ft, called him on my cell phone, and extended the Transmitter
antenna out the van window. We had no problems with reception.

Drove down the street about 300' and tried again; still no problems.
Finally, just a few feet short of two tenths of a mile, the servos
began slight chattering with some jerky response to stick movements.
That's about 1,000 feet, with an antenna shortened to just over half
its normal length, and the signal going through overhead power lines
and God-knows-what in the walls of a HOUSE! Impressive.

Since HiTec says the range of the natural-state Receiver is "out-
of-sight", I have a feeling that if we'd been out in open country,
the shortened-antenna range would have been at least half-again that
1,000 feet. I'm not sure I could see that Herr J-3 Cub at 1500 feet!

Patrick LeRay

...It would be difficult, Patrick. Years ago I came up with a way
of estimating the height of a free flight model -- and I think Gene
Chaille described something similar in an early SMALLnet Posting.

Anyway, it involves the properties of "similar triangles", plus the
fact that if you extend your arm straight out in front of you,
anything held in your fingers will be about two feet from the
lens of your eye.

Assume that the Herr Cub under consideration is the big (48" span)
model. At 1500 feet away, it would be 750 times as far off as your
extended fingertips. Therefore the apparent span of the 4-foot
"Cub" would be 48 inches divided by 750 -- or about a sixteenth of
an inch held at arm's length... [JW]

Paul Rodrigues < > contributed:

Regarding Enrico Feliciano's suggestion for an electric parachute or
hang glider, there is an electric parachute available from a company
called G-Con and is named the Sky Surfer. It is ARF; comes complete
with battery, charger, built in receiver/servos and transmitter.

10 minutes assembly; charge the battery, and off you go. To
illustrate how easy it is to fly, my 6-year-old daughter flies it
with confidence in the local park. It thermals great, and my
longest flight time thus far has been 47 minutes.

Cheers, Paul

Scott Winans < > wrote:

John Hunton said about the new Cox electric free flight models,
"I know that someone like Don Srull or John Worth will put R/C
in one of these before long."

I have a prototype of a Spitfire in that same series that I have
installed a 3-channel system in and it flies beautifully. I re-
motored it with a lower voltage wind motor and installed rudder,
elevator, and a BEC speed control. Flies great !

Scott Winans

Bob Mosher < > could use some advice from Scott:

Picked up one of the Cox electrics mentioned on this net, primarily
to dissect it to see what makes it tick.

Are any of you playing with this machine, and what kind of motor
runs are you getting? About 3 to 5 seconds is all I can get out
of it. Residual voltage is 2.4 V, so I assume those little blue
things are nicads. Ol'Bob

David Williams < > suggests:

 Source: Electric, Information 

Take a look at the E.M.P.S. website: < http://www.empsinc.com > for a
whole lot of interesting stuff for the electric enthusiast.

David Williams, Bolton, ENGLAND

...That reminds me of my present frustrating experiences trying to
acquire the necessary components to power a Dare Sopwith Triplane.

Pat Tritle had his prototype flying at this year's SMALL meet at
Maumelle, and its flight realism was impeccable. My previous
attempts at electric-powered R/C disappointed me. (Too much weight,
primarily -- even though I'd cut at least three ounces from the
stock kit design. Model Airplane News refused to publish my Field
and Bench report on this clunker, despite the fact that they had
commissioned the project...)

Anyway, I decided to buy a Dare Triplane kit for myself and 
duplicate Pat's installation as closely as possible. (By the way, the
Dare kit, although a laser-cut product, is DEFINITELY not for a
beginner! There are no instructions; no information on markings;
even the landing gear wires are furnished in straight lengths to
be bent by the builder. The multitude of wing ribs are neatly
laser-cut, including lightening holes -- but this is NOT a pre-
fabricated kit. That's one reason I like it!)

I've ordered the "power items" from several sources. The motor and
gearbox HAD to come from Hobby Lobby -- my least favorite mail-order
supplier. They NEVER have everything I order at the time I place
the order; and invariably ship half the stuff I need, with a note
enclosed about the back-ordered items. (As if I wouldn't notice!)

Also, most of the stuff I've bought from H-L over the last few
years either has no instructions whatever (e.g. Speed 400 motors)
or they're written in German: no translation supplied.

(Can anyone inform us of a Canadian supplier of Graupner items ?
Hobby Lobby states that they are the exclusive US importer; surely
someone in Canada also imports Graupner products...?)

The batteries are coming from Pat Tritle himself -- I might as well
patronize the Triplane's designer for items like these, right?

The speed control and charger are on order from Fred Marks's outfit.
Again, I much prefer dealing with somebody I know than a huge, face-
less corporation. I haven't yet found a source for the propeller
specified -- it's an APC electric type, and I know of no good
supplier for those yet.

So far, the total price of the "airborne power system" for this e-
powered Sopwith Triplane is more than double the retail price of a
PAW .09 TBR diesel, and I'll bet it weighs more than the PAW plus
its fuel tank.

Yes, I will complete and fly this e-powered Triplane; but inasmuch
as the design is all built-up (laminated tail surface outlines too)
I'm sorely tempted to make two of these craft, and power one with
a PAW diesel, just for comparison.

I have a strong suspicion that a diesel-powered Triplane would be
less bother to operate than the e-powered version, too. [JW]

Dereck Woodward < > contributed:

Ed Toner wrote, "The Great Planes SONIC BLAST is the best
electric I have ever had. It's a genuine ducted fan, and flies
beautifully. It is larger than most, and not a bit tricky. There
is nothing to build: just assemble, charge, and launch..."

This looks much like a device that was on sale in England around the
late 80's. A buddy of mine fitted single-channel rudder-only R/C
into one for a bet!

SMALLStar Gray - might be around here somewhere - was mostly behind
it. By the time he and Shane Harding had finished, with a small
receiver battery, one servo, coloured tissue replicas of the kit
decals and minus a huge chunk of noseweight they found behind a
rubber nose button, it was fractions of an ounce over the kit
weight and flew pretty good. They also claimed to have made the
first EDF R/C night flight - by taping small chemical lightsticks
to the wingtips and flying at their site well after dark.

The radio was borrowed off German SMALLStar Horst Fenchel, and
you'd probably be laughed out of court if you described it as 'micro'
now!

Andy Woitowicz talked about, "...my Royal .25-powered Supra-fly
turning an APC 10 X 4. With unlimited vertical acceleration
and sustained hovering at two-thirds throttle, I was repeatedly asked
what brand .40 engine I was using.

"Another pilot was flying an OS .46 FX c/w tuned pipe mounted to 
a Tsunami. Both aircraft are similar in size but flying character-
istics were entirely different. The Tsunami was more than a pound
heavier, and had at least double the horsepower..."

I had one of those before leaving England; still might have the plan
someplace, though I seem to remember you would have to do a lot of
drafting to make it into a builder's plan, as opposed to a kit plan.

The model is every bit as good as Andy describes and it would be great
to see it re-emerge. I'm sure the lobby that wanted the miniscule
engine limit for SMA business would cringe at the thought of 48" span
and a Schneurle port 25 (mine had an OS 32 SF ABC at one point, we
don't need to discuss that :-^), but for a small sum, you got a model
that could out-fly much of the 46-sized sportsters and had an
immaculate aerobatic pedigree. That was what made it so good to fly
-- honest, good-mannered handling, and as near to neutral handling as
you could ask for.

I have vague memories of a smaller version of the Supra-Fly appearing
as a full-sized freeby plan in a US magazine. It made no claims to
being designed by a photocopier, but I compared the two and there were
similarities ;-^). It was around a 10-sized model, could have been a
lot of fun to fly.

Oh well!

I now have all the bits for a Ron Fikes MOOgallo -- even a selection
of lightweight trash bags of sufficient area. All I need to do is
find my Round Tuit and I can go amaze the population hereabouts!

Regards, Dereck

John Meacham < > wrote:

Just "fixed" my loose compression screw on a home-made .12 cubic
inch diesel by careful use of a center punch around the threaded
opening in the head.

That's similar to crushing the threads on a C*X head, but for a
different purpose. So far it seems to be holding; its last test
run did not show the contra-piston screw "unscrewing" itself.

John Meacham

Tim Atkins < > advises:

There is a better way that I've found to keep Cox glow heads from
loosening, without any modification. Simply wrap the threads with a
couple of turns of fairly common Teflon tape. This stuff is used by
plumbers to seal the threads on pipe fittings, and is available at
almost any hardware store, K-Mart, Wal-Mart, etc.

It comes in various thicknesses, so you may have to adjust the amount
you use. It also has the advantage of creating a very good seal, just
in case you forgot to install a NEW head gasket.

Tim Atkins, Charleston, West Virginia.

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index