SMALLnet post386 

 SMALLnet Posting post386

Date: Sun, 29 Apr 2001 00:36:14 -0500

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

...At the end of April I will be closing down the "Juno"
e-mail account for SMALLnet. For some time now the Postings
have been coming via my new (and SPAM-free) server, Alaweb.

For those of you who've been sending in their SMALLnet
submissions directly, rather than through Eskimo, our new
address is: < SMALLnet@alaweb.com >. [JW]

Roy Clough < royce6@juno.com > states:

That Slat Wing control-line trainer that Hal Hodgson asked about
in Posting 385 is one of my designs. It appeared in the August
1955 issue of Popular Mechanics. I do not have plans for it,
but there must be a copy of the magazine around somewhere.

I had a query from England a couple of years ago from somebody
who wanted to use the design for a slow flight project. Unfortunately
I don't have that correspondence at hand.

This plane also used a propeller drag disk to limit thrust to help
it fly slower -- come to think of it, this might be interesting to
try on some modern slow flyers. All it was, was a disk of stiff
cardboard, about 3" diameter, mounted behind the prop.

Roy C.

Jim Dozier < LeeKayD@aol.com > wrote:

 Source: CL Supplies 

 Source: Venturi, Enya 

In response to Norm Dial's request for a C\L venturi for the
Enya model 5224 in post #382: Norm, try TCI Hobbies. Andy
converts a lot of R\C engines for control line. If he doesn't
have it, he may know who might. TCI is strictly C\L oriented,
and he does trades!

TCI Hobbies 
621 First Avenue 
Two Harbors, Minnesota 55616 
1-800-606-0097 
< http://www.ucontrolmodels.com/ >

Reference the carb for that engine: if Norm still has it, I've
got a home for it. The Perry carb on mine broke on the last
outing -- fatigue finally got it. Engine was still running
strong 'til that happened.

I suspect a crack started at one of the mounting holes during an
uncontrolled landing a couple months ago, and the base came apart.
I'd rather have the Enya carb, anyway.

Thanks for the response on the prop driver for the Cub engine.
A kind gentleman saw the Posting, and sent me the address of a
place that stocks them, although I seem to have misplaced it
at the moment. I have GOT to clear my workbench...one of
these days.

Jim Dozier Channelview, Texas

Bob Fritch < skypup50@hotmail.com > reports:

For anyone wondering about the Dare Demoiselle, I can only give
positive comments about this wonderful machine. It uses a stock
GWS motor/gear drive and weighs only 7.25 ounces with an 8-cell
270 NiMH homemade pack. To my amazement I'm getting 12-minute
flights with this set-up.

The neatest thing is the scale-like appearance...I have a profile
pilot with a red silk scarf in mine. I also built homemade
spoked wheels as per the instructions in this month's issue of
RC microFLIGHT. No one could believe that they weren't
commercially-made. I do have a Taig lathe to machine hubs,
but this is NOT required to make these really nice wheels.

The plane simply mesmerizes me in flight. It is so stable, slow
and yet very controllable...turns on a dime. I normally fly
outdoors, but have flown in a small gym with no problems.

I did a speed err...slow test this morning and during a flyby
at a normal walking speed the plane was just slowly pulling ahead
of me! On my first outdoor test flight I had no problems taking
off from the street in front of my house, traveling down the road
and turning around in a neighbor's yard -- and flying this pattern
up and down the street. A few cars stopped to watch as I floated
over them.

I like the design well enough to have gone out and bought the
DARE Quadriselle, which is a 4-winged multiplane. If you have
any question, feel free to write to me. Bob Fritch

Carlo Godel < regiaero@gj.net > contributed:

Back in the early eighties I built a 3x Boston Cabin from my
original design: the Fake. 48" span, 9" chord; flew on an
O.S. .10 at an all-up weight (with empty tank) of 35 ounces --
and that with an old 12-ounce 4-channel radio.

The Big Fake got its picture in Model Builder. I can recommend
the use of these models for R/C. They fly just great, and can
be built very lightweight for great performance.

I am now working on a 1.5 X version for CO2 power and a mini
4-channel system of 1.2 ounce total weight.

Things have changed for the better all around, and the prices
are ridiculously low. In the early sixties a ten-channel reed
R/C system went for $400 with no servos or batteries -- and we
were making no more than $400 per month. You can now buy the
whole shebang -- the equivalent of a ten-channel reed system --
for under $200. Seems like the only things going up in price
anymore are taxes. Carlo

...How about gasoline, Carlo??? [JW]

Bob O'Neil < mdlwon@juno.com > sent:

I am a old time modeler and am getting back into the small
models after years of absence. I remember years back I had a
free flight model I belive was a Scientific kit called
the Ensign. It somewhat resembled a Playboy.

You old timers out there may remember it. If any one does,
please give me any details that you may have, as I would
like to build another one as a small free flight.

Thank you all; this is a great SMALLnet.

Happy Flying, Bob

...Bob, in the current issue of Flying Models, in Randy's
"Small Talk" column, is a small photo of the uncovered structure
of a Scientific Ensign. Copies of the original kit plans are
available from John Pond's Old Time Plans Service, P. O. Box
90310, San Jose, California 95109 -- (408) 292-3382.
BTW, John's son, who runs the place now, is often away.
It takes persistence to get through sometimes. [JW]

Dave Hill < d-hill@juno.com > requests:

I am looking for a thrust washer for an O.S. .10 glow engine.
This is the plain-bearing version prior to the FP. It has no
muffler, and a butterfly valve is mounted to the exhaust.
The butterfly valve is linked to the carb throttle arm.
The head has 5 mounting screws.

I need the thrust washer and the flat shim washer that goes
between the thrust washer and case. Maybe there is a
SMALLnet reader out there who can help.

Regards, Dave Hill

Ken Park < k.d.park@sympatico.ca > sent:

Have a request for anyone who has built the CASSUTT kits
that have been sold this winter by the Ottawa Radio Control
Club -- Mosquito Squadron Winter's Building Project.

Would appreciate getting any "jpeg" on-line. or real photos
via snailmail. We would like to post them on our SMALL web
page for everyone to see. We might use one of the photos to
put on the kit box to help sell more.

We only have about 6 remaining from the original order of 30.
Still $75.60 Canadian, plus shipping -- a great deal.

Pictures can be sent to email address of Ken Park at:
< ken_park_99@yahoo.com > -- or snailmail:

Ken Park, 66 Fieldgate Drive, Nepean, Ontario K2J 1T9 Canada

Phillip Boyd < BuilderAir@aol.com > contributed:

Let me tell you guys about a couple of neat model tools I found
at Auto Zone while buying truck parts. The first is a 3-inch
reversible screw driver by Fine Line. It has two Phillips tips
and two flat tips. What is good about this is they are small
enough for our small modeling screws. Cost $1.00.

Next is three sizes of squeeze clamps, ranging from 99 cents
to $3.00. I bought out the small ones and the mid-size ones
at our local store. The small ones are a little strong, but
I found that with a little work with a pair of needle-noses,
they can be made just right..

Now while I have your attention, can any one give me an e-mail
or mailing address for Mr. Bob Palmer ?

Phillip Boyd

Tom Atwood sent in an item which somehow got garbled before
I could transfer it to my word processor. But I remember what
it was about: a free "Web Trial" of Air Age's Radio Control
microFLIGHT. This is good only until May 7. Go to:
< http://www.rcmicroflight.com/freetrial >.

You'll be asked to supply your e-mail address; then Air Age will
e-mail you a password so that you can sample the "subscribers
only" edition of microFLIGHT. If you like it, a paid sub-
scription costs about $30... [JW]

Affonso Arantes < bacuri@uol.com.br > sent:

I have been flying my MG-1 powered mini-Rebel using
6x250 mAh Panasonic AAA nickel-cadmium cells. The motor
draws 4-5 amps with a 7x4" prop.

I would like to try a similar pack of NiMH AAA cells, but
I am not sure if they will support the same current draw
without damage. Can anyone inform me what is the
maximum current I can safely draw from these cells?

Affonso Arantes Sao Paulo -- Brazil

Dave Segal < DDavesegal@cs.com > is unhappy:

I see that the Mighty Tower no longer is selling Ultracote
covering. (They also no longer sell Goldberg kits, Ace
products, or Sonic-tronics.)

Ultracote is my favorite covering material, and I have done
a brief search of the Internet to find other sources. Goldberg
Models will sell directly, but the list prices are outrageous.
Quantum Models sells Ultracote, as does Hobby Lobby (but
the latter lists it as Oracover).

These last two have the basic colors, but not the full range of
colors shown in the Goldberg catalog. Anyone have any other
recommendations for sources of supply?

Dave Segal

Steve Morris < mlbco@sirius.com > reports:

35 years ago, my first successful rubber-powered model was a
Comet Cloudbuster, number 4 in the famed Beginner Series.
Guillow has re-introduced the 4 models in this series, and
I've just received the Fly Boy and Cloudbuster kits.

The first thing you'll notice is that for reasons unknown,
Guillow reversed the names of these 2 models, so that what
was the Cloudbuster is now the Fly Boy, and vice-versa.

The kits are very nice and have beautifully-drawn plans with
plenty of detailed instructions for beginners. The ribs are
laser-cut, and other fuselage pieces are cleanly die-cut from
decent balsa stock. White glue and sandpaper is included.

I'd recommend any of these kits for beginners and oldsters.
Let's hope Guillow continues to introduce new designs with
this quality.

Steve Morris

Bob Cory < knittinlady@worldnet.att.net > wrote:

In my stash of airplane parts I've found several quite small
fuel filters suitable for 1/2A size engines. Don't know how
or where I got them, but it MAY have been through Tower.

These are by Master-Airscrew, and one bag of these has 3 filters
in it. The part number is MA4500, and they are of green plastic.
The label says, "For use with .080 inch or 2 mm I.D. fuel line".

I plan on stocking-up on these filters for future SMALL airplane
projects. They are throw-away items and can't be unscrewed or
cleaned. Nice compact filters! Robert = "RC"

Andrew Donatelli < andrew@donatelli.net > contributed:

For anyone interested in seeing some small models, I have
uploaded pictures of most of my planes to my website.
All but one of the planes on the site are small. Many of them
use ACE mini foam wings and Norvel engines.

The address is < http://www.donatelli.net >.

Andrew Donatelli

Larry Marshall < larrym@sympatico.ca > provides interesting
information on the tiny Czech-made Rapier rocket motors:

Guys using the L-2 size Rapier motors are finding that they
fly 85-90% reductions of Jetex 50 (old version) models. I've
just gotten a set of KeilKraft Panther plans, reduced to 90%.

The Rapier downside (a dollar apiece cost, when imported
from SAMS in England) may be reduced somewhat. There is
work in progress to get them available on this continent. I'm
not sure how much this would affect the price, but it may.

I love Skyrays. I have enlarged the old Comet plans so I can
put a small electric ducted fan in one and fly it RC :-)

Check these sites for Rapier information. The first provides
some guidelines while the second is a photo gallery. The Brits
are doing some gorgeous work with these small engines. Model
Flyer did a special issue on small jets (March 2001) and they
featured the Rapier planes. That's what got me interested.

< http://www.thestuarts.freeserve.co.uk/page4d.htm >
< http://www.thestuarts.freeserve.co.uk/rapgal.htm >

From what the guys are saying, weight is often a virtue.
My MiG has a 13" span and weighs 9 grams (17.5 with motor).
If anything, they tell me that this is a bit light.

My understanding is that Rapiers are not humidity-sensitive,
as the original Jetex fuel pellets were. The only 'problem'
is that the fuel is sometimes glazed and doesn't light; so the
guys recommend a small drill just to break the surface,
making sure that you don't scratch the nozzle. But they talk
of near absolute reliability.

Cheers --- Larry

... Gang, a few years ago I suddenly figured out that I'd
wasted a tremendous amount of time in my modeling career,
using faulty construction methods. I wasn't alone in doing that
-- and to this day the majority of "scratch-building" modelers
still employ the "standard technique" of cutting model parts
to precise size before assembling them.

OK, for some parts, such as fuselage bulkheads, you want and
NEED precision pre-cutting. But where I wasted so much time
was in cutting out parts such as curved sheet-balsa wingtip
and tail parts -- then trying to fit those together so that they
matched the plan outlines.

The way I do that sort of thing now is different. It's faster,
stronger, and way less frustrating. I make an oversize assembly
that covers up the pieced-together outline shown on the plan.
The only precision needed is at the joints -- and even those
don't really need to be EXACTLY where the plans indicate.

After gluing up this oversize, crudely-shaped balsa outline,
I transfer onto the wood the outline shape (inside and outside)
of the rudder, wingtip, or whatever -- THEN cut and sand the
contours to the desired curvature.

Wing ribs too can be made oversize, then sanded (with
a long, straight sanding block) to their final airfoil shape
after the wing panels are assembled.

A good way of doing that is to make a precision "master rib"
from 1/32" plywood for each end of each wing panel. Paint
the edges of these, so you won't sand them out of shape while
you're working on the balsa ribs in between.

BTW, I make my sanding blocks with rounded edges now.
I've damaged far too many model parts, sanding with "sharp-
edged" blocks that catch on protruding bits of the structure --
breaking them rather than abrading them to shape. Rounded
block edges eliminate THAT pesky problem.

More tips: Wal Mart's sewing department sells the neatest pins
for building small models that I've come across yet. They have
molded-on spherical heads, are made of steel, and have nicely
sharpened, well-tapered points that don't split thin balsa.

I often forget that not all SMALLsters get Model Aviation
magazine. My "Engine Shop" column in that includes helpful
information about model motors of various kinds. For instance,
I recently discovered a rapid way of loosening up model
engines that have become stiff from congealed oil.

Squirt 3-in-1 brand oil into the glow plug opening -- or into
the exhaust for a diesel -- and into the intake as well. Turn
the motor over by hand until it's possible to flip the prop.

DON'T use heat! The usual cause of a sticky model engine
is congealed castor oil, and heat won't soften that. It'll only
harden it more.

Anyway, 3-in-1 has a solvent action, and will usually attack
the congealed castor within a few minutes. After you get to
the "flippable prop" stage, inject more 3-in-1 into the intake,
then flip the prop smartly with the engine pointing as much
"downhill" as you can manage.

This will cause the crankcase compression to force oil
through the main bearing clearance. That will usually flush
out the gelled castor, and free the engine right up -- without
the need for taking it apart. Works for me! [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index