SMALLnet post369 

 SMALLnet Posting post369

Date: Sat, 6 Jan 2001 04:18:37 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

George Penniket < penniket@netidea.com > inquires:

The November issue of Radio Control Microflight Magazine contained
a rave review of Horizon Hobby's new "Firebird" RTF electric park
flyer. Does anyone have experience with this model yet? I am
considering ordering one for myself, but waiting for a while, hoping
that our Canadian Dollar will rise a bit. At the present rate of
exchange the Firebird, which is quoted by Horizon at $99.95 US,
would, with two extra battery packs (the battery takes two hours
to recharge, they say), cost me around $200 Canadian.

It sounds like just the thing though for an old duffer like me who
isn't interested in hot dogging, but content to stooge around in
circles and figure eights for a few minutes at a time.

The model has an ingenious system of control with two channels, 
and comes complete with Transmitter and wall charger -- nothing 
else to buy. Any comments?

George Penniket

Bernard Cawley < abc_quiet_flight@operamail.com > contributed:

In Posting 368, Andy Woitowicz wrote about a Taylorcraft scale
model: "...a Taylorcraft in 1/4 Scale size that was a real dog to fly. 
The T-Craft has comparatively small tail surfaces to start with... 
This particular model had a serious error in scaling the tail surfaces...

the designer scaled the tail surfaces down even smaller than they 
should have been at quarter scale. The result was inadequate pitch 
and yaw stability, to the point that an aileron turn would produce 
only a bit of roll and massive amounts of yaw in the opposite 
direction.

"It required gross amounts of differential on the ailerons to the
point that "down aileron" motion was virtually non-existent. The
final solution was to build a new tail with 25% more surface area
than 1/4 scale would dictate. This actually doubled the area that
the original plans called for. Now, only a bit of differential was 
needed and pitch stability was improved as well."

I have to jump in and reply as I'm something of a T-craft nut and
built a 1/6 scale airplane for the 1989 NATS with which I placed
second in R/C Sportsman Sport Scale. To my knowledge, it was 
the first electric-powered airplane to win a trophy at the NATS in 
a Scale event (or perhaps the second: Charlie Bauer also took a
second in a Control Line Scale with an e-powered plane at the
same NATS).

Anyway, over the past many years, especially leading up to the
building of that airplane, I've looked at LOTS of scale plans of
Taylorcrafts in various sizes, and never saw one with a stabilizer
that was smaller than scale. Most are enlarged some. (By the 
way, what is hardest to do is scale THICKNESS. The full-sized
airplane's horizontal tail is made of various diameters of steel
tubing, the thickest of which is 7/8 inch in diameter. Most of
it is smaller.

But my reason for writing is this: The behavior of the T-Craft
model Andy describes above (all adverse yaw, no roll) is very much
in keeping with the full-sized airplane's characteristics. A friend
of mine, Mitch Poling, had just gotten his seaplane ticket in a 1946
T-Craft about that time, and reported that the full-sized one's
ailerons were almost ineffectual. To turn the airplane requires
RUDDER!

As it turned out for my 1989 model, I had done a poor job with 
the aileron linkages and not only did they work like the full-sized,
they were very soft and squishy. That, plus a CG at a more model-
airplane-like 33% of chord, rather than 25% or so, gave my test
pilot a real scare on its first flight.

Being inexperienced with four channels at the time, and armed 
with Mitch's thought that the rudder alone would be sufficient (and
having no time to re-do the ailerons anyway a week before the 
NATS), I simply took out the aileron servos, pinned the ailerons in 
place, and proceeded to fly the airplane, IN THE NATS, on three
channels -- with the scale 1 degree of dihedral. The only place
where this was even a bit dicey was in the crossover of the mandatory
horizontal figure 8 maneuver where you have to go from a bank in 
one direction to one in the opposite direction. Otherwise, within a
scale flight envelope, you couldn't tell the ailerons were pinned.

I suppose it's a good thing I didn't have to do any serious
crosswind landings. I did zero one takeoff (by crossing the safety
line) that I suppose I could blame on a crosswind......

So, it sounds like the model Andy refers to above just flew in a
scale-like fashion before the tail modification.

Nothing to do with small models, per se, but I thought it might
be interesting.

Bernard Cawley Auburn, Washington

William P. Adams < William.P.Adams@mii.com > needs help:

I am having a desperate time trying to locate neoprene fuel line of
around 1/16" ID. I wonder does anyone know of a source? The big
suppliers offer "medium" fuel line, but no diameter is specified.

This is for a 1-ounce clunk tank. The flexible length of fuel line
in the tank is very short (less than an inch), which is why high
flexibility is needed. Flexibility comes from the small diameter
as well as the material.

I had this tank plumbed using 1/16" latex tubing, which had perfect
flexibility properties, but predictably enough this only lasted a few 
months. It is in a Yard Bee with a PAW 0.5 cc diesel. The engine
is mounted inverted to make the plane look neat; a big engine 
cylinder sticking out the top offends me, and this way the exhaust
plumbing, tank height alignment, and throttle linkage fall into place 
very tidily. (I could perhaps make pictures if anyone is interested.)

I start the engine holding the plane upside down, and as soon as it
catches I right the plane before doing final engine adjustments.
This start process is the first reason the clunk is necessary. Also,
the model does mild aerobatics, like loops and rolls. The tank is
plenty big for flights over 20 minutes, and there is no room in
the fuselage for a larger tank. As far as I am concerned, the
arrangement of the components is fine, if I could solve this clunk
business. 2 feet would keep me happy for ever... W P Adams

...I am amazed that the latex tubing lasted as long as 2 days, let
alone a few months! The kerosene content of model diesel fuel is
death on natural rubber products -- and makes silicone swell up
to at least double its usual size.

The only small-diameter, thin-wall plastic tubing I know of from
personal experience that's suitable for use in small "clunk tanks"
and diesel fuel is the special small-diameter Tygon tubing that
Eric Clutton (Dr. Diesel) sells. This is impervious to ALL model
fuel. It's a tad stiffer than silicone, however, and considerably
stiffer than thin-wall latex.

 Source: Tubing, Viton 

 Source: Tubing, polyurethane 

 Vendor: Small Parts, Inc. 

Two other alternatives can be obtained from Small Parts, Inc.,
P. O. Box 4650, Miami Lakes, Florida 33014-0650 -- 
(800) 220-4242. One is Viton rubber; the other is Polyurethane. 
Both are available in 1/16" ID, 1/8" OD. 

The Viton tubing is expensive, at more than $6 per foot (I don't 
have a recent price list). The flexible Polyurethane costs around 
$5 or so for 10 feet. [JW]

Peter Helm < helm@pnc.com.au > is another PAW user:

I noticed the recent talk about P.A.W., and as a collector of these
engines I was wondering if any members would be interested in six
small P.A.W. R/C engines that I am selling off.

I collect C/L engines, but from time to time I weaken and obtain 
an R/C engine or two and so (again from time to time) I have a 
sell-up to bring myself back on track. If anyone is interested, 
please contact me direct to discuss further.

On a modelling note, does anyone know of a kit from the late 60's of
the CAC Boomerang (Aussie fighter from WWII)? I remember 
seeing one on display in a hobby shop in Sydney at the time and 
I believe that it was 26-inch approximate span and rubber/stick 
and tissue, but I cannot identify the maker. I would love to get 
a set of plans of this plane. Regards, Peter

Alan Smith < Alans3@aol.com > wrote:

Between my friends and me, we have 3 MVVS .15 diesels. 
Currently we use them for sport flying; they use about half the 
fuel as some glow engines. Depending on the power setting, I can 
get 20 to 40 minutes on a 4-ounce tank. Once I pushed it and 
got a 57-minute flight on a 4-ounce tank.

I have found that after 15-20 hours of use the engine starts to lose
power but uses much less fuel. When that happens the piston 
needs to be taken out and de-carboned.

I was hoping that the MVVS .15 diesel engines would be 
competitive with glow engines in 1/12th-scale WWII combat 
airplanes. They do not put out as much power as glow engines. 
Does anyone know how I can get more power out of them? Do 
I need a tuned pipe, port timing changes, different fuel, larger 
carburetor, etc ? Alan Smith

...Alan, one reason your MVVS piston needs to be removed and 
de-carbonized is the very lean running you're subjecting it to. 
With ample oil content and a not-too-lean needle setting, you'll 
get much longer carbon-free service.

As for adding power, you might be better off buying a truly "hot"
diesel -- such as a Nelson -- than trying to match a glow .15's
power by modifying what's basically a sport-flying engine. [JW]

Gary Edson < gedson@cmq.com > adds to the MVVS information:

First, congratulations to Joe on being inducted into the AMA Hall
of Fame! To me, your most important contribution is the emphasis
on non-competition enjoyment of the sport/hobby. And the 
SMALL approach puts the concept into action in a very effective 
way for those of us who get a rush out of watching the sun shine 
through translucent covering, watching a little jewel of an engine 
run on the bench, and joking with friends at the flying field.

The Model Aviation write up only hinted that the SMALL approach 
is different than the AMA competition emphasis. But I am happy 
that they honored you and made some small note of the way most 
of us actually participate.

Francis Person asked about the MVVS .15 diesel, and I can say a
little about it. It's true what Dave Larkin said, that the small
MVVS diesels are now called Modela. Ed Carlson once told me
that the original Czech company had been broken up into three
companies. Among them, MVVS continues to make the larger and
more competition-oriented engines, and Modela offers the small,
sport, plain-bearing engines, along with other modeling supplies.

However, the .15 diesel that I have does say MVVS on it. It has
ball bearings and an air-bleed carb. It also has the round, side
exhaust port, and a mini-pipe is available, as well as a standard
muffler. Quality of fit and finish is also better than the Modela
1.5 and 2 cc diesels that I also have.

Overall, the .15 appears to be a more serious engine, but if it
is intended for competition, I do not know about that.

The .15 was very tight when I got it. In fact, the contra-piston
was far too tight. One could increase compression by really cranking
HARD on the adjustment. But after backing off the adjustment,
the contra-piston would not come back up. I solved the problem 
by making a cylinder lap and lightly lapping just the top of the
cylinder. One shouldn't have to do this to a new engine.

Runs fine now. Starts easily. Has good idle and throttle response.
But it does vibrate a lot more than I like. I have only run it up
to 12,000 rpm on a Master Airscrew 9x4. At this speed, I can
increase the compression more. I just haven't because I don't
like the vibration, and it is worse with higher rpm.

I have not spent enough time with this engine to get it sorted out
and I have not flown it yet...which is why I have not spent enough
time, etc., etc.) -- but I suspect the vibration is an effect of
the iron piston. As steel cylinder-iron piston engines get larger,
they tend to vibrate more. That's one reason why most modern
engines have aluminum pistons. I would be interested to hear 
about others' experience with the MVVS .15 diesel.

Finally, I would suggest the that Modela (nee MVVS) 2 cc
(.12) diesel is a much more friendly engine. It is plain bearing,
with an air-bleed R/C carb and standard-type muffler. Starts
VERY easily, throttles well, idles down to less than 2,000 rpm, and 
runs smoothly. Also tolerates a long exhaust pipe to keep the goo 
off a plane. Mine will do 11,600 rpm with a Master Airscrew 9x4.

But this is overloading it a bit. With the long exhaust pipe, the
exhaust residue is dark brown--nearly black. When I get back to it,
I will try a smaller prop. The other option is to be content with
11,000 rpm with the 9x4. This engine is on a 50-inch aileron Lazy
Bee and it flies it along very well. Would it be adequate for a
Stagger Bee? I don't know.

Good luck. Gary Edson

...Say, Gary, I'm puzzled by your remark, "At this speed I can
increase the compression more..." My experience with model diesels
is that they perform best with MINIMUM compression. That way 
the mixture doesn't fire prematurely, while the piston is still on
its way up. Less energy is wasted in fighting the upward motion
of the piston, and more is available for the downstroke. The engine
runs much more smoothly at reduced compression too. [JW]

Dick Schwieren < rschwier@networkone.net > suggests:

How about polling the readers for some real life experience with
electric motor gear boxes? I researched the SMALLnet listings,
and could not find much information concerning what works, and
what doesn't. I am interested in Speed 400 systems to begin with,
for size, wing span, and weight of ship as related to gear ratios/
propeller types/sizes/pitch. Dick Schwieren

Walter Legan < dcl86374@pegasus.cc.ucf.edu > wrote:

I am looking to buy a used Flight Simulator system complete with
transmitter box, cable, and software, that will work on my old 
klunker 386 Computer running DOS 6.2 at 40 MHz with 
8 Megabytes of RAM.

I have a Game Port, 3.5 inch disk, 2x CD, and VGA. If any of your
SMALLflyers have such a thing for sale, please contact me.

Thanks, Walter Legan -- Orlando, Florida

Al Lidberg < AALmps@aol.com > reminisces:

Norm Dial talked about CO2- powered "jet race cars". I've told
this story before, but it may be of some interest. In the late
'40's CO2 capsules were really cheap at the war surplus stores --
and so we kids enjoyed running the little CO2 jet cars on wire
or string, down the usual bumpy sidewalks.

However, at the annual hobby shows at Navy Pier in Chicago, 
the 'big guys' ran them more seriously - a smooth floor, taut guide
wire, and electrical timing. Their cars really did go fast -- much
faster than we could ever do! Don't remember the speeds, but 
they were impressive numbers.

Only years later did I learn that there was a trick to their cars.
While us kids used the 98-cent spring-driven phonograph-needle
capsule-piercing device, THEIR launcher was a lot more involved.
It seems that someone devised a launcher based on a car's valve
spring -- it had to be loaded on a valve spring compressor.

These launchers were so strong that a seemingly record speed run
could be made with an empty CO2 cartridge! Now I understand.

Norm also mentioned his first Control-Liner: "...The lines were
not included in the kit, and were bought separately. No trouble
with curling. I used them until someone invented braided cable."

My first really successful C/L model was in about '48-50 - a
Goldberg 'Trainee', profile low wing model. Must admit it looked
strange even then with the coil and battery sitting in cut-outs in
the profile body. The Merlin .23 worked well, though.

For lines, I had one of Jim Walker's earliest "U-Reely" (you really
control the plane?) handle/reel devices. We had seen Jim Walker
fly Fireballs in a steel wire fence cage at the indoors Navy Pier
shows in Chicago, and I'm sure that's why my dad got the U-Reely --
it did make keeping track of lines quite simple, as you could just
unroll when it was time to fly, without having a separate reel and
clips for the handle.

Anyhow -- first flight of the Trainee was in a big grass area at a
school. I had unrolled about 50' of line. The model took off
nicely and I did keep it flying very well. However, the longer it
flew, the slower it seemed to go -- and the farther away it got --
most of 100', I think. Seems the U-Reely had about 120' of line
on the reel, and the first versions of that device did not have a
positive stop. At times they kept unreeling line! (There was a
'brake', that supposedly allowed the flyer to release line
in flight.)

We quickly sent the U-Reely back to Jim Walker -- who returned it
with a simple push-through rod that positively stopped the wind/
unwind problem. From then on, flying C/L was a little less exciting 
for me -- until I got into stunt and combat.

BTW: Later on, there was a much smaller version of the U-Reely sold
by COX, for use with thread lines - but, I'm guessing that LeRoy
Cox never paid Jim Walker royalties on that idea either ;-)

Another BTW: It was Dale Kirn who travelled around doing the 
Stanzel Monoline demonstrations. I saw him impressively flying a 
stunt model here in Phoenix -- maybe 1958? -- with about 
120 feet of line.

With the Monoline, there was less need to keep the line tight, as
control was implemented by twisting a single line. At the handle
there was a 2-wire twisted spiral widget, with a runner that
was moved back and forth to twist the line. At the plane, there
was a worm gear that drove a segment of a flat gear to get fore/aft
pushrod movement. Monoline never made much impact on stunt 
from what I recall, but the speed flyers sure loved it.

(And, yes, there are two 1/2A C/L models in my mostly free flight
and R/C plans/kits catalog: < http://members.aol.com/aalmps >.

AL Lidberg, Tempe, Arizona (desert rat since '52)

Peter Havriluk < Peter.Havriluk1@hartfordlife.com > wonders:

Can anyone comment on whether John Pond's Old Time Plan 
Service is still active? I know that John himself cannot run it any 
longer, but the last I heard was that his son was continuing the 
business. I've tried calling and there has been no answer, and no 
answering machine picked up. I have read comments in other 
places that orders have gone unfilled and unanswered.

Chuck Kriete < dotchuck@epix.net > contributed:

Bill Hudson asked about the flight characteristics of three 50 mAh
cells vs. two. My only experience there is with a Thistle, a Foam
Flyer, and a Herr rubber-powered Cub on 110 cells. Each case 
showed a difference in climb ability, due to higher rpm, thrust, etc.

They were still easy to trim. The Cub was flown with a Mini-6
rather than a Micro-4 (the Mini-6 is a geared Micro-4, for those
who haven't flown either). I had no trouble with spiral dives with
either power on any plane I have flown. They include the 
Snapdragon from MA plans and another low-wing monoplane 
whose name I forget -- I think both were Thornburg designs.

On bad NiMH cells, I have just purchased some AAA NiMH's 
from Hosfelt Electonics, Inc., 2700 Sunset Blvd, Steubenville, 
Ohio 43952 -- with an orders-only number 1-800-524-6464. 
The cells are around 550 mAh and they work great for me.

I bench-tested a Skimpy I had been flying on 6 270 mAh nicads 
and getting around 5-minute flights. With a 6-cell pack of these 
AAA NiMH's I got a motor run of 11 minutes at nearly full power, 
and 16 minutes total run. (I think only the first 11 minutes would 
be usable power to sustain flight.) I am headed out to the pasture 
for flying it as soon as I finish this SMALLnet submission.

I have not examined my experience with electrics nearly as
systematically as Sam Brauer has, but everything he says rings a
clear bell with me. I appreciate the clear way he presented the
basics in tabular form. It confirms and explains my own experiences
over the last four years VERY clearly. It is RIGHT ON. 
Thanks for sharing and clarifying.

Chuck Kriete

Sam Brauer < SBrauerBCC@aol.com > wrote:

 Source: Mufflers 

There were a couple of queries in the last few posts concerning
sources that I think I can handle. First off, in response to an
in-cowl muffler inquiry, the best shop that I know of for mufflers
is in England -- web site < http://www.justengines.unseen.org >.

I've done business over the net with these guys, and they're
very pleasant.

With regards to a Lite Stik motor and a Herr Cub -- the original
6-cell batteries are generally considered marginal. You might
get away with either a 7- or 8-cell NiMH pack. Build it light.
A better bet might be an HY50B or a direct-drive Speed 280.
Those are simple and should work. There's lots of stuff on
the Ezone about slow flyers, on topics such as Litestiks and
motors -- they're very popular.

Sam Brauer Norwalk, Connecticut

Ed Toner < captained@home.com > asserts:

Sam Brauer neglected CO2 as a powerplant in his "model size and
power" tables. These motors are very versatile, and have a wide
size, weight, and power range. They are as clean and quiet as
electrics, and a fraction of the weight.

Ed Toner

...Quite right, Captain Ed! However, Sam was describing his own
personal model flying experiences, and he's had none to speak of
with CO2 so far.

BTW, the new Gasparin motors are especially versatile, with 
readily-adjustable speed. The four motors I've been experimenting 
with (3 singles and a twin) will all run at almost constant power 
(2000 to 2500 rpm, depending on the motor size and propeller) for 
5 to 7 minutes. Yes, there ARE tricks to successful CO2 power 
flying -- some of them "counter-intuitive". But once you get the 
hang of CO2 operation, it's easier than any other type of 
"reciprocating model airplane power". [JW]

Bob Peterson < RPeter9954@aol.com > offers:

If anyone would like a plan for the Flyline Stearman C3B
(35" Wingspan), I will send it to whomever pays the postage.
No kit, just the plan.

Bob Peterson

Jon McVay < Togflier@aol.com > wrote:

Mark, I have seen two Prairie Birds; one electric and one I/C on
a .15. They were both good, VERY stable flyers. You can see 
the airplane on Peck's web site.

McVay in Mount Vernon, Iowa

Dave Segal < DDavesegal@cs.com > contributed:

 Source: Switches 

 Vendor: Digi-Key 

In response to Sam Brauer's comment: "Those little Radio Shack
switches are worthless..." Bob Kopski discussed this problem in
his column in the March 1996 Model Aviation. He recommended 
using toggle switches and jacks from Digi-Key. Parts can be ordered
from their website at < http://www.digikey.com >.

In response to Mark Garvey's question about the Prairie Bird from
Peck Polymers: The enlarged R/C version of the Prairie Bird has
been around for a long time. It is a fair kit if you can stand the
ugly looks. The very narrow fuselage and tall cabin requires small
radio gear and long fingers for the installation. It is a very gentle
flyer but it climbs like a freeflight model, and is good for thermal
chasing, and not for learning to maneuver and practice touch-and-goes
as I needed to do when learning to fly R/C.

The .15 engine is quite excessive; and it only needs a .10 size
powerplant. BTW, there is an even larger one available as a plan
called the "Humungous Sage Hen".

Dave Segal

Dave Robelen < aplusfarm@hovac.com > wrote:

I read with interest the comments on the short tail moment of
the Citabria and the possibility of inadequate tail area. The
conventional measurement of these parameters is to ratio the areas
to the wing area, and then calculate the tail moment from 1/4 chord
wing to 1/4 chord tail. These results are multiplied together to
provide a working figure for the "tail volume coefficient" -- the
industry-wide method of measurement.

The above example would be for the horizontal tail, while the
vertical tail formula trades the wing chord for the wing span.
Check at the library for an aeronautical text that will give values
for the above coefficients.

In the case of the "snap rolling" Citabria, is the dihedral
increased? The area of the vertical tail and it's effectiveness
are directly linked. Since the full-scale aircraft is quite stable,
normally an R/C model of it will be equally stable. And, yes, the
ailerons need rudder coordination to offset the lack of aileron
motion differential in both the full-size aircraft and models of it
that are reasonably close to scale.

There is one other item of critical importance in a scale model and
that is the CG location. Most of the full scale machines fly a fairly
forward CG with 25% being a common aft limit. Conversely, we 
often set our models up with a CG that is more aft, and degrade 
the stability even more. Fun huh?

Regards, Dave Robelen

Nic Hallett < swiftweasel@webtv.net > states:

Batteries are discussed frequently on SMALLnet. Which ones are
suitable for what applications. Charging and power characteristics,
etc. Here are some generic comments about batteries.

A battery is a container full of chemicals. The chemicals may be in
almost any form, and the container may be one of them. When one 
of the chemicals is connected to another, as, for instance, through 
an electric motor, a chemical reaction takes place. The chemical
reaction produces electricity, and the motor spins.

Several things affect the success of this set-up. The total
quantity of electricity which a battery can put out per charge
depends upon size (the quantity of chemicals), and how thoroughly
and efficiently the chemical reaction takes place.

Batteries are designed to produce electricity in a specific way,
depending on which chemical reaction is utilized and how rapidly
it can take place efficiently. Those designed to produce a low
current over a long time may not do well when asked to produce 
a high current quickly.

The reverse is true when a battery is recharged. If electricity is
forced into the battery too quickly, the reversed chemical reaction
may go inefficiently. If the battery is now discharged at too high
a rate, and this cycling is repeated, the battery may develop all
sorts of behavioral eccentricities, or just give up completely
and fail.

The batteries we have today are marvelous. But the chemical laws
cannot be ignored. If we ask a battery to behave in a way which
is contrary to its designed properties, we can expect trouble.
Trouble caused, not by the battery being defective, but by how
we tried to use it. That's all, Nic

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index