SMALLnet post431 

 SMALLnet Posting post431

Date: Mon, 9 Sep 2002 02:02:59 -0500

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet/ >

...Back again, gang! No, I haven't gone to California -- not yet,
anyway. I've been having further pesky medical problems, and
undergoing tests galore to find the cause of my recent complete
lack of energy and stamina.

This condition is neither painful nor life-threatening. It just
severely limits my ability to stay awake and get things done.
I need something like 15 hours sleep a day... [JW]

Dennis Hansen < > reported last time 
on the relocation of John Pond's Old Time Plans Service. This 
time Dennis conveys bad news:

I was just reading my recent SAMtalk email. The word from
the 2002 SAM Champs in Muncie is that all orders sent to Kevin
Pond are being returned with a note saying the plans service
is no longer in business. Yikes! Dennis

Don Typond < > wrote:

Here's how I make windshields for small models from clear
MonoKote: I cut it out just as you would an acetate one,
then tack it with the iron along the roof line -- then onto
the vertical side posts, keeping the front bottom edge tight
against the cowl. (Pretty much as you would with glue.)

Do not heat-shrink the MonoKote!

All we're doing here is using MonoKote as we would a thin acetate,
and not for its heat-shrinking abilities. The advantage is
primarily being able to attach its edges without having to use
glue, with glue's attendant smearing.

But another real advantage is MonoKote's "floppiness." As you
know, acetate and butyrate are "springy," acetate more so than
butyrate. That means you have to pin, tape, or hand-hold the
windshield in place until the glue dries. With MonoKote you
just wrap and heat-tack. So simple!

It's also good for flat side windows too, although on lightweight
models I prefer cellophane for the side windows because it's
lighter than MonoKote, and easy enough to glue in place. But on
larger models, MonoKote is perfect because it's almost invisibly
thin, and on the side windows you CAN heat-shrink it so it
has NO wrinkles.

I glue a narrow strip of wet colored tissue along the bottom
edge junction at the cowl with thinned RC-56 glue and a fine
brush. This attaches the windshield to the cowl with a realistic-
looking joining strip. The strip of tissue was cut across the
grain, by the way, which allows it to conform to the curve of
the windshield-cowl intersection without buckling.

On Hobbypoxy: I know exactly why Hobbypoxy paints 
disappeared, because Pettit asked for my input before they 
decided to discontinue that product line.

Hobbypoxy paints were a spin-off from Pettit's "Polypoxy" brand
of two-part epoxy marine topside paints. (Hobbypoxy 
represented only about 2 percent of Pettit's business volume!):

About 14 years ago the EPA began cracking down on VOC 
emissions, which would put an end to two-part epoxy paints as 
we knew them. Since the two-part epoxy topside paints for boats 
were very high-end, and didn't have nearly the sales volume as 
the lower-cost Pettit paints, they decided to discontinue that line
of finishes rather than go through the R&D to reformulate.

And so Hobbypoxy paints disappeared too. Actually, the timing
wasn't all that bad, because with the hobby going more to shrink-
film coverings and ARFs, paint sales were falling off anyway.

(K&B's supplier did reformulate their paints, but I don't know if
they're still around.)

Another factor was the EPA ban on lead, which killed Hobbypoxy's
particular reds and yellows.

All in all, for a loss of less than 2% of their business, Pettit
decided (and I concurred) it was wiser to discontinue Hobbypoxy
paints than to try to reformulate for a shrinking market. They
did continue to market epoxy glues, but I don't know if they
still do. I have so much Hobbypoxy glue in my shop, I'll
probably never have to buy any more.

To sum up: environmental regulations put an end to the
availability of Hobbypoxy paints. Don

Roger Soliday < > announces:

I have a lot of small glow engines I am parting with. They are
all new in box except for a few, and I thought that SMALLsters
might be interested in them. Email me for a list and prices.

Thanks, Roger

Harry Stewart < > reports:

Last year Flying Models published my Mini-7 park/slow flyer
design in the November 2001 issue. The Mini-7 is designed 
around the micro motors and radio equipment like that used in 
the Lite Stick type models.

 Source: Kits, Mini-7 

Since then, Brian Malin of BMJR Models has put together an
absolutely super laser-cut kit of the Mini-7 that will be
available shortly.

I've assembled a couple of the prototype kits and they really go
together quickly and accurately. If you are looking for a light,
easy-to-fly, really easy-to-build slow flyer for the park down
the street, or the schoolyard in the evening -- or even indoors
if you've got a spot: Check out < http://www.bmjrmodels.com >.

The Mini-7 is under Park Flyers, kit # B-305 -- but take a look
at all of their kits. There are a lot there for SMALL flyers.

Harry Stewart

Donevan Myers < > submitted:

JW's comments on "tapering longerons" prodded me to pass along 
a similar modification to "add lightness" and put the "beef" where
it is needed. A couple of seasons ago I built an early sixties'
1/2A FF design by Woody Blanchard, called DUZIT.

That incorporated a banana-shaped fuselage (in side view), but
was built of conventional bulkheads, corner longerons, and
sheeted sides, top, & bottom.

Planning to power my version with a P.A.W. .8 cc diesel rather 
than a lighter weight glow engine, I looked at ways to save weight
without sacrificing strength, and decided that triangular section
stock could replace the square section longerons.

With fuselage side sheets cut to shape, the triangle longerons
(top and bottom) were pinned in place, and Voila! Before 
cementing, I realized that by letting the longeron overhang the 
outline, I could, after cementing, go to the disk sander and grind 
off the excess; obtaining gradually-tapered longerons from front
to tail, where less strength would be required.

The bonus of course was that the tapering occurred in PLANview
also! Bulkheads were cut as rectangles, and "bumped" against the
disk sander with the miter gage set at 45 degrees to custom-fit
the bulkheads.

As with the original design, the fuselage corners were sanded
off to produce the required oval cross section. All in all this
was a fun exercise in pseudo-engineering, and weight-saving.

Don Myers

Mac < > inquires:

I am retired military in central Florida. Since getting back into
the hobby, I have become interested in diesels. I have had a 
hard time finding any diesel enthusiasts, local sources for model
diesel fuel, or model diesel fuel components here.

I'd like to hear from any diesel guys in the Orlando area. Mac

...Mac, in one of my recent Engine Shop columns in Model 
Aviation I described a simple and effective system for making 
diesel fuel at home, from Wal Mart ingredients.

Here is an updated version. (Dennis Hansen tried doing this 
and it worked as nicely for him as it did for me.)

Buy castor oil from Sig; aviation-grade kerosene from your local
airport; and John Deere Starting Fluid from your local John 
Deere dealer. If you want, you can get hexyl nitrate "ignition
improver" from Eric Clutton -- but that's not really necessary.
Check Eric's web site: < http://www.cafes.net/doctordiesel >.

Now obtain a heavy-wall glass jar with a steel screw-on lid and
straight sides. (I used a Chi-Chi's Salsa jar.) This will become 
both a mixing container and a fueling supply for your engine.

The screw-on top needs to be modified. Buy a length of 5/32"
diameter K&S brass tubing from your hobby shop and cut off &
deburr two pieces about 3/4" long. Buy a couple of 10-32 brass
hex nuts from the hardware store and drill those out 5/32", 
to provide a nice snug push fit onto the brass tubes.

Now comes the tricky part. Using an awl or an ice pick, care-
fully punch a pair of holes in the steel jar cap, directly across
from each other and as close to the rim as you can manage --
without harming the integral "sealing gasket" inside the cap.

The idea is to install the two brass tubes so that they will work
like the holes you punch in a can of evaporated milk or tomato
juice: one is to act as a "pouring source" while the other serves
as a vent.

The punched holes should provide a firm press fit for the brass
tubes, so start small and CAREFULLY work the holes bigger, 
a bit at a time. After the tubes fit snugly and firmly in place,
remove them and sand away the paint on the TOP side around 
each hole. This is to provide a clean surface for soldering the 
tubes and brass nuts. (The nuts act as mechanical reinforcements 
and prevent the tubes from working loose in service.)

Clean all the metal areas to be soldered. I use acetone for this,
but lacquer thinner works well too. Soldering is MUCH easier to
do with sparkling clean base metal!

Using at least a 200-watt soldering gun (with a shiny clean tip!),
resin flux, and electronic grade solder, "tin" the bare metal areas
on the jar cap; then assemble one tube and nut at a time and solder
in place into the cap holes. I like to build up a fillet of solder
all around the junctures. That assures a strong, leakproof joint.

The purpose of all this is to provide a container for your diesel
fuel that never needs to be opened in use! That eliminates the
major problem with model diesel fuel: evaporation of the ether.

When not in use, the brass tubes in the "diesel jar cap" are
connected together with a length of Tygon or Neoprene tubing.

For fueling, pull one end of the Tygon tubing off the brass tube,
and use that to fuel your engine. Let gravity do the work:
no pumps are needed...

Now for mixing the fuel! I use a strip of white file folder
label tape stuck onto the side of the jar as a gage. This is
marked off at two measured places to provide my own favorite
diesel fuel blend: 30% of the straight-sided jar height up from
the bottom for the Sig castor oil; another 30% above that mark
for the aviation kerosene. The remaining space is for the
John Deere Starting Fluid.

It's OK to remove the jar cap for adding the oil and kerosene,
but put it back on firmly -- maybe using plumber's Teflon tape
around the outside of the jar neck for extra sealing insurance --
and then spray the Starting Fluid in through one of the brass
tubes. (That avoids excessive ether loss.)

You can adapt a length of metal tubing to the Starting Fluid
nozzle (something like what a can of WD-40 comes with but 
bigger) to allow easy injection of the starting fluid into the jar.

If you do decide to use hexyl nitrate "ignition improver",
remember that too much is worse than none at all. For a 
16-fluid-ounce (one pint) jar, the MAXIMUM amount of hexyl 
nitrate to use is ONE THIRD of a fluid ounce, or 9.4 cc. [JW]

John Van Buuren < > wrote:

I am looking for alternatives for diesel tanks. As the Australian
manufacturer of control line tanks has stopped making them, the
only commercial option seems to be forking out for a Sullivan or
Dubro tank, and then again for the diesel/gas conversion kit.

I could make a tin-plate or brass tank, but I'm wondering if there
are other ways. One idea could be plastic photographic film
canisters -- but what do I use to retain the tubes in the lid?
Any other ideas?

As an aside, my current project is an Airsail (New Zealand) kit of
a Heron Gas Buggy which appeared in a 1939 Flying Aces magazine.
Wingspan is 48", and I'll fit it with a 2cc Taipan Tyro diesel,
2 micro servos, and smallish receiver. The kit is a bit of fun.
It contains a copy of the original Flying Aces construction
article written with all the enthusiasm for flying models that
was prevalent at the time.

I really enjoy the SMALLnet posts when they arrive. Thanks for
running a great forum. John Van Buuren Canberra, Australia

...John, the best way I know of using 35 mm film canisters for
diesel fuel tanks is to install small-diameter plastic tubing
through carefully hand-drilled holes in the canister BODY, not
the lid. (The lid plastic isn't as durable as that of the body.)

Vinyl tubing works OK for this. The easiest way to install
that is to drill slightly undersize holes in the canister wall,
then cut a long taper on an overlength plastic tube. Working 
with the materials under hot water, the tube can be pulled 
slowly through the hole. After that it relaxes, expands, and 
seals itself into place. [JW]

Dave Campbell < > admires Randy 
Randolph's designs:

I've never met Randy, but he's already one of my heroes! 
My first venture into this hobby was after seeing his gorgeous 
1/2A BeeTween in Model Airplane News about 10 years ago.

I had purchased an O.S. .10FP as my first motor prior to seeing 
the plans for the BeeTween, so I scaled it up 12-1/2%. Dad loaned 
me his Ace Bantam Midget servos, and the smallest receiver he had --
and off to the bench I went while Dad went out to dinner with my
Stepmother.

When he got back the wing was framed up and mostly sanded, and 
I had started cutting the fuselage parts already. This was quite a
shock for my dad, as he'd been flying R/C for about 20 years and
had never seen an airframe go together so fast.

That wasn't because I was setting the building board on fire, but
because he'd never used CA glue before! Needless to say, Dad
builds a whole lot faster now, and the Ambroids and wood glue
are getting stale in their tubes...

The BeeTween took me about a week to get ready for flight.
The time was good bonding for my "new" Dad and I, as I'd been
separated from him since I was a little boy. Once my enlarged
BeeTween was finished, at the field Dad helped me with the
needle adjustment, and hand-launched the model for me.

To my surprise, it flew right out rather than go down in flames
or explode with 'all that power' on the front of it. I had three
great laps around the field with the BeeTween with my Dad 
cheering me on. Then, getting disoriented, I did a figure "9" and 
that was the last of the fuselage.

I was impressed enough by that minute of success that I went into
SMALL R/C with both feet. I built (and crashed) 13 airplanes 
that year as I taught myself to fly. As you guessed, a natural-born
flyer I was not. Over the next ten years I built a bunch of
different types of aircraft, but still go back to SMALL airplanes.

Few things look as 'right' in modeling to me as a box-fuselage
airplane with a hot 1/2A on its nose.

All the time I spent on airplanes in my young adult years were a
blessing. They kept me out of trouble and my money out of bars
while all my friends and co-workers went their own way. These 
days I fly high-performance 1/2A and electric pylon racers.

Modeling has had seen me travel cross country for meets and
contests; in fact I'm getting ready for the 1/2A Electric (Speed
400 class) Pylon NATs in Indiana this week as I type.

I've come a long way and met a lot of good people since I was
first mesmerized by the images of the BeeTween in that magazine,
and I have Randy to thank for it.

Hats off to you, Randy! Dave Campbell

Ken Knowles < > recommends:

Two good web sites:

 Source: Plans, Old-time Rubber 

< http://www.ualberta.ca/~khorne/ > for old-time rubber
plans and great stories from the past; and

 Source: Plans, Earl Stahl designs 

 for lots of downloadable
Earl Stahl rubber-powered flying scale plans.

Ken Knowles, Nanaimo, British Columbia

Joe Papasso < > asks:

Does anyone have information on the following R/C system:
4-channel FM ACOMS, Model AP472FM, 72.550MHZ, Digital
Proportional Radio Control System. Operating Voltage 12/9.6,IC
Endcoding System, FCC ID. BTQ9P7AP472FM, ASHI 
Communication. Joe Papasso

Curt Hulett < > inquires:

A special on TV about the Ryan STA prompted my interest in
building a "small" version. Has anyone built a SMALL size
(.15-powered) Ryan ST ? Where would one find plans? Curt

Tim Hamel < > contributed:

I have read cautions about improper use of lithium batteries that
kept me from using them until now. Has any one else done this 
and had problems? "Exploding cells" ?, Fires while charging? etc. ?
Despite all the warnings I have yet to find a problem.

I have been flying Lite Sticks and Speed 280's with lithium
batteries for the last few months. I use a $4.00 2-cell
800 mAh Qualcom cellular telephone pack (only 54 grams) 
and a $6.00 2-cell 1200 Qualcoms (84 grams) surplus pack in
my 280's. Although the nominal voltage is 7.2 volts, they
come off the charger at nearly 8.4 volts, and fly my planes
more like a 7-cell pack if the load is not too great.

Besides long flying times, these packs are cheap to make and 
weigh less than the batteries they replaced.

They come with a tiny protection circuit board that protects the
battery from improper charging or over discharging. However,
the board will cut off the batteries at 1.6 amps for the 800's
and less than 3 amps on the 1200's.

I found this unacceptable. So despite the warnings about ruptured
and destroyed cells, I cut of the boards and re-soldered the cells.

I have routinely run the 800s at 2 -- 2.5 amps, and the 1200s
at 4 amps. After more than 10 LONG flights with each 800 and
1200 pack, I have yet to see a problem. I ran both my old test
batteries on an Astro Flite Whatt Meter, and they perform better
(more amps) and with no loss of capacity, compared to unused
packs.

I still charge my packs in a water bucket just in case the
"warnings" have any basis in truth. You must us a special
lithium charger that limits voltage to 4.2 volts per cell.

(This is not an endorsement for you to do the same; use only
RECHARGEABLE Lithium Ion or Polymer cells. Also, you 
may be killed by exploding packs and your house will certainly
burn down if you modify these packs, but aren't those long
flight times worth it?)

Tim Hamel

...Tim, do I understand you correctly: that you charge your
lithium battery packs submerged in water? [JW]

Larry Dodd < > wrote:

I must first say that I thoroughly enjoy JW's articles in the
magazines, and my first successful flying airplane was a Veco
Taylor Cub (designed by JW) powered with an Atwood 
Cadet .049. It flew quite well, but due to a number of coats 
of colored dope, it didn't stray far.

I have a question concerning alternate power for some old kits.
I would like to know what e-power would be correct for these
older designs (of which I happen to have kits on hand).

The Sky Knight, designed by J. Zarembowski and Electric Model
Design (Toledo, Ohio). It was distributed by Midway Model Co.
Specifications are: span 44", Area 330 square ", recommended
power was an 05 electric and 6-7 cell 800-1200 pack. Design
weight was 15 ounces. What is this in terms of a Speed xx motor,
and NiMH cells? Also the original was direct drive; should we
now use a geared motor?

Another tricky one is the Craft-Air "Piece of Cake". Wingspan
is 72" and area is a whopping 573 square ". Weight with an
.049 is 24 ounces and the airfoil is 12% flat bottom.

Way back we had the Astro 05 etc., but now it is Speed 400,
600, etc. and I have no idea how to relate them.

Larry Dodd, Elgin, Illinois

< > requests:

I have enlarged the Piper Pawnee Brave plan by Earl Stahl from
the January 1997 Model Aviation, from 30" to 45" span.
I would appreciate suggestions for converting to electric
free flight.

...To save calculations by our e-power mavens, the full-size
Pawnee Brave (a "duster" design briefly made by Piper in the
1980's) had a span of 39 feet and a wing area of 225 square ft.
That would give the 45" span model a gross wing area of 300
square inches. [JW]

Larry Renger < > submitted:

My experience with getting colored transparent finishes uses
Higgins Fade Proof inks. They can be diluted in alcohol for
dyeing wood, and probably Silkspan, and put in dope to give a
simply glowing, transparent finish.

I haven't tried it on Silkspan; but on my baby Magician control-
liner, I dyed the wood with the ink-alcohol mix, then put dye in
the dope too, and the effect was WOW!

On another model, I covered with orange silk, but then put a
mix of yellow and red ink in my clear dope, and ended up with
a really exceptional transparent finish. These were both base
dope finishes of Aerodyne Nitrate Dope.

However, beware! Check out compatibility. I put some of the dye
in Sig Butyrate, and it went white on me ("blushed" is the usual
term). Couldn't fix it with brushed retarder or thinner, the
usual fixes. The stuff also pulled away from every possible
corner. Not a happy experience!

My preferred finish is Nitrate dope from clear through color,
then a single coat of Epoxy clear over that for fuel proofing
and gloss. Hobbypoxy and old K&B were preferred, but I am
finding that the furniture layering epoxy seems to work about
the same. Cheers, Larry

Chuck Swiger < > reports:

Here's the final report on my "Littlest Stick" experiment,
it's now a nice flying and loads of fun plane.

Built per the original plans with 5-6 degrees of wing incidence
it performed about like my brief 1985 one: when balanced OK 
for powered flight, it dives steeply into the thicket during the
glide phase. I went ahead and ground the wing saddle down
to 2-3 degrees per the updated CAD drawings and, what the 
heck, put in a simple lightweight elevator and servo.

With the extra servo load I upgraded the battery from a small
60 mAh to 270 mAh. With that arrangement the battery has
to fit right under the wing, and the tiny GWS radio goes in
the front compartment with a small sinker for balance.

With it balancing right on the wing spar just as flat as on the
table, and the original engine down- and right-thrust, it flies
straight out of my hand toss, dips a bit to pick up speed; then
up up and away for a good three minutes of feisty excitement,
then smooth glide back to short cut grass (I never added the
landing gear). Chuck

John Meacham < > agrees with comments 
in the previous Posting that model airplane BUILDING is as 
enjoyable as flying:

Right ON! I think I have more fun building stick and tissue than
flying them. Build them, fly enough to see that they do fly, then
hang them up for viewing.

I used to get "Modelcraft" kits from Helms Bakery: save enough
bread wrappers and trade them for a kit. The local hardware store
carried Megow kits and some Cleveland. (Also a great supplier of
plans.)

Nothing beats a long slow flight with the sun shining through
a stick-and-tissue wing, but I'm living out here in southern
California's Antelope Valley (the wind tunnel of the west).
Even the space shuttle lands backwards here when the winds
come up.

For me, model flying is only an early morning activity.

John Meacham (Lover of all sizes of the old Modelcraft
"Pacific Ace": not a contest plane, but a consistent flyer.)

...Bill Hannan (Hannan's Runway: < http://www.hrunway.com/ >)
has just issued another in his series of thin but lovingly-
composed books. This one's "Model Builders (International)
and Their Models".

Packed with photos and biographical data, this is more in the
order of a "coffee table" book than one to build models from.
(Though there's a few intriguing model plan pages included,
such as the 1913 Borel 2-seat Hydro -- a clean-looking French
monoplane designed for Schneider Trophy racing.)

The information about model builders was fascinating to me:
about Bill himself (and his charming, talented wife Joan);
the Williams brothers (noted these days mostly for the line
of plastic components for scale models, such as dummy engines,
wheels, and WW1 machine guns; but exceedingly talented model
builders and flyers); and Ray Malmstrom -- the "elderly youth"
whose offbeat but simple and oddly attractive creations
graced the pages of the British Aeromodeller magazine for
decades. (Ray advocated the "3 F's of Aero Modeling: Flying,
Friendship, and Fun.") [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index