SMALLnet post395RR13 

 SMALLnet Posting post395RR13

Date: Thu, 01 Nov 2001 20:45:28 EST

From "riks" < riks@pronetisp.net >
 Hi I Need plans for a Mig17 or an F86 EDF. Wing span from 28 to 36 or 
will scale. Anyone know where I can find any? Thanks Dick Scalone
< riks@pronetisp.net >

From Bob Chiang < rhc3@cornell.edu >
 Hi Dave Fritzke and all, 
Thank you for your generous offer regarding the Ace GLH plans. I must
have 
missed the description of the model: could someone tell me the wing span,
area, and typical weight? If it was originally intended for an Ace foam 
wing, do the plans show the airfoil so that I could build one from balsa
(I 
don't have a foam cutter). And do people think it would work as an 
electric? Would it be too hot for my next model after an aileron
trainer?

Thanks in advance for comments and suggestions, 
Bob Chiang Ithaca, NY USA

From "D.W. Hamlin" < n918v@mesa.net >
 In case this might be of interest to the group, I recently had an
interesting although unintended experience with this little gem.
Last week I was doing some ground taxi tests with my 4channel Extra 300
(Norvel .074 w/a 7x4 APC prop @ 8000ft msl) using my MicroPro 8000 xmtr
with
the ant collapsed. Things were going so good that I gave it a bit more
throttle (grass field), and it got light on the wheels. Hey, lets go for
it!
 Well, up it went, and after making 2 circuits around the field to trim
it
out (downwind and base leg about 6 to 700ft. out) I suddenly realized
that I
had forgotten to extend the xmtr ant (combination of old age and too used
to
rubber duckies, I guess). Bottom line, this is one very excellent
reciever. Still very solid at that
distance. Being curious, we took my friend's Morris the Knife (Futaba
rcvr) and set it
next to my E300, both on the same freq, turned them on and did a static
range check with the MP8000, engines off. Well, the Futaba quit at about
400ft. and the GWS was still solid at about 700ft. I would say that the
advertised 1000ft. range with the stock 1 mtr. rcvr ant is very
believeable.
After all, how far can one see a 1/2A plane and still know what it's
doing?
The only downside I can see is having to use a Y connector to get the 4th
channel and battery working, but thats no big deal if you remember to
order
one with the rcvr. 
'Nuf said!!! 
D.W. Hamlin Gunnison, Colo. 
< n918v@mesa.net >

From "bcsvc" < bcsvc@bcjag.com >
 I noticed that Quantum Models 
< http://www2.mailordercentral.com/quantummodels/ > lists the Ace tapered & 
constant chord wings for $6.99 each (seems like someone asked about them
a few weeks back) and also lists the Ace exhaust throttle sleeve for Cox
.049's at $5.19 plus .010 & .049 glow heads for $5.69. Just look under 
"Manufacturers" then, Ace or Cox then page through the stuff. I bought 
several of the throttle sleeves a while back and have built some great 
throttling modified TD's using them.

This works for me, EVERY time: 
1) "Bush" down the stock TD venturi with 2 pieces of K&S alum tubing & 
JB Weld to .093" Stock size is way too big for good fuel draw at idle. 
I bush it, then flare it smoothly to just above where the annular fuel 
holes were, then redrill the holes to stock size. You won't even have 
the needle "willies" with the stock TD N.V. after the bush down mod is 
finished. 
2) Use the latest "Sure Start" cylinder/piston assy with the twin slit 
exhaust (no sub-piston induction (Got mine on the $5.00 deal from Tower 
for the RTF "Naboo" U/C plane, thanks to you guys!) but I mill away the 
center exhaust bridge and deburr as needed. 
3) Use the low comp. head that comes on the "Sure Start" along with 4 
gaskets and use 25% nitro with 18% all castor fuel. 
4) Pick an Ace exhaust throttle sleeve that fits the cyl. as tight as 
possible & lap it if needed to get it just loose enough to rotate. 
5) Use the normal Cox "blueprinting" tricks" ie: reset that sloppy rod 
socket, flatten all mating surfaces with 600 paper, wet, on a piece of 
glass to ensure no leakage, give it a careful break-in, mount your tank 
properly and I assure you a reliable 5000 rpm (or less) idle and a 
17,500 (and up) top end on a black nylon 5X3. I have 2 that will go a 
little over 17,000 on the black nylon 6X3.

I also have a Medallion .049 equipped with a TD front housing, a .062" 
venturi, Texaco head with 4 gskts and an Ace sleeve that turns a black 
nylon 7X3.5 at 10,300 and will idle a LONG time at 4500. On a good 
engine day, it also runs at a steady 4-stroke at full throttle and 
breaks in & out like a mini Fox 35. Great fun on my 300 sq. in, 16 oz.,
4 channel "DinkyBird."

I know, it's a lot of tinkerin' but what the heck! 
Remember: "He who dies with the most good engines wins!"

Milton Dickey

From David Larkin < dslarkin@blvl.igs.net >
 Concerning rust in diesels - I've never experienced it myself except in a
NIB Webra bought at Toledo. But I have one customer who has had this
problem with a Schlosser 0.25cc and he also had premature wear on a PAW
060
and a MP Jet. Incidentally MP call for 40% oil. He has had all 3
engines
repaired and returned to use without further problems, thoough he now
uses
fuel with more oil.

It's just possible that the problem was related to Aerodyne fuel which is
excellent for performance, but only contains 20% oil. Can't comment if
it
is synthetic/castor blend. I've used it for years in an Irvine 40D but
did
note that on a PAW 049 it gave more rpm but higher temperatures than
Clutton
PB fuel. Can't comment on the Air Tool oil, as I never use it. If I
use an after-run oil it's simple 10 SAE motor oil. Now when I order
Aerodyne in
the smaller cans, I get Alan to blend it with 25% oil, in order to make
it
more suitable (to my way of thinking) for lapped piston and vintage
engines. But I tend to use Clutton PB and Red Max PB fuel for these
engines
as a rule. 
Regarding Chris Murphy's comment on the crude throttles on early diesels,
there is some merit in this except that the last production models of
the AM 10 and 15 engine had as crude a throttle as you will ever find,
but they
throttled well. I stand by my comment that the myth of poor throttling
was
largely caused by sub piston induction. It is certainly a view also
held by Gig Eifflander of PAW.

Best regards 
Dave

From "richard" < richardgustav@yahoo.com.ar >
 Hi, My name is Richard Toellner, I'm from Argentina, and sorry for my
poor
English!!

I built the Park flyer "BABY ROG", designed by Bob Sterle, it appeared in
the "Flying Models" magazine. It is a great flyer, and it was very simple
to
build. I put in it nose a geared Speed 280, with a MP JET gearbox
(excellent) 5:1. with a APC 10 x 4.7 propeller, Mr Poul Grobler gave me
a
lot of help to find this engine combination. I covered the wings with
Coverlite, 2 Cs-5 Nano servos from Hobbyco, and a Dymond D05 Speed
control,
250 mAh, 8.4 V Pack, and a Hitec 555 receiver and the weight is around
the
12 OZ. I made a few modifications to the "Baby ROG" because it was to
nose-heavy : I Change the place of the battery pack: It is now under the
TE
of the wing, and I shortened the nose 1 inch, and the servos are nearer
to
the tail The wing join is simple and functional. I recommend this Park
Flyer, it has a nice flight and it can fly really slowly, and can fly in
very close spaces. It is my first Park flyer and I didn't have problems
or
complications for building it. Best regards from Argentina

From "Andy Woitowicz" < ajw@ntl.sympatico.ca >
 Perhaps sub-piston induction, as applied to normal engines, is a 
misnomer. Roy Clough is correct in saying that his Mills engine has true
sub-piston induction in that the engine draws fuel from a side port by 
the exposure of the bottom of the piston. That is, fuel is drawn into 
the engine under the piston. For normal engines that have rotary 
crankshaft induction, I believe the proper term for the piston feature 
is free-porting. I don't know how the expression applies but the 
question is, how does "free-porting" in a crank inducted engine 
contribute to getting more power/rpm? I have my own ideas but what's the
official version? But the point is that whatever expression you use and 
for whatever engine you refer to, poor throttling has traditionally been
blamed on this feature. My experience and experiments have proven that 
this just isn't true. Again,VA, Norvel, Wasp and Mills all have 
free-porting and sub-piston induction and all throttle extremely well 
when an adjustable airbleed throttle is used. And that includes using 
mufflers on the glow engines.

On the subject of Tarno carbs. I acquired one some years ago that was 
intended for a reed valve engine. I adapted it to a TD .049 and it did 
not work well at all. If a muffler is required to make it work, why is 
that so? What is the principle involved? And, does this not directly 
contradict the contention that sub-piston induction hinders good 
throttling? Also, I've had at least a few correspondents relate that 
their Tarnos didn't work well even with a muffler. My Tarno carb was 
tried on VAs and Norvels and with or without muffler, it did not perform
well. Perhaps, as my throttle was intended for a reed valve engine, it 
was a different design and wasn't suited for the TD. I wouldn't mind 
getting a TD/Tarno to try it out.

Regarding closure of the top and bottom elements of the barrel. You do 
not want the top or bottom to close well ahead of one or the other. Both
have a vital role to play and both must be closely matched and precisely
balanced for each particular engine. This absolutely requires an 
adjustable airbleed. The throttle mentioned by Bruce had, because of 
manufacturing tolerances, a large mismatch in the closure ratio. As 
correcting this needed to be done by trial and error, this task was left
up to Bruce to suit his particular engine. In other words, the closure 
ratio needed to be matched as close as possible to allow the air bleed 
adjustment to be effective.

Consider this. Having a fixed airbleed is like having a fixed high speed
needle. It can't be done. Every single engine has its particular demands
and both the high and low speed mixture needs to be adjusted for the 
engine to throttle properly.

On the matter of diesel throttling. I do have direct experience and I 
agree with Chris Murphy. I've done several PAWs and none had sub-piston 
induction, yet all throttled poorly. Adding an adjustable airbleed 
improved throttling dramatically. Also, Davis Diesel conversions are 
used on modern ABC type engines with two needle throttles, all of which 
have sub-piston induction. The myth that diesels could not be made to 
throttle properly is not due to sub-piston induction but due to the very
poor throttle designs that continue to be used even to this day. Designs
that do not include an adjustable airbleed.

I've tried carburetor throttling, with adjustable airbleed throttles on 
the entire series of TD engines from .010 to .15. None would idle low 
enough nor steady enough and would not transition well at all. In 
particular, the .15 would simply flame out at anything less than half 
throttle. I too improved throttling on a TD by using non sub-piston 
induction cylinders and also further improved them by using an adapter 
that takes standard glow plugs. But, does that mean that the fault also 
lies in using a Cox glow plug? Not so, because the VA MK 1 takes the Cox
plug and, with an adjustable air bleed throttle, throttles perfectly. 
And hey, no idle bar. Plus, the VA MK1 has sub-piston induction to boot 
along with a muffler. It must be considered that Cox engines are 
radically different from the current crop of 1/2A engines. Cox has two 
large exhaust ports with two by-pass ports. Modern engines have a single
exhaust port and three by-pass ports. They also have multiple ports in 
some cases and they direct the incoming fuel charge very much 
differently from Cox engines. It has been my experience through direct 
experimentation that throttling is related, among other things, to 
efficient fuel flow through an engine. I've made up single exhaust port 
designs from blank Cox cylinders and with no other changes, throttling 
is improved. These designs also had sub-piston induction. Another factor
is exhaust lead. With no other changes to a stock cylinder, throttling 
was improved by taking a file to the top of the exhaust port.

As far as mufflers affecting top end when sub-piston induction is 
present, I've always thought that it was the simple act of exhaust 
restriction that reduced power, sub-piston induction or not. My best 
Norvel Revlite (with sub-piston induction and muffler) will do 20K on 
25% fuel with a 5.7 X 3 APC prop. Idle is 5K rock steady and transition 
is instant. Will take the muffler off to see if I get a significant 
power boost. Consider this though. Run open exhaust and get a certain 
amount of power. Add a muffler and see a loss but then add muffler 
pressure to the tank. This allows you to enlarge the throttle bore to 
regain your lost power. You get a quieter engine with no power loss.

All the best, with respect to all, 
Andy Woitowicz

From Michael Rolls < m_rolls@compuserve.com >
 Roy Clough mentions three port motors using the piston to uncover the
intake to admit mixture - quite right, but this is not "Sub-piston
induction" which - at least here in GB - referred to rotary intake
motors,
either shaft or disc, in which the piston skirt was short enough to
uncover
the exhuast ports for a few degrees either side of TDC. As the piston was
going up at the start of the SPI period there was lower pressure in the
crankcase, thus sucking in additional air - a crude form od
"super-charging" if you like. A motor with this feature is easily
identified as you will be able to see the bottom edge of the piston
disappear from view as you turn the shaft.

Many thanks for keeping Smallnet going - I was beginning to miss my
"fix"! 
All the best, 
Mike Rolls 

From "Oscar Aitken Corral" < oscait@ctcinternet.cl >
 Hello folks could any one tell me what is the thread size of the
crankshaft
for the PAW 55 R/C I am ordering a custom built spinner and the
manufacturer
askes this question. I guess is not just the diameter but also the thread
type ? 
Thanks 
Oscar

 * * *E N D* * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index