SMALLnet post355 

 SMALLnet Posting post355

Date: Sat, 4 Nov 2000 02:35:10 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

...Sorry for the long interval between Postings, gang. My old
computer has been acting up again the last several days, and
spoiling my e-mail activity. I've just GOT to get my new system
set up and running; but haven't been able to find the time and
ambition to do that yet... [JW]

Harry Stewart < hstewart@jps.net > sent some very bad news:

I thought I had better let you know that I got word that Fred
Reese died yesterday. He had been diagnosed with cancer earlier
this year.

If anybody embodied the spirit of SMALL it was Fred. He was
probably responsible for more designs and kits that were built
just for the fun of it and flown by average modelers than anybody.
Fred once told me that he had had over 60 designs published and
about 40 kitted.

We're all going to miss you, Fred.

Harry Stewart

Mike O'Brien < MObrien843@aol.com > amplifies that:

I am saddened to advise that Fred Reese died November 2, 2000 as
a result of prostate cancer. Fred was a nice guy and past president
of the Las Vegas Radio Control Club. He will likely be voted into
the AMA Hall of Fame.

Fred was the designer, builder, manufacturer and flyer of model
airplanes of all types and sizes, including many smallsters both
gas and electric -- up to some classic giants like his Ryan STA.
We will sorely miss his smile and helpful ways.

Make sure you guys out there get a regular prostate exam! Prostate
cancer is a preventable and curable disease if caught early.

Mike O'Brien

Don Garry < dongarry@webtv.net > wrote:

I am seriously on the verge of building a model of the Beechcraft
Model 18 Twin. It will be from an old RCM plan (May 1969) and I
have the magazine article (and magazine) to go with it, which makes
it nice. There are enough photos in the article to enable me to
copy the very beautiful (in my opinion) color scheme shown in
the magazine picture.

I intend to power the model with Enya .19 Glow engines. (The plan
calls for .15 to .19 engines.) I have chosen this particular engine
(Enya) because I can turn the front housing on one of the power plants
90 degrees to the right in order to achieve a "clockwise" running
engine. This will enable me to run counter-rotating props on the plane
and negate any torque problems involved in twin engine operation.

I have 2 questions you guys might help me with. Which engine would
I install on the left and right wing panels for proper prop wash?
I would think I should install the normal, counter clockwise rotating
engine on the right wing panel and the clockwise engine on the left
wing, yes ... no??? Why?

Secondly, how much "outward" thrust (in degrees) would you suggest
for each engine. I just read the RCM report on the Hobbico Twinstar
AWARF. They said it would fly very well with one dead engine mainly
due to the outward engine thrust built into each engine thrust line,
but did not say how much outward thrust was incorporated in each pod.

Thanks for any help on this issue of flying twin engine model
planes. This will be my first twin, have always wanted to do one and
just love the looks of this C-45. It kind of reminds me of the old
Sky King days of television! Don

...I replied to Gary on two points. First, VERY FEW multi-engine
airplanes used counter-rotating props. In a fast but fairly
thorough search through my full-scale aviation archives I found
only two twin-engine planes whose propellers didn't spin the same
way. One was (of course) the P-38. The other was a limited-
production Luftwaffe ground attack plane made by Henschel.

The second point is that thrust adjustments on most twin-engined
model airplanes require far more offset to take effect than for
nose-mounted motors. That's because the twin engines are close to
the aircraft CG, and therefore have a short "lever arm". [JW]

Don sent in a later submission:

Has any one actually flown any of the Cox Droids or Naboos?
How do they fly?

I just received my Sig R/C Rascal kit; it looks great and should
be a blast to build and to fly. The kit has nice wood, plans,
instruction book, and bunch of hardware, including pushrods.

I bought my Rascal from Ron Ferrer of Armadillo Hobbies at a 
great price (a good bit cheaper than Tower Hobbies' price).

Also purchased one of Ron's Ferro-Planes (ARTF). This kit is
hand-built by Ron himself. I could not have picked better wood nor
built the plane any better myself. And it looks to be a very FUN
airplane, and quick to get in the air.

If its reputation means anything, it is much more than that: a real
"hot dog" with a .15 installed. If you want some good small stuff,
give Ron a call at (877)994-9100. He carries most all of the small
stuff and will make you a deal that the big Catalog discount houses
can not beat.

Joe Wagner, tell us some more about the "good old days". This is
some of the best, most interesting reading on the entire SMALLnet
in my opinion!! Don

...OK, Don -- next time... [JW]

Ken Brockway < WB2TDG@aol.com > has "Rascal" problems:

I have just started building a Sig "Rascal" and am wondering if
anyone has found any problems. The wing sheeting doesn't seem to
align with the plans and the spars are not notched for the ribs at
the proper places. Also, when assembling the stabilizer, it too
appears that it is smaller than indicated on the drawings.

I have contacted Sig and they stated that they have not had any
complaints about their new kit. They did however want better
details from me as to my problems I am experiencing.

I am wondering if anyone else is having any problems with this kit.
I have talked briefly with another fellow and he checked his kit and
found it to be very close to the plans. I have double and triple
checked and mine seems to be off about a quarter of an inch on the
spar rib notches. This is a problem if you build it the way stated
in the building manual. That tells you to glue together the bottom
wing sheeting and pin to plans, add cap stripping, and glue in the
spar. Mine does not align with the cap strips.

I would like to thank everyone for making this site possible.
I very much look forward to reading all the Postings.

Thank You, Ken Brockway AMA5911

...Ken, the trouble you're having isn't new. It results from the
fact that plans printing has no connection with the balsa-cutting
process. In the Good Old Days it was common to find dimensional
differences between model plans and the printed (or die-cut)
parts, because in the plans-printing process the paper was
slightly dampened, and shrunk a bit as it dried later.

This wasn't noticeable on ten-cent model plans: those were too
small for dimensional differences to show up. But on a 6-foot gas
model there was sometimes a BIG difference! Berkeley's pre-war
engine-powered free flight kits were particularly bad that way.
Would you believe a three-inch error in the wingspan? The 
Berkeley "Custom Cavalier" was off that much.

The thing to bear in mind is that rib position, leading edge sheeting
width, and details like that make no difference if they vary a little
from the plan depiction. What DOES matter is the angular relation-
ships: wing and tail angle of incidence in particular. And those
seldom vary on printed plans, regardless of "humidity distortions"
or optical errors inherent in the plans printing method. [JW]

Dave Hill < d-hill@juno.com > offers:

I am a teacher, and I use model sales to supplement my teaching
income and support my hobby. I bought several (A LOT) of the 
Cox Naboo Fighters with the intent of removing the engines and 
offering them for sale. My normal ad runs as follows:

"I have Cox .049 Sure Start engines with spring starter and spinner
nut for electric starter. The back plate of the engine doubles as
an engine mount. This engine has a real spraybar and needle valve,
which allows you to choose your own desired size fuel tank.

"I believe the piston and cylinder, case, and crankshaft for this
engine are the same as for the Cox Texaco. These engines are new,
complete with instructions. $18.20 each shipped, or two for
$33.20 shipped."

There has been some talk here on SMALLnet of finding manu-
facturing chips in the Cox engines. If anyone would like for me to 
remove the backplate from an engine and flush and clean for chips 
before purchase, I would do that. I work cheap :-). I am an Airframe 
and Powerplant mechanic with FAA Inspection Authorization and 
I teach aircraft engine overhaul at the local community college. 
I think this should make me over-qualified for disassembly of one of 
these engines. Please respond by e-mail to me. I use PayPal.

I also have Cox Naboo Fighters with and without engines. If anyone
is interested, contact me for prices.

Regards, Dave Hill

Ken Park < k.d.park@sympatico.ca > announces:

The Mosquito Club up in Ottawa Canada are hard at it! Last year
we began a winter building project to get more people started in
SMALL. This year we are doing it again, but this time we are using
our own designer: Mark Winstanley! His idea for this year was the
Cassutt. I am proud to say we are now into phase 2 of development,
and we now need you! to sign up for the fun!

Go to: < http://www3.sympatico.ca/k.d.park/Cassuttpage.htm > and see 
what it's all about.

(Captions for two of the photos follow: SMALLnet has no graphic
e-mail capabilities.) "The Cassutt is brought to you by our very
own designer Mark Winstanley and Project Manager Ken Park. 
This project is open to everyone near and far. Shipping is no 
problem; last year we sent kits all over Canada and the US of A."

"It's with great excitement and pleasure we feel we have chosen a
model that will offer everyone the fun and performance of a real
winner. The Cassutt is a sport Scale rendition of a Formula One
Racing plane as seen at "Reno" every year. The Cassutt is a fast
and groovy little plane that's been around since the 1950's in one
form or another. The real plane continues to be extremely
competitive. Most Cassutt pilots fly them at air shows when they're
not racing. It's fully aerobatic and it should thrill your thumbs
to fly. The size of our model should fall in the range for 1/4
Midget Racing with a stock 0.15 engine. But there's plenty of
room for a fire-breathing 0.25 FX under that cowl."

Greg Green < g.agreen@lightdog.com > inquires:

 Source: Fabric, polycarbonate ripstop by Icarex 

Just wanted to find out if anyone has any experience with
polycarbonate ripstop fabric by Icarex. This fabric is 1/2 ounce
per yard, is 41" wide, comes in 31 different colors and is $8.95
per yard.

I have talked to the lady there (she will send you a sample of the
fabric if you want a closer look) and she tells me that it is fuel
proof and heat shrinkable -- and is being used by model flyers
with success. The link is:
< http://www.citystar.com/hang-em-high/ushop/index.cgi?ID=3DS6YNZV&task=3Ds=how&cat=3DFABRIC >.

Look for the number 12PCxxx. I will be building a few new models
this winter and plan on trying out this new fabric. If anyone wants
an update on how it goes just let me know. Greg

Dave Moellenkamp < Djsmoe@aol.com > wrote:

I am interested in building a real slow-flying trainer. Does anyone
have suggestions other than the Butterfly or powered Gentle Lady?

I would like a plane of considerable size (not a park flyer). It must
be a three-channel model. I notice Randy Randolph has designed some
with these specifications. Does anybody have a contact for him?

Also I noticed a Lazy Cub kit the hobby shop last night. Looks like a
Lazy Bee!! Any experience with this one?? The slow-flying trainers
seem to be difficult to find in kit form. Would like to know sources
if anybody knows of some, or has had experience with a particular kit.

Thanks, Dave Moellenkamp

...Dave, I recommend Randy's "Twilighter"! That was Model Airplane
News' most popular full-size plan for about four years running, and
they still have it available. As for contacting Randy, see the
next submission. [JW]

Randy Randolph < randyranman@juno.com > wonders:

Has anyone out there ever built a Scientific Varsity? That design
came out just before WW2 and has been almost totally forgotten.
Shame, it was a good looking airplane.

Randy

Andre Landrum < rcflyer@netdoor.com > asked:

Who makes an engine mount that fits the C*x .074 Queen Bee with
the R/C carb mounted on the back? Would have to be a L O N G
mount. Thanks, Andre

...Andre, C*x used to make a mount for that engine, which they
also USED to make. Both are extinct now, but you MAY be able
to find a mount at an older-type hobby shop. [JW]

The Wormwood SMALLster < Matlasg@aol.com > inquires:

Does anyone out there have any ideas or experience on the possibility
of mounting a ducted fan unit -- maybe a small electric type -- to a
Norvel .061 with the heat sink and throttle system from a Lite
Machine 110, in order to get a small I/C ducted fan with throttle
control? Any ideas???

I'm into experimenting with a small I/C ducted fan, perhaps even
powered by a Cox TD .020 with a throttle sleeve.

Thanks, Wormwood SMALLster

John Rossetti < jyuma@axxent.ca > suggests:

Mike Monosky is looking for some retracts using 1/8" wire for
legs, etc. While I no longer have them, if I am not mistaken,
Goldberg Models used to offer a set of mechanical, servo-operated
retracts, nose and mains, at a reasonable cost. I'm sure with a
little effort he could locate some of these.

Happy landings, John Rossetti

Gary Gullikson < garyg@oc-net.com > reports:

I converted an old Comet Aeronca kit a number of years ago. Made
removable wings with functional struts, rudder, and elevator,
beefed up landing gear and mounting, Cox .049 with Tarno carb,
"mini" servos; filled in nose to rear former in cabin with 1/32"
balsa sheet. Sheeted leading edge of flimsy wing, Silkspan and dope
paint. Tried to keep it light. .049 was not enough power, needed
.099-10, probably due to weight and drag. Also the 6x3 prop was
blanked by large cowl. Besides, the wing was not very thick which
probably hurt lift. A skilled freeflighter could probably make the
big Comet T-Craft and Aeronca kits fly well, but I agree with
the other suggestion of the "Piece o' Cake" or "Butterfly" powered
glider plane as a good beginner self-taught R/C flying subject.

Once again thanks to SMALLsters who gave me recommendations. 
I bit the bullet and acquired a Titanic Airlines GD280, two 270 mAh 
NiMh 8-cell packs, Pixie 14 ESC, three Hitec HS-55 servos, an 
AstroFlight 110D charger and a Pyramid 10 Amp power supply; plus 
Nick Ziroli's new short kit for the MAN Aeronca Champ, DB Lite 
wheels, and a bunch of Litespan. Also got a 400/Mini Olympus gear 
drive and Modelair Tech Stickota (Dakota) plans and 600 mAh NiMh 
pack for later.

I cut out the formers, ribs, etc. for the Aeronca yesterday.
I will cut stringers and strip wood with a Master Airscrew M4000
today and start assembly.

I made contact with a soaring/e-power club flying legally at El
Dorado Park in Long Beach California and will join. Also contacted
a new flying buddy in my neighborhood.

I've gotten a lot of good advice from discussion groups on the
E-Zone. Also "The Future is Electric" was highly recommended as
an information source. Gary Gullikson, Garden Grove, California

...CONSIDERABLE response came in about starting Cox engines, 
from the query on that topic in the previous Posting:

Tom Pearson < ShooterTom@aol.com > asserts:

I started building 1/2A planes again when a buddy and I got
interested in the AMA endurance event where you use a modified
glider with a Cox in the nose.

Starting was a problem as the Cox plug clip is an abomination.
Someone was making a Head-Lock type plug connector (this was 4-5
years ago) that I ordered from the Tower Catalog. It has a push
button release for the mechanism that grips the center electrode of
the plug and comes with pretty heavy gauge wire (16-18 gage ?).

Since I use a 2-Volt D size lead acid cell for starting larger
engines, using a fairly long lead from the battery to the Head
Lock connector, I rigged up something similar for the 1/2A connector.

The Cox or Nelson plugs glow a very bright red and light off the
engine nearly instantly -- which a Nicad or alkaline cell will
not do. Tom Pearson

...Tom, I've been using the McDaniel 1/2A plug connector myself
ever since they first came out. But I had troubles with it after
some use, and took it apart to find out why.

The wires were only friction-clamped to the electrodes! Oil had
crept in there and reduced the conductivity quite a bit. I soldered
the connections, and have had no difficulty since. [JW]

David Larkin < dslarkin@blvl.igs.net > says:

The best method I have found for 'energizing' Cox glow heads is to
use a Head Lock Half-A adaptor attached to a standard Nistarter
unit, like those sold by Head Lock or McDaniel. You get a reliable
connection and a quick start.

And, in comparison to the results when one uses power panel systems,
the glow heads last virtually indefinitely. Yes, I know power panels
can be adjusted, but even when properly adjusted they tend to reduce
plug life and performance. (The tip on power panels comes from Neil
Tidey, the LASER engine designer, and he's absolutely right.)

Dave Larkin

...Duke Fox also decried the use of Power Panels. I never use them
myself -- because all the ones I have ever seen send pulses of 12
volts to the plug. "Yes, but those pulses are spaced so that the
current flow to the plug is within a safe range!" claim the Power
Panel fans.

Yes -- according to the panel meter that's true. But anyone who
doubts that the plug element feels the pulses of high voltage
should point an optical tachometer at a 100-watt light bulb. The
human eye can't see the flicker caused by voltage (and current)
variation at 120 Hz (I know that it's "60-cycle" power; however,
single-phase AC passes through the zero point twice per cycle) --
but the tach proves that the filament brightens and darkens.

Well, the same thing happens to a Power Panel-energized glow
plug. Duke Fox used to pass around photomicrographs of a plug
element that had been lit with a Power Panel, but hadn't yet
failed. After looking at those photos, I wasn't about to
place any wagers as to how many more starts that plug would
provide... [JW]

Jim Rundle < jrr10@cornell.edu > wrote:

Regarding the discussion on starting batteries, I have used alkaline
cells for years for both Cox and standard glow plugs and I think
they are great for that purpose. My habit has always been to use
two D or C cells in parallel -- maybe that's why it works for me.

I take off about 1 1/2 - 2 inches of insulation from the glow plug
wire to bridge the two batteries. I clean the battery ends with
sandpaper and rubbing alcohol and solder each the wire to the
battery ends (one wire positive to positive and the other negative
to negative). Then I wrap it all up with strapping tape, with a
bit of the wires taped up separately for strain relief.

Every two years I take off the tape and replace the batteries --
whether they need it or not. Once when I did a lot of flying I
replaced them after one season. In between, I get perfect glow
lighting every time. I don't have to recharge, it's cheap, and
it's 1.5 volts instead of 1.2.

I don't know why I've always used two cells, but I do know my
alkaline battery packs are one of the few things I've done with
airplanes that has never failed me. Jim

Roy S Bourke < roybourke@juno.com > contributed:

Re: shortening an antenna, I believe the problem aircraft was a
Shrike. Isn't a Shrike virtually a flying wing? Why not just run
the antenna through one of the wings, even if you have to double it
back a bit?

Re: Cox glow plugs, they are 2 volt plugs. A Nicad delivers only
1.25 volts or so and an alkaline delivers 1.5 volts. Because the
nicad has the capability of delivering a high current, it usually
works well enough. But if you really want to light the plug, use a
2 volt lead/acid cell. I would suggest the Gates Xcel sealed
rechargeable cell. They have a high capacity and excellent current
delivery. You can also drop the voltage down a bit from 2 volts
with a high-power (15 Watts or so) adjustable resistor in the line
(1/2 ohm or less), but it's not really necessary. Roy

Larry Renger < larry_renger@earthlink.net > was Chief Engineer 
for the old Cox Hobbies outfit in California, and tells us:

As far as I know, C*x plugs will go to Platinum heaven on 2 volts.
Now, with the old, undersize C*x wire that was in use up till I
found out about it, you probably could use that voltage. But, with
good clips and wire, you will have a short, and not even very merry
life with anything over 1.5 volts.

Do not use stock C*x wires on their clips. They vary all over the
map and will most likely cause lousy ignition, but if you pump up
the volts, you may crisp the plug. Rewire the clips and use NiCd
or Alkaline power as below.

Recommend: 2 to 4 Alkaline D cells soldered into a parallel battery
pack. Use lamp cord of about 12 to 18 inch length, and then the
clip of your choice. I love the ones from Bear, but the DuBro or
even rewired C*x clips will work well. Larry

David Felin < dfelin@otc.cc.mo.us > suggests:

This is in response to Keith Luneau's comments in posting #354
concerning Cox glow heads. Keith, you might want to try a Norvel
glow head. The Norvel head threads right on to the TD and reed-
valve .049 engines. I assume it will fit the .051 also but I've never 
tried. You can then attach a standard Ni-Cad glow heater directly 
to the Norvel head and do away with the wires and clips altogether. 

I've had good luck with this setup on my TD. The Norvel head 
doesn't seem to cost the engine any rpms.

If you order the Norvel glow head and clamping ring (you'll need
both parts, the clamping ring is permanent while the glow head is
replaced when it burns out) pick up some of Norvel's head gaskets.
They fit the Cox engines also. I like to run two head gaskets for
a total clearance of around 0.012 inch. It's been my experience
that the 1/2As are tricky to start and tune if the compression is
maxed out.

Norvel also makes a nifty little 1/2 ounce tank mount which fits the
TDs and Medallions like a glove. I believe their web address is
< http://www.norvel.com >. If you order online they only charge $2.50 for
shipping, which is nice. Good luck. David

Al Clark < aclark@hiwaay.net > asks:

Anyone got a useable set of Bel-Aire .40 Biplane plans, in one
piece, they would be willing to part with for a reasonable fee?
I'm considering scaling it down for a Thunder Tiger GP-07. Al

...There's a bit more in the "In" box tonight, but it will have to
wait until tomorrow. [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index