SMALLnet post449C 

 SMALLnet Posting post449C

Date: Mon, 11 Apr 2005 23:22:34 -0500

 REMEMBERING RANDY

...Over the last few days many messages have arrived in response to
the tragic news of Randy's death last week. Besides the following
submissions to SMALLnet, I've excerpted some from my personal
e-mail. Similar sentiments have been expressed by Zach Allerton,
Brian Sodt, David Wagner, and others... [JW]

Micheal Lofts < > wrote:

Please send our condolences to the family of Randy Randolph.
His loss will also be felt over here in the UK, by the
Wormwood SMALLsters.

Johnny Snead < > wrote:

The Hobby has lost a great friend and mentor.

Johnny Snead, Webmaster 114thRCAerosquadron

Ed Summers < > wrote:

I'm greatly saddened to hear of Randy's passing. Altho I never
met him personally, I felt as tho I'd known him for a long time
and that he was a best friend. Just last weekend, I got out the
plans for the B-Tween and was thinking how neat it would be with
an AXI 220834. I made plans to have that as my next small airplane.

May Randy soar with the Angels in the great thermals of the Sky.
God Bless Him. He will be greatly missed.

Ed Summers, Salem, Oregon

John Rossetti < > wrote:

May he rest in peace !

Richard DeAngelis < > wrote:

Randy's sudden passing is a great loss to the modeling world.
I read his column for years, built and flew some of his designs;
my first low-winger was one of his planes. I remember writing
to him and thanking him for taking up the SMALLnet for a while
when Joe was not up to it. I never met Randy; I live in
Connecticut and recently retired from college teaching, but
I am hopeful to get to a SMALL meet one day.

Please convey my sincere sympathy to his wife and family and
assure them that Randy is on my prayer list.

Richard C. DeAngelis, Ph.D. Fairfield, Connecticut

Bob Severance < > wrote:

Rest in peace, dear sir! You will be missed here on earth!

Roger Freiheit < > wrote:

Learning today of Randy Randolph's passing was a real blow to
all of us -- especially after just losing Hal "Pappy" deBolt.
I feel such a loss at this time that it is simply hard to
express it in words.

I will miss talking to Randy on the phone. He was a great
southern gentleman! I will so much miss his SMALL TALK
column in FLYING MODELS. As I stated in the preface of our
"1/8A" ENGINE MANUAL & HANDBOOK, Randy was the
PRIME MOVER of our "1/8A" MICRO R/C project. He was
the very first columnist to debut the hobby products we
manufacture.

Randy was so courteous, considerate and kind to us and more
than willingly supported our efforts to provide new hobby
products for SMALLsters. He will be so dearly missed!
This truly is one of the saddest days of our lives.

Roger

Walt Grigg < > wrote:

DAMN !! Another non-replaceable modeler is gone....
Hurst Bowers, and all the other guys....in a very short time..
Would it be OK to send a condolence to his email address ???

I had written Randy a letter concerning the Comet Gulfhawk,
(mentioned in his FM column a few issues back), with a photo
of my 1937-vintage kit. Had not sent this... Another damn !!

Walt Grigg

Tony Turley < > wrote:

It is truly a sad day for modelers everywhere. My
deepest condolences to his family.

Tony Turley Scott Depot, West Virginia

Bil Stodgell < > wrote:

So terribly sorry to hear about Randy. He and I have been
good pen pals for a number of years. Ever since I wrote him
to tell him how much I enjoyed his Weekender design back in
1986, we corresponded via snail mail til about a year ago,
when I got a computer; then nearly every day after that.

I will truly miss him and grieve for him a lot. Thanks for
letting us know. I had missed hearing from him since last week,
but really thought nothing of it. Had no idea of the tragic
reason. That is something we all have to do sometime though.

Bil Stodgell

R. L. Bogart < > wrote:

Very sorry for the loss of another friend I never met. Model
builders must share a common desire that is expressed in their
creative skills. To take a handful of sticks and change that
into a flying machine I think is an Art.

We've all lost someone that spoke our language. My sincere
condolences to his family and all.

R. L. Bogart

Eric Clutton < > wrote:

 ... that is sad news indeed ...

Joe Wagner < > wrote:

...Randy & I go back a long time -- about 25 years. It began when
he and I applied simultaneously for the job of "small model
columnist" at Model Airplane News -- and we were both accepted.

Randy would write one "Small Steps" column (gosh, how I loathed
that name -- I wanted it to be called "Small Packages") and I'd
do the next one.

Of course, to avoid duplicating efforts, we had to keep in
close touch. And while doing that, we came up with the
SMALL concept. And so on and so forth.

Incidentally, Randy's the guy who dragooned me into buying a
computer. He'd bought an Atari mail-order for $99, and found
that it saved him so much time in preparation of his writings,
he used that saved time to unmercifully nag me into buying a
computer system too.

(The bargain Ataris were long gone by that time -- my Tandy
system cost $2500. But Randy was right: it was well worth the
investment !)

Randy also arm-twisted me into using e-mail.

I met Randy in person for the first time when my wife, youngest
daughter, and I drove to Dallas for the original SMALL meet.
I forget exactly when that was, and I'm too tired to get up &
dig out the records. It was around 20 years ago, maybe 22...
After that, we got together at nearly every annual Dallas and
Little Rock SMALL meet.

For 25 years Randy & I collaborated as closely as is possible for
two guys who lived many miles apart. We provided plenty
of useful advice and recommendations to each other, and even
some not so useful...

The only disagreement Randy and I ever had occurred a couple of
decades back, when I was using 3-foot vertical whip antennas on
all my R/C models, and Randy wasn't.

I feel a huge sense of loss at Randy's death. However, I know that
he wouldn't want ANY of us SMALLsters to spend too much time in
grieving. He'd want us to continue having as much FUN with our
"modestly-powered" miniature airplanes as ever: building and flying
and discussing our problems. He'll always be with us in spirit while
we do that...

One thing I want to do in Randy's memory is to construct
another of a "combined effort" R/C model design that he and
I collaborated on years ago: the "Tranquilizer". We did that
for a planned model publication that never quite made it into
print... I'll try to have it flying at this year's Little Rock meet --
with "Spirit of Randy Randolph" markings. [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index