SMALLnet post292 

 SMALLnet Posting post292

Date: Sun, 27 Feb 2000 23:00:24 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >.

Tom Anderson < > recounts:

A recent experience of mine may be of benefit to others. As all
three of the Norvel .061s that I've had experience with had
carburetion problems, I was happy to see Hobby Shack advertising
what appeared to be the identical engine with a different carb.
The 'AP Wasp.061' was very reasonably priced so I thought 
I would try one to see if it throttled any better.

To make a long story short, this is NOT a rebadged Norvel. It is
a Chinese copy. When the engine arrived, the head was loose.
I removed it to take a peek inside, and found an inordinate amount
of swarf (metal particles) in the combustion chamber. Cleaned
that out and seated the head.

When I put a prop on the AP Wasp and turned it over, there was 
an awful lot of slop in it for a new engine. I removed the backplate
(which was loose) to see if I could determine where the slop
originated. It seems to be in the little end of the rod.

I fired off an E-mail to the Global Hobby service department, asking
politely what I should do -- and requesting that they forward the
spare head gaskets that were said to be included, but weren't.

As that was January 21, I rather doubt that they have any intention
of contacting me. At this point I'm thinking of running the motor.
If it disintegrates, perhaps I can return it. If the warranty is
no better than the engine quality or the service department's
responsiveness, then I will have learned a lesson about dealing
with Global Hobby.

Mark Wayne's story about his 'bitsa' model design reminds me of my
own latest of that ilk. I assembled a powered sailplane recently from
an Ace 'Grasshopper' pod & boom fuselage, a left-over 60" HLG wing, a
Cox Dragonfly engine, and the tail surfaces from a Randy Randolph
sailplane. Sounds ugly; and, trust me, that doesn't adequately
describe it. I have dubbed this model the 'Maltese Mongrel'-- but,
like most ugly airplanes, it flies great.

I've been told that is because they are so offensive that the earth
repels them. This will be my lawn lounge airplane for next summer:
put it up, trim it out, lay the transmitter down, and lean back to
watch, to see how long it will fly unmolested before having to pick
up the transmitter again.

Please place my name near the top of the Roy Clough book waiting
list. I've been a closet admirer of his designs for more years than
both of us would care to admit.

Cheers from Buzzard Bluff, Tom

Chuck Kriete < > reports:

 Vendor: HiLine 

HiLine is very much in business, advertising every month in Flying
Models, and still selling the same line of small motors. Snail Mail
to HiLine, P.O. Box 11558, Goldsboro, North Carolina 27532.

One of my HiLine Micro 4's has been through several thunderstorms 
and a 3 month rest up in the apple tree, and it still worked fine after a
bit of rust cleansing from the armature.

Chuck Kriete

Lars Pettersson < > contributed:

This is my first contribution. I have been a subscriber for a year
now, and I really look forward to each Posting. Thanks.

I live in the windy, rainy, west coast of Ireland. Here you have
to fly on short notice when weather permits it. I have been flying a
Clancy Lazy Bee with a stock TD 051 R/C & muffler for a year now. 
I like the Cox engines very much, but I have given up trying to 
throttle the 051. Has anyone throttled a TD 051? How?

For the last months I used a stock TD 09 & muffler and it worked OK.
After installing an aftermarket Tarno carb that I bought on E-bay,
this engine runs twice as good with half the fuel consumption compared
with the Cox R/C carb. I connected a 15" long 12mm I.D. silicone tube
as an exhaust deflector, but the engine seems to overheat.

My final objective is to build a scale model of the 1910 Etrich Taube
powered by a TD 020, and eventually a smaller one with a TD 010.
I have the original drawings and measurements from the Taube displayed
in the Deutsches Museum in Berlin. It is a little tricky to build, so
it will be a semi-scale in the best case.

I recently got a small color video-camera and video-transmitter to
install in a plane. The flight pack is about 50 grams, so I will
have to see how small an airplane-engine that can take this payload.
Anyone out there with experience of live aerial video?

I have a few questions, some SMALLster might know the answer:

 Where to get a good aftermarket Cox R/C carb for TD 051 and 
 TD 09? 
 Has anyone connected extension pipes to lead away the exhausts
 from the stock muffler on a TD? 
 Has anyone installed a throttle and muffler on a Cox 020 (or 010!)?
 Any tips on where to get this stuff? 
 How big a prop can one use on a Cox 020 ? 
 Where do you buy soft Cox props (or equal) of size 7x3, 7x3.5, 8x3? 
 Did Cox ever make a .15 size with R/C throttle and muffler? Any
 experience with this? 

PS Have to agree with whoever tried the Cox Zooper. I got one
for my kids, and they loved it from the first moment. It is then
disappointing that we still have not managed to fly it right.
It seems to be deteriorating fast, and it seem to be irreparable.

Thanks for all good postings, Lars Pettersson, Galway, Ireland

....Lars, to answer just a few of your questions here and now, I used
a 7-2 prop quite successfully on the Cox Pee Wee .020 in the half-
size "Miss America" design published in Model Airplane News 
in 1960. I used another of these props, cut down to 6 1/2" diameter, 
on a Pee Wee that powered my "Storm Petrel" pod-and-boom 
"power glider". And for flying my 165-square-inch all-balsa "Starling"
(rudder-only pulse proportional -- same as the Storm Petrel) I found 
that the best size prop for the Pee Wee on that airplane is an old-style
plain nylon 6-3 Top Flite (the white, flexible type).

Yes, Cox did once produce a .15 with a "throttle option". That was
the Medallion .15. It wasn't sold in "R/C configuration", but
Cox offered R/C conversion kits for that, and the other Medallion
engines too: .09 and .049. [JW]

"Jumper" inquires:

I purchased an ACE Mini Foam Wing (No. 50K101, Semi-symmetrical,
TAPER CHORD, 35" wingspan) about two years ago. When I opened
the box I found two right wing halves contained therein. The store
I bought it from still doesn't have any replacements in stock.

Since the aircraft I'm working (waiting) on has a slightly larger
turn radius than these wings provide, I hope someone can help me
with one or all of the following questions:

 Did anyone out there buy the box with the two LEFT wings in it? 
 Is there some supplier out there that still carries these wings? 
 Does anyone know of any suitable substitutes out there? 

Thanks in advance for your time and assistance. Jumper

Ron Fikes < > suggests:

Check out new MARCEE web site, at:

< http://rcav8tr.homestead.com/files/index.html >.

Fred Reese < > informs us:

To Adam Bryant: The Simple Series wings were intended to be covered
with a low temperature covering such as Ultracote, Econokote or
Oracover. These coverings are light enough.

All of the Simple Series airplanes have 3 degrees of downthrust built
in to the firewall. A degree of right thrust wouldn't hurt, but I
never have bothered.

To Mark Wayne: I have flown the Simple Series airplanes with an 
OS 10. Lots of power. Use a 7 x 4 prop. Will fly about the same 
speed as a Cox .051 but with an attitude. Lots of pull and will idle for
landings. It would fly with a .15, but that's really too much power
and speed for the airframe. The 1/12 Combat models are the same 
size and fly with .15's, but are stressed for the additional power. 
They can fly in the 90-100 mph range.

Fred Reese

Richard Kopitzke < > submitted:

 Vendor: Doug Galbreath 

Andy Woitowicz asked for contact information for Doug Galbreath.
Doug is a "hot" engine man and the printer for the National Free
Flight Society's "Digest" newsletter. He runs an ad therein.
From the ad:

Doug Galbreath 
3408 Topsail Place 
Davis, California 95616 

Phone: (530) 757-6058 (evenings) 

e-mail: < > 

Cheers! Richard the K, Bremerton, Washington

....Several other SMALLsters sent in the same information;
Richard the K's item was the most comprehensive, so that's the
one I used. [JW]

David Williams < > reports:

I have been doing some tests using the nickel metal hydride
cells, and come up with some interesting results. The pack was a
7 x 1200 mAH that I soldered up myself. They have only been
cycled four times and therefore could improve.

The motor is a standard Speed 400 7.2V, turning a 9x5 cam prop via
a Mini-Olympus gearbox. This was static on the bench. The motor 
was given full throttle for 2 minutes, and then cut to half throttle for
the rest of the run, as this is the usual way the model is flown.

The motor ran for 36 minutes. This is a vast improvement over nicads.

David Williams

Andy Woitowicz < > apologizes:

It has come to my attention that I've caused some difficulty for
some of the good folks who give us all those very fine small engine
products. In my enthusiasm for improving throttling and for small
engines in general, I've mentioned, occasionally, products that may
not have been ready for sale. I'd like to apologize to all those
SMALLsters who may have been misled by my ramblings.

Especially I'd like to apologize to those who have done so much for
all of us SMALLsters in bringing us the small engine products that we
all crave. The SMALL market is still quite limited compared to other
aspects of the hobby, and I for one am extremely grateful for what is
being made available by these great people. Every one of them has
displayed great patience, courtesy and given personal attention.

At this point, perhaps, I should explain that I'm just a life-long
modeller who has a particular affinity for small engines and aircraft.
I happen to have a small Taig lathe and a few attachments. I'm not a
machinist by trade, but my Dad was a self-taught watchmaker from
Europe so maybe it's in the genes. I've had the lathe for over
twenty years and use it regularly, so I've developed a few skills.
Machine work has simply become part of the hobby for me.

I've learned a few things along the way and am still learning. I'm
no engine expert by a far measure. When I do discover something
significant, I only want to share it with anyone who can benefit.
Thank God for the Internet and SMALLnet.

All the best to all. Andy

David Neel < > wrote:

Musicmaan replies to BuilderAir: Check out Ebay.com for your
wanted Cessna. They have sellers of many old kits, including
the Cessna. Once you've accessed Ebay's home page, go to:
"browse/everythingelse/Aircraft/kits. Good luck! David Neel

Paul Dranfield < > asserts:

About the British-made Veron "Cardinal": There's a construction
article and free plans for "Little Bishop", a 25" version of the
Veron Cardinal -- and "Carina", a 35-1/2" biplane version in the
February 2000 issue of "Model Flyer" (Volume 1, #3).

I highly recommend this new magazine edited by David Boddington in
England. There's lots of small model articles for the FF, C/L,
and R/C enthusiast. I got my copy from the Chapters book store.

Happy Landings, Paul Dranfield

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index