SMALLnet post347 

 SMALLnet Posting post347

Date: Wed, 20 Sep 2000 23:33:28 -0500

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet/ >

...If anyone noticed the "time stamp" on the previous Posting, he'd
know that it was sent out at 4 AM. That was a mistake on my part
-- because working that far into the morning caused ME to commit
some factual errors. Three to be precise -- and you eagle-eyed 
SMALLsters caught two of 'em. 

 Vendor: Joe Deppe 

The one nobody noticed was a wrong Zip Code for Joe Deppe --
the custom basswood cutter. The correct Zip Code for Bolton 
Landing, New York is 12814. [JW]

Bill Lee < Bill@WRLee.com > wrote first about basswood sources:

 Source: Basswood 

 Vendor: Lonestar Models 

Have you looked at Lone Star Models as a basswood supplier? Sheets
from 1/32 x 3 x 24 to 2 x 3 x 36. Sticks from 1/16 x 1/4 x 36 to
1/2 x1 X 60. < http://www.lonestar-models.com >

Lone Star is one of the best (if not THE best) wood supplier for
model airplanes in the United States. That's Lone Star Models,
Route 9, Box 437, Lubbock, Texas 79423 --- (806) 745-6394
(This is an incorrect address/phone number: see post348 > -- Bill Lee)

Regards, Bill Lee

Larry Driskill / Kitting It Together < kit@llano.net > concurs.

Bob Anderson < dandersons@onenet.net > suggested:

Hobby Lobby arts and crafts stores in most cities carry some basswood.
It is not of the highest quality, but, depending on your needs, it's
worth a look. The three stores I have looked in have "sticks" from
1/16th inch square up through larger rectangular sizes and some sheet
stock. However, it is only 24 inches long. There is usually some
balsa too. It's way in the back in a rack against the wall, past all
of the plastic flowers and other junk. They also have a few small,
high-priced Guillow rubber-powered kits. Bob

Romey Bukolt < conceptmodels@mailbag.com > contributed:

For anyone who is interested, Balsa USA carries basswood in all
the usual spruce sizes of sticks. I don't know if they have
basswood sheets. Romey Bukolt

Don Garry < dongarry@webtv.net >

You can purchase basswood from Lone Star Models. Like you, they
recommend it over spruce. Go to < http://www.lonestar-models.com >
and check out their web site. I believe their products are
immediately available.

I am currently debating on which material to use on wing spars. Do
you think bass wood is the best? Is it as strong per the same size
as spruce? You have noted that the weight is about the same...

Don Garry Cocoa, Florida 32927
Phone (407) 632-9115

...OK, fellows, I stand corrected -- I think. I do believe that
it's possible that Joe Deppe wasn't lying when he told me that he is
the only custom cutter in the USA of model airplane grade basswood.
Balsa USA and Lone Star MAY be buying their basswood from Joe.

I know from my own model airplane kit manufacturing experience 
that sawing balsa and hardwood require different techniques and 
even different sawblades.

As for Don's query, the fact is that wood varies a LOT in hardness,
strength, and weight even in a single "species". "Sapwood" is
different from "heartwood"; trees grown in Oregon produce different
quality wood from the same species grown in Mississippi.

All my personal experience with basswood has been with what I'd
classify as "patternmakers' grade": uniform, close-grained wood
without visible flaws. "Aircraft grade" spruce used to be like that -- 
but hardly anyone builds man-carrying airplanes from wood any 
more, so that most spruce these days is "harvested" for less 
demanding purposes. (The "2 by 4's" my local lumberyard carries 
are mostly spruce.)

Anyway, I wouldn't use either bass or spruce for wing spars. I think
hard balsa is MUCH better: far more resistant to breakage in sudden
shear loads. Now, when I say hard balsa, I mean HARD. I have some
in my wood supply box that's almost as heavy and tough as OAK!

For wing spars I wouldn't go quite THAT hard -- but I would use
balsa in the 20 pounds per cubic foot range. (A 1/4" square spar
3 feet long weighs just less than half an ounce at that density.)

I believe that glue holds better to balsa than to spruce or basswood,
too. The purpose I need basswood for is the struts on my Dare
Sopwith Triplane. I'm revising the construction on that a bit, to
eliminate the damage-prone wing attachments and simplify the 
whole wing cellule arrangement. And I feel that basswood struts 
are what I need to accomplish my objectives. [JW]

Jim Rundle < jrr10@cornell.edu > inquires:

I also appreciated Steve Morris's review of the Enya .06. I wonder
if anyone has a Cipolla .09 R/C Junior and would be willing to tell
us about it? It seems to be another neglected engine (of course,
there could be a reason).

All I know is that it is very light for an .09. If it will swing an 
8-inch prop, hand-start and idle and transition well, it could be just 
the ticket for my Petite Parasol (a cute 41-incher designed by Ralph
Fidance and published by MAN in 1966). My PAW .06 is too 
feeble, and my PAW .09, at 5+ ounces, seems a little heavy and bulky.

One of the new .07s would probably do well, but I'd prefer a larger,
slower turning prop. Maybe the .07s could run with 8 inch props --
has anyone tried? Thanks in advance for any information.

Speaking of PAW .09s -- no trouble with the prop nut yet on mine, 
but I've only just broken it in. There must be a reason no one uses 
lock washers on prop shafts, but can someone tell me what it is?

Jim

...Jim, lock washers chew up prop hubs rather avidly! [JW]

Steve Finch < steve@finch82.freeserve.co.uk > is also a PAW lover:

Having used PAW 1.5cc (.09 cu in) diesels man and boy -- both the
original DS (radial ported) and contest (schneurle ported) mostly
for control line sport/combat, I don't recall ever stripping a prop
nut or having a prop come loose. The prop nuts on the motors I 
own are 1 BA (British Association) steel full nuts with a steel washer.

The props I used were mostly of the flexible nylon variety Grish
Tornado 7x6, though I have also used APC 7x6. PAW's are some of 
the most rugged and reliable motors I have ever used.

I don't know how experienced Len is with diesels but it may just be
a case of developing a suitable technique.

Here's what works for me: Once the optimum running settings have 
been established on both compression and fuel needle I leave them 
alone. Provided the fuel blend and prop remain unchanged there is 
rarely any need to adjust them (especially the compression). 

To start from cold, the air intake needs to be reduced in area (like 
the choke on a car (auto?) carburettor). I find my thumb works fine 
for this, and provides a good level of control.

As the motor warms up, progressively increase the air allowed to 
enter until the air intake is fully open. On the first run of the day 
when the motor is stone cold this might take over a minute; but on
subsequent runs if the motor is not allowed to cool down too much,
it only takes a few seconds and the running setting is spot on
every flight.

The fuel I use for a run in PAW 1.5 (.09) or 2.5 (15) is 2.5 parts
castor oil, 4 parts paraffin (kerosene?) and 3 parts ether with 2%
isopropyl nitrate (I.P.N). I mix my own to ensure it's always
consistent.

Regards, Steve Finch

...Steve brought out the other error I committed in the previous
Posting: confusing "BS" threads with "BA". Dagnab, but I should
have checked that before merrily typing it (around 3 AM). [JW]

Ian McQueen < imcqueen@nbnet.nb.ca > also caught that mistake:

I believe that the PAW prop nuts are BA, not BS (unless they've
changed the nomenclature). I'd have to guess at the meaning;
perhaps "British Association".

They seem to be the standard small size in the UK, and were in
Australia for electronics projects when I lived there to '78.
Probably still are despite metrication, the same as here in Canada
where metrics are in one corner of a hardware shop surrounded by 
the traditional imperial/SAE/whoknows fasteners. Ian

Paul Dranfield < pdran@bc.sympatico.ca > says:

The prop nuts do strip!! I would suggest using a PAW spinner nut
on your 09 instead of the standard prop nut. This will solve your
problem and allow props with larger hubs to be used..

Regards, Paul Dranfield

< http://www3.bc.sympatico.ca/dieselcombat/index.htm >

Phil Huffstatler < phuffsta@pelzgolf.com > advises:

For those SMALLsters still flying with engine power. Today's tip is
Check Your Batteries, Check Your Batteries, Check Your Batteries!
We've all heard it a thousand times, but I didn't do it!

Flying last weekend, had about six 5-6 minute flights, and of course,
it was literally the last flight of the day... Engine was running out
of gas, turned downwind to set up for final, and nothing! Plane
slowly turned to the left and dove in under ever-increasing speed,
CRUNCH! I HATE that sound.

Check your Batteries!

Phil Huffstatler in Austin, Texas

P.S. I need a new muffler for my MDS .28

Mike Gillihan < GillihanMike@JohnDeere.com > announces:

Who says one has to shell out the big bucks to have a really good
time? [The model magazine advertisers, that's who. JW]

I recently purchased an "Ultra-Flier". This is one of those four-
dollar foam airplanes sold in the toy department of most discount
stores. The aircraft has a 48" wingspan, and resembles the U-2
spyplane. I have always wanted to R/C one of these puppies, and
this weekend I finally got around to doing so.

Long story made short, I cut some holes and put mini-servos behind
the wing, and pylon mounted a Pee-Wee .020 just forward of the wing.
The rudder and elevator were made full-flying control surfaces, and
I added a fair bit of dihedral to the wing (stock is no dihedral).
A bit more of this 'n that, and we were ready to fly.

I would have been very happy if the bird dragged itself around the
sky a bit. A spectacular crash would have been excellent. What I got
was totally unexpected... That little bird flew out of my hand like a
dove climbing for the heavens. The Pee-Wee provided ample power, 
and plenty of altitude to snag a thermal. I strongly suggest a light
mist
of foam-safe colorful paint on the bottom of the wing, as the aircraft
was very difficult to see when it became a speck.

The aircraft is also very adept at low altitude fun flying, and the
strapping-tape reinforced wing withstands the G of loops and snap-
rolls without a problem. I enjoy flying the plane about five feet
off the deck, making super tight pylon turns around sapling trees.
This bird flies slowly, and will do a 360 in its own length!

If anyone is interested in the exact setup on this thing, I will post
photos and detailed directions on a web page. I have seen reports and
photos of other "bashed" foam gliders, but none of the reports led me
to expect what I got with this little honey! Again, who says one has
to spend money to have fun?

Mike S. Gillihan

Dave Fritzke < DFRITZKE@ci.crystal.mn.us > made a discovery:

I went to the field yesterday and brought my Champion 45L (Double
ouch, a .50 sized plane and an ARF to boot!) and my Pee Wee-
powered "Micro Vagabond" three-channel plane.

I had lots of trouble getting the Pee Wee to run, so I took it apart
when I got home and decided the culprit was the raggy little black
rubber gasket that seals the backplate to the fuel tube. Needing a
replacement, I decided I should be able to slice off a bit of fuel
tubing and use that.

I looked in the box of fuel tubing scraps, and found a piece of
translucent yellow "Tygon" that had the right inner diameter.
I first tried to cut a slice with an X-Acto knife; no way! It was
impossible to get a slice thin enough AND a consistent thickness,
even with a brand new scalpel blade. I thought, "If I could just
shave off a slice with a razor plane..."

So I found a 2" chunk of brass tubing that was a snug fit around the
Tygon, and let the Tygon protrude from the end of the brass tubing;
and used the end of the brass tube to guide the blade. I then
pushed the Tygon out of the brass tube about the thickness of a
sheet of paper and made another cut.

It took about 10 attempts, but I got one that was thin enough and a
consistent thickness. I found that you need a really sharp blade,
a good smooth end on the brass tube, and a little lube (I used Teflon
spray) on the knife blade to help it "glide" through the Tygon tubing.

Also, hold the blade at about a 30 degree angle to the face of the
brass tubing.

I put the engine back together and got a good solid run, so I think it 
was a good fix. Have any of you found a source for these little gaskets 
(I know they come in the overhaul kits, but it's hard to get them for 
the PeeWee) or a good substitute? Does RTV or "Goop" work?

Thanks to all you SMALLsters that asked for the Strutz and Touch-
down scans. Send me pictures if you build one! By the way, anyone 
have a set of plans for the Airtronics "Warlock 05"??

Dave Fritzke

...Dagnab but that's clever, Dave! I tried the freehand method
myself several times, and failed miserably. You have brought a
new ray of sunshine into the lives of us Pee Wee-powered flyers!

That teeny little black washer seems to be the most important part
of the whole engine -- at any rate, the Pee Wee surely won't run
right if the junction between the tank back and the intake tube
has even a minor leakage path.

Randy, how about using this tip in a future Small Talk column? [JW]

Jan Carlerud < jance@telia.com > makes his first contribution:

Andy Woitowicz asked, "Would you believe someone has electrified,
and R/C'd a Hacker Tiger Moth (26" span) and then had the gall
to put floats on it and THEN proceeded to have a blast of fun
with it?"

I suggest you take a look at < http://hem.passagen.se/johanbju/ >,
which is the site where you can see pix of said Hacker Moth and lots
of other really small stuff. Johan Bjurling has lots of information,
which he also has translated into English. (So Americans should be
able to read it too... :-) ) Jan Carlerud

Joey Maggio < SkyTiger21@aol.com > contributed:

I was just told about this mailing list by my flying buddy Pat
LeRay. I'm 15 years old and have been flying anything that had
wings and a way into the air since I can remember, but I've been
flying R/C for about 7 or 8 years now.

I have normally flown .40 size planes, average sport and aerobatic,
which I love, but when I saw Mr. Pat's collection of old-timers and
gliders I was immediately hooked. You just can't beat real flying.

Needless to say, I have now cleared the workbench, started scrounging
for balsa and a set of plans to start on a 46" Playboy. (I just can't
wait!) I hope to have an enjoyable time talking to all of you and
meeting new people of the same interests. (I'm sure I'll need all
the hints and kinks I can get my hands on too!)

Thanks a lot, and I look forward to much more airplane discussion.

Sincerely, Joey Maggio

...Good having you with us, Joey! [JW]

Dave Campbell < cdcampb@ismi.net > wrote:

Gary Gullikson quoted a "...general rule of thumb: with a 200
square inch wing, all-up weight should not exceed 6 or 7 ounces
for decent e-powered flying, given state-of-the-art
motor/gear/prop/R/C/battery systems."

I must admit being a little perplexed by the above rule of thumb.
My guess is that Todd figured you wanted an R/C Slow-flier (which 
is his forte) when he told you that a 200 square inch electric scale
model wouldn't work. I know that Todd had a composite Speed 400
pylon racer similar to the one I kit (the Sliver 400) so I know that
he's experienced 400-sized airplanes first hand.

A Speed 400 racer typically is 130 square inches and weighs 14
ounces. This is middle-of-the-road for the type -- they can go as
low as 75 square inches and as high as 17 ounces. These airplanes
are terribly overpowered by 90% of the modelling public's standards,
but other than being too clean to slow down on landing they have 
no bad habits.

The real way to judge how well an electric airplane will fly is to
calculate watts per pound. The rules of thumb in the E-flight
community are as follows:

35 watts/pound will fly most gliders 
50 watts/pound will give scale-like performance in a sport plane 
75 watts/pound will give spirited performance 
100 watts+/pound will give unlimited aerobatics and vertical
 climb (the latter depending on the prop and model) 

These are generalizations, of course, because I can take my racer
and put an Astro 010 in it and do everything in the book but
straight-up verticals -- all at schoolyard speeds! Prop efficiency,
drag, and wing loading play a part here as they would for any other
size of airplane.

So for your 200 square inch scale airplane, let's play with the
numbers! If you were to build your plane at 12 ounces, 75 watts
would be all you'd need to make it into the 100W category.

A typical Speed 400 with a water break-in and timing advance pumps
out in the neighborhood of 110 watts; so there is a lot of latitude
left to account for extra weight, drag and such.

The wing area you want is actually a little large by Speed 400 scale
and sport standards. Usually you'd see 175 square inches for a model
of this type. Since you are looking for a real floater, you'll want
to use a gear-drive and a larger prop.

Most folks use a 2:1 gearbox on 7 cells, a 6V motor, and an 8-5 prop.
Performance can be varied to a great degree be the motor type and
number of cells. For example, a 4.8V Speed 400 and a 4.5:1 planetary
gearbox will swing a 10-6 Master Airscrew glow prop at 6100 rpm.

That would give vertical performance in most airplanes, and have a
pitch speed of about 60 mph. The airplane will probably fly a
little faster than the calculated pitch speed because the prop will
unload and the airfoil on the blades will produce lift (and act as
more pitch) as the prop spins.

Remember too that these components are not 'state of the art', but
cheap parts that you can get at your local hobby store. Using the
best of equipment will give 25% better results across the board!

In any aspect of our hobby, there will always be 'rules of thumb'.
Most of the time they are formed from casual observation. It was
only about 15 years ago that electrics started in the USA and people
remember seeing an underpowered glider equipped with the cheapest
components that the importer could source from his R/C car inventory
try to stagger around the field on its test flights....

That's caused a lot of skepticism towards electric flight in the
US -- there's no two ways about it. Several things have happened in
the last decade or so that have revolutionized electric flight to the
point that ANY project is possible. For starters, charging technology
has improved; motors have become more powerful and efficient; and 
most importantly, batteries have improved due to the boom in laptop
computers and cell phones.

In the last 4 years, MOSFET technology has enabled a new breed of
speed controls that are much more efficient than the crude frame rate
controllers that were first available.

As I said before, any project is within reach. The only disclaimer
is that when you go to extreme power levels you end up trading weight
for run-time. There are people flying 1 ounce indoor airplanes at
less than 1 watt, and there are people flying 1/3 scale Extra's at
3000 watts!

Crunch the numbers, pick a prop and gearing (if needed), get the
cell count, and go fly!

Hope that helped some! Dave

Sam Brauer < SBrauerBCC@aol.com > amplifies:

I've been doing some thinking about Gary Gullikson's comment that
there are no suitable electric power systems for airplanes in the
12-14 ounce range. I think he may have overlooked some options.
Furthermore, since I too have some Flyline kits still kicking around,
these will probably be electrified instead of glow power.

I suspect that the 12-14 ounce range is a little much for a geared
Speed 280, although the Slow Mow Watt by Tom Hunt flies in this
weight range. Conversely, the Slow Mow Watt has over 400 squares
and is very much a slow flyer.

I've been flying a Flyline Megowcoupe with an MTM S-300 geared 
5:1 swinging an 8x4 prop. This combination is running on an 8-cell 
350 NiMH pack and will fly a 16 ounce, 350 square inch airplane.
However, the climb performance is somewhat lacking. I'll try a
larger prop soon. For a smaller, lighter airplane, this power
combination is respectable.

Furthermore, the motor and batteries along with speed control are
probably less than 6 ounces. At this loading, the motor is just
loafing since it can handle a 9 x 9 three-blade prop.

Alternatively, MTM also makes an S-200 motor which should swing 
an 8-inch prop. This motor will probably be an ounce lighter than 
the S-300, but is somewhat more expensive.

Both of these motors are larger and heavier than what is commonly
used in Todd Long's indoor stuff. There is something of a void in
between the small indoor coreless motors swinging large props and
Speed 400s, but the MTM stuff does seem to fit the bill. I've got
2 of the S-300s and I'd happily buy more -- they're not cheap, but
well-done motors.

I'm finding that electrics are just more relaxing than fighting with
balky engines. Years ago, I built a Flyline Robin and put in a Cox
Dragonfly. Foolish soul that I am, I even added some of the exhaust
detail. None of that lasted 5 minutes when I was trying to get the
engine to run -- it just broke off. One of the major advantages of
electrics is that you don't have to use brute force, starting clips,
or hang on tight while trying to start them.

Actually handling the airplane is much easier. I vowed I'd never
use tissue covering on a gas powered airplane again (OK, over solid
sheet I will), since the last time I did, I kept poking holes in the
tissue when it would get soggy from the fuel -- and this was after
4 or so coats of butyrate dope.

Constantly patching the airplane (the Megowcoupe) was frustrating.
Consequently, I've put an electric motor in the airplane and much of
these handling woes vanish. Therefore, unless you're enamored of
small engines and making them run reliably, I think electrics for
.049 and smaller gentle-flying models is the way to go.

With careful equipment selection, overall weights can be equivalent
to glow, or even lighter than the radio gear alone used 10 years ago.

Sam Brauer, Norwalk, Connecticut

William Adams < William.P.Adams@mii.com > contributed:

I saw some questions about Yard Bees - how they handle and what to
power them with. I just got mine finished & flying with a K-Mills
0.75. Covered in MonoKote, with Trexler wheels and 3 channel 
FMA micro "Magnum" receiver and S80 servos & 250 mAh battery. 
My one-ounce tank is good for quite long flights.

All-up weight is around 13-14 ounces. Ron Vallejo said his is
unstable in pitch, but that seems OK: it is a short plane.
Takeoffs are fun with a tail skid. I have not got mine to go off in
a predictable direction. The 3rd R/C channel for throttle is a 
joke with the Mills. It seems to have 2 settings -- full blast and
stalled. All the evidence is that this engine is not a good
candidate for throttle. Still, this is a fun plane to fly.
I have a PAW 0.5cc (R/C) to try out in it some time.

William Adams, St. Louis, Missouri

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index