SMALLnet post366 

 SMALLnet Posting post366

Date: Sun, 24 Dec 2000 01:45:14 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

Dave Segal < > contributed several items:

1. Now that your house lights are up for the holidays, some
modelers might want to try night flying with illuminated models.
In the February 2001 issue of Model Aviation, Bob Kopski explains
how to use high-brightness LEDs. He has six lights in a 12-ounce
model, and the total current draw is only 80 mA. The brilliance of
these LEDs is quite unlike the dim little indicators we're accustomed
to seeing in many devices; and they cost quite a bit more.

The white LED in the nose of Kopski's model is as bright as a
flashlight and quite startling to see. I will leave this technology
to others as I have enough trouble piloting a model in the daytime.

2. For a long time I have avoided using a sprayer to apply CA
accelerator. The spray is dangerous, as it will go all over the work 
table, and some modelers have been hurt when they placed a hand
with a bit of wet adhesive on it down on the table with the dried
residue of the accelerator -- and heard (and felt) a sound "like
bacon frying". I now have pinpoint application of accelerator by
dipping a bamboo kabob skewer into the accelerator bottle and
applying only a tiny amount directly to the joint. When the CA
builds up a hard blob on the tip of the skewer, I scrape it off
with a razor blade.

3. Sam Brauer said, "Airplanes that are nose-heavy are sluggish;
airplanes that are tail-heavy are in pieces."

Another version of this warning I have read is, "Nose-heavy planes
don't fly very well, and tail-heavy planes don't fly very long".

 Source: Kits, Scientific Reproductions 

 Source: Kits, Comet Reproductions 

 Vendor: Supercraft Models 

4. Don Ross, in the new issue of Flying Models magazine, points
out the web site for Supercraft Models, at:
< http://www.supercraftmodels.com >. Lots of neat small stuff,
including reproductions of Scientific and Comet kits, and a
swap-shop.

Happy holidays to all, Dave Segal

Bill Lehn < > wrote:

I have had success removing the counterweight of the small pager
motors by capturing the weight in the jaws of a small bench vise at
an angle of about 60 degrees. A small punch made from a piece of
music wire about 0.030" in diameter and 1/2" long is used to drive
the motor shaft out of the weight. A rag or piece of foam is used
to keep the motor from falling and damaging itself.

The hole in the small pinion gear from Cloud 9 is too large to fit
the motor shaft. I had my brother (whose hobby is clock and watch
repair) drill out the plastic pinion to 0.063" with a #52 drill and
then turn a brass bushing with an i.d. of 0.033" (to fit the motor
shaft) and an o.d. of 0.063"+ to fit the hole in the pinion.

The final touch is using CA to glue the pieces together. The
watchmakers lathe has all the correct collets to hold the gear
and turn the brass bushing. Bill Lehn

Adam Bryant < > concurs:

We use these tiny motors in robots. Clamp the WEIGHT in a vise
and use a small nail as a punch to drive the shaft out of the weight.
(Of course, you need something there to catch the motor when it
comes free of the pressed-on weight.)

Adam Bryant < http://www.adamdb.f2s.com >

Randy Randolph < > instructs:

No need to offer Sam Brauer any advice on his tail-heavy airplanes
because he has already solved the problem. But, there was one thing
that will help and that is wing loading. Since we cannot scale air,
the smaller the wing the lighter the wing loading must be to produce
comparable flight performance.

For a 300 square inch wing a loading of 10-12 ounces per square
foot will do nicely. However, for an airplane with a 150 square
inch wing, loadings of 5-6 ounce range would more closely resemble
the flight characteristics of the larger airplane.

Randy

Sam Brauer < > responds:

I've flown my Citabria, and I think I'll be happy that I didn't
stomp on the airplane. So far, I'm still feeling it out. I haven't
gone to full bore on the Speed 300, but I'll bet I've been close.

The airplane will probably do most of the 3-channel aerobatics --
it still can fall off on a wing if you're not careful, though -- and 
has plenty of power. The glide, even at 10 ounces, is not too
bad. It's not a floater, but it doesn't come in like a brick either.

Flight duration is definitely short; probably a shade under 5 minutes,
though I haven't timed it. On the other hand, for a quick flight
during lunchtime, it's fine and is easier to fly in a small field
(baseball diamond with buildings around) than a floater.

I'm still fooling around with electric free flight, which definitely
requires some tinkering. A couple of nights ago I went out and flew
my Baby Bi Winger at 8 and 10 PM. The airplane flies in lazy left
hand circles about 10-15 feet high -- the cold definitely saps the
little nicads quick. Had to duck once, but it was way cool watching
the little airplane. This airplane is flying on a Firecracker motor
and 4 50 mAh nicad cells -- which gives a useful run time of about
30-45 seconds.

I'm also playing with an Arrow Sport V-8 that I built for rubber.
Given the short nose and the wing fairing system, which apparently
is pretty draggy, it wasn't going to win any contests. The first
motor I tried was a Micro 4 with a 3-cell 110 mAh Nicad pack 
(gives a run of about 50 seconds).

Big mistake -- way too much power and weight -- fairly extensive
rebuild. I think this setup is more useful for a relatively heavy
airplane of 30 inches or so -- which is a tough combination to hit
with a 3.25 inch prop. I then tried a 3 cell 150 mAh NiMH 
(Nickel Metal Hydride) cell, which rapidly got fried due to the 
current draw of the motor. That's why I could never get it do very 
much on a 3-cell 50 mAh nicad (eventually the light dawns).

Right now, I've gone to the Firecracker motor and the 3-cell 
NiMH pack, which gives a run time of over 2 minutes. Just have 
to see if it'll keep the airplane up, or if it needs an extra cell. 
The Firecracker motor and the Micro 4 weigh about the same.

Anyhow, in response to Tony Turley's request -- how about one of
the Micro-X planes? I think Micro-X still kits and sells plans for
the Taylorcraft and Stinson at 200 squares. I built the Taylorcraft
a couple years ago and recently sold the plane, sans engine, to 
Penn Valley Hobby Center.

The airplane flew OK with a Cox 074, but it didn't do a lot for 
me. Looking at the structure with a fresh eye, the fuselage is way
overbuilt. If lightened to 14 ounces, then I think the wing is
fine without struts. With struts it'll take more. The structure
is built the same way as a typical sport rubber ship, which means
that you don't have acres of sheet balsa to sand.

Sam Brauer, Norwalk, Connecticut

Ed Toner < > also suggests to Tony Turley:

Try the new Dumas and Herr kits, particularly the J-3. Also look
over the new DARE Line. All these kits are laser cut, and build
quickly, and fly reasonably well, EXCEPT the T-34, which was
quite difficult to build, and did not fly -- at least, not for me.

Ed Toner

Luke Thompson < > inquires:

This is my first contribution/question to the SMALLnet. I've been
receiving the newsletter for quite some time now, and enjoy it
very much.

I am building from an old RCM plan, a David E. Unruth-designed
Interstate S1B2 Arctic Tern. I am adapting it to fly electric,
540 motor with a 3 to 1 inline gearbox.

My question is this: Does anyone know a source for scale documen-
tation and some nice photos for decorating and covering reference?
The web seems to be decidedly lacking in sources for these.

There is an Interstate Arctic Tern website, but they don't have the
stuff I'm looking for. Any thoughts from anyone?

Luke Thompson

John Rossetti < > wonders:

I recently acquired two electric motors, but I have no idea of the
specifications regarding number of cells to use, motor rating, etc..
The name on the motors is "SLOT MACHINE". Stamped on the 
end bell is "Roar 91 Japan". Dimensions are: Shaft 1/8", length 
1 5/8", Diameter 1 7/16. These motors are brand new and are 
tapped and threaded for a gearbox. Any information will be 
sincerely appreciated. John Rossetti

"Anonymous" < > asked:

I can't find a replacement head gasket for a G-Mark .061. I am
hoping someone out there knows how to make one or knows 
where to find one. Thanks.

...I've used a home-made circular gasket cutter for 30 years.
It's a "bow-type" draftsman's compass, with the graphite point
replaced with a home-made "knife point" that I carefully ground 
and honed razor-sharp on a short piece of music wire.

For crankcase gaskets and other applications where high 
temperature doesn't occur, the material I use is the "Trial 
Subscription" cards that most magazines are infested with these 
days. I cut "ring gaskets" using a procedure just like drawing 
circles -- except that several light cuts produce cleaner edges 
than attempting to cut the circles at one go.

For high-temperature use, such as head gaskets, metal works best.
One way to make those is with heavy-duty aluminum foil. But 
it's impossible to cut that accurately "as is". Instead, I use rubber
cement to adhere the foil to a "substrate", such as tagboard.
Then I cut the rings (usually a batch of several at a time) without
separating them from the backing until they are about to be
installed.

At that time I soak the tag board in lighter fluid, until the foil 
rings come away easily. Then CAREFULLY I install them in
the engine.

A more rugged head gasket can be cut from the bottom of a pop can.
Use the center of the bottom hollow as the centerpoint for your
"cutting compass". Then with a LOT of patience, scribe round and
round and ROUND, alternating between the ring OD and ID; 
taking miniscule cuts at each revolution of the cutting compass.

The idea here is to avoid deforming the ring -- and especially to
avoid producing burrs that would interfere with a perfect seal.
After the ring comes free easily from the can bottom (like a
laser-cut wing rib from its sheet of balsa), I gently de-burr the
edges with 400-grit wet-or-dry, used WET and with great care.

A gasket such as this may take me an hour to make -- but it will
last indefinitely. [JW]

Don Stauffer < > inquires:

A number of kits or plans I am looking at call for a 280-sized
electric motor. Anyone recommend a good one? And, particularly,
who carries them for mail order?

Don Stauffer in Minneapolis
< http://home1.gte.net/stauffer/ >

Larry McFarland < > sent:

From everyone here at this household near Cleveland, Ohio,
here's hoping everyone on the SMALL list has a VERY Happy
Holiday season - and a safe New Millennium!

And hearty congratulations to Joe on his election to the
prestigious AMA Hall Of Fame... Go go my man!

Larry here in snowy, cold Cleveland, Ohio

John Rimmer < > pleads for:

Help! I have taken thrust measurements of motors with a given
number of cells, both direct-drive and with gears -- and find that
using the best prop for each system (static) the thrust is better
with gears. WHY?

The thrust improvement is as much as 1.8 times better with gears.
At first I thought airfoil drag being exponential relative to
velocity might be a factor here. John Rimmer

...John, there's an article about propellers on the SMALLnet
web site that goes into detail on how propellers work and what
influences their performance. But as a Rule of Thumb, the
THRUST output from a propeller is dependent primarily on
DIAMETER, and the maximum SPEED that a propeller can 
produce depends primarily on the combination of rpm and pitch.

Also, propellers work more efficiently at LOW rpm. [JW]

Carlo Godel < > contributed:

When synthetic oils came on the market I was racing 50 cc motor-
cycles, using what is today a high nitro model airplane fuel. I used
castor oil as the lubricant and could get about 4 to 5 races out of
each rebuild; 400 to 500 miles. Rpm between 8000 and 16000.

I was approached by a fellow who claimed his oil could increase the
horsepower by at least 25%, and by golly it did -- but the engine
broke down after about the third race. When I opened it up, not 
only were the rings gone but the bottom end rollers and balls were 
also galled and chewed up.

This was the first time I had to replace the bottom end. The thing
was, so did everyone else that was using the synthetic oil. It's
slick, all right, but gives no protection to roller, needle and ball
bearings. It seems that it slings off the surface too easily, and
allows heat buildup that castor is able to withstand and toss
out the exhaust. Just can't beat mother nature when it comes to
the best of materials.

Balsa, Silk, paper and cellulose glue forever..... Carlo Godel

Dave Plumpe < > wrote:

Ted Maciag mentioned his 32" Moth project, to be powered by a 
2 cc, 4-cylinder, 4-stroke! Ted said, "This engine is an incredible 
piece of work. I will definitely test fly it over tall grass."

PLEASE - MORE, MORE!

How, pray tell, did this 4-cylinder, 4-cycle, 2 cc engine find its
way onto this Earth? Something you made from an old paperweight 
and nail file? Any photos, plans, source?

I have castings (but not yet the skill) for Zimmerman's 1/6 scale
Cirrus, and know there have been several 1/8 scale made, but 
you're talking about 1/12!

Dave Plumpe, in the NW corner of South Carolina

...Gang, this Posting is somewhat skimpier than the usual, but I
wanted to get it out before Christmas. Perhaps this might be a good
place to include an excerpt from a "personal exchange" between me
and Dan McLeod. Dan mentioned reading in an old issue of MAN 
about Randy's winning the 1/2A PAA-Load event at the 1950 
"Dallas Nationals" -- and inferred from the write-up Bill Winter 
gave to the occasion that 1950 marked the origin of SMALL.

Here's part of my response:

The vital aspect of SMALL isn't the size of its airplanes or their
power plants -- it's the utter freedom from competition. That
removes all the tedious necessity for rules and regulations, model
"processing" (which took an hour or more for certain events at
the 1950 Nationals -- yes, I was there too), and angry debates
about rules changes...

Our non-competitive model flying seems to be the most appealing
feature of SMALL.

As for the small size of the models themselves, those go back a lot
farther than 1950! The entire model airplane "industry" developed
from small models. 10-cent and 25-cent model plane kits were the
foundation of companies such as Megow and Comet -- biggest in the
country before Pearl Harbor!

Did you know that the contest-winning gas models Comet was so
famous for: Clipper, Zipper, and Sailplane -- never made any profit?
In fact, throughout its life the Sailplane kits cost more to
manufacture than they sold for. I was at the Comet factory the
very day (summer of 1949) when the last Sailplane kit was
being packed.

"Why are you discontinuing that fabulous model?" I asked Morrie
Shamburg -- sales manager for Comet then. Morrie told me that the
company could no longer subsidize that money-losing product, no
matter how well it flew or how many contests it won...

Yet the dime and quarter model kits continued unabated. Those 
were POPULAR !!! And look what happened when the 1/2A 
engines came along. Earlier, the model business had taken a serious
downturn; but after the K&B "Infant", OK "Cub" .049, and Baby
Spitfire .045 came out, the popularity of model airplanes shot
upwards.

On the control-line front, Jim Walker's trailblazing Fireball
design is world-famous. Yet that was another model kit that cost
more to make than its manufacturer sold it for. American Junior
never brought in a dime of profit from the Fireball. Where A-J's
income came from was the "74 Fighter" ten-cent gliders and similar
small, low-priced all-balsa profile airplanes.

I've been in this game a LONG time, Dan -- as long as Randy --
and have seen model "events" come and go over the decades.
What ALWAYS causes a decline in participation is turning any
new form of recreational activity into an "official competition
event". (I saw the same thing happen in sports cars.)

Therefore SMALL's REAL origins don't derive from the 1950 
AMA Nationals at Dallas, but from people's desire to have FUN in
their spare-time activities -- as unhampered by restrictions and
rules as possible... The AMA has put WAY too much effort into
contests (where a few guys win and all the others LOSE) -- and
not nearly enough into pure FUN flying -- where EVERYONE
goes home a winner. [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index