SMALLnet post373 

 SMALLnet Posting post373

Date: Mon, 29 Jan 2001 03:24:32 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

Jody White < > wrote:

I just finished a completely-stock Cox "Recon" free-flight
plane. Construction is all-styrofoam, with a plastic cowl and
.049 "Sure-Start" (which I suspect is another way of spelling
"Babe Bee" ;)).

The plane came with a camera rig to be mounted inside the 
fuselage, but it's too limited for my taste. You're expected to 
launch the plane, let it fly in a big, rising circle till it runs out of 
fuel, then let it glide back down in circles -- and somewhere in 
there, you trigger the camera.

But you only get one shot per flight, and you have to take the
plane apart to advance the film. The plane alone (no camera, 
empty tank) weighs a pound and has just over 2 square feet of 
useful wing area: about 8 ounces per square foot of wing loading. 
With the camera, the load goes up to almost 12 ounces/square foot.

I'm interested in converting it to 2-channel R/C (rudder/
elevators). Has anyone else out there done this? If so, what sort
of results did you get, and how did you implement it?

Keep in mind, I'm leaving the camera rig on the ground. I don't
think this bird is going to be able to handle both R/C and 
camera without giving itself a hernia ;)

Jody White

(With a different choice of test animal, it would be a "dogapult".)

Larry Marshall < > contributed:

Bud Orren asked: "When should old Nicad batteries be replaced?"

Bob Stought answered: "There is no simple answer; but in general,
it is heat that degrades Nicad cell performance..."

I don't disagree with Bob on this, but I do think there is a simple
answer to the question asked. The thing to do is to monitor the peak
voltage and discharge time using a standard load, and record that in
a logbook. You'll find that as the cells age the peak voltage will
increase and the discharge time will decrease. The peak voltage rises
because the internal resistance of the cell is going up (it's wearing
out) and capacity goes down -- which is the important thing for us.

I don't know if Bud's question was relative to receiver batteries or
power system batteries but I think the answers about when to get rid
of them may be different depending on your view. I think it best to
be conservative with receiver packs, and discard them with the first
sight of decreased capacity. With power system batteries, however,
it becomes a more personal decision and depends on whether you're
still getting satisfaction from flying with the pack. A flight that's a 
bit shorter doesn't necessarily mean you're not having fun.

Bob also said, "... NiMH cells have much higher capacity than 
Nicad cells do, but a given size NiMH battery usually cannot deliver 
as much power as did the Nicad pack it replaces."

Here I do have to disagree with Bob a bit, though only in semantics.
NiMH cells will deliver the same "power", they'll just do it over a
longer time and at a lower voltage. With our model airplanes, 
volts and propeller rpm are directly related. I'm sure that's what he
means as his solution of adding an extra cell (to increase the
voltage) is consistent with this.

"As nearly as I can see, there is not a very much difference between
the small ferrite magnet motors of today and those of years ago."

Except that the question was "old Astro ferrite 020 and 035 motors"
vs "modern motors." The Astro 020 of today is a rare-earth magnet,
brushless motor and will produce far more torque and rpm 
(determines size of prop and rpm it'll spin) than its predecessors. 
Again, I'm sure Bob knows this but it's unclear what "modern motors" 
Bud was asking about.

Cheers --- Larry

Dick Scalone < > offers:

If anyone would like a very easy way to draw 5-pointed stars,
e-mail me your address. Don Ross at FM says he may be doing a
small piece on it, since he said it was something he never saw
before, and liked it.

I had sent it to Don to see if I came up with something new,
or was it old hat?

Dick Scalone

Gary Seckel < > sent:

To respond to Glenn's concern for getting ether out of Starting
Fluid spray cans. I only just spray the ether into the inside edge
of a mason jar type container. The ether wasted amounts to very
little. If you measure the ether sprayed into a container, you
will find more fluid than advertised as the net weight.

This is due, in my opinion, to overfilling by the factory to
insure full net weight. The appearance of large ether loss in
spraying out the contents seems like an illusion. I never bleed
off the propellant anymore. I usually mix fuel right before I
fly. It is quick to do so, and I am already outside.

Gary Seckel

Ed Toner < > wrote:

I received my Fire Lite from Sharper Image. This is my first R/C.
I didn't like the method of putting in the dihedral, so I used Pica
GLUEIT. I increased the dihedral a bit, to 2.25". Looks fine,
gives me a cleaner, stiffer wing.

I still don't like the hold-down screw for the canopy. Has anyone
used Silly Putty, Velcro, etc.?

I tried to order replacement nicads, but they are out of them.
Is there a source of interchangeable batteries? How about spare
parts, such as the wing?

Any advice will be welcomed.

Ed Toner

< > submitted:

Just a quick note about two companies I've dealt with recently:
Takeoff 2000, which I saw mentioned on this list -- and Radical
R/C. I've dealt with a lot of mail-order companies before, some
great and some not so great, but these two are top notch.

The guy at Radical R/C [Dave Thacker] was super helpful on a
problem I had one evening even though I called him at night.
He has the tiny GWS receiver, good deals on small NiMH batteries,
and other good stuff for this hobby. I recommend him highly.

BTW, I absolutely love that GWS Receiver: 5.4 grams and 4
channels ! $28 with crystal!!

The people at Takeoff 2000 are also extremely helpful, and have
some great and also unique items for this hobby, such as the Hangar
Rat (fun little rubber plane) and the Fuddy Duddy (a great-flying
little electric); some great little motors, batteries, etc.

On the other side of the coin, I recently had the misfortune of
needing to call Bob Davis of Davis Diesel. This guy seems to be the
single most obnoxious, arrogant, Know-it-all I have ever in my life
run into. He was the same when I talked to him years ago in Toledo,
but I had forgotten how bad he was. I would never deal with him
again. He probably wasted 15 minutes of my time on the phone just
running down other people and products in the industry, such as
the Gasparin CO2 motors, of which I have several -- and love.

Oh well --- Keep flying, have fun, and try those two companies:
you'll love them.

...I, too, have been impressed with Dave Thacker's service.
One item that needs correcting is the ACTUAL weight of the 
GWS receiver. That 5.4 gram weight figure must have been for the
original "vertical-pin" receiver design. The "H" model receiver
(which is what I bought from Radical R/C) weighs about 7 grams.
But it can be lightened! Removing the plastic outer case will
lose about a gram; and changing the HEAVY antenna wire to a
lighter one (but the same length!) helps too. [JW]

Roy Clough < > wrote:

Discussion of small fuel tanks noted. Several years back, Larry
Renger reminded me of the use of small balloons for lightweight fuel
tanks that would feed in any position. I've been using them for
practically all my small tankless engines. I made up a nylon plug,
1/2" diameter x 1/2" long, with a single hole in the middle.

A fuel line, cut with a sharp taper to be poked though an undersize
hole, can be pulled through, and seals perfectly. No clunk needed,
just cut a vee in the end of the fuel tubing. I double back the neck
of the balloon to keep the over-all length as short as possible and
bind it to the nylon plug with a small rubber band.

I fuel-proof the tank compartment with a coat of Elmer's Glue All,
and make the tank accessible with a panel or trapdoor, to be opened
for checking its filling through the single fuel line by removing it
from the engine. Easy, because at the end of the flight the balloon
will be sucked flat.

Never had a feed failure, and alcohol model fuel is kind to the
balloon--I have one tank in use for a year now (but cannot speak
for diesel fuel).

Now if Larry sees this, maybe he'll share with us that double-
walled pressurized balloon tank arrangement he told me about.
I never tried it, because the single balloon satisfied all my
needs -- but pressure might be a good idea for larger-capacity
balloons.

Roy C.

Scott Winans < > suggests:

Regarding discussions about the "1 cc" group of motors (.061 -
.074) and their performance. I have had some wonderful experience
with TD and Medallion .09 engines over many years, and some
particularly nice ones recently.

I have a TD .09 with a throttle sleeve that is a brute when it comes
to power output. This thing swings an 8x4 Cox grey prop at around
13,000, and a Cox grey 7x3 at near 17K as I recall. The exciting
part was the performance on the 8x4, as that can be well utilized in
a larger-platform aircraft quite well.

Weight is very nice for this power output level, and the idle with a
throttle sleeve is phenomenal and very repeatable. It has been a
pleasure.

The reason I bring this up is that the Cox engines have seemingly
fallen from favor lately with quite a few folks, leaving many in
drawers and field boxes around the country. That makes for an
inexpensive motor to at least play around with. Good luck.

Scott Winans

George < > reports:

 Source: Rocket motors, Rapier 

There are now 4 sizes of Rapier rocket motors. L1 is mainly for
profile models up to about 10" span. L2 is for larger profiles and
small scale, such as the Aerographics Komet and the new Bell X1-S.
(Have a look at our web site, which is at last getting attention.)

L3 has about the same output as a Jetex 50, so is ideal for existing
models designed to take that size of motor. The L4 is very powerful,
quite close to a Jetex 100. Price: L1 comes in a box of 10 and
costs about $8.90 excluding postage. L3 & 4 are the same price for
5 motors. L2 is a box of 10 and is $11.45.

Postage for up to 4 boxes to USA would be $6. Next kit from
Aerographics will be the Velie Monocoupe for rubber/CO2/electric.
Due in early March. < http://www.samsmodels.demon.co.uk >.

Cheers, George

Rick Eis < > wrote:

 Source: Plans, Dave Robelen's "Playmate" 

In SMALLnet #370, Howell Gwin discusses Dave Robelen's "Playmate".
I understand the plans (# 506) can be ordered from Model Aviation's
web page: < http://www.modelaircraft.org/ > for $11.25.

It sounds like a fun little plane to build and a good winter
project. Does anybody know where I could find digital pictures
of this plane?

Thanks, Rick Eis, from Dewey, Arizona

Dave Robelen < > might know the answer 
to that; but here addresses another topic:

I've noticed the recent comments about the throttle characteristics
of the BigMig .061. I too was disappointed with the early
results, where the minimum idle was much too high, and the 
settings were tricky.

The following are things I changed which improved the situation.

1- Swap to a Cox plug (screws right in); either the high-compression
Tee Dee head or one from the hot reed valve engines. Adjust 
gaskets for best running. (I use 15% Norvel fuel). This cleared up 
the misfiring and touchy adjustments.

2- I made a separate needle valve that I could fit in the incoming
feed line. This became the control for full throttle, and the
original valve controls the low and mid range.

3- I also used some "Bondo" body putty to fill the little notch in
the carburetor throat just above the barrel.

With these modifications my engines will idle at 4500-5000 on a
Master Airscrew 6-4 and have great midrange response. With 
regard to ease of handling, the first cold start is kind of annoying 
with the ceramic version, but from then on they are sweet and 
powerful little engines.

Regards, Dave Robelen

Gene Marshall < > reports:

Concerning Gary Edson's inquiry about the Astro 035, I am using
that motor with belt drive in a Norvel Folding Flyer with good
results. This is a system from the 1980's: it is a ferrite motor
about the size of a Speed 400, and has a 3 to 1 belt drive on it.

I use an APC 9/4.7 prop, 7-KR-660AE cells, Pixie-14 speed 
control, 2 Hitec 81 servos, and Hitec 555 receiver. Weight is 
25 ounces.

It will do rolls and loops from level flight during the first
couple minutes of flight. Flight time at full throttle is
6-7 minutes. A picture of it is at:
< http://airgene.www7.50megs.com/cgi-bin/i/foldfly-1.jpg >.

Best Regards, Gene Marshall, Mission, Kansas

Ron Fikes < > says:

I use Dave Brown wheels on most everything. I modify mine 
by slipping a bolt through the center, tightening on a nut, and
chucking them in a drill motor. While spinning them, I hold 
sandpaper against the sides. The foam tires can be made any 
shape you want (I do most thin and streamlined).

Wear something old when you do this -- there will be black 'dust'
all down your front! Use pieces of thin, nesting aluminum tubing
to make the hubs fit your LG wire sizes.

Enjoy, Ron Fikes

Bob Stought < > advises:

Being new to electric power can be bewildering, and it took me a
long time to get a handle on it. My advice is to proceed as follows;

1. Determine the shortest acceptable flying time for your plane.
If it is an R/C type, that probably ought not be less than 3 minutes
flying time at full power.

2. Determine the maximum current based on the minimum flight 
time for the battery you intend to use. Here's how to do that.

(a) Convert the battery mAh (milliAmpere-hours) to Ah (Amp-hrs).
To do this, divide the mAh by 1000.

(b) Convert battery Ah to Ampere-Minutes (Am). To do this,
multiply Ah times 60.

(c) Divide Ampere-Minutes (Am) by minimum flying time in minutes.
The result is the maximum current in Amps that you can use.

3. Install a fuse rated at about this maximum current level (or
slightly above it) in one of the motor leads.

4. Run the motor with a trial propellor with speed control set at
full power.

(a) If the fuse burns out, replace it and switch to a smaller-
diameter propeller.

(b) If after about two minutes of motor run time the motor is not
warm to the touch, try again using a larger diameter propeller.

Example: You have a 7-cell 600 mAh battery and a Speed-400 motor.
The minimum motor run at maximum current is to be 3 minutes. 
What is the maximum current and fuse size to use?

Solution: if 600 mAh is divided by 1000 the result is 0.6 Ah. The
Am rating of the battery is 0.6 times 60, or 36 Am. The maximum
current is 36 Am divided by 3 minutes, which is about 12 Amps.
Therefore install a 15 Amp fuse in the motor lead before doing
motor test runs with different size Props.

If the motor test results in a large, slow turning prop that produces
low thrust (i.e. plane not being pulled very hard), the voltage may
be too low for that motor. Try replacing the battery with one that
has more cells. Then replace the large Prop with a smaller one and
start the test procedures all over again.

Hope this is of use. Bob Stought

Gene Nightengale < > submitted:

I have been using 35mm film canisters for 1/2A fuel tanks. I drill
holes smaller than my fuel line. Cut a point on the end of the line
to get it started in the hole then pull it through. The lid fits
very tight. The tank is leak proof and quick and easy to make.

I direct the vent line forward and plug the filler line for tank
pressure and more consistent engine runs. I am using this tank on
ultra-light foam gliders that I converted to power and R/C.

I have one with a Cox .049 and another with a Norvel .061 with
throttle. They both fly good, plenty of power and they loop and
spin really nice. I also have a foam F-16 glider that I converted,
and I use surgical tubing to make a pressure tank that works better
than a clunk tank for aerobatics. The F-16 flies good with a Cox
Tee Dee .049. It is very maneuverable, fast rolls, glides like a
brick, lots of fun. Fun -- that's what it's all about.

I would rather fly than build, so I like the foamies and ARF's.
I like the small models because they are easy to transport, and
they are assembled and ready to fly when I get to the field.
When I auger one in, most of the time there is no damage. I just
dust it off and fly it again. If it is damaged, it is minor and
I always have a backup with me anyway.

Gene Nightengale

...Just one added caution: make the holes for the fuel lines in
the BODY of the 35mm canister, NOT the top. That's because the
tops are made from a different plastic, and WILL split. Guess
how I know that? [JW]

Stuart McKenzie < > inquires:

I have a Herr Aquastar I am going to build, and I have to decide
how to power it.

My choices are: 1. A BigMiG .061 R/C (pre-Revlite); 2. A BigMig
.061 R/C Revlite; or 3. A Thunder Tiger .07 R/C. I know the
Aquastar instructions warn you about trying to use a .10 (too
heavy for not much increase in power), but what about the TT .07?

I have test run a TT .07 on another model (although I haven't flown
with it). Sweet little engine, and quiet, too.

Also, you Aquastar owners, how far a takeoff run do you usually need?
Does your landing runout take less water length than your takeoff?
How big of a turning radius is needed, in feet?

We have a small, narrow pond, only about 350 feet in length, and
50 feet wide, and am wondering if I can use it for float flying.

TIA, Stuart "1/2A" McKenzie

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index