SMALLnet post339 

 SMALLnet Posting post339

Date: Wed, 23 Aug 2000 00:19:29 -0500

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet/ >

...Here are a couple of "constructive" tips to start off tonight's
Posting. I like to use bamboo for various modeling purposes --
such as the leading edges of hand-launched gliders, tailskids for
rubber-power, and struts for small biplanes. But really GOOD
bamboo isn't easily found. I have tried shish-kebab skewers, but
found them rather splintery and not easily shaped nor heat-formed.

But the last time I visited the local supermarket I found a package
of bamboo chopsticks that are made from the straightest, most close-
grained bamboo I think I've ever seen. At less than $2 for six
pair, I've obtained enough high-quality bamboo for a lot of small
airplanes!

Second, I've been breaking-in some HiLine Troll and Elf electric
motors according to the provided instructions. (The "Elf" is a
Speed 400-type motor, but comes with a direct-drive propeller shaft
and a full set of instructions -- unlike the Graupner Speed 400
that I recently received from Hobby Lobby.)

Anyway, after running in these motors, I blew out the carbon
brush particles; then used an old trick for re-lubricating the
oilite bushings on the motor shaft. First I heated each bushing
area with a hot air gun, to the point where the metal was uncom-
fortable to touch. Then I applied a drop of "Rem-Oil" (available
from gun shops) to the bushing face.

As the thin Rem-Oil cooled the hot, porous Oilite, it was drawn
deeply into the material by the contraction of its pores. Now I'm
certain that the motor bushings have adequate lubrication for a
long running time. [JW]

John Meacham < > states:

About "blade-type" automotive fuses. Besides soldering these
directly into the motor wiring, these fuses also fit into the
slip-on type spade connectors. Use the insulated ones and you
can rig a lightweight socket for making the fuse removable.

John Meacham

Sam Brauer < > reports:

This past weekend I went to the SMALL fly-in at Delaware River
Gap hosted by RAMAC. It was a low-key, fun event. I got to see a
couple of airplanes fly that I'd only read about -- isn't that the
point to these events?

Anyhow, much as I hate to say it, the Kyosho F-16 does fly.
(I dislike ARFs.) Mike Ramsey (an editor for Flying Models) had
one he painted in orange and white with a stock fan setup. (The
paint added an ounce and a half.) I noticed that the first flight
in slightly cooler air did very well. The airplane could loop from
level flight, had an impressive sound (not too loud) and was well
within the capabilities of a sport flyer.

In short, it's not killer-quick, but it flies like a jet at moderate
speed. The second flight was more problematic, due to either a
battery pack that wasn't putting out, or the warmer air. This flight,
the airplane could barely climb and looked like it was going into the
corn several times. (Mike is a dynamite pilot -- I watched him fly a
tail-heavy 1/2A Shrike that should have planted a dozen times.)

So if you fly at high altitude or where it's hot, some extra oomph
would be appreciated in a Kyosho F-16.

Other planes flown included a pair of the Shrikes designed by Joe
Beshar. The 10-15 size airplane flew well on moderate power and
wasn't too twitchy. The 1/2A size Shrike with a Norvel 061 was very
quick and extremely maneuverable. This airplane is for those people
without enough adrenalin in their lives.

I put up my Sopwith Triplane for a flight with the new SR 6-cell
500 mAh pack. Basically the S-300 motor uses 100 mAh per minute at
full power on the ground, so this pack gives 5 minutes flying time
if you fly wide open -- which is hard to do. The reduced internal
resistance of this pack translates to more oomph than the Sanyo 350
mAh pack, so the additional ounce is well worth it.

My airplane now weighs between 16 and 17 ounces. One problem I
noticed was that the airplane flew a little tail heavy, even though
it balanced in the same place as with the lighter pack. What I
suspect is that more heavily-loaded airplanes need to have the
center of gravity further forward.

I would have put the airplane up for a second flight, but I had an
unfortunate incident on landing. Actually, after landing....when
walking over to retrieve the airplane, a gust flipped it over. The
attachment point of the cabanes went, as well as some of the ribs.
I'd recommend beefing up the cabane attachments a bit.

Sam Brauer, Norwalk, Connecticut

...Sam, I think the reason your Triplane appeared "more tail-heavy"
with your higher-powered system is that the center of drag of
those three wings is higher than the thrustline. Thus, you notice
more of a nose-up effect with an increase of power. This is a
commonly-encountered situation with free flight models. [JW]

Gary Gullikson < > wrote:

Thanks to SMALLsters for all of the good advice and recommen-
dations on electric-powering 35-40 inch Flyline and similar kits. 
I'm curious about where my original request message appeared. 
I didn't see it in the website archives yet. I'm getting direct replies 
and SMALLnet postings. How does this work?

Hope I can help others with information on care and feeding of Cox
engines and tips on conversion of rubber kits to wet power.

Thanks again; will report on my successes and otherwise with small
E-powered scale R/C.

Gary Gullikson

...Gary, your initial query appeared near the beginning of Posting
# 336. You haven't seen it in the Archives yet, because Bill Lee,
our hard-working Webmaster, has been out of town for a while. Bill's
the man who takes care of the SMALLnet archives; and when he's 
away, there's a delay in adding the newer Postings.

Bill's back now, however. He's notified me that we've been
approaching the limit of our "web space" at Eskimo -- and as a
result he has removed all the early Postings from the archives.
What remains is from # 200 on. Bill says that in case of emergency,
he can provide copies of the earlier Postings. So can I, for
that matter -- I've been saving them all "on disk". [JW]

Glenn Bolick < > observes:

Response to several items in Posting # 338:

A. Arantes hit the key to the small electrics - it's ounces per
square foot of wing area for good flying. Have found that the Speed
400 with Mini-Olympus gearbox flies quite well up to about 16 ounces
per square foot. They will fly above that, but performance suffers.

Ron Ferrer commented on getting the Global electric Mirage - please
Ron keep us posted, as that really looks good.

John Rossetti asked about 100 mA charging rate for the 500AR cells.
Hobby Lobby catalog states these can be charged at a maximum rate of
3 Amperes. Personally I use between 1 and 2 Amperes (depending on
how much of a hurry I'm in to fly again) and have noted no problems.
Be sure to let the cells cool down after flying before recharging.

Thanks to many of you, I have gotten information on CO2 motors and
chargers, and now have mine running well -- but have not reinstalled
it in the Junior 451 for a flight as yet.

Glenn Bolick

Ed Stevens < > contributed:

 Vendor: NORVEL 

Hello SMALL flyers,

I couldn't help but send in a response to Mr. Logan's unsubstantiated
claim that quality control of NORVEL engines is substandard.

Nothing could be further from the truth. NORVEL engines are the
highest-quality, best-performing, most reasonably-priced, feature-rich
small engines that have ever been produced in model engine history.
As testament to our outstanding quality are four years of successive
double-digit growth, with the year 2000 being a record year in sales
and volume.

Our customer satisfaction ratings are as high as can be measured.
For example, the average number of NORVEL engines owned by each
of our customers now stands at three, up from two one year ago. Also, 
our average sale to a repeat customer has increased 50% from a year ago.
Horizon Hobby recently reported to me that NORVEL is their fastest
growing line of non-proprietary model airplane products.

Don't forget that NORVEL engines are recommended by Tom Herr 
of Herr Engineering for all his excellent 1/2A planes; by Paul Arlton
for the Lite Machines helicopter, and by countless other SMALL
modelers who have waited years for small engines of NORVEL's
quality and performance to be available.

If anyone has a problem with a NORVEL engine that cannot be 
corrected by our telephone or website advice, then the engine should 
be returned for service. Our three-year warranty is unprecedented 
for small engines. (Cox engines carry a 90-day warranty.)

To my knowledge, we have never serviced a motor for Mr. Logan,
although I would very much like him to accept an offer to service
his engines.

Finally, I disagree with Mr. Logan's assessment that the newsgroups'
consensus opinion is negative concerning NORVEL engines. I am 
an avid reader of all newsgroups, and I frankly see tons of positive
comments on NORVEL including many glowing recommendations.

NORVEL has excellent quality control resulting in the finest small
model engines ever produced. Our customer satisfaction and repeat
sales statistics are above average. Many expert modelers
enthusiastically recommend NORVEL engines, which are covered by 
a "best small engine" 3-year warranty. Newsgroup banter confirms 
that the vast majority of NORVEL customers are very satisfied.

I hope Mr. Logan will contact me at < > if he would
like to discuss any of the above. I'm sure Mr. Logan also wouldn't
want to bore the readership of this email list by turning a private
disagreement into a public one.

As always, thanks for reading to everyone on the list.

Best regards, 

Ed Stevens 
 General Director 
 NORVEL, LLC 
 P.O. Box 3459 
 San Luis Obispo, California 93403 

Visit < http://www.norvel.com > for technical information, cool
engine sounds, and online shopping.

Ken Elder < > wrote:

Thought I'd give everyone a flight report on my latest, a Cermark
Porterfield, designed for a .15 gas engine. Actually, this is the
AstroFlight Porterfield, intended originally for electric power
according to the box. It looks a bit like a Cub.

Its a very complete kit and an excellent value considering most of
the building is already done for you. That's right, its an ARF.
Sorry, but I was looking for an airframe to install my OS .26
4-stroke in, and it was on sale for $60 US.

To make a long story short, I have no complaints, great plane and it
even comes with a fairly light fiberglass cowl. I did find that the
wing does not have much dihedral, and in three channel configuration,
the turns were more sideslips than turns. Added ailerons and flew
again the next day; now it's a really great relaxing flier.

Any good strong .15 two-stroke should fly it just fine; the .26
sounds great though......

Specifications: FMA Fortress receiver, 270 mAh batteries,
FMA S-100 servos (4), OS .26 four-stroke, weight 2 3/4 pounds,
around 600 square inch wing area.

Ken Elder, Largo, Florida

Dereck Woodward < > contributed:

Sorry - can't resist this one, having had a little experience of
flying in England and Scotland. Malcolm Logan remarked on 
Scottish flyers standing within 4 to 8 feet of each other.

The reason for standing close together is that all receivers airborne
will 'see' the same signal strength from all the transmitters. With
the US idea of the opposite ends of the flight station line sometimes
being in different counties, a receiver well upwind of the line of
pilots in the model flown by the poor beggar on the downwind end 
could well be far closer to another channel than its own.

Yes, I know there was a US third-harmonic inter-tranny interference
problem back when radios tended to lose boiler pressure easily.
I believe RC gear has improved slightly in recent years though :-^)

Another plus for the UK system -- if a pilot wishes to communicate
something to the others, it can be done easily by saying it. Try
hollering "deadstick" to the guy five flying stations away in the US,
especially if someone is running a typically muffled engine some-
where between.

Finally, as modellers will try really hard not to hit themselves,
this gives a close-knit group a better chance of survival. The US
system means that a model being steered out of hitting the owner
is well placed to be aimed at someone else a distance away. Those
e-fliers who flew at the last couple of KRCs may appreciate this --
their flight line was so long that a model flown by a pilot on the 
upwind was more than likely pointing straight at the downwind
end pilots as it turned onto finals.

I flew there for the last two, and was always on the downwind --
had several models heading straight for me guided by dubious hands
-- more so as many e-fliers are solitary souls with little idea on
how to behave in company.

Not to seem biased -- many UK clubs used to practice flying around 
the pits area to land -- the old left-hand circuit, land over the right
shoulder routine. I remember a Scottish club that didn't allow cars
in the pits. So everyone parked so that models would be either coming
in over cars, or taking off straight towards them!

Malcolm also remarked, "In the UK, there are no safety barriers to
protect flyers from errant models - none that I saw, even at LMA
(Large Model Association) public airshow displays."

Funnily enough, in 20-odd years of R/C, I have seen more models
flying around and crashing into the pits in the US, and savaging
safety fences than I ever did in the UK. I went to every Old Warden
meet I could, over five years, where you had six pilot slots twelve
minutes long, all day long, all standing together and with no safety
barriers. No-one ever got hurt, no models ever ran amuck, and I
cannot recall any radio problems in what had to be the most
intensive flying events around. The LMA are so far above we mere
mortals, they couldn't possibly have any problems at all ;-^)

What the heck. I fly with a soarer-inclined group now -- getting
them to stand in a line on spots would be an improvement. No --
make that getting them to all stay on the site while flying, for
starters.

As a long-time columnist and sometime wandering aeromodeller, I can
say that, maybe next to maybe silencers / mufflers, flight safety is
the one subject that the vast majority are totally uninterested in.

Just heard from my good friend and all round SMALLster Gray that he
is taking over my old Weekend Pilot page space in R/C Model World
(from Traplet Publications). As of 22 August, he's got the job -
or gig, as he musically puts it -- and his first month will probably
be December.

Gray is on this list, so I shall embarrass the heck out of my old
friend and introduce him to everyone, or y'all, depending on
geographic location.

Gray is a full-time musician and close to full-time aeromodeller (or
is that the other way around?). You'd have to get up early to beat
his fleet -- everything from peanuts to the odd large-ish R/C job
has graced Gray's workshop in the lovely Cotswolds. Most of his
models are of his own designs, and the ones he builds from plans are
seldom approaching normal. He's been published in several of the
regular R/C magazines in England and has appeared in the journal of
the Hand Launched Glider Association in England.

Gray was one of the dynamic duo - Shane Harding was the other - 
who put single-channel R/C into the first incarnation of that electric
Ducted Fan ship Tower are currently peddling -- the Sonic Blast. He
spent one season making and selling RTF "Sixpence" gliders: a single-
channel hand launch that makes most of the Mosquito class look
lumbering. These were run up on a tiny jig board he built -- the
entire model was built on a couple of square feet of ply. Purely a
sports flier, and the world of indoor rubber should be glad - if he
took up competition, he would be one to watch.

Our lad was on the SMA's truck-launched large-scale glider routine.
The truck was a seven-cell "Vanessa's LunchBox"; the glider was a
2/3rds full size of a wooden US HLG! This routine had the crowd 
in stitches at many a show. Another one of his lines is scaling up
tiny rubber models into small R/C models -- he published an 049-sized
canard based on Ace RC foam wings some years ago -- the inspiration
was a Ray Malmstrom rubber model. Super-large scale modelling
perhaps -- it was over twice full size!

He's a stalwart of a large and long-lived club in the Cotswolds,
a club that is never short of interesting, fascinating and often
bizarre models; and often promotes our hobby with displays at
local events. Gray's other forte is travelling around to the big
model meets and shows around the bottom half of England - usually
with Shane and a carload of models from small to really small.

The SMA banner will be flying over Gray's new column, and we all
need to get our material to him so he can keep up the impetus of the
SMA and SMALL. I'm hoping he'll be along shortly, so I will let
him tell you where to send all those gorgeous photos and details of
your stunning models - I understand that part of his remit may be to
widen the scope of his column from R/C only into C/L, FF, and
whatever else.

Good luck mate - you're in for a lot of work, many late nights and
a wonderful experience!

Regards, Dereck Woodward

Tore Loodin < > sent:

Someone recommended a free download of a CAD program. Unfortunately I
forgot to save his message. Will you please tell me the address of the
Site?

I have just test flown my 1/2A Curtiss Robin, built from an old
Flyline kit and motivated by a Cox .049 Babe Bee. Weight 450 grams
fully equipped. It flew beautifully without any corrections at all.
The slightly undercambered wing gives nice manners.

In some wind it flies very slow. But you have to be cautious entering
downwind turns not tilting the model too much. It also achieved
consecutive loops (excuse me all scale-style flyers!) just to test.

On the contrary, roll performance was not nice. On another model,
(a 1/2A Chipmunk) I connected the rudder with a thin pushrod to 
the aileron servo output wheel, which gave nice turns and ability to
counteract propeller torque in starts from the ground.

Only drawback was a little difficulty in connecting and disconnecting
the wing!

Regards, Tore "Smallster" Loodin

Eddie Warren < > comments on an item 
from a previous Posting:

 .....and plant it down in the middle of all the polypropylene
and foamboard ARFs on the flight line. Guys will crowd around and
say, "You actually built that? All by yourself?? HWHOAH, DUDE!!!"

I have already seen people young and old at our field who not only
cannot build, but can't even make simple repairs to the ARFs they
fly. That is sad. It does mean more business for the hobby shop
though. Rather than repair a broken wing, they get to sell a new one.

Eddie Warren
Wilmington Model Flying Club, Wilmington, North Carolina -- USA

...Eddie, regarding the "status" of ARF's -- it seems to me like the
model railroad scene. Some folks buy off-the-shelf Lionel sets and
have fun with their store-bought trains. Other model railroaders
purchase ready-to-run locomotives, but build their rolling stock
from kits or magazine drawings -- "scenery" too -- and enjoy that
style of the hobby. Still others make nearly all their model train
equipment from scratch. But all are receiving pleasure from
participating in their hobby. They're merely approaching it in 
different ways... [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index