SMALLnet post404 

 SMALLnet Posting post404

Date: Sat, 29 Dec 2001 02:56:35 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

...Since the previous Posting we've received several Virus Warnings
sent in by well-meaning SMALLsters. However, they were hoaxed.
The warnings were bogus. (One sure way of identifying these
hoaxes is their request for you to send out copies to everyone
on your mailing list.)

The U. S. Department of Energy has a web site (search under
"CIAC") that's kept continuously updated. It details ALL of the
hoaxes, chain letters, and Internet scams that infest (not
INFECT) our computers, and makes fascinating reading.

The CIAC site also provides complete and accurate data on the
REAL viruses, Trojans, worms, etc. Next time you receive a
VIRUS! warning, check the CIAC site before passing anything on
to your e-mail friends. [JW]

Bill Kronen < billpat@telusplanet.net > wrote:

Had 4 inches of snow Sunday morning, but we went flying in the
afternoon anyway. Had success again with my second electric,
a Wasp, getting a 10-minute flight on a 1700 mAh pack

Plane has a 38-inch Wingspan, 15.2 ounces per square foot wing
loading. Flew well. Cold air (30 degrees F.) may have helped.

Bill

Sam Brauer < sbrauer@bccresearch.com > contributed:

Re: Covering materials:

I've been using a couple of the lighter-weight iron-ons on some
of my electrics -- Econokote and Oracover Lite. I haven't done
the weighing yet, but I'd lay long odds that the Oracover Lite
(or low-temp) is lighter than Econokote. Oracover Lite is also
the easiest stuff to handle that I've tried. You do need to work
with the iron set lower than ever before. If you start with the
iron too hot, you'll have trouble.

However, the stuff has nice tack and drape, meaning that it goes
over curves even before being heated readily, and doesn't slide
all over the place like Monokote does.

Note that Oracover Lite is not the same stuff as Solarfilm Lite;
the Solarfilm stuff is lighter still.

Pluses: 
* Fast and easy to cover with. I see now how they can bat
out the BARFs in Bulgaria quick enough to make a living -- 
I'll bet with practice you could cover a wing in under 5 minutes 
once the pieces are cut out.

* Seams in the transparents are nearly invisible over wood.

* Goes over compound curves readily.

* Shrinks well.

* Holds when shrunk. (If you have to take out a warp this stuff
 will work.)

* Decent torsional rigidity. (Much better than Litespan as an
 example, but probably not as good as Monokote.)

* Somewhat stretchy -- does not appear to induce warps on
 relatively light structures.

* Reasonable toughness

* Inexpensive (relatively -- $10 a roll)

* Edges stay tacked down -- always a problem for me with 
 Monokote on a tight curve.

Minuses:

* Colors can be a little funky. The transparent red looks more
 like pink to me, and the yellow looks more like gold. Not
 necessarily a drawback, but they're not going to match much else.

* High tack means that if you let the material fold over itself,
 you may wind up throwing the piece out. I've had pieces of
 material that stuck together so well that in trying to get them
 apart, they tore.

* Not as strong as Monokote. (Micafilm/Fibafilm is the toughest
 iron on I know of. However, it will twist a light structure into
 a pretzel.) May be on a par with Econokote.

Unknown:

* Long-term fuel resistance/sunlight resistance. Probably fine.

* MAY be applied at a low enough temperature to use straight on
 foam. (Don't know, I'm not fond of working with foam.)

I've used Oracover Lite on a 24-ounce Hobby Hangar Edge 540
(nice-flying airplane by the way on a 7 cell CP 1300 pack, and
either a Promax Cobalt 4014 on a 7 x 5 or a Mega 22/10/6 on an
8 x 4) -- and flying over a grass field, I've got no holes in the
covering in several outings. You can pick the airplane up by the
wing without touching the balsa with no problems.

I've also just applied Oracover Lite to a 37-ounce Apache with no
landing gear, but I haven't flown the airplane yet.

Summation: Oracover Lite has become one of my favorite iron-ons.
For anything in the under 3 pound category, I think it's great.
It doesn't seem to have any major handling problems; it's light-
weight, and I think it's aesthetically attractive.

Sam Brauer Stamford, Connecticut

John Rossetti < jyuma@axxent.ca > submitted:

I really enjoyed the comments on Jim Walker and would like to 
add a few of my own. Back in the early forties I was living in the
Canal Zone, and although we had lots of balsa wood, kits, glue,
etc. were hard to come by.

One day my friend Marshall Hughes and I managed to make a deal
with one of our friends to trade him some of our stuff for his Jim
Walker Fireball kit. While we never managed to fly it too well,
we did have a great time building and trying to fly it.

Then, after the war I ended up living in Portland, Oregon and
had the opportunity to actually see Jim Walker in person, flying
several of his Ukies at one time, flying his gliders, and
demonstrating a radio-controlled lawn mower at one flying event.
My brother even worked for a while at Jim's company.

Anyway, those of us who are long-time modelers, and I mean long
time, still appreciate all that the great Jim Walker contributed
to model aviation. John Rossetti

Bob Peterson < RPeter9954@aol.com > wrote:

What a great forum this is!! It's seldom that you run into so
many people that have the same interest.

On the subject of which engines were most "user friendly", I'd
like to nominate Mel Anderson's 1/2A's!! Yes, ALL of them: the
.045's, the .049, and even tho' it's a little larger, the .065.

The .045 had a long stroke that permitted using props from 5 1/2"
to 9"! Yes, I did run one with a 9-6, and not only did it run,
but it usually started in just a couple of flips -- a really
neat engine.

I do agree with JW that buying an ARF is 'sorta like buying a
crossword puzzle book with all the tough words already done.
On the other hand, though, many of us have no time to build, and
after seeing some of the quality of the Czech Republic ARF's,
I am really impressed. I still prefer to build them myself --
there's nothing like seeing something you've created actually fly...

Bob Peterson

...Bob, the original Mel Anderson 1/2A engine, the .045 Baby
Spitfire, had a curious origin. In the early 1930's Mel worked
with Bill Atwood (America's most prolific model engine designer,
responsible for the original Wasp .049 and the Cox Tee Dees)
on the first model engines to be manufactured on the West Coast.

These were the Baby Cyclones: .36 displacement but about the 
same external size and weight as the Brown Junior .60's. The Baby
Cykes were also the first front rotary valve model engines.

In 1948 three separate approaches to tiny model glow engines were
made: by Lud Kading and Johnny Brodbeck at K&B (resulting in the
.020 Infant) -- by Charlie Brebeck at Herkimer (the OK Cub .049) --
and by Mel Anderson.

To simplify setting the design parameters for his new tiny engine
(the term "1/2A" was months in the future), Mel took the easy way
out and made the Baby Spitfire's bore and stroke precisely half
those of the Baby Cyclone. [JW]

Glenn Bolick < rgb8@juno.com > adds:

Just a footnote on the OK Cub engine discussion. My first OK Cub
engine was purchased for less than $5.00 in kit form with all the
components just mounted in a box with instructions on how to
assemble. This was the .049 beam mount engine.

Later purchased a radial mount with tank .039 Cub in the same
do-it-yourself assembly format. Still have both, and both still
ran fine a few years ago. While certainly not as powerful as some
of the later engines, they obviously were user-friendly, as I was
able to assemble and get them running and flying in Scientific
all-balsa models as my first engines!

Glenn Bolick

Bob Chiang < rhc3@cornell.edu > contributed:

I read with interest that OK Cubs were manufactured in Herkimer,
NY, which is not too far from where I live. I looked up their
web page, and see that they give tours of their museum and
manufacturing plant. If anyone has visited their plant, was
the tour interesting?

Also of general interest: there was someone auctioning Maxell
brand 700 mAh AAA cells for $0.50 each on e-Bay. I missed the
auction and contacted them to buy the cells directly. I have
just received a package of 28 cells, so I can vouch for prompt
delivery. There have been discussions about these cells on the
ezone magazine, and they appear to work well as power packs
for current draws up to about 6 amps.

They should make lightweight and long-lasting receiver/servo packs
too. I have been flying a model powered by an MG-1 motor with
Sanyo brand AAA NiMH cells, and it's a great system. I hope these
new cells are comparable.

E-mail Jennine at < jtautimer@home.com > for more information.

Bob Chiang Ithaca, New York USA

Al Lidberg < AALmps@aol.com > has a problem:

Need to contact Roy Nesson, Huntington Beach, California,
regarding an order -- is he on this list? AL

David Larkin < dslarkin@blvl.igs.net >

In response to Mac Wilson, regarding single channel flying, the
answer is, as in so many things "it depends". Joe's advice is very 
sage and suitable for very enjoyable flying, but only on calm days. 
At least in England where there is usually a built-in breeze of 
10-20 mph, successful single-channel flying went hand in hand
with the search for that special commodity known as 'penetration'.

Basically, of course, this was airspeed; but also the ability to
fly without having the nose pitch up after certain manoeuvres.

The masters at this sort of thing were the West Essex flyers,
notably my friend Sid Sutherland with his 'Old Faithful' and Bill
Taylor (sadly to die early) with his 'Whiplash'. These were fairly
highly powered models with considerable lateral stability, that
were trimmed to fly as fast as possible by increasing the positive
incidence of the stabilizer (or decreasing the negative, whichever
way you want to look at it). The worse the wind, the more 
packing you put under the tailplane leading edge.

Sid recently built replicas both of his Old Faithful and of Bill's
Whiplash, with which to astound modern R/C flyers. These used
modern digital gear, but rudder-only and were powered by vintage
diesels. Great fun. The danger of course is to go too far, in which 
case you have a model which will not recover from a dive --
as I found out with my FROG Jackdaw.

Despite hitting a concrete runway, the model flew again, but this
time with elevator added and 6 channels of Kraft R/C and Bonner
servos; and I taught myself to fly multi R/C destroying myriad Top
Flite 10 X 3 1/2s on its Enya .19, through ground loops.

In the 70s I decided to build a replica of one of my early free
flight designs, the Gurrier. (You have to be a Dubliner to know
what a gurrier is.) This model was a sort of semi-scale generic
American-type lightplane. As originally designed (for an Allbon
Merlin .8cc (.049 cu in) it had a lifting tail and would barely
climb away from the launch. So I replaced the stabilizer with a
flat plate design. This worked really well and the plane flew
very well with engines from a FROG 50 to a Taifun Hobby.

However when I built the replica, I fitted ACE single-channel
pulse rudder-only and stuck to the flat plate tail. The plane
was hard to handle, particularly in a wind, tending to zoom.
So I retraced my footsteps and built a lifting tail. With this
I had a nicely-mannered model that flew well with a Black Widow.

It sits neglected now as I have no source for Pactra Aerogloss
cream with which to repair the torn tissue-covered fuselage.
Maybe I'll build a new one for a PAW .049 and cover the fuselage
in cream Litespan or Airspan.

I have a personal hobby horse in that I wish that people who
devised the SAM R/C rules had specified rudder-only for
competition. The justification for R/C in "free flight models"
is just to avoid having to chase after them -- quite important
for those of us who have passed our 'better before' date. Instead,
by allowing elevator control SAM have permitted a power race 
where the elevator control enables us to use grossly inappropriate
engines, which would render a rudder-only model uncontrollable.

Having said all this, it is worth adding throttle control to a
rudder-only model, if that is possible. I built two Tomboys for
pulse rudder-only and now have one for digital R/C with a couple 
of servos, one on rudder and one on throttle. I have flown this 
for years off both water and land -- and snow.

Undoubtedly the addition of elevator control would improve 
its capabilities as a floatplane -- I've done take-offs, landings,
touch and goes, and taxied back to the 'beach' -- but never all
on the same flight!

It was good to see a posting from Gerry Pronovost. Gerry is a
remarkable modeller, usually going where no one else dares to go
with challenging new ideas and is one of the pioneers of indoor 
R/C. Gerry and his wife Pauline are the nicest couple one could 
ever want to meet, and fortunately have shown absolutely no 
sign of ageing since I first met them in the 60s.

Incidentally, I just received a set of plans for the Chicken Hawk
biplane from Ted Strader. It's a very pretty design and the
construction is also elegant. A perfect R/C model for small
plane enthusiasts.

All the best, Dave

Roy Clough < royce6@juno.com > writes:

This chat about early park flyers tempts me to get into it.

In the early 1940s I took my bright orange 42" Super Atom powered
cabin free flighter to Elizabeth Park in Hartford. I had it set
up to make tight left hand circles, that would gain little altitude
on a half-minute run. Taking it to a clear spot I fired it up and
turned it loose. It made a satisfying take-off run and circled
around and around, never getting much higher than 40-50 feet and
drawing a bunch of kids that stood around UNDER its flight path.

I thought the engine would never quit as the circles started
drifting down field. Luckily, when it did the model glided into
the reachable low limbs of a tree instead of into a kid's
happily upturned face.

I was quite relieved at no bad result from a stupid trick. I swore
never again to let FF loose in a public park where the sound of the
engine can attract a swarm of kids out of nowhere.

About single-channel flying: For years, right down to the Cox
"Failsafe" singles, I have successfully used a single-channel
trick that gives both rudder and elevator. First, use self-
centering hinges -- like drafting mylar, and a bendable rudder tab.

Set your flight for a gentle right-hand turn with the tab.
Connect the left side of the stick to pull the rudder to the
left. Connect the elevator so the right side stick movement
gives "up".

Now, tweaking the rudder when aloft will give straight flight;
holding it left will bring the nose down in a gentle fashion
because the gyroscopic effect of the prop in a left turn tends to
hold the nose up -- moderately, but you can overpower it.

You MUST make control connections with carpet thread, so the
control function pull not being used just hangs limp. Now, with
"up elevator" you can dive into spirals and pull them up and go
the other way at will.

Also re-read JW's good advice on single channel in the previous
posting.

Roy C.

Robert Ness < Robtness@aol.com > submitted:

To the guy that was interested in .061 diesels: I bought a couple
of the heads from MECOA or RJL < http://www.MECOA.com > 
for 12.95 each, I believe, and put them on my Norvel .061. They 
seem to run fine and will swing a bigger prop and very quietly too.

I would NEVER deal with Bob Davis of Davis Diesel again. He is
the most obnoxious, arrogant, know-it-all I have ever in my life
talked to. All he did was badmouth the other companies that
produce diesels and CO2 motors that I was interested in. I found
out that his 1/2A diesel conversions don't hold up long without
replacing the Teflon diaphragms.

I have had P.A.W. diesels and a few others with no serious problems.
I never have to do anything to them. Thanks to the guys that run
this list, I love it!

Raj < rajm@pacific.net.sg > reports:

On the subject of diesel heads, I have had good fun with the RJL
Cox 049 diesel conversion head. At $12.99 it's good value and
screws straight on to both the AP Wasp 061 and Norvel 061 range.
It's available from < http://www.mecoa.com >.

Unlike the Davis head, it has an O-ring contrapiston. which is
not subjected to the wear and tear the Davis Teflon disks suffer.
Installation too is simpler; as easy as changing a glow plug.

With slightly increased ether content, starting is quite easy,
provided the engine has been well run-in and has a good
piston/cylinder fit. As my running has been confined to the
bench, I probably haven't chalked up enough hours to bust any
crankshafts yet.

However I must confess that at this point Diesel heads still remain
a novelty to me, as it's good fun seeing these popular glows run
as diesels. For any real flying though, it's back to my PAW's.

Raj, Singapore

Mike Gillihan < CFIIMEI@aol.com > informs us:

I'm currently working on a new project. I've always had a
hankering to build a good R/C HLG, but have been unable to find
exactly what I want. Everything out on the market is either cheap
and heavy or bagged-wing competition style.

The new design will be called "The Happy Medium", and sports a 
38" wingspan, a Selig 7075 airfoil on a 5.5 inch chord, and an all-up
weight of around 5-6 ounces. I might also try some unusual launch
techniques -- thinking about trying a drop-off rubber motor stick
that uses rubber tension to hold the device to the aircraft.

A 20-second run could make some nice altitude... Should be a
fun experiment. If it works well I might try to get one of the
model rags to publish an article.

Mike S. Gillihan 
Designs That Fly, Inc. 
< http://members.aol.com/DTFBiplane >

Jerry W. < jerryace@webtv.net > sent:

In posting #403 Joe mentioned the old Veco kits and brought back
some fond memories. I started building in '56 with a $1.95
Scientific kit and a $3.95 Baby Bee (which I still have).

In 1961 I received for Christmas a Veco Thunderbird and a Johnson
.35 Stunt Supreme. Now I have been under the impression for 40
years that the Thunderbird was the top of the line Veco kit,
followed by the Chief, Squaw, etc. Sure would like to know more
about the old Veco line. They were mighty fine kits. Jerry

...Jerry, Veco started out in 1948 making model wheels. Some were
based on the prewar Voit airwheels; others had molded "semi-
pneumatic" tires. These sold very well, and the next step up for
Veco came with the bankruptcy of the old Ricks Manufacturing Co.
and the closing down of Burbank Mfg. Co., who had made kits for
J. C. Yates's "Madman" and Bob Palmer's "Go-Devil" control-
line stunters.

The assets of all three of these companies combined under the
Veco name, and a line of control-line kits emerged with "Red
Indian" names: Brave, Warrior, Chief, Squaw, and Papoose. The
initial designs were all by Howard "Hi" Johnson; Bob Palmer did 
the test flying.

I joined Veco in September 1949 as a free flight designer. Hi
Johnson and I worked night and day developing new tooling and
balsa-cutting techniques; the wet die-cutting process we came
up with allowed Veco to produce advanced versions of all the
earlier kits. From the latter part of 1949 until the Fall of
1954, all the Veco model kits but one: 5 1/2A free flights and
8 control-liners -- were either my designs or redesigns, or had
been engineered by me. I also drew the inked plans for all these
models, with major assistance from Lee Scott on the Chief and
Squaw drawings.

As for the performance of these various airplanes, the Dakota and
Sioux were purely sport free flights. The Comanche was designed
for 1/2A PAA-Load competition; the Navajo (designed by Tommy
Protheroe) was a pylon free flight contest model; and the Taylor
Cub was designed as a free flight scale competitor.

The Brave was a control-line trainer; the Scout was a 1/2A stunt
model (the first one kitted, and also the first model designed for
the Wasp .049 engine). The Redskin was a Team Racer, designed 
by Clarence Lee.

All the other Veco control-line kits: Warrior, Chief, Squaw,
Papoose, and Smoothie (a Bob Palmer design) were competition
stunt designs. Their performance depended on how well -- and 
how lightly! -- they were built. Engine size also made a difference.

The Thunderbird came along later, after I'd left Veco to take over
the management of Kenhi Model Products. But I made the die-
cutting dies for the Thunderbird kit... [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index