SMALLnet post444 

 SMALLnet Posting post444

Date: Mon, 28 Feb 2005 01:37:07 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

George Hostler < > responds to
James Lingscheit's request for Mini-Mambo plans or kits:

Kits occasionally pop up on eBay, but unfortunately they are
considered collectors' items now and most fetch a price beyond
reason. However, a recent one sold for $33 (die-cut pieces loose
in box). Mini-Mambo kit plans are available from Dave Fritzke
< > for $6 plus $2.50 shipping folded.
He accepts PayPal. Kit plans are adequate for scratch building
except that they lack fuselage former data. Here it is:

Width of former only, not including 3/32" sides:

F1 2" F2 2-1/4" F3 2-7/16" F4 2-11/32" 
F6 1-13/32" F7 15/16" F8 19/32"

George

Hollis Fenn < > has already e-mailed
James Lingscheit directly, and adds:

 Source: Plans, Mini-Mambo 

 Source: Plans, Junior Falcon 

 Source: Plans, Roaring 20 

 Source: Plans, L'il Roughneck 

 Source: Plans, deBolt planes 

For those who are interested in the Mini-Mambo and other
oldies such as Junior Falcon, Roaring 20, L'il Roughneck,
deBolt planes, and more -- check out Bob Harris' website
< http://www.earlyrcmodels.com/ >.

Ed Couch < > wrote:

To the gentlemen (James Lingscheit) looking for a set of plans
for the Mini Mambo by Sterling: Give me a hit offline and we
can arrange a set of plans from the Original Sterling Kit for
the cost of reproduction and mailing.

I'm currently flying an electric version with a GWS IPS gearbox
and Fiego brushless motor. Outstanding little bird and a hoot
to fly. First kit plane for R/C I ever built in 1960 or so.
Knew immediately on first flight why I loved that little bird.

David Hogue < > adds his input:

Someone asked about the Mini Mambo....A really nice guy down 
here in the Apex, North Carolina area makes a laser-cut kit of it, 
and many other Golden Age R/C kits, including the Goldberg 
Junior Falcon and Skylark.

I have been meaning to do one of his Junior Falcons for a long time
now; just haven't got around to it yet. Now this man also has a
small Ugly Stik on the way.

I built several of the Midwest kits and scratchbuilt them later
off the plans, and I remember the original Jensen's were still
available when I started this hobby. Bob was working on a Senior
Falcon kit, but I am not sure what has happened with that, since
the plane has now been ARFed by the Lanier/GB company cheaper 
than his kit. Depressing that you can apparently have a plane 
ARFed overseas cheaper than it can be kitted, in today's world.

David Hogue

Larry Marshall < > contributed:

It's good to see some talk among modelers about the current state
of model aviation. Hopefully the brainstorming will come up with
some solutions.

I have to agree with Thayer that Fly RC is a far better model
magazine than the rest of the crop. Thayer also said, "As proof
in the pudding that some magazine editors can still appreciate
building, take a look at this link on my personal web page:
< http://www.gryffinaero.com/models/ffpages/rce/daddyo >...."

 ...I fondly remember when Thayer submitted photos to MAN
of his Lazy Bee, converted into a multi-engined China Clipper.
It was an amazing modeling effort and cute as a bug. A major
'war' ensued at MAN, as Tom and I really thought the model
merited the high profile we were trying to give it, while the
id!@...err...uhm... fine publishers of MAN, who had no ideas
about much of anything, didn't think that MAN should be
presenting small models at all.

Thayer is definitely one of the good guys and Fly RC may be 
one of our last hopes for a real RC "modeling" magazine.

Dereck Woodward wrote, "... I got introduced to this by Randy
Randolph's "BeeTween" 049-powered ship back in England. 
It was published in MAN, and was about as..."

Hmm...I just realized that my BeeTween might be an example of 
the change in model aviation. I built one in 2 days when the plan
showed up. I think that was '89. I flew the heck out of it with
a Black Widow in the nose but, as with most models, it found
itself hanging on my wall, as I'd moved on to something else.

But one winter I decided to investigate the notion of electric
power and I took the BeeTween, yanked the guts out of it and
installed a Speed 400 in the nose. It made Ontario winters
endurable as I would charge up 3 battery packs, walk down the
street to a field and fly. When the batteries were depleted
I'd walk back to the house, charge the batteries and drink
coffee to recharge ME. I did that all winter and it was great.

The BeeTween had its mechanics removed at some point and 
it had found its way to the wall again. I gave it to a friend in the
late 90's because he wanted a small model. But he's never built
a model in his life, though I taught him to fly in the early 90's 
and he's been flying ever since.

That BeeTween still sits in his basement, without a power system
because he's just "too busy" to install the .049 he bought for it.
Sad but true.

Pat Tritle wrote: "It's been my observation that in life, the less the 
investment, the less the return. The kind of person who requires 
the kind of model...."

Pat put his finger on the root of the problem. He went on: "That's 
not as big a problem in the Albuquerque area anymore, as the ARF 
crowd has basically run the modelers off by generating an unsafe 
environment, with no regard for life, limb, or the models we fly!"

I read this with both a thrill (it's not just Quebec) and sadness
(it's everywhere). I've largely quit flying because of the incredibly 
dangerous situation that persists at the club field here in Quebec 
City.

I think this is one of the larger threats to model aviation at this 
point, as the clubs have always been the driving force of model 
aviation. More and more, as Pat describes, those who invest
something in their models aren't willing to fly with the foamy
floppers who have no sense of respect for models.

Pat continued, "As a result, those of us who still fly models that
we actually build, are doing it in small groups under the cover of
early dawn; in school yards which we don't advertise to what has
become known in these parts as the "crash crew". I really hate to
have to do..."

While this sounds great (wish I were back in Albuquerque, Pat),
it begs the question of how the hobby will persist. If the 'lifers' 
scuttle off to soccer fields at dawn, how will true 'newbies' find 
them? We need a new social model for model aviation. 
Breakfast clubs, perhaps?

Pat commented, "Now, with that being said, it's our job as
"modelers" to give back to those guys that which was given
to us by the people who...."

I agree; but from what I can tell, the 'buy it' crowd became
'instant experts' and have become the biggest barrier to
communication, as they are downright snotty towards seasoned
modelers trying to help them. Maybe I've become too old for
model aviation as I don't feel that I should help someone who
shows no respect for anyone.

Larry "ex-MAN editor (don't blame me for what it's become)"
Marshall --- Quebec, Quebec

Randy Randolph < > wrote:

It is interesting that a division between ARF flyers and model
builders has developed, and even more interesting that I have
not noticed the division! I did note a problem that developed
between indoor rubber fliers and Indoor RC fliers that happened
when large and fast RC airplanes took the air while the lighter
and slower rubber-powered airplanes were flying.

The problem was solved when the mornings was given to free flight
and the afternoons to RC. It worked so well that some of the RC
flyers built FF and the FF guys built RC.

As Pat Tritle said: the ARF guys, with the proper incentive, might
just decide it's fun to cut balsa -- and the balsa-cutters might
take a liking to some of the new and great technology available
in the ARF culture.

Randy

Ron Fikes < > has this to say:

I find that Pat Tritle's feelings about ARFers is spot on.
It is ruining the flying at our local field also. The gang that
used to build and fly their own built models are disappearing.
They no longer wish to "take the chance" that their beautifully
built 'models' will be wiped out by the new crew of "It's my ARF,
and I can fly it anywhere I want" flyers.

With the advent of the ARF 3D planes, no place in the sky is safe
and the new flyers know nothing of safety and courtesy, and don't
seem to care.

I grew up building my own models (there were not many things
available in the early 40s except balsa, glue and tissue) so we
built with pride (trying to make the most of what we could afford).
I do enjoy the modern materials, but don't build scale -- still
love the sight of a built-up structure that looks like a model
airplane.

I don't know what the answer is - ARFs are where the $$$$ are to
be made. Look at the magazines' ARF thrust (Flying Models 
magazine is still "builder friendly"). Long live the true model 
builder, even if he has to go underground!

Now go into your stash and run your fingers over some 
lovely balsa... Ron Fikes

Bill Lee < > observes:

I have come to the conclusion that in this instant gratification
world that we live in today, the following is true:

 ARF R/C == A video game in 3D

Bill Lee

John Meacham < > contributed:

I see a lot of questions on the "build or buy" subject. But
modelers come in an amazing assortment of people. I like to 
build from plans, kits, my imagination etc. -- but then I take 
out my last masterpiece and fly it a couple of times and am 
happy. So I put it up on a shelf someplace and there it sits.

Then the building bug hits again and I build up another airplane.
Got a shelf in my shed with I don't know how many wings sitting
there. I keep saying to myself, "I gotta sort them out and build
a bunch of fuselages and tail feathers. Maybe someday."

BTW, I see some new plans for a model using that "Air Hog"
compressed air motor. Before the Air Hog came along there was
another compressed air motor from Italy that came with a stick
fuselage plane. That was a much better flyer than the plastic
Air Hogs now on the market.

I sold my power unit from one of those many years ago. As I
remember, it was better than the plastic Air Hog motor, and was
made of metal, kind of like a CO2 motor.

John Meacham

Ken Elder < > wrote:

I like to build rather than buy, but the availability of pre-built
models combined with my lack of ability to make accurate parts
from plans has made me owner of several ARF small planes. 
Like most, I have very little spare time to build. But when I do,
a couple of things have helped me:

Since trying these two methods, I now enjoy building more than
ever. Try it, maybe it will work for you!

Ken Elder Largo, Florida

Tommy Wilson < > inquired:

I have a query about break-in for BigMig 061's. I recently bought
another Norvel engine & the instructions are rather sketchy 
to say the least. I put castor oil on top of the piston as the
instructions called for, left it for 24 hours, then rotated the
crankshaft 100 turns clockwise as per the instructions.

Now what do I do? I sent an e-mail to Norvel asking for further
instructions but did not receive an answer. I also had a trawl
around their web-site but found nothing useful there either.

All my other Norvels came with comprehensive instructions, 
which I followed & had great success with. Do I now run the 
engine "as is", or do the rich/lean cycle for 20 minutes as was 
previously recommended ? I don't want to harm the engine by 
doing something incorrectly. Tom Wilson

...I replied to Tom directly, as follows [JW] :

Back when Ed Stevens was running Norvel, he was exceedingly 
quick to respond to any and ALL customer requests. But after he 
sold out to Sig's new management, customer support has become 
just about nil.

A friend of mine bought a Norvel .061 and had the same questions
you did. As I told my friend: the moving parts of Norvel's 
"RevLite" engines are quite rugged. The only problem with them 
that I know about is a tendency of the piston/cylinder surfaces to 
erode when new. (The actual surface is aluminum oxide -- 
a substance long used as an abrasive.)

That's the reason for Norvel's new "Sliktek" piston coating, and
the 24-hour oil-soak routine. The idea is to retain the benefits
of the sapphire-hard moving surfaces while eliminating any 
abrasive effect between the moving parts.

I'd say that it's OK now for you to begin running the engine.
To be safe, follow the 20-minute rich-lean routine you mentioned.
(Its major benefit is heat-stabilizing the piston and cylinder.)
You can achieve the same effect by running the engine leaned 
out for a couple of minutes; then shutting it off and letting
everything cool down all the way to "room temperature" 
before starting it up again.

Five or six repetitions of that sequence should do the break-in
job nicely. Joe

Tom Johnson < > recommends:

I used this technique to make my own balsa cutters. I used generic
2-blade disposable razors with blades that had a lot of holes.
I used CA to glue in the blades, and added an excess of baking
soda in the blade holes. I then soaked the baking soda with CA.
The soda formed a hard, dense lock in the holes and "hooked"
everything in one piece. Tom Johnson

Mike Halbrook < > submitted:

Pat Tritle's comment about "cranky .049 U-control models" reminded
me that I haven't mentioned mine. Since I have been in Idaho with
access to a large dry lake I've done quite a bit of control-line
flying. Most of it has been with Cox, Wen Mac and Aurora RTF
plastic planes, but I've built some of my own as well.

I have a 34" Comet P-38 converted to control line that I built
about 10 years ago. This plane has two Cox Black Widows with
TD .051 pistons and cylinders. The model is sheeted with 1/32"
balsa and covered with aluminum and black Monokote. This model
is very impressive in the air and a hoot to fly.

I also have a Revell 19" plastic display P-38 converted to control
line, using two Pee Wee .020s with props and spinners from the
Testors "FlyEm" P-40. To round out the P-38's, I have a Testors
"chrome" RTF P-38 assembled from used and NOS parts along with
some home-made parts to complete it. It is powered by two McCoy
.049s with Cox three-blade props and spinners.

All three P-38s have similar flight characteristics. I also have
a Revell Mosquito converted to control line. This has not been
the success the P-38 is. The Mosquito will fly fairly well on
one engine, not at all on two.

I've also built a plastic F-104 Starfighter as a control-line
model. No great surprise: it won't fly at all.

All told, I have about 60 active or available control-line models.

Best Regards, Mike

Al Lidberg < > submitted:

While I realize that SMALLnet doesn't care much about contests,
I would like to bring to your attention that the SAM Champs
provides a swap meet during the week of the contest, and that
MECA [Model Engine Collectors Association] will have its
Collecto/swap meet the weekend before.

Here's a link to the contest:
< http://www.antiquemodeler.org/2005champs.htm >

AL 
A. A. Lidberg model plan service 
< http://www.aalmps.com/ >

Al Backstrom < > responds to
Roger Schroeder's request for light silver tissue:

I have good success with DIY silver coating of white tissue.
The process requires aluminum powder from an artists' supply,
a ladies' powder puff, and a pair of exam type gloves.

Pour a little silver powder on a sheet of wax paper; pick up some
of it with the powder puff, and start working it onto the tissue.
Use cross-streaking etc. until a uniform coating is obtained.

Spray with clear dope or whatever you prefer. I used this process
on a P-35 model nearly twenty years ago. It didn't fly well, so
I gave it to a friend who was better at adjusting than I was.
He died recently, and another friend got the model. He told me
the tissue was still in good condition. The aluminum powder
Ultra-Violet barrier obviously worked.

Al Backstrom

Ian L. McQueen < > adds:

Look into spray cans of silver "stuff" (lacquer, enamel,
what is the name for it?). The type that I bought at my local
Canadian Tire store gave good opacity with a thin coat, and
added negligible weight. Probably spray-can silver paint
by any manufacturer will perform equally well. (Mine was not
Krylon, but they are a well-known brand to try.)

I sprayed the silver over one coat of thinned dope. That might
have been the equivalent of clear lacquer from a building
supply store -- just enough to seal the paper. It's cheaper
than "real" dope. Ian

...Here's some itemized "closing remarks" from (JW):

1. What IS this endless R/C, R/C, R/C mania in model aviation
these days? The ONLY US magazine that seems to realize free flight
and control-line models and flyers still exist is Flying Models.

I myself write a model engine column for Model Aviation, and have
been instructed by the editor to leave the FF and C-L material to
the "specialty columnists" -- and limit my topics to R/C motors.

Yeah, radio control can be fun, all right. But so can FF and C-L !

Not much space is needed for a control-line circle; and for sport
free flight a football field provides plenty of room for models
that fly like "real airplanes".

The open space where CO2, mini-electric, HLG, and rubber-powered
FF models are flown every Sunday morning (weather permitting) in
southern California's San Fernando Valley isn't much larger than a
football stadium -- and in the Good Old Days plenty of FF model
contests were held in New York City's Central Park.

2. A while ago, before I reactivated SMALLnet, Randy e-mailed
me about "stringer-crushing" troubles he was having with one
of the built-up kit models he was reviewing for a model magazine.
I suggested gluing carbon fiber strips to one side of a sheet of hard 
balsa, then using a balsa stripper to cut the needed stringers from that.

Installed with the carbon-reinforced surface on the inside of the
model, that solved the crushing problem for Randy.

And that reminded me of building Earl Stahl's scale rubber-powered
designs from the full-size plans in 1940-era MAN. I had plenty
of problems with the bulkheads splitting during construction.
I cured that by doping silk onto both sides of the 1/16" balsa
sheet before cutting out the bulkheads. Not a one ever split
for me since then.

3. I see recommendations from time to time to "use a new #11
X-Acto blade" for some precision cutting operation or other.

I perform "precision cutting operations" frequently. But I haven't
bought any X-Acto blades for maybe 20 years. That's because I
re-sharpen the blades I have.

At first I used an oilstone for that. But it's messy work, and
needs cleaning up afterwards -- especially the knife: oily balsa
won't glue together effectively.

15 or so years ago I invested $30 in a "diamond stone".
This is a flat steel plate about 1/4" thick, 2" X 6". Its top
surface has been impregnated with diamond dust. I use it dry;
and whenever it looks like it's getting coated with steel swarf,
I wash it off with a toothbrush, detergent, and hot water.
That makes its diamond "sharpening surface" like new again...
[JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index