SMALLnet post352 

 SMALLnet Posting post352

Date: Tue, 10 Oct 2000 01:56:16 -0500

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet/ >

...I thought I'd be in Pennsylvania by this time, but storm damage
to my workshop building keeps me here in Alabama until the 
repairs are done -- and they're not even started yet... [JW]

Ron Ferrer < > announces:

Just a short note; the Sig Rascals are out; selling for under
$60.00. It is worth every penny. I just opened mine Saturday.
It comes with everything: nylon pants, not ABS. The "tailwheel"
is a dummy; novel setup. The design and cutting is beautiful.
Every bit as good as Herr kits, but with more hardware. Will keep
you all posted on progress of kit in weeks to come. Ron.

Jim Simpson < > adds:

We test flew the SIG Rascal this AM on a standard Speed 400 with
gears turning an APC 9 x 6e composite prop on 7 x 600 AE Sanyo
(greens) and:

IT FLYS A H*** OF A LOT BETTER THAN IT LOOKS 
(AND IT LOOKS TERRIFIC) !!

Folks, it's been awhile since I've been so excited about an R/C
plane. Here's why.

It is real pretty to look at. (So sez my wife of 44 years).

It weighs 23 ounces RTF. and ROG's with authority.

It rolls, loops spins, flys inverted and...well, you'll just have to
wait for the kit review in MAN (soon) for the rest of the story......

.....after all, I don't want to give TOO much away 

OBTW when you pick one up (or order), be sure to get a pair of
Williams Brothers wheels (#150) and a 1 1/2" spinner......they do
make a difference !!!

Jimbo in New Mexico

PS Ailerons ?? Why bother ?? Don't believe me - wait till you
see one fly !!

Dan Mcleod < > inquires:

Many of us SMALLsters fly diesel power. My flying buddy Gerry asked
me, "Why does the rubber stopper used for the diesel tank disintegrate
due to the fuel? And also, what would be impervious to the ether or
the kerosene?" He also mentioned that he has found a tubing, yellow
in color, that will take gas and diesel fuel but it is only in big
sizes, so is not very adaptable to small engines.

I responded: I am not an expert, but I think that the ether and the
kerosene act as an organic solvent for certain types of rubber, both
the natural type and the synthetic type and for some types of
plastics (e.g. Tygon) as well. Strictly speaking, you must know the
exact composition of the rubber etc. to know if it will be affected
by the solvent. In practical day-to-day use, certain brands seem
to work best.

I would appreciate any knowledgeable comment on this matter.

I have recently been having some problems with glow plugs in a
Thunder Tiger .25 in a Seniorita which I use for training student
pilots. This resulted in my trying hotter or colder types of plugs.
It probably had something to do with the overall cooler summer this
year. I use Omega 5% or 10% fuel. Fresh batches of fuel gave no
change in results, nor did putting in new plugs of brand X which 
I have used with good results for years -- but changing to an O.S.
helicopter (used) plug sure fixed the problem. If there are any
experts out there, I would appreciate some education about hot and
cold plugs. Especially as the weather is cooling down and we do
lots of cold-weather flying up here in Canada.

Perhaps some company has an FAQ on this topic. Thanx, Dan

...Dan, we've covered the "diesel compatibility" topic at least
twice in earlier SMALLnet Postings, but here it is again. Most
rubber products that contain natural latex or a synthetic version
of that will deteriorate in contact with any kind of petroleum-
based liquid. That includes gasoline and kerosene.

For that reason, some makers of plastic clunk-type fuel tanks
(e.g. Sullivan) supply "gasoline-resistant" rubber plugs for
their tank kits. These are what you need for model diesel fuel.

Silicone elastomers are also affected by exposure to petroleum fuel.
That makes the silicone swell up to about twice its normal size.

The yellow fuel tubing your friend Gerry found is Tygon, and it
is now sold by DuBro in 3-foot lengths and in two sizes. Both
are rather thick-walled, but I have been using the smaller of the
two sizes on PAW .03 diesels without any problems.

Eric Clutton (and maybe Dave Larkin) sells a thin-walled small-
diameter Tygon tubing that works rather well in clunk tanks,
provided that the tubing is longer than about an inch. (It also
helps to make your own clunks, with a tinned brass tube center 
and a lead "body" cast around the brass tube.)

As for glow plugs, they do differ a LOT, and some of my glow
engines won't even pop on certain brands. For example, I have an
early O.S. .06 that will only run on a 50-year-old Champion V-2
glow plug. Trial and error seems the only way to go... [JW]

Pat Beard < > asks:

Around 1986 a friend gave me a Sunny Bipe and I flew it with an
OS 25FP and a large prop (can't remember size). I flew it in close
and slow and had fun doing aerobatics with only 3 channels. 
Does anyone know if this kit still exists? Pat

Ken Park < > announces:

When the summer is over then it's back to the basement to start
building yet again -- and I am happy to say the Ottawa Remote 
Control Club is again doing a winter building project. This project 
is already in the early stages of development with a Prototype being
built at this time.

When we work out the bugs it will go into full production. This
year's plane is the "Cassutt". Please check out our club web site
at < http://www.ottawarcclub.com > and look under SMALL Planes 
button for further details on the project thus far. Ken Park

Dave Segal < > contributed:

 Source: Books 

Although this does not apply directly to building small models,
I know that modelers often seek hard-to-find books relating to
modeling and aviation. The greatest book search mechanism is on
the Internet, at the Advanced Book Exchange:
< http://www.abebooks.com >.

It links together thousands of booksellers around the world and a
search takes just seconds to conduct.

Just as a test today I punched in Winter, William with a keyword
of "Aviation", and a listing came up of 24 of Bill's books going
back to 1941. I have purchased several books through this site
and have been pleased with the results.

Dave Segal

Larry Renger < > mourns:

Last week, two planes and two flight boxes were stolen from my
garage (I left the door up overnight, accidentally {DUMB!}).

The planes were my (Tim Meek's, actually) 1/2A Pathfinder with a
Strickland-modified Norvel. It has yellow tissue wings and a white
fuselage, the numbers 9246 in red on the left flap.

My Swee'Pea racing plane with a silver-colored "Black Widow" on it.
Silk covering, cream finish with green trim. Vee tail

The flight boxes were my small one with the Nicad recharger and a
Miller 1/2A starter, props, tools, Nicad starter, Solar charging
panel, and lots of plugs, etc.
a large one with a full power panel, fuel pump, stopwatch, my other
Miller 1/2A starter, a big geared Hobby Lobby starter, 12v battery.
Color is medium blue with red checkerboards on one drawer, and a 
box with plugs, wrenches, etc. etc..

Total value is certainly many hundreds for the material replacement
alone. If I have the models replaced professionally, I expect they
will be $1000 each or more. And I don't have time to do it myself
just now.

Insurance will probably cover most of the loss, but WHAT A PAIN!
Why couldn't they have taken a couple of bikes and hedge trimmers
and saleable stuff? (Actually, it was probably some kids on the
way by and they have great taste, but no scruples.)

Larry {:-(

Sandy Ross < > is grateful:

Just wanted to thank everyone who replied to my query re: electri-
fying an Ace Whizard. Although my usual approach is to do things
the hard way, I may make an exception in this case and pick another
plane for my first R/C attempt, rather than try it with what may be
too close to a "flying brick"!

Thanks again for the input. Sandy Ross

< > inquires:

I am thinking of building a scale P-51D. I have seen the Herr kit
and another from Pica, and a plan supplied in an American 
publication for electric power.

I would like to use a Norvel .074 Revlite, as I already have one in
a Fred Reese CAP 21 and it is a very good combination. I will use
1/2A retracts etc. and plan to use silver Solartrim in panels for a
finish. It will weigh as much as 24 ounces.

I am looking for the most accurate copy of this aircraft. Any ideas?

Wormwood Scrubbs SMALLster

Carl Risteen < > submitted:

Information on our ultra-light (approximately 1/30 oz./square foot)
MicroLite iron-on plastic covering that is available in 16 colors
is now on our website: < http://ramicrolite.com >. We have recently
developed a 12-micron thickness (0.0005") clear Mylar self-adhesive
hinge material that makes for super-light and flexible hinges that
are almost invisible, when used on models covered with MicroLite.

They are used just like Monokote hinges, except that they are much
lighter and more flexible, and won't noticeably distort the covering
when ironed on and heat shrunk.

Re the recent comments on John Worth's tab-operated control surfaces:
they definitely do work, but I am inclined to regard them as, maybe,
just a bit too cantankerous for most modelers. I have used simple
boost tabs for over 18 years now on large outdoor models with
excellent results. Reference: My article in Model Airplane News
"Labor-Saving Devices for Overworked Servos", October 1993.

The Douglas DC-9, for example, has both servo and boost tabs, and
needs no hydraulic servo assist on its ailerons and elevators. The
pilot's muscle power is more than adequate to give this large, heavy
airplane top-notch control response and excellent "feel". The control
column is connected directly by cables to the tabs at the trailing
edges of the free-hinged and counterbalanced ailerons and elevators.

For indoor RC, I have also used servo tabs that are operated by a
tiny servo or actuator mounted in the control surface with reasonably
good results, after a bit of hair-tearing (and about 20 crashes in
deep snow or high grass).

In indoor models, the tabs seem to work best on rather wide-chord
control surfaces, and the tabs have to be much larger than on outdoor
models; the boundary layer is rather thick at under 10 MPH. In
addition, the control surface must have virtually frictionless hinges,
and it must be 100% counterbalanced. I used the actuator itself as a
counterbalance, in the interest of reducing weight to the minimum.

I found aileron counterbalancing to be particularly tricky. My first
attempt at tab-actuated ailerons on an indoor RC model (The one
pictured in our website < http://ramicrolite.com > initially produced
virtually uncontrollable pilot-induced roll oscillations. The reason
for this was that the counterbalancing actuators were located too far
inboard on the ailerons. The ailerons were thus balanced statically,
but not dynamically.

When, for example, the model was commanded to roll left, control
surface inertia outboard of the balancers caused the right aileron to
lower, and the left aileron to raise, causing further left roll,
Further left roll resulted in further inertial deflection of the
ailerons, until the ailerons were fully deflected left, causing a very
rapid left roll.

When I corrected with hard right aileron command, the left roll 
would cease, but then I had excessive right roll, with aileron inertia
working the same trickery, but in the opposite direction, and so on.

I solved the problem by moving the actuators about half-way out on
the full-span ailerons, so that the unbalanced mass near the tips
would not overpower the balancing. A further complication is that
the tabs themselves must also be mass-balanced.

Pure aerodynamic problems also reared their ugly heads. The spiral
propwash deflected the full-span ailerons, producing a left roll that
required nearly full left roll command to counteract, and that could
not be trimmed out. This was cured by removing the inboard part of
the ailerons, to get the ailerons out of the propwash. The rudder
suffered the same affliction; it was corrected by adding a lot of
rudder area below the thrust line.

Only the full-span ailerons on the upper wing of my biplane escaped
drastic modification, as they were well above most of the propwash.

Tab-actuated control surfaces have enormous weight-saving potential,
but they must be designed and built very carefully.

Carl Risteen

Mike Gillihan < > reports:

I placed my order for four of the five-dollar Cox Naboo/Droid
RTF's on the day that the original SMALLnet posting came out, and
was happy to receive confirmation that my order should be shipped
out shortly. I later received a call from Tower informing me that
all Cox Star-Wars aircraft had been discontinued, and that my order
would never be filled. My charge had already been processed.

I asked the customer service agent if it would be possible to
substitute ANY other Cox-powered products, and was told that I
could, but only at their current prices. I asked that they credit
my card back the amount of the charge.

Below is the message I later received from Tower Hobbies. Although
I am still disappointed that I will not be receiving the killer deal
on the Naboo Fighters, I do feel that Tower has redeemed themselves
somewhat in their response, and thus they will continue to receive
my business.

Mike Gillihan

From: Tower_Customer_Service [SMTP:CSEMAIL@towerhobbies.com] 
Sent: Monday, October 09, 2000 1:05 PM 
To: Gillihan Mike 
Subject: Re: Disappointed with Tower Hobbies 

Dear Sir

We do apologize for the situation. There was a miscount in the
warehouse, in other words the computer showed items in stock at the
time you placed your order, but when they went to pick your order the
products were not on the shelf.

Again we apologize for the situation. We are refunding your credit
card and will also give you a $5.00 inconvenience coupon.

Thank you for writing Tower Hobbies. We appreciate your time and
your business with us.

* Tower Hobbies 
< http://www.towerhobbies.com/ >

Milton Dickey < > had his order filled:

The message about the Cox "Naboo" on sale at Tower was great!
I bought 5, and was delighted to find that the cylinder has the
porting I was asking about on an earlier post! It has the normal
twin bypass ports plus the extra (boost?) port on the side of each
bypass! It comes with a black 6X3 prop and a neat heavy prop nut
for tailheavy planes. All in all, a great deal!

Milton Dickey

Mike Cook < > contributed:

RE the Cox Droid fighters, I ordered five, figuring one or two for
me and the rest for grandchildren. After opening one, I carefully
checked it over and found what I think is the reason for the cut-
price sale. No place to put fuel into the tank!

There are two holes in the body where tank fill and vent tubes
would go, but they have little plastic plugs in them inserted from
the inside. The photos of the model don't show any tubes either.
Thus, after attaching the fuel line - also a job requiring more
dexterity than the average impatient parent has on Christmas
morning - the model is not usable.

I tried off and on all day to talk to Cox to see if they have a technical
solution but never got through and was disconnected several times 
due to "high volume of calls". I'm not surprised. I guess the rest of
my squadron will go back to Tower with a warning to them.

Mike Cook

Jim Rundle < > comments:

The Cox situation is really sad. My first engine was a Wen-Mac,
and it was so hard to start that I'm sure the only reason I
persisted is that someone down the street had a Baby Flitestreak
with a Babe Bee that was a first-flip starter. When I got one of
those I thought I'd died and gone to heaven--suddenly model
airplanes were pure fun.

Ran it on Missile Mist for years with zero maintenance other than
glow heads. The TD .15 I got later was just as easy and reliable,
and my only problem with it was it made my Junior Flitestreak so
fast, even on a 9 x 4 prop, I could hardly keep up with it.

The Coxes I have now just don't compare. For a while my Texaco 
was very good, but it became terribly erratic in spite of careful
cleanings, blowing through vents and checking gaskets. I suspect
not enough castor in my fuel recently has made the ball joint
loose, but I'm not going to put much more effort into those engines.

I think electrics will replace those C*x toys, and then I wonder
if someone will pick up the tooling and do the job right again.

Best wishes, Jim

< > reports:

 Source: Cox parts 

A trip to my favorite hobby shop revealed all kinds of COX
parts, including a .020 cylinder, piston and throttle sleeve.
If interested, call

HOBBY CITY 
15751 Columbia Pike 
Burtonsville, Maryland 20866 
(301) 421-5977 

Bob Chiang < > submitted:

To follow up on the Tower Hobbies sale (thanks again Don for the
tip on the Naboo fighters) and Bob Bruce's question about using a
Speed 280 motor in an electric power pod:

Tower Hobbies is currently selling a Mabuchi 280 motor for 83
cents! < http://www2.towerhobbies.com/ >

I have been flying a foam glider called the Pink Panther
< http://members.aol.com/tsteelhead/panther.html > using a
power pod consisting of an MG-1 motor from EMPS
< http://www.empsinc.com/ > and six 270 mAh nicads built from
surplus cordless phone packs. With an all-up weight of over 20
ounces, the motor/battery combination still manages to give 3-
minute flights -- and of course much more with help from thermal
activity. At my level of flying ability, this combination takes
much more room to fly than a soccer field provides.

Also visit
< http://www.ezonemag.com/articles/1999/may/forum400/forum400.htm >
to see an article about a Speed 300 power pod.

Best of luck, Bob Chiang

David Williams < > asks:

Has anyone used the new Sanyo 1000 mAh gold cells to make a
7-cell flight pack? I've bought a set and made a pack up;
initial results look promising on my Speed 400 sport glider.
Any comments? David Williams ENGLAND

Carl Dowdy < > wrote:

Quick note/reminder on Dick Scalone's inquiry about scales (because
I think it has been mentioned on SMALLnet before). The Royal ex2
scale found at Sam's Club is a great deal. I bought mine for $26
and I think they are now less. It's a digital platform (at least that's 
what I call it) scale that reads in 0.1 ounce increments up to 4 
pounds, I think. Way heavier than most SMALL models, anyway.

Carl Dowdy < >

John Rossetti < > informs us:

Following is a good source for basswood in Canada.

 Source: Basswood 

 Vendor: Don's Bass and Balsa Wood 

Don's Bass and Balsa Wood 
116 Main St. East 
Grimsby, Ontario, Canada L3M 1N8 
Phone (905) 945 5647 
Fax (905) 945 4169 

Remember all you guys in the U.S., your dollar is worth about $1.45
in Canada, so Don's prices may be very attractive. I visited his
booth at the recent Kitchener, Ontario scale rally, and his wood
looks pretty good. John

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index