SMALLnet post357 

 SMALLnet Posting post357

Date: Thu, 9 Nov 2000 02:44:25 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

...Here's a bit of good news to counterbalance a little the notice of 
Fred Reese's passing. I spoke with Eric Clutton a day or two ago,
and he has recovered nicely from his recent surgery. [JW]

Tony Turley < > wrote:

First, let me say that I was sorry to hear of the passing of Fred
Reese. Although I never dealt with him personally, he did have a
major impact on the small airplane movement. One of my first 
small models was a Simple Cub.

To the question at hand: does anyone know where I can scrounge 
up a couple of Cox 4 1/2 x 2 pusher props? I need them for a tiny
electric project. My only other option is to reverse the motor,
which I'd rather not do. Contact me direct if you have any leads.

Tony Turley, Scott Depot, West Virginia

Dan Vincent < > suggested:

I was saddened to read about the passing of Fred Reese. I remember
him most for his Quarter Midget .15 racing designs in the seventies.

You often read about someone being referred to as a prolific
designer...Fred Reese was such a person.

Don Garry mentioned that it was too bad they didn't have small
radios and Norvel engines back when Fred designed his .049 racers.
Maybe some memorial type event could be done in the future based 
on Don's ideas and Fred's designs.

Dan Vincent

...You organize it, Dan! [JW]

LeRoy Bidgood < > advises:

Let me second the advice to undergo prostate and colon cancer
screening. As a prostate cancer survivor I would most emphatically
advise a trip to your doctor for a PSA and digital exam. Mine was
discovered (at age 67) as the result of an annual PSA test and early
enough to make a complete cure probable. I am currently in my 
second and final year of tracking to guard against recurrence.

The unpleasant fact about prostate cancer is that if you live long
enough you WILL develop it. The odds that you have developed it 
are thus roughly associated with your age, i.e. 50 years old, 50%;
60 years, 60%; and so forth. If found early enough it is entirely
curable. The alternative is lingering and unpleasant. The up side
(?) is the possibility that you will expire before it develops.

Please excuse the sermon but my experience has left me with rather
strong feelings. I consider myself lucky to be here making balsa
dust and chewing glue off my thumb. LeRoy

< > responds to Norm Dial's "Crickit query":

A friend has one with a Magnum .15 and it is no ball of fire.
My opinion: you will be unhappy with a .049, even if your Crickit
will fly at all with it. I think the .049 will just make the
crash site further away.

Dick Scalone < > wrote:

I'm a little too old to chase rubber anymore, but have designed
some nice backyard display models. These can be also be used as
windvanes; actually - warplane windvanes. 

Thanks, Dick Scalone

Eddie Warren < > refers to an comment 
in a recent Posting: "...the trouble you're having isn't new. It
results from the fact that plans printing has no connection with
the balsa-cutting process...":

This was brought home to me recently when I scratch-built several
new wings for a Clancy Lazy Bee. I traced patterns of the ribs from
the plan, cut out my parts and ... and ... the ribs were all too
short by about 1/8" when everything was pinned to the plan and
jigged up.

What the ....

I called Andy Clnancy and he told me that the plans sometimes
shrink or expand during the printing process. He said there was a
note in the manual about it. I later checked and sure enough ...
a note to that effect is there. Now, here I sit with between 80
and 100 plans I've collected over the years, and I'm worrying :C)

Eddie Wilmington, North Carolina - USA

...Eddie, as I stated earlier, the important features on model
airplane plans are the angles: wing and tail incidence, dihedral,
thrustline offset... And those DO NOT change appreciably when
the plans shrink or expand. Now you can stop worrying! [JW]

Bob Peterson < > contributed:

Regarding the thrust offset angles for a multiengined model, I seem
to remember an article by Ken Willard in MAN, back in the fifties,
where he built and flew a twin engined free flight. I believe he
even developed a formula for the amount of offset.

Bob Peterson

Larry Renger < > informs us:

The small "turbulators" near the hub of C*x props were not aero-
dynamic devices, they were stops to keep the starter spring from
popping over the leading edge of the blade and jamming the engine!

The white, rounded props you saw were the ones used before Bill
Atwood joined the engineering team and designed the late, lamented
series of modern C*x props. Bill personally carved the master
patterns for those props, and they were gorgeous!

I did one prop, the hideous little 4.5"d x 4"p one for the "Sure
Fliers". It was, as Joe intimated, carved with burning up power
without generating much speed in mind. Not my favorite thing,
but, in this case, necessary.

Larry

Bob Severance < > responds to two queries:

The little "turbulators" (as you call them) on Cox props are actually
the spots where the spring starter "pushes" on on the prop...not a
"turbulator" at all...

As for existing full-scale "Twin Mustangs", I believe there is also a
P-82 here at Lackland AFB on the Parade Ground, in San Antonio...

 Source: Receiver, FM: Grand Wing Servo R-4P 

Ron Fikes < > & Bob Bruce 
< > both replied to David Felin's query about 
where to buy the newly-announced Grand Wing Servo R-4P 
4-channel FM receiver:

< http://www.balsapr.com/balsapr/ >

Glenn Bolick < > chimes in, to offer "a few
possible answers to questions raised" in previous Postings:

 Source: Reciver, GWS R-4P 

David Felin asked about the GWS R-4P receiver: "R/C REPORT"
has an ad from Balsa Products, 122 Jansen Ave., Iselin, New
Jersey 08830 or < http://www:Balsapr.com > priced at $28.00 including
crystal.

Tim Atkins reminded me I still have a G-Mark .03 R/C engine new 
in half box (top got lost years ago) which I ought to build a plane
for. Thanks, Tim!

Several have asked about how to shorten the R/C antenna. A few
months back Pete Waters in his column "Radio Ramblings" in "R/C
REPORT" had a drawing of a method using a business card with
five holes punched on each edge and the wire loosely looped through
them in a zig/zag pattern. Haven't tried it, but Pete knows his
stuff; so would believe that it will work fine.

Also, some have asked about the C*x glow plug clip. Gave up on
using the original ones and modified a spring clothes pin with a
dimpled thin steel piece screwed to one side (fits over the center
prong) and a notched (to fit into the cylinder fins) piece screwed
to the other. Bend the steel pieces until good contact is achieved.

Used "zip" cord and solder to connect to the two pieces, attached
the other ends of the "zip" to a ni-cad cell, and it works!

Glenn Bolick

George Penniket < > contributed:

Re: lighting C*x glow plugs, or any other kind for that matter.
I have noticed that Wal Mart carries a pack of four "D-size"
Duracells in a strong-looking plastic wrap.

It should be easy to cut the plastic away enough to solder wires
across the tops (positive ends) and bottoms (negative ends) of the
cells to make a 1.5 volt battery with enough power to light any
glow plug. I would use lamp cord for leads as suggested in a
previous posting, and it would also be easy to include a switch in
the circuit, so that one could turn off the power to the glow plug
before taking off the glow clip, to make sure that the engine was
running smoothly without power to the glow head.

A setup like this should last all flying season, and has the added
advantage of not weighing too much. George P.

Ron Fikes < > sent in several responses to
various comments and queries:

"..Ron, your use of Rocket City Pin Clamps for wheel retainers
is the cleverest modeling idea I've seen this month! How come I
didn't think of that? I've been using those pin clamps ever since
they first came out, over 15 years ago. But I never thought of
using 'em to hold wheels on. Mighty ingenious! [JW] "

Joe, If you liked that one -- try this: the little, white nylon
keepers that come with Goldberg pushrod connectors fit perfectly as
wheel collars on 1/16" music wire. They fit tight but can be pulled
off and replaced... and they don't have to be drilled out!

"Many of us remember the Q-Tee, a small parasol winged model 
designed for Cox .049 reed valve engines that was produced by 
Airtronics. Dream Catcher Hobbies < http://www.dchobby.com > 
acquired the rights to the old Airtronics line of kits, and has 
redesigned the Q-Tee for electric power.

"I flew it at the local school field. I tried an ROG off the packed
dirt of the baseball diamond, but it just ground looped; so I gave
up on that and chucked it into the air. Maintaining control after
the launch is no problem, although it takes a little while to get
up to speed. I think the prop is stalled at first. You can actually
hear the motor get up on step once the plane is up to speed.

"Overall I would have liked just a tad more power, but then I don't
really know what to expect out of a park flyer like this. My other
planes are bigger with lots of cells so I am used to full aerobatic
capability. I need to make some measurements to see if I am getting
too much voltage drop out of the wiring. (I used 22 gage wire and
Deans 3-pin connectors). Jeff Bean "

Jeff, I have built this as 1/2A gas -- a great plane. The new one
is screaming for a direct-drive Speed 400 with a Master Airscrew
5.5 X 4 plastic prop. Plenty of wing for a 7-cell, 500 mAh pack...
(and Dave Brown 1.5" LiteFlite wheels -- every flight needs at
least one landing, so LG very important).

"What is the (brand) name of the thin, transparent, covering used 
on the park flyers and indoor planes? Thanks. Steve "

Tom (Popeye) Doyle < > said, "I think it's
usually either Oracover Lite or light Solarfilm."

Ultracote IS Oracover, but on the left coast of the U.S. it is
called Ultracote (light or regular)...

I showed some of our flyers, this weekend, how to cut out their own
lettering for their electric planes. It is simple and inexpensive --
all you need is some Contact paper, a computer (with something like
Printshop) and a light table (or piece of glass with a light under
it) and an X-Acto knife. I have put a few pictures of the lettering
on the following webpage - if this interests you, contact me and I
will Email you the instructions (no charge)...

< http://www.geocities.com/srfikes/Name_It.html >

Ron Fikes, Palo Alto, California

...Speaking of X-Acto knives reminds me! Many model construction
articles recommend, "use a new X-Acto blade...". But I haven't
bought any new X-Acto blades in 20 years! That's because around
1980 I invested in a "diamond stone" knife-sharpening tool. It's a
steel plate about 2" X 6" with diamond dust imbedded into the top
surface. I keep it handy on my workbench at all times. The instant
that I can feel a knife blade getting "draggy", I hone it back to
scalpel sharpness again.

My "diamond stone" cost around $35 mail-order, from one of the
tool specialty dealers -- Leichtung if my memory's accurate. But
I have seen smaller, but similar "diamond stones" at Wal Mart
recently -- selling at around $7.00!

If anyone has doubts about his ability to use one of these tools
to keep his knife blades keen, send in a query and I will explain
the use of a "diamond stone". Incidentally, this is used dry;
no lubricant is needed to prevent "loading" of the surface. [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index