SMALLnet post436 

 SMALLnet Posting post436

Date: Sat, 8 Jan 2005 00:33:24 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

...SMALLnet's back again at last. A "combination of circumstances"
caused the past 26 months of dormancy. Briefly: in 2002 I came
down with a medical problem. Though it wasn't life-threatening,
its effects reduced my energy levels a LOT, and greatly increased
my need for sleep.

The various curative treatments my medical advisers tried were
expensive; and to pay my bills I had to resume my freelance
engineering work. And since I needed 12 to 14 hours sleep every
day, I had to cut my "spare time" activities back severely...

My health seems much improved now. In fact, it got almost back
to normal about a year ago. However, other difficulties popped
up -- for instance the theft of our car and almost everything
in it while my wife and I were on our annual trip to southern
California last Fall.

.But enough about problems! However, before getting into
SMALL model topics, I need to explain a "change in policy".

Before the long lapse in Postings, I received complaints from
some SMALLsters about their e-mail addresses being published 
in the Postings -- especially in the Archives.

It turned out that spammers have ways of scavenging e-mail
addresses from web sites. They use programs that can recognize
the basic form of an e-mail address; then copy that for use
in a spamming campaign.

To thwart this evil practice, from now on I will alter the form
of all e-mail addresses in SMALLnet Postings. Here's how.

Instead of the "@" symbol, I'll use "(at)", with a space ahead
and after it. And instead of the "." near the end of an address,
I'll use a ":" -- again with a space on each side. That ought
to baffle the bad guys, while still allowing SMALLsters to
contact each other directly about topics of interest.

To make this change clear: I'll alter < > to
< >. Then if YOU want to contact
"smartlad" by e-mail, you revise the address back into its
standard format.

 [Webmaster note: The e-mail addresses in the archive are
encoded to be immune from the spam robot harvesting. You can simply click on
the e-mail link to be taken to your mail application. No address decoding is
necessary.] 

One more item! Since it's been such a long time since the last
Posting came out (early November 2002), some of you SMALLsters
may have forgotten how to submit your material.

There are two ways. One way is to e-mail it directly to
< >. Or, you can use our eskimo address.
To do that, e-mail to < >,
with " &SUBMISSION& " in the Subject box. [JW]

 [Webmaster note: do NOT include &SUBMISSION& in the Subject
line. It is unnecessary.] 

Rod Bays < > wrote recently:

Health continues OK for us but at 80 (me) just being able to look
at the grass from the green side is a triumph! Just had a cataract
removed -- piece of cake these days but a nuisance with glasses
etc. And I've been trying to dispose of a whole bunch of modelling
stuff as I know we should be moving into an apartment. Any ideas?
Don't want to make a lot of money off it but it would be nice if it
went to someone -- kids/whatever -- who would use it!

Stay well! Rod

Gary Martin < > e-mailed [JW] a few
weeks ago to ask what advantages model diesel engines have over
the glow types.

...This information has appeared in some previous Postings, but since
nothing much seems to have been published lately in the "model
press" about diesels, here's a copy of what I advised Gary:

"I much prefer model diesels to glow. Here are some of their
 advantages:

* Diesels produce as much useful power (i.e. prop thrust)
 as glows, but run about 70% longer per ounce of fuel.

* Diesel fuel doesn't harm any type of model finish.

* Because of its adjustable compression, a model diesel will
 run on almost any size prop that can be fitted onto its shaft.
 I have a P.A.W. .09 in a ducted fan unit that turns 28,000 rpm --
 and another (on a test stand) that swung a 12-3 at almost 4000.

* The noise output from a model diesel seems quieter than
 from a glow motor of the same size, turning the same propeller.
 Something about the "quality" of the diesel's exhaust sound
 makes it less annoying. (At the Little Rock SMALL meet last
 June, a friend of mine flew a 54"-span scale Taylorcraft lightplane
 powered by an .061 diesel. People at the field said that this
 was the quietest R/C model on the field -- noticeably quieter
 than any of the geared electrics...)

* Diesel mufflers are FAR smaller than glow. Those on PAW
 engines don't stick out past the outer edge of the engine mount.

 Now for the DISadvantages.

* Diesels require a different starting and adjusting technique
 than glows. This isn't more difficult -- just different.

* Diesel exhaust is necessarily oily, and there's lots of it. That's
 inescapable, since castor oil is the only reliable lubricant for
 model diesels. (Many other oils have been tried, including soybean
 oil, "mineral oil" -- the water-clear stuff available in drugstores
 for use as a milder laxative than castor -- automotive motor oil --
 even peanut oil. All of these have worked -- for a while, anyway.

 As for the "dirtiness" of model diesel exhaust -- that's usually
 a result of misunderstanding on the part of the operator. He
 associates high compression with high power, and so runs his
 model diesel with its compression set too high. That causes
 excess heat, from the fuel igniting while the piston is still on
 its way up. This results in the castor oil carbonizing & turning
 into black grease... I adjust my own diesels for the minimum
 compression that provides steady running, and the exhaust
 from those is normally no darker than iced tea.

* Some people find the aroma of model diesel fuel unpleasant.
 It's certainly persistent. (Much of this comes from the kerosene
 content -- but it's possible to mix one's own fuel using odorless
 "lamp oil" or "candle oil" instead of kerosene, and thus reduce
 the smell quite a lot.)

* It's not recommended to start a model diesel with an electric
 starter. But this CAN be done safely by someone with a fair
 amount of diesel-running experience. (The trick is to avoid any
 chance of a hydraulic lock occurring while starting. The head
 space at TDC is so small at start-up, a very small amount of wet
 fuel in the combustion chamber is enough to stop the piston.
 Eric Clutton -- PAW's US importer -- and I have proved that
 mounting a model diesel sideways almost completely eliminates 
 the possibility of hydraulic lock while using an electric starter.)

 [JW]

Paul Gittel < > asked [JW] how to use
"Liquid Stitch" -- a sewing product available at Wal*Mart -- to
attach model windshields. Here's an excerpt from my reply:

...
"...I thin Liquid Stitch with water, using a "painterly" technique.
That is, with a yogurt lid for a "palette", I add a single fat drop
of water alongside a dime-sized puddle of L.S. Then I mix the
windshield adhesive to the consistency of heavy cream with the tip
of a #0 watercolor brush.

"The windshield and/or windows are held in place temporarily with
small bits of tape. Then I brush the thinned L.S. into a "fillet"
along the edge where the window meets the model. After that dries
(the L.S. becomes transparent then) I remove the tape bits; then brush 
thinned L.S. fillets over the gaps where the tape was.

"BTW, make sure that the areas to be glued are free from fingerprints 
before applying the L.S. That stuff is quite sticky -- but it's always 
good to make sure of maximizing its adhesion.

"Also, though I can't understand how, L.S. actually "bites into"
the items it's applied to: transparent plastic of all sorts, and
doped finishes. If you smear some L.S. accidentally onto a plastic
window, even if you wipe it right off, it leaves a dulled area..."

.Incidentally, I don't know whether L.S. works its magic on any
of the iron-on coverings. I don't use those. Maybe some SMALLster
can try it on Monokote, Black Baron, etc. and let us know... [JW]

Karl Bohl < > inquires:

I love SMALLnet. About 25 to 35 years ago, there was a model of an
Andreason plane with forward-swept wings. It was probably a 2- or
4-passenger cabin high wing plane, somewhat on the order of a Piper.

I can't remember what modeling magazine it was in. If anyone can
remember what publication the Andreason was in, or can find the
plans, I would be very happy. I will gladly buy a copy of the plans
if someone can find them.

I'd like to build this as a 24 to 30 inch span FF model, rubber
powered, of course. I can scale the plans up or down as necessary.
Also, Harbor Freight has 2 electric FF models that they were selling
for about $13.00. They are on sale for about half that now.

Karl Bohl, Sr., 185 Pease Road, Meredith, New Hampshire 03253

Dick Scalone < > asked:

I am looking for a 6-inch free flight rubber-power prop with
hanger made by Hitoshi = Yoshida, in Japan. Dick Scalone

Phil needs help:

I recently joined this mailing list and have two questions.
I'll ask the second question in a separate posting.

Having been away from the hobby for 15 years and having resurrected
some of my thirty-year-old models to get the feel of things again,
I'd now like to build something a little more modern. The SMALLnet
home page shows a model called a Little Guppy. Does anyone know
where I might find a plan for that, or a plan of something similar?

A Google search has revealed many model plans but not one like this.

Regards, Phil

Graham < > requests:

Does anybody know the original colour scheme for the 1929
Russell Henderson light monoplane? I have completed the
airframe to this model and would like to cover it in the
authentic colours. Graham

Charlie Woods < > asked:

Well, I guess in the 10 years I have been away from the hobby...
Comet Industries is no more? What about Bill Cannon? and Hi,
Y'all. I want to convert one of the Comet P-40s to micro R/C...
I know... ARF's are available... and better plans, too...
One of those "not how well (or easily) the bear dances... but
that it dances at all"... I had one of these kits saved for
"a later time"... Now that time is here... and the kit has
disappeared... Darned divorces! Anyone have the plans left
from one of those kits?

CT Woods

Randy Randolph < > wrote:

Joe and I have been talking about whip-powered control-line.
Anyone out there remember that, or flown any? It was probably
the first Backyard Flyer !

Randy

... Randy wrote about this in his Flying Models column (FM is by
FAR the best model plane publication in the USA, and any SMALLster
who doesn't subscribe is missing out on some mighty good stuff
every month!) -- and its editor Frank Fanelli e-mailed me asking for 
more information, plus a future construction project for publication.

Here's part of my reply to Frank:

.About Whip-Power. (I call that W=P for short -- notice the
two-line connection!)

I'm not surprised that you had no luck flying A-J's reissued W=P
P-39. Frank Macy sent me a couple of those kits when he started
re-making them. (He knew I'd been friends with Jim Walker and
wanted my feedback on his "new" W=P P-39.)

I noticed immediately that the new kit had the same flaw that the
original did: control lines swept back from bellcrank to wingtip.
That's standard practice for engine-powered control-line, but
it's DEAD WRONG for W=P. That's because W=P lines angle AHEAD 
of the airplane. (They've gotta do that to provide the propulsion.)

Swept-BACK leadouts on W=P models cause gross yawing. I told
Frank Macy about that, and informed him how to re-position the
P-39's tip line guides for good flying characteristics. He wrote
back enthusiastically after trying it, and said it worked fine.
Frank also said he'd change the kits.

But around that time Frank's health failed, and I never found out
whether he actually did make that change...

My profile W=P F-84 (published in American Aircraft Modeler) had
correctly-located line guides. It flew fine. But that model was really 
just a W=P trainer. It had flat sheet-balsa wings and small elevators 
with limited deflection...

Later I designed a W=P model intended for stunting. But that
didn't fly well. For one thing, I built it too light. It wouldn't
stay out on the lines reliably until I added ballast. And even then
the line tension was just a little too light for positive control.

That was mainly because of friction between the lines. Those
were 25 feet of Sig's 1/2A Dacron "control cord". That stuff kept
wrapping around itself. It could do that quite easily, because
both lines came out through the pole's tip guide together --
and ran together all the way to the plane's tip guide.

After a while I got tired of the project and let it lapse. But
Randy has resurrected my interest in that. Now I've come up
with three new developments that I believe will make W=P
flying a LOT more practicable -- and much more fun!

Item 1: Lines made from "Spider Wire" fishline. I've found two
types of that (there are many!) with extremely low surface
friction. (One has Teflon coating.) Using this for control lines
should reduce the inter-line friction remarkably.

Item 2: A "bream pole" for propulsion. Wal*Mart sells these in
their Sporting Goods department -- at least they do in this area:
southeastern Alabama. A ten-foot pole goes for about $7, and a
12-footer for $10. This kind of fishing rod uses no reel. Therefore
there's no need for line guides -- and the poles are telescoping!
I bought a 10-foot "bream pole", and when collapsed it's a mere
four feet long.

Item 3: A pivoting dual line guide for the pole tip. This is
another measure to keep the lines from intertwining in flight.
But this guide MUST be free-pivoting, so as not to interfere
with the control action. (This is something I need to work out --
so far it's merely a "bright idea".)

Now for the airplane! Since I've been naming my model designs
for birds (usually little-known types) for decades, I chose the
name "Tumbler Pigeon" for my stuntable W=P craft. (It looks
much like the DeHavilland Vampire jet fighter.) I've decided to
construct a new version, all-sheet-balsa. (The original proto had
a built-up wing with a thick symmetrical airfoil. Bad choice...)

.Randy also asked me for a photo of my original profile Thunderjet,
which I still have. It's in good shape, but its doped-on tissue
insignia has faded out quite a lot over the decades. That's been
a problem for me for a LONG time, because appliqued colored tissue
is my favorite method of adding decorations to my doped-finish
airplanes.

A couple of years ago, my son David told me about Hallmark's colored
tissue. That's available in a wide variety of colors, and David assures 
me that those are quite color-fast.

In 2003 David used black Hallmark tissue to simulate wing walks
on a control-line Veco "Brave" he'd built. I was amazed -- because the 
model had been color doped with Brodak's Aztec Red. I expected the 
red color to bleed through the tissue as soon as the clear-dope adhesive 
was brushed down from the top surface.

Never happened! The tissue stuck onto the red-doped wing as if
it had been welded -- yet NONE of the red pigment penetrated. [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index