SMALLnet post411 

 SMALLnet Posting post411

Date: Thu, 21 Feb 2002 23:47:47 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet/ >

...Fellows, once again I find it necessary to ask: PLEASE don't
attach to your submission a copy of the entire Posting you're 
responding to. Doing that makes extra work for me. [JW]

George Bain < GCBAIN@aol.com > warns:

One very important point that Austin did not mention in his tip
about cleaning engines with a crock pot is that once used with
antifreeze, you can NEVER use the pot for food again. The 
antifreeze (ethylene glycol) is poison, and remains in the pot
forever. That's why folks pick up old ones at garage sales, etc.
to be used for this purpose.

Don't grab your wife's good crock pot to clean your engines in,
unless you plan to remain in the doghouse for a LONG time.

George

Sam Brauer < sbrauer@bccresearch.com > contributed:

I thought I'd tell the gang about my newest entry into the
SMALL sweepstakes. It's a Li'l Gypsy (36 inch span, 252 square
inches) which was designed by Dave Thornburg. I've gathered 
that the airplane was essentially a parasol version of the Honker,
which was around at the time (1970s). (I had a Honker Bipe, but
I thought the original Honker was just too homely for my taste.)

This airplane used a Jedelsky wing, which is about the easiest
thing going to build: a little sanding; cut a dihedral joint in
(I wrapped with fiberglass tape and CA) and voila! OK, it's not
as light as a framed-up wing, but it's very strong. I know, my
airplane has already been retrieved from trees twice, and has come
out a little bit banged up -- but a more open structure would have
been reduced to toothpicks.

Anyhow, the airplane has a Speed 300 in it geared 5:1, using
an MP Jet gearbox. I must admit, this combination is causing
me to change my opinion on the Speed 300. It's still a cheap
little motor, but it's clearly working well. This gearbox is
also cheap, and reasonably sturdy -- it's taken a couple of 
whacks and done fine.

I spent the extra couple of bucks for the ball-bearing version --
I think they sell for about $14. Press the pinion gear onto the
motor shaft, slide the motor in, and you're done.

With a good speed control, adaptors and prop -- probably totalling
between $60 and $70. This is now approaching the cost of a 
comparable glow motor (which would need fuel tank, servo, etc.).

The nice thing about this geared Speed 300 motor is that it'll
swing an 8 x 3.8 inch APC slow-flyer prop at about 6000 rpms
using an 8 cell 720 nickel metal hydride (NiMH) pack (the
perfect setup for this motor), which for a lot of airplanes
is a far better match than a TD 051 swinging a 6 x 3 at ear-
splitting levels. Yes, the recommended engine for the Li'l
Gypsy was a TD 049-051.

Alternatively, the Speed 300 swings a 9 x 6 at about 4500 on
the ground, but that may unload some in the air. The 9 x 6
flies the airplane better. Overall weight -- well, the plans
recommended shooting for 21-22 ounces on the Li'l Gypsy; mine
comes in at 19 ounces. It's certainly not a wild aerobat -- you
get to work for loops, and rolls are anything but axial; but it
is a nice relaxing flyer. Just don't go thermal-hunting --
a soarer it ain't.

One comment on motor comparisons: some rags have written that 
the Astro 010G is the cat's meow. Well, I've got one, and on the
bench its performance does not scream at me that it's a wonderful
upgrade for either the Speed 300 or the Speed 280BB. It swung an
8 x 3.8 at 6200 rpm on a 10-cell 720 mAh NiMH pack; certainly not
earthshattering compared to the Speed 300 on 8 cells at 6000 rpm.
(The total Speed 300 combination is lighter.) Don't get me wrong,
the Astro 010 is a little jewel and will certainly outlast the Speed 
300 -- and will probably have longer flight times. But it's also 
about 2 to 2 1/2 times the cost. And the Astro 010G will not
keep up with a Speed 280BB geared either, since the 280BB will
handle more watts.

Spare me the efficiency argument -- what I've seen is that
improved efficiency shows up in somewhat longer flight times.
It seems very hard to translate efficiency to more rpms at the
prop. Translation -- if you don't like the performance of your
airplane on a geared Speed 300, the geared Astro 010 probably 
won't do the trick -- but a 280BB might.

Also note that if you want to run these motors direct drive, the
Astro 010 blows everything else away. Don't waste your money
trying to beat this motor on direct drive.

One other thing about batteries: 720 NiMH cells are a little
tricky to handle. Don't let these batteries get cold. They can
dump their charge -- it's happened to me leaving them in a garage
overnight (temperature outside fell to 20 degrees F or so). When
I went flying the next day I got a very short flight, although it
had warmed up to the mid-50's. If you want to fly when it's
chilly out (i.e. below 50F) -- the batteries will do much better
if you top them off at the field. I charge mine at about C/2 or
between 300-500 mA. They need to be warm. If they're not and
you're flying when it's cold, windy and rainy, the airplane will
not have enough power, and you will be climbing a tree and
getting very cold doing so. Don't ask how I know this....

One trick on the Li'l Gypsy's covering (which is fluorescent pink
Airspan) (if you ever have trouble seeing your models, this color
works great in either sun or cloud -- it's hard to miss up there)
was that I used Mighty Tacky (seems to be a functional equivalent
to RC-56) to attach. My Balsarite had glopped up, and I was out
of thinner, so I dumped in a bunch of acetone.

Well, the Balsarite flowed onto the structure OK, but wouldn't
adhere anything. Hence, I used the Mighty Tacky, slightly thinned
with water, which worked like a charm. A couple of passes with
the iron to tighten stuff up, and Bob's your uncle, as our
friends from Down Under would say.

Sam Brauer, Stamford, Connecticut

...Sam, a better thinner for Balsarite is toluol. That's a some-
what oilier solvent than acetone, and it helps keep the sticky
resin in the adhesive up on the surface of the wood, rather than
soaking deep, as acetone makes it do. However, toluol fumes 
are intensely dangerous to breathe. 

Oh -- exactly what kind of a charm is it that everyone says that
things work like? I've never yet seen a charm at work... [JW]

Oscar Aitken Corral < oscait@ctcinternet.cl > requests:

I just had a minor accident with my TD .020 28" Bellanca
Tractor that broke the TD fuel tank mount. (Fortunately, 
the plane did not get any bones broken.) Does anyone know 
if there is anyone selling this spare part -- or does anyone 
have a spare TD .020 tank for sale? I would hate to move 
the good old TD to my engine museum shelf.

Also, does anyone know how many minutes per ounce an 
O.S. .26 FS will go ? I am trying to determine the smallest 
reasonable tank for my Flyline Great Lakes Trainer.

Best, Oscar Aitken

Andy Woitowicz < ajw@ntl.sympatico.ca > wrote:

Winter wonderland is an understatement in this part of Canada.
As such, by March we get real antsy to do some flying. Late
March or early April is when we get temperatures in the just-
above-freezing range.

I'm not an accomplished diesel flyer but I hope to remedy that
this year to some extent. I need some advice on running diesels
in the cold, typically just above or below zero by a few degrees.
The two engines I have in mind are PAW .06/049 and a Norvel
converted to diesel with an RJL head. Both are well broken in.

Need to know if there is any special fuel formula recommended.
I will have, by then, amyl nitrate, real jet fuel type kerosene,
and AA Sig castor.

Also, are there any special starting techniques to consider?
What about excessive cooling by the ambient temperature,
especially with Norvel's large cooling fin area? Should the
fins be turned down?

Does anybody have experience with Norvel diesel conversions?

Andy Woitowicz

...One comment, Andy: You don't need to machine off the fins of 
a model engine to prevent overcooling. Just wrap the fins with a
strip of aluminum foil. Doing the job that way makes it easy to
adjust the "cooling effect" as the weather changes. [JW]

George Hostler < ghostler@plateautel.net > submitted:

After being here in Clovis, New Mexico for a year (those who
don't know where Clovis is: triangulate 95 miles SW of Amarillo,
Texas and 95 miles NW of Lubbock, Texas); a great metropolis of
35,000 and big city to Cannon AFB -- I found AMA 438's flying
field. Best thing about it: it's 10 minutes and five miles away,
all surrounded by cow pastures and other outdoor activities
(motocross, go cart, and auto dirt oval tracks).

So there are no noise restrictions. The city did a nice job;
first time I have seen a model flying field with runways.

I have had varying opinions on modifying Sterling's 48" span 
Mambo rudder-only plane. Original had a Clark-Y stabilizer. 
Don't see how you can do R/O aerobatics with that, so I plan to 
make it symmetrical. There has been varying experiences/
opinions, from (1) don't modify, it'll be fine -- to (2) the original, 
when it built up too much speed, went into the ground like 
an arrow.

I figure that this is why the high-performance pylon F/F models
had this type stab, so it would have a straight, high angle of
attack at speed to get to altitude, transitioning to a floating
glide for duration. Joe, what do you and the SMALLnet 
readership think? George

...George, "lifting tails" were used on free flight models for two
main reasons. One was to provide more gross lifting area in events
where the wing area was limited. The other was to permit a more
rearward CG location -- thus reducing both decalage and looping
tendencies in the climb.

However, in some designs -- e.g. Paul Gilliam's "Civy Boy" series
-- under high power the stabilizer lift often increased to the
point where it became "down elevator". Result: Doom. [JW]

Dr. Mike Hawkins < mikeh@samart.co.th > wrote:

For the record, the Galloping Ghost system of control was developed
in the States to give some semblance of two-channel proportional
control from a single-channel system. It was based on the system
used by the Germans in WW2 to control the Henschel Hs 293 
glider bomb.

In England we used a 2.4 volt Mighty Midget motor which had a
7 to 1 reduction gear wheel mounted on top, with a spring loading
the gear wheel to its centre point. The basis of the system was
a transmitter signal which varied in pulse rate and independently
in mark/space ratio (i.e. longer or shorter pulses).

The relay on the Receiver would (should) follow this signal, and
as one pole of the motor was connected to the centre tap of the
battery (at 2.4 volts) it was alternatively driven one way and
then the other as the relay pulled in or out.

A rotary shaft ran from the gear wheel, with a crank on the end
connected to the elevator and rudder.

If the pulse rate was high, the gear wheel dithered about its
spring-assisted lower point. If it was slow, then the motor had
time to travel further in each direction, giving a relatively
higher average position to the elevator.

Changing the mark/space ratio caused the output gear to dither
more on one side than the other, thus giving an average rudder
position to one side or the other.

In practice the thing dithered madly in all directions at once
and one just hoped that the average control position would be
somewhere near what was wanted. The relay, which was 
switching an ampere or so to the motor several times per second, 
soon gave up and things came to an unpredictable halt.

At that time, in the mid '60s, a set of four-channel proportional
gear cost as much as a new small car (oh, that a new car now 
could be bought for the cost of a set of 4-channel gear !).

I spent some time building my own Galloping Ghost equipment 
but although I did once see a model flying reasonably well, albeit
with a drunken flight path, my own attempts all ended in a brief
corkscrew flight and a rapid return to terra oh-so-firma.

All credit to Doug Spreng who put the idea of pulse width
modulation to practical use, which has kept most of us in the
air ever since.

Of Kicking Ducks I know nothing although I did see jockeys riding
ostriches in South Africa.

Yours, Mike

...Mike, in the 1950's members of my old home-town model club (New
Castle, Pennsylvania) did a LOT of R/C flying with actuators made
from Mighty Midget motors. (I lived in California then, but came
East to visit in the summertime.) The Mighty Midgets were modified
in various ways, mostly to strengthen their mounting lugs, which
broke all too easily in crashes. The main trick to successful use
of the Mighty Midget as a proportional actuator was to eliminate
all friction from the hinges and linkages. [JW]

Gary Gullikson < garyg@oc-net.com > reports:

I covered my Dare Marionette slow-flyer wings on top side only
per directions, then tried heat-shrinking with my sealing iron.
Naturally the wings curved upward gracefully and warped a lot.

I was able to get them symmetrical and washed out properly by
adjusting the brace thread. Friend Jeff applied the same covering
to his Marionette as tight as possible without heat shrinking, and
avoided the upward curving. His Marionette wing looks better
without the curve.

Both planes fly the same. This design is forgiving of slight
warps in wings, as it flies about 5 mph. I powered mine with a
GWS DXA and a 10 X 4.7 prop. Flies great indoors, or outside
in calm air.

I added a "front porch" and two curved bamboo skewer landing skids.
This was needed to get the battery pack ahead of the LG axle to
achieve proper balance. I'm using two Qualcom 830 mAh Lithium
Ion cells, or seven 280 mAh NiMH cells, and GWS Pico servos.

Marionette is forgiving of different-weight battery packs, and
trims for level flight easily. Switching out the GWS R4P
receiver with a HiTec 555 didn't bother it, when the single-tuned
GWS R4P was swamped at indoor meet.

Gary Gullikson, Orange County Aeronauts (Southern California)

Howell H. Gwin < Gwinhh@aol.com > points out that RC Report
magazine DOES tell the truth in its product reviews.

Richard Pawloski < rpawl@voyager.net > inquires:

Being new to electric R/C, I need to know what motors are
comparable to a 1524. I see this motor listed in some plane
reviews, but cannot get one from my local hobby shop. (70 miles
away, I live far away from everything.) Any help would be much
appreciated.

Richard Pawloski Harrison, Michigan

Don Myers < donevanmyers@yahoo.com > mis-sent this to Bill
Lee, who kindly forwarded it:

Just got some sheets of Coverlite. Size is 19.5 X 36 inches,
and it comes folded and slip-sheeted same as Litespan --
and looks to me to be the same stuff. Curiously, the instruc-
tions call for "Coverlite Adhesive" or Balsarite, though the
magazine ads and their website make mention of only Balsarite.

The "sticking" temperatures called for match those on the
Litespan instruction sheet, but the shrinking temperature is
lower: 125C-140C for Coverlite and 150C-160C for Litespan!

So, are they the same material with just changes to the covering
application? Or only similar in appearance? The Coverlite
shrinking instructions caution: "Using higher temperatures to
shrink, will make covering slacken off AFTER it's applied."

Another caveat not found in the Litespan instructions but called
out for Coverlite: "Coverlite has only a small amount of shrinkage,
so it's important that it's smooth and wrinkle-free, BEFORE
starting to shrink up." (Shouldn't that be "shrink down"? Oh,
this English language!)

Both coverings are said to be "resistant to diesel and glow fuels."
Note, they did not say fuel "PROOF", so though not mentioned,
maybe a coat of dope is needed, for power models!

Don Myers

David Larkin < dslarkin@blvl.igs.net > responded to this:

I've talked to Derek Hardman (manufacturer of Litespan, Solarfilm,
etc.), and he says that the caveats Don Myers outlined certainly
apply equally to Litespan and Airspan.

A coat of dope is not normally needed. Dave

Dennis Hansen < DGEHansen@aol.com > included a slew of 
model information in several personal e-mails; here are edited 
excerpts from those:

My balsa order from Lone Star arrived yesterday. It took almost
a month to get it. Looks like they were waiting for some light
1/16" and held the order until they had it.

I didn't mind that so much, but they sent all "C" grain wood, and
charged me 15 cents extra per sheet to hand-select it. I didn't
ask for C grain! Oh well, it is very nice wood and the bundle deal
of 1/16" has some light A-B grain sheets that will hold me over.

The best part is they sandwiched the 50 or so sheets of various
sizes that I received between two 1/2" balsa planks that look
pretty darn nice. Not light wood, but it will sure work nice
for spar stock or something of that sort.

I'm back to working on the Sioux now that I have the wood. I had
a good laugh at myself tonight too. Way back when I started
building again I ordered a Master Airscrew balsa stripper and
plane. The stripper works fine, but I was very disappointed with
the plane. The darn thing cut like it had a butter knife for a
blade. It was so bad I threw it in the back of the drawer in
disgust and left it there. Well, a little earlier this evening
I was shaping the leading edge of the Sioux wing and thought 
how nice it would be to have a plane for that job.

Hmmm, time for another look at that Master Airscrew plane. 
Maybe sharpening the blade would help. As I removed the screw 
and plastic plate that holds the blade in place, you would 
appreciate the humor I found in the fact that the blade was, for 
some reason, (safety?) installed backwards! The "cutting edge" 
was in fact about the shape of a butter knife.

Put that sucker back in the right way, and gee, it sure works nice.
Not one of my more shining moments.

Remember my idea of preshrinking silk on a frame as an aid to
covering small parts like the Cloudster stabilizer? I'd like to
report it is working well so far. I had some nice flat 3/4"
plywood scraps which I cut into rectangular shapes.

The rectangles are large enough to let me cut a window slightly
bigger than the part being covered, and leave a border strong
enough to resist the shrinkage of the silk. I made the window by
making a single entry/exit cut into the rectangle on the bandsaw
and removed the center shape. Some 5-minute epoxy repaired 
the entry cut.

After a very light sanding I diluted some Elmers yellow glue 50/50
with water and liberally brushed it over the face of the frame.
I then ran a generous bead of undiluted glue around the same face
and spread it out evenly. I had precut my rectangle of silk, which
I now soaked with water as if I were going to attach it to a model.

With a little help from my wife Georgia, we stretched the silk out
straight and carefully laid it onto the frame. From there I was
able to tug and stretch the silk (with care to keep the weave
straight) until I was satisfied with the way it looked. I set it
aside to dry overnight.

The next morning I found the silk had dried and shrunk very nicely.
The next step is to find a piece of 3/4 to 1" thick block (ideally
cut to the shape of the part being covered) that will support the
part and permit the frame to be placed over the part and block so
that the weight of the frame pulls the silk down over the part.
(Whew, that is an UGLY sentence!)

At this point it is very easy to align the part with the weave in
the silk. Next simply brush some dope through the silk onto the
part, being careful not to get too much dope beyond the perimeter
of the part. Leave it to dry.

Once dry, I cut the silk (with the part now attached to it) free of
the frame, wet the remaining silk "overhang", and with more dope
wrap and tack down the silk around the part -- leaving the excess
to dry and then trimming it off with sandpaper.

Repeat the previous steps for the other side of the part. (I made
two frames.) After cutting the silk and part free from the second
frame, trim the silk around the part, leaving just enough border
to wet and wrap around the edges. Dope the border down and 
you are set to go.

I have yet to dope the freshly-covered Cloudster stabilizer
because the sad excuse for a local Hobby Shop promised me 
over a month ago that he would get me some Sig Lite-Coat 
dope, but he hasn't gotten it yet. I guess I'll just have to order 
it myself. You'll just have to wait for the rest of the story --
hopefully a warp-free conclusion.

[Part 2, about a week later]: Couldn't get Sig Lite-Cote without
paying more in hazardous material surcharges to get it here than
what the dope costs ! Anyway, I figured if I was going to do this
silk-on-a-frame-preshrink process in a scientific method, it would
be better to change as few variables as possible.

I now have three coats of the same Randolph dope on the stabilizer
that warped the you-know-what out of the first one. So far not a
hint of any twisting or deformation of any kind. Guess I should
mention that I have not thinned the dope that is being brushed
onto the new stabilizer nearly as much as that which was used on
the first part. Back then I had thinned it at least 50% and it
took 5 to 6 coats to fill the weave in the silk. That is, so
there were no pinholes through the silk. The new stabilizer is
sealed to the same degree with three coats.

Do you think using thinned dope causes the silk to shrink more?

Dennis

...Dennis, I do believe that excess thinner does cause more DOPE
shrinkage than is normal. Dope cures by evaporation of its thinner;
and as that thinner vaporizes, the volume of what's left obviously
decreases. Therefore, the more thinner you use, the more the coat
of dope on the model has to contract as it dries.

Sprayed dope MUST be thinned more than brushed dope -- but in 
the spray process, considerable thinner evaporates between the gun
nozzle and the surface being doped. (That's what causes "orange
peel" effect: if the sprayed dope isn't thinned enough, it hits
the surface like a spray of soft pellets rather than a flowable
liquid.)

However, I learned years ago that using only "retarder" as my dope
thinner reduced the various "application problems" almost to the
vanishing point. No "blushing"; no stickiness while "brushing out"; 
and no evil interaction effects when using both nitrate and butyrate
dopes on the same surfaces.

The only drawback to this is that the dope finish cures out much
more slowly. "Regular" brushed dope finishes take about 3 days
to cure. With my "retarder-thinned" dope, I have to wait at least
a week for all the solvent to vaporize... [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index