SMALLnet post442 

 SMALLnet Posting post442

Date: Tue, 15 Feb 2005 23:06:37 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

...In the past few years I've noticed some "anomalous phenomena".
In that time several woodworking magazines have either started up
or expanded. With titles such as "American Woodworker", "Shop
Notes", "Workbench", "Popular Woodworking", "Woodsmith" -- these
contain both simple and quite elaborate projects; some even provide
full-size patterns.

Most of these woodworking projects require far more shop 
equipment, and take far more time to complete, than most scratch-
built model airplanes. They demand considerable skill too.

Craft suppliers -- retail stores and mail order dealers both --
seem to be thriving. They sell plenty of kits for hand-made
wooden toys, holiday decorations, lawn ornaments, and dollhouse
furniture. (One of the mail-order outfits: Crafter's Mart,
P. O. Box 143, Greeley, Colorado 80632 -- carries many materials
and other items that I found useful for modeling. For example,
Crafter's Mart carries some of the best-quality birch plywood
I've ever seen.)

...And yet build-it-yourself model airplanes seem to be dying out.
It can't be from lack of time, space, or equipment -- though those
are the excuses people make.

It seems to me that one possible reason for the "declining fortunes" 
of D-I-Y model planes is that aviation itself has lost its luster.
The sheer adventurousness of airplane flying that got so many 
youths enthusiastically building and flying miniature aircraft a few
decades ago has evaporated. Nobody in my neighborhood rushes
outside to gawp up at the sky when they hear an aircraft passing
over. They did that when I was a boy, though!

The old-time appeal of aviation to the general public can't be
completely gone, however. After all, the most popular tourist
attraction in Washington D.C. is the Smithsonian's Air and Space 
Museum. The USAF Museum at Wright Patterson AFB is Ohio's 
most popular free attraction. The Naval Air Museum at Pensacola 
draws visitors from everywhere -- as does the Army Aviation 
Museum just a few miles from my home.

All that popularity seems like good evidence for a continued interest 
in Aviation -- in particular for the older propeller-driven craft
that were designed and built by PEOPLE, not committees, CAD
drawings, or CNC machinery.

We SMALLsters are holding the line (I think) against mass-produced
flying toys and the Buy-n-Fly syndrome. It surely looks that way to 
me each time I attend a SMALL meet. The Flying Aces Club is another
"preserver of the faith". I find the level of craftsmanship and
dedication 
to aeronautics displayed at SMALL meets and FAC events both 
encouraging and inspiring.

There's still a definite downtrend, though. When I first moved here to 
the southeast corner of Alabama, there were at least four well-stocked 
hobby shops in the general area that carried model airplane 
merchandise. Now there's NONE. [JW]

 Source: Plans, Mike Midkiff 

Mike Midkiff < > now has full size plans
available for over 60 of his exquisite rubber-powered scale models.

...I've seen several of Mike's planes, and I can't make up my mind
whether they're more impressive when examined up close, or observed
in flight. They can be easily adapted for CO2 power and small
electric motors too. [JW]

Randy Randolph < > adds:

There was a squib in the Letters to the Editor column of
Flying Models this month, saying that the web site
< http://www.profili2.com/eng/default.htm > had a bunch
of model plans from the old magazines; good ones too --
and they appear to be free! Randy

Jack Baker < > has been e-mailing me {JW}
lately with questions about building & flying an e-powered R/C
version of my 1950 control-line stunt model, the Super Chief.

...Since some of the information appears to be possibly useful to
other SMALLsters, I've condensed several of my replies below:

You asked about the Super Whattmeter. I have one of those, and 
know how it works. But I can understand your confusion about
making effective use of it. For one thing, ol' Bob Boucher at
Astro Flight isn't among the top ten technical writers of all time.
(Maybe not among the top 10,000.)

For another thing, the little folder that comes with the meter says 
essentially nothing about applications. I hate it when an item like 
this -- or any electronic device -- carries documentation mostly 
devoted to telling you what a great product you now own; and 
says nothing useful about what you can DO with it -- and how.

I don't suppose you need any help in hooking up the Whatt Meter.
I DO suppose that you want to know how it can help you get optimum
performance from your motor/battery/prop combination.

First off, you've gotta have some combination of those items to start 
with & make measurements of. The best way I know to choose
those is to get a copy of the latest Hobby Lobby catalog. That
contains basic performance data for a TREMENDOUS number of 
motors and batteries.

Let's say you select some combination among the ones I thought
looked good for Super Chief power. Set up the motor, using a
FIRM mounting arrangement. Then, instead of a prop, install an
aircraft plywood disk (you choose the size) with a pair of black
spots painted opposite each other. That's to enable rpm
measurements.

Oh yeah, you need a digital tach too.

OK. Hook up the motor, meter, speed control too! and battery.
Turn things on at some reasonable "throttle setting", and measure
& record rpm and current drain. Do that again at one or two
other speeds. No need to overdo it: three tests are plenty.

Now stop; take the disk off and replace it with a prop. Next,
turn the system back on, and set the speed such that the current
drain is the same as one of your previous tests with the disk.

Check the rpm. If it's approximately half what it was with the
disk at that current, your prop is efficient. Try again at
the other settings to make sure.

If the prop runs much SLOWER than half the disk rpm, try a
different prop: smaller in diameter or with less pitch.
(Just the opposite if the prop runs a lot FASTER than half
the disk rpm.)

One more point! The rule of thumb for propeller performance is
that the MAXIMUM POSSIBLE vehicle speed (in mph) is the prop
pitch in inches times the rpm in thousands. The model can --
and most likely WILL -- fly slower than that. But it CANNOT
go faster.

This is important, because if you have (for example) a "Python 30"
external rotor motor spinning an 8-4 at 5K powering a heavy (lots
o' batteries) scale model that needs to go 22 mph to get off the
ground -- it ain't agonna (excuse the technical language).

Back to the Whattmeter. The various measurements it's capable
of making can (of course) be done with other electronic
instruments, such as a digital multimeter. However, the
Whattmeter does have two advantages.

First, in a single instrument it can provide both current and
voltage readings simultaneously. Second, its ampere capacity
is FAR larger than that of any inexpensive multimeter. [JW]

... Here's a news item someone sent in -- I accidentally
deleted the source while editing the message -- sorry...[JW]

RENO, NV. February 10, 2005 -- Altair Nanotechnologies, Inc.
announced today that it has achieved a breakthrough in Lithium
Ion battery electrode materials, which will enable a new generation
of rechargeable battery to be introduced into the marketplace, as
well as create new markets for rechargeable batteries. These new
materials allow rechargeable batteries to be manufactured that
have three times the power of existing Lithium Ion batteries at
the same price and with recharge times measured in a few minutes
rather than hours.

Joe Nagy < > submitted:

In response to Nick Trubov and Ian McQueen queries about the
Cox/ThimbleDrome profile C-L model of old: I believe it was
called the TD-4. The first of the Cox ready-to-fly control-line
series was the TD-1, which featured a formed sheet-aluminum cell
wing, issued in the early 1950's.

It was followed by the delightful, fun to fly, but very delicate
formed eggshell-like plastic cell wing on a model called the TD-3.
I had one of these. It was available in the mid to late 50's.

Then followed the TD-4, then the PT-19. Old Friend and C-L
expert Dale Kirn stopped by to visit me in Phoenix a year or so
back. Dale worked for LeRoy Cox back in the 50s, so I asked him
what happened to the TD-3 tooling, as that little airplane really
flew well, and with our stronger and modern plastics could be a
real winner.

Dale stated that sadly the tooling had been discarded and
destroyed when subsequent Cox owners took over.

Check eBay. Periodically you will find TD-1, TD-3, and rarely
TD-4's offered for sale....and none go cheaply. I hope this
little blurb has been of interest and use.

Best regards from the beautiful and sunny Gulf Coast of Florida.

Joe Nagy

Larry Renger < > adds:

The profile C*x ready-to-fly was the TD-4. I flew one only once
and found that it had a rather interesting bad habit. If you got
the model into a significant negative angle of attack, the wing
would flex downward and drive you into the ground.

The model was, I think, molded in Polyethylene rather than
Polystyrene as most RTF planes were. Now they have much more
impact-resistant versions of Polypropylene, and that seems to be
the most rugged injection-molded plastic available.

Next item: more information on the Vroom-Zoom RTF. After about
20 flights, it suddenly has ceased to have any real performance.
A friend is dissecting it and thinks that the problem is that the
motor is shot.

I think it is the battery, but we'll get to the bottom of it and
report. By the way, the foam fuselage is strictly cosmetic and can
be removed with an improvement in performance.

Now a question. Has anyone ever actually used a gelatin mixture to
seal silk instead of dope? I have heard it mentioned, but like
Urban Myths, it was always somebody else someplace else. I would
love to hear how it works from actual experience.

Final item is to call attention to the fact that the AMA has made
a sensible change, and you now may use .008 cable flying lines with
up to an .08 cubic inch powered plane. In addition, .15's now
require .010 solids instead of allowing .008 solids. I know that
SMALLnet is averse to competition, but adhering to AMA rules is
necessary to have the insurance coverage effective.

Larry Renger * Design Engineer

Don Garry < > reports:

I just ordered an O.S. .18 CV-R with an 11J Rotary carb from
Tower Hobbies, at a fantastic sale price that's good through
February! If you can use a side exhaust engine in, say, a Sabre
Jet ducted fan plane, you might want to try one of these.

You can get one with a pull start for only $99.95 from Tower.
Hobbies. Also, I have a code number that will get you
"$20 off" any order of at least $50. You only have to set up
a new account (wife, son, etc.) at Tower Hobbies in order to
get the 20-dollar savings.

< http://www2.towerhobbies.com/cgi-bin/wti0001p?&I=LXGGP5&P=0 >

I have just put together a website showing a couple of unique
model engine creations of mine. It's at:

< http://community-2.webtv.net/injunnut/UniqueSMALLModel >

Donald Garry 
535 Clearview Drive 
Cocoa, Florida 32927 

Mike Hawkins < > wrote:

Harry McKay wrote about the need for a Futaba AM Transmitter.
Well, it just happens that as a Visiting Member of the Florida
Float Flyers, I happen to have one, plus a spare Ace Silver Seven 
Rx. (Although I have not flown this receiver for a while, it gave 
excellent service and has plugs for JR, Hitec or Futaba servos.)

The only snag is that I shall not be visiting the Tampa area
until mid-April, when I could bring these items with me.

After flying at the second most beautiful lake site in the world
(the First was here in Bangkok, until it closed to be turned
into a golf course last month -- Ughhhh!) I hope Ray and Ralph
introduced you to the debriefing session afterwards, with a
grouper sandwich at the Village Restaurant and then a stop at
Campbell's Ice Cream parlour.

Model flying can be fun and is not dangerous to your health..

Let me know about the Transmitter.

Dr. Mike Hawkins

Howell Gwin < > contributed:

So glad to see you guys back! I've belatedly subscribed to
Flying Models, and it's so nice to see plans which resemble the
ones I drooled over a long time ago. I'm not as active as I
used to be, but hope to get going very soon.

Electrics will probably be my area of choice. I've just converted
the Lanier Rubber foamie (similar to the U-2) and hope to fly it
if the Gulf Coast of Texas ever dries out! 8+}>>>. It will use a
400 and 1.8 gear box, though I have an Astro 035 Geared in the
wings and a geared 600.

I've found so much information on the 'net (especially RCGroups)
that I can't help wondering if the print mags are in a little
trouble. I think Joe's the one who has commented on their lack of
originality and I must agree. Looks like every other magazine
plan is a copy of another one, or it's by ****.

I've built and flown many of his planes over the years --but
goodness! Aren't there any other designers still working??

Question: I learned to fly on a Top Flite Headmaster and
Enya .15 (I think). I have the wreckage (body, tail, landing gear,
half a wing) which I'd like to rebuild. I sure could use some
advice on what kind of e-power would do a good job. Would a geared
600 or the AF .035 work? I don't think I'm ready for brushless or
LiPo's yet.

Again, welcome back. Howell

Jon McVay < > requests:

Bob Chiang, please send me your e-mail address. I tried the
address shown in SMALLnet but it didn't work.

Thanks, Jon McVay

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index