SMALLnet post278 

 SMALLnet Posting post278

Date: Sat, 8 Jan 2000 00:42:01 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >.

Jim Porter < > wrote:

Those who are using the exhaust ring/collector on PAW diesels
may find that the problems they are having is due to a buildup
of tolerances causing the collector ring to collapse and choke
off the exhaust.

The main cause seems to be using two of the fiber washers to 
seal the collector to the cylinder base and the crankcase.

I had a 100 R/C TBR that ran fairly well initially, but the
cylinder came loose. I tightened it, and the engine ran a little
slower. After several iterations I had an engine that would barely
get out of its own way. Some serious head scratching, a run on 
the test stand, and a disassembly turned on the light. The 
collector had collapsed and nearly shut off the exhaust.

Re-assembly with ONE gasket eliminated the problem, and 
all has been fine since.

Jim Porter 
Bettendorf, Iowa

Jon McVay < > appreciates:

Thanks to all that responded to my plea for help on the L R
Taylor battery cycler. I now have a full set of instructions
for this unit.

Thanks again, Jon McVay, Mount Vernon, Iowa

Larry McFarland < > reports:

To those on SMALLnet looking for the current address
of Gerry Alvey, if you're still trying to reach him: as of the 
middle of October, he's at: < >, 
and the phone number I have for him is (760) 632-1460. 
Gerry is an awfully nice chap, so hope this is useful 
in getting your connection!

Larry over here in Cleveland, Ohio

Mark Garvey < > inquires:

Maybe someone has covered this in the past, and I hate to admit 
my ignorance, but I have a small problem with my Lazy Bee. It isn't
the design or builder (ahem...) it is the da..uh..darn fuel tank!

I LOVE my little HP .21 4-stroke. It's silent as a whisper, in fact
it is less noisy than my electric version of the Bee was! But there
IS a slight problem with fuel flow. After flying for about 10-12
minutes on my 4-ounce fuel tank, the engine quits. When I land the
thing and top it up, it takes only a little fuel to fill the tank.

The other day when removing the tank from my current Bee to 
use it in another, I saw that it had over a half tank or fuel aboard!
I pumped it out as far as I could, then blew it out, but STILL have
nearly a half tank! NO WONDER I am getting crummy run times!
I don't THINK that the line is cracked, though that is a rather
obvious check. I also don't think the clunk is stuck forward.

This is a flat style Sullivan tank. Do any of you have suggestions
as to what I can do to improve the tank? I would really like to
be able to use at least 3 ounces of my 4-ounce tank. 
Suggestions would help.

One particular question is: where in the world to get a "better"
clunk? The brass ones seem to be so large for our small 
stuff that they don't allow enough fuel to feed.

Anyway, Keep this up guys. I love to read SMALL stuff and have 
been encouraging a new kid to try SMALL models, Sig LT 25, 
Seniorita, Lazy Bee etc. But I don't know how that will come out.

OH, before I go. I was reviewing my "Dad's Airplane Tape" a rather
informal video that I have been making off and on for about 5 years.
It is a tape of activities at our club and "club" flying sessions.
Included is some great stuff showing our local indoor guys, a bunch
on my various "Wonders", some flying wings, and my electric Lazy 
Bee. (My first one) It is really fun to watch when I am sitting in a
truck stop on a cold/windy/snowy night while on the road.

A bit boring of course, after all watching airplanes whipping
around the sky is not all interesting, but my friend Don's first
electric helicopter flight was interesting (and short). Our various
attempts at experimental models were certainly fun and funny.
(Example: "Does it have enough power, Don?" "I hope so!" --
furious running and a heaving throw,............ wallow,
wallow...thud!...."Uh, I guess not.") This particular incident was
repeated. We also discovered that a .15 powered Wonder Biplane
(Don's idea) will taxi pretty well in grass, but not enough to
gain airspeed. So it needed a handlaunch. (See above.)

Don is an engineer; good thing he designs and evaluates pill-
making machines, not aircraft, eh?

I suggest other people do this, and IF by some chance anyone would
like my "RAW UNCUT Dad's Airplane Tape" I will be pleased to
copy and send it along (this is no advertisement!) in exchange for
a copy of someone else's "Dad's Airplane Tape". I will also keep
adding to my tape for fun and all that. My tape runs back to 1995.

Well, back to the workbench! My HLG awaits repairs!

Mark Garvey

....Mark, seems to me that back in the summer of 1998 you mentioned
having to use "crankcase pressure" from your HP .20 in order for the
fuel to feed from your Lazy Bee's tank. (I put "crankcase pressure"
between quotation marks there because a 4-stroke engine doesn't
produce the high net positive crankcase internal pressure that a
2-stroker does.)

The configuration of a Lazy Bee's nose makes for a rather low tank
position, with consequent suction feed difficulties. Several
SMALLsters in previous Postings have offered solutions to this
problem, such as mounting the engine at an angle, or even sideways,
to bring the carburetor spraybar closer to the tank centerline.

On your HP .20-powered Lazy Bee, the spraybar must be a good 
two inches higher than the tank center! No wonder you've had 
fuel delivery trouble... Still, your latest submission states that you
cannot even PUMP more than about half the fuel out of your
4-ounce Sullivan.

That sure sounds like a slit fuel pickup line to me. Sullivan
tank kits come with brass tubes that have EXCEEDINGLY sharp
edges. If you use these in "stock condition", and employ thin-
wall silicone tubing for your Clunk connection, you are guaran-
teed to develop a "knife slit" in the silicone where it meets the 
brass tube end.

For years I've routinely modified the ends of ALL my Sullivan 
tank brass tubes. I tin the ends (after forming the tubes & 
inserting them through the rubber stopper); then add a copper 
wire "ring" around each end. Soldering that lightly in place 
both "breaks the sharp edge" and acts as a slip-off preventer. [JW]

Dereck Woodward < > contributes:

What's with these starting problems anyway? My start routine is:
Fit new battery, turn on, push throttle stick forward, take off.
Sometimes I even reverse the last two with little handlaunchy
models ;-)

Jarvis Lopez asked, "I want to convert from glow to electrics...
I want to purchase an Astro 15g; and they are available with 2.39,
2.89 and the new 3.4x gear ratios. I want to be able to use the
15g in Lazy Bees, Kadet 25, Speedy Bees, ARF deluxe Telemaster
electric etc. without the hassle of becoming an expert in gear
ratios.

"With my Webra 19 using a 10/4 I can build any of the above
without worry. Which version of the Astro 15g would give me the
same versatility ?"

You'll want the sport or "cobalt" version -- the FAI one is
designed for soarers to zoom off to a great height and then fly
around in circles on the glide. The 15 is one of Astro's more
flexible motors, though happiest on around 12 cells, looking to
what folk have used it for mostly.

Having said that, it would work on 8 cells in your Lazy Bee case
and take 14 in a very handy Kadet LT25. What you have to watch 
for is the current -- topping out around 25A, maybe 28A for short
bursts, is good for long life.

You don't need to be an "expert" in gear ratios - think of them like
car gears - you want to go up a steep hill with a lot of passengers
or accelerate hard, you select a low gear. With a model aircraft,
you only have one gear, so you compromise for the model. Electric
power has a flexibility that wet power cannot match -- I have a
"Pondside" flying boat -- a slow and gentle flier with an Astro
035 on direct drive, with 6 cells and a 7 x 4 prop.

That same motor can handle twice the power in my aerobatic 
model geared 2.9:1 on ten cells and a 10 x 8 prop. It is the ability 
to swap gears that gets much of that flexibility.

With all due respect, diesels and glows can't quite cover that range!

What's that? Yes, Smithers, cars have gears. Putting the lever into
D (for dummies) doesn't mean GM and Ford did away with them ;-)

A good place to go for more information is Ken Myers' pages at
< http://members.aol.com/kmyersefo/index.htm#TOP >

Another is < http://ezonemag.com > with the invaluable Eflight
mailing list -- ask about every e-flier in the US in one message.

There's whole sections on folks' impressions of their models in
there, lots of ideas too.

For what you want, get the 2.9:1 ratio, the cobalt motor and make
sure you buy an Astro "Whattmeter" to tell you what's happening in
there. It's not that I want to plug the "Whattmeter"; it is just the 
only game in town unless you are into electronics and can build
something that can read currents up to 30 amps or more. It's a 
tool you'll find in 90% of electric flight toolboxes in the US!

One neat device I have is a belt drive from Modelairtech -- this
allows me to change gear ratios at the field. It's a bulky thing
compared to the Astro 'box, but I intend to fit it into a Sig LT25 for 
use as a sports model, glider tug and camera model; the ability
to change a gear to the task in hand at the field might be useful.

One thing is certain - buy an Astro, you'll have it a long while.
I ran my 035 at 300 watts -- about twice what Astro say it's capable
of -- for three years. It got slightly disassembled when a mid-air
took the wing off my best aerobatic ship. The commutator was fine,
a replacement brush holder was epoxied in -- about $2.00 -- I put
the original brushes back in and she's as good as before the crash.

A cheap ferrite motor wouldn't last a week at those power levels,
let alone three years of constant flying. As Keith Shaw says,
"Buy cheap, buy twice", and he knows about electrics.

On other stuff:
My Hobby Hangar "Pondside" is about together, ready for final
installation and testing of power and RC systems. Looks cute as a
button in a pseudo US Navy floatyboat colour scheme - two tone blue
fuselage, yellow wings and tail. Got to add the important details -
anchors and a paddle! I'm going to spray paint the wing floats -
covering them in film looks slightly less fun than Monokoting the
neighbour's cat :-). Land-based test flights on the next calm
Sunday when the temperature tops freezing, water trials when 
the weather gets decently warm!

For those who prefer starting engines, George at HH has ideas of a
glow Pondside, which would work real good for around a 10 or 15
lump. Maybe if enough SMALLsters bug him enough, he'll provide 
us with another really neat option for a fun model -- if you haven't
flown off water, are you missing out, or what?

Regards, Dereck

Bernard Cawley, Jr. < > also responds 
to Jarvis Lopez's "What's the best gear ratio...?" query:

You may not like this answer, but it is ANY of them, with
appropriate choices of battery and propeller. As the gear ratio
goes down, the cell count and/or the prop size must also decrease
in order to keep the current (and running time) within reason. 
The high ratio gearbox will call for using a 13-15 inch propeller.

Of your listed planes, the LT-25 is probably the only one that even
has enough ground clearance for that (I have plenty of clearance 
for a 12-inch prop on mine).

How fast does your Webra 19 turn that 10X4? What kind of 10X4?

What sort of performance do you expect from the Lazy Bee and the
ARF Telemaster from this engine? (I picked those two as the
extremes of weight/wing loading from your four planes.)

As an aside, the Lazy Bee/Speedy Bee are both on the lightweight
side to carry a "normal" 12-14 cell battery for an Astro 15. You
would want to use smaller than sub-C sized cells in those planes 
if you want to use that motor - either 800AR's or 1250SCR's at
1.1 - 1.5 ounces apiece, rather than the RC2000 sized cells at
2 ounces apiece.

The LT-25 will have NO problem with a full battery complement --
there are electric LT-25s flying with anywhere from Astro 035s with
the high ratio gearbox and 10 cells up to Astro 25s with 16 cells.

The Telemaster, being about the same size, but heavier, will
probably also work with anything in that range, but it will fly
like it is heavier.

Bernard Cawley, Jr. 
Auburn, Washington USA

Paul Forrette < > effervesces:

Randy Man; Enjoyed your column in the February Flying Models.
You talk dihedral: High wing, add 2 degrees; low wing, subtract
2 degrees. Got me thinking (dangerous), so I measured my SE-5.

It looks seriously deficient in the dihedral department, but is 5
degrees for both wings. Looks are truly deceiving. My point being,
you neglected to mention biplanes, where the wing locations cancel
each other's "effective dihedral effect". So there, big fella.

BTW: my SE-5 is Cox 049-powered, 30" span. Snaps are a treat,
loops OK, scale speed about right. How did I deserve to get
something right for a change?

Happy 2000, Paul

< > writes about lightweight model covering:

For indoor (or cautiously outdoor) models of the relatively
"heavy" type the easiest, very light covering I have found is
the 2 um Mylar film available from David Lewis
 .

This is 12 inches wide, for $0.70 per linear foot, 0.08 mil,
and weighs 2.2 grams per square meter.

By "heavy", I mean planes weighing from 1 gram to a couple of
ounces, not the almost weightless works of art, reminiscent of
thistledown, created by the experts of indoor models.

My favorite method of application, learned from a book on indoor
models, is to cut a piece slightly larger than the surface to be
covered, wad it up in as tight a ball as possible; carefully
smooth it out, then repeat.

Now take the carefully smoothed out piece and glue it to your
framework with whatever is your favorite adhesive. A glue stick
works well (UHU or Avery are good brands). CA can be used, but 
is a bit more permanent than I like. A glue stick allows you to
CAREFULLY slide the film, and tighten it somewhat for several
minutes. The film can also be peeled off later, if re-covering
is desired.

Do not shrink the film! The very small wrinkles in the surface
appear to actually improve the performance of the aircraft.
It's "micro turbulence" or whatever else to which you want to
attribute the added lift characteristic.

The film is really quite strong and holds up well to everything
except sharp, pointy objects. The wadding-up also appears to
eliminate "static cling" and make the material easier to work,
since it's now not quite as invisible. (Watching someone work
with this material must be like watching a mime.)

The same technique can be used with the 5 um or 4 um 
aluminized film, but the wrinkles will be somewhat bigger and 
not look as nice.

Be careful of any nicks or cuts along the edge of the film as you
are smoothing it. An edge cut will propagate very easily. Use a
very sharp blade when cutting the film to avoid such edge cuts.

If you really, really want to shrink the film, it will withstand an
amazingly high temperature without melting -- but a framework
of 1/16" square, or smaller balsa can be warped quite easily.

 Source: Covering, "Millenium Cover" 

....Speaking of lightweight covering, that reminds me! Eric Clutton
just sent me a sample of a new product he's selling, which he calls
"Millenium Cover". (I've spelled the name just as Eric does.)

Here's the full text of the instructions:

"There is no backing sheet. The glue is on the dull side and is
heat activated. The film is completely transparent after heat is
applied.

"Tack film to outside edges and ribs, etc., then attach firmly all
around the edges before shrinking the open areas with iron or heat
gun. Use caution if covering lightweight structures made of 1/16"
or similar. Sheet structures may also be covered using the same
method as with any other film.

"MILLENIUM COVER may be painted any color on the >glue side 
"MILLENIUM COVER may be used to patch repair inferior films 
or even doped tissue, and is perfect for cabin windows.

"The MILLENIUM has arrived !!!"

Price is $4.00 postpaid for a 10-foot length, 1 foot wide, from
Eric Clutton, 913 Cedar Lane, Tullahoma, Tennessee 37388 ---
(931) 455-2256.

 Source: Tubing, plastic diesel-fuel-proof 

Eric also tells me that PAW now markets diesel-fuel-proof extra-
flexible plastic tubing, in 2 sizes: small and medium. It's pricey
stuff, at $2 per foot; but it's noticeably flexier than the Tygon
tubing that I've been using on my own little diesels. [JW]

Paul Rodrigues < > asks:

Can anyone help me with information on performance of the old 
"OK" engines from the '60's? I have just acquired a new 049; from
where the supplier got it I know not, but it looks quite interesting
none the less. It has a front intake like the TD's and it would be
interesting to know how they compared with the Cox TD 049.

Paul

....Paul, the OK .049 was the second 1/2A model airplane engine on
the market, arriving at American hobby shops in the late Spring of
1949. The original version was a long-stroke engine (stroke 
greater than cylinder bore) and would generally spin the 6-3 wooden 
props of the 1950's at about 9000 rpm.

A few years later OK changed to a shorter-stroke design, and that's
probably what you have. MILLIONS of those engines were made, 
and when they eventually went off the market in the late 1960's, a
considerable number of finished "surplus parts" were put into long-
term storage.

Several years ago the son of the OK company's founder decided to
assemble these old parts into complete engines and put them 
back on the hobby market again. Unfortunately, the quality of these
"resurrected" engines wasn't up to the original standard...

The short-stroke OK .049 gained about a thousand rpm over the
first model -- but it was nowhere nearly in the same performance
range as the Tee Dee .049. The Tee Dee can develop almost twice
the rpm of the best Cub .049 I've ever seen.

But that doesn't mean the OK Cub is an inferior power plant for
flying model airplanes! I personally FAR prefer the Cub for
sport free flight flying.

I'd NEVER install a Tee Dee in a Dakota or Sioux -- or even a
Comanche. The drawback with excess power in a 1/2A engine is
that it limits the places you can fly. High rpm makes for noise
complaints! I flew OK Cub -powered free flighters and control-
liners for years in residential areas with never a noise complaint.

But after the high-rpm 1/2A trend began (with the Wasp .049 of
1950), it became harder and harder to fly 1/2A models in school-
yards without somebody calling the cops. [JW]

Phil Plumbo < > asks:

I am an amateur machinist and would like to try my hand at making
a small CO2 engine. Does anyone know where I can find plans?

Phil Plumbo 
St. Paul, Minnesota 
On the Mississippi 

Affonso Arantes < > wrote:

I've been flying CO2-powered models for the last 2 years.
My first model was a 30" wingspan Powerhouse with a GM-120
motor and the CETO single channel radio. It flew quite well
for a couple of minutes with the original 5 c.c. tank.

Next I purchased an ARF Aika where I installed the same 
equipment, but now with a 13 c.c. tank. With that I got flights of
more than 5 minutes, with the motor running for about 3 minutes.

My last model is a modified Russian JR with a 36" wing and
powered by a GM-300 motor and a 16 c.c. tank. The problem
is that I can never get more than 1 minute running time with
this motor, even loading the tank with a cooled-in-ice 12
gram cartridge. Is there any means of getting a longer running
time with this larger motor using the 12 gram cartridge, or the
only way is to resort to a big and heavy filling equipment as
I have seen in a video recently?

....Affonso, think of CO2 motors as being a kind of steam engine.
In both, a fluid boils and produces gas under pressure that can
be used to move a piston.

Now think about trying to pour water into a red-hot boiler tank.
The liquid would flash into steam as soon as it hit the hot metal;
and the pressure from that would make further filling both difficult
and inefficient, at least until the tank metal cooled enough to
permit the water to remain fluid.

Well, that's exactly what happens when you fill a room-temperature
CO2 motor tank -- from any source. The liquid CO2 in the cartridge
boils at any temperature higher than about 100 degrees F below 
zero! What prevents it from flashing into a gas in the cartridge itself
is pressure. That's around 800 pounds per square inch gage --
commonly abbreviated psig.

When you first start to fill a CO2 motor tank with liquid CO2 from
a cartridge, as soon as that liquid touches the tank wall it becomes 
a gas. That produces back pressure against new inflowing liquid 
CO2. But at the same time, the gas expansion cools the tank. 
Soon a state of equilibrium occurs, where the pressure in both the 
tank and the cartridge are equal.

By the time that happens, there's always a significant amount of
gaseous CO2 trapped in the tank. That occupies volume that
should have, for maximum motor run, been filled with liquid CO2.

A common technique for getting longer CO2 motor runs is to fill the
tank, then run the motor without launching the model. As the tank
empties, it gets colder and colder, from the expansion of the liquid
CO2 into gas. Then when the motor stops running, a rapid refill of
the tank will input a higher liquid content, because with a chilled
motor tank not so much of the refill inflow gasifies.

But another problem occurs when the motor tank and the cartridge
are of similar capacity. There's just NO WAY of filling more than 
a fraction of the motor tank before the pressure in that equals 
the cartridge pressure. Then inflow stops.

That's the reason for the "big and heavy" CO2 filling equipment.
If the reservoir contains (say) 2 1/2 pounds of liquid CO2, it
can push a far larger quantity of that into a 16 cc tank than
could ever be achieved with a paltry little 12-gram cartridge. [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index