SMALLnet post381 

 SMALLnet Posting post381

Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2001 23:22:31 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

...Rather little material has come in since the previous Posting, and
nothing whatever in the past three days. I don't know whether 
the cat has everyone's tongue, or perhaps something's gone wrong 
at Eskimo. Bill Lee is Out West at the annual Old-Time Stunt 
meet at Tucson, Arizona. When Bill returns next week he will fix 
any problems that Eskimo may be experiencing with SMALLnet.

Luckily, I have some SMALL-relevant material of my own. I'll 
insert some of that now, and the rest later in this Posting.

Most model flyers take care to minimize the entry of dust and grit
into their engines. But few bother to do the same for their radio
transmitters. Yet dirt and grime do those no good. Stick gimbals
need to be clean to work smoothly, and antennas can lose much 
of their transmitting power if their sliding contact areas become
oily or oxidized.

Maybe I'm more conscious of transmitter cleanliness than 
most, because my favorite ones have cream-colored cases rather 
than black. 

Bill Cannon and Fred Marks (formerly chief designer for Ace 
R/C) are quite logical-minded. A light color seemed to them 
far more suitable than a dark one for the body of a sensitive 
electronic item that will usually be operated in bright sunlight. 

That's why the almost-white Cannon (and the Ace "Silver 
Seven") transmitters are easy to spot in the "impound area". 

Anyway, for decades I've been keeping my transmitters clean 
by storing them in plastic "blanket bags" when not in use. 
These zipper-sided bags were JUST the right size for R/C 
transmitters, and I found a source in the late '70's where 
I could buy those in quantity for about 70 cents each.

But it's been a long time since I last bought any "blanket
bags", and by now almost all of mine are used up. (They get 
dirty too; also brittle and easily torn after 20+ years.)

However, lately I've found something even better! Less 
expensive, too. Most sport-flying type R/C transmitters will fit 
neatly in Ziploc's one-gallon-size "Easy Zipper" bags. Those 
that won't, WILL fit in the 2-gallon size (but I haven't seen 
that yet in the "Easy Zipper" style).

As for transmitter antennas, the best cleaning material I know 
of is well over a hundred years old. That's "Brasso". Originally
developed for cleaning the tarnish from naval officers' brass
buttons (and similar "military" applications), Brasso does a
quick and neat job on R/C transmitter antennas. My local
supermarket sells Brasso, so it's probably easily available all
over the USA. And I think a can of that will last a lifetime of
keeping transmitter antennas gleaming.

BTW, I found that Brasso is also perfect for removing minor
scratches and scuffs from plastic. I've used it on windshields --
and on sunglasses too. The stuff is amazing... [JW]

Jon McVay < Togflier@aol.com > announces:

All-electric fly-in. September 8 & 9, 2001, Quad Cities, Iowa.
For more data go to: < http://www.rc-dymond.com/efliowa/ >
or contact me directly. We had 45 pilots and 120 aircraft
last year. This year should be even better. Jon

Bob Peterson < RPeter9954@aol.com > reported:

Just finished (almost) one of SR Batteries X250 electric kits.
This has to be one of the best kits I've ever built: excellent
wood; the laser cutting is unbelievable, and (when everything
else fails) these guys are really accessible either on the
phone or by e-mail. Not only that, but they know what 
they're talking about.

I'm really impressed. The plane came out at 22 ounces and has
yet to fly -- but, hopefully, that will change soon. 
SPRING may be coming to the northeast!!

Thermals, Bob Peterson

Don Bailey < gliderguy@earthlink.net > wrote:

Well, I took my new Sig Colt out to the flying field on Saturday
afternoon for its maiden voyage. The Enya .09 cranked up like it
had been flying all season, and never hiccuped once. Good idle
right out of the box, and a nice strong top end. What a sweet
motor! I may swap out the MA 7x4 graphite prop for something 
a bit more efficient, but even with this clunky prop the Enya
delivers plenty of power for the Colt (36 ounces, 48" span).

No way this thing is going to need tank pressure -- it runs just
fine at every attitude in the stock configuration. I just fueled
up, hit it with my Ace Half-A starter, and vrooom. Better than
the O.S. .10s I've owned! It put out a lot of black the first
few runs; but now that it's broken in and running at peak 
mixture, it is running clean. I just left the butterfly valve on 
the muffler closed, and primed through the carb.

The Sig Colt is fun. It can't do much, but it sure flies well,
and I was able to do a thousand touch and goes with the 6-ounce
fuel tank I got in there. It really is a well-behaved aircraft,
and would be a good choice for a SMALL trainer. It is plenty
strong and light, and is quite responsive to rudder input.

In fact, if you're looking for a stable platform for that old
escapement or pulse system, the Colt, or it's sister ship, the
Sig Klipper, would make a good single-channel model.

I got the kit for 20 bucks, and scored the Enya .09 at a swap meet
for $38 NIB. I already had everything else I needed in the ol'
workshop. Nothing like good, cheap fun. I love SMALL!

Don Bailey Seattle Area Soaring Society

"If you don't care about rising air, you're square, mon frere."

Mike Woodhouse < mike@freeflightsupplies.co.uk >

A couple of observations on the covering topic:

Micafilm

Clear Micafilm is not fully fuel proof. Some rolls are better
than others; it's a bit inconsistent. Test the stuff by painting
on coloured ink and check for bleed through onto white paper.

Micafilm can slacken in the heat if not enough heat has been
used during application. However, it can soon be re-ironed.

Polyester tissue (Polyspan etc.)

For compound curves treat like an iron-on and it will mould
to most curves.

Fluffing up can be minimised by flowing on thin dope. Keep the
brush strokes to a minimum and on no account sand. More work
equals more fluff!

Sorry for any delay in my response but I have been away flying
at the Holiday on Ice in Norway.

Michael J. Woodhouse
Web site: < http://www.freeflightsupplies.co.uk >

...In the last few Postings several SMALLsters discussed various
model coverings. But nobody mentioned one of my favorites: 
SILK.

Maybe that's because of today's emphasis on "instant results".
Covering with silk is NOT a rapid process! Why use it at all, 
then?

Model covering is actually a kind of art form. 

As a comparison, although many painters of landscapes and 
"still lifes" now work on "ready-made" surfaces such as Masonite 
panels and pre-primed "canvas board", the old-fashioned 
canvas fabrics are still popular among artists.

The same holds true for covering model airplanes with silk. 
Like oil paint on stretched canvas, doped silk has a charm and 
mystique all its own. Though not truly difficult, it does require 
some "technique" that can only be developed with practice.

Here are some items of "technique" that may be of help to YOU.

First, use ONLY "regular" nitrate dope to adhere the fabric to the
model. (The "low-shrink" types lack adhesion qualities.) Allen
Heinrich at Aerodyne carries plain nitrate dope. So does John
Brodak (the control-line manufacturer/dealer in Carmichaels,
Pennsylvania).

Put three good wet coats of clear nitrate on EVERY surface 
that will touch the fabric. (If you only dope the perimeter, the
covering will still go on OK. But later, when you apply the
finishing coats, those will soak through into the undoped wood
below and produce a dull, lusterless look in those areas.)

Sand LIGHTLY with 400 or 600 grit wet-or-dry to remove 
the fuzz from the doped fabric after the first coat.

By the way, hen you buy the plain nitrate dope, also buy a pint 
or quart of "retarder". Use that to thin your dope, not the regular
thinner. Its complicated to explain the reasons I recommend
retarder; trust me on this point.

 Source: Silk 

Thai Silks (252 State Street, Los Altos, California 94022 --
(650) 9848-8611 -- web site < http://www.thaisilks.com > ---
e-mail < thaisilk@pacbell.net > sells at remarkably low prices
a few grades of model-covering-suitable dyed silk. But that's
woven & treated for use in clothing, and contains "sizing".
That makes the fabric easier to handle & cut, and the edges
won't unravel so readily.

However, the pre-treatment makes model-covering operations 
harder, because much of the "shrinking capacity" of the fabric 
has been removed. (Thai Silk appears to be pre-shrunk.) 

In using Thai Silk (or any other brand of silk that has a sort 
of crisp, "foldable" feel) -- cut the panels as required to cover 
the surfaces, with about a one-inch surplus all around.

Lay one panel down (dry) over the pre-doped part to be 
covered; then spray it with water. Keep it wet for several 
minutes before beginning the "attachment process". 

(The "time delay" is to allow the silk fibers to absorb as much 
moisture as possible, and thus maximize the later shrinkage effect.)

On all the "flying surfaces" make SURE that the weave of the
silk runs EXACTLY fore-and-aft. (If applied at even a slight
angle, when the silk shrinks it will inevitably WARP the surface.)

Pull out all the wrinkles, allowing the wet silk's "wet
stickiness" to hold it in place over the pre-doped frame.
Pull hard with Thai Silk!

When you have a taut, wrinkle-free coverage, brush a mixture
of about half-and-half plain nitrate dope and retarder down
through the PERIMETER of the silk-covered area. That will
soften the dope underneath and weld the silk to the wood.

Be sure to pull the silk good and TAUT at all times! Brush
the dope/retarder (D/R) mixture out at least 1/8" beyond the
outlines of the part.

Keep the silk wet with a water spray the whole time. If you
allow part of it to dry out before the entire panel is
anchored down all around, wrinkles and/or warps are likely.

When the D/R on the outer edges is dry, bend the surplus silk
around the outline; then with 320 or 400 grade wet-or-dry
sandpaper, sand through the excess material. (This produces
a much neater, "feather edge" trim than a razor blade.)

"Iron down" the edges with more of the D/R mixture and finger
pressure. If there are "difficult areas", keep your finger wet
with water as you burnish down the material...

Fuselages require a bit more "technique", and there are places
where you'll need to use a razor blade for trimming. In these,
don't try cutting the silk while it's wet. It's much safer to
wait until the D/R mixture dries. That will prevent cut edges
from unraveling.

"Sealing" the fabric after the covering is all on MUST be done
with plain nitrate dope brushed on. And brushing the first two
coats of dope on silk takes PRACTICE. It's VERY EASY to apply
dope too wet. It then runs through the weave of the fabric and
makes for a messy, uneven look where the "internal runs & drips"
occur.

There are several techniques that have been recommended to
alleviate this problem. One is to use a foam brush for the
first two coats. I don't like that, because the dope partly
dissolves the foam in the brush. Who knows what that does to 
the "chemistry" of the finish? A better way is to attach a strip
of medium or heavy Silkspan (with a rubber band or tape) halfway
up the handle of your doping brush. It's hard to explain in words,
but what you want to accomplish is to interpose the Silkspan 
strip (maybe twice as wide as the brush) between the brush 
bristles and the silk as you apply the two sealing coats.

The way I do it is to hold the Silkspan strip up out of the way
while I dip the brush into the dope bottle. Then I let the
Silkspan fall back down alongside the bristles, which it
overlaps about an inch on the end and both sides. (It's wet
with dope, of course, but not dripping.) Then I apply the
dope smoothly & evenly.

With retarder as thinner, you have more control over the 
doping, because it dries more slowly. However, you must 
wait longer between coats -- a few hours in warm summer 
weather; overnight when it's cool.

Generally two coats of plain nitrate dope, thinned with 
retarder to "brushing consistency", will seal the fabric. After 
that, you complete the finishing process "the usual way".

Colored dope is only available in butyrate now. I prefer the
stuff Brodak sells -- that's made by Randolph, the oldest & best
aircraft dope manufacturer in the world. The big advantage of
this colored dope is that contains opaque pigments, and takes
fewer coats to "cover". (Sig's dope is made with pigments from
the automotive finish industry; they're translucent rather
than opaque.)

That's fine for car finishes, where a look of "depth" is
desirable. But on model airplanes, it means that six or eight
coats of Sig Tennessee Red (for example) are needed to achieve
the same final look as you can get with three coats of Brodak's
Tennessee Red.

But PRACTICE on a few "mockup" frames before starting to 
silk-cover your beautifully-constructed airplane! You need to 
acquire the "feel" of the materials to do a truly good job with silk
covering. The time you spend in practice will save you at least
double that much time when you're working on the "real thing".
And even more important: you'll save FRUSTRATION !!!! [JW]

David Larkin < dslarkin@blvl.igs.net > submitted:

I certainly share your views on diesel conversions of glow
engines, though there was a very favourable review of a converted
MVVS 3.5 in one of the British magazines recently (either Model
Flyer or Aviation Modeller International) which apparently 
worked well, once one fitted a reduced throat carb. But seeing 
that the Irvine 20D is no longer available it might be worth 
considering.

However, fitting the new head and switching carbs made it an
expensive proposition

I have a customer in California who bought two of the VA Micro
diesels (0.024 cu in) for a free flight Monospar. He was going
to use a Don Srull-designed shutoff method whereby a timer-
activated balloon blows air into both the fuel lines. Very brave.

I need to find some plans for the Luton Major, a far prettier
plane than the Minor. The first model I built with any degree of
success was a small rubber kit for this, but I've never seen one
since. Best regards, Dave

Dr. Mike Blott < DRBLOTT@aol.com > wrote:

I converted a freeflight P-51-lookalike model from COX called
the VIPER. Used the GWS direct drive motor (from the geared
setup) with the stock prop.

Two HS-50 servos and GWS Pico receiver. Six 50 mAh cells. 
Flies very well. One problem is that the GWS motor is not 
designed for front impact loads, as it has a plastic endbell that 
holds the ballbearing. Can you say "pop"?

The non-ballbearing version may be a better alternative. 
I have a few hundred N20 Mabuchi motors. (Like in the B2.) 
John Worth from Cloud 9 has some gears that mate with 
the prop/spinner, and now I have a lighter setup. All-up weight 
is less than 100 grams.

Construction article will be in an upcoming RCMICROFLIGHT.
There is video on my site:
< http://phreak.mine.nu/drblott/RadioControlProjects.htm >

Mike

Tommy Wilson < jawa@ies.net > returns with:

I have been lurking for a while as I am busy building Free
Flight models for Jim Moseley's Postal Contests this year &
don't have much time to mess about with the computer -- 
the thing eats up time at a frightening rate!

Anyway, on to the point of this: while waiting for the dope
to dry on my Slow TeeDee model, I changed the engine on 
the OBOGO (an old Japanese single-channel model 
converted to 3 functions) from a Hornet 09 R/C to an 
OS Max 20 R/C which had not been used for 7 or 8 years. 

The OS was always one of my favourite engines, as it always 
started easily & throttled well -- but was put away when the 
model it was in died when it hit the ice on a frozen river.

A few drops of Marvel Mystery Oil were applied to the carb 
& exhaust before being put back into the box. I found the 
engine again when looking for something else & was 
smitten with a nasty dose of nostalgia!

The OS fitted into the model easily with only some minor 
fiddling with the throttle cable & servo. However, I was 
a little concerned, as the CG is now further forward than 
previously.

I wondered what was going to happen but left it as it was.

The field has been muddy since some rain at the weekend; 
however today I was able to fly the model at lunch time. 
After filling the tank, choking the carb with my finger & 
applying the NiStarter, one flick with the finger & it was 
running!

I could hardly believe it, languishing in the box for all of
those years had done the engine no harm whatsoever. That's 
a good testimonial for Marvel Mystery Oil, which I have 
used for years & will continue to do so.

The model is over-powered with the 20, as Sam Brauer already
mentioned in the previous Posting. It is now a little squirrely;
the climb-out after takeoff is spectacular but it flies nicely at
lower throttle settings with an old Top Flite nylon 8x6 prop.

I was still impressed with the engine even though the fuel is
only 10% nitro. Despite the forward CG I had to crank in full
down trim to try & control the climb at half throttle & above.
Tonight I will change the prop to 9x4, try that tomorrow & 
have more fun as it was a blast!

By the way, a Slow TeeDee is any model powered with a Cox
TD 049/051 with fixed flying surfaces only: no Variable-
Incidence Tail or AutoRudder -- & a 7-second engine run.

This is a class to run TDs only, as the Russians now make more
powerful motors for 1/2A. I am building an English design from
the 1950s called Y-BAR. I have built a couple before, but used
a PAW 149 diesel instead of the Elfin 149 called out on the plan.

It looks good; hopefully I will have some fun with it in the
Postal Competition. I never won anything with them but learned
a lot, met some great people & had a lot of fun; being impressed
with the almost-vertical corkscrew climb & nice floating glide.

Thermals! Tommy Wilson P.S. Too windy to fly today!

...Tommy, I agree with you that Marvel Mystery Oil works great
in glow engines. But in model DIESELS it can interfere with
easy "startability". [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index