SMALLnet post412 

 SMALLnet Posting post412

Date: Wed, 27 Feb 2002 23:14:26 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet/ >

...Just received some evil snailmail news: FAI TAN rubber may 
be extinct. Seems that its former major use for winding golf ball
cores is obsolete, and the factory closed. So far, attempts
to re-start production in a different factory have produced only
unusable rubber.

FAI Model Supply's John Clapp reports that he still has plenty 
of 1/16" FAI TAN II rubber in stock. [JW]

Eric Clutton < doctordiesel@cafes.net > announces:

News for all SMALL enthusiasts in the South East! I am CDing our
first SMALL meet at Tullahoma, Tennessee 23, 24, and 25 August.
Nobody else would do it so I got stuck with it! I will be at the
Little Rock event with a bunch of fliers (and hopefully to pick up
some pointers!). More information can be had from me by E-mail.

I hope to see many of you in August at Tullahoma! 

ERIC CLUTTON

Dave Campbell < cdcampb@ismi.net > submitted:

Sam Brauer compared the performance and costs of the Astro 
010G, Speed 300, and Speed 280BB motors.

The game you play in e-powered models is one of tradeoffs. You
juggle performance and run time to get the compromise that suits
your flying style. Sam "didn't want to talk about efficiency",
but the lower ampere draw of the 010 is where your performance
lies, because that's your untapped reserve.

You have to play with props, gearing, cell count etc. When the
010 pulls as much current as the 280BB, I guarantee that it will
be turning a lot faster. Also consider that the 280BB can't be
run for long on 10 cells, and that the 720 cells you use can't
handle those kinds of currents very well.

600AE's would be your next best bet, but those weigh more. 
That means that you are better off propping up or gearing taller 
to bring the current (and watts/horsepower) up.

Good Luck, Dave

Frank Weaver < goldguy@shaw.ca > wrote:

For cold weather starting and running of diesels, 2% amyl
nitrate seems to do the trick. The opposite seems to be true
of hot weather: less or none at all is best. Diesels do not
like hot summer days anyway!

One of my fellow modelers modifies a Cox spring starter to fit
his PAW 55 and it works great.

Me, I just get out my 1/2A starter. With the engine set very
under-compressed and only TWO drops of fuel for prime, choke
just enough to bring the fuel to the carb. Flip twice (at half-
throttle), hit with the starter and SLOWLY up the compression.

Off with the starter as soon as it kicks and de-compress instantly.
Let it sit there and PAW, PAW away to warm up, full throttle,
up the compression and adjust the needle for smooth running.
With diesels, once you get the needle setting you should not
have to touch it again. A tach is very helpful with setting
up diesels.

The rest of the day I can start my 55 with just the starter at
idle, no prime, no adjustments. Amazing!!!!! And to think 
some modelers shy away from diesels because they think they 
are hard to start.

On all of my larger PAW diesels on which I never use a starter,
I have had to change the rod/pin assembly shortly after being well
broken in. On my PAW 55 which has approximately 200 flights 
and started many times with a starter, I have had no signs of 
excessive wear and have never replaced any parts.

One other important consideration is the alignment of the two
holes in the spray bar. If you missed Dave Larkin's comments,
check though the bottom of the carb to see that both holes are
visible at full throttle through the barrel. If they are not,
expect one hour of fiddling to get it right. I take out the
stop screw, turn everything 180 degrees, and do it through 
the top. The hole positions are easier to see that way.

Next to my MP Jets 061, the PAW 55 is the easiest starting of
ALL my engines, including glow.

Fly SMALL, have a ball.

Frank Weaver -- The Balsa Beaver

Dave Larkin < dslarkin@blvl.igs.net > responds to a variety 
of queries and topics:

There's no special fuel necessary for diesels in winter. Just go
to the field and be first in the air. I've known people to use
two engines in their planes, swapping out the glow for a diesel
for winter flying.

When flying off a lake in Nova Scotia with my club, and using an
old ED Bee in a Tomboy with an ACE Pulse Commander R/C 
system, I could get the Bee going while everybody else was playing 
around with blowtorches, car exhausts, etc. Remember that the 
active ingredient in car-starting spray is ether.

Yes, you can use model aircraft diesel fuel to get your glow motor
going just as quickly! I've never seen a need to butcher an
engine just for winter use. You should certainly be able to fly
in temperatures down to 20 degrees (C) below.

George, I would be strongly inclined not to modify the Mambo's
stabilizer. In any case it would be no big deal to retrofit a
modified tail. My experience is that lifting stabilizers in
rudder-only planes minimize 'zooming' and help penetration
into wind.

I did have one rudder-only model go straight in, but think
that I let the tail incidence get too close to the wing
incidence. I froze when it started the dive, and never
thought of the old trick of alternately applying left and
right rudder to lift the nose.

Despite impacting on a concrete runway, the Jackdaw lived
again to teach me 6-channel reed flying, but with the addition
of elevators.

The model was a FROG Jackdaw, with a symmetrical stabilizer.
I just found the plans for this plane, and there isn't much
incidence difference between the wing and the stabilizer.
There may have been even less in my model, as I was using a
lighter motor than the plane was designed to take.

The design had had a great contest record with rudder and
throttle control, but I never flew mine enough that way to
give an assessment -- and besides I was very much a beginner.

(I was, I think, using a Kraft receiver and Graupner Unimatic
servos.) There is quite a bit of downthrust. I do know that
as I progressed to reeds with Kraft and Bonner equipment,
I destroyed vast numbers of 10 X 3 1/2 inch Top Flite nylon
props with ground loops. I projected my rate of loss and
bought accordingly; consequently still have plenty!

Why I didn't just hand launch is beyond me. I probably thought
a 60-inch span plane with an Enya .19 was just too big!

At that time I was flying with a friend who had a Mambo, but he was
experimenting with home-built Galloping Ghost with little success.
There were other Mambos flying at a nearby club, as far as I know
quite well, using escapements. But when I showed up at their field
with reeds (by this time in a Bob Palmer Gee String) there was a
revolution and all the Mambos soon disappeared. It was like
selling whisky to the natives.

Mind you, I don't think I told them that a spectacular spiral dive
was caused by my losing orientation for a moment.

Dennis, Your comment on the Master plane leaves me seriously
disturbed. I had one and didn't like it and now I'm wondering...
Anyway, I've since discovered the David Plane, made in The
Netherlands, which is a far superior device and is something no
modeller should be without. I used to stock them, but the folks
at Aeroenvironment found out I had them and cleaned out my stock.
Must re-order sometime. There's a distributor in California, and
I think SIG also stock them.

Best regards, Dave Larkin

Byron Lechler < Aerocmodel@aol.com > also comments on the 
Mambo:

I learned to fly R/C on a 48" Mambo in the late 60s. Used a
Mule II Transmitter & Receiver with real servos for rudder &
throttle. An O.S. Max 15 provided the power.

I must have done everything right, because in the hands of a
very inexperienced pilot (me) it flew like a dream. Rolls,
loops....you name it... it would do it and always return to a
stable attitude with little or no help from me.

So: My advice to George Hostler is LEAVE IT ALONE !!!!
Don't mess with the lifting stabilizer, and don't over-power it.
And, by the way George, I've wanted to build another Mambo 
Trainer for a long time. (Now out of production, ya know.)

I would gladly buy a copy of the plan from you. Good luck with
your Mambo. But please... Treat her like a lady... She was my
first love in R/C. Byron Lechler

Mike Gillihan < GillihanMike@JohnDeere.com > contributed:

I have been playing with the 1.5 mil Doculam, and so far I am
very impressed. Most of you already know Doculam makes a great,
lightweight covering that is undeniably among the least-expensive
model covering materials on the planet.

The 1.5 mil version seems amply strong enough for fast 1/2A models,
and weighs much less than MonoKote. The material seems flimsy at
first, but once heated with an iron becomes quite resilient.

I've recently taken to covering plans with Doculam. I spread the
plans out over my building board, roll the material over the plans
(overlapping the edges of the plans), and iron the whole lot down
to the board. Every glue that I've tried peels off the material
easily; and when finished building, I simply peel the whole lot
right off the board.

Once the plans are peeled from the board, I trim the Doculam to
the edge of the paper, and end up with a nicely-laminated plan
that can be rolled up for later use. Magic. Note that the stuff
looks "frosty" prior to ironing down, but goes clear when heat is
applied. Doculam handles like MonoKote, and your iron should 
be set to about the same temperature.

I ordered 1000 square feet of the stuff (two 12-inch by 500-foot
rolls) for less than $30, delivered. That works out to less than
three cents per square foot! I have also heard that Doculam can
be lightly spray-painted on the inside surface, or colored with
permanent magic marker prior to ironing on, without affecting the
adhesive (I have not tried this yet).

MANY THANKS to Milton Dickey for turning me on to this stuff 
at the SMALL meet in Maumelle last year! For those interested in
giving this stuff a try, the source that Milton recommended to
me is here:

 Source: Doculam 

< http://shop.flash.net/~lamwhse/film.html >

I called my order in, and received the film within 2 days. I'm
just now finishing up a HLG design that I intend to market as a
kit or as plans, and I'll be including the covering material
either way -- it only adds pennies to the cost.

 Mike S. Gillihan

Thomas Arcoleo < tarcoleo@iopener.net > contributed:

It may not be the purpose of this forum to speak of other forums.
On the other hand, this list is dedicated to a hobby, nay:
a discipline -- that compels most of us to distraction. We all
are in this together and share readily, on the field and off,
whatever is needed "to fly". So it is with a very sad sense
that I note the apparent demise of Tom Smith's
< rc_airplanes@rcmailinglists.com >. Over the years that forum
has -- as has this forum -- provided much useful information,
humor, and friendship.

One of the subscribers to rc_airplanes, Ted Temer, President of
the Anderson Park Flyers Club, has provided a backup e-mail list
that can operate just as the old rc_airplanes list did. There
was a free and easy exchange with an almost real-time immediacy.

It is hoped that refugees from the old list might continue the
good times at the Anderson Park Flyers' discussion list much as
in the past. Details are available at:

< http://www.andersonparkflyers.org >

-Tom Arcoleo

Phil Oestricher < F4DPilot@aol.com > sent:

I'd like to toss in my two cents worth on this apparently wide-
spread practice of using anti-freeze in a crockpot to clean
model engines. A friend of mine had a nice old Pierce .29
cleaned that way, and the result was a clean but very dark-
stained engine. The stain is permanent and affected the cast 
(aluminum alloy, I suppose) crankcase.

Perhaps the Pierce's case is made of an alloy with a lot of zinc
in it. Whatever, the engine definitely does not look as it
should after this treatment. I have had excellent results using
Zip-Strip Paint and Clear Finish Remover. I brush it on, wait
30 minutes, and then scrub it off with a toothbrush and warm
water. Really stubborn cases generally require a second
application.

I have never had an engine damaged in any way by this method.
Caution: It no doubt will attack the painted finish on parts such
as old K&B Greenhead cylinder heads. Zip-Strip works very much
like that great old Sunbeam Metal-Kleen stuff (long since banned
by the EPA and ??).

A number of us bought the Cox Droid RTF C-L "planes" a year or 
so back from Tower on their closeout sale just for the Surestart 
.049 engines. I found that the two I got were reluctant to start
initially and that the rod-to-piston fit was very loose. I gave
them the calibrated swats with a tack hammer and the Cox rod-
resetting tool, and was rewarded with excellent runners which
start easily. These seem to be very satisfactory engines in all
respects after the rod tightening.

The "plane" is something else. It's as close to unflyable as
anything ever sold as an RTF. Anyone out there get one to fly?
I'm still reasonably proficient in C-L stunting, but I couldn't
get this thing to just go around without wild pitching motions
which always resulted in a crash. I can offer one positive
comment about the "plane" -- it's rugged!

Phil Oestricher

< gkuehn@enteract.com > contributed:

Those lacking patience for stewing engines in 50% antifreeze
might wish to try the brute-force approach of putting roughly two
tablespoons of dishwasher detergent in a half-filled 3-lb coffee
can of water and bringing it to a boil.

(Note: That's dishWASHER, not dishwashing detergent.)

Disassemble the engine as much as possible and pop it into the
boiling water. Let it rip for about 5 minutes and then rinse
very thoroughly. Final disassembly (if needed) and another trip
through the process is usually enough to make things like new.
Use scalding hot water for the rinse -- that will heat the metal
and make things dry out faster.

A note of caution: boiling dishwasher detergent is caustic.
Avoid prolonged skin contact and protect your eyes. Don't boil
the engine for long periods of time, and do be sure to rinse
away all traces of the detergent.

After rinsing and drying, a water-displacing lubricant (especially
around bearings and the wrist pin) followed by liberal application
of your favorite after-run oil is recommended.

Michael Charles < hotairflyer@hotmail.com > wrote:

I'm wondering if anyone knows how I can get plans for one of
the first successful R/C models I saw, the Consolidated (I think
that was who made it) LiL Spirit 1/2A. I believe it had about
36" span and was for single channel.

Richard Pawloski asked about equivalents to the 1524 motor.
A widely used replacement for the DC1524 is a GWS IPS DX-
(version suited for your application).

The IPS motors come in a variety of gear ratios to suit the
correct propeller size and pitch for the model they power, as
the DC1524 also comes in 2 ratios for prop size fitting.

Example: I used a GWS DX-A and 10x4.7 GWS prop in my MINI=IFO
with a 7.2V Lithium battery, and it flies great. When I tried
to use the same combination on the full-size IFO, the motor
overheated. So I went to the GWS DX-D with 12x8 GWS prop,
and it really flies great. After 20 minutes the motor is barely
warm. VERY IMPORTANT: Use a heatsink with any of the
IPS motors regardless of the application.

You can find data on the DC1524 here:
< http://www.toddsmodels.com/corelessmotors.htm >
< http://www.homefly.com >

You can find data on the GWS IPS here:
< http://www.gws.com.tw/english/product/powersystem/ips.htm >

Al Clark < alclark@knology.net > asks:

Anyone know of a source in the USA for the Rapier motors? 
These are like Jetex, only single-use. They look a bit like model
rocket motors. If no USA source, what is the best source in the
UK; what does it cost to get them shipped to the USA; and how
long does it take? (They have to go surface mail, I've been
told by the Brits.)

Al Clark

< Robtness@aol.com > inquired:

I read Gary's note about the Marionette. I just built one.
The motor Gary mentioned seems like way too much for that little
2-ounce plane. Do you think it would fly on a smaller motor --
or does it need that much? Any help would be appreciated.

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index