SMALLnet post314 

 SMALLnet Posting post314

Date: Sun, 30 Apr 2000 04:15:40 -0500

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >.

Sam Brauer < > reports sad news:

I called Dick Gleason yesterday and found out that he had passed
away the day before. He died quickly, probably of a stroke or heart
attack. I spoke with his daughter and she is busy e-mailing people on
his customer list. I told her that we would pass the word along to
the readers of SMALLnet, who may have been a good chunk of his
customer base.

At this point in time, any orders that can be filled, i.e. that Dick
had started, will probably go out. If the orders can't be filled,
then the money will be returned. The family has requested that
showing support to the local community or veterans organizations
would be appropriate.

Sam Brauer, Norwalk, Connecticut

Randy Randolph < > insists:

Re: Small starters. Norvel had a small starter in their booth at
the Toledo model show, and it should be available soon. I don't know
the price but it should be competitive with others in the market.

Randy

Romey Bukolt < > contributed:

I purchased a Hitec Feather receiver, presumably from their second
production run. Three others in our club also have them. We fly
indoors at a large inflated indoor Golf driving range. Each of us
is at least 6 channels away from any other; yet we all experienced
"hits" as any of our planes came within 50 feet of the other
transmitters.

Therefore none of us use these receivers any more. The local Hobby
Shop readily offers to trade them for the Hitec 555, and also we've
heard rumors that Hitec is fixing the problem. But when I called
Hitec, they only suggested that they would be glad to swap for a
'555". Any news from anyone out there about the Feather? The 555
is nice, but I really wanted that 7-gram weight of the Feather.

I enjoy the SMALLnet. Regards, Romey Bukolt - Concept Models

...Gang, Romey designed some neat small R/C model kits for Ace R/C,
back when Paul Runge was still living & providing 1/2A radio-control
flyers with EVERYTHING they needed. Two of Romey's designs that I
especially remember were the All-Star biplane, and a clever 3-way
kit for Tee Dee .049 power called "Warbirds". This was a foam-winged
kit whose plans showed three possible configurations for constructing
semi-scale WW2 fighters. One was an early P-51; another an Me-109;
and the third was a sorta-scale Hawker Hurricane.

Later Romey Bukolt published an extremely popular near-scale design
of the Fleet Trainer biplane. This was for larger-than-SMALL engines,
and became so popular, it led to the formation of the Concept Models
company, to manufacture kits. I can't say that I'm familiar with
Concept's products, but I do know that the Fleet is available in two
sizes (both biggies) -- and that the products must be good ones,
because Concept has been in business a L O N G time now...

Romey, how about issuing a .10- or .15-powered Fleet kit? If you do,
I'll be happy to advertise it free on SMALLnet! [JW]

Ed Toner < > announces:

The East Coast Indoor Modelers Club:
< http://hometown.aol.com/ronlecis/ecim.html >
will be hosting slow-flying R/C modelers this year.
Call Robert Romash @ 856-985-6849 for dates and details.

This club uses Hanger #1 at Lakehurst. Ed Toner

John Carlson < > contributed:

I recently built the Inspirer biplane free flight job by Dare.
On the box, they mention it to be suitable for electric power, and
suggest the Knight and Pridham KP-02 set available from them.

My hobby shop can get this kit, but guess what? They want over
sixty bucks for it!! Can you imagine spending that kind of money
to power a twenty-inch free flight biplane?

My question is, (if everyone will excuse the interruption of the
Norvel saga) what recommendations can our group make for an
inexpensive electric conversion for this kit? I would like to keep
it under thirty bucks for the whole works if possible. I don't want
any more than that flying away, never to be seen again, caught in one
of these monster Oklahoma thermals.

Take care, and good flying! John Carlson.

Fred Sanford < > snaps right back with what
looks like a suitable reply:

While at Toledo I picked up a new offering in the E-power department
for slow and park flyer experimentation. It's manufactured by GWS
(Grand Wing Servo Tech Co./ Taiwan). The package consists of a small
motor and gear reduction unit with propellor. The package states
models range from "A" to "F" with the "A" being a 5.86:1 gear ratio
(8" prop) to the "F" model which is a 11.77:1 (12" prop).

For the heck of it I purchased a "D" model with 9.66:1 gearing and
11" propellor. At home I wired it up with my Hitec Feather gear,
FMA Mini-5 ESC and a six-cell 550 mAh NiMh battery pack. 
WOW, talk about thrust!!

This outfit will easily fly a gym bird or calm air outdoor type.
HERE'S THE BEST PART... the motor/gear and prop was a whopping
$14.95 at the NE Sailplanes booth!!!!

By the way, I did notice in the May 2000 issue of RC Model World
the same unit was pictured in an article titled "Charged Flying".
The article reported on new product offerings at the Nuremberg Toy
Fair. The photo was captioned "A Multiplex motor/gearbox/prop Slow
Fly drive set."

For what it's worth, RC Model World is a great magazine form the UK.
It has full color from front to back with a really nice variety of
articles. This month had plenty of SMALLstuff. The magazine,
offered by Traplet in the USA, is long on offerings while not being
dominated by advertising. Included each month is a FULL SIZE
plan. The magazine is the way you wish RCM would be..

Incidentally, another SMALLster, Dereck Woodward, hosts a great
monthly column in RCMW called Weekend Pilot, featuring great
reports from this side of the pond. Fred

David Williams < > asks from the other side of
the pond:

Has anyone ever put Airspan over tissue? I am thinking of doing
this, on an open-framework vintage model, so the tissue gives a
rigid airframe, and then the Airspan makes it puncture resistant.

Ideas anyone? David Williams, Bolton, England

John Tolbert < > wrote:

About Larry Renger's O.S. .20 four-stroke problem:

I have been running four stroke for several years and had to
repair a couple. Recently a club member with an OS 90 FS lost
all compression and was ready to give me the engine for parts.
It had been running fine the last time he flew. The instant diag-
nosis from the club was broken ring, hole in the piston, and
stuck valve.

It turned out that it was none of those and I just cleaned the
valves, lapped them a small amount, and it ran fine. You can
easily remove the head and check all of this.

There are two things to be careful of: the motor might have an
aluminum head gasket; and the ends of the valves may have a little
mushrooming. I used a small file to smooth the ends before I
pulled the valves through the guides.

After cleaning the valves I used toothpaste as a lapping compound.
You could use regular automobile compound if the valve seat is hard
enough. Several years ago when I did this to my Saito 45 the
toothpaste was abrasive enough to do a good job. To actually do
the lapping I use a new pencil, and instant glue the eraser to the
top face of the valve. Then you can spin the valve (holding your
hands together in a rubbing motion) in the seat with the lapping
compound. Keep watching the seat until you see that the valve is
seated around its whole diameter.

Taking the head off should give you enough indication of how worn
the engine is. For the proper valve clearance I could look at my
OS 26 FS instruction sheet and mail that to you. Hope this helps.

John Tolbert

Rich Border < > says that pictures of just about
all the Cox engines ever made can be found at:

< http://beadec1.ea.bs.dlr.de/Airfoils/coxengin.htm >.

Dave Segal < > wonders:

I am thinking of trying to use a Kodak 35mm film can as a fuel tank
for a motorglider. Will I have to seal the lid on with a silicone
(or other) sealant -- or will it be secure and leak-free on its own?

Dave Segal

...Dave, I've used these canisters for fuel tanks, and here's my
input: The lids seal nicely. That's good, because silicone doesn't
stick to the plastic anyway. Insofar as connecting fuel tubing to
the canisters goes, I've had good luck by carefully hand-drilling
holes in the "bottom" of the canister, of such diameter (found by
trial and error: these canisters are easily obtained free) as to
provide leakproof "squeeze sealing" around the tubing.

Here's how I installed my tubing. I cut off one end at a long taper,
then insert the pointed end in the hole, gripping the protruding end
with miniature Vise-Grip pliers. Then the plastic tubing can be
stretched (a helper is nice to have while doing this) until its
diameter reduces enough to pass readily through the canister hole.

After releasing tension on the tubing, it regains its original
diameter, and (if the hole is smooth and the proper size!) seals
nicely to the canister.

BTW, I don't use silicone much for fuel lines any more. Tygon is
tougher, nearly bulletproof, and well worth its extra cost. [JW]

The Wormwood SMALLster < > suggests:

In reply to the rubber fuel bulb problem: Ever since I started
R/C flying I have been using the container that was supplied with
the Cox starter pack. It came with a 15% fuel can, and has a small
brass screw with a hole down the middle and a nipple on the outside
which you screw through the fuel lid with a bit of force.

Attach some silicone tubing to that, which allows fuelling, priming
and blow-through. I now use 25% fuel in this same old container,
and it seems that 1-gallon lids are interchangeable. I have used
this same setup for 3 years on most small glow engines without a
problem.

Happy flying, Wormwood Scrubster

Malcolm Logan < > returns with:

Don - your post about the Hitec Specter (Spectra) Transmitter Module
- I know that they have different modules for different brands and
models of transmitters - so make sure to check first and get the right
one for your particular Tx. My friend has one and it works fine, but
he had to make sure he got the right one for his Futaba Transmitter.
And if you're prepared to pay "top dollar", why not buy new ?

BTW - I subscribed to webTV when I was in the US last year. Do you
happen to know how to un-subscribe - where/who to contact ? I had
requested that by a phone call to 1 800 GO WEBTV when I was in the
US last year, but I see that I'm still being billed on my VISA. And
here's the kicker - my card company says that only webTV can stop
the payments !

More on Norvels - seems like this is a lively subject for SMALL-
sters on both sides of the fence. Thanks for the input so far on
their .074 - I think I'll wait a while before getting one though, in
view of the widely-varying responses on the .061 and its many
modifications. About that poor idle/throttle response of the four
.061's we've been experiencing here in Bangkok: we haven't yet tried
1/ restricting the exhaust; 2/ more running-in; and 3/ 35% nitro
fuel ! Nothing else tried so far has done the slightest bit of good.

Regards, Malcolm Logan

...Malcolm, I know exactly what you mean with your WEBTV problem.
I had the same situation with CompuServe a few years ago: no way to
drop out, and impossible to stop the "automatic billing". In order
to get off the hook I had to close my bank account and change banks!

Here's a Norvel tip that I worked out recently. To insure reliable
sealing of the muffler on my "Start-Up .061", I bent over the ends
of the muffler spring a bit, to provide more of a "hook shape".

Then it was easy to wrap stainless steel "safety wire" around those
"hooks" and the engine case, to provide a FIRM clamp of the muffler
against the exhaust port stub. (A gasket at this juncture would
provide even better sealing, and shouldn't be all that hard to make,
from, say, thin Vellumoid...) [JW]

Frank Hodson < > asks:

1. Does anyone know of a source for French and British roundel
decals? I'd rather be gluing sticks than making these things.

2. Many years back, when the ducted fans were in their infancy, I
recall seeing a full-size plan in a model magazine for a semi-scale
Supermarine 508 (butterfly-tailed British Jet). Fuselage fore and
aft of the home-made ducted fan unit was a profile, and the flying
surfaces were built up.

I know I didn't dream this up, and can see the plan in my mind's eye
to this day! Would someone help me prove this model plan exists?

Thanks. Frank Hodson.

...Frank, there are several "commercial sources" for French & British
roundel decals, but the available sizes are quite limited. If you
need "offbeat-size" roundels, one good source is Vinylwrite Custom
Lettering -- 16043 Tulsa Street, Granada Hills, California 91344.
Phone & FAX (818) 363-7131 -- e-mail < >
(Ask for Art or Cynthia.)

web site: < http://www.relaypoint.net/~vinylrt >

You can specify ANY size roundel you want. Art & Cynthia can also
supply US star-in-circle insignia, Russian red stars, and even US
Civil Air Patrol insignia.

Each color is provided as a separate "transfer". The surface
"stack-up" of even a 4-color RAF fuselage roundel (yellow, blue,
white, and red) is not excessive, because the plastic is only
a couple or three thousandths of an inch thick.

Now for the ducted fan information! Your memory was a little in
error, because the plans in the magazine weren't full size. But the
project certainly was published -- in Model Airplane News, June 1953.

This Supermarine 508 was a Bill Dean design, powered by an OK Cub .09
(about equal in power output to one of today's Norvel .049's!)
spinning a 5-bladed rotor bent from a sheet aluminum disk about 4"
in diameter. The plans in the magazine were reduced to 1/3 size --
but MAN did offer full-size plans by mail order: 25 cents ! And that
included full-size plans for another model in the same issue: a near-
scale WW1 Heinrich "Victor Scout" biplane; a control-line project
powered by an OK Cub .074.

But getting back to the Supermarine: its wingspan was 31", overall
length about 3 feet. It was a free flight project, and had knock-
off wings and tail. The fan unit was "buried", and I can't imagine
how Bill managed to start the engine... (I suppose I could read the
article -- but it's close to 4 AM now and I am TIRED.) [JW]

Eddie Warren < > asks:

Does anyone have a source for aluminum or composite landing gear
struts for small 1/2A-size airplanes? Eddie

...Both Sig and Brodak carry a variety of tempered-aluminum landing
gear struts, both pre-formed and flat. If neither of those has the
size you need, you can buy a sheet of tempered aluminum and form
your own. To do that PROPERLY, don't use the bending method that
Sig recommends in the "Instruction Sheet" accompanying the blanks.

Those instructions were written by someone totally unfamiliar with
the heat-treatment of spring-temper aluminum. Forget em! Instead,
visit the SMALLnet web page and read my article on the CORRECT
technique for bending (or re-bending) hardened aluminum. [JW]

Ian L. McQueen < > offers this correction:

Davis sold/sells a stronger crankshaft for the Cox 
engines. I have some. But for the TD??? I thought that the standard
Cox shafts are strong enough. Back when Davis and I were on speaking
terms he did not offer one for the TDs. Ian

...Shafts for TD .049s are listed on a catalog sheet insert sent to
me by Bob Davis a couple of years ago, when he and I were still on
speaking terms. But (1) Bob changes his product line often; and
(2) I'd forgotten that the Estes-built Tee Dee .049 sample engine
(sent to me when production of that engine was initiated in Colorado)
did indeed have a sufficiently-strong-for-diesel-use shaft. [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index