SMALLnet post322 

 SMALLnet Posting post322

Date: Thu, 8 Jun 2000 17:49:07 -0700

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

...This year's SMALL meet didn't turn out to be as lucky weather-wise
as the previous dozen. Friday was OK, but Saturday morning it rained.
That cleared up well enough by lunchtime for normal flying to resume
-- but Sunday we got drowned out.

Nonetheless, I consider this year's Maumelle Meet was well worth the
1700-mile drive from Los Angeles -- which David and I managed in 30
hours elapsed time.

Most of the "SMALL stalwarts" attended: Randy, Steve Staples, Emmett
Fry, Tom Anderson, Sandy Frank, Tom Blakeney, Paul Willenborg, Kevin
Wilfong, Floyd Harp, Eric Clutton -- and many others. I think that
the number of registrants was even higher than last year's 102.

Fred Reese came all the way from Las Vegas to show off a few of his
latest designs (mighty impressive!); and Pat Tritle drove alone all
the way from Albuquerque with a handful of his Speed 400-powered WW1
scale designs now being kitted by Dare. (I've just GOT to build and
fly one of Pat's Sopwith Triplanes! His was the most realistic in
scale appearance and flight performance of ANY WW1 R/C model
I've ever seen.)

Henry Pasquet was there with his incredible fleet of CO2-powered
R/C craft, including an indoor flyer which he says is the world's
smallest and lightest -- 3.7 grams ready to fly! (A new nickel
weighs five grams.) Other CO2 mavens at Maumelle were Joe and
Cindy Malinchak, all the way from eastern Pennsylvania.

Frank Fanelli (of Flying Models fame) attended; and Friday's flying
received good newspaper and TV coverage from the Little Rock media.
For the first time at a SMALL meet we had indoor flying facilities.
These were small too -- a single basketball court at the Maumelle
Community Recreation Center. Some enjoyable flying took place
there despite the low ceiling and limited floor area.

All in all, this year's SMALL meet at Maumelle was both fun and
educational for me -- and I think for most of the other participants
too. The weather proved disappointing; but that was all! [JW]

David Williams < > asks:

Can anyone supply information about the Australian company,
HEARNS HOBBIES?

Bruce Stough < > wrote:

While cutting the ribs for a Randy Randolph Jodel Bebe, I got lazy
and wanted to minimize the number of templates required. The ribs
for the center section of the wing are similar, although four have to
be cut down to allow for the sheeting. It seemed a pity to make a
separate pattern for the center ribs. A thought occurred to me that
is probably common knowledge: Since a fixed amount needs to be
trimmed from the center ribs, I just made four extra full height
ribs, and then used my balsa stripper to slice 1/16" off the top
and bottom edges.

I also had an interesting experience when test flying my new Speedy
Bee. This is powered by a PAW .19 with an exhaust extension back to
under the stabilizer. When I started the engine, the servos went
wild. The throttle raced from idle to full and back several times.

My problem was that the silicone coupler between the exhaust manifold
and the exhaust pipe was a bit too short, and allowed the metal to
touch. A longer coupler completely solved the problem.

Bruce Stough

...Bruce, you have re-discovered a "glitch" that plagued R/C flyers
for years, mostly back in the early days. To eliminate the RF
interfering signals generated by loose "metal-to-metal" junctions,
we had to either insulate the surfaces (such as by drilling out
metal wheel hubs and sleeving them with plastic tubing) -- or "bond"
them together by connecting them all (via soldered-on flexible
wire) to "ground".

This kind of trouble almost disappeared when R/C receivers became
more selective. However, the newer micro-size equipment seems to
be affected at times -- probably because of the small total "metal
mass" in the R/C system's "ground plane". I think that in some of
the ultra-tiny receivers and battery packs, there might be more
metal in the antenna than in the rest of the system... [JW]

Ron Fikes < > notifies us:

I received this message about the "Red Bluff Float Fly" to be held
on June 9, 10 11th - maybe you would like to go up and join in.
Give Ted a call and get all the details... Ron Fikes
 ...................................................................

Our Float Fly is June 9-11th, on beautiful Lake Red Bluff. (Have to
say that to satisfy the Forest Service, a-hem.)

Everything is the same as last year except -- I think -- the banquet
is a little cheaper. At least some mention was made to that effect.
Also, we will be feeding in the SHADE this time.

We have been getting a lot of inquiries so I suspect our bash will be
even bigger than last year. Still -- with three days -- there will
be plenty of time for everyone to fly as much as they want.

Hope to see you there. Ted Temer, RAMAC Secretary
Temercraft Designs, Redding, California

< > 
< http://www.temercraft.com/ > 
< http://www.newsredding.com/ > 
< http://www.ramac-rc.org/ > 

Mike Russell < > wrote:

I would like to know from those in SMALLnet land about their
experiences with the GP Slow Poke. I built one, and have flown it
with success. On the construction side it seems to be a little
heavy, at least I think so -- and being in a fairly high elevation
here in southern West Virginia, it seems to fly best with a .25.

It's sometimes a little hairy on takeoff, but in my opinion about
a 7 on a 10 scale. I also think that while we are discussing the
flyability of our aircraft, we should remember that we live at
different elevations, and that makes a great difference in our
planes' performance.

What a .15 will fly at sea level, it will take a .25 at 2800 feet
here in the mountains of West Virginia.

Mike Russell, Beckley Model Airplane Club

P.S. We have a diesel expert in our club that can help with diesel
problems.

Tony Turley < > contributed:

I just had to tell you folks about my "new" model. This plane
doesn't carry one gram of modern technology. The basic plane is a
Cox Foam Centurion I snagged for a great price in an Internet deal
about a year ago. The power plant is a Kyosho AP29R with its
matching gear drive and 7x6 prop. This is the same unit Kyosho
installed in their Express motor glider (anyone remember those?).

The power pack is composed of 7 Sanyo N650s, and the radio is the
venerable Futaba MCR4A system. Finally, the cowl is from an
ancient Kyosho Duet. I covered the whole thing with silkspan and
water-based poly, and painted it with Testor's white. Weight RTF
is only 25 ounces.

How does it fly? GREAT!! It is fast, and has a long, flat glide.
Definitely not a small-field model. But it may be the best-flying
small plane I've owned. Long live Retro!!

Tony Turley
Scott Depot, West Virginia

Dave Segal < > recommends:

An excellent source of small bottles of all types is the Nalgene
Company; website at < http://nalgene-outdoor.com >.

Using engines no larger than .25, I got tired of dragging around a
huge jug of fuel. I now use the Nalgene rectangular, screw-top, wide
mouth HDPE bottle in 32 ounce size. Price is $6.80; and the 16-ounce
size costs $2.70. The cap was drilled for fuel fittings, and I
purchased a spare cap to seal the bottle when I am done flying.

They also have small dispensing bottles which might be useful as fuel
tanks, in sizes of 0.5, 1, 2, and 4 ounces. Prices range from $1.50
to $2.30.

Orders may be placed online -- or local retailers can be found listed
by state. The quality of their products is excellent.

Sullivan Products sells a small threaded copper coupler that is
designed for 1/32" wire, which nicely fits many small models. The
other couplers on the market are too large, as they are intended
for 1/16" wire. The package says "Pylon Brand" and the part number
is 512. Joe Beshar, in the July issue of Flying Models, does not
even add the weight of solder to these couplers. He just crimps
them onto the wire and adds a little thin CyA to secure it.

One annoying problem is how to get the end of a 2-56 wire pushrod
attached to the small holes in the servo arms of micro servos.
Metal clevises often work, but sometimes they bind against the hub
of the servo arm at the ends of the servo movement.

Trying to wrap and solder a smaller diameter wire to go into
the servo arm is a chore.

There was a neat idea in the Hints & Kinks column of Model
Airplane News in the May, 1990 issue. Take a metal clevis and cut
off the side that has the pin attached to it. Then use a wire
small enough to fit into the servo arm and make a Z-bend. Solder
this to the inside of the remaining side of the clevis, with the
Z-bend passing through the hole in the clevis. The original
suggestion was to use this with a threaded clevis; but it will also
work on a soldered clevis.

Dave Segal

Dave Walker < > says:

I have had my 1/2A starter since the early eighties...I ordered mine
new, from Tower or Omni. I am pleased to learn the Speed 550 is a
feasible replacement motor, in case mine ever gives up the ghost.
For now it's working fine. Dave Walker

< http://www.geocities.com/MotorCity/Highway/1295/thelab.htm >

Steven Reed < > requests;

I need your help. I have gotten a Crickit from Mud Duck Aviation,
and would like to build it electric. I saw in a Posting not long
ago that another Mud Duck flyer also got one and was going to turn
it into an electric flyer. Please contact me -- I would like to
know how or what you did to your plane.

Thank you, Steven Reed

Paul Rodrigues < > reports:

 Source: Engines, Norvel 

 Vendor: Engines Unlimited 

Be advised that there is a UK distributor of Norvel engines: Engines
Unlimited. The proprietor is Bipin, and he can be contacted on
< > -- or you can call him on
0207-663773. You will find him extremely knowledgeable and helpful.

The problem with most UK model stores is that they're not interested
in anything smaller than a .40 and therefore would rather channel
you down this route rather than encourage the proliferation of
small models. Bipin also stocks other small engines, including the
excellent MP-Jet series. Weston UK are also importing the Hornet
series of small engines and their number can be found on the back
of most UK model magazines.

Happy flying, Paul

Marcel Lavoie < > asks:

There was a plan I found recently for a model built from dozen-
and/or eighteen-size molded foam egg containers. I should have
noted it immediately, but ...

Can anyone guide me back to it? Thanks in advance.

Marcel

Tony Shepherd < > inquires:

I'm currently considering building a BMJR kit of the 30" wingspan
version of Carl Goldberg's Zipper design. Have any of you built one
of these kits? If so, how well did it go together and what does it
fly like? If I go for it, I intend to build it for electric free
flight, using a Pot 02 gearbox unit for drive. I was told by John
of Flitehook that this combination has worked in one he supplied to
someone else.

Tony Shepherd

Morris Lee < > needs advice:

I'm putting an OS FS26 in a Hobby Hangar Gee Bee, and need to add
an exhaust extension so the exhaust exits between the cowl and the
fuselage bottom. It looks like I'm going to have to run about 2-3"
to have the exhaust exit at this location. My primary concern is
the heat of a 4-stroke exhaust. Any ideas?

Morris Lee

Larry Renger < > asserts:

Whether the rubber in a fueling syringe eats glow plugs or not is a
question still moot to me, but I guarantee that the rascals will not
stand up to Diesel fuel.

BUT!!! I have the solution. I have covered my rubber seals with
two layers of Saran wrap, and they are lasting forever in the
presence of Diseasled fuel, and though run alternately with glow
fuel on Norvel engines, give no problems there either. I switch
back and forth between Ether/Kerosene and High Nitro, no problemo.

People have asked what is "growing" on my syringe, but, laugh as
they might, it WORKS!

One further hint, this one courtesy of Tim Meek, who thought it up.
In order to preserve the markings on the outside of the syringe for
accurate fueling, he puts clear tape over the painted surface of a new
syringe. If the tape begins to go, peel it off, clean the syringe,
and replace it.

Dang, the best ideas are simple. Larry (562) 404-8034

Gordon Counsell < > wrote:

Have just started to subscribe to SMALLnet, so hello to both old
friends and new. (These comments are in no particular order.)

Regarding the AT6/Harvard saga, I built the House of Balsa kit as a
PSS (Power Scale Slope glider), and had problems with a vicious snap
if pulling too much elevator (more than about 10 degrees!). The C.G.
was correct, both by the Gordon Whitehead formula and from a set of
nomographs in my possession. This should have been safe at 10%
forward of the neutral point -- but wasn't!

In the end the safe C.G. position turned out to be 18% of mean
chord. I later spoke to the builder of a 1/4 scale Harvard who
confirmed this, as did the review of the Flair kit. Gordon Whitehead
told me that his small P-38 twin gave him similar problems. There
was also an article by Gordon in an U.K. magazine, which reported a
reader's problem with a Mongster biplane which was destabilised by
the cheek cowls acting as a canard surface.

On the subject of pilot grouping or dispersion, the worry seems to be
mainly about interference problems, and this is certainly a concern.
But a greater danger is that with pilot separation it is not possible
to watch the model and the various wandering souls at the same time.

I speak with some feeling, as I have had a very near escape from a
probable fatal accident. Two of us were flying, pilots close together
as is normal in this country, when the other guy was lining up on
final approach with his 120 powered Stearman. He didn't get his
approach quite right, being lined up directly towards us, and backed
away from the strip to have more room. Unfortunately, he didn't call
out to me, and this large model only missed my head by inches (the
first I knew was when I felt the propwash on my face). This whole
incident was recorded on video, and a single frame shows my head and
shoulders with a VERY LARGE MODEL immediately behind.

To change the subject to something more pleasant, the Norvel
correspondence has been very interesting -- but hasn't anyone tried
the Czech MP Jet .061 diesel and glow? I have no personal experience
but I have heard good reports and they are beautifully made. I have
seen them advertised in Flying Models, I think by Carlson.

Gordon Counsell, Harrogate, England.

...Gordon, quite a few SMALLsters have been using the MP Jet .061's
with success. The diesel version is exceptionally quiet, yet as
reliable and powerful as some .074's. [JW]

Patrick LeRay < > insists:

Conditions at Maumelle this year may not exactly have been Cox-
type weather, at least when I was wrestling with getting my .049s
to crank. When I got home, I bench-mounted all three of the little
bastids that wouldn't run; and by putting a fresh, hot battery on
the glo-plug, and opening the needles 3 1/2 turns, they all finally
fired up and ran through several tanks without a hitch. Apparently
the extra heat to the plug would have helped in the damp of Arkansas.

I'm glad that you got to see that plane of my design (that Randy ran
a pic of in Feb FM, "Spot, Son of Blip") finally fly. Jeez, I built
it before the Dallas SMALL-meet last October, and it's been sitting
in my workshop since then, un-tested, un-tried. Just an "aviation-
based sculpture". But by God the little critter flew!! And not too
shabbily either. Wasn't squirrelly like I was afraid it'd be, and if
the flippin' Baby Bee woulda kept runnin' more than 45 seconds, it'd
have been downright impressive gliding down from 300'. Hmmm, wonder
what a Black Widow or Golden Bee would do for it?

Well, gotta go see what I can salvage from the fuselage of that 1938
Challenger that I crashed. Looks pretty grim at first glance. On
top of that re-build, my kid talked me into buying a Herr J-3 Cub kit
to go with the Norvel .061RC that I won in the raffle.

Oh, for what it's worth, all the talk lately about idling problems
with the Norvels? I broke-in this new one earlier this evening over
about 30-40 minutes. Even after only 20 minuntes of running, the
thing would idle low and steady, and now it'll flop over so low you'd
think you could count the beats -- then blast right up to full bore.

Maybe Norvel's been quietly making a few changes?

Patrick LeRay

Dan Arnold < > avers:

Perhaps I'm showing my age and cootishness, but the mention of A-J
all-balsa gliders brought back some fond memories and some recent
irritation. I guess the ability to steam dihedral and an
undercambered airfoil into a sheet balsa wing is a lost
production art.

Those old A-Js actually flew. (So did the North Pacific products of
the late 50s-early 60s). The products presently available from the
biggest manufacturer of slip-together balsa gliders don't fly.
I won't mention any names, but their initials are Guillow.

This once-proud company manages to steam in some dihedral, but if
there is any sort of airfoil shape it got there by accidental warping.
I've even seen some examples with a "backwards" undercamber. There
are no hints in the directions about how to steam in your own airfoil.

I guess their lawyers figured kids and tea kettles shouldn't mix.

Talk about a beginner problem, the present crop of balsa gliders and
wind-up-rubber slip-togethers are teaching kids that model airplanes
don't fly, are a waste of money, and no fun at all. If any of the
current generation of youngsters are lucky enough to advance to R/C,
they will do so without the valuable flight trimming experience that
a chuck glider would give them. I wonder whatever happened to the
old A-J tooling?

Dan Arnold, Charleston, South Carolina

...Dan, the A-J tooling was resurrected some years ago by Frank Macy,
a Jim Walker admirer from Portland, Oregon. Frank re-manufactured
the A-J "74 Fighter" and the folding-wing "Interceptor", very much
like the originals. However, these turned out to be far less success-
ful than the originals.

Part of the problem was price. The Jim Walker-made "74's" sold for
a dime, and the Interceptor for a quarter. Frank Macy's replicas
cost $5 for the "74 Fighter" and about twice that for the Inter-
ceptor. But I think a worse problem lay in the fact that the
Macy steamed wings didn't hold their shape.

I've always liked the little "74's", especially since Jim himself
taught me some of his "demonstration tricks" with these simple
gliders. (Jim and I were pen pals from about 1943 on, and he got
me my first job in the model industry in 1948.)

Anyway, I worked out a way of steam-forming sheet balsa airfoils
that is dagnab near permanent. I've used it on original-design
airplanes, and also to re-form the wings on Macy-made "74's".

First you need an airfoil form. I make mine from hardwood, but
foam also works. Put a rectangular sheet balsa blank over the form
and cover that with a sopping wet piece of denim. (The leg from a
discarded pair of Levi's works fine.) Now iron the denim dry, with
a flatiron or MonoKote iron.

Making the airfoil permanent requires another step. Remove the denim
and replace it with a piece of white posterboard (the thin sort that
K-Mart sells) the same size as the blank. Then wrap the "package"
with a gauze bandage, or even an Ace elastic bandage. Let this set
at least a day -- longer in humid weather. (This last step equalizes
the moisture content in the wood, and eliminates almost all the
"springback effect".)

For A-J "74" wings I made a special mold, using two hardwood airfoil
blocks screwed and glued at the proper dihedral angle to another
hardwood block underneath. The two airfoil mold blocks are about
an inch apart at the center. That provides "transition room" --
the centersection MUST be flat to slide within the slot in the
"74's" profile fuselage. [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index