SMALLnet post372 

 SMALLnet Posting post372

Date: Fri, 26 Jan 2001 02:01:40 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet >

...Say, gang, I miscalculated when I said a couple of Postings back
that the Maumelle SMALL meet was "less than six months away".
Well, that's true as far as it goes -- but in actual FACT, we
have only FOUR short months to prepare! The meet starts the 
first of June!! Get cracking!!! [JW]

Glenn Bolick < rgb8@juno.com > advises:

After reading about "tired" Ni-Cd cells, I just want to remind all
that they should not be put in the trash, but should be returned to
a recycle center, as the ingredients are considered toxic. Radio
Shack (among others) will take the used batteries and send them 
in for recycling at no charge. Please do so.

Glenn Bolick

Carl Risteen < Risteen@nbnet.nb.ca > contributed:

I agree most emphatically with JW's quote from great test pilot
Frank Courtney to the effect that "no airplane was ever designed
with enough vertical tail area." I have cured evil handling in
many R/C models by simply adding area to the vertical tail.

If you have a model that is a real dog, try simply taping a
temporary cardboard extension to the rudder. The difference in
controllability is frequently quite dramatic. (Reduce the rudder
travel proportionally if you already had all the rudder authority
you need.) Later, you can permanently enlarge the vertical tail.

On scale models, I would simply blow up the vertical tail, keeping
the same shape, by as much as you think you can get away with before
people notice. WW1 designs are probably the worst offenders --
which probably accounted for their terrible stall/spin accident rate.

One caveat -- This does not apply to free-flight models. Too much
vertical tail will cause spiral instability. Non-scale free-flights
should have smallish vertical tails -- the scale size is frequently
large enough. I would increase the vertical tail size on a free-
flight only if it tends to dutch roll. Joe Wagner's Dakota biplane
is an example of a free-flight model with wonderful spiral stability.
Built just a little tail-heavy, it dutch-rolled to incredible
angles, but never crashed.

We are still working on getting our MicroLite ultra-light covering
into machine production. Website: < http://ramicrolite.com >

Carl Risteen

Bob Whipple < randey@ipa.net > enthuses:

Hey guys, if you saw the write-up in RCM on the Zagi 400, I have
to agree with it. The Zagi is great fun for $110.00.

Dave Segal < DDavesegal@cs.com > wrote:

In response to Bud Orren's question about Digi-Key part numbers:

For charging I have used SC1051-ND 2.5mm power plug and
SC1048-ND 2.5mm power jack. As an arming switch I used
CKN1035-ND DPDT toggle switch. This switch is only used
as an SPST switch, and the leads are soldered to both sides of
the switch for extra capacity. It is for 05 size motors or larger,
as it is too large for mini planes. I don't know if these are
current part numbers, but you could check them at Digi-Key's
web site.

Dave Segal

Gene Marshall < AirGene@aol.com > says:

AeroDyne Models has plans for Megowcoupe. Plan # 1324.
Their Web address is: < http://www.freeflightmodels.com/ >

Best Regards: Gene Marshall

Gary Edson < gedson@cmq.com > amplifies:

 Source: Plans, Flyline Models Megowcoupe 

For Jim Manoli: You can get the Flyline Megowcoupe plans from
Aerodyne: < http://www.freeflightmodels.com >. Look under 
Misc. scale plans, and you will find this and the other old Flyline
plans available in the $4-6 range.

For Peter Havriluk: Comparing the G-Mark, Norvel, and Thunder
Tiger .061's: the TT will likely swing the larger prop best.
By larger, I mean a 7x3, such as the APC. The G-Mark is an older
design (no longer made) based kind-of on the Cox engines.

Its weak point, in my opinion, is the ball-and-socket joint
between the piston and con rod (like Cox). With Cox fuel and a
Cox 6x3 prop I got 16,300 rpm. I did not try a 7x3 prop, but the
instructions specified 6x3 and gave a speed range of 5,000 to 17,500
rpm. They also recommended 10-15% nitro. I doubt that this 
engine would handle a 7x3 prop very well -- but, then, it does have 
a very small venturi, which suggests that it is not a highly tuned 
design. As I remember, the G-Mark started easily and throttled well 
as long as one did not expect a low idle.

The Norvel .061 definitely likes high nitro, small props, and high
speed. It has fairly aggressive port timing. Many have decided
that it runs best with a smaller prop than a 6x3. Not really easy
starting and friendly, particularly if you hand flip.

The TT .061 has milder port timing and handles a 7x3 prop pretty
well. I got a speed range of 3,000-14,600 rpm with an APC 7x3 
and Omega 10% fuel with 4 ounces of castor added per quart. 
Not particularly easy-starting and friendly when new, because they 
are set up with a really tight piston fit. This engine is easier to
start as it wears in but I don't know how friendly it gets in the
long run.

I think that a better choice than all of the above is the Norvel
.074. It is larger and heavier, but has the mildest port timing of
the bunch and a fairly small venturi for its size. Mine turns a
7x3 APC at 3,000-16,200 rpm, using Norvel 15% fuel. Starts 
easily and throttles well. Negatives, for me, are the very modest 
carb, which leaks air and does not allow steady engine speeds and 
the power falls off as the engine comes up to full operating
temperature, apparently owing to increasing piston-cylinder gap.

I suggest that the best choice of all for swinging a larger prop
and ease of operation, once you get used to it, is a small diesel.
For example, the PAW 06 R/C. Regards, Gary Edson

...Gary, I used to fly quite a bit with G-Mark .06's, and used
Graupner 7-3 props exclusively. Those engines needed consider-
able break-in time before they'd idle well. I had one on a Dave
Thornburg "Honker" with a landing gear added, and it performed
admirably with the G-Mark .06 and the 7-inch Graupner prop.

Remember: propellers vary a LOT! APC's are good at high rpm,
but at more moderate speeds the Graupner grey props outdo them.
(They also outdo APC's GREATLY in price!) [JW]

George < aeroplanes@samsmodels.demon.co.uk >, proprietor 
of SAMS, informs us:

The Elf Biplane is available from SAMS in England, as are all the
Ben Buckle kits. George

Don Bailey < Donald.Bailey@PSS.Boeing.com > submitted:

Greg Green asked where he can find a Ben Buckle "Elf Biplane" kit.

I have a NIB Ben Buckle Elf biplane kit; found it at the Puyallup
Show in the swap meet tables last year. Looks like it should fly
on 14 cells and an Astro 15 geared, if kept light. What an
attractive old bird!

Greg's right: HSS closed its doors, and I for one am very bummed.
I don't know of another domestic supplier that carries as esoteric
and diverse a line of products as HSS did, especially in the
SMALL category. I emailed Richard Smart of Flair Products in
England, to see who would be their new US distributor now that
HSS is defunct, and he said they are still looking around.

 Source: Kits, Ben Buckle line; Elf biplane 

Anyway, Flair carries the entire Ben Buckle line of kits,
including the Elf biplane. You may be able to order direct from
them, albeit with overseas shipping charges added on. They are at
< http://www.flairproducts.co.uk/ >. Good luck! We should 
keep in touch as our Elf projects progress...

Don Bailey < dgliderguy@aol.com > Snohomish, Washington

...Don, have you ever tried Penn Valley Hobby Center? [JW]

David Williams < davidalan@lineone.net > wrote from England:

Whoever wanted the Boomerang plan, contact me direct. I have one.

Bob Stought < RStought@aol.com > contributed:

Q & A on Electric-Powered Models (SMALLnet #371)

Question: When should old Nicad batteries be replaced? (Bud Orren)

Answer: There is no simple answer; but in general, it is heat that
degrades Nicad cell performance -- both the heat of charge and of
discharge. Much depends on the cell design and size, as well as
how hard a battery has been used. Nicad cells of the "R" type are
the most rugged, and can (with normal use) last many years.

A big factor (for cells of the same type) is the increased cell
capacity of newer cells. These allow longer motor run times at
the same current (or power) levels. That alone can be reason to
upgrade packs.

Question: Should I replace Nicad batteries with NiMH batteries?

Answer: The NiMH cells have much higher capacity than Nicad 
cells do, but a given size NiMH battery usually cannot deliver as 
much power as did the Nicad pack it replaces. So if the plane seems
under-powered with a NiMH battery, you might consider adding
1 or 2 more cells in order to get about the same power as the
smaller-capacity Nicad battery had.

Question: How do the power of the AstroFlight 020 and 035
ferrite motors compare to modern motors? (Gary Edson)

Answer: It was 30 years ago (January 1971) that the first practical
electric-powered R/C model airplane was flown. That was in
Pasadena, California, by Bob Boucher (of AstroFlight) and his twin
brother Roland. Right off people wanted to know how to compare
the power of electric motors to the gas engines of the time.

Thus Astro began naming his motors 020, 035, 05, 075, 10, etc. --
and has stuck with that system even though, due to the relatively
higher flying weight and lower performance batteries & motors,
the system was lacking in accuracy from the start.

In time another system developed which expressed motor sizes
according to the designations used by Mabuchi, which is the
largest model motor manufacturer in the world. Mabuchi's system
is based upon motor design type and length.

Thus the Mabuchi RS-280 has a round can about 28 mm long; and 
an RS-380 is also round and about 38 mm long (24.5 mm to an inch).

The Germans, who used the same parts to construct motors of similar
design and dimensions, replaced the RS, RE, SA, etc. of Mabuchi
with terms such as "Speed", "Race", etc., and rounded off the
dimensions. Thus the Mabuchi RS-280 and Graupner Speed 300 
are of the same design and size -- and so are the Mabuchi RS-380 
and the Graupner Speed 400.

As nearly as I can see, there is not a very much difference between
the small ferrite magnet motors of today and those of years ago.
More important is the better-quality small batteries we now have;
and using the right Prop to get more power and duration than was
possible until about 5 years ago.

Bob Stought

Bernard Cawley < abc_quiet_flight@operamail.com > wrote:

Gary Edson inquired about old Astro 020 and 035 ferrite motors
(and the 020/035 belt reducer). He wondered if they are worth
fooling with in comparison with today's motors.

The Astro ferrite 020, power wise, is similar to a weak Speed 400
of today. The 035 is like the 6V Speed 400 that is most commonly
used. However, as you noted, they are intended to run on fewer
cells. These motors were sold before the advent of any sort of
practical BEC speed controls. In models powered by these you used
a servo-operated on/off switch for motor control (if any) and
carried a small receiver battery.

So, the low cell count winds were chosen to keep overall system
weight down.

The 020 would draw about 10A on 4 cells, turning the Top Flite nylon
5 1/4 X 3 prop. The 035 on 5 cells drew 12 or more on that same
prop. The motors were from Igarashi rather than Mabuchi (FWIW).

HiLine's Imp-30 and Elf-50 motors are intended to be direct
replacements for the old Astro ferrites, but they have even hotter
winds and want even fewer cells: the Imp-30 (and Troll-35) 
3 cells, the Elf-50 4 cells. The Elf-50, in fact, is essentially a 
4.8V Speed 400.

The belt drive works well, and in fact combining that belt drive
with the 035 would give you something that on 6 or 7 cells would
swing an 8-inch prop with good authority. You would need to
experiment with props to choose one that drew no more than 10 
or 11 A. You could also use the belt drive with a Speed 400 if you
could find a source for an .080 inch pitch toothed belt pulley,
and bushed the motor shaft out to 1/8 inch with some brass tubing.
Such pulleys are available from Stock Drive Products, but I don't
know if they sell small quantities any more. The pulleys and belt
in the Astro reducer were from SDP.

I flew a Top Flite Schoolboy with a ferrite 020 for a number of years.
It had three channels including the servo operated switch, using the
smallest servos I could afford at the time -- Dunham micros from Ace
(0.75 ounce each). The receiver was a one-ounce Royal Vanguard, 
and the radio battery was made by disassembling a "9V" GE NiCd 
and using four of the six 65 mAh cells you find inside. For a motor 
battery I used 4 800ARs or 900 Max cells from SR. All-up weight 
was 16 ounces!

The Schoolboy was capable of some three-channel aerobatics, but
power off the rudder was almost useless. Made landings interesting.

I used to fly it over a vacant parking lot at lunch while at work
and wore out two motors before the airframe was in such bad shape
that it wasn't worth rebuilding. I still have the wing. I'm not at
that building any more, and the Northwest Region of the FAA's
building is sitting on that parking lot.

Geeze, now I'm gonna have to think about the Schoolboy again.....
Let's see, modern tiny radio equipment, a geared 280, 8X600 
NiMH pack, probably 9 or 10 ounces... much nicer. But I already 
have too many projects!

I am re-aligning my collection of equipment, and have a complete
three-channel Cannon Micro-Elite system with three CE-9 servos
available. I purchased it new almost exactly five years ago, and
it has never been installed in an airplane.

It is on channel 38. I also have a small number of spare Cannon
micro servo connectors (with which I was going to interface an
electronic speed control or two) and a spare charge plug.

I've just cycled the transmitter battery three times and it is up
to almost 600 mAh. The receiver battery is 110s -- I haven't
checked it yet.

Pictures (jpg format) available by return e-mail. $250, shipped
anywhere in the US. For outside the US, we can figure out what
makes sense. I am set up to take PayPal.

I'm offering it to the SMALLnet folks first, as you are most likely
to appreciate the quality of the system for what it is.

Bernard Cawley, Auburn, Washington

Dr. Michael Hawkins < mikeh@samart.co.th > advises:

Recent correspondence concerned suitable tubing for 1-ounce clunk
tanks. I would ask, "Why bother ?" A 1-ounce clunk tank takes up
a lot of room for its capacity, due to the thickness and curvature
of the wall -- and the clunk is inefficient at that small size.

For small models I recommend a square or rectangular metal tank
which can be soldered up from two pieces of tinplate; one for
bottom and sides, and the other for top and ends. Drill for brass
tubes before soldering together. If you can get at the carb, only
two tubes are needed: one to the carb from the back bottom 
corner of the tank, and the other as a vent, to the muffler 
pressure fitting if present.

A recent question regarded the Norvel .061, which I regard as very
"user-friendly". I have one in my Aquastar, flown most weekends 
and great fun. I recommend an APC 5.7 x 3 prop and 25% nitro 
fuel. As you only use 1.5 ounces in the metal tank, per flight this is
not extravagant. I also recommend extending the spray strips on
the model's hull chine up to the nose block.

At first I could not get the Norvel to idle below 12,000 rpm, but
over the months this has come down to about 8,500 and I can get
landings and a taxi back almost every flight (unless I cock it up!).

I fill the tank, blow through the vent tube to ensure fuel has
reached the carburettor and away she goes every time.

Yours sincerely, Mike Hawkins (Dr.)

...Eric Clutton is also an advocate of clunkless tanks. He uses
the same style of "wedge tank" normally intended for control-line
flight, but installed with the thin end down. I've tried that too,
and it works fine for all "positive G maneuvers". [JW]

Glenn Siemer < Kgsiemer@aol.com > has a problem:

Recently, I've picked up some old friends... Two Wasps (the .049
kind) from the '50's. The engines are used, and the rods are
rather loose at the top end. Who might be able to fix them up?

Another question: How do you get the ether out of those spray cans
without wasting so much? I seem to lose about 40% (judging from
the mist and smell).

Glenn Siemer

 Source: Cox parts and tools 

 Vendor: Kustom Kraftsmanship 

 Vendor: Joe Klause 

...Glenn, it's been a long time since I had a Wasp apart (mine
have all been so reliable in the half-century since they first came
out, I can't remember ever needing to disassemble one of my own)
-- but if the ball socket is swaged, like a Cox or a Baby Spitfire,
you can tighten it with a Cox-type tool. I believe that those
are still available from Kustom Kraftsmanship:
< http://www.kustumk-modelairplanes.com >

Joe Klause at K-K MAY be able to do the work for you. If not,
I think he'd know who could. The phone number at K-K is
(760) 761-0511. 

1/2A ball-and-socket connections that rattle are evidence of not
enough castor oil in the fuel. I cannot emphasize this too much!
The model fuel business is the most highly competitive area in
the hobby industry, and the makers cut every corner possible 
to reduce costs. The latest ploy is to figure oil percentages by
WEIGHT instead of volume. Oil is expensive -- cutting the
actual amount used in fuel mixtures cuts manufacturing cost
accordingly. 

SOME glow fuel on the market today has as little as 12% oil
by volume -- which is the way the percentage always used to be
calculated. "Cleaner Burning!" say the ads. Translation:
insufficient oil! Remember: castor oil does a LOT more in
model engines than just keeping things slippery.

...As for extracting ether from cans of "Starter Fluid", there are
at least two ways of minimizing loss. One involves freezing 
the can, then holding it upside down and bleeding off the
pressurizing gas. Then you can punch two holes in the can
and pour off the contents.

However, you cannot judge ether loss by the aroma! When I
obtained my first model diesel -- a Drone .29 in 1947 -- I was 
able to buy the fuel ingredients at my local drug store. That was 
a long, narrow place with the cashier's counter up front and the
pharmacy stores way in the back, at least forty feet from the
counter. And whenever I bought ether, I could smell it in
the front of the store within seconds of the druggist opening 
the ether can at the back.

Those fumes PERMEATE air instantly...! [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index