SMALLnet post348 

 SMALLnet Posting post348

Date: Sat, 23 Sep 2000 09:36:51 -0500

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet/ >

...Gang, I've gone and done it again. Bill Lee sent in the
information about basswood's being available from Lone Star, and
included their web site address. "For the sake of completeness",
I inserted the other address data.

Unfortunately I chose the wrong issue of a model magazine to
obtain the address etc. from. Don't blame Bill for this mistake.
It was my fault for trying to "improve" his input. [JW]

Byron Lechler < > and several others pounced 
on the wrong address, and offered similar corrections to Byron's:

 Vendor: Lonestar Models 

 Source: Basswood 

Bill Lee was right about Lone Star Models being a good source for
basswood. Howsomever -- the address given was incorrect. A year
or two ago Lone Star moved to the Dallas area. Their address is: 
 Lone Star Models 
 115 Industrial St. 
 Lancaster, Texas 75134 Phone 972-218-9663 
 FAX 972-218-9211 Order 1-800-687-5555 
Minimum Wood orders are $15.00 + $6.50 + 8.25% tax if you live
in Texas. UPS shipping is free. Check out their ad in Model
Aviation --- Their prices are hard to beat. Byron Lechler

Bill Lee adds:

Can't speak for Balsa USA, but Lone Star definitely does NOT buy
their basswood from Joe Deppe. That's not a knock on Joe's product,
just a clarification for accuracy. Lone Star has their own supplier
of bulk basswood; they do all of their own cutting and sanding,
just as they do for all of their balsa.

Bill Lee 
Webmaster 
Lonestar Models 

Fernando Ramos < > wrote:

Just a quick remark regarding Joe Deppe's basswood. I have been
using his stock for several years, and it's the best quality I have
found. I used to buy basswood from model railroad shops, but the
stock pieces are no longer than 24" -- when they have it.

I have 4-footers that I use for laminating complete wing trailing
edges and tips. I place an order with Joe and pick it up at the
FAC Nationals. Incidentally, I substitute 3/32" square basswood
for balsa when building a small FF scale model (.015 -.020 cu.in.)

Fernando Ramos

Carl Risteen < > adds:

In continuation of the discussion re virtues of basswood, many
years ago I used a lot of basswood with excellent results, buying it
from a local lumber yard in huge planks, then sawing and sanding it
to any size I desired. I found it easier to work than spruce.

My wood design reference book calls basswood a hardwood, while
spruce is, of course, a softwood. Basswood density is listed as 26
pounds per cubic foot, while both Sitka and White spruce are slightly
heavier, at 28 pounds per cubic foot, all at 12% moisture content by
weight.

Modulus of rupture is a useful indicator of solid beam bending
strength. It is slightly higher than ultimate tensile strength,
due to reduction of elastic modulus near the ultimate strength.

Basswood has a modulus of rupture of 8700 psi (pounds per square
inch), while Sitka and White spruce chime in at 10,200 and 9800 psi,
respectively. Thus, basswood appears to have a strength to weight
ratio about 92% as high as Sitka spruce's.

Basswood's tensile strength across the grain is nearly the same as
spruce's, at 350 psi versus 370 psi, so it should have about the
same resistance to splitting as spruce. Basswood's shear strength
parallel to the grain is a bit lower than spruce's, at 990 psi
versus 1150 psi. Basswood's modulus of elasticity is given as
1460 psi, versus Sitka spruce's 1570 psi, so it is the same as
spruce in relation to its weight.

Sitka spruce has been very popular among full-size aircraft
builders for many decades. The reason may be its truly outstanding
attribute, impact strength, at 56% higher than basswood's. Basswood
finishes in a distant second place in crash damage resistance.

Basswood also takes a back seat to spruce in crushing strength
across the grain, at 4730 versus 5610 psi. Sitka spruce appears to
have the highest strength to weight ratio of any wood, higher even
than that of hickory, the strongest wood listed.

I have conducted quite a few tests for modulus of rupture of balsa,
and have found that balsa weighing at least 12 pounds per cubic foot
to have a strength to weight ratio nearly the same as spruce's. Six
pound stock had only about 1/4 the strength of 12 pound stock, so it
has about half the strength to weight ratio, and soft balsa's impact
strength is vastly inferior to that of the harder stuff.

Wood is a wonderful material for airplanes. It has a strength to
weight ratio virtually the same as the WW2 vintage aircraft aluminum
alloy 2024; much higher fatigue resistance and impact strength in
relation to its weight; and it is easier to join. The success of
the all-wood DeHavilland Mosquito bomber testifies to this.

Carl Risteen

 Source: Basswood, venetian blind slats 

 Vendor: American Science & Surplus 

...By "blind luck" I've found out that (1) a major use for basswood
is venetian blind slats. And (2) those are available CHEAP from
American Science & Surplus, 3605 Howard Street, Skokie, Illinois
60076 --- (847) 982-0870. They have 1/8" thick basswood in two
widths: 1" and 2" -- and three lengths: 25", 31", and 37".

American Science & Surplus is overloaded with this wood,
and have it available in "case lots" -- plus some long stock: up
to nine feet overall! Typical prices: 1/8" X 1" X 25" is 10 for
$2.50; 1/8" X 2" X 37" is 5 for $3.75.

That should be about IT for the basswood topic... [JW]

Jim Tait < > is grateful:

Thanks to Larry Renger for the help with my Venom! I am off to
the shop to see what I can come up with. We have hot competition
in Florida with a young flier from South Florida with his homemade
engine. He turns 23,000 with a 4 1/2-inch prop. Great flying
engine! Moulded glass plane too!

Thanks for your help, Jim Tait

John Reid < > wrote from New Zealand:

This is my first contribution. Here's how I made replacement
gaskets for the Cox Pee Wee intake tube.

Isn't it the main problem with Cox motors, all the gaskets and
potential air leaks they have? A leak in any one will cause poor
running or no running.

A kid gets a new motor. It starts OK out of the box. Pretty soon
a leak starts, often between the tank and the crankcase. You or I
can figure it out, but not a kid.

By comparison a PAW for instance is harder to learn at first but
nothing goes wrong that can't be fixed by taking out the needle 
valve and blowing.

Anyway back to the point. I used about half an inch of silicone fuel
tubing, slid it on to a straight bit of bamboo kebab skewer, chucked
it in a drill (minimum overhang), and took slices with a stiff-backed
razor blade. It is hard to judge the width of cut, but you can make
ten gaskets in about fifteen seconds. Some of them will be right.

John Reid

Mike Sommer < > sent in his first contribution:

I've been lurking around SMALLnet for a few weeks, as I get used
to the hobby again from a five-year absence. I have a few
questions for somebody who has experience with the Pee Wee .020.

I was poking around inside mine and noticed the ball and socket on
the piston looked quite loose (approximately 10 to 15 thousandths
end play). Also, the crankshaft had a lot of radial clearance.
This engine has barely had 4 ounces of fuel through it.

I was poking around with an eye to making a fuel tank extender, so
the hint for making new gaskets is timely, as now I will need twice
as many of those little guys.

Here's my questions. How much clearance should there be in the
conrod socket? It looks as though it needs to be reset, but I have
no idea just how loose it needs to be.

How much more powerful was the TD compared to the Pee Wee? 
The plane I want to put it in uses a cut-down Ace wing for 144 square
inches, designed for .020 to .030, with an RTF weight of 10 ounces. 
The prototype used the TD, and since it and the G-Mark .03 don't 
seem to be available any more, my engine choices are pretty limited.

Thanks in advance for any help, Mike

P.S. I managed to buy (2) NIP Cox p/n 1259 .049 reed valve
backplate/venturi for remote tank mounting at a shop in the next
town 150 Km away. How long has it been since you've seen one of
those, Joe?

...Not long, Mike -- there seem to still be a few of these gathering
dust in various US small-town hobby shops. And you can find them
on engines taken out of discarded plastic C/L airplanes too. That's
good, because these backplate assemblies contain spraybar-type
needle valves, which are far more reliable in flight than the sort
used in the Babe Bee, Black Widow, etc.

As for the conrod clearance, I re-set my loose sockets to provide
about .001 play. Since it's impossible to measure that directly,
I go by the "educated feel" method. I snug up gradually on the
socket (with a Cox re-setting tool, a small ball-peen hammer, and
a polished tool steel block for an "anvil") until I can JUST freely
move the rod axially, without it either binding or rattling.

As for the power comparison between the Pee Wee and Tee Dee 
.020, that depends a LOT on the propeller -- I think of "power" in 
terms of useful thrust. But as a rough "ballpark comparison", I'd say
that the Tee Dee produced about 40% more power in a small R/C
airplane than the Pee Wee. For free flight application, that's
a totally different situation! [JW]

Mike Cook < > wonders:

I am very much taken with the looks of the new SIG Rascal. 
Assuming that a kit for one appears under the Christmas tree in a 
few months, I have a brand-new, never-run Cox Queen Bee 074 
that I would like to put in it.

Does anyone have any constructive comments about the character-
istics of the Queen Bee? I'm prepared to deal with the rear
carburetor, etc., as long as I can expect it to run reasonably
well. Advice will be appreciated.

Mike Cook

...Mike, two modifications to the throttle were needed to get my
Queen Bee operating reliably. First remove & discard the intake
screen. (Just pry it out with a sharp-pointed tool.) Then with
a #60 drill bit in a pin vise, drill an air bleed hole through the
carb barrel housing, slightly above the horizontal centerline.

A further weakness of the Queen Bee that I felt needed correction
is the extremely short threaded length of the muffler attachment
screws. (These are # 2-56 as I recall -- I no longer have the
engine, so I can't check to be CERTAIN.)

Anyway, I drilled the holes deeper in the cylinder portion and
tapped them about three times as deep as the original setup.
Then I replaced the short screws with longer ones. [JW]

Milton Dickey < > is also a Cox inquirer:

I am a hopeless Cox-a-holic and have a question about .049
cylinders for Larry Renger, or anyone else who has the answer:

I use modified Tee Dees in my hi-performance R/C scratch-designed
S.M.A.L.L. aircraft, and have run across 2 cylinders that run great
with exhaust throttle sleeves -- but have been unable to locate any
more. They have the widest rpm range of any I have tried.

They have the "twin slit" exhaust ports without sub-piston induction
yet have the additional small milled port alongside each of the 2
standard bypass ports (as in the modern TD cylinder) and a ground
finish on the outside of the lower cylinder.

What engine(s) came with that cylinder, and what is the part number
of the cylinder? If it is available in the same porting configuration
without the ground finish, it would be even better: I wouldn't have
to custom-make an exhaust sleeve to fit the smaller O.D.

Using this cylinder, (with the center exhaust bridge milled off) and a
bushed-down (.092") venturi, I can get a consistent 6000 rpm idle with
great throttle response plus a top end of 17000 -17500 on a black
Cox 6X3 nylon. Thanks! Milton Dickey

Brian Allen < > needs to know:

I was rustling through the shelves last night and I came across a
coupla NIB Cox motors that I have had for who knows how long 
(also found a NIB G-Mark .030 with throttle). Amazing what you 
find when you are not looking for anything in particular. 

In any event, two of the Cox engines were missing the prop screw/
metal spinner doohickey. Anyone know where I can get these items?

Many thanks. Brian Allen

 Source: Engine Parts, 1/2A 

...Brian, the most comprehensive source for 1/2A engine parts
that I know of is Dan Sitter, 13674 Bennington Court, Fontana,
California 92336: . [JW]

Gurth Scriven < > asks:

What are the favoured glow motors for the Sig "Wonder" over there?
I'm not looking for ballistic performance, but just a weekend aerobat
that doesn't take up a lot of space in the car. The O.S.15LA seems
nice -- but I don't have a motor of this size -- so any ideas, chaps?

PLEASE don't suggest Norvel or PAW. The correspondence on these 
two manufacturers is getting just a little bit tedious! I just want
something I can fit and fly.

Cheers -- Gurth

Roy Clough < > contributed:

Mike Gillihan might find my article on Toyfoam Gliders in R/C
Report, September 1997, of interest. I outlined several of my
experiments using single-channel Cox FailSafe Radios gussied up
to control ailerons, rudder and elevators. That is, any two
controls with a single channel.

The toy foam planes I used, also powered with the Cox PeeWee, were
an earlier version, same size but with more wing sweepback than the
newer UltraFliers.

He might find my "Cyberon" control of interest. This was a front-
mounted rudder that led the plane around by the nose. When the
Failsafe radio first came out, I built several versions of my "WIZ" 
(Flying Models, May 1998) in which the control would operate
the rudder on one deflection and up elevator on the other.

Takes very little getting used to -- just operate two different
surfaces with string pulls, so the unused side will go slack instead
of countering the other control. Set up the model to turn left with
no control input, connect one side to right rudder (which, if held,
will drop the nose) and the other side of the arm to the up elevator.

Little twiddles of right stick keep the model flying straight. Drop
the nose with a turn and bring it up with the elevator. Like Mike,
I was delighted with the flight qualities of what, at first,
struck me as the epitome of El Cheapo.

Lately I've been looking at these things and remembering Ken
Willard's brilliant trick of almost invisibly connecting several
small models rigidly together, and wowing the crowd with an
exhibition of masterful "formation" flying. Three or four
UltraFliers, with one of them fitted with a hot .049, might
reprise this trick.

Roy C.

Ed Toner < > opines:

Jan, Great website. Thanks for sharing, and welcome aboard.
That Pistachio Tiger Moth is really something.

BTW, for a great detailed P-Nut, see the November 2000 cover of
Flying Models. Tom Hallman's Airco DH-2 is a flying museum piece.

Ed Toner

Ian L. McQueen < > wrote:

Jim Rundle wondered why lock washers aren't used on propeller nuts.
Lock washers are generally useless. If the nut has begun to loosen
on its own, a lock washer will not keep it from turning further..
I got this information from a very informative booklet put out by a
fasteners manufacturer.

The key to keeping a nut from loosening (apart from double-
nutting/lock-nutting) is just to tighten it so as to stress the bolt/
screw sufficiently. This produces much more compressive force 
than a lock washer can exert. If a prop hub crushes, it may be 
necessary to re-tighten the nut for the first few runs and from
time to time afterward. Ian M

...Ian also sent some e-mails concerning errors and omissions
on the Noorduyn Norseman plans that several SMALLsters ordered.
From the "address data" in the headers of these messages it appears
that Ian e-mailed this information directly to the people who ordered
plans through him. He also evidently has 3-views available on-line
(which I can't receive here: Juno is a text-only service).

If you have any questions about these Norseman model plans,
contact Ian directly. [JW]

Peter Havriluk < > wrote;

re: Cipolla .09's. Many years ago I built up a Comet Taylorcraft
from plans and powered it with a plain-venturi (no carburetor)
Cipolla .09 glow, Cox 7x3.5 gray plastic propeller. The airplane
weighted 32 ounces ready to fly, and it was a rocket ship. I was
amazed how fast it flew.

With today's lighter batteries and receivers, I suspect I could knock
off two ounces. I later obtained the Diesel version of the engine,
but I have never flown the Taylorcraft with the Diesel.

My experience with the engines suggest that they run well, but
are crudely made. (My Diesel was full of metal chips when I
obtained it). I have no idea what changes are wrought by using
a carburetor. Peter

Jim Rundle < > adds to that:

Ian McQueen kindly responded to my request for information about 
the Cipolla .09. Ian has not owned one himself, but has a friend in
Japan who'd had an unhappy experience with one more than ten years
ago. Ian asked for his comments, and passed them on to me along with
permission to send them on to SMALLnet. So what follows is what 
Ian received from his friend (apparently a description of the diesel
version), slightly edited:

"The Cipolla was very weak and they all had rod problems like mine.
It was due in part to some basic design flaw, and to the ABC engine's
tightness if not broken in at that fast 4-cycle. Lemons, most of
them. It ran OK, like a dieselized Cox Tee Dee, I guess. It seem
happiest on a 7x3 prop. Way oversquare and schneurle ported. Had a
world-wide reputation for fragility... OPPOSITE of the Enya .06D.

"The Silver Swallow .09D (Now CS) is OK and compares favorably with
Enya .06D, if you get a good one. The broken-in Enya .06D turns a
7x3 prop faster than a PAW Schneurle .09 (CL/FF venturis) on your
25% castor fuel! (I used to live in Japan and made diesel fuel.)

"It's well known that the .06D Enya is a very powerful [colorful
phrase deleted]! And flexible...props up to 10x3. They have a
smaller box muffler too." -- Nathan Sturman via Ian McQueen

I don't about the "PAW Schneurle," (does it exist?) but the fellow
who recently reported buying an Enya .06 diesel should be encouraged
by this report.

 Source: Engines, Cipolla, Modela, CS 

Hobby Club still carries the glow version of the .09 (and other
Cipollas, including a huskier-looking "Black Dragon" .10), but not
the diesel. They also carry Modela glow and diesel, CS, John diesels,
electrics, CO2s, park fliers, etc. --
< http://www.hobbyclub.com/framespage.htm > Jim Rundle

Michael Rolls < > responded:

PAW prop nuts: I was very surprised to hear of folk stripping these
items. I have used PAWs for over 30 years and have never stripped
a nut nor a shaft. I have stripped aluminium spinner nuts once or
twice - the last time about 40 years ago!

What are people using to tighten them - or what sort of nuts are
they using? I wouldn't want to be thought xenophobic - I have also
never stripped steel nuts on any motor regardless of where it came
from, with one exception - I had a Czech Tono 35 which had a very
short length of shaft with only one or two threads protruding past
the prop face on a 6" pitch prop; and stupidly tried to tighten it:
instant stripping.

Take care, Mike

...Mike, I believe that PAW purchased a batch of poor-quality prop
nuts about ten years ago for use on the .09. I bought two .09's
circa 1991 and both came with quite loose-fitting nuts. The
replacement nuts I obtained from Eric Clutton were no better.
That's why I obtained a #1 BA tap from Britain and made my own
propeller nuts for my .09's. [JW]

Mike Kerry < > contributed:

I think I'll creep out of 'lurk' mode and make a few comments:

1) Re Posting 347's mention of E-power models, my first one looked
like this: weight 18.75 ounces (with 7 x 500 mAh ni-cad cells); wing
area 480 squinches (60" x 8"), Speed 400 + 4.5 gearbox, prop 13.5"x7",
covered in 5-micron mylar (wings). Flying speed 5 mph to 9 mph (ish)
dependent on trim setting. Duration, in no-lift air, > 30 minutes.

2) Recently purchased a little Hawker Tempest from HobbyHangar
< http://www.hobbyhangar.com >. Most impressed with laser cutting, wood
selection and build manual (pictures could be a little better, but the
U S price was right!). It's due to be powered by an Irvine 20 ABC.
I'll try and keep you posted on the build and fly of this model.

3) Re Posting 340, could I please have an address, E-mail or
web site for Gus Morfis (Me 262 planset)?

 Thanks, Mike Kerry

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index