SMALLnet post407 

 SMALLnet Posting post407

Date: Wed, 6 Feb 2002 01:32:43 -0600

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet/ >

...Gang, I'm back from the hospital at last, and recuperating at
home from a savage leg infection that almost cost me my left leg --
and DID cost me 6 days of lying flat on my back with a constant
antibiotic IV drip running.

I appreciate all the kind messages you SMALLsters sent in, and 
the snailmail get-well cards -- way too many of both for me to 
answer personally!

Quite a lot of input has come in since Posting # 406, but I don't
have either the time or the stamina to put them all in this Posting.
I'll do what I can now, and let the rest wait 'til next time. [JW]

Ron Stanfield announced in the latest Flying Models that this
year's big annual SMALL meet will be held May 31 through June 2.
The field is alongside Burns Park in North Little Rock, Arkansas. 
It's tabletop flat and has a grass runway. More data later......

Rus Hardin < John.Hardin@cendant.com > needs advice:

About 6 years ago I began building a sailplane that is still
half-built and in my basement. As I begin to consider once
again wanting to learn how to fly R/C, I find myself intrigued
by Slow/Indoor flyers. This seems like the best way for me
to get my feet wet. (I think trying to build a 2-Meter Sailplane
may have been a larger "bite" than I could chew).

With a slow flyer, building wouldn't take as long, (but I would
still be building, which I want to do), and the nature of slow
flying seems to lend itself to me, an absolute novice. Am I
right in this logic?

If this seems like the best place to start, then do you have any
suggestions on which models and accessories would be appropriate
for me? I was looking today at a beginner stick fuselage by
Great Planes called a BLT (Basic Light Trainer), which seemed
appropriate.

I realize these are very open-ended questions, and you may not
have time to give a complete answer, but any information you 
are willing to give me would be greatly appreciated.

Rus Hardin Hopatcong, New Jersey (973) 770-7742

Tim Goldstein < timg@ktmarketing.com > replies to the earlier
news here on Joe Deppe's death -- Joe being the only source of
precision-cut basswood in the USA that we knew of:

 Source: Basswood 

You may want to give a try to my friend Jake Zimmer at
< http://www.specializedbalsawood.com >. He offers custom
cutting of balsa and basswood. His primary business is the
Science Fair/Olympia Bridge and Tower builders; but Jake's
a good guy and seems to really care about his customers and
meeting their needs.

Tim Denver, Colorado

Charles Todd < charles.todd@sympatico.ca > wrote:

You mentioned the R/C capabilities of that little jewel, the Baby
Buccaneer. Well, yes, I'm sure it would be a winner with modern
gear. I built one free-flight with a DC Dart (not the pokier
Allbon) and it simply flew away!

The plan was from the UK Ben Buckle Plans Catalogue, and I'm 
sure they will still have it. A real pleasure to build, the model is
full of character and just seems "right" at this size.

The "Sharkface" is just perfect for me with a Black Widow .049 
and 250 mAh nicads. Eric Clutton should have a statue dedicated 
to him somewhere. I'm trying to get together a "Kwod" of his, but
all of my plans etc. were stolen from my attic -- hence my new
hobby of polishing Samurai swords!

The Kwod was a four-decker, cute and apparently stable. Those
venetian-blind wings should give good slow climb-out, even for
electrics. I'll let you know how this works out.

Cheers, Charles Todd

Ron Ferrer < armadilo@creative-net.net > reports:

Was reading the last Posting, and was interested in Dr. Mike
Hawkins' small WW2 retract setup. I am going to put retracts in
the Kobra, and his use of a full-size retract servo reminded me of
something I had read on the webring: conversion of an S-148 servo
to proportional 180' rotation. Took me an hour to find the page,
but here it is!
< http://mypage.yhti.net/~dmcdnld/s148retract.htm >

The guy uses a couple of added resistors. I will try it out;
I think it will have enough torque for .20-size retracts, and I
can adjust the travel with my transmitter's ATV function.

Gotta go, Ron

Gus Morfis < CMMORFIS@aol.com > tells us about Guillow's 
helpful response to his earlier e-mail request to them, that they 
had apparently ignored:

As you might guess, I just got an e-mail response from Guillow
telling me that they would gladly sell me their SBD canopy!
So, they really DO respond to their e-mail. Thanks........Gus

Glenn Flynn < g-flynn@charter.net > inquires:

A recent Posting referred to "Blue Foam" being used in model
construction. I have also found this reference in numerous
other articles with no explanation of the difference between
"Blue" and "Pink" foam. Locally only the pink variety is 
available at builders' supply outlets; and when I inquire 
about "Blue Foam" I get a blank stare.

In doing research on foam used in modelbuilding on the web I find
numerous references to the "Blue", BUT, then I find notations that
all builders' foam is "Blue Foam" except the white extruded or
expanded foams. Can anyone clarify this issue? I am sure others
are as confused as I. One advantage of the "Blue" I would hope for
would be that it would not have the scoring to facilitate breaking
without cutting every 16 inches (approx.) on both sides.
Any helpful input will be appreciated.

Sincerely, Glenn Flynn

...Glenn, I recently had to investigate this subject myself, for a
non-modeling project. Briefly, what I was told is this. "White
Foam" is about one pound per cubic foot density, and is what 
I've often heard called "bead foam". "Pink Foam" is about twice 
the density of "White Foam"; and "Blue Foam" is twice as 
dense as Pink.

The Lowe's Home Center closes to me (in Dothan, Alabama) 
carries Blue Foam in several thicknesses up to 2 inches, 
in 48" X 96" sheets. [JW]

Austin < themouse7@attbi.com > asserts:

Hey, I'm with Mike Hawkins. I love the small scale stuff, but
I'm not opposed to the sport stuff either. I do more "Sport
Scale" than "True Scale", but I like a plane that is a model of
a real aircraft.

I'm currently working on setting up my personal web page, and
I have some small plans in DXF format. The most recent thing
I've done is a built-up "Ace wing". My dad bought an Ace
Messerschmitt for $12.00 at Lone Star Balsa in Dallas. 
(We love the place: good wood, good prices -- sorry for the ad. 
I don't know anyone there; I found it by accident one day and 
love to go in there and look at racks of balsa and dream of all 
the things I can build!)

We got the kit at such a low price because it had a damaged box.
After building it, my dad built me one from scratch, minus the
wing. So I digitized the airfoil and came up with a simple wing.
I built it in about 3 hours and I am a very slow builder.

Anyway, someone a while back questioned availability of the 
Ace foam wings. This might be an alternative. If anyone is
interested, please contact me. Once I figure out how to put this
on the SMALLnet web site I'll post it.

On the same lines, if anyone has a set of plans for the Ace Simple
Corsair and or the Ace T-6 Texan and might let me borrow or 
buy them at a reasonable price, I'd like to digitize them. I prefer
building from scratch and I can never find the Corsair kit anyway.
(The T-6 kit is pretty common.)

A long time ago I found a web site that had all of the Ace kits at
that time scanned, but these two kits were not out yet. I have
the P-51 and the Messerschmitt already done. I like these Designs
by Fred Reese for their simplicity -- and they are darned cute.
When I build the P-51 I'll probably do a cowl for it.

And lastly, I'm currently building the Corsair from RCM plans.
Has anyone built or flown one of these? The construction leaves
a lot to be desired. It's not extremely difficult to build, but there 
are a couple of things not clear on the plans. I've worked through 
those, doing some things my way as opposed to the plans -- but 
the overall plane will not be changed, just some construction.
I'm going to power it with a Norvel Big Mig Startup .061.

Any thoughts? Austin

Bruce Stough < sbs1@visi.com > reports:

I ran a few Fly-Quiet muffler trials on the test stand. The units
I have are 120mm long and 16mm in diameter, and weigh 16 grams.
They were ordered to be used with PAW .19 engines.

I set up a sound meter about waist high and three meters from the
engine test stand. A PAW .19 equipped with an APC 10x4 prop and
run wide open registered 91 dB without the Fly-Quiet muffler, and
86 dB with it. Without the muffler, the speed was 9,100 rpm. With
the muffler this dropped to 8,700 rpm (measured with a TNC tach).

At somewhat lower throttle settings the speed drop was much less,
and below about 7,500 rpm the engine picked up speed when the
muffler was attached.

When I first tried the muffler, the sound level didn't seem to
drop. At that point I was wearing hearing protection muffs, and
the frequency range the muffler worked on was already attenuated.
When I took the muffs off, it was obvious that the high-frequency
bark was much reduced.

I also tried the same muffler on a PAW .09, with similar results.

Bruce Stough

Jim Rundle informs us:

 Source: Spinners, small 

Flair, in the UK, makes spinners, 1 1/4 inch diameter, in five
colors. That's smaller than anything I've found in the US. Dave
Thacker, Radical RC, is the only Flair distributor in the US, and
I doubt he's stocking spinners -- but maybe he'd be willing to
order them. Here's what they look like (scroll down to the
plastic ones):

 Source: Batteries, NiMH 

Speaking of Dave Thacker, he now carries a 120 mAh NiMH, which 
is about the size and weight of a 50 mAh nicad. He lists them under
electric power packs, but presumably the four-cell pack would be
fine for receivers as well. $9! I've had excellent dealings
with Dave.

< http://members.aol.com/davthacker/radicalrcindex.htm >

Jim Rundle

George Hostler < ghostler@plateautel.net > contributed:

Dave Larkin's comment about Eric Clutton's Sharkface single-
channel model reminded me of the joy of flying single channel. 
It's interesting to note that much of the younger generation doesn't
know it is possible to fly single channel successfully and to stunt
with single channel. I found that out this past week while visiting
a hobby shop in Amarillo, Texas.

Best looper I owned was a Sterling Mini-Mambo. The Mini had a 
very short tail moment arm. Q-Tee made a decent R/O airplane; 
it had a larger wing area than Mini or Falcon. Nice thing about 
the Falcon was its ability to handle wind with its semi-symmetrical 
airfoil and longer tail moment. Also flew .020 stuff like Top Flite's
Schoolboy, and "Roaring 20's", a 20" span Top Dawg look-alike, both
by the late Ken Willard, a "SMALLnet-type" designer and advocate.

The plane was trimmed to be constantly climbing flying straight.
Plane was also trimmed to glide with power off. Without throttle,
one used shims under the leading or trailing edge, to trim the
plane for flying in various wind conditions. Reduce wing decalage
by installing shims under the wing trailing edge. Get the engine
trimmed to give the proper powered flight characteristics through
shimming with washers.

Gain altitude by giving gentle turns. The tighter the turn, the
more the model would tend to drop its nose, lose altitude and gain
speed. A moderate turn would hold altitude. Once some speed 
was built up, the plane would start to climb and zoom. Hitting the
rudder at the right time, plane would turn into the wind and speed
would be back to normal.

Because of torque, the plane would spiral dive in one direction
better than the other. Once some altitude was gained, hitting the
rudder full to one side would cause a spiral dive. About 3 to 5
corkscrews down, neutralize rudder. The plane would then loop.
A properly-trimmed plane could loop twice (although 2nd loop was
usually smaller). When the airplane was starting to point up,
hitting rudder again would cause the plane to do a barrel roll.

An S-turn would kill speed, and you'd be starting the climbing act
again. Instead of a barrel roll, hitting the rudder again when
the plane was inverted would flip it over again. A recognizable
Cuban-8 could be done on Rudder-Only.

Landing was always deadstick. Good thing about R/O is that after
a while one could get to where he could judge sink rates controlled
by turns and how far out to make the downwind leg. I could put
the airplane within several feet of me.

A quick blip of the rudder to line things up to flare on landing,
if decalage was set for windy days or if the landing was hot
(fast). That decreased decalage allowed for flying up to 15 MPH
winds, but did make the sink rate quicker in dead stick.

Many of the trainer types today that figure on using .15 R/C size
or smaller engines could be easily converted to R/O. Key is a
plane with inherent stability. Throttle, although not necessary,
makes the plane more controllable. You could shorten the flight
if needed, especially if trim was way out like on a new plane.

A while back, I amazed some flyers, demonstrating how one could
maintain complete control on a plane with only rudder and throttle.
Also it helps to fly where there is tall grass, until one gets the
knack of it.

Just today in the mail came the Goldberg Junior Skylark plan from
Steve Polles. It really is a low wing Falcon! Poring over the
ancient hieroglyphics, this design seems to be reasonably easy to
build, with some modifications to take into account today's radios
and engines. An F-16 show team or OEM demo plane paint scheme
would be easy to do; in some ways this design loosely resembles
the Sig Kobra.

An electric twin instead of two .020's would be an interesting
project, although I have not yet experimented with electrics.

If policies have not changed, I may opt to contact John Pond Old
Time Plans and have the plan immortalized (master made) as a 
part of their inventory, so others can enjoy. When I last checked
(a few years ago), JPOTP did not have this plan, and had a policy
of providing a free similar-sized plan for access to an original,
plus return of the original. George

Frank Weaver < goldguy@shaw.ca > answers Nero Wolfe's appeal 
for TD .09 Throttle Sleeves:

I have a few throttle sleeves and would be willing to part with one
if you have no luck. I bought them from ACE many moons ago and
have no idea what they are worth. The cylinder and sleeve came
together as a unit and work great.

I took the SMALL oath over thirty years ago and can tell you from
experience that the best-throttling small engine is a PAW 55.
I flew a Flyline Luton Minor with one and you could throttle back,
land, pull off the fuel line, refuel -- and take off without the
engine stopping.

Presently I am building a Park Flyer for this little jewel. The
plane is a very light version of the JOY STICK, published
in RCM back in April 1975. I have built many variations of this
model, but the most fun is as designed without ailerons.

This model truly flies as if it had them and is capable of
rolling circles. For outstanding performance in power and
throttling ability, try an MP Jets .061 diesel.

Fly SMALL, have a ball : Frank from Vancouver Island.

Francis Person < persof@erols.com > also likes PAW's:

I tried JW's PAW exhaust collector ring fix on my PAW .15 R/C.
Five flights later, this engine and the whole front of my Lazy Bee
is as DRY as it was after I cleaned it up with acetone. My
press-fit was rather tight, but it did not crush the ring; and I
sanded flat and flush with a sanding board (Formica counter 
top with some kind of industrial sanding material fused to it
absolutely flat) -- (best hobby money I ever spent).

I used a piece of sharpened brass tubing to make a clean-cut holes
in the new gaskets. While I was at it I added a pressure tap to
the muffler part. I used JB Weld for reinforcement as the metal
is rather thin. Now not only is my Lazy Bee clean thanks to JW's
fix and 22" of 5/16" diameter K&S aluminum tubing to the rear --
but, it WILL IDLE at 2500 RPM til the cows come home or I get
bored of waiting. Wack open the throttle; one small burp, and we
are off. Thank You JW!

Who has used a MP Jet Diesel? I am early in the process of
breaking one in. It was very tight to start with. Have to mix my
own break-in fuel as no one sells fuel with the recommended 40%
castor. Even the "After Break-In" fuel that is recommended by 
the MP Jet factory instructions is 35%!

Carlson Imports says that the PAW TBR (20% castor) fuel is 
OK too. What fuels are you other MP Jet .061 owners using? 
However, this engine looks like it will be a hot rod when fully 
broken in. 

It will go on Mike Gillihan's "Biplane". I will report after
it has flown.

Oily in Germantown, Maryland -- Francis S. Person

...Glad to have been of help, Francis! As a guide to adding oil
to today's skimpily-lubricated model fuel (glow and diesel): when
you add 4 fluid ounces of castor oil to a quart of fuel, you end
up with 36 total ounces, and 11% higher oil content. Other values
are easy to figure on an electronic calculator. Just divide the
quantity of added oil (in fluid ounces, NOT avoirdupois) by the
total resulting volume. That tells you how much percentage you've
increased the oil content.

That's about all I have the ambition to edit & assemble tonight,
gang. Maybe I can pick up the remainder tomorrow sometime.
Thanks again for your patience -- and especially for your concern
and good wishes for my recovery. [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index