SMALLnet post419 

 SMALLnet Posting post419

Date: Sat, 20 Apr 2002 00:20:19 -0500

 SMALLnet's Web Site address is:
 < http://www.eskimo.com/~smallnet/ >

Charlie Ziehl < Radioflyz@aol.com > requests:

I am a handicapped person who still (after 60 years) loves to fly
models. I am in need of an Ace single stick assembly to rebuild
the transmitter I have been flying with. Is there anyone who can
help me? Thanks for any and all you can suggest. Charlie Ziehl

Patrick LeRay < PLeray@aol.com > suggests:

Here's a way of checking for wing warps without an incidence
thingie:

Rubber band a 36" straight stick of balsa under each wing about
halfway out. (Use the same size, fairly stiff, sticks for each
wing). Even if the airfoil isn't truly "flat-bottomed", you can
set them similarly along the bottom surface by eye.

Then walk away to one side of the plane, and sight down the pair
of sticks. If both wings have the same incidence, the sticks will
appear to be parallel. Then move the sticks to the tips (equal
distances, of course) and see if both wing tips have the same
washout. In fact, you can use four sticks at the same time,
putting one stick halfway out from the root on each panel, and
one at the tip.

That way you can see if you have warps, equal wash-out -- or
horrors, wash-in! --- Patrick LeRay

Curt Hulette < rchulett@swbell.net > reports:

With my incidence meter I found more wash-out in my 
Playmate's right wing than in the left. Probably that's what 
caused the right turn trouble. I also increased downthrust and 
added ailerons. The wing balances, and the incidence on 
stabilizer and wing are 0-0. I've been away on business, 
so haven't yet tried flying the Playmate again.

...Curt's message brings up an important consideration that's not
as well-known as it should be. Model airplane wings -- or any
portion thereof! -- stall at less than 10 degrees angle of attack.

The reason wash-in is deadly is that it makes one wingtip stall.
Most of the wing continues working; so the result of one tip's
stalling is that the local loss of lift and sudden jump in drag 
cause a snaproll toward the stalled-out side.

Many modelers consider ailerons as an all-purpose lateral control.
Yet a down-deflected aileron can act EXACTLY like a washed-in
wingtip, and produce an unexpected snaproll.

As a general rule of thumb, downward aileron deflection should
never be greater than this: With the model set up level, as for
incidence checking, apply a straight stick to the wing undersurface
(as in Patrick's method) that just touches both the TE of the
"down" aileron and the underside of the front part of the wing.
The incidence of this stick shouldn't exceed 10 degrees. [JW]

Jack Tompkins < TECKORAT66@aol.com > informs us:

 Source: Batteries, Lithium 

Don Matlack Senior < dononerc@juno.com > sells Lithium 
Ion batteries set up for the Picco Stick/Lite Stick. I've had mine
for a couple of months now and they work great.

They provide about 1/2 hour of power per charge. Don is/was
selling them for $45.00 for two packs plus the charger, set
up and ready. My batteries came charged and ready to fly.

Lithium Ion batteries do not lose their charge with time, so
you can charge them at home, then go fly.

Don has a great reputation and is very much respected on the
E-flight and Slow Flight (SFRC) newsgroups.

Jack Tompkins Linden, Pennsylvania

Bob Chiang < rhc3@cornell.edu > adds:

Here are three links to information about using Lithium Ion
batteries to power model airplanes. I believe the first link
has the most technical information. The second and third links
describe the process of stripping off the plastic case from a
specific battery pack, that results in an 830 mAh, 8.4 volt,
2-ounce battery pack.

From what I've read, it is very important to use a suitable
charger, or the cells may explode. It's also important to not
exceed a discharge rate of about 1.5 amps or discharge the cells
too low, or the cells will be damaged. The batteries come with
electronics to automatically protect the cells.

< http://www.flyelectric.ukgateway.net/lithium.htm > 
< http://pease1.sr.unh.edu/aew/rc/HowTo/Qualcomm/ > 
< http://home.attbi.com/~zagizagi/lithium/ > 

 Source: Batteries, Lithium 

If you just want to get flying, look at the third link that refers
you to this site: < http://www.hackettelec.com/~hackelec/qc.html >
as a mail order source of the batteries and charger.

I ordered a set of batteries and charger, and the service was
excellent. I have not flown with them yet, but bench tests look
promising, and there have been messages from lots of happy flyers
on the E Zone.

Bob Chiang Ithaca, New York USA

Oscar Aitken Corral < oscait@ctcinternet.cl > worries:

I hope it's not true that the MP Jets .061 is out of production.
This is one of my best engines! (Both the glow and diesel.)

...Bad news, Oscar. I checked with Ed Carlson, the exclusive
US importer of MP Jets engines. Ed says that the .061 IS out of
production now. He still has a supply of the glow version, but no
more diesels. He HOPES that .061 production will resume "next
year sometime" -- but that's all...

By the way, I was mistaken about the degree of similarity between
the glow and diesel MP's. Ed says that the cylinders and porting
of the two engines differ significantly.

According to Ed Carlson, the MP Jets company is now producing
"plastic model stuff". This is another indication of how greatly
electric power has taken over in the former "1/2A model powerplant"
market.

True, much of the decline in 1/2A use is due to the disappearance
of the engines themselves from hobby shops. 50 years ago we had
a fabulous wealth of selections. K&B, OK, Atwood, and Mel 
Anderson each produced a wide variety of under-.10 model motors. 
McCoy, Fox, Allyn (the Sky Fury maker), and O&R all made 1/2A's. 
Cox was just then beginning their fantastic lineup of glow .049's.

Now they're all gone. [JW]

Andy Woitowicz < ajw@ntl.sympatico.ca > contributed:

Back in February, I asked about running diesels in cold weather.
Many thanks to those who responded. The consensus is that no
special fuels or techniques are needed. Starters can be used,
and in certain circumstances can be useful -- but must be
employed with "diesel technique" in mind.

Just as with glows though, starters ought to be unnecessary except
where compression seal is not optimum. I've made up a starter
(using electric drive components) with low torque and speed that
seems to be just right for 1/2A, so I use it most of the time.
Many of my glows have so many hours that the compression seal 
is gone. Despite that, once started with an electric starter, these
deliver nearly as much power as when new.

I've been busy lately with running an early AAN Norvel with an
RJL diesel conversion head. I'm happy to say that the conversion
is a resounding success. This project had been commissioned by my
good friend, Raj Massilamoni in Singapore. I've done a number of
Norvel style throttles for him to try on various vintage diesels
that he owns.

This particular Norvel he had entrusted to me to test run for
him, and I'm grateful for that. Using a throttle onto which an
adjustable airbleed was added, we achieved 4.5K up to 12.5K on
a 7 X 3.5 Cox grey prop. Fuel was 40% kerosene, 33% ether,
25% castor, and 2% amyl nitrate.

Idle is forever, rock solid; and transition is very good. Just a
hint of smoke with no hesitation. Linearity is on par with glow
except that mid-range is just a hair rich. The top end, once
adjusted, emits a sweet, although loud, growl; somewhat louder
than my 1/2A PAW. The steadiness of rpm is truly inspiring.

This throttle had a reduced bore from stock. A stock barrel, as
well as a bored-out barrel, was tried. The larger bore yielded a
healthy 13K rock solid. Idle suffered though, at 6K.

Very important to this project was the use of a throttle with an
adjustable airbleed. For those who might recall the discussion 
of sub-piston induction, I think it's quite significant that this
engine has that feature and yet throttles very well, diesel or
glow, as long as the idle mixture can be adjusted.

On the subject of excessive cooling in the winter. The Norvel
is a modern engine using a tight, squeaky fit at TDC when cold.
The fit improves to just right when the engine's up to running
temperature. If it doesn't get up to normal temperature due to
excessive cooling, as might happen in cold weather, there is the
chance that the engine's fit will be ruined. This is why you
never break in this type of engine by running it rich, as you
might do with older engines using steel sleeves and cast iron
pistons.

Dave Gierke, noted engine expert and columnist addressed this
issue in one of his columns several years ago. His tests and
experiments led him to the conclusion that, just as with running
this type of engine excessively rich, running it with excessive
cooling can, indeed, ruin the fit. It was from this that I
expressed my concern about cold weather running.

The Norvel had me particularly concerned as it has very large
and effective fins. Extensive running in the cold has proved to
have no harmful effects. So, while turning down the fins of the
Norvel can't be considered "butchering", it has been proven to
be unnecessary.

While working with this engine, I found it relatively easy to
start, even for a diesel novice like me. I drew fuel up the line
by choking but no further than the edge of the carb. Then I
closed the needle valve completely. I backed off the compression,
gave one shot of prime, then flipped five or six times.

No results from this prompted a quarter turn of the compression
screw, another shot of prime and another several flips. I repeated
this procedure until I got a brief burp. Then I opened the needle
a quarter turn at a time.

Eventually the engine fired and kept running. I backed off the
high-speed needle, and the smoke indicated a slightly rich setting.
A minute or so of running at this setting allowed the engine
temperature to stabilize. Then I turned in the compression screw
bit by bit until maximum rpm was achieved. Then I backed off a bit.
Then I turned the needle in slowly until a sweet-sounding growl
emerged. Masculine is the only way to describe it. Loud, but
nothing like the shrill screech of a glow. Nice.

The downside is that although the RJL head works extremely well,
the compression screw has the habit of spinning around under
vibration. You need seven fingers on one hand to hold the screw
steady while also manipulating the locking lever. This with a
meat cleaver spinning at 12.5K just inches away.

As a result, I was happy to come up with a technique which worked 
on this particular engine, without needing to adjust the compression
screw once it was set. Running off the prime three or four times
would bring the engine's temperature up to the point to where it
would keep running with a neat burrp, burrp, sound. A minute
later, the temperature would stabilize and a solid, steady,
top end would result.

This may not work with all diesels but I was pleased at how easily
the modified Norvel started with this technique. It must be kept
in mind that the next flying session will likely be at a different
temperature and humidity, so the compression will most likely need
to be adjusted along with the needle.

A muffler was tried. The high speed and idle were adjusted to suit
and power and handling were the same. Another plus for the Norvel
diesel was the fact that the engine could be started with just a
heavy prime into the intake. It took five or six flips and the run
off of several primes to get the engine up to temperature -- but
from there, the burrp, burrp would transition into a solid run.

Future projects will include testing my tuned muffler along with a
tuned pipe. Has anyone had any experience with tuned pipe diesels?

One last note. If anyone has any worn-out Norvel AAN (shiny fins)
pistons and cylinders they'd like to have revived, I'd like to try
an experiment that would restore the fit and perhaps improve
durability.

I'll do the first three for free excluding shipping. I'll pay the
shipping back. I live in Canada. Please contact me directly.

Andy Woitowicz

...John Clapp of FAI
Model Supply has exchanged a few e-mails with me about
the availability of FAI TAN rubber. So far there's been no
definite news about renewed production of TAN II.

However, John says that a modern version of T-56 rubber --
mainstay of rubber-power flyers in the "Good Old Days" --
will soon be available from FAI. It will be designated as
"Sport" rubber. [JW]

Don Garry < dongarry@webtv.net > wrote:

 Source: Plans, Jeep 

The Dan Lutz Jeep plan is advertised in John Pond's plans catalog.
Published in Model Airplane News 11-60, it is listed at 27 inch
span and for Free Flight. You can get the entire construction
article for 2 bucks, including plan (magazine size) from SAM's
librarian, Gene Wallock, phone # 580-536-0303, e-mail at
< Velinak@aol.com >.

Donald Garry Cocoa, Florida 32927
Phone # (321) 632-9115

Kevin < KevinIrishmoon@aol.com > contributed:

I have been reading the SMALLnet for some time now and enjoy it
very much. I don't know if this will be of any help to the person
requesting plans for the Chester Jeep racer, but Dave Livesay has
a website that offers plans for the Art Chester "Goon".

The site also includes an index of plans that can help find the
exact magazine issue in which a certain plan appeared. The
address is: .

The plan for the "Goon" is in the PEANUT section under 
RACERS, and is also in the CADD PLANS. If you have a 
program that can read these, they are very nice.

I hope that this is of some help and I look forward to reading
the next Posting.

...Kevin, the Jeep and the Goon were about as different as a
Mustang is from a P-40. Their designer, Art Chester, named his
raceplanes after characters in the Popeye comic strips -- and it
seemed to me that the Jeep and Goon reflected in their overall
styling the characters they were named for.

The Jeep was a friendly-looking craft, while the Goon had a cold,
deadly air to it in my eyes. Both designs do make good-flying
models -- and the Jeep would have been much more popular in 
model form if it hadn't been for the difficulty of reproducing its
curved-in-front-view landing gear struts.

The Goon had retracting gear and no wing lift struts. With its
short-span wings and long fuselage it makes a dandy rubber-powered
competitor in the limited-wingspan free flight events such as
"Peanut" and "Walnut". [JW]

 * * * * * * E N D * * * * * *

 Back to the SMALLnet home page
 Back to the Posting index
 Back to the Source index