C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Spring 2004 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Spring 2004 Events and News 

 Despite appearances to the contrary, the establishment of order and the dissolution of what has 
 been established are at bottom beyond human control. The secret is that only that which can 
 destroy itself is truly alive. 
 &#151; C.G. Jung, Psychology and Alchemy 

 Jung Society Spring 2004 Events 

 March 27, April 17, May 8, June 19 
 Assessing Your Journey to Individuation through Active Imagination Methods such as the Arts, Nature, and Play . Creative leadership retreat by Jane Neubauer, RN, MSN. 

 April 9 
 Only That Which Can Destroy Itself Is Truly Alive. Lecture by Puanani Harvey, Ph.D. 
 April 10 
 Creative Imagination and Khidr . Workshop by Puanani Harvey, Ph.D. 
 May 14 
 Whence Evil? The Missing Fourth in the Jung-White Letters . Lecture by Ann Lammers, Ph.D. 
 May 15 
 The Self as Dancing Partner--Jung and White and the God of Double Aspect . Workshop by Ann Lammers, Ph.D. 

 May 21, July 23, September 17, November 5 
 Psyche and the Spirit of the Times . May 21 discussion led by Lee Roloff, Ph.D. 

 June 5 
 Annual Membership Meeting . 

 President's Message 
 As this newsletter goes to press, the Seattle Jung Society is preparing for our 
 30th Anniversary Conference on March 13th at the Seattle Art Museum. We 
 honor and recognize everyone who has worked tirelessly to make this event 
 possible, especially Connie Eichenlaub and the Committee that put together the 
 "Portals to Psyche: Jungian Trends in the Northwest" conference. We hope you 
 were able to take part in the Conference, and look forward to your participation 
 in the Jung Society's Spring events. 
 Also, mark June 5th on your calendars. This is our annual meeting where we
 share good conversation at a potluck event. At the event, members will have an
 opportunity to give feedback on this year's programs, preview what is planned for next year and elect Board members. The rich sharing of Jungian material that 
 members find personally relevant at previous annual meetings has resulted in 
 kindred souls finding each other and the creation of book study and other 
 activity groups that foster ongoing connection. If you are interested in forming 
 a group or participating in a group, we invite you to use the meeting to share your 
 ideas and interests. A postcard invitation will be sent to members with additional 
 event details. 
 I am happy to report that we have been able to issue Continuing Education
 Credits (CEUs) for lectures and workshops this year for a small administrative 
 fee. If you are a therapist, the Board hopes CEUs make attending lectures and 
 workshops even more valuable for you. 
 And finally, I'd like to extend an invitation to members who wish to serve on
 the Board or volunteer in some capacity. Please let the Jung Society office know
 or speak with any Board member to express your interest. 

 &#151; Paul Collins, President 

 June Singer 
 It is with sadness that we share the loss of June Singer. We were very fortunate 
 to have had her as our speaker in February 2002. She passed away unexpectedly 
 on January 29th, at the age of 85. June Singer was a founding member of the 
 C.G. Jung Institute of Chicago, noted author, clinical psychologist, educator and 
 Jungian analyst. 
 "We, as a nation, need to discover our own shadows. We can find them in the 
 images we project, if we can only remember that they are our images. Such 
 recognition can only begin with the individual's willingness to recognize his own 
 shadow. Before he does this he is ill-equipped to assign praise or blame to other 
 individuals, much less nations... The person who commits himself to a life of 
 continuing confrontation with the unconscious within himself, will also confront the 
 unknown in the world at large with an open mind, and what is more, with a heart of 
 wisdom. 

 &#8212;June Singer, Boundaries of the Soul: the practice of Jung's psychology , p. 177 

 Library News 
 We have several new books in the library : Jung, A Biography by Dierdre Bair and Bereavement 
 Dreaming and the Individuating Soul by Geri Grubbs, a Seattle-area analyst who will 
 be our speaker in September 2004. We also have Speech of the Grail by our 
 December speaker, Linda Sussman. We have several books edited or written by 
 our February speaker, Robert Sardello. The Angels , Freeing the Soul From Fear , 
 Money and the Soul of the World , Love and the Soul , Facing the World with Soul , and Love
 and the World . Ann Lammers, who will be here in May, has written a book: In God's Shadow: The Collaboration of Victor White and C.G.Jung . We hope to have this
 book for sale at her event. 
 We also have a number of books by the late June Singer, Boundaries of the Soul: the practice of Jung's psychology , Modern Woman in Search of Soul among others. 
 Linda and Michael Sheaffer have been coming faithfully for several years to do 
 the inventory for which we thank them and thanks to other regular volunteers:
 Siren Hakimi, Shirley McNeil and Betty Eldredge. 
 The library will be open at 6:30 p.m, on April 9 and May 14 so please plan to return or
 check out materials at those times. 

 &#151; Bunny Brown, Librarian 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 22 May 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org