C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Spring 2004 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Ann Lammers, Ph.D. 

 Whence Evil? The Missing Fourth in the Jung-White Letters 
 Lecture: Friday, May 14, 2004, 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
 Good Shepherd Center, Room 202, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 
$10 members, $15 nonmembers 2 CEUs 
 The breakdown of friendship is a painful process, all the 
 more when the relationship carries spiritual freight. Spiritual 
 and professional concerns were the starting point for the 
 friendship that grew so quickly between C.G. Jung and Victor 
 White, the English Dominican priest and theologian, beginning 
 in 1945. For close to a decade they shared work that was fruitful and carried 
 profound meanings for both of them. Why did a working relationship, begun with 
 such hopefulness, disintegrate? Did any products of their collaboration survive? 
 This lecture sets the groundwork for Saturday's workshop by discussing the 
 personal, cultural and historical factors that shaped the two men's friendship, 
 propelled them toward their falling out, and supported the fragile reconciliation 
 they achieved at the end of their lives.
 The Self As Dancing Partner&#8212;Jung and White and the God of Double Aspect 
 Workshop: Saturday, May 15, 2004, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m . 
 Good Shepherd Center, Room 202, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 
 $40 members, $50 nonmembers, $35 student/senior members, $45 student/senior nonmembers 
 5 CEUs 
 To learn about preregistering for the workshop, see Preregistration Policy and Form . 
 In his 1937 work, Psychology and Religion , and later most notably in Aion , Dr. C.G. Jung 
 examines the psychological role of the Self and its symbols. The archetype of 
 wholeness, he says, is identical for all practical purposes with the image of God in
 the soul. But like all archetypes, he warns, the Self has a negative polarity, a
 shadow, without which it would be incomplete. Here we find the navel of our 
 story, since it was in debating the connection of God with evil that Jung and
 White began to lose connection with each other. 
 Readers of Jung will be familiar with his insistence that, as known to the psyche, 
 the image of God has a "terrifying double aspect." But how far does this observation take us? In studying the story of Jung and White, I suggest we need
 to imagine the Self as an active partner in the story, as a dancing partner, perhaps, 
 whose invitation is almost irresistible but whose close touch is dangerous. "It is
 terrible to fall into the hands of the living God." 
 When we examine the Jung-White relationship from this archetypal perspective, 
 we find a wealth of Self symbols woven into their history. In the very language of 
 their letters, as well as in the dreams and visions reported there, various images of 
 the Self occur. The shadow of the archetype becomes more apparent as the 
 story unfolds. The central problem of Jung's Answer to Job , which became such a 
 tragic stumbling-block between him and White, may also be revisited from this 
 point of view. 
 The workshop will include opportunities for discussion and small-group sharing: 

 The "fourth" for Jung. Why it's missing, and why it matters for psychological
 healing. 
 Self-symbols in the psyche: seen or unseen, how they invite growth. 
 When love and personal truth conflict, what helps the soul survive? 
 Friendship as a vessel for the spirit. 
 Repairing what has been broken&#8212;the conditions for reunion. 

 Ann C. Lammers, M.Div., Ph.D., MFT , is a psychotherapist in private practice 
 in Berkeley. She earned her Master of Divinity at an Anglican seminary in New 
 York and her doctorate in Religious Studies (theology and psychology) at Yale 
 University. After moving to California in 1986, she became a licensed Marriage 
 and Family Therapist. Her interest in the Jung-White relationship began 20 years 
 ago, leading to her first book, In God's Shadow: The Collaboration of Victor White and 
 C.G.Jung (1994). She is now primary editor of a companion volume, The Jung-White Letters . 
 This program has been approved for 7 CEUs by the Washington Chapter, National Association of 
 Social Workers (NASW) for Licensed Social Workers, Licensed Marriage & Family Therapists and 
 Licensed Mental Health Counselors. Provider number is #1975-157. The cost to receive a certificate 
 is as follows: 7.0 units for lecture and workshop $15; 2.0 units for the Friday lecture $10; 5.0 units 
 for the Saturday workshop $10. 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 4 April 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org