C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Winter 2004 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Winter 2004 Events and News 

 When the libido leaves the bright upper world, whether from choice, or from inertia, or from fate, it sinks back into its own depths, into the source from which it originally flowed, and returns to the...mother.... Whenever some great work is to be accomplished, before which a man recoils, doubtful of his strength, his libido streams back to the fountainhead&#151;and that is the dangerous moment when the issue hangs between annihilation and new life. For if the libido gets stuck in the wonderland of this inner world, then for the upper world man is nothing but a shadow... But if the libido manages to tear itself loose and force its way up again, something like a miracle happens: the journey to the underworld was a plunge into the fountain of youth, and the libido, apparently dead, wakes to renewed fruitfulness. 
 &#151; C.G. Jung, Symbols of Transformation , Vol. 2, p. 292-293 

 Jung Society Winter 2004 Events 

 Jan. 4 
 Twelfth Night Festivities . Invitations sent by mail to members. 

 Jan. 9 
 Anchored in the Heart&#8212;Redeeming the Dark Feminine . Lecture by Karlyn Ward, Ph.D. 

 Jan. 10 
 Anchored in the Heart&#8212;Continuing to Find the Meaning of the Dark Feminine through Image, Story and Music . Workshop by Karlyn Ward, Ph.D. 

 Feb. 13 
 Spiritual Psychology of the Broken Heart . Lecture by Robert Sardello, Ph.D. and Cheryl Sanders, M.S. 

 Feb. 14 
 Entering the Silence of the Heart &#8212; Practices for Developing the Power of Interiority . Workshop by Robert Sardello, Ph.D. and Cheryl Sanders, M.S. 

 March 13 
 Portals to Psyche: Jungian Trends in the Northwest . A 30th Anniversary Celebration. Conference keynote speaker Terrill Gibson and many panelists and artists. 

 March 13 
 Culture, Conflict, and Change: Native Spirit and Jungian Ideas . Evening performance by Michael Meade, as part of the "Portals to Jung" conference. 

 March 27, April 17, May 8, June 19 
 Assessing Your Journey to Individuation through Active Imagination Methods such as the Arts, Nature, and Play . Creative leadership retreat by Jane Neubauer, RN, MSN. 

 Program Notes 
 The Seattle Jung Society's 30th Anniversary brings to the membership an opportunity to recognize the contributions of the many individuals over the years who have presented inspiring programs and those who have sustained the organization with their volunteer work. During this time the Society has served a broad audience. If you would like to meet old friends, talk about the importance of Jungian Psychology in your own life and work, and hear from others whose Jungian orientation deeply affects their work and lives, please plan on attending the participatory conference on March 13th, 2004 at the Seattle Art Museum: Portals to Psyche: Jungian Trends in the Northwest.
 This is an all-day conference with an evening performance by storyteller Michael Meade co-sponsored by the Seattle Art Museum and Mosaic Multicultural Foundation, so mark your calendars now. The Seattle Art Museum is providing a space for local artists to exhibit work associated with the conference theme, and there will be a book table of publications by panelists. Conference registration includes admission to the SAM's exhibit halls, so your day can be spent in the company of wonderful people, meaningful conversation, and artists speaking through their work.
 &#151;Connie Eichenlaub, Program Chair

 Library News 

 Our collection keeps growing. We have just received a large donation from Dr. Mary Campbell of almost 200 books. Many of these books are useful for professionals in the psychotherapy field. We hope you will come and check them out. Dr. Campbell gave us many issues of the Journal of Analytical Psychology and other periodicals and books last year and we are very appreciative that she chose us to receive her generous donations. This new donation has been entered into the library database with care by our tireless catalog volunteer, Linda Sheaffer. We plan to have an updated catalog in the library soon for your perusal.
 We have also received a few books from Janet Colli, a fellow resident of Good Shepherd Center. Some of the new additions include: The Living Room Mysteries and The Lore of Gardening by Graham Jackson, Science of the Soul by Edward Edinger, Jung and Yoga by Judith Harris, Secret World of Drawings by Gregg Furth, Born to Rebel by Frank Sulloway, How Psychiatrists Look at Aging edited by George Pollock. 
 We also have a copy of Depth Psychology: Meditations in the Field and Ecopsychology: Restoring the Earth, Healing the Mind . These books have articles by Stephen Aizenstat, our November speaker. 
 We expect to have some of Robert Sardello's books available for checkout in the next few weeks. Some of his books will also be available for purchase and book-signing at the Lecture and Workshop, February 13 & 14.
 Please plan on checking out and returning borrowed items when the library is open before our next Friday event on January 9. We no longer have a book drop for the return of materials.
 Please call and leave a message if you would like us to check and see if we have a book or article that you need for your own use.

 &#151; Bunny Brown, Librarian 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 1 January 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org