C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Winter 2004 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Robert Sardello, Ph.D. and Cheryl Sanders, M.S. 

 Spiritual Psychology of the Broken Heart 
 Lecture: Friday, February 13, 2004, 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
 Trinity Parish Episcopal Church, 609 Eighth Avenue (Near James Street), Seattle ( directions ) 
 $10 members, $15 nonmembers 
 2 CEUs 
 This presentation develops a spiritual psychology showing how different heart problems are linked to forms of fear, isolation, loss, need and aggression. We will seek to understand the language of the heart, relate heart structure to soul function, and explore many heart symptoms for their deeper significance. The narrowing of the heart, heart-break, the heart out of rhythm, the failing heart, the degenerating heart, pressure and tension, heart-fear, will all be considered in their simultaneous physical and soul meanings. Specific spiritual-emotional exercises will be suggested to foster the healing of the heart. Extensive work with a series of alchemical images of the heart will be explored through image-meditations. 
 Entering the Silence of the Heart&#8212;Practices for Developing the Power of Interiority 
 Workshop: Saturday, February 14, 2004, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m . 
 Trinity Parish Episcopal Church, 609 Eighth Avenue (Near James Street), Seattle ( directions ) 
 $40 members, $50 nonmembers, $35 student/senior members, $45 student/senior nonmembers 
 5 CEUs 
 To learn about preregistering for the workshop, see Preregistration Policy and Form . 
 Join world-renowned spiritual psychologists Robert Sardello and Cheryl Sanders, Co-founders of the School of Spiritual Psychology, the Center for Sacred Service, and a program in The Spiritual Art of Aging, in developing the power of the heart to bring spiritual insight and action into daily living. Learn methods for developing capacities and skills to live more fully from the heart and soul. Take part in group discussion and learn practical contemplation, including: 

 The heart as vessel of imagination 
 The heart as center of soul 
 Aligning our thinking, speaking, and action with the heart 
 Finding the silence of the heart 
 Strengthening the powers of the imagination of the heart 
 Learn to recognize and stay in heart-space 
 Holding someone in your heart 
 Opening our heart to the Soul World 
 The imaginal physiology of the heart 

 Robert Sardello, Ph.D., is co-founder of the School of Spiritual Psychology based in Greensboro, N.C. This school, developing an approach to spiritual practice rooted in the insights of depth psychology and anthroposophy, offers courses throughout the country, a training program in Sacred Service, a journal, monographs and tapes. A practicing psychotherapist for over twenty years, Robert also teaches at the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture. He is author of Facing the World with Soul, Love and the World , Freeing the Soul from Fear , and The Power of Soul: Living the Twelve Virtues .
See www.spiritualschool.org and www.sophiajournal.org . 
 Cheryl Sanders, M.S., is co-director of the School of Spiritual Psychology and its administrative head. Cheryl has published articles on the psychology of violence, the psychology of play, and on the spiritual psychology of sensing. Her monographs include The Monsters Within , and Seeing Invisible Sophia , both published by the School of Spiritual Psychology monograph series. She has worked therapeutically in the area of addiction counseling, and is completing her doctoral dissertation on the spiritual psychology of the senses. She also teaches at the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture. 
 This program has been approved for 7 CEU's by the Washington Chapter, National Association of Social Workers (NASW) for Licensed Social Workers, Licensed Marriage & Family Therapists and Licensed Mental Health Counselors. Provider number is #1975-157. The cost to receive a certificate is as follows: 7.0 units for lecture and workshop $15; 2.0 units for the Friday lecture $10; 5.0 units for the Saturday workshop $10. 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 1 January 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org