C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Winter 2004 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Karlyn Ward, Ph.D. 

 Anchored in the Heart&#8212;Redeeming the Dark Feminine 
 Lecture: Friday, January 9, 2004, 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
 Good Shepherd Center, Room 202, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 
$10 members, $15 nonmembers 2 CEUs 
 Drawing on literature from the Song of Songs , The Gospel of Mary and other gnostic texts to contemporary works, on images from Sophia and Isis to the present, and on music from Hildgard of Bingen to contemporary composers such as Francis Poulenc and Arvo P&auml;rt, we will explore the figure of this long-repressed but powerful archetype of transformation. Amplification of the lecture material through image, and especially through music, will allow for deeper understanding. We will approach the dark, hidden, but positive feminine through the figure of Mary Magdalene, long associated with the Black Madonna, and other legendary figures and trace her origins through her predecessors. 
 Anchored in the Heart&#8212;Continuing to Find the Meaning of the Dark Feminine through Image, Story and Music 
 Workshop: Saturday, January 10, 2004, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m . 
 Good Shepherd Center, Room 202, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 
 $40 members, $50 nonmembers, $35 student/senior members, $45 student/senior nonmembers 
 5 CEUs 
 To learn about preregistering for the workshop, see Preregistration Policy and Form . 
 In this participatory and exploratory workshop, participants will continue to experience their own introverted responses to image, music, and literature of the archetype of the dark feminine. How do the responses of modern men and women contribute to understanding the archetype? Discussion will allow the group to come to some group assessment of her importance, and an understanding of why in our time she is increasingly important in the collective. Participants may want to read the contemporary bestseller, The Da Vinci Code , to get a flavor of some of the material that will be presented. Participants will receive a suggested reading list and discography. 
 Karlyn Ward, Ph.D., LCSW, BCD , is a Jungian analyst in private practice in Mill Valley, California. She is an analyst member of the C.G. Jung Institute in San Francisco and member of the Adjunct Faculty at Pacific School of Religion in Berkeley. She is a musician who is trained in the Bonny Method of using music as a form of active imagination, and is a Fellow in the Association for Music and Imagery. Her book Sounding the Depths: Psyche and Music is in progress. She has given numerous seminars on music and psyche and on redeeming the dark feminine. 
 This program has been approved for 7 CEU's by the Washington Chapter, National Association of Social Workers (NASW) for Licensed Social Workers, Licensed Marriage & Family Therapists and Licensed Mental Health Counselors. Provider number is #1975-157. The cost to receive a certificate is as follows: 7.0 units for lecture and workshop $15; 2.0 units for the Friday lecture $10; 5.0 units for the Saturday workshop $10. 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 1 January 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org