SeaScape Sailing & Diving Adventures in Burma & Thailand 

 Dates & Rates 2005 

 Dates & Rates 2003 - Greece -->

 What's included 

 Where we sail 

 Thailand and Burma; a Buddhist paradise discovered

This will be our 7th year of sailing in Thailand - a time in which we've seen many changes. With now an 
international airport, Phuket has become quite the cosmopolitan island, and sadly the little backpacker 
beach huts are being replaced very rapidly with resort-style developments.

In the true SeaScape spirit of "Go Where The Tourists Can't!" (we, of course are not tourists, we
are sailors! :>) - this has meant setting sail for yet further horizons. We've sailed to the little islands
south of Phuket to Malaysia, to rediscover the unspoilt Thailand of 20yrs ago. Then last
 year, for the first time, we sailed north - to Thailand's lesser-known Buddhist neighbour, Burma (Myanmar). There we explored the
completely undeveloped archipelago of Mergui - 100s of pristine, tropical islands, accessible only 
by sail/dive (or fishing!) boats. 

Diving too?? Yes indeed! With such a stunning array of coral and tropical marine life, great visibility, and
the warm tropical waters... what else could one ask, except a yacht which has it's own tanks and
compressor on board, as well as being a sailboat??

So yes, we have all the gear on board - experienced divers can do their own exploring, qualifed scuba 
instruction is available for beginners; even just snorkelling can keep one fascinated for hours!

Should that not be enough to keep the actively-inclined busy enough! - there's also sea
 kayaks on board, to explore the winding river inlets and mangrove swamps...or find that perfect deserted
beach (and perhaps set up for an evening's sunset cocktails-and-barbie!)

Our yachts for this adventure are two fast, luxuriously-appointed cataramarans - at 48', there's tons of 
lounging room for Happy Hours on deck; and who can beat lazing in the "trampolines" at the bow, when
skimming along at 10-15 knots ??