What's included in the SeaScape Sailing Adventures rates 

 Introduction 

 Dates 
 & Rates 2005 

Dates & Rates 2004 - Greece -->

 Where we sail 

 The bottom line - what it will cost. 
 Total cost for the 2wks is is $1950 USD per person 

Our philosophy is very simple; our costs are as 
 inclusive as we can sensibly make them. We figure most people would prefer 
 to know ahead of time what the total vacation cost is; not have to 
 worry about little additional surprises along the way! 
 On all our Adventure Sailing trips, once you get on the boat, everything 
 on board is covered . We provide breakfasts, lunches, 
 drinks (yes, that includes open bar - local liquors, beer, 
 cocktails, etc). Sometimes, this will include dinner too on board too - 
 or perhaps a "beach barbie" !

In Burma, all meals and drinks are included on board - being a National Park,
there is no "development" on shore - at all! Hence the wonderful "extra" 
on our Thailand & Burma trips is our very own Thai chef(s) !! 
Yes, we get that superb, fresh, taste-bud-tingling food on the boat too, not just on shore! 

Our yachts for this trip are fully equipped with dive compressor and other dive gear, along
with qualified scuba instructors. There are also 2 * 2-person sea kayaks on each boat.

 Our prices include: 
 They do not include: 

 - whilst on board the boats: 

 Breakfasts 

 Lunches and/or dinners on board (frequently
 both) 
 Transport to and from the boats - airfares, transfers. 

 Snacks, aperitifs, fruit, 
 Personal & medical insurance 

 Evening cocktail nibblies, etc 
 Meals and drinks on land 

 Open bar (local beers, liquors, 
 etc) 
 Marine park entrance fees; Burmese visa fees 

 Skipper 

 Thai chef 

 Fuel, water, mooring fees - all boat 
running costs 

 Onboard dive equipment, instruction if required 

 (BSAC scuba instructor) 

 2 sea kayaks on each boat

 2 nights in the oceanfront "Kata Delight" villas 

 1 night at the Jansom Thara Spa resort, Ranong

 Pls note: our "adventure sailing" trips officially cover lunches OR dinners 
 on the boat. However, in Burma, there are many days when we have all three meals on 
 board, when we are sailing in the more remote spots. There is no extra 
 charge for this; but we do ask - in the usual spirit of our Adventure 
 Sailing trips! - that everyone pitches in and help our very hard-working 
 chef out at times! 
 In short: If it's on the boat - it's covered. If it's on 
 the land - it's up to you !