Wizard of Oz Bookshop, Aisle 3 - Other Oz Books 

 Wizard of Oz Bookshop 
 Aisle 3 - Other Oz Books 
[ Back to the bookshop lobby ] [Back to aisle 2 ] [ On to aisle 4 ] 

The story of Oz didn't end with the Famous Forty books by the Royal Historians. Many others have continued, or put their own spin on, the story of Oz. These are the ones that are currently available.

 Abducted to Oz by Bob Evans and Chris Dulabone . A young American boy named Graham finds a wicked witch breaking through his mirror -- who then kidnaps him and takes him to Oz! And to make matters worse, Ozma doesn't even know about this witch. So who's going to come to Graham's rescue?

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Dennis Anfuso, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Amber Flute of Oz by Donald Abbott. A new novel from Books of Wonder. After their adventures with Dorothy, but before the discovery of the lost Princess Ozma, the Scarecrow, Tin Woodman, and Cowardly Lion are called upon to save Oz from the machinations of Blinkie, the Wicked Witch of the South, an evil magician, and a legendary sand serpent. Can the three heroes help Glinda find the legendary amber flute to save Oz?

 Paperback edition, illustrated by the author. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 As the Clock Strikes Oz by Ryan Gannaway . A powerful villain has created a diabolical timepiece which could change the course of Ozian history as we know it.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Derek Sullivan, originally published by The Ozian Seahorse Press, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 A Barnstormer in Oz by Philip Jose Farmer . Barnstorming pilot Hank Stover never believed his mother's stories about going to the land of Oz and meeting a live scarecrow, a tin woodman, and a cowardly lion. Until a strange accident with his plane takes him there himself.

 A paperback edition of this sci-fi novel. (Not recommended for young children, as it contains mature themes and language.)

 Beach Blanket BabylOz by Christopher Wayne Buckley . When a spell goes awry, Ozma, Dorothy, and other friends from Oz are stranded on a California beach!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Melody Grandy, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Birthday Ban in Munchkin Land by Dev Ross . For beginning readers. The Wicked Witch of the East has forbidden the Munchkins from celebrating birthdays, so twins Meezie and Tweezie decide to do something about it. Illustrated by David Hohn.

 Hardcover edition
 Paperback edition

 The Blue Witch of Oz by Eric Shanower . Whatever became of the Good Witch of the East? When Dorothy asks this question, it sets her and the Scarecrow off on a quest to find her, and help her complete her quest to find her lost son. But they're all in for a surprise...

 A graphic novel, published by Dark Horse Comics.

 Brewster Bunny and the Case of the Outrageous Enchantments in Oz by Marcus Mebes . A solve-it-yourself Oz mystery story.

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Brewster Bunny and the Case of the Purloined Pachyderm of Oz by Marin Elizabeth Xiques and Chris Dulabone . A colleague of Kabumpo's goes missing, so the Elegant Elephant hires Brewster Bunny to find him. An Ozian mystery story.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by J. C. Lynn, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Bungle and the Magic Lantern of Oz by Greg Gick . The Glass Cat is off having more adventues.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by David T. St. Albans, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Case of the Framed Fairy of Oz by Gil S. Joel . Ozma is put on trial for practicing witchcraft. So she hires the best defense attorney she can find -- Perry Mason!

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Christmas in Oz by Robin Hess . Santa has had to set up a new workshop in Oz. Everyone's happy -- except for the Wicked Blue Witch of the East, who wants to put a damper on Christmas in Oz.

 Paperback edition, illustrated by Andrew Hess. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 The Colorful Kitten of Oz by Chris Dulabone . Eureka stars in this time-travelling adventure tale.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Melody Grandy, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Corn Mansion of Oz by Peter Schulenberg . Just how did the Scarecrow's lovely corn-ear shaped mansion come to be, anyway? And what about Jack Pumpkinhead's hollow pumpkin shell of a house? This book relates both of their origins in the Ozziest manner possible!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Peter and Marcus Schulenberg and Timothy Meyer, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Cory in Oz by Allison McBain . A sinister Nome King has cast a terrible spell over the good witches of Oz. Now, young Cory is discovering that she is not quite like other people. What is it that makes her different? And what can be done about this Nome?

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Crocheted Cat in Oz by Hugh Pendexter III . On the eve of Ozma's birthday, one of her gifts is stolen! It's up to the Crocheted Cat, a new visitor to Oz, and a motley band of characters to get it back.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Caroline Taber, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Dagmar in Oz by Chris Dulabone . The Queen of the Scoodlers (from Baum's The Road to Oz ) is back, and she wants revenge!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Charlene Greski, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Dinamonster of Oz by Kenneth Gage Baum . When the Nome King uses his new invention, the Dinamonster, in his latest attempt to conquer Oz, all of the magic in Oz may not be enough to stop him. So, what can they use?

 A paperback edition of this story by one of Baum's sons, illustrated by Gita Moreno with essays by Ozma Baum Mantele and Stephen J. Teller, is available from both the International Wizard of Oz Club and Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends (originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz).

 Dorothy: Return to Oz by Thomas L. Tedrow . Dorothy Gale is having a rough summer, so she goes out to see her Grandmother (the famous Dorothy Gale) in Kansas. But Grandmother may not be all right, as she keeps going on about a place called Oz. So when Dorothy (the granddaughter) finds her grandmother's ruby slippers during a cyclone, and puts them on...

 Hardback edition.

 Dorothy and Old King Crow by Dorothy Haas . The Scarecrow is trapped by his self-proclaimed worst enemy, Old King Crow. But he gives Dorothy one chance to free him -- a spelling contest!

 Hardback and paperback editions.

 Dorothy and the Green Gobbler of Oz by Romeo Muller . It's the holidays in Kansas, but Aunt Em's pie has been stolen -- by the Wizard! Dorothy confronts him, and gets whisked back to Oz via the Wizard's green turkey-shaped balloon. But when Tyrone the Terrible Toy Tinker brings the balloon to life in an attempt to take over Oz, Dorothy may be in over her head.

 A paperback edition of this book, the adaptation of the television special Thanksgiving in Oz , and illustrated with stills from the special.

 Dorothy and the Lizard of Oz by Richard A. Gardner . Dorothy returns home to Kansas, only to find that her problems aren't solved, after all, and neither are those of her friends back in Oz. An unsatisfying sequel to the story (based more on the movie than the book), the author obviously missed the message he's giving here when it was presented in the original.

 Hardback edition.

 Dorothy and the Magic Belt by Susan Saunders . Dr. Nikidik's son doesn't think its fair that his father can't practice magic any more. So he resolves to steal the Magic Belt -- and turns Dorothy's friends into babies to do it!

 Hardback and paperback editions, illustrated by David Rose.

 Dorothy and the Seven-Leaf Clover by Dorothy Haas . Toto is trapped by an old spell of the Wicked Witch of the West. To break the enchantment, Dorothy and her friends need to find one of the rarest plants in Oz -- a seven-leaf clover.

 Hardback and paperback editions, illustrated by David Rose.

 Dorothy of Oz by Roger S. Baum . A mad jester has recovered the wand of the Wicked Witch of the West, and is turning the citizens of Oz into china ornaments with it. Dorothy has returned to Oz, but can she, the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, and the Cowardly Lion stop him before becoming enchanted themselves?

 A nice hardback edition, fully illustrated by Elizabeth Miles and published by Books of Wonder.

 Dorothy Returns to Oz by Shawn Billman, et. al. Charlie is an evil troll with magical powers. Can Dorothy, now all grown up, stop his evil deeds with the help of a magical unicorn and a rather pathetic dragon?

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Dorothy's Mystical Adventures in Oz by Robert J. Evans . Dorothy and her friends have some new adventures, and discuss a number of issues. A different kind of Oz book.

 Hardcover edition.
 Paperback edition.

 Egor's Funhouse Goes to Oz by Chris Dulabone . Egor is a friendly monster who runs a funhouse for the kids. Then the funhouse gets to Oz, and the lives of he and his friends start to get even more interesting...

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the author, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Emerald Burrito of Oz by John Skipp and Marc Levinthal . What happens when travel between our world and Oz becomes a common occurrence -- and not everyone is going there for just a vacation?

 Hardcover book.

 The Emerald Ring of Oz by Jeremy Steadman . A lost little boy, swashbuckling pirates, magical treasures, and Oz!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Chris Dulabone, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Enchanted Apples of Oz by Eric Shanower . Bortag the Quadling has fallen in love with the sleeping Wicked Witch of the South. The only way he can wake her is with one of the enchanted golden apples. But if one of the apples is ever eaten, then Oz will lose its enchantment and become an ordinary, hum-drum place like any other!

 Available from the International Wizard of Oz Club .

 The Fairy Circle in Oz by Chris Dulabone . It seems that the Love Fairy's powers are diminishing, so it's up to Wooglet to restore her, as well as the entire Land of Oz and beyond!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Marcus Mebes, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Fanstastic Funhouse of Oz by Chris Dulabone . The Witched Witch of the West has learned that a carnival designer has just put together a funhouse based on The Wonderful Wizard of Oz . She isn't very happy about it! So she takes the place of her electronic image and takes vengeance upon the children!

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Father Goose in Oz by Donald Abbott . Father Goose loves to write silly poems for children. Then his magic pen brings him to Oz -- and brings the Wicked Witch of the West back to life! Can Father Goose, the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, and the Cowardly Lion stop the witch from conquering Oz?

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the author. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 The Flying Bus in Oz by Ruth Morris . Suppose a Canadian school bus were to fly to Oz. Suppose you were in it at the time. This is only the beginning of a wild and wonderful adventure of a lifetime!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Corinne Morris with a cover by Melody Grandy, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 A Foolish Fable from Oz by Marin Elizabeth Xiques and Chris Dulabone . A pre- Wizard history of the Wicked Witches of the East and West, as well as those Silver Shoes. The Orks, from The Scarecrow of Oz , are here, too.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the authors, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Forest Monster of Oz by Bob Evans and Chris Dulabone . Remember the giant spider that the Cowardly Lion killed in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz ? Well, he's back, and he wants revenge on the Lion...

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Dor&eacute; Meers, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Forgotten Forest of Oz by Eric Shanower . In the middle of the night, Dorothy wakes to find someone stealing some of the most powerful magic in Oz -- water from the forbidden fountain, which causes those who drink it to forget all they ever knew! What would Nelanthe the wood nymph want with the waters of oblivion? And how are the ancient forest of Burzee and the Troll King involved?

 Available from the International Wizard of Oz Club .

 Fwiirp in Oz by many authors . A collaborative Oz novel.

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Giant Garden of Oz by Eric Shanower . Aunt Em and Uncle Henry's new farm is a huge success -- so huge, in fact, that Dorothy has to set out to see what's making all of the vegetables (and people who eat them!) grow so much, while her friends begin to disappear.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the author. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 The Glass Cat of Oz by David Hulan . Oogaboo has been overrun by the Bad Lads. Can Bungle, the Glass Cat, and two orphans from California save the day?

 A paperback edition, illustrated by George O'Connor. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 The Green Goblins of Oz by Bill Hilley (as told to Marin Elizabeth Xiques and Chris Dulabone) . Two green goblins set out for the Emerald City, and have numerous misadventures along the way.

 A paperback edition, originally published by The Ozian Seahorse Press, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Green Star of Oz by Roger S. Baum . A new story by L. Frank Baum's great-grandson.

 Hardcover book.

 The Haunted Castle of Oz by Marcus Mebes . A ghost is haunting Ozma's castle! Who is he, and what is he doing there?

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Healing Power of Oz by Gil S. Joel . The Nome King is up to his old tricks again, and four troubled individuals from the Outside World are in his way.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Marcus Mebes, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Hidden Prince of Oz by Gina Wickwar . The Glass Cat and an American orphan find themselves in Silica Valley, where everything is made of glass. They also find themselves wrapped up in the 101-year-old mystery of the missing Prince of the Blue Mountains. Did Zeebo the Sorcerer have a hand in his disappearance?

 Hardcover edition, illustrated by Anna-Maria Cool, is available from the International Wizard of Oz Club .

 How the Wizard Came to Oz by Donald Abbott . Oscar Diggs is just a humbug wizard and circus balloonist from Omaha -- until a balloon accident brings him to Oz, where two wicked witches don't want any competition from any sort of wizard...

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the author. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 How the Wizard Saved Oz by Donald Abbott . Before Dorothy ever came to Oz, the Wizard has an adventure with the Queen of the Field Mice, as they set out to find her missing subjects and prevent Mombi from stealing all the magic in Oz.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the author. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 Hurray for Oz! by Kelly T. When the Tooth Fairy meets with an unfortunate accident in little Kelly's bedroom, Kelly takes it upon herself to try to finish the nightly rounds. Of course, the results are hilarious!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Randy Clark, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 I Want to Grow Up in Oz by Marin Elizabeth Xiques and Chris Dulabone . Ozma has placed a spell on a wicked panther so that she will remain small and harmless. But when the panther gets her paws on a magic wand, that might change!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Derek Sullivan, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Ice King of Oz by Eric Shanower . Far, far to the south of Oz lives the Ice King and his ice imp subjects. Wishing to make his subjects lives better, he kidnaps Ozma and brings her to his domain to be his queen! Can Dorothy, the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, and their new friend Flicker save Ozma from the Ice King's powerful magic?

 Available from the International Wizard of Oz Club .

 The Joust in Oz by Annie Brzozowski . Sir Plus challenges Sir Hokus to a joust, due to an argument dating back to the days of King Arthur. The sequel to Pegasus in Oz (who also shows up in this book).

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Steve Burt, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Kaliko in Oz by K. Kline . A magical tale of Nomes and giant eggs.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Michael Goldmann, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Land Before Oz by Marin Elizabeth Xiques and Chris Dulabone . The Cowardly Lion, Tin Woodman, Scarecrow, and Woozy, along with some new Oz friends, go back in time to help some orphaned dinosaurs find a new home.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Aaron Shadarko Almanza, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Land of Oz from Arrow Comics . Comic book series about the Land of Oz. (Warning: Some issues contain mature themes or language.)

 Back issues and specials are available directly from the Arrow Comics marketplace . (Also look for Oz and Dark Oz , two series leading up to this one, Oz appearances in Arrow Anthology , and Wonderland , a spin-off mini-series starring Dorothy. In this aisle of the bookshop, you may want to take a look at Oz: Mayhem in Munchkinland and Oz: A Gathering of Heroes .)

 The Lavender Bear of Oz by Bill Campbell and Irwin Terry . The teddy bear citizens of Bear Center are disappearing! The Lavender Bear seeks the Tin Woodman to help find them, but then they arrive to find Bear Center overrun with squirrels...

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the authors. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 Lion of Oz and the Badge of Courage by Roger S. Baum . When Oscar Diggs is whisked to Oz by his own balloon, he has an unwilling passenger -- a lion cub who longs to be brave!

 A clothbound edition, illustrated by Sean Coons with an introduction by singer Gloria Estefan.

 The Lizard of Oz by Richard Seltzer . The Humbug is out to take over the minds of children, and only the Lizard can stop him. So, just who is the Lizard of Oz, anyway? (This isn't exactly an Oz story, but it's fun nevertheless, and many references are made to the Oz books.)

 A paperback edition, illustrated and published by the author.
 The same story, written up as a play script.
 The Lizard of Oz and Other Stories , available on a floppy disk.
 The Lizard of Oz and Other Stories , available on CD-ROM.

 The Lost Emeralds of Oz by Frederick E. Otto . Ozma, the new queen of Oz, meets up with a band of sorcerers whom she is powerless to stop. So who can stop them from taking over Oz?

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Derek Sullivan, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Lunarr and Maureen in Oz by Chris Dulabone . Toto and a host of new friends are on a very funny quest!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Marcus Mebes, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Lunechien Forest of Oz by Chris Dulabone . A full-length Ozzy sequel to Baum's Animal Fairy Tales . Elephants, lions, tigers, and bears who are sure to steal your heart!

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz and illustrated by Mark Woody, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Magic Bowls of Oz by Ryan Atticus Gannaway . A new adventure featuring Ojo, Button-Bright, and the Wizard.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Peter Schulenburg, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Magic Chest of Oz by Donald Abbott . Malvonia is an evil spirit kept in a magic chest -- until she's released! Then it's up to Oz's newest heroes, the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, and the Cowardly Lion, to find and trap her again.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the author. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 The Magic Diamond of Oz by Danica Libutti, et. al. Could the Nome King have a kind-hearted brother? It seems unfathomable, but this book proves it!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the authors, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Magic Dishpan of Oz by Jeff Freedman . When two girls from Oregon find a small green frog and a golden dishpan, they are off to an adventure in Oz. But can they prevent a band of magicians from spreading discord and distrust, and thus destroying Oz?

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the author. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 The Magic Ruby of Oz by Julia Inglis . Krinkle, a particularly nasty wicked witch, and her partner, an evil sorcerer, have cruel plans that spell destruction for Oz and its friends.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Michael Patrick Murphy, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Magic Tapestry of Oz by Marcus Mebes and Chris Dulabone . A magical time machine carries a number of our Oz friends back to see how the whole thing began.

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Marvelous Monkeys of Oz by Chris Dulabone . First volume of a trilogy about the Winged Monkeys.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Paul McGrory, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Masquerade in Oz by Bill Campbell and Irwin Terry . On Halloween, the Ozites have a costume party where they dress like other Ozites! Too bad if an evil spell makes them believe they're really who they are dressed as. And some enemies of Oz might want to take advantage of the situation...

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the authors. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 The Medicine Man of Oz by Mark E. Haas . Herby, the Medine Man from The Giant Horse of Oz , gets to have an Oz adventure of his own. Unfortunately, it involves the Gnome King's latest attempt to conquer Oz!

 Hardcover edition.
 Large type paperback edition.

 Mister Tinker in Oz by James Howe . Mister Tinker, co-creator of Tik-Tok, finds that Tik-Tok's warranty is about to run out, so he climbs down from the moon to fix him. Trouble is, his ladder lands in a certain backyard in Kansas, and not in Ev after all. Can Dorothy help Mister Tinker find Tik-Tok in time?

 Hardback and paperback editions, illustrated by David Rose.

 The Mysterious Chronicles of Oz by Onyx Madden . Newly crowned Queen of Oz, Ozma is already bored with her life as a princess, and decides to sneak out with the Sawhorse and have some new adventures, which include an encounter with a Cowardly Lion and a Hungry Tiger.

 A hardback edition, in dust jacket, with illustrations by J. Noel.

 The Nome King's Shadow in Oz by Gilbert M. Sprague . When Billina frightens the Nome King, it scares his shadow off! So the shadow travels to Oz to avenge his master's honor!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Donald Abbott. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 The Odd Tale of Osoenft in Oz by Marcus Mebes, et. al. An anthology that covers a number of real-life issues. May contain some mature themes and ideas.

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Oz: Mayhem in Munchkinland by Stu Kerr and Bill Bryan . When three friends and their dog Max are whisked off to Oz through a magic book, the first thing they encounter is an army of angry Munchkins. And it gets worse from there...

 A graphic novel, reprinting the first five issues of the Oz comic book series published by Caliber Comics. (Not recommended for young children, as it contains mature themes.)

 Oz: A Gathering of Heroes by Stu Kerr and Bill Bryan . The Nome King has conquered Oz, and is consolidating his power. But he hasn't foreseen the effect three Americans and their dog Max might have on his plans...

 A graphic novel, reprinting issues 6-10 of the Oz comic book series published by Caliber Comics. (Not recommended for young children, as it contains mature themes.)

 Oziana . This is an annual literary magazine, publishing original Oz short stories, poems, puzzles, and art.

 Current and back issues are available from the International Wizard of Oz Club .

 Ozma and the Wayward Wand by Polly Berends . When Dorothy comes to Oz for a visit, all of her friends come to greet her -- leaving the castle unguarded for the gardener's naughty son to sneak in and steal Ozma's wand...

 Hardback and paperback editions, illustrated by David Rose.

 The Ozmapolitan of Oz by Dick Martin . The assistant editor of Oz's only newspaper, The Ozmapolitan , sets out to increase circulation and find new sources of news. But Dorothy suspects he may have an ulterior motive as well...

 An illustrated, paperback edition, is available from the International Wizard of Oz Club .

 Paradox in Oz by Edward Einhorn . Aging has come again to Oz, and Ozma must travel back in time to restore the enchantment. But can she do so without changing Ozian history?

 Hardcover edition, illustrated by Eric Shanower, available from Amazon.com or directly from the publisher, Hungry Tiger Press.

 The Patchwork Bride of Oz by Gilbert M. Sprague . The Scarecrow and Patchwork Girl have decided to get married! It's a wedding like they can only throw in Oz, complete with well-intentioned meddling friends...

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Denis McFarling. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 Pegasus in Oz by Annie Brzozowski . Could the legendary flying horse really exist? That is but one of the wonderful new friends that Donald, our hero, encounters in this novel. Tik-Tok, the Patchwork Girl, and a host of other Oz celebrities are in it, too. But there is an evil Cyclops who is looking for his next meal, and he is eyeing Donald...

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Steve Burt, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Queen Ann in Oz by Karyl Carlson and Eric Gjovaag . Queen Ann of Oogaboo sets out to find her long lost parents. But can she muster her army yet again to leave Oogaboo? Do her parents even want to be found?

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Bill Campbell and Irwin Terry. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 A Queer Quest for Oz by Chris Dulabone . In this sequel to Ruth Plumly Thompson's Captain Salt in Oz , an evil Necromancer has a plan that he thinks will get him to Oz. Meanwhile, Samuel Salt and Ato are roped into playing an odd game of Snakes and Ladders that will leave you howling.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Mark Woody, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Red Reera the Yookoohoo and the Enchanted Easter Eggs of Oz by Richard G. Quinn . The title says it all, really...

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Marcus Mebes, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Return to Oz by Joan D. Vinge . Six months after she comes back from Oz, Dorothy's aunt and uncle are worried about her mental health. But Dorothy is even more worried about her friends' fate when her chicken, Billina, finds an Ozian key in the farmyard. Can she find her way back, and save them from Princess Mombi and the Nome King?

 A paperback edition of this book, the adaptation of the Disney movie of the same name.

 The Rewolf of Oz by Roger S. Baum . Why is the Rewolf destroying the Ozian countryside? And what can Dorothy and her friends do to stop him?

 A clothbound edition of this picture book, illustrated by Charlotte Hart.

 Ridiculous Rivals in Oz by Marin Elizabeth Xiques and Chris Dulabone . The Cowardly Lion, the Tin Woodman, and the Scarecrow have learned of a spooky forest controlled by a merciless three-eyed sorceress with a penchant for transformations. Together with Casey, a washed-up hunting dog from America, and his pal Starlight, a wild rabbit, they must find a way to win the forest back for Ozma.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Randy Clark, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Roots of Wonder in Oz by Gil S. Joel . This captivating story tells all about the Fairy Queen, the foundations of the Emerald City, and some outlandish Gillikins.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Chris Dulabone, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Sail Away to Oz by Marus Mebes . A dream, written in verse, with an appearance by King Rinkitink. (Caution: Some adult themes.)

 A hand-stitched edition is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Secret Island of Oz by Eric Shanower . While searching for a quipperug fish for Ozma's pond, Dorothy, the Scarecrow, the Cowardly Lion, and Eureka are caught up in a mysterious whirlpool inside a mountain. There they encounter a spoiled princess, a living toy boy, and a whole mess of adventures!

 Available from the International Wizard of Oz Club .

 The Seven Blue Mountains of Oz, Volume I: The Disenchanted Princess of Oz by Melody Grandy . When Ozma's disenchanted and her true form is revealed, what really happened to Tip? This is the first volume of a trilogy.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the author, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Seven Blue Mountains of Oz, Volume II: Tippetarius of Oz by Melody Grandy . This is the second volume of the trilogy. Zim Greenleaf, the botanical sorcerer, comes to the Emerald City at a time when all of its inhabitants are shrinking.

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the author, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Shifting Sands of Oz by Marcus Mebes, Marin Elizabeth Xiques, and others . In search of a lost hair ribbon, Ooliphlop and her friends tell stories to each other while crossing the Deadly Desert. An anthology of many different types of stories.

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The SillyOZbuls of Oz by Roger S. Baum . All the SillyOZbuls want to do is give love to the people of Oz. Yet there's at least one evil magician in the land who wants the SillyOZbuls for his own nefarious purposes...

 A clothbound edition of this picture book, illustrated by Lisa Mertins.

 The SillyOZbul of Oz and Toto by Roger S. Baum . Toto and the SillyOZbul are off on an exciting expedition across Oz to see Glinda!

 A clothbound edition of this picture book, illustrated by Lisa Mertins.

 The SillyOZbul of Oz and the Magic Merry-Go-Round by Roger S. Baum . When two children pick up a magic merry-go-round ring, they are transported back in time to when the Wizard first came to Oz! They meet up with the Wizard and his SillyOZbul friend, and have adventures together.

 A clothbound edition of this picture book, illustrated by Lisa Mertins.

 A Silver Elf in Oz by Marin Elizabeth Xiques and Chris Dulabone . When Faith and Gideon set out to look for the legendary Father Christmas, they are in for a series of wild and wonderful adventures sure to keep you turning the pages!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Marcus Mebes, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Sinister Gases in Oz by Ryan Gannaway . The Nome King has developed a gas that would make him ruler of Oz. Can a visitor from America stop him?

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Marcus Mebes, originally published by The Ozian Seahorse Press, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Skeezik and the Mys Tree of Oz by Marcus Mebes, et. al. A provocative Oz book, which is also an anthology of short stories, that deals with some some very real problems from our side of the Deadly Desert. Some stories contain mature themes.

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Speckled Rose of Oz by Donald Abbott . Glinda must prevent an evil magician from destroying all of the flowers of Oz -- and thus, all of the country's magic as well!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the author. You may also be able to order it directly from the publisher through "The Oz Collector," available from Books of Wonder .

 Tales of the Magic Land 1: The Wizard of the Emerald City, and Urfin Jus and His Wooden Soldiers by Aleksandr Volkov . Elli and her dog Totoshka travel to the Magic Land, and meet up with Strasheela the Scarecrow, the Iron Woodchopper, and the Cowardly Lion. (Sound familiar?) Then, in the sequel, the ambitious Urfin Jus seeks to take over Oz with the aid of giant wooden soldiers. Can Elli save the day and her friends?

 A paperback edition of the English translation of the Russian retelling of The Wizard of Oz , plus the translation of the original sequel.

 Tales of the Magic Land 2: The Seven Underground Kings, and The Fiery God of the Marrans by Aleksandr Volkov . The magnificent country underneath the Magic Country has a unique, rotating system of seven monarchs, who sleep when they are not needed. But then there's a crisis when the well that keeps them asleep dries up, and they all want to rule at once. Then, Urfin Jus has a new scheme to take over the Magic Country, this time involving the Jumpers (Hammerheads in Baum's Oz).

 A paperback edition of the English translations of third and fourth books in the original Russian "Oz" series.

 The Three Imps of Oz by Chris Dulabone . Remember those three little imps who were changed into buttons in L. Frank Baum's The Little Wizard Stories of Oz ? Well, now they're back to their impish selves and on the road to new adventures!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Kimberly Frodelius, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Thorns and Private Files in Oz by Melody Grandy and Chris Dulabone . Princess Ozga and Files, along with Hank the Mule, have made a shocking discovery!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Marcus Mebes, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Time Travelling in Oz by Ryan Gannaway . Dorothy and the Wizard must stop a plot to destroy Oz -- that's already happened!

 A paperback edition, illustrated by Marcus Mebes, originally published by The Ozian Seahorse Press, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Tin Castle of Oz by Peter Schulenberg . The Tin Woodman does have a remarkable home, doesn't he? But who built it? Who designed it? The Tin Woodman himself narrates this story which includes amiable caterpillars and several of your favorite Oz friends.

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 The Unknown Witches of Oz: Locasta and the Three Adepts by Dave Hardenbrook . Dan is just a regular American guy, until he encounters an Ozian witch. So of course he tries to get her back to Oz...

 A paperback edition.

 Visitors from Oz: The Wild Adventures of Dorothy, the Scarecrow, and the Tin Woodman in the United States by Martin Gardner. A new novel about Dorothy and her friends traveling to America to celebrate one hundred years of Oz and to appear in a movie. From Gardner's pen, this ought to be a good one! (NOTE: This is not the same book as The Visitors from Oz by L. Frank Baum, based on the 1904-05 comic page "Queer Visitors from the Marvelous Land of Oz." That book is now long out of print.)

 Hardback edition, illustrated by Ted Enik.
 Paperback edition.
 British paperback edition.

 Was by Geoff Ryman . An epic journey through turn-of-the-century Kansas, Depression-era Hollywood, and other far-flung places up to the present day, in a fictitious examination of the lives touched by The Wizard of Oz . (Not recommended for young children, as it contains mature themes and language.)

 A paperback edition, published by Penguin.
 British paperback edition.

 Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West by Gregory Maguire . Elphaba is born to missionary parents in the Quadling Country. She's not like the other children, because she has green skin and a severe aversion to water. So when she grows up, look out, Oz! (Not recommended for young children, as it contains mature themes and language.)

 A paperback edition, published by HarperCollins. (Not recommended for young children, as it contains mature themes and language.)

 A Wonderful Journey in Oz by Ryan Gannaway . The title says it all!

 A paperback edition, originally published by The Ozian Seahorse Press, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

 Wooglet in Oz by Hugh Pendexter III . Wooglet and her Uncle Chris end up in Oz. Can she figure out how to get home?

 A paperback edition, illustrated by David T. St. Albans, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz, is available from Tails of the Cowardly Lion and Friends .

If you'd like to search Amazon.com or Amazon.co.uk for your own needs, you may use these search boxes:

 Search: 

 All Products
 Books
 Popular Music
 Classical Music
 Video
 DVD
 Toys & Games
 Computer & Video Games
 Electronics
 Software
 Tools & Hardware
 Lawn & Patio
 Kitchen
 Camera & Photo

 Keywords: 

 Search: 

 All Products
 Books
 Popular Music
 Classical Music
 Video
 DVD
 Electronics
 PC & Video Games
 Software

 Keywords: 

 [ Back to the bookshop lobby ] [Back to Aisle 2 ] [ On to Aisle 4 ] 

 "There's no place like the home page..." 

 Get FREE clip art, such as the rainbow bar used on this page, from ClipArtConnection.com 

 This webpage, its contents, and the code used to create it are copyright &copy; 1996-2001 Eric P. Gjovaag
 All rights reserved. For full legal disclaimer, see the About This Site page