Wizard of Oz Bookshop 

 Wizard of Oz Bookshop
 Lobby 
 Welcome! This is an exciting place, because here, you can buy Oz books, books by L. Frank Baum and other Oz authors, Oz activity books, cassettes, CDs, videos, even computer software, all at the click of your mouse button. I've tried to give you a wide selection to choose from, in all price ranges, so there's sure to be something you like. (Oz books also make great gifts for the Oz fan on your shopping list!) And I will try to keep it updated, especially when new books are published. (Please note that this bookshop is still under construction, and not all of the inventory has been placed on the shelves yet. And I might add that the book covers shown in this shop do not necessarily reflect the actual covers of the books offered.)
 This service is presented in association with Amazon.com in the United States, and its British subsidiary, Amazon.co.uk. To order or find out more about a particular book, including price, simply click on either company's logo. When books are available from another seller as well, the link will take you to a source of more information. This icon , for instance, will take you to a source of order forms for products available from the International Wizard of Oz Club.
 Please note that many of these books are out-of-print or otherwise unavailable. While Amazon.com does have an out-of-print search service for such books, you may want to try other sources as well. This link will take you to some online resources that might be of help.
 To comment on or ask questions about this bookshop, click here .

 Shortcuts if you know where you are going (or want to be surprised)

[ Aisle 1 ] [ Aisle 2 ] [ Aisle 3 ] [ Aisle 4 ] [ Aisle 5 ] [ Aisle 6 ] [ Aisle 7 ] [ Aisle 8 ] [ Aisle 9 ] [ Aisle 10 ] [ New/Seasonal ] 

 Aisle 1 - The Oz books of L. Frank Baum 
The books that started it all. The fourteen Oz novels by the original Royal historian of Oz (including numerous versions of The Wonderful Wizard of Oz ), and other books Baum wrote about Oz.

 Aisle 2 - The "Official" Oz books by other authors 
The rest of the Oz series, by Royal Historians Ruth Plumly Thompson, John R. Neill, Jack Snow, Rachel Cosgrove Payes, and Eloise Jarvis McGraw and Lauren Lynn McGraw. Includes some of their Oz writings outside of the series.

 Aisle 3 - Other Oz books 
Many other writers have tried their hand at writing Oz stories outside of the regular series. Here is a wide selection of those that are currently available.

 Aisle 4 - Non-Oz books by Oz authors and illustrators 
The Royal Historians of Oz wrote other works as well. Many of L. Frank Baum's works were later tied into the Oz series. You can purchase some of what they've written here.

 Aisle 5 - Non-fiction, reference, and biography 
Books and publications about Oz and its authors. Much of the information on this website came from these books.

 Aisle 6 - The Movie 
It's the most watched movie in history, so of course there are many books about it. From the movie on video, scripts, music, and behind-the-scenes books, to postcards and cookbooks, if it's about The Movie, it's here.

 Aisle 7 - Just for kids (of all ages) 
These products are specially selected for the kid in us all. Adaptations, pop-up books, coloring and activity books, books you cut up and make things with, and other fun stuff.

 Aisle 8 - Dramatic Presentations 
You don't have to just read Oz, you can watch it on your VCR, listen to it on your cassette or CD player, or see it on the stage. Find many of them here, as well as books and other items about them.

 Aisle 9 - Everything else 
All of the rest, items that don't quite fit into any of the other aisles. Includes computer software, maps, non-Oz books with major Oz references, toys, games, and lots of other surprises.

 Aisle 10 - You might also like... 
None of these items have to do with Oz, but you might also find them enjoyable. All are books appropriate for children of all ages.

 New and Seasonal items in the bookshop 

 The Wizard of Oz Calendar 2002 . Spend twelve months in Oz with Dorothy, the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, the Cowardly Lion, and Toto, too! Illustrated with images from the famous 1939 movie version of the story.

 Calendar.

 Hard Road: A Cat Marsala Mystery by Barbara D'Amato . Cat Marsala, the hard-driven Chicago reporter and amateur detective, is faced with a new mystery at a Wizard of Oz festival. Two people are murdered right before her eyes, and even she thinks her own brother did it. Can she prove that the police and she have accused the wrong man?

 Hardcover book.

 The Medicine Man of Oz by Mark E. Haas . Herby, the Medine Man from The Giant Horse of Oz , gets to have an Oz adventure of his own. Unfortunately, it involves the Gnome King's latest attempt to conquer Oz!

 Hardcover edition.
 Large type paperback edition.

 An Oz Album by William Alba . A reinterpretation of The Wizard of Oz as a series of visual poems detailing Dorothy's journey -- or is it a search for love in the big city?

 Published by Pulley Press , and currently available exclusively through the St. John's College Bookstore .

 The Wonderful Wizard of Oz . An all-star centennial adaptation of the story on four CDs. Originally played on American public radio in 2000.

 Four CD boxed set.

 I, Toto: The Autobiography of Terry, the Dog Who Was Toto by Willard Carroll . Okay, it's not really an autobiography, but otherwise, the title probably says it all.

 Hardcover book.

 The Wizard of Oz Jigsaw Puzzle . A 550 piece puzzle of a picture based on the famous movie.

 Boxed puzzle.

 The Wizard of Oz (1925) . The first full-length film version of the story, released in 1925 and starring Larry Semon, Dorothy Dwan, and Oliver Hardy (before he gained fame with partner Stan Laurel), now available on DVD.

 DVD, Region 1 encoding.

 LeapPad Pro Books Leap Into Classics: The Wizard of Oz . An interactive book for beginning readers.

 LeapPad book. You will also need a LeapPad or a LeapPad Pro to use the book.

 The Emerald Burrito of Oz by John Skipp and Marc Levinthal . What happens when travel between our world and Oz becomes a common occurrence -- and not everyone is going there for just a vacation?

 Hardcover book.

 The Wonderful Wizard of Oz by L. Frank Baum. Centennial edition authorized by the Baum Trust. Illustrated by William Stout, with essays by John Updike, Daniel P. Mannix, Ray Bradbury, Gore Vidal, Nicholas von Hoffman, and Angelica Shirley Carpenter and Jean Shirley.

 Paperback edition.

 The Wonderful World of Oz . Original radio dramatizations of the first five Oz books, produced by the Colonial Radio Theater, on ten cassettes.

 Audiocassette boxed set.

 The Wonderful Wizard of Oz . Audiobook version of the famous story, produced by Naxos Audio Books. Narrated by Lisa Ross.

 Audiocassette.
 CD.

If you can't find just what you're looking for in this bookshop, click here to find more online resources of new, used, and antiquarian books.

 To read more about buying Oz books, click here .

If you'd like to search Amazon.com or Amazon.co.uk for your own needs, you may use these search boxes:

 Search: 

 All Products
 Books
 Popular Music
 Classical Music
 Video
 DVD
 Toys & Games
 Computer & Video Games
 Electronics
 Software
 Tools & Hardware
 Lawn & Patio
 Kitchen
 Camera & Photo

 Keywords: 

 Search: 

 All Products
 Books
 Popular Music
 Classical Music
 Video
 DVD
 Electronics
 PC & Video Games
 Software

 Keywords: 

 [On to aisle 1.] 

 "There's no place like the home
page..." 

 This webpage, its contents, and the code used to create it are copyright &copy; 1996-2001 Eric P. Gjovaag.
 All rights reserved. For full legal disclaimer, see the About This Site page.