Wizard of Oz Halloween Page 

 Close This Window 

 Wizard of Oz Halloween Page 

 Want to help collect money for UNICEF while you trick or treat, and help children all around the world? Here's how! 
 Or you can donate directly to UNICEF USA's Trick or Treat campaign through this link .

 Looking for Wizard of Oz costumes, supplies, or patterns for Halloween? Check out these links!

 Costumes from Toys R Us and Amazon.com:

 Dorothy:

 Scarecrow:

 Tin Man:

 Cowardly Lion:

 Wicked Witch:

 Glinda, the Good Witch of the North:

 "Good Witch" and "Kansas Girl" costumes from Birthday Express 

 Oz costumes and supplies for sale 

 The Costume Loft has Oz costumes and supplies for rent or sale

 Christee's Oz costumes 

 Simplicity's Oz costume patterns for adults and children 

 Costume Holiday House -- [ Adult costumes ] [ Children's costumes ] [ Accessories ]

 Scarepro's Oz costumes 

 Annie's Costumes -- [ Adult Standard ] [ Adult Deluxe ] [ Children ]

 Halloween Costumes 4 U 

 BuyCostumes.com 

 Hollywood Costumes 

 Oz costumes for rent from Broadway Costumes 

 Oz costumes for rent from Magic Makers 

 Oz Zone at CostumeZone.com 

 Halloween Street (but you'll have to do your own searching for Oz costumes)

 What some Oz Halloween costumes used to look like 

There are Wizard of Oz pumpkin carving patterns! Look for them on the Pumpkin Wizard website, http://www.carvingpumpkins.com/oz/oz.html .

 The following books and videos are especially appropriate for Ozzy Halloween enjoyment.

 Jack Pumpkinhead of Oz by Ruth Plumly Thompson, illustrated by John R. Neill . Not only is Jack a perfect Halloween symbol in hos own right (hey, his head is a jack o'lantern), in this book he and Peter visit one of the most frightening places in Oz, Scare City!

 Illustrated paperback edition, published by Del Rey.

 Egor's Funhouse Goes to Oz by Chris Dulabone . Egor is a friendly monster who runs a funhouse for the kids, with the help of his moster friends. Then the funhouse gets to Oz, and their lives start to get even more interesting...

 A paperback edition, illustrated by the author, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz.

 The Haunted Castle of Oz by Marcus Mebes . A ghost is haunting Ozma's castle! Who is he, and what is he doing there?

 A paperback edition, originally published by Buckethead Enterprises of Oz.

 Masquerade in Oz by Bill Campbell and Irwin Terry . On Halloween, the Ozites have a costume party where they dress like other Ozites! Too bad if an evil spell makes them believe they're really who they are dressed as. And too bad if some enemies of Oz might want to take advantage of the situation...

 Paperback edition, illustrated by the authors.

 Vampires and Oz by Nikki Kay Richardson . What happens when a good vampire goes to Oz? And evil vampire slayers follow him? Humor and horror in one story.

 A paperback edition.

 Spectral Snow by Jack Snow . Collection of Snow's short horror stories. (Not recommended for young children.)

 Paperback edition, illustrated by Eric Shanower.

 A Really Weird Summer by Eloise Jarvis McGraw . One summer, a boy is staying at his relatives' home. But who is the other boy he keeps coming across? Could the house be haunted? Winner of an Edgar award for Best Juvenile Mystery.

 Hardcover edition.

 Paperback edition.

 The Trouble with Jacob by Eloise Jarvis McGraw . Two children, visiting Oregon over the summer, encounter a 100-year-old boy ghost. What does he want, and what can they do to let him rest?

 Hardcover editions.

 The Oz Kids: The Return of Mombi . Mombi, the Wicked Witch, is back, and she wants revenge. She kidnaps the Oz kids' parents -- and even the Nome King! How can the kids rescue their parents and defeat a wicked witch?

 VHS (NTSC format) videotape.

 Close This Window 

 Get FREE clip art, such as the rainbow bar used on this page, from ClipArtConnection.com 

 This webpage, its contents, and the code used to create it are copyright &copy; 1996-2004 Eric P. Gjovaag
 All rights reserved. For full legal disclaimer, see the About This Site page