The Wonderful Wizard of Oz Website - Tik-Tok Talk Mailing List Page

 The Tik-Tok Talk Mailing List 
 For those who want to communicate with other Oz fans around the world, The Wonderful Wizard of Oz Website offers a free moderated electronic mailing list devoted to The Wizard of Oz , L. Frank Baum, and all related topics. E-mail notes from list members will be delivered to your inbox daily, and you can ask the list members questions or respond to their notes as well. Of course, this results in lots of e-mail! If you don't want a lot of e-mail, you may not want to subscribe to this list. You might prefer the digest version, where all notes for a day are sent to you in one large e-mail note. If you are sharing an e-mail address with others, like family members or co-workers, please get their permission before subscribing . The list is moderated so that all content is family friendly, but children should get their parents' permission before subscribing.

 This list has some rules about what may or may not be posted, and all list members must abide by these rules. If you subscribe you will receive a list of these rules, but they include all messages must be about Oz, all messages must pertain to the entire list, and all notes must be appropriate for a list with children on it and respectful to all list members. Messages that are not appropriate will be sent back with an explanation. List members who consistently or flagrantly violate the list standards can be removed from the list with little or no warning.

If you agree to all of the above, and wish to join the Tik-Tok Talk mailing list, please fill in the information below. Please give an e-mail address at which you can receive lots of unusual e-mail.

 Enter Your Name: 
 Enter Your E-Mail: 

If you wish to subscribe to the Tik-Tok Talk Digest (all letters for one day sent as a single, large e-mail), please fill in the information below. You do not need to subscribe to the digest if you are already subscribed to the regular mail list.

 Enter Your Name: 
 Enter Your E-Mail: 

 You should soon receive an e-mail from the list moderator asking to confirm that yes, you want to be on the mailing list. If you don't reply with "yes" within one week, your subscription reqeust will be deleted.
 If you have any problems using this page, please send an e-mail to the moderator .

 "There's no place like the home page..." 

 Get FREE clip art, such as the rainbow bar used on this page, from ClipArtConnection.com 

 This webpage, its contents, and the code used to create it are copyright &copy; 1996-2001 Eric P. Gjovaag
 All rights reserved. For full legal disclaimer, see the About This Site page