The Wonderful Wizard of Oz Website - Oz Dolls

 Karyl's Oz Dolls 
 These handmade dolls are one-of-a-kind and custom made. This online catalog is only a small representation of what's available. 
 I make my dolls using various techniques, paying painstaking attention to detail of feature and costume so that the doll you receive is a lifelike, authentic representation of the character as described by the Royal Historians and Illustrators of Oz. I try to keep them to scale in the neighborhood of fifteen inches tall. Each of these dolls is individually hand modeled and therefore no two will ever be identical.

 Price List 

 Dorothy, handmodeled face, with Toto (Shown here with the Scarecrow) Dorothy dolls are available in a range of sizes and types, including durable all-cloth dolls for little ones to play with, as well as hand modeled display dolls for collectors. Prices vary, please inquire. 
 $40.00 
 Tin Woodman, made of silver lam&eacute; and polyfoam $25.00 
 Scarecrow - blue Munchkin clothes stuffed with "straw" $25.00 
 Scarecrow - with hand molded face $40.00 
 Cowardly Lion - "Denslowish" stuffed fur $25.00 
 Patchwork Girl - patchwork, yarn hair, pearl teeth, etc. (Shown at the top of this page, on the left) $20.00 
 Woozy - blue leather-like skin, three-haired tail (Shown at the top of this page, on the right) $25.00 
 Jack Pumpkinhead - pumpkin-shaped gourd head and stick body (Shown at the top of this page, in the middle), or cuddly Jack made from polyfoam and cloth $25.00 
 Tik-Tok - copper lam&eacute; and polyfoam $30.00 
 Toto - cuddly, life-size gray fur terrier $25.00 
 Moretomore Dragon - orange with lavender embelishments $25.00 

I love to make custom orders, and will make almost any character you might want. I have made many Dorothys, Glindas, and Wicked Witches, as well as Neill-style Ozmas, Wizards, and Wogglebugs. These run in the neighborhood of $35-$50. If you can find steel funnels, three inches across the wide end, I will buy them from you or make you a terrific deal on a real "tin" Tin Woodman, which I used to make many of until the supply of the proper funnels disappeared.

Prices do not include shipping, as it varies by doll and where it's being sent to. Please inquire when ordering.

As an added sideline:

 Oz banners - nylon, suitable for outdoors, 16"x24" (Shown above behind the Wizard. Other dimensions available) $15.00 

E-mail the Royal Dollmaker of Oz, Karyl Carlson, at karyl_carlson@hotmail.com to ask about these or other dolls, or to place an order.

 Want to see even more? Check out www.karylsozdolls.com .

 "There's no place like the home page..." 

 Get FREE clip art, such as the rainbow bar used on this page, from ClipArtConnection.com 

 This webpage, its contents, and the code used to create it are copyright &copy; 1996-2006 Eric P. Gjovaag and Karyl Carlson.
 All rights reserved. For full legal disclaimer, see the About This Site page