Wizard of Oz party ideas 

 THE WONDERFUL WIZARD OF OZ WEBSITE
 SUGGESTIONS FOR THROWING A WIZARD OF OZ PARTY 
 Unfortunately, Wizard of Oz party supplies are not being made right now. So you will have to be creative. However, the links below should give you some ideas and basic supplies to help out.

 If you want some supplies that come in Ozzy colors (the green is especially good):

 Click here for the suggestions from this website's list of Frequently Asked Questions. 

 You can find more ideas at BirthdayPartyIdeas.com .

 For more birthday ideas, including crafts the kids can make, check out http://www.dltk-kids.com/crafts/cartoons/oz.html .

 You can download some Oz coloring pages here at http://thewizardofoz.warnerbros.com/cmp/color.htm .

 Want to solve an Oz maze? Find it at http://thewizardofoz.warnerbros.com/cmp/maze.htm .

 Oz cake decorating ideas 

 Chocolate Ruby Slippers from The Ruby Slippers Specialty Company 

 Looking for something particularly Ozzy to wear?

 Costumes from Toys R Us and Amazon.com:

 Dorothy:

 Scarecrow:

 Tin Man:

 Cowardly Lion:

 Wicked Witch:

 Glinda, the Good Witch of the North:

 "Good Witch" and "Kansas Girl" costumes from Birthday Express 

 Oz costumes and supplies for sale 

 The Costume Loft has Oz costumes and supplies for rent or sale

 Christee's Oz costumes 

 Simplicity's Oz costume patterns for adults and children 

 Costume Holiday House -- [ Adult costumes ] [ Children's costumes ] [ Accessories ]

 Scarepro's Oz costumes 

 Annie's Costumes -- [ Adult Standard ] [ Adult Deluxe ] [ Children ]

 Halloween Costumes 4 U 

 BuyCostumes.com 

 Hollywood Costumes 

 Oz costumes for rent from Broadway Costumes 

 Oz costumes for rent from Magic Makers 

 Oz Zone at CostumeZone.com 

 Halloween Street (but you'll have to do your own searching for Oz costumes)

 Childrens Halloween Costumes.org (don't let the name fool you, they also have costumes for adults)

 To help with the decorating:

 Pink With Hearts 
 Lavender 
 Red Balloon 

 For something to do, break out a 
 Rainbow Pi&ntilde;ata .

 Suggestions for party favors 
 These are extremely inexpensive Oz books published by Dover , and available through this website from Amazon.com, Amazon.ca, and Amazon.co.uk. Just click on the logos under the titles to go to the store of your choice.

 Fun with Wizard of Oz Stencils by Paul E. Kennedy . With paint or markers, you can put Dorothy and her friends on any surface!

 Invisible Oz Magic Picture Book by Victoria Fremont and Pat L. Stewart . Rub a pencil over the pictures, and watch new Oz characters appear!

 Little Wizard of Oz Activity Book by Victoria Fremont and Pat L. Stewart . A small activity book of Oz stuff.

 My Oz Notebook by Pat L. Stewart . A small Ozzy notebook, of course. Blank inside.

 Oz Sticker Activity Book by Cathy Beylon . Reuseable stickers of all of your favorite Oz friends, and a panoramic scene to stick them on.

 Twelve Wizard of Oz Bookmarks by Pat L. Stewart . The title says it all!

 The Wizard of Oz and Friends Stickers by Pat Stewart . Dorothy, the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, the Lion, and Toto, too, all in stickers based on the original W. W. Denslow artwork.

 The Wizard of Oz Stained Glass Coloring Book by Pat L. Stewart . Dorothy, the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, the Lion, and Toto, too, in pictures you can color, then hang in the window to let the sun shine through.

 The Wizard of Oz Sticker Story Book by Pat L. Stewart . The story, with stickers so you can help tell it.

 Wizard of Oz Tattoos by Pat Stewart . Put Dorothy and her friends on your face, arm, or anywhere else mom or dad will let you. Temporary tattoos, so they won't last more than a few days.

 10 Oz Fun Books : Stickers, Stencils, Tattoos and More . A collection of the ten books above, in an attractive slipcase.

 The Wizard of Oz , Dover Thrift editions of L. Frank Baum's famous book, with W. W. Denslow's original illustrations.

 The Marvelous Land of Oz , Dover Thrift edition of L. Frank Baum's sequel to The Wizard of Oz , with John R. Neill's original illustrations.

 Dorothy of Oz Paper Doll by Tom Tierney . Dorothy and all of her very best Oz clothes.

You can find other (but more expensive) items for Oz parties or gifts in the online Wizard of Oz Book Shop (don't let the name fool you, there are also toys and games and puzzles there as well).

 And to take everything home:
 Empty Favor Box 

 "There's no place like the home page..." 

 Get FREE clip art, such as the rainbow bar used on this page, from ClipArtConnection.com 

 This webpage, its contents, and the code used to create it are copyright &copy; 1996-2006 Eric P. Gjovaag.
 All rights reserved. For full legal disclaimer, see the About This Site page