SAGE forerunner to the information age 

 SAGE Cold-War Forerunner
to the Information Age 

 The anxiety caused by a Cold-War with
an adversary unexpectedly equipped with nuclear weapons induced the
United States to rapidly develop a number of surveillance
and warning systems. Among
the more famous are Distant Early Warning (DEW) radar and the
Ballistic Missile Early Warning System (BMEWS). Their massive radomes
or huge phased array antenna made a dramatic profile in the arctic
landscape. Far less well known but actually more widespread and
expensive was the SAGE air defense command and control system
network. 

 SAGE which means Semi-Automated
 Ground Environment was the brain child of Dr. George E.
 Valley , an MIT Physics
 Professor who was looking for a way to protect his neighborhood
 from low-flying bombers. He thought up a way to interconnect
 hundreds of simple continuous-wave radar via telephone lines and
 computers to provide the low-altitude coverage missing in
 conventional Ground Control of Interception (GCI) radar systems.
 It wouldn't work quite that way, but George had a lot to do with
 how it did work. 

 George Valley needed a computer and
he found one called " Whirlwind " that was being developed by MIT Servo-Lab
graduate-student engineers, led by Jay
Forrester and Robert Everett ,
to control a Navy flight simulator. By 1949, they were having
difficulty with the simulator, and Valley agreed to take over their
computer for an Air Force interception experiment called "Project
Charles". Somewhat successful with the "Charles" experiment, MIT
formed the "Lincoln Laboratories", and teamed up with IBM, Bell Labs
and others to build the SAGE continental air defense network.
 Twenty-two interconnected SAGE centers were constructed
in the United States and one underground center was built in Canada. 

 SAGE
buildings, like the one shown here at Grant County Airport, WA, were
hardened concrete blocks or bricks with no decoration or distinctive
architectural features. Radar inputs were brought in from all over
the country-side over common telephone lines, so there were no classy
radomes or antenna masts. With over one-hundred thirty thousand
square feet of floor space, each center consisted of either a 150x150
foot four story block or a 150x270 three story brick. A center
contained two 55,000 vacuum tube, 32 bit, three megawatt computers.
Except for their size and the fact that they consumed more
electricity that the City of Moses Lake, they were a lot like circa
1987 personal computers. Like the Grant County blockhouse, SAGE
control centers were often located in the middle of Strategic Air
Command Bases so that most folks never got to see one. 

 Some have suggested that SAGE would
not have worked in a "hot war"; fortunately we never had to find out.
Even though, on at least one surprise attack SAC did thoroughly
penetrate SAGE defenses, the 1962 level of SAGE deployment helped to
make the US an uninviting bomber target during the Cuban Missile
crisis. 

 Considering the functionality
obtained from a couple of early-PC-sized computers, SAGE was one of
the engineering marvels of the century. In fact if it looked better,
it might have been ranked with the Eiffel Tower, the Saturn Rocket or
the Golden Gate Bridge for engineering accomplishment. It also
pioneered some of the most of the important technology used to
facilitate internet processing today: i.e., the modem, the mouse
[light gun], multi-tasking, array processing, computer learning,
fault detection, magnetic memory, and interactive computer graphics.
Most important, it worked well enough for each center to coordinate
about 100 operators , track 300 simultaneous flights, control
numerous sorties against a maneuvering radar-jamming "enemy", and
coordinate "friendly" NIKE and Bomarc defenses. 

 One of the more
 interesting SAGE centers was the 28th Air Division in Great Falls
 Montana. While most centers were reliable (Average system down
 time was about four hours/year --both computers). During most
 years, 28th Air Division had zero down time because the 28th
 shared her computer and displays with the FAA Great Falls Air
 Route Traffic Control Center. Great Falls Center was operated from
 1962 to 1976 from the Malmstrom AFB SAGE site. As the first
 computerized ARTCC in the FAA, Great Falls was generally ignored
 by the FAA, both as history and technology, because FAA directors
 had already decided to go for "modern" equipment for the
 National
 Air Space System.
 Never-the-less the Great Falls Center was maintained to console
 the Air Force after the FAA had rejected most options for sharing
 equipment. Great Falls Center worked from the beginning with few
 hitches other than the need for regular programming changes to
 reinstall separation boxes, which were ignored when "vanilla" SAGE
 software versions were released. Great Falls Air Traffic
 Controllers were among the most productive in the country, which
 they advertised whenever controllers in Chicago or New York got
 raises to compensate for the immense workload at those
 centers. 

 I was a 2nd Lt. "blue-suit"
programmer at Great Falls from 1966 to 1969 when the Air Force
replaced the civilian System Development Corporation personnel with
military staff for site program maintenance. I would like to contact
airmen or civilians who have worked in SAGE, the Great Falls ARTCC or
any others who had notable SAGE operational or design experiences. In
particular, I am interested in SAGE operations during the Cuban
Missile Crisis or the famous SAC sneak attack. 

 I would also like to contact anyone with knowledge of
unique or significant hardware features. Such as flying drum heads
(like in the baumeister patent), input-output logic or fault
detection. I would like to obtain copies of programming
specifications or operational specifications for SAGE, the Whirlwind
Cape Cod. project Charles, etc. 

 Please send comments, corrections or
insights to Jim
Ray at: wow-ray@eskimo.com 

 Interesting Cold-War air defense
links: 

 Early
 Warning 

 Air
 Defense Museum 

 Jeff's
 Sage Site 

 MITRE
 Sage Site 

 NIKE
 site tour (San Francisco) 

 Pinetree
 Line (Canada) 

 Light Gun 

 Core Memory 

 Modem