Extended Examples 

 CSS Examples 
 = Index DOT Css by Brian Wilson 
[ indexdot@blooberry.com ] = 

 &#160;&#160; Main Index | 
 Property Index | 
 CSS Support History |
 Browser History &#160;&#160; 

 Introduction 
 There are four examples here using different style specification methods.
 Each method attempts to accomplish the same layout characteristics as
 the others, but there may be some differences (especially with the HTML
 only method.) I have tried to adhere to using only one method in each
 example, foregoing obvious opportunities where another method would
 work better, in order to prove the point of each example. As an author
 you can and probably will freely mix and match any of these methods for
 the result that best suits your needs.

 Examples 
 Each of the following examples consist of a document sample followed by 
 a line-by-line breakdown analysis of the document code. Analysis points 
 and line examples are heavily cross-linked to allow for easier navigation.
 1. External Style Sheet Example 
 Uses the LINK 
 [-->Index DOT Html] 
 element to attach a CSS stylesheet to a document.
 Multiple HTML documents can use a single external style sheet, which
 serves to reduce repetitive work on pages using common thematic elements.
 2. Embedded Style Sheet Example 
 Uses the STYLE 
 [-->Index DOT Html] 
 element to insert style information in a document.
 All style rules are applicable only to the document that contains them,
 but it also allows powerful grouping and classing mechanisms to save
 work in assigning style properties. This method is the middle ground
 between external and inline methods.
 3. Inline Styles Example 
 Attaches style properties to documents by assigning them directly to 
 HTML tags with the STYLE tag attribute. Can easily become repetitive, 
 but is useful in some situations.
 4. Plain HTML Example 
 What we all have been used to until the advent of CSS. Browser extensions 
 and common browser visual behaviors are relied upon to create a consistent 
 layout result - which was never the original intent of HTML to begin with.

 Conclusion 
 Style sheets aim to accomplish several major things:

 Separate style information from content
 Increase the layout capabilities in the HTML document format
 Make documents smaller, less complex, and easier to read
 Promote the re-use of authoring efforts

 It is up to the author to decide how to best reach these goals, and 
 achieving some of these goals may come at the cost of compromising others.

 I would love to add pages showing the results of these code examples 
 above, but the big two browsers still do not support enough of the CSS 
 specification to display the examples as expected. Actually, you would
 probably think the results are really quite ugly. I certainly do! =)
 These examples were designed to illustrate CSS syntax without thought
 for the final result. This just helps illustrate that without good design,
 all the potential CSS capabilities in the world will not save your page. 

 Boring Copyright Stuff...