jessamyn.com: 02 : trivia 5.6.02

 Trivia Questions 06may02, People's Pub 
 hide answers ......... 
 show answers 

Math
 Q. Here are three mathematical shapes, name a food or toy associated with them: torus, ellipsoid, helix
 A. doughnut, egg, slinky

 Q. nine sided polygon is called a ___________.
 A. nonagon

 Q. National Pi Day is:
 A. March 14 at 1:59. (3/14 1:59)

 Q. National Metric Day is:
 A. October 10

 Q. What is the first whole number in English that contains the letter A?
 A. a thousand

 Q. ______ is the first number, if all numbers are arranged in alphabetical order? ______ would be the last number
 A. EIGHT, ZERO

Geography

 Q. Where is the driest place on Earth where, for the past 2 million years at least, no rain has ever fallen?
 A. a series of valleys near Ross Island in Antarctica

 Q. What is the only country whose name begins with an "A", but doesn't end in an "A"
 A. Afghanistan 

 Q. If each count were one second long, how long would it take to count to a million.
 A. about twelve days 

 Q. The Eisenhower interstate system requires that one mile in every five must be straight.
 A. so they can be used as airstrips in emergencies

 Q. The only four countries in the world with one syllable in their names are where?
 A. CHAD, FRANCE, GREECE, and SPAIN 

 Q. What is the most visited private residence in the U.S.? 
 A. Graceland

 Q. How many continents are there on planet Earth? 
 A. 7 

 Q. Texas was actually ruled under six flags, name them.
 A. Mexico, France, Spain, Lone Star Flag, The Confederate flag, and the flag we have today)

Our Crazy Bodies

 Q. What fraction of the bones in your body are in your hands and feet?
 A. almost half

 Q. Humans can't perceive color: Underwater, In outer space, In bright moonlight, When one eye is covered 
 A. moonlight

 Q. over the last ten years, the average breast size in europe has gone from a 345b to a 36c, why? 
 A. the pill and diet

 Q. What is the relative consistency of your brain? Oatmeal, Cream Soup, gummy bears, fresh bread
 A. Oatmeal

 Q. How much saliva do we produce each day? 3 tbsp, 3 cups, 3 pints, 3 gallons
 A. three cups.

Our Animal Friends

 Q. what bird has the longest sustained flight of 13 seconds?
 A. chicken

 Q. How many stars are visible to the naked eye: 3,000, 30,000, 300,000, 3,000,000
 A. [3,000] 30,000 300,000 3,000,000?

 Q. Your baby turkeys won't eat. Should you: (a) set an example by pecking at the mash yourself; (b) call a pediaturkeytrician; or (c) drop some marbles into the feed?
 A. Turkey farmers say #c works. The baby turkeys will peck at the marbles and accidentally get enough mash to stay alive until they learn to eat.

 Q. What cartoon character was described as "full of charm and appeal, handsome, elegant, intelligent, sweet"? a-Mighty Mouse, b-Huckleberry Hound, c-Magilla Gorilla, d-Yogi Bear
 A. [c]-Magilla Gorilla, 

 Q. On the Chinese calendar, the last Year of the Monkey was 1992. When is the next? a-2002, b-2003, c-2004, d-2005
 A. 2004, it's a 12 year cycle

 Q. Every known dog except this one has a pink tongue which is jet black. 
 A. Chow

 Q. Putting a yogurt container half full of beer in your garden is said to be the
 mortal end for which plant pest?
 A. Slugs.

 Q. What is the only animal that can catch leprosy? it also has identical quintuplets...
 A. Armadillo

Stars

 Q. Light from the Sun takes how long to reach Earth? eight seconds, 80 seconds, eight minutes, eighty minutes
 A. eight minutes

 Q. The Big Dipper is part of what constellation?
 A. Ursa Major. bonus points for the animal or fifgure represented

 Q. how many officially recognized constellations are there?
 A. 88

 Q. Which planet is large enough to hold all the other planets inside it?
 A. Jupiter.

Entertainment

 Q. ______________was the first rock star to be arrested on stage
 A. Jim Morrison

 Q. _________ is the only author to have a book in every Dewey-decimal category?
 A. Isaac Asimov

 Q. The woman who has appeared most on the covers of Time magazine is ____________ ?
 A. The Virgin Mary, ten times

 Q. Cuba Gooding and Matt Damon both started their entertainment careers by doing this, non-acting, performance?
 A. break dancing. [matt damon as a stret performer, cuba gooding as a dancer for Lionel Richie]

 Q. Cameron Diaz and a Wadshington State senator share this nickname
 A. skeletor [Slade Gorton]

 Q. Which of the following famous people was NOT missing at least a portion of one finger? Jerry Garcia, Boris Yeltsin, Fidel Castro, Buster Keaton 
 A. Fidel Castro 

 Q. Lizzy Gardiner won this year's Academy Award for Best Costume Design for "Priscilla, Queen of the Desert". What did she wear to the awards ceremony? 
 A. A dress made out of American Express gold cards. 

 Q.What were the first movies to earn, respectively, a PG-13 and an NC-17 rating? 
 A. Red Dawn (1984) and Henry & June (1990).

 Q. On what TV show have Bill Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, James Doohan, and George Takei all acted besides Star Trek? 
 A. The Twilight Zone 

History

 Q. five events in the current pentathalon?
 A. shooting, fencing, running, swimming, jumping

 Q. five events in the ancient olympic pentathalon
 A. running, discus, javelin, long jump, wrestling

 Q: Did the directors at Mount Vernon spend $3-million last year to give George Washingons reputation more: (a) "dignity;" (b) "sizzle;" or (c) "charisma?" 
 A: Mount Vernon wanted George to have more "sizzle."

 Q. What were the first three states admitted to the union after the original 13?

 A. Vermont -- 1791, created from parts of New York and New Hampshire, Kentucky -- 1792, created from Virginia, Tennessee -- 1796, created from North Carolina

 Q. What was the nation's first national monument?

 A. Devil's Tower WY

 Q. What is the meaning of the letters D or P on American coins?
 A Denver or Philadelphia Mint

Wordplay

 Q. What is the only six letter word that begins and ends with the same vowel with no other vowels in between?
 A. Asthma

 Q. The word used to denote a perfect place actually comes from the Greek meaning No place.
 A. Utopia

 Q. What are the official languages of Israel? 
 A. Hebrew and Arabic 

Today in History

 Q. in this date in 1626 Dutchman Peter Minuit "buys" Manhattan Island from the Manahatta Indians for how much?
 A. $24 in cash and prizes

 Q. In 1994, the flight crew of an Aeroflot jetliner with no hydraulic fluid landed their 55 passengers safely in Arkhangelsk, Russia, by pouring all the ________ on board into the jets hydraulic system.
 A. lemonade

 Q. At age 21, did George Clooney take a shot at acting after blowing a try-out with: (a) the Cincinnati Reds; (b) the Grand Ole Opry; or (c) the Dallas Ballet?
 A: The Cincinnati Reds. He tried out for a centerfield slot.

 Q. Hindenburg disaster 1937, what state did that occur in?
 A. New Jersey

 Q. Who sang: "Color me your color, baby. 
Color me your car. 
Color me your color, darling. 
I know who you are."
 A. Call Me - Blondie 
[bonus, what movie was this the theme song for? American Gigolo]

 Q. Who sang: "It is the night 
My body's weak 
I'm on the run 
No time for sleep"
 A. Ride Like the Wind - Christopher Cross [bonus, what product advertised with this song as it's slogan -- Huffy]

 Q. Who sang: "I realize the best part of love is the thinnest lace 
And it don't count for much but I'm not letting go 
I believe there's still much to believe in"
 A. Lost in Love - Air Supply 

 Q. The death of this person in 1862 back-to-the-land advocate, war tax resister & jailbird. His last words: "Moose. Indian." 
 A. Thoreau

 Misc

 Q. Question: What percentage of the Internet is in the English language? 66, 76, 86, 96
 A. 86% 

 Q. In the group Echo & the Bunnymen, who is "Echo"? 
 A. Their former drum machine

 Q. Where did They Might be Giants get their name from?
 A. They took the name from a friend's ventriloquist act, which was named after a film starring George C. Scott, which in turn was inspired by a section of Don Quixote. Don Quixote's trusted servant asks why he is preparing to attack several windmills with his lance. Don Quixote replies, "Because they might be giants." 

 Q. What is a POSSLQ
 A. to "Persons of Opposite Sex Sharing Living Quarters," was coined in the 1970s by the U.S. Census Bureau in response to the tripling of the number of unmarried persons sharing householdds between 1970 and 1980. 

 Bonus Questions 

 Q. There are ten human body parts that are only three letters long, name them. 
 A. Eye, Ear, Leg, Arm, Jaw, Gum, Toe, Lip, Hip and Rib. 

 Q. Tennessee and Missouri are each bordered by eight states, name them. 
 A. Tennesee is bordered by eight states are Kentucky, Missouri, Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina and Virginia. Missouri is bordered by Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Tennesee, Kentucky and Illinois. 

 Q. There are four states where the first letter of the capital city is the same letter as the first letter of the state 
 A. Dover, Delaware; Honolulu, Hawaii; Indianapolis, Indiana; and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. 

 Q. Seven kinds of triangles? 
 A. eqiuilateral, obtuse, acute, right, isoscles, scalene, oblique 

 thank you styleswitcher for this groovy javascript dealeroo