jessamyn.com: 02 : trivia 5.27.02

 Trivia Questions 27may02, People's Pub 
 hide answers ......... 
 show answers 

MOVIES & TV

 Q. Who are Ernie and bert named after on Sesame Street?
 A. Ernie and Bert are named after characters in It's a Wonderful Life (1946)

 Q Many Hollywood movies have glorified the cowboys of the old West, but can you identify the following movies which contained the word "cowboy" in their titles? Given the two lead actors, provide the name of the "cowboy" movie. Jon Voight, Dustin Hoffman & John Travolta, Debra Winger & Matt Dillon, Kelly Lynch
 A. Midnight Cowboy, Urban Cowboy, Drugstore Cowboy

 Q. What film holds the world records for numbers of cars crashed?
 A. the Blues Brothers

 Q. For the film conan the barbarian, action figured were made, but after Mattel learned of all the sex and violence in the movie, they shut down the action figure line. However, the dolls were used and later became their own line of villains and heroes. Who were they?
 A. He-man and hte maters of the universe.

 Q. Isaac Asimov wrote three prime directives for robots to follow. One movie sequel featured a robot that had hundreds of directives including: Encourage awareness, Discourage harsh language, Talk things out, and Don't walk across a ballroom floor swinging your arms. What movie was that?
 A. Robocop 2

 Q. The first animated movie short in 1909 was called Gertie the Trained _________ , what animal was Gertie?
 A. dinosaur

 Q. What color was smurfettes hair when she first appeared on the Smurfs?
 A. black -- papa smurf changed it to blonde whenhe made her a real smurf

 Q. What is televisions longest running network show?
 A. meet the press which had it's 50th b'day in 1997 

FOOD TRIVIA

 Q. What liquor was called the 'green muse', very popular in the 19th century, but was eventually banned in most countries beginning in 1908. 
 A. Absinthe

 Q. name the eight animals that can be foudin a box of animal crackers, which is the most frequent?
 A. 1 lion 1 buffalo, 2 sheep 2 monkeys, 2 tigers 3 rhinos , 3 rhinos 5 bears, [6 gorillas]

 Q. The dye used to stamp the grade on meat is edible, what is it made out of?
 A. It's made from grape skins. 

 Q. What year was New Coke introduced?
 A. 1985

 Q. Mead, the national drink of Poland, is made from fermented what?
 A. honey

THIS DAY IN HISTORY

 Q. 1937, GG Bridge opened, it was the longest bridge in the world until the completion of which bridge?
 A. New York City's Verrazano-Narrows Bridge in 1964

 Q. The GG Bridge is the most popular place for suicides in the world, what is the second most popular?
 A. eiffel tower

 Q. Before they open a major bridge, there is usually a pedestrian day where people get to walk across before traffic starts. On mother's day of this year there was a walk across a new bridge that is the "widest cable-stayed bridge in the world" what is it and where is it?
 A. Leonard P. Zakim Bunker Hill Bridge boston MA. 

 Q. There are now four additional bridges longer than either the GG or the VN, in four different countries. Name the countried, for four additional ponts, name the bridges:
 A. Akashi-Kaikyo Bridge, Japan 6,532 feet 1,991 meters 1998, Great Belt East Bridge, Denmark 5,328 feet 1,624 meters 1997, Humber Bridge, England 4,626 feet 1,410 meters 1981, Jiangyin Yangtze River Bridge, China 

 Q. in 1703 St. Petersburg founded by Peter the Great. Peter was the last Czar because he fazed out the term in favor of what Euopean influenced title?
 A. emperor

 Q. Birthday of this deceased actor who played Egghead in the original batman series "A super smart villain who's brain is too big for his head. He has a soft spot in his cold heart for anything that has the word egg in it." who played him?
 A. Vincent Price 

 Q. Number two song 1980 Friday night I crashed your party/Saturday I said I'm sorry/Sunday came and trashed me out again
 A. You may be right, billy joel

 Q. Number three song in 1980 Gotta make a move to a town that's right for me/A town to get me movin' Keep me groovin' with some energy.
 A. Funkytown Lipps Inc.

 Q. On this day in 1926 Philo T Farnsworth was married to Emma Gardner. While Farnsworth's name is not a household word, he is credited with inventing this thing that is found in almost every American household. What is it?
 A. the television

AMERICAN HISTORY

 Q. How long is the boardwalk in Atlantic City? 400 feet, 400 yards, 4 miles, 40 miles
 A. 4.5 miles

 Q. By what more offical name are the 'wobblies" known as?
 A. The IWW, Indistrial Workers of the World

 Q. According to the 1990 census, are there more chinese-americans or japanese americans livign in the US?
 A. According to the 1990 census, Americans of Chinese origin (1.6 million) outnumber those of Japanese origin (848,000) by almost two to one. 

 Q. What immigrant group has the most descendants in the United States today?
 A. German [19%] followed by irish [13%]

 Q. How many sets of presidents shared last names?
 A. five, bush, [bejamin and william] harrison, roosevelt, adams and johnson

 Q. Who is the only US President to hold a patent?
 A. Lincoln patent (#6,469) for "A Device for Buoying Vessels Over Shoals" on May 22, 1849. The invention consists of a set of bellows attached to the hull of a ship just below the water line. On reaching a shallow place, the bellows are filled with air and the vessel, thus buoyed, is expected to float clear. 

 Q. What New York City was venue was originally called Barnums Monster Classical and Geological Hippodrome, a roofless building unveiled April 27, 1874, with events ranging from chariot races, waltzing elephants, to fire-eating freaks. It has gone through four incarnations arriving at the current building configuration in 1968.
 A. Madison Square Garden

US STATES

 Q. What state has the oldest confirmed site of human habitation in the continental United States?
 A. Clovis NM, discovered in 1952, from when mammoths walked the earth 11,500 years ago

 Q. Which was the first of the American colonies to abolish slavery?
 A. Vermont in 1777. The first of the original 13 Colonies to abolish slavery was Pennsylvania in 1780.

 Q. What is the offical name for the statue of Liberty
 A. "Liberty Enlightening the World." 

 Q. What year did the US frontier officially close?
 A. In 1890. That was the year in which the Bureau of the Census announced there was no difference between frontier and settlement -- meaning that the frontier was now closed. it was "the margin of that settlement which has a density of two or more to the square mile"

 Q. In what state is the oldest town founded in America by Europeans?
 A. St Augustine Florida, settled by the spanish in 1565

 Q. Who was the firs tpresident to implement a federal income tax?
 A. It was during the Lincoln administration in the middle of the Civil War that the first tax on income was levied by Congress -- in the Internal Revenue Act of 1862. The rates ranged from 3 to 5 percent. Congress eliminated the tax in 1872. 

 Q. In the continental US, what is the poverty line for a family of four?
 A. 18,100

 Q. What was the last US State to get a Wal-Mart?
 A. Vermont in 1996

AIR & SPACE

 Q. On early plane flights between paris and London, pilots carried extra currency in both british and french currency. What was the money for?
 A. to buy rail tickets for passengers stranded by the broken down plane.

 Q. "I came in with Halley's Comet in 1835. It is coming again next year, and I expect to go out with it.... The Almighty has said, no doubt: 'Now here are these two unaccountable freaks; they came in together, they must go out together.'" which famous person was born and doed in the years of halley's comet 1835-1910.
 A. Mark Twain

 Q. Who was the only pilot of the largest airplane ever?
 A. Howard Hughes on November 2, 1947

 Q. Where does that airplane presently reside?
 A. McMinnville, Oregon

MISC

 Q. What year is this: CMLXXVIII
 A. 978

 Q. EBay was originally devised as a venue for gathering and swappingenthusiasts of which collectible item?
 A. Pez dispensers

 Q. Who was Lucy the 3 million year old hominid named after?
 A. Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds which was playing when the found her

 Q. All three members of the Pulitzer Prize jury on fiction expressed distress and bewilderment yesterday that their unanimous recommendation for a prize for ________ had been turned down and that no fiction award was given this year. ... Other members of the 14-member board had described the novel during their private debate as "unreadable," "turgid," "overwritten," and in parts "obscene." One member editor said he had tried hard but had only gotten a third of the way through the 760-page book."
 A. Thomas Pynchon Gravity's Rainbow.

 Q. There are five colors of Kryptonite, only one of which is potentially fatal to Superman, which is it?
 A. Green

 Q. What does white Kryptonite do?
 A. Kills plants.

 Q. The most flowers sold in one day in U.S. history was when, or why? 
 A. August 11, 1977 -- the day after Elvis' death

 Q. How many innings was the longest professional baseball game in the US?
 A. 26 Boston braves v Brooklyn Dodgers 05-01-1920, each pitcher pictched the whole game

 Q. We all know that Aurora Borealis are also known as the northern lights, but what are the southern lights known as
 A. the Aurora Australis

 Q. A type of suit, the sax player from "Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem", and a mild French exclamation all have names that sound alike. For 10 points, what's the common homonym?
 A. Zoot

 Q. This animal makes the sound hompf in French, what does it say in English?
 A. oink

 Q. Barbie has been many things to many girls but there was one anatomical feature that the Barbie doll didn't have until the year 2000, what was it?
 A. a belly button

 Q. The masonic symbol is a capital G surrounded by two tools. What are those tools?
 A. Square and Compasses 

 Q. In the mason symbol, what does the G stand for?
 A. god and geometry

 Q. If you had a million dollars in one dollar bills, how much would it weigh? 20 pounds, 200 pounds, 2000 pounds, 20,000 pounds
 A. 490 $1 bills weigh one pound. A million one dollar bills would weigh 2,040 pounds

 Q. What is the order of the four major blood types, from most common to most rare?
 A. O, A, B, AB

BONUS

 Q. name the four shortest quotations in Bartlett's. 
 A. In reverse order of longwinded wordiness, "E=mc2"; "Q.E.D."; 
"O.K."; and "Om." 

 Q. Name the things that Right Said Fred is too sexy for.
 A. New York, Japan, Milan, my love, your party, my hat, my shirt, my car, my cat, and THIS song

 Q. In 1914, the Austro-Hungarian empire dominated central Europe. Now its former holdings include parts of 12 countries. Excluding the obvious Austria, Hungary, Czech Republic, and Solvakia, for five points apiece, after the first two name the other eight current nations.
 A. Italy, Croatia, Bosnia, Slovenia, Serbia, Romania, Ukraine, Poland

 thank you styleswitcher for this groovy javascript dealeroo