Universal Client 

 Universal
 Client 

 Intel based Intranets 
 Alpha and PowerPC
 Intranets 
 Zero Maintenance
 Intranets 
 Internet Explorer and
 Netscape 
 Warp Versus NT 
 Java 
 Visual Age for Java 
 Future 

 Note: Deja.com
 ratings category: Operating Systems. This page has taken on
 special significance given the NetworkStation
 Series 2800. and the ThinkPad
T20. IBM's 1999 version of OS/2 Warp is
 specifically designed to support the Network
Station Series 2800 thin clients and the "Thin and Light" T20 laptops.
 Many thought that the Network Stations would run JavaOS for
 Business. But IBM and SUN killed that OS in August of 1999 with
 IBM stating that "other general purpose operating systems"
 were more viable for what had been called a thin client. 
 Legacy notions of client and
 server do not apply well to the 1999 OS/2 Warp. Hence the terms
 network computing and network station. The 1999 OS/2 Warp, when
 implemented in its perhaps its pure form, treats network stations
 in a manner similar to a second processor on a single motherboard.
 All processors run a version, one can think of it as a clone, of
 the network computer to which they interact. The workload is
 balanced between all processors. This creates the intriguing
 possibility that multiple network stations connected together
 could rival super computers in capability and raw processing
 power. 

 In its transitional form, the
 1999 OS/2 Warp provides Universal Client Access. Win95/98 and NT
 legacy
 clients work well with the 1999 OS/2 Warp and can be managed
 from the OS/2 network computer. In its pure form, OS/2 Warp is the
 universal client operating system for
 Intel 32 bit devices, completely replacing other Windows operating
 systems on 32 bit devices, ranging from phones and
TV set top boxes to data warehouse
 multi-processors. OS/2 and Windows 2000 can be
set up in a dual
 boot configuration on the same computer providing a useful way of
 bench marking the two operating systems. OS/2 should perform
 better than Windows 2000 on dual boot computers owing to Windows
 2000's tooling for 64 bit processors. Windows 2000 has been
 recompiled to operate on 32 bit processors whereas 32 bit Intel
 processors are the designed-for platform of OS/2. 

 It is hard to believe that IBM
 Chairman and CEO Lou Gerstner, who coined the term "network
 computing", planned the vast improvements to OS/2 Warp
 that make it without a doubt the most super charged vehicle for
 the information super highway. Yet in the 25 August 1997
 Infoworld, Ed Scannell, on page one, stated that the WorkSpace on
 Demand implementation of OS/2 "could
 give IBM significant technical advantages over rival Windows NT
 and Unix server architectures, which will not deliver this
 capability until the later half of 1998 at the
earliest. " Having yet to observe similar capability, Ed
Scannell
on page 26 of the May 1 2000 Infoworld, reports on the contradictory plans
of the IBM e-Business group in Austin, Texas to release a new Warp client in November
of 2000 while apparently intending to enable the porting of OS/2
applications, such as Workspace On Demand, to Windows 2000. Especially 
with the
new "update pack" OS/2 client, there appears to be no ligitimate reason 
for enabling such ports. The new OS/2 client likely represents a new 10
year commitment by IBM to the "forgotten operating system". 

 IBM unfroze OS/2 Warp kernel
 for its 15 million plus users at the fall 1996 Comdex. The freeze
 was related to the use of OS/2 in network
 computing (previewed April 2 in San
 Francisco ). Shortly before the 1997 Comdex, the former General
 Manager for OS/2, Mike
 Lawrie , took charge of the IBM Network Computing Software
 division to focus on Java initiatives, network infrastructure
 technologies and OS/2 products that support e-business. That
 brought together IBM's Java team, and the Networking Software (NS)
 and Personal Software Products ( PSP )
 organizations under a strong supporter of OS/2. Then in 1998
 came Pat. See Pat. Pat wrote one program. It can run on all
 platforms. Pat used 100% Pure Java to write the program. Run,
 program run. In 1998 Patricia
 Sueltz took over the Java-OS/2 division at IBM. Sueltz is now
 in charge of the native office suite for OS/2 (Star Office) which
 is owned by the inventor of Java (Sun). Star Office replaces IBM's
 Lotus office suite on OS/2 computers and is free .
 Supporters of OS/2 at IBM have been given promotions .
 Conversely, those slow to advance network computing by adopting
 OS/2's native Java language, such as Lotus
 executives , have been reorganized out of their jobs. It is
 clear from the above that Lou Gerstner's vision is largely
 responsible for the 1999 edition of OS/2 Warp which is being
 marketed under the confusing name of Warp Server for e-business. 

 However, it is also likely that
 large OS/2 users (primarily financial institutions) drove IBM to
 cannibalize other operating system products for features that IBM
 marketing personal had likely reserved for 64 bit and non Intel
 based processors. Because of IBM's copper
 technology , 32 bit Intel processors have become very fast, to
 820
 mhz . Large OS/2 users see no need whatsoever to switch to 64
 bit and non Intel processors given network computing and the
 FASTER 
 32 bit Intel technology. Brokerage Merrill Lynch 
states that this year's
 launch of the IA-64, the next generation of major Intel chips,
 "will prove disappointing to investors who have high
 expectations for the first generation of that product."
 Microsoft is a heavy investor in IA-64 technology. This is
 reflected in its Windows 2000 operating system. 

 At
 the 3rd annual WarpStock, several IBM technologists appeared shell
 shocked at being driven to enhance OS/2 in 1999. First, IBM
 customers, in general, were not expected to push for any operating
 system upgrades until Y2K efforts had been completed. Second, the
 industry was trying to wean customers from 32 bit technology to
 technology not supported by OS/2. Third, porting for NT and likely
 AIX had been started for OS/2's Workspace On Demand. Those efforts
 may never see the light of day. It would be more cost effective to
 just add OS/2 to a network. Finally, the vast majority of IBMers
 at Warpstock had recently converted to NT workstations. They now
 were preparing to go back to the future with OS/2. If there were
 questions about OS/2's viability before the October 1999 Warpstock
 they were answered loudly by IBM's top management who sponsored
 the event. IBM's large customers are demanding that OS/2 be
 enhanced and supported for the long term. For a September 27 1999
 Byte review see http://www.byte.com/column/BYT19990920S0002 .
 Then review StarOffice .
 While being marketed as a multi-platform desktop environment and
 replacement for Microsoft Office, StarOffice is a killer
 application on OS/2 that will likely replace the already excellent
 Netscape and Notes browsers as well as Lotus Smartsuite, unless
 Java versions of those products can be introduced soon; Java is
 the native language of OS/2. 

 Especially with Java based
 products such as StarOffice, Warp is the industry's one true cross
 platform solution. IBM has announced specific enhancements for
 OS/2 Warp server designed to improve the performance of Windows 95
 and Windows NT Clients. The "Network Neighborhood"
 enabler allows Windows 95 and Windows NT users to view OS/2 Warp
 Server resources as if they were OS/2 Warp clients. e-business
 Connectors include Net.data, eNetwork Host On-Demand R1, CICS
 Internet Gateway, CICS Gateway for Java, IMS Web (free), IMS
 TCP/IP OTMA Connection (free), IMS WWW Templates (free), IMS
 Client for Java (free), MQSeries Internet Gateway (free), MQSeries
 Client for Java (free) and portions of Domino.Connect. The S/390
 Intel based Microprocessor Complex is only available on OS/2. This
 complex is used for year 2000 testing and code corrections. Though
 IBM has stated it has no official plans, because of work completed
 on a PowerPC 
 port of OS/2, IBM's non Intel based Network Station thin clients
 are a potential extension on the client side for the Bluebird
 line. The Netfinity
 3500 dual-processor server and Network Station 2800 already
 support OS/2. Some versions of the AS 400 support OS/2 on
 co-processors. Warp 4.1, introduced at workshops in 1997 is
 2-processor SMP (Symmetric Multi Processing) enabled. IBM has
 stated that there are several
 different projects going on that will surface as add-ons or
 products for Warp 4. These include Digital
 Sound & Music Interface , Bamba ,
 SelectSend RSVP
 multimedia , E-mail ,
 NewsTicker ,
 Java
 Beans , Networkstation
 Management , PersonPak,
 TablePak Domino
 Merchant & Domino Action , Lotus
 GO and other
 Lotus products, IBM
 Network Printer Manager for the World Wide Web-OS/2 Server, 
 MQSeries PQEdit , 
 MWAVE, Component
 Broker , Installshield 
 for Java Smart
 Cards , Business
 Object Server , Single
 Sign-On , two-way video phone, a lightweight browser, a
 VRML browser , remote source code debugger , Acrobat
 Reader 3.0, ZOC Jikes ,
 PKZIP ,
 Netscape
 Communicator Visual
 Age Generator MidiWav ,
 QuickFlick plugin
 for Netscape Navigator , a
 new dialer , PlusPack ,
 Visual Bank, Java
 Aglet Workbench , golf 
 and other games ,
 USENET
 Newsreader , Visual
 Age WebRunner (an add-on toolkit developed by IBM's Taligent
 subsidiary), Linux EXT2-OS/2 ,
 Visual Prolog , and the Visual Age
 integrated (IBM calls it intelligent) development environment for
 BASIC ,
 COBOL ,
 Java , other
 3GL languages, a 4GL and Smalltalk. A client software
 management tool similar to Novell's Zenworks called Swan Vision64
 is available on OS/2. IBM may contractually agree to support
 OS/2 for 10 or more years. IBM ThinkPad 380s and newer models
 support OS/2. 

 The
 OS/2 business user community, which spends upwards of $30 billion
 each year on IBM computer products, and OS/2's Java orientation,
 has positioned Warp as the " Universal
 Client " for business
 intranets . The SOHO community met at October's 1997 Warpstock ,
 the world's first user-sponsored show dedicated to OS/2 and
 related software. Donn Atkins, General Manager for OS/2, stated
 in November of 1997 that IBM Corporation will "continue to
 enhance the OS/2 product line during 1998. This involves additions
 to both the client and server product, an entirely new version of
 OS/2 Warp Server and also an update of WorkSpace On-Demand." 

 The following Prolog-Java
 applet may be of assistance in reading this rather lengthy page.
 The horizontal scroll bar can be used to speed up or slow down the
 presentation. You can move past the applet to read this page
 directly and gain access to links. Place your cursor over the
 music button for sound. 

 Intel based Intranets 

 [ Top ]
 [ Next ] [ Prev ]
 [ Bot ] 

 The role of the operating
 system as the client user interface is greatly diminished in an
 intranet. Hence, it is likely that many intranet users will be
 unaware that they run Warp. 

 Warp includes the 32
 bit Netscape browser and is optimized 
 (unlike NT Workstation) for Intel based machines. It also has more
 drivers
 available than NT, including Epsen drivers, LAN
 drivers , Zip
 drive drivers , Twain
 drivers , and especially more of the older drivers. This
 means it can run applications (including Java applications) faster
 than NT Workstation on more of the computers installed in the work
 place. 

 - Warp
 4 with its voice type dictation is suitable for high end 586
 PCs 

 - Warp 3 is suitable for low
 end 586 and 486/386 PCs and IBM support 
 has been extended to May of the year 2000. According to Dataquest,
 a research firm in San Jose, California, 47% of the 1.8 billion
 application suites shipped in 1996 were Windows 3.x versions. Warp
 3 can be loaded on top of Windows 3.x to upgrade this investment.
 This capability is particularly significant in that Windows 98
 was delayed to match the feature. It is not possible to upgrade
 from Win 3.x to Windows 95 

 It
 is not usually possible to purchase an Intel PC without a
 Microsoft operating system installed. And it is not usually
 possible to return the operating system for a refund. This year
 consulting firms and the DoJ began pointing out that - on a
 percentage basis - the Microsoft OS price has increased - not
 decreased - as would be expected in a free market. Clearly the OEM
 arrangements regarding OS installation will have to change. When
 they do OS/2 will benefit. For example, it should be less
 expensive for IBM itself to load OS/2 on IBM brand Intel PCs. With
 the resident OS being 10 percent of the cost of a complete system,
 OEMs that compete with IBM would likely be at a disadvantage, all
 other things remaining the same. More OS/2 loaded IBM brand
 systems should be sold. There is also the strong likelihood that
 Win 3.x users will find Network Station Series 2800 the best
 upgrade solution when the time comes to replace hardware. The
 stations are fully capable of running Win 3.x applications under
 Warp. 

 Alpha and PowerPC Intranets 

 [ Top ]
 [ Next ] [ Prev ]
 [ Bot ] 

 Because Warp is not available
 on Alpha, 
 PowerPC, and Merced based machines, NT Workstation, Windows CE,
 and Unix (AIX or Nextstep )
 are used on those platforms. Warp can not run anywhere but the
 1999 edition of Warp provides universal client access and
 management which preserves investment in those machines and
 Warp is everywhere else. 

 Warp is in virtually all the
 new cash machines; it is embedded in palmtop 
 computers that compete with Windows CE; and it is used in Network
 Computers (NCs). NCs are used where a PC is not needed, like point
 of sale situations, connections
 to PBX switches , new operating systems such as Rhapsody ,
 and places currently using dumb terminals (about 66% of the total
 installed base of computing devices). The OS/2 NC is usable with
 as few as 6M of RAM and with 8M of RAM can boot to the OS/2 shell.
 It boots in about 30 seconds directly into Netscape. 

 According to Time magazine,
 Intel has been less than happy with Microsoft's PowerPC
 arrangements involving Windows CE. Time is predicting a split up
 of Wintel similar to the split up of Microsoft/IBM over OS/2.
 Intel management may suspect that Microsoft management views Intel
 32 bit technology as a threat to Microsoft's business model which
 may rely on hardware obsolescence rather than on continuous
 improvements in software. Intel management is likely frustrated
 with Microsoft for not writing operating systems and software that
 take advantage of Intel 32 bit technology, which has been
 continually improved. In November of 1998 consumers also showed
 signs of frustration with hardware obsolescence giving even 8 bit
 processor technology new
 life at the expense of Windows CE capable game consoles. 

 In 1998, voice control,
 included in Warp 4, was recognized as an emerging technology.
 Voice interfaces for cars were introduced at several trade shows.
 Voice control of computerized devices and voice type became
 possible owing to 300 MHz and above Intel based CPUs. Voice
 Control can be viewed as a replacement for graphical user
 interfaces (GUIs). Unlike NT and Win95/98, OS/2 can and does
 operate without a GUI. Hence it is in a better position for use in
 applications that will rely on voice such as those centralized and
 operated through phone like devices or mobile devices like those
 in cars. 

 There
 can be little doubt that OS/2 will be showing up in automobiles,
 TV set boxes, and Internet phones, where Windows CE and NT been
 planned. Intel has aggressively improved 32 bit processor
 technology and OS/2 is optimized for that environment. Windows CE
 does not currently run on any Intel platforms. 

 Zero Maintenance Intranets 

 [ Top ]
 [ Next ] [ Prev ]
 [ Bot ] 

 Microsoft's
 traditional clients (NT and the DOS
 based Win95 and Win 3.x) are difficult to maintain. Because
 3rd party software developers are required to ship new Microsoft
 system DLLs that overwrite older system DLLs, conflicts occur. 3rd
 party hardware device drivers cause similar problems.
 Administrators have discovered that if the software is loaded to
 application servers instead of to the client and if the clients
 are kept as thin as possible then there is less likelihood of a
 conflict. 

 With an
 intranet there is no conflict. Web page controls (either ActiveX
 or Java) and HTML are downloaded when used. Version control is
 automatic. If the software is Java, like Remagen ,
 or if it is wrapped in Java (as is the Prolog-Java applet on this
 page), then Citrix
 protocol, or something
 similar , like SCO's Tarantella ,
 for a thin traditional-client server architecture, may not be
 needed. Bluebird, Citrix, Windows Terminal, and Tarantella are
 described more fully below. 

 Bluebird 
 (marketed as Workspace on Demand) administers PCs, Intel based
 Network Computers (NCs) and Net PC clients from an OS/2 Server. It
 is meant to be the most cost
 effective way to transform client/server systems into zero
 maintenance intranet style systems. During the November 1997
 Comdex adds ran showing a transformation 
 to a butterfly. 

 Citrix
 Systems Intelligent Console Architecture (ICA) protocol is
 licensed to Wyse, Tektronix, Sun Microsystems, Insignia Solutions,
 and Microsoft 
 for remotely presenting Windows displays. Citrix claims that an
 80286 CPU can adequately display Windows screens through ICA, and
 that a 20Kbps link is sufficient for the most common screens.
 Citrix was founded in 1989 by the former lead architect of OS/2,
 Edward Iacobucci, and its first products were for OS/2. The
 Windows
 Terminal , a new hardware design that Microsoft introduced to
 use the Windows CE operating system will use Citrix ICA. According
 to
 Infoworld (Page 1 November 17 1997 issue) "Microsoft is
 cobbling together thin-client Windows emulation by integrating its
 Windows
 Terminal server code named Hydra ,
 with Citrix's new platform, code named Picasso on top of Windows
 NT Server 4.0" which will be released in early 1998.
 According to Michael Surkan of PC Week, "Without Citrix's
 Winframe to fall back on, Microsoft would have been hopelessly out
 of the running in the network computing era." 

 Hydra and "The WBT 
 (Windows Based Terminal) is a second effort by Microsoft to deal
 with the challenge of NCs," said Howie Hunger, director of
 channels and marketing for IBM network computing. "We don't
 believe that the WBT as defined today goes far enough -- it only
 runs attached to a [Windows] NT server, and the
 world is bigger than just NT ." 

 Mark Templeton, vice president
 of marketing at Citrix, in Fort Lauderdal, Fla, stated in the
 Infoworld article that WBT "includes anything that runs a
 Java virtual machine, runs Windows CE, or Windows 3.1." Hence
 Warp (the universal client) is a WBT but JavaPC, a product that
 essentially turns an Intel 486 personal computer into a network
 computer running Java on top of DOS, would not be. 

 Through
 ICA, an OS/2 computer or NC, as well as a WBT, can run Microsoft
 Office, back office and Win95 applications. Citrix is also used to
 give just the right number of application server connections to
 meet licensing requirements. [Note: this may be important in
 back office environments.] About 15 clients can concurrently access a
 single-CPU NT server through Citrix .
 The NT 4.0/Hydra Citrix single CPU can handle only 5 concurrent
 users per application owing to instability issues and many many
 Win3.1 and Win32 products will require a special version in order
 to operate on NT 4.0/Hydra. 

 SCO/Tarantella
 like WSO-D and unlike NT 4.0/Hydra is shipping. The Tarantella 
 software will initially be available on SCO UnixWare and Sun
 Solaris, and will be ported next year to IBM AIX, HP-UX, Siemens
 Nixdorf Sinix, SCO OpenServer, and Windows NT, according to SCO.
 Representatives from Compaq Computer, Hewlett-Packard, IBM,
 Netscape Communications, and Unisys provided endorsements for
 Tarantella, and SCO is working on various bundling and software
 compatibility partnerships with those companies and others. "We
 think it's a breakthrough product," says John Paul, senior VP
 of servers at Netscape. The cost is $245 per user for a 100-user
 license and $200 per user for a 500-user license. Tarantella lacks
 support for local printers and common data file systems, and the
 ability to cut and paste between applications from different
 systems. Tarantella has been endorsed by IBM for Unix servers. 

 The servers on an intranet can
 be almost any operating system (Win95, NT, Novell NetWare, UNIX,
 MVS/ESA, OS400, Tandem, Apple, and even OS/2). Often IBM
 transaction software, such as MQSeries 
 and CICS is involved. Java is supported on the client and ActiveX
 on the application servers. [Note, ActiveX is not suitable on
 clients because it, unlike Java ,
 does not run in a virtual machine and can crash or infect the
 client.] Microsoft's J/Direct 
 , announced
 and then forgotten , and Com-based Scriplets are not a new
 ideas. For the purpose of this discussion, they are the same as
 OLE, COM, ActiveX or DirectX, which has been renamed DNA, are
 similar to Vibe (see below). According to Nicholas Peterly, editor
 in chief at NC World 
 "there is no doubt that Microsoft intends to derail the
 platform independence of Java with J/Direct ."
 But Java will remain on track in spite of Microsoft. 

 100%
 Pure Java, is a giant step towards zero-maintenance intranets
 because any client or server from any manufacturer may be used and
 network and CPU resources can be fully optimized. A Java object
 can be moved from server to server -- or to a client --
 automatically through intelligent system administration software.
 ActiveX, on the other hand, should run only on a server and only a
 small number of servers support it. 

 The building blocks for
 creating desktop applications that run on the Internet and
 intranets are called Java
 Foundation Classes ( JFCs ).
 In July of 1997, IBM, Apple, Oracle, Corel, Borland and Sun
 endorsed the technology and will include it in key products. 
 Netscape endorsed it shortly thereafter. Java Database
 Connectivity (JDBC) is one of the newer classes. According to Bill
 Laser of Network Magazine ". all the major database vendors
 are providing or will provide native JDBC connectivity" and
 JDBC's design enables you to efficiently implement JDBC for those
 that do not (Microsoft) via the JDBC to ODBC bridge. JDBC
 is very important because it eliminates the need for a web (HTTP)
 server in an intranet. Borland has JDBC for all major
 DBMS products. 

 Because
 56% of the costs of a client involve end-user support, a
 Java-based office suite that limits user access to functions
 appropriate for the user's job, rather than a full-featured
 Office97 style product, is desirable for zero-maintenance
 intranets. 

 Internet Explorer and
 Netscape 

 [ Top ]
 [ Next ] [ Prev ]
 [ Bot ] 

 OS/2 Warp was prominently
 showcased at the Winter
 Olympics . 5,000 OS/2 Warp clients were deployed .
 Decision makers 
 were able to benchmark 
 the Winter Olympics 
 solution with a Unix and Windows NT solution at the 1998
 World Cup . IBM claimed at the 1988 Winter Olympics that the
 best way to view the official web pages was through OS/2's
 Netscape 2.02 browser. The subsequent World Cup's NT laden web
 site paled in comparison. It was obvious to those bench marking
 technologies that Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser handled
 Java applets poorly and was therefore incapable of supporting
 advanced features like those demonstrated at the Winter Olympics.
 A Netscape 4.6 OS/2 browser is now available. 

 Internet
 Explorer is less
 suitable for business intranets than Netscape,
 not only because Microsoft is being sued by Sun regarding IE
 4.0's use of Java and the Department
 of Justice is concerned about its use in Windows 98 , but
 also because it is based on a traditional-style client concept
 instead of the 100%
 Pure Java zero-maintenance style of computing. Several
 consultants have documented that traditional-style clients cost
 from $43,000 to $51,000 per PC over a 5 year period. Hence the
 "free" Internet Explorer browser is far from cost less.
 Nonetheless, some job functions may require IE and IE can be used
 with Warp. 

 The Warp shell can be replaced,
 or work with the Win3.1 shell and Microsoft's, Sun's ,
 or IBM's 
 Virtual Machine and Microsoft's Internet Explorer. Explorer 4.0
 for Windows 3.1 has been released and should run under Win-OS/2. 
 A plug-in called Activator 
 may be desirable. The Java Activator helps address the
 deficiencies Sun sees with the virtual machine in IE 4.0 and it
 also helps with "an older version of Netscape Navigator"
 that does not support the full JDK 1.1 specification . 
 Internet Explorer is a product similar to the older Compuserve
 clients in that it is designed for a particular access provider
 (in this case Microsoft Network) and non standard script
 languages, rather than for general Internet use. Internet
 Explorer dos not appear to cache Java applets which makes it
 awkward for most Internet and intranet work. 

 In business intranets, Netscape
 is the generally
 accepted browser . It like IE are both free but unlike
 IE the source code for Netscape is also free . The OS/2 version
 of the Netscape browser is a Version 3.0 product with a Version
 2.2 front end. Netscape's Communicator 4.0 product runs under
 Win-OS/2 today and is to be available in a Visual Age C++ version
 taking special advantage of an OS/2 Warp fix in the near
 future . 

 [Note: Win95 ,
 Win98 ,
 and NT Workstation, will not have a strong role in business
 intranets. These operating systems adhere to the
 traditional-client server model where zero-maintenance is not
 possible. At its Windows Platform Briefing in July, Phil
 Holden, Windows product manager at Microsoft, said that by the
 year 2000, Windows 98 will be replaced by Windows CE, whose
 kernel, by that time, will be in common with NT. Windows CE,
 currently used in handheld PCs, will be the front-end operating
 system for Microsoft's Windows Terminal on business intranets.
 Because Windows 3.1 runs on 74 percent of corporate PCs,
 according to Forrester
 Research , it is being used for intranets. (15 percent run
 Windows 95 and 4 percent run NT Workstation). Java adds
 multi-threading and long filenames to Win 3.x. These are two less
 reasons to upgrade to Win95, Win98 or NT workstation. A better
 upgrade is Warp, a version of which can be loaded on top of
 existing Win 3.x systems. This preserves the investment while
 adding a free Netscape browser. It also prepares the organization
 for zero-maintenance ( Bluebird )
 style administration and NCs . For many people who use Win
 3.11, the network computer is an attractive option. "We
 haven't done a good job to keep our products simple," said
 Jon DeVaan, vice president of the Microsoft desktop applications
 division. (PC Week July 28, 1997)" 

 The DoJ actions regarding
 Microsoft have had positive impacts for many information
 technology companies, OS/2, not just Netscape, is featured
 prominently in the case. IBM's Vice President John Soyring
 testified that more than a billion dollars was spent developing
 and promoting OS/2 but that Microsoft business practices made it
 to impossible to gain market share. Microsoft purposefully
 introduced new application program interfaces at a pace that was
 impossible to match and refused to license them to IBM. This meant
 that OS/2 could not obtain its fair share of the operating system
 business after 1996. OS/2's small market share appears related to
 the monopolistic practices of Microsoft at issue in the Microsoft
 antitrust case. Any remedy 
 to illegal practices may include OS/2 owing to Soyring's
 testimony. During the fall of 1998,
John was one of twelve expert witnesses selected by the US
Justice Department
 to testify in the United States vs.
Microsoft anti-trust case. 

 Warp
 Versus NT 

 [ Top ]
 [ Next ] [ Prev ]
 [ Bot ] 

 Warp has been positioned for
 universal client access because it is an exceptionally strong
 solution for multi-server, multi-network, intranet environments.
 Shortly after the 1996 Comdex, system suppliers including
 Hewlett-Packard, Digital, IBM, and Compaq announced that they
 might not bundle NT Workstation with their hardware. Financial
 incentives from Microsoft were believed necessary. The following
 table was published in PC Week's March 19 1997 edition and was
 compiled by Forrester Research Inc. They are part of a study
 titled "NT Myth and Reality" 

 Year 

 1995 

 1996 

 1997 

 1998 

 1999 

 2000 

 NT units 

 300,000 

 465,000 

 651,000 

 814,000 

 936,000 

 1,076,000 

 The numbers represent
 cumulative NT sales for use as servers since the birth of NT, six
 years ago. Bill Gates, Chairperson of Microsoft, in early April,
 presented information from IDC showing that 700,000 NT server
 operating systems had been shipped sometime in 1996. Dataquest 's
 March 31, 1997 Personal Computing Software Worldwide Market
 Analysis All Platform Operating System Sales History And Forecast
 Summary March 1997 showed approximately 6 million server and
 client units installed by the end of 1997 with over twice that
 projected for 1998. On June 2, 1997, Information Week
 published a concession from Mike Brown, Microsoft's chief
 financial officer, that the installed base of NT workstation was
 only 3 million. That put the total NT installed base at less than
 4 million. Scott Winkler, vice president of Gartner Group Inc., in
 Stamford, Conn said at the time, " It
 could be a couple of years before Microsoft's [NT] platform
 becomes mainstream, if it does at all." 

 It takes 8 million copies of an
 operating system before developers begin to write applications
 specific to it. NT can be used to develop Win95 applications.
 However, because NT is based on a different architecture, it is
 best to develop Win95 applications on Win95 platforms so that
 coders can find bugs specific to the platform. To be fair,
 Microsoft noted that the rate
 of growth of NT was slowing . NT migrations can be tedious
 and costly. Developers were not be expected to start work
 specific to NT, in the absence of financial incentives from
 Microsoft, until 1999. But NT faired poorly in 1999, likely
 worse than Microsoft could have imagined. In mid 1999, Microsoft
 announced that NT would be discontinued and that the company would
 extend the Windows line instead. Shortly thereafter Microsoft
 abandoned NT on Alpha processors, orphaning many who had staked
 careers on the technology. History will likely show that NT was
 the Edsel of the computing age. Microsoft wants NT users to
 replace the failed operating system with Windows
 2000 , which is priced similarly as OS/2 but contains much
 fewer features than OS/2. 

 OS/2 contributed to the death
 of NT with its Workspace on Demand (Bluebird) product which
 provides a much lower cost of ownership than traditional client
 server approaches based on NT and Windows 98. Workspace on Demand
 loads essentially a copy of OS/2 on to each workstation. The
 workstation itself does not require a resident operating system.
 This greatly reduces the effort and cost required to maintain a
 workstation. NT installations never approached the level of OS/2
 installations. The official announcement of OS/2's " WorkSpace
 On Demand ", code name Bluebird ,
 was at the Java International Business Exposition 
 in late August 1997. By early September 8,000 new OS/2 Warp
 servers and about 19,000 new OS/2 clients had been purchased in
 Latin America alone. The period between the fall Comdex shows was
 extremely positive for OS/2. Shortly after the November 1997
 Comdex, Bluebird
 began shipping . And now NT has been discontinued. A special
 report further explains the demise of NT. OS/2 can not be
 viewed as the only cause but it was a strong contributor. OS/2's
 less obvious competitor, Unix and its variants also fared well
 against NT. All of the major Internet sites, with the exception of
 those controlled by Microsoft, make heavy use of Unix rather than
 NT servers. Apache far outpaced NT based web server solutions.
 Apache is available on OS/2. IBM used Apache and its OS/2-based
 Internet Connections server to track last year's chess match
 between Deep Blue and Gary Kasparov. Apache was found not suitable
 for NT in 1988. This also contributed to NT's decline. 

 NT
 Workstation faced the most competition from Bluebird. IBM
 demonstrated the product in St. Louis on May 11, 1997, over a
 month after the Dataquest analysis and began shipping it shortly
 after the November
 1997 Comdex . Aimed at lowering users' cost of ownership,
 Bluebird includes a scaled-down version of OS/2 with Java and the
 Netscape or Lotus Notes browser. Server-based administration tools
 deliver appropriate drivers and perform remote initial program
 loads that let clients boot from the server for access to network
 applications and data. If a local HD exists, Bluebird makes use of
 it for swapping instead of swapping over the LAN to the server.
 The Bluebird identifies the client PC by the Users Login and
 password rather than a unique LAN adapter address. This enables
 work across the Internet while at an airport, hotel or other
 outside location. The bottom line is that Bluebird, unlike NT
 Workstation, is for thin clients or $800 computers, called Net
 PCs, as well as for NCs and PCs. It is about helping users better
 manage the environments they now have and protecting their
 investments. 

 The strategic intent of IBM's
 Bluebird is to lower the overall cost of PC ownership. Mike
 Lawrie, general manager of IBM's Personal Software Products
 Division states "A year or two ago we were just stymied about
 what to do about Windows support, there was just no way we could
 keep up with all the API changes Microsoft was making to Windows."

 Perhaps in response to
 Bluebird, The Wall Street Journal reported in its May 12
 1997 edition that Microsoft was moving beyond NT Workstation to
 Citrix licensing (Microsoft owned 6% of Citrix) and Windows-Based
 Terminals ( WBT )
 as described above. This was the first indication that Microsoft
 would abandon NT Workstation in order to meet demands favoring
 Bluebird for cheaper and easier ways to manage computing
 resources. The majority of business users do not want the system
 architecture sacrificed in order to better support games and WebTV
 (that is what happened with NT 4.0). If you require DOS 
 then, according to Microsoft, NT was probably not an option. NT
 lacked full support for DOS and power management laptop functions. 
 Microsoft's Windows CE (for PowerPCs), further eroded the
 potential for NT Workstation sales. And now Microsoft's management
 is focused on Windows 2,000, Comcast, a cable network investment,
 WebTV, MSNBC ratings, the Department of Justice , and a
 Barney
 doll , rather than on supporting NT. Even though NT is dead, 
 IBM (probably be the largest reseller of NT) remains a strong
 supporter of NT as well as of OS/2. You can manage NT workstations
 from OS/2 

 According to David Moskowitz,
 President of PSI out of Pennsylvania, "It's a lot easier for
 an OS/2 developer to port an application to Windows NT than vice
 versa. IBM gives you the class libraries on multiple platforms.
 So, OS/2 developers who understand Visual Age can have, in effect,
 an application that runs on OS/2 and NT." OS/2 continues to
 sell well, at probably 4 to 5 million copies per year, according
 to Lotus, an IBM subsidiary. 

 France
 Telecom is in the process of purchasing 40,000 Warp client
 licenses and 36,000 Warp servers. During 1998, it became obvious
 that a PC would not be necessary in every home. Rather a phone
 like device or cable TV device can meet needs. Phone like devices
 do not require a resident operating system. Instead the OS and
 browser can be installed when the device is turned on in a manner
 similar to OS/2's Workspace on Demand. France Telcom's Mintel
 system is to be replaced in 1998 with this kind of technology.
 Since JavaOS has been abandoned, it is likely that OS/2 is being
 used. IBM's involvement in the project as well as AT&T's
 purchase of IBM's Global Network (Advantis) and Cable and
 Wireless's out source contracts with IBM indicate that OS/2 will
 have better than an even chance against Microsoft OS's on devices
 that do not have a resident system. The Turner Network (rival of
 Comcast and MSNBC) has already invested heavily in OS/2. We
 understand that United Parcel Service, US and overseas, uses OS/2. 

 Hong
 Kong Bank announced in March 1997 that OS/2 will be used in
 all their tellers and terminals all over the world. The success
 of OS/2 Warp in Hong Kong is impressive. Hong Kong Bank Holding
 Company (HSBC) Group will migrate the Group subsidiaries' global
 teller operations to OS/2 Warp. The move will encompass HSBC Group
 branches and subsidiaries in 50 countries. Buffalo NY's Marine
 Midland Bank (one of America's top 10 banks) is controlled by
 HSBC. (At least 100,000 new Warp licenses were to be purchased in
 1997 for Hong Kong Bank.) 

 USA: CommunicationsWeek, on
 Page 9, May 19, 1997 confirmed that LaCaixa, a Barcelona
 Spain-based bank, signed a contract to install an OS/2-based NC
 system that would use about 15,000 workstations and 3,300 servers
 at 3,000 branch offices. Nations
 Bank , one of the largest financial services companies in the
 United States, purchased 5,000 Warp 3 clients and 600 Warp servers
 in 1997. They intended to purchase an additional 2,000 Warp
 clients and 300 servers for use with BankPro software from Argo .
 Credit Lyonnais of
 France purchased 5,000 Warp licenses in 1998. In South America 24
 of the 25 banks had agreed to upgrade to Warp 4 (At least 200,000
 Warp 4 licenses.) The Bank of China with 45,000 branch offices is
 reported to be close to selecting Warp for a three-tier solution
 (likely Bluebird). has informed IBM that they likely will purchase
 Bluebird and 40,000 Warp licensed NCs. 

 CERA Bank, Belgium's seventh
 largest financial institution, uses OS/2 and OS/2 web server to
 enable secure IMS transactions over Internet. CERA Bank's
 clientele can enter loan variables and calculate mortgages via the
 Internet and then order a loan packet. CERA will likely implement
 a network computing model throughout the enterprise using both
 OS/2 Warp clients and servers. Cera has over 3,000 employees and
 950 branches. 

 According to OS2
 Computing Magazine , the Bank of
 Montreal , one of the largest banks in Canada will be investing
 further in OS/2 by purchasing 14,000 new OS/2 workstations to be
 distributed in all 1,200 branches across Canada. OS/2 was chosen
 because of IBM's commitment to the business community in terms of
 support and future development of the operating system. We
 understand that Toronto Dominion Bank, Royal Bank of Canada, CIBC,
 Canada Trust, and the Alberta Treasury Branch are other Canadian
 Banks using OS/2. IBM scored a significant win for OS/2 in
 early September 1997 when Latin America's largest retail bank
 Banco
 do Brasil agreed to roll out 8,000 OS/2 Warp Servers and about
 19,000 OS/2 clients across its 4,300 branch offices. They actually
 installed 25,000 licenses in 1997 and will be installing 11,500 in
 1998 and 7,500 in 1999. Banco do Brasil is the worlds largest OS/2
 account. They are currently porting MS-VisualBasic applications to
 Java for Home banking 

 Businesses that expand
 intranets to include financial services suppliers (the recently
 developed term for this is an extranet) find Warp compelling
 because IBM plans to keep OS/2 strong in the financial services
 market. Visual Bank is an application that lets bank tellers
 access data via network computers and provides customer access to
 bank accounts over the Internet. 

 Additional OS/2 Warp
 installations are likely at Chevron Corporation. One Chevron
 subsidiary in the midst of a major reorganization nonetheless
 leveraged OS/2 Warp with Domino. The Domino application enabled
 anyone in the company to send a secure and anonymous message to
 the president for personal attention in real time. This experience
 may have lead to the use of OS/2 in Chevron's Lubricant's Group
 which is launching a Domino application to make its sales data
 interactively accessible to distributors over an extranet. The
 Direct Stock Market (DSM) uses OS/2 Warp and Domino to present
 financial statements and provide an online auction forum for small
 companies and potential investors via an extranet. Companies use
 any Web browser to post earnings reports, sales collateral, press
 releases and other information. There is no need for central
 collection, coordination, and posting with this approach.
 Parke-Davis, a drug manufacturer, replaced a Microsoft Project
 based application with OS/2 Warp and Domino. The application
 captures information and makes it immediately accessible to the
 company's nationwide 100 person sales force. With OS/2 Warp
 Domino, the Parke-Davis marketing staff monitors the activities of
 leading physicians and other potential advocates of their
 products. Information related to speaking frequency, public
 engagements, teaching forums at hospitals, and how well the
 physicians convey the brand message is entered via a common Web
 browser and stored in the central OS/2 Warp Domino database. 

 At Warpstock 1999 participants
 learned that a large OS/2 user, Delta, had largely failed to make
 Microsoft clients work and were sticking with OS/2. Korean Air
 Lines, in 1998 was standardizing on Microsoft client OS's. Korean
 Air Lines announced on December 21 that it has awarded a 10-year,
 $120 million outsourcing contract to IBM Global Services to run
 the bulk of its IT systems. It is now uncertain that the Microsoft
 client standard will be adopted at KAL. The deal struck with
 Microsoft has likely been undone owing to the outsourcing. 

 Transmitting 100% Pure
 Java Energy is the motto for the new OS/2
 web-based magazine . News
 and Rumors about OS/2 are worth following. 

 Readers of CHIP Magazine (a
 well-known German computer magazine) elected OS/2 Warp 4 the best
 Software Product idea of 1996 (see 3/97 CeBIT issue). Infoworld
 readers elected Warp 4 the 1996 Product of the Year by such a wide
 margin (6 times the nearest competitor in three categories) that
 allegations of ballot stuffing were made. A 1997 year
 end survey supported the election. OS/2 has won over 70
 industry awards. Warp
 5 is in development. There are even rumors of a Warp
 6 . Warp 4 is continuously improved. The
 latest FixPak is 5 . 

 The Warp customer base,
 contrary to popular opinion, is expanding. A version of Warp 3 has
 been preloaded on PC products in China 
 for several years. It is likely that this version will be used for
 the planned ChinaEnterprise.com site. Many federal institutions
 use and are sticking with OS/2. The Smithsonian
 Institution considered Microsoft solutions but with more than
 400 Warp 3 desktops serviced with OS/2 Warp Server's software
 distribution, Microsoft solutions were found lacking. The Air and
 Space Museum upgraded to Warp 4.0. The OPM (the Office of
 Personnel Management), the National Institutes of Health, the
 Navy, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Defense Information
 Systems Agency, and the Bureau of Land Management are but a few of
 the more well known agencies running OS/2. In June of 1997,
 The IBM Company had 176 Warp 4 migration projects underway. In
 1999 the National Weather Service, who had largely failed with NT
 based efforts, reintroduced
 OS/2 at field offices to solve multitasking problems. 

 NT also faces stiff competition
 from Unix. IBM has hedged its bet on NT, not only with OS/2 but
 also by joining a growing list of PC server makers expanding
 licensing and marketing agreements for Unix with SCO Inc. SCO is
 more than 10% owned by Microsoft. This is significant in that --
 for competitive bidding purposes in Washington state -- Microsoft
 and SCO are considered the be the same company. "Microsoft
 executives say pricing for the NT Enterprise Edition (clients plus
 server) product hasn't been finalized, and users say they must
 carefully evaluate the price/performance over Unix systems (IW,
 June 16 p 14)." According to Dan Kusnetsky, an analyst at
 International Data Corp., in Framington, Mass "You are
 starting to see a product differentiation strategy rolling out.
 Microsoft was in start-up mode [with NT] for a long time, where
 the point was 'We've got to grab a lot of market share.' You go
 for the low price to get into the door, then when you start to
 prove [NT's] value to people, you start to differentiate the
 pricing." 

 While IBM
 once publicly conceded the home desktop market to Windows,
 according to Bill Howard of PC Magazine: "Of the top PC
 vendors, IBM appears to have the clearest vision of home computing
 in the future: multiple home PCs, home control and automation,
 idiot-proof home networking -- even information appliances."
 It is possible that OS/2 -- because of Java and mobile
 computing -- has more than a small role in the home market as
 well as in business. 

 Java 

 [ Top ]
 [ Next ] [ Prev ]
 [ Bot ] 

 The future of Java has never
 been rosier. In 1998 a federal court granted Sun's request for a
 preliminary injunction owing to Microsoft's on-its-face breach of
 a 5 year contract. With 3 years left on the contract, Microsoft is
 being forced by the court to support Java in ways that ensure
 Java's Write Once Run Anywhere (WORA) promise. Because OS/2 is the
 premiere Intel based OS for Java development and execution, Java
 developers choose OS/2 over Microsoft operating systems for
 development work. The award winning VAJ 2.0 ships with both OS/2
 and Win95/NT versions. As Java applications replace current
 Windows only software, OS/2 will become more attractive. Because
 of Java's WORA, OS/2 will have more native application choices
 than ever before. 

 The first
 Java applets known to be generated with OS/2 come from
 Rechenzentrale Bayerischer Genossenschaften eG (RBG), head
 quartered in Munich. RBG is one of Germany's premier banking
 solution providers. RBG provides OS/2 network computing solutions
 to more than 650 banks in Germany that provide banking services to
 their clients. According to Frank Dzubeck President, Communication
 Network Architects, Inc. Washington, D.C. "Java gives it an
 advantage over Microsoft that could help IBM garner new customers
 beyond the traditional OS/2 Warp bailiwick in banking and
 financial shops." 

 IBM is putting more resources
 behind Java than Sun.
In June of 1997, IBM
 had 2,500 
 Java developers either working on Java related projects or
 involved in training. In January 2000, those 2,500
had been deployed in 25 locations worldwide. The November
25 1996 OS/2
 Netscape browser is IBM's second-generation Java-based
 product and the most recent browser is at level
6.2. IBM claims that OS/2 is and will continue to be the
 premier
 platform for Java world wide. 

 Warp
 is THE Java client . You DON'T need a browser; you can run
 Java applications like Corel
 Remagen Java thin client , directly from the desktop. OS/2
 Bluebird is the first and currently the only way to implement
 zero-maintenance Java based intranets. You can also use OS/2 for
 an Apache Server .
 (IBM used Apache and its OS/2-based Internet Connections server to
 track the recent chess match between Deep
 Blue and Gary Kasparov.) 

 Frank
 Dzubeck , the president of Communication Network Architects,
 Inc. in Washington, D.C. states "Java gives it (OS/2) an
 advantage over Microsoft that could help IBM garner new customers
 beyond the traditional OS/2 Warp bailiwick in banking and
 financial shops." 

 IBM's Lawrie states "We
 want to really make OS/2 the premiere high-transaction execution
 environment for Java.... And the intent -- let's be very clear
 about it -- is to make OS/2 the premiere operating environment for
 Java." 

 Chris Pustowka, North American
 market manager for personal software products at IBM Canada states
 "Our strategy is to position OS/2 as the premier network
 computing platform and to continue enhancing its solid
 Internet/intranet technology." 

 On June 5, 1997 Donn Atkins of
 IBM stated "We looked at the Top 2000 customers of OS/2,
 world wide, and we found out that those customers gave the IBM
 company, in total, about 30 billion dollars of revenue a year."
 OS/2 customers hold an economic stick that ensures OS/2's
 continued development and Java support for many many years. 

 Platform-neutral office suite
 applications based on Java are expected and available from Oracle ,
 Corel ,
 IBM, Star
 Division , Sun 
 and others . Star Division is a major provider of a high-end
 office software in Europe. Their StarOffice 4.0 for Java is a pure
 Java application in about 700 KB. Java and Java
 script replace Visual Basic and J script in these office
 suites . Java Script is also used in new IBM computer based
 training modules which present content through Netscape clients.
 According to Jim Koerner, marketing manager for Warp at IBM in
 Austin Texas, "The freedom Java gives a user is the ability
 to deploy an application on the most reliable and the most
 appropriate environment." That might include a palmtop 
 computer, a network computer, a PC, a server, a cluster of NT
 servers, or a mainframe". 

 IBM is moving to a 
 100% pure Java
 model and to that end is working with OS/2 shops to transfer
 application portfolios to Java. Java will play an important role
 in the future of OS/2 development as well and OS/2 will play a
 roll in Java and NC development. The ultimate thin client, a smart
 card , can be OS/2 based. 

 Sun's Java v1.02 
 technology has been extended into all versions of Warp. This
 boosts performance by more than 60 percent, as measured by the
 CaffeineMark 
 2.5 performance benchmark, over Java v1.01. According to Edward F.
 Moltzen's July 14, 1997 article (which can be found by searching
 http://techweb.cmp.com/crn/issues/745/) "IBM software
 executives also were touting new performance benchmarks for the
 company's OS/2 products, saying the platform will allow for "many
 Java-based applications" to work as much as 30 percent faster
 under the CaffeineMark 2.5 benchmark- a method of measuring an
 application's speed and efficiency working in the Java
 environment." "We think we're making great progress in
 the performance arena," said Sheryl Winton, Java program
 manager for IBM's OS/2 group." IBM , in
 reshaping OS/2 Warp, is focusing heavily on making the platform
 attractive to developers working in the Java programming
 language." Currently the fastest workstation for
 running Java is SunSoft's Solaris (PC Week July, 14, 1997 p 96)
 OS/2 is the fastest 
 Intel based workstation. 

 The Java
 1.1 OS/2 SDK 
 is generally available. In fact, a Java
 1.1.4 SDK is now available for download . Java Beans and
 Java 1.1 support
 was scheduled for the forth quarter of 1997. In our opinion, the
 Java support on OS/2, has always been the most stable if not most
 current on the market. According to Christine Comaford of PC Week,
 all new code should be written in Java. 

 It remains to be seen how
 developers loyal to the popular third-party tools Visual Basic,
 PowerBuilder 
 and Delphi will create internet/Intranet applications. The
 SuperCede 
 tools are being ported for JavaSoft. SuperCede has a product that
 translates pure Java into native Intel code so you do not need a
 virtual machine. AlphaWorks has a similar Java to OS/2 compiler
 beta for FTP at their site. SuperCede Java Edition 2.0 will be
 available for free via the Internet and an enterprise version
 similar to VAJ's is to be developed. . The Visual
 Cafe tools have been repositioned with a Visual Cafe for Java
 and the Web Development Edition positioned to go for the 100% Pure
 Java label. IBM has gone a long way toward encouraging developers
 to write in Java using OS/2. The free IBM JDK can be downloaded
 from http://ncc.hursley.ibm.com/javainfo/dev_reg.html .
 The free Jikes 
 Java compiler, which strictly adheres to the Java language and
 virtual machine specifications, can be downloaded from
 http://www.alphaworks.ibm.com/formula/Jikes .
 Unlike the JDK compiler, Jikes is much faster, supports
 incremental compilation and can be used to generate makefiles. 

 Other OS/2 Java tools include
 NetRexx and
 Vibe .
 One of the most interesting web sites translates 
 English to other languages has been fully tested on Netscape and
 IE with OS/2 Warp 4. The voice type dictation features of Warp 4
 are attractive for this kind of universal translator. 

 Mainframes 
 are replacing
 traditional web servers and traditional-client server via CICS
 to Java bridges. OS/2 platforms are economical for this kind of
 effort. An OS/390 card is added to the Warp workstation. Visual
 Age COBOL and Visual Age Java tools on the OS/2 machine coordinate
 with the mainframe for code sharing and management. Brian
 Jeffery , an analyst with International Technology Group, an IT
 consulting firm in Los Altos, California, says about 70 sites
 worldwide are porting Unix or NT applications to IBM OS/390-based
 mainframes. By fall, he estimates ,
 as many as 300 sites will convert Oracle, SAP, and PeopleSoft
 projects to OS/390 and by 1998 there will be thousands of these
 conversions . IBM has licensed the Novell Directory Services
 (NDS) to enable a multiple platform directory infrastructure that
 includes OS/390-based mainframes. An applet may use NDS to provide
 a very robust set of authentication routines for either a user or
 an application This should make the Global Sign-On product more
 useful . 

 Visual Age for Java 

 [ Top ]
 [ Next ] [ Prev ] [ Bot ]

 Visual Age for Java is a
 software tool kit based on JDK (Java Developer's Kit) 1.8 that
 fully utilizes Sun's Java Beans component object model, letting
 developers create and use Beans. Visual Age for Java also comes
 with team development functions, such as source-code check
 in/check out and version control, as well as support for IBM's
 middleware technology by offering Java interfaces to DB2, CICS,
 MQ, and IMS. The Visual
 Age for Java product 
 is available today in OS/2, Win95, and NT 
versions. In mid 1999
 Novell, as part of a cross licensing agreement involving NDS,
 obtained rights to include Websphere and Visual Age for Java 3.0
 in the next release of its network operating system (Novell 5.1).
 This means that 20 million Novell shops will soon be Visual Age
 for Java shops. Visual Age for Java has
received over 25 awards for its ease-of-use, degree of integration,
and broad platform support. There really is no longer a need to review
other
 Java tools. The vast portion of the installed Java tool base will
 have Visual Age for Java. This is certainly true for Intel 32-bit
 development environments. Visual Age for Java does not run on Sun
 workstations. 

 If you are investing in Java
 tools, you want professional tools like Visual Age for Java on
 stable platforms with strong vendor support. OS/2 fits the
 requirements. In fact, you need a third party (someone other than
 Microsoft, someone like IBM or Compaq ) for NT and Win95
 support. (According to Pat Fox, group product manager at Microsoft
 "We have no plans to discontinue technical support for
 Windows 3.11 to large corporate customers and end users" who
 purchase directly from Microsoft.) Microsoft's standard policy is
 that PC manufacturers are responsible for supporting the operating
 system they install. Decision
 makers ask: Why not avoid finger pointing by running Visual
 Age for OS/2 on an IBM PC, rather than Win95 or NT so that we can
 get support for the tools, the hardware, and the operating system,
 directly from the manufacturer? 

 Java is object oriented.
 Stephen McClure, director of object tools research at
 International Data Corp. (IDC), in Framingham, Mass, states that
 IBM's object oriented programming tools occupy a dominant
 market position . The IBM web development tools adhere to the
 100% pure Java convention. This means that web site developers can
 avoid costly testing 
 necessary to ensure that potentially unpure Java .class code
 executes on all computer platforms and devices. For commercial and
 Internet products, J++, and Visual Cafe represent testing problems
 that can be avoided by using Visual Age Java, or some other 100%
 Pure Java generating product. Microsoft's J++, has decision makers
 especially concerned given Bill Gates' 
 recent comments . Mr. Gates called 100% Java the lowest common
 denominator on par with COBOL and C. The comparison is misleading.
 Neither COBOL nor C are object oriented, and Java, having the
 advantage of being developed after all other languages, represents
 the highest level of sophistication in software development. 100%
 Pure Java addresses integration and interface issues, two of the
 biggest cost items in the industry, and means that NCs ,
 are not " Not
 Compatibles " as Mr. Gates has called them. 

 The IBM
 International Conference on Object Technology , June 17 - 20,
 1997 in Orlando Florida focused on Visual Age for Java, a 100%
 Pure Java generating product discussed above. Visual Age for Java
 is part of a family of object oriented development tools for
 transactions, data & applications which can be summarized as
 follows: 

 Tools of Choice 

 Enterprise Access 

 Team Enabled 

 Visual Builder 

 E/C/D/Br 

 Class Libraries 

 Language of Choice 

 Java 

 COBOL 

 BASIC 

 C++ 

 SmallTalk 

 RPG 

 Generator 

 Platform of Choice 

 OS/2 

 Windows 

 OS/390 

 OS/400 

 AIX 

 Unix 

 Decision
 makers should ask "What style of computing should be
 supported." If the answer is traditional-client server
 (Win95, NT), then Visual Age tools make sense on Windows clients.
 If the answer is zero-administration Java style computing then
 Visual Age tools and the Universal Client (Warp) should be used . 
 In the latter case, IBM has provided a free
 online course to help you get started. The Staten
 Island Java Group is another way to get started. A 486 66 PC
 with 16 megs, a 28.8 modem and 500,000 KB of free disk space was
 used to generate the sound capable Java buttons at the bottom of
 this page; a JDK Warp based Java developer starter
 system can be very inexpensive. The Visual Age for Java OS/2
 product costs $98.00. 48 megs of RAM is recommended. There is a
 competitive upgrade program that lowers the cost to $30. 

 Future 

 [ Top ]
 [ Next ] [ Prev ]
 [ Bot ] 

 Warp is not only the current
 universal client but, because Microsoft is 
 not supporting 100% Pure Java and NCs and has a non
 standard SDK , this will be OS/2's role in the future.
 IBM's goal is to significantly
 update Warp in 1998 and is strongly supporting current and
 prior versions, helping purchasers retain their investments in
 Intel based 386, 486, and 586 PCs, and in their Warp, Windows 3.X,
 and DOS applications. 

 Warp has been positioned as the
 universal client for business intranets because business is
 predominantly Intel based and Warp (Not NT Workstation) is
 optimized for Intel platforms and 100% Pure Java applications.
 Win95 is not often considered as a client for intranets
 because it is considered obsolete (Win98 is to replace it) and it
 has been documented for quite some time that single
 16 bit application may slow down all 32 bit applications .
 Win3.1 is a credible client for 16 bit intranets unless general
 protection faults are a problem in which case Warp can be added to
 gain a level of crash protection or perhaps a Bluebird Network
 Computer is an option. Warp Bluebird NCs are positioned to replace
 most Win 3.x and dumb terminals in business intranets. Warp 4 is
 positioned for power users who need voice dictation or a platform
 for Java development. Warp's position as the universal client for
 business intranets appears assured passed 2001 because of it's
 more than strong tie to Java, the object oriented language being
 used for almost all new development, and because of Bluebird, a
 version of Warp for zero-maintenance Java-based computing. 

 This page is based on the
 following: 

 PC Week, February 2, 1998 page
 90 When Will Microsoft Grow UP? 

 PC Week, December 22, 1997 page
 60 Zero Administration Kit Tops the Flops 

 PC Week, December 8, 1997 page
 74 Has Microsoft Hit Its High-Water Mark? 

 PC Week, December 8, 1997 page
 68 Microsoft's Hydra Is Just a Placeholder' 

 PC Week, December 8, 1997 page
 95 Lowering TCO at Warp Speed 

 PC Week, July 28, 1997 page 8 
 No Go on Windows '00' 

 PC Week, August 25, 1997 page
 89 IBM's Global Sign-On Eases Log-in Tedium 

 Infoworld, August 25, 1997 page
 3 While you were out... IBM improved OS/2 

 Infoworld, August 25, 1997 page
 1 OS/2 to offer custom Java desktops 

 PC Magazine, September 9, 1997
 NBC: The New Bill Channel? 

 Network, July 1997 page 95 An
 Overview of JDBC 

 InformationWeek, June 2, 1997
 page 52 and 56 Software Vendors 

 PC Week, July 14, 1997 page 1 
 Big Boost for Smart Cards 

 PC Week, July 14, 1997 page 6 
 NT 5 Pieces Begin Falling Into Place 

 Infoworld, July 14, 1997 page
 65 Sun, Netscape release first version of JFC 

 Infoworld, July 14, 1997 page
 24 Novell licenses NDS technology to IBM 

 Infoworld, July 14, 1997 page
 29 Windows shift poses dilemma 

 InformationWeek, July 7, 1997
 page 14 Mainframes Bounce Back 

 Infoworld, June 23, 1997 page
 26 IBM's OS/2 Warp upgrade likely to ship one quarter early 

 PC Week, June 30, 1997 page 87 
 Compuserve's Web Feat 

 Infoworld, June 30, 1997 page
 116 Attack of the incredible mutating Java is little more than
 bad science fiction 

 OS/2 Success Stories tape (may
 be accessed by phone until August 5, 1997 at 1-800-938-0944) 

 PC Week, June 9, 1997 page 1 
 Fort Apache 

 PC Week, June 2, 1997 page 41 
 Are PCs Nearing The End Of Orderly Evolution? 

 Windows Magazine, June 1997
 page 43 Office 97 and the Upgrade Blues 

 Infoworld, May 19, 1997 page 10 
 IBM makes OS/2 versatile 

 PC Week, May 19, 1997 page 25 
 Microsoft, Citrix Ink Licensing Deal 

 PC Week, May 19, 1997 page 118 
 IBM Simplifies OS/2 and Windows NT sign-on 

 Infoworld, May 19, 1997 page
 134 Is Microsoft building a partnership or giving Citrix a stay
 of execution? 

 PC Week, May 12, 1997 page 14 
 IBM Pushes Distributed Objects, OS/2 for NCs 

 PC Week, December 23/30, 1996
 page 15 NT on PowerPC plans fizzle 

 PC Week, December 23/30, 1996
 page 48 Advice From the Ghost of IT Yet to Come 

 Infoworld, May 12, 1997 page 3
 Big Blue's strategy to show who's still boss 

 Infoworld, May 5, 1997 page 77
 IBM gives users a Choice 

 The Wall Street Journal, May
 12, 1997 page B6 Microsoft Takes Big Step in Strategy of PC
 Programs for Server Terminals 

 InfoWorld, May 5, 1997 page 6
 OS/2 Blue Bird to aid management of PCs 

 http://www.infoworld.com/cgi-bin/displayArchives.pl?dt_iwe06-97_9.htm

 http://www.infoworld.com/cgi-bin/displayStory.pl?970429.eibmblue.htm

 http://www.news.com/News/Item/0,4,9929,00.html

 PC Week, March 3, 1997 page 69
 Users Still Want Power PC 

 PC Week, March 3, 1997 page 25
 Lotus to Poor Java desktop Into NCs 

 http://www.systranet.com/java/ 
 Java based translator 

 InfoWorld, March 31, 1997 page
 55 Help us reclaim Readers' Choice Product of the Year Awards
 from OS/2 Zealots 

 PC Week, March 17, 1997 page
 131 Sizing Up the Future 

 http://www.techweb.com/wire/news/mar/0307mssqueeze.html

 InfoWorld, February 24, 1997
 page 3 Pull over, Sun; Big Blue's gonna drive 

 InfoWorld, February 24, 1997
 page 106 Market Leaders of Network Computing 

 PC Week, February 17, 1997 page
 21 Thin-Client OS/2 to Run Shells on NCs 

 http://www.pcweek.com/opinion/0210/13ecoop.html

 http://www.austin.ibm.com/pspinfo/os2vschg.html

 http://www.infoworld.com/cgi-bin/displayStory.pl?97024.encwarp.htm

 Infoworld, December 2, 1996
 page 38 IBM to quide upgraded OS/2 Warp into Web and NC zones 

 PC Week, January 6, 1997 page
 54 Crystal Ball 

 http://www.pcweek.com/news/0106/08mibm.html

 Infoworld, January 6, 1997,
 page 6, Microsoft sticks to NT help plan 

 Inforworld, January 6, 1997,
 page 23, Client 

 http://www.hursley.ibm.com/mqseries

 http://www.citrix.com/os2.htm 

 http://officeforjava.corel.com 

 http://www.internet.ibm.com/browsers/netscape/warp/site1.html

 PCWeek Volume 13 Number 47
 November 25 1996 ThinkClient 

 [ Top ]
 [ Prev ] 

 Mighetto & Associates 
 - 1260 NE 69th St. Seattle, WA 98115 - (206) 525-1458 voice and
 fax 

 mighetto@eskimo.com 
 - Internet email address 

 mighetto@compuserve.com 
 - Internet email address or 72154,3467 from within Compuserve 

 Endnotes 

 Warp 4 provides a work around
 to the synchronous input queue (SIQ) issue that has been cited by
 Warp critics as a design flaw. From the System object within the
 OS/2 System folder click on User Interface and activate the check
 box labeled Asynchronous Focus. OS/2 then keeps a tiny watchdog
 program running that monitors the main message queue. If a message
 isn't handled in the length of time specified then OS/2 takes
 over. An SIQ problem is rare, even on slower 486-33 computers. It
 is not an operating system design issue as much as it is an
 application program issue. Newer programs -- and Java applications
 -- limit the use of the main message queue and avoid the problem
 completely. Most Warp users do not need the work around but
 someone may bring it up and this is one of the solutions. For more
 information, and other solutions, see page 366 of PC Magazine
 August 1997 or consult OS/2 Warp Survival Kit by Brian Proffit.
 Warp 3 provides a work around through fixpack 17. 

 Loading IE in a Win-OS/2
 session allows 32 bit drivers, like network drivers, to operate at
 32 bit speeds while also providing a level of crash protection
 unavailable to Win3.1 on its own. 16 bit Intel based intranets are
 built with Win 3.X and also with Warp's Win-OS2 (a Microsoft
 licensed and authorized version of Win 3.X). Win-OS/2 is supported
 by Microsoft for Exchange mail. Install it in a full screen Warp 3
 Fixpack
 17 or above WinOS/2 session. (Warp 4 may require an older
 version of winsock.dll.) If needed find Win32 s
 1.25 it at www.us.pc.ibm.com/files.html .
 The DOS_FILES setting for the Win-OS/2 session should be set to
 255 for Win32 
 apps. The Internet Explorer browser should work just fine, even in
 a seamless session. Plenty of online help is available. (see
 http://www.aescon.com/bestofos2/help/ ).
 Internet Explorer is free. 

 Visual Prolog is one of the
 world's most powerful implementations of the Prolog-language,
 which combined with a powerful GUI-builder, an efficient compiler
 and a large collection of tools, offers a very nice environment
 for developing AI applications as well as traditional
 applications. Visual Prolog is the only alternative, if you want
 to develop in Prolog in native OS/2! You can easily port the
 applications! Windows 95 / NT / 3.1 and OS/2 are all supported,
 and you can switch freely between these platforms for GUI-based
 programs. You can also make portable textmode applications for
 DOS, SCO UNIX and LINUX. Conversion utilities help in converting
 resources between the different platforms. You can use Prolog's
 strengths in the Visual Prolog environment to do database
 programming, web support, object oriented programming, and much
 more: ODBC, Oracle, DB2, TCP/IP, FTP, HTTP, ISAPI, generation and
 use of DLLs and standard .OBJ files, an included Expert-system
 shell and Interpreter, domain checker and flow-analyzer,
 determinism checking and fail-detection, large on-line help and
 support for generation of help-files, resource import from other
 applications, graphical editors for cursors, bitmaps, dialogs,
 toolbars, CodeExperts that assist in many areas of GUI building,
 etc. The Internet is one of the hottest programming areas and
 Visual Prolog's strong Internet support makes it an ideal tool for
 creating intelligentWEB sites! Intelligent websites -expert
 systems attached to homepages,that can do automatic support and
 help customers choose products will play an increasing role.
 Visual Prolog can of course communicate with Java-applets, as
 illustrated in the examples. Later in autumn of 97, a free, time
 locked version of Visual Prolog will be available for download. 

 Netscape's new browser, code
 named Javagator, will be based on the core technology of HotJava,
 Sun's browser product.Javagator will replace HotJava as the
 standard browser shipped with all Sun products, including
 workstations, servers, JavaStations, and the Java Development Kit
 (JDK). Netscape plans to ship the Javagator browser in the first
 quarter of 1998. 

 [ Home ]
 [ Decision Tree ] [ Deep
 Knowledge ] [ Acknowledgements ] [ Map ] 
 Universal Client