Janet Reno 

 Janet Reno 

Note: This page is particularly significant given the florida
governor's race .

Janet Reno is the seventy-eighth and first woman Attorney General of the United
States of America. 
 At age eight Janet 
Reno moved with her Danish family to twenty acres on the edge of the
Florida Everglades.
Her father was a police reporter for the Miami Herald for forty-three years and
her mother was an investigative reporter for the Miami News. Compare
and contrast Janet Reno with Teddy Roosevelt . 

In 1956 Janet Reno enrolled at
Cornell University, where she majored in chemistry,
and became president of the Women's Self Government Association. In 1960 
she enrolled at Harvard Law School, one of only
sixteen women in a class of more than 500 students. She received her LL.B.
from Harvard Law three years later. Despite her Harvard degree, Janet Reno
had difficulty obtaining work as a lawyer. One of Miami's biggest firms
denied her a position because she was a woman. Fourteen years later that
same firm made her a partner. 

In 1971 Janet Reno was named staff director of the Judiciary
Committee of the Florida House of Representatives. She helped revise the
Florida court system . In 1973 Janet Reno accepted a position
with the Dade County State Attorney's Office, which has jurisdiction over the greater 
Miami area. This acceptance was not without reservations. Reno stated in a
November 19, 2000 interview with Peter Maas
that "I had sworn that I would never be a prosecutor, because I
thought they were more interested in securing convictions than seeking
justice." When told she could do something about that she quickly
lead the county in organizing a juvenile division within the
office. 

In 1978, As State Attorney, Janet Reno was responsible for an office with 940
employees, an annual budget of $30 million, and a yearly docket of 120,000
cases. Reno's office regularly prosecuted cases involving homicide, child
abuse, rape and other violent crimes; drug trafficking cases; and matters
involving white collar crimes. She established a career criminal unit that
worked with federal officials and local law enforcement to arrest and convict
career criminals and sentence them to substantial prison time. 

On March 12, 1993 Janet Reno became Attorney General of the United States.
Her appointment came after two innital candidates were rejected owing to
the use of illegal immigrants for child care. 

As the largest law firm in the nation, the Department of Justice (DOJ) serves as counsel for its 
citizens. It represents them in enforcing the law in the public interest. Through its thousands 
of lawyers, investigators, and agents (125,000 employees including the
FBI), the DOJ plays the key role in 
protection against criminals and subversion, in ensuring healthy competition
of business in our free enterprise system, in safeguarding the consumer, and in 
enforcing drug, immigration, and naturalization laws. 

Moreover, the DOJ conducts all suits in the Supreme Court in which the United States 
is concerned. It represents the Government in legal matters generally, rendering legal advice 
and opinions, upon request, to the
President and to the heads of the executive departments. The Attorney General 
supervises and directs these
activities, as well as those of the U.S. Attorneys and U.S. Marshals in the various judicial districts around the
country.
 Janet Reno's early days in office were marred by a standoff near
Waco, Texas, between Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agents and
members of the Branch Davidian religious group. The standoff ended after
the FBI agents attempted to force the members out of a compound, which
then burned, killing many children and group members. As Florida's State
Attorney, Janet Reno focused attention on prevention programs that enabled
children to grow in a safe, constructive environment. She helped reform
the juvenile justice system and pursued delinquent
fathers for child support payments. The poor decisions regarding Waco
prompted her to offer to resign. An offer that -- fortunately for the
nation, and in spite of continuing an expense report fraud investigation
against an allie of the President's (Rep. Dan Rostenkowski [D., Ill]) --
was rejected. Her strength, vision, tenacity and commitment are
especially needed in challenging monopoly power and its use in influencing
 government 
officials. Today Reno is being recognized for halting the
prohibition-style marketing tactics of some healthcare ,
insurance, and technology firms. During her
tenure, antitrust violators went to prison for price fixing, companies
paid record fines totaling hudreds of millions of dollars and corporate
giants in defense and telecommunications abandoned proposed mergers. The
largest criminal fine in the history of the Justice Department, $500
million, was levied against Swiss pharmaceuticals maker Hoffmann-La Roche
for its part in a vitamin price fixing scheme. MCI/WorldCom abandoned plan
to purchase Sprint Corporation and two executives from Archer Daniels
Midland Company received jail terms for conspiring to fix prices and
dividing competition in the sale of citric acid and lysine. Janet Reno
earned the
 Women's International Center
Living Legacy Award in honor of her many contributions. Reno's
decision making is particularly interesting because it portrays how a
 democratic style of leadership yields poor
quality decisions in situations
that are unfamiliar. After just 38 days in office, Reno may not have
understood this. Her legacy could have been the disaster that resulted
from group decision making involving the FBI, BATF and local law
enforcement. Reno said if she could revisit any decision it would be 
the deadly raid on the Branch Davidian
compound at Waco, Texas, where Branch Davidian leader
David Koresh and some 80 followers perished. Unlike Waco, Reno
did not cede control to the FBI in
reuniting Elian Gonzalez with his Cuban father and family. An
overwhelming number of US citizens approved of her handling of that and 
the Oaklahma bombing case. Today her legacy is likely going to be the
advancement of the cause of an independent attorney general whose
integrity is unquestionable. While in office the independent counsel
statute was eliminated. see also: 
http://www.seattletimes.com/news/nation-world/html98/forc23_20000423.html 
and Trouble in Elian City 
 The relationship between risk, certainty, efficiency and participation
in decision making is well illustrated by
study of Reno's career. 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

[ Home ]
[ Decision Tree ] 
[ Deep Knowledge ]
[ Acknowledgements ]
[ Map ] 

 http://www.eskimo.com/~mighetto/lsjreno.htm - last update 22
November 2000.