Cruising Log of the Murrelet 

 Cruising Log of the Murrelet 
 Updates at
WordPress Blog Site 

 Main 

 CB 

 FB 

 Fast 

 Size 

 Keel 

 Ballast 

 Point 

 Tall 

 Race 

 Lean 

 Ocean 

 # - MACGREGOR 26X'S RULE 

 Murrelet is pictured below 
 LOA = 26 LWL = 23' Beam = 7' 10" 
Draft = 9" 
 50 HP Nissan 2 stroke 
outboard 
 Max Speed 21 MPH (24 
theoretical) 
 Cruising Speed 7 - 10 knots 

 Murrelet is a 
pocket cruiser capable of sailing
 over its own bow wake. She planes and her manufacturer says she is capable
 of reaching speeds above 
17 MPH under sail . She also will single hand at
 speeds over 20 MPH using a 50 HP motor or sail loaded down for an extended
 cruise at a hull speed of 7 MPH. 

 The Murrelet hull design is 11 years old and this hull has become very popular. These 
hulls have the most widely accepted and scrutinized movable ballast 
.systems in the world. Sailing Anarcy agrees see forum. Murrelet was 
launched in
 February of 1999 and has been in Puget Sound water most of 
that time.
 Once rare, it is now common to spot others in her 
class. 

Originally fitted out by Blue Water Yachts for trailering , this
 MacGregor
 26X boat has been modified for continuous salt water use. She is about
 5 feet longer than Trekka ,
 a pocket cruiser that sailed around the world from Victoria BC, in the mid
 1950s, and four feet longer than a mini-transat 
 ocean 
racer . Fully ballasted Murrelet has the stability of a 
cruising keel boat. She reportedly has an extra layer of fiberglass (in 
contrast to 
other macGregor 26 models) making her suitable for the Alaska Inside 
Passage. Outstanding hull symmetry and balance allow 
unballasted motoring and sailing which is unusual for a 
production trailerable sailboat. 
 The streaming media to the left 
follows Murrelet's adventures. Click on the picture to start a slide 
show. While
 loading, review the material below. Use the right mouse button on links to
 open a new window. Position your mouse over a picture
 for captions and instructions. 

 The Cruising Yacht SiteRing 

 <<Previous 
 | List 
 | Random 
 | Join 
 | Next>> 
 SiteRing by Bravenet.com 

Updated Section 9 March 2008 - [ Speed is 
Safety
 ] 
New Section July 15 2006 - [ Joshua
Slocum
 ] 

Updated Section July 14 2006 - [ Sailing 
Anarchy
 ] 

New Section 30 October 2005 - [ Racing 
Comfort
 ] 

New Section 4 August 2005 - [ Sick 
Marketing -
230,000 Views.
 ] 

Updated Section July 12 2005 - [ Vende
Globe Shows Water Ballast Primary ] 

New Section June 27 2005 - [ Transpac 
Racing and Common Sense
 ] 

New Section May 25 2005 - [ Ocean 
Fractional Rigs ] 
New Information April 25 2005 - [ Twin 
Shallow Keels ] 

New Section April 5 2005 - [ Why US Sailing ] 
New Information March 31 2005 - [ Rotating Keel ] 
New Section March 20 2005 - [ IRC, ISAF and US 
Sailing ]

 Murrelet's eighth year anniversary was 14 February 2005. Much has 
been
 learned . 
The Murrelet has converted my wife and I into sailors, after most of my
 lifetime power boating. The anniversary was
 honored with the replacement of the outboard - a quiet 4 stroke Suzuki. 
The prior 
year she was honored by interfacing the 
cruiser's GPS with a full cockpit enclosure. 
Mac26x boats may be the perfect
 boats for transitioning 
from power to sail. They offer high speed 
powering without compromising sailing performance. I have discussed 
the 
little vessel
 with hundreds of individuals, ranging from purest pocket cruising sailors, who
 consider anything non-wooded a compromise, to historians and museum curators,
 who have preserved information regarding design, construction and the
 adventure of ocean cruising, to racing enthusiasts, including America's Cup hopefuls. In addition I
 have had discussions with brand loyal production boat owners , including my
 sister (a Catalina loyal) and Hunter loyals. I have also chatted with more
 than 80 MacGregor boat owners, possibly 50 of them in 
person. 
 Owing to my 9 year experience with Murrelet - at least one sixth of 
that
 being physically aboard her - and supported by considerable arm chair sailing
 and the above, I addressed many sailing myths (or to be MacGregor
 about things I "scotched the rumors", which in contemporary usage means to
 kill the thing.)" This being done plans and contingency plans were 
 finalized for a 1,000 mile cruise from Olympia Washington around Vancouver

 Island and back during June - July of 2002. Completion of this 
voyage remains a goal. In 2003, we joined a fleet of Mac26x 
cruisers 
for a San Juan Holiday and discussed plans with the captain 
of one of two Mac26x cruisers that has circumnavigated the 
island. Vancouver Island circumnavigation is considered to be 
practace for world circumnavigation and it was gratifying to 
have Georg Veleder praise his Mac26x (Escape out of Rio Rancho 
New Mexico) by saying that 
he "would sail her anywhere". Georg had previously 
circumnavigated a 30 foot Fisher about the island. 
Vac1792@aol.com. 

 South Sound Sailing 
Society 

 In 2004 we are joined a fleet of a half dozen vessels from 
South Sound Sailing Society and Olympia Yacht Club on the West "wild" Side 
of Vancouver Island. Murrelet was made coastwise. The heavy anchor was 
mounted, 
the engine passed inspection and trials and crew updated first aid 
training. New charts were ordered. Physicals completed. A significant 
change from 2002 had to be made owing 
to vacation schedules. The Murrelet trailer was retrieved from 
mothballs, worked up to like new condition, shore crew were hired to 
transport the vessel and the boat was carted by Ferry in catching the 
SSSS/OYC fleet prior rounding Port Hardy. 

 San Juan Islands 

The (what I hope is the first annual) macgregorsailors.com 
redezvous float plan can be accessed by 
clicking on the image above.

 Vancouver Island 
The boat was cruised 
north from Olympia to near Vancouver Island as follows:

 Bell 
Harbor May 11 - May 18
 Shilshole Marina c/o Corrinthian Yacht Club May 18 - May 25
 Everett c/o Everett Yacht Club May 25 - June 1
 Flounders Bay c/o Skyline Marina June 1 - June 6
 Friday 
Harbor c/o Blue Water Yachts Cruising Club June 6 - June 9

 The chart above has hot spots important to servicing a vessel in
transit or accomodating crew on shore. There
is an excellent web site provided by the Ministry of Water, Land and Air
Protection (see regional_maps )
that best portrays where Murrelet will find moorage. Analysis of 
the hot spots and related web sites demonstrates
the value of wireless internet for cruising as arial photographs 
are 
available showing ports, shorelines and areas of interest. 
 Notice to mariners and weather 
reports are also available. The 
crew intends to use a Nokia 
9290 Communicator phone for the above and 
for filing float plans with Vessel Assist. 

 June - July Itinerary for Murrelet 2006 

 WEEK ONE 

 Day/Date Destination 
 1. June 17 - Olympia to Quartermaster Harbor 
 2. June 18 - to Bell Harbor 
 3. June 19 - Langley or Coupeville 
 4. June 20 - LaConner 
 5. June 21 - Washington Park 1100 
 6. June 22 - Rig Tune; Open Boat Friday Harbor 
 7. June 23 - Shaw Island Coaching 

 WEEK TWO 

 Day/Date Destination 
 8. June 24 - Friday Harbor moorage; crew to Seattle 
 9. 
 10. 
 11. 
 12. 
 13. 
 14. 

 WEEK THREE 

 Day/Date Destination 
 15. Friday Harbor moorage; crew from Seattle 
 16. 
 17. 
 18. 
 19. 
 20. 
 21. 

 WEEK FOUR 

 Day/Date Destination 
 22. Friday Harbor moorage; crew from Olympia 
 23. 
 24. 
 25. 
 26. 
 27. 
 28. 

 WEEK FIVE 

 Day/Date Destination* 

 29. 
 30. 
 31. 
 32. 
 33. 
 34. 
 35. 

 Cruise Notes 
 Murrelet is modified
from factory stock in many ways (from a half reef point in the main to 
autopilot and radar) but the substantial modification for the 
circumnavigation is
the CDI furling headsail which is reinforced Mylar and a bit smaller than 
the stock
Genoa. She carries a 20lb CQR anchor and a 10 foot roll up Zodiac 
for this voyage. click on the photo below to see how the Northern most 
point of Vancouver Island was handled. 

 Prior to rounding Cape Scott (northern 
most point of 
Vancouver
Island), the boat was rigged differently. The backstay was 
tightened an extra inch or so to induce bend in the mast and the upper
shrouds were tightened as well. The lowers were loosened. The
combination of changes put a 2 to 3 inch bow forward in the center
of the mast. This prepared the cruiser for the anticipated 20 MPH+
winds on the west side. The stock backstay is mounted to the starboard 
side which is optimal for the main sail when wind is from the port 
side because wind gusts are spilled easier owing to a slight twist in 
the mast to starboard. Prevailing winds might have put Murrelet on the 
starboard tack while on the west side of the island. But the 
plan was to sail single headsail if winds were fresh from the northwest. 
As a slight twist of the mast to starboard would not impact a 
single head sail, no changes to the stock backstay were made. The above 
slides portray the Cape Scott rounding. We trailored the boat to Port 
Hardy to pick up from the 2002 effort. While a head sail was put up, 
there really wasn't enough wind to sail the Cape. This inspite of 
being held up for 3 days at Bull Harbor owing to gales. John DeMyres of 
 Balder 
provided Murrelet's anchor light and accompanied Murrelet around 
Cape Scott. John a year later was 
recognized with the Arthur 
B. Hanson Rescue Medal . The rescue of a knocked unconcious crew member 
who went overboard during a race was made by quickly dropping sail and 
motoring in reverse. Had the usual training for man overboard drills been followed, 
involving a figure eight, the unfortunate MOB likely would have drowned as 
a life jacket was not worn under rain gear as John had hoped. 

 Blue Water Yachts Cruising 
Club 

 The following are from the BWY Cruising Club event which we 
attended while migrating north. I have been asked by many what the most 
important not standard item is for a Mac26x and until this event did not 
know the correct answer. Usually I would say the roller furling. 

 Club affiliation proved itself to be the most 
important 
item in that in an adjustment to the motor 
lifting mechanism on Murrelet that otherwise would have had to have been 
tolerated for five weeks could be made. The engine once lifted, slowly 
would place 
itself back into the water. 
 The adjustment, while simple and well 
documented and known to the crew, required a particular alignment for a 
screw driver that I just could not figure out. No minor anoyance need be 
put up with when crew can call 
club members for assistance and meet with them during the journey. Club 
affiliation is the first "modification" to be made on a cruising vessel. 
The pictures show that (for Mac26x owners) there are a lot of resources to 
draw on both in the 
knowledge of other club members and the spare parts stored on like 
cruisers. 

 The Owners' Rendezvous are one of the first events to schedule acording 
to 
Sailing (May 2004 page 71). They also list Port Townsend Wooden Boat 
Festival and the Baja Ha-Ha. I rejected US 
Sailing for many years but in 2005 did join and explain why below. 

 Why US Sailing? 
 US Sailing has been re-inventing itself. Its management consultants 
pointed out that sailing in the US is considered by many to be 
an elite activity, aloof from the rest of society and thereby undesirable.
This the management consultants proposed partially explained the net loss 
of 100,000 
US sailors to the sport each year and low interest in membership. 

 So that fewer US boaters move to power boating or out of 
boating all together, US Sailing is de-emphasizing support for the elite 
racers, such as TP52s, owner driver classes, and large one-designs, and is 
attemting 
to grow the sport through support of production cruisers such as Catalinas 
and 
hopefully and most likely soon Macgregors. They also are going to be more 
open about 
elections of
board members and even let members vote for who will become a board 
member! 

 This membership voting is a big change for US Sailing. Members have 
not 
yet been part of the board selection
process at US Sailing. This had been done from the top down, not bottom 
up. The rational
for that was the feeling that if you let members vote for board positions 
you might get a 
"bad" board member. 

 The notion that an election can give a bad result is such a 
politically 
charged one
that US Sailing really could no longer support its old board selection 
process and expect
US government funding or non profit status. The risk of getting a "bad" 
board member 
with the top down approach might now be considered greater because so many
selected that way have had duties outside those of the board that have 
overwhelmed
them or clouded their board decisions. 

 US Sailing is now implementing a modern structure. See 
http://www.ussailing.org/organization/taskforce/structure/ 
For more see - [ IRC, ISAF and US
Sailing ]

 10 myths were
scotched
 involving Mac26x sailboats. These ranged from misperceptions regarding
 centerboards to ocean comfort and can be reviewed by selecting one of the
 tabs at the top of this page or the next link below.
 [ Top ] [ Next ] [ Prior ] [ Bot ]

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 [ Home ]
 [ Decision Tree ]
 [ Deep Knowledge ]
 [ Acknowledgements ]
 [ Map ] 

 Cruising Log of the
 Mariah Wind 

 Cruising Log
 of the Bella Donna 
 Crusing
 Log of the ForeverGreen 

 Cruising Log of the Periguin 

 Updates at 
WordPress Blog Site 

 mighetto@eskimo.com - Internet
 email
 address 

 mighetto@compuserve.com -
 Internet email
 address or 72154,3467 from within Compuserve