Myth #2 - THE LOWER THE FREEBOARD THE FASTER
THE SAILBOAT 

 Cruising Log of the Murrelet 

 Main 

 CB 

 FB 

 Fast 

 Size 

 Keel 

 Ballast 

 Point 

 Tall 

 Race 

 Lean 

 Ocean 

 #2 - THE LOWER THE FREEBOARD THE FASTER THE SAILBOAT 

[ First Page ] [ Next ] [ Prior ] [ Last ]

 High freeboard
improves buoyancy with no decrease in hull speed. This second myth 
probably is
supported by the beauty of sailboats with low freeboard. They certainly do 
look
faster than many of their high freeboard counterparts. It is also 
supported by
the notion that high freeboard causes excessive lateral drift (crabbing) 
which
results in more tacks during an upwind race. 

In my cruiser, it takes a lot 
of
wind (17 MPH +) to observe crabbing when close hauled. When close the 
freeboard
presented to the wind is minimal. That plus the fact that Mac26x cruisers 
have
about the same amount of freeboard as a Catalina 30 has me convinced that 
the
freeboard in my vessel does not slow her down. Murrelet got her name from 
the
marbled Murrelet a small sea bird that rides high when in the water. You 
do notice the high freeboard in Mac26x cruisers. 
 To search this site enter a word or phrase below:

DO NOT use Advanced Syntax (AND, OR, NOT, NEAR)

 It is a waste of time to try to update a duck. A 
duck is naturally beautiful with simple lines. If you (modify it) 
then you will only have proven to the world that you were blind to 
its simple beauty in the first place. 

 Ference Mate 
Best Boats To Build Or Buy 
pg 78 One For The Eyes BCC 

 Low freeboard made sense during the age of marine hunting when it facilitated
the work necessary to process the catch or to row. But with low freeboard a
modest amount of heel will put the rail under the water. This slows the vessel
down considerably and in the extreme can sink the vessel. It is a safety 
issue. 
 Low freeboard sailiing vessels are considered appropriate for inland 
protected waters. These 
vessels are fine for pleasure use. Pleasure boats - by definition - are 
toys, and they are not expected to be operated outside of the bath tub 
environment of a small lake or bay. I do not consider Mac26x
boats toys. They are recreational vessels designed specifically for 
ocean use with appropriate freeboard for that
purpose. In addition, and unlike some sailboats sold for ocean 
use that have low freeboard when at rest, the freeboard on a Mac26x does 
not vary much when on heel under sail. 

 A few years after purchasing Murrelet, a group including my 
sister and her husband and my wife and I chartered a couple of 
40 foot monohulls for a 
few weeks of racing and cruising in the British Virgin Islands. The 
Florida based Beneteau 402 
center cockpit sloops were built in South Carolina specifically for the 
hot climate prevalent to their cruising grounds. In my opinion, the 
freeboard was determined by the layout of the interior of the vessels 
with the notion that head room would contribute to ventilation. We 
discovered in sort order that the vessels were human steam oven's 
nonetheless. 
Unfortunately the center cockpit was two small for laying down (as is 
the Ms), so we made due below decks as best we could. The notion that 
cruising vessels have higher freeboard because of the need for 
ventilation did not hold up to our observations. It is not possible to 
have enough freeboard in a cruising sail boat to generate the head room 
needed for ventilation in the humid tropics, unless perhaps if the deck is 
made 
of porous wood. And of course excessive 
freeboard can be a problem. 
 For a sailboat, low 
freeboard on the lee side can cause flooding. But the high freeboard on 
the windward side can also be used like a lever by the wind to flip the 
vessel over (an obvious stability concern for a multihull). In a moderate 
or strong wind, a cabin
cruiser can be very difficult to maneuver owing to the amount of wind that hits
its hull. In 2003 Murrelet was Shilshole shuffeled to a slip providing a 
grand view of this issue. 
 Shilshole Shuffel 
 The Shilshole shuffel is the term applied at the 
Shilshole Marina to describe frequent but often temporary changes in slip 
assignments owing to the difficulty of managing sub leases. If I were 
running things sub leases would not be allowed but in anycase I so enjoy 
watching large underpowered cabin cruisers and even sailboats pull up for 
fuel and depart when the wind is blowing, that my shuffel was made 
permanent. 

 The desirability of a real engine, rather than a sailboat 
kicker on a cruiser with freeboard worthy of ocean craft was obvious 
from Murrelet's 2003 summer-post-shuffel perch. Owing to what happens in 
windy conditions, you do not want a cockpit 
enclosure rigged on a vessel that is under powered. I will not soon 
forget the large cabin cruiser that had to exit Shilshole about the down 
wind breakwater, the captain complaining that the fully enclosed vessel 
just would not turn upwind in the amount of harbor available. The 
following X cruiser has been fitted out with a full cockpit enclosure. 

The Wind's enclosure, while providing ventilated sleeping
quarters for a couple of crew larger than 6 foot tall does
not
allow the boat operator to stand upright behind the wheel as would 
be the case if the
enclosure extended past the backstay or the boom were higher as on the
Mac26M. 

 Other Mac26x 
cruisers sport enclosures with standing head
room that restricts mainsail use. The Wind's 
enclosure included zippers in the dodger viewport that allowed opening for 
visibility. Hence 
crew could stand under the dodger and operate with an autopilot remote or 
the captain could operate while sitting down at the wheel with crew 
spotting. 
Zippers opening from the centerline allow the mainsheet to extend 
through the enclosure so that the mainsail can be deployed. A viewport 
in the enclosure top for checking mainsail trim and the wind indicator 
would be ideal. For sail handling during a race you would of course 
remove all the 
enclosure parts 
(including rain dodger) . When weighted down for an 
extended 
cruise, and given the 50 hp engine, I forsee little problem in the
configuration. Murrelet should be just as fast and manuverable with the
enclosure as
without assuming proper weight distribution.

 Weight Distribution 

Weight distribution is important to the speed a vessel can achieve. For 
the fastest speed while motoring, weight should be low and to the 
centerline. Think like a motorcycle rider or an ice skater to see this. It 
is easily observed on a speedboat by having crew sit at different 
positions during runs at wide open throttle (WOT) and noting speed by GPS.

 The 
notion that low freeboard sailboats are faster than similar sized 
higher freeboard competitors is supported by this weight distribution 
observation. Crew with no place to be except low in the boat 
allows greater speed. 

However monohull sailboats heel where a speed boat will not, and unless 
the sailboat has the overall shape of a log, the heel creates more 
freeboard on the windward side, and less on the lee. The distance from the 
water to the rail is defined as freeboard. Analysis of the MacGregor 
Classic, M, and X illustrates. 

Start with a Mac26 Classic and its low freeboard. Crew will stand or sit 
lower on deck than they could ever position themselves outside of the 
cruiser on a Mac26M. 

On a Mac26M weight at the higher level of the deck when forward, and 
assuming hull shape roughly equivalent, means the cruiser is less stable 
than the Classic. 

That condition is not necessarily bad. In fact in light wind it is 
beneficial. On a sailboat with a Classic or M style hull, that is light 
enough for crew weight to make a difference, crew will move forward to a 
point where the vessel will lean and, if the leaning is to the lee, sails 
will gain shape by the force of gravity alone. In very light wind - often 
what appears to be no wind - the light displacement sailboat with gravity 
filled sails requires just a small puff of wind to start moving forward. 
Only a small puff is needed because none of the energy in that wind is 
needed to lift the sails. 

So the Mac26m, being more responsive to crew weight on the foredeck, 
should, assuming hull shapes are more similar than not, out sail a Classic 
in light air when crew is positioned there. This is a situation where the 
higher freeboard makes for a faster sailboat but at the cost of a 
manufacturer's safety restriction. If crew were restricted below deck, the 
M would have no speed advantage. When on deck, the weight of crew can tip 
her over. 

Now consider the X cruiser. Her freeboard is equivalent to the M's when 
at 
rest. But as crew move forward and the vessel leans, the flair in the bow 
(called a power boat belly by the manufacturer) at more than a 15% heel 
provides counter acting buoyancy and hence the X gets the speed advantage 
over the Classics with no safety restrictions. 
 Freeboard and Stability, Disadvantage and Advantage 

 The X cruiser, because she is not restricted to ballast only operation, 
can also drop 1,400 lbs of weight, this reducing what is called dynamic 
stability and making the boat more responsive. In effect the draining of 
water ballast moves weight from off the centerline of the motoring 
cruiser, this contributing to speed as discussed above. The mechanics are 
not unlike the spinning figure skater who brings her arms to her chest to 
increase the speed of her spinning. The water ballast so drained out also 
provides extra flotation which can be used to carry provisions for 
extended cruising, provided those provisions are stored and secured 
properly. 
 The limit of positive stability LPS for the X cruiser has been 
engineered by computer design to be 115. Most modern production boats will 
have LPS angles of between 100 and 140. At 90 LPS angle it isn't possible 
to get water into the X cabin and this feature is heavily advertised on 
promotional videos with the 115 LPS being quoted by Roger MacGregor in 
reviews of the vessel. But the X is even more stable a sail boat than the 
LPS would imply. 

 Owners who have laid the cruiser down on her side report that the X 
will 
not turn turtle if her sails are up. With the cabin hatches closed, the 
amount of freeboard and coachroof rise improves the LPS likely beyond the 
hull engineering of 115. In any case, an inverted X will have very poor 
inverted stability which is what you want in an ocean sail boat. 

 What this means should an X ever turn turtle (none have been 
reported 
doing so) is that only a small amount of wave energy or crew rocking 
should right the vessel assuming the vessel hasn't taken on much water and 
the gear and water ballast are loaded properly, or the vessel is empty. 
MacGregor Yachts literally has turned boat stability calculations inside 
out when you recognize that the combination of water ballast tank and hull 
side chines equates to a trimaran. The benefits of a Trimaran, often 
stated as performance and comfort, are gained in the X hull without the 
disadvantage trimarans have, that being that once inverted that are not 
likely to be rightable. This is discussed more under the ocean myth 11 
discussion where ratios are presented. The point is that good freeboard in 
combination with other factors makes for a very ocean worthy 
vessel. 

 Mac26x 
vessels ride high but not excessively, not without grace, with
inherent beauty by my eye, and unlike many sailboats the freeboard 
doesn't vary much when heeled. 
The most important disadvantage of high freeboard on a recreational 
vessel 
involves retrieving a MOB (man overboard). Many ocean sailboats carry life 
slings which are a tool used for hoisting MOBs. Modern designs (like the X 
boat) have low freeboard at the stern that make 
unnecessary life slings. The M if mounted with a 50 hp motor does not 
have this feature. The Mac26m has a contemporary rather than 
modern design more suited for a small sailboat kicker engine. A 50 HP 
motor blocks entry from the stern, and hence Ms 
should carry a life sling when fitted out with 50 hp or any large size 
engine. 

 In addition to stability, there are a couple of 
other benefits to high freeboard. First, at anchor, 
a certain amount of windage is a good thing. Some sailboats and even 
power vessels prone to sailing or skating at the anchor will put up a 
small sail at the stern to lay the boat quitely to the wind. Keeping the 
boat as still as possible at anchor is a good thing because it minimizes 
the possibility of anchor drag, rode chaffing, or smacking another boat. 
The Mac26x cockpit enclosure, partially or fully deployed in concert with 
a dampening weight, such as second anchor hanging straight down from the 
bow, keeps Murrelet from skating even with the foils retracted. A similar 
effect is gained by tying off a lunch hook to the stern rather than to the 
bow and forgoing the dampening weight. Windage explains both anchoring 
observations. Second, I am able to sail 
Murrelet
bare polled using the hull as a sail. This is with maneuverability. 
The following table is related to the above discusion: 

 MPH - Beaufort 
 Knots 
 Sail Plan for Murrelet 
(not necessarily appropriate for other X vessels.) 

 0-4 - 
1 
 1-3 
 Full main sail, and 
Genoa. Patches of ripples. 

 4-7 - 2 
 4-6 
 Full main sail, and Genoa, 
consider water ballast, less Genoa Overall ripples. 

 8-12 - 3 
 7-10 
 Full main sail, and Genoa, and 
water ballast Small waves. 

 13-18 - 4 
 11-13 14-16

 Intermediate reef main and full 
Genoa - planing mode 
 Intermediate reef main sail & 110% - 120% of 
Genoa longer flatter waves.

 18-24 - 
5 
 17-21 
 Reefed main sail & 80% - 90% 
of Genoa Few whitecaps. 

 25-31 - 6 
 22-27 
 No main & Genoa rolled out more than jib 
size overall whitecaps. 

 32-38 - 
7 
 28-33 
 Lower end, Genoa only in 
storm jib size Sail the hull, consider motor sailing, go with 
the flow. Small Craft 
Advisory, you will see sailboats but very few cabin cruisers. 

 47-54 - 
8 
 41-47 
 Should have motored to harbor. 
These are fast sailboats capable of reaching harbor by sail or 
motor 
before such a blow.Remove enclosures. consider dropping mast. Close 
hatches. Sail hull. Gale Warning. You will 
see few boats. Wait it out. Write book. 

 The 
next myth is partially related because fast sailboats often have narrow 
bows to make crew leaning forward capable of filling sails by 
gravety. This becomes a stability issue when motoring at WOT 
unless buoyancy is provide by a powerboat belly as in the X. Click on 
the next tab for further discussion. [ Top ] [ Next ] [ Prior ] [ Bot ]

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

[ Home ]
[ Decision Tree ]
[ Deep Knowledge ]
[ Acknowledgements ]
[ Map ] 

 Cruising Log of the
Mariah Wind 
 Cruising Log
of the Bella Donna 
 Crusing
Log of the ForeverGreen 

 Frank &amp Lisa Mighetto - 1260 NE 69th St.
Seattle, WA
98115 - (206)
525-1458 voice and fax 

 mighetto@eskimo.com - Internet
email
address 

 mighetto@compuserve.com -
Internet email
address or 72154,3467 from within Compuserve