Myth #5 - KEELED SAILBOATS ARE THE MOST SEAWORTHY OCEAN
CRUISERS 

 Cruising Log of the Murrelet 

 Main 

 CB 

 FB 

 Fast 

 Size 

 Keel 

 Ballast 

 Point 

 Tall 

 Race 

 Lean 

 Ocean 

 #5 - KEELED SAILBOATS ARE THE MOST SEAWORTHY OCEAN CRUISERS 

[ First ]
[ Next ]
[ Prior ]
[ Last ]

One of the great things about keels is stability but it takes a skilled 
captain and crew to keep a deep keeled boat seaworthy for 20 and even 
30+ years. Hence 
older deep keel boats in like new condition, such as in the slide show 
(click on the photo to the left to start) are to 
be admired. 

Most keeled sailboats have 6 feet or more of draft and are heavy. This
means that they will hit bottom before the crew can wade to safety ashore.
In power boating, when there is a seaworthiness problem,
you head for the beach, ground the vessel, and thereby save both the
vessel and crew. This is not usually possible with deep keeled 
boats because they
will topple while grounding (keel over) and can topple in breakers 
that in time will 
pound the vessel to oblivion. An exception are the 
newer fixed fin keels that are designed to break away in a grounding. 

 "After all, for a seaman, to scrape the bottom of the thing 
that's supposed to float all the time under his care is the unpardonable 
sin. No one may know of it, but you never forget the thump-eh? A blow on 
the very heart. You remember it, you dream of it, you wake up at night and 
think of it--years after--and go hot and cold all over." 

 Joseph Conrad 
 Heart of Darkness pg 62 

 The Story of Onkabye and Gimcrack 
[ Top ] 
[ Next ] 
[ Prev ] 
[ Bot ] 

 The following information is conveyed from the History of American 
Sailing Ships , a book published in 1935. 

 This is a rather common book on the west coast of the US, in spite 
of its age, for folks who are studying sailboat design. The story of 
Onkabye and Gimcrack is found in Chapter 7 of the book. 

 Onkabye (or Oncabye) is thought to be the start of the evolution of 
American Sailing Yachts. The name means 'dancing feather'; Gimcrack in the 
1840s was slang for 'useless thing'. 

 Onkabye, as her name implies, was a radical departure from the heavy 
keel-pilot schooners used for the sport of yachting in the New York and 
Boston areas. She was a 90 foot internally ballasted centerboarder. She 
was very fast, stiff, and smart, and to be used only for pleasure 
purposes, racing in particular. 

 Onkabye, didn't last long as a pleasure boat. In about 3 years the 
US Navy made an offer and the experiments that the owner was conducting 
regarding external ballast tacked onto the side of the hull and rolling in 
heavy seas, stopped. Rigged for war, Onkabye was a slow sailboat, very 
sensitive to the extra weight. She was lost 5 years later on a reef. 
Because of Onkabye, a very big distinction between the hull forms of a 
commercial Naval sailing vessel and a yacht was made by 1935. 

 Soon after the Navy purchased Onkabye, her owners built Gimcrack. 
This 52 footer had a fixed fin of between 12 and 15 feet long. Gimcrack 
was quickly recognized as a failed experiment. 

 The owners of both boats when launched were the Stevens, sons of 
Colonel John Stevens, the engineer so responsible for steamships. They 
were considered hobby sailboat designers and "apparently desired to 
prove that a centerboard vessel could be designed that would combine the 
advantages of both the keel and centerboard types and thus demonstrate the 
arguments of the supporters of the centerboard." 

 Interestingly, those supporters would later found the New York Yacht 
Club (NYYC) in the cabin of Gimcrack, the useless thing, on the afternoon 
of July 30, 1844. "Because of the shoal anchorage of the New York Yacht 
Club at Weehawken, later at 'the foot of Cort Street' on the Brooklyn 
shore and on the Jersey side from Commnipaw to Kill van Kull, the shallow 
centerboard yacht was most popular with NYYC boat owners." 
 Gimcrack placed third in the first NYYC regatta which was 
considered a failure for what was meant to be the flagship of the new 
club. Maria, Americas first true racing sailboat, was her successor. 
Maria was recognized as faster than America the vessel which started the 
Americas cup. Maria's boards were off the centerline. 

 "When Leontes, in Shakespeare's The Winter's Tail , 
confesses his inability to be decisive with the metaphore 'I am a feather 
for each wind that blows' he does so with regret and self-admonition. We 
think the metaphor works equally well for sailors..." 

 Carolyn & Bob Mehaffy 
 Northwest Yachting February 2OO5 pg 62 

 The inability to be decisive in sailing yacht design then is as 
today. Supporters of the deep keel were 
concentrated in Boston, with its deep water anchorage, back in the days of 
Gimcrack and Onkabye. And today sailors argue the merrits of 
centerboards and fixed deep keels just as then with New York Yacht 
Club members still favoring centerboarders such as the Swan 45. 

 The bottom line is that the notion that Naval Architects do power 
and not sail boats and that a power boat designer is only a hobbyist if 
doing a sail boat is traced to day one of the evolution of the American 
sailing yacht. The separation between sailors and powerboaters, rag 
baggers and stink pots, was orchestrated right there. See 
 Olin 
Stephens for more. 

 The Fixed Fin Keel 
[ Top ]
[ Next ]
[ Prev ]
[ Bot ] 
 The 
basic sailing books often point out that 
a glass bottle will survive a hurricane. Put an uncapped empty bottle
with an attached keel in a shallow wave situation, allow the keel to hit
bottom, and eventually the bottle will flood and sink. That
is what happens with keeled sailboats. You do not even need heavy surf or 
a weather situation. 

Anchor a deep keeled boat in 
shallow water, fail to plug the through hulls
(outlets through the hull for engine and galley uses) or close hatches,
let her
topple with the tide and when the tide comes in the keeled
boat will flood. At high tide it is a sunk wreck. During my first year in
Murrelet I personally witnessed this phenomenon. It was an eye opener. I
certainly will purchase insurance when chartering deep keeled
sailboats. 

 A second weather unrelated situation is the keeled sailboat with low
freeboard. You can put the rail in the water until water reaches the
centerline or an open hatch and the vessel will flood and
eventually topple. If it is a heavy displacement hull. it will sink,
putting its occupants in open water, possibly miles from shore. 

 As the story of Onkabye and Gimcrack
demonstrates , deep fixed keel sailboats are 
part of a long, important and interesting
 experimental period in yacht design. I respect their skilled 
sailors 
as I do those who sail square
riggers. But for recreational boating, their continued use needs to be
seriously questioned.

Unlicensed keelboat sailors can not be expected to know that commercial
fishing vessels have the right of way (an exception to the usual rule
favoring the vessel under sail) and that their keels will snag lines
with fisherman/ diver loss of life resulting. There is also the damage
keels do to coral reefs. It is a serious matter. 
Putting a novice in a bare keelboat charter is asking for trouble. 

 Center
boarded light 
displacement hull sail boats (like Mac26x boats) should be more
available for chartering. Mac26x cruisers are similar to beach balls with
ballast to keep them upright. The 1,400
 pounds of water ballast and narrow hull of Mac26x cruisers provide the
self-righting stability
of a keel boats. Seaworthiness has to do 
with the vessel's ability to
remain floating on the surface right-side up. In heavy weather the Mac26x
centerboard and
rudders can be retracted and
like the
beach
ball in surf the vessel may bounce off the breakers over a reef that can
pound a
keeled
sailboat out of existence. According to Don Dobs, author of Modern
Cruising Under Sail, "Recent studies seem to contradict traditional
arguments for the safety of long keels. One such study showed that
these keels apparently drag when a boat slides sideways down a wave
face, and trip the boat" (pg 151)." Keels usually comprise the
backbone of a vessel. A backbone is often the definition of a keel.
Hence, touch and
goes and heavy seas probably weaken the hull of fixed keel
boats overtime making unreinforced older craft ill suited for ocean
crossing.
Nonetheless, ocean
crossing in a like new cruiser is viewed by Dobs as no more risky than
freeway driving. Coastal ocean cruising is actually more risky than
ocean crossing because the waves are larger and breaking near the coast
and there are shallows. 

 When a beach ball grounds it often does so in shallow water that will
not support pounding breakers.
I have become confident that I can batten down Murrelet's
hatches, hide below, retract the foils (centerboard and rudders) 
and ride any storm surge to calmer water or shallow
water where I could drag anchor or beach as a beach ball would. Glass
balls used for fishing nets do so. So do Zodiacs and other tenders. 

Murrelet is a 5 ton by volume documentable 
vessel . She and all Mac26x boats
delivered
from the factory are foam filled so that they will act like a Zodiac in a
storm, IE like a life raft. Hence, assuming I
do not put several tons of lead pellets in her bilge, or bolt on a 2 ton
keel, I do not need to be as concerned about being miles from shore. If
needed the mast can be dropped on Mac26x cruisers thereby reducing weight
aloft which is a contributor to capsizing. Even capsized Mac26x
cruisers provide more shelter from exposure than life rafts. And of course
the ability to motor above 10 MPH for 100 miles or more makes Murrelet
nimble to avoid weather hazards. She should make passage as fast
or faster than 60 plus foot sail boats. Fast passage is important in
avoiding storms at sea. Once in harbor, Mac26x vessels can be lifted or
trailered to dry storage or beached or at a minimum anchored close to a
beach inside the storm breakers. 

 The Swing Keel 
[ Top ]
[ Next ]
[ Prev ]
[ Bot ] 

 In March of 2002 I started telling those interested in Murrelet that 
she
has a swing keel. This small twist of words appeared to
endear me and my vessel to the PHRF keel boat racers who look forward to
racing against my crew. Since MacGregor Yacht Corporation
invented the swing 
keel , I figured it was OK to use the term in
describing Mac26x cruisers. By April, however, the racing crews were well 
aware that Murrelet is a centerboarder. Centerboard cruisers use to 
have a 
special PHRF rule that prohibited racing without ballast. This rule, some 
racers speculated, was put in to keep boats that plane out of the 
competitions. Since many performance cruisers without water 
ballast now plane and in sufficient wind, on the down side of a swell, 
displacement hull sailboats surf which is a form of planing, the rule was 
not carried into the 2003 racing season. The 
racing sail boats are routinely modified prior to a race by leaving gear 
and even crew on shore in light wind conditions and I know of one captain 
that emptied his boat's fresh water tanks during a race. 

 Twin Shallow Keels 
[ Top ]
[ Next ]
[ Prev ]
[ Bot ] 

 "No other nation has put so much faith in bilge (or twin) 
keels as the British. Other countries have flirted with them, but we 
became so enamored with the concept that they were the first choice for 
anything less than about 36 feet."

 Practical Boat Owner 
 Buying A Second Hand Boat, April 2005, pg 54 

 In 
light 
wind (less than 7 MPH) there is really no capsize 
risk in a 
Mac26x. Hence they are endorsed by the manufacturer for unballasted 
operation under power and sail. Unlike other trailerable sailboats, 
such as the MacGregor 
26 
classics, 
the hard side chines on the X (in combination with the off centerline 
 water tank structure and duel rudders) form twin shallow keels so that 
the boat tracks well under sail unballasted. Twin keels become more 
effective with increased angle of heel, while a single keel becomes less 
effective. The Stevens 
experments regarding external ballast tacked onto the side of Onkabye's 
hull could well have demonstrated this. It is observable on the Mac26x 
when the ballast tanks are flooded. Blue Bird, the first twin keel 
yacht, was built in 1920 by Lord Riverdale. She was 25 foot
and had twin rudders not unlike a Mac26x.

 The notion that a bilge keeler is also a shallow draft vessel 
apparently doesn't hold true. The positive flotation Sadler 26 masthead 
sloops, which should be compared to Mac26x cruisers, (because they are 
unsinkable, use one-piece molding to form the interior, have an 
exceptionally ridged structure, and use Lewmar winches), had a fair amount 
of draft. The 3 feet six inches of draft made them just barely 
trailerable. 

 However these boats can stand upright on two legs when low tide 
makes that necessary and hence the twin keel form is the most desired of 
this David Harding design. David Harding also designed the Contessa 26, a 
cousin to the Folkboat, and like these vessels the Sadler 26 has 
circumnavigated the globe. Today PBO calls them superb all-rounders, brave 
little boats that are a joy to sail and implies that, in experienced 
hands, they are a match for 
today's crop of small performance cruisers (probably referring to the 
MacGregor 26 cruisers). pg 100 April 2005. 

 As mentioned previously, Laurent-Giles 
proposed twin keels for Trekka and while this keel form was rejected by 
Guzwell in favor of a bolt on centerline keel, Laurent-Giles was 
successful in 
getting the concept built on the twin keel Westerly Centaur 22s, about 15 
years later. The Westerly Centaur 22s today are viewed as a breakthrough 
in modern boat building. They use asymmetric keels of 2 foot 2 inch size 
which were abandoned to gain windward performance such as is found on the 
Sadler 26. Note that windward 
performance of a twin keeler in 
rough water is superior to a deep single fin vessel because of the roll 
and pitch dampening 
abilities of the keels. 

 Twin keels assist in planing because they 
reshape the wave pattern to produce a flatter wake and can reduce 
the effort needed to break out from hull speed. The 
Mac26x cruiser is reinforced with an additional layer of fiberglass 
liminate that was reported to have been added by the manufacturer to 
absorb the pounding and reduce the vibrations 
on the hull that occur when the boat is being powered by motor at high 
speeds. Because the prop can work in clear water without turbulance from a 
centerline keel and/or rudder, handling is more efficient, less fuel is 
consumed, the boat is faster and can be operated better when the engine is 
in reverse. 

The topside of the Mac26x cruisers was modified post 1998 so it would be 
lighter this further reducing capsize potential. 
Hence I see little problem in racing unballasted when winds are light. 
Multihulls 
race under special rules but are not required to be ballasted and combined 
weighted-keel-water-ballasted vessels such as the Hunter HC50 and 
Guzwell's Endangered Species fill tanks only in heavy wind. In any 
case, the term 
swing keel is being reserved for a centerboard that has weight 
attached to the foil and I no longer use the term to describe 
Murrelet. 

 Canting Keel 
[ Top ]
[ Next ]
[ Prev ]
[ Bot ] 
 Centerboard, 
swing keel, or keel, new monohull sail 
boat 
purchasers should at least consider vessels like Sadlers, Potters, Etaps 
and 
MacGregors that have solid flotation. They should also choose thin rather
than wide monohulls. The thinner the hull, the more it is like a log in
that it is self righting and of course the quicker the righting the less
likely serious flooding. Such vessels, in the hands of competent 
crew, are 
the most seaworthy. Note - some ocean racers are wide rather than thin. 
This is the result of artificial limitations on design, like maximum 
water ballast and experimentation with canting keels that if canted to 
the wrong side could cause capsize quickly in a thin hull. Without these 
design 
rules the vessels would be thinner. Nonetheless even the wide racers 
present a thin form to the water when heeled modistly. 
 In November of 2003, I finally caught up with one of the McKee Tasar 
crew.

Jonathan McKee keeps himself on the edge of sailing technology which today 
means 
canting keels, which he prefers to call swing keels. I think the swing 
term should be reserved for technology advanced by MacGregor Yachts and 
hence will stick with canting keel as the descriptor. 

An advocate for canting keels, McKee is active in a project that in two 
years will have a vessel called Genuine Risk (GR) running out of San 
Diego. That ship is to be a 94 foot ocean racer showcasing the canting 
keel technology. 

Obvious once you become aware is that a canting keel does not provide 
lateral resistance. This implys that vessels using this technology will do 
poorly upwind. The fix on GR is to be a forward rudder. 
 In 2004 water ballast and canting keel technologies started being 
described as kinds of movable ballast. My Mac26x dealer is also a Schock 
dealer and the Schock 40 (which BWY doesn't yet sell) features a canting 
bulb keel and twin foils. The term movable ballast applies to both boats. 
But my dealer was not aware of that so I wasn't able to fully discuss the 
technology. Fortunately, in March of 2004, Sail magazine on page 110 
proposed that canting keels are a superior form of movable ballast. The 
author was unaware that artificial limitations, discussed above, had 
encouraged some ocean racing designers to build wide water ballasted 
vessels. 

 "Wide boats with water ballast are very effective at 
generating stability at low angles of heel, but they are prone to capsize 
and are too stable when inverted; they can stay turtled indefinitely....A 
moveable keel can be an effective tool when righting a turtled 
boat." 

 Water ballasted boats need not be wide and the Mac26x is not prone 
to capsize. She is also self righting. To be fair, the author did note 
many of the canting compromises. These include loss of lateral resistance 
which limits sailing to downwind, the T-bulb configuration which is a 
"classic trap for crab pots and weed", and that canting technology is a 
rather expensive way to increase stability. With these one should add that 
canting keel vessels once capsized can sink and that the bulb on the fin 
is a large source of drag. Furthermore, I have yet to find a canting keel 
vessel that does not have an opening in the hull through which water can 
enter. They are severly limited on the interior because of the mechanisms 
necesary for the technology. Then there is the weight. Water ballast is 
moved off the boat in light wind. This advantage is significant especially 
in doldrums. 

 I have concluded that patent holders are high on the canting 
technology but sailors need not be. Of course it would not be difficult to 
add something like the CBTF canting bulb used by the Shock 40 to a mac26x. 
The forward foil is already in the correct position and a well for the 
canting mechanism could be added without modifying the ballast tank 
because the components for the tank are far from centerline. But I 
think water ballast superior. 

A group of keel boater's peppering McKee at a sailing society meeting 
about 
Mini-Transat 
racing couldn't help vocalizing how similar McKee's mini boat looks to a 
Macgregor 26 (x). Sailing Society mates later confirmed that I had heard 
the comment. It pleased me very much. I have no idea who made the comment 
but it was a highlight of the evening. You lift a rudder on the mini's 
just like you are instructed by the manuals to do with a Mac26x.

McKee was encouraged to admit that he prefers sailboats that plane and 
mono hulls over keel boats and multy hulls. He reluctantly noted that his 
favorite boat is 
an Ozi 18? and couldn't help himself from commenting on a grounding 
incident a new-to-our-society keel boater had that weekend while retruning 
from a race (no damage fortunately). As an aside - it is now possible to 
have pizza delivered to a grounded vessel - this owing to cell phone and 
gps technology.

The mini-transat boats are half the weight of a Mac26x unballasted. Owing 
to a "Box" rule they have become wide over the years but can not be more 
than 22 feet long. Stability comes from the wide beam but more from moving 
solid weight - gear, water, food etc - to the windward side, according to 
McKee. Any sail plan is allowed within the box rule. 

 In 
sufficient seas all boats can capsize. Today small racing and 
ocean cruising sailboats, similar 
to Mac26x vessels, are rigged to 
withstand 
capsizing, the most seaworthy righting themselves quickly, like a log, 
rigging 
undamaged. This is in contrast to vessels prior to the 1970s where solid 
ballast 
was added in amounts so large that the boats would sink when flooded. 
Solid 
ballast weight even today is mistakenly believed to be better insurance 
against capsize 
than water ballast. The next tab analyzes water and solid ballast.

 [ Top ]
[ Next ]
[ Prior ]
[ Bot ]

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

[ Home ]
[ Decision Tree ]
[ Deep Knowledge ]
[ Acknowledgements ]
[ Map ] 

 Cruising Log of the
Mariah Wind 
 Cruising Log
of the Bella Donna 
 Crusing
Log of the ForeverGreen 

 Frank &amp Lisa Mighetto - 1260 NE 69th St.
Seattle, WA
98115 - (206)
525-1458 voice and fax 

 mighetto@eskimo.com - Internet
email
address 

 mighetto@compuserve.com -
Internet email
address or 72154,3467 from within Compuserve