Myth #6 WATER BALLAST IS INFERIOR TO OTHER
BALLAST 

 Cruising Log of the Murrelet 

 Main 

 CB 

 FB 

 Fast 

 Size 

 Keel 

 Ballast 

 Point 

 Tall 

 Race 

 Lean 

 Ocean 

 #6 WATER BALLAST IS INFERIOR TO OTHER BALLAST 

[ First Page ] [ Next ] [ Prior ] [ Last ]

Dozens
of individuals have told me so. But I can just not get that concept
into my head. Ballast is ballast. When water 
is spread 
directly under a boat's
floor boards and capped so that it can not slosh around (as in Mac26x 
boats), a
modest heel raises the water ballast on the windward side out of the sea 
where
it is just as effective as solid ballast. I have seen in print the 
 argument that 
water
ballast reduces head room and there are production boats with Mac26x 
like
designs that use traditional
ballast . But Mac26x boats have enough headroom for the average sized 
sailor.
Since I am 6 foot tall (not average), I can always use head room. Murrelet 
has a
rain hood (dodger) that extends the headroom over the galley (where it is 
needed
most) to over 7 feet. I am comfortable. Sans dodger the average height (5'
7") person is as well. 

 A controversy over water ballast raged from 
1987 ending a few years before 
Murrelet was launched in 1999. Apparently boat manufacturers with faulty 
understanding of the technology advance by MacGregor Yachts built trailer 
sailboats where the water ballast was not directly under the boat's 
floorboards but instead on the centerline and to the bottom of the hull. 
This in combination with a rounded or V shape hull produced vessels 
requiring lots of heel for the water ballast to be raised from the sea 
where it is most effective. This is not the kind of water ballast 
advanced in 
the Mac26x. The Mac26x has outside-centerline water ballast 
that is also called 
movable water ballast. 

 To search this site enter a word or phrase below:

DO NOT use Advanced Syntax (AND, OR, NOT, NEAR)

 The Cascails fleet exhibited a good representation of
current offshore design, and it was interesting to see how they fared.
Sitting on the weather rail of a Corel 45 was a pretty uncomfortable mix
of the offshore washing machine spin-and-wash cycles that many of us are
familiar with. It was pretty galling to watch the water-ballasted boats
taking the conditions very much in their stride - and with significantly
more comfort for their crews. It is probably fair to say that this was
one of the tougher offshore races that I have completed - and that
includes the Sidney to Hobart. 

 Chris Little, Commodore 
Seahorse International 
November 2004 pg 4 

 Comfort and Water Ballast 
 Coming from a powerboat background, and knowing that the new trawlers ballast
fuel to keep the vessels from excessive rolling, I consider the movement of my
water ballasted sailing cruiser natural. However, sea sickness, is 
possible. We were prepared to be sick on a several hour trip to Friday 
Harbor from Washington Park in 2002. The seas were bouncy if not rough 
and since we were motoring in a group it was necessary to maintain the 
speed of the catamaran lead boat.Owing to the unwavering tall mast of 
the 
catamaran there was some noticable rolling on the Mac26x cruisers at 
slower speed. But 
no sickness 
was experienced. Water ballast proved its worth that day. 

 Nausea, comes from the Greek word for ship, or naus. I 
know that keel boaters, accustomed to the feel of a weighted keel, expect
to find water ballasted sail boats a visceral problem. Keel boats with rounded
bottoms (while tipping more than a flat bottomed vessel when docked and rocking
more in light seas without wind) "stiffen up" when at a heel. Hence, I believe,
those aboard weighted keel vessels making good under sail often have an easier
time avoiding sickness than many power boat occupants. The Mac26x, owing to the
flat planing portion of its hull, is stable at rest and hardens up like a keel
boat when on a modest heel under sail. Hence, it is likely that when operated by
a skilled captain, these cruisers may be one of the least likely of the mono
hulls to contribute to sea sickness.
 In 
2000, I was fortunate in meeting the builder of Trekka, John Guzwell, a
year or so after his first ocean crossing in his new boat Endangered Species, a
water ballasted sloop. So I asked him about water ballast. In the 1950's Guzwell
bolted an iron keel to the bottom of Trekka prior to circumnavigation. The
sailor confided that even today he prefers the feel of a substantial keel to water ballast . In
fact, Endangered Species has both water ballast and a weighted keel. There is no
rule preventing such a combination, though many publications like to imply that
water ballast is just for vessels that can be trailered. Large Hunter cruisers
now combine small traditional keels with water ballast. (See
Hunter HC50) 
 Regardless of 
Guzwell's preference, I suspect that, like Trekka's bolt on
keel, weighted fin keels, even when retractable, should not be viewed as 
desirable on ocean going craft. 

 In 2002 a Potter sailed to 
Hawaii from Berkeley California without noticable wear. After being 
shipped back 
from 
Hawaii, the vessel was dropped 5 feet from a lift into the waters at the 
Berkeley 
marina 
with significant structural damage being the result. The damage was 
apparently caused by the centerline weighted foil 
in spite of it being in its retracted position. 

 Guzwell was never happy with the bolt on keel for Trekka and thought the
designer could have done better. To be fair to the designer, several keels
had been proposed including a twin
keel shoal draft design that would have allowed Trekka to sit upright in dry
bays. Better likely has been done with the Mac26x via its centerboard/ water
ballast system. This unique catamaran-like-ballast-tank inner hull 
design 
allows this vessel to 
launch and work in the shallow waters as low as 9 inches as well 
as open-ocean not unlike a PacCat .
 Research on Water Ballast 
 My research
on water ballast appears to refute MacGregor Yachts claim to have
invented water ballasted sail boats. According to Sailing Today, September 
2000
page 83, Van de Stadt's Dehler 25 sloop may have bested MacGregor Yachts 
by a
year or so in the use of water ballast. The German Dehler 25s were 
produced from 
1984 to 1991 and water ballast was reported in the US to be used 
for 
trailering reasons and cost 
savings. With the Van De Stadt 
Swing Rig Patent , I have come to doubt the reports involving cost. 
 Dahler appears 
to be more interested in innovation than cost savings. The notion 
that 
lower cost always translates into mediocre 
 quality (a notion 
that I do 
not hold) may support this myth. There is also the belief that any 
bilge
ballast (water or otherwise) represents a failure by the architect/ 
builders. 
When a boat is launched and floats above her lines, correction is made by 
adding
bilge ballast. Later, certainly before the boat is resold or perhaps
during haul
out, the bilge ballast might be tacked to the vessels 
keel where the design 
flaw
isn't so visible and is even harmfull .

 The notion that external keel ballast in any form is a flaw
rather than a feature would not be a surprise
to a sailor from 100 years ago. This trick of tacking lead on the external
keel has
probably been a joke among sailing work-boat owners for at least that
long. Weight on a foil external to the hull creates a lever
that the sea over time will use to crack the hull. I have chatted with
two over 20 year old fiberglass sail boat owners who have experienced
this cracking. They report that their vessels had not been
grounded. Just sea action caused the cracks. 

 Prior to about 
1900, 
all
sailing vessels used internal (also called bilge) ballast in the form of
cargo, stone and, as in the case of Spray,
concrete. Spray 
continues to be disparaged as a cheep boat because
of her ballast. Yet this method of ballasting has been proven by 
time. Oriole is a 1918 George Owen (of MIT) racing yacht that was 
intended to be the largest yacht on the Great Lakes. She is larger 
than the current day maxis at 102 foot over all and 91 foot at the 
water line. The way to honor the sailors of the past is to preserve 
their vessels and in 2003 Oriole underwent a major overhaul. The most 
significant make over was the removal of CONCRETE ballast which was 
replaced with lead. Over the years Oriole gained a following among the 
less "yachty" and became known as the peoples boat. However it must 
have been distressing to the well heeled to have a concrete ballasted 
vessel better them. Oriole came in second in the 1998 Victoria-Maui 
race and in 2000 finished more than 19 hours ahead on corrected time 
over some of the most modern raceboats on the Pacific. In 1998 she 
finished seventh in the Sydney-Hobart.This was the infamous race where 
55 people had to be rescued, 5 boats sank, and 66 boats retired out of 
the 115 that started, 6 sailor's lives were lost during that race. To 
say the Oriole's design is proven, understates the contributions she 
has made to the science of sailing. The 102 ft ketch is currently 
owned by the Canadian Navy and is used for training of Regular and 
Reserve Canadian Navy members. It is distressing to those who would like 
to think of Oriole as the people's boat to 
have the concrete removed and replaced with an expensive supstitute that 
has not been shown any more effective. 

 Often, when a material is inexpensive and is used in boat
manufacturing, there is an assumption by those not making a livelihood
from the sea, that the boat is not seaworthy. Cost is not the most
important factor in
seaworthines. The notion that the least cost ballast, water, and
water in movable form (caskets) was used by almost all square riggers
should distress those advocating external movable (canting) bulb ballasted
keels which are competing with movable water ballast designs. 

 In spite of the availibility of movable keels for over a decade now,
movable water ballast continues to be used in
the newer single 
handled ocean racing sailboats where cost is not a concern. Where the
canting keel sailing machine may better in normal wind behind her she
suffers in
light wind because the canting keel form of movable ballast can not be
moved off the vessel. 

 I suspect that movable
water ballast represents the better sail boat design philosophy but
that canting keels, because they can be patented, will be marketed
heavily and will become accepted owing to marketing, rather than
seaworthiness. 

 After
many stinging comments from those who believed me incapable of
understanding this ballast business, I was pointed to WoodenBoats November/December 
2000
issue which has been the most helpful article I have come across in 
refuting
sailing myths. I keep that now with my Mac26x owners guide, and thank the 
wooden
boat building enthusiasts for advancing the use of water ballast, and 
showing me
that I am capable of seeing some sailing truths, where more experienced 
sailors
may not. To quantify things, water ballasted designs like the Mac26x,
where the ballast is located as far outboard as possible, are roughly four
times more stable at 10 degrees of heel, three times more stable at 30
degrees, and twice as stable at 50 degrees than similer vessels with
weighted centerline keels. (see G$
24 ) The off centerline as far as possible arrangement lowers the
center of gravity and "maximizes stability at low heel angles, since the
flotation effect of the windward keel is quickly lost if the boat heels
enough to pull it from the water. This is exactly like a catamaran."
 The
bottom line is that the Mac26x design has much more stability than
traditional mono hulled boats and less capsize risk than multi hulls. 

 Primary Ballast System should be Water 
Ballast 

 James Boyd in his April 2005 Sailing World article (page 45) notes 
that the Vende Globe machines with canting keels also have water ballast. 
The question as to which is the primary ballast system on boats that have 
both may have been answered in that article. 

 Vincent Riou, who is kind of a McGyver (technically proficient) when 
it comes to fixing things, was unable to fix hydraulic rams used to cant 
PRB's keel. This forced him to drop the keel down to leeward before any 
maneuver in the Southern Ocean passage of the 2004/2005 Vende Globe race, 
slowing things down considerably. However Boyd paints the failure of one 
of six centerline water ballast tanks on the same boat as more dramatic. 
The tank could not be repaired allowing air to enter it in a way that 
meant that 1.5 tons of water ballast could not be used effectively when 
PRB was on port tack. Boyd says there was an "explosion" involving the 
tank. So both ballast systems had failures. We come to see from 
Boyd's article that water ballast is the primary movable ballast 
form 50 miles from the finish line when the newly-launched-for-the-race 
Ecover's canting keel falls off. 

 Rather than abandoning the race. Golding, fills the water tanks, 
extends the twin outboard dagger boards and twin rudders and then further 
stabilizes the boat by reducing sail. In this Mac26x configuration, Ecover 
sails at 9 knot speeds to become the first monohull in recent history to 
ever have finished a major race without the benefit of an external keel 
foil. The experience of PRB and Encover should be 
conclusive regarding which form of movable ballast is best. 

 However debate will continue because of vested interests in canting 
technology and bulb keels. The best countering argument involves the fact 
that Riou had the benefit of high speed Internet access where as the other 
sailors were not able to keep their computer and wireless equipment 
operating at that speed. Fast web surfing for weather and sea information, 
in combination with a center foil that could gybe to windward (like the 
Mac26x) meant Riou could find better wind and sea conditions, point high 
to get to them, and make a better course to the finish line to win. This 
argument ignores the fact that Riou had moved ballast off of the canting 
keel of PRB by using a significantly smaller bulb and thiner foil 
so that he could add an additional internal (though possibly flawed) water ballast 
tank. 

 Pascal 
Conq and Guillaume Verder further explained PRBs tanks in an 
article in the July 2005 Seahorse magazine (page 45). PRB has water 
ballast tanks remarkably similar to Mac26x vessels. The designers call 
these tanks inertia ballast tanks and they are placed to make the 
center of gravity align with the center of buoyancy at a 10 degree angle of heel. 
Additional tanks along the centerline running bow to stern are being 
contemplated. The inertia ballast tanks provide substantial extra righting 
moment. "The distribution of these low centre of gravity ballast tanks is 
chosen to offer both increased inertia to go through waves in the upwind 
conditon and to counteract the pitching moment induced by the sail driving 
force in the reaching condition. This set-up was first trialled on 
Christophe Auguin's successful Finot 60 Geodis some 10 years ago." 
Christophe Auguin sailed Geodis to victory in both the 1994-95 Around 
Alone and 1996-97 Vendee Globe. PRB continues to demonstrate the 
winning ways of this design. 

 Vanishing Stability and Water Ballast 
 The PacCat 
(discussed above) is 
apparently very stable and its success explains odd contraptions like the 
one pictured to the left. This motor vessel consists of a frame attached 
to two inflated pontoons. I imagine it is used for some kind of fishing, 
perhaps 
sword fish off the coast of California. Two 25 hp motors are mounted. 
Note the ribbed dingy inside the starboard hull and blue water 
catamaran on her bow. All three craft have poor angles of vanishing 
stability. 

 The capsize 
ratio or formula and ability of the craft to remain floating even if 
swamped are the most important items for survivability. 
 Survivability and stability ratios are related to each other only for 
designs that by modern standards should be questioned. 
 The 
angle of 
vanishing 
stability ratio has long been used to disparage multihulls from use as 
blue water cruisers. This ratio was used until recently to keep 
multihulls out of ocean races such as the West Marine 
TransPac. The angle to which the boat can heel and still right itself is the 
Angle of Vanishing Stability. Acording to US Sailing, the angle of 
vanishing stability is the resistance to capsize and heel and is one of 
the best predictors of ultimate stability. 

 A dingy will have a stability range of about 80 degrees, an inland 
water boat should have a stability range of 100 degrees, and an 
offshore sail boat of at least 120 degrees. Boats which have stability 
angles of less than 140 degrees may be left floating upside down once 
capsized. Boats with a higher angle will usually right themselves. 

 Roger MacGregor reports that for comparson purposes the stability ratio 
for the Mac26x is 115 and that when ballasted the vessel is completely 
self righting, indicating greater than 140. The load carried in the 
Mac26x impacts the calculation. 
 http://www.sailingusa.info/cal__avs.htm is usfull in seeing 
that. 

 For example, unballasted with centerboard extended the Mac26x has an 
estimated angle of vanishing stablity of 112 by 
http://www.sailingusa.info/cal__avs.htm. Ballasted her estimated ratio 
is 130, best I can tell (the calulation shows minus 50. 180 - 50 = 
130). I use 35 lbs as the weight of the centerboard in the estimates. 
When the Mac26m was introduced, it was believed that the weight of the 
water inside the centerboard should be included (about 100 lbs). I am 
cloudy on that. It is clear in anycase that when loaded down for an 
extended cruise, with gear and provisons properly secured, that the 
ratio for a Mac26x will be over 140. The calculation makes no 
distinction
between ballast stored internally (in the form of secured gear, lead
pellets or water) and weight tacked on to a keel in bulb or other
form. A review of page 49 of a 1994 
study shows our ballasted X boats to be one of the "good 
ones". 
 As with all useful ratios, this one makes one think about 
appropriate 
design. The Oden 820 and Potter notion of putting weight on a fin is a bad 
one for hull centerline stress reasons if not just for drag reasons. When 
the X was designed this was known and it has become known in aircraft 
testing. Today craft such as the F/A-22 are redefining aircraft by moving 
missiles and fuel internally rather than beneath the wings. This gives 
them low aerodynamic drag allowing less fuel use. It has yet to be 
shown that bulb keels are desirable. In fact Ted Brewer and Bill Luders 
showed 40 years ago that they were not and Brewer still believes bulbs 
are foolish. See keel 
design. Stability is everthing in boat design and if bulb keels 
were 
desirable designers would use them on power only vessels. They do not, 
prefering ballast in the form of golf cart batteries, engines, and in the 
case of fishing vessels, ice (a form of water ballast). 

 I conclude that 
the M betters the Oden 820 in forward thinking when one comes to view 
advancements in sailing design as being related to work in aircraft 
design. The Oden 820 (owing to beam ) apparently can not match the X in 
Vanishing Stability or Capsize Risk ratios and hence is not considered an 
ocean sailboat. The M can be considered 
an ocean worthy-by-ratio monohull-pocket cruiser by those who view 
the Limit of Vanishing Stability (also referred to as the Limit of 
Positive Stability or LPS) as important, after being loaded with 
provisions that are stored low in the vessel and secured.

 Many assume that once the LPS is reached the boat will invert and stay 
that way until wind or wave action push it right way up. But this isn't 
true with the most seaworthy of shapes, those being the sphere and the 
log. It is only true with shapes that have until recently been sailboat 
shapes. The shape of the top deck of the Mac26x and Mac26m makes that 
assumption incorrect. 

It is similar to when 2 + 2 no longer equals 4 because we are no longer 
working in base 10. 

 2 Plus 2 & 4 
 Roger Macgregor presents a notion of stability by using one of those 
punching toys. You know the 
clowns 
that you punch and they right themselves. That is how we are to think of 
stability on the Mac26x. I do not own such a toy but I do have a beach 
ball and I have run this experiment in the hot tub. If I tape a weight, 
even a small one, to the bottom and turn the ball upside down it will 
always right itself - even with the jets of the hot tub turned full up. 

 So a report that the Mac26x righted herself in a test pool when 
plunked 
upside down doesn't surprise me. But this notion is met with disbelief by 
those trained by US Sailing. The centerboard even retracted is not going 
to change the result. This has to do with the shape of the cabin top. It 
isn't flat enough to provide inverted stability. As long as the boat has 
the weight of the ballast tank structure and yes even motor where it is 
she is going to right her self even without water ballast. Unlike lesser 
designs, the Mac26x has not one but two compression poles. So having the 
deck salon ripped off by sea action doesn't appear to be a possibility. 

 So how does the training of MacGregor Yachts compare to the 
confused consensus of naval architects and sailboat designers? 

 Here we are to recognize that torque called the righting 
moment (RM) is 
related to the boat's displacement. This is definitional. The displacement 
multiplied by the horizontal distance between the Center of Gravity (CG) 
and the center of buoyancy (CB) is the definition of righting moment. That 
horizontal distance is called the righting arm (CZ).

 With that recognition, we are to see that the more displacement the 
greater the righting moment. Then we must accept the notion that a boat's 
heeling angle can be pulled past 90 degrees. 

 Eventually as the boat is pushed past 90 degrees, the CG and CB will 
come 
into vertical alignment as they are when the boat is at rest right side 
up. This is the point where the righting moment is zero and it is called 
the Limit of Positive Stability (LPS). 

 Now comes the assumption: 

 The research undertaken at the Wolfson Unit indicates ... 
"that the most important characteristic for survival of a breaking wave 
capsize is a large range of stability, since vessels with low ranges 
are 
prone to remaining inverted following such an incident . 

 All those nice 
curves showing the angle in degrees against the righting 
arm suddenly lose their survivability importance when the vessel 
is designed 
with a deck and flotation similar to the Mac26x . Naval Architects can 
not 
predict by math when a sailboat designed this way will invert or if it can stay that way. Instead of math you have to do actual tests.

 It takes 120 lbs at the top of the jib to hold a Mac26x on its side 
with 
the mast parallel to the water. Unballasted with sails up, it does not 
appear that the Mac26x can turn turtle. When plopped upside down with no 
sails she rights herself. Completely filled with water she rights her self 
and can even be sailed (though not fast). 

 Of course there is still capsize risk. In sufficient sea, all boats can 
capsize. Nonetheless, this vessel, when capsized floats and the hatches 
are positioned that except by wave and wake action they can be left open 
without water entering the interior. That would be operator error however. The conclusion I come to is 
that you can get stability (the ability to stay right side up) by adding 
displacement to a traditional looking sailboat, or you can get stability 
with additional flotation (buoyancy) on a boat shaped like a Mac26x or m. 
CG or CB this is the question. With CB you get the benefit of boats that 
when swamped may not sink as well as a faster sailboat when there is light 
wind.

[ Top ] 
[ Next ] [ Prior ] [ Bot ] 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

[ Home ]
[ Decision Tree ]
[ Deep Knowledge ]
[ Acknowledgements ]
[ Map ] 

 Cruising Log of the
Mariah Wind 
 Cruising Log
of the Bella Donna 
 Crusing
Log of the ForeverGreen 

 Frank &amp Lisa Mighetto - 1260 NE 69th St.
Seattle, WA
98115 - (206)
525-1458 voice and fax 

 mighetto@eskimo.com - Internet
email
address 

 mighetto@compuserve.com -
Internet email
address or 72154,3467 from within Compuserve