Myth #7 A KEELED SAIL BOAT WILL POINT INTO THE WIND
BETTER THAN A CENTER BOARDER 

 Cruising Log of the Murrelet 

 Main 

 CB 

 FB 

 Fast 

 Size 

 Keel 

 Ballast 

 Point 

 Tall 

 Race 

 Lean 

 Ocean 

 #7 A KEELED SAIL BOAT WILL POINT INTO THE WIND BETTER THAN A CENTER
BOARDER 

[ First Page ] [ Next ] [ Prior ] [ Last ]

The opposite is true. But why is it important to discuss this mater. From 
the days of the square riggers, cruisers have known that it is best to 
sail with the wind. Most long range cruising is down wind and most coastal 
ocean cruising is on a beam reach. Denton Moore points out in his book 
that Gentlemen Never Sail to Weather. Sailing to weather means sailing to 
wind. But, if a strong wind kicked up and shore was leeward and close then 
pointing into the wind may become important in avoiding a grounding. 
Fortunately Mac26x vessels do this very well. 

By sailing Genoa only and 
drawing both Genoa sheets tight a Mac26x will self steer into weather. 
(This is similar to "windward sheeting" which is used on Flying 
Scot racing dinghies.) In 
addition, most Mac26x cruisers have motors that, unlike the underpowered 
motors in most sailboats, can actually help in this contrived situation. 

 To search this site enter a word or phrase below:

 "In light to moderate conditions (when power to carry sail 
is not an issue), a center boarder or lee boarder has the advantage of 
more efficient and lower-drag lateral plane. All else being similar, it 
will point and foot better than a deep keel-ballasted boat" 

Phil Bolger and Susanne Altenburger 
 Wooden Boats 
November/December 2000 issue 

 Do I
understand the quote yet. No I don't. That is why I keep the WoodenBoat article
with me. But I expect that it explains why Catalina 30 skippers back wind the
jib while coming about where that trick is helpful only when racing a
Mac26x. MacGregor Yachts claims that the Mac26x points better than any
previously built sail boat that can be trailered (including presumably the old
non X Mac26 boats). But Mac26 Classic owners debate this. I have finally decided
that "pointing into the wind" and "racing
into the wind" are two different things . "When racing, if the course is all to
windward and the wind is strong and the boats are big enough to make live
ballast a minor issue, an efficient deep-ballasted boat will win. The
shoal-draft boat will hold her own reaching, and will outrun the deep boat off
the wind by hauling up the board(s) to reduce wetted
surface" 
according to Bolger and Altenburger.
 My need to separate "pointing into the wind" from "racing into the wind"
stems from a desire to explain how a slow boat can some times out point a fast
one. Diagrams from the chapter on maneuvering in Cruising Under Sail 
are used to conclude that the sheets of a yacht designed to be fast need to be
hardened in more than those of a slow yacht on the same course. But I draw a
different conclusion from the diagrams.
 For me they show that any yacht requires sufficient headway in order to point
well into the wind. The faster the boat goes the better pointing possible.
Hence, the vessel that can make headway will out point one unable to match.
 My conclusion explains why the light displacement vessel with little wetted
surface, such a Mac26x, will outpoint a heavy displacement deep keel vessel when
conditions are normal. It just takes less wind to reach the same MPH. Hiscock's
statement that: "The usual fault the
beginner makes when sailing close-hauled is to sheet his sails in too flat and
then to point up to close to the wind, so that although his yacht may head in
the desired direction she does not move fast enough through the water."
 is fully
explained by my conclusion. A full sail is more powerful. The power makes the
vessel go faster and the speed allows a closer pinch to the wind (better
pointing). You make the sails fuller by easing the sheets. The most power comes
from the larger sail which is the Genoa on the Mac26x.
 Hiscock was well aware that pointing into the wind requires knowledge
specific to the craft and practice. I am practicing more rounded tacks where
immediately after coming about I set course just outside of the no sail zone (a
close reach). Only after gaining speed do I attempt to sail on the wind (close
hauled). I have found that as long as Murrelet picks up speed (as measured by my
GPS) I can pinch the wind even more.

 The wind being pinched is the 
apparent wind. True wind is the
direction opposite to the direction a shore based flag or wind sock is
pointing. When a boat picks up speed it creates its own wind which
modifies the direction the wind seams to be coming from when measured from
the deck of the boat making way. The combination of the wind created by
making way and the true wind is the wind the boat sees or "apparent wind".
This means that even when the true wind is constant, the wind important to
sailing will be changing as the sail boat picks up or loses speed because
the wind being made by making way is changing when the boat is
accelerating or slowing. 

 Understanding this apparent wind vs true wind business is said to be
important in sailing well. But this really is only the case if the sailor
is trying to use other sailboats in making decisions regarding pointing.
It can be confusing; only the wind the boat sees is important in sailing
well. The Mac26x crews that ignore what other boats are doing and have no
more understanding of apparent vs true wind than how gravity works will do
better in making way upwind than crews over thinking this wind
apparant/truth business. But Mac26x cruisers, in spite of the
manufacturer's claim of better pointing than any sailboat that can be
trailered, are sometimes said to point less well than the Mac26 classics.
So some thinking is fun in refuting that. 

 Performance cruisers, such as Mac26x cruisers and modern style 
sailboats, tend to have less
wetted-surface area (the part of the hull that is immersed in the water)
when at a modest heal than cruisers that have a comparable waterline
length , such as Mac26m and contemporary style sailboats . This is 
especially true when the performance cruiser's relatively
high-aspect-ratio fin keel is lifting the vessel. The lifting is greatest
the faster the performance cruiser goes and the fin keels are long to
compensate for that lift which on its limit will contribute to leeway. The
lift is not only upward - creating less wetted surface - but also pushes
the boat to windward preventing leeway (also called crabbing).

 The above photo is the "hang glider" configuration for the Mac26x. This 
is the easiest planing under sail configuration for the Mac26x and, 
 because the cruiser is fully ballasted , I 
believe even a beginner can rig this configuration and plane the cruiser 
in 10 to 15 MPH of true wind. The true wind is actually astern, but owing 
to the combination of the wind the cruiser makes and the true wind the
wind indicator at the top of the mast points slightly forward of the beam. 
No centerboard is used in the hang glider configuration which is lost when 
pointing higher into the wind because the mainsail is no longer supported
by the vessels strut (aft pointing spreader). 

 On Mac26x sail boats, the long swing keel (also called centerboard)
is hung in its trunk so that it will cock slightly to windward. This means 
that the vessel has a no sail zone starting at 32 rather than 45 -
which is most common for sailing vessels. That is 32 degrees measuring
wind from the deck of the vessel (IE measuring the wind the vessel sees.)

 However, if the wind direction is judged instead from a shore based
flag tower it will look like the boat is pointing less well as the boat
accelerates. You see this best when watching multi hulls and sailboards.
Bottom line, if the sailor is making pointing decisions based on what some
other boat is doing, the important observation is how fast is that other
boat going, not what course is being taken. If that boat is already going
faster, then matching the course and sail trim before gaining similar
speed is a prescription for going slower. 

 The above explains why a slow boat appears to point better than a fast
one when judged from shore. The fastest boats will be falling off the wind
judged from shore with each increase in speed. 

 When trying to make an 
upwind mark, 
going slower may make unnecessary a tack and this strategy is helpfull if 
a hull must be dragged through the water while turning as is the case 
with catamarans and sailboards. With these craft, each tack comes at a 
large cost in speed and to gain that speed back the vessel must be light 
and sails powerfull with enough wind to carry them.

 On a hang glider, and any aircraft, pulling up makes the craft drop 
faster because the hull of the plane drags more through the 
air when the 
nose is up. Since pulling up is the natural tendency of a student pilot 
when trying to avoid a tree, those wishing to become pilots must be taught 
other ways to avoid the 
mark, like nosing down and applying power. I suspect it is the same in 
sailing. To make an upwind mark and avoid a speed halting tack, crew must 
think about 
slowing the sailboat. Dragging the X hull by 
putting more of the flat portion into the water does that. "falling into 
the mark" by coming off the optimum heel may be the 
prescription for winning a race in an X if a tack can be 
avoided. 

The next tab of this log is related. Tall masts are 
believed beneficial in pointing. 

 [ Top ] [ Next ] [ Prior ] [ Last ] 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

[ Home ]
[ Decision Tree ]
[ Deep Knowledge ]
[ Acknowledgements ]
[ Map ] 

 Cruising Log of the
Mariah Wind 
 Cruising Log
of the Bella Donna 
 Crusing
Log of the ForeverGreen 

 Frank &amp Lisa Mighetto - 1260 NE 69th St.
Seattle, WA
98115 - (206)
525-1458 voice and fax 

 mighetto@eskimo.com - Internet
email
address 

 mighetto@compuserve.com -
Internet email
address or 72154,3467 from within Compuserve