Myth #9 MAC26X NOT RACABLE - PHRF, IRC, ISAF and US 
Sailing

 Cruising Log of the Murrelet 

 Main 

 CB 

 FB 

 Fast 

 Size 

 Keel 

 Ballast 

 Point 

 Tall 

 Race 

 Lean 

 Ocean 

 #9 MAC26X NOT RACEABLE - PHRF, IRC, ISAF and US Sailing

[ First Pg ] [ Next Pg ] [ Prior Pg ] [ Last Pg ]

Mac26x 
owners 
who
come from a power boating background (like myself) are certainly 
interested in speed. Hence the attraction to
50hp motors and 20+ MPH under power. In my sailing area there are 
300 Mac26x boats. With 5,000 Mac26x boats world wide there should be excellent 
one design Mac26x racing at several
locations. Lewmar
winches and Doyle sails are standard on the vessel and dealer packages 
may include 
 boom kickers. Mine 
did. The
boats also come with a back stay standard. Unlike the Mac26M, the
manufacturer views racing as one of the recreational activities for 
which Mac26x
vessels are intended. Good winches, back stays, and boom kickers are 
all
performance items that support racing. 

 In June of 2001 almost 30 Mac26x cruisers 
gathered in Liberty Bay 
(DogFish Bay) in Washington State to learn about racing and compare 
vessels. But there really wasn't enough wind to race. Hence in 2002 the 
rendezvous was held at Friday Harbor where there usually is enough wind to 
reef, and was. Click on the picture to the left to start a slide show. 
Hold your mouse over the slides to display captions. 
 To search this site enter a word or phrase below:

 "There have been arguments for years about the 
advantage of learning to sail in a small boat, but there's never 
been any question in my mind that a small boat sailor is always 
better than one who learned on a larger boat... Sailing schools 
generally choose keelboats like Solings for a lot of reasons, but 
not because they are as good as small boats at learning how to 
sail. Bigger boats carry enough students to make a class viable 
financially, and students can move around easily to change 
positions." Christopher 
Caswell in June 2005 
Sailing, pg 10 
 RaceAbility, CE Marks & Resale Value 
[ Top ] 
[ Next ] 
[ Prev ] 
[ Bot ] 
 While not true with a power boat, raceability - to use 
a Cardwell
term
- is a determinant of
resale value in sailboats. All Mac26x owners are at least 
indirectly interested 
in 
racing owing 
to the related resale value of the power sailer. MacGregor Yachts 
established itself as a race boat company with the MacGregor 65. The 
MacGregor 65 Joss in 1985 established a record that went unbroken 22 
years - one of the oldest records in ocean racing history . 

In 1985 Richard and Camille Daniels' MacGregor 65, Joss, boosted by 
following breezes of 15 to 25 knots most of the way, raced the 1,125 
nautical miles from Marina del Rey to Puerto Vallarta in 4 days 23 hours 0 
minutes 4 seconds. Average speed: 9 1/2 knots. If you want 
to bookmark this site just 

click here

and you'll add it to your favorites list. 

Undoubtedly this reputation contributes to the high resale value 
enjoyed by Mac26x vessels and confusion regarding the Mac26m which is 
being marketed as not for racing. For unmarked boats, 
raceability is also an important factor for blue water cruising. Any 
used boat that is advertised by the 
manufacturer as for racing is exempt from the (most often presented as absolute) restriction on importing 
a 
used boat not put into service in Europe prior to 1998. Racing 
activity, 
in combination with US documentation, frees the Mac26x owner from 
the 
threat (real or not) of confiscation by EU custom authorities. See 
 http://www.conformance.co.uk/CE_MARKING/ce_boats_sea.html. 

 If there is little dealer or manufacturer support for racing, the 
new boat owner should ensure that the factory CE marks
their cruisers prior to taking delivery because there is less potential 
for exemption from the CE mark rules. 
Cruising 
powerboat 
manufacturers in the US are taking CE marks very seriously to the 
point of even relocating and retooling complete plants so that 
European rules are followed. The same care should be taken to preserve 
blue 
water 
cruising potential with a sail boat that is not to be raced as is being 
taken with US built cruising powerboats. 
Smaller cruising boats are often transported to major world events such as 
the Olympics and Americas Cup. This transportation is not legally 
possible for an unmarked boat that does not have an exemption. All, 
not just 
EU 
delivered sailboats, should be marked, to preserve the possibility of 
transportation to blue water EU destinations as well as resale value. 
A cruising sailboat that is banned from use in the Medituranian will 
have less value than one that is marked. Only the manufacturer can 
mark a vessel 
and it can not be done after a dealer or other owner takes delivery. 
There is no current mechanism or plans for implementing such a mechanism 
involving
the CE marking of a used boat. 

 Both 
the X and M are easially 
transported 
should distances to a race exceed what is reasonable for trailering 
(usually thought to be 250 miles) or the race be overseas. 

 The notion that the X was designed from the start for unballasted 
racing is troubling to dealers and even those controlling 
MacGregor Yachts today. Because both the X 
and M are substantially heavier than a sailboat that is not a powersailer, 
sailing with water ballast in light air is like sailing with an additional 
4 to 6 crew members in a contemporary boat. 

 You are just not going to race competitively in light wind against 
contemporary sailboats fully ballasted in an X. 

 To put it into perspective, think about how a MacGregor Classic 
would do
against another Classic weighted 
down with 300 to 600 lbs of extra fiberglass and a 50 hp engine? It is 
dumb to even think the weighted boat will better in light wind. AND YET WE 
SEE FOLKS IN SAN DIEGO AND ON LAKE MEAD DOING THIS by requiring X 
cruiser's to run 
full water ballast at all times against much lighter Mac26ds. Talk about 
rigging the results! Of course the Mac26d's will better Mac26m's and 
Mac26x's. By weight and sail carried it would be natural for them to come 
across 
the line in that 
order. 

 McAllister Creek Race 
 February 25, 2006 
 rescheduled from February 4 

Shortened at Itsami coming back 
 Boru was the RC Boat. Thank you.

 FLYING CIRCUS was First OA 

 S CLASS Start Time: 10:00 Distance: 17 nm
 Correctd 
 Finish Finish 
Course 
Points Sail No. Yacht Name Yacht Type Rating Time Time 
Time 
------ -------- -------------- -------------- ------ -------- -------- 
---------
 0.75 69399 FLYING CIRCUS EXPR 37 73 16:20:13 15:59:32 
6:20:13
 2.00 1005 SILVERHEELS SYN 54 16:19:07 16:03:49 
6:19:07
 3.00 42433 ZEALOT JBOA 33 93 16:45:34 16:19:13 
6:45:34

 B CLASS Start Time: 10:05 Distance: 10.5 nm
 Correctd 
 Finish Finish 
Course 
Points Sail No. Yacht Name Yacht Type Rating Time Time 
Time 
------ -------- -------------- -------------- ------ -------- -------- 
---------
 0.75 115 SLITHER HOL 20 192 15:46:44 15:13:08 
5:41:44
 2.00 39476 SINGULARITY MORG 27 204 15:59:44 15:24:02 
5:54:44
 3.00 29462 INATI RANC 29 201 DNF 

 D CLASS Start Time: 10:05 Distance: 10.5 nm
 Correctd 
 Finish Finish 
Course 
Points Sail No. Yacht Name Yacht Type Rating Time Time 
Time 
------ -------- -------------- -------------- ------ -------- -------- 
---------
 0.75 3285 POWER SURGE FARR 36 141 16:47:08 16:22:28 
6:42:08
 2.00 2601 FOURTH CHAKRA CATA 30 234 DNF 
 2.00 29770 DAMN YANKEE YANK 38 149 DNF 
 2.00 39458 RELEAF PEAR 30 247 DNF 
 2.00 39870 SEA DOG CATA 27 239 DNF 
 2.00 47727 ADAGIO RANC 28 215 DNF 
 2.00 69212 HAVIN' SUN FUN USY 27 232 DNF 
 2.00 79020 MURRELET MCGR 26 256 DNF 

 No Race for A and H Classes, no finishers 
boats out were:
Sail No. Yacht Name Yacht Type Rating
-------- -------------- -------------- ------
 A CLASS Start Time: 10:00 Distance: 17 nm
 1594 ODYSSEA CATA 36II 156
 28415 EDGEWALKER OLSN 34 121
 47914 KAITLIN RANC 32 175
 51496 PANDORA CAL 36 165
 64985 LIBERTY C&C 35 122
 69276 ISABELLA C CHAN 37-1 154
 69927 BALDER ERIC 38 125
 H CLASS Start Time: 10:00 Distance: 17 nm
 245 SPARROWHAWK JBOA 30 139
 18351 MISS CONDUCT OLSN 29 105
 69880 UPROAR JBOA 80 129
 83179 HE LIVES JBOA 92 107
 79 STRIDER F9A 27

 The above race results are instructive. Murrelet and all but one boat 
in 
crusing class (Class D) failed to finish (DNF= Did Not Finish). This was a 
race that 
started with moderate wind on the nose which died two hours later against 
opposing tidal current. The boat in crusing class that did finish has a 
PHRF rating 
of close to what an unballasted Mac26x rates using a fixed fin supporting 
Velocity Prediction Program (VPP). On the return leg this vessel was able 
to gain enough 
speed against tide to finish in 7 hours. The race by rules closed after 9+ 
hours. The instructive part of the race results involve the chess game 
part of the sport. 

 Because a single boat in the class finished, all boats get scored. 
You 
are not required to finish to get a score and in this case. Murrelet was 
given a score equivalant to coming in second, even though her crew was 
enjoying diner and drinks at a warm restaurant while others still 
struggled with the poor wind and tide conditions 

 It wasn't until March of 2005 that Mac26x sailors began 
serious discussions on Sailnet.net about sailing without water 
ballast. Early in these discusions was the recognition that solid 
weight could always be added so that sailing in higher than 7 MPH wind 
speeds with the water ballast tanks empty was possible. This brings up 
the centerboard controversy and the Sand-baggers. 

 Sand-baggers were small half-decked boats used for commercial 
purposes and as party boats by New York sportsmen willing to bet on the 
races. Wide shallow centerboard craft with huge sails and great beam with 
two mast steps, one for a sloop rig and one for a cat rig, characterized 
these movable ballasted racing machines. The movable ballast was in the 
form of bagged sand and racers 
would agree before hand if the ballast was to be "brought home" or thrown 
overboard during the race. They were 18 to 28 feet in length and popular 
as early as 1855. These were extraordinarily fast boats in smooth water, 
perhaps like Melges or J-80s or Mac26x boats today. However, so 
that the ballast 
could be carried out far from centerline, the topsides were flared. This 
meant that the gunwales could be easily burred in the sea with capsizing 
being the result. 

 Because of their speed, boat designers copied the sand-baggers in 
bigger models that were not crewed by racing professionals and hence became dangerous. It is 
because of this that the centerboard yacht gained a bad reputation that 
should have been credited to poor design rather than to inherent qualities 
of the type. There are vessels using sand bags with shallow
keels (not retractable) being raced by professionals through the Anguilla Sailing
Association. The Photon 14 
is a centerboard racer similar 
to a small sand-bagger in that both cat and sloop rigs are supported. 
These 
vessels do not use movable ballast and have twin rudders inspired by 
Open 50 race boats. They are built with solid flotation. (see 2005 June 
Sailing, pg 49) 

 PHRF Racing 
 [ Top ] [ Next ] 
[ Prev ] 
[ Bot ] 

 Unlike 
the M, the X model's 
potential as a racer was recognized
shortly after her launch. The manufacturer even oriented its promotional
literature around this potential. But racing organizations were reluctant
to allow unballasted operation and it really wasn't until 5000 hulls were
lauched that serious racers begain to take notice of the X's one-design
racing potential. In addition, owners of contemporary racers were
reluctant to allow rating of any vessel capable of exceeding hull speed.
The redesign of courses to limit planing and surfing oportunities greatly
reduced the
racability of modern monohulls like the X which are intended to do
so. 

 The 
newer light racing sailboats that while not capable of planing
were capable of surfing discovered a technique of using a tug or ship's
wake
to make better time. Major events have been won using this technique
and it is considered an acceptable tactic giving the crouded waterways
upon which races are conducted and the ocurance of waves in
nature. Partially owing to this development, in 2004 the rewoking of
courses and reluctance to rate
vessels like the Mac26x has lessened greatly and with that greatly
improved the racability of the X in US waters. 

 In 2003 the PHRF Seattle Regional Sub-Council proposed a 
revision 
to the rating protocol to address water-ballasted boats. 
 It was 
noted that 
these boats are able to significantly alter their displacement and 
stability characteristics by dumping ballast water without penalty. 
Accordingly, a proposal was made to prohibit ballast water dumping during 
a race. The proposal elicited much discussion but no Motions. It was 
agreed that the base rating for these boats should be predicated on their 
optimum speed potential which is presumed to include changes in ballasted 
configuration during racing. The Council will continue to monitor these 
boats and adjust their base ratings under review or appeal if 
warranted. 

There have been other rules developed to help us race. 

 The RRS for 05 - 08 allow you to skull (move your rudders back and 
forth) to position your vessel to recieve a puff. This particular rule 
appears to favor tillers over wheel steering. What this means to racers 
with wheel 
steering and outboards connected to that steering is that the outboard 
must be easially disconnected from the steering mechanism and that the 
helm should be of the rack and pinion type so that skulling is possible. 
Murrelet has the former design requirement but lacks the later. Mac26x 
vessels post 2000 were fitted with rack and pinion steering. We believe 
that skulling may still be possible on Murrelet owing to her dual rudders 
and a recently installed shorter steering cable 
and will be experimenting with that in anticipation of the first season to 
be raced under the 05-08 rules.

 The 05-08 
rule changes appear to be to be to get more boats with 
smaller crews onto the race courses and make those races fun even if the 
wind dies. When the wind dies, crew get restless - they may even force the 
captain to abandon the race! Sometimes catching just a small puff will get 
the boat moving and the crew interested and this skulling rule change is 
designed to do that. Blowing ballast when the wind dies also 
encourages crew to finish races. 

 The base rating for 
a Mac26x in the Pacific Northwest assumes no water ballast and 
has 
for all Mac26x cruisers rated in 2003. 
Furthermore, crews of UPTO 10 are being allowed on craft 20 to 30 foot 
because it is recognized that additional weight can improve performance on 
some boats. The 1,400 lbs of water ballast in the X is equivalent in 
weight to at least 8 crew members. 

 Water ballast has been recognized in PHRF racing as important in 
reducing average crew size. The addition of
movable external ballast tanks to boats that previously did not have them 
is addressed as a rating adjustment. Any appendage alteration is also an 
adjustment. Mac26x owners are not being allowed to lift rudders nor will
daggerboarded vessels be allowed to lift - even partially - those 
appendages. All foils must be fully extended. Given that It was agreed 
that the base rating for water ballasted boats should be predicated on 
their optimum speed potential which is presumed to include changes in 
ballasted configuration during racing, I think rudder lifting which like 
unballasted operation is specifically mentioned by the designer and 
manufacturer should be allowed. However at this time a rating addjustment 
will be applied to
our kind of craft, should we operate them as intended in that fashion. We 
have no problems whatsoever in rating as a class. 

There has been a concern that the Mac26x did not include a mechanism for
dumping water ballast. This of course isn't true. The manufacturer 
intended the use of an outboard engine for doing that. Since engine 
operation will 
not be allowed during a race, we will be allowed to blow water ballast out 
using a raft inflator - just like the Classics do prior to trailiering. 
 As 
movable water 
ballast comes of age in PHRF racing the Mac26x enters her prime. As 
mentioned previously Polish yards have copied the vessel. MacGregor 
Yachts does not object to this copying. Hence 
in 
future years, new 26x boats needed to support racing should be 
coming off production lines at perhaps more than one manufacturer. 

 I have yet to find an insurance policy that doesn't specifically 
point out 
that sail boat racing is not only covered but encouraged. Still sailboat 
racing is dying out in the US possibly because there is more than a little 
bit of frustration with PHRF class ratings. That frustration extends to 
one-design. The retort when you do not like a rule or proposed PHRF rule 
is "so if you don't like it go one-design". This kind of retort isn't 
being cooperative. It just turns potential racers off from racing. 
Even though there are now 300 X cruisers in Puget Sound, it is 
believed unlikely that 30 will bother with sail numbers and then 
half of those will never race. One-design requires either strong 
manufacturer support or the incubation afforded PHRF. 
 Murrelet Rig & Sail 
Dimensions PHRF 2004 

 Dimension 
 Type 
 Measurement 
 Description 

 Rig 
 I 
 22 ' 
 height to top of jig sheave 

 - 
 J 
 10' 
 horizontal distance front of mast to base of 
forestay 

 Main Sail 
 P 
 25' 10" 
 - 

 E 
 10' 4.75" 
 - 

 - 
 HB 
 5.75" 
 the maximum fore and aft dimension of the 
headboard 

 MGM 
 11' 9" 
 mainsail midgirth. locate midpoints of luff 
and leach by folding
 head of sail to the tack and the cluw. Measure 
between the luff and
 leach midpoints 

 MGU 
 5' 8" 
 mainsail upper girth. Locate the 3/4 points by 
folding head of
 sail to the midgirth measurment points. Measure 
between luff and
 leach 3/4 points. 

 Jib/Genoa 
 LLJ 
 25' 3" 
 - 

 - 
 LP 
 13' 10" 
 - 

 Spin 
 LLS 
 - 
 - 

 - 
 G 
 - 
 - 

 - 
 SPL 
 - 
 - 

 - 
 H 
 - 
 height to top of spinnaker sheave 

 Practical
Sailor notes in its review of the Mac26x that she has a sail area/
displacement ratio (SA /D) of 19 and a displacement /length ratio (DL) of 138,
which "indicate the potential for speed" The Lady Katie Too!, a Mac26x on the
2001 fleet roster of PHRF Southern
California , had been given a Year 2001 PHRF rating of 216. Vessels on 
this roster typically do not use roller furling and have bottoms that are 
specially
prepared for speed, as well as lighter lines, special rigging, and precision
tuning. This low a rating is not appropriate. The Lady Katie 
Too! followed in the steps of the first 
power sailer/ performance
motorsailor (see
above) , which surprised the yachting world by winning races with 
speeds not theoretically possible for displacement hulls of similar 
waterline length. 
Lady Katie Too! sailed and motored to first in cruising class in the 
1997 Newport to 
Ensenada Race becoming infamous. see ( latitude38 ) and
 saddling Mac26x cruisers with a punitive PHRF rating for many years. 

In early 2003 my X rated 235 giving the unaltered 
Classics
the rating advantage (higher rating). This is in spite of 7 years of 
Internet banter
claiming the Clasics were faster. The rating recognizes the intent of 
the designer to move water ballast on and off the vessel during a race, as 
Lady Katie Too! did in 1997. It will take 10 racing X boats 
in my area to adjust this rating, though I was successful in getting the
rating designated T for Test mode and hagling continues. In 2004 we 
took 
the rating adjustment allowing crew to lift a rudder and obtained a rating of 241. I am not willing to give up 
spinakker use but did not race with the asymetric in 2004. My 
cruiser
is far from racing form. Bottom paint, standard main and furling foresail. 
And the center foil lifting line has not been replaced by a wire to 
reduce drag. The wire arangement was standard on X cruisers prior to 
1998.

 ALREADY IMPLEMENTED

 Solid and Running Boom Vang
 High Quility Genoa Sheet (light strong non absorbant)
 UK Tape Drive Head Sail
 Mainsail Bolt Rope loosened on luff
 Single Line Reefing
 Tell Tails 
 Rudder disconnect from engine (the 05 08 Racing Rules of 
Sailing allow you to skull if that will possition your boat for catching a 
puff to get you going) GPS and Radar (GPS for VMG and 
obstructions, Radar for distance to next 
vessel and to determine if there is gain or loss)
 Wisker Pole
 Upgrade Bearings on CDI furler
 Wax Rudders and Centerfoil
 Centerfoil Lifting high tech thin line - PBO
 Backstay Adjuster

 TO BE IMPLEMENTED

 Mainsail Bolt Rope loosened on foot
 Sail slide jackline adjustment (so main sail luff is close to 
mast) 
 Lighter Forestay and Shrouds (PBO?)
 Double headsail sloop rig
 Genoa shrouds routed inbetween outer and inner stays 
 High Quality Main Haulyard 
 Tight Genoa Haulyard
 Cunningham (so tack not needed after haulyard adjustment)
 Rudder Alignment Bar (so windward foil need not be lifted 
in normal wind - missaligned rudders creates drag)
 Ballast Valve to Port (as on early models - to allow
blowning or taking on ballast while heeled on either side)
 Diver Service to keep Bottom Clean (fast motoring doesn't get 
it all)
 600 grit sand bottom paint
 Spray on (rather than roll on) new bottom paint
 Centerfoil lifting plan

 Many if not most of the boats that race PHRF have a Tuff
 Luff which is a foil over the forestay that allows raising one sail while 
dropping the other. The "pealing" of sails using a Tuff Luff is very 
common in racing. Pealing describes the replacement of a normal 
wind foresail with one made of lighter material, such as might be 
appropriate for ghosting in very light wind or down wind. 

 Unlike the rounded sections of her predecessors and successors, the 
26x has a hard turn of the bilge, which translates to a higher initial 
righting moment. As explained in the ballast section , water 
ballasted 
designs like the Mac26x, where the ballast is located as far outboard 
as possible, are roughly four times more stable at 10 degrees of heel, 
three times more stable at 30 degrees, and twice as stable at 50 
degrees than similer vessels with weighted centerline keels. The 
combined factors of hard chine and off centerline water ballast means 
that when fully ballasted and crewed by four (the recommended number 
for racing in normal wind) the X will carry a full Genoa in 15-18 knots of 
wind before 
reefing the main is required to keep her on her feet. Fully crewed 
this way an X could have been designed to benefit from a Tuff 
Luff. 

 However, the yacht was designed for 
roller furling Genoas, a rather new rigging innovation when the 
first X hulls were launched, rather than Tuff Luffs. Roller furling Genoas 
add convenience and safety for the average number of 
active crew on a cruising vessel, which is two. When partially rolled 
there may be a performance decrease. However, modern laminated 
sails can be preserved on rollers where they are damaged each time they 
are brought down from a Tuff Luff or standard hank on forestay. Because 
such sails can be as light as the sails peeled for very light wind a Tuff 
Luff is less beneficial. 

 My cruiser looks fast and has been observed fast - this
was my handicaper's way of saying little leeway will be allowed in the 
2004 racing season. He required me to present the sails for 
formal measurement. BTW, the M
was marketed by BWY for a time as a water ballasted or unballasted self
righting sail boat. The X's are viewed that way (as they
should be.)

Several dozen Mac28x crews investigated racing at Poulsbo during the start of
the Summer of 2001. Selected photos can be found below

 I think most of us (Mac26x owners
investigating racing ) know that we want to minimize drag. 

 Centerboard Slot Drag 
 [ Top ] 
[ Next ] 
[ Prev ] 
[ Bot ] 

When the M was introduced, shortly after the 
Polish copy of the X was splashed (launched), unoficial documents claimed that the M would sail faster 
than the X owing 
to 
the shorter foil slot size. "An open
cavity 7 foot long in the bottom of the boat vented or unvented cannot be
ignored by the water passing by it. Turbulance is the name of the drag.
Drag is slow death for speed" X owners were informed. 
The M will be faster under motor and sail than the X owing to its shorter slot was the 
claim. But I don't believe this and while easily proven by towing 
both vessels weighted similarly and at several heels and speed, such 
testing has yet to be performed. While the above quote no longer 
appears on the official web page comparing the X to M there are still 
unfair comparisons present. Hence further discusion is required. 

There is the notion of barrier layer. That gets
established at the bow and extends aft. If the open cavity 7'
long does not allow for water circulation (IE it is a closed center
board cavity rather than open dagger slot and is almost water and
air tight), that barrier layer would extend
over the slot. If the swinging centerboard is retracted the slot is 
smaller. If
fully retracted there is little slot at all (just a portion in front and 
behind of the retracted board). At slow (less than say 2 mph) there
isn't enough drag created to worry about because there isn't enough
drag created by the second rudder to worry about. On a heel the
effects are also less. 
 At 
some angle of heel the slot is out of the 
water - I think that is just above 11 degress - IE just inside the 
optimal heel range. Hence under sail, most of the time, with the 
exception of direct down wind and while coming off heel to turn, there is 
no possibility of drag owing 
to the centerboard slot. If there were turbulance in the 
slot, I would expect water to be forced in to the interior at the 
compression pole step where 
the center foil lifting line is. Furthermore, this slot business just 
does 
not apply to an M motoring faster than the X because the board would be 
retracted fully and there would be little slot. Finally there is 
Bernoulli's discovery. 

 In the early 1700s, the Swiss scientist Daniel Bernoulli 
established that changing the velocity of flow of a fluid, such as air or 
water, at a specific point brings about a consequent inverse change in 
pressure at the same point. Bernoulli's law led to its application in the 
venturi effect -- such as when the flow of a fluid in a tube is 
constricted resulting in increased velocity and decreased pressure - and 
the development of the curved foil. The most convincing demonstration of 
the venturi effect is easy to perform in the kitchen. First, run a stream 
of water from the faucet. Then, dangle a soup-spoon by the tip of its 
handle and move its convex surface slowly toward the stream. Rather than 
being pushed away, as your intuition might suggest, it is pulled into the 
stream. 
- Chapman's Seamanship Under Sail 64th edition page 276 

 When you turn the spoon described above to its concave side, 
hence 
representing the X centerboard 
trunk it is pushed (or lifted) away from the stream. It is likely that the 
venturi effect on the long X centerboard trunk not only lifts the vessel 
while 
on heel but assists in getting the vessel on plane at slower speeds than 
possible with out it.

 Any relative slowness in comparison to the M has to be
explaned by the hull form presented to the water controled by heel, 
 sail trim, or weight distribution.
Anyway it is interesting to note that BWY's findings that a 70 hp
is better on the M and will allow her to keep up with the X cruisers
could be explaned by chop. The dribbly hulls are known to do better
in chop than river hulls. So if X=dribbly and M=river and the course is
Lake Union (where chop is natural owing to harbor action) X will
win. But if the sea were smooth (like say a nice day in Florida) M and X
would match or M might even better. So both observations reported can
be explained. These explanations are owing to Frank Bethwaite, whos 
theories the crew of the Murrelet are now following:

 IRC, ISAF and US Sailing 

[ Top ]
[ Next ]
[ Prev ]
[ Bot ]

 "It is true that the class requires a new 
generation of sailors. Those who sail these boats should be of 
the NEW GENERATION, because it has proved hard for some of the 
old school to adapt quickly enough. If the sailing world is ready 
to accept this fact, then great. If not IT WILL ALWAYS BE A 
COMPROMIZE." Juan 
Kouyoumdjian in August 2006 
Seahorse, pg 42 

 In early 2005 it became obvious that IRC would be the new standard for 
ocean racing in the US. IRC is capable of applying a rating to any 
mono-hull yacht. In doing so, it respects such features as asymmetric 
spinnakers, carbon masts, canting keels, and water ballast. The 
story of IRC racing 
involves the Mac26x. It appears 
that objections raised during a July 
2002 drunken boater's case by Jim 
Teeters were similar to those the US Sailing technical advisor to the 
grand prix RWP (Rule Working Party) (also Jim Teeters) hoped would 
forstall 
or prevent adoption of the movable ballast and retractable 
fin tolerant IRC. 
IRC is only seven years old but its 
adoption on a world wide basis for rating ocean racing sailboats has been 
nothing less then phenominal. 
 During the next 10 years the greatest advancement 
in monohull sailing machine technology of all time is expected and hence 
there is great interest in rating mechanisms that can handle modern 
designs. As of March 2005 there had been only one IRC event in the 
USA but almost all 
ocean racing bodies had adopted this standard. US Sailing reluctantly 
began to support IRC and already J24s J80s and Melges24 as well as over 
100 other classes of boats have been rated. For questions and the first 
IRC races in Puget sound contact kurt@mistychula.net. The Corinthian Yacht Club of Seattle 
was the first in Puget Sound to support the new ratings and did so in 
2006. To get a history of the rating systems see 
 handicap 
In 
the fall of 2006, Rolex placed its support behind IRC. The 2007 season 
will be the break-out year for IRC, owing to this support. 

 By way of background. Jim Teeters, in a move that halted progress in 
movable ballast production designs in the USA, 
inappropriately testified in the drunken boater's case. 

 The judge and jury in the case wondered why he even bothered to come to 
court when the death of two children on a MacGregor 26x on July 4th 2002 
appeared to all, including the parents of the children, to be related to 
drinking by the operator. The case was recently concluded with the 
operator getting 7 years or so jail time. The boat was never on trial but 
owing to Jim Teeters' involvement, and his prominant roll on commitees 
at 
US Sailing, it is likely that MacGregor yachts 
halted production of the Mac26x, for business insurance cost 
reasons . 

 Production has apparently started back up in Australia 
and I would like it 
to proceed again in the US. There are 5000 of these boats world wide and 
they are the most extensively studied and operated movable balasted 
vessels in the world because of those numbers. The movement is simply on 
or off the boat. There is no side to side or forward aft movement. Just on 
and off, operated fully loaded with ballast or fully unloaded under sail 
or under power. 

 Jim Teeters attempted to show a stability design flaw by use of a 
video. His purpose for doing so appears related to support of the TP52 box 
rules and IMS, the rating system that has been all but replaced by IRC. 
That is my theory on his going out of the way to be involved in the case 
in some manner. 

 He impeached himself (or convienently changed his mind) by first 
stating in a deposition that alcohol 
could have been a contributing factor and then later saying it had nothing to do 
with the capsize. Had he stuck with his opinion from the deposition, it 
is unlikly he would have been allowed to testify because the boat was 
otherwise not on trial. A fellow named Taylor disagreed with Teeters, 
testifying 
that there is no design flaw and the boat can be operated safely, and 
Taylor's expert witness testimony basically devastated the principles 
Teeters has supported. See 2 Plus 2 And 
4 . What is most interesting is that I suspect Teeters' 
court involvement was not against MacGregor Yachts specifically as much as 
it was to support TP52s and forstall IRC in the US, The box rules for 
the TP52s also included plans for smaller ocean racers of Mac26x 
size. . 

 Basically, Teeters likely hoped that a limit of positive stability of 
128 determined by mathematics, would be established for future ocean racing 
designs. The RWP, wishing to encourage movable ballast ocean racing 
designs, rejected this principle, which I call the Teeter Principle, in 
part because no vessel with a limit of positive stability of 110 can be 
knocked down by wind alone. 

 Of course all vessels in sufficient sea can capsize but the RWP decided 
that it was the design's ability to be righted - tested via a test pool - 
that was most important and not the 
math. Thousands of these Mac26x vessels in operation for half a 
decade didn't really support 
Teeters in his arguments for 128 stability and support of the TP52 
box rules. The racing potential for the X cruisers is also of concern 
to who those would like to be viewed as experts in sailboat design, and 
develop a 26 foot racer using the TP52 like box rules. 

 In a move that shocked no one, because it protected significant 
vested interests, Jim Teeters, in his capacity as 
 technical 
consultant to US Sailing's delegation to the RWP, orchestrated the US 
Sailing delegation's walk out from the RWP. 

 He then founded ORCA in May of 2004 which I believe to be an 
organization 
that is as close to fraudulent as you can get because the ORCA name is a 
name known in ocean racing since the 1970s but that organization has not 
operated for many years. Hence prospects for TP52s think the design has 
the blessings of a well established and reputable organization when the 
current ORCA is recently established and of questionable reputation. 

 US Sailing coincidentally reorganized Jim Teeters out of his director 
of 
research position, or Teeters resigned possibly after being asked 
to, but in any 
case the situation is that now US Sailing has no representation on the 
RWP and the only vessel supported by ORCA is the TP52s which are being 
marketed as TransPacific vessels in spite of the first five being designed 
specifically for Atlantic Waters. 

 The TP52s are claimed to be the fastest growing ocean racing design but 
there will still be under 20 of them by the end of 2005. This is 
after 15 years of effort because the concept boat for the TP52 is the 
Santa Cruise 52. Santa Cruise Yachts went bankrupt during the launch of 
the SC52 and it took 10 years of regrouping before the first TP52s were 
launched. Even if you view the TP52 as having but a 5 year production 
span, 
the model is now in its fourth generation. The concepts for the TP52 are 
literally 15 years behind modern monohull technology. Hence new 
"generations" are launched almost yearly. The new generation obsoletes the 
old ones which get retired making these vessels the most foolish of all 
from a financial risk 
perspective. The stability 
requirement of 128 has harmed them on the Vic Maui race but not the West 
Marine TransPac Fun race where water ballasted vessels of less than 24 
foot such as the Mac26x are allowed to enter. 

In the March 2005 Seahorse International Sailing, Teeters finally 
addressed the critisism above. In his letter on page 32 he attemps 
to 
justify the Teeter Principle by pointing out that yet another new 
offshore organization has proposed a suite 
of box rules similar to ORCA's TP52 rules. Seahorse makes fun of Teeters 
through out the issue. First there is an article about change on page 45 
where Dave Hoolom states that historically "to be a proper yachting authority 
you have to have your own rating rule" like the TP rules. Teeters clearly 
wants to be viewed as a yachting authority. He still is on US 
Sailing's IMS commitee, a committee that oversees now less than 5 
races yearly since all the previously IMS races have gone IRC. 
Second they caption Teeters 
letter on page 32 with "In defense of orcas..." And third they describe on 
page 12 the provisional outline for the ORC (Offshore Racing Council) box 
rules that replace 
what Teeters supports through ORCA, even providing 26, 
32 and 42 foot illustrations, and discussing the significant investment 
that should be viewed as sunk and lost forever TP52 development costs. 
Janet Baxter, president of US Sailing is even quoted "I have heard that 
ORC is considering the box 
rule concept we proposed a year ago. We were not (at that time) willing to 
develop a new grand prix rule without including the TP52 class and it 
looks like our friends (ORC) have heard us" by coming up with a 
replacement similar set of box rules for those who ignore IRC. 

 It is important to note that ORC was 
created at the end of 2002 . It 
is a spin off of US Sailing that is now a separate organization with a 
representative on the US Sailing Offshore Committee that continues to 
maintain and 
manage the IMS rules as well as new ORC rules. This spin off was likely 
necessary 
for US Sailing to continue in its role as national authority in the US on 
the International Sailing Federation (ISAF) Racing Rules of 
Sailing. 

 Simply stated, US Sailing in 2002 appeared biased against 
retractable foils and water and canting 
ballast even though ISAF, 
had altered racing rules 51 and 52 in 1997 to permit moveable ballast 
and stored energy. And Jim Teeters prominant position in the 
US sailing organization 
made 
it appear that US Sailing was using its influence, in US courts, rating 
organizations, and sailing clubs, to promote heavy fixed fin vessels. Such 
support appeared to include but was not limited to the promotion of 
windward leeward courses in spite of a predominance of ISAF rules and examples 
involving courses that also have reaching legs and are favored by crews of 
the modern design high performance vessels. 

 ISAF rules regarding biased judgment such as the above made US 
Sailing appear inappropriate as the final adjudicator of ISAF 
rules because after 7 years it appeared unwilling to support the 
altered rules 51 and 52 . It is to Janet Baxter's credit that the 
significant changes made at US Sailing at the 2004 Pacific 
Northwest Board Meetings were implemented to eliminate the top down 
decision making preventing the organization from supporting movable 
ballast and retrating foils. The biases and 
material weakness in the financial dealings of US Sailing may have been 
significantly lessoned so that it can continue in its role as 
national authority to ISAF. 

 Offshore Racing Congress 

[ Top ]
[ Next ]
[ Prev ]
[ Bot ]

 In June of 2005 progress was reported to Seahorse International by 
ORC in 
the 
development of a TP52 like box rule for a 26 footer. The 26 footer is to 
have a 
bowsprit and is to be crewed by four. Various clubs had apparently been 
contacted about creating a regatta circuit for the trailerable grand prix 
26 
foot ocean racers. At about the same time Farr International was 
dissolved. 

 Farr International had been owned by Bruce Farr and Russel Bowler 
and had 
had 
influence at the top at US Sailing. The influence of Farr International, 
in an 
IRC world, was demonstrated to have been lost by failure to win a bid 
against Swan 
to the NYYC about a month earlier. Farr International had previously 
supported 
the TP52 box rules and the de-emphasis of the Farr 40s. They had bet and 
worked 
strongly against IRC and with that moveable foils and movable ballast and 
looked forward to Farr 40 owners, and wealthy Corinthians, purchases 
of new and used TP52s. 

 Stagg Yachts Inc. now operates the Mumm 30, Farr 36, Farr 395 and 
Farr 40 
interests of the former Farr International and ORC (Offshore Racing 
Congress) 
continues with the TP52 interests that lead Jim Teeters, the Director of 
Research at 
US Sailing to testify inappropriately in a drunken boater's case 
that involved a Mac26x. ORC is a spin off of US Sailing. The Mac26x
is a movable water ballasted vessel with 5000 hulls and strong potential 
for
offshore racing especially now that an articulating bow sprit has been 
developed
for the model. It is crewed by four when raced, is trailerable and 
transportable
in cargo containers. 

 We can conclude that plans for what is now the ORC 26 foot ocean 
racer 
and the potential of the Mac26x (The Mac26x has 
been clocked at 17 MPH under sail) were reasons for Jim Teeters interest 
in testifying. We can also note that this product disparagement against 
the 
Mac26x is an actionable item under US law. There is nothing yet known 
about 
MacGregor Yachts intentions to recover damages. Production was halted 
likely
owing to Jim Teeters involvement with the apparent support of US Sailing 
and
concern by MacGregor Yachts business insurance carriers or other advisors. 
But it does appear that Farr Yachts and US Sailing have made 
organizational 
changes complementary to protecting themselves from such action. These 
actions 
being the dissolution of Farr International and the spinning off of 
ORC. 

 Time will tell. The following section 
predicts smaller Transpac ocean racers. 

 Transpac Racing and Common Sense 

[ Top ]
[ Next ]
[ Prev ]
[ Bot ]

 The Dorade, a 52 foot yawl designed by Olin Stephens, and the Santa 
Cruise 70 are two of only 4 vessels to be first to finish, first in class and 
first overall in the Transpac, a race to Hawaii that has been
run regularly since 1906. Study of these two vessels and Common Sense is important in determining the future of yacht design. 

 Dorade 

The Dorade win in 1936 made Olin and Rod 
Stephens 
unusual designs legendary world wide. Olin in February of 1988 
confided in 
an oral history at Mystic Seaport that Ken Davidson was his mentor in 
applying science to sailboat design. Davidson was a physics or math 
professor in 1931 when young Olin first met him. Davidson had taken 
training in the Navy as well as graduating from Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology. The Stephens had built Gimcrack S & S (Gimcrack Sparkman and 
Sparkman) in hopes of getting a one-design class started. Davidson built a 
model for this vessel and tank tested it, the result being an education 
for young Olin and also the Gimcrack Coefficients which were applied to 
the driving and heeling forces of sails and rigs. Olin states about 
Davidson,

"I would say the only bad advice he ever gave me was this: I said, 'I 
don't worry much about the naval architecture, I'm not going to school as 
a naval architect, but I wish I knew more about calculus.' He said. 'Oh, 
you can always get someone to do that for you." (laughter) Since I've 
gotten involved with the computer, I wish I could do more of it myself." 
Olin Stephens also states "I often kick myself, because with the knowledge 
that Ken had and a lot of which he passed along to me, I think we could 
have advanced a lot faster then we had."

Olin did not complete his degree at MIT. Instead his father, with 
financing from the sale of a coal-supply company, placed an order for the 
52 foot Dorade with Olins company Sparkman & Stevens, and Olin set out to 
build her. Dorade is an alternate spelling for Dorado which is a kind of 
dolphin and the boats form is dolphin like by my eye. Her form was not 
tank tested or analyzed by mathematics and when launched this was evident 
as she floated three inches lower than the painted waterline mark. The 
boat was considered quite thin and G. Bruce Knecht reported in the Wall 
Street Journal (November 4, 2006) that Mr. Stephens now thinks her 
slightly to narrow, this contributing to rolling. Outside ballast was used 
for stability.

 Merlin 

 In 1977, Bill Lee decided to take advantage of the potential of 
fiberglass by making an ultra light displacement boat. His Santa Cruise 70 Merlin not 
only won the Transpac but held the record for this race for 20 years. It took Pyewacket, a water 
ballasted racer, to better Merlin. These names are 
important even today for the 2005 
Transpac . The Pyewacket win demonstrated the value of movable 
ballast but she was also larger than Merlin. 

 Common Sense III 

 In 1938 a 27 footer named Common 
Sense III had a problem prone race. That prompted organizers to require 
boats competing in the Transpac to be larger than 30 foot with 
crews of at least four. I suspect the name 
of the boat angers many even today because there really is no reason in 
the modern age for the restriction. 

 By the 1950s boats as small as 23 foot 
were shown to be ocean worthy and the minitransats racing today are that 
size. In 2005 common sence for the most part did prevail when Cone of 
Silence a 31-foot canting keel sailboat came from dead last to finish 
first on elapsed time and second on corrected time in Division 3, of the 
TransPac. However, being required by race rules to carry four across a 
wide expanse in such a small vessel is not reasonable when you consider 
the amount of gear required and that the average crew size on a modern 
passage maker is two. 

 May common sense allow vessels like the La 
Perla Noir , which owing to water ballast and positive flotation are 
safer 
ocean racers, but are under 30 foot, to race in 2007, with smaller crews. 
This Mac26m concept 
boat 
and the Mac26x vessels combine the stability of Dorade when water 
ballasted, with 
the ULDB sled features of a Santa Cruise 70. They are comparable to 
the planned TP52 box rule 26 footers. The 
Macgregor babyMacs are larger than the minitransats doing similar downwind 
races. 

 One of the longest ocean race records is held by a
MacGregor 65. The record is for the Los Angeles, CA to Puerto Vallarta, 
Mexico Race, which is
run on alternate years from the Transpac and wasn't bettered until 2006.

It was exciting to see
BARKING SPIDER 3, a MacGregor 65 run in Division III of the 2005 Transpac, 
with Cone. 
She is owned by David Kory of Concord California who hed previously
sailed a Catalina 38 from Point Richmond in the Transpac. 

 Sick Marketing 
 On 4 August 2005 this weblog had 230,000 hits for a year 
period and I was introduced by talk show hosts during a 
broadcast at Air America to a 
book called the Selling of Sickness. This is 
a book about marketing drugs but it was clear that the same marketing 
applies to sail boats. 

 Public Relations firms on the east-is-the-least for sailors coast of 
the US had figured out that while most countries do not allow direct 
marketing of drugs to consumers, you are allowed to market sickness. If 
enough folks can be convinced that they or their loved ones are sick or 
that the sickness is so serious that it should be avoided at high cost 
then consumers will eventually find the drug you want them to purchase 
either through a health care professional, the web, or other media. The 
author of the book Selling of Sickness, stated in his interview, which 
Aired on 7 August 2005 on AM1090 before 8 AM, that once a "sick" marketing 
campaign is tested out in the US, it is then rolled out in other 
countries. 

 This technique may have been learned from the marketing of 
sailboats. It only works if most of the media can be controlled, meaning 
those with opposing viewpoints are silenced by bullying, payoff, web site 
hacking, or legal threats. Common 
Sense III demonstrates that this game 
was being played in the sailboat design field in the 1940s, and we see 
from the transpac in 2005 and attacks on this web log, that it is still 
being played. The Cone of Silence has been lifted. 

 An entire generation in the US has come to believe that a bigger 
sailboat with a heavy keel is a safer sailboat. Nothing is further from 
the truth given the fact that smaller sailboats can be designed that do 
not sink - even after being swamped - and are able to avoid hazardous 
conditions, unlike larger vessels, because they are so fast, and their 
small size makes them more like the life boats thoes in larger vessels 
carry which handle sever seas better than larger vessels by bobbing over 
breaking waves rather than crashing through them. It may take many more 
years but eventually the notion 
that small boats are safer boats will become common sense. 

 15 February 2005 

 Dear Protest Committee, 

 I 
wish to report a gross breach of good manners and sportsmanship that 
has 
brought the sport into disrepute. The allegations of gross misconduct fall 
under the Racing Rules of Sailing (RRS) 2001-4. 

 This report involves encouragement of and actual theft of property by 
the 
crew of S Parker, parkersu@earthlink.net, AKA Tripp Gal.

 Encouragement of the theft has been orchestrated for several months on 
multiple Internet sites, causing considerable loss of reputation for the 
sport, with the actual thievery taking place on February 14th in what 
might be called a Valentines Day Massacre.

 The property taken is access to my club's bulletin board. I had been 
warned by the crew of Trip Gal, some of whom are members of my club that 
such action would take place if I continued to express my views publicly 
regarding fixed fin and movable ballasted vessels, specifically TP52s and 
MacGregor 26x vessels, but also centerboard vessels and those with canting 
keels. These views are well documented over a period of several years and 
reviewed critically and are expressed primarily on a web site I and others 
from Sailnet.net developed http://www.eskimo.com/~mighetto/murrelet.htm 
first several years ago and then enhanced regularly. Those offended by my 
views were able to persuade others, including Sean Trew that they had a 
right not to be offended. 

 No such right has ever been established in any form of communication in 
the US. On December 8, Tripp Gal had emailed me with a message which 
appeared to indicate my troubles with her were over, but she later 
recommended that those contributing to a popular thread she started delete 
their posts. Later, I was contacted by Daniel Decker by phone, on or 
around January 31th, I suspect owing to Trip Gal or her husband's request. 
Dan had been a pawn in a similar action several months earlier, likely by 
the same individuals whoes apparent goal is not only to restrict my 
ability to speak about sailing but also remove me from my post as 
Secretary of SSSS. 

 The net result is that a resource I value highly is no longer 
available, 
and a working relationship that I value with Daniel Decker harmed. Dan 
challenged me to make this protest and is Vice Commodore of SSSS. 

 The BB resource includes threads on the Toliva Shoal race and hence 
should 
result in the protest committee calling a hearing as it impacts my race 
planning. I have registered for Toliva Shoal and hope to compete with out 
fear of "accidental" collision. 

 There is continued effort to ban me from posting views regarding fixed 
fin 
and movable ballast vessels on other boards such as boatdesign.net 
and 
Sailing Anarchy and in soliciting critical review of the web site listed 
above. That effort will likely continue unless the protest committee can 
take action at this time. 

 If I were the only competitor so treated it would be one thing. 
Unfortunately Tripp Gal, her husband, and others going under the names of 
Crank Boy and Bubba, who I can not identify but have identified themselves 
as friends or crew for Tripp Gal, have targeted those they believe are my 
supporters with similar treatment to the point that one individual 
believed himself in physical danger, when I was on vacation, and will no 
longer post on the SSSS BB. 

 Tripp Gal also threatened to orchestrate a boycott of Toliva Shoal 
which 
she believed I have involvement with to spite me. I have been threatened 
with dog doo over my vessel and challenged to a race for pink slips. This 
publically on Internet forums, and I suppose charming and entertaining but 
in combination with other actions alarming. 

 The behavior just doesn't appear to be stoppable outside of a formal 
protest, and it likely discourages those considering sailboat racing. I 
have chatted either by phone or email, and publically on Internet formus 
with the completitors over a period of several months to try to resolve 
the issue. Competitors that would need notification in writing ofthe 
alleged misconduct include: 

 Scott Awalt - Owner of Sugar Magnolia and crew member for Tripp Gal 
S Parker, parkersu@earthlink.net, AKA Tripp Gal, owner of a Tripp sailboat
Dan Decker, vicecommodore@sssclub.com - Owner of Oh My God 
Sean Trew, trew@qwest.net - Donator of SSSS Bulletin Board, unknown boat.

 Your prompt attention to this matter is appreciated. 
 Sincerely, Frank L. Mighetto, mighetto@eskimo.com Owner of Murrelet 
 Secretary South Sound Sailing Society 

 The above documents some of the troubles related to Jim Teters which 
are being adressed. They involve more than just Mac26x cruisers of 
course. Teeters Velocity Prediction Program (VPP) has I believe 
purposefully been created to penalize new sailboat designs and protect 
the kind of vessels known as the "Big Boats". In early August of 2005 On 
Sailing Anarchy the 
following was posted "Cow Bay is the fun, three- race windy regatta of the 
summer in the 
Pacific Northwest. Three years ago it was really windy and the Martin 
243's cleaned up. None have been back since. Apparently some of the big 
boat owners and PHRF decided to a rating change would be in order for this 
year. A Martin 243 rates 69 Northwest, 60 SoCal, 45 SoCal offset and 15 
downwind...So when the 243 showed up after the rating had been discussed, 
the local rater put it at -45 PHRF! So the boat went from 69 to -45, and 
after complaining about it all night they got bumped back to -12, Then in 
the morning, after another rater called bullshit they ended up sailing at 
+15 Some say the old rating was generous for the venue as it is a one gybe 
reach for 8 miles, and only tack four or five times up the beat, in flat 
water and 20 knots of breeze - legs and conditions which the 243 hauls 
ass. But an arbitrary 114 sec hit, then pushed 60 secs the other way. That 
is the biggest swing ever and the fastest 24 footer ever!.......PHRF 
apparently threw some numbers up in the air and just grabbed at something 
on the way down. Anyway, the Martin finished last, and nobody seemed to 
care. Here are e-mails between the Martin 243 and the organizers. Good 
times." Sailors do care. Not many have understood that Jim Teeters 
developed the VPP used to generate the obvious rating distortions that 
are keeping the fast planing boats off the race courses and the 
displacement designs from being retired. 

 Planing Hulls vs Displacement Hulls 
 [ Top ] 
[ Next ] 
[ Prev ] 
[ Bot ] 

There are four modes of sailing. Displacement mode, forced
mode, planing, and the 4th mode. Obviously many ocean
sailboats do not plane and hence there is no reason to
learn planing techniques on those boats. In fact it is
just the opposite. There are good reasons to learn how to
prevent planing because planing will put different
stresses on hull and rigging. If the vessel is not
designed for planing, dismasting, boom failure, hull
folding etc is possible. We saw all of that in the most
recent AC cup effort and much of it in the Around Alone. Crews for the
Mac26 Classics and the M (at least until the rigging is 
tested out) should NOT allow their vessels to plane. These two cruisers 
are pictured at the right. (Use the mouse to hover 
over the picture for the caption.) There are different 
rigging concerns for a displacement vs a planing hull. For example, the 
use of swept 
back spreaders on a displacement hull with a single head sail has been a 
concern for sometime. For example, it has been predicted that the use of a 
single head sail on a Classic, in more than moderate
wind, will one day result in a dismasting because that has happened on 
other vessels with swept back spreaders.
The same is likely true with the M, which does not have a backstay. Note 
however that the concern often expressed in articles, likely applies
to lesser built cruisers than MacGregors. There has been a reported
dismasting of a MacGregor 26 Classic. The owner reported that the hinged 
spreader may have been the cause. MacGregor Yachts no longer uses 
hinged 
spreaders. 
On a boat intended to plane, like the Mac26x, (but not the classics) the 
hull of the vessel would 
break out of the sea before stress on the mast from a single head sail 
could cause a dismasting. 

 Training Requirements 
 [ Top ] 
[ Next ] 
[ Prev ] 
[ Bot ] 

 The above illustrates different training requirements for crews. 
X boat owners and crews should be taught how to 
plane where boats like the Classics and M should be shown how to 
prevent it. The above also shows why there is a preference for 
upwind downwind (windward-leeward) race courses when the vessels 
are not capable of planing. Planing is most often optained on 
broad reaches in fresh and heavy wind. It is the 
relatively greater likelyhood of mast failure on reaches that gives two 
mark (one upwind and one downwind) the favor for racing displacement sail 
boats. Because these points 
of sail protect the boat investment they are favored by US owners of 
displacment only racing sailboats. Hence it isn't necessary to rig 
the racer like a cruiser (which most often will be sailed on a reach) 
or train crews on broad reaches just like it isnt necessary to train crews 
for forced mode or planing. Likewise there isn't a need 
to learn the 4th mode of sailing for an ocean hull that doesn't require 
it, such as the hulls of the M and Classics. 
 Unfortunately 
for Mac19 owners and X boat owners, most US ocean sailing schools 
ignore not
only planing and the 4th mode but also the forced mode.
They teach but displacement mode sailing, concentrating on upwind 
downwind work, also called keel
boat sailing, and ignore all the advancements in sailing
knowledge that has been obtained since the 1970s, that is
based on air plane knowledge.

Is it any wonder that US trained crews are not competitive
in the Americas Cup and Around Alone? Those crews have
learned but 1/4 of what is necessary to be competitive, or
at least those in charge have learned only 1/4 of what is
necessary. Clearly American AC crews are composed of many
nationalities. If captained properly perhaps the ways of
the knowledgeable (ways probably overridden by captains)
would have meant salvation. No AC challenger in 7 years,
soon to be 10 years, - NYYC be ashamed.

Many do not know that the highest paid athletes in the world are sailors. 
But US sailors are not well respected. This is likely owing to the closed 
mindedness of the society in which they are trained. In 2003 the World 
Tasar championships were swept by US athletes who are desperate to earn 
the kind of respect given sailor athletes in other countries. The Tasar is 
the closest dinghy with a hull form similar to a Mac26x and is an ocean 
planing dinghy. They are a Bethwaite Design and utilize a rotating mast 
like the M. Roger MacGregor may have been inspired by these small craft in 
the design of the X hull and the M rigging. The crew of the Murrelet is 
learning as much as possible on Tasar racing in hopes that this will be of 
benefit in racing an X. 

 How to Sail an X 
 [ Top ] 
[ Next ] 
[ Prev ] 
[ Bot ] 

The New Zealand, Australia and Switzerland crew members
are valued because these members are trained in 3 more
modes of sailing than the Americans. Others may disagree
but all now recognize the importance of crew competency
even if some do not yet realize the incompetency of the US
trained.

I blame the sailing schools and advocate that those
schools start teaching ocean sailing using higher-
performance designs. The problem with the boats currently
being used, such as keelboats and catamarans, is that "at
some critical wind speed their headsails fall centrally by
gravity." At that point the vessel stops. Crew weight
isn't enough to prevent this on traditional cruising monohulls.

On a monohull like a MacGregor, however, "crew move their
weight forward over the progressively narrower forward
underbody, the hull stability decreasing to the point
where it will become neutral." A 15 percent heel can then
be established by moving to the side and the headsail can
remain in position to capture any wind in the near calms.

This bow down and heeled attitude is the forth mode of
sailing and higher speeds in very light airs occur when
the handling is done that way. Roger MacGregor states in
the next to last sentence of his how to sail the X
literature (see)

 How To Sail The X by Roger MacGregor 

"In light wind, keep the crew forward and positioned so
the transom is almost out of the water and the boat heels
about 5 to 10 degrees. This heeling reduces the amount of
hull surface in contact with the water. In light wind, the
surface area touching the water creates most of the drag.
The more surface in contact with the water, the slower the
boat will go. A 10 degree angle of heel reduces this area
significantly." On a Mac26x 11, degrees is enough to bring the centerboard 
slot out of the water. Significant indead. 

Bethwaite, pg
270 adds "if at the same time, the crew separate their
weights in the sideways sense, this will stabilize the
boat in a roll (technically, by separating their weights
they increase the angular inertial)" Hence even in light
wind with waves, higher-performance designs can match
those of more rounded design - like the Classics (M
included in that group). "The more the crew can stabilize
the hull and steady the rig in light air, the more
efficient and powerful can the airflow over the sails
become, and the faster the boat will sail." In addition
when heeled and trimmed bow down the shape presented to
the water is River dinghy (M) or single catamaran hull like.

 Why Three 
Generations of Powersailers 
 [ Top ] 
[ Next ] 
[ Prev ] 
[ Bot ] 

The following photos show the undebatable similarity in the top deck of
the Mac19 (the first generation powersailer) and the M (the third 
generation powersailer). A potential boat purchaser will recognize that 
the M was 
sketched out for the most 
part by combining features of the Mac19 and Mac26 pre X launch. The M 
has features (like the topdeck, rudder 
brackets and fuel lockers) of the Mac19 and features of the Classic 26 
vessels (like the 
midship head, mirrored bulkhead and close to centerline ballast).) While 
superficially resembling an X 
boat (see the second and third generation picture above) there really is 
little similar in how the M boat is sailed vs the X boat, or in the 
interior layouts or ballast system. The M can be seen to be a stretched 19 
or Classic 26 with standing room but not as an advancement or 
improvement to the X cruiser. The X is more like a branch on the tree 
of powersailer evolution rather than a progression linked to the M. 
 When one comes to realize that the X hull 
is the more advanced sailing hull form by reading Bethwaites High 
Performance Sailing book the question of why introduce a less 
advanced hull in 2003 starts to perplex. After long thought and painfull 
discusions on why Roger brought out the M, I
 had concluded that dealer preasure explained the third generation
powersailer. The M is more advanced arguably in the rigging. The
rotating mast is similar to that of a Tasar or a multihull. However the 
hull form
is more like the Classics, a river hull and really a cross between a river 
hull 
and a power boat hull (spenser hull). 

 The M will sail more like a classic 
and that means there
is less for the dealers to explain to new owners and train them on (at 
least 3/4 less by the above). I am certain that MacGregor Yachts 
would like dealers to sell 
training as a side line to powersailer sales and there are dealers 
willing to try (such as BWY). But, the easier to support M 
will likely be more profitable for them. The M is easier to support in 
the Americas because any of a large number of sailing schools are 
capable of training new boat owners in handling the M because it 
handles like most keeled cruisers. The X handles like a Taser ocean 
racer. By de-emphasizing racing with the introduction of the M, dealers 
also 
are relieved of the dificulties of organizing and sponsering one-design 
racing (which with every X hull over 5000 grows in interest). Bottom 
line, profit minded US dealers would HOPE Mac26x owners 
would not be interested in racing, possible even spreading the notion 
that the X hull isn't fast enough for racing. The X vs M comparison 
states: 

In March of 2003, MacGregor introduced the all new MacGregor 26M, to 
replace the 26X that had been in production for 7 years. Approximately 
5000 of the X had been produced before being replaced by the M. The new 
boat is substantially different from the old. 

The substantial difference appears to be related to racing. In the X 
marketing the following statement is telling.

 Here are your sailing choices: (1) With the water ballast 
tank full and 
conservative sails, the 26 is an
extremely stable sailboat, ideal for a beginner. (2) With the big genoa 
jib or spinnaker, it is a
conventional self righting sailboat with outstanding sailing speed. (3) 
Without water ballast, it is one
of the wildest and potentially fastest sailboats around. Under power (1) 
without water ballast, it is a
rather fast conventional cabin cruiser, or (2) with the water ballast, a 
docile, heavily ballasted power
boat. ... Quick, stable and responsive, the revolutionary MacGregor 26 is 
the fastest and best handling of any 
of the trailerable cruising sailboats. 

 The M's substantial difference is best summed up as "she is not for 
racing" or "she is more of a blue water cruiser than a trailerable". The X 
while not a race boat, is a very fast cruiser capable of 
racing ballasted or unballasted like a Tasar. The X is an ocean 
cruiser-racer 
when ballasted and becomes an Ultra-Light ocean racer when unballasted. 
For 
someone who has 
learned to sail in the US and is set in the ways of keel boat sailing the 
M truly will be the faster 
sailboat. But for a Jack and Jill crew familiar with Tasar sailing the X 
has race potentitial that is as Macgregor Yachts 
states revolutionary. 
 The apparent full story of why X production was halted in the US 
goes 
beyond dealer preasure. MacGregor Yachts had up until the introduction of 
the X always produced more than one model at a time. The expectation was 
to produce both X and M models in 2004. But there was strong vested 
interest in 
the US ocean racing community. The vested interests ran counter to any 
kind 
of movable balasted vessel. US Sailng's GRAND 
PRIX WORKING PARTY 
QUESTIONNAIRE is telling. It leads the respondent to 
conclusions that were rejected by ISAF when rules 51 and 52 were 
modified in 1997 to support movable ballast in the forms of water and 
retractable, swinging and canting keels. 

 In the questionare the notion of stability 
limits for safety as well as the allowing of water ballast and canting 
keels was raised and Jim Teeters was identified as the consultant for the 
US SAILING contingent to the Grand Prix Rule Working Party RWP. Jim 
Teeters is 
the expert witness that inappropriately tried to put the Mac26x design on 
trial during a drunken boater's case. The RWP eventually rejected Jim 
Teeters notions of safety being related to mathematically calculated 
stability ratios in order to support movable balasted designs (both water 
and canting balast designs). It appears 
that an orchestrated campaign to disparage the Mac26x and indead any 
movable ballast ( and that includes retractable foils ) design had 
been carried out to 
support the production of 
vessels called TP52s and the planned design of smaller ocean racers as 
small as Mac26x size . This campain made it appear that US Sailing 
supported not only Jim Teeters but also those with interest in TP52 box 
rules. 
That raised questions as to the tax exempt status of US Sailing and the 
eventual reorganization of the organization in October of 2004. 

 In any case, it is still exciting to see MacGregor provide the M vessel 
for the group of sailors looking to evolve from a trailer sailer to a 
true blue water boat. The M can be 
purchased without a trailer where this was never an option for the X. 
Race activities are supported by trailers. The 
M plays into many of the myths bantered by dealers 
of lesser vessels (like you can't have a shower on a boat with solid 
flotation and that centerboards are less seaworthy than fixed keels and 
that solid ballast is better than water ballast). Hence because there are 
are fewer issues to scotch, the M may be easier to sell to the masses. 
But for the next generation of US 
racing sailors, 
the generation hoped to retrieve the Americas Cup, the X will prevail as 
the advanced planing machine she is, just as the splash X hulls will in 
Europe. 

 I am hoping for an additional production run of the X in the 
US. 
But if I were "boatless in Seattle" I would be purchasing an M rather than 
waiting. The 
MacGregor sailboats are built for ocean use and they are the only US 
manufacturer building powersailers. In addition, like new X cruisers are 
rarely available for under $20,000 and you can not 
know the history of a used boat. But it is not just cost, functionality, 
and history. I 
spent way to many years under power alone, and very little sailing of my X 
until the third year. If an X production run is started in the near 
future and I owned an M, at that time, 
I would upgrade and give myself and crew the time needed to unlearn the 
keel boat style of sailing advanced with the M. I can see 
that 
new boat purchasers might be confused 
if both vessels were offered by the dealers because they are sailed so 
differently and clearly two sets of new 
customers with widely different training requirements would be difficult 
to manage.

 Practical Boat Owner magazine 
did not let go of the notion that new X's would be produced in 2003, in 
spite of production halt in the US. 
The Mac26x French Canal
article
in October of 2003 is a cover story. You would think X cruisers available
new
all
over Europe with MacGregor Yachts dealerships and factory encouraging
big
publications to do stories about them by purchasing advertisements.
No mention
of production halt. 

The powerboat plug makers benefit from frequent hull
style changes. While possibly appropriate for power boats,
where insurance policies generally prohibit racing, this buisiness
model is harmful for purchasers of new sail boats because the number of
hulls
produced is likely to be small thereby harming racability and
resale value. Court actions as described above explain both the 
fast roll out of the M, utilizing plug technology, and halt of X 
production in 2003. The courts have 
long influenced boat design, often adversly. This is evident in the role 
of courts in the Americas Cup. 

 Cod's Head & Mackerel Tail 
 [ Top ]
[ Next ]
[ Prev ]
[ Bot ] 
 Ted Brewer, a designer who did much of his work in my own state, 
recently retired and moved back to British Columbia. His training material 
for amateur builders and beginning yacht designers, now in its 4th 
edition, portrays the typical hull form used on sailing craft from the 
1800s known as the Cod's Head & Mackerel Tail, as inappropriate for 
contemporary designs. It is even stated that such a hull form "would sail 
better backwards!". This opinion is based on work Brewer did with 
America's Cub boats in the 1960s. 

 Shortly before Brewer began modifying AC boats, the New York Yacht 
Club, having suspended AC racing during the World Wars, successfully 
petitioned the Supreme Court of the State of New York to modify the Deed 
of Gift governing future AC races. The modifications approved by the court 
allowed boats to cross the ocean on transports rather than their own 
bottoms. They also limited the size of the racing vessel to 65 feet under 
a 12 meter rule. 

 The British appeared to have an edge in sailing 12-meter sailboats, 
which were not raced in the U.S. at that time, and sent the 12 meter 
yacht Sceptre to compete in 1958. Sceptre lost every match. Brewer, and 
others, including English designers, concluded that the shape of Sceptre's 
hull, the Cod's Head and Mackerel Tail, explained what Brewer describes as 
the fiasco of four straight losses and no wins. 

 The folly of 1958 probably was the removal of the requirement that 
challengers travel to AC races on their own bottom, because it allowed 
designers to skip over seaworthiness considerations, considerations 
Sceptres designers were unwilling to ignore. But this foolishness was 
compounded by those wishing to attribute the designer of the boat that 
beat Sceptre with most of the glory. Olin Stephens had designed what was 
arguably the fastest 12-meter in the world, Vim, prior to designing 
Columbia, the boat that beat Sceptre. He was well recognized owing to that 
and the AC win. 

 But more important than design is the fact that this was Sceptre's 
first race. Columbia's crew had been well seasoned during an exhausting 
set of matches with crew on Weatherly the vessel that Brewer eventually 
modified, and in 1962 won the cup 4 out of 5 matches. Because many AC 
races were determined in contests where the challenger didn't win a single 
match, prior to 1958 and after then, rejection of a hull form respected 
for hundreds of years truly was foolish. This was especially true with the 
introduction of fiberglass which allowed the construction of much more 
ridged hulls necessary for larger boats that could plane, like the Santa 
Cruise 40s and 50s. Tasar race crews (possible familiar with 
Brewer's disparaging remarks involving the cods head and mac hull 
form) have objected to characterizing their race boats that way. The 
form is subtile in the Tasar and in the Mac26x and is preceded by what is 
called by brewer a fine entry bow. 

 The Story of Finisterre 

[ Top ]
[ Next ]
[ Prev ]
[ Bot ]

 In 1954 the Olin Stephens designed yacht Finisterre was launched, to 
late 
for the Bermuda race that year. She was a 38 foot centerboarder and there 
is no more accomplished racing yacht. She ranks as one of the most 
significant yachts in the history of the sport. 

 Carleton Mitchell, the owner of Finisterre, is the author of the 
book 
Islands to Windward. He had developed a sailing style that was not in 
concert with the era of the deep-keeled, long-ended windward leeward 
oriented ocean racers. Mitchell had previously owned a 58-foot 
centerboarder, the Rodes-designed Caribbee. Michell wanted to prove 
something by racing. 

 With Finisterre, he humiliated hundreds of deep fixed keel race 
boat 
owners by holding the honor mooring spot off the Royal Bermuda Yacht Club 
from 1956 to 1962, a spot envisioned for a much larger and deep draft 
vessel. 

 Prior to the build, Mitchell put his ideas in articles which were 
criticized, putting him in the awkward position of potential publicized 
failure. Finisterre was built at the height of custom yacht design. His 
notion of a vessel that would be like having your cake and eating it to, 
that would be small enough for single handling, comfortable enough for 
luxurious cruising, able to cross oceans and fast enough to win races was 
not popular among the all boats are compromises mindset. The fact that the 
vessel would be a centerboarder undoubtedly angered many who had worked 
for years to discredit this foil type. 

 Bill Robinson, in Legendary Yachts, relates the story of Stanley 
Rosenfeld, the photographer, who in following Finisterre for a photo 
shoot, noticed little of the creaking that he listened for from the helm 
of his subjects to identify just the right distance and angle for good 
photos. Robinson believes the lack of that noise was part of the secret to 
this vessel and so do I not that anything about Finisterre was secret, it 
all being public record owing to Mitchells wish to prove 
something. 

 Pat Royce in the 2000 edition of Royce Sailing Illustrated notes 
that 
Mitchell used the swing keel for steering The centerboard is down all the 
way when beating to windward in a light breeze. As the wind increases the 
centerboard is raised sufficiently to trim the rudder to reduce weather 
helm rudder drag. Pg 17 

 Winning races unfortunately does not prove anything to those who are 
closed minded. Robinson lists many reasons for Finisterres success ranging 
from Mitchel's knowledge of weather to winches but does not connect the 
centerboard dot as a reason for her success. Retracting foils 
helps the vessel to surf or plane. Finisterre was able to surf the 
storm fronts owing to this thereby bettering her "betters". She 
was greatly immitated by other builders and this immitation lead to 
rule changes tending to reduce the success of her type acording to 
Robinson. That success should spawn rules limiting progress in 
design is a tradgedy only now being undone by vessels like the 
Mac26x. 

 More 
thoughts 
 [ Top ] 
[ Next ] 
[ Prev ] 
[ Bot ] 
 The logo to the left was 
designed in 1981 by Marvin Oliver for the School of 
Public Health and Community Medicine at the University of Washington 
(UW). 
The crew of the Murrelet have connections with that school and with the 
UW. The logo, 
which is called 'Soul Catcher' is also our avitar on web logs discussing 
the content of this cruising log. 

I do not 
think
many of us understand how our cruisers are lifted. The way the Mac26x is lifted,
and all sail boats for that matter, is by crabbing. Leeway is a 
good thing for
planing. We want leeway because it lifts the cruiser. No leeway, no lift. Leeway
is what provides the foils with an "angle of attack". It is required for fast
sailing. The trick is finding that amount of retractable foil and 
amount of crabbing
that creates lift for our cruisers without excessive leeway and without
excessive drag. I think my cruiser betters others in no/ light wind because I
have been extending the centerboard rather than lifting it, and dropping the
second rudder rather than leaving it raised as I normally do when there is
normal wind. By crabbing the current, my boat is getting lifted. I had thought I
was catching current to push me along by extending the appendages. But really I
was lifting the vessel with the foils owing to the angle of attack on the
current and catching wind to push me along. This explains why the extended foils
helped regardless of my need to oppose or go in the direction of the current.
The effect is probably similar to using an air inflator device to blow 
ballast or trim 
tabs to lift the cruiser while motoring. 
To plane under sail the boat needs lift, at least initially in order to crest
its bow wake. That means she needs leeway. Leeway that likely will be considered
excessive by some.

 [ Top ] [ Next ] [ Prior ] [ Last ]

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

[ Home ]
[ Decision Tree ]
[ Deep Knowledge ]
[ Acknowledgements ]
[ Map ] 

 Cruising Log of the
Mariah Wind 
 Cruising Log
of the Bella Donna 
 Crusing
Log of the ForeverGreen 

 Frank &amp Lisa Mighetto - 1260 NE 69th St.
Seattle, WA
98115 - (206)
525-1458 voice and fax 

 mighetto@eskimo.com - Internet
email
address 

 mighetto@compuserve.com -
Internet email
address or 72154,3467 from within Compuserve