Myth #10 MAC26X BOATS ARE SPARTAN 

 Cruising Log of the Murrelet 

 Main 

 CB 

 FB 

 Fast 

 Size 

 Keel 

 Ballast 

 Point 

 Tall 

 Race 

 Lean 

 Ocean 

 #10 MAC26X BOATS ARE SPARTAN 

 [ First Page ] [ Next ] [ Prior ] [ Last ]

The above slides represent over 70 days of
living aboard 
 Murrelet while
visiting destinations from Olympia to Port Hardy. Our cruising style
included overnight accomodations at resorts every 5th day or so and
car 
rentals from time to time. We made reservations by cell phone. If the
facility was booked up, we took advantage of the resort marina, or
continued
to the next destination or a gunkhole. All in comfort. 900 lbs of
gear.

Sure you can purchase a Mac26x in a lean 
(Lear jet) configuration. 
Perhaps
that is what is wanted for racing or to reach 17 MPH under sail. You can also
load her up with dealer and third party options. Mac26x vessels are
cruiser-racers rather than racer-cruisers so there are plenty of comforts
available including some that have (with the Bayliner
sailboat exception) been reserved for power boats. 

 But 20 year old used
racer-cruisers (like the Catalina 30) are often lavish and priced in the same
range as a new Mac26x. When you look at used sail boat prices, in general, you
find wide ranges of asking prices for the same model and year vessel. The reason
is obvious when you board them. They are fitted out differently. 

 One joy of new
boat ownership is the prospect of modifying her to personal
taste in the years to come. I added a SportPilot autohelm in 2001 and
radar was made operational in early 2002. These were wired to a GPS in 
2003 and in 2004 the full cockpit enclosure was installed. My wife had the 
dealer install a shower drain. Murrelet certainly is not Spartan 
and
at least a part of her will always be new. Since I am of the opinion that a new
Mac26x will be more seaworthy than most 20 year old boats, new with many options
was the way to go for me. Click on the photo to
start a slide show (Java required). 

 To search this site enter a word or phrase below:

 "I'm occasionally asked if I miss the larger, deep 
draft sailboat. The answer is always no. That type of craft now seems 
to me like a helpless one-legged seabird soaring above the surface of 
the sea, never able to safely land or seek shelter." Ron 
Hoddinott Small Craft Advisor 
March/April 2006 issue, pg 26 

 The Mac26x should be viewed as an advancement from other sail boat designs
including but not limited to Trekka - the first "big dinghy" to circumnavigate
the globe (1955); the Etap 
23 - the first unsinkable yacht (1973) [Sailing Today
March 2001]; the Dehler 25 - arguably the first water ballasted sail boat 1985
[Sailing Today September 2000]; the Lancer
44 performance motorsailor - winner of the 1980
Ensenada Race and noteworthy pocket cruisers such as the Hunter 240 and
Catalina 250 [Sail December 2000].
 The Mac26x should also be compared to the Catalina 30 which was the most
popular cruiser until the Mac26 was introduced. It is important to also compare
the vessel to the Bayliner sailboats that were initially rejected by the sailing
community owing to power boat company roots (1955) but have since found
acceptance owing to creature comforts common in power vessels and the 
 27 - 36 
foot Corsair trimarans. Practical 
Boat Owner in August of 2003 compared the X cruiser to the Odin 820, 
the Dufour Duos and the Finnish Vi:Ta which are roomy variations on the X 
power-sailer theam, 
the first being designed and built by former X dealers in Germany and 
Poland and the later 
two being commercially unsuccessful. 

The above is the interior plan of Murrelet. She has a powerboat like step 
that in later models was replaced with a ladder which is more 
common on sailboats. The layout is what a power boater would expect and in 
the US 3/4ths of all boaters consider the power boat style preferable.

 Glad I don't Live in a Trailer 
[ Top ] 
[ Next ] 
[ Prev ] 
[ Bot ]

 There is no need to forgo luxury while sailing. The best restaurants 
and resorts are usually by the water. We take advantage of shore based 
accommodations at least once per week while cruising and there are no 
better on any vessel at any price than those available on shore when 
expecting bad weather or after a hard long passage. 

 We usually find that there have been cancelations at the resorts 
when weather is predicted to be bad. When the weather is fine, the view 
from Murrelet's below deck table or cockpit 
while dining can be better than that available on shore. When that 
happens it is time to visit the local market or bargain with 
fishermen. I do admit to having the best meal (garlic shrimp and 
salmon) aboard a boat. It has inspired me to learn how to fish. 

 On a long passage, without a large crew, there really is little time 
for luxury. The point is that the factory "refrigerator look" interior of 
the Mac26x does not imply a lack of luxury in comparison to other under 40 
foot and even larger sail boats. Crew appreciate shore leave and the most 
wealthy mega yacht owner may bunk aboard very infrequently. Does anyone 
really find luxury on a boat? Boats are not really about that. 

 The notion of designing a vessel from a luxurious interior out 
doesn't sit well with me yet this is likely the situation with the Odin 
820, and to a lesser extent the Mac26m. Some notes on boat design 
and trailer-style living are provided below. 

 Prior to launching the X, MacGregor 
Yachts produced three Mac26 sailboats, each with different keels,
and a Mac19 powersailer and likely generated many computer designs, all 
with layouts that are traditional for sailboats (for example less boxy 
than the X). 
This process is considered a radical
progression in boat design. But MacGregor Yachts is not the first company 
to apply the rapid
design approach (common in software engineering) to boat building. Sadler built
300 Sadler 25s in the 1980s with different keels before producing the Sadler 26.
[Sailing Today March 2001]
 It is possible that the Mac26m, lauched in march of 2003, was designed 
for the most part prior to the Mac26x launch in 1996. In other words, one 
might 
consider the M to be the second 
generation powersailer though in chronological order she is the third. 
 This is supported by at least one physical model that is known to 
exist for the M. 

 Prior to computer modeling, it was standard 
procedure to create physical models for distribution to boat reviewers and to analyze 
during the manufacturing process. The building of such models became 
unnecessary with computer aided design (CAD) and as far as I know, no 
physical models for the Mac26x were ever produced. The photo to the right 
is an example of a physical model at the MacGregor Yachts 
factory. Typically different foil and stern configurations would be 
created for such a model. 
 The 
existence of such a model for the Mac26m, while not conclusive, does 
support the notion that the M represents an early effort of MacGregor 
Yachts prior to investment in CAD and the development of the Mac26x. 
Perhaps the intent was to create a Mac26D with standing head room, or 
 as discussed 
above a multihull. There 
could be Mac26a's or the amas (outer) hull models for combining with the 
Mac26m 
or middle hull in a trimaran configuration. Such a design effort, if it 
took place, would have been around 1994 when Corsair Marine trimarans 
were launched. In any case a different (more traditional - and less 
rigorous from an engineering perspective) process was used 
in the development of the M than was used to design the X. This is 
evident by later addition of solid internal ballast first in 
sand/resin and later (according to Perry) lead/lead pellet form. 
The 
process involved give and take with dealership/ distributorships who 
likely requested certain interior and foil 
features but may not have engineering or sailing credentials. Sharp 
Marine Industries, Inc was actively involved in the design and 
initial production of the Mac26M. 

The 
M combines features of the Mac26D (Classic Daggerboard) and the Mac19 and 
is substatially more sailboat like in the interior. The exterior of the M 
also is more sailboat like, sleaker and better looking by even my eye than 
the form of the X, though the X form is more functional. By the end of 
2003, Sail magazine, in the 2004 Sailboat Buyers Guide, noted that only 
300 Ms had 
been produced. This is one third the number estimated by others, 
including myself, and not representative of the kind of success 
needed to justify the halt of Mac26x production or the claim 
that the M is a replacement for the X. 
 Volker and Gerda Lamprecht, the German home interior design couple, 
and X dealers, gave birth to the 
 Oden 
820 and may hold bragging rights for a powersailer that is a 
replacement 
for the X. I seriously doubt that interior designers can - on 
their own - design a vessel that both powers and sails well. 
Hence I suspect that Roger MacGregor was part of their design 
team just as he has been reported to have been part of the team 
that developed the M. Unfortunately both the M and the Oden 
820 are not meant to be 
sailed unballasted. The term to be used in describing this 
kind of a sail boat is a fixed water ballasted sailer. The X is 
a movable water ballasted sailer. The movement is on an off 
the vessel. Unballasted 
operation for the Oden 820 
is reserved for 
motor only operation and shortly after the introduction of this vessel 
in the US (as the Mast 28), safety restrictions regarding the M motoring 
unballasted were 
removed as was the odd notation that while the vessel could sleep six 
the maximum crew size was four. The X is 
engineered to both motor and sail unballasted, sleeping six and carrying 
up to 10 (by PHRF racing rules - no manufacture limit was ever 
established) 
(see video) . Like the Oden 820 the X has a sailboat planing style 
(likely Dribbly) hull form. The M has the powerboat V form favored in 
sport power cabin cruisers. If the deadrise were just two inches 
more the M would with out a doubt be a sport power cabin cruiser 
competing directly with Bayliners. 

 In 
its first year of operation an Oden 820 suffered a 
capsize with 9 thousand british pounds of damage, likely to the 
posh interior, 
yet she is very much 
in demand and US and Mac26x dealerships now sell both 
Mac26m and Mast28 vessels. Like 
the Mac26x, the Oden 820 can be fitted out with 
70 
hp engines. The M owing to its captain's seat requires a modification 
to support a 70 hp and has the stability or hull form 
needed to make effective use of the more powerful 
engine . Dealers in the US sell the Mast 28 for 45,000 US which is 
comparable to a power boat with similar accomodations or a trailer 
home. The Mast 28s are CE marked which has been estimated by one Mac26m 
dealer to be worth at least $10,000. CE marking allows boats to enter 
EU waters with out threat of confinscation or need for exemption. 

Articles in sailboat magazines sometimes have a Jimmy Buffet theme. Jimmy 
is the "son of a sailor" who is "just glad" he doesn't live in a 
 trailer . 
The comparison of a boat to a trailer home is a natural one and Macgregor 
yachts specifically points out that the Mac26x can be used like a 
Recreational Vehicle (RV) when on its trailer. 

Unlike an RV, however, when the park is crowded or full, owners can launch 
and anchor in uncrowded conditions, the RV then becoming a Recreational 
Vessel rather than simply a vehicle. John Guzwell of Trekka 
expresses a similar theam to Buffet's. Trekka did not have standing 
head room and, when asked if he felt that confining, he noted that he 
could always go topside when wanting to stand upright. Both Buffet 
and 
Guzwell separate the confinement one finds in a trailer home from the 
freedom one gets from their boat. This notion is somewhat lost on 
those who refer to boats 
(such as Bayliner's Buccaneer) in a derogatory way which is often implied 
in the 
terms RV and it's companion word - boxy. 

The production boat designer must be stressed constantly over the issue of 
what will sell vs what will really meet the needs of the recreational 
boater. The human engineering task in boat design is a huge one. Many, 
owing to Buffet and sailors like him, prefer the racier look of the Mac26x 
because it is almost the opposite look of an RV. White liners and 
unfinished storage compartments on the X are what you find on racing 
sailboats. Twin rudders with unfinished exposed controls and a wide fan 
tail are 
found on ocean racers. Color and finishing play a big part in 
attracting purchasers. 

 Dockside Comfort 

[ Top ]
[ Next ]
[ Prev ]
[ Bot ]

 The 
factory-provided-creature comforts on all Mac26x 
cruisers are done 
in 
pastels. (Mine are light blue with pinkish overtones). Pastels are known 
by careful study to attract older purchasers and it appears that Mac26x 
cruisers are owned by individuals who have had experiences with other 
boats, many owners retired or older active military and military 
contractors and engineers. 

Contrast this with the earth tone "lounge" look of classic sailboats that 
is often referred to as the wood look. This has been found by human 
engineer studies to appeal to young purchasers. Earth tones appeal to 
young women and the lounge look to young men. Hence young newlyweds often 
can 
agree on the desirability of the Mac26m kind of interior. 

When appeal to a target group is the design
goal, rather than seaworthiness, efficiency and recreational purpose,
there will be disappointment in the vessel after some period of
time. Designing a boat such as the M and possibly the Oden 820 with 
contributions from many is a technique that isn't favored by boat 
reviewers, or the US Navy. Often, as is the case with many of the Beneteau 
and Hunter sail boats, a committee is formed to compete and win a design 
contest. The first relevant example for this discussion involves the 
Tasars. 

The designer of the Laser and designer of the Tasar were successful in 
bringing out the Laser II, which my dad sailed. However, when they formed 
a larger group to develop the Laser 28, which included Bruce Farr, to 
provide a sailboat that "would offer more comfort and more room for 
growing (Laser/Tasar) families", the result was satisfactory only to a 
small niche group of boaters. I often wonder who were the design teams 
that competed for the Laser 28. In anycase I very much agree with 
reviewers and the US Navy that superior engineering isn't likely with such 
an approach. I believe it best to start with superior engineering, as in 
the Mac26x, and then let owners add features appropriate for their 
families. The second relevant example is what I think 
happened in the design of the M. Many owner's spouses will complain 
about lack of standing head room 
on a Mac26 classic or similar trailerable sailboat. The solution is 
sometimes to trade up for 
a larger water bound sailboat. This is often done by the 5 foot more every 
5 year 
rule.The Mac26m meets the standing head room requirement and appeals to 
that niche of sailors. But for growing Laser/Tasar type families speed is 
required even in the absence of wind for the schedule requirements of a 
family and hence powerboats become favored. The 26m and Oden 820 
adress this however features, like 
dinettes, showers, and stability 
when 
dockside, for child raising are only met with the Mac26x. 

With a mac26x powersailer and unlike the first and third generation boats, 
the interior is already powerboat like. The trading up to a 
different boat with powerboat creature comforts is less likely because 
of that. Instead Mac26x owners will add features 
appropriate for their families . 

 Improvements are made continuously to the Mac26x which means that new boat
owners benefit from the experiences of the pioneer owners. But early purchasers
of the vessel also benefit either from warrantees or from proven to be of value
upgrades. The upgrade potential appears to be reflected in used Mac26x prices.
The vessel holds its resale value.

 As demonstrated by the photos above (not my cruiser), while one might argue
with the means, the end result is an unsinkable high tech yacht, likely capable
of circumnavigating the globe as well as winning a few races. After making some
of the numerous potential upgrades and fitting out the Murrelet with desirable
dealer and third party options (including 110 and gel batteries), I do not view
anything except a 40+ footer or possible a multi hull (power or sail) as a
substitute recreational vessel. I suspect that, for a crew of two, the Mac26x is
a great blue water boat.

 Ocean Cruising Comfort 
[ Top ]
[ Next ]
[ Prev ]
[ Bot ]

 The October 2001 Blue Water Sailing magazine's Annual Gallery of Great Blue
Water Boats puts comfort high in importance for ocean cruising. The issue states
"...in the U.S. market it is difficult to find many true (emphasis from the
issue) offshore boats under 40 feet currently being produced." Because the
magazine apparently uses the comfort ratio in identifying a true offshore boat,
discussion of this metric is warranted.

 The comfort ratio was developed by Ted Brewer tounge-in-cheek
and hence really should not prevail above other ratios in the identification of
a true offshore boat. Also called the motion comfort ratio, the idea behind its
development may have been to identify boats where occupants are likely to become
sea sick. It is widely used in comparisons between cruisers - which is
unfortunate because new boaters are don't realize the whimsical nature of the
ratio.
 Blue Water Sailing views high comfort ratios (50 or above) representative of
"sluggish" vessels, where the duration of the uncomfort is possibly extended,
and low comfort ratios (20 or below) representative of "jerky motion" vessels,
where while the duration of the uncomfort is shorter its intensity may be viewed
as high.
 So for ocean use the motion comfort ratio range of 20 to 50 appears
representative of true ocean cruisers by Blue Water Sailing magazine standards.
The Mac26x when loaded for most ocean endeavors is in that range.
 Displacement on a Mac26x ocean cruiser will include not only water ballast
but also allowance for 85 lbs per person per week of food and fresh water (rule
of thumb) as well as personal gear and safety gear/ extra fuel for ocean passage
and anchor tackle. The weight of the crew is also part of the displacement.
While the total displacement changes while cruising it is unlikely that "jerky
motion" is going to be a valid description of Mac26x ocean behavior. Brewer
recognizes that sails when up reduce uncomfortable motion and 
 water-ballasted boats take rough conditions with significantly more 
comfort 
for their crews. Since I am reluctant to call any boat that can 
capsize
and then sink ocean worthy, I am inclined to consider most monohulled sail 
boats
(MacGregors, Poters, and Etaps being the exceptions) 
as
deficient 
 for ocean crossing work. Manufacturers of sail boats that can sink need
to rethink their classification schemes which are misleading. Should any
sail
boat without solid flotation really be classified as "open ocean capable 
of withstanding hurricane"? 

 The previous 3 pictures were taken from my sister's Catalina 42. Our
experience the day after Thanksgiving 2001, showed us that ocean swells of 10 to
15 feet are handled well by small vessels. The Atlantic Trader was about 30
minutes from the Mac26x Bonnie Bell. We hoped to observe the Mac26x outside of
the gate but she turned in the slot before the potato patch. 

In 2002 Murrelet embarked on a circumnavigation of 
Vancouver Island, where I hoped to observe first hand Mac26x ocean 
behavior. The crew was distracted by warm weather and whale 
and bear watching and hence the only ocean 
swells dealt with were those blown into the Strait of Juan De 
Fuca and Haro Strait. 

 Our experience showed our Mac26x 
cruiser to be sturdy and duck like in waves that are large 
enough for the propeller to be lifted out of the sea. What this means is 
that Murrelet bobbed over large waves rather than slicing 
through them like my sister's Catalina 42. 

 A technique for surfing the waves was developed. At conclusion of a 
rough Haro 
Strait passage, we noted that our cruiser had reached 17MPH during the 
motor-only fully-ballasted lots-of-surfing crossing. I was able to 
compare our 
experience with that of a distressed 34 foot sailboat captain whoes 
crew abandoned him once reaching port owing to sea anxiety. It was 
apparent that our Mac26x 
cruiser did much better than other recreational boats (sail or power) 
that day. My wife and I 
hope to complete the Vancouver Isl. circumnavigation by trailering. 
 A mini transat (smaller than a Mac26x) completed the Van Isl 360 race 
in 2005 and 
several Mac26x cruisers have circumnavigated the island so this 
work is well within the capabilities of the vessel, it can now be said 
proven for this work. 
 Racing Comfort 
[ Top ]
[ Next ]
[ Prev ]
[ Bot ] Click on Photo Below For Slides

Just after sundown, Mr. Murphy called, first knocking from someplace 
under the cover of the outboard. We had not fooled him. Fridays are well 
known to be unlucky for the start of any major boating endeavor. 

 I prefer to take Murphy on at the tavern rather than on some sand bar, 
and this is especially true on a Friday evening, so the course was 
reversed, Murphy rapping loader and loader now at low RPMs. The 26 foot 
vessel Murrelet, would spend at least one night at Gig Harbor. 

 A cell phone call to the shore crew who had just completed shopping for 
provisions in Seattle yielded plan one. After a good night sleep and in 
daylight, the plugs on the motor would be replaced and if Murphy wanted 
anything more, the outboard shop in town could likely handle him. 

 Only the knocking was a banging after the plug change and the outboard 
shop keeper knew just from my description that lodging for Mr. Murphy, 
and my boat, would be required for a least a few weeks. 

 Plan two was then in operation. I would bus or cab to Olympia and pick 
up a car. We could still see our friends and enjoy cruising on OPB (other 
peoples boats). OPB is racing comfort for many, we might as 
well use it for cruising. Reservations at the resorts would be extended 
to cover 
the time we had expected to sleep aboard. Mr. Murphy could be ignored 
until after vacation. And as a bonus we could visit places on shore in the 
San Juan Islands that we usually do not because of the lack of ground 
transportation. Our friends with boats only asked that we bring our dinghy 
which nicely packs in the trunk of our Volvo. Not one day of vacation 
would be lost. 

 So I explained the plan to those who were aware of the engine problem 
and sharing the guest dock. It was faulty. While there was room for a 
guest boat on Saturday, no marina in the harbor could accommodate Murrelet 
for two weeks owing to a coming holiday. Murphy was winning. Now I began 
asking for suggestions. 

 This process was kind of fun. I was told of a miracle can-o-something 
that was certain to fix the motor for a few weeks if I sprayed its 
contents into the outboard. It was also suggested that I tow the 26 footer 
with her dinghy. I was asked if the 50 hp motor could be removed from the 
boat by a fellow that obviously knew engines and might be able to fix it. 
If so it could be used as an anchor for a few weeks, he explained. Ha Ha. 

 Anchoring out was a possibility but Gig Harbor is busy and there would 
be no one to watch after her. By now Mr. Murphy had alerted friends on the 
Internet and I am certain some of the suggestions - like the anchor one - 
were coming from there. One fellow explained how I could lash the Zodiac 
to Murrelet's side and use the new multi-hull rig to negotiate out of the 
harbor. A quick review of the tides demonstrated that they were favorable 
for returning to Olympia. It would take all day to motor there using the 
3.5 hp dinghy motor. But this was plan 3. 

 Lashed dingy ready, I efficiently flooded the dinghy outboard engine. 
Not wanting to be more of a show I took a pause. A half hour later the 
wind picked up. Murrelet is a sailboat after all. How glorious, I would 
just sail out of harbor and back to Olympia. A great entry in the log book 
was about to be had. Happily hoisting sail and casting off, the wind then 
shifted and died. This happened three or four times. Murphy is good. I 
would need to motor out or be towed out. So Plan 5 was put into action. 

 I 
carry 
Vessel Assist towing more for when I am on power boats than on 
Murrelet. Well, I carry little fuel when racing so I suppose I carry 
vessel assist for racing comfort as well. You see quite a few racing 
sailboats being towed. All of the Americas Cup vessels are towed to and 
from race venues. In the 7 years I have owned Murrelet, I have had few 
engine 
issues but when I have I have always been able to sail. I knew that the 
downside of Plan 5 was that some Internet fan would be posting a picture 
of my sailboat being towed. But clearly I was doing the boats in the 
harbor right. I would live with the photos. Just outside of harbor a 
police boat operator hailed me while under tow to inform me that photos 
were already being placed on the Sailing Anarchy site. I hoisted 
the SA flag. Might as well admit Murphy had me. 

 The tow operator was to take me through the narrows where I would start 
sailing home. Only there wasn't a bit of wind. Whats more there would be 
no 
charge to be towed all the way to Olympia (an $800 value). Plan 6, the 
final plan now went into operation. I could not beat Murphy, so I would 
drink to Murphy and drink Murphys, a four pack was on board, part of the 
boats racing comforts. The beer mugs 
out, 5 hours of the most interesting trip by boat in some time went by 
quickly, with my new friend Murphy. I missed less than a day of vacation. 
As it turned out Murphy really was a reluctant friend because 90 vessels 
burned in Gig Harbor just a few days later. Had Murrelet been accommodated 
there she may not be happily cruising and racing today. A month later an 
upgraded engine was mounted. The new sail goes up for the next race. 

 Additional 
analysis and a calculator for the comfort factor and more important ratios 
for identifying a
true blue water cruiser are provided in the next section.
 [ Top ] [ Next ] [ Prior ] [ Last ]

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

[ Home ]
[ Decision Tree ]
[ Deep Knowledge ]
[ Acknowledgements ]
[ Map ] 

 Cruising Log of the
Mariah Wind 
 Cruising Log
of the Bella Donna 
 Crusing
Log of the ForeverGreen 

 Frank &amp Lisa Mighetto - 1260 NE 69th St.
Seattle, WA
98115 - (206)
525-1458 voice and fax 

 mighetto@eskimo.com - Internet
email
address 

 mighetto@compuserve.com -
Internet email
address or 72154,3467 from within Compuserve