Myth #11 MAC26X BOATS ARE NOT FOR OCEAN
PASSAGES 

 Cruising Log of the Murrelet 

 Main 

 CB 

 FB 

 Fast 

 Size 

 Keel 

 Ballast 

 Point 

 Tall 

 Race 

 Lean 

 Ocean 

 #11 MAC26X BOATS ARE NOT FOR OCEAN PASSAGES. 

 [ First Page ] [ Next ] [ Prior ] [ Last ]

 The Hunter 260 and many other vessels that 
are interior designed, rather than ocean designed, may not be "bad 
sail 
boats". A bad sail boat is one that dissuades those new to boating from 
sailing all together. 

 Contrary to marketers of lesser vessels 
who like to say otherwise, MacGregor Yachts is a builder 
of ocean sail boats and not a builder of boats meant for the first time 
purchaser. Boats like the Hunter 260, which
competes with MacGregor Yachts latest 26 footer, are meant to
attract purchasers that are new to boating. The notion 
that "the interior 
design is what sells a boat" 
(rather than superior engineering) is a 
notion Macgregor Yachts did not subscribe to with the Mac26x. These 
are attractive to purchasers who have owned other 
boats, often larger boats, retired military and those with aerospace 
engineering 
or mechanical backgrounds. Many profesional captains prefer 
to own Mac26x cruisers and as discussed below will say so. It is not 
correct to call the X a weekender, second home boat, 
water RV or placeholder. For many the X will be the only boat 
they choose to own. 

 Because a displacement monohull under 40 
feet will never provide the luxury of adequate speed, these designs - 
when judged by modern standards - represent the worst of new models 
today. MacGregor Yachts referred to these boats as turkeys in its 
marketing materials for the X. That equates to a CE 
Category C cruiser in today's terminology. Can a sailboat that is 
restricted to less than Beaufort 7 (30 knot wind conditions) really be 
called a cruiser? These are lake boats and not ocean cruisers. The Oden 
820 and Mac26m 
designations as C boats are confusing. Both 
the M and the Oden 820 hulls are currently built as ocean hulls in a 
manner similar if not identical to the Mac26x, Mac65, and Mirabella V. 
Perhaps their experimental nature requires the manufacturers to 
designate them as Category C. In anycase, a new or like new Mac26x is 
fit for all waters. 
 To search this site enter a word or phrase below:

DO NOT use Advanced Syntax (AND, OR, NOT, NEAR)

[ Top ]

[ Next ]

[ Prior ]

[ Bot ]

 Owing to "focally ruptured gangreous acute appendicitis",

I spent the better part of January 2001

arguing about this (the Mac26x is fit for all waters), rather than sailing 
or working, and have 80 pages of

emails as well as several magazines and books on boat

design involving the subject. Practical Sailor quotes the

manufacturer's belief that a 26 footer is too small

to hold enough gear and supplies for passage. However,

at least one Mac26x dealer considers

ocean passage to be within the boat's design parameters

and in 1999 more that a few Mac26x vessels made the trip from Crandon Park

marina on Miami's Key Biscayn or nearby to the Bahamas. At
least one Mac26x

yacht made the trip from the city marina at Garison Bight in Key West to

the Marquesas and on to the Tortugas. The 1000 mile coast of Florida has

been sailed by a Mac26x. And two Mac26x cruisers (from Bellingham 

and Everett)

were outfitted for an Alaskan inside passage (over 2000 miles) following

the

 Cassiopeia 

in that regard. Those who find the

ride of a light displacement

under 30 foot sailboat preferable in ocean swells see its potential as

a long-distance passage maker. This is demonstrated by reports

that MacGregor Yachts receives many unsolicited requests for sponsorship

of expeditions involving

Mac26x ocean passages and by the consideration given to adding a

platform ( as discussed above ) which would be used 
for 
storage

during an extended cruise. It is also a favorite for chartering at blue 
water destinations such as the BVI, Malaysia , Spain and Belize . 
As demonstrated by the math in the following

applet the Mac26x was designed for ocean use. Hold your mouse over the

words and fields for explanations. See 
http://image-ination.com/sailcalc.html for comparison to other 
sail boats.

 But some do not consider a trip across the 
English Channel, which is

done by Mac26x boats, or a trip from Key West to Cuba, which I would like

to do, or even circumnavigating 

 Vancouver Island , to be an

ocean crossing or

passage. There is consensus among Mac26x owners that the boat was

designed for coastal ocean cruising (something mistakenly believed to 
be less dangerous than ocean crossing).

However, the uninitiated find even that

hard to believe owing to boats such as the Hunter 260 ,

which is specifically limited by the manufacture's 
rating to inshore use. The Hunter 260 CE Classification is C, designed 
for voyages in coastal waters, large bays, estuaries, lakes and 
rivers where conditions up to, and including, wind force 6 and 
significant wave heights up to, and including, 2m may be experienced. The 
Mac26M is similarly limited as is the Odin 820. The Mac26m and the 
Odin 820's because of the extra 
layer of fiberglass (in comparison to the Hunter 260) are potential 
offshore cruisers. Owner experiences in rough water over time may 
encourage their manufacturers to upgrade the clasifications. The X 
cruisers have always been manufactured marketed, and reviewed as 
ocean sailboats with 
equivalent CE Classification B. Owing to off centerline water ballast 
and the hard side chines 
and rigging, X cruisers have a relatively high angle of vanishing 
stability (exceeding 115 unballasted and 140 with water ballast) and are 
worthy of offshore 
classification. The 
only difference between a B classified vessel and 
one with the highest A rating is that the vessel must be largely 
self-sufficient. An X equiped with modern space saving electronics and 
water maker is worthy of that highest rating and could be expected to 
make passage faster than a Hunter 
HC50 
Short of

 global

circumnavigation the definition of ocean crossing/ passage is

disputed.

But trailer sailboats have

circumnavigated. 

Edward D Mitchell edm32@juno.com ,

an early Mac26x owner, remembers a MacGregor engineer saying that "if a person wanted a blue water passage

maker they should buy

something like a [20 foot] Pacific Seacraft as they were designed for

that." 

That isn't actually true. The Flicka style vessels were designed for

fishing and are outfitted for ocean crossing. According to Mitchell the

engineer "went on to say the 26x was

designed

for short cruises on the ocean and

since you must be ready for what ever comes

when you are anywhere on the ocean, it was designed to take what was

thrown

at it. The main question being what the crew could handle." 

 I met a couple who survived a hurricane in a Mac25 . The

boat

did fine

but the crew did give up sailing for a few years after the episode. So I

think Mitchell's quote reflects the

philosophy of the manufacturer.

 I have been asked many times for proof that the Mac26x can, with

suitable crew, be considered ocean worthy. Until November of 2001, I

was unaware that proof (outside of the mathematical ratios) existed.

Any debate on this is academic owing to the storm during the

 1998 
Hobart race .

Close to 60 had to be saved during that race and 6 died. But

a different race was taking place at the same time.

The flat, thin, planing, water ballasted, center boarded extreme sailing

machines took the exact same storm at about the same place and did

so without undo problems and single handed under sail!

I really do not know how Macgregor Yachts keeps quiet about this

proof. The center boarders were on a beam reach and the Hobarters

were beating. Which is harder in rough seas is the only thing that

can be debated. The facts solidly support our kind of cruiser as

superior in rough sea. The Mac26x limit of positive stability is 
about 115 according to the manufacturer. I believe from reading 
transcripts regarding the Hobart deaths that gear storage impacts that
stability. The transcripts indicate that boats with "stability index 
of 110" are grandfathered but that new Hobart boats require 115. It 
appears that Mac26x cruisers are more worthy of blue water racing than
many boats currently doing so. 

Hence, I think some one will eventually

sail a Mac26x from SF to Hawaii as part of a flotilla of larger and

other vessels perhaps under the leadership of a company like The Moorings or from Vancouver to

Hawaii or in the biennial West Marine

Pacific Cup which specifically allows water ballasted vessels as

small as 24 feet. There may have been a Mac26x ocean

crossing from San Diego to Hawaii but I have been unable to confirm this.

It is important to note that Mac26x

boats are already in

Hawaii and other blue waters, with other long distance pocket

cruisers such as the Flickas and Danas from Pacific Seacraft, having

avoided ocean passage by

being shipped in cargo containers. 

This is how the Executive Director of a national development program in
the Republic of Kiribati got a fleet of Mac26x cruisers to the Marshall
Islands where they were used for transporting medical and dental teams
and supplies and were routinely sailed 500 miles from the Marshall Islands
to the
Republic of Kiribati. The director, shane@moonrakerdevelopment.com holds a
merchant marine license, has a hundred-ton ticket, has sailed the world in
many vessels including Columbia's and Catamarans, owned a Mac26x and
in 2002 indicates he would like to purchase a used one - probably
regretting the sale of his first. He is a real fan of the cruiser and
has sailed them in rough conditions and nothing broke. It is that kind of
praise that makes me
question those who claim the Mac26x is not a blue water cruiser. For a
crew of two it may be the ideal blue water cruiser. ( The vast majority 
of voyaging boats are crewed by couples. ) It is very
hard to define "blue water" so that it excludes Mac26x sail boats from at
least consideration as true blue water cruisers. 

 The only historical 
reference for the term "blue water" 
is to a 55-foot Alden ocean racing schooner that was named Blue Water.
She is just as famous as the Brilliant, a 61 footer
that sails the Carabian out of Mystic even today.
Both were built pre 1950. The current day ETAP 26i is marketed as 
a "rough and 
ready" blue water cruiser. She is about 1 foot longer at the water line 
and 1,000 lbs heavier than an X. The offshore pocket cruiser potential 
of the Mac26x was recognized as early as 1997 by Offshore 
Magazine and continues to exceed expectations. Regardless 
of ocean passage design considerations there are very few blue water 
destinations that can not be reached by trailering and containering a 
Mac26x.

[ Top ]

[ Next ]

[ Prior ]

[ Bot ]

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

 Java 

[ Home ]

[ Decision Tree ]

[ Deep Knowledge ]

[ Acknowledgements ]

[ Map ] 

 Cruising Log of the

Mariah Wind 

 Cruising Log

of the Bella Donna 

 Crusing

Log of the ForeverGreen 

 Frank &amp Lisa Mighetto - 1260 NE 69th St.

Seattle, WA

98115 - (206)

525-1458 voice and fax 

 mighetto@eskimo.com - Internet

email

address 

 mighetto@compuserve.com -

Internet email

address or 72154,3467 from within Compuserve