What is Masonry 

 E-Mason Lapel Pin 

 M:.W:.Grand Lodge F&A.M. of Washington 

 J oin... 
!-->

!-->

 !-->

 How do I join Daylight Lodge? 

 What is Masonry? 

 Usenet Masonic FAQ Ver 1.2 .

 How do I join Masonry? 

 What is Masonry? A Definition from the United Grand Lodge of England 

 From the Grand Lodge of Washington, the following pamphlets: 

 12 Questions on Freemasonry 

 Freemasonry A Way of Life 

 What I would like my friends to know about Freemasonry 

 Poem about Masonry 
 COMING SOON: Masonic Humor and an expanded Masonic Poetry Section 
!-->

 The Flag Ceremony 

 Reprint from the Washington Monitor and Freemasons Guide . 

 Opening Ceremony 
 Closing Ceremony 

This Flag, emblem of civil and religious liberty, well deserves a place in a Masonic Lodge; may we as Masons stand ever ready to shield and protect it as we should foster and promote the divine principle of which it is the symbol throughout the world.

 Under the protecting folds of the Flag of Our Country, we have worked, as Masons, for the good of humanity. As the flag is retired let us stand and salute in tribute to the emblem of the Nation that guarantees to its citizens the rights of free assembly, free speech, free worship - the rights of free men and Freemasons.

 The Charge to Freemasons 

 Given to Master Masons as they leave a Lodge Meeting 
 Reprint from the Washington Monitor and Freemasons Guide . 

 Brethren: We are now about to quit this sacred retreat of friendship and virtue, to mingle again with the outer world. Amid its concerns and employments, forget not the duties which you have heard so frequently inculcated, and so forcefully recommended, in this Lodge. Be diligent, prudent, temperate, discreet.
 Remember that at this altar you have promised to befriend and relieve every Brother who shall need your assistance. You have been enjoined to remind a Brother in the most friendly manner of his fault, to endeavor to aid his reformation, and to defend his character. These generous principles extend further, for every human being has a claim upon your kind offices. Do good unto all. Finally, my Brethren, be ye all of one mind; live in peace; and my the God of Love and Peace delight to dwell with you and bless you.

 And now may the blessing of Heaven rest upon us and all regular Masons. May brotherly love prevail, and every moral and social virtue cement us.

 !-->

 Home About NACDL Joining Web Pages Clip Art Cursors for Win95 Mail & News Guestbook 

Last modified: 6/17/1999

 John F. Losey Jr. , Webmason