
   Source	: SCIENCE, 16 Nov. 1984, p. 817
   Title	: An Endless Siege of Implausible Inventions
   Author	: R. Jeffrey Smith
   
   In the modern world of commerce, the U.S. patent and trademark office
   is a street-corner cop with the power to arrest de development of any
   product that promises the impossible. Its book of statutes contains
   the basic laws of physics, the axioms of mathematics, the fundamental
   principles of mechanical engineering. With paticular enthusiasm, its
   employees serve as guardians of the public in a never-ending battle
   against mechanical devices allegedly capeable of perpetual motion.
   
   This, at least, is how they see themselves. Invetors such as Joseph
   Newman are more apt to view them sa "a bunch of narrow-minded people
   who have conducted themselves outside the federal law and the human
   race." For more than 5 years, Newman, 48, has been frustrated in his
   efforts to obtain a patent for an "Energy System Having Higher Output
   Than Input." In 1982, the patant office told him that because such a
   devive is simply infeasible, his application was denied after
   something less than a comprehensive, time-consuming review (Science,
   10 Ferbruary [1984], p. 571).
   
   Recently, however, with the help of some unexpected scientific
   endorsements, Newman persuaded th U.S. District Court in Washington,
   D.C., to order that his application be granted a full review by an
   examiner - in short, a second chance. Newman believes that the
   decision is a slap in the face for the patant office and a partial
   vindication of his claims. Actually, the dispute reveals how easy it
   can be for inventors to jerk the patant office around. The ruling,
   made by Judge Thomas Jackson on 31. October, places the office in the
   difficult position of determining whether Newman's "energy generation
   system" -- a powerful electric motor -- is adequately described in his
   application, and whether it is similar or identical to motors with
   existing patants. Neither topic was given serious consideration on the
   first go-around, for reasons the patent office believes obvious.
   
   The decision resulted from an unusual hearing in which a phalanx of 
   attorneys in Newman's employ repeatedly cited patent case law, while
   Jere Sears, deputy solicitor in the patent office, repeatedly invoked
   the second law of thermodynamics. In its essence, that law states that
   the energy produced by a mechanical device such as Newman's woill
   always be less than the energy needed to opeate it. In addition to
   basing the case on "all of recorded science", as Sears put it, he
   relied heavily on an affidativ from Jacod Rainbow, a former chief
   research engineer at the National Bureau of Standards and well-known
   debunker of perpetual motion machines. Rainbow has several objections
   to the patent application, but his primary claim is that the motor's
   output of energy has been measured incorrectly. Although he has not
   seen the device or tested himself, he is willing to bet "any money"
   that it operates at well under 100 percent efiicency.
   
   As strong as the gouverment's argument was, it was sharply undercut by
   two affidatives. One was written by Mort Zimmerman, the president of
   Commercial Technology, Inc., in Dallas. Zimmerman said his 400-person
   firm "has independently ... constructed, operated, and tested several
   crud prototype devices based on th Newman invention, and has
   confirmed for itself that these prototype devices which embody the
   Newman invention operate and produce power as claimed by Newman" at
   more than 111 percent efficiency. Zimmerman was enthusiastic enough to
   purchase an option for the right to manufacture and sell Newman's
   motor in north Texas. (Recently, he told SCIENCE that the motor "needs
   further development for prctical utilization, and we're not completely
   convinced that we can get there.")
   
   The second affidativ was prepared from Lawrence E. Wharton, a
   physicist in the Laboratory For Atmospheric Sciences at the Goddart
   Flight Space Center in Maryland. Initially, Wharton, who volunteered his
   services to the patent office as a sceptic of Newman's claims,
   vigorously attacked Zimmerman's statement. Shortly before the court hearing,
   however, he recanted some of his arguments, and declared that the motor's 
   efficiency "is in substantial excess of 100 percent" and perhaps as
   high as 600 percent, if Newman's measurements are correct. The change of
   heart came, he said, after Newman argued with him in a long telephone
   conversation.
   
   Both of these statements apparently made a strong impression on
   William Schuyler, an attorney and one-time commissioner of U.S.
   patents who was appointed by the judge as a "special master" to help
   resolve some of the technical disputes. In his report, Schuyler agreed
   that the operation of Newman's motor "seems clearly to conflict with
   recognized scientific principles relating to thermodynamics and
   conservation of energy." But he insisted ther was an "overwhelming"
   evidence that the motor's output energy exceeded the external input
   energy, adding that "there is no contradictory factual evidence." He
   went so far as to state that Newman was entitled to a patent as long as
   it did not conflict with any existing patents.
   
   All of this came as a great shock to Sears. It was he, not Newman, who
   nominated Schuyler. "We felt reasonably safe with aperson of his
   background," he explains. In a final pleading to the judge, Sears
   asked, "Why are we still paying power bills if Nwman has actually
   achieved his claims? The Court should exercise some common sense and
   refrain from joining those who apparently believe in the tooth
   fairy... Manifestly, this court has no power to abrogate a natural
   law."
   
   In his ruling, Judge Jackson accepted the major points of Schuyler's
   report, but said he was unwilling to conclude as yet that Newman has
   produced a "truly pioneering invention." That decision awaits aanother
   hearing, now set for January. Sears denies that this decision has any
   implications for the general patent review process. But one effect may
   be to bar the office from dealing summarily whith such unusual
   claimsin the future -- a development that could sharply increase the
   examination delays experienced by inventors with more plausible
   claims.
   
   To Newman, the dispute has become a crusade. Having spent thousands of
   dollars already in lawyer's fees, consulting fees, and court costs, he
   will soon pay to publish a book describing both his invention and the
   patent fight. He says that "the world is fortunate that I'm not afraid
   of a ruckus, I intend to fight this untill hell freezes over."
   
   --------------------------[ end of document ]-----------------------
   
   -------------------------[ start of document ]----------------------   
                   Copyright 1986 Information Access Company;
        Copyright American Association for the Advancement of Science
                                    Science

                                 July 11, 1986

SECTION: Vol. 233 ; Pg. 154; ISSN: 0036-8075
HEADLINE: Newman's " energy  output" machine put to the test;  Joseph Newman
BYLINE: Sun, Marjorie
BODY:

   Newman's " Energy  Output" Machine Put to the Test

    What's a device with a battery pack, a magnet, and a coil wired together?
For the past 6 years,  Joseph Newman,  an inventor from Mississippi, has been
loudly proclaiming that it's a revolutionary machine which produces more power
than it uses.  The National Bureau of Standards recently issued its own verdict
after analyzing Newman's machine: "In none of tests did the device's approach
100%....  Our results are clear and unequivocal," the bureau said.

    Newman has gone to great lengths to try to win a patent on his  energy
output machine.  When the U.S.  Patent and Trademark Office indicated in 1984
that the device did not work, Newman sued the agency.  He hired a publicist, andthe media often portrayed him as an underdog pitted against the scientific
establishment.  Then the court ordered Newman to submit the machine to the
National Bureau of Standards for testing.  Newman reluctantly complied.

    A physicist and two electrical engineers from the bureau tested the machine
in a variety of ways to measure its  energy  input and output and used
instrumentation that is common in research engineering laboratories.  The sole
power source of the device was 116 9-volt batteries.  According to the test
results, the device's efficiency ranged from 27 to 67%, depending on the
voltage, the power drawn from the device, and the condition of insulating tape
on one of the parts.  (The tape kept burning from sparks generated by the
machine, which caused the efficiency to drop and had to be replaced frequently.)
    According to John Lyons, director of the bureau's National Engineering
Laboratory, the device basically converted direct current to alternating
current.  He noted that there are several machines already on the market that dothe same thing, but they run at 90% efficiency or higher.
    Newman had court permission to observe the bureau's tests, but never
appeared for any of the experiments, which were conducted between March and
June.  His spokesman Evan Soule said Newman will ask the court to order the
testing of the test equipment.  Newman said in an interview, "I have no respect
for the National Bureau of Standards.  This is a conspiracy against me."

    The testing cost the bureau $ 75,000, which it hopes to recoup from the
patent office.  The patent office will submit the results to U.S.  District
Court for the District of Columbia, which will try the case in December.

