From palmj@rebecca.its.rpi.edu Sun Feb 27 22:03:46 MET 1994
Article: 28112 of alt.alien.visitors
Path: elwood!zrz.TU-Berlin.DE!netmbx.de!Germany.EU.net!EU.net!howland.reston.ans
.net!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!nigel.msen.com!yale.edu!noc.near.net!usenet.elf.com!rpi
!palmj
From: palmj@rebecca.its.rpi.edu (Jyri L. Palm)
Newsgroups: alt.alien.visitors
Subject: Re: Free Energy Patent
Date: 27 Feb 1994 19:23:32 GMT
Organization: Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy NY, USA
Lines: 43
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2kqrvk$r6v@usenet.rpi.edu>
References: <1994Feb25.164919.7996@octel.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: rebecca.its.rpi.edu

I have read Newman's book, "The Energy Machine of Joseph Newman."  There is
one clear injustice that this article I'm replying to, does, and that is
to misrepresent his theories and machine, by saying "produces more output
than input" and "violates the second law of thermodynamics."  These statements
are in my opinion clear attempts to discredit the invention on the basis of
"it can't be, and every legitimate scientist knows these laws are well proven."

The concept behind the machine, is not that the second law is violated.h It
is *apparent* that the machine produces more energy than put into it, but
according to his book, the machine harnesses these theoretical particals he
calls "gyroscopic particles" which are the actual cause of the force in the
"magnetic field."  In effect, the "extra" energy is supplied by a slow
consumption of the matter itself.

In essence, his theory proposes that it is nuclear fission on a very tiny
scale. For example, a blown up balloon analogy:  A typical nuclear reaction
is like sticking a pin in a balloon and instantly releasing the pressure,
but harnessing this "stream of particles" is like slowly letting the air
out of the nozzle.

In my experience of taking various physics courses at RPI, it is generally
taught (at least at lower course levels) that magnetic fields "just are"
with no explanation.  Having read Newman's book, I give a lot of merit to
it because it better explains magnetic fields as being a stream of particles
that occurs in a type of material we call "magnetic."

The theory further explains that the particles in the stream each have a
rotation, either clockwise and counterclockwise.  When two streams are
pushed into each other, and the direction of rotation matches, the steams
combine, causing an attraction, whereas if the rotations are opposite, the
particles collide causing a repulsion.

Basically, his machine somehow harnesses this natural process, and over
perhaps hundreds of years, the mass of the material will noticably decrease.

I believe that that the forces fighting him and his invention, (1) are
ignorant or just stupid/childish, using tactics like "well it's just a
perpetual motion machine, and _we all know that's impossible_," or (2)
there is merit to his idea, and they know it.  Taken to the limit, his
invention could make the electrical power station obsolete, along with those
multi-billion dollr nuke plants, not to mention the impact on the oil
industry.
