Message 6/18  From Jay James                          Mar 24 '94 at 3:32 pm -480


Return-Path: <jayjames@rahul.net>
Posted-Date: Thu, 24 Mar 1994 15:32:26 -0800 (PST)
Received-Date: Fri, 25 Mar 94 01:11:21 +0100
Subject: Court Decision on Newmann Patent
To: derek@prz.tu-berlin.de
Date: Thu, 24 Mar 1994 15:32:26 -0800 (PST)
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Content-Length: 24580     

I believe I forgot to send you the patents!  Now I can't find them
(somewhere in my room).  However, here is something I posted to the
alt.science.folklore forum today.

Start of file---

A few weeks ago there was an inquiry as to the infamous "perpetual
motion" machine patent application that Joseph W. Newman tried to
patent a few years ago.  While in the local law library on other
business, I came across the last in a series of legal decisions
dealing with this matter, and have scanned it here for INet
members.

Enjoy.  (I'm not a lawyer, but it looks to me that Newman waited
too long in objecting to the way the Government was testing his
device, and got the ax on a 'legal technicality'.  This is not to
say he deserved a patent though.  However, on this last point, note
that a "special master" in previous litigation had stated that
legally Newman was entitled to a patent (see below)).

****************************************************************
Joseph W. NEWMAN, Plaintiff-Appellant, v. Donald J. QUIGG,
Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, Defendant-Appellee.  
No. 88-1312.
United States Court of Appeals, Federal Circuit.
July 5, 1989

Inventor brought action in which he sought reversal of denial of
patent claim by Board of Appeals and order directing issuance of
letters patent to him.  The United States District court for the
District of Columbia, Thomas Penfield Jackson, J., 681 F.Supp. 16,
dismissed complaint.  Appeal was taken.  The Court of Appeals,
Pauline Newman, Circuit Judge, held that energy generation system
that purportedly had higher energy output than input was
unpatentable.

Before MARKEY, Chief Judge,
NEWMAN and MAYER, Circuit Judges.

PAULINE NEWMAN, Circuit Judge.

Joseph W. Newman, pro se, appeals the judgment of the United States
District Court for the District of Columbia, holding unpatentable
the invention claimed in Mr. Newman's patent application Serial No.
179,474 entitled "Energy Generation System Having Higher Energy
Output Than Input".  Newman v. Quigg, 681 F.Supp. 16, 5 USPQ2d 1880
(D.D.C.1988). We affirm.

                           Background

     Mr. Newman's application for patent is described by the
district court, and we assume general familiarity with that
opinion.  Claims 38 and 43 are representative of the claims for
which Mr. Newman seeks a patent grant:

     38.   A device which increases the availability of usable
     electrical energy or usable motion, or both, from a given mass
     or masses by a device causing a controlled release of, or
     reaction to, the gyroscopic type energy particles making up or
     coming from the atoms of the mass or masses, which in turn, by
     any properly designed system, causes an energy output greater
     than the energy input. 
     43.  The method of producing usable energy, comprising the
     following steps:
     a.    inputting energy into a device from an external source;
     b.    having electrical current flow within said device; and
     c.    utilizing the internal electromagnetic energy of at
     least some of the matter in the device to add to the energy
     being inputed [sic] into the device from the external source
     to produce useful energy for use outside of the device having
     an amount greater than the energy being inputed to the device.

     The Patent and Trademark Office ("PTO") Board of Patent
Appeals and Interferences affirmed the examiner's rejection of all
the claims, ie., claims 15 through 43, for failure to comply with
35 U.S.C. SS 112, first paragraph.  The Board held that there was
insufficient disclosure to support the claimed result of producing
more usable energy output than input.  The Board stated that the
claimed device was a "perpetual motion machine", and that perpetual
motion is impossible for it violates either the first or second law
of thermodynamics.

     During oral argument to the Board Mr. Newman presented a model
of his device and demonstrated its operation.  The Board does not
refer to this demonstration.

     On appeal to the district court, 35 U.S.C. SS 145, the court
referred the matter to a special master.  The evidence before the
master included several reports of tests conducted at universities
and elsewhere, showing the apparent output of more electric energy
than was input by the battery system.  A witness, Dr. Hastings,
concluded in a pretrial declaration that "[i]t is clear that
measured efficiencies for the Newman motor are far in excess of
predicted efficiencies.  The predicted input power is in agreement
with measured input." The evidence also included an affidavit of
Mr. J. Rabinow of the National Bureau of Standards, stating his
opinion that Mr. Newman's asserted result was "impossible".

     The master reported that the results shown for the Newman
device appear to conflict with the laws of thermodynamics, and
expressed skepticism concerning Mr. Newman's theory of gyroscopic
energy and the conversion of mass to energy.  The master stated
that "[t]here is no evidence corroborating Newman's scientific
theory".  However, the master also found that the "[e)vidence
before the [PTO] and [the district court] is overwhelming that
Newman has built and tested a prototype of his invention in which
the output energy exceeds the external input energy; there is no
contradictory factual evidence".  The master concluded that

     Even though the operation of Plaintiff's system seems contrary
     to recognized scientific principles, Plaintiff has
     demonstrated the operation of his system by very clear
     evidence and is therefore entitled to a patent if he otherwise
     satisfies the requirements of the Patent Statute (35 USC).  In
     re Chilowsky, 229 F.2d 457, 43 C.C.P.A. 775 (1956).

     Before the district court, the Commissioner strongly objected
to the master's report.  The district court ordered, as recommended
by the master and requested by the Commissioner, that the
application be referred back to the PTO for review by a different
patent examiner.  The court also ordered, as recommended by the
master, that the claims thus reviewed be those in a Rule 116
amendment that had previously been refused entry.  This amendment
made changes in the claims that had been on appeal to the Board,
amending all the claims except claims 38 and 43.

     The second examiner entered the Rule 116 amendment and
rejected all the claims for failure to comply with 35 U.S.C. SSSS
101, 102, 103 and 112.  The examiner ordered Mr. Newman, pursuant
to 35 U.S.C. SS 114, to submit working models of three embodiments
of his invention, based on three drawings in the specification, to
the National Bureau of Standards ("NBS") for testing, under penalty
of abandonment.  Mr. Newman sought relief from this requirement and
its penalty, which reached this court by mandamus petition.  Mr.
Newman pointed out that he had demonstrated a working model to the
Board, had invited observation by the PTO of additional dem-
onstrations, and that this new demand for working models was
burdensome and unnecessary.

This court held the requested relief to be unnecessary:

     Newman has pending in the district court a SS 145 action from
     which an appeal to this court will lie, whether the PTO does
     or does not treat his application as abandoned.  Thus, the
     PTO's threat [of abandonment] does not require issuance of the
     writ to aid or preserve our prospective appellate
     jurisdiction, (or the jurisdiction of the district court).  In
     re Makaii, 708 F.2d 709, 218 USPQ 193 (Fed.Cir. 1983).

In re Newman, 763 F.2d 407, 410, 226 USPQ 97, 99 (Fed.Cir.1985).
This court thus held that a PTO holding of abandonment under these
circumstances could not deprive the courts of jurisdiction.  In all
events, Mr. Newman did not comply with the examiner's order within
the time period set by the examiner, and the examiner declared the
patent application abandoned.

     The district court had followed, through periodic status
conferences, these proceedings before the second examiner.  When
this phase was ended by the examiner's declaration of abandonment,
at the district court's suggestion the Commissioner ordered Mr.
Newman under Fed.R.Civ.P. 34 to produce a model of his invention
for testing by NBS.  The Commissioner's order, as modified by the
district court and by this court on petition for writ of mandamus,
In re Newman 782 F.2d 971, 228 USPQ 450 (Fed.Cir.1986), rehv denied
mem- (Feb. 12, 1986), in essence required that a normal inter
partes test be conducted at NBS, and that the tests be completed
and the report issued within thirty days after the device was
produced.

     Mr. Newman produced a model of his invention within the
fourteen days set by the court.  After almost two months the
district court, at a status conference, gave Mr. Newman's counsel
NBS's proposed protocol for testing the device, ordered the NBS to
commence testing, and granted an extension as requested by the
Commissioner to allow NBS to complete the testing.

     NBS received no response on Mr. Newman's behalf to the
proposed test protocol.  The record states that there were two ob-
servations of tests on behalf of the Commissioner, and none on
behalf of Mr. Newman.  The NBS report, issued five months after
delivery of the device, concluded that the device did not produce
more energy output than input, and that it showed efficiency
measured at between 27 and 77 percent.  At the subsequent trial the
district court held the claimed invention unpatentable for
noncompliance with 35 U.S.C. SSSS 101 and 112.

     On this appeal Mr. Newman asserts that the district court
clearly erred in rejecting the findings of the special master, and
that reversal of that error would moot all subsequent proceedings. 
He also argues that the NBS did not conduct a proper or fair inter
partes test, and that patentability is supported by the heavy
weight of the evidence.

                          Jurisdiction

     The Commissioner asserts that the judgment of the district
court  should  be vacated for lack of jurisdiction, on the ground
that the patent application became abandoned when, during the
referral to the PTO by the district court, Mr. Newman did not
produce three working models as the second examiner ordered.  The
Commissioner argues that the district court lost jurisdiction over
Newman's application when the application was held abandoned by the
examiner.

     We settled this issue in 1985 in In re Newman, 763 F.2d at
410, 226 USPQ at 99, wherein we held, as quoted supra, that "the
PTO's threat [of abandonment] does not require issuance of the writ
to aid or preserve our prospective appellate jurisdiction, (or the
jurisdiction of the district court)." That holding was and is the
law of the case.  The examiner's order of abandonment could not
unilaterally extinguish the court's jurisdiction over the pending
SS 145 action, and the district court correctly declined to
terminate its proceeding.

     The Commissioner argues, alternatively, that even if the
district court had that jurisdiction it extended only to claims 38
and 43, and judgment should be vacated as to all the other claims,
on the theory that all the other claims were not properly before
the court.

     Claims 38 and 43 were the only claims that were not amended in
the Rule 116 amendment that was ordered by the district court to be
the basis of examination by the second examiner.  The second exam-
iner having rejected these claims and held them abandoned, the
Commissioner argues that Mr. Newman was required to proceed by
certain internal PTO procedures in order to preserve these amended
claims for judicial review, such as the filing of a petition to the
Commissioner protesting the examiners ruling of abandonment,
followed by an appeal to the court if that petition were denied.

     The Commissioner further states that the prior claims, the
Board's rejection of which was the basis for the appeal as filed
under 35 U.S.C. SS 145, also were no longer before the district
court except for claims 38 and 43, because all the other claims
were amended when the district court ordered further examination
after the master's report.  That is the claims in their forms both
before and after entry of this Rule 116 amendment had lost the
right or opportunity for judicial review, according to the
Commissioner.

     We do not agree with this creative theory.  The district court
had authority to refer the application to the PTO for designated
purposes, including that a second examiner review the claims in
certain amended form.  As we held in 1985, see In re Newman, supra,
the Commissioner has no authority unilaterally to remove claims
from the jurisdiction of the court.

     While the Board will normally have decided every issue that is
raised before the district court, as discussed in Rendleman v.
Ladd, 197 F.Supp. 304, 309, 130 USPQ 300, 304 (D.D.C.1961), the
court is not required to obtain, or suspend all proceedings while
the applicant obtains a full administrative Board decision for
every fresh aspect that arises during the course of the judicial
proceeding.  Otherwise, the Commissioner could not have added a
ground of rejection, 35 U.S.C. SS 101, that was not before the
Board.  See generally DeSeversky v. Brenner, 424 F.2d 857, 858, 164
USPQ 495, 496-97 (D.C.Cir.1970) (It is generally improper to raise
new issues in a SS 145 action, on the principle of exhaustion of
administrative remedies).

     A district court action under 35 U.S. C.  SS 145 is a de novo
determination of patentability.  It is not limited to the
record before the PTO.  Gould v. Quigg, 822 F.2d 1074, 1076-77, 3
USPQ2d 1302Y 1303 (Fed.Cir.1987); Fregeau v. Mossinghoff
776 F.2d 1034, 1037, 227 USPQ 848, 850 (Fed.Cir.1985). Unless a
party is prejudiced thereby or due process is denied, expeditious
justice is better served by avoiding artificial restrictions on the
district court's authority to resolve all issues reasonably raised
in the proceeding.  See generally Burlington Industries, Inc. v.
Quigg, 822 F.2d 1581, 1584, 3 USPQ2d 1436, 1439 (Fed.Cir.1987).

                The Report of the Special Master

     Mr. Newman argues that the district court should not have
rejected the recommended findings and conclusions of the special
master.  Appellate review of the correctness of the district
court's action in turn requires determination of whether the
master's findings are or are not clearly erroneous.  Fed.R.Civ.P.
53(e)(2); Milliken Research Corp. v. Dan River, Inc., 739 F.2d 587,
593, 222 USPQ 571, 576 (Fed.Cir. 1984).

     The district court held the master's report to be "clearly
erroneous in that it apparently contradicts the first law of ther-
modynamics"-an apparent contradiction that had been referred to by
the master.  This court, like the master and the district court,
believes that the laws of thermodynamics do not brook
contradiction.  However, the laws of thermodynamics do not require
closing of either the scientific or the judicial mind to the
possibility that the phenomena manifested can be explained by
theories that do not violate inviolable scientific principles.  The
master so recognized, even as he expressed strong skepticism about
Mr. Newman's scientific theory of harnessing gyroscopic or
electromagnetic energy.  But when the court-ordered test did not
verify the results claimed by Mr. Newman, the matter of the
scientific explanation of the claimed results became moot.

     Taking notice of the unusual nature of Mr. Newman's asserted
technological results and proffered explanation, we discern no
error in the district court's decision to decline to adopt the
recommended conclusion of the special master, and instead to order
further examination by the PTO, followed by the order that a test
of performance of the Newman device be conducted by the NBS.

                          The NBS Tests

     Mr. Newman asserts that the NBS testing procedure was flawed
and generally unfair, and that the district court did not adhere to
the conditions set in In re Newman, 782 F.2d at 975, 228 USPQ at
453.  Mr. Newman points out that NBS took five months after he
delivered the device, and that NBS routinely failed to provide
sufficient notice to enable him to attend the tests.

     This court had declined to intervene in the district court's
grants, at the Commissioner's request, of extensions of time for
the NBS tests.  In re Newman, Misc.  No. 105 (Fed.Cir. March 19,
1986).  However, the record shows none of the usual comity of inter
partes *** test procedures.  Neither the NBS nor the PTO is shown
to have made reasonable efforts to consider the convenience of
Newman or his counsel.

{FOOTNOTE *** :
For example, the NBS wrote to the PTO Solicitor: 'We will not deal
directly with the inventor or his representatives.  We are
referring all contacts to you in the PTO".  Nor was Mr. Newman
cooperative.  When a NBS engineer asked Newman, who was installing
the device at NBS, to identify the output, Newman's counsel
directed him not to answer, instead directing the NBS to certain
pages in Newman's book.}

     Mr. Newman argues that the NBS evaluation was fatally
defective because all tests were conducted with the device
grounded.  He states that it is essential that his device not be
grounded during operation.  He points to two reports from
Mississippi State University which were provided to NBS; one report
showed efficiencies below 100% when the device was grounded, and
the other contained comments by one of the Mississippi State
engineers that efficiencies greater than 100% appeared to be
obtained when the device was not grounded. It is undisputed that
NBS had copies of these reports prior to designing its tests.  Mr,
Newman argues that had NBS sought to duplicate or verify any of
these test results reported by others, NBS would have discovered
its errors.  Newman argues that NBS should have done this in order
to confirm or deny his claims.

     The Commissioner defends the NBS procedure, arguing that
grounding the device did not account for the lower efficiencies
observed by NBS.  The NBS engineer who designed and conducted the
tests testified that his ground would not have affected radio
frequency, referring to a theory of one of Mr. Newman's witnesses
of how the device worked.  But no witness for the NBS or the PTO
testified as to performance with all grounding removed.  The dis-
trict court, hearing testimony and argument on these points, held
that the NBS test procedures were appropriate, and their results
dispositive.

     We need not decide whether the NBS tests were conducted by a
flawed procedure, for any flaw could have been, and was not,
corrected by Mr. Newman at the time of the tests.  The test
protocol designed by NBS contained electrical schematics showing
plainly that the device was grounded.  Mr. Newman does not dispute
that he had a copy of the test protocol before testing began.  The
record shows no communication or objection.  The Commissioner
further points out that the patent specification does not mention
the need to avoid grounding the device.

     Similarly, Mr. Newman now objects to the use by NBS of load
resistors connected in parallel with the coil to measure the
output.  This too was shown in the pretest plan, and was not
objected to.

     We conclude that Mr. Newman had a duty to raise objection,
before or during testing, to any defects in the test protocol that
he knew or believed would impair the results.  He had a clear
chance to obtain a definitive test, and to the extent that he did
not take it, he can not now impeach the results that were conducted
by procedures of which he had advance knowledge.  If there were
flaws in the NBS protocol, we do not now give controlling weight to
objections that could have been raised at a time when any errors
could have readily been corrected.  We conclude that Mr. Newman
waived or acquiesced in any purported defect in the test procedure
by remaining silent throughout the test period.

                            The Trial

     The district court, on trial of the merits, held Mr. Newman's 
invention unpatentable under 35 U.S.C.  SS 101 because "Newman's
device lacks utility (in that it does not operate to produce what
he claims it does)".  Utility under 35 U.S.C. SS 101 is a question
of fact.  Raytheon Co. v. Roper Corp., 724 F.2d 951, 956, 220 USPQ
592, 596 (Fed.Cir.1983), cert. denied, 469 U.S. 835, 105 S.Ct. 127,
83 L.Ed.2d 69 (1984).

     Mr. Newman argues that the district court gave undue weight to
the NBS test results, and failed to accord proper and overriding
weight to the testimony and affidavits supporting the claimed
increase in energy output.  The district court acknowledged that it
must consider all of the evidence presented at the de novo
proceeding in reaching an independent conclusion.  Newman, 681
F.Supp. at 22-23, 5 USPQ2d at 1885.

     The court described the evidence on Newman's behalf as
"largely qualitative rather than quantified by measured data", id.
at 20, 5 USPQ2d at 1883, while "credit[ing] in full the
meticulously thorough and well-documented testing done by NBS". 
Id. at 23, 5 USPQ2d at 1886.  The court remarked that at best Mr.
Newman's evidence showed prolonged operation on dry cell batteries,
but that "such a device is not the one for which Newman seeks a
patent." Id. We discern no error in the district court's analysis,
and conclude that the court did not clearly err in giving con-
trolling weight to the NBS report and in concluding that the
utility claimed for Newman's device had not been demonstrated.

     Mr. Newman also argues that the district -court incorrectly
held that his application was not enabling under 35 U.S.C. SS 112,
first paragraph.  He asserts that his claims are adequately
supported by, and the invention enabled by, the disclosure. 
Enablement under 35 U.S.C. SS 112 is deemed to be a question of
law, Allen Organ Co- v. Kimball Int4 Inc., 839 F.2d 1556, 1566, 5
USPQ2d 1769, 1777 (Fed.Cir.), cert. denied, - U.S. -, 109 S.Ct.
132, 102 L.Ed.2d 104 (1988); although it is apparent that lack of
utility because of inoperativeness, and absence of enablement, are
closely related grounds of unpatentability.  Raytheon Co., 724 F.2d
at 956, 220 USPQ at 596.
     While it is not a requirement of patentability that an
inventor correctly set forth, or even know, how or why the inven-
tion works, Diamond Rubber Co. v. Consolidated Rubber Tyre Co., 220
U.S. 428 435-6, 31 S.Ct. 444, 447-48, 55 L.Ed. 527 (1911); Fromson
v. Advance Offset Plate, Inc., 720 F.2d 1565, 1570, 219 USPQ 1137,
1140 (Fed.Cir.1983), neither is the patent applicant relieved of
the requirement of teaching how to achieve the claimed result, even
if the theory of operation is not correctly explained or even
understood.  In re Issaacs, 347 F.2d 887, 892, 146 USPQ 193, 197
(CCPA 1965); In re Chilowsky, 229 F.2d 457, 463, 43 C.C.P.A. 775,
108 USPQ 321, 326 (1956).
     The district court held that Mr. Newman's claimed device and
method do not produce the claimed result, following the teachings
of the specification.  We affirm the conclusion that the
requirements of 35 U.S.C. SS112, first paragraph, are not met.

                           Conclusion

     The decision of the district court that the claimed invention
is unpatentable because it fails to comply with 35 U.S.C. SS101 for
lack of utility, and with 35 U.S.C. SS112, first paragraph, for
lack of enablement, is affirmed.

                              Costs
     Each party shall bear its own costs.

     AFFIRMED.

*******************************************************
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PS-- a quick look at the previous case, In re Newman, 782 F.2d 971
(Fed.Cir. 1986), indicated that the battle there was how the
National Bureau of Standards was to conduct the test on Newman's
machine:  in a nutshell, the NBS wanted to perform destructive
testing and take up to seven months, while Newman wanted non-
destructive testing to conclude within 30 days.  Newman appealed
the District Court's ruling, which sided with the NBS, to the
Federal Circuit and won.  The rules for testing, as ordered by the
appeal court, included (summarizing):

     1.  Newman could have non-destructive testing, that included
     the right to not even allow the NBS to disassemble the device
     (in essence testing only the input and output!).

     2.  All parties could inspect the tests.

     3.  The tests were to be conducted within 30 days.

EOF


