		       Copyright 1986 The Washington Post
			      The Washington Post

		    July 23, 1986, Wednesday, Final Edition

     SECTION: First Section; A19
     
     LENGTH: 954 words
     
     HEADLINE: Is It Perpetual Motion?; Inventor Has Science Offices
     Spinning
     
     BYLINE: By Boyce Rensberger, Washington Post Staff Writer
     
     BODY:
     " Joseph Newman's  device," as government scientists gingerly refer
     to the contraption, may be the most successful perpetual motion
     machine ever invented.
     
     Not that scientists are convinced it really works. It's just that it
     has succeeded in getting more attention, much of it exasperated,
     from the Commerce Department's Patent and Trademark Office, from
     scientists at the National Bureauof Standards, from the U.S. District
     Court for the District of Columbia and from the news media than any
     such device in recent memory.
     
     Newman, a self-taught inventor from Lucedale, Miss., has been
     battling for nearly seven years to obtain a patent on his machine,
     which he claims produces more electrical  energy  than it consumes from
     a battery pack.
     
     The patent office, without testing the device, rejected his
     application on the grounds that the invention's claimed ability
     contradicts accepted laws of nature, specifically the Second Law of
     Thermodynamics.
     
     Newman, arguing that his invention does not contradict scientific
     law but instead taps a previously unknown source of  energy,  has
     sued the patent office. The trial is scheduled for December.
     
     Patent office officials will not comment on the Newman affair but do
     say thatlawsuits from disgruntled inventors are rare. Of 120,000
     patent applications received in a typical year, about 40,000 are
     rejected, but the office is sued only about 100 times a year. Newman's
     suit is the only one patent officials can remember in which the
     invention was judged impossible because it would violate alaw of
     nature.
     The court ordered Newman to submit his machine for testing by the
     National Bureau of Standards, also a Commerce agency, which has long
     experience in evaluating electrical equipment.
     
     After spending more than $75,000 to test the device, the bureau last
     week submitted a 36-page report to the court that concluded, "At all
     conditions tested, the input power exceeded the output power. That is,
     the device did not deliver more  energy  than it used." The machine's
     efficiency varied according to the test conditions, with output ranging
     between 27 percent and 67 percent ofthe  energy  consumed.
     
     Newman alleges that the bureau rigged its test to obscure the
     machine's true performance and vows that if the District Court rules
     against him, he will carryhis fight for a patent to the Supreme Court.
     He asserts that the science establishment is so beholden to its own
     interpretation of the Second Law that itcannot accept his
     "revolutionary" discovery.
     
     In colloquial terms, the Second Law of Thermodynamics says that you
     can't getsomething for nothing. More formally, it says that in every
     process some of the energy  consumed is lost forever, most commonly
     as heat. The amount of  energy put out by any machine, therefore, is
     equal to the amount put in minus certain unavoidable losses within the
     system.
     
     Although the greatest minds in physics have repeatedly affirmed the
     Second Law, this has not stopped some inventors from thinking that,
     if they are clever enough, they can find a design that eliminates all
     internal power losses.
     
     Newman claims to have gone one better by making a machine that
     creates additional  energy.  Newman says that in his own lab, his
     devices are 400 to 500percent efficient, putting out four to five times
     as much  energy  as they take in.
     
     The key, Newman says, is that his machine, like an atomic reactor or
     a hydrogen bomb, converts matter into  energy.  The matter in this
     case is something Newman discovered and named "gyroscopic particles."
     These, according to Newman's theory of atomic physics, are building
     blocks of the usual subatomicparticles -- protons, neutrons and
     electrons.
     
     Newman's discovery has not been embraced by the scientific
     community.  However, he says his experiments have convinced him that
     gyroscopic particles exist in all forms of matter and that his machine
     simply captures their  energy and channels it into wires as
     electricity.
     
     "I'm just an old country boy," Newman says. "I've never had a
     physics course or an electrical engineering course in my life. But I
     do know what I see and
     
     anybody with conventional equipment for measuring power can see for
     himself thatit works."
     
     Newman's machine consists of four main parts -- a battery pack
     containing 116nine-volt batteries wired in series to put out about
     1,000 volts, a large coil of wire that becomes an electromagnet when
     hooked to the batteries, a permanent magnet that spins like an electric
     motor in response to the electromagnet, and acommutator, a wheel with
     electrical contacts that spins with the magnet and repeatedly connects
     and disconnects the power supply to the coil and also repeatedly
     reverses the flow of the battery power.
     
     Despite the elaborate design, the Bureau of Standards report says,
     the deviceperformed with less efficiency than would a simple pair of
     wires, which would deliver nearly all the  energy  put into them.
     
     The report also says that because of the way the device works --
     rapidly starting, stopping and reversing the flow -- it produces
     sharp "spikes" in
     energy  output that give spuriously high readings on conventional
     measuring equipment. The bureau says it had to find special equipment
     to get accurate readings.
     
     It is this use of special equipment that Newman says was an attempt
     to hide his device's true performance. He says the bureau first used
     ordinary equipment and then, seeing a high output that would show their
     colleagues in the patent office to be wrong, found other equipment to
     produce a lower reading.
     
     "I'm not fighting for myself," Newman said. "This is for humanity.
     It's obvious what a thing like this would mean."
     
     Whether it will be obvious to the U.S. District Court is another
     question.
     
     ....
