From Kathy.Roberts@f312.n213.z1.quill.dps.com Sat Mar 19 13:22:34 MET 1994
Article: 29488 of alt.alien.visitors
From: Kathy.Roberts@f312.n213.z1.quill.dps.com (Kathy Roberts)
Path: elwood!zrz.TU-Berlin.DE!netmbx.de!Germany.EU.net!EU.net!uknet!pipex!bnr.co
.uk!corpgate!news.utdallas.edu!convex!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!envoy!quill!Net213gate
Newsgroups: alt.alien.visitors
Subject: Free Energy
Message-ID: <763867203.AA00776@quill.dps.com>
Date: Wed, 16 Mar 1994 01:00:34 -0800
X-FTN-To: All
Lines: 43

  In response to a few questions concerning Joseph Newman and his energy
machine, it was asked if anyone had read his book and could tell a little
about it. Over the past 4 years, I have read the book many time. The following
is my opinion of that material.

 The theory of Newman conciders Einstein's equation E=mc2 to be literally
true. That is, no energy exists in nature that does not consist of mass. Not
merely converted from mass, but actually consisting of mass. This mass exists
as particals that constantly travel at c2. That is, they travel with a forward
velocity of c, as well as in a spiral motion, also at c. The combined motion
of these particals is whats constitute "energy". Because of this forward
spiralling motion, these particals act in a gyroscopic manner. If a force is
applied to the axis of a spinning gyroscope, that axis will move in a
direction ninety degrees from the applied force, the exact direction being
determined by the direction of rotation of the gyroscope. This is a purely
mechanical property that can be manipulated through the use of proper
materials and construction techniques. Newman states "such energy in the form
of gyroscopic particals is the basic building block of all matter". These
particals are the "quarks" that conventional science has been seeking. I
submit further that they are the "massless" particals that conventional
wisdom knows as photons. The reason they are considered "massless" is simply
because no one has been able to slow one down or would be capable of measuring
the mass if they could. What conventional science cannot accomplish they
attempt to explain away with fairy tales.

According to Newman, there are trillions of these particals within a single
atom. The energy machine (there are actually three embodiments designed by
Newman) takes advantage of these primary particals by means of proper
construction techniques. The Newman machine is a true free energy device (as
opposed to "perpetual motion") because it is capable of tapping some of the
energy of these primary particals and adding it to the external energy of the
output.


Although Newman has yet to be granted a patent, the patent office's
thermodynamic expert belatedly conceded that Newman's claim "..did not violate
the First or Second Laws of Thermodynamics and therefore was not
'impossible'".

 But if in doubt, ask the  'Bunny'.

Origin: Brave Neuro World, User #123 FTW-OggNet

 * Origin: Data Publishing Serivces - GBBS Pro - 702-322-4497 (1:213/312)

