C.M. Connelly: Like you care... 

 &#160; 

 Blog | 
 Debian | 
 Work | 
 R&eacute;sum&eacute; | 
 About... 

 Like you care... 

 March 3, 2004 (Wed) 

 Wow&#8212; content on Slashdot: a review 
of Chris
Okasaki 's Purely Functional Data Structures . Very
probably the best book review I've ever seen on Slashdot, and with
some of the best comments, as well. I guess functional programming
scares away the usual suspects. 

 (Chris was one of M's thesis advisors. He was also a Mudder .) 

 March 2, 2004 (Tue) 

 Various people are starting to point at Ian Murdock's &#8220; Toward a new kind of
`Linux distribution' &#8221;, which I found myself last week. and have
been exploring this week. 

 The most important component is Progeny 's Componentized Linux Platform ,
an LSB -compliant distribution. At the moment it's
basically Debian sarge with a port
of Red Hat's Anaconda 
installer, plus some other bits. As Debian's main drawback from my
perspective is its installer (although the new installer is lots
better for individual installs, it still doesn't support multiple
installs well), and Anaconda and Kickstart are so good in that role,
CL may well be the answer I was looking for at work. 

 Unfortunately, UserLinux , led
by Bruce Perens, hasn't been impressing me. The mailing lists seem to
be populated by people who think that Red Hat is too hard to
use , and that UserLinux should be producing a distro for Grandma.
And here I thought it was about producing a solid corporate desktop,
where you'd expect to have professionals doing infrastructural support
to make it all work for the end user. 

 Similarly, Fedora seems to be
making big, big jumps along the bleeding edge, which makes it look
like a lot of fun to run from my perspective, but not much fun at all
to try to whip into shape for widescale deployment. 

 Fedora Legacy , on the other
hand, is suffering from being too far outside of the mainstream
security community. Thus they find out about security issues the same
time that the average Joe does&#8212;when the big distros release new
packages. That automatically puts them behind by days to weeks,
especially since they still need to do some testing before unleashing
new packages on the world. And right now they're mostly still able to
take advantage of the close relationship between the packages they're
supporting and those in Red Hat's supported products (RHL 9,
Enterprise Linux 2.1 and 3). As Fedora Core skips further and further
ahead, I'm not sure I believe that they'll be able to keep up with
security issues. 

 Meanwhile, it's election day again. As the Democrats seem to have
learned absolutely nothing from the last couple of major elections, I
was forced to vote for Dennis
Kucinich the only candidate left who seems to say anything that
even comes close to approaching my views on the issues. 

 Kerry, of course, is pretty much as bad as Bush. Take a look at his
website. Some of his positions on defense and &#8220;homeland security&#8221;
are positively draconian. 

 And what's with this John Edwards creep? Where did he even come from?
One minute he wasn't there; the next, he's neck-and-neck for the
lead. He's also big on the draconian security measures, and,
apparently, not all that fond of queer folk, either (at least based on
how easy it is to find information about the topic on his website). 

 In any case, it's looking pretty clear that Kerry will be the
Democratic Party's choice, which means that I won't be voting
Democrat for President yet again. I'm tired of rolling up my sleeve
and diving into the muck. If the Democrats won't learn that they need
to listen to the people who vote for them, then they need to just pack
they bags and go away, and make room for someone new. 

 It sounds like I might be voting for Ralph this year. Back in 2000, I
was pretty down on the guy, but a couple of my friends called me on
it, and, after much thought, I agree with them. Gore lost the
election with the help of his party, by moving so far toward the
middle that they were crowding George Bush even further toward the
right than he'd have been on his own. Screw 'em. 

 Groklaw has been doing a great
job covering the whole SCO vs. sanity story for quite a while now.
Recently, however, they took a break and posted a transcript 
of a talk that Eben
Moglen gave at Harvard for the Harvard Journal of Law &
Technology . JOLT also has video 
(Real Media) and audio 
(Speex) of the talk. 

 Moglen is a very impressive speaker. He believes in free software as
much as Richard Stallman, and he does a fantastic job of elucidating
why free software is important and why it's only part of a larger
picture. Well worth reading, watching, or listening to. 

 Okay, that was a cheap shot at Eric Raymond. Yes, CUPS is a
pain in the neck, especially if you fall for Red Hat's enticingly
simple appearing print configuration tools on RHL 9 and Fedora Core,
which I, myself, learned weren't remotely compatible with using CUPS
in a networked environment the hard way. But I knew enough about how
CUPS worked to be able to find information about the problems and work
around them without having a major hissy-fit on the 'Net. 

 Still, if he can get the CUPS folks to get their acts together, it's
all good. 

 Guh. Woo-hoo. Kerry for President. Bush must be shaking. At least
Edwards seems to be out of the running. 

 February 19, 2004 (Thu) 

 Much ado. 

 M and I are looking for a house. Alas, houses are few and far between
in this area, and tend to be snapped up very quickly. They're also
obscenely priced&#8212;for what you'd pay here you could get four or five
of the same where I grew up (and probably nicer, to boot). 

 Meanwhile, After talking about Black history , we had ourselves a
genuine incident right where we work. Seems some young sports
participants (from three of the colleges) thought it would be fun to
dispose of some trash they'd found (stolen) that happened to be in the
form of a fabric-wrapped, 11' x 7' cross. By burning it. 

 No one was around to see the fire itself (as most students were still
away on break), but they left the scorched remains standing in a dorm
courtyard where they were discovered the next day by staff, who
freaked. The college went into cover-up mode, but when rumors started
floating around, the administration decided to have a campus-wide
discussion about the incident. 

 Stupidity and ignorance are hardly excuses, but they appear to be the
main defense being offered by the students. Meanwhile, some of the
colleges are marching in protest against the racist incident. Yeesh. 

 Article 
and student
commentary . 

 I've relicensed the site under a Creative Commons license. Not
that I had people clamoring to borrow my content, or evil folk
stealing it left and right, but it's the right thing to do. 

 Crazy Junk Mail: Spam is one thing, but wacky paper mail is another.
Yesterday I received a very plain business envelope, which I expected
to be yet another in the endless series of &#8220;Dear Friend&#8221; letters
I've been receiving since (a) registering as a Democrat and (b) giving
the ACLU money. But no, this one started out with a more personal
note: 

My dear Claire Connelly,

 And went on to say 

Your astral configuration combined with your financial and family
situation means that an event of great importance will occur in your
life in the next three weeks.

 It then goes on for seven pages of fake typewriter text.
Yup, it's a letter from a &#8220;psychic&#8221; &#8220;White Magic&#8221; practitioner
offering me an exclusive opportunity to have my greatest wish come
true, for only $10 now and &#8220;an amount to be decided by myself based
on the unexpected amounts of money that I receive&#8221; in three months.
(Apparently all wishes involve large sums of cash.) 

 I guess that's what I get for buying Tarot cards. Still, it's more
fun than the average &#8220;Dear Friend&#8221; letter.... 

 So Howard Dean pissed me off totally by quitting. Meaning that we're
pretty much stuck with Kerry, who never impressed me before, and
doesn't impress me now. The Democrats prove once again that they're
happy to choose a mediocre candidate over someone with passion and
ideas, leaving those of us less than happy with the current
administration to roll up our sleeves, pinch our noses, and plunge our
arms into the bucket of scum to vote against the Republicans. 

 Or not. I've pretty much had it with the Democrats&#8212;they don't
stand for what I believe in, and it's awfully difficult to tell the
difference between them and the Republicans. If you squint, the
differences are almost nonexistent. And, of course, some
&#8220;Democrats&#8221;, like Joe Lieberman, really are Republicans who just
won't admit it. 

 I've been voting for Greens for the last couple of years, and I guess
I'll keep doing that. Too bad the Democrats refuse to learn any
lessons from their losses in recent elections. And how scary for all
of us that four years of Bush wasn't enough to help them grow spines,
either. 

 January 20, 2004 (Tue) 

 Lots of fun at work over the holidays, leading up to today, the first day of classes for the spring semester. 

 I was hoping to be able to get LDAP working over the break, but it turns out that LDAP is so amazingly general that you can pretty much do anything you might want. Alas, that also means that there's not much in the way of useful information for just doing specific things. So I finally ended up shelving it until I manage to figure out what I need. 

 I also had vague hopes of getting Postfix running, and I didn't really even get to that. Not that there's anything wrong with our Sendmail installation, but Postfix seems to be a bit simpler, more secure, and maybe a bit cleaner. Sendmail still has a lot of cruft from the good old days, when it was able to connect systems using a myriad of protocols. All we really need to worry about these days is SMTP , so we don't need some of that complexity. 

 On the other hand, I did manage to get our server upgraded to a supported version of Red Hat Linux. I also got the web server shifted over to a new machine. I'm still not sure if I'm going to be sticking with Red Hat or not, but now I have until April before I have to worry about it again, and I should be able to keep going using Fedora Legacy for a while longer before I really need to make a decision. 

 I finished Banksie's Raw Spirit over the weekend, and managed to talk M into letting me buy a bottle of twelve-year-old Macallan single malt whisky . It's amazingly strong. I, of course, had to promise to drink it, and I imagine that by the time it's 24 years old I will probably have managed to do so. 

 No, it's not really that bad. Growing up in the States, though, I've clearly picked up the `slug it back&#8221; habit which can be dangerous with something as strong as whisky. We don't really have the right kind of glasses for whisky, so when I poured what seemed like a reasonable amount (about an ounce, I'd guess) I poured what was effectively a double. Sipping is the key. Small sips. Very small sips.... 

 M, the Apple fanatic, bought herself a copy of the new iLife so she could get ahold of GarageBand , Apple's new application for creating music without really having to know what you're doing. She's put together a few songs, some of which are quite good. The problem, of course, is that getting something that sounds okay is remarkably easy, whereas getting something that sounds really good is tough, and potentially requires hours of tinkering and fiddling. It's like a SimCity for wannabe musicians. 

 If you're not happy with Apple's loops, you can create your own by recording real instruments or playing bits into the application with a MIDI controller. I'm amazed by the fact that you can now buy a keyboard with velocity sensitivity for $100, which is a damn sight cheaper than the $600 or so I paid for a Korg Poly-800 (so called because it could play eight notes simultaneously!) back in the early 80s. 

 Saturday night, we saw Monster , in which Charlize Theron gives an amazing performance as the serial killer Aileen Wuornos. The film is definitely slanted in Wuornos's favor, at least based on CourtTV's story about her . Of course you probably can't entirely believe CourtTV's account, either. 

 PBS has had some good programming on for Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, including a three-hour American Experience on the Reconstruction period, making the argument that while the Confederacy may have lost the Civil War, they won Reconstruction, prolonging the racism and related bullshit that was only addressed with the civil rights legislation finally passed in the 1960s. 

 I was pretty disgusted by the whole thing. I'm not a big fan of the south, and especially not of the whole &#8220;south will rise again&#8221; yahoo, rebel, racist bullshit that still seems to rule down there. It's clear that Lincoln's assassination led to the North missing its chance to really clean house and maybe make a difference in attitude and power in the south in the 1860s and 1870s. Unfortunately, it's not necessarily the case that fundamental forced change would have worked, either. Freeing the slaves was more of a harassing tactic than a considered choice, and once the war was over, the U.S. government seemed to have as little regard for the former slaves as the Confederacy&#8212;maybe even less, as the Confederacy's elite were dependent on their slaves for economic survival. Well-meaning policies were overturned in the rush to reconcile the white South with the white North, and blacks trying to put together their own communities on land given to them by military dictates found their attempts undermined by the return of southern aristocrats waving presidential pardons and with the full force of the U.S. Army behind their demands. 

 The United States was based on a fundamentally flawed agreement to pretend the slavery issue didn't exist, and, as far as I can see, that flaw still runs clear and true through American society. I don't know what can repair it once and for all, but whatever it may be, we're a long way from implementing it. 

 I need to link, again , to these incredibly powerful souvenir images of lynchings throughout America. 

 As I've gotten older, I've found myself getting more and more interested in history. I continue to be amazed by the often dramatic differences between &#8220;real&#8221; history and the version of history they teach in grade school. 

 January 1, 2004 (Thu) 

 Happy New Year! 

 I've started reading Iain Banks's new book, Raw Spirit , a nonfiction, semiautobiographical tale of a tour of Scotland's whisky distilleries. It's wonderful&#8212;everything you'd expect from one of Banks's novels combined with real life and sprinkled with interesting titbits of information about Banks himself. 

 I just stumbled across Fathom , an online archive of lectures, articles, interviews, exhibits and free seminars, hosted by Columbia University and with content from some big names (RAND, Science Museum, Victoria & Albert Museum, and more). 

 In particular, they have a bunch of material on Victorian England . 

 December 27, 2003 (Sat) 

 Messy desks common among the &#8220; Kings of Chaos &#8221;, via a discussion on Speak Up , a graphic-design discussion site. 

 From the same discussion, a pointer to Malcolm Gladwell's site , which has links to his articles, including &#8220; Designs for Working &#8221;, on the social office; &#8220; The Social Life of Paper &#8221;; coolhunters (cf. Gibson's take ; and khakis . 

 [An interesting side comment on khaki&#8212;in America, khaki is a light tan; in the UK, khaki (pronounced &#8220;CAR-key&#8221;) is a dark brownish green. Next time you get into an argument with someone from Britain about the color, you'll know why.] 

 December 25, 2003 (Thu) 

 I managed to please M with my gift of a desktop trebuchet . (A friend of ours mentioned that she was teaching some high school students about trebuchets, which reminded me that we'd seen these a couple of months ago and both of us said, &#8220;We've got to have one!&#8221;) 

 Meanwhile, M made me happy by getting me the standard Cuboro starter set and the Cuboro book, which has plans and ideas. Of course she's spent nearly as much time playing with it as I have. (See this old entry for details on my discovery of Cuboro and more links.) 

 For Christmas dinner, we tried out an infamous Tofurkey. It actually wasn't too bad, and the carrots we made to go with it were excellent. 

 December 22, 2003 (Mon) 

 Slashdot featured an article about producing your own board and card games, which led to the following links: 

 The Piecepack generic game system. All the pieces you might need for a board or card game, along with some additional useful parts. 
 The Icehouse generic game system from Looney Labs , who also make a bunch of other games that look like they could be fun. 

 While puzzling over the options at Looney Labs, one of which includes the use of a deck of tarot cards for use in a game, I got interested in tarot decks again and spent some time browsing through U.S. Games , the biggest U.S. manufacturer of tarot cards (and regular playing cards); Llewellyn , a U.S. publisher of books on esoteric topics, now also big in the tarot world; and Learning the Tarot , an online course with an attached shop. 

 After much contemplation, I ended up buying myself a deck of Llewellyn's Witches' Tarot (also viewable on LearnTarot ), an attractive deck that also happened to be on sale. 

 After following a couple of links from Llewellyn's page on the Victoria Regina tarot to articles about the artist and the deck, I found Sarah Ovenall 's own website for the deck , where she enticed me into buying a signed copy of the deck directly from her. 

 Sarah seems like a neat person. Not only did she put together some really amazing tarot cards (especially if you're interested in Victorian England), but she also has a site full of advice on the collisions between copyright law and collage and an art car ! 

 Llewellyn has some silly stuff in their fun & free section, including an online tarot reading, a &#8220;spell-a-day&#8221; feature, and a magical personality quiz. Mine, it turns out, is 
 Pegasus . The positive description is fairly flattering, although the same can't be said for that of my &#8220;dark side&#8221;. I hope I'm not that bad.... 

 November 26, 2003 (Wed) 

 From the Grauniad , an
article about the seminal &#8220;Krautrock&#8221; group Can . 

 In addition to some interesting new solo work, there's a new DVD with
music and interviews coming out for Christmas. 

 November 23, 2003 (Sun) 

 Today is the first day since Monday that I've been reasonably
functional. Various digestive things started to make themselves felt
on Tuesday, and took over pretty thoroughly on Wedneday and Thursday. 

 As such, we spent much of the day shifting books around. We finally
got a tall bookcase, put it together, moved it into place, and
fastened it to the wall. And managed to pretty much completely fill
it. 

 To be fair, we emptied one shelf in the bedroom (replaced with a CD
rack) and close to another shelf on one of the smaller bookshelves in
the living room. Still, what little slack there currently is probably
won't last that long. 

 Cool
opinion piece in Time praising the National Book
Foundation's choice of Stephen King as recipient of its Medal for
Distinguished Contribution to American Letters. 
 Via Locus . 

 November 13, 2003 (Thu) 

 I check the &#8220; what's
new &#8221; list at ThinkGeek 
pretty regularly. They often have wacky little techy things that are
fun to look at (if not actually buy). Last night, though, I found a
really cool toy that someone should buy me for Christmas&#8212; Cuboro . 

 Cuboro is a set of 5 cm-a-side beechwood cubes. Some are plain,
some have tracks gouged out one one or more sides, some have tunnels
bored through them. By piling up the blocks, you can create a path
for a marble to roll along, through, and under. There are various
supplemental sets that include new blocks with new features
(doubling-back, dual tracks, etc.). 

 Their site has pictures ,
 movies ,
and, coolest of all, a Flash-powered do-it-yourself
tool . 

 They also have some links to other sites, including various marble tracks ,
 rolling-ball
sculptures , and the company
that manufactures the Cuboro cubes (and does a lot of other
woodcarving work, as well). 

 November 7, 2003 (Fri) 

 Some cool links to useful information about graduate school, research
proposals, and the like, from the syllabus for CS
6010 , Writing Research Proposals, at Utah's School of Computing . 

 Links 
from Mark Leone, CMU 
 Wilson Hsieh's Resources on
Academia 
 A brief article by Edward
Tufte , PowerPoint
is Evil 
 Notes on
the Ph.D. Degree 
 Bedtime
Reading for People Who Do Not Have Time to Sleep 
 Parables for
Graduate Students 

 From the same issue of Wired , David Byrne on the artistic
possibilities of PowerPoint . (See also his new book/DVD, Envisioning Emotional
Epistemological Information .) 

 November 5, 2003 (Wed) 

 Just briefly this morning, I had a shiny new 12" PowerBook. Then M
realized she couldn't find her video adapter cable, and stole it away. 

 More problems
with electronic voting machines , this time with machines from
Advanced Voting Solutions.

 Via Slashdot . 

 Verified Voting has
information and links to petitions to encourage Congress to pass
legislation requiring a paper recording of votes for backup and
verification of the electronic results. 

 The bill in question is H.R.
2239 , &#8220;To amend the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to require a
voter-verified permanent record or hardcopy under title III of such
Act, and for other purposes.&#8221; ( Summary
and Status ) 

 November 4, 2003 (Tue) 

 Whoa. Novell buys SUSE .
I wonder if they'll put something together that would be a tempting
replacement for Red Hat Linux on small servers (like the ones I
run).... 

 A new book club 
without many of the evil traits of traditional book clubs is
publishing Manna from Heaven , a short-story collection
from Roger Zelazny, including five uncollected Amber shorts along with
a bunch of other short fiction. 

 Hmm.... A
lifetime subscription to Locus is only $520.... 

 One of the cheesiest bits
of animation I've ever seen, explaining why everyone should
license software. Beware, children&#8212;steal software, and you, too,
might be sucked into your computer and forced to play old Atari 2600
video games to recover your design portfolio.

 Via Bruce
Sterling . 

 Do-it-yourself Segway . 

 The article is especially interesting because it goes into a lot of
the theory behind the functionality, as well as the various
compromises that had to be made to get the thing to work.

 Via FreeBSD.org . 

 ...older entries... 

 Reading... 

 Benjamin Franklin , Walter Isaacson 
 The Forgotten Arts and Crafts , John Seymour 
 The Nature of Order: The Phenomenon of Life , Christopher Alexander 

 Next... 
 A Story as Sharp as a Knife , Robert Bringhurst 
 Type: Hot Designers Make Cool Fonts , Allen Haley 
 Brief Interviews with Hideous Men , D.F. Wallace 
 Home Town , Tracy Kidder 
 Drawing Down the Moon , Margot Adler 
 The Death and Life of American Cities , Jane Jacobs 
 The Nature of Economics , Jane Jacobs 
 Jenny Holzer , Dianne Waldman 
and tons more, thanks to the U.K.'s great bookshops and evil old amazon.com ...

 Last... 
 Emotional Design , Donald A. Norman 
 Ranma 1/2 , vol. 25, Rumiko Takahashi 
 Ranma 1/2 , vol. 24, Rumiko Takahashi 
 The Production of Houses , Christopher Alexander, et al. 
 Lies Across America , James W. Lowen 
 A Degree of Mastery , Annie Tremmel Wilcox 
 From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler , E.L. Konigsburg 
 Survival City , Tom Vanderbilt 
 Drawing the Line , Edwin Danson 
 Our Own Devices , Edward Tenner 
 The Tipping Point , William Gladstone 
 Raw Spirit , Iain Banks 

 more... 

 Listening To... 
 Savage Republic 
 Tragic Figures 
 Cermonial/Trudge 
 Jamahiriya 
 Customs 
Little Axe 
 The Wolf that House Built 

 Linkage... 
 null device 
 virulent memes 
 /usr/bin/girl 
 camworld 
 pith and vinegar 
 rebecca's pocket 
 stumblings 
 world according to carp 
 Alan & Telsa 

 Archives... 
 March, 2004 
 February, 2004 
 January, 2004 
 December, 2003 
 November, 2003 
 October, 2003 
 more... 

 More About Me... 

 Wishlist 
 .plan 
 About Me 
 Technorati Profile 

 Contact... 
 E-mail me! 
 Feeling secretive? 
 Grab my GPG public key . 

 Copyright &copy; 1998&#8211;2004, C.M. Connelly. 

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons License .

 Last modified at 4:53 PM PST, Wednesday, March 3, 2004; last rendered at 
 4:53 PM PST, Wednesday, March 3, 2004 with Mason 
 and Perl . 

 Please e-mail me about problems with this page . Thanks.