Various pictures from 1985-1986 (Former Yugoslavia and elsewhere) 

 1985-1986 Trips, Europe and USA 
 (This page is under construction -- many more pictures than these are 
available but only some are scanned as of yet). 

 Central Park, New York NY, May 1985 -- 24 Hour Bike Marathon (formerly the
Pepsi Challenge) 

 At the end of the marathon, talking with my friend 
Adam .

 Europe 1985 (London-Amsterdam-Greece, June-July 1985) 

I started by riding to Kennedy Airport and taking a plane to Gatwick Airport, 
spending a few days in London, enjoying the city and the 10:30PM sunset. From
there I rode through Brittany and Belgium to Amsterdam, the Netherlands, and 
then to Germany, Luxembourg and France. 

 Entering Strasbourg, eastern France .
 Black Forest (Schwarzwald), western Germany 
(between Strasbourg and Freudenstadt) .

 Balzers, Lichtenstein . One of the smallest
countries in the world. Riding on the other side of the Rhine, I missed Vaduz
and almost passed Liechtenstein altogether; I crossed the next bridge and in
Balzers I chatted with these kids, who were Commodore (64?) computer
enthusiasts. The lettering on the house behind them says
"MILCHVERWERTUNGSGENOSSENSCHAFT".

 After Lichtenstein I ascended abruptly out of the Rhine Valley into the 
Alps and reached the highest point of the trip on the first day of summer, 
where eight inches (20.3 cm) of snow fell on the Fl&uuml;ela-Pass, elevation 
2383 m (7818 ft.). It looked like a tundra up 
there. Here's the view in the 
other direction , looking at the hotel that is at the top.

 S&uuml;dtirol in Austria was very enjoyable, a scenic forested area. Towards 
the eastern portion of this region, some people spoke Slovenian as well as 
German. The Yugoslav (today, Slovenian) border was drawing near. To cross 
from Austria into Slovenia I went over the Wurzen-Pass, or Korensko Sedlo as 
it is called on the other side. It was an exceptionally steep ascent, as the 
signs note. First there is one of many signs noting an 
 18-percent grade , and then when the steepest part 
approaches right around the bend there is a pentalingual sign saying to Put In First Gear , which I did. The sign is in German,
English, French, Croatian and Serbian; the Serbian version is misspelled.

 After going through Slovenia and Croatia I got to Bosnia-Hercegovina. In 
1985 it seemed like everyone there got along fine, regardless of ethnicity. 
People didn't say they were Serbian, Croatian or whatever; they said they were
Yugoslav ("Ja sam Jugosloven"). The capital of Bosnia, Sarajevo, which hosted
the 1980 Olympics, was still a beautiful city, before the region descended
into war and chaos in the late 1980's. 

 Five views of Sarajevo: 

 Approaching the city from the west .
 Another view from the west .
 A hillside suburb .
 High-rise apartment buildings .
 Houses, high-rises and a tower .

 Leaving Sarajevo I came across signs advertising the
 Kroz Jugoslaviju , or 
Tour de Yugoslavie; this is Yugoslavia's Tour de France. I didn't see or
enter the race itself, but just rode the route. 

Vishegrad was the next major town; here is the view
approaching town , with the medieval bridge visible. From the bridge itself , a portrait of Ivo Andric' is visible; he
is the author of the book The Bridge over the Drina that made this town
and its bridge famous. There is also an old
plaque on the bridge noting its history under the 16th-century Ottoman
governor Mehmed Pasha, and the German occupation of the region during World
War II. 

 Montenegro, or Crna Gora, is the region of Yugoslavia whose name means 
"black mountain", which does accurately describe
 some of the mountains 
there. More like dark green. From there I ascended the remote Chakor (akor)
Pass towards the Kosova border, with the mountain 
looming ahead. Near the top, there was a mountain that was
 almost black . Suddenly a crowd of Albanian kids surged 
over the hillside, wanting me to take their picture .
We exchanged addresses so I could mail the pictures when they were developed; 
we exchanged a few letters prior to the deterioration of the situation there 
in the late 1980's and 1990's. From there it was a short distance to the 
 top of 
the mountain pass , elevation 1849 m (6066 ft.), the highest point since 
the Fl&uuml;ela Pass in the Alps, which is 1752 feet higher. This apparently
marked the border with the (then) Autonomous Province of Kosovo (Kosova),
because the next village I got to, Kuqishte ,
was Albanian, with the sign in Albanian and Serbo-Croatian. My map only had
the Slavic names, which was unfortunate since the Albanian names are sometimes
quite different, such as the next city, Pech, which is Peja in Albanian; it is
at the end of the beautiful Rugovo Gorge. This area was also devastated 
during the 1998-1999 war, and refugees streamed along this route to escape 
into Montenegro. 

 I spent a night in Prizren, and being only 18 km. from the Albanian border,
decided to see if I could get across. Approaching the border, I got close to 
the Drin River , which flows towards and through
Albania and empties into the Adriatic Sea. Just before the border, it enters 
a large and beautiful valley , taking on the
appearance it has across the border. This was only a short time after the 
death of Albania's late and brutal dictator, Enver Hoxha; the current ruler 
was Ramiz Alia, who was still insisting on maintaining a strict Communist 
government. The road to the border was almost deserted. Passing the last
village before the border, Zhur, I
came across the sign warning that the border is a
half kilometer away. I could not get across, nor was I permitted to 
photograph the border crossing, so I contented myself with chatting with the 
border guard and looking across at the guard on the Albanian side.

 So I returned to Prizren, and while considering whether to spend another
night there, or go on to Skopje (in what is today called the Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia), an Albanian Muslim, Daut
ejku , pulled up alongside me and spoke to me in perfect English. I was
looking for an electrical store selling adapters for plugging devices with a
flat plug into the recessed outlets which predominated here. He said "follow
me", so I followed his bike up a valley into the hills. Something got lost
in the translation, since he took me to a hydroelectric plant! But he also
told me a lot about the history and politics of the place; he was as
interested in talking about it as I was in learning about it. He showed
great hospitality and invited me to his house where I met his family. He
surprised me when he said he knew I tried to go to Albania earlier that day;
but this was because a relative of his was waiting at the bus stop in Zhur
when I passed by (and then came by in the other direction not long after,
since I was not permitted to go across). Also, he had other relatives in
Kuk&euml;s, just across the border from Zhur on the Albanian side. We
watched the news and weather broadcasted on Albanian TV, as well as
 Dynasty with Albanian subtitles, which was wildly popular among
Kosovars and was broadcast locally within Kosova. 

 The next day I rode to Skopje and from there to Greece. (Pictures not yet
scanned) 

 Boston 1986 (April 1986) 
 Click here for the Boston 1986 page . 

 Bear Mountain 1986 

 In the morning; tentmate and his bike .

 Click here to send 
me comments on this web page . 
 This site has been viewed times
since May 3, 2001. 

 nickz@eskimo.com 

Page created: September 1, 1999
Last modified: April 18, 2001