Songs For Intermediates - Give A Little Bit 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Songs For Intermdiates , Give A Little Bit 

 Give A Little Bit 

 Songs For Intermediates # 4 
 Published May 17, 2002 
 By David 
 Hodge 

 Print 
 this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 So you sit down with a lead sheet or a piece of music and 
 it tells you the opening chords of this particular song are 
 A major followed by D major. And so you go and play your standard 
 A and D chords and get all disappointed because "it doesn't 
 sound like the record." You can tell that you're in the 
 right key but you can also tell that it's not quite right. 
 Your problem is probably this: you may have the right chords, 
 but you're playing them in the wrong place on the fretboard. 
 Give A Little Bit , the opening song on the Supertramp 
 album Even In the Quietest Moments , demonstrates this 
 concept. It involves the use of chord shapes to create different 
 voicings for familiar chords. 
 And, lest we forget: 

 These files are the author's own work and represents his 
 interpretation of this song. They are intended solely for 
 private study, scholarship or research. 

 And if you'd like, I'll add the usual secondary disclaimer 
 as well: No, this is NOT a note-for-note transcription from 
 the recording. You'll be able to tell that right from the 
 opening measure since my rhythm is different than the original 
 guitar part. 
 When I play solo, more often than not it is with a twelve-string 
 acoustic guitar. So anything I can do to showcase the full 
 warm tone of the twelve-string is welcome. I also tend to 
 give myself lots of vocal cues whenever I can fit them into 
 a pattern. So you'll see both of these stylistic quirks in 
 most of my lessons. 
 Give A Little Bit is in the key of D and is played 
 at a moderate tempo in 4/4 time. The main rhythm chord pattern, 
 established in the introduction, relies on these particular 
 chord voicings: 

 If you were to chase this song down in TAB or sheet music, 
 chances are that you'll find this progression written out 
 as A - D - A - D - G - A - G - A. These fingerings of the 
 chords, though, give this song it's signature sound. The A 
 and G (G6/A) chords are, essentially, first position Fmaj7 
 chords moved up the neck. I tend to think of these as "E-shape" 
 because I think of the F chord as an E-shape chord. The D 
 ( Dadd9/A) is an A-shape on the seventh fret. You will notice, 
 I'm sure, that both of these are slightly different from the 
 E and A-shaped chords we studied in " Moving 
 On Up " in that we are leaving the first (high E) 
 string open throughout the changes. This, along with the open 
 A string in the bass, is creating a drone, or a sustained 
 tone that jazzes up the standard A, D and G chords. This use 
 of partial chord shapes, whether for rhythm guitar (as we 
 are doing here) or lead guitar, is an essential technique 
 for the intermediate guitarist to learn. 
 One other thing I'd like to note here - and it may seem like 
 a minor thing now, but it's one of those little things that 
 can save you a lot of grief later - is which fingers to use 
 on which strings. When I am moving along the fretboard I try 
 to find ways to change my fingering as little as possible. 
 For me, the easiest way of doing this is to use my middle 
 finger as an anchor. In other words, my middle finger will 
 more often than not be on the same string. Here in the intro 
 and the first part of the verses, it plays the G string. So 
 on the A and G chords, my ring finger is on the D string notes 
 while the index finger frets the proper note on the B string. 
 When I switch from the A to the D, I simply pick up the ring 
 finger to free up the D string and place it on the seventh 
 fret of the B string: 

 As I said, this may seem obvious to a lot of you, but it 
 becomes very important when we get to the coda. 
 My strumming pattern for this song is slightly different 
 from that of the recording. I prefer to give it a triplet 
 feel because I prefer the way it sounds. Here, though, are 
 both rhythms: 

 You should feel free to play around with them. Who knows? 
 You may very likely come up with something different that 
 you prefer. 
 The first four lines of the verses are repetitions of this 
 pattern. The progression is broken up at the fifth line, where 
 the chords change to Bm, Em, E, G and finally A. I prefer 
 using these chords: 

 This voicing of the Bm7 gives me a B note in the bass as 
 well as an open B string. Since B is also the note of the 
 melody at this point, playing this particular chord gives 
 me a way to boost my voice. Likewise, the Emadd9, my voicings 
 of the Em and even the E7 and the G (with the D on the third 
 fret of the B string) support the song's melody. 
 I also like to throw in a single F# note in the bass (second 
 fret, sixth string), creating a walk from the E7 to the G. 
 This is purely stylistic and it's also fun. 
 When we reach the A, I use an A7 turnaround, much like the 
 one we used in Babylon : 

 To give the turnaround some added punch, I hammer-on to the 
 desired frets at the start of each chord change. Sliding from 
 chord to chord sounds great as well. And here again we see 
 the importance of finger placement. These changes will flow 
 smoothly if you use your middle finger on the D string throughout. 
 This way you can use your ring finger whenever the note on 
 the B string is on the same fret as the one on the D string 
 and use your index finger when the B string note is a fret 
 away (as with the A7sus4add6). 

 After two verses we come to the bridge. Here we encounter 
 a distinct shift in modulation, from D major to B minor. This 
 new tonality is heralded by the F#7, which is the fifth in 
 the new key. While you can play a full measure of either F# 
 or F#7, I prefer to use both for melodic purposes. By starting 
 with the open E string in the F#7, I can then climb to the 
 F# (the full F# chord) and then do a little walk from the 
 F# to E and then to D on the Bm chord. I play the Bm in its 
 simplest first position form to make an easy and smooth transition 
 from note to note: 

 Can you hear how the melody during the Bm follows the almost 
 ad-lib "yeah yeah yeah" of the song? This is then 
 echoed in the Gmaj7 voicing: 

 Then we go to an extended turnaround, which builds in intensity. 
 All of this leads us to the final verse and we play it the 
 same as the first two times up until we reach the point in 
 the last line where we jump to the coda. 
 At the coda, we find that our voicing of the G chord helps 
 in performing a quick shift to Cadd9 and back: 

 All we have to do is take our fingers from the fifth and 
 sixth strings and move them to the same frets on the fourth 
 and fifth strings. This is a chord progression used in far 
 too many songs to list here. I'm certain you could provide 
 numerous examples without breaking a sweat. 
 This short aberration of the normal verse is followed by 
 an extended turnaround sequence, which in turn leads to the 
 final set of chord progressions. For simplicity, I've cut 
 the progression into two parts. The first group starts with 
 our Dadd9/A and moves up the neck and then back: 

 Here we are again using partial chord shapes. Going up we 
 have a partial A-shape for the initial D chord as well as 
 the G6/A at the twelfth fret. The Em7/A is also a partial 
 A-shaped chord but it is in its minor form. The second Dadd9/A 
 (on the 10th and 11th frets) is a partial E-shape. You might 
 notice that there is no difference in these particular partial 
 chords between the A minor and E major shapes. Why not call 
 the Em7/A a partial E shape at the eighth fret? This is an 
 important point that we will be addressing next month on the 
 Guitar Columns page. So please don't think I'm shirking the 
 issue! 
 Back to the song at hand. If you remember to keep your middle 
 finger on the G string, this isn't anywhere near as hard as 
 you think. In fact, you'll be surprised at how quickly you'll 
 pick it up, even the shift from the G to the D (on the 10th 
 and 11th frets) and back to the original Dadd9/A. 
 The second set goes down the neck: 

 More partial A and E chords here and we end on a first position 
 Dadd9/A, which we could say is a partial D-shaped chord, could 
 we not? 

 Now, after telling you on and on about the middle finger on 
 the G string, I have to admit that here, on the first position 
 Dadd9, I go back to playing it as I would a regular D chord 
 (index finger on the G string, ring finger on the B). Perhaps 
 it's habit, I don't know, but I can't seem to do it quicker 
 any other way. 
 I think that this about covers it. Oh yes, the final D chord 
 is a classical guitar style A with the root added to the first 
 string. It's the same chord we used to end Love 
 the One You're With . So, without further adieu, here's 
 the finished arrangement: 

 I hope that you've enjoyed this lesson and have fun with 
 this song. I also hope that you find all sorts of ways of 
 incorporating these chord voicings and other ideas into your 
 own playing. Don't ever feel that any song has to be played 
 in one particular way. It is your imagination that brings 
 about your individual style. 
 As always, please feel free to write in with any questions, 
 comments, concerns or topics you'd like to see discussed in 
 future columns. You can either drop off a note at the Guitar 
 Forum page or email me directly at Dhodge8888@cs.com . 
 Until next time (and always)&#133; 
 Peace 

 David Hodge 2002-05-17 
 Previous 
 song in this series "Moondance" 
 Next song in this series 
 "Scarborough Fair" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.