Guitar Noise - Songs For Intermediates 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar Lessons , Songs For Intermediates 

 Songs For Intermediates 

 These lessons take the next logical step moving from being 
 a strict beginner to being a well-rounded guitarist. This 
 covers a lot of different topics. If you&#146;ve read any 
 of the Easy Songs For Beginners pieces, you already 
 know that I prefer to teach lessons by using specific songs 
 as examples. 

 Lesson 
 10: America 
 By David Hodge 

 It's a travelogue so, appropriately, we take you all over 
 the place with this lesson! There's something for everyone 
 in this single guitar arrangement - walking bass lines, 
 a mixture of strumming techniques and it's a waltz! If 
 nothing else, increase your vocabulary by learning the 
 word "gabardine&#133;" 

 Complete Lesson 

 Lesson 1: 
 Babylon 
 By David Hodge 

 This is the first installment of Songs for Intermediates. 
 What we&#146;re going to do one these pages is to take the 
 next logical step in moving from being a strict beginner to 
 being a well-rounded guitarist. This will eventually cover 
 a lot of different topics. And, if you&#146;ve read any of 
 the Easy Songs For Beginners pieces, you already know that 
 I prefer to teach lessons by using specific songs as examples. 

 Lesson 2: 
 Blackbird 
 By David Hodge 

 Today we&#146;re going to start with that concept and then 
 kind of warp it around a bit. The song is Blackbird 
 by Paul McCartney (but being a Beatle at the time, it is officially 
 a &#147;Lennon/McCartney&#148; piece). Not only is this a 
 good &#147;showing-off&#148; song for the solo guitarist, 
 it is also a great exercise for stretching one&#146;s fingers. 

 Lesson 3: 
 Moondance 
 By David Hodge 

 Quite often, the next step is nothing more than relearning 
 things you already know. To illustrate this, let's look at 
 the song Moondance by Van Morrison. It's an intriguing piece 
 in that while it is very easy to play (chord-wise), it does 
 take a little thought to make it sound good. 
 Lesson 4: 
 Give A Little Bit 
 By David Hodge 

 Sometimes you sit down with a written piece of music and end 
 up being disappointed because "it doesn't sound like 
 the record." You may have the right chords, but you're 
 playing them in the wrong place on the fretboard. Give A Little 
 Bit by Supertramp demonstrates this concept. 
 Lesson 5: 
 Scarborough Fair 
 By David Hodge 

 Paul Simon's version of Scarborough Fair is something 
 I try to teach my students fairly early on in their studies. 
 Like Blackbird , it seems daunting at first, but it's 
 truly not hard at all. Most of the song involves simple patterns 
 that get repeated during the course of the verses. 
 Lesson 6: 
 Yesterday 
 By David Hodge 

 The version I intend to show you is not the original recording. 
 While it is based on the Beatles' original song, my arrangement 
 also incorporates elements that I like to use in my own playing, 
 such as moving bass lines and the use of inverted thirds and 
 chord shapes to use as vocal cues. 
 Lesson 
 7: Fields of Gold 
 By David Hodge 

 I hope you're ready for a work out! We'll take this four chord 
 song and make a breathtaking solo guitar arrangement for it. 
 Lots of finger-style work and voice leading will teach us 
 the importance of the guitar as an accompanying instrument. 
 If you want to learn the secrets of finessing an arrangement, 
 this is a great place to start. 
 Lesson 
 8: Losing My Religion 
 By David Hodge 

 We continue on with another look at arranging a song you might 
 normally just strum along with the chords. Here you are the 
 guitar, mandolin and even the bass with one instrument. And 
 believe it or not, this is way easier than some of our recent 
 intermediate lessons. Did I mention that it also contain MP3 
 examples? 
 Lesson 
 9: A Simple Twist of Fate 
 By David Hodge 

 Simple Twist of Fate offers a lesson in chord progressions 
 for those would-be songwriters, and one on chord construction 
 in open tuning for those of you still needing a challenge. 
 While we're at it, let's throw in a little bit about string 
 muting and maybe even touch upon strumming. 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.