David Swenson's electrostatic "invisible wall" (1996) 

 UNUSUAL PHENOMENA | 

 WEIRD IONS | 

 GOOD STUFF | 

 NEW STUFF | 

 SEARCH 

 " Invisible Electrostatic Wall" 
at 3M adhesive tape plant

Aug 1996 W. Beaty 

 jeeze Reddit it's after twelve PST, don't you have to 
get up early 
tomorrow? [Hafa adai other 
time zones ] 

 SESSION 7: SPECIAL SESSION, 17th Annual EOS/ESD Symposium 

 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1995, 8:00 am

 SESSION 7: SPECIAL SESSION: ELECTROSTATIC CONSIDERATIONS IN INDUSTRY

 MODERATOR: D. Swenson, 3M

 7.7 CASE STUDY - LARGE PLASTIC WEB ELECTROSTATIC PROBLEMS,

 RESULTS, AND CURE, D. Swenson, 3M Company

Tremendous static charge generation on a plastic web causes unique
physical phenomena and special problems. Solution was simple and cost
effective.

David Swenson of 3M Corporation describes an anomaly where workers
encountered a strange "invisible wall" in the area under a 
fast-moving
sheet of electrically charged polypropelene film in a factory. This
"invisible wall" was strong enough to prevent humans from passing through. 
A person near this "wall" was unable to turn, and so had to walk
backwards to retreat from it. 

This occurred in late summer in South Carolina, August 1980, in extremely 
high
humidity. Polypropelene (PP) film on 50K ft. rolls 20ft wide was being
slit and transferred to multiple smaller spools. The film was taken off
the main roll at high speed, flowed upwards 20ft to overhead rollers,
passed horizontally 20ft and then downwards to the slitting device, where
it was spooled onto shorter rolls. The whole operation formed a cubical
shaped tent, with two walls and a ceiling approximately 20ft square. The
spools ran at 1000ft/min, or about 10MPH. The PP film had been
manufactured with dissimilar surface structure on opposing faces. Contact
electrification can occur, even in idental materials, if the surface
textures or micro-structures are significantly different. The generation
of a large imbalance of electrical surface-charge during unspooling was
therefore not unexpected, and is a common problem in this industry. 
"Static cling" in the megavolt range! 

On entering the factory floor and far from the equipment, Mr. Swenson's 
200KV/ft handheld electrometer was found to slam to full scale. Later, 
when he attempted to walk through the corridor formed by the moving PP 
film, he was stopped about half way through by an "invisible wall." He 
could lean all his weight forward but was unable to pass. He observed a 
fly get pulled into the charged, moving plastic, and speculates that the 
e-fields might have been strong enough to suck in birds! 

 ABOVE: sparks from a much smaller roll at a different 
plant 

The production manager did not believe Mr. Swenson's report of the strange
phenomena. When they both returned to the factory floor, they found that
the "wall" was no longer there. But the production workers had noticed
the effect as occurring early in the morning when humidity was lower, so
they agreed to try again another day. The second attempt was successful,
and early in the morning the field underneath the "tent" was strong enough
to raise even the short, curly hair of the production manager. The
"invisible wall" effect had returned. He commented that he "didn't know
whether to fix it or sell tickets." 

 [ 
NOTE from billb: where electrostatics is 
concerned, concrete floors are conductors (ohm/sq in megohms, where 
true insulators would be higher by X 10K over four orders.) 
And, the PP spools on either side would behave as opposite-charged 
electrets, megavolt-scale with the originating charges trapped deep within 
insulating layers, suppressing all plasma-streamers and perhaps even 
suppressing glow-discharge. The fast-moving PP film might produce equally 
fast 
air-motions, a 20ft dia. horizontal tornado between the pair of 
meter-thick spinning 
rolls of PP film. The air-motion might strongly confine an ion-cloud,
if composed of large ions (perhaps water microdroplets, with condensation 
forced by huge e-fields combined with expected nucleation sites, for 
e-field induced "effective RH" far about 100%. Speculation 
here! ] 

ads: 

 echisholm 5/2016

Have a relative (sort of) who works at a 3M plant. Shit still occasionally 
happens. 
> You can't just say that and go away!! How are you not irresistibly 
> interested in that?? I would've interrogated that relative so hard 
It just came up in passing at Thanksgiving! I don't really know him 
that 
well; he's an in-law. He mentioned being able to throw small washers and 
bolts at the field and watching them get repelled. People got 
interested, and so someone came with a voltmeter, and after throwing a 
couple more, they checked for voltage, and there was a residual charge 
after they finally caught on on a plastic sheet to prevent immediate 
grounding. It also had a very slight magnetic field. It's apparently 
fairly common, but engineering hasn't come up with a solid explanation 
why. 

ALSO: dc469 5/2016 

I met this guy at an ESD meeting in austin once. He said the strength of 
the field maxed out his equipment at a distance so he couldn't get a 
maximum measurement.

After he published the paper he was contacted by NASA and all the three 
letter agencies asking for more info. He wanted to experiment around with 
it but no company had millions to throw into such a project (presumably, 
the government did). It had to be a pretty narrow window of temperature, 
pressure, humidity, etc. They kept the garage door open so that's where 
the insects and sparrows got sucked in (which obviously ruined the 
product).

He said it was actually known to the technicians for awhile before he 
experienced it and they just were kinda like "meh". Eventually they fixed 
the grounding issue on the machine and the problem never popped up again.

edit: found the ESD website. David Swenson apparently is still with them 
on their board of directors. http://centxesdassoc.homestead.com/

 LINKS 

 WIRED magazine 1/2018
 ESD Journal 
 Askreddit 2017 
 Reddit TIL 
 Sticky Electrostatics , classroom physics demos

 Another poly unwind setup (vid)

 Problems: coulomb forces would be expected to attract a person
 into the "chamber" formed by the PP film, and the attractive force
 should increase linearly across distance. There should be no "wall" in
 the center, a discrete wall is repulsive, also nonlinear. 

 If for some reason a
 person was repelled from the center of the chamber rather than being
 attracted, there still should be no "wall," since the repulsion force 
should exist over a large distance; it
 should act like a deep pillow which exerts more and more force as one
 moves deeper into it. Large fuzzy fields, this is how
 magnets and iron behave, and this is how e-fields and conductive objects
 should also behave.

 A thought: unspooling of film typically generates a much higher net 
charge on
 the long piece of film than on the small surface of the spool.
 However, since charge is created in pairs, and net charge is conserved, 
the imbalances of charge must 
be
 equal and opposite. The charge on the entire length of moving film 
 must 
 be equal in magnitude to the charge on the spool. Yet the charge on the
 film is very large and is continuously increasing. The limited
 surface-charge on the spool required that opposite charge is being 
 lost
 through some unseen path. 

Very probably the spool is spewing out 
enormous quantities of ionized air with polarity opposite that of the 
charge on the moving plastic film.

 Charged air would be created by discharge in the cleft between film and 
spool as the 
film
 was peeled from the spool. I wonder if film was being peeled from the 
top of
 the spool, so that any ionized air created in the cleft would be 
launched into the
"tent-chamber" region? (If it was peeled from the bottom of the spool,
the charged air would end up outside the "tent.") Or, if a corona
discharge arises in the cleft between film and spool, perhaps the UV and
e-fields of this corona can ionize the air on both sides of the exiting
plastic film, and spray the charged air everywhere. 

 So, if the charged "tent" of film is negative in the above situation,
 and if a large quantity of positively charged air is being generated
 by the spool, then perhaps the "invisible wall" is caused by a cloud of
 suspended air ions held in position by e-fields. Perhaps it's a 
pressure gradient created by
 ionized air trapped under the tent by electrostatic attraction. Yet
 again this effect would be expected to create a diffuse zone of 
increasing
 force, not a "wall", but an "invisible pillow." Added note: concrete 
floors behave as conductors (resistors) in this situation. Where 
megavolts at 
microamps are involved, the division between insulators and conductors is 
at 10^6/10^-6 = 1000 gigaohms. Concrete resistivity is 
in the realm of megohms, so it behaves like a grounded metal sheet. 

 However, a volume of charged air is somewhat analogous to iron
 filings near a magnet. If a solid sheet of iron filings is held in
 place by a magnet, then a literal "wall" is created, and this wall will
 resist penetration by nonferrous objects. If in the above manufacturing
 plant, a sheet of highly charged air is for some reason being held in
 place by the fields created by the charged film, then a transparent
 "wall" made of charged air would come into being. It might produce 
pressures on surfaces, and resist penetration by human bodies. 

 My question is this: if the entire situation could be turned on its
 side, so the "invisible wall" became an "invisible floor", could a
 person * stand * on it? Have we discovered the long-sought "Zero-G
 waterbed?" :) - B.B.

Reference: 
Article about the "Wall" in ESD Journal (IT'S BACK! 8/2000)

The 'force field' event was from 1980, while the report was given at an 
ESD conference in 1995. Where is that machine today?
In other words... 

Does that 3M sheet-slitter 
still slits sheets? Single sheet slitted into three slit sheets spooled 
onto spools called 'jumbos.' The supposed 
sheet-slitter shift staff says 3M sold that sheet-slitter. It may 
be surplused and still exist, sitting in SC, slitting and spooling 
someone else's slit sheets. Or, since OSHA's lawshuits when staff 
suddenly statically sucked into sheet slitters 
don't exhisht shouth of the border, it may haved moved to Mehicco.

 MORE THOUGHTS: 

From: Beaty, William J

Subject: Ion cushion

Date: Monday, August 12, 1996 4:02PM

Also: I wonder if the (I assume) huge quantity of air ions had anything to
do with your weird phenomenon. Maybe the "wall" effect involves a plug of
ionized air which is held in place by the opposite charge on the film. If
so, your repulsion phenomenon would not occur if the "tent" of film was
replaced with highly charged metal plates, since the source of
oppositely-polarized electric wind would then be missing. I'm still
convinced that the charged film should produce an attractive force upon a
human body. Repulsion requires that the human be charged with the same
polarity as the PP film, yet induction should produce an *opposite* body
charge, so attraction is expected. But if a plug of oppositely-charged
air was strongly attracted into the "tent" of PP film, it might produce a
significant pressure-gradient in the surrounding air. A fraction of a PSI
per foot would be more than enough to prevent someone from walking
forward. If this is the origin of the effect, then the repulsion forces
you experienced involved air pressure rather than electrostatic
attraction/repulsion. 

This might be an entirely new way to accomplish levitation. Attract
a whirling blob of ionized air to an oppositely-charged plate, then use
the resulting pressure gradient to lift and manipulate uncharged objects.
Sort of like a fluidized bed, but using charged air instead of sand.

Why doesn't the population of opposite ions "plate" itself onto the
plastic surface? Maybe it tries to do so, but the air within the moving
tent is swirling like a horizontal tornado, so the charged air cannot
simply move straight to the plastic film. If true, then the phenomena
would not appear if motionless charged air and oppositely charged plastic
were present. The tent shape and the motion of the plastic would also be
required. Incredible coincidence that all the required components could
ever come together in one place! (if this is indeed how it works!)

Speculative, untried experiments: MOVED TO /freenrg/iontest.html 

 ALSO SEE: 

 HackerNews comments , and Reddit and earlier 

 Air Threads 

 Water Thread Experiment

 Giant Water Threads occur naturally?

 YT vid of invisible wall! Really!!!!

/weird/unusual/e-wall.html 

 Electrica Technology Inc. 
and Linkedin 

Created and maintained by Bill 
Beaty . Mail me at: 
 . 

 View My Stats