White Shrine of Jerusalem 

 packrat1 Normal packrat 3 161 2002-02-24T02:07:00Z 2002-02-24T02:26:00Z 4 1430 8157 Henry A Greene #250 67 19 9568 10.2625 
 BestFit Clean Clean MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 

 DIRECTION TO :
TEMPLE SHRINE SEATTLE 

 Compiled By: Betty Lou Ludbrook 
 Website Document by : W.Bro John C Wert 
 We are
 happy to give you some of the History of Temple
 Shrine Seattle WA #13. We were blessed to have been started by Sojourners
 of a very strong Shrine, Bethlehem Shrine No.1. The time was December 1947. Fraternal
 Orders were in their prime. Television was just an infant. The screen was small, only
 black and white, and was limited to a very few programs. The war was over and we were all
 so thankful to have our Boys and Girls home again. Family ties were strong. The DeMolay,
 Job's Daughters, and Rainbow Girls, were all being
 organized and doing great. 

 Just a few years ago, there were five Shrines in the Seattle area. We
 really enjoyed visiting our co-workers. We had Friends Nights, Fun Nights, and Everyone 
 came to visit. Today, we have Temple
 Shrine . It is a lesson in the facts of life. It
 is important to hold on to our principles. When I read the words that Lewis Starke said
 when he presented the Charter to Temple Shrine 
 on May 17, 1948 , I recognize what a dedicated Sojourner he was. What he has done
 before us should inspire us to walk in his shoes. 
 I can not come up with any items like
 watching out for the cougars, which incidentally we do have in Washington, but I was
 inspired when I read the minutes of the Institution of Temple Shrine 
 and also when the Charter was granted. We have enjoyed over 54 years. 

 Worthy
 High Priestess 
 Clara Wert 

 Watchman
 Of Shepherds 
 John Wert 

 Noble
 Prophetess 
 Kelly Valentine 

 Associate
 Watchman Of Shepherds 
 Larry Page, PSWOS 

 Worthy
 Scribe 
 Sandra Gordon 

 Worthy
 Treasurer 
 Betty Lou Ludbrook 

 Worthy
 Chaplain 
 Kandice Paszkowski 

 Worthy
 Shepherdess 
 Carma Bell 

 Worthy
 Guide 
 RaeAnn Copsey 

 Worthy
 Herald 
 Linda Kniss 

 First
 Wise Man 
 Robert Ludbrook 

 Second
 Wise Man 
 Allister Brott 

 Third
 Wise Man 
 Kenneth Bobbitt 

 King 
 Bud Robinson 

 Queen 
 Willa Leighton 

 First
 Hand Maid 
 Ruth Ellis 

 Second
 Hand Maid 
 Dolores Schmidt 

 Third
 Hand Maid 
 Jane Hall 

 Worthy
 Organist 
 Nancy O'Neill 

 Worthy
 Guardian 
 Esther Etleridge 

 Worthy
 Guard 
 Joyce Harris Zierdt 

 Banner Bearer 
 Phyllis Robinson 

 Escorts 
 Beatrice Frost 
 Corrinne Frost 

 Queen Attendants 
 Mary Willi 

 King's Guard 

 Important
 Masonic Links. 

 " Tacoma
 DeMolay " 
 The Tacoma DeMolay link 

 " Int'l
 Order of DeMolay " 
 The Premier DeMolay Link to the World Wide Web 

 " Rainbow for Girls " 
 The Premier Rainbow for Girls Link to the World Wide
 Web 

 " Job's Daughters " 
 The Premier Job's Daughters Link to the World
 Wide Web 

 " Henry A Greene Lodge Lakewood 
 " 
 The Henry A Greene Lodge link 
 member of the Grand Lodge of Washington 

 F & AM 

 " Minnesota Grand Court of Amaranth " 
 The Link to the
 Grand Court of Minnesota 
 The Order of the
 Amaranth 

 Other web site to Come, Grand Lodge, other
 shrine!!! 

 We sincerely
 welcome your comments. 

 Please Add Us To Your 
 Bookmarked Web Sites 

 Send e mail for Temple Shrine 
 Seattle to W. Bro John Wert. 

 Copyright
2002. Temple Shrine Seattle WA & Supreme Shrine of the Order of the White Shrine of 
 Jerusalem All
Rights Reserved. 

 What is: THE ORDER OF THE WHITE SHRINE OF JERUSALEM? 
 The Order of the White
 Shrine of Jerusalem is a Masonic Affiliated fraternal organization to which men and women
 can belong .It is an incorporated non-profit body, organized under a charter of
 incorporation dated October 23, 1894 and recorded in the office of the Recorder of Cook
 County, in the State of Illinois , June 18, 1895 . 

 PURPOSE 

 The White Shrine of Jerusalem Claims a three-fold purpose charitable, social, and
 fraternal. It aims to bring together women and men with high moral and social character to
 share their desire to create enjoyable experiences for themselves and to provide aid to
 those less fortunate. Through regular meetings, their fellowship is maintained. By
 visiting others, broad friendships are developed. 

 FOUNDATION OF OUR ORDER 
 The order is based upon the Christian Religion. Its teachings are scriptural and
 intended to illustrate and impress on the mind of the initiate the humble but glorious
 birth and life of the glad tidings of the coming of the King and endeavor to bring to the 
 world, "Peace on Earth, Good will to men." To do noble deeds, and by
 acts of kindness and words of cheer bless all mankind. 

 OUR BENEVOLENT PROGRAM 
 The Basis of our existence is our Benevolent fund - our "Material Objective".
 Through our voluntary donations and income 
 from our endowment, we are able to help those in need of rehabilitation regardless of
 race, creed, sect, or age. They just must 
 have a need; i.e. used up insurance, etc .Local Shrines are allowed five cases a year up
 to $5,000.00 a case. A Supreme Board of Five administers the cases. We give upwards of
 $375,000.00 a year. 

 WHO MAY JOIN 
 Membership in the Order of the White Shrine of Jerusalem consists of the wives,
 daughters, stepdaughters, stepmothers, step granddaughters, legally adopted daughters,
 mothers, grandmothers, widows ,sisters, half-sisters, granddaughters, great 
 granddaughters, aunts and those nieces and grand nieces of Master Masons who have a blood
 relationship to him, when said 
 Master Mason is in good and regular standing ,and those whose husbands, sons, fathers,
 stepfathers ,stepsons , step grandfathers, grandsons, brothers, grandfathers, nephews, or
 uncles, if deceased, were in good standing in some regular 
 Masonic Lodge at their death, or Master Masons in good and regular standing and who have
 no restraining factors imposed 
 upon them by their specific Grand Lodge. 
 HOW TO JOIN 
 It is easy to join the Order of the White Shrine of Jerusalem: simply obtain a petition
 from a friend or acquaintance or a Shrine Scribe or E-mail to wsj@eskimo.com.
 .mailto:wsj@eskimo.com. Fill in the information requested and submit it along with an
 initiation fee through the local Shrine. The Shrine will have members of an investigating
 committee visit you with a few questions and to verify your Masonic affiliation. 
 After the results of their visit are reported at a Shrine meeting and a vote taken, you
 will be notified when to attend for initiation. 
 INITIATION PROCEDURE 
 In the Order of the White Shrine of Jerusalem,
 there is but one degree. Candidates for the order must confess a belief in the 
 Christian Religion. Its obligation is based upon the honor of those who obtain
 it, and once voluntarily assumed is perpetual. 
 ACTIVITIES 
 Members are encouraged to attend at least a monthly meeting of their Shrine. Some
 Shrines have two meetings a month. Most Shrines have other social activities or
 projects. Activities such as dinners, breakfasts, and fashion shows are
 common. Other activities include bazaars or staffing information booths at
 fairs. Shrines select their own method of fund raising. 

 FRATERNAL RELATIONS 
 Through dinners of similar activities, the Subordinate Shrines are encouraged to have
 functions which include members of 
 concordant and other Masonic affiliated organizations. Thereby promoting through
 exchanges of information, good working 
 relationships with the other Masonic bodies. 

 SUPREME SHRINE 
 While Subordinate Shrines provide activities for the members, there is an international
 level of the organization under which the Subordinate Shrines are organized. This is
 the Supreme Shrine and it provides administration for the Constitution and By Laws under
 which each individual Shrine operates. Supreme Shrine meets annually in May for
 their legislative session. 
 Approximately 550 Subordinate Shrines with about 75,000 members are found throughout the United
 States and the Provinces of Canada.