The Breast Form FAQ version 4.0: Attachable Forms 

 Revised: Mar. 31, 2003 

 More Details About Attachable Breast Forms 

 [Note: the following applies to a few breast forms known to use a two-part
attachment system - the Affinity line from Amoena, the Discrene model 7730
breast form, and the Classique/Mystique model 330N] 

 What are the parts of an attachable form? 
 An attachable breast form consists of two parts. One piece is
 an upside down "V" shape with the soft half of velcro on one side
 and an adhesive on the other. The form itself will have the hook(rough)
 half of the velcro permanently attached at points on the back 
 side of the form. 

 This type of form allows the wearer to be free from most special 
 considerations that are necessary for other forms (special bras, 
 having to wear a bra to wear the form, etc.)

 What are the advantages of 
 this type of form? 
 With this type of breast form, the form is very securely attached 
 to the chest wall and can be worn for a wide range of activities 
 including sports and swimming(generally safe in chlorine and salt 
 water). They also tend to move with the wearer more naturally 
 than non-attachable types(in my experience.) 

 How are they 
 attached to and removed from the chest? [step by step] 
 [After doing this a few times it only takes 5-10 minutes to complete 
 the attachment process] 

 ATTACHMENT: 

 Shaving the chest area (if necessary): 
 The area must be free of any hair for the supports to hold 
 properly over an extended period of time.
 Preparing the skin: This type of form 
 will usually come with an exfoliating creme that is applied to 
 the area that will be covered by the skin support. The exfoliating 
 creme will help clean off any dead skin, oils, soaps or shampoos 
 that build up over time. Doing this helps the attachment stay on
 for the longest period of time.
 Marking the position for the supports: 
 Place the support on the form in the proper position, then put 
 on the bra you will be wearing. Place the form in the bra and 
 position it to the correct location. Pull the bra strap down 
 and away from the form and use a pencil(usually comes with the 
 form) to mark key spots on the support and your body to help in 
 placing on the chest. Take off bra and form and carefully detach 
 the support from the form. 
 Attaching the support: Remove the adhesive 
 cover and place on the chest. Hold in place for several minutes 
 to assure a good bond. After doing this several times, it becomes 
 easier, and the attachments stay on longer - up to a week, depending 
 on your skin type.
 Attaching the form to the support: Hold 
 the form over its intended location and depress the middle of 
 the form slightly toward the chest so that the upper portion 
 connects first. This is to ensure a better drape.

 DETACHMENT: 

 Detaching the form from the skin support: 
 At all times holding the skin support to the chest, slowly pull 
 the form away from the support, starting from the armpit area. 
 Detaching the attachment from the chest wall: 
 "This might sting a little" =) You have been warned. 
 It is a gigantic bandaid. If any hair is underneath, this may 
 hurt a bit, but generally, it is far less painful than you might 
 think (It is also easier if the support is removed in the shower 
 or when wet.)

 Tips for attachable 
 forms 

 Note a freckle or mark on the skin you can use as a guide when 
 positioning the skin support.
 It works best to put on the skin support at night and waiting 
 until morning to put on the form. The heat from your body helps 
 the attachment last longer.
 Most skin supports are NOT reusable. The replacement skin supports
 are sold separately. 
 If you are wearing something strapless or a swimsuit, you might 
 find it helpful to attach the support while wearing the garment.
 Be careful when positioning the skin support, as the adhesive will
 work better if only used once.
 You can keep the skin supports on without the forms attached, and 
 no one will be able to tell under an undershirt and a shirt or 
 sweater. This way, you can get more use out of the supports if 
 you cannot live full time as a female. 
 You can even shower with the supports on, but make sure the support 
 is thoroughly dry before attaching your forms.
 Attachable forms do not have to be attached- they will fit in a 
 regular bra, and they have a fuzzy velcro padding that covers the 
 rough side of the velcro on the back of the breast form.
 You will probably have some slight redness for a little while after removing 
 the skin supports, so plan accordingly if you need to have your shirt 
 off for whatever reason.
 Skin supports can last anywhere from a few days to 1-2 weeks, depending 
 on your skin type, perspiration and activity levels and your lifestyle.

 Amoena Luxa breast forms 
 Amoena has introduced a new attachable breast form line called the 
 "Luxa Contact". What makes this system different than the system 
 previously described is that the adhesive in this case is built in 
 to the breast form backing itself, there are no "extra" parts - and 
 the adhesive renews itself and basically doesn't wear out. 

 I do not know many of the details of this type of form (please help 
 me and tell me more if you have used this product), but a few people 
 have added their input:

 The forms are not meant to be worn braless. The adhesive system is 
 meant to provide a very secure attachment to the chest while 
 wearing a bra. The adhesive is not strong enough and will separate 
 from the chest fairly quickly. Some have reported that smaller size 
 forms might stay firmly attached, while larger sizes would not.
 You may need to experiment.
 The amount of the form attached to the chest sounds like it is much 
 greater than the "inverted V" attachment system used in the Amoena 
 Affinity and similar products. Some find this to be its best feature, 
 as there is probably a lot less "gapping" around the edges.
 These forms seem to be the most expensive type Amoena offers, so 
 watch your budget. 
 Keeping the forms clean and using the included skin preparation 
 products is essential in creating a strong bond between the form 
 and the skin. 
 It's OK to wear the forms without preparing your skin first, but 
 then you have to clean the forms a lot more often to keep them sticky. 

 If your breast form is non-attachable... 

 If you have a breast form that is not attachable, or the form you 
 are considering buying is not attachable, there ARE a few options
 you have to attach (or partially attach) a breast form to the chest.

 Although the adhesives used in the following solutions below are listed 
 as medically safe to be used on the body and with many breast forms, be 
 sure to check the ingredients and warnings before using - some people can 
 have problems or allergies associated with strong chemicals used on the 
 skin. If possible, check with the retailer to see if you can try a sample 
 of the adhesive before taking the plunge and buying an entire product 
 (even with attachable skin support system adhesives.) And what EVER 
 you do, please don't try to "roll your own" form attachment solution with 
 just any old adhesive - they can be very dangerous and even cause serious 
 chemical burns to the skin.

 Some questions you may want to ask about adhesives: 

 What type of materials make up the adhesives? 
 Are the materials non-allergenic?
 What other types of products use these types of adhesives?
 Is the adhesive water and/or sweat resistant?
 How long does the adhesive last, and how long can (should) the 
 forms be worn using the adhesive?

 Full adhesion solutions: 
 (Allowing you to go braless or to keep breast forms from sliding around 
 in your bra.)

 Nearly Me double sided tape: 
 A cut-to-shape double-sided adhesive strip
 Smith & Nephew Skin-Bond Adhesive and Uni-Solve Adhesive Remover: 
 Two part liquid attachment and removal system products
 Hollister Medical Adhesive Spray and Adhesive Remover: 
 Two part spray attachment and removal system products

 Partial adhesion solutions: 
 (These methods will not allow you to go braless, but will help forms 
 stay in place in a bra or bathing suit.)

 Nearly Me "Security Patches": 
 Reusable silicone double-sided adhesive patches
 Jobst "It Stays!" Roll-on Body Adhesive: 
 A water soluble adhesive that can keep a breast form from moving

 Non-adhesive solutions: 

 Soubra: 
 An attachment system for breast forms which attaches the form from the 
 shoulder, without adhesive - not directly against chest.