The Breast Form FAQ version 4.0: History of the Bra 

 Revised: Mar. 31, 2003 

 History of the bra 

 2500 BC 

 Minoan women on the island of Crete wear bra-like 
 garments that lift the bare breast out of their clothing. 

 ~450BC-285AD 

 Roman and Greek women choose restraint instead 
 for their fashions - using a band strapped around their breasts to 
 reduce their bust size. 

 1550s AD 

 Catherine de Mdicis, wife of King Henri II of France enforces ban 
 on "thick waists" at court functions through the introduction of the 
 steel corset. The corset becomes the dominant undergarment (in various 
 designs) of support and restraint for the next 350 years. 

 1850s 

 US patents registered for first known bra-like devices. 

 1850s 

 Corsets fall out of style for about 10 years. 

 1860s 

 Corsets come back in fashion with a vengeance. Severe corset "training" 
 is common which reduces waists to such unhealthy levels that ribs and 
 internal organs become deformed. Controversy over corseting health 
 risks ensues. 

 1875 

 Designer Susan Taylor Converse creates a no-bones/eyelets/laces/pulleys
 garment called the "Union Under-Flannel", made from wool fabrics. 
 Manufacturers George Frost and George Phelps patent it. [1] 

 1889 

 Corset-maker Herminie Cadolle invents a bra-like garment called 
 "Bien-tre" ('Well-Being'.) Resembling a "Victorian bikini", its main
 differentiating feature from regular corsets is that the breasts are 
 supported by the shoulders rather than squeezed up from below with 
 traditional corset designs. Although marketed as a health aid beginning
 in 1889 in a Paris department store ad, the item does not gain
 widespread notice. 

 1893 

 Marie Tucek patents the "Breast Supporter". The garment includes 
 separate pockets for each breast, shoulder straps, and hook-and-eye
 closures, making it the earliest known design to be similar to 
 modern-day bras. 

 1907 

 Vogue magazine first uses the term "brassiere", which comes from the 
 old French word for 'upper arm'. Before this, bra-like devices were 
 known by another French term "soutien-gorge" (literally, "throat 
 support" or "breast support".) 

 1912 

 The term "brassiere" first appears in the Oxford 
 English Dictionary. 

 1913 

 Dissatisfied with the idea of having to wear a heavy corset underneath
 a new sheer evening gown she just bought for a social event, socialite 
 Mary Phelps Jacob improvises a garment from two silk handkerchiefs 
 and some ribbon. 

 1914 

 After considerable interest from friends, Mary Phelps Jacob applies 
 for a patent (under the business name "Caresse Crosby") on November 3 
 for her "Backless Brassiere" design, which is basically the same 
 garment that she previously improvised. This "brassiere" was very 
 lightweight, soft, and separated the breasts naturally. Unlike Marie 
 Tucek's 1893 design, Jacob's garment did not have cups to support the 
 breasts, but flattened them instead. Jacob markets the "Backless 
 Brassiere" garment until she tires of the business and sells the 
 patent to Warner Brothers Corset Company in Bridgeport, Connecticut, 
 for $1,500. Warner's reportedly made over 15 million dollars over the 
 next 30 years from the patent. 

 1914-1918 

 World War I forces women into the work-force. Many women begin working 
 in factories and wearing uniforms, making the use of daily corset wear
 a problem. 

 1917 

 The U.S. War Industries Board requests women to stop buying corsets to
 reduce the consumption of metal. Sources say up to 28,000 tons of 
 metal was conserved through this effort - "enough to build two 
 battleships." 

 1920s 

 Warner introduces a tight, chest-flattening bra, in keeping with 
 the Flapper styles of the day. 

 1928 

 Ida Rosenthal, a Russian immigrant, and her husband William found 
 Maidenform. Ida is responsible for the creation of bust size 
 categories (cup sizes) and developed bras for every stage of life - 
 puberty to maturity. 

 1930s 

 The shortened form of the word "brassiere" - 
 the "bra" becomes popular. 

 1930s 

 Warner produces the first popular all-elastic 
 bra, which shows off a woman's curves. 

 1935 

 Warner's creates the cup sizing system (A to D), 
 which becomes the system commonly used by all manufacturers throughout 
 the world. 

 1941-1945 

 Common fabric materials (cotton, rubber, silk 
 and steel) are in short supply, so manufacturers turn to synthetic fabrics. 

 1946 

 The first bikini swimwear is introduced in Paris. 

 Sources: 

 www.inventions.org/.../jacob.html 
 inventors.about.com/.../aa042597.htm 
 www.louisville.edu/.../brahistory.htm 
 www.discovery.com/.../deadinventors.html 
 www.shh-lingerie.com/Store/ 
[1 - Discrepancy about 1875 events/names]