The Breast Form FAQ version 4.0: History of breast implants 

 Revised: Mar. 31, 2003 

 History of breast implants 

(This topic seems relevant because the development of silicone 
for internal breast augmentation may very well have influenced the development 
of silicone for external breast prostheses. Also, the perceived health risks 
associated with breast implants have persuaded many to choose a non-invasive 
solution after breast cancer. If I sound like I am trying to make the history of 
breast implants a cautionary one, you are correct. Although many who have had 
implants are satisfied, too many have paid the price for the lack of proper 
research by the industry into the long term effects. See 
 www.siliconeholocaust.org .) 

 Late 1890s 

 First breast augmentations are attempted with Paraffin. Many 
 complications are reported with this method. Later reported 
 attempts utilize ivory or glass balls and other substances. 

 Late 1940s 

 Japanese prostitutes, apparently desiring to appear "more 
 attractive to American GIs" (read: bigger breasts), have industrial 
 silicone liquid injected into their breasts. In this process, the 
 silicone can eventually migrate to other parts of the body and 
 cause many health problems, including death. Even so, the procedure 
 becomes increasingly popular and spreads to the United States (some 
 reports state the procedure developed in parallel in the US in many 
 places around this time.) Thousands have the procedure done, 
 including actresses and others in the entertainment industry before
 the practice is banned. 

 1962 

 Silicone breast implants, consisting of a silicone envelope filled 
 with silicone gel are "tested" on a thirty-year-old mother of six 
 at a Texas charity hospital. 

 1960s-Early 1970s 

 Breast implants remain relatively rare because the implants often
 feel hard and unrealistic - due to the scar tissue around the 
 implant hardening. 

 1970s 

 New silicone implants produced which are more "lifelike", but 
 have a tendency to break easier. Once broken, total removal is 
 difficult or impossible. 

 1970s 

 Polyurethane foam covering for implants becomes popular to prevent
 capsular contracture. The foam begins to disintegrate in the body
 almost immediately, making it difficult to remove and causing other 
 complications. 

 1976 

 Breast implants approved for use in the USA on the basis that they 
 had been on the market prior to implementation of FDA regulations 
 begun in this year. 

 1990s 

 Use of saline as implant filler replaces silicone gel, especially 
 after 1992. Saline appears to suffer less capsular contracture 
 than silicone with fewer of the health concerns. 

 1992 

 FDA declares moratorium on silicone gel implants due to mounting 
 health concerns (although the FDA committee could find no direct 
 evidence that many of the reported illnesses were because of 
 implants.) 

 Sources: 

 ej.rsna.org/.../introduction-long.htm 
 www.exn.ca/.../52.asp 
 199.45.69.176/.../006.html 
 www.silicone-review.gov.uk/history/