The Breast Form FAQ version 3.5: Creating your own breast forms - Seed in nylons 

 Navigation: 

 Breast Form FAQ: Creating your own breast forms 
 =Seed in Nylons= Approximate Cost: 5-10$/pr 

 bloo@blooberry.com 
 Revised: Mar. 18, 2001 

 Materials 

 A properly fitting bra (see sections 14 & 
 15 earlier in the FAQ.)
 1 pair of knee high nylons, preferably in a shade that closely matches 
 your skin coloration.
 1 plastic container for the seed 
 An inexpensive plastic funnel to fill the knee-high.
 If needed, a screen or colander with small (about 1/8") holes to sift 
 a seed mixture.
 1 pair scissors
 A good quantity of small size rounded seed. These usually have about the
 right weight to give the form the correct movement reactions. 
 Materials that are good for this purpose are:

 Bird Seed (Use a bag of fine quality bird seed. If needed, a 6 inch 
 square of 1/8 inch screen is available at hardware stores to sift 
 the seed mixture to capture only the small round seeds.
 Millet (an edible seed available at most health food stores)
 Quinoa (another edible seed available at most health food stores) 

 Instructions 

 Prepare the approximate amount of seed that will be required for 
 each form. If you are using a mix such as birdseed, you will need to
 use a screen or colander to sift it in order to separate everything but
 the small, round seeds. 
 Insert a hand in the knee-high and stretch it out to reduce the natural 
 stiffness of a new nylon.
 Insert the funnel in the top of the nylon and pour in the correct amount
 of seed. Not enough seed in the form can make the bra wrinkle. Too 
 much grain can make the bra form overflow and look unrealistic.
 Twist the kneehigh a couple turns, and push the "ball" you have created 
 through again. Your form will now be 2-ply which won't open up as easily 
 on you while wearing it. Experiment with the amount of tension you put 
 on the knee high when you twist it. Having it too loose or too tight is 
 not good. [You may also choose to use a single ply which may mold more 
 easily to the shape of a bra.]
 Now make a slip knot so that it can easily be undone if the amount of 
 seed needs to be adjusted.
 The nylon will adjust and stretch over a few days giving a more natural 
 feel to the form. Because of this do not assume that the form is ready 
 to go when created. It will feel more and more comfortable and natural 
 as time goes on.
 Use scissors to cut off the nylon above the knot leaving only the 
 stretch nylon stocking with the knot. If the knot is made tight enough 
 and the correct amount of nylon is left, a perfect "nipple" can be 
 created.
 Insert the form into the bra making sure that the slip knot is worn at 
 the right place to simulate the nipple. The knot should not become 
 undone in normal use if tied tightly enough.
 Whether you are making only a single form or a pair of forms, make sure 
 that balance between your left and right side is about equal and does 
 not produce an overly lopsided appearance. Given that, note that most 
 women's breasts are not exactly the same. One is often slightly smaller, 
 higher or a different shape from its partner.
 When worn, body heat will help to make the form take the shape of the 
 bra cup. The form may be worn privately until the nylon has stretched 
 and the content adjusts itself for a natural look.

 Pros of this type of form 

 Fairly realistic - passable in low-contact situations
 Has more realistic weight than foam and cotton forms 
 The size of the form is easily configurable if it does not fit in a bra 
 Cheap. This allows you to have several different sized forms at once. 
 (I bought some seed to experiment and found millet to be about $.75/lb and 
 Quinoa was about $2.25/lb) 
 Durable. The substances used are not volatile. Only a puncture would 
 seriously damage it.

 &#160; 

 Cons of this type of form 

 Consistency and feel is not as realistic as silicone, latex, or rubber
 Not waterproof
 Some seed types (such as millet) might have a slight odor or can leave 
 some residue on clothing. 
 Not attachable to the chest
 No built-in nipple (but if you follow the instructions above...)
 Although the bra gives the form its shape, minor bumps or impacts can 
 temporarily deform the shape slightly