Main Page 

 Aromatherapy 
 Primer 

 Q uality 
 Matters 
 Aromatherapy is 
 not about fragrance, but about healing. In aromatherapy, aromas -ARE- 
 therapeutic. The healing properties come from highly concentrated extracts 
 taken from herbs, flowers, and other plants. These extracts are called 
 essential oils and are used at full strength. Certain 
 properties in essential oils trigger therapeutic effects in your body. 
 When inhaled deeply, or applied to the skin surface in carrier oils, these 
 properties produce very specific beneficial results. Some 
 of these benefits are well known, such as relaxation, energy stimulation, 
 and pleasant memory association. Other 
 benefits are less well known, but equally as powerful. The anti-bacterial 
 and anti-viral properties in certain oils enhance the immune system. Some 
 oils act as appetite stimulants, others act as appetite depressants, and 
 both can help with weight management. Still other oils are hormone regulators. 

 How 
 To Use 
 The list of potential 
 benefits goes on and on. Learning how to use oils to achieve these benefits 
 is what aromatherapy is really all about. To 
 achieve these benefits, full strength, undiluted essential oils are required. 
 The term "100% essential oil" is used to describe oils that 
 contain only the extract of a particular plant. Many people also assume 
 that because an oil is l00% essential that it also is absolutely pure, 
 but this is not true. The 
 essential oil industry itself actually grades the quality of 100% essential 
 oils on a scale of 1-5, with 1 being the purest, top grade. The 
 lower grade oils are extracted using lower quality processes, like adding 
 chemicals to draw oil from live material, or using heat to enhance extraction. 
 These kinds of methods destroy the live, vital essence of the essential 
 oils, and sometimes even add chemical or toxic elements to the finished 
 product. They certainly do not produce a pure, safe to breathe deep oil, 
 and they are not recommended for therapeutic purposes. 
 Maintaining 
 Quality 
 The ultimate therapeutic 
 value of the essential oils used is totally dependent on the quality of 
 the live plants, the way the oils are extracted, and the way they are 
 handled after extraction. High standards that focus on product purity 
 are critically important. The 
 best oils come from wild or organically grown plants because the plants 
 themselves are chemical free. Also, the best oils are extracted using 
 methods that use no heat and take more time, thus preserving the vitality 
 and life essence of the plant. In some cases, such as with citrus oils, 
 it is relatively easy to use these methods to extract a quantity of oil. 
 In other cases, as with rose oil, the process is difficult and the raw 
 material is rare, making the resulting oil quite precious. Common 
 oils that are easy to extract consequently cost less then the more precious 
 oils. The #1 quality oils will always be priced according to the value 
 and rarity of the particular oil, and will never be lumped into one price 
 point based on bottle size. 
 Tested 
 and Certified Therapeutic quality, 
 #1 essential oils are laboratory tested with gas chromatography and certified 
 to be free from impurities. When these oils are used, the therapeutic 
 integrity of the plant is available. The quality is evident in the full 
 vitality of the fragrance. In fact, the fragrance in these oils is so 
 similar to the living plant that your nose might not be able to tell the 
 difference. From a therapeutic standpoint, you might actually find the 
 fragrance of the oil preferable to the live plant because the concentrated 
 oil has intensified the vibrational, healing qualities of the plant. 
 Hydrosols 
 -- Floral Waters 
 When essential 
 oils are distilled, the process actually yields another, totally distinct 
 product known as a hydrosol or floral water. Hydrosols 
 are a natural complement to essential oils because they contain all of 
 the water-soluble properties that were in the original plants. They offer 
 a more gentle, less concentrated form of the natural elements and are 
 often easier to use. 

 &copy; 
 2001 Bassett Aromatherapy. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or 
 in part without permission is prohibited. Disclaimer: All material provided 
 in at this website is provided for educational purposes only. Consult your 
 own physician regarding the applicability of any opinions or recommendations 
 with respect to your symptoms or medical condition.