Bath and Body 

 Home 

 Information 

 Recommended 
Reading 

 Sales
Catalog 

 Wholesale
Info 

 E-Mail
Us 

 Shop
Online 

 Secured Server Order Online Now 

 BATH AND BODY 

 BODY AND BATH OILS Our
 body and bath oils combine cold pressed oils of almond/pecan, apricot kernel, sesame,
 wheat germ oil, and essential oils to protect the skin from moisture loss and from
 environmental pollutants. Blue cobalt bottles protect the essential oils. 

 ENERGY - A stimulating blend of Bergamot, Rosemary and Peppermint pure
 essential oils 
 RELAXING - A relaxing and calming blend of Lavender, Tangerine, and
 Marjoram pure essential oils 
 SENSUALITY - A highly erotic blend of Vetiver, Ylang Ylang, and
 Patchouli pure essential oils 
 MUSCLE RELIEF - A soothing blend of Rosemary, Juniper Berry, Lavender,
 and Eucalyptus Radiata pure essential oils draw out tightness 

 Put 1/4 to 1/2 ounce of body and bath oil into warm bath water just before getting in.
Stir to enhance the healing effects. Relax! Or, apply body and bath oil to moist skin
after shower or bath. These oils may also be used for massage. 

 BODY LOTION 

 This luxurious completely botanical lotion leaves skin hydrated and supple. Oat beta
glucan for moisture retention, orange wax and sea buckthorn for cell rejuvenation and as
anti-oxidants. Perfect for all skin types. 

 RELAXING - Essential oils of tangerine, lavender, lemon, marjoram, and
 petitgrain are added to relax and calm the spirits. 
 SENSUALITY - Essential oils of ylang ylang, lavender, sweet orange, and
 ginger are added to elevate mood and emotions and promote communication. 
 STRESS FREE - Essential oils of tangerine, lavender, and geranium are
 added to provide balance, ease tension, and promote calm and well being. 

 Order Now --
Prices/Ordering 

 Diffusers || Essential Oils || Synergies || Hydrosols || Bath & Body || Carrier Oils 
|| Votive Holders 

 For wholesale and professional accounts, request information -- click here . 

 BASSETT AROMATHERAPY * 1-800-738-8678 
 * P.O. Box 176 Cardiff by the Sea, CA 92007-0176 
 joanne@aromaworld.com