Uses 

 Home 

 Information 

 Recommended 
Reading 

 Sales
Catalog 

 Wholesale
Info 

 E-Mail
Us 

 Shop
Online 

 Secured Server Order Online Now 

 ESSENTIAL OILS & ABSOLUTES 

For external use only! Essential oils are concentrated so use with
extreme care. Please consult an aromatherapy book for in depth description
of uses.

 Bath, Hot Tub, or Sauna: 10 drops in warm water. Put drops into the
water immediately before entering. Gently stir the water to disperse the
oil. For sauna, dilute the oil with 90% water and spray on rocks or into the
air. 
 Compress: Put 3-5 drops into a hot or cold basin of water. Cold water
contracts the tissues and warm water relaxes the tissues. Fold up a clean
cloth and dip it into the water. Squeeze out the excess water. Apply
immediately to the painful area. 

 Facial Steam: One drop of oil per cup of boiling water. Put the drops
into the basin after the water is drawn. Gently stir the water to disperse the
oil. Immediately place a towel over your head and move your face as close to
the aromatic steam as is comfortable. 
 Massage: Use 15 drops of essential oil per 1 oz. of blending oil such
as sweet almond, grapeseed, jojoba, or apricot kernel oils. 

 Inhalation: Recommended for respiratory problems, colds, headaches,
sinuses, and coughs. Use 3 to 5 drops of an essential oil on a tissue or
handkerchief. Hold it under your nose and then breathe deeply. 
 Environmental Fragrancing: Electric diffusers are a simple and
effective way to fragrance a room for aesthetic and therapeutic benefits. Do
not use carrier oils in diffusers as they will clog and not disperse. Use
essential oils alone or use synergies of pure essential oils. Diffusers
eliminate the need for aerosol fresheners. 

 Bassett Aromatherapy carries hundreds of essential oils.
 All are of therapeutic quality and H.E.B.B.D certified. 
 Wholesale and bulk ordering is also available. Please fill out the online catalog order form. 
 Order Now -- Prices/Ordering 

 Diffusers 
|| Essential Oils || Synergies || Hydrosols || Bath & Body || Carrier Oils 

 For wholesale and professional accounts, request information -- click here . 

 BASSETT AROMATHERAPY * 1-800-738-8678 
 * P.O. Box 176 Cardiff by the Sea, CA 92007-0176 
 joanne@aromaworld.com