Hydrosols 

 Home 

 Information 

 Recommended 
Reading 

 Sales
Catalog 

 Wholesale
Info 

 E-Mail
Us 

 Shop
Online 

 Secured Server Order Online Now 

 ORGANIC HYDROSOLS 

 Hydrosols are organic floral waters. These hydrosols are the
precious by-product of the hydro distillation process. Use as a spray
or splash on face and body to condition and tone. Great after a bath
or facial cleansing. Wonderful for travel! Use for air travel to
remoisturize skin. Keep in your purse, at the office, or in the
refrigerator for a refreshing lift during the day. May be added to
facial masques, lotions, or mix several hydrosols together for added
benefits. 

 BULGARIAN ROSE - Toner for all skin types, aftershave, after bath
 splash. For mental care it is used as an aphrodisiac, eases nervousness, and mental
 strain. 
 BULGARIAN, ALBA (White) Rose - the rarest rose type in the world! Its
 healing powers are said to be extraordinary. Hydrating, cooling, and toning. 
 LAVENDER - Gentle, balancing, cooling, for all skin types, universal
 toner, cools burned skin, hydrating, for oily or impure skin, for sensitive skin, and for
 bathing. For mental care it is relaxing, revitalizing, eases mental stress, reduces mental
 fatigue, relieves jet lag. 
 ORANGE BLOSSOM (NEROLI) - Hydrating to dry skin, and good for bathing.
 For mental care it is an aphrodisiac, and uplifting. 
 ROMAN CHAMOMILE - Anti-inflammatory for dry, inflamed sensitive skin.
 For mental care it soothes the psyche. 
 ROSE GERANIUM - Distilled over rose petals! Cooling, for hot flashes,
 cellular regenerative, balances oil glands, for oily or dry skin, for bathing. For mental
 care it is an anti-depressant. 

 Order
Now -- Prices/Ordering 

 Diffusers || Essential Oils || Synergies || Hydrosols || Bath & Body ||
 Carrier Oils || Votive Holders 

 For wholesale and professional accounts, request information -- click here . 

 BASSETT AROMATHERAPY * 1-800-738-8678 
 * P.O. Box 176 Cardiff by the Sea, CA 92007-0176 
 joanne@aromaworld.com