Information 

 Aromatherapy Information and Resources 

 Aromatherapy 
 is the art of healing with pure essential oils - the highly concentrated 
 extracts from plants, herbs, and flowers. Aromatherapy is a way of treating 
 mental and physical imbalances through inhalation and the external application 
 of essential oils in massage, baths, etc. Essential oils act on the olfactory 
 nerves which lead from the nose to the brain. Essential oils contain antibacterial 
 properties and also may contain antibiotic, antiviral, and other therapeutic 
 properties. Aromatherapy is holistic therapy for your mind, body, and 
 spirit. Essential oils are organic and act in harmony with the body, providing 
 well-being and balance. 
 Many essential oils 
 available on the market are not of high quality. They are cut with other 
 substances, rectified, determined, adulterated, synthesized and most of 
 the time insufficiently defined. In response to this state of the market 
 and to help everyone recognize certified aromatic products, the Scientific 
 Institute of Aromatology (INSA) has created the H.E.B.B.D. certification 
 (Huile Essentielle Botaniquement et Biochimiquement Definie, Botanically 
 and Biochemically Defined Essential Oil). The presence of the H.E.B.B.D. 
 certification on a bottle of essential oil is a guarantee of quality. 
 The INSA is located in France. Oils with H.E.B.B.D. certification are 
 never rectified or adulterated. 

 Uses of Essential Oils: 
 For 
 external use only! Essential oils are concentrated so use with extreme 
 care. Please consult an aromatherapy book for in depth description 
 of uses. 

 Bath, 
 Hot Tub, or Sauna: 10 drops in warm water. Put drops into the 
 water immediately before entering. Gently stir the water to disperse 
 the oil. For sauna, dilute the oil with 90% water and spray on rocks 
 or into the air. 
 Compress: Put 3-5 drops into a hot or cold basin of water. 
 Cold water contracts the tissues and warm water relaxes the tissues. 
 Fold up a clean cloth and dip it into the water. Squeeze out the excess 
 water. Apply immediately to the painful area. 

 Facial 
 Steam: One drop of oil per cup of boiling water. Put the drops 
 into the basin after the water is drawn. Gently stir the water to 
 disperse the oil. Immediately place a towel over your head and move 
 your face as close to the aromatic steam as is comfortable. 
 Massage: Use 15 drops of essential oil per 1 oz. of blending 
 oil such as sweet almond, grapeseed, jojoba, or apricot kernel oils. 

 Inhalation: 
 Recommended for respiratory problems, colds, headaches, sinuses, 
 and coughs. Use 3 to 5 drops of an essential oil on a tissue or 
 handkerchief. Hold it under your nose and then breathe deeply. 
 Environmental Fragrancing: Electric diffusers are a simple 
 and effective way to fragrance a room for aesthetic and therapeutic 
 benefits. Do not use carrier oils in diffusers as they will clog 
 and not disperse. Use essential oils alone or use synergies of pure 
 essential oils. Diffusers eliminate the need for aerosol fresheners. 

 Toxic 
 Mold 
 A 
 Therapeutic Guide to Essential Oils -- Printable reference page. 
 Aromatherapy 
 Primer -- An Introduction to Aromatherapy and Aromatherapy Terms 

 &copy; 
 2001 Bassett Aromatherapy. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or 
 in part without permission is prohibited. Disclaimer: All material provided 
 in at this website is provided for educational purposes only. Consult your 
 own physician regarding the applicability of any opinions or recommendations 
 with respect to your symptoms or medical condition.