Information 

 THE 
 VOYAGE OF A LIFETIME 

 In French, Le Voyage means "the journey." This is a journey 
 of transformation. When you apply Le Voyage, the healing properties of 
 the essential oil will transform its wearer. Le Voyage is a handmade fragrance 
 that is created drop by drop with all pure essential oils and absolutes. 

 There are no synthetics 
 in this fragrance. Each bottle is lovingly filled the way it was meant 
 to be. The olfactory composition is an extravagant floral bouquet with 
 citrus top notes, a heart filled with Bulgarian rose, jasmine, rare and 
 exotic flowers and unique oils, coming together in a woody base warmed 
 by sensuous sandalwood and other precious resins. 
 The French bottle 
 has a very feminine feel with soft curves and fits well in the palm of 
 your hand. The upscale, exclusive packaging is reminiscent of old classic 
 French style. The exquisite crest is gold embossed, raised and set off 
 beautifully with gold foil stamped piping on the box edges. 
 Le Voyage is an unparalleled 
 eau de toilette. Each radiant bottle is lovingly blended from rare and 
 precious essential oils to form a harmonious potion. The superior combination 
 of exotic flowers and sacred oils creates a romantic bouquet. The sensuous 
 fusion has a mystical quality with the potential to transform its wearer 
 as the essence of the eau de toilette is emanated from the body. This 
 haunting fragrance embodies mysteries of the universe that will reveal 
 its secrets and wisdom to you. Opening this luscious French parfum decanter 
 will invoke in you a new sense of the divine. 

 -- This article is taken from Perfume 2000, January 2002 

 &copy; 
 2001 Bassett Aromatherapy. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or 
 in part without permission is prohibited. Disclaimer: All material provided 
 in at this website is provided for educational purposes only. Consult your 
 own physician regarding the applicability of any opinions or recommendations 
 with respect to your symptoms or medical condition.