Primer 

 Home 

 Information 

 Recommended 
Reading 

 Sales
Catalog 

 Wholesale
Info 

 E-Mail
Us 

 Shop
Online 

 Secured Server Order Online Now 

 Dear Friend,

 Welcome to the world of Bassett Aromatherapy, your source for
the finest and most elegant products available.

 Aromatherapy, as it is practiced in its traditional, pure form offers
very specific health benefits. Here at AromaWorld, we focus on
delivering the maximum effect of those benefits.

 Our company grew out of a desire to provide oils and hydrosols
that deliver the full value of aromatherapy. As a certified
aromatherapist and teacher of aromatherapy, my personal interest in
quality has taken me all over the world to meet with source suppliers,
and investigate distillation processes and production methods. This
assures that you receive products that will add to your sense of
well-being.

 Experience our essential oils and hydrosols. I personally
guarantee that you will be delighted with the quality!

 Cordially,
 JoAnne Bassett 
Owner, Bassett Aromatherapy

Smell the 
 Difference! 
 TM 

 Bassett Aromatherapy 
P.O. Box 176
Cardiff by the Sea, CA 92007-0176
phone 858.794.9759
fax 858.509.0713
order line 800.738.8678
email: joanne@aromaworld.com 

Visit our Aromaworld TM website:
 http://www.aromaworld.com 

 AROMATHERAPY PRIMER 1996 
 Why Therapeutic Quality is So Important 

 Quality Matters 

 Aromatherapy is not about fragrance, but about healing. In
aromatherapy, aromas -ARE- therapeutic. The healing properties come
from highly concentrated extracts taken from herbs, flowers, and other
plants. These extracts are called essential oils and are used at full
strength.

 Certain properties in essential oils trigger therapeutic effects in your
body. When inhaled deeply, or applied to the skin surface in carrier oils,
these properties produce very specific beneficial results.

 Some of these benefits are well known, such as relaxation, energy
stimulation, and pleasant memory association.

 Other benefits are less well known, but equally as powerful. The
anti-bacterial and anti-viral properties in certain oils enhance the immune
system. Some oils act as appetite stimulants, others act as appetite
depressants, and both can help with weight management. Still other oils are
hormone regulators.

 How To Use 

 The list of potential benefits goes on and on. Learning how to use oils
to achieve these benefits is what aromatherapy is really all about.

 To achieve these benefits, full strength, undiluted essential oils are
required. The term "100% essential oil" is used to describe oils that
contain only the extract of a particular plant. Many people also assume
that because an oil is l00% essential that it also is absolutely pure, but
this is not true.

 The essential oil industry itself actually grades the quality of 100%
essential oils on a scale of 1-5, with 1 being the purest, top grade.

 The lower grade oils are extracted using lower quality processes, like
adding chemicals to draw oil from live material, or using heat to enhance
extraction. These kinds of methods destroy the live, vital essence of the
essential oils, and sometimes even add chemical or toxic elements to the
finished product. They certainly do not produce a pure, safe to breathe
deep oil, and they are not recommended for therapeutic purposes.

 Maintaining Quality 

 The ultimate therapeutic value of the essential oils used is totally
dependent on the quality of the live plants, the way the oils are extracted,
and the way they are handled after extraction. High standards that focus on
product purity are critically important.

 The best oils come from wild or organically grown plants because the
plants themselves are chemical free. Also, the best oils are extracted
using methods that use no heat and take more time, thus preserving the
vitality and life essence of the plant. In some cases, such as with citrus
oils, it is relatively easy to use these methods to extract a quantity of
oil. In other cases, as with rose oil, the process is difficult and the raw
material is rare, making the resulting oil quite precious.

 Common oils that are easy to extract consequently cost less then the
more precious oils. The #1 quality oils will always be priced according to
the value and rarity of the particular oil, and will never be lumped into
one price point based on bottle size.

 Tested and Certified 

 Therapeutic quality, #1 essential oils are laboratory tested with gas
chromatography and certified to be free from impurities. When these oils
are used, the therapeutic integrity of the plant is available. The quality
is evident in the full vitality of the fragrance. In fact, the fragrance in
these oils is so similar to the living plant that your nose might not be
able to tell the difference. From a therapeutic standpoint, you might
actually find the fragrance of the oil preferable to the live plant because
the concentrated oil has intensified the vibrational, healing qualities of
the plant.

 Hydrosols 

 When essential oils are distilled, the process actually yields
another, totally distinct product known as a floral water, or hydrosol.

 Hydrosols are a natural complement to essential oils because they
contain all of the water-soluble properties that were in the original
plants. Hydrosols offer a more gentle, less concentrated form of
the natural elements and are often easier to use.

 Prices/Ordering 

 Home Page |
 Diffuser |
 Essential Oils |
 JoAnne's Synergies |
 Skin Care |
 Bath & Body |
 Foot Care & Oils |
 Votive Candle Holders |
 Books/Accessories |
 Ordering |
 Catalog Request 

 BASSETT AROMATHERAPY 
 joanne@aromaworld.com

 For wholesale and professional accounts, request information -- click here . 

 BASSETT AROMATHERAPY * 1-800-738-8678 
 * P.O. Box 176 Cardiff by the Sea, CA 92007-0176 
 joanne@aromaworld.com