Information 

 Application: 
 Fungal 
 contamination of room air 
 Symptoms: 
 Moldy smell 
 Aromatherapy 
 approach: for decontamination blend equal parts savory, geranium, 
 palmarosa, and tea tree in a diffuser. 
 Inhalation: 

 Diffusers are a staple of the aromatherapy industry and are found in 
 many homes. Diffusing essential oils with an electric diffuser with 
 a nebulizer has far-reaching benefits, such as reducing microorganisms 
 in room air. Difffusing essential oils in rooms and buildings is also 
 an effective method of keeping fungal infestations away and reducing 
 the spore count. The electric nebulizing diffuser uses a jet stream 
 of air to disperse oils and does not subject them to heat. These cold 
 air diffusers disperse the essential oils in their complete form. Aroma 
 lamps use heat to evaporate the essential oil so not all of the components 
 will be evaporated. Some components remain in the dish so therefore 
 these lamp diffusers that use candles or a heat source or not as effective. 
 Effectiveness: 
 Effectiveness against room-air microorganisms was one of the first properties 
 of essential oils that was very thoroughly documented by science in 
 the mid-1950s. Essential oils diffused into houses and room air contaminated 
 fungal spores, effectively destroying microorganisms and reducing the 
 resulting allergies. 
 Supporting 
 measures: 
 Fresh air and dry conditions if possible. 
 This information taken from &#8220;Medical Aromatherapy&#8221; by Kurt 
 Schnaubelt. 
 Toxic 
 mold is a modern day buzz word. There have been environmental toxicology 
 studies done to determine the effects on the people that have been in 
 contact with toxic mold. There are many detrimental effects on health 
 such as decreased respiratory functions, dry cough, shortness of breath 
 and difficulty breathing, allergy type symptoms with watering eyes, 
 coughing up blood, lack of energy, unable to focus, lack of mental clarity, 
 low blood pressure, etc. In some more serious cases there is long term 
 damage and sometimes death from exposure. Animals have also become ill 
 due to toxic mold in their environment. 
 Some 
 of the essential oils that have been tested to have strong anti fungal 
 properties are cinnamon bark, ginger, lemon, oregano, sweet orange, 
 tea tree, and thyme. 
 Essential 
 oils to assist breathing are eucalyptus globulus, Balsam fir, hyssop, 
 inula graveolens, pine, ravensara, and black spruce. These essential 
 oils diffused into your environment with an electric diffuser will help 
 with respiratory functions and assist in killing air borne mold spores. 
 A mold remediation of the house or building will also need to be taken 
 care of professionally to insure the continued safety of the inhabitants. 
 To 
 order diffusers and essential 
 oils. 

 &copy; 
 2001 Bassett Aromatherapy. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or 
 in part without permission is prohibited. Disclaimer: All material provided 
 in at this website is provided for educational purposes only. Consult your 
 own physician regarding the applicability of any opinions or recommendations 
 with respect to your symptoms or medical condition.