Doom CE! 

 - DOOM CE - 

 June 14, 1999 - Release 2. 
 Fixed end of level crashing bug, text display problems. Should run on more machines
 but doesn't. Generally a lot more stable. The regular download links below
 always have the latest version. 
 June 9, 1999 - Release 1. 

 Price: FREE 
 Donations Welcome 

 You must have 4 mb of free storage space, 2.5 mb of available program memory and
 Windows CE version 2.0 or later. 
 Download: Doom1.zip , unzip
 it, and place the doom1.wad file in the "My Documents" folder on your CE machine
 (internal or storage card). You can also download the unzipped file here but some browsers corrupt the file. 
 Download the correct program file for your machine. If you don't know if
 you have a MIPS or an SH3 machine click here .
 This software is provided AS-IS and is not offered as a product or piece of
 merchandise in anyway. It has no warranty or guarantee. Use at your own risk.
 Really. By downloading it you agree to this. 

 Here's the latest build (3). More stable, more machines
 supported and with sound! Jornada 680 and HP 620lx work now. I will be out of town
 for the 4th of July weekend and I don't have time to fully test it before I leave. 
 The earlier version is still available for this reason. 

 LATEST: 

 DoomCE for MIPS machines. 

 DoomCE for SH3 machines. 

 PREVIOUS: 

 DoomCE for MIPS machines. 

 DoomCE for SH3 machines. 

 If you have a Palm-sized PC, you will need to place the DoomCE.exe file
 somewhere in the \Windows\Start Menu directory on your CE machine. 
 Run the program on the CE machine. 
 Press "Esc" or the exit button to bring up the menu. You can
 only play the 1st Episode 'Knee-Deep in the Dead'. 
 On Palm-size PC's you have to tap (or press) on the screen to fire or open a
 door. The buttons on the machine are used to move forwards and backwards, and the
 rocker switch is used to move left and right. 
 On HPC's you can use the arrow keys to move, control to fire and space bar to
 open doors. Most of the normal Doom keys work also. 

 We all like free software, but until there's free rent, I
 need your money. Donations are always welcome and help defray the costs involved in
 developing software that is given away without charge. If you have a special request
 or want a particular bug fixed, you are encouraged to use the 'comment' field when making
 a donation (hint, hint). 

 Click here to begin the process of
making a donation with your credit card. 

 Or check out PalmGB , your one-way
 ticket to big-time gaming fun! 

 Here is a list of known issues and bugs. I don't need
 additional bug reports at this time, thanks! 

 It runs differently on different machines. Some machines
 are fast and fun, some are slow and unplayable, some don't work at all. 

 Reset your machine if performance is particularly bad or uneven. 

 You can use other .wad files. This is untested. 
 Versions of CE before 2.11 (PsPC's and HPC Pros) do not support files larger than 4 mb in
 size. The wad file has to be named "Doom1.wad" at this time. 

 Some of the menu options work, some don't. Resizing the
 screen works and this is a good way to increase performance on slow machines. 

 Doom is a registered trademark of Id Software. They have
 no affiliation with this product so don't you dare bug them about it. 

 Please don't email me unless you've read all the info on this
 page and you have thought through what you are mailing about. All email is read but
 I can't answer it all. 

 This version is based on the original Linux source release from
 Id Software, not Bruce Lewis's CE source port. 

 Cassiopeia E-10 (4 level greyscale). 
Played with device on it's side which makes the controls much easier. 

 Portions of Doom CE are Copyright (C) 1999 by Hayes Haugen, all
 rights reserved. Other portions Copyright Id Software. Doom is a registered
 trademark of Id Software.