Guitar Noise - Testimonials 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , About Us , Testimonials 

 Testimonials 

 We don't have to tell you how great this website is. You 
 have already told us. Here is a sample of some real letters 
 we have recieved from guitar players from over the world. 
 Feel free to send us your own feedback here . 
 Guys, this site is just incredible. I found you about 2 weeks 
 ago, and I have already found more valuable, helpful material 
 here than I ever got out of 2+ years of guitar lessons. 
 My only complaint (and its really a compliment in disguise) 
 is that there is just so much here that it is hard to take 
 it all in. I have used the search feature and find it helpful, 
 and I have to say that i find something great on here to help 
 me play better every day. 
 I hope that you guys get some satisfaction from this message, 
 because the work you are doing is SO worthwhile... thank you 
 so much for the help, and please keep it going! 
 JR 

 I just wanted to tell you that I have just found this website 
 through a friend, and it is exactly what I have been looking 
 for. I have tried various sites, but the junk that is out 
 there is amazing. 

 Thank you for all of the well written, and carefully selected 
 documentation. Thank you for not having a slurry of pop-up 
 ads that turn me away. Thank you for all of your time and 
 effort into a very well designed, thorough, and comprehensive 
 website that caters to all levels and styles. 

 I look forward to taking my new lessons home for a long session. 
 All of your effort are sure to take me to another level of 
 my abilities. 
 great job 

 I have been playing poor guitar for about 33 years and your 
 site has given me more pleasure than all of the thousands 
 of dollars of music books I've bought over the years put together. 
 In the few months that I have known about the site I've put 
 a half a dozen songs in my repertoire. I feel a little guilty 
 because you never ask me to buy anything. My admiration and 
 thanks go to all of you. 
 Recently I got very much interested in Guitar and I'm going 
 for classes for the past few months. I browse a lot for guitar 
 sites on the web. Whenever I found one good-to-read site, 
 it always explained how to play chords. But never explained 
 how these chords came out. For the past 5 months I've been 
 trying find this. I found lots of site which explained how 
 chords are constructed, but unfortunately I couldn't understand 
 a bit. May be they were not explained properly. Maximum, they 
 taught how a C Major is constructed, that's it. 
 I came accross your article " Theory 
 without Tears " yesterday. At first I thought it would 
 be just another site. Well, it turned out to be different. 
 :) You do not know how much jumped and shouted with joy after 
 reading 
 your article. My room mate thought I have gone crazy or something. 
 It was the best article I've ever read on the web. So small, 
 well planed, and excellently laid out introduction. It is 
 a theory without tears, indeed! 
 Now, I do not get confused or stopped wondering when I see 
 some chord like Bsus7, 'coz I know how it is constructed. 
 Thanks to your article. :) 
 -Arun 

 your page is awesome..Wanting to teach myself how to play 
 the guitar has been a frustrating process to say the least...thank 
 you so much for helping me understand...Needless to say that 
 other sights lack your genius teaching technique. 
 thanks again 
 -janelle 

 theres no page that go into as much detail musically as yours. 
 well thanks for your time and thanks for having that page 
 i wouldnt be as good at guitar as i am now if it wasnt for 
 your page. -Delita 

 I would like to say that you have done an excellent job at 
 making a very useful guitar site. I have played for almost 
 two years and have progressed greatly because of your site. 
 It has cool tab, tips & updates, and the greatest lessons 
 I have ever received. I even paid to have lessons at my college 
 and they were good but not as extensive as some I have seen 
 here, and best of all it is free, can be done from the comfort 
 of your own home and at your own pace. This site definitely 
 receives two thumbs up from me, good job guys and keep up 
 the great work! 

 Thank You! Thank You! Thank You! 
 Like many people, I've played music for years with very little 
 real understanding of the "theory" behind it. You have helped 
 me greatly already, and I look forward to future edification 
 and amazement at your site....You certainly have a noteworthy 
 site...(heehee) 

 This site has been the savior of a very standard "in 
 the box" player. This site has been as great an 
 inspiration as The Beatles and The Barenaked Ladies (one group 
 made me pick up the guitar; the other made me pick it up again). 
 I would like to thank your columnists and tech-support people 
 for giving me direction and new ideas during practice. 
 An extra special thanks to David Hodge for the personal writing 
 style and choice of topics. thanks a million 

 I am 14, and I live in Massachusetts. I bought a guitar about 
 5 months ago, and i did not know how to play it. I didn't 
 know how to tune my guitar or what any of the chords were. 
 I have never taken a lesson, but i thought it's fun to fool 
 around with it. After a while it got kinda boring and i wanted 
 to learn how to really play it. The only problem with this 
 is, I am a very busy young man. I stopped "playing" my guitar 
 for a while. Then one of my friends told me about this web 
 site called guitarnoise.com. Your web site has helped me learn 
 how to tune my guitar, and has taught me some of the chords 
 so it was now possible for me to some extent, play my 1998 
 Aria Pro II stg series guitar. To wrap up my letter i want 
 to thank you for allowing me to learn how to play my guitar, 
 and helping me realize how much fun, playing the guitar can 
 be! 
 Great Site! I've been playing off and on now for 13 years 
 and have hit a few brick walls in my playing and learning. 
 This site has helped me over my last one as far as coming 
 up with new ideas and such thanks for being here and keep 
 it up 
 -Lysergic 
 i never have and still dont consider myself musically able 
 but your site has helped me learn a lot of stuff id never 
 have gotten anywhere else, as well as just being enjoyable 
 and intersting reading. hope you guys stay around. thanks, 

 - matthew 
 Thank you for all your hard work and knowledge. i learned 
 more from you guys in a few months than i did in years. thanks 
 again, 
 - dave 

 For years now I have considered myself to be unable to work 
 songs out for myself.....but thanks to your site I am now 
 able to play along with and old tune I hear...even on the 
 TV and allows me to annoy my girlfriend more than I ever considered 
 possible. Thank you and keep up the good work!!! 
 P.S. I promise not to tell the aforementioned girlfriend how 
 I came upon this new skill as she may attempt to have you 
 shut down for causing emotional distress!!!!(HaHaHaHa) 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.