Guitar Noise - Our Mission 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , About 
 Us , Our Mission 

 Our Mission 

 In an effort to receive specific and useful feedback from 
 our visitors and maintain an openess in line with the scope 
 of the internet, we have published our mission statement here. 
 If you see anywhere that we have fallen short of our stated 
 goals please let us know where we can improve. 
 Why are we here? 
 Our main reasons for being here are to help others out and 
 because it's fun. We enjoy sharing what we have learned about 
 music. In most cases we already had friends working here and 
 were invited by them to become contributors. 
 What do we hope to accomplish with this site? 
 Through this site we have the chance to give people a bit 
 of help where we needed it many years ago. We hope to be able 
 to get more beginners "over the hump" and out playing 
 with other people. We want GuitarNoise to remain a better 
 resource than the others we have seen. Also it is a creative 
 outlet, that is different from our normal everyday gigs, allowing 
 us to share thoughts and reflections on our favorite hobby. 
 If we can inspire others to play to their potential, whatever 
 that may be, we are happy. 
 What do we want our visitors to accomplish with this site? 
 We hope our readers learn the reasons behind why certain 
 things work, not just the methods or TABs. This requires more 
 effort than just transcribing useful riffs into TAB, but it 
 is more rewarding because we feel that we have really taught 
 something based upon our experiences. Also we want the readers 
 to feel a sense that we know what we're talking about, and 
 that they can trust what we teach. Our prompt response to 
 everyone's questions helps develop this. As well, we want 
 readers to be able to use the site as a reference for questions, 
 both technical and motivational, about playing the guitar. 
 At times, this work is "too much fun," and we want 
 readers to have fun checking out the site. For those with 
 aspirations to be professional musicians we want them to come 
 up ahead of the game and make it. 
 What will keep a visitor on this site? 
 New, fresh material is added every week and laid out in an 
 easy to navigate format. Being easy to surf around, the site 
 changes often enough that readers don't get bored with us. 
 We carefully cross-link our columns and resources, allowing 
 users to pursue tangential topics for quite a while. And when 
 all else fails, the Site Map and Master List are there to 
 help you form your own course of study. We also have a search 
 engine, which is a last resort for many users, but is still 
 effective. All our material is original and unique and it 
 keeps the interest and attention of the reader. 
 What will encourage a visitor to return? 
 Of paramount importance is our personal touch - such as an 
 answer to an email. Next, our content changes regularly. Readers 
 are encouraged to check out other articles by different writers 
 who can offer a different perspective and sometimes different 
 answer to the same question. People tend to remain loyal to 
 sites that they enjoy on their first visit and offer something 
 useful to them. Our site really should be fun, informative 
 and easy to navigate. Guitar Noise is a wonderful resource, 
 but not the only one out there. We are unique in that it feels 
 like a relaxed atmosphere when visiting and navigating the 
 site. 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.