Guitar Noise - Photos 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 About Us , Photos 

 Photos 

 These pictures and accompanying stories will give you some 
 idea of how we typically spend our summer vacation. 

 Riverside Jam, New Jersey - August 2002 
 From left to right: Laura, Dan, Paul, David and Lee. 
 This is our first group shot of the Guitar Noise crew. 
 We had a great get together for Riverside Jam 2002, 
 which took place in New Jersey this year. It was a pretty 
 big jam with about 20 musicians attending from all over. 
 Thanks to everyone who put it together and kept us fed. 

 Tales From the Ili Valley - Autumn 2000 
 Often it is not so obvious, but what David Hodge says 
 in "On Gifts and Giving" is true: "Music 
 is a medium that really works when it is shared." 
 This became apparent when our multi-lingual and multi-national 
 film crew of four found itself in a remote part of the 
 world where there was no common language for communication. 
 When wefinished recording musical performances we would 
 immediately give a set of headphones to the performers 
 and let them listen. It was the first time they had 
 ever heard themselves sing and play. They were delighted 
 at what they heard. 
 [read Tales From 
 The Ili Valley ] 

 The Riverside Jam 2000 - August 2000 
 If you invite a bunch of musicians who are also reasonably 
 fun people, it will all work out just fine. So long 
 as there is some time structure to the different sessions, 
 everyone will get what they want, and some wonderous 
 music will be made. So have fun! 
 [visit The 
 Riverside Jam Website ] 

 On Gifts and Giving - December 1999 
 In August, I hosted a "last Friday the 13th of 
 the century" jam at my home. Some old friends and 
 new students got to sit in together. But to me the best 
 part was having some of my friends' kids getting in 
 on the act - playing bongos or triangles or maracas 
 while the "adults" jammed away on the "big 
 person's instruments." Nothing is as thrilling 
 as being part of the band, no matter what age you are. 

 [read On Gifts 
 and Giving ] 

 All Along the Watchtower - August 1999 
 In July and August 1999 Paul Hackett and Robert Leblanc 
 were putting together a website about the unplugged 
 music of Pink Floyd called Acoustic Floyd. Before going 
 live they went to the Great Wall of China for a guitar 
 summit. It proved to be a great venue for performing 
 Pink Floyd classics from The Wall. For interested in 
 the next guitar summit, "I'll see you on the dark 
 side of the moon..." 
 [visit Acoustic 
 Floyd ] 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.