Guitar Noise - Faculty and Staff 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , About 
 Us , Faculty & Staff 

 Faculty & Staff 

 Click on a name to email one of our staff members. 

 Paul Hackett - Paul Hackett is the 
 founder and executive producer of GuitarNoise.com 
 and MusicCareers.net . 
 The first site teaches guitar to beginner and intermediate 
 players, while the second site gives advice and support 
 to those who wish to make a living playing music. Being 
 a regular user of both sites allows him to better understand 
 the needs of visitors. Currently living in China and 
 working as a writer and independent filmmaker, his personal 
 home page can be found here. 
 [URL: http://www.guitarnoise.com/paul/ ] 
 [Interview: http://www.guitarnoise.com/articles/20030401.html ] 

 David Hodge - Currently 
 living in Chicago, David first took up the guitar during 
 his senior year of high school, figuring it would be 
 a lot easier to lug around in college than an upright 
 piano. David teaches guitar and you can catch him at 
 the occasional open mike around town. He also writes 
 and records and always considers his latest song to 
 be the best one he's done yet. 
 [Interview: http://www.guitarnoise.com/articles/20030407.html ] 

 A-J Charron - 
 A-J is a musician and songwriter living in Montreal. 
 After the usual routine of bands that are finished before 
 the first show, A-J decided to try out the family life 
 and 9 to 5 routine for a while. It didn't agree with 
 him very much. After hearing the call a second time, 
 he's now in the process of shopping the record labels. 
 A-J taught himself to play the guitar and sing. At the 
 same time he decided to write his own songs because 
 he couldn't imagine himself doing other people's songs 
 for the rest of his life. He now has over 100 and is 
 still going... 
 [URL: http://www.guitarnoise.com/aj ] 
 [Interview: http://www.guitarnoise.com/articles/20030414.html ] 

 Dan Lasley - 
 Dan learned to play in bands while in college near Chicago, 
 where he played keyboards, bass, and "slide-pots"(sound 
 board). After college, Dan was an engineer for BGW designing 
 400W/channel amplifiers (also good for arc-welding), 
 and built his own fretless bass guitar (with a Fender 
 P-bass fretless neck). Dan lives in Westport CT, and 
 works writing code for specialty printers. Dan continues 
 to stay involved with sound engineering as a technical 
 advisor to the drama department for his son's middle 
 school. His wife and 2 children are all musical, and 
 the whole family is involved in this site in some way. 
 He is also the matermind behind the Riverside Jam. 
 [URL: http://www.cyberlaz.com ] 

 [Interview: http://www.guitarnoise.com/articles/20030421.html ] 

 Laura Lasley - 
 Laura's first instrument was the piano. After taking 
 classical piano lessons for 12 years in her youth, she 
 realized that she enjoyed music, but hadn't learned 
 any chord theory or improvisational techniques. She 
 was in a band in college and medical school as the vocalist 
 and keyboardist (not an easy feat for someone with no 
 chord theory or improvisational technique), and briefly 
 did some sound engineering as well. Several years ago, 
 she decided to buy a guitar. It took a few more years 
 before she actually took lessons, and since then she 
 has enjoyed playing both her beloved Guild acoustic 
 and her Fender Strat. She enjoys jamming with others 
 as often as schedules allow. In order to support her 
 music habit, she works as a neonatologist. Her husband 
 Dan plays bass and writes for this site as well. Their 
 two children fill out the family band by playing clarinet, 
 tenor sax, flute and piano as needed. 
 [URL: http://www.cyberlaz.com ] 

 [Interview: http://www.guitarnoise.com/articles/20030421.html ] 

 Darrin Koltow - 
 Darrin is the creator of MaximumMusician.com, a terrific 
 site where you can learn about improvising, harmonizing 
 melodies, playing by ear, good practice habits, motivation, 
 and other topics. Click here to visit MaximumMusician . 

 Nick Torres - 
 London born, Washington DC area native Nick Torres has 
 been involved in music for more than 20 years. From singing 
 with the Paul Hill Chorale at the Kennedy Center, to Regional 
 Chorus, soloist at Trinity UMC in Alexandria VA, bell 
 ringing, amateur and professional musical theater, and 
 a band or two along the way. Currently Nick is focused 
 on spending as much time as possible with his lovely wife 
 and two children. When he's not doing that he's practicing 
 his acoustic guitar and hanging out in the Songwriters 
 Forum here on Guitar Noise. And writing articles and reviews, 
 let's not forget that... 

 Ryan Spencer - Californian Born and 
 Raised, Ryan Spencer has been playing guitar for six years. 
 Four of those years were spent studying luthiery under 
 various apprenticeships, never staying too long with one 
 teacher - although he did spend a great deal of extra 
 time with his last teacher, who just recently moved away. 
 Ryan is in the process of working to stabalize his custom 
 guitar building services to other players. He is also 
 one of the founding members of the band Void who actively 
 gig and have 2 demo albums of their material on sale. 

 Stefan Leonhardt - Stefan 
 has been playing guitar on and off for about 20 years, 
 with 10 years of teaching privately and one year in 
 the professional program of the "Future Music School" 
 in Aschaffenburg, Germany. When playing guitar Stefan 
 usually plays a lot of blues and blues-influenced (classic) 
 rock, but when writing songs, he ends up writing rock 
 and even pop songs. Stefan considers himself more a 
 musician than a guitar player - "the song is more 
 important than the guitar part (though a cool guitar 
 part or solo of course is nice and sometimes makes the 
 song happen)." He doesn't care for classifications 
 of style - "if I like it, I like no matter if it's 
 blues, country, rock, jazz or hard and heavy." 
 Stefan lives in Bavaria together with his wife Freia 
 and two children Vanessa (2 1/2 years) and Patrick (4 
 weeks). 

 Jamey Andreas 
 - Jamey Andreas is a classical guitarist based in New 
 York, who has taught and played all styles of guitar 
 for almost 30 years, his specialty being the Classical 
 Guitar. In that time, he has developed teaching methods 
 that are so effective and fundamental to all styles 
 and levels of players, he has called them The Principles 
 of Correct Practice for Guitar. Through the use of 
 these principles, anyone can learn to play the guitar 
 correctly, from the beginning, so that bad habits and 
 playing problems do not appear, as they do for so many 
 guitarists and would be guitarists. 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.