DV-VCD HOWTO 
 Digital Video to VideoCD HOWTO 
 This HOWTO describes taking a video from your digital video camera
and putting it onto a VideoCD for playback in most DVD players. 

 What you need to have installed 

 libdv ( http://libdv.sourceforge.net/ ) 

 MJPEGTools ( http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net/ ) 
 dvgrab 1.2 or above ( http://kino.schirmacher.de/ ) 
 vcdimager ( http://www.vcdimager.org/ ) 
 cdrdao ( http://cdrdao.sourceforge.net/ ) 
 A Firewire card 
 The firewire kernel module 

 libdv should be built first, because you need to build MJPEGTools with libdv enabled. 

 Recording the Video 
 I know jack squat about video recording. The only hint I can
give you here is RECORD USING 16-BIT AUDIO MODE IF YOU HAVE THE
OPTION. Some video cameras default to 12-bits. Don't do
this. You can't change it later. You'll end up with really
quiet audio. There is probably some way to fix it, but I'm sure it's long and complicated and just not worth the effort. 

 Capturing the Video 
 To capture the video, you have to perform the following steps: 

 Rewind your camera to the right spot 
 Plug your video camera into the firewire port 
 Load the firewire module using modprobe raw1394 
 Start the dvgrab utility: dvgrab --format dv2 --autosplit --size 100 base_filename 

 Hit "play" on your video camera 
 Wait until video is done 
 Hit "stop" on your video camera 
 Hit "Ctl-C" on your keyboard to stop dvgrab 

 The parameters as shown will result in a type-2 DV file being made
(NOTE - this is very important, or else the mjpegtools won't be able to
process it). It will automatically split the file into multiple
files every 100 Megabytes. Each file will be named
base_filenameXXX.avi. A one-hour video will eat up approximately
16 Gigabytes of disk space. You shouldn't be doing anything else
while this is going on, or dvgrab will miss frames. 

 Encoding the Video 
 MJPEGTools has a handy utility called lav2mpeg. It's just a
bash script. Depending on the version, you may need to modify it
(it uses toolame by default for audio encoding, rather than mp2enc
which comes with MJPEGTools). Somewhere in the first few lines it
will have some code relating to toolame, and just replace toolame with
mp2enc. 

 Now we can encode the video. It's very simple: 

 Type in lav2mpeg -m vcd -o output.mpg base_filename* 
 Wait for about 10 hours on a fast machine 
 output.mpg has your file 

 Preparing the Burn 
 Preparing the burn is easy. Just type in vcdimager
output.mpg. This will create two files - videocd.cue and
videocd.bin. 

 Burning 
 To find out where your burner is on the SCSI chain, you'll have to
look at the CD-Burning HOWTO. Usually, for IDE-only systems, your
burner is at 0,0,0 (no spaces). Once you know that, it's easy. Just do 

 cdrdao write --device YOURDEVICE videocd.cue 
 If it doesn't know what driver to use, generic-mmc usually works. YOURDEVICE refers to, in my case, 0,0,0 . The CD Burner will burn away, and afterwards you can just put it in your DVD player and hit play.