C:\WINNT\Profiles\850094\Desktop\MetaInformation.xhtml 

 Stop Whining and Repent 

 God is calling the people of America to repentance 

 Gnome Meta Infrastructure 

 What is Meta Information 
 Meta-information is information about information. A document's authorship, location, key words, and thumbnail image are all meta information. As users start storing more and more information, the need for the user to access meta-information becomes more and more vital. Users and applications need a consistent way of accessing and modifying meta information. 

 In order to establish an API for meta information, we need to know more about where it comes from and how it is used. 

 Types of Meta Information 
 Meta information comes from a few main sources: 

 The document itself 
 Stati c information about the document 
 Inf ormation about the document supplied by the user 

 Let's discuss these in turn. 

 Meta Information from the Document 
 This information would be things like thumbnails of images, word counts, word lists, and any other information that can be directly determined by the document itself. This kind of information should be able to be extracted programmatically either by the program creating the document or another program. For example, Nautilus can create thumbnails of images (and text 
 files, for that matter), even though it doesn't create them. In this way, a meta-information database would essentially be a cache for generated information. Thus, the cache could also be 
 cleared, and also the information could be invalidated by newer versions of the document. The key here is that all information can be programmatically extracted from the document itself. This lends itself to the following possible operations: 

 info * get_meta_information( document, "key") - retrieves given piece of meta-information generated by a program 
 info * get_meta_information_generate(document, "key") - retrieves given p iece o f meta-information, and if it is not available, generate it (assumes system knows how to generate the given piece of information). 
 void set_ default_generat or(" conte nt-type", "key") - sets the default generator for the given MIME type