Jon's Site - Projects Todo 

 Projects I'd Like To Do 

This is a list of projects I would like to write at some point, but I'm
really starting to doubt I will ever have time for any of them. If one
of these inspires someone, let me know.

 ORBit Transaction Service 

I think it would be good to implement a transaction service in ORBit2,
so you could use ORBit in a server environment instead of the proprietary
CORBAs. This would also facilitate my next idea.

 EnterOrbit Application Server 

This would be a Linux distribution that was geared toward application 
serving. It would NOT be a kitchen sink distribution. It would also
NOT be a Linux-ish distribution - it would basically be its own OS, based
on Linux. That's not to say it wouldn't be 99% from RedHat, but the osed
on Linux components. Every component would be in there for a reason, with
documentation on how to put it to work. In fact, the documentation would
be written before the pieces would be put together, and they would each be
modified so as to have hooks into each other. I have written a 
 unfinished document for a programmer's manual
about what I would like to do. I think specialized distributions are where
Linux's true potential is at. Imagine each specialty having their own
dists just for them. Of course, there would always be the kitchen sink
ones for the nerds, but that would turn into the exception. Anyway, some
ideas I had for EnterOrbit are here .

 Nethack 3D Frontend 

 Nethack is a great game. It would
be even better if it had a 3D frontend. It could stay a non-realtime game,
it would just be more immersive if it had a 3D gui. In fact, it could
probably go into retail sales in that case. I think it would be fun to
release it only on Macintosh and Linux first, and have the box sitting 
right next to RHL in Best Buy. Then, after a few weeks, put the
Windows version out, too. Or, have advertisements for it, and say
"only available on RHL x.x", and see if RHL will ship it. It also needs
a better name.

 Personal Chess Trainer 

All of the current chess engines play the way a computer would - look
50 moves ahead using filtering heuristics, and pick the best one. It would
be neat to have a chess program that played the way a person would - using
basic techniques, looking for pins, discovered checks, etc., and tell you
why it made the move it made. You could request that it play a particular
opening or defense so that you could practice, and you could request that
it play daring or conservatively. It could also highlight the attacks
available to your pieces, and all other sorts of good information, like
bad formations on both sides and how they could be exploited.

 Computer Algebra System in Scheme 

Most computer algebra systems have their own language. Why not have
one that was both written in scheme, and used scheme to run it? After 
all scheme and lisp are both for symbolic manipulation. 

That's the end of my list. If you have any such ideas, feel free to 
 mail me !