Poetry Links - Travesty Generator 

 Home | What's New | Anthologies and Link Sites | Poets 
 Journals | Movements and Criticism | Tools | Members 

 Tra {v,i,c,d,m} 

 Travesty Generator 

 Travesty creates a new text based on how often sequences of characters appear in the original text.

 Suppose we're doing an order 3 travesty. Travesty analyzes the original text to find all the combinations
of two characters (one less than the order) that appear in the text.
It also constructs a table of all of the letters that follow those
two-letter combinations and how often those letters follow the combination. Travesty then takes the
first two letters of the original text, looks up that character sequence in the table, and randomly
selects the next letter according to the frequencies in the entry. It adds the new letter to the
beginning string of two characters and uses the second and third characters in that string
as the new two-letter combination to look up. This process continues until Travesty produces the
requested number of characters of output.
 Thus, for an order 3 travesty, the result is a text in which all combinations of three characters appear
at roughly the same
frequency as all three-letter combinations in the original text. Notice that travesty uses all of
the characters in the original text
(letters, digits, dashes, etc.) and not just letters.

 Travesty is often used to scramble a source text before using it in another process such as diastic
reading.

 The first version of Travesty was written by Hugh Kenner and Joseph P. O'Rourke and
described in their article "A Travesty Generator for Micros" in the November 1984 issue of Byte .

 For more information, see Charles O. Hartman, The Virtual Muse: Experiments in Computer Poetry 
(Hanover, NH: Wesleyan University Press, 1996), pp. 54-64. See also Hartman's "Monologues of Body
and Soul" in The Virtual Muse for a poem incorporating Travesty-generated text.
The poem also appears in his Glass Enclosures (Hanover, NH: Wesleyan University Press, 1995),
pp. 55-68.
 Use the back button or click here to go to the Travesty Generator
page.

 Last updated 21 January 2002.