Poetry Links - Tools 

 Home | What's New | Anthologies and Link Sites | Poets 
 Journals | Movements and Criticism | Tools | Members 

 Tools 

 Links to pages for computer-generated writing tools.

Tools Available Here

 Charles O. Hartman's original DIASTEXT . C source and DOS executable. Unsupported.
Uses the input text as the reading key.

 Diastic Reading

 Web implementation of diastic reading.

 Perl program for diastic reading . Standalone version of the web implementation.

 Travesty

 Web implementation of Travesty.

 Perl implementation of Travesty . Standalone version of the web
implementation.

 Markov Generator

 Web implementation of a Markov generator.

 Perl implementation of a Markov generator . Standalone version of the
web implementation.

Tools Elsewhere

 Marius Watz's computer-generated writing page . Probably
the best place to start. Includes
bibliographical information as well as links to a wide variety of software and texts.

 Prose , a random sentence generator, source and Mac
version available from Charles O. Hartman's site. Program is described extensively in Hartman's The Virtual Muse .

 RoboPoet , a text generator.

 A large set of text manipulation programs.
Abstracts and compressed files. Includes Janus-Node ("formerly McPoet"):
 abstract 
and program .
Macintosh only. There's also a Macintosh travesty program:
 abstract 
and
 program .

 A Word 97 (Windows) template by Taylor Brady
that implements Jackson Mac Low's diastic reading. Read the
 documentation before using it.

 Ray Kurzweil's Cybernetic Poet . Starts with Markov chains
and then does a whole lot more.

 The tool collection at the
 Burning Press site. Big collection, includes Mac and DOS/Windows programs.

 The best implementation of Perl for Win32 is available from ActiveState . If
you're writing programs for text manipulation, you really ought to be using Perl. And, of course,
there are Perl implementations for every platform in existence....

 Last updated 21 January 2002.