Poetry Links - Anthologies and Links 

 Home | What's New | Anthologies and Link Sites | Poets 
 Journals | Movements and Criticism | Tools | Members 

 Anthologies and Link Sites 

 Links to on-line anthologies and major link sites.

Anthologies

Academy of American Poets . The Listening Booth 
lets you listen (via RealAudio) to 50 different poets reading.

The Atlantic Monthly's poetry pages . Includes a short but useful
list of links, including on-line journals. Also provides a link to Dana Giaoa's
very controversial (and snippy) essay in The Atlantic , "Can Poetry Matter?" 

 Buffalo Electronic Poetry Center . Where the L=A=N=G=U=A=G=E folks 
(and many others you'll recognize) hang out. Extensive
collection of contemporary poetry and poetics.

 Canadian Poetry . An extensive collection, including poems by
 Roo Borson , a recent subject of Robert Hass's
 Poet's Choice column. 

 Coach House Books publishes books on-line as well as print. Tends toward the experimental. Plenty to read. Note
that they ask you to use their order page to "tip" the poet $3 for reading the work on-line. Seems fair to me....

 The Contemporary American Poetry Archive organized by poets Wendy Battin 
and Charles O. Hartman as a repository for out-of-print poetry books. Contains 35 books.

 English Language and Literature Resources at the U. Toronto library. Includes
an on-line anthology, Representative Poetry , a collection that
"includes over 2,000 English poems by 310 poets." 
Also links to Middle English and Renaissance resources.

Electronic Text Center at University of Virginia. Go to the
 English page to get the list
of holdings in English. Many items restricted to University
or Virginia library patrons.

 The Poetry Archive . Varied collection of poems, including some modern. Essays on each poet.

 Poetry Daily . A new poem every day.
Has an archive of the
last year's poems and daily poetry news .

 The original Project Bartleby is now an archive.
 The New Bartleby continues its work.

 Red Frog - An international on-line anthology. Includes an extensive 
selection of Zbigniew Herbert's poetry from translations now out of print.

 Sonnet Central . An anthology spanning the whole history of the sonnet.
 New! --> The 
Wr-eye-tings Scratchpad . A works-in-progress site for visual
and/or concrete poetry. Supplement to the Wr-eye-tings email list.

Link Sites

 American Authors on the Web . Big (155K) link page,
by Mitsuharu Matsuoka at Nagoya University.

English resources on the Web page at Capital Community-Technical College. 
Good selection.

 Links to Modern and Contemporary Poetry Resources .
An extensive, unannotated list by Akitoshi Nagahata at Nagoya University including many on-line
magazines.

 Modern and Contemporary American Poetry page 
for Al Filreis's English 88 class at U. Penn. A very rich list.

 Voice of the Shuttle . The humanities research website.
Includes extensive links to everything imaginable, including contemporary British
and American literature and a creative writing page 
containing a rich list of resources and on-line magazines.

 Last updated 21 July 1999.