News about Dovedale School 

 Jean 
 Catharell 
 . --President, Liverpool Beatles Fan Club 

 The Liverpool school 
 attended by John Lennon and George Harrison during their early years, 
 is making ambitious plans to change the face of is Victorian yard. Dovedale 
 Infants wants to create new resources to take it into the next millennium 
 by developing both outdoor and in-school learning. George and John would 
 have played on a boring stretch of concrete, surrounded by brick 
 buildings dating from 1915, just round the corner from Penny Lane. The 
 yard still has a couple of old air raid shelters, painted with a mural 
 of the Fab Four ! 

 Now, a group of parents, teachers and governors at Dovedale have set up 
 a Friends' Group (FODIS), as a registered charity to develop plans and 
 raise funds to achieve them. They are focusing on the playground with 
 plans for new quiet areas, beds for plants and vegetables, space for games 
 and outdoor art and environmental resources to help work in the classroom. 
 The school also wants to build a library and upgrade its computers. A 
 very different prospect from the Fifties school of the Beatles years! 
 Target funds have been set at 30,000 to turn the plans into reality. 

 To kick off its plans, Dovedale is appealing to Beatles fans for any help 
 they 
 can offer. This could involve sponsoring areas of the playground , planted 
 tubs or funiture, buying library 'bricks' or simply making a donation. 
 FODIS 
 has also launched a Roll Call of Honour to get in touch with former pupils 
 and 
 ask for their help. Early local publicity brought contacts from many local 
 people, as well as BBC broadcaster Peter Sissons, an ex-pupil, and a lady 
 now 
 living in Cornwall. 

 Donations should be sent to the following address and cheques made payable 
 to 
 Friends of Dovedale Infant School. Overseas donations should be made by 
 Banker's Draft or International Money order payable in sterling and drawn 
 on a 
 UK bank. 

 If you would like any more information about Dovedale School or its plans 
 to 
 develop into the 21st century, please write to Wen Williams, Headteacher, 
 Dovedale Infants School, Herondale Road, Liverpool L18 1JX. 

 2/17/99