Aya's dialogue with Geoffrey Giuliano 

 Geoffrey 
 Giuliano: 
 I am a very misunderstood person 
 Aya B. Makarova 's 
 dialogue with Geoffrey 
 Giuliano 
 August 27 - 28, 1999 
 Geoffrey 
 Giuliano, who has now legally changed his name to Jagannatha Dasa 
 and runs a Vaishnava Ashram in Lockport, NewYork is also the author 
 of over twenty books on the Beatles including the controversial 
 DARK HORSE/The Life And Art Of George Harrison . I recently 
 spoke with the author via e-mail about both his writing work and 
 spiritual interests. We invite our readership to judge for themselves 
 this controversial but always interesting man. 

 GG: 
 First, you should 
 know that I am a full time devotee of Sri Krsna and a follower 
 of George's guru, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami. Although Harrison 
 studied with our master for several years, due to the bad association 
 that is unavoidable in rock music he was unable to truly live 
 the lifestyle so important to our Bhakti faith. We advocate 
 no meat, fish or eggs. No cigarettes. No alcohol or 
 drugs. No sex other than with one's wife. Sadly, George 
 was unable to consistently follow any of those rules and thus, 
 went through a lot of suffering which could have been avoided 
 by seriously adhering to our guru's instructions. When I knew 
 George in the early 80s he was doing cocaine and other drugs as 
 well as cheating on his wife, Olivia. In those days too 
 I was no angel, but for the past several years I have been strictly 
 following all the rules and regulations of devotional service." 

 AM: 
 "But, to my understanding, 
 it was Swami himself who insisted on George remaining a rock musician 
 rather than a "real" full-time devotee? At least that it what 
 I have read." 
 GG: 
 "Although my guru told George 
 to remain a musician he did not give him an exemption from following 
 the rules and regulations of our Vaishnava faith. Any and 
 all persons thinking of themselves as devotees must abstain 
 from eating meat, fish and eggs; intoxication; illicit sex and 
 gambling. Therefore Mr. Harrison in embracing the tenants of Bhakti 
 Yoga would be aware of these strictures and thus be bound by them. 
 His inability to strictly follow does not mean he is a bad person 
 or insincere in his belief. I personally sat and talked 
 with this man at some length and therefore I have certain insights 
 into his character which certainly he would never want to share 
 with the public. A journalist's job though is to tell the 
 truth, not sugar coat it or try and present things in a kinder 
 light. That's what PR men do. As a devotee we also share 
 a similar love of truth no matter how apparently brutal. 
 Fairy tales are for children. I simply reported what 
 I knew to be true without speculation or any particular emotion 
 whatsoever. If by so doing George could use that as a mirror 
 to view his own life then fine. If not, I have still done my job 
 both as a journalist and a devotee. 
 AM: 
 "But, from 
 my understanding, the Vaishnava etiquette is that one will not 
 say anything bad about a fellow Vaishnava, only good points. 
 And, knowing George so well, you did know he's a very private 
 person - not only because he wants to hide his faults and 
 foibles... Am I wrong?" 
 GG: 
 "I am pleased to answer your 
 most recent questions. Firstly, a loving Vaishnava has a duty 
 to try and correct a fault within one of his God brothers so that 
 he might continue to advance in Krishna Bhakti. Your idea that 
 we can never be critical of our brothers is incorrect. 
 "Further, 
 devotees are not hippies but rather, harbingers of truth. We therefore 
 regard truth in any form as the highest love." 
 AM: 
 "Another question 
 to you: for how long are you a full-time devotee and how 
 do you view your Ronald McDonald past now?" 
 GG: 
 " I 
 first became a devotee in 1970, though only part time. For the 
 last nine years, however, I have grown increasingly serious about 
 my devotional life. 
 "As 
 for being Ronald McDonald it now allows me access to the 
 international 
 media to raise issues regarding vegetarianism and nonviolence 
 to animals. Therefore it was a blessing." 
 AM: 
 "After talking to some disciples 
 I met here - who said they knew you - I did not get an image of 
 you as a strict devotee or even a person who was welcomed by Swami." 

 GG: 
 "As for some ISKCON 
 devotees apparently not "liking me" I am not concerned. Many do. 
 Isn't that just life? By the way I am not even a member 
 of ISKCON but rather a Gaudiya Vaishnava Srila Prabhupada organization 
 called SRI / The Spiritual Realization Institute. As for Praphupada 
 and myself I can assure you we were most friendly with each other. 
 So that statement is false. 
 "I 
 can assure you Srila Prabhupada "liked" me and all of his devotees. 
 I don't know what else to say." 
 AM: 
 "So, what about your books?" 

 GG: 
 "In many ways 
 my book, DARK HORSE was meant to be a wake up call for Mr. Harrison, 
 but unfortunately, he missed the point and saw it simply as a 
 personal attack. The fact is, I have great affection 
 for George, but feel with the advantages he has had he should 
 have made better use of the power God had given him. Perhaps 
 if his human frailties were brought out into the open he might 
 begin to think more deeply about his life. Who knows, that 
 may have happened. I hope that it did. 
 " All 
 of my books are honest portrayals of my subjects. I invent nothing 
 but if it happened I, as a journalist and truth teller will include 
 it. I have no interest in making people look good or bad, rather, 
 I simply investigate all material for accuracy then include it 
 when verified. That's all any reporter/author can and should 
 do. To "clean up" peoples images is what PR people do. 
 "My 
 next book is called LENNON IN AMERICA 1971-1980. 
 "I 
 am a very misunderstood person, but I no longer care about that. 
 My passion these days is that people should understand that life 
 is a spiritual journey. That they are not their body, but 
 rather, a soul within a body. That we are all a qualitative 
 spark of the Supreme Lord Sri Krsna. And finally, since 
 God is in everything, we should take no life in vain, especially 
 our friends, the animals. 
 "Beyond 
 that, I don't really have much to say except I urge your readers 
 to please chant: 

 HARE 
 KRSNA HARE KRSNA 
 KRSNA KRSNA HARE HARE 
 HARE RAMA HARE RAMA 
 RAMA RAMA HARE HARE 

 and 
 you life will become sublime. 
 "We 
 are all potential Messiahs. It is not an exclusive mantle 
 only to be worn by a select few. Therefore we are all here 
 in this world to not only wake up ourselves, but our brothers 
 as well. By reading so many different spiritual books, by 
 so many authors you have perhaps become a little confused. 
 Why don't you sit down and seriously study the Bhagavad-gita As 
 It Is by Bhaktivedanta Swami? Remember, this book, above 
 all others, has helped shape the consciousness of your hero, George 
 Harrison. Even if you have read it before, read it again 
 with a really open mind and heart and I promise you the quality 
 of your life will greatly improve. 
 "George 
 Harrison is big boy and an advanced devotee in many respects. 
 I think perhaps it might be better for you not to meditate so 
 deeply on the particulars of this man's life, but rather, look 
 at your own. Life is very short and you have been given 
 a golden opportunity to realize your own innate spirituality. 
 Take that opportunity and run with it. The Beatles were good, 
 no doubt, but that's all done with now. I have left it behind 
 and so has George. What about you? I bow down to you for 
 your open heart and deep love." 
 AM: 
 "What about your life 
 on the 'Net? Do you have a web site?" 
 GG: 
 "Please bookmark our web sites: 

 http://www.neonblue.com/sri 

 http://www.neonblue.com/indigo 

 Would you also kindly add 
 us to your links?" 
 AM: 
 "So, why do you do what you 
 do?" 
 GG: 
 "All things considered I'm 
 sure it's much more interesting and important to see these artists 
 (like the Beatles) as they really are. Surely, the opportunity 
 to see our heroes as human beings is a valuable tool in understanding 
 their work as great artists. The faults, weaknesses, disappointments, 
 bad experiences as well as the greater good of these media personalities 
 all feed into the work which they produce. In order to really 
 understand and appreciate the art you have to first know the artist! 
 That requires a very close look at their lives. The fact is, books 
 I've authored such as JOHN LENNON MY BROTHER Forward By Paul McCartney; 
 THE LOST BEATLES INTERVIEWS; THE LOST JOHN LENNON INTERVIEWS; 
 THINGS WE'VE SAID TODAY CONVERSATIONS WITH THE BEATLES; THE ILLUSTRATED 
 SERIES; THE BEATLES A CELEBRATION and THE BEATLES ALBUM are all 
 virtually one hundred percent positive! Why people so unfairly 
 judge my eighteen books on the Beatles solely on DARK HORSE and 
 BLACKBIRD seems very strange and unreal to me. It's as if people 
 want to see the bad in others. At any rate, I am always happy 
 to hear from my readership no matter what their opinions and look 
 forward to a free exchange of ideas. I wish you all well both 
 now and in the future." 

 return 
 to home page 

 Direct 
 questions about this Site to Lynn 
 Harvey 

 Direct 
 questions about HariOnTour-L to Aya 
 B. Makarova 

 1999-2000 Lynn Harvey, Aya B. Makarova and HariOnTour 

 All 
 Rights Reserved