Hari Quotes 

 Hari Quotes 

 Compiled by Aya 
and Lee 

 "The human soul is potentially divine - the goal is to 
manifest that divinity" 

"I think people who can truly live a life in music are 
telling the world, "You can have my love, you can have my 
smiles. Forget the bad parts, you don't need them. Just take 
the music, the goodness, because it's the very best, and 
it's the part I give most willingly." " - George
Harrison 
[i guess it's religion-related =) -Aya.] 

"Up until LSD, I never realized that there was anything 
beyond this normal waking state of consciousness. But all 
the pressure was such that, as Bob Dylan said, "There must 
be some way out of here." I think for me it was definitely 
LSD. The first time I took it, it just blew everything away. 
I had such an incredible feeling of well-being, that there 
was a God and I could see Him in every blade of grass. It 
was like gaining hundreds of years of expirence within 
twelve hours. It changed me and there was no way back to 
what I was before. It wasn't all good, though, because it 
left quite a lot of questions as well." - George Harrison. 

"I still practice Transcendental Meditation and I think 
it's great. Marharishi only ever did good for us, and 
although I have not been with him physically, I never left 
him." - George Harrison 

"My life belongs the Lord Krishna now. I'm just the 
servant of Krishna. I've never been so humble in all my 
life, and I feel great!" - George Harrison 

"It is one of our perennial problems, whether there is 
actually a God. From the Hindu point of view each soul is 
divine. All religions are branches of one big tree. It 
doesn't matter what you call Him just as long as you call. 
Just as cinematic images appear to be real but are only 
combinations of light and shade, so is the universal variety 
a delusion. The planetary spheres, with their countless 
forms of life, are naught but figures in a cosmic motion 
picture. One's values are profoundly changed when he is 
finally convinced that creation is only a vast motion 
picture and that not in, but beyond, lies his own ultimate 
reality." - George Harrison 

"Through Hinduism, I feel a better person. I just get 
happier and happier. I now feel that I am unlimited, and I 
am more in control of my own physical body. The thing is, 
you go to an ordinary church and it's a nice feeling. They 
tell you all about God, but they don't show you how the way. 
They don't show you how to become Christ-concious yourself. 
Hinduism, however, is different." - George Harrison 

My translation from Spanish to English of George's Introduction
in the 
book: 

KRSNA, The Supreme Personality of God 

"All the world is searching for Krsna. Some may not be aware
of it, but 
that is what they're doing. 

Krsna is God, the origin of all that exists, the cause of
everything 
that is, was & will be. 

Since God is unlimited, He has many names. Allah, Buddha,
Jehovah, Rama: 
All are Krsna, all are one. God isn't abstract, he has equally as
many 
personal, as impersonal aspects in his personality, which is
supreme, 
eternal & pure consciousness. Like a drop of water has the
same 
qualities as an ocean of water, similarly does our conscience
contain 
the same qualities of God, but, due to our identification &
attachment 
to material energy (our bodies, senses, material possesions &
ego), our 
true transcendental consciousness is contaminated & like a
dirty mirror 
it is incapable of reflecting a pure image. 

Throughout much of our lives, our association with the temporary
has 
risen. This transitory body, a sack of bones & flesh, is
considered 
erroneously as our true body & we have accepted this
temporary condition 
as conclusive. 

Throughout the ages, great Saints have been living proof of this
eternal 
& permanent state of consciousness, that can be relived in
all living 
souls. Every soul is potentially divine. 

Krsna says in the Bhagavad~Gita: Remain always in the I,
liberating all 
contaminating material, the yogi reaches highest state &
perfected 
happiness of contact with God. 

Yoga, a scientific method for comprehending God (or I), is the
process 
where we purify our conscience, detain contamination, reach a
perfect 
state, pure consciousness & good feelings. 

If God exists, I want to see him. There's no sense believing in 
something without proof & meditation, Krsna consciousness are
methods 
from which to obtain a better perception of God. In that way you
can 
see, hear & play with God. Perhaps this may sound weird, but
God is 
really there next to you. 

There exists many branches of Yoga: Raja, Jnana, Hatha, Kriya
& Bhakti, 
of which each method is beneficial. 

The Swami Bhaktivedanta, as his title indicates, is a yogi who
follows 
Bhakti Yoga or devotion to God. Through serving God by each
thought, 
word, action & singing his sacred names, by which the devotee
quickly 
gains consciousness of God: 

Hare Krsna, Hare Krsna, Krsna Krsna, Hare Hare, Hare Rama, Rama
Rama, 
Hare Hare 

This is sung while walking. I ask that you take advantage of this
book, 
KRSNA, & understand it. I also ask that you make an
appointment to get 
to know God now, through the process of liberating oneself, Yoga
& give 
peace a chance." 

All you need is love, Hari Bol 

"The living thing that goes on, always has been, always will
be. I am 
not really George, but I happen to be in this body." 

"Everybody has to burn out karma and escape reincarnation
and all that." 

"these vibrations you get through yoga, cosmic chants and
things like 
that-I mean, it's such a buzz. It buzzes you right through the
astral 
plane." 

"Singing to the Lord or an individual is, in a way, the
same." 

George on Brian's death: 

"The Maharishi told us not to be too overshadowed by grief.
I have lost 
only a few people who were very close to me. This is one of those 
ocassions, but I feel my course on meditation here has helped me
to 
overcome my grief more easily than before." 

George on criticisms of his promoting the Maharishi: 

"the world is ready for a mystic revolution." 

-------------- 
"Silent meditation is rather dependant on concentration, but
when you 
chant, its more of a direct connection with God." 

George on Krishna Consciouness: 

"It was like a door opened somewhere in my subconscious,
maybe from a 
previous life." 

------------ 

George on lyrics from That Which I Have Lost: 

"right out of the Bhagavad Gita. In it I talk about fighting
the forces 
of darkness, limitations, falsehood & morality." 
George on 2~month trip to study in India with Ravi: 

"I went partly to learn and partly to see and learn as much
as I could 
about India as possible. I'd always heard stories about men in
caves in 
the Himalayas, hundreds of years old, and people who can
levitate, and 
people who get buried under the ground for six weeks and lots of
what 
the West would call mysticism. But when you get there you find
that this 
is happening all over the place, with people materializing left,
right 
and center. I know everybody has a different interpretation of
God, but 
whatever God is, by becoming one with that you naturally discover
every 
sort of law that governs. Thats why people like Jesus can make
these 
sort of miracles." 

---------------------- 

George one yr later, re~assesing experience in India & the
Beatles world 
influence: 

"Here everybody is vibrating on a material level, which is
nowhere. Over 
there [India], they have this great feeling of something else
thats just 
spiritual going on. Once you get to the point where you really
believe 
that you're harmonizing with a great power. The more I realize
that 
we're not doing it, The Beatles, but that someone else is doing
it." 

------------------- 

George on how his Spirituality helped him cope with Beatle fame: 

"You either go crackers and commit suicide, or you try and
use every 
incident in order to realize something and attach yourself more 
strongly to an inner strength. It helps me rise above the
heaviness 
we've all gone through and are still going through. Its all a
part of 
maya [illusion]." 

------------- 

 George giving an explanation on his beliefs in 1968: 

"It's basically a cosmic vision in which life on Earth is
but a fleeting 
illusion edged between lives past and future beyond physical
mortal 
reality. I don't know what as. You go on being reincarnated until
you 
reach the actual Truth. Heaven and Hell are just a state of mind.
We are 
all here to become Christ~like. The actual world is an illusion.
I'm 
beginning to know that all I know is that I know nothing." 

 Return to the HariOnTour Homepage