George Harrison FAQ 

 George Harrison FAQ 
 Compiled by 
 Diana 
 Poskrop and 
 Aya 
 B. Makarova 

 1. 
 When was George born? 
 Until recently, it was certain 
 that George was born at 12:10 a.m. on February 25, 1943. However, 
 while doing research for "Anthology," Billboard was told by George 
 that he had only recently learned that he was actually born at 
 11:42 p.m. on February 24, 1943. No explanation was given. According 
 to George's birth certificate, his sister and his mother, who 
 used to call George at that exact time (hey, she should know!), 
 George was born on February 25, 1943 at 12:10 a.m. 

 2. What's George's 
 marital status? 
 George has been married twice. 
 On January 21, 1966, George married Patricia Ann Boyd, a model 
 whom he had met on the set of "A Hard Day's Night." Patti played 
 one of the schoolgirls on the train and had one line: "Prisoners?" 
 She was born on March 17, 1945. Eric Clapton, who remains to this 
 day one of George's dearest friends, fell madly in love with Patti. 
 He wrote "Layla," among several other songs, for her. Eventually, 
 Patti returned his affection. This was not the sole cause of the 
 breakup of George and Patti's marriage. Near the end, George was 
 not always the most attentive husband. Their divorce was finalized 
 on June 9, 1977. George met his current wife, Olivia Trinidad 
 Arias, around 1974, when she was an assistant in the merchandising 
 department for A&M Records, American distributors for George's 
 Dark Horse Records label. Olivia was born in 1948 in Mexico. They 
 were married on September 2, 1978. 
 3. 
 Was "Something" written for Patti? 
 No, it was not. In an interview 
 available at http://www.best.com/~abbeyrd/ 
 George states that "everybody presumed that I wrote it about Patti, 
 but actually, when I wrote it, I was thinking of Ray Charles." 
 In his autobiography "I Me Mine," George says, "When I wrote it, 
 in my mind I heard Ray Charles singing it...." 
 4. Does George 
 have any children? 

 George and Olivia have 
 a son, Dhani (pronounced "Danny") who was born on August 1, 1978. 
 Dhani plays the guitar, but has no plans for a musical career. 
 George and Dhani recently visited Brown University in Rhode Island, 
 reportedly to check it out as a potential college for Dhani. 

 5. Why was George 
 sued for "My Sweet Lord"? 

 Infringement of copyright. Bright 
 Tunes Music Corp., which at the time owned the rights to a 1963 
 song "He's So Fine," claimed that George stole that song. The 
 words "My sweet Lord" and "He's so fine" use the same notes and 
 the same chord progression. George has said that he "wasn't consciously 
 aware of the similarity between" the two songs. In 1976, the case 
 went to court. District Judge Owen stated that he believed that 
 George did not intentionally lift the song. Nonetheless, under 
 infringement of copyright law, George was found guilty of "subconscious 
 plagiarism," and was ordered to pay $587,000 to Bright Tunes, 
 which George paid in 1981. By an ironic twist of fate, that money 
 went to former Beatles' manager Allen Klein who, in the interim, 
 had bought the song rights to "He's So Fine." 
 6. What significance 
 does the name "Dark Horse" have for George? 
 George has said that a 
 dark horse is "the one who suddenly pulls out from behind the 
 rest and barrels ahead to actually win the race. The one that 
 nobody's bothered to put any money on. That's me, I guess. The 
 very last one anyone would have ever expected to come out a winner." 
 And that George did! Throughout the existence of the Beatles, 
 he was overshadowed by the immense alents of John and Paul. A 
 few months after the Beatles broke up, his "All Things Must Pass" 
 astounded everyone as an artistic and commercial success. It is 
 arguably the best solo album by any of the AFKAB (artists formerly 
 known as Beatles). Another explanation is given by George in his 
 autobiography "I Me Mine." During the 1974 American tour, his 
 voice was almost gone, and so he was noticeably "hoarse" when 
 it came time to record the song "Dark Horse." 
 7. What religion 
 does George follow? 
 George's mother, Louise, 
 was Roman Catholic, and used to take her four children to Mass. 
 George was baptized Catholic. George states, "[Though] I almost 
 became a Catholic when I was 11 or 12, I couldn't relate to Christ 
 being the only Son of God." For the past 30 years, George has 
 followed a spiritual path rather than any organized religion. 
 His beliefs are closest to that of Vedanta, the main branch of 
 Hinduism. 
 8. What's the history 
 of George's interest in Eastern philosophy? 

 It was Patti who sparked George's 
 interest in Eastern philosophy and "all things Indian." She became 
 a member of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi's Spiritual Regeneration Movement 
 in February 1967. George and Patti started reading about meditation, 
 but made little progress. Patti found out that MMY would be giving 
 a lecture on Transcendental Meditation in London on August 24, 
 1967. She talked George into going, who in turn got John, Paul 
 and Ringo interested. On August 26, 1967, in Bangor, Wales, the 
 Beatles were initiated into MMY's International Meditation Society. 
 This visit was abruptly cut short by the death of Brian Epstein 
 on August 27, 1967. On February 16, 1968, George, Patti, John 
 and Cynthia, followed three days later by Paul, Jane, Ringo and 
 Maureen, went to Rishikesh, India to begin MMY's teacher's training 
 course in Transcendental Meditation. This too was cut short when 
 John and George got wind of a rumor that MMY was having a very 
 unspiritual relationship with one of his followers. In the late 
 60s, George became a devotee, but not a member, of ISKCON (International 
 Society for Krishna Consciousness), to which he donated large 
 amounts of time and money. ISKCON was founded in the late 60s 
 by His Divine Grace A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada. Srila 
 Prabhupada may be George's most influential spiritual mentor. 
 Just before his death in November 1977, Srila Prabhupada gave 
 instructions for his gold ring to be given to George-- a ring 
 which George still treasures. Other spiritual influences have 
 been Paramahansa Yogananda (1893-1952) whose Self-realization 
 Fellowship flourishes worldwide. Paramahansa Yogananda can be 
 seen on the cover of "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band." 
 George and Olivia are listed in the back of Deepak Chopra's most 
 recent books as devotees. The crux of George's spiritual practice 
 is Japa Yoga, the repetition of a sacred name or mantra, sometimes 
 with beads called "mala." George describes mantra as "mystical 
 energy encased in a sound structure...." George's devotion to 
 Krishna, who may somewhat accurately be considered the Hindu equivalent 
 to Christ, is undiminished. 
 9. Aside from music 
 and spiritual matters, what are George's interests? 

 George considers himself to be 
 a gardener, first and foremost, and has been known to be knee-deep 
 in fertilizer tending to the gardens of his mansion, Friar Park, 
 in Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire. His autobiography, "I Me Mine," 
 was dedicated "to gardeners everywhere." He's also a great fan 
 of Formula One motor racing, and travels all over the world to 
 follow the races. 
 10. What's this 
 about George being a movie producer? 

 When the Monty Python film, "The 
 Life of Brian," ran into financial difficulties, George, a huge 
 Monty Python fan, and Denis O'Brien, his former business manager 
 and partner, raised the money to produce it. George was credited 
 as "executive producer." This led to the formation of HandMade 
 Films. Sources vary as to when it was founded: Some say 1978, 
 others say August 1, 1980. HandMade Films produced 25 movies, 
 a few of which feature George in a cameo role. Pending a series 
 of lawsuits and box office disasters, HandMade Films was sold 
 in 1994 for $8.5 million. George sued Denis O'Brien and, on January 
 10, 1996, was awarded $11.6 million, which he has yet to collect. 
 11. How did George 
 and Ravi Shankar meet? 

 In June 1966, George and Ravi met 
 for the first time at the home of Peter Sellers. George and Patti 
 went to India from September 14 through October 22, 1966 so that 
 George could begin serious study of the sitar. While Ravi oversaw 
 George's progress, George's daily instruction was tended to by 
 Ravi's protege, Shambu Das. George and Ravi's personal and professional 
 relationship continues to this day. George has produced some of 
 Ravi's records, including his latest, "Chants of India." 

 12. What was the 
 Concert for Bangla Desh about? 

 Ravi Shankar told George about 
 the hardships suffered by the refugees of Bangla Desh, a country 
 near India. This is expressed in the song "Bangla Desh." Ravi 
 himself wanted to have a concert to raise money. But George was 
 so moved by the starvation and poverty caused by the war between 
 Bangla Desh and Pakistan, he offered to have a concert, knowing 
 he could raise more money than Ravi could on his own. Two shows 
 were held on August 1, 1971 at Madison Square Garden in New York 
 City. Performers included Ravi Shankar, Ringo Starr, Eric Clapton, 
 Bob Dylan, Billy Preston and Leon Russell. A 3-record set and 
 a video were made of the concert. Though the concert raised $15 
 million, the money was held in escrow. Much to George's disgust, 
 to this day, it's not clear how much made its way to the refugees 
 of Bangla Desh. 
 13. I don't have 
 any of George's solo albums. Where do I start? 

 "All Things Must Pass" is his best 
 album. However, the 2-CD set doesn't have a high quality of sound. 
 "The Best of Dark Horse" and "The Best of George Harrison" are 
 good to get an overall view of George's music. The latter consists 
 half of George's songs that were recorded by the Beatles, and 
 half of solo works. "Cloud Nine" is another favorite. 
 14. What about 
 the Traveling Wilburys? 
 Also an excellent choice, except 
 that their two albums are no longer being sold. The Traveling 
 Wilburys was George's baby. Warner Brothers asked him to do a 
 new song to back "This is Love," a bonus single to help promote 
 "Cloud Nine." He got together with Jeff Lynne and the late Roy 
 Orbison. Bob Dylan and Tom Petty soon joined. The five rock superstars 
 recorded "Handle With Care," and were so pleased with their efforts, 
 that they decided to do an entire album together. Hence, the Traveling 
 Wilburys was born! 
 15. What music 
 awards has George won? 

 In 1972, "The Concert for Bangla 
 Desh" won a grammy for Album of the Year. In 1989, "The Traveling 
 Wilburys Vol. 1" won a grammy for Best Rock Vocal, Duo or Group 
 with Vocal. George was also nominated for Grammy awards for "All 
 Things Must Pass," "My Sweet Lord," the video for "When We Was 
 Fab," and "The Traveling Wilburys Vol. 1." 
 16. What plans 
 does George have for the future? 

 According to an interview published 
 in August's edition of Billboard magazine, he is going to release 
 a new LP and maybe a box set some time next year. He said that 
 the album will be called "Portrait of a Leg End" [sic] and the 
 box set might or might not be titled "Portrait of a Boot Leg". 
 17. 
 I want to learn more about George. What would you suggest? 

 There are two biographies available: 
 "Dark Horse: The Life and Art of George Harrison" by Geoffrey 
 Giuliano, and "The Quiet One: A Life of George Harrison" by Alan 
 Clayson. Both are available from Bealtefest and bookstores. Readers 
 should be aware that "Dark Horse" makes considerable use of artistic 
 license. In 1980, George wrote an autobiography, "I Me Mine," 
 which is out-of-print. Though it's strangely uninformative with 
 regard to George's life, his commentaries on every song he wrote 
 up to 1979 make it worth the price of admission. In the Playboy 
 interviews conducted during September 1980, John expressed his 
 anger that George had neglected him in "I Me Mine." What John 
 didn't seem to notice was that George neglected pretty much everyone! 
 He seems much happier discussing spiritual matters, gardening 
 and motor racing than people. Sadly, John and George never made 
 up before John was murdered. John and George fought about many 
 things, but always made up. Had there been time, surely that would 
 have been the case in this matter, as well. There's also a fan 
 club, The Harrison Alliance. The address is: 

 Patti Murawski 
 67 Cypress Street 
 Bristol, CT 06010 
 USA 

 Direct questions 
 about this Site to Lynn 
 Harvey 
 Direct questions about HariOnTour-L 
 to Aya 
 B. Makarova 
 1999-2001 Lynn Harvey, Aya 
 B. Makarova and HariOnTour 
 All Rights Reserved