Molly, Muffy, Mopsy, and Mushy 

 Muffy, Molly (their human),
 and Mopsy, Christmas, 1998. 
 At the time of the photo, Muffy was 7, Mopsy was 5, and Molly was...well,
 um, somewhere beyond 39! 

 September, 1999. 
 Muffy and Mopsy celebrating a birthday with two of Molly's
 graduate-student assistants. Muffy must be licking her lips for more cake! 

 Molly and her two girls--Mopsy
 (on the left) and Muffy (on the right). 
 A happy Christmas, 1999. The following winter, Muffy fell ill, and she
 went to doggie heaven on Feb. 11, 2001. She is still loved and missed by
 Molly, Mopsy, and friends. 

 Mushy (b. New
 Year's Eve) and Mopsy (b. Jan. 6, 1993) in March, 2001. 
 Mushy is the newest addition. He and his big sister, Mopsy, have become
 great pals and playmates!

 Mushy, April, 2001 
 Mushy at about 14 weeks of age, already a "Smiling Samoyed"! 

 Mushy and Molly, April 2001 
 Mushy, getting to be a big boy, but
 not quite ready to start piano lessons. (Mush, look over here at
 the camera!) 

 Mushy at the Front Door 
 "Hey, I'd really rather be outside--playing in the grass, chasing
 rabbits, eating leaves, putting pebbles in my mouth, and generally making
 mischief. Please let me out!"

 Mushy at 5 months, enjoying the friendly 
 company of another of Molly's grad.-student assistants. 

 Mopsy helping Molly in home office. (Mopsy's 
 just getting ready to send an e-mail to SamFans!) 

 And here's Mushy also helping Molly in the 
 home office. (Note the difference in Mopsy's and Mushy's approaches to hard 
 work.) 

 Mushy decides to take a Diet Coke break 
 after a hard day's work in Molly's office. He's got only one problem: "Help! 
 I can't get my head out of this box!" 

 Mushy at age 7 months, just after being 
 neutered. He chewed out most of his stitches on the first day post-op, so 
 "Mom" put him in a t-shirt and, using safety pins, closed it to prevent 
 Mushy from carrying out additional surgical procedures on himself. (It 
 worked.) 

 Summer of 2001: Mopsy at age 8 
 years and Mushy at age 8 months. Here Mopsy can be seen happily babysitting 
 her little brother. (She gets paid one doggie treat per hour.) 

 FastCounter by bCentral