South Lake Union Development Plans 

 South Lake Union Development Plans 
 by Bob Fleming 
 My opinions about plans to develop 
the South Lake Union area in Seattle, Washington. 

 The Fleming Family home page 
 My Monorail web site 
 My mass transit web site 

My name is Bob Fleming, and I am very interested in seeing development of 
the area in Seattle known as South Lake Union, or SLU. However I am concerned 
about the potential the potential effects on small businesses in the area, 
about transportation issues, and about reasonable development, including 
public parks.

History

The area under discussion lies immediately northeast of Downtown Seattle and 
extends about one mile northward to the south shore of Lake Union. The area 
is about a half-mile wide.

In the past few decades this area has been primarily occupied by various 
small businesses. There are very few residences in the area. Denny Park 
occupies one block at the southwest corner and there are a couple of 
churches just north of that. Recently another small park has been built 
just east of Denny Park.

A few years ago Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen sponsored a drive to 
develop the area as Seattle Commons. It would have included a long 
public park running north and south from Denny Way north to Lake Union, with 
high-rise housing and office space lining the west and east sides of the 
park. It would have been a scaled-down version of Manhattan&rsquo;s 
Central Park.

The plan called for taxpayer support and failed at the polls.

More recently several high-tech companies have sprung up in the northeast 
part of the area, around the southeast part of Lake Union.

Paul Allen is now pushing for futher development to attract more high-tech 
businesses to the area.

Current Plans

Current plans include a street car line that would extend from somewhere on the north side of the Downtown Area to the area around the southeast shore of Lake Union.

Other plans include various improvements to streets and utlities, and more park space.

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

 &copy;2003 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 

 This page was last updated 22 November 2005.

 Our internet service provider and web host is