html version: http://amasci.com/tesla/ballsci.html

old .txt version below



















Excerpted from THE BLIND EYE OF SCIENCE, by Ron Westrum, in "Fringes of
Reason, a Whole Earth Catalog", 1989, Point Foundation

THE SELF-CONSTRUCTED MODEL

In 1819, Ernst Chladni reflected back on his struggles for the recognition
of meteorites.  While the Enlightenment, the 18th century intellectual
movement that examined accepted doctrines of the time, had brought certain
benefits, he felt it also brought with it certain intellectual problems.
Now scientists "thought it necessary to throw away or reject as error
anything that did not conform to a self-constructed model."  The very
success of scientific experiment and theory had led to a misplaced
confidence that *what was real was already within the circle of science.*
What was outside, therefore, what did not conform to scientists' theories,
could be dismissed by invoking scientific authority and by ignoring or
ridiculing observations not supported by it.

More recently, in 1979, the medical researcher Ludwik Fleck noted in his
book The Genesis and Development of a Scientific Fact a very similar
trend.  He wrote:

     What we are faced with here is not so much simple passivity or
     mistrust of new ideas as an active approach which can be divided into
     several stages.

     (1) A contradiction to the system appears unthinkable

     (2) What does not fit into the system remains unseen;

     (3) alternatively, if it is noticed, either it is kept secret, or

     (4) laborious efforts are made to explain an exception in terms that
         do not contradict the system.

     (5) Despite the legitimate claims of contradictory views, one
         only tends to see, describe, or even illustrate those
         circumstances which corroborate current views and thereby give
         them substance. 

What does not fit the theory is thus excluded.  The anomalous event is
forced outside the official circle of consciousness into a kind of outlaw
existence.

This happened with the unusual luminous phenomenon known as "ball
lightning."  This form of lightning appears as a luminous ball, usually
smaller than a basketball, and is quite short-lived (usually less than a
minute.)  It has a long history of observation, but for many decades was
an outlaw event in meteorology.  In the 1930s, W. J. Humphreys, an
influential official in the U.S. Weather Bureau, had argued persuasively
that ball lightning was probably an optical illusion.  There was
subsequently little mention of ball lightning in meteorology textbooks,
and persons with scientific training who observed ball lightning generally
kept quiet about it.  When commented upon, it was described as a rare
event.  One of the reasons that it appeared to be a rare event is shown in
anecdotes like the following, which appeared in THE LIGHTNING BOOK by
Peter Viemeister.

   During the summer of 1937 several technical observers on duty at 500
   5th Ave, during the Empire State Building lightning program, saw what
   might be interpreted as ball lightning, not once but four times.  One 
   of the engineers, now the chief technical executive of a large power
   company, saw a bluish luminescence slowly descend the 38-foot tower of
   the Empire State Building after four of the ten or eleven strokes that
   hit the tower that evening.  Fearing that his colleagues would regard
   him as a lightning-ball "quack", he was hesitant to speak about what
   he had seen, but decided to mention it anyway.  Suprisingly several of
   the others admitted seeing the same things.  These observations were
   omitted from the technical reports since they did not appear on the
   recording cameras nor on the oscillograph records. 

Thus, because there is no *spontaneous reporting* of the anomalous event,
scientists may assume that there is no event to be reported.  That this
might be a self-fulfilling prophecy is hardly considered.  Part of the
problem, of course, is that no one is *asked* whether they have seen an
unclassified phenomenon.  When surveys of technical personnel regarding
ball lightning *were* done in 1966 at two national laboratories, many
meteorologists were surprised to discover that four percent of the
potential observers in one laboratory had seen it.  This hardly qualifies
as a rare event!

The problem with ball lightning is that no one has yet found a
satisfactory theory to explain it.  It is tempting for physicists to
argue, as some in fact have, that since it can't be explained, it probably
doesn't exist!  (i.e., if it doesn't fit the self-constructed model, it's
not real.)  So thousands of ball lightning sightings were ruled
inadmissible and ignored.  In the last decade or so, a much more positive
attitude has prevailed, but the phenomenon is still far from completely
accepted. 

A similar thing happened with "meteor noise"...
(see http://www.jse.com/v7n4a1.html journal abstract, meteor noise)
