UP TO:  Main Ball-Lightning Page
http://amasci.com/tesla/ballgtn.html

from THE NATURE OF BALL LIGHTNING, (c)1971 Stanley Singer
Plenum Press, 1971

THE QUESTION OF THE EXISTENCE OF BALL LIGHTNING

The most frequent question encountered in the long history of the study of
ball lightning is not how the ball is formed or what its properties are,
controversial as these problems may be.  It is, rather, whether ball
lightning really exists.  Even following Arago's discussion of this
question in 1838, to the present day a skeptical view has been repeatedly
expressed.  The obstacles to direct experimental study by well established
scientific methods and the failure of theories to provide either a
satisfying or a conclusive explanation account in large part for the
persistent skepticism. 

This attitude on the question of ball lightning is not a unique problem in
the history of science.  The fall of meteors to earth was long considered
a superstition of ignorant peasants.  Despite repeated observation of
these fiery bodies the controversy at one point caused the removal and
destruction of rare meteorite specimens from museum collections on grounds
they were fraudulent objects of superstition.  A thorough analysis of the
question in 1794 by Chladni, a physicist whose major work was in
acoustics, contained the conclusion that such objects do not originate on
the earth and that they indeed fall from the sky.  Chladni's study was
based on observations by reliable witnesses and data on samples of
meteorites, many of which were entirely unlike all the materials in the
area where they were found.  His result was, however, not widely accepted. 
The reality of the phenomenon was finally established by the appearance of
thousands of stony meteorites in 1803 at L'Aigle, France.  The reports of
many reliable witnesses and a great number of actual specimens were cited
in the authentication of the event by the physicist Biot for the French
Academy of Sciences. 

In the negative view of the existence of ball lightning the reported
observations are ascribed to mistaken identification of other luminous
natural objects and to optical illusions.  Meteors are often held
responsible for supposed appearances of ball lightning.  Several reports
originally identified in the literature as ball lightning appear to have
been meteors.  The flight of meteors, however, is almost invariably seen
as a straight line, in contrast to the characteristic path of ball
lightning which is often curved.  Ball lightning furthermore appears
during storms with very few exceptions, while meteors are observed only by
a great coincidence at such times.  AN ordinary lightning flash seen by an
observer directly in its path may appear to be a ball.  In the optical
illusion which may result, the intense light from the flash persists as an
optical image even when the observer changes his field of view.  This it
is suggested that the false image of the ball appears to follow a complex
path. 

Arago in the first comprehensive discussion of ball lightning took notice
of this problem.  In addition to the presentation of a number of evidently
reliable observations he pointed out that an observer viewing the descent
of the ball at an angle from the side is not subject to the optical
illusion described. Arago's arguments were evidently effective with
Faraday, who in rejecting theories that ball lightning is an electrical
discharge took care to state that he did not deny the existence of these
globes.  The editor of the German edition of Arago's complete work,
however had the temerity to insert a footnote with the categoric remark,
"Ball lightning is the result of the action on the retina of the intense
light of ordinary lightning" in Arago's chapter on this form of lightning. 

Fifty years after the first publication of Arago's review of this problem
the persistence of the image of ordinary lightning traveling directly
towards the observer was again proposed, and Lord Kelvin at the meeting of
the British Association for the Advancement of Science in 1888 commented
that ball lightning is an optical illusion from a bright light.  The
uniform size reported in many cases of ball lightning was ascribed to an
illusion associated with the blind spot of the eye. 

A direct discussion between opponents in this long controversy took place
during a meeting of the French Academy of Sciences in 1890.  A large
number of luminous globes resembling ball lightning appeared in a torrent
which was the subject of a report to the Academy.  The glowing spheres
entered dwellings through chimneys, bored circular holes in windows, and
generally displayed the highly unusual behavior ascribed to ball
lightning.  Following the presentation of this communication a member of
the Academy commented that the extraordinary properties attributed to ball
lightning should be considered with reservations since it seemed the
observers were suffering from optical illusions.  In the heated discussion
which followed, the observations which had been made by uneducated
peasants were declared of no value; whereupon the former Emperor of
Brazil, a foreign member of the Academy attending the meeting, remarked
that he too had seen the lightning.

http://amasci.com/tesla/ballexst.txt


