
Reply-To: USA-TESLA@list.usa.net
Sender: USA Tesla List <USA-TESLA@USA.NET>
From: James P Moore <jmoore@>
To: Multiple recipients of list USA-TESLA <USA-TESLA@USA.NET>
Subject: Kitchen Cooked Ball Lightning
X-To: USA-TESLA@list.usa.net
Date: Thu, 12 Jun 97 17:33:17 +0000

At 03:59 AM 6/12/97 GMT, you wrote:
>On Wed, 11 Jun 1997 10:09:42 -0500, James P Moore
><jmoore@>, you wrote:
>
>[snip]
>
>>Very interesting.... i wonder if Ralph was pullin our legs?
>
>Don't know just, I couldn't recreate his experiment.
>
>>If not, then
>>we need more info on the type of his microwave, power rating, and if it
>>had a rotating platform. Did your oven rotate?
>NO, my oven is quit stationary on the kitchen counter as it ran;)
>Yes, mine has a rotating platter in it. I however, placed the candle
>and match very near the center of the platter.
>
>
>        jim
>>I havn't tried it yet, but
>>after your report is in stark conflict with Ralphs.... tonight is the night,
>>for my trial run. My oven rotates, if this makes any difference. We'll see
>>what mine does. later...........

Well Jim I produced some amazing Simulated Ball Lightning last night! The
Ralph protocol WORKS, well! I tried a small one inch tall candle, after
removing the metal wick retainer at the bottom, and placed it in a small
ceramic bowl, light it and place the MW on high. Watched for almost a minute,
and nothing happens, as you reported. I was discouraged! My MW also has
a rotating carousel, and so I removed that and tried again, and nothing!

So... I placed a round wooden toothpick in a makeshift plastic holder, light
it and cranked the MW on high, after watching for 10-15 seconds, things
began to happen! First a little sputtering from the previously burn wood
charcoal-flame interface zone.... then some brilliant white flashes from
the charcoal, then ERUPTION..... BBBOOOOZZZUUUMMMM.... a purple sphere
popped out of the white flash, and rose to the roof, and rolled around
briefly, before being sucked toward the intake for the ventilation fan!

This was stationary with no rotation, then the purple buzzzzing spheres
began to erupt with more intensity and frequency, as the toothpick burned
down. I was too involved in watching these plasmoid fire balls roll around
the oven, to notice that the small wooden stick had burned into the plastic
holder, and when that happened WOW, talk about plasma balls...........

I thought that the oven might not withstand such a quantity of frolicking
ionized plasma, pervading the domain, so I shut it off, and extinguished
the weakly burning plastic. This was so exciting that I had to try variations
in an attempt to understand what was happening, and why the candle did not
work, but the wood did. Also the buzzzzing noise seemed to be coming from
the Ionized Plasmoids, and not the transformer, but I could be wrong.

After thinking a bit and deciding that carbon must have a key role to play
in this phenomenon, I decided to take the small candle and poke a toothpick
into the wax so that the wick and the wooden pick, were making contact.
When I tried this, on a rotated plate, I got nicely space and somewhat smaller
Plasmoids, and since the wax kept the wood going longer, I watched these
things crawl all over the inside of the oven, and some even went across the
ceiling and down the wall, before puffing out!

This was great fun, but my mind was still cooking, so......... I kept thinking
sooty smoke from the plastic was a good source but too toxic, wood which
left a
good matrix of carbon, was also a good fuel for the plasmoids, now what else
could be used......?  I set down for a while popped a top, and let the MW,
cool
down a bit, because when I felt the walls inside, they were very warm.

After downing half my brew... I went for the old empty bag of charcoal
briquettes
that I had not thrown away after last weekends barbecued chicken. After
shaking
it a bit I inverted it over a large plate and obtained a nice quantity of
simi-
powdered carbon to play with, working on the hypothesis that vaporized carbon,
was an underlying factor in obtaining good ionized Plasmoids.

Tried placing the powdered carbon an a rotated and non-rotated plate, and
nothing.
Then I remembered what Ed had said about steel wool doing something in the MW.
So I place a small dab of SW on the rotating plate fired up the HF-RF and the
SW, began to sparkle a bit as it slowly burned, but no Synthetic Ball
Lightning.
You can guess what the next logical thing to do was............ FINISH THE
BEER,
right? NO..... I sprinkles the charcoal powder sparsely about on another
dab of
steel wool, with a small pile in the center, and fired up the MW on high
again,
in rotating mode.

Well..... the wool began to burn, then I saw little white sparks popping
out from
various regions of the wool, and I assumed that these were specks of carbon
that
were ignited, by the combusting steel wool. Soon.... some Plasmoids began to
materialize and buzz about the oven, as with the wood, but they became more
vigorous and persisted longer before fading from existence, after the
carbonized
steel had burned for a while, the reaction continued to intensify, one of the
Plasmoids must have lasted for 4-5sec, and was the size of not a golf ball...
but an orange, and was very beautiful.

This particular Plasmoid went to the top of the oven as usual after erupting,
then crawled down the wall, and went back to the top and found a place
near the front of the oven, by the door about 4 inches from my dumb-founded
wide open eyes, then proceeded to remain stationary, and was quite spherical!
It persisted for so long, that I was afraid that since it was remaining in
one spot, that it would damage the MW, so I shut the experiment down!
WOWWWW, what a site that one was!!!

After examining the inside of the oven for damage from this most beautiful
Ball Of Plasma, I did find a tiny spot that corresponded to it's favorite
spot, and although most of the spot wiped off, there did appear to be the
beginning of an electrically etched surface erosion in the porcelain coating
or what ever it is on the inside of the oven. It looked almost like a tiny
arc welded spot. Well after last night fun, I BELIEVE EVERY WORD THAT RALPH
RELATED to the list!!!

I do believe that vaporized or ionized carbon is a key factor in successfully
creating these interesting Plasmoids, that may have a LOT in common with
natural Ball Lightning? Tesla was rumored to use powder carbon, in his
creation of Laboratory Ball Lightning. However, to my knowledge, nobody has
ever reproduced his technique, in doing this.

Now thanks to modern MW oven technology, maybe scientists can easily
create and study these interesting Plasma phenomena, under controlled
conditions,  to find out more about the mystery of Ball Lightning,
and other related plasma phenomena? This rarely observed phenomenon, is
poorly documented, and even more poorly understood!

Based on what little that I have observed last night....
I would bet that if a person could find a way to place a High Voltage
carbon arc, inside a microwave chamber that some really awesome Laboratory
Ball Lightning could be produced! By vaporization of carbon, by the HV arc,
while in the electric field of a MW cavity!

There also may be different MW frequencies that alter or
enhance the properties of these interesting Plasmoid Phenomena? I hope that
someone will want to study this in a truly scientific way, if it hasn't
been done previously, and to my knowledge, it hasn't. IMO, there might be
some useful information that might be obtained by a detailed scientific
study of this interesting phenomenon! Ralph... you speak the TRUTH!!! ;)

JPM
