From Steve_Crawshaw_at_erith6@supertension.comSat Aug 19 21:51:53 1995
Date: Thu, 17 Aug 1995 06:35:18 -0600
From: Steve_Crawshaw_at_erith6@supertension.com
Reply to: usa-tesla@usa.net
To: billbeskimo.com
Subject: reply to glowing pickles

     OK. Tricks to do with TC's
     
     1) get perspex sheet, luminous powder or paint, silicone sealant and iron 
     or copper filings
     
     2) if you have paint, paint the perspex in the luminous paint (quite a 
     thick layer)
     
     3) if you have powder, mix the powder with the clear silicone sealant until 
     the paste is homogenous
     
     4) when the paste is mixed, spread evenly onto the perspex sheet
     
     5) while the paste (or paint) is still wet / uncured, sprinkle iron or 
     copper filings onto the sheet and press gently to embed them into the 
     paste / paint
     
     6) allow this to dry (24 hrs)
     
     this sheet can then be held close to the TC terminal. Sparks and streamers 
     will jump onto the sheet and track across the iron filings for a much 
     longer distance than in air. The luminous paint will have the effect of 
     creating "trails" of ghost streamers, as the paint stores the energy of 
     the sparks and re-emits a short time later. To top it off, lay the sheet 
     flat and have some dry ice with a beaker of water suspended over it so 
     that the smoke drifts over the surface of the sheet while the sparks are 
     tracking. If you really want this to look good take a dose of LSD about 1 
     hour beforehand (only joking)       or am I ?
     
     
     
     On the same tip as plasma globes, has anyone tried using large thermionic 
     valves? These are filled with some quite exotic gases sometimes and can 
     give some very beautiful effects. Unfortunately when I tried it, they did 
     not last too long :-( maybe they're not designed for >100kv.
     
     
     Another good trick is to get a phonecard (UK) and hold it near the output 
     terminal (not close enough to spark) and look at the silver lines that run 
     across the card. you can see small but definite sparking between these 
     lines. This is probably due to the card acting as a tuned circuit??
     
     
     Have fun!
     
     Steve Crawshaw
