
OBSOLTE FILE!

Moved to http://amasci.com/tesla/tradio.html


























TESLA INVENTED RADIO?                                     1997 W. Beaty

> In all of the mass comm books I have used over the past 20 years credit
> for early development in radio goes to Marconi, Fessenden, De Forest
> and Armstrong.  On occasion, and seldom at that, Tesla is mentioned. But
> he is never discussed as a major player in the beginnings of radio.

The books don't mention that Marconi's powerful transmitter was a Tesla 
coil, nor do they point out that Marconi's radio patents were later struck 
down because of Tesla's prior art.

Tesla's problem was that he set his sights too high.  He didn't bother
with radio communication between transmitter and receiver.  Instead he was
aiming for a centralized *worldwide* radio communication system and
wireless power distribution system.  He failed at this.  Another major
problem was that Tesla apparently did not take Marconi seriously, and so
Tesla did not fiercely defend his work when it was stolen.  The history of
Radio was written by the winners, and since the winners' success was based
on the stolen transmitter invention, they certainly avoided mentioning
Tesla!

Initially Tesla rejected fame and wealth, and gave away his ideas via
lectures, rather than employing secrecy and courtroom patent-battles.  He
also made the mistake of attempting to perfect his entire system before
releasing it to the world, rather than releasing it immediately and then
improving it over time.  He made radio possible, but his own dreams
failed.  He invented modern radio, but made such serious business mistakes
that the recognition (to say nothing of the money!) was given to others.

The simplified history: Tesla, the expert in high frequency, high power
systems, follows a vision of worldwide instantaneous communication and
invents a radio TRANSMITTER whose output power far outstrips anything of
the period, and which is based on several key Tesla techniques: rotary
spark gap, lumped resonance (rather than antenna resonance,) capacitor
energy storage, and a ground connection.  Radio recievers already existed
(the coherer, NOT invented by Marconi but by Branly.)  Earlier radio
systems existed, but had extremely limited range.  Tesla's amazing
transmitter put out 1000 to 10,000 times the power of existing
transmitters, and made worldwide communication feasible.  This was the
status in 1893, with several patents granted to Tesla in 1898 and on.  
Besides the transmitter, Tesla's inventions also included the four tuned
circuits of modern radio systems: a transmitter and receiver at both ends
of a radio link, all four using tuning.

Next stage: Marconi takes the Branly coherer and Tesla's inventions, and
commercializes them. But Tesla ignores this threat, believing that his
completed "world system"  will be far superior than Marconi's
demonstration, so Tesls pursues power transmission rather than simple
communications alone, and he says something to the effect "good luck to
Marconi, he's using seventeen of my patents."

Tesla also remains aloof from the community of early radio developers
while single-mindedly pursuing his own vision.  Nearly twenty years later
Tesla finally takes Marconi to court.  He loses!  Though Tesla's patents
were prior to Marconi, Marconi had the press behind him.  Marconi also had
both the US government as well as big business behind him, and this
probably was the reason why Marconi's patents went through in the first
place.  Tesla was an unknown, and the judge was not a technical expert.
Tesla loses his R&D financing in later decades, while Marconi's company is
wildly successful.  Tesla is not vindicated until 1946, when the US
Supreme court reverses the old decision, strikes down the Marconi patents,
and awards priority to Tesla #645,576.

See:
http://home.navisoft.com/horn/inventor.htm

Also: "Tesla, Man out of Time", Margaret Cheney, especially "The Great
Radio Controvery."  This book references as a thorough account an article
"Priority of Invention of Radio - Tesla vs. Marconi", from The Antique
Wireless Association No. 4, March 1980.  (I haven't tracked this down.) 

Why is Tesla ignored today?  Of course there's the old saw that "history
is written by the winners".  This remains true even if the winners used
dishonest means.  But there are better explanations.  Tesla lectured about
his discoveries, and in a very short time his ideas were incorporated into
the technical culture of the period.  When this happens, people of the
time tend to deny that a single inventor originated the ideas, and they
tend to believe that the ideas simply arose spontaneously in many places,
or by unnoticed team effort.  Historians of much later decades are
particularly prone to this mastake.  The history of the Wright Brothers
followed a similar path; the Wrights published articles about their
boxkite-winged glider, and within a few years everyone was copying it and
assuming that this was the "natural way to proceed."  Only in hindsight
does the overwhelming influence of the Wrights' boxkite-glider become
obvious.  And so with radio, inventors copied Tesla without realizing it,
assuming that his methods were simply the "obvious way" it should be done.  
High-power transmitter systems, high frequency resonance and grounding,
the keys to successful radio, were thought to be "in the air," and only
through the hindsight of today can we see that Tesla, and not Marconi, was
the one who put them there.

My own experience as a textbook consultant points to another reason why
Tesla is ignored:  reference books support each other.  Reference books in
many ways strive for consistency rather than for truth.  To an extent they
are "inbred", and to an extent their information is not absolute truth,
but rather is a consensus perception of the truth.  However, most authors
would vigorously deny this embarrassing view, and would prefer to believe
that reference books contain only truth.  In other words, since most books
say the same thing, they must all be correct, no?  No.  Not if the goal of
consensus is placed higher than the goal of accuracy.  If concensus is
more important than fact, then the books would be expected to all agree,
whether their concensus facts were correct or not.

For this reason it is nearly impossible to change the contents of text and
reference books, even if the material in them is clearly erroneous.  If
all the books say the same thing, no single author is willing to buck the
majority and stand out from the crowd.  After all, that many books
couldn't be wrong!  Yet if they are, then acknowledging this fact would
rub our noses in the fragility of the foundations of our whole system of
knowledge.  And so our maintaining of a unified front of "illusory
truthfulness" becomes more important to us than the correcting of
mistakes. If we must maintain respect for reference books at any cost,
then whenever they all make major flubs, we don't correct those flubs.  
We don't even see them, since we automatically indulge in unsupported
disbelief, blindness, and denial.

If a major mistake regarding Tesla's priority to inventing Radio is made
in 1915, and if this mistake is not officially righted until 1946, then
reference books and textbooks had thirty years to mistakenly elevate
Marconi as the inventor of radio.  How many decades do you think it would
take before the thirty years of Marconi-worship finally wears off, before
the textbook concensus shifts and begins to recognize Tesla?  Well, fifty
years have passed, and clamor to recognize Tesla is finally starting to be
heard.  However, the major players currently dismiss it as coming from
fringe groups and "Tesla worshippers."  I suspect that it will take far
longer than fifty years before all the textbooks finally reverse
themselves.  It can only happen slowly, so nobody is threatened or
embarrassed.  Politics and face-saving becomes far more important than
historical accuracy!  The real story must invade the books slowly, so no
one is directly forced to confront the staggering extent of this
historical error.

(((((((((((((((((( ( (  (   (    (O)    )   )  ) ) )))))))))))))))))))
William J. Beaty                            SCIENCE HOBBYIST website
billb at amasci com                         http://amasci.com
EE/programmer/sci-exhibits   amateur science, hobby projects, sci fair
Seattle, WA  425-222-5066    unusual phenomena, tesla coils, weird sci
