cornercabinet 

 Pick out what
 you want. 
 This list is only what is in the corner cabinet at the end
 of the davenport. 

 Things stored in Frank Browns Cabinet 

 Click here to see what is 
in the upper part of the main cabinet 

 Check what is in the main cabinet
 here 

 Click here to see the things on the 
 lower shelf of the main cabinet . 

 Much more to come. New stuff all the time. 

 . 
 Praying hands brass casting. 
 Two ceramic. Old 

 Chinese Figurine 

 High Quality Ceramic
container good for stamps 

 Two Ceramic Clowns 

 Six sided leaded glass container for 
jewelry etc. 

 Picture of Cora Jane Agnew. From a Whitman 
 candy box containing letters, papers, pictures regarding family history. 
 The declaration by Frank Smith of his intention to become a citizen 
 in 1907. A real historical record.. I will show a couple 
more things as I took the pictures but they are not in order. Picture of 
Thomas Agnew. Other things in the box are, Order of funeral service 
for Adella Smith. Certificate of discharge in Liverpool for Frank Smith. 
 Record of Confirmation of Estrella Smith at the Mission Delores Church 
in SF. Confirmation was in 1871. The letter from the Church 
was to Vivian Stratton in 1941. A lot more is in the box. 

 Cora Jane Potter Agnew 

 The Agnew picture is in the Whitman Box 

 Some sort of a corer owned by either 
Minnie Brown or Minnie Smith. 
 Another hand carved African letter opener.
 Very old. 
 Picture of Frank Smiths declaration
in the Whitman Candy box. 
 A pair of little dolls in costume. I 
don't know which country 

 Ceramic egg cup.. 
 Frosted glass bedside jewelry container 

 Green plastic letter opener with eagle
 handle 
 Hand Carved Armadillo unknown type of 
wood 
 Funeral Service for Estrella Smith 

 The funeral service record is from the Whitman box 
 The Ivory letter opener is probably from St. Lawrence Island. 

 Picture from box of Thomas Agnew 

 Leather lipstick holder for purse 

 Wooden brass reinforced container for 
Frankincense and Myrrh 
 Special arrow from New Guinea 

 Painting on a chard from N. Mexico 

 Plaster angel one of three for Christmas
 decoration. They are about 10 inches tall. Real nice for a fireplace 

 Picture of little girl on swing. Painted
 on wood 
 Unusual Chinese pin cousin. A pair. 

 Gilded plaster angel. About 7 inches. 

 Pop up teddy bear in box. 

 South American Marimba rhythm instrument 

 Fleece Alpaka? 

 This pewter napkin holder is
 the last of those that Kay owns. Her grandma Brown would
always have the table formally set with napkins in the holder and everyone
dressed for dinner. 

 Nothing special. It has a very smooth feel. 

 Hand carved turtle. Hard wood. About 4 inches
over all length No doubt from Africa 

 Ceramic made in the US zone which means it was
made before the occupying forces were no longer officially occupying
Germany. After that products were identified as being made in West
Germany. 

 Hand carved wooden animal from Africa. 

 Commemorative medal of the Woodland
Park Methodist Church. 85 years. We were married there. Kay
and her girlfriends went to summer camp in groups of kids from this chuch.
 They went to Redondo Beach Epworth Heights.. A real fun time.
 The medal was given to Kay by Mary Jean Durfee. Kay had to
beg for 14 dollars to go to the camp. She made up 21 reasons why she
should go. She did manage to go 3 perhaps 4 times.. Mary
Jean Durfee didn't get to go one year because her grades were low and
she had to go to Summer School. Her mother was a teacher! 

 Mayan figures from Mexico. I think they are
authentic ancient figures. 

 Hard finely woven basket in shape of a kitty. 

 We probably got this doll when we went there
in 1984? 

 Other cabinets will 
be listed on other pages later. 

 send me an email.