Ralph Johnson's Internet Garage Sale 

 My Internet Estate Sale 
 OK call it a garage 
sale 
 I am having my own Estate sale. 
 I cant take it with me so I will 
 spend it before I go. 

 If you see something in particular you are looking
for and it is not priced please make me an offer 

 Phonograph Records. 

 Antique and old things 

 Furniture 

 Pictures and Photographs 

 Franks cabinet 

 Glass and Ceramics 

 Jewelry 

 Music Boxes 

 Silverware 

 Asian things 

 Silver coins 

 Asian Vases 

 Upper Level of the Curio Cabinet 

 More stuff in the middle level of Main Cabinet 

 More in the lower level of main cabinet 

 Buy
this house. In Lake Forest Park WA . Midway between Seattle and
Everett. 30 minutes to Bellevue and Microsoft in Redmond. Close
to everything. 10 minutes to Puget Sound. Cascade mountains 30 minutes
in the other direction. 150 foot trees on the rear of the lot. Great for
kids. School 4 blocks from home. 4 Bedroom rambler. Built in 1953.
Oak Floors throughout house. Birch cabinets. Well maintained. The lot is
65 by about 295 feet. This lot has room for a lot of imagination. Click on
the thumbprint for a big picture. 

Listing items will take a long time. It is continually updated .. 

 Keep checking back 
 Email Ralph for more information 

 From here on down are things for sale that will help the people of Afghanistan. 

 International trade is almost non existent from Afghanistan. The country
is a basket case. The central government has control only in Kabul.

 War lords are still fighting for turf outside the city. To get
something out of the country is almost impossible. What I have here
to sell came from Afghanistan, Because a friend of mine who is Afghan went
to Afghanistan to get the fine Jewelry they can make if it can be gotten
out. The people there provided protection so he could go into
the country to bring it out. So what you see here is just
some of the Jewelry he has for sale. Hopefully I can keep updating and show
more great jewelry. 
Rugs will be shown later. 
 Click here and be taken to some outstanding jewelry. 
 These are outstanding necklaces. Great workmanship 
 Jade, Lapis, Turquoise, Necklaces from Afghanistan. Real Stones 

 Return to the top