The Swing Ear 

 T he Swing Era 

 Seven albums with 3 lp records of the
big band, vocalists and personalities. 

 Each album come with a 9 by 12 hardcover 
book dedicated to a subject of the swing years. Not all are necessarily 
dedicated only to music. For instance the album for 1937 38 is titled, 
Vintage years of humor. Then it goes on to write about the men who made the 
music. Shaw, Raymond Scott and others. A valuable record of the swing years. 
 You will not find the sweet bands included. It is for the swing
lovers. The songs are recreated by the best bands of Billie May and Glen
Gray. Stereo so it is good quality. The books are worth at least 15.00
each. 

 Enjoy ! 

 All these pieces are recreations by top musicians
from the original music scores. They are very good quality not the
old 78 rpm records. Most recreations are by Billy May and Glen Gray 

 The swing era. 1940_41 Glenn
Miller, Harry James, Artie Shaw, Les Brown, Tommy Dorsey. Woody Herman, Charlie
barnet, Earl Hines, Benny Goodman, Jimmie Lunceford, Jan Savitt, Duke Ellington Side 2 and 5 has been dropped and the first two selections are broken off and not playable. 

 The Swing Era. 1938_39. Some of the above plus Count Basie, Larry Clinton, John Kirby, Glen Gray, Bob Crosby, Bobby Hackett, Andy Kirk, Raymond Scott, and Benny Carter. 
 The Swing Era. 1939_40 . Some of the above including Ray Noble, Will Bradley, Erskine Hawkins, Gene Krupa. 
 The Swing Era. 1944_45 . Some of the above plus Nat King Cole,, Eddie Hayward, Stan Kenton, Lionel Hampton. Number one record missing 
 The Swing Era. 1941_42 . Claude Thornhill , plus some of the above. 
 The Swing Era. 1937_38 . Chick Webb , plus some of the above. 
 Swing Era. 1936_37 . Red Norvo plus some of the above. 

 A sample of some selections. Carioca, Piano Man, Begine The
Beguine, Swingin'the Blues, Woodchopper's Ball, Jumpin' at the Woodside,
Octroon, My Reverie, Undecided, Pavanne, Big Noise from Wennetka, John Silver,
Stompin' at the Savoy, One O'Clock Jump, Bugle Call Rag, Gin Mill Blues,
Marie, Down South Camp Meetin', Song of India, Goodbye, Prisoner's Song.
My Blue Heaven, Moon Glow. 

 Title of the books are 

 The Golden Age of Network Radio 
Swing as a Way Of Life 
Vintage Years of Humor 
Movies between Vitaphone and Television. 
Where Swing Came From 
1939: A real Dram of a Year 
How It was to be Young Then 

 $250.00 

 Email Ralph