hypnosis 3 days 

 Locations 

 Rob McNeilly MBBS was in a suburban Melbourne general medical practice for 10 years, had the privilege of learning directly with Milton Erickson , was inspired by his human approach to therapy, and created his own interpretation to assist clients in a respectful, dignified way with the human dilemmas that affect individuals, couples and families. He founded the CET in l988 to introduce Ericksonian Hypnosis and the Solution Oriented Approach to hypnosis, counselling and coaching in Australia. For more than 30 years, the contribution he brings i his teaching style, writing and unique approaches to learning and therapy allow for a ready application into everyday living and are recognised locally, nationally and internationally, including repeated invited presentations at the Milton H Erickson Foundation&rsquo;s International Congresses in USA since 1980 and workshops in Singapore and Denmark since 1999. He is co-author, with Jenny Brown, of "Healing With Words", "Healing the Whole Person" was published by Wiley, republished as &ldquo;Doing Change&rdquo; by St Luke&rsquo;s Innovative Resources, and Crown House have published a series of DVD demonstrations of counselling and hypnosis. Students comment on his easy, respectful manner and his elegant ability to make complex issues approachable while retaining their essence. Gabrielle Peacock MBBS FRACGP is a general practitioner with 17 years experience, the last 10 spent predominantly working with mental health issues. She has 5 years advanced training in Solution Oriented and Ericksonian psychotherapy with individuals, couples and families. She runs workshops locally and internationally teaching Solution Oriented Family Therapy to health professionals, and has been a presenter at ASOCHA, PACFA and AFTA conferences around Australia. She also teaches counselling skills to medical students at the clinical school in Hobart. Gabrielle works with all issues in individuals, couples and families. She has a wide experience in working with every day human dilemmas to severe chronic mental illness. She has developed a special interest in working with children, adolescents and families. She is particularly interested in interventions which assist families and individuals to regain their strength and resilience in problem situations such as child and adolescent behavioural problems, bullying, school issues, illness in a family member, and relationship breakdowns within the family. &lsquo; Rob McNeilly studied with Milton H. Erickson M.D. ... is one of the most knowledgeable practitioners of Ericksonian methods in Australia. His teaching is clear, entertaining and edifying.&rsquo; Jeffrey K. Zeig, Ph.D. Board of Directors, The Milton H. Erickson Foundation, Inc., Phoenix, Arizona. &ldquo;Rob McNeilly worked with Milton Erickson, has been an invited presenter at International Ericksonian Congresses, and is a passionate and skilful teacher of the Solution Oriented Approach. I know him and his work, and value his personal and professional contributions." Bill O&rsquo;Hanlon MS LMFT A highly skilled presenter whose unique perspectives and playful demeanour make for a delightful learning experience.&rsquo; Michael D. Yapko, Ph.D. &lsquo; .. Your clear and practical teaching of the solution oriented approach has enabled me to achieve more effective interventions with greater ease ..... the approach is applicable in many different contexts...&rsquo; Peter Thorneycroft, Psychologist. 

 Ericksonian Hypnosis - a 3 day intensive Milton Erickson's flexibility was legendary, and many experts have tried to understand and codify his approach, leading to a bewildering complexity of techniques and protocols which can be daunting to a beginner, and a challenge to the most experienced therapist. Erickson was adamant that we should not try to copy him, and said that we couldn't, in any case, even if we tried. Rather, he invited students to be more like themselves, to find their own way, their own style, their own voice. In this 3 day intensive, CET with the Milton H Erickson Institute of Hobart offers a unique opportunity to be immersed in the principles and applications of one of the most rapidly growing treatment models in contemporary psychotherapy. The scope of the program is comprehensive, and presents the essential elements in an elegantly accessible way. The 3 day intensive is open to practitioners of all levels of experience who are passionate about their work. In this programme we will explore beautifully simple methods of inviting anyone into the experience of hypnosis and to connect with their unique resources in a dependably reliable way, generate ways of softening rigidities that keep problems stuck, and unique flexibilities in experience that hypnosis can contribute, in a mood of respectful lightness and safety so that whatever our levels of experience, we can find our own individual version of this method and apply it to our work readily and immediately. I had the rare privilege of learning with Erickson and experienced first hand some of his vast complexity. I have made my own translation, simplifying some of the complexity to create a solid foundation and have the continuing joy of being part of a growing number of people who are developing their own complexities and style. simple hypnosis has been understood as complex, special, even dangerous, requiring unique restrictions. In this programme we will explore simple, elegant and respectful ways of connecting clients with their own unique styles of experience. learning There will be a minimum of theory and explanations, focusing instead on demonstrations and recurrent practice so that participants will have sufficient skills to begin to use their learning in their clinical practice immediately. a natural approach Erickson spoke of the everyday trance as a natural experience that can be enhanced in a clinical situation. By utilising individual clients&rsquo; individual skills, a fail-safe method will be made obvious and readily useable. solutions Ericksonian hypnosis creates a wonderful context for a trusting therapeutic relationship, helping to restore self-trust in individual clients by reconnecting them with their natural resourcefulness. hypnosis When we begin with the principle that hypnosis is an experience that involves focus of attention and absorption in that experience, this natural ability can be readily accessed by clients and incorporated in any clinician&rsquo;s practice. 3 day intensive In this 3 day workshop, we will enjoy sharing learning: creating a mood of connection to enhance rapport, exploring natural links between everyday happenings and the process of inviting a client into the experience of hypnosis, establishing easy and natural relationships between specific client resources and their solutions. Venue: Relationships Australia, Gurwood Street Wagga Wagga [next door to Woolworths] Times: 9.00 - 5.00 Friday Thursday 8th - Saturday 10th May, 2014 Cost: $495 [Early bird $425 by 1st April, 2014] Payment by direct deposit to CBA Elizabeth Street North Hobart 7000 BSB 067 028 account # 1023 2600 Dr Robert McNeilly & Dr Gabrielle Peacock or PayPal Payment options early bird $425.00 AUD after 1st April $495.00 AUD Registration [essential]: Name Address phone email location Contact: Rob McNeilly, 0433 273 352, rob@cet.net.au Martin Alster, 0411 959 396, alstermartin45@gmail.com back to CET home