grimoire 

 ~ grimoire ~ 

 hands and hours and eyes 

 Vanity, all is vanity. 

 A Goth sees the world as empty but does not despise the emptiness; for the
world and all its imaginary creatures are her vessels, which she fills
with longing and pure love. She only despises those the hateful who deny
gentleness. She only despises the vulgar who deny grace. She only
despises the moronic who deny instruction. In despising, she will leave
only so she might protect herself from evil influences, but she will
recall to mind that they're imaginary and endless, and she is less, for
she will die and become as dust. 

 Sex is not the aim of the Gothic Scene. Sensuality may be beautiful,
sexuality is of the bodily thirsts and we might occasion to sup thus, but
the Gothic Scene has the aim of romancing the endless night. Make love
knowing with every touch that you will die, although there are prayers
that consume the soul in their substance. The English Sorcerer Aleister
Crowley knew this to be true and gave much good advice on the subject of
sex magick. Regrettably he was an abhorred poet and a worse human, being
indulgently racist and cruel beyond necessity although all of his era, or
almost all, were racists and had the proclivity to misuse whatever power
they could manage to grab, there being few paradigmal alternatives. At
least he was better than that mediocre engineer of 

 Androgyny is important, when it can be nurtured in an individual. 
Certainly, gender typing is not a part of the Gothic Scene, and should
never be, as gender implies a violence of sorts; violence turned inward
for those who designate themselves as female, and violence turned outward
for the ones who classify themselves as male. Death Rock may just have
been influenced by those transvestites who styled themselves as Death
Queens, which was around, albeit rare, in England's underground gay clubs
around the time Punk Rock was spreading wide. Thus the black eyeliner and
the black lipstick, the dresses on men, and the white face paint, all of
which might be said to emulate the style of Death Queens. Also, it was to
emulate vampires and ghosts. As has been said before, much of the history
Ours is secreted to individual experience. Even Lipstick Traces, the
prolonged and careful history of Punk and New Wave is subject to the
subjective. It is widespread knowledge that Bauhaus and Christian Death
played the same clubs as punk bands, but everyone small played the same
clubs at the time, the owners allowing the diversity to exist. People
either got along or didn't; it was not as much a soup or stew even as
people might wish it had been. Skins and Punks may have sat in the same
room for awhile, but at other times, there were conflicts. 

 O actually, the difference between Punk and Goth is simple.

 I'll stick my neck out and attempt to describe (but not define) Punk,
having known Punks since I was a kid. Punk is a confrontation of the
hypocrisies and social rules that typify the gentry through anarchic
personal expression and those things Punk. Many another person who is not
Punk might do the same, but they would not be Punk if they aren't Punk; 
it is the lifestyle that is Punk, not simply the word "punk rock" nor the
clothing by itself, not only the lyrics nor just the style, not even the
word Anarchy bandied about without the other articles without which an
enemy of the state might be considered Punk for all his intentions of
social renovation through disorder, no not one of these things but all
these things, all of them and more. That's the closest one can approach
the damned thing from the outside, even with love for it; and Gutter Punks
are godly. I got drunk with one once and we staggered around Harvard
Square shouting out our love for Woody Guthrie who is neither Goth nor
Punk but a nice guy. September lets his hair down sometimes but does not
allow such things to destroy his primary love. 

 I've known quite a few Goths having been one myself for a decade. Goth is
a drama of the self, a figurative theatre say, of an aesthetic the
frontiers of which are abstract but real enough to any who participates
within the aesthetic as a member rather than as a dabbler or a dilettante. 
Similitude between Goths are experienced in two separate ways, by the
outsider and the insider. Just as the more complicated of philosophies
and crafts are encountered as a product among many similar products by the
outsider, so must Goth seem as a game without cost to those disaffected of
its romance. To those who work and study the arts and sciences with the
intensity of a lover or a nurturing parent, so as to those goths intent
upon the Scene to exclusion of mundane affectations, the object of
passions is subject to only the most astute observations and the most
cautious and artful of touches. 

 Then again, I have been destitute of more than weal; health is lacking and
so is the capacity for rational thought. To answer all indignant comments
and replies to my initial statement redux: the Alternative and the Gothic
communities are separate entities entirely. It's no mistake that I do not
speak of AlternaGoths or PaleoGoths or LabiaGoths or even NetGoths; these
are terms that found their origin on the internet and are simply
designations to cover for an incomplete concept of the Gothic Scene or a
desire to stretch the boundaries to fit the individual and thus dissolving
any Gothic Scene outside an Alternative Mainstream version. 

 There was always the danger of the uninitiated confusing Metal and Goth,
to the uninitiated of course, these groups appeared remarkably alike. Of
course Heavy Metal was largely a struggle against power discourses in
oppressive religion, specifically versus Christianity gone bad, and the
American dysfunctional family. Death Metal (not Death Rock) seems to me
to be the victory cry of Heavy Metal and is also a commercially salable
revision. The attitude of the Gothic Scene tends to be an appreciation of
any beauty coming out of human spiritual urges: heresy, the infernal, and
the sacred all. I will avoid statements as concerns the relative levels
of education simply because such a statement would be unfair and invalid. 
Most Heavy Metal avoids abstractions simply because it is an avoidance of
the issue at hand, and the purpose of Heavy Metal, much similar to the
purpose of Punk Rock, is to criticize and destroy social hypocrisy. 

 Also, there was the problem of the unobservative overlooking the
differences between Goths and Punks. There was not much alike, really. 
Even during the inception of Goth, when it was Death Rock, the style was
more witchlike and focusing on the Drama of the Self. It was not rigidly
hierarchial, nor was it as assertive as Punk. Most Death Rockers would
far prefer to avoid a person than to confront them. Confrontation
perforce a dionysiac lifestyle providing themselves and others with a
social anarchy was the Punk mainstay, whereas Death Rockers preferred
solitude and passivity. There was a great deal of personal variation,
although I am certain they all were seen as one by outsiders. I've met
aristocratic goths who were very reminiscent of a Sun-King era courtier
except in that they practiced diabolism and were the gentlest, most
considerate people I have known; also, they wore black constantly and made
vague references to being vampires. I've met highly rational goths but
even their minds were haunted, being kindly misanthropes. There were
goths who eschewed the gothic lifestyle and clothing but these people soon
left the fold. There were goths who would have put saints to shame, who
would have drawn angels from the sky with their tears, whose mere touch
could heal a migraine -- but they are dead, many of them, dead of heroin,
dead of suicide, dead of murder, dead. There was a girl who killed my
days, who brought me to my knees weeping in prayer, who sat on my lap and
stared into my eyes, whispering questions I could not answer, why why why. 

 I cannot say much now. All I can do is whisper why. All I can do is be a
heart enflamed with prayer and desire. All I can do is die slowly and
wish I were being brought into her eyes, into your eyes, into the world
again. It is not night where I am, and I am hungry, I am wishing I could
see the world as haunted and rearrange the constellations as once I did
with word and wish. I love and I will never stop loving, not unto my
aging body mutters inchoate finalities, not unto my last moments. 

 Ours long for that which is beyond death and we are the brides of the
primeval substance that is nothingness and night. Want. 

 Newcomers will not know what you know. If they are true, love them as you
should dote upon an orphan infant and reveal your knowledge to them. All
are orphans; none recall their birth, and so our origin is a mystery and
family consists of any you can trust. A Goth must not break the trust of
another Goth, and should refrain from harming anyone unless death or augue
would be the alternative. Violence destroys beauty. 

 Back to the beginning. 
 Back to deadrose