Horizon Technology -- ROTARY HYDROGEN ENGINE 

 Rotary Hydrogen Engine -- From New Zealand. 

 A clean-burning rotary hydrogen engine is being worked on by a group in
New Zealand. Here's a statement from the principle member of the team,
Wolf Brinsbury: 

 STEAM ENGINE WITHOUT A BOILER 

As hydrogen is much hotter than our present fuels, we are looking to turn
this into an advantage rather than a problem (as it has been considered in
ordinary internal combustion engines, causing an overheating of valves). 
What we propose with our rotary engine is to use this higher temperature
of the hydrogen as a catalyst or trigger. 

We use water injection along with a small amount of hydrogen. On igniting,
the heat turns the water vapor into high pressure steam on each power
stroke. We are not looking at power being derived from the hydrogen. It
will be from the steam with the hydrogen as the internal heat source. 
This being the reverse of the present steam engine, where a large body of
water is heated externally. We use a small body of water internally. 

To dissociate the hydrogen and oxygen in water without electrolysis
requires a temperature of 800 degrees F. Water per volume expands 1700
times during that change, exerting tremendous force. This force is
elastic, not like the hammer blows of the internal combustion engine. The
diesel engine obtains its heat from high compression of the air reaching
temperatures of 1000 degrees or more. This though, creates back pressure
which is power loss on the up stroke. With hydrogen and water we eliminate
this. I cannot use the term "stroke" as we have no piston, a round rotor
revolves in a circle in one direction. 

Our first aim is to move into the marine field. We are looking to get
away from the burning of fossil fuels and the pollution of this planet. 
The oil companies are naturally limited in their lifespan. 

 If you would like to contact this group, you can write to the
following address. Please realize that merely curious inquiries will
consume time, and cannot be guaranteed a response. The need is for
serious investors to become involved to speed up the development of this 
work: 

 Wolf Brinsbury 
15 Gibson Place 
Howick, Auckland 
NEW ZEALAND 

Or try a search . 

 -->
Website with Photos link stopped working, sorry. 
Email also appears to not work. 
Can someone put me back in contact with Wolf? 
Email: wolf.brinsbury@proserpine.zzn.com 

 Tomorrow's Technology Today 
 ghawk@eskimo.com 

 Other Related Info