Guitar Columns - Timing Is Everything 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar Columns , Timing is Everything 

 Timing is Everything 

 A Guide To Reading Musical Notation - Part Two 
 Guitar Column # 60 
 Published February 15, 2003 
 By David 
 Hodge 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Many people think that reading music is complicated. It truly 
 is not. A piece of music itself can be complicated, 
 but reading music requires fewer skills than reading any language. 
 If you can count up to sixteen and have the capacity to divide 
 things into twos and threes, then you can read music. 
 Music notation is a magical language. In Part 1 of our study, 
 " Your Very Own Rosetta 
 Stone ," we learned how to read the notes on the staff 
 and to determine how those notes corresponded to the notes 
 on our guitars. But every note of musical notation actually 
 tells you two specific things. Not only does it tell 
 you the name of the note, it tells you the note's duration, 
 or rather how long it should be held. This is the timing of 
 the note. 
 At the beginning of a piece of notation, as we saw, the staff 
 will give us important information regarding the song. The 
 first thing is the clef . For our purposes today, we're 
 going to concentrate on the treble clef. You remember, from 
 Part 1, that there is the treble clef (or "G clef" 
 because it looks like a stylized "G") as well as 
 the bass (or "F") clef. Since our examples will 
 be for the guitar, let's use the treble. 
 Immediately after the clef comes the key signature . 
 This, as we learned, tells us what key the song is in by pointing 
 out the number of sharps or flats, or if there are any. 
 Following both these is the time signature . More often 
 than not, this consists of two numbers sitting on top of each 
 other, like a fraction. It could also be a "C" or 
 also something that looks like the symbol for "cent" 
 in American currency. If you're playing most music, easily 
 95% of it will have one of these time signatures: 

 Rather than write all this out again, I'm going to borrow 
 from one of my "Easy Songs for Beginners" lessons, 
 House of the Rising 
 Sun : 
 The time signature (along with the key signature) is one 
 of the first things you encounter when you read music, so 
 you might as well learn just what it means at some point, 
 no? The time signature usually consists of two numbers written 
 one on top of the other, almost like a fraction except there 
 is no line (other than the lines of the staff and that doesn't 
 count). These provide you with two important pieces of information 
 about the song that you are going to play. The top number 
 tells you how many beats are in a measure (and we learned 
 about measures in " Before 
 You Accuse Me "). The lower number (the "denominator" 
 if you will, the number that sits on the bottom) indicates 
 which note is going to count as "one beat." The 
 vast majority of music you are likely to encounter will be 
 in 4/4 timing: 

 &#147;4&#148; means 4 beats per measure > 

 4 

 4 

 < &#147;4&#148; means each quarter note gets one 
 beat 

 Sometimes you will see "4/4" timing written out 
 as "C." "C" and "4/4" are interchangeable. 
 And if you're really interested in a theory of the origins 
 of this symbol, check out the "Email of the Week" 
 in this old newsletter: 
 http://www.guitarnoise.com/news/2002/20020929.html 

 As well as "C" there is also a "C" with 
 a vertical line slashing it - (C) 
 It looks like the symbol for a penny. This is known, appropriately 
 enough, as "cut time," or 

 &#147;2&#148; means 2 beats per measure > 

 2 

 2 

 < &#147;2&#148; means each half note gets one beat 

 There are also songs, many marches in fact, which are in 
 2/4 time. And you have undoubtedly heard songs that use 3/4 
 timing as well. Waltzes are in 3/4: 

 &#147;3&#148; means 3 beats per measure > 

 3 

 4 

 < &#147;4&#148; means each quarter note gets one 
 beat 

 Probably eighty-five to ninety percent of all songs are written 
 in either of these two time signatures. 6/8 timing is very 
 similar to 3/4 in that it has the same kind of "triplet" 
 feel. It's easier to count in groups of threes rather than 
 sets of six, isn't it? 

 &#147;6&#148; means 6 beats per measure > 

 6 

 8 

 < &#147;8&#148; means each eighth note gets one 
 beat 

 I realize that, at this point, you have no idea as to what 
 a "quarter note" or an "eighth note is. Don't 
 worry about that for the moment. First, let's define a measure! 
 "Measure" and "bar" (as in "twelve 
 bar blues"), in case you're wondering, mean the same 
 thing. In music notation, and in many TABs, a measure is indicated 
 by a single vertical line that crosses the staff at numerous 
 points in a piece of music. Here's what they look like: 

 There are two additional types of measure lines. A double 
 line at the end of the song indicates (big surprise here!) 
 the end of the song. Would I lie to you? Another symbol is 
 the "repeat sign" which indicates you are to repeat 
 a section of a song: 

 If you were playing this example, you'd first play measures 
 one through three. When you came to the repeat sign in measure 
 three, you'd go back to the first repeat sign in measure two 
 and then play measures two and three again. Then you'd finish 
 the song with measure four. In other words, you only repeat 
 what is within the repeat signs. Notice that the double 
 dots show you which way to go! If you ever run across a situation 
 where there is no first repeat sign, you're expected to go 
 back to the beginning of the song. 
 Within each measure, you will have the number of beats indicated 
 by the time signature. If there is a change in this value, 
 which, although very rare in most music you will deal with, 
 can happen, a new time signature will appear to let you know. 
 Check out the lesson on Bookends 
 or Blackbird 
 if you'd like to see examples of this. 
 And while I'm trying to cover every conceivable thing, let's 
 talk about counting and keeping tempo. You may not believe 
 this, but keeping a steady beat while playing is more important 
 that I can possibly begin to tell you. So when we talk about 
 the number of beats in a measure, it is absolutely vital that 
 you make the beats uniform. Not only within the measure but 
 also throughout the song, unless we run into one of those 
 exceptions we've talked about. Practice counting beats aloud 
 if you've never done so before. Yes, you'll sound fairly daft 
 simply saying "one, two, three, four," over and 
 over again to yourself, but no one said being a musician wasn't 
 without painful sacrifice. Are you ready to look at our time 
 signatures from the first example and count along a few measures 
 of them? 

 Still with me? Great! Let's look at some notes. For the sake 
 of simplicity, let's work in 4/4 time and use a single note 
 in order to demonstrate differences in timing. In the following 
 example, all of these notes are the B note that corresponds 
 to the open B (second) string. However, they are all different, 
 as you'll see. 

 An important thing for me to point out here is that the "stems" 
 of the notes (except, of course, on the whole note, since 
 it has no stem) can go down instead of up. If you look at 
 any piece of music you'll see this. For the classical guitarist, 
 as well as others, there is a special reason for this, and 
 we'll get to that in our next chapter. 
 When you reach the line of eighth notes, notice that there 
 are different ways of writing these out. First we see the 
 notes individually - each note has a stem with a single "flag." 
 In measure two, I've connected the flags of each pair of eighth 
 notes, grouping them into a single beat. Measure three shows 
 the eighth notes grouped in sets of fours. This "grouping" 
 can be done in many ways. I could string all eight together 
 if I wanted to. 
 Likewise, when you see sixteenth notes and thirty-second 
 notes (not shown here - they look exactly like eighth notes 
 except that they have two and three flags, respectively, on 
 the stem), they can be portrayed individually or in groups. 
 Again, we'll learn more about these (and triplets) next time. 

 Okay, just to make your life interesting and to show you 
 there's nothing at all to this, let's see some notes in action. 
 And before you get all worried that you can't handle it, let 
 me add that I've selected the first part of Twinkle, Twinkle 
 Little Star (soon to be seen in a (bad pun alert) starring 
 role in an upcoming lesson on arrangements for single guitar!) 
 as our first example and Happy Birthday as our second. 
 By the bye, I'm not throwing in the lyrics, just the count. 
 If you truly need the lyrics, ask the first child you see. 

 Twinkle, Twinkle , I imagine, gave you no trouble at 
 all. Four quarter notes to a measure is a pretty easy way 
 to start, right? And in measure two, you caught on to the 
 fact that you had two quarter notes (one beat each) and a 
 half note (two beats), which adds up to four beats, right? 
 See how easy this can be? 
 Easy, that is, until I sprung Happy Birthday on you. 
 I can hear you now - "The first measure only has ONE 
 beat!!!" Well, if you managed to get to the last 
 measure, you probably found it just as confusing to see that 
 it had only two beats. And I know you read the 3/4 time signature 
 correctly, so what gives? 
 This is what's called a "pick up" beat. Some songs 
 don't start on the first beat; that would make things rather 
 dull. This one begins with two eighth notes on the third beat. 
 So, if you were counting things out for yourself, and if you 
 gave yourself a full measure to set the pace, you'd go "one, 
 two, three, one, two, Happy&#133;" and launch into the 
 rest of the song. The rest of the song is an easily figured 
 combination of quarter notes, half notes and eighth notes. 
 It's nothing you can't handle. The last measure is only two 
 beats because we've used the third beat as our pick up beat. 
 Think of it as all that matter/energy stuff that I didn't 
 understand in physics. We have to have the three beats somewhere 
 - we're just splitting them between the opening and the closing 
 of the song. 
 So what happens when you're not playing? This is called 
 a "rest." All rests have symbols which, just like 
 the symbols for notes, indicate different time durations. 
 Here they are: 

 There's one final thing I want to bring up to you in this 
 lesson. You've no doubt noticed that the things we've covered 
 quite a bit of material. But what happens if we want a note 
 of a length other than what we've seen, like a note that is 
 three beats long? How about a beat and a half? What about 
 five or six or seven beats? 
 Notation has an ingenious way of dealing with this. It's 
 called a dot. Long before it was associated with the word 
 "com," the dot was an important part of reading 
 music. When you see a dot after a note, you automatically 
 add half of that note's value to the note. As you see 
 here: 

 Another way of making a note longer involves the use of a 
 "tie." This is a slightly curved line, like a parenthesis 
 that is lying on its side. It connects two or more notes and 
 you simple add them together: 

 Let me leave you with an example that uses many of the things 
 we've seen in this lesson. 
 It's Silent Night, which I'm certain you're all familiar 
 with. I've just written out the melody lines (even threw in 
 the TAB so you can cheat if you want to!), and I took the 
 liberty of writing in the key of C (no flats, no sharps) so 
 that you can concentrate on learning both the note names and 
 the timing: 

 Remember that all of this will not be instantly ingrained 
 into your brain. The more you use notation, the quicker you 
 will find you know what the symbols mean. You may not believe 
 this, but spending five minutes a day looking at music will 
 do you wonders. Take any beginner's book or piano book and 
 practice on the melody lines (the single note section usually 
 at the top of a song) to familiarize yourself with notation. 
 Learn some simple pieces, like Alan Green's " Study 
 In Blue ," which just went up onsite a week ago. 
 There are more things to cover in reading music notation, 
 but what you've learned in these two lessons will provide 
 you with most of the information you need to read standard 
 notation. And hopefully the wait for "Part 3" won't 
 be anywhere near as long! 
 As always, please feel free to write in with any questions, 
 comments, concerns or songs (and/or riffs and solos) you'd 
 like to see discussed in future pieces. You can either drop 
 off a note at the Guitar 
 Forum page or email me directly at Dhodge8888@cs.com. 
 Until next lesson&#133; 
 Peace 
 David Hodge 2003-02-15 
 Previous 
 article in this series "Absolute Beginners Part 1" 
 Next to a list of articles 
 in this series 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.