JBM - MPM

 [Ballistics] 
 [Bibliography] 
 [Downloads] 
 [JBM] 
 [Links] 
 [MPM] 
 [PM] 
 [Personal] 
 [Software] 

 JBM - MPM

 MPM is a modified point mass program for the calculation of projectile
 aerodynamic coefficients, stability and geometric properties and 
 calculation of the trajectories for these projectiles. This program 
 is free for use by anybody for anything. Of course, I don't guarantee 
 the results in any way shape or form. If you have any questions for
 comments about this program, please let
 me know. Please take a look
 the 
 README , and
 LICENSE files.

 There are also sections on 
 input and 
 output and a
 download 
 page.

 The modified point mass (MPM) equations use an approximate yaw to
 augment the more common point mass (PM) approximation. In the point
 mass approximation, the only non-zero aerodynamic coefficient is
 CD, This results in only two forces on the bullet -- drag and 
 gravity -- which provides a very simple trajectory. Using the 
 modified point mass equations 1 , the effects
 of yaw are incorporated, providing for side forces on the bullet
 proportional to the yaw angle.

 MPM implements the equations using aerodynamic coefficients 
 generated by the algorithms in the Spinner, McDrag and IntLift
 programs. This requires the bullets dimensions and mechanical 
 properties as input. With the coefficients calculated, the 
 trajectory (including corrected muzzle velocity and maximum point 
 blank range) are found using a standard numerical technique, 
 fourth order Runge-Kutta integration.

 MPM also adds other effects, normally neglected in point mass
 approximations: continually varying atmospheric conditions (ICAO),
 coriolis effects, and a more advanced gravity model. The latter
 two require the input of the position (latitude and altitude),
 and height of the shooter. [NOTE: Height of the shooter has minimal
 effect. It is only included because I want to eventually include
 terrain data, which will require this value. You may simply make
 it zero with negligible effects.]

 As of version 0.9.23, MPM includes aerodynamic jump due to cross winds.
 This is the rising and lowering of the point of impact due to cross winds
 and is a small effect.

 1. Equations of Motion for a Modified Point Mass Trajectory ,
 R. F. Lieske, M. L. Reiter, Ballistic Research Laboratory, Aberdeen 
 Proving Ground, Maryland, March 1966, Report No. 1314. 

 Last update 29 June 2004, Copyright &copy; 1996-2004
 JBM 
 [V]