Volume 1, Footnotes 

 THE DIVINE PLAN OF THE AGES 

 Footnotes 

 1) 

 For the benefit of some readers we remark that changes such as the transformation 
 of caterpillars into butterflies are not changes of nature: the caterpillar 
 is but the larva hatched from the butterfly's egg. 

 2) 

 Sinaitic MS. omits spiritual before sacrifices. 

 3) 

 Two texts of Scripture ( Isa. 
 45:7 and Amos 
 3:6 ) are used to sustain this theory, but by a misinterpretation of 
 the word evil in both texts. Sin is always an evil, but an evil 
 is not always a sin. An earthquake, a conflagration, a flood or a pestilence 
 would be a calamity, an evil ; but none of these would be sins. 
 The word evil in the texts cited signifies calamities . The 
 same Hebrew word is translated affliction in Psa. 34:19 ; 107:39 ; 
 Jer. 48:16 ; Zech. 1:15 . It is translated trouble in Psa. 27:5 ; 
 41:1 ; 88:3 ; 107:26 ; Jer. 51:2 ; Lam. 1:21 . It is translated calamities , 
 adversity , and distress in 1 Sam. 10:19 ; Psa. 10:6 ; 94:13 ; 
 141:5 ; Eccl. 7:14 ; Neh. 2:17 . And the same word is in very many places 
 rendered harm, mischief, sore, hurt, misery, grief and sorrow . 
 In Isa. 45:7 and Amos 3:6 the Lord would remind Israel of his covenant 
 made with them as a nation--that if they would obey his laws he would 
 bless them and protect them from the calamities common to the world in 
 general; but that if they would forsake him he would bring calamities 
 (evils) upon them as chastisements. See Deut. 28:1-14,15-32 ; Lev. 26:14-16 ; 
 Josh. 23:6-11,12-16 . 
 When calamities came upon them, however, they were inclined to consider 
 them as accidents and not as chastisements. Hence God sent them word through 
 the prophets, reminding them of their covenant and telling them that their 
 calamities were from him and by his will for their correction. It is absurd 
 to use these texts to prove God the author of sin, for they do not at 
 all refer to sin. 

 4) 

 We may properly recognize an additional and a still broader meaning in 
 the Apostle's words; namely, that the entire human family was included 
 in the expression "the dead." From God's standpoint the entire 
 race, under sentence of death, is treated as though already dead ( Matt. 8:22 ); hence the expression "the living" would apply beyond 
 the human family to some whose lives had not been forfeited--the angels. 

 5) 

 The word nature is sometimes used in an accommodated sense, as, 
 for instance, when it is said that a dog has a savage nature , or 
 that a horse has a gentle nature , or is bad natured . But 
 in using the word thus it signifies merely the disposition of the 
 one described as compared with others, and does not, strictly speaking, 
 relate to nature. 

 6) 

 Our human bodies are constantly changing. Science declares that each 
 seven years witnesses a complete change in our component atoms. So the 
 promised change from human to spiritual bodies will not destroy either 
 memory or identity, but will increase their power and range. The same 
 divine mind that now is ours, with the same memory, the same reasoning 
 powers, etc., will then find its powers expanded to immeasurable heights 
 and depths, in harmony with its new spiritual body; and memory will trace 
 all our career from earliest human infancy, and we will be able, by contrast, 
 fully to realize the glorious reward of our sacrifice. But this could 
 not be the case if the human were not an image of the spiritual. 

 7) 

 The word nature is used in an accommodated sense when it is said 
 of a man that he is ill-natured . Strictly speaking, no man is evil 
 by nature. Human nature is "very good," an earthly image 
 of the divine nature. So every man is of a good nature, the difficulty 
 being that this good nature has become depraved. It is then unnatural 
 for a man to be evil, brutal, etc., and natural for him to be God-like. 
 It is in this, its primary sense, that we use the word nature , 
 above. We are justified by Christ to a full return to all the privileges 
 and blessings of our human nature--the earthly image of God. 

 8) 

 The fact that Rome is called "the Devil" by no means disproves 
 a personal devil: rather the reverse. It is because there are such 
 beasts as lions, bears and leopards, with known characteristics, that 
 governments were likened to them: and so, it is because there is a Devil, 
 with known characteristics, that the fourth empire is likened to him. 

 9) 

 The Diaglott and Rotherham's translation render this "among you," 
 which is synonymous with "in your midst." It certainly would 
 agree with no theory to insist that the kingdom which Jesus claimed to 
 be about to establish would be within the hearts of the Pharisees, whom 
 he styled hypocrites and whited sepulchres. But this kingdom, when established, 
 will be " in the midst of " or " among " 
 all classes, ruling and judging all. 

 10) 

 The Greek word gennao and its derivatives, sometimes translated 
 begotten and sometimes born , really contains both ideas, 
 and should be translated by either one of these two English words, according 
 to the sense of the passage in which it occurs. The two ideas, begetting 
 and birth, are always in the word, so that if the one is stated, the other 
 is always implied, as birth is the natural consequence of begetting, and 
 begetting the natural antecedent to birth. When the active agent with 
 which gennao is associated is a male, it should be translated begotten ; 
 when a female, born . Thus in 1 John 2:29 ; 3:9 ; 4:7 ; 5:1,18 , gennao 
 should be begotten , because God (masculine) is the active agent. 
 Sometimes, however, the translation is dependent on the nature of the 
 act, whether masculine or feminine. Thus used in conjunction with ek , 
 signifying from or out of , it should be translated born . 
 So in John 3:5,6 , gennao should be translated born , as 
 indicated by the word ek --" out of water," " out 
 of flesh," " out of spirit." 

 11) 

 This same Greek word is translated consider in Acts 15:6 . "The 
 apostles and elders came together for to consider [know or understand] 
 this matter." The same word is rendered behold in Rom. 11:22 . 
 " Behold [consider, understand] therefore, the goodness and 
 severity of God"; also in 1 John 3:1 --" Behold [consider, 
 know, understand] what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us." 

 12) 

 The words " which is in heaven " ( verse 13 ) are not 
 found in the most ancient and reliable MSS. 

 13) 

 In this verse the words " But the rest of the dead lived not again 
 until the thousand years were finished " are spurious. 
 They are not found in the oldest and most reliable Greek MSS, the Sinaitic, 
 Vatican Nos. 1209 and 1160, nor the Syriac MS. We must remember that many 
 passages found in the modern copies are additions which do not 
 properly belong to the Bible. Since commanded not to add to the Word of 
 God, it is our duty to repudiate such additions as soon as their spurious 
 character is established. The words indicated probably crept into the 
 text by accident, in the fifth century; for no MS of earlier date (either 
 Greek or Syriac) contains this clause. It was probably at first merely 
 a marginal comment made by a reader, expressive of his thought 
 upon the text, and copied into the body of the text by some subsequent 
 transcriber who failed to distinguish between the text and the comment. 
 However, the repudiation of this clause is not essential to the "Plan" 
 as herein set forth; for the rest of the dead--the world at large--will 
 not live again in the full sense, in the perfect sense that Adam 
 lived before he sinned and came under the sentence " dying 
 thou shalt die." Perfect life without weakness or dying is the only 
 sense in which God recognizes the word life . From his standpoint 
 all the world has already lost life, is dying, and might now be more properly 
 described as dead than as alive . 2 Cor. 5:14 ; Matt. 8:22 
 The word resurrection (Greek, anastasis ) signifies raising 
 up . As related to man, it signifies raising up man to that 
 condition from which he fell, to full perfection of manhood--the thing 
 lost through Adam. The perfection from which our race fell is the 
 perfection to which they will gradually rise, during the Millennial 
 age of restitution or resurrection (raising up). The Millennial age is 
 not only the age of trial, but also the age of blessing, and through resurrection 
 or restitution to life all that was lost is to be restored 
 to all who, when they know and have opportunity, gladly obey. The process 
 of resurrection will be a gradual one, requiring the entire age for its 
 full accomplishment; though the mere awakening to a measure of life and 
 consciousness, as at present enjoyed, will of course be a momentary work. 
 Consequently it will not be until the thousand years are finished that 
 the race will have fully attained the complete measure of life lost in 
 Adam. And since anything short of perfect life is a condition of partial 
 death, it follows that, although the above words are no part of the inspired 
 record, it would be strictly true to say that the rest of the dead 
 will not live again (will not regain the fulness of life lost) 
 until the thousand years of restitution and blessing are complete. 

 14) 

 The following words are omitted from this verse by the most authentic 
 ancient manuscripts, viz., " of them which are saved ," 
 also " and honor ." The latter words are also lacking from 
 verse 26 . 

 15) 

 Spiritual Israel is never called "Jacob." 

 16) 

 We mention this as an offset to the argument of some who regard the fire 
 as literal, and who claim that the literal earth is to be melted, etc. 
 These, to fit their theory, claim that " the people ," 
 here mentioned, are the saints, who, after the earth has melted and cooled 
 off, will return to earth and build houses and inhabit them, plant vineyards 
 and eat the fruit of them, and long enjoy the work of their hands. They 
 consider the present few years as a training or preparation for inheriting, 
 and forget that it would be completely lost in the aerial experiences 
 of the thousand or more years of waiting for the earth to cool off--according 
 to their theory. This is a serious mistake, and results from too literal 
 an interpretation of the figures, parables, symbols and dark sayings of 
 our Lord and the apostles and prophets. Following up the same error, these 
 claim that there will be no mountains and seas after this fire, failing 
 to see that all these, as well as the fire, are symbols.