Volume 1, Study III - The Bible As A Divine Revelation Viewed In The Light Of Reason 

 <37> 

 STUDY III 
 THE BIBLE AS A DIVINE REVELATION VIEWED IN THE LIGHT OF REASON 

 The Claims of the Bible and its Surface Evidence of Credibility--Its Antiquity 
 and Preservation--Its Moral Influence--Motives of the 
 Writers--General Character of the Writings--The Books of Moses-- 
 The Law of Moses--Peculiarities of the Government Instituted by 
 Moses--It was not a System of Priestcraft--Instructions to Civil 
 Rulers--Rich and Poor on a Common Level Before the Law--Safeguards 
 Against Tampering With the Rights of the People--The Priesthood 
 Not a Favored Class, How Supported, etc.--Oppression of Foreigners, 
 Widows, Orphans and Servants Guarded Against--The 
 Prophets of the Bible--Is There a Common Bond of Union Between the 
 Law, the Prophets and the New Testament Writers?--Miracles Not 
 Unreasonable--The Reasonable Conclusion.

 THE Bible is the torch of civilization and liberty. Its influence
for good in society has been recognized by the greatest
statesmen, even though they for the most part have
looked at it through the various glasses of conflicting creeds,
which, while upholding the Bible, grievously misrepresent
its teachings. The grand old book is unintentionally but
woefully misrepresented by its friends, many of whom
would lay down life on its behalf; and yet they do it more
vital injury than its foes, by claiming its support to their
long-revered misconceptions of its truth, received through
the traditions of their fathers. Would that such would
awake, re-examine their oracle, and put to confusion its
enemies by disarming them of their weapons! 

 Since the light of nature leads us to expect a fuller revelation
of God than that which nature supplies, the reasonable,
thinking mind will be prepared to examine the claims
of anything purporting to be a divine revelation, which

 <38> 

bears a reasonable surface evidence of the truthfulness of
such claims. The Bible claims to be such a revelation from
God, and it does come to us with sufficient surface evidence
as to the probable correctness of its claims, and gives us a
reasonable hope that closer investigation will disclose more
complete and positive evidence that it is indeed the Word
of God. 

 The Bible is the oldest book in existence; it has outlived
the storms of thirty centuries. Men have endeavored by every
means possible to banish it from the face of the earth:
they have hidden it, burned it, made it a crime punishable
with death to have it in possession, and the most bitter and
relentless persecutions have been waged against those who
had faith in it; but still the book lives. Today, while many
of its foes slumber in death, and hundreds of volumes written
to discredit it and to overthrow its influence, are long
since forgotten, the Bible has found its way into every nation
and language of earth, over two hundred different
translations of it having been made. The fact that this book
has survived so many centuries, notwithstanding such unparalleled
efforts to banish and destroy it, is at least strong
circumstantial evidence that the great Being whom it
claims as its Author has also been its Preserver. 

 It is also true that the moral influence of the Bible is uniformly
good. Those who become careful students of its
pages are invariably elevated to a purer life. Other writings
upon religion and the various sciences have done good and
have ennobled and blessed mankind, to some extent; but
all other books combined have failed to bring the joy, peace
and blessing to the groaning creation that the Bible has
brought to both the rich and the poor, to the learned and
the unlearned. The Bible is not a book to be read merely: it
is a book to be studied with care and thought; for God's
thoughts are higher than our thoughts, and his ways than

 <39> 

our ways. And if we would comprehend the plan and
thoughts of the infinite God, we must bend all our energies
to that important work. The richest treasures of truth do
not always lie on the surface. 

 This book throughout constantly points and refers to one
prominent character, Jesus of Nazareth, who, it claims, was
the Son of God. From beginning to end his name, and office,
and work, are made prominent. That a man called
Jesus of Nazareth lived, and was somewhat noted, about
the time indicated by the writers of the Bible, is a fact of
history outside the Bible, and it is variously and fully corroborated.
That this Jesus was crucified because he had
rendered himself offensive to the Jews and their priesthood
is a further fact established by history outside the evidence
furnished by the New Testament writers. The writers of the
New Testament (except Paul and Luke) were the personal
acquaintances and disciples of Jesus of Nazareth, whose
doctrines their writings set forth. 

 The existence of any book implies motive on the part of
the writer. We therefore inquire, What motives could have
inspired these men to espouse the cause of this person? He
was condemned to death and crucified as a malefactor by
the Jews, the most religious among them assenting to and
demanding his death, as one unfit to live. And in espousing
his cause, and promulgating his doctrines, these men
braved contempt, deprivation and bitter persecution,
risked life itself, and in some cases even suffered martyrdom.
Admitting that while he lived Jesus was a remarkable
person, in both his life and his teaching, what motive could
there have been for any to espouse his cause after he was
dead?--especially when his death was so ignominious? And
if we suppose that these writers invented their narratives,
and that Jesus was their imaginary or ideal hero, how absurd
it would be to suppose that sane men, after claiming

 <40> 

that he was the Son of God, that he had been begotten in a
supernatural way, had supernatural powers by which he
had healed lepers, restored sight to those born blind, caused
the deaf to hear, and even raised the dead--how very absurd
to suppose that they would wind up the story of such a
character by stating that a little band of his enemies executed
him as a felon, while all his friends and disciples, and
among them the writers themselves, forsook him and fled in
the trying moment? 

 The fact that profane history does not agree in some respects
with these writers should not lead us to regard their
records as untrue. Those who do thus conclude should assign
and prove some motive on the part of these writers for
making false statements. What motives could have
prompted them? Could they reasonably have hoped
thereby for fortune, or fame, or power, or any earthly advantage?
The poverty of Jesus' friends, and the unpopularity
of their hero himself with the great religionists of
Judea, contradict such a thought; while the facts that he
died as a malefactor, a disturber of the peace, and that he
was made of no reputation, held forth no hope of enviable
fame or earthly advantage to those who should attempt to
re-establish his doctrine. On the contrary, if such had been
the object of those who preached Jesus, would they not
speedily have given it up when they found that it brought
disgrace, persecution, imprisonment, stripes and even
death? Reason plainly teaches that men who sacrificed
home, reputation, honor and life; who lived not for present
gratification; but whose central aim was to elevate their
fellowmen, and who inculcated morals of the highest type,
were not only possessed of a motive, but further that their
motive must have been pure and their object grandly sublime.
Reason further declares that the testimony of such
men, actuated only by pure and good motives, is worthy of

 <41> 

ten times the weight and consideration of ordinary writers.
Nor were these men fanatics: they were men of sound and
reasonable mind, and furnished in every case a reason for
their faith and hope; and they were perseveringly faithful
to those reasonable convictions. 

 And what we have here noticed is likewise applicable to
the various writers of the Old Testament. They were, in the
main, men notable for their fidelity to the Lord; and this
history as impartially records and reproves their weaknesses
and shortcomings as it commends their virtues and faithfulness.
This must astonish those who presume the Bible to
be a manufactured history, designed to awe men into reverence
of a religious system. There is a straightforwardness
about the Bible that stamps it as truth. Knaves, desirous of
representing a man as great, and especially if desirous of
presenting some of his writings as inspired of God, would
undoubtedly paint such a one's character blameless and
noble to the last degree. The fact that such a course has not
been pursued in the Bible is reasonable evidence that it was
not fraudulently gotten up to deceive. 

 Having, then, reason to expect a revelation of God's will
and plan, and having found that the Bible, which claims to
be that revelation, was written by men whose motives we
see no reason to impugn, but which, on the contrary, we see
reason to approve, let us examine the character of the writings
claimed as inspired, to see whether their teachings correspond
with the character we have reasonably imputed to
God, and whether they bear internal evidence of their
truthfulness. 

 The first five books of the New Testament and several of
the Old Testament are narratives or histories of facts
known to the writers and vouched for by their characters. It
is manifest to all that it did not require a special revelation
simply to tell the truth with reference to matters with which

 <42> 

they were intimately and fully acquainted. Yet, since God
desired to make a revelation to men, the fact that these histories
of passing events have a bearing on that revelation
would be a sufficient ground to make the inference a reasonable
one, that God would supervise, and so arrange, that
the honest writer whom he selected for the work should be
brought in contact with the needful facts. The credibility of
these historic portions of the Bible rests almost entirely
upon the characters and motives of their writers. Good men
will not utter falsehoods. A pure fountain will not give forth
bitter waters. And the united testimony of these writings silences
any suspicion that their authors would say or do evil,
that good might follow. 

 It in no way invalidates the truthfulness of certain books
of the Bible, such as Kings, Chronicles, Judges, etc., when
we say that they are simply truthful and carefully kept histories
of prominent events and persons of their times. When
it is remembered that the Hebrew Scriptures contain history,
as well as the law and the prophecies, and that their
histories, genealogies, etc., were the more explicit in detailing
circumstances because of the expectancy that the promised
Messiah would come in a particular line from Abraham,
we see a reason for the recording of certain facts of
history considered indelicate in the light of this twentieth
century. For instance, a clear record of the origin of the nations
of the Moabites and of the Ammonites, and of their
relationship to Abraham and the Israelites, was probably
the necessity in the historian's mind for a full history of
their nativity. ( Gen. 19:36-38 ) Likewise, a very detailed account
of Judah's children is given, of whom came David,
the king, through whom the genealogy of Mary, Jesus'
mother, as well as that of Joseph, her husband ( Luke 3:23,31,33,34 ;
 Matt. 1:2-16 ), is traced back to Abraham.
Doubtless the necessity of thoroughly establishing the pedigree

 <43> 

was the more important, since of this tribe ( Gen. 49:10 )
was to come the ruling King of Israel, as well as the
promised Messiah, and hence the minutiae of detail not
given in other instances. Gen. 38 

 There may be similar or different reasons for other historic
facts recorded in the Bible, of which by and by we may
see the utility, which, were it not a history, but simply a
treatise on morals, might without detriment be omitted;
though no one can reasonably say that the Bible anywhere
countenances impurity. It is well, furthermore, to remember
that the same facts may be more or less delicately stated
in any language; and that while the translators of the Bible
were, rightly, too conscientious to omit any of the record,
yet they lived in a day less particular in the choice of refined
expressions than ours; and the same may be surmised of the
early Bible times and habits of expression. Certainly the
most fastidious can find no objection on this score to any
expression of the New Testament. 

 The Books of Moses and the 
 Laws Therein Promulgated

 The first five books of the Bible are known as the Five
Books of Moses, though they nowhere mention his name as
their author. That they were written by Moses, or under his
supervision, is a reasonable inference; the account of his
death and burial being properly added by his secretary.
The omission of the positive statement that these books
were written by Moses is no proof against the thought; for
had another written them to deceive and commit a fraud,
he would surely have claimed that they were written by the
great leader and statesman of Israel, in order to make good
his imposition. (See Deut. 31:9-27 .) Of one thing we are certain,
Moses did lead out of Egypt the Hebrew nation. He
did organize them as a nation under the laws set forth in

 <44> 

these books; and the Hebrew nation, by common consent,
for over three thousand years, has claimed these books as a
gift to them from Moses, and has held them so sacred that a
jot or tittle must not be altered--thus giving assurance of
the purity of the text. 

 These writings of Moses contain the only credible history
extant, of the epoch which it traverses. Chinese history affects
to begin at creation, telling how God went out on the
water in a skiff, and, taking in his hand a lump of earth, cast
it into the water. That lump of earth, it claims, became this
world, etc. But the entire story is so devoid of reason that
the merest child of intelligence would not be deceived by it.
On the contrary, the account given in Genesis starts with
the reasonable assumption that a God, a Creator, an intelligent
First Cause, already existed. It treats not of God's
having a beginning, but of his work and of its beginning
and its systematic orderly progress--"In the beginning God
created the heavens and the earth." Then stepping over the
origin of the earth without detail or explanation, the narrative
of the six days [epochs] of preparing it for man proceeds.
That account is substantially corroborated by the accumulating
light of science for four thousand years; hence
it is far more reasonable to accept the claim that its author,
Moses, was divinely inspired, than to assume that the intelligence
of one man was superior to the combined intelligence
and research of the rest of the race in three thousand
years since, aided by modern implements and millions
of money. 

 Look next at the system of laws laid down in these writings.
They certainly were without an equal, either in their
day or since, until this twentieth century; and the laws of
this century are based upon the principles laid down in the
Mosaic Law, and framed in the main by men who acknowledged
the Mosaic Law as of divine origin. 

 <45> 

 The Decalogue is a brief synopsis of the whole law. Those
Ten Commandments enjoin a code of worship and morals
that must strike every student as remarkable; and if never
before known, and now found among the ruins and relics
of Greece, or Rome, or Babylon (nations which have risen
and fallen again, long since those laws were given), they
would be regarded as marvelous if not supernatural. But
familiarity with them and their claims has begotten
measurable indifference, so that their real greatness is unnoticed
except by the few. True, those commandments do
not teach of Christ; but they were given, not to Christians,
but to Hebrews; not to teach faith in a ransom, but to
convince men of their sinful state, and need of a ransom.
And the substance of those commandments was grandly
epitomized by the illustrious founder of Christianity, in
the words: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy
heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and
with all thy strength" and "Thou shalt love thy neighbor
as thyself." Mark 12:30,31 

 The government instituted by Moses differed from all
others, ancient and modern, in that it claimed to be that of
the Creator himself, and the people were held accountable
to him; their laws and institutions, civil and religious,
claimed to emanate from God, and, as we shall presently
see, were in perfect harmony with what reason teaches us to
be God's character. The Tabernacle, in the center of the
camp, had in its "Most Holy" apartment a manifestation of
Jehovah's presence as their King, whence by supernatural
means they received instruction for the proper administration
of their affairs as a nation. An order of priests was
established, which had complete charge of the Tabernacle,
and through them alone access and communion with Jehovah
was permitted. The first thought of some in this connection
would perhaps be: "Ah! there we have the object of

 <46> 

their organization: with them, as with other nations, the
priests ruled the people, imposing upon their credulity and
exciting their fears for their own honor and profit." But
hold, friend; let us not too hastily assume anything. Where
there is such good opportunity for testing this matter by the
facts, it would not be reasonable to jump to conclusions
without the facts. The unanswerable evidences are contrary
to such suppositions. The rights and the privileges of the
priests were limited; they were given no civil power whatever,
and wholly lacked opportunity for using their office to
impose upon the rights or consciences of the people; and
this arrangement was made by Moses, a member of the
priestly line. 

 As God's representative in bringing Israel out of Egyptian
bondage, the force of circumstances had centralized
the government in his hand, and made the meek Moses an
autocrat in power and authority, though from the meekness
of his disposition he was in fact the overworked servant
of the people, whose very life was being exhausted by the
onerous cares of his position. At this juncture a civil government
was established, which was virtually a democracy.
Let us not be misunderstood: Regarded as unbelievers
would esteem it, Israel's government was a democracy, but
regarded in the light of its own claims, it was a theocracy,
i.e., a divine government; for the laws given by God,
through Moses, permitted of no amendments: they must
neither add to nor take from their code of laws. Thus seen,
Israel's government was different from any other civil government,
either before or since. "The Lord said unto Moses,
Gather unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom
thou knowest to be elders of the people and officers over
them; and bring them unto the Tabernacle of the congregation,
that they may stand there with thee. And I will
come down and talk with thee there, and I will take of the

 <47> 

spirit which is upon thee and will put it upon them, and
they shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that
thou bear it not alone." ( Num. 11:16,17 . See also verses 24 to 30 
 for an example of true and guileless statesmanship
and meekness.) Moses, rehearsing this matter, says: "So I
took the chief of your tribes, wise men, and known [of influence],
and made them heads over you: captains over
thousands, and captains over hundreds, and captains over
fifties, and captains over tens, and officers among your
tribes." Deut. 1:15 ; Exod. 18:13-26 

 Thus it appears that this distinguished lawgiver, so far
from seeking to perpetuate or increase his own power by
placing the government of the people under the control of
his direct relatives, of the priestly tribe, to use their religious
authority to fetter the rights and liberties of the people, on
the contrary introduced to the people a form of government
calculated to cultivate the spirit of liberty. The histories
of other nations and rulers show no parallel to this. In
every case the ruler has sought his own aggrandizement
and greater power. Even in instances where such have
aided in establishing republics, it has appeared from subsequent
events that they did it through policy, to obtain favor
with the people, and to perpetuate their own power.
Circumstanced as Moses was, any ambitious man, governed
by policy and attempting to perpetuate a fraud upon
the people, would have worked for greater centralization of
power in himself and his family; especially as this would
have seemed an easy task from the religious authority being
already in that tribe, and from the claim of this nation to be
governed by God, from the Tabernacle. Nor is it supposable
that a man capable of forming such laws, and of ruling
such a people, would be so dull of comprehension as not to
see what the tendency of his course would be. So completely
was the government of the people put into their own hands,

 <48> 

that though it was stipulated that the weightier cases which
those governors could not decide were to be brought unto
Moses, yet they themselves were the judges as to what cases
went before Moses: "The cause which is too hard for you,
bring it unto me, and I will hear it." Deut. 1:17 

 Thus seen, Israel was a republic whose officers acted under
a divine commission. And to the confusion of those who
ignorantly claim that the Bible sanctions an established
empire rule over the people, instead of "a government of
the people by the people," be it noted that this republican
form of civil government continued for over four hundred
years. And it was then changed for that of a kingdom at the
request of "The Elders," without the Lord's approval, who
said to Samuel, then acting as a sort of informal president,
"Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they shall
say unto thee, for they have not rejected thee, but they have
rejected Me, that I should not reign over them." At God's
instance Samuel explained to the people how their rights
and liberties would be disregarded, and how they would
become servants by such a change; yet they had become infatuated
with the popular idea, illustrated all around them
in other nations. ( 1 Sam. 8:6-22 ) In considering this account
of their desire for a king, who is not impressed with the
thought that Moses could have firmly established himself
at the head of a great empire without difficulty? 

 While Israel as a whole constituted one nation, yet the
tribal division was ever recognized after Jacob's death.
Each family, or tribe, by common consent, elected or recognized
certain members as its representatives, or chiefs. This
custom was continued even through their long slavery in
Egypt. These were called chiefs or elders, and it was to these
that Moses delivered the honor and power of civil government;
whereas, had he desired to centralize power in himself

 <49> 

and his own family, these would have been the last men
to honor with power and office. 

 The instructions given those appointed to civil rulership
as from God are a model of simplicity and purity. Moses
declares to the people, in the hearing of these judges: "I
charged your judges at that time, saying, Hear the causes
between your brethren, and judge righteously between every
man and his brother, and the stranger [foreigner] that is
with him. Ye shall not respect persons in judgment; but ye
shall hear the small as well as the great; ye shall not be
afraid of the face of man, for the judgment is God's; and the
cause that is too hard for you, bring it unto me, and I will
hear it." ( Deut. 1:16,17 ) Such hard cases were, after
Moses' death, brought directly to the Lord through the
High Priest, the answer being Yes or No, by the Urim and
Thummim. 

 In view of these facts , what shall we say of the theory
which suggests that these books were written by knavish
priests to secure to themselves influence and power over the
people? Would such men for such a purpose forge records
destructive to the very aims they sought to advance--
records which prove conclusively that the great Chief of Israel,
and one of their own tribe, at the instance of God, cut
off the priesthood from civil power by placing that power in
the hands of the people? Does any one consider such a conclusion
reasonable? 

 Again, it is worthy of note that the laws of the most advanced
civilization, in this twentieth century, do not more
carefully provide that rich and poor shall stand on a common
level in accountability before the civil law. Absolutely
no distinction was made by Moses' laws. And as for the protection
of the people from the dangers incident to some becoming
very poor and others excessively wealthy and powerful,

 <50> 

no other national law has ever been enacted which so
carefully guarded this point. Moses' law provided for a restitution
every fiftieth year--their Jubilee year. This law, by
preventing the absolute alienation of property, thereby prevented
its accumulation in the hands of a few. ( Lev.25:9,13-23,27-30 )
In fact, they were taught to consider themselves
brethren, and to act accordingly; to assist each other
without compensation, and to take no usury of one another.
See Exod. 22:25 ; Lev. 25:36,37 ; Num. 26:52-56 . 

 All the laws were made public, thus preventing designing
men from successfully tampering with the rights of the
people. The laws were exposed in such a manner that any
who chose might copy them; and, in order that the poorest
and most unlearned might not be ignorant of them, it was
made the duty of the priests to read them to the people at
their septennial festivals. ( Deut. 31:10-13 ) Is it reasonable
to suppose that such laws and arrangements were designed
by bad men, or by men scheming to defraud the people of
their liberties and happiness? Such an assumption would
be unreasonable. 

 In its regard for the rights and interests of foreigners, and
of enemies, the Mosaic law was thirty-two centuries ahead
of its times--if indeed the laws of the most civilized of today
equal it in fairness and benevolence. We read: 

 "Ye shall have one manner of law as well for the stranger
[foreigner] as for one of your own country; for I am the
Lord your God." Exod. 12:49 ; Lev. 24:22 

 "And if a stranger sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall
not vex him; but the stranger that dwelleth with you shall
be unto you as one born among you, and thou shalt love
him as thyself; for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt."
 Lev. 19:33,34 

 "If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou

 <51> 

shalt surely bring it back to him again. If thou see the ass of
him that hateth thee lying under his burden, wouldst thou
cease to leave thy business and help him? Thou shalt surely
leave it, to join with [assist] him." Exod. 23:4,5 , margin 

 Even the dumb animals were not forgotten. Cruelty to
these as well as to human beings was prohibited strictly. An
ox must not be muzzled while threshing the grain; for the
good reason that any laborer is worthy of his food. Even the
ox and the ass must not plow together, because so unequal
in strength and tread: it would be cruelty. Their rest was
also provided for. Deut. 25:4 ; 22:10 ; Exod. 23:12 

 The priesthood may be claimed by some to have been a
selfish institution, because the tribe of Levites was supported
by the annual tenth, or tithe, of the individual produce
of their brethren of the other tribes. This fact, stated
thus, is an unfair presentation too common to skeptics,
who, possibly ignorantly, thereby misrepresent one of the
most remarkable evidences of God's part in the organization
of that system, and that it was not the work of a selfish
and scheming priesthood. Indeed, it is not infrequently misrepresented
by a modern priesthood, which urges a similar
system now, using that as a precedent, without mentioning
the condition of things upon which it was founded, or its
method of payment. 

 It was, in fact, founded upon the strictest equity. When
Israel came into possession of the land of Canaan, the Levites
certainly had as much right to a share of the land as
the other tribes; yet, by God's express command, they got
none of it, except certain cities or villages for residence, scattered
among the various tribes, whom they were to serve in
religious things. Nine times is this prohibition given, before
the division of the land. Instead of the land, some equivalent
should surely be provided them, and the tithe was

 <52> 

therefore this reasonable and just provision. Nor is this all:
the tithe, though, as we have seen, a just debt, was not enforced
as a tax, but was to be paid as a voluntary contribution.
And no threat bound them to make those contributions:
all depended upon their conscientiousness. The only
exhortations to the people on the subject are as follows: 

 "Take heed to thyself that thou forsake not the Levite as
long as thou livest upon the earth." ( Deut. 12:19 ) "And the
Levite that is within thy gates, thou shalt not forsake him;
for he hath no part nor inheritance with thee" [in the land].
 Deut. 14:27 

 Is it, we ask, reasonable to suppose that this order of
things would have been thus arranged by selfish and ambitious
priests?--an arrangement to disinherit themselves
and to make them dependent for support upon their brethren?
Does not reason teach us to the contrary? 

 In harmony with this, and equally inexplicable on any
other grounds than those claimed--that God is the author
of those laws--is the fact that no special provision was made
for honoring the priesthood. In nothing would imposters be
more careful than to provide reverence and respect for
themselves, and severest penalties and curses upon those
who misused them. But nothing of the kind appears: no
special honor, or reverence, or immunity from violence or
insult, is provided. The common law, which made no distinction
between classes, and was no respecter of persons,
was their only protection. This is the more remarkable because
the treatment of servants, and strangers, and the
aged, was the subject of special legislation. For instance:
Thou shalt not vex nor oppress a stranger, or widow, or fatherless 
 child ; for if they cry at all unto me [to God] I will surely
hear their cry; and my wrath shall wax hot, and I will kill
you with the sword, and your wives shall be widows and

 <53> 

your children fatherless. ( Exod. 22:21-24 ; 23:9 ; Lev. 19:33,34 )
"Thou shalt not oppress an hired servant that is poor and
needy, whether he be of thy brethren, or of strangers that
are in thy land, within thy gates. At his day thou shalt give
him his hire, neither shall the sun go down upon it, for he is
poor, and setteth his heart upon it; lest he cry against thee
unto the Lord and it be sin unto thee." ( Lev. 19:13 ; Deut. 24:14,15 ;
 Exod. 21:26,27 ) "Thou shalt rise up before the
hoary head and honor the face of the old man." ( Lev. 19:32 .
See also Lev. 19:14 .) All this, yet nothing special for
Priests, or Levites, or their tithes. 

 The sanitary arrangements of the law, so needful to a
poor and long-oppressed people, together with the arrangements
and limitations respecting clean and unclean animals
which might or might not be eaten, are remarkable,
and would, with other features, be of interest if space permitted
their examination, as showing that law to have been
abreast with, if not in advance of, the latest conclusions of
medical science on the subject. The law of Moses had also a
typical character, which we must leave for future consideration;
but even our hasty glance has furnished overwhelming
evidence that this law, which constitutes the very
framework of the entire system of revealed religion, which
the remainder of the Bible elaborates, is truly a marvelous
display of wisdom and justice, especially when its date is
taken into consideration. 

 In the light of reason, all must admit that it bears no evidence
of being the work of wicked, designing men, but that
it corresponds exactly with what nature teaches to be the
character of God. It gives evidence of his Wisdom, Justice
and Love. And further, the evidently pious and noble lawgiver,
Moses, denies that the laws were his own, and attributes
them to God. ( Exod. 24:12 ; Deut. 9:9-11 ; Exod. 26:30 ;

 <54> 

 Lev. 1:1 ) In view of his general character, and his commands
to the people not to bear false witness, and to avoid
hypocrisy and lying, is it reasonable to suppose that such a
man bore false witness and palmed off his own views and
laws for those of God? It should be remembered also that
we are examining the present copies of the Bible, and that
therefore the integrity for which it is so marked applies
equally to the successors of Moses; for though bad men
were among those successors, who did seek their own and
not the people's good, it is evident that they did not tamper
with the Sacred Writings, which are pure to this day.

 The Prophets of the Bible 

 Glance now at the general character of the prophets of
the Bible and their testimonies. A rather remarkable fact is
that the prophets, with few exceptions, were not of the
priestly class; and that in their day their prophecies were
generally repugnant to the degenerating and time-serving
priesthood, as well as to the idolatrously inclined people.
The burden of their messages from God to the people was
generally reproof for sin, coupled with warnings of coming
punishments, intertwined with which we find occasional
promises of future blessings, after they should be cleansed
from sin and should return to favor with the Lord. Their
experiences, for the most part, were far from enviable: they
were generally reviled, many of them being imprisoned and
put to violent deaths. See 1 Kings 18:4,10,17,18 ; 19:10 ;
 Jer. 38:6 ; Heb. 11:32-38 . In some instances it was years after
their death before their true character as God's prophets
was recognized. But we speak thus of the prophetic writers
whose utterances claim to be the direct inspiration of Jehovah.
It is well in this connection that we should remember
that in the giving of the law to Israel there was no priestly
intervention: it was given by God to the people by the hand

 <55> 

of Moses. ( Exod. 19:17-25 ; Deut. 5:1-5 ) And, furthermore,
it was made the duty of every man seeing a violation of the
law to reprove the sinner. ( Lev. 19:17 ) Thus all had the authority
to teach and reprove; but since, as in our own day,
the majority were absorbed in the cares of business, and became
indifferent and irreligious, the few comparatively fulfilled
this requirement by reproving sin and exhorting to
godliness; and these preachers are termed "prophets" in
both the Old and New Testaments. The term prophet, as
generally used, signifies public expounder , and the public
teachers of idolatry were also so called; for instance, "the
prophets of Baal," etc. See 1 Cor. 14:1-6 ; 2 Pet. 2:1 ;
 Matt. 7:15 ; 14:5 ; Neh. 6:7 ; 1 Kings 18:40 ; Titus 1:12 . 

 Prophesying, in the ordinary sense of teaching, afterward
became popular with a certain class, and degenerated into
Phariseeism--teaching, instead of God's commandments,
the traditions of the ancients, thereby opposing the truth
and becoming false prophets, or false teachers. Matt. 15:2-9 

 Out of the large class called prophets, Jehovah at various
times made choice of some whom he specially commissioned
to deliver messages, relating sometimes to things
then at hand, at other times to future events. It is to the
writings of this class, who spoke and wrote as they were
moved by the holy Spirit, that we are now giving attention.
They might with propriety be designated

 Divinely Commissioned Prophets or Seers. 

 When it is remembered that these prophets were mainly
laymen, drawing no support from the tithes of the priestly
tribe, and when, added to this, is the fact that they were
frequently not only the reprovers of kings and judges, but
also of priests (though they reproved not the office, but the
personal sins of the men who filled it), it becomes evident
that we could not reasonably decide that these prophets

 <56> 

were parties to any league of priests, or others, to fabricate
falsehood in the name of God. Reason in the light of facts
contradicts such a suspicion. 

 If, then, we find no reason to impeach the motives of the
various writers of the Bible, but find that the spirit of its
various parts is righteousness and truth, let us next proceed
to inquire whether there exists any link, or bond of union,
between the records of Moses, those of the other prophets,
and those of the New Testament writers. If we shall find one
common line of thought interwoven throughout the Law
and the Prophets and the New Testament writings, which
cover a period of fifteen hundred years, this, taken in connection
with the character of the writers, will be a good reason
for admitting their claim--that they are divinely inspired
--particularly if the theme common to all of them is a
grand and noble one, comporting well with what sanctified
common sense teaches regarding the character and attributes
of God. 

 This we do find: One plan, spirit, aim and purpose pervades
the entire book. Its opening pages record the creation
and fall of man; its closing pages tell of man's recovery from
that fall; and its intervening pages show the successive steps
of the plan of God for the accomplishment of this purpose.
The harmony, yet contrast, of the first three and the last
three chapters of the Bible is striking. The one describes the
first creation, the other the renewed or restored creation,
with sin and its penal-curse removed; the one shows Satan
and evil entering the world to deceive and destroy, the
other shows his work undone, the destroyed ones restored,
evil extinguished and Satan destroyed; the one shows the
dominion lost by Adam, the other shows it restored and forever
established by Christ, and God's will done in earth as
in heaven; the one shows sin the producing cause of degradation,

 <57> 

shame and death, the other shows the reward of
righteousness to be glory, honor and life. 

 Though written by many pens, at various times, under
different circumstances, the Bible is not merely a collection
of moral precepts, wise maxims and words of comfort. It is
more: it is a reasonable, philosophical and harmonious
statement of the causes of present evil in the world, its only
remedy and the final results as seen by divine wisdom,
which saw the end of the plan from before its beginning,
marking as well the pathway of God's people, and upholding
and strengthening them with exceeding great and precious
promises to be realized in due time. 

 The teaching of Genesis, that man was tried in a state of
original perfection in one representative, that he failed, and
that the present imperfection, sickness and death are the results,
but that God has not forsaken him, and will ultimately
recover him through a redeemer, born of a woman
( Gen. 3:15 ), is kept up and elaborated all the way through.
The necessity of the death of a redeemer as a sacrifice for
sins, and of his righteousness as a covering for our sin, is
pointed out in the clothing of skins for Adam and Eve; in
the acceptance of Abel's offerings; in Isaac on the altar; in
the death of the various sacrifices by which the patriarchs
had access to God, and of those instituted under the law
and perpetuated throughout the Jewish age. The prophets,
though credited with understanding but slightly the significance
of some of their utterances ( 1 Pet. 1:12 ), mention the
laying of the sins upon a person instead of a dumb animal,
and in prophetic vision they see him who is to redeem and
to deliver the race led "as a lamb to the slaughter," that
"the chastisement of our peace was upon him," and that
"by his stripes we are healed." They pictured him as "despised
and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted

 <58> 

with grief," and declared that "The Lord hath
laid on him the iniquity of us all." ( Isa. 53:3-6 ) They told
where this deliverer would be born ( Micah 5:2 ), and when
he should die, assuring us that it would be "not for himself."
( Dan. 9:26 ) They mention various peculiarities concerning
him--that he would be "righteous," and free from
"deceit," "violence," or any just cause of death ( Isa. 53:8,9,11 );
that he would be betrayed for thirty pieces of silver
( Zech. 11:12 ); that he would be numbered among transgressors
in his death ( Isa. 53:12 ); that not a bone of him
should be broken ( Psa. 34:20 ; John 19:36 ); and that
though he should die and be buried, his flesh would not corrupt,
neither would he remain in the grave. Psa. 16:10 ;
 Acts 2:31 

 The New Testament writers clearly and forcibly, yet simply,
record the fulfilment of all these predictions in Jesus of
Nazareth, and by logical reasonings show that such a ransom 
 price as he gave was needful, as already predicted in the
Law and the Prophets, before the sins of the world could be
blotted out. ( Isa. 1:18 ) They trace the entire plan in a most
logical and forcible manner, appealing neither to the prejudices
nor to the passions of their hearers, but to their
enlightened reason alone, furnishing some of the most
remarkably close and cogent reasoning to be found anywhere
on any subject. See Rom. 5:17-19 , and onward to
the 12th chapter. 

 Moses, in the Law, pointed not alone to a sacrifice, but
also to a blotting out of sins and a blessing of the people
under this great deliverer, whose power and authority he
declares shall vastly exceed his own, though it should be
"like unto" it. ( Deut. 18:15,19 ) The promised deliverer is to
bless not only Israel, but through Israel "all the families of
the earth." ( Gen. 12:3 ; 18:18 ; 22:18 ; 26:4 ) And notwithstanding
the prejudices of the Jewish people to the contrary,

 <59> 

the prophets continue the same strain, declaring that
Messiah shall be also "for a light to lighten the Gentiles"
( Isa. 49:6 ; Luke 2:32 ); that the Gentiles should come to him
"from the ends of the earth" ( Jer. 16:19 ); that his name
"shall be great among the Gentiles" ( Mal. 1:11 ); and that
"the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall
see it together." Isa. 40:5 . See also Isa. 42:1-7 . 

 The New Testament writers claim a divine anointing
which enabled them to realize the fulfilment of the prophecies
concerning the sacrifice of Christ. They, though prejudiced
as Jews to think of every blessing as limited to their
own people ( Acts 11:1-18 ), were enabled to see that while
their nation would be blessed, all the families of the earth
should be blessed also, with and through them. They saw
also that, before the blessing of either Israel or the world, a
selection would be made of a "little flock" from both Jews
and Gentiles, who, being tried, would be found worthy to
be made joint-heirs of the glory and honor of the Great Deliverer,
and sharers with him of the honor of blessing Israel
and all the nations. Rom. 8:17 

 These writers point out the harmony of this view with
what is written in the Law and the Prophets; and the grandeur
and breadth of the plan they present more than meets
the most exalted conception of what it purports to be--
"Good tidings of great joy, which shall be unto all people." 

 The thought of Messiah as a ruler of not only Israel, but
also of the world, suggested in the books of Moses, is the
theme of all the prophets. The thought of the kingdom was
uppermost also in the teaching of the apostles; and Jesus
taught that we should pray, "Thy Kingdom come," and
promised those a share in it who would first suffer for the
truth, and thus prove themselves worthy. 

 This hope of the coming glorious kingdom gave all the
faithful ones courage to endure persecution and to suffer

 <60> 

reproach, deprivation and loss, even unto death. And in the
grand allegorical prophecy which closes the New Testament,
the worthy "Lamb that was slain" ( Rev. 5:12 ), the
worthy "overcomers" whom he will make kings and priests
in his kingdom, and the trials and obstacles which they
must overcome to be worthy to share that kingdom, are all
faithfully portrayed. Then are introduced symbolic representations
of the blessings to accrue to the world under that
Millennial reign, when Satan shall be bound and Adamic
death and sorrow wiped out, and when all the nations of
earth shall walk in the light of the heavenly kingdom--the
new Jerusalem. 

 The Bible, from first to last, holds out a doctrine found
nowhere else, and in opposition to the theories of all the
heathen religions--that a future life for the dead will come
through a RESURRECTION OF THE DEAD. All the inspired
writers expressed their confidence in a redeemer, and one
declares that "in the morning," when God shall call them
from the tomb, and they shall come forth, the wicked shall
no longer hold the rulership of earth; for "The upright shall
have dominion over them, in the morning." ( Psa. 49:14 )
The resurrection of the dead is taught by the prophets; and
the writers of the New Testament base all their hopes of future
life and blessing upon it. Paul expresses it thus: "If
there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen;
and if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain and
your faith is also vain;...then they which are fallen asleep
in Christ are perished . But now is Christ risen from the dead,
and become the firstfruits of them that slept;...for as in
Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive."
 1 Cor. 15:13-22 

 Like a watch, whose many wheels might at first seem superfluous,
but whose slowest moving wheels are essential, so
the Bible, composed of many parts, and prepared by many

 <61> 

pens, is one complete and harmonious whole. Not a single
part is superfluous, and though some parts take a more active
and prominent place than others, all are useful and
necessary. It is becoming popular among the so-called "advanced
thinkers" and "great theologians" of the present
day to treat lightly, or to ignore if they do not deny, many
of the "miracles" of the Old Testament, calling them "old
wives' fables." Of these are the accounts of Jonah and the
great fish, Noah and the ark, Eve and the serpent, the
standing still of the sun at the command of Joshua, and Balaam's
speaking ass. Seemingly these wise men overlook the
fact that the Bible is so interwoven and united in its various
parts that to tear from it these miracles, or to discredit
them, is to destroy or discredit the whole. For if the original
accounts are false, those who repeated them were either falsifiers
or dupes, and in either case it would be impossible for
us to accept their testimony as divinely inspired. To eliminate
from the Bible the miracles mentioned would invalidate
the testimony of its principal writers, besides that
of our Lord Jesus. The story of the fall is attested by Paul
( Rom. 5:17 ); also Eve's beguilement by the serpent ( 2 Cor. 11:3 ;
 1 Tim. 2:14 ). See also our Lord's reference to the latter
in Rev. 12:9 and 20:2 . The standing of the sun at the
overthrow of the Amorites, as an evidence of the Lord's
power, was evidently typical of the power to be displayed in
the future, in "the day of the Lord," at the hand of him
whom Joshua typified. This is attested by three prophets.
( Isa. 28:21 ; Habak. 2:1-3,13,14 and 3:2-11 ; Zech. 14:1,6,7 )
The account of the speaking ass is confirmed by Jude ( verse 11 ),
and by Peter ( 2 Pet. 2:16 ). And the great
teacher, Jesus, confirms the narratives of Jonah and the
great fish and of Noah and the flood. ( Matt. 12:40 ; 24:38,39 ;
 Luke 17:26 . See also 1 Pet. 3:20 .) Really these are no
greater miracles than those performed by Jesus and the

 <62> 

apostles, such as the turning of water into wine, the healing
of diseases, etc.; and as a miracle, the awakening of the
dead is most wonderful of all. 

 These miracles, not common to our experience, find parallels
about us every day, which, being more common, are
passed by unnoticed. The reproduction of living organisms,
either animal or vegetable, is beyond our comprehension , as well
as beyond our power--hence miraculous. We can see the
exercise of life principle, but can neither understand nor
produce it. We plant two seeds side by side; the conditions,
air, water, and soil, are alike; they grow , we cannot tell how ,
nor can the wisest philosopher explain this miracle. These
seeds develop organisms of opposite tendencies; one creeps,
the other stands erect; form, flower, coloring, everything
differs, though the conditions were the same. Such miracles
grow common to us, and we cease to remember them as
such as we leave the wonderment of childhood; yet they
manifest a power as much beyond our own, and beyond
our limited intelligence, as the few miracles recorded in the
Bible for special purposes, and as intended illustrations of
omnipotence, and of the ability of the great Creator to
overcome every obstacle and to accomplish all his will,
even to our promised resurrection from the dead, the
extermination of evil, and the ultimate reign of everlasting
righteousness. 

 Here we rest the case. Every step has been tested by reason.
We have found that there is a God, a supreme, intelligent
Creator, in whom wisdom, justice, love and power
exist in perfect harmony. We have found it reasonable to
expect a revelation of his plans to his creatures capable of
appreciating and having an interest in them. We have
found the Bible, claiming to be that revelation, worthy of
consideration. We have examined its writers, and their possible
objects, in the light of what they taught; we have been

 <63> 

astonished; and our reason has told us that such wisdom,
combined with such purity of motive, was not the cunning
device of crafty men for selfish ends. Reason has urged that
it is far more probable that such righteous and benevolent
sentiments and laws must be of God and not of men, and
has insisted that they could not be the work of knavish
priests. We have seen the harmony of testimony concerning
Jesus, his ransom-sacrifice, and the resurrection and blessing
of all as the outcome, in his glorious kingdom to come;
and reason has told us that a scheme so grand and comprehensive,
beyond all we could otherwise have reason to expect,
yet built upon such reasonable deductions, must be
the plan of God for which we seek. It cannot be the mere
device of men, for even when revealed, it is almost too
grand to be believed by men. 

 When Columbus discovered the Orinoco river, some one
said he had found an island. He replied: "No such river as
that flows from an island. That mighty torrent must drain
the waters of a continent." So the depth and power and wisdom
and scope of the Bible's testimony convince us that not
man, but the Almighty God, is the author of its plans and
revelations. We have taken but a hasty glance at the surface
claims of the Scriptures to be of divine origin, and have
found them reasonable. Succeeding chapters will unfold
the various parts of the plan of God, and will, we trust, give
ample evidence to every candid mind that the Bible is a
divinely inspired revelation, and that the length and
breadth and height and depth of the plan it unfolds gloriously
reflect the divine character, hitherto but dimly comprehended,
but now more clearly seen in the light of the
dawning Millennial Day. 

 <64> 

 Truth Most Precious 

 Great truths are dearly bought. The common truth, 
 Such as men give and take from day to day, 
 Comes in the common walk of easy life, 
 Blown by the careless wind across our way.

 Great truths are dearly won; not found by chance, 
 Nor wafted on the breath of summer dream; 
 But grasped in the great struggle of the soul, 
 Hard buffeting with adverse wind and stream.

 Sometimes, 'mid conflict, turmoil, fear and grief, 
 When the strong hand of God, put forth in might, 
 Ploughs up the subsoil of the stagnant heart, 
 It brings some buried truth-seeds to the light.

 Not in the general mart, 'mid corn and wine; 
 Not in the merchandise of gold and gems; 
 Not in the world's gay hall of midnight mirth, 
 Nor 'mid the blaze of regal diadems;

 Not in the general clash of human creeds, 
 Nor in the merchandise 'twixt church and world, 
 Is truth's fair treasure found, 'mongst tares and weeds; 
 Nor her fair banner in their midst unfurled.

 Truth springs like harvest from the well-ploughed fields, 
 Rewarding patient toil, and faith and zeal. 
 To those thus seeking her, she ever yields 
 Her richest treasures for their lasting weal.