The On-Board Computer (OBC). 

This page was originally hosted here: http://cbsgi1.bu.edu/bmw/bmw_new.html . But that site has gone down so I'm hosting these pages here.

 The On-Board Computer (OBC). 

 Contents: 

 Undocumented Features. 
 Fixing the backlight. 
 The PPPP Problem. 
 Also check the 
 Electrical FAQ 

Last updated 1/2/97

 Undocumented Features. 

These work on OBC II cars: 
 Simultaneously press the 1000 and the 1 button to get remaining fuel
in liters (the car needs to be running). 

 Simultaneously press the 1000 and the 10 button to get the version
number. You should get something like: 
4 .6TYP 
Where the 4 is the car/engine designator, the 6 is the chip firmware.
That tells you the programming of the OBC, what coding plug is in it.
Specific to each engine type, injector type, tire size, fuel tank and
reserve capacity.
And here's some more from Phil Marx....

 OBC car/engine designators and firmware number. 

 E30 318i 3-3 TYP
 E30 325e ('84-87) 3-8 TYP
 E30 325e ('88) 4-4 TYP
 E30 325i ('87) 3-1.2 TYP
 E30 325i ('88 on) 4-6 TYP
 E30 M3 3-1.1 TYP
 E28 528e ('85-87) 5-8 TYP
 E28 528e ('88) 5-1.3 TYP
 E28 535i 5-6 TYP
 E28 M5 6-4 TYP
 E24 635Csi/L6 ('85-87) 6-2 TYP
 E24 635Csi ('88 on) 6-6 TYP
 E24 M6 6-4 TYP
 E23 735i/L7 ('85-87) 7-4 TYP

For what this bit of knowledge is worth to anyone.......
No other test functions on that type OBC but you'd need a book to discuss
the E32/4 type. 
- -Phil Marx BMWCCA #6021

The following is for newer OBC found in E36 cars for example: 

To determine if your OBC is eligible .. press 1000 and 10 together. 

 you should see TEST NO . -- or something like that. 

Now, some of the functions are locked out -- I do NOT recommend messing
with them and you do so at your own risk -- that said ... 

To unlock all functions .. press 1000 and 10 and at the TEST prompt
enter 19 using the keys .. press SET/RES .. you should see LOCK:ON
or something similar ... press the DATE key .. (today you'd see 08.20)
and add the two numbers (day and month) together (today 28) 

Now enter the number you just calculated (28) and press SET/RES. 

TADA .. you have unlocked the secret functions ... 

To lock them back up .. press 1000 and 10 then enter 19, SET/RES 
now press SET/RES again .. it should show .. LOCK:ON again 

In general when I show a test enter it by pressing 1000 and 10 together
then enter the number of the test with the numeric keys and press SET/RES
to actually execute the test ... 

Test numbers for E36 OBC (Note: Joe this should also work for your 535!)

 Test no. 
 Description 
 1 Display Test .. all LCDs and LEDs activate 
 2 Current Consumption in l/100km 
 3 Current Consumption in l/hour 
 4 Average Consumption (used to calc. Range) 
 5 Current Range 
 6 Not used .. 
 7 Average Fuel in Tank (l) 
 8 Current Speed (km/h) 
 9 System Voltage at terminal R 
 10 Country/Language 
 11 Units/ AM.PM 
 12 Average Speed (km/h) for calc. ETA 
 13 ETA 
 14 Date of software/mask of OBC 
 15 Production Diagnosis (??) 
 16 Production Diagnosis (??) 
 17 Display Vehicle Specific Data 
 18 Alarm Changeover (continuous v. intermittent) 
 19 LOCK/UNLOCK all functions 
 20 Correction Factor for OBC Fuel Consumption (SEE BELOW!) 
 21 Reset all defect codes, date and time ... activate by
pressing SET/RES 

 Note on test #20:

 The factor is used to correct the OBC Avg Fuel Consumption figure
 to reality. If your OBC is off a bit: fill UP totally,
 run tank down and refill; then calculate your Actual MPG.
 Now enter test 20 to get the old Correction Factor. 

 NEW CF= OLD CF *(OBC MPG/Actual MPG) 

 Enter the NEW CF using the numeric keys and hit SET/RES to store.
 PLEASE record your OLD CF so that IF you screw up you can
 always go back to what it was. 

 Updates: 
This is from a European 1990 M5 owner (9/3/96): 

I have also found a deviation from the FAQ (which describes an E36 OBC)
in the 'lock/unlock secret functions' of the E34 OBC: 
To unlock: 

 Press the DATE key, and add the day + month numbers
 Press 1000 and 10 simultaneoulsy, then use 10 and 1 keys
 to enter test 19
 Press S/R once. You will now see 0000LOCK or similar
 Use the 10 and 1 keys to enter the sum of day + month
 Press S/R -- secret functions are unlocked...
 Verify by entering test 19 again. Display should show
FREE

To lock: 

 Press 1000 and 10 simultaneoulsy, then use 10 and 1 keys
 to enter test 19
 Press S/R once. You will now see FREE or similar
 Press the little square button (F/C) to the left of display
 Verify by entering test 19 again. Display should be 0000LOCK.

The procedure to show the version number also differs from the FAQ.
On the E34 OBC, you need to press the 100 and 1 buttons simultaneously,
to display the type/version (Mine shows '5-00TYP').

 (return to contents) 

 Fixing the backlight: 
This is about a 1988 325is, but many other models are similar. 
A variation of this note appeared in the Feb., 1994 Roundel and is
included in the "BMW Enthusiasts Companion" book published by 
 Bentley. 

The backlight for the OBC display is provided by a pair of small
incandescent bulbs which are soldered to a small printed circuit board.
This board is in a white plastic housing that slides into the right side
of the OBC. The bulb assembly cost about $20.00 from the dealer.
A resourceful hack mechanic could save 20 bucks by
unsoldering the old bulb and soldering in a new one. You probably would 
have a hard time finding an exact replacement bulb but you could
find one close enough. 

Added. 11/2/94... 
The bulbs are 5 Volt and use about 80 mA. The nearest Radio Shack bulbs
are: part number 272-1140, 6 volt. They can be soldered right in the
circuit board. 

The hard part is getting at the side of the OBC to remove the bulb
holder without disassembling the entire center console. You must
partially remove the center console panel. The OBC is screwed into the
center console panel from the rear with 4 phillips screws. Once the
screws are out, it comes out toward the rear (unfortunately!!). 

First I removed
the radio by loosening the screws that lock it into the center
console. These screws are a special 5 sided torx-like screw that require
a special tool to remove properly. The tool costs something like $15.00
at the dealer, but you can usually get by with a 2mm hex wrench. 
It's really maddening that of all the worhtless crap in the BMW toolbox
that comes with the car, they cant put this $0.50 tool in. The hex
wrench might chew up the screw a little bit, but it will still work
repeatedly.

I did all this with the battery connected so I didn't have to
reset codes or reprogram the computer. No electrical connectors have to
be removed so there's not much danger of shorting things. The radio has
long enough wires that you can pull it out the front and rest it on the
ashtray while you do the rest. The 
 Bentley 
manual really helped on the
next step because it showed the location of the screws that hold the
center panel. There are 2 #1 Phillips screws at the top, behind the
hazard flasher switch, which you have to pull out and leave dangling by
the wires, the other behind the
dummy plug. The 2 #2 Phillips screws at the bottom are harder to
reach--you need a short screwdriver--but they're not that tough. Once
the four screws are out you can pull the center console out enough to
access the computer. You have to be careful not to snap off plastic
edges, slide the panel to the right as you pull to free the lip on the
left side. Note that everything (heater controls, radio balance control, etc.)
is still connected to the center console. This makes it a little harder
to maneuver, but it's a lot less work in the end. [See below for
alternate method to removing bottom console screws.]
If your wrist is small enough, you can reach in through the
radio opening and loosen the 2 Phillips screws that hold the left side of
the OBC. You don't need to remove the screws, just loosen them. If
you can't fit through the radio opening, you'll have to remove the glove
box and side panels to reach the screws from behind. Now with the left
side loose you just need to pull the right side of the center panel out
about 2 inches until you can access the left side screws. At this point
you can see the flush mounted bulb-holder and you realize that this
thing was not very well engineered! The center panel cutout blocks
access to the slide out bulb-holder. That is why you have to remove the
2 screws holding the left side of the computer. It would have been an
easy matter to design a center console that didn't block the bulb. For
that matter, it seems it would have been easy to design a computer mount
that allowed it to just snap out toward the front or screw out like the
radio. The bulb could then be changed in 30 seconds. Back to the 2 left
side screws--to really get a screwdriver on these you would have to pull
the center panel out at least 4 or 5 inches. It didn't seem like it
wanted to be pulled out that far without removing more stuff (like heater
controls) so instead I just opened it enough to get a pair of small
needle nose vise-grips on the heads of the screws. They aren't in
very tight so with a little patience the vise-grips remove the
screws. 
[Addition from Rick Kjeldsen: 
The center panel will come completely off the heater if you do the
following: Take (pull) off the caps from the 3 heater slider controls.
There is a thin plastic cover over the three slider slots that covers
4 screws. It is about the size of a 3x5 card. You have to gently pry
it off to avoid damaging it. I found I can pull from one of the
slider slots to get it started. That will uncover 4 screws that hold
the center panel to the heater core.] 

Now the on-board computer can be pushed in from the center
panel, the bulb-holder pulled out and the new one slips right in. I
checked the old bulbs and sure enough one was burned out (they're in
series so this takes out the other one). Just to make sure before I
closed everything up, I stuck in the key, turned on the ignition and the
correct time of day lit up beautifully! 

I just reversed the procedure to
get everything back. The biggest problem here was restarting the 2
bottom screws on the center panel. It's impossible to see anything and
there isn't enough room even for my small hands. A little patience will
get you there though. 

[11/5/93 Update: You might be able to get away with this easier method,
supplied by Kent Shephard which worked on his M3] 

My mechanic showed me how to do this on my M3 today and he said this
description is *NOT* the way a flat rate mechanic does it.
He works for a dealership and he did my M3 is all of 10 minutes.
So folks I'll outline it so the FAQ can be changed.
He said all the screws don't need to come out. He said this 
description is for those obsessed with getting the computer
out.
So follow along. 

* DO NOT REMOVE THE BOTTOM SCREWS * 

At this point tilt the top of the console forwad.
Don't be scared you won't break it.

You will now be able to look on the right side of 

the computer and see the light module and a single 

screw.

You will need the needle nose pliers to remove that screw.
It has fine threads so be patient. Throw screw away.
The computer will hold fine with three screws.

After the screw is out, pull the module with the needle nose pliers
and it will come out. Now slide the new one in and reassemble.

Here is another person's experience. Note this is in conflict with the
above--namely in that the OBC comes out toward the front and is held in
by nuts not phillips screws. Maybe BMW used different methods.
I think sometime in the early 90's the OBC does snap out toward the
front simply by prying with a credit card. (can somebody verify this 
and e-mail me. 

(by Mike Whitley: WHITLEYM@mcl.saic.com) 

A lot of people have complained about the backlight on the E30 onboard computer.
When I had a 325is, the lights burned out. Replacing the little panel or even
just the bulbs is an easy job. Saves you $70 or $80 as well compared to
letting a dealer do it. A quick summary follows.

Access the computer... this involves first taking out the glove box, and right
side dash board cover. Everything is held in place by push pins, they just
twist and pull out.

Now, you need a socket wrench, with a short handle and a very small socket. I
can't remember how big... anyway, use the wrench to undo the nuts that hold
the computer in place on the dash baord. You won't be able to see them just
feel around and you will find them. Once the nuts have been removed, the
computer will slide out of the dash towards the seats.

On the side of the computer is a small white panel. This is the back light
bar. Pry it out with a small screwdriver or fingernail and pop in the new one.
If spending $25 or $30 for this seems like a waste of money to you, desolder
the dead bulbs and solder in new ones for about $2.00. They may not have the
exact same wattage though. If the computer push buttons have also stopped
lighting up, the bulb for that is located in the back. Twist it out and pop in
a new one. (You remembered to pick one up at your dealer right?)

Reverse the installation instructions and voila! You are done. The whole
thing shouldn't take more than two hours. Less if you are quick.

(by Steve Fox: SRFox@aol.com) 

Alternate method: 

Remove radio (easy). 

Pop top switches above radio (easy). 

Remove two phillips screws at top of center
console. They will be visible through the
recently vacated switch holes (easy).

Remove two phillips screws at bottom of
center console, just under bottom edge (easy).

Pull center console forward on the right
edge exposing the business side of OBC (easy,
but gently, not much distance needed).

Remove top right nut that secures OBC (easy).

Trim pointless plastic interfering with removal of light
bar (easy, makes next replacement even easier).

Pull out light bar with needle nose and replace
with new unit (easy).

Assemble in reverse order of disassembly (easy).

I did this in 20 minutes the first time. The other method
on this list (through the glove box) sounds great too but I
could not contort my fingers enough to remove the four OBC
nuts. Local dealer wants about $80 for this procedure.

 (return to contents) 

 What to do if you get PPPP displayed on the OBC 

I've heard that disconnecting the
battery for a long time (like 1 hour) will make this go away. 

I lived with this problem for several (3) years. I tried 
disconnecting the battery for the 1+ hours or so to no avail. The 
ultimate solution was to disconnect the computer itself from its 
multi-pin connector. I left it unhooked for approximately 24 hours. 
Upon reconnecting the computer.....viola a full up and running OBC 
II. 

Jeff Wilcox 

 So here is what works most of the time. 

With the key in the "Radio" position (Radio and OBC light up, but not 
the instrument cluster), press the "CODE" button. Then push the little 
reset-hole with a Pen and hold it, 'till the computer blinks in the 
display, and it will ask you for a time and date entry. - You now have 
re-adapted the coding plug to the computer. - Normally the computer goes 
into a PPPP mode when the car has been boosted, or some other very 
drastically voltage changes have occurred.

 (return to contents)