UPDATED AND MOVED TO:

  http://www.amasci.com/freenrg/arrhenus.html









   
THEY LAUGHED AT THE THE WRIGHT BROTHERS!                W. Beaty

I keep encountering a particular concept in skeptical writings which I
think should be addressed.  One clear version of it is here below.  I'm
not picking on Dr. Bohren in particular, this same statement is also
made by several other authors.  ( And Bohren's book is excellent, anyone
interested in physics, or in science misconceptions should read it! )


Excerpt from CLOUDS IN A GLASS OF BEER, by Craig F.Bohren (c)1987,
J. Wiley & Sons, Inc.

   "The story of Arrhenius could be cast in such a way that he was a hero
   and his foot-dragging detractors were villains.  I must say, however,
   that I am not opposed to scientific conservatism.  Indeed, it is
   necessary (although when faced with it myself I chafe and writhe and
   say bad words.)  We forget that many cockeyed ideas that were resisted
   by the savants of the day - the Establishment is the pejorative term
   used - are often shown to have been - cockeyed.  Every now and then a
   rare genius turns out to have had a good idea despite initial
   resistance to it.  And subsequently, hordes of crackpots try to make
   capital out of this: Arrhenius was ridiculed, he was right; I am
   ridiculed, therefor, I, too, am right.  A manifestly faulty syllogism,
   but one widely appealed to nevertheless."

Since I've encountered the above idea more than once, I am beginning to
wonder if the various arguments and complaints made against
overly-skeptical behavior are being heard correctly.

Over and over again the mainstream researchers make the Skeptical
assertion that, if in view of current knowledge, a new theory or
observation appears crazy or impossible, therefor it must be crazy or
impossible, and it can be dismissed out of hand.  The unorthodox
researchers respond fiercely, and end up saying things like "after all,
they laughed at the Wright Brothers!"

But wait a minute.  Might the skeptics be misinterpreting the response of
the offbeat researchers?  Might the reference to the Wrights be heard as
meaning "the Wright Brothers were ridiculed but correct.  I am ridiculed,
therefor I am correct as well!" ?  But this interpretation is wrong.  This
was mis-heard.  It is not what the unorthodox researchers are trying to
say.

Their appeal to the Wrights, Arrhenius, Galileo, etc., was meant to
address an entirely different point: although the crazy ideas usually
prove to be just that, every so often they do prove to be correct.  They
sometimes even prove to be of immense value.  Therefor "crazy" ideas must
not be automatically dismissed out of hand.  It is a very bad practice to
erect insurmountable barriers against all seemingly irrational ideas,
because doing so will throw out the occasional Galileos and Arrheniuses
along with the "hoards of crackpots".

Some Skeptics would prefer that the apparent crackpots always prove to be
just that, but the reality is not so simple.  If we fight too hard to
eliminate the "weird" stuff, then we run the risk of suppressing the next
Copernicus.  There are diamonds hidden in the sewage, and if we succeed in
keeping Science entirely and totally "clean", then we also eliminate the
possibility of any major paradigm-changing discoveries.

It is wrong to assert that crackpot ideas are ALWAYS just what they seem.
The history of new ideas, including those of Margulis, Gold, Weltner, and
even the Wrights and Galileo prove this by example.  And to ignore these
powerful examples presented by the "crackpots," and instead to see a
simple error in logic, is in itself an error.  When someone drags out the
old "They Laughed at the Wright Brothers" argument, that person is simply
saying this:

  "you who make a policy of automatically rejecting 'crazy' ideas without
   giving  them a fair hearing, would have joined the large group who
   ridiculed the Wright Brothers back in 1905."

And to the great shame of scientists everwhere, their charge often has
merit.


 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 "All truth passes through three stages: First, it is ridiculed; Second,
  it is violently opposed; and Third, it is accepted as self-evident."
    - Arthur Schopenhauer
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------


I've encountered another misinterpretation of 'They Laughed At The Wright
Brothers.'  This is from sci.physics FAQ, section 1.7 (7/97).  The
"laughing" in this case is at Galileo...

   People putting forward extraordinary claims often refer to Galileo as
   an example of a great genius being persecuted by the establishment for
   heretical theories.  They claim that the scientific establishment is
   afraid of being proved wrong, and hence is trying to suppress the
   truth.  This is a classic conspiracy theory.  The Conspirators are all
   those scientists who have bothered to point out flaws in the claims put
   forward by the researchers.

Again the Skeptics are making a (perhaps too convenient)
misinterpretation, and attempting to justify their quick dismissal of the
complaints of the unorthodox researchers.

When an unconventional researcher complains that the scientific peer
group is attempting to suppress his/her work, we should listen carefully
to this complaint. Does the researcher actually claim to be the target of
an organized conspiracy?  If not, then our stating otherwise is indulging
in a "straw man" argument.  After all, it makes sense that if a
non-trivial portion of individual scientists really are afraid of being
proved wrong, if most scientists really do have emotional investment in a
current worldview, then some portion of the "scientific establishment"
really will tend to indulge in suppressive acts.  No conspiracy is needed,
all we require is a collection of individuals having common motivation.
If the victim of genuine suppressive acts makes a complaint, then it would
be a great injustice to dismiss this complaint as simple paranoia.  As the
old saying goes, you aren't paranoid if a group of people really is out to
get you.

I see the above quoted FAQ entry as being dangerous.  It promotes the view
that anyone who complains of scientific suppression is automatically a
delusional paranoid, and so we can close our ears and ignore their
complaints.

While it's true that large numbers of crackpot researchers really exist,
and quite of few of these do suffer from delusions of persecution, it's
also true that suppression exists in science.  Kuhnian paradigm shifts are
caused by this suppression.  If we did not cling to partiular "paradigms"
so fiercely, then science might progress much more smoothly, rather than
requiring periodic revolution.

When human beings encounter ideas which threaten their fundamental
worldviews, the typical response is to try to crush the new ideas; to
eliminate them.  Researchers are not immune to this, although the
historical evidence for it is so embarassing that it is not widely
acknowledged outside of the Science History/Sociology arenas. Professional
scientists who pursue unpopular research tend to encounter not only
disbelief, but also ridicule, loss of funding even for their conventional
work, attempts to revoke honors, and myriad subtle attacks by collegues
behind the scenes. (In fact, one common attack is exactly as above: "If
you think people are attacking you, you must have mental problems and
therefor need professional help.")

And so, when someone complains about scientific suppression, we must never
automatically dismiss them as obviously being paranoid conspiracy-
theorists.  Instead we should take an unbiased view of the evidence.  Yes,
in many cases we will find that the hated "supressors" are simply people
who are rightly debunking some pseudoscience beliefs.  But in other cases
we will find that the "supressors" are scientists whose entire world is
threatened by evidence which supports the new ideas, and who are
individually taking action to silence those who bring forth that evidence.

When someone says "They laughed at Galileo", we must take care not to
automatically assume paranoia on their part.  We should instead hear it as
a plea to examine their evidence, just as Galileo pleaded with
contemporaries to actually come and look through that darned telescope!






    Created and maintained by Bill Beaty. Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com.
                 If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email.
