WEIRD SCIENCE: 'Free Energy' Articles 

 WEIRD SCI 
 ELEKTROMAGNUM 
 KEELYNET 
 F/E LINKS 
 SEARCH 

 Google: 

 "Free Energy" Devices 

 JUMP DOWN to links and articles. 
Also see 
 F.E. Frequently Asked Questions 

 WARNING WARNING WARNING! DO NOT GIVE MONEY TO PEOPLE INVOLVED IN
"FREE ENERGY"!!!! Several legitimate free energy researchers do 
exist, but they don't 
spend huge amounts on advertising like the scammers do. You probably 
won't have heard of them. The people who
pursue wide publicity are almost all scam artists. If someone is making 
large amounts of 
money from selling books and videos on free energy, be very suspicious. 
If someone is selling plans for "real" free-energy devices, they are a ripoff. 
Don't waste your money. Or if someone is selling "Dealer ships" or
invest ment oppor tunities for a free energy corp, hold tight to your
wallet and RUN! Or, if you've already let them get their hands on your
money, ask to see proof of the FE device, and see what excuse you're
given. (It will be a very convincing excuse. Scam artists don't act
sneaky. Scam artists survive because they seem far MORE honest and
honorable than a normal person. Remember that the "con" in "con game"
means "confidence." They win your confidence first, then they go after
your money.) How to tell the difference between a con game and a real
product? Easy: if you give them money before receiving a working FE
device, , then it's a scam, always. 

How can we tell a free energy scam from an honest FE researcher? Here 
are some symptoms of a scam:

 The researcher wants your money. He wants people to invest, 
he wants subscribers for expensive newsletters, wants to sell "Dealer 
ships", he wants individuals to make large
"donations." Or sometimes he wants to sell you extremely expensive plans
which do not work... or to sell you all sorts of 
books and videos about devices which don't do
anything real. In any scam, the WHOLE POINT is to separate the victims
from their wallets. (If absolutely no money is involved, then the
researcher might be legit... or the scam might be less obvious.) 
Some
scammers say that they want to improve the world (etc.), but then they
somehow always avoid doing this. They keep secrets, they run complex 
buisness
deals... they do all sorts of things except the most obvious ones: sending 
out simple and obvious proof to everyone, and getting 
working FE devices out into the public by all possible methods. 

 You'll notice that the scammer uses deception. Now we all 
know
that the "FE" field is similar to people selling maps to lost gold mines, 
or it's like
the used car arena: honest dealers may exist, but they are rare. 
The majority of publicized FE companies are con-artists selling worthless 
junk to gullible people. 
For this reason, real FE researchers are careful to remain scruptiously
honest. They bend over backwards to avoid misleading anyone even a
little. They have deep habits of honesty, and they don't tell all those 
little 
lies which would be acceptable in other situations. So if you notice a
researcher using even the smallest "politician ploy" or "marketing 
techniques," then 
you're almost certainly dealing with a con-man. If you point out these 
failings, they'll give sensible excuses. But the symptom is the 
 lack of brutal bend-over-backwards honesty. 

 How can we tell? Just ask the F/E hobbyists. While most 
"skeptics" are hopelessly biased, and will dishonestly claim that ALL 
free-energy inventors are scammers, you 
can still ask the online F/E community .
They'll quickly set you straight about who is a ripoff artist and who is a 
legit experimenter.

 FE hobby sites 

 PESWiki 
 Adsitt's Scam Watch 
 NuScam (Perreault) 

 The invention violates current laws of physics. Well, that's OK,
since historical inventions often violate the physics theories of their
time. But if many other listed symptoms are present as well, then it's a 
scam. 

 The invention is unproven. It has not yet splashed itself 
across 
news headlines worldwide. "NEW SOURCE OF ENERGY DISCOVERED IN USA!" Nope.
Scams always involve unproven inventions. Unproven inventions might be 
real or 
might not. But scammers often hide behind this fuzzy status.

 The inventor keeps the device secret. That, or their 
patent 
lacks 
some critical information and nobody can build a working copy based on the 
patent. (A small critical piece of info remains secret.) 

 The scammer usually has a good website. Make that a GREAT 
website. 
Well, actually their website looks like it was build by site-design 
experts who 
charge enormous fees. Wow, look at that thing, how could they afford 
to create such an expensive monstrous "online facade?" And that's it 
exactly: FACADE. The scammers spend all their resources making an 
airtight facade: a 
false front which looks trustworthy. Sometimes it looks far more 
trustworthy than any legit company's website. It certainly looks more 
trustworthy 
than the website of a legit inventor. REAL inventors' websites are crap, 
since they're made 
by the inventor (since inventors can't afford to pay anyone, and also, why 
pay for something that you can build yourself?) 

 It's NOT the company's number one goal to prove that the 
invention
is real. The scam company seems to have no goal besides creating an 
aura 
of
attractive secrets: secrets which will only be revealed to an in-group of
"superior" blue-blooded investors, while we rabble on the outside are
obviously inferior since we haven't invested and don't know the secrets.
(It's the old "treasure map" trick.) Scamsters have all sorts of other
tricks to appeal to snobbery or play up to the egos of investors. They
also have many really sensible excuses for not proving that their
discovery is real. But honest companies just sit down and prove their
claims beyond any doubt BEFORE gathering investors. After all, its
unethical to take investors' money for extremely questionable and totally
unproven devices as if they were normal inventions developed by reliable
companies. 

 The company performs public demonstrations... but something 
always
goes wrong. If it's a scam, then the "failure" was planned all along.
When the inventor starts a demonstration, watch for the "failure" which
excuses the inventor from having to actually prove the device. Or more
rarely, the demonstration is simple fraud, such as a hidden power supply,
or something similar to water-to-gasoline chemistry demonstrations where
the stirring spoon has a wax plug which melts and releases the gasoline
from a hidden pocket. 

 The inventor doesn't publish successful scientific research 
papers 
(i.e. he doesn't publish detailed replication instructions,) or if he
does, other researchers can't get them to work. Something vital wasn't
included. 

 The inventor uses Grand Conspiracies or government supression as 
an 
excuse. Yes,
actual suppression and small, non-grand conspiracies really do exist. 
Some inventors have genuine horror
stories about these. But if it's ALWAYS "the conspiracy's fault" and the
inventor cannot test the device or even show good evidence that it works,
or can't make progress despite years of investments or "donations," can't
reveal history of the work, can't reveal device details... if "The 
Conspiracy" is to blame, or if "The Oil Companies have made threats," then 
it's a scam.

 You risk being labeled as a "Scoffer" or a "Spy." Some
scammers manipulate their audience using the following ploy: "If you're
not for me, then obviously you *must* be against me." You're not
allowed to remain undecided about their invention, but feel pressured to
become a supporter. In other words, if you dare to insist on clear and
simple evidence, and you refuse to jump on the scammer's bandwagon, you'll
soon find yourself worrying about being attacked by the scammer and his
supporters. They'll label you as "untrusting," or accuse you of being a
mindless Skeptic. Other undecided people will see this happen, and may
join the bandwagon to avoid being publicly accused of witchcraft (accused
of being a spy for the government.) If you see this situation, then you
know that you're dealing with a con artist. 

 The inventor doesn't give out working copies of the 
invention to 
independent labs for testing (the hardware stays secret and untested.)

 Oh, did I forget to mention that the invention remains secret? 
:) 
Secret, secret, secret! Secrecy equals scam, scam equals secrecy. 

 The inventor makes one statement, then contradicts himself 
later. 
This string of lies may not be obvious, but is revealed by comparing
various statements. A classic version is "The idea was given to me by god" 
...followed later by "I must keep the invention a secret so idea-theives
can't steal it." (Hmmm. If god has gifted mankind with the secret of free
energy, why is this guy keeping it hidden, and worse, trying to make money
off it?!! Gifts from god are supposed to CONTROLLED? And SOLD?!) 

 The inventor hasn't tried winning any of the FE device prizes . 
Back in the days of flying machines, the genuine inventors were all 
questing after the several major prizes. They didn't distain the prizes 
and make excuses for not competing. But scammers sure do!

 SEE: another list 

 He whom the gods would destroy, they first give plans for a 
Free Energy device!

 Articles by Billb 

 Rules for FE inventors 
 The Prometheus Game 
 Inventors and Secrecy 
 Why am I involved in Fringe Sci? 
 Weird science is perception 
 Physics Sermon #49 

 Free Energy Frequently-asked Questions

 What's a FE device? 
 It's just Perpetual Motion! 
 Are they suppressed? 
 Are they a ripoff? 
 Where can I buy one? 
 But PLANS exist!!! 

 MORE ARTICLES... 
 Link collection to other F/E sites 
 Link collections to ALL Weird Science 

 Unusual Patents, via IBM Patent Server , thanks to Greg Watson 

 OU PATENT LIST at Solaris
, and older copy 
 Kawai Motor and Bearden article 
 Puharich's OU electrolyzer 
 4,151,431 Johnson Permanent magnet motor. (No graphics)
 4,215,330 Hartman Permanent magnet propulsion system (Tomi like).
 4,877,983 Johnson Magnetic force generation method & apparatus.
 5,191,258 German Electric current generator including torque reducing countermagnetic field.
 5,402,021 Johnson Magnetic propulsion system.
 5,436,518 Kawai Motive power generating device
 Minato Motor 

 Link. Shortcuts to files below 
 Warning: "Run Your Car On Water" 
 FNRG NEWS list of devices , also 
 EM devices 
 INE list of devices 
 Museum of Unworkable Devices 
 NERL tests of devices 
 Books on Free Energy 
 Bedini Device 
 T.T. Brown Electrogravity 
 Chernetski self-acting o/u arc 
 Johnson Motor 
 Hans Coler device 
 Dennis Lee Thermal O/U 
 The Farnsworth Tube 
 Finsrud O/U Sculpture 
 The Gray magnetic motor 
 Hendershot Device 
 The Hubbard Coil 
 Hyde electrostatic device 
 Moray's space energy receiver 
 S. Meyer's hi-volt, hi-freq hydrogen cell 
 'N-Machine' Homopolar Generator 
 Joe Newman's giant coil overunity motor 
 Searle gravity/energy device 
 Floyd Sweet's VTA device 
 Methernita TESTATIKA device 
 Water-vortex devices 
 Greg Watson SMOT, etc. 
 Some articles on Vacuum Energy (ZPE) 
 ATMOS self-powered clock, ATMOS Sales 
 Others 

 The following Keelynet files are mirrored from David Johnsson's
excellent 
 ELEKTROMAGNUM site 

 Free Energy Files 

 Researchers who distain secrecy 

 Jerry Decker 
 George Wiseman 
 Bill Beaty 
 Brian Martin 

 Floyd Sweet's VTA device 

 Forum: Sweet VTA 
, and others 
 Sweet VTA article 
 Other articles in: Space Energy Jnl (buy back issues)
 WJE 's VTA page
 bearesp.asc , via Wayback Machn. 
 sweet1.asc , via Wayback Machn. 
 sweet2.asc , via Wayback Machn. 
 sweet3.asc , via Wayback Machn. 
 sweet4a.asc , via Wayback Machn. 
 sweet4b.asc , via Wayback Machn. 
 sweet4c.asc , via Wayback Machn. 
 sweet4d.asc , via Wayback Machn. 

 Bedini Device 

 John Bedini page 
 Forum: bedini motor 
, and others 

 Hendershot's Self-Acting Oscillator 

 hender.txt 
 How did it work? (Naudin)
 Hendershot Fuelless motor (Rex Research)

 Dennis Lee Thermal O/U (warning: probable scam!) 

 Questions about Dennis Lee 
 Dennis Lee Site 
 Dennis Lee site 
 Pro-Dennis-Lee article 
 Testing reveals errors in Dennis Lee's measurements

 Methernita TESTATIKA device 

 Methernitha 
 Testatika photos, mpeg movies ( S. Hartmann's page )
 Keelynet Testatika file
 Keelynet Testatika .gif
 More Keelynet Testatika .gifs
 Space Energy Jnl Back issues index 

 Searle gravity/energy device 

 searle1.asc 
 searle2.asc 
 Antigrav Page 

 Hyde electrostatic device 

 hydehath.asc 
 hydeoffr.asc 
 hydeptnt.asc 
 Keelynet Hyde .gifs

 'N-Machine' Homopolar Generator 

 Untried N-machine experiments 
 DePalma Page (new 11/98) 
 Tesla's Fueless Generator 
 nmachine.html on MUFOR 
 N_MACH1.GIF 
 N_MACH2.GIF 
 N_MACH3.GIF 
 N_MACH4.GIF 
 N_MACH5.GIF 
 dpalma1.asc 
 dpalma2.asc 
 dpalma3.asc 
 dpalma4.asc 
 dpalma5.asc 
 dpalma6.asc 

 Hans Coler Device 

 Coler Invention , on C. Ohstrom Page

 The Gray magnetic motor 

 evgray.asc 
 evgray2.asc 

 Howard Johnson Motor 

 Sci & Mechanics article 

 S. Meyer's hi-volt, hi-freq hydrogen cell 

 meyer1.asc 
 meyer2.asc 
 Meyer GIFs

 Moray's space energy receiver 

 moray1.asc 
 moray2.asc 
 moray3.asc 
 moray4.asc 

 Joe Newman's giant coil overunity motor 

 Newman's website 
 Skepticism & problems with Newman 
 Newman Energy Machine 
 newman1.asc 
 newman2.asc 
 newman3.asc 

 The Hubbard Coil 

 hubbard1.txt 
 Hubbard Coil (Rex Research)

 Finsrud's Overunity Artwork 

Finsrud page 
 Finsrud.htm ( S. Hartmann's page )

 Farnsworth Fusor (Multipactor) Tube 

 Fusor Page 

Multipactor at Borderlands Archive 

 Watson's SMOT, RMOG, etc. 

 SMOT message archive 
 PMOD 
 JLNlabs SMOT page 

 Water-vortex devices 

 The Schaeffer device , predecessor of Hydrosonic Pump
 Schauberger's work 
 Viktor Shauberger, water wizard 
 Walter Shauberger's PKS 
 Dr. A Evert fluid perpetuum mobile
 Water Vortex World 
 Schauberger gallery 
 Steam anomalies 
 Potapov's "YUSMAR" 
 The Clem motor 

 T.T. Brown Electrogravity 

 T.T. Brown website 
 more Keelynet TT Brown .gifs
 even more Keelynet TT Brown .gifs
 BRN2A.GIF 
 BRN2A.GIF 
 BROWN1.PCX 
 BROWN2.PCX 
 Antigrav Page 

 Chernetski self-acting arc discharge 

 PLASMAFE.TXT 

 Some articles on Vacuum Energy (ZPE) 

 zpe1.asc 
 zpe2pt2.asc 
 zpe2pt3.asc 
 zpe2pt1.asc 
 zpe3.asc 
 zpe4.asc 
 zpe5.asc 
 zpe6.asc 
 zpe7.asc 
 zpetest.asc 

 Others 

 Edwards: neat solarcell effect 

Created and maintained by Bill 
Beaty . 
Mail me at: 
 .

 .