
Date: Sun, 20 Aug 2000 19:57:34 +0100
From: Gavin D.
To: FG <freenrg-l@eskimo.com>
Cc: keely <Interact@keelynet.com>
Subject: [FG]: Hodowanec Circuit


Hi all,

for a while I have been an avid coiler, but have now decided to embark
upon the exploration of more subtle energies. So I have turned away from
the scene of high voltage currents to the realm of strange electronics. 
Naturally my first port of call was Hodowanec's work on gravity wave
detectors.  I have built the circuit on breadboard to see what exactly it
did, but may build a "fixed" version on strip-board; full details of the
circuit can be fond in the file grav3.html, otherwise I'll send a pcx file
of the circuit to anybody who is interested.

Anyway, the results.

I first built the simple circuit but found it rather insufficient so I
moved on to building the "improved circuit" as described in the grav3
file, this circuit gave better results due to greater total gain. 

Now, in the circuit diagram the value of sensing capacitor was stated to
be 0.22, this could mean 220nF or 220pF, most likely 220nF considering
standard notation. However, due to some of the frequencies stated in the
file, I decided that 220pF was more likely.......I was wrong; I think the
term is "ego-driven modifications"; 220nF works just fine! 

With the 220nF and the QND capacitor out of circuit, the output was low
amplitude noise when the Gain potentiometer (RV2) was set to minimum (i.e.
the wiper was right round to near ground). As the potentiometer was turned
to maximum, there was a clear tone of around 750Hz (the out but of the
circuit was connected to both a scope and simple audio amplifier). By
adjusting the other potentiometer (the one in the feedback path from the
first op-amps output to the inverting input, from now on RV1) this tone
change in pitch, upto around 1.5KHz. When Gain RV2 was set between Tone
and Noise, the signal sounded something like morse code. There was a
general ELF signal modulated upon this tone, although it was not well
defined. 

When the QND capacitor was connected into circuit, the out was pure noise. 
When the 220nF sensing capacitor was removed, the noise disappeared (only
low level mains hum present), so the sensing capacitor was definitely the
source of the noise (not the 741 op-amp which makes an excellent noise
source in it's own right :-) ). Adjusting RV1 only influenced the general
tone of the white/pink noise. 

I tried replacing the 220nF sensing capacitor with a 1000uF electrolytic
as suggested in file grav3, this did not work to great. The signal sounded
like a low frequency pulse train (say around 5Hz or so). However on the
virtual scope (which tended to inject it's own noise, i.e the switch mode
PSU for the laptop, around 3kHz) the signal was found to be a train of
impulses or spikes, also amplitude modulated with the strange ELF signal.
As spikes contain harmonics, the addition of the QND capacitor made no
difference at all, the pulsing remained.

I then tried a 100uF cap, this was best of all. Without the QND capacitor
the output was again pulsing and the frequency of this could be altered by
adjusting RV1. When the QND capacitor was connected, the pulsing only
really ceased when both RV1 and RV2 were set to particular point (more of
a certain minimum, i.e. a 3rd of the way round, when the frequency and
gain were low enough but a signal was still present)  When this was
achieved, lower frequency pink noise was present at the output. This pink
noise definitely had some structured, yet complex, signal deep within it. 

Just to check, I tried replacing the sensing capacitor with other
components. First I left it open circuit, this resulted in very low level
mains hum; the same as when a 220pF capacitor is connected. The I tried
shorting to ground, this resulted in no signal what so ever, apart from
some very low level noise from the op-amps. In contrast to this I connect
a 10M resistor, this resulted in again low level mains hum. 

The most amazing result was achieved by replacing the capacitor with a
piezo-electric element. After tuning my head to stop the acoustic
feed-back to the headphones, I could hear every movement I made. When I
dropped a softish item on the table, I heard a massive thud. Not only
this, but I could hear a conversation from next door; I live in a detached
house!! 

I also replaced the capacitor with two electrodes inserted into the
ground. With both electrodes it was no different to shorting the inverting
input to ground (as mentioned above). However, after removing the earth
electrode connected the circuit ground, with only the inverting input
connected to a earth electrode; the circuit gave a tone similar to when
the 100uF capacitor was connected. The frequency of this tone altered as I
raised the whole breadboard from the ground, increasing in frequency with
height (obvious capacitive coupling, but at 100uF!?), it was only after a
foot or so that I began to hear mains hum and typical natural earth
current activity; all through a single wire. 

The best sensing capacitor was found to be a disc ceramic 220nF, other
220nF capacitors were tried. 


Well, that's it, read grav3 and give it a try.

Regards,

Gavin


