From: "alex" <alex@frolov.spb.ru>
Newsgroups: sci.physics
Subject: "Experimental Gravitonics" by S.M.Poliakov
Date: 17 Jul 1995 23:57:10 +0400


              INTRODUCTION TO EXPERIMENTAL GRAVITONICS
          Abstract by book of S.M.Poliakov and O.S.Poliakov

For the first time a book has been published as a helpful guide in
conducting laboratory investigations in the field of gravitonics.
The book treats problem of creating high power soerces and sensitive
receivers of gravity.

The authors develop an original phenomenological theory of gravitational-
radiation sources based on a physical micro-structural model of the
classical electron in rest state. This theory allowed to obtain simple
analytical equations relating magnetism to gravitation and gravitation
to retation of a material object.

It is demonstrated that radiation is a PROPERTY OF NONSTATIONARY
SYSTEMS ONLY WHICH POSSESS A TIME-VARIABLE PARAMETER.

The equations thus obtained have been verified in a series of many-year
experiments and may be recommended for use by practical specialists.
The experiments part covers the following subjects:

1. Light-beam curvature and optical-radiation frequency shift is
created and investigated in an artificial nonhomogeneous gravitational
field.

A new gravitational effect, named "quadrature" frequency shift in the
curved light beam is predicted and calculated.

2. Magnetostriction is at last explained as a secondary gravitational
effect. An equation derived for magnetostriction permits to calculate
the  magnetostriction curve.

3. The propagation velocity of gravitational radiation (generated by a
laboratory source) was measured for "quadrupole" - 9x10E20 cm/s or
squared light velocity.

4. It was demonstrated that gravitation is only one of NONLINEAR-MECHANICS
EFFECT, that can be created in mechanical system or in ferromagnetic.

The book was published at the author's expense in 1991. Most powerful
experimental result described in this book is more than 1200 gramms of
pulsed G-force. Several mechanical systems and systems using ferrites
are detailed here.

Second edition in English is ready for copy process (disket's text).
Editors and investors are interested in joint project for publication
can get direct contact with  Dr. Poliakov by address: Moscow area,
141120, FRIAZINO, 60-let str., 1-167.    Phone  7-095-4658822.

E-mail contacts are welcome alex@frolov.spb.ru

