Date: Thu, 23 Jan 1997 13:57:11 -0800
From: Don Evans <ME2@kfalls.net>
To: antigravity@primenet.com
Subject: [Antigravity] GRAVITY SHIELD 

as many of you know i have been working on the recreation of a gravity
shield as described by the finnish scientist.  in conjuction with a means
of electrical power generation.

this is to report that i have achieved a 1% sheilding of the acceleration
force of gravity and that a person i was corresponding with has also
achieved a 5%shielding effect.  this was accomplished on my part using a
layerd set of ybco superconductors a rare earth magnet and a pulsed d.c. 
current into a coil.  i am now looking for people who would be interseted
in colaborating on this subject with any luck i should be able to achieve
a steady shielding effect and the generation of excess power by using this
shielding effect to change the acceleration force of gravity to electical
power .  i am no scintist and lack alot of phyics understanding however i
am a tinkerer and curios at nature i have a super understanding of
machines and am competent at building most things so if you are interested
in this email me and please tell me what you are good at, interested
people may also email. but because i correspond with so many and also have
other business interest, i may not be able to answer each and every person
but will try to post at least once a month.  i am looking for some one in
material sciences mainly supercondutors , electricity, drafting ability ,
mechanical engener, someone with coil building experence, or anyone with a
related field that would like to colaborate all information will be shared
and everyone will get credit for the work they have contributed as well as
part ownership if we prove successfull.  i do NOT want any money as i will
furnish this for what we need.  so if you would like to collaborate on
this i truley believe we could have a working model of the generator
within six months.  i know several of you i owe updates on and will try to
furnish you this in the next week several of you have asked to come and
see this foir your selfs i will try to arrange a public demontration this
spring.



Date: Thu, 23 Jan 1997 19:00:51 -0800
From: Don Evans <ME2@kfalls.net>
To: antigravity@primenet.com
Subject: [Antigravity] grav-shield

this is to inform you how to set up the gravity shield experiment
and how i did it. 

one 1/4" wood dowel purchased at any home improvment store 
this is to be used as a balace beam.

two 1/8"  glass rods or similar material aprox 6" long connected to the
dowel ends and hung vertically from the dowel ends with a cotton sring
attached with hot glue

a power suppy consisting of a 6amp 12volt battery charger

a coil of 300 turns of #26 wire wrapped around a 1" plastic pill bottle  

a samarium cobalt rare earth magnet 1/2" dia.

a digital lab scale to measure wieghts and deflection on the balance beam. 
acuracy of 1/100th gram


i constructed the balace beem with the wood dowel& balanced it with one
end in the pan of the scales to measure weight deflection it had plastic
cover on all sides except the bottom wich was 3/4 inch particle board . 

i constructed the coil and and set it up under the particle board so no
influence would interfer with the liquid nitrogen vapors no metal parts
where used in any of the project

i filled the pill bottle with liquid n2 and let it cool down i then
inserted a 1" ybco superconductor and let it cool down i then inserted the
magnet and then inserted another ybco superconductor on top there was a
slight fluctuation in the glass rod hanging above the particle board at
this time in the order of .1% of the wieght of glass rod i did not notice
any wieght gained simply aloss of existing wieght i then hooked up the
power to the coil and noticed imediatly a loss of aprox 1% to glass rod i
was able to hold this with slight fluctuation for aprox 6min if i had
replenished the n2 i think i could have held the shielding effect
indefineatly. i am currently trying to device a variable votage supply
with variable frequency capability to log any effects of frequency and
voltage have anything to do with the shielding effect also i am making a
larger coil and longer tube to hold as many as 13 disks with a magnet in
each layer i am also putting a coil with iron core underneath to vary the
missner effect if possible

i am getting ready to reconstuct the experminet and have a video made of
the procedure and to record the efffects it will also include the method
of power generation and what it looks like i will be designing this next
set up to be used continously with amethod of replenishing the n2 without
much turblance . 

please note this was achieved not with a rotating superconductor but a
pulsed rectified ac current induced in the coil on the outside of the pill
bottle and around the superconductor. 

more in the future   don evans


