See the messages below.  

Interesting effect... but is it yet another Newsgroup hoax? The message
seems vaguely familiar.  I recall seeing it a couple of years ago, maybe. 

Weight change can come from air jets, so any motorized "antigrav" device
needs to be placed inside a plastic bag, to eliminate reaction force
from ejected air.  Also, I wouldn't trust any commercial balance or scales
to give correct readings when vibrated.  Therefor the experimenters need
to try inserting some vibration isolation, to assure that the measured
weight change is still the same when the measuring device is vibrated
less.

Maybe the device is thrusting upwards, rather than decreasing in weight. 
Turn it upside-down, and does it weigh more? Hang it from a string as a
pendulum, mount it turned sideways, and does it deflect its position (by
sideways thrust?)

What is REALLY interesting is the reported effect on CRTs and flourescent
lights.  Spinning magnets shouldn't do such things.  If it were me, I
would want to eliminate the electric motor as a possible noise source. 
Try operating the device with the magnets disk removed, to see if the
effects on CRTs and lighting is from the drive motor or from the spinning
magnets. 


From: ecogen@iol.ie (Chris Eccles)
Newsgroups: sci.physics.electromag
Subject: Mystified by Results
Date: Mon, 5 Oct 1998 08:49:02 +0100
Organization: genesis
Message-ID: <1dgf37j.1qva74l1r4wg9uN@dialup-042.ennis.iol.ie>
NNTP-Posting-Host: dialup-042.ennis.iol.ie
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-Newsreader: MacSOUP 2.3
Lines: 44
Xref: hub1.ispnews.com sci.physics.electromag:8005

I don't often post to news but, this time, I feel that someone out there
might offer me an answer to a wierd outcome of an experiment.

I have spent my entire career in mainstream physics research and have
always been amused (often annoyed) by the "crankies" who believe in
teleportation, spoon-bending, etc etc etc, and have consistently held
the view that these fringe things belong firmly outside what I call
physics.

A few weeks back, my lab assistant got some stuff off the net about a
"magneto-gravity" device, accompanied by some notes by Tom Bearden.
This swatch of paper was lying about in the lab office and I happened to
read it.  Out of nothing but bemused interest, I said to my team, "Lets
build this crap and see what happens...."

We constructed a variant of the device shown in the drawings which
accompanied the data.  This consisted of a Duralumin disc (350mm dia)
which could be spun on a motor shaft, using a Picador bearing which we
had lying about.  The disc was made to spin 1.5mm eccentric and was
fitted with twelve button magnets around its periphery, with all their N
poles facing outwards, by fixing the magnets to 90-degree offcuts of
alloy angle.  The whole thing was then mechanically balanced by adding
extra thin strips of copper busbar (!) to compensate for the
eccenticity.  When tested, the disc displayed some imbalance but this
was easily corrected until we had it running smoothly at 2850 rpm from a
mains-powered 750W motor.  So far so good.

We then rigged an enclosing fence of alloy strip around the disc, on
which we mounted twelve more button magnets with their S poles facing
inwards.  The clearance between the disc-mounted magnets and the
peripheral ones varied by ±0.75mm as the disc turned.

The whole shazam was mounted on an acrylic baseplate and weighed.  It
was 14.26 kg.  When we switched the motor in, the weird shit happened.
The balance showed a loss of grav mass of the assembly of some 550 grams
(3.85%) and every computer terminal and fluorescent lamp in the lab went
ape !

Is this real, or should I take a holiday ?

Can anyone offer an explanation ?


Chris







Since the first test of the device, we have not done a great deal but the
interest shown by subscribers to this group (reflected in the pile of
email I have received) has made me reserve some more lab time for further
investigations. 

To the many who wrote to me (rightly sceptical) I have to say
unequivocally that this is NOT some kind of hoax.  It's nowhere near April
1st and I am 50 years old, a serious researcher with a healthy career in
mainstream electronic physics, and not given to the kind of tom-foolery
that belongs in the student common-room during rag-week. 

What we are talking about here is the possibility of some kind of
hitherto-unknown relationship between dynamically-changing tensor fields. 
Magnetism, particularly intrinsic, remanent magnetism, is one of the few
phenomena that remain relatively badly delineated by current quantum
theory and I, for one, am prepared to admit that there are huge holes in
my own fundamental understanding of it.  If a simple, but
rarely-occuring-in-nature, juxtaposition of non-scalar fields is capable
of either creating (or destroying) spin-2, zero mass mediating particles,
then there is the real possibility of manipulating and engineering the
gravitational field.  It becomes an exciting prospect but not one which
should lead any of us into assuming that the Sinclaire device actually
manifests such an effect. 

The secondary EM effects are quite interesting.  Has anyone else built
anything which comes close to displaying the same anomalies ? 

Please feel free to email me direct and suggest guidelines for a concerted
research pathway on this.  There is too much indiscipline and
disorganisation in "fringe" physics for anyone to feel secure about such
work.  Lack of published matter in mainstream journals (for obvious and
valid reasons) gives rise to the feeling that one is trying to "swim
through treacle" even commencing such a programme of research. 

It is, I think, fundamentally important to distinguish between a
mass-shielding effect (where a device purports to alter the measured
strength of the Earth's [or any] grav field "above" the device), and an
effect which indicates that an entire, physically-linked, chunk of
equipment can be made to behave as though it has shed grav mass.  The one
case illustrates that a tensor field can be manipulated vectorally (and
few would find fault with the math of this); the other possibly is
suggesting that a property of matter which we have all believed to be
sacrosanct and writ-in-stone for several centuries is, in fact, a deal
more woolly than we believed it to be. 

I remain very puzzled.







Author:   Chris Eccles
Email: ecogen@iol.ie
Date: 1998/10/18
Forums: sci.physics.electromag
   
I have just been told by someone in the lab that what we actually have
built is nearly a replica of something called the Searl Levi-Disk.   It
is exceedingly difficult to get any sound and reliable information from
anyone on this device !

I appreciate the email from Mr Sterniman; it seems well-reasoned and I
am replying soon when I have attempted to set the math of it straight in
my own terms.

I am unused to newsgroups and their etiquette, and I hope regular
readers will forgive the inevitable confusion of a novitiate ?

It seems that we can summarise as follows:
-----------------------------------------

When the flux of an N-pole cuts the flux of an S-pole such that the
tensor fields experience the maximum tendency to repel (pi/2), we create
an electric field in whatever gap exists between the sources of the
flux.   We will also, a priori, because of the fact that the disk does
not rotate its magnets in concentricity with those on the outer wall, be
setting up a variation of transfer of angular momentum of the
electromagnetic field associated with the electric field cutting flux
all the time the disk is turning.  This eccentricity has an interesting
locus and traces out a cylindrical path of wall-thickness equal to twice
the original eccentricity of the magnet ring on the disk (when
stationary).

We are going to run the device again soon, using a remote spring balance
to ascertain the apparent mass loss so that there is no chance of an
interaction between the pan balance and the device.  Also, in answer to
many queries, "No, it's not electromagnetic interference from the motor
which caused the strange effects."  Running the motor free is fine.  It
came from a vacuum pump which had been running in the lab for ages !
Anyway, after thirty years in physics, I've yet to encounter a 50Hz
mains induction motor that could dim-out flu-tubes and blow up LCD's.


More news when we have it.

Please keep ideas flowing in - this device threatens to prevent me from
building the HV/HF switches which we are supposed to be producing !!!!!

Chris

