Date: Sun, 26 Sep 1999 11:52:29 -0700
From: George Wiseman <wiseman@eagle-research.com>
Subject: Dennis Lee tour testing

As a matter of interest, I just got a phone call from a fellow who is one 
of our peers (and doesn't like publicity), whom I respect very much (He 
is farther ahead on actual applications of various free energy research 
than anyone I know, including me).  We'll call this man 'John'.

Dennis Lee offers publicly in his advertisements that he will allow 
anyone to come up to the stage and test his equipment with their own 
meters.  So John did, after going through resistance where he had to 
remind them several times that DL stated testing was allowed.  The net 
result was that the electrical Free Energy machine being demonstrated as 
fifteen (15) times over-unity on Dennis Lee's current tour is actually 
not over-unity at all.

Dennis Lee states that his machine is putting out work of nearly two 
horsepower (about 1350 watts) as measured by a braking system on the 
output of the motor.  John looked that over and found it to his 
satisfaction.

Dennis Lee further states that he is drawing only one (1) amp from the 
sizable battery pack that is feeding the apparatus.  This would be 
fifteen times over-unity.  John tested the amperage coming from the 
batteries (and various other places) and found the following result: 
there was one amp of 'ripple' (measurable as amperage on an AC amp-meter) 
and over 15 amps of DC (measuring with a DC amp-meter).  He made the 
measurements using an amp-clamp type of meter and stated "there was so 
much amperage going through the wire I had trouble disconnecting the 
amp-clamp."

It turns out that Dennis Lee and his gang are just measuring the AC 
'ripple' coming out of the batteries and not the true power being 
withdrawn from the batteries.  Thus it would indicate that his machine is 
NOT over-unity.  Such mistakes in measuring are a hazzard of Free Energy 
research and are one reason I invite people like John to investigate and 
duplicate MY research.

However, this is just one test from a professional that is not likely to 
make a public testimonial and I seriously doubt that Dennis Lee will 
allow me up onto the stage to test his equipment as he has stated that if 
I (George Wiseman) set foot on his property he'll throw me off (and many 
more things that I'll not repeat here).  It seems that my insistence that 
he tell ALL the truth and nothing BUT the truth is cramping his style.

So I call to anyone who has testing meters to take Dennis Lee up on his 
offer to step up on the stage and test the apparatus.  Hopefully you or 
someone you know will be able to get up there and confirm the readings.  
The best would be to get an actual UCSA (Dennis Lee) Distributor to 
spearhead your testing request.  

You can likely get a referral to a local UCSA Distributor by FAXing your 
request to 973-208-7530; leaving room on the FAX so that they can insert 
the information you request.  Make the FAX short and ask only for a local 
contact because they are very busy and will not answer other questions.

You can get the tour schedule by going to:
http://www.teslaelectriccompany.com/

I know it is hard to step up on stage as Dennis Lee is an extra-ordinary 
speaker and you'll be under the crowd's scrutiny when you walk up there.  
I suggest letting them know right up front (before the show starts) that 
you want to test the machine.  He will NOT invite people from the public 
to test during the show, he's too good a promoter for that.  I suggest 
getting permission to test on video tape and to record the test on video 
tape if possible (have at least two friends with you) AND if they refuse 
permission, that would be good to get on video too, or at least on a 
pocket recorder.  I suggest allowing Dennis Lee and the gang any excuse 
they want to give for why the reading is showing all that amperage, as 
they will have their backs against the wall and need to save face.  I 
most certainly suggest that you DO NOT mention George Wiseman's name or 
there is NO WAY you'll get up on the stage.

After you have the documentation, spread it around as widely as you can.  
I'm not making these suggestions because I have any personal vendetta 
against Dennis Lee, personally I'd just as soon forget that he exists.  
But while he is promoting and then not delivering technology that I'm 
actually inventing (giving the label fraud to my work), I'm taking steps 
to shine a beam of light through the misinformation.

Sincerely
George Wiseman <wiseman@eagle-research.com>
'Energy Alternatives'  http://www.eagle-research.com

Eagle-Research has launched a free NEWSLETTER covering subjects like 
'running vehicles on water', 'building home power systems', 'Free Energy 
Technology', making money promoting alternative solutions (no 
investment). 
We do not give out our mailing list, your privacy is assured. 
If you'd like to be subscribed, send an email to 
<newsletter@eagle-research.com> with 'subscribe newsletter' as the 
subject, (do not include the quotes)
