MIKHAILOV'S MAGNETIC-MONOPOLE VERSION OF THE MILLIKAN OIL-DROP EXPERIMENT


Date: Sat, 10 May 1997 18:28:28 -0800
From: Horace Heffner <hheffner@corecom.net>
Subject: Gravity, electromagnetism, Maxwell

<snip>

In regard to the above issues, Robert Stirniman brought to my attention
some time ago "Advanced Electromagnetism Foundations, Theories and
Applications", edited by Terrence W. Barrett and Dale M. Grimes, World
Scientific Publishing, 1995. Of particular interest is the article "Six
experiments with Magnetic Charge", V.F. Mikhailov, p. 593 ff., which
discusses a modern look at the work of Felix Eherenhaft (1879-1952).

Eherenhaft performed the magnetic equivalence of a Millikan's oil drop
experiment in the hopes of isolating magnetic monopoles and measuring
magnetic charge.  Surprisingly, Eherenhaft had positive results, obtaining
a value for magnetic charge in the range of 10^-9 to 10^-14 Gauss*cm^2.
Because this did not agree with Dirac's theorized value of 3.29x10^-8
gauss*cm^2, interest waned in Ehrenhafts work.

Mikhailov created 10^-5 to 10^-6 cm dia. ferromagnetic aerosols by
electrospark sputtering.  This was accomplished by use of current
interrupter iron contacts in argon at one atmosphere.  Helmholtz coils
provided a uniform magnetic field.  The falling aerosol was placed in an
intense light beam and viewed with a microscope. The initial experiment
showed a roughly equal number of both N and S monopoles.  Switching the
field of the Helmholz coils reversed the lateral motion of the magnetically
charged particles.  It was noted that increasing *either* magnetic field
intensity or light intensity increased the lateral rate of travel.

Many of the particles were electrically and magnetically charged, permiting
a comparison of the electrostatic quantum to the magnetic quantum of
charge. Mikhailov found agreement with Eherenhaft that the quantum of
magnetic charge is g = (a)(e)/6 = (1/3)(a^2)(gD) = 5.84x10^-13 gauss*cm^2,
where Gd is the charge of Dirac's theoretical monopole, a is the fine
structure constant a = (1/137).

The monopoles of Eherenhaft and Mikhailov are not monopole particles in the
conventional sense, however. Mikhailov states: "Magnetic charges
(monopoles) are experimentally observed only in the presence of two
components: light and ferromagnetic particles. It seems therefore, that
magnetic charges are created a a consequence of of an interaction between
photons ans ferromagnetic particles, and moreover, such charges cannnot
exists without these physical conditions: without light a particle loses
magnetic charge almost instantaneously."


Some observations and experiment suggestions in regard to Mikhailov's
experiments:

1. Lateral motion observed in a uniform magnetic field, regadless of light
direction, appears to be a clear violation of Maxwell's laws, regardless of
other conclusions drawn by Mikhailov.  The existence of a monopole of
course also denies the law being the orginal subject, namely B dot dS = 0.

2. The magnetic charge, though apparently produced in pairs, is not
conservative in that the dual requirements for existence imply you can
separate the N and S particles, turn off the light which sustains, say, the
S particles, leaving only the N particles.  (Save a sufficient number and
you can lift off the North magnetic pole! 8^)

3. There might just possibly be a convenient way for amateurs to experiment
with this.  There now exist ferrofluids which could be used in Millikan
style experiments. Since sputtering would not be involved, it might be
necessary to artificially charge the drops when atomizing the ferrofluid.
Bill Beaty posted  9/23/96 that ferrofluid might be available from
Ferrofluidics Inc.  I checked and found <http://www.fero.com>, email:
<info@fero.com>, phone 603-883-9800.  They sell 30 ml kits for prototyping
loudspeakers.

Regards,

Horace Heffner          

