A KELLER-SYTLE ALCHEMY RECIPE FOR 115

To whom it may concern...  And seekers of element 115...  How to make it...

			OR  fun with pyrotechnic

Keeping in tune with the gravity of things, this little experment may get
you off the ground.  I have not done this yet.

Using the Jack Keller process and some of Dr. Walter Russell's
illuminations, a bit of J. C.  Maxwell EM equations, some of Dr. Roberto
Mounte's work, the Keller transmutations have been proven to work... 
Merlin has just moved the process down the Periodic chart, or increased
the operation another octave, to give the higher atomic number (element
Uup115.)

Just like the classic transmutation of O + C = Fe 2nd octave, or more like
the profitable O + C = Pt in the 7th octave .... So by pulling with a
noble gas like Ne, Ar, Kr, Xe, or Rn and pushing in to Bi with U, Ra,
Th...

Since there is no Uup115 seed material aviable to the common folk, we will
use I, Ge, with Bi to seed and start the reaction and hope that will do.

To find out how to use this new element take a look at the
{http//:boblazar.com } Bob Lazar home page. 

Things that need to be built 

1.  Burn chamber: start with a # 2.5 coffee can and some Cu wire #0
    gage.  Wind the wire 2 turns about the bottom 1/3 of the coffee can,
    and weld the ends of the wire together.  Make sure that the wire is
    not too tight on the can. 

2.  Cover for the burn chamber: use the metal lid cut from a #5 coffee
    can, punch 2 holes in the lid,one in the center and another about
    1.5in. from the first hole.  Find a ceramic small insulator to
    withstand about 5-10 Kilovolts for the center hole.  This is the
    igniter.  Insert a steel wire 8in in length thru the ceramic
    insulator.  For the other hole, find a length of steel 1/4 in. tubing
    at an auto parts store, bend the tube at say 90 degrees to give 3in
    and 12in sides.  Insert the short end 1in. thru the lid's other hole,
    and tack weld the tube to the lid. 

3.  Build an igniter power supply having 5-10kv output voltage.  Use an
    automotive spark coil, capacitor 4-20 mfd, switch, battery, Hi voltage
    wire.  Construct a charge/discharge type HV pulse source. 

4.  Obtain a balloon that will hold about  2-3 cubic ft., also neon gas
    to fill the balloon, find a valve (fish tank type,) and plastic tubing
    which fits the steel tube on the lid, the valve, and fits and the
    stopper in the balloon.  (Neon is available at a "tube art" store.) 

5.  Mix    SrNO sub 3  70% wt.,,  S  7%wt.,, and  C  23%wt.  To about 2/3
    of a coffeecan measure, add about 1oz. of Bi and .01gr. of a stable I
    compound { ICl } and .01gr UNO sub 3.  MIX and MIX again.  Pour into
    the # 2.5 can, DO NOT PACK, fill can to 2/3 from top.

6.  In a large metal bucket place the can, mix, and just lay the lid on
    top, so that the neon gas can fill the coffee can.  Also bend the HV
    wire end within the can so that it comes with in 1/8in of the side of
    the can, so that it can arc through some of the mix and ignite it. 

7.  Hookup the igniter wire to the power supply (We will later toggle this
    switch to fire the mix.)

8.  Set the valve for the neon gas to just flow very slowly.   Allow it 
    to purge the air out of the can.

9.  FIRE the mix ... BE SURE that the lid is NOT held down!!!!  Stay at
    least 50 ft from the reaction, as there could be a large amount of
    radiation gamma and Beta rays...

10. The button of stuff at the bottom of the can will have Uup115 and Bi,
    also some Pt group, you must separate somehow.

Some Notes that may help:

	--- Kickers: these are elements that will increase the yeild.
            Ge (germanium,)  I (iodine,)  Ar (argon,)  Kr (krypton,)
            and U (uranium)  will do this.

	--- There are some elements that will cause an adverse reaction:
            proton emitters like Ta (tantalum)  and Re (rhenium,) they
            could create small BLACK HOLES or Singularities or level an
            area.  Protons and Uup 115 make antimatter, mix this with
            Hydrogen and you have nothing left.


        ---Basically  this is the Jack Keller system, but modified to push
           the transmutation beyond the  Platinum / Gold  group;  the next
           level down on the Periodic table.

        --- note: #2.5 can is about 6in. by 3.5in. dia.  And #5 can is
            about 7in. by  5.5in. dia.

	Good luck   - MERLIN

The problem is to ID the resulting material... any suggestions?
