
From 100433.1541@compuserve.com Sun Jun  1 10:11:06 1997
Date: 01 Jun 97 06:49:21 EDT
From: Chris Tinsley <100433.1541@compuserve.com>
Reply-To: vortex-l@eskimo.com
To: vortex <vortex-l@mail.eskimo.com>
Subject: Mini comets
Resent-Date: Sun, 1 Jun 1997 03:50:57 -0700
Resent-From: vortex-l@eskimo.com

To:Vortex

[I like the bit about Nature's "representative poll"]

"Ice cubes from space prove the scoffers wrong"

[Robert Matthews, Sunday Telegraph June 1st 1997, P16]

MANY scientists are having to eat humble pie this weekend,
following the revelation that the Earth is constantly pelted by
cosmic snowballs the size of houses.  And not before time either,
as these same scientists have spent a decade disparaging Dr Louis
Frank of Iowa University for his refusal to bow to orthodoxy and
deny the evidence of his own eyes.

That evidence first emerged in 1982, when a student of Dr Frank's
was analysing images of the Earth sent back by two Nasa
satellites.  To the student's frustration, many of the images were
spoiled by tiny black dots.  At first sight, they appeared to be
faulty data, but careful study revealed that they behaved far too
regularly to be dismissed as random flaws.

Instead, they appeared to be tiny comet-like objects that were
striking the atmosphere at the rate of one every three seconds,
each dumping tons of water on to the Earth,

For a few years, other researchers showed no more than polite
interest in Frank's claims when they were mentioned at
conferences.  It was when he tried to get his research published
in academic journals that Frank discovered the fate that awaits
those who make radical claims in science.

The leading journal Nature rejected his claims, saying that "a
representative poll" had been taken of experts in the field and
they had voted against publication.  Frank's attempts to answer
his critics with fresh evidence by using major telescopes were met
with obstruction and footdragging, with astronomers insisting that
the enterprise was a waste of time.

When Frank did succeed in getting access to a telescope, it
revealed objects streaking across the atmosphere at 20,000 mph --
as he had predieted.  It made no difference: the findings were
still rejected for publication.

Now, after 10 years of obstruction and ridicule, it is Frank's
turn to laugh.  Cameras he designed aboard Nasa's Polar spacecraft
have revealed the existence of the small comets beyond all doubt.
Spectacular images taken by the cameras show the comets streaking
into the atmosphere before dumping their water.  They arrive at
the rate of about one every three seconds -- just as Frank had
claimed.

Frank himself has always been surprisingly sanguine about the
controversy, apparently taking the view that "truth will out".
But there is no getting around the fact that many scientists have
taken a woefully unscientific approach to the whole issue.

While extraordinary claims must demand extraordinary evidence, the
reluctance of many to consider Frank's evidence was matched only
by their keenness to block his attempts to gather more.

Frank's experiences in this quintessentially Strange but True
story are far from unique.  The whole issue of bombardment by
cosmic debris is one that has always been dogged by mule-like
intransigence dressed up as academic rigour.

Until the early 19th century, anyone claiming to have seen stones
falling out of the sky was regarded as having had a few beers too
many; the French Academy of Sciences even declared such claims to
be a scientific absurdity.

When hundreds of stones were reported to have smashed on to the
French village of L'Aigle in 1803, the Academy dispatched a young
astronomer to debunk the story.  He returned with bad news: the
reports were correct.  Everyone now accepts the existence of
meteorites but the confirmation came too late to save hundreds of
specimens from being unceremoniously thrown out of museums as
"superstitious artefacts"

The now widely-accepted theory that a huge meteor struck the Earth
65 million years ago, pushing the dinosaurs into extinction, also
came in for at least as much abuse as the idea of microcomets when
it was originally proposed.

When the late Nobel Prizewinning physicist Luis Alvarez and his
team first published their evidence for the giant impact in 1980,
one authority described it as "a nutty theory of pseudoscientists
posing as paleontologists".  Today it is the nutters who argue
against it.

There is one aspect of the Earth bombardment issue that remains a
source of incredulity among many scientists: the idea that
humanity is under serious threat from meteor impacts.  The
sceptics are still demanding hard evidence for this threat.  We
can only hope that the "hard evidence" doesn't come in the form of
a billion-tonne meteor any time soon.

[end]
