
Date: Fri, 10 Aug 2001 20:06:40 -0700 (PDT)
From: William Beaty <billbeskimo.com>
To: freenrg-l@eskimo.com
Subject: crude test of Morton effect

[THIS FIRST ONE DOESN'T MATCH MORTON'S EXPERIMENT VERY WELL]

Got my VDG back running again, and spent a couple of hours playing with
it.  This DOES do something interesting.  I'm letting sparks jump to a 24" 
square of cardboard covered with aluminum foil, glued down with rubber
cement. 

I messed about with thin glass tubes, and found that it's very difficult
to make a spark proceed along the interior.  Surface leakage probably
changes the field patterns inside.  The arcs are dim and jagged, and go
over the outer surface, or they are triggered at the edge of the glass
tube, then change path to propagate through the air.

Finally I just stuck some styrofoam rods between the flat plate and the
VDG sphere, with about 2.5" distance between sphere and foil.  The sparks
aren't attracted to the styrofoam, and this gives fat, bright, perfectly
straight sparks with interesting internal structure.  Unfortunately, every
spark originates at a different spot, so if these sparks are creating a
narrow "beam" of some sort, its path is jumping around over a 3" region.
The rep rate on these sparks is a little faster than 1 hz.

A neon bulb (an old front-view Nixie bulb) flashes dimly orange during a
spark when held by hand at any position within 12" distance of the VDG
sphere.  But when held BEHIND the grounded foil plate in the shielded
region, at the approximate location of the sparks, it flashes distinctly
brighter.

The RF impulse seems to be penetrating the foil, and MIGHT be stronger
near the spark than elsewhere.

The tube only flashes for about 1 in 3 sparks.  Either the spark energy is
varying, or the location of the spark on the other side of the foil is
important.  I wish I had a big, flat, neon-filled plasma panel that I
could place against the back of the foil. 

My hand can't feel any force pulses when held near the cardboard opposite
the spot where the sparks are striking the foil.  I'll have to try
dangling some small objects on threads.

I think I'll try attaching a large number of NE2 bulbs to an acrylic
panel, and see if I can detect any small hot-spots or beam-like lines.

No obvious response by zinc sulfide, but I'll have to wait for dark to
make certain.

I tried stablizing the location of the sparks by using various ball
bearings attached to the VDG sphere, but this converts the sparks to "weak
mode", where they are very thin, dim purple, jagged, and have multiple
branches like tree roots.  Even a 1.25" diameter ball bearing did this.
Perhaps I can paint part of the metal sphere with insulator, while leaving
a tiny clear spot, and that will stop the sparks from wandering.




-------------------------------
Date: Sun, 12 Aug 2001 03:04:08 -0700 (PDT)
From: William Beaty <billbeskimo.com>
To: Vortex <vortex-l@eskimo.com>
Subject: Test of Morton effect... nada


I finally managed to duplicate something vaguely similar to Morton's
VandeGraaff test.  No interesting results.

I dented the center of the aluminum-coated cardboard to produce a involute
curve about 1" in diameter, then cut a crude hole in the dented region
about 3/4" diameter.  A quick test shows that the sharp edges don't
produce any corona (and the sparks don't tend to switch to dim/branching
mode, and don't tend to home in on the hole edges.) 

I tested 2cm glass tubing, also 1" I.D. acrylic, both approx 3" long.  The
glass is useless since its surface adsorbs humidity, and rather than
producing sparks, the surface of the glass glows very dim blue in the dark
and hisses.  I suppose I could bake it out with a propane torch, but first
I'm playing with the acrylic.

The sparks ignore the acrylic, they only rarely go through the tube. 
Therefore I affixed the tube in an acrylic plate approx 5"x7", sealed flat
to the end of the tube with plexi #3 cement, with a big hole poked through
the flat plastic.  I taped this to the aluminum foil.

Sparks now follow the inside of the plastic tube surface.  They repeat at
about 2Hz, and are slightly jagged, but are bright and make a "crack"
sound.  They no longer have that line-like geometry which they exhibit
when in the free air between the VDG sphere and the flat foil.  If that
"line like" effect is important, well, the presence of the tube is
screwing it up.

Walking around the setup while holding a 6" flourescent tube and a 12" 
flourescent tube does not reveal any hotspots (no apparent "beams".)  The
flourescent tube flashes brightly when held against the cardboard opposite
the side receiving the sparks.  However, this is handheld, and when I
instead attached the 6" flourescent tube to a long plexiglas rod, the
bright flashing no longer occurs.  When the fluor. tube on the rod is held
in various positions against the foil, I see no flash.  When held in the
region near the hole in the cardboard, no flash.  As long as I keep it
within about 24" of the VDG sphere, there is a dim flash if I hold the
tube anywhere but behind the foil-covered cardboard.  Even if I approach
the VDG sphere quite closely, the flash is dim.  As long as the flour.
tube is suspended on plastic, the foil-covered cardboard does create a
"shadow"  region behind itself.  Exploring the region on the opposite side
of the sphere in line with the sparking does not reveal any hotspots there
either.

The collapsing e-fields surrounding the VDG sphere do affect the hair on
my arms, and as long as the machine is sparking, I feel like I'm being hit
by high-velocity feathers.  The surface of my hands cannot feel this (no
hair to respond,) but the backs of my hands do feel it.  I suspect that my
hair is intercepting the ion flow in the air around the VDG and becoming
charged.  When I first present my arm to the VDG sphere, I barely feel the
pulses, but after about 5 seconds the feeling grows strong.  I imagine
that uncharged hair barely responds, but once the hair becomes charged, it
wiggles far more when the e-fields change.  This "feather impact" effect
is not present behind the grounded cardboard panel.  No "beams" of
hair-pulsing can be felt there, or in the region greater than 3ft away
from the VDG sphere.

To sum up:  I see no major difference between this setup and a simple
sphere-pair with sparks jumping between.  There are various EM and ion
pulse effects, but these occur in a roughly spherical region around the
device, and there are no "beams" extending outwards.  The original Morton
diagram doesn't work as shown, since the sparks ignore the tube and leap
through the air (I had to cover the metal facing the VDG sphere with
plastic to force sparks to go through the tube.) 

The German replication in Electric Spacecraft Journal #6 talks about the
"beams" and even claims that moving the position of the grounding clip
causes the "beam" to propagate from the opposite side of their device.  
And if Podkletnov's device is an independent discovery, his description of
narrow beams suggests that he has stumbled across a similar phenomenon.

So, are their claims a network of delusions, or is my setup too unlike
Morton's original to be a fair replication?


Time for the usual "crackpot experimenter rant!"

This brings up the "Experimenter's Regress" mentioned by Collins and
Pinch:  when investigating totally unexplored regions of physics, we
cannot tell if our replication is flawed, or if instead the phenomenon
doesn't exist.  We don't have any solid theoretical predictions, and also
we can't start building a theory based on experimental results which are
suspicious.  Is contemporary physics theory wrong because it doesn't
predict the experimental results, or is the experiment wrong because it
violates known theory?  Only wide replication can expose reality, since we
can always find a reason to distrust an experiment or a theory.

If theories were only based on experiment, there'd be no difficulty, but
the need for replication and more importantly the need for CONCENSUS
AGREEMENT as to the trustworthyness of experimental results can cause
problems of circular reasoning.  If we're confident about a theory because 
it makes correct experimental predictions, but we're confident that our
experiments are unflawed because the results are in line with theory... 
then our confidence is very misguided.

Feynman mentions this in regards to Millikan's error in measuring the
charge on the electron, and the slow change over years in the "accepted
value" for e caused by researcher's unwillingness to question the initial
incorrect results.  Wide replication of an experiment can expose the flaws
both experimental and theoretical, but when social forces are involved, it
might take years.

Remember Jefferson's quote:  "I'd sooner believe that two yankee
professors had lied, than to believe that rocks could fall from the sky."  
The existance of meteors conflicted with the current theory of the time.  
There can be no rocks falling from the sky because there are NO ROCKS IN
SPACE.  So we though.  So for decades we rejected the evidence. Morton's
and Podkletnov's observations seem to conflict with contemporary
physics... so do we look for flaws in physics, or in the experiment?  
People who insist that theory is based on experimental evidence have not
encountered situations where revolutionary experimental evidence is
resisted for long periods because it conflicts with theory!

((((((((((((((((((((( ( (  (   (    (O)    )   )  ) ) )))))))))))))))))))))
William J. Beaty                                  SCIENCE HOBBYIST website
billbeskimo.com                                  http://amasci.com
EE/programmer/sci-exhibits          science projects, tesla, weird science
Seattle, WA   206-789-0775          freenrg-L taoshum-L vortex-L webhead-L


[ AUG 29 2001, NOTE]

John Schnurer mentioned that the VDG sphere must be negative, otherwise
the mechanical impulse effect is very weak and is revered in direction. 
Mine VDG is positive.  Also, the 5-legged fuzzy discharge in the
Podkletnov paper propagates out of his ground terminal and toward the VDG. 
I see an identical effect, but it is oriented opposite.  I need to put
something on the surfaces of my VDG rollers to reverse the output
polarity.

Also, about that 5-legged discharge.  Electric sparks branch in the
direction of propagation.  If two plasma filaments should ever break out
on the SAME electrode, they repel each other and do not join, yet a single
filament can split into two branches as it extends.  Therefore Podkletnov
is NOT seeing five sparks propagate outwards, only to join together to
form one spark that continues.  Instead he has it backwards, and is seeing
a spark propagate out of his ground terminal and reach out toward the
SC-coated VDG... while at the same time the claimed mechanical impulse
effect goes in the opposite direction.  If the Morton effect depends on
spark direction, the apparent rule is that the mechanical impulse travels
OPPOSITE to spark propagation.  Or, if it only depends on the direction of
charge flow, then it doesn't matter if the spark starts out on the ground
terminal and extends towards the VDG, or the reverse, and only the
polarity of electrodes matter

