http://amasci.com/freenrg/rdionic1.txt


                        *   R A D I O N I C S   *   
                            -----------------

Radionics Definition: Radionics is the utilization of an unusual energy
                      or energies in devices to produce natural
                      phenomenon or effects.  
                                               J.G. Gallimore

Radionics: System of alternative medicine developed by Dr. Albert Abrams,
           who belived that diseased body tissue affected the nervous 
           system and gave forth, 'dull emanations'. Abrams believed
           electronic phenomena were involved with this, and he invented
           a variable resistance intrument called a 'black box' to
           measure the ohm resistance of different diseases on an
           electronic circuit. He found for example, that cancer 
           produced a 50 ohm resistance, while syphilis had a 55 ohm
           resistance. Abrams later modified his technique so he could
           take readings from a drop of blood. In 1924, a committee
           established by the Royal Society of Medicine investigated
           Abrams techniques and were favorably impressed. Today
           Radionics and its cousin Radiesthesia (medical dowsing) are
           recognized in Europe as legitimate medical procedures.



This is the beginning of Forum type articles that will be covering all
aspects of the 'Ether'. Which includes 'orgone energy', 'pyramid energy',
'tantric energy' 'kundalini energy' and all other forms of 'unusual'
energies that modern day science is still trying to understand.

It is simply an attempt to inform others that these energies exist and
that they can be made available for your own use as well becoming more
comprehensible to the layman. This is NOT a technically oriented forum,
so should someone attempt and try to use technical terms...it will just
make things that much harder on others who have no formal training in
Physics, chemistry, etc., this forum is for the LAYMAN! But any and all
persons 'of the scientific persuasion' are ENCOURAGED to join in, just 
keep things 'simple'. Thank You!

 Though I am starting this communication
 I do not feel that I am required to allways
contribute to it...whereas all persons have knowledge, ideas and opinions,
I feel that this discussion be 'open' and may accept input from all
persons. I will expect others to send questions & answers also. I will
monitor the communications and answer the questions to the best of my
knowledge and to the limits of my resources. This is a discussion for
'unusual energies', so I will expect some unusual questions and answers!

                                  
                    B A S I C S   O F  R A D I O N I C S
                    ------------------------------------      

Radionics has as its basis the following: There is an energy pervading
the universe that has unusual properties and may be used for the
betterment of mankind. Under certain conditions, this energy has been
found to affect man or his enviroment and can be controlled under 
conditions imposed by the characteristics of that energy.

As in all sciences, development of that science is made through
observation of properties or characteristics of that which is studied.
Experimentation follows observations in order to control or induce the
phenomenon itself in a controlled manner.

                                W H Y

There are two reasons 'why' this country (USA) has made 'laws' against
Radionics.

1. It works, but not in a way totally understood, not by the academic
community and not by the practitioners themselves.

2. It works and produces miracle cures in man, plants, animals, and
outdates existing sciences if it is understood. Therefore, the 'lobbies'
in Washington representing the commercial applications of existing
sciences force laws against Radionics to preserve existing sciences
and the large sums of money invested in them to create our present
technology and preserve the jobs of millions which might be lost if
indeed Radionics was used to achieve the same results.

                  R A D I O N I C     S O U R C E S
After following the previous column of mine introducing you to 'Radionics'
I am sure many of you who completed the experiments in that column
have many questions about Radionics. I order to establish an
operating basis for discussion and experimentation, I feel it is
necessary to include a list of retailers that can furnish you with
the materials that will enable you to discover for yourself the
'miracles' of Radionics. So I have compiled a list of retailers for
you below.

This is a small list of merchants that carry materials and books on 
Radionics. This list is by no means complete...there are undoubtedly other
places where you can recieve these materials. I am not affiliated with
any of these merchants, so I am not recieving any financial 
'Kickbacks' from them... These are just sources that I have uncovered in 
the past year or so that have proven to be 'reliable'.
I have tried to include all the essential information on each supplier.
                           
                           T H E   L I S T

HEALTH RESEARCH  Box 70, Mokelumne Hill, California.95245

This is a fine source to find books that are no longer in print.
They sell BY MAIL ONLY, they DO NOT have a walk in store.
Their catalogs were once free but they now charge for them (refundable
upon purchase). Catalogue 1-A is for Health Books & Associated Subjects.
It's price is $2.00. Catalogue 2-A is for Occult, Metaphysical & Religous.
It also is $2.00. Each catalogue is approximately 100-200 pages.
It is well worth the $2.00. Many other fine features from the business
make it a worthwhile experince..Highly reccomended. Both catalogues 
together costs $4.00....(refundable on purchase).
(Catalogue 1-A is the catalogue for books on Radionics etc.) 
You may also just request a flyer on their Radionics books 
(free of charge), just include a SASE* and tell them you would like more
information about radionics.         *(Self Addressed Stamped Envelope)


SUPERSENSONIC ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES  Box 66, Boulder Creek, CA. 95006

This is a source for Radionics devices that are simple to use, and
inexpensive. They are actively researching all areas of
'Psychotronics' devices including 'Radiesthesia', 'Radionics', 'Psionics',
along with other more 'traditional' methods of healing.
A high level of Professionalism is displayed by this group.
They also have very Fast and Friendly service......... 
Order their 'Supersensonic Energy Technologies Catalog',
item number S2175, the cost is $1.00. Complete with diagrams and
pictures of their instruments. Highly recommended.
                               ------------------

ACTIVE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT     Box 323, CD'A, ID. 83814

Active R & D has many of the more 'time honored' radionics devices for
sale, along with several 'new' devices that are superior to the 
'older generation' models. They sell Plans for the devices as well as the
allready assembled 'black boxes'. Newsletters are also available to
stay 'up to date' on the latest discoveries and develpoments.
Their catalog is $1.00, complete with diagrams and descriptions of the
devices for sale. They also sell the AMAZING Thought Camera...its really
a mind blower! -- Literally!         -------


LOR'D INDUSTRIES LTD.  Box 14511, West Allis, WI. 53214-0511

This is a mail order book store for books on the 'unusual' as well as an
outlet for Radionics devices. They sell many of the 'traditional'
radionics devices as well as the ELF (Extra Low Freqency) Generators.
Service through this outlet was rather slow and tedious, but this supplier
explained to me that they assemble the devices themselves and sometimes
that have a 'back log' of orders on hand, so please be patient with this
supplier. Send $1.00 for their 'Alpha....and beyond' catalog. It has
most of their books as well as their devices listed inside it.


LIFE UNDERSTANDING FOUNDATION.  Box 30305, Santa Barbra, CA. 93015

This is a outlet that deals exclusively with Pyramids and Pyramid
energies. If have have been curious about the aspects of pyramid
energies... this supplier has all that you need to perform experiments
with pyramids. This is a simple and easy way to get yourself 
oriented in the use of pyramids. They also sell books on the
subject. As far as I know, the catalogue is free. But postage isn't....
so send a SASE to them, or send 50 cents to cover postage and handling.
                          !B Y E     B Y E!
As more supplier/retailers of Radionic and Psychotronic devices 
become know to me I will update this list from time to time. But for
now, these retailers have all that is needed to explore the 'new'(?)
science of Radionics. Hope this list is helpful for you.   
                                       *ARCHON*
                 *-------------->FIDONET 100 / NODE 523<----------------*

           'He who knows the Law of Vibrations knows all.'
                                      Hermes Trismegistus


              Discussion #3 on Radionics/Psychotronics:

I now will discuss the central theme of radionics as it is practised
by myself and others. First, I will quote literary examples
of radionic experimentation.

                (From 'The Rainbows of Life')
"Leaves kept in an orgone box (Riechs Orgone Accumulator--a metal
container consisting of layered steel, wool, and cotton) had fuller
Kirlian Energy Patterns than control leaves kept in similiar boxes
without the Accumulator Apparatus".
(They used Kirlian Photography in their research).

(Another quote from 'Rainbows of Life')

"Healthy subjects exhibit a corona delineated in bluish-white with a
deep hue band -- from 1/16" to more than 1/4" wide -- just beyond the
boundary of the figertip. She found too that states of relaxation
also lend themselves to blue-white corona. However, in states of arousal,
tension, anxiety, or emotional excitement, a red blotch consistently
appears super imposed on the fingertips and may dissolve the coronal
boundary somewhat."
(Kissing, Loving thoughts -- the auras blended together, fingertip
boundaries dissolved.Hate -- the aura corona did not merge.)

      A S P E C T S    O F    R A D I O N I C    R E S E A R C H
(The following are excerpts from various publications, I am not their
original author.)

As early as 1935 we find H.S. Burr and F.S.C Northrop proposing the
existence of a regulating field in a paper titled "The Electrodynamic
Theory of Life". The proposals offered in this paper have been followed
up during the past forty years by a number of scientists and have
culminated in a work by Dr. Harold Saxton Burr that proves the
existence of what Burr calls L-fields, "fields of life".

"The pattern or organization of any biological system is established
by a complex electro-dynamic field which is in part determined by its
atomic physiochemical components and which in part determines the
behavior and orientation of those components. This field is electrical
in the physical sense and by its properties relates the entities of the
biological system in a characteristic pattern and is itself, in part,
a result of the existence of those entities. It determines and is
determined by the components."

Backster discovered that this energy field, which serves as a
communication link between plants and other animate things, is not
within the different known frequencies AM,FM, or any form of signal
which we can shield by ordinary means...and distance doesnt seem to
impose any limitation. I've tried shielding the plants with a Faraday
screen cage (which prevents electrical penetration), even lead lined
containers. It seems the signal may not fall within any known portion
of our electrodynamic spectrum.

                                T H E M E

Here are some guesses that physicists think fit best into the present
aggregate of experience:

1. All matter, even the living human body, is composed of molecules,
and molecules are aggregates of atoms.

2. Atoms are aggregates of electrical particles called electrons,
protons, neutrons,etc.

3. All these: molecules, atoms, and their constituent electrical
particles are in continual motion.

4. The rate of this motion is influenced by temperature, mass, dimensions
and the electromagnetic field in which the body is moving.

5. An electrical particle in motion is surrounded by a magnetic field,
so it is not surprising that these particles show both electrical and
magnetic properties.

6. Now if any material oscillates in a magnetic field, it sets up an
electrical disturbance that alternates to and fro. This is called an
alternating current.

7. Combining 5 and 6, we expect that all matter is continually generating
alternating currents.

8. The intensity and frequency of these electrical disturbances is
influenced by the conductivity of the body, the intensity of the magnetic
field, and the speed with which the body moves in the magnetic field.

9. Combining 7 and 8, we should expect each body of matter to have a
characteristic alternating current.

10. Household current is generated by a body oscillating through a
magnetic field 60 times per second.

11. Radio waves are current alternating millions of times per second.

12. Light waves are currents alternating trillions of times per second.

13. All the various frequencies of alternating currents add up to
the electromagnetic spectrum.

14. Due to their small intensity physicists have not been able to detect
alternating currents from living bodies in all parts of the
electromagnetic spectrum, but these currents have been detected in the
ultraviolet,visible,infrared, and electrical region.

It is possible that as detectors become more sensitive and selective,
we shall find that radio-frequency alternating currents are associated
with living processes.HENCE THE STUDY OF RADIONICS!

                    M A G I C A L   D I A R Y
                          (Research Notes)

The importance of maintaining a 'Magical Diary' or 'Lab Results' have 
often been expounded upon in great detail. It is here that I wish to
reaffirm the importance of making a detailed analysis of all the
experiments that you undertake in radionics, along with the results
that you may achieve. Knowing what you did, how you did it and where
is very important. So when you want to duplicate the results....you
can do so without having a nervous breakdown because 'I forgot what I
did.....'. So PLEASE document your results and experiments very
CAREFULLY!!! For example, I keep my records with the Time, Date,
Location, AND my STATE OF MIND in all reports. Please do the same
if you are serious about learning radionics. It will reward you with
success, self confidence, and the respect of your associates!

                              C O L O R

The useage of color in radionics is not new, many people will accuse me
of using Colortherapy, but I do not place a distinction between the two.
All are a part of the whole, so lets not quibble over 'what system of
thought I use'. I will be covering a lot of ground in this series, so
I may not elaborate as much as you would like me to on certain subjects
or topics. Thats the way things will have to be if I am to get anything
done without elaborating on what each specific item or idealogy signifys.
All I can say is if you want to know more on what a chakra is or some other
such thing, get a good book on the subject and READ IT!
So much for my lecture, lets get busy!

Color as we all know is a section of the electromagnetic spectrum. It is
the visible part of that spectrum that our eyes see. I dont want you to
underestimate the importance of color, and thats why I am covering it
first. All things in the universe that we percieve are COLORS! Nothing
but COLOR! Without color, our eyes could not percieve it.
Colors are nothing but vibrations that are vibrating at different 
frequencies. Color is a frequency just like your shirt is, like your
food is, and like your vitamins. So we are dealing with VIBRATIONS here,
not 'things'! We all use vibrations to treat ourselves whether we realize
it or not. So when you eat that salad for lunch, you are ingesting
vibrations that are used for your survival, not a 'thing'. I want to clear
up that misconception that the universe is full of things, it is full of
vibrations, and nothing else. Got that? Good!

How do you use color as a form of 'medicine'? Thats what I am going to
talk about now. There is a simple way to use color as a form of
supplementing your diet, so you can recieve the beneficial affects of
the good vibes very easily. One way is to get 7 bottles or glasses
that are the same color as your chakras. The colors are, from bottom
chakra to top, Red, Orange, Yellow, Green, Blue, Indigo, and Violet at
the Crown Chakra. Then all you do is fill the bottles with ordinary
tap water, and let sunlight 'charge' the water with the color of the
bottle. Let the water charge for at least 1 day. Then when you feel 
that the water is 'ready' you drink it! You dont have to drink it hot,
you can get some ice cubes and then let the water cool, then drink it.
(I hate to drink warm water!)

Another way to use color is to purchase some form of container, such as
a plastic box, or cellophane, that is the 7 colors of your chakras.
Then put the color box over the light bulb in the room you are in
and just watch TV, read, listen to the radio, or whatever....
(Just make sure you dont melt the boxes by putting them too close to the
light bulb!) Even color light bulbs can be purchased nowadays...to make
it even easier.

I will tell you how to choose the particular color that you need later on
in this document. First things first! I allways say!

                          W H Y   C O L O R ?

WHY should I use color you ask? Good question! I will give you the answer!
Not only does the human being respond to color emotionally, such like the
bull does in the bullfight, but we humans also respond to color on a more
subconsious level also. Each Chakra, as hinted at above, operates on a
specific level or 'frequency', and has a specific function in our
perception of the world we know. The 'seven suns' and their physical
counterpart is here detailed below:

No.   Gland        Location            Nerve Plexus           Color
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
7.    Pineal       Top of Head         Dendrites in Brain      Violet
6.    Pituitary    Mid Brow            Medulla Oblongata       Indigo
5.    Thyroid      Throat              Pharyngeal              Blue
4.    Thymus       Mid Chest           Cardiac                 Green
3.    Adrenals     Navel               Coeliac,Solar           Yellow
2.    Spleen       Lower Abdomen       Splenic                 Orange
1.    Gonads       Base of Spine       Sacral                  Red

As you will remember from my first article, The 'Ether' or
'dynamic space fluidum' or 'bioplasmic energy', whatever you want to
call it, permeates the universe, and it plays a key role in the
funtions of the human body as well as plants and animals.
The yoga tradition sometimes describes the chakras as lotuses and
assigns a certain number of petals to each one. This is simply a way
of describing the rate of vibration or frequency at a particular center.
The numbers of petals in each lotus can be likened to the lines of force
that each center radiates. The colors the chakras emit, absorb and
resonate with depend upon their speed of revolution, which varies with
each of us.Colors are just energy vibrating at differing frequencies,
some visible, some not. Therefore, looking at a color will tend to 
produce a corresponding vibration to that color in us. A modern test of
human psychological and physiological reactions to color, The Luscher
Color Test (The book is at Waldenbook Stores!), is proving very helpfull
in pinpointing psychological causes of functional disturbances -- disease.
This is also true of sound. Each chakra has an octave of sound connected
with it and will be affected by it. Chanting resonates the chakras,
rythmically harmonizing them with the cosmic sound current or AUM. This
brings experience of altered states of consciousness...more on that
at another time!!

                                 A U R A

The aura, as we all know, surrounds the human body from birth to death,
and is the part of the human body that is traditionally treated by
radionics professionals. The 'Kirlian Aura' is found to extend only a
few inches from the surface of living things. The 'Etheric' Aura
however, is reported to be composed of layers of subtle, normally
invisible colored light, and to extend for several feet. This aura
encases us in a sort of energy bubble. Clairovoyants such as the late
Edgar Cayce have long used disturbances in a persons aura to diagnose
disease. They also reportedly see indications of which psychological
drives and biological energies are deficient and which are in excess.


The color of the persons aura depends upon which chakra is most active.
If the person has a predominance of 'red' in their aura, then that person
is a materialistic person. A person with a 'violet' or 'purple' color
aura is operating more on the crown chakra, and is an imaginative person,
they think 'etherial' thoughts, etc. We have all met people with very
materialistic attitudes...and we say,'boy what a close minded person',
or something like that. Actually, these people are not close minded, but
they appear to be, because they are functioning on a different level
than you are. The color of the chakras, and the role they play in
determining our 'attitudes' or 'behaviour' are detailed here:

Number   Color       Gland        Consciousness Level
-----------------------------------------------------
7.       Violet      Pineal       Imaginative Level
6.       Indigo      Pituitary    Intuitive Level
5.       Blue        Thyroid      Conceptual Level
4.       Green       Thymus       Security Level
3.       Yellow      Adrenals     Intellectual Level
2.       Orange      Spleen       Social Level
1.       Red         Gonads       Physical Level

As you can see above, the chakras are each responsible for a segment
of our behavior, psychologically and physiologically. The glands
or nerve plexus of each chakra plays an important role in our health
and our attitudes. A person who was very materialistic in their
attitude would benefit from getting the violet frequencies to counteract
the lower chakra, by activating the crown chakra. The same can be done
for someone who has a lack of creative instincts. If a person is too
intellectual, then the proper color to use to balance their attitude
would be Red, Orange or Indigo. So you can see that treating the 
personality of a person through his aura is easy and practical.
It does take time to make a transition from materialistic to 
spiritually minded person, but by using colors in this way, the person
can effectively influence the operation of his chakras.
Colors are frquencies, just like sound, and they have just as much
effect upon you as sound does. DONT underestimate these  powerfull
frequencies. Use them, and you will discover the truth of these words.

In the next section of this series I will discuss the use of a
'witness' for application in Radionics and Psychotronics, as well as
how to use colors, gem stones, and herbs to psionically treat
yourself, your friends, and even get rid of the pests that eat your
tomatoes!

For a MUCH more indepth look at chakras, the aura, and psychotronics,
I suggest these two VERY VERY well written books on the subject.
Supersensonics--The Science of Radiational Paraphysics     $15.00

Nuclear Evolution--The Discovery of The Rainbow Body       $12.95

Both of these books were written by Dr. Christopher Hills, and are
the Best books on the subject of auras, chakras, dowsing, radionics, etc.
that I have ever come accross. Both of these books can be ordered from:

The University Of The Trees Press
P.O. Box 644,
Boulder Creek, CA. 95006.

Dont forget to include money for postage and handling. And I would write
them first to make sure that these prices are still in effect, because I
purchased these books 5 years ago....So the prices may have risen some.

Thats all for now... Take care of yourself, and have lots of fun!
                                                       ARCHON

                           Radionics Discussion #4
          Topics: The Use of a Witness in Radionics/Psychotronics
         Use of Color, Herbs,and Gem Stones In Radionics Applications


                            T H E   L - F I E L D

As professor Harold Saxton Burr* once stated, "So far as our present
information goes, there is unequivocal evidence that wherever there is
life, there are electrical properties." (*Professor @ Yale University)
That is the topic I want to start off with right now, L-Fields.
Measurement by modern electric instruments developed in the last few years
has "revealed that man - and, in fact, all life forms - are ordered
and controlled by electro-dynamic fields which can be measured and
mapped with precision." And as Burr proposed as early as 1935, in his
electrodynamic theory of life, -- that all living organisms have
electric fields which govern their growth and decay. As as example,
Burr points to the human body. Its molecules and cells are allways
being torn apart and rebuilt with fresh material from the food we eat.
But thanks to the controlling L-Fields, the new molecules and cells
are rebuilt as before and arrange themselves as the old ones.
The bodys L-Fields "serves as a matrix or mould which preserves the 
'shape' or arrangement of any material poured into it."

What we are interested in here is "How can we use the knowledge of the
L-Field to improve the quality of our lives?" I am going to discuss
that here by explaining how the L-Field can be influenced, and what
that influence can 'cause' in us humans. 

I'm not going to go to great lengths to 'prove' that the L-Fields
exist, if you want 'proof' then read a good book on the topic. What I am
going to discuss is "Applications" and not "Descriptions".

Burr proved that the L-Field can be influenced directly by external
phenomena by measuring the voltage gradients of a number of trees
over a period of 30 years. He found that the L-Fields of the Trees
fluctuated with sunlight,darkness, sunspots, magnetic storms and
moon cycles. From this we can extrapolate that human L-Fields are
similarly affected. "Since the field of a living system is an ordered
pattern which represents the universe. It can be argued therefore,
that the universe is an electrical field and that everything that
exists in it is a subsidary or component part of the total field."
Thus it is "That we are fully justified in regarding the fields of
life as the instruments of physical evolution, of which, on this planet
at least, the human nervous system is the masterpiece."

Radionics embraces some of the very same principles upon which Dr. Burr's
theory is founded. The late George De La Warr, radionics pioneer, explained
that "a basic idea in radionics is that each individual, organism, or
material, radiates and absorbs energy via an energy field peculiar unto
itself. The more complex the material, the more complex the waveform.
Living things like humans, emit a very complex wave spectrum of which
parts are associated with the various organs and systems of the body."

Radionics uses electronic equipment that is used by the human 'operator'
to detect the particular radiation under consideration. And in most
of all the cases the radiation under consideration is the human 
waveform.Radionic energies are subtle energies that the operator of
the device detects by using the nerves of their hands to detect
these energies which have been 'tuned in' by the Radionic device.
Establishing the necessary 'sensitivity' to detect these energies is
a requirement to competently use any Radionics device. Establishing
'resonance' with the radiations of the individual, measuring their
amplitude and then finding the remedy which best resonates with a
particular malady. Thus the organ or system is returned to its healty
rate of vibration. The great benefit of Radionics is that it goes BEYOND
the EFFECT and finds the CAUSE of complaints....ei, psychological
conditions (Psychosomatic ills).Radionics treats the aura of man as
part of his physical body, since all the inner organs of man are affected
by this L-field.


It is assumed that you understand that all matter has a rate of vibration
which is peculiar to itself. To have a rate of vibration is to have a
rhythmical pattern of recurring periods wherein the energy of the vibration 
changes from one value to another. In such a situation, the frequency of a 
system is said to oscillate between  certain maximum values.

                              R E S O N A N C E
Resonance is said to occur when the respective periods of free oscillation
of two or more different systems coincide with each other. Two systems
having the same natural frequency, when joined together in phase, resonance
occurs with the result that the minimum and maximum values are reached
simultaneously. As an example the fact that a vibrating tuning fork will
set into sympathetic vibration, or resonance, another tuning fork of the 
same frequency. Resonance involves an exchange between systems, a kind of
mutual 'sensing'.

                              H A R M O N I C S
Every vibration has what is known as a fundamental frequency,
plus its accompanying harmonics. The 'Fundamental'
(Sometimes referred to as the First Harmonic) is the FIRST and the 
LOWEST FREQUENCY and has the LONGEST WAVELENGTH. A HARMONIC is a
Mirror Image of the Fundamental. Together with the fundamental frequency,
there is an infinite series of harmonics, all vibrating at different
Amplitudes, but all Reflections of the original Frequency.
The frequncies of the Harmonics are all integral multiples of the 
fundamental frequency. The first Harmonic, following the fundamental,
is double the fundamental, the next is treble the fundamental, and so on.
It is generally known that that magnetic fields, and their harmonic 
vibrations, interact with each other in varying degrees of attraction and
replusion, varying degrees of 'in-phaseness' or 'out-of-phaseness' with
each other. The harmonic of a physical body is seen to be intermeshed
with the body itself, but also extending beyond it...
We concieve then, of each living organism as radiating out into space,
a frequency indentifying other aspects of its physiological and
psychological existence. As I mentioned previously, that if the oscillatory
sequences of two or more systems coincide, producing a sympathetic 
vibratory unison, resonance is therby established. Given these conditions,
it seems reasonable to expect that a human body, as an independently
vibrating source, is capable of attaining a degree of resonance with other
independently vibrating sources. Not only establishing resonance with
other human bodies, but also with frequncies of sound, color, fragrance,
etc.  The human body has a magnetic force field around it, with a pattern
of nodal points similar to that of a bar magnet. Each of these nodal points
is in contact with the person to whom they belong. Therefore, to be in
resonance with any one of these points is to be in resonance with the
individual. Such people as Phil Allen, the author of "Energy, Matter and
Form" suggest that these nodal points occur inside the body as the
acupunture meridian systems.

                                R A P P O R T
In 1852 a Frenchman named M. Benoit used snails in his experiments, as he
felt that a certain form of rapport was operative in the animal kingdom.
First, he paired of 52 snails and allowed them to become well 
acquainted by living together in seperate pairs. Then on each pair, he
wrote a letter of the alphabet, two A's, two B's, and so on. One set of
alphabet labeled snails was sent to America, and the other retained in
Paris. At a predetermined time, in Paris, an electric shock was applied to
a snail, say snail E. Simultaneously snail E in America reacted in
sympathy, exibiting a kind of erratic behavior. Several snails were shocked
and it was possible to transmit a simple message by 'snail telegraph'!

In 1965 George De La Warr conducted a experiment in his laboratory in
Oxford, England. But the unique feature of his endeavor was to show
that rapport exists between a physical object and a photograph of that
object. A photo was taken of a snail and sent to the town of Evesham,
40 miles away. In Oxford the animal was placed in an apparatus wereby 
Histogram readings could be taken.(Histograms are basically 
Amplitude/Frequency graphs of energy transmission through body tissues.)
In Evesham, which was linked to Oxford by telephone, the snails photograph
was intermittently exposed to certain light energies which were successfull
in producing responses registered by the Histogram in the Oxford Laboratory.
Similair experiments were carried out with human subjects and their 
photographs; with several energy stimuli such as light, sound, color,
ultrviolet, and infra-red radiations, and magnetism. In each instance
Histigram readings indicated that a state of rapport existed between the
subject and his photographic image. Other De La Warr research suggests
that rapport holds, over great distances, between an individual and his
blood or hair specimens, fingernails, and other bodily fluids.
There is also much Magical Literature that will support these findings.
Books by Aleister Crowley mention the 'Magical Link'. The book
'The Golden Bough' also has many references to natives utilizing the
'Magical Link' for their ceremonies in healing, crop growing, etc.

                               ~ K A R M A ~
                           +        A N D           -
                              K N O W L E D G E

What I would like to do now is to begin talking on HOW to use the 'Magical
Link' for our own BENEFICIAL purposes. I will NOT talk about putting
a Hex on someone or some other devious purposes. This knowledge is 
presented to you for Enlightenment and not for Destruction. I know there
are individuals who will try to Psychically Dominate someone etc
with this data, but that is their CHOICE and they will have to live with
the EFFECTS of their CHOICE to destroy. Heed this warning! Its the
First One I have made about this subject, AND its the LAST ONE!
Go ahead and say, "Listen to the Holiness and Light Bullshit..." or
something to that effect. It is never the less a warning AND a wisdom.
So if a your are the type of person who is a 'Men in Black' persuasion,
or more to the point, a 'Satanist', you will probably go right ahead
with your plans and ignore my warning...and 'kill that bastard' or
whatever. Well.... with Knowledge comes Responsibility, that means you
are now RESPONSIBLE for what you do with the information. And when you are
held RESPONSIBLE...as the saying goes....then you can 'get the axe' so to
speak....and most of the times 'the axe' falls 'much too quickly'.
NUF' SAID!.....ONWARD!!!! -------------------->


It is now suggested that if you intend to pursue this study of Radionics
and its cousins, Radiesthesia,and Psychotronics, that you purchase a
device from one of the Suppliers that I listed in the previous
disscusion, in the File titled RADION02.DOC. You can buy them from prices
ranging from $35.00 to $300.00+. The only reason that I suggest you
purchase a device is simply because it makes your job about 100% easier,
faster, and more accurate. In my opinion, they are 'necessary' to
get any 'real' work done. Of course if you talk to a native Shaman of
Brazil, he would most likely tell you otherwise....until he used one of
the devices himself, and he realizes that it does make things easier!

I am going to use the Magnetron in the first few discussions, since
it is the least expensive to purchase, easiest to operate, requires no
electricity, and can be 'tuned' very quickly. Oh yes, by the way, the
Magnetron is available from 'Supersensonic Energy Technologies', and their
address is in the RADION02.DOC.
Color is what I have used for many 'basic' applications where not much
is known about the problem at hand. It is my 'old reliable' form of
treating illness. First I acquire a 'witness' of the person, such as a
fingernail, hair, or preferably a RECENT photograph.
Then I determine what the persons problem is, for example a cold.
Then I place the witness of the person on the Magnetron, (after I tune
the Magnetron) and in this case for a cold, treat the witness of the
person with Red and Green light, alternating the colors every two
hours, then every four hours, then every two hours, and so on.
In addition I also use Vitamin C with the light. So the person
then recieves the positive vibrations from the light, and secondly, from
the physical remedy itself. Vitamins can be administered to people
in this fashion also. Herbal remedies work well also. Say a person is
allways uptight, and they cant seem to ever relax. A witness of
Marijuana, for example would aid the person to feel the soothing effects
of the herb without having to physically consume it. A sleeping pill
for the insomniac on the Magnetron along with his witness, will 
produce the same effect in him as if he physically consumed it, although
it takes a much longer time to feel the effects. Because you are 
dealing with the suble energies of the persons L-Field.

               O V E R L O A D S   &   E T H I C S

Too much of anything is bad for you, and radionic energies are no
different. I myself on occasion have recieved too much energy, and
the result was that I felt very 'stuffy', had hot flashes, and was
VERY irritable...So make sure someone doesnt Overdose on the
energies you are feeding them. I also made it my policy to ALLWAYS
ask the person, if I have their PERMISSION to help them.
I make NO exceptions to this rule. And I suggest you do the same.
That is, unless you dont mind infringing on them and collecting
their bad energies...since you took the RESPONSIBILITY to take care
of them without their permission. And as I said before, when you accept
Responsibilty for something, YOU are the one who gets in trouble
when something goes wrong with the thing you are responsible for.
And in this case, if you take Responsibility for the persons health
then you are also going to feel the effects of your decisions.
So the patient gets well and you get his 'old' illness.....
It really happens! SO ALLWAYS ask for their permission to help them.
It can be as simple as "Would you like me to try and make you well?"
Nothing fancy or formal. Just a simple 'Can I...' is sufficient.

Gem stones can be used as 'medicine' just like the Vitamin C, Herbs,
Pills, and Colors. Get a book on the Healing Properties of Gemstones,
and read it...then you will know if a particular gem stone frequency
will aid a persons diminishing concentration, etc...
A Herb book, detailing all the healing properties of the Herbs is all
you need to form a conclusion as to what Herb will get rid of a specific
condition. And so on and so forth....Its all VERY simple once you begin
to understand the principles of Radionics.
Radionics is a accepted form of medicine all over Europe and is gaining
popularity in the USA, even though no 'medical claims' can be made for it
here in the USA. Since the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) doesnt
understand how Radionics works they wont accept it, and since the FDA
will NOT allow a demonstration of the effectiveness of radionics
as 'proof' of its effectiveness, the majority of the American public
have remained ignorant of it. DONT allow the FDA's close mindedness,
and backward acceptance procedures prevent you from enjoying
the benefits of Radionics. You have nothing to lose, and much to gain.
Give it a try, read about it, and discover for yourself its validity.

                                                    ARCHON
                                               Node 100/Net 523
                                                 Weirdbase BBS
                                                 St. Louis, MO.

The following is a excerpt from a lecture that was documented in a
book that I own. It was a lecture given by professional radionics
researchers. I do not know all the details of the device discussed,
and I am forwarding this information just for comparative purposes.
Just to show you how complicated this whole area can get!!!Enjoy!

         R E S E A R C H      W O R K     O N    T H E    H U M A N

             E L E C T R O M A G N E T I C      F I E L D
                 By Dr. E.A. Maury and Marguerite Maury

                       (THE AURA IN OTHER WORDS!)

It is admitted today (particularly through the work of the American
Scientist Dr, H. G. Burr, and his collaborators of the University of Yale)
that every living thing is surrounded by an electric aura produced by its
own organism.

The aura consists of an electric, dynamic field, an it plays an important 
part in determining the volume, the form and the biological behaviour of
every plant and animal. It is influenced by cosmic rays and by sun spots.
Life on the earth can thus be said to be electrically connected with the
entire dynamic system of the universe. In just a few words I shall recall
the experiments of Burr and his collaborators: by putting a salamander
into a salt solution connected to a registering apparatus by means of two
electrodes, and then revolving the receptacle containing the animal, the
existance of an electrical field flowing through the electrodes can be
established and registered. The same experiment has been made on human 
beings by placing each index finger of a healthy person in a small bowl
containing a salt solution; in which case the galvanometer indicates a 
value of 1.5 millivolts. If however one of the index fingers has an open
cut, the galvanometer will indicate a value of 12 millivolts. Thanks to
our new apparatus of electrical measures, we too have been able to
register the differences in voltage of healthy and sick organisms.

I shall dispense with a detailed description of our apparatus so as not
unduly to complicate our subject. I shall only recall that it contains
an amplifier having a sufficiently high gain to permit the obervation of
something intangible. The first thing then that the engineer who
constructed the apparatus did, was to perfect an amplifier to make it
provide a multiplication of approximately 10,000, the reception of the
amplifier being insured by an ultra-sensitive detector, constructed like
a microphone, capable of serving also as a cardiphone. The outgoing
terminal of the amplifier is connected to a cathode ray oscillograph
with a loud speaker recorder. This apparatus functions when connected to
the main electric supply after the tubes of the amplifier have warmed up
for a few seconds before a test is made.Technically, to perfect the
apparatus and to obtain clear-cut responses, anti-parasite filters
have been added. Later on we intend to undertake our experiments in a lead
screened room isolating us from the outside, for this should allow us to
record the electric field of a human being in all its purity,
establishing its exact numerical value.

The subject examined is made to stand on an insulating mat in front of the
apparatus. It is important that the subject should remain as silent and
motionless as possible to avoid vibrations caused by currents of air or 
sound, which can interfere.The operator then takes into his right hand
the microphone connected to the amplifying apparatus, and he holds it with
its lower surface parallel to the subject examined, and with distances 
from the subjects body varied. (We shall later appreciate the importance
that can be attributed to the respective values corresponding to the
distances between the emitting subjetc and the reciving microphone.)

When the current flowing through the amplifier is increased to a certain 
critical maximum, a characteristic whistling noise is heard in the 
loudspeaker and a certain sine wave image is produced as the oscillograph
records the screen picture. There the curves are rather close together
or the curves rather long. More-over there is a strict parallelism
between the intensity and the modulation of the sound signal and, on the
other hand, the rapidity and density of the wave picture on the oscillators
screen. At first we thought this might have been due to a Larsen Effect
or phenomenon related to the reflection of waves but succesive experiments
have proved that this phenomena plays only a very minor part in the
production of these wave forms. We have noticed, for instance, that the
visual and sound reactions recorded are not corresponding ones over all
parts of the body. For example, near the plexuses of the sympathetic
nervous system of certain subjects (cardiac plexus, solar plexus, lumbar
plexus) the sound modulations are very high and sharp (that is, of a 
very high frequency), whilst the waves shown on the screen are very close
to each other, this meaning, most probably, that the individuals in
question possess a strong magnetism. The reactions can be noted at a
distance of 15 feet and more. We have also noticed that the strongest 
reaction can be obtained near the regions of the body where the Hindu
chakras are situated. It seems, thenm, that these precise points are
indeed the pionts where vital energy is emitted.

I have described in as few words as possible our experimental technique
and operational methods employed to examine, as exteriorized
phenomena of physical apparatus, these fields of human radiations which
have been the object of so much controversy. Thanks to the same method
it has been possible for us besides to determine the presence of fields
of radiation which are exterior to an object. As an interesting
illustration of this, moving the microphone around a bust in terra cotta
we were able to observe the difference in the wave modulations near the
lower part of the face of the sculptured head and near the eyes. Is this
due to a phenomenon caused by the influence of form? It is possible.
Similiarly we have also been able to record the field of radiations
due to an oil painting representing a little fishing port. It should be
observed that there the modulations were entirley different according
to whether the microphone was placed near the part representing the sea,
or the part representing the earth and the low houses of the fishermen
of Brittany. Should this phenomenon be attributed to an influence due to
the chemical composition of the colours used? It is probably due to an
influence of color refraction, this much depending upon the objects 
painted by the artist.

It seems to have been now well established that by means of this apparatus
incontestably corresponding visible and audible reactions are obtained
as soon as the microphone is placed more or less close to an animate
or inanimate body, the degree of reation seeming to be in accordance with
the form and intensity of the radiating field. These experiments have
convinced us of the physical reality of an external field produced by
living beings and dead objects. This is only a small step forwards, as
we all very well know; for we now have to determine the exact wavelenghts
of these radiations which should vary according to the degree of health
of the individual examined. We have allready observed that each person
has his own oscillograph waveform, and that certain diseases such a
cancer, for example, produce the same general change in the appearance
of the personal waveform.

Certainly it is as yet too soon to draw any definite conclusions from
these experiments. I think that this method of examination should be
continued in order to try to establish the nature of signs conforming
to or giving indications of certain serious diseases before their full
development, the information being derived from modifications of the
oscillographic curves testifying to specific modifications of the
human wavelenghts, these modifications being observable from a
variation in the field of external radiations.

                          D I S C U S S I O N

Mr. Eagerton Sykes asked if the use of the word microphone was a
mistake in Dr. Maurys paper.
Mr. Macbeth (who has seen the Maury appliance) explained that
microphone was the name given to the collector which was applied
to the affected area of a patient by being held a few inches off the
skin. This collector conveys the detected influences to the
thermionic valve amplifier which finally produces a corresponding
oscillogram or else a musical note on a connected loud speaker.
Mr. de la Warr explained that the sound was a heterodyne effect derived
from an oscillating diaphragm.

http://amasci.com/freenrg/rdionic1.txt

