
Date: Wed, 18 Aug 1999 01:10:39 -0400
From: Michael T Huffman <knuke@LCIA.COM>
To: billbeskimo.com
Subject: HEY BILL! Seattle Radar Anomaly

I just found out not long ago that a gentleman whom I only knew by his
nickname of "Woody"  at Radar Electric gadget store in Seattle died a few
months ago. Woody used to have an array of radars in his backyard. At
least one of those was picking up a substantial fixed radar target
floating above the city about a mile or two from his house (don't know
where he lived, been there once).  The thing would go away in winter and
come back during summer. I don't think he wanted to publicize it too much
but then it does not matter now I suppose. Its probably better if it does
not get totally forgotten. 


Date: Mon, 25 Oct 1999 16:56:48 PDT
From: Mike & Susan Clow <mnsclow@hotmail.com>
To: billbeskimo.com
Cc: knuke@LCIA.COM
Subject: Radar Equipment for sale and Seattle Radar Anomaly

About the Anamoly, I have seen it myself on his equipment, but I am pretty 
much convinced it was in the equipment and not an outside source.  I have no 
actual proof of this, nor do I have any solid explanation, just a hunch that 
it might involve water vapor (or lack therof?) in his fiberglass dome, or 
perhaps in the waveguide, or perhaps in foliage which would be more present 
in the summer.  It was an interesting beehive shaped target, roughly 
southwest from Woodie's Burien location, at something like 15 or 20 degrees 
elevation.  He had asked me if it could originate from a satellite, but it 
did not appear to be in the plane where the geosynchronous sattelites are 
(close though), and since it was apparently fixed that precludes a deep 
space or orbiting object.  I looked for trees in the area of the target, and 
did not see any, but I still wonder if an echo or a side lobe could have 
been affected by a nearby tree.  Well, thats all I have to add on the 
subject.

A final note for you, he pointed one of his S-Band transmitter feedhorns 
straight up and used a repetitive code transmitter to send a simple 
repeating signal straight up, it was his little "hello" to whoever was 
listening out there.  There was no response that we know of, ha ha!




