LIGHT THE FIRE                                    1999 William J. Beaty


Another idea that popped into my mind last week:

Free energy devices are always suppressed, if not by outright conspiracy,
then by greed, and also by the mixture of coincidences and evil (call it
"bad luck" or the "free energy curse".)

If we announce our successful devices, then we trigger the "curse".

However, there is a method to successfully bring an O/U device into the
world.  It is the "forest fire" method, and it only requires that a single
"match" be lit: 

  Find a good person.  Enter into an agreement where you will teach that
  person all of your secrets and skills, so that they become able to build
  the O/U device without assistance.  In repayment, that person must find
  at least two others (or better, ten or twenty), who are just the same as
  he/she was.  That person must then strike the same bargain with each of
  them.  In this way the information spreads like wildfire.  There is no
  egotistic "teaching of the student", because the whole goal is to CREATE
  TEACHERS.  And, because each teacher can only receive the information if
  they agree to seek out and create more teachers, the process is the same
  as a chain letter or pyramid scam: it "infects" people, except the
  benefits flow downwards through the pyramid, rather than money flowing
  upwards to the instigator.

In searching for a F/E device, you are ALREADY attempting to enter into
the bargain above.  If you clean up your act and burn all traces of
self-importance (evil) from your soul, and if you agree to teach others as
if they were future teachers (not lowly students!), then perhaps you will
be given the secrets.  Note well that you did not CREATE the secrets, and
so you cannot derive ego-gratification from knowing them.  Your only
purpose is to become a single bacterium in the scum of the earth.  But
when each bacterium spreads enlightenment to the others, a vast
intelligent creature is formed.  If each particle of this creature is a
good person, then the creature will be very different from modern
governments and corporations:  it will have honor, it will have integrity,
and it will have a soul.


They say that the end times are upon us.  Wrong cliche!  I say that the
beginning times are upon us.  The things which loom on the horizon have
not been seen before on Earth.



((((((((((((((((((((( ( (  (   (    (O)    )   )  ) ) )))))))))))))))))))))
William J. Beaty                                  SCIENCE HOBBYIST website
billbeskimo.com                                  http://amasci.com
EE/programmer/sci-exhibits          science projects, tesla, weird science
Seattle, WA   206-762-3818          freenrg-L taoshum-L vortex-L webhead-L

