OBSOLETE TEXT-ONLY FILE

New version Feb 2007:  http://amasci.com/freenrg/wasser.html














WASSERFADDEN EXPERIMENT                               1996 William Beaty
(WATER-THREAD)

Two brimful glasses of water are placed adjacent to each other on an
insulating panel, and moved so their rims are nearly touching. A short
length of thread is wetted and placed so as to bridge across the rims of
the glasses.  A high voltage, low current power supply or electrostatic
generator is connected to the water in the glasses, with one lead going to
one glass, the other lead to the other. 

When the power supply is turned on, the water is reported to flow along
the thread. If the thread is short and very thin, the flow will carry the
thread along.  The thread will be entirely pumped into the ?NEGATIVE?? 
glass, but the conductive bridge of water will not break when the thread
has left it.  A short thread of pure water will be left behind.  If the
high-voltage supply is disconnected, the water thread falls apart.  There
are reports that the water in the core of the thread flows in one
direction, while water in the surrounding shell flows opposite. 

Is this real?  I don't know, I haven't tried the experiment myself.  How
can electrostatic forces counteract surface tension and give a thread of
water a stable existence?  What determines the thickness of the water
thread?  Could giant waterthreads be made by using a 100KV power supply? 
Why are there oppositely directed water flows in the thread? Does the
structure require surface contaminants?  Can a larger thread be made by
using larger currents?  Will dye in the water show how the flow takes
place?

Charles Yost, editor of ELECTRIC SPACECRAFT JOURNAL, has apparently
discovered an atmospheric analog to the wasserfadden demo.  In exploring
spark discharges with a Schlerien optical system, he observed a polished
spherical electrode which seemed to emit a narrow stream of charged wind
when operated at high potential.  The stream is visible in the Schlerien
system as a thread apparently thinner than 1mm, and he has seen threads as
long as ?5? cm.  They transport charged air, as shown by microammeter
readings from a probe stuck into the air-threads.



I FOUND IT! A friend mentioned that it was performed by Lord Armstrong (of 
steam-jet electrostatic generator fame.)   I managed to track it down:

  THE ELECTRICAL ENGINEER, FEB 10, 1893 P154
  139-140 Salisbury Court, Fleet Street, London, E.C.
  https://books.google.com/books?id=kQsAAAAAMAAJ&pg=PA154#v=onepage


Part of a lecture by Lord Armstrong on the hundredth anniversary of the 
Literary and Philosophical Society of Newcastle-on-Tyne.

...Probably many of you are aware that soon after I introduced my 
hydro-electric [steam electrostatic] machine I designed and made a very 
large one for the Polytechnic Institution which then existed in London. It 
proved to be by far the most powerful instrument for the production of 
frictional electricity that had ever been seen. It was a very short time 
in my hands after its completion, and I made the best use of my time in 
trying experiments with it in the open air. Amongst other experiments I 
hit upon a very remarkable one. Taking two wine-glasses filled to the brim 
with chemically pure water, I connected the two glasses by a cotton thread 
coiled up in one glass, and having its shorter end dipped into the other 
glass. On turning on the current, the coiled thread was rapidly drawn out 
of the glass containing it, and the whole thread deposited in the other, 
leaving, for a few seconds, a rope of water suspended between the lips of 
the two glasses. This effect I attributed at the time to the existence of 
two water currents flowing in opposite directions, and representing 
opposite electric currents, of which the one flowed within the other and 
carried the cotton with it. It required the full power of the machine to 
produce this effect, but, unfortunately, when it went to London, and was 
fitted up in the lecture-room, I could not get the full power on account 
of the difficulty of effecting as good insulation in a room as in the 
outside air. I therefore failed in getting this result, after announcing 
that I could do it, and I daresay I got the credit of romancing. It as 
ever since been my desire to establish my veracity in this matter, and 
with the powerful apparatus now at my command, I speedily succeeded in 
reproducing the experiment in a modified form. In fact, I have done it in 
different forms; but the one which I shall show you this evening is as 
striking as any, and can be performed with the single induction coil which 
I have upon the table. The conditions of the experiment are as follows: I 
take a glass bulb having a long neck on one side and a short nozzle on the 
other, the nozzle having an aperture of one-tenth of an inch diameter. 
Through this aperture a string composed of spongy cotton thread is passed. 
The string is barely sufficiently thick to fill the aperture, and is 
secured at the upper end by a knot or by attachment to a conducting wire, 
which enters the bulb through a cork at the top of the neck. The bulb is 
then plunged into a glass cistern, and both bulb and cistern are filled 
with carefully distilled water, and the cork is tightly inserted in the 
neck. The whole is placed in the field of the lantern [projector] so as to 
be exhibited on the screen. And now, all being ready, we will send a 
positive current into the bulb, and make the cistern negative, and if I am 
not again sold, as I was at the Polytechnic, you will see the cotton climb 
up into the bulb. You see it is so, and now I reverse the current and it 
comes rapidly down. Those who are near will see that there is a clear 
indication of water rushing out of the aperture all round the cotton. The 
water in passing the aperture becomes a little heated, and is rendered 
visible by a flicker, just as hot air becomes visible when it mingles with 
cold. But the bulb remains full, and if water comes out without lessening 
the quantity in the bulb, an equivalent quantity must be going in by the 
same aperture, and as the descending column visibly flows outside the 
cotton the ascending current must flow inside the cotton, and must carry 
the cotton with it. The two currents become distinctly visible when the 
cotton is removed, and though we cannot discern their relative position 
until they are clear of the aperture, the facts of the case seem to 
demonstrate that the negative current flows inside the positive and 
determines the direction in which the cotton travels. This conclusion 
appears to me a very interesting one, and may tend to elucidate the 
relationship between positive and negative currents. WHen the cork is 
omitted the level of the water in the bulb is free to rise or fall, but it 
remains stationary under the compensating action of two currents. This, 
however, is not the case when the cotton is in operation without the cork, 
because the cotton impedes the current which moves it and gives the 
ascendancy to the outside current, and thereby lowers the level of the 
water in the bulb. The contrary effect is, of course, produced by 
reversing the electric current, and the water then rises in the bulb above 
the level of the water in the cistern... 
