Coalition to Ban Dihydrogen Monoxide
BAN DIHYDROGEN MONOXIDE: THE INVISIBLE KILLER

Dihydrogen monoxide is colorless, odorless, tasteless, and kills
uncounted thousands of people every year. Most of these deaths are caused
by accidental inhalation of DHMO, but the dangers of dihydrogenmonoxide
do not end there. Prolonged exposure to its solid form causes severe
tissue damage. Symptoms of DHMO ingestion can include excessive sweating
and urination, and possibly a bloated feeling, nausea, vomiting and body
electrolyte imbalance. For those who have become dependent, DHMO
withdrawal means certain death.

Dihydrogen monoxide is also known as hydric acid, and is the major
component of acid rain. It:
! contributes to the "greenhouse effect."
! may cause severe burns.
! contributes to the erosion of our natural landscape.
! accelerates corrosion and rusting of many metals.
! may cause electrical failures and decreased effectiveness of automobile brakes. 
! has been found in excised tumors of terminal cancer patients.

CONTAMINATION IS REACHING EPIDEMIC PROPORTIONS!
Quantities of dihydrogen monoxide have been found in almost every stream,
lake, and reservoir in America today. But the pollution is global, and
the contaminant has even been found in Antarctic ice. In the midwest
alone DHMO has caused millions of dollars of property damage.

Despite the danger, dihydrogen monoxide is often used:
! as an industrial solvent and coolant.
! in nuclear power plants.
! in the production of styrofoam.
! as a fire retardant.
! in many forms of cruel animal research.
! in the distribution of pesticides.
! as an additive in certain "junk-foods" and other food products.

Even after washing, produce remains contaminated by this chemical.
Companies dump waste DHMO into rivers and the ocean, and nothing can be
done to stop them because this practice is still legal. The impact on
wildlife is extreme, and we cannot afford to ignore it any longer!

THE HORROR MUST BE STOPPED!
The American government has refused to ban the production, distribution,
or use of this damaging chemical due to its "importance to the economic
health of this nation." In fact, the navy and other military
organizations are conducting experiments with DHMO, and designing
multi-billion dollar devices to control and utilize it during warfare
situations. Hundreds of military research facilities receive tons of it
through a highly sophisticated underground distribution network. Many
store large quantities for later use.

IT'S NOT TOO LATE!
Act NOW to prevent further contamination. Find out more about this
dangerous chemical. What you don't know CAN hurt you and others
throughout the world.

Send email to no_dhmo@circus.com, or a SASE to:
Coalition to Ban DHMO
211 Pearl St.
Santa Cruz CA, 95060
