Jack Sherman Recollections! (unofficial) 

 Recollections by Jack Sherman, a guitarist in the Toni And The Movers band! (After jack wrote a nice email to the site, I asked him to write some recollections for us fans and update us on his career... Thanks Jack!) 

 Wayne .... here is a little attempt at some history. 
1st: I can't get a hold of Toni. I don't know how to reach her. 
Back in around 1979 I was playing with a guy named Andy Krikun. The band was called Andy and the Rattlesnakes. They later changed members and without Andy became part of Burning Sensations with former Motel Tim McGovern and another zany outfit whose name escapes me. 
Anyway for a brief moment the Rattlesnakes included this amazing drummer from Texas named Stan Moore. Always bonding with drummers, I really hit it off with Stan and he turned me on to a lot of cool music including the Sex Pistols which I had avoided up till then. He left our group for greener pastures with someone named Toni Childs in an earlier rendition of Toni and the Movers. They actually wore white mover suits on stage. I saw them once. There was a part in the show when the guitarist and bassist tore off Toni's paper movers' suit and revealed her in a tight mini-dress. I am not sure if that was an original move on her part but it seemed cool enough. 
Well .... time would pass and one day I was hanging out with Stan and he played some demos of Toni's for me. I was blown away by her voice, melodies and deep soul. Sometimes for lack of a better term I refer to certain musical things as being Russian/Jewish Soul. I guess y'know melodic, dark and moving. I am Russian/Jewish. I don't know if Toni is. 
I was playing in mid '79 in a band called ALL NIGHT. The other guitarist in the band, Jim Whelan later co/wrote "MAD ABOUT YOU" for Belinda Carlisle. These were the days of NEW WAVE in LA. The Motels, The Knack ... etc. Very communal and fun times in the clubs ... Madame Wong's East and West .... Blackies .... the Starwood and of course the Whiskey and even a funky one called Club 88 where practically eveyone got there start. 
One day my older sister Gail who had a band called Little Itch told me that a friend of hers was looking for a guitarist and maybe I should get in touch. Surprise, surprise it was TONI. 
I called her and if not that night then very soon I walked into a rehearsal, set- up while the band was playing ... and began performing off the top of my head a lot of the parts that I would end up playing for the next year or so with Toni and the Movers. Toni and I barely spoke that evening but the next day I received a passionate phone call from her begging me to join the band. I was caught a bit confused because I didn't want to let All Night down. But .... I quit All Night and joined Toni and the Movers. 
At that time the bass player's name was Michael from a band called Code Blue who had a record out earlier. I don't remember the drummers name except that he drank too much. The energy was very dark except for Lance the rhythm guitarist who I became friends with for a while. He basically played the parts (power chords) that Toni would have played on guitar that she constructed. I added a lot of arrangement and color as a lead guitarist/orchestrator. My parts were worked out and very thematic and hooky. I ran the band pretty much along with Toni. 
Well ... we did some demo work at Jo Julian's studio. He had produced Berlin I believe. This unit didn't last and at one point we had no drummer or bass player. I suggested Micki Steele for the bass role. Toni went for that. Later of course, Micki (now Michael) went on to fame and fortune with the Bangles. 
We hired a drummer named Chris Schendel. Lance left after a while and a guy named Larry took on the crunch guitar role. This unit stayed pretty locked and enjoyed a regular gigging schedule on the scene. Often we would "open" for signed bands like John Hiatt (who I toured with in '82) and Oingo Boingo who had Danny Elfman the now famed movie composer among many other very accomplished musicians in it. 
.... we cut a little single called Bitches and Bastards /Africa. I had hoped we would get signed. I was very proud of the band. One day Toni was coming on very strong about the volume of the band at a soundcheck and one thing led to another and I quit. She asked me later to finish out some gigs which I did. Things were very intense and wild in those days. And the band reflected that in it's performances. Real hard-cranking, eight note, passionate magical stuff. 
Often in later years, Micki Steele and I would reflect in our conversations that Toni and the Movers was the best band we had played with. Including for Micki the Bangles and I the Red Hot Chili Peppers. I guess we were judging that by how the music felt on stage. It was hot. 
Well ... I believe you know the rest of Toni's history. Album in '88 on A&M ... etc... 
At the time I thought Toni's singing on her first record was a little strange. It sounded strangled to me compared to what I remembered from the past. Others felt similar. But that's ok. 
So years later, ('97 I believe) I was doing some recording with a good friend Kevin Quinn. We had written a few tunes for him and Lee Ann Harris was his percussionist. I knew she played with Toni and asked how I could get in touch. She suggested dropping by Dolphin House in Venice, Ca. I did. Toni wasn't there but I left her a nice little note. Turns out she had marriage plans. 
One day Toni's assistant called saying that Toni wanted to work together again. I said I would be interested in writing and seeing what happened. Well ... we wrote ... we rehearsed. I stayed up at her house in Sausalito with the Bass Player David. Then we did some gigs. They were fun and well attended but I was a little curious about Toni's use of lyric sheets on stage. I thought that was a bit self-indulgent. Seemed she still had a following at that time that would forgive her anything. Still .... she was a mighty performer and the gigs came off well. House of Blues in LA. A club south of LA. And a nice gig up in SF where we hung out later with Sean Penn and his lovely wife Robin. 
There was an attempt at recording that was not very good in my opinion. Toni was attempting to produce and I feel she really needed an outside producer. I didn't enjoy the sessions. And I positively live for recording. 
With all due respect I wonder sometimes if Toni has deconstructed things at some crucial moments in her career. I believe she could have been a much more widely known performer had she found the crucial balance between art and commerciality. 
All in all (as I was saying just the other day) Toni has a deep soul and I would be pleased to see her do something great again someday. If it includes some of the material we co-wrote that would please me as well. 
I have my own band now called IN FROM THE COLD. And wouldn't you know it my writing partner is a drummer. His name is Gary Mallaber. A lot of people know his work on Steve Miller's hits ... Fly Like an Eagle .... etc. He also has played on many, many other gold and platinum records quite notably on MOONDANCE by Van Morrison. Wish us luck. 
Take care, Jack 
 To write Jack Sherman, click the email button! 
 Click on this line to visit Jacks site with links to his band, In From The Cold!