SeattleOtaku: Review - Tenchi Muyo! 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Tenchi 

 Ryoko 

 Ayeka vs. Ryoko 

 P oor guy. . . . Tenchi's normal high-school
life is interrupted when six alien girls move in with him and his father,
and he finds out he has inherited powers that can save the universe. Part
 Star Wars (light sabers and interplanetary travel, after
all), and part romatic comedy (Ryoko and Ayeka are nearly constantly
fighting for his affection), the Tenchi Muyo! series
runs the gamut of animation style, from the often-superdeformed look of
the orignal OVA series to the detailed theatrical movies and the more
minimalist current style seen in the third movie (and second TV series,
perhaps). 

 My own favorites in the series are the original 13-episode OVAs and the
movies, but I haven't seen much of the two television series (26 episodes
each) yet. They're on my list of things to look for later, though. 

 All versions and specials are by the AIC studio and distributed here in the
US by Pioneer Entertainment (as they both hold joint copyright on the entire
series). 

 There's also a spin-off series, Pretty Sammy , with
the youngest girl, Sasami, poking fun at the "magical girl" genre. 

 Tenchi Muyo! (13-episode OVA) 
 Mihoshi Special (1-episode OVA) 
 Tenchi Muyo! (26-episode TV, aka Tenchi
 Universe ) 
 Tenchi Muyo in Love (Movie, aka Tenchi the
 Movie ) 
 Midsummer's Eve (Movie, aka Tenchi the Movie II:
 Daughter of Darkness ) 
 Shin (New) Tenchi Muyo! (26-episode TV, aka
 Tenchi in Tokyo ) 
 Tenchi Muyo in Love II (Movie, aka Tenchi
 Forever: The Movie ) 

 Tenchi Muyo in Love image Copyright (C) AIC, Tenchi Muyo Committee, Pioneer Entertainment 
All rights reserved. Distributed by Pioneer Entertainment 

 Midsummer's Eve image Copyright (C) AIC, Pioneer LDC, Pioneer Entertainment 
All rights reserved. Distributed by Pioneer Entertainment 

 Tenchi Muyo in Love 2 image Copyright (C) AIC, Tenchi Muyo Committee, Pioneer Entertainment 
All rights reserved. Distributed by Pioneer Entertainment 

 Permission to use these images on this site provided by: 

 USED WITH PERMISSION: Images of anime programs
on this page are used with permission of the copyright holder or the legal
distributor of the represtented work. Copying from this page for your own
use is prohibited -- please contact the copyright holder or distibutor
cited to gain permission from the proper people. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.