Windwalker 

 Windwalker 

 We are in the process of purchasing a new (to us anyway) sailboat. She is a
1974 Cal 35. Called a "Cruising" Cal due to the tankage. 156gal of diesel and
110gal of water. Together with the 38hp perkins diesel, gives her quite a good
range. 

 Cal has a reputation for stout boats, and this one is no exception. With a
displacement of 17,000 lbs, she's a middleweight for her length. A long though
shallow keel has a fair amount of wetted area, but is also shallow draft (4'8")
which opens up a few anchorages that the 6'+ keels of some of her
contemporaries have to steer clear of. 

 As you can tell from the above picture, she has little brightwork, which
means less time sanding and varnishing. So sad. :) 

 A raised saloon gives her the appearance of a pilot-house, but since she
has no interior steering station, she has more room inside than most
pilot-house designs. Also, the boom clears the cabin top by a couple of feet,
which means that for a short guy like myself, no worries about getting smacked
by the boom while I am in the cockpit. Actually, the boom barely comes aft of
the dodger, so even the taller folk have little to fear from it. Unless they
are playing silly buggers on the cabin top of course, then all bets are
off. 

 Galley, facing aft. 
 Nav station 
 Main cabin, facing forward 
 V-Berth 

These pictures are from the sea trial on April 28th. We sailed from
Bremerton, to Shilshole for the survey. Too much fun 

 Sea trial and survey 

The perceptive among you will note that the name on the transom is
Kuriakos and not Windwalker, well, the previous, owners (before the
folks we bought her from) had changed the name from Windwalker, to
Kuriakos, we are changing it back. 

 Specifications 

 Beam 
 11' 
 LOA 
 35' 
 LOW 
 28'9" 

 Engine 
 Perkins 4-108 
 Hours 
 unk 
 HP 
 38 

 Fuel 
 Diesel 
 Cap 
 156g 
 Water 
 110g 

 Disp 
 17,000lbs 
 Ballast 
 5,000lbs 

 Sail Area Main 
 Unk 
 Headsail 
 Unk 
 Total 
 50.7 Sq m 
 535.5 sq ft 

 Windwalker also has a decent electronics suite. A radar, LoranC, VHF, and
knotmeter and depth sounder. A good start. We will be adding a GPS and
chartplotter, and upgrading the rest of the electronics, but there is no
rush. 

 Ground tackle includes a 25lb danforth, and a 35lb bruce style anchor,
there is a length of chain for rode, (but I am uncertain as to how long) and
nylon rode from there. There is a manual anchor winch on deck. 

 The two winches in the cockpit will be replaced with self-tailers, so that
one person can use them effectively. It's hard to crank on the handle while
you tail the sheet by hand. (or so I have been told, what do I know? I am not
a sailor yet.) 

 We are now the proud owners of Windwalker. We have moved aboard, mostly,
with our two ferrets , Fidgie , and Dex , and the cat, Kitts . The ferrets are enjoying exploring
their new home, and the cat likes to perch high above all, to look down with
lofty disdain, well, he is a cat after all. 

November 2001 

We have lived aboard Windwalker now for the better part of 6 months. We
haven't done much to her, due in no small part to workload. As winter
approaches, there are some changes that we want to make to her for
comfort in the coming months. 

 A cabin heater, currently we have an electric oil filled heater
 which works fine at dock, but doesn't help when cruising or if the
 power fails for any reason. We are thinking of a propane fired
 bulkhead mount unit from Force 10 or Dickinson. The only tough part
 is where to mount it that puts it out of the way, yet allows it to
 actually heat the cabin. 
 New batteries and new charging system. The existing system is
 simply inadequate, cannot handle gel cell batteries, and is not
 up to the wear and tear of a marine environment. So we will be
 replacing it with an integrate charger/12VDC monitor system from
 Trace or Heart. At the same time we will replace the two group 27
 wet cells, with gel cells. The maintainance issues are far simpler.
 Cost is slightly higher than flooded cell batteries, but it is worth
 it in our opinion. 
 A new head. The existing head has no holding tank, and is thus
 useless except when underway. It could also do with a rebuild, but
 that will hopefully wait until we haulout next year. We would like
 to put in a tank of about 20 gallons, which is plenty for a couple,
 and enough for two couples over a weekend if they are aware of the
 marine head issues. The problem is location, there is no good spot
 under the cabin sole, all that space is taken, we might be able to
 fit one behind the head, but it will be a bit of a squeeze. I would
 like a tank that sits directly under the head, which simplifies the
 plumbing quite a bit, and would allow us to raise the head a little,
 since it's actually rather low at the moment. This would entail a
 custom tank, but they aren't much more than the stock ones, at least
 for rectangular ones. 

 Planned modifications 
There are a bunch of things that we want to do to Windwalker to improve
her for our needs. Some are linked to here. These are not maintainance
tasks, but are modifications and additions to the boat. 

 Engine 
 Sail rig 
 General electrical 
 Navigation and communications 
 Galley 
 Head 
 Hull 
 Deck 
 Anchor & etc 

This is just a start, and like I said, doesn't include maintainance
tasks. 

 Last modified on Thu Dec 20 20:41:27 PST 2001