Guitar Lessons - Maximized Technique 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar Lessons , Maximized Technique 

 Maximized Technique 

 Published May 05, 1999 
 By Jimmy Hudson 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 After many requests I have finally decided that I would cover 
 the issue of technique. Technique could be the single most important 
 part of any given musical instrument other then what comes from 
 your heart. If you are a beginner player then I would strongly 
 recommend utilizing proper techniques now while it's still easy. 
 Any advanced player will agree on me with this issue.
 I was primarily a bluesman until I was seventeen. As much 
 as I love the blues there are a lot of techniques involved 
 with untrained playing that can really affect your future 
 playing and will cause serious damage to your wrists and fingers 
 that are not curable allot of times. I know it looks cool 
 to have a low slung guitar, but it is not efficient in any 
 way, shape, or form. It forces your wrist to bend in a way 
 that it shouldn't, causing carpal tunnel and many other ailments. 
 It is crucial to have your wrist as straight as possible while 
 playing. If you are a beginner or intermediate student that 
 has not ever taken professional guitar lessons before then 
 you need to sign up immediately with a qualified teacher. 
 Your best bet will be to go to a jazz or classical teacher 
 in your area. Whether you like those styles or not that is 
 pointless. You have to have someone watching you to point 
 out what you should be doing to get proper technique. It is 
 also impossible to pull off complex lines without good technique. 
 This is why I am doing work on the Internet to get people 
 out of the rut that they get stuck in. It happens to 99% of 
 all guitarists at some point of time when they are stuck playing 
 the same rehashed stuff over and over again. 
 So, now that, that is off my chest, I have already said that 
 your wrist should always be straight. Not only should your 
 wrist be straight, but your thumb should always be behind 
 the neck. There is only one exception for that and that is 
 when you go to pull off a soaring blues bend. Other then that 
 it needs to be behind the neck at all times period. Now with 
 the right hand I personally use a cross between the Shawn 
 Lane style of picking where my hand makes a loose fist and 
 I hold the pick at a slight angle and the Eric Johnson bounce 
 techniques. I almost always anchor my hand on the bridge with 
 a very, very light touch. My pick is held as close to my hand 
 as possible. Being in this position it is nearly impossible 
 to trip up anywhere. A lot of great guitarists anchor their 
 finger on the body. I personally prefer to keep my hand in 
 a fist for maximum balance and to keep my fingers from getting 
 in the way. By doing it this way I can easily palm mute, do 
 pinch harmonics, and reach everything very comfortably. The 
 bounce technique is where you go up with the pick instead 
 of through the whole string. This allows me to get to the 
 other side of the string very quickly and efficiently. The 
 key to doing this is to be able to lightly brush the string 
 yet be able to get some power in it as well. Of coarse crosspicking 
 should always be used religiously. This is where you do a 
 downstroke with the pick, and the next note played you do 
 an up stroke. As far as sweep picking I go through the note 
 mute it with my palm and rest my pick on the next note, which 
 of course will be on the next string. You do not want your 
 notes to ring out while you are sweep picking. The way I utilize 
 my right hand is a very complete method compiled from years 
 of instruction, school, and even students. Just like everything 
 else it is an on going learning process, but the essentials 
 change. I mute all strings that are not being played on with 
 my palm and extra fingers on my left hand. 
 Left Hand 
 As far as my left hand goes again efficiency is everything. 
 My left hand is probably the strongest technique that I have. 
 I usually do it the same way Vinnie Moore does it where you 
 use the very tips of your fingers. After time you will develop 
 muscles that you never knew you had. If you look at Vinnies 
 fingers they are almost like sculpted mallets. I also encourage 
 you to lift weights on both arms. Primarily curls and reversals 
 to build you forearms so you will have stamina. Your left 
 hand needs to always be able to go to the next move in an 
 efficient manner. Use visualization heavily for really both 
 hands. Visualize how you will play one passage to quickly 
 be able to go to the next. I also mentioned visualization 
 in my how to practice column. Of course always use a metronome 
 to build maximum technique. With your thumb behind the neck 
 you have a greater range of reaching for those far out there 
 notes. You should be able to comfortably reach at least an 
 eight fret span. Always look for a more sensible way to play 
 something. If you are reading the tab for something and it 
 has you going all over the place. Look for the same notes 
 in a six fret span. You should be able to play any chord or 
 scale in any given six frets. The only reason you should ever 
 have to move out of where you are at is for different tones. 
 You should come up with as many possible ways to play anything. 
 Also practice getting your fingers in a normally uncomfortable 
 situation so that you can get anywhere at anytime in a quick 
 and fluent manner while still being in time. 
 That covers my basic technique. I'm sure I could sit here 
 for hours on end covering everything, but I will have to save 
 that for a book. Please bookmark this site for quick reference 
 to my columns and all the other great information on this 
 site. And again I would like to thank Paul Hackett for providing 
 the space for me to bring you these columns. If you live in 
 the Memphis area and you want to take advantage of my private 
 lessons then feel free to Email me. I am currently teaching 
 at three convenient locations throughout the Memphis area. 
 Thank you for all the kind Emails and you are always welcome 
 to Email me if you have any questions. Please take advantage 
 of the forum that Paul has provided you. If you post your 
 questions there then you can get more then one persons opinion 
 about the issue. 
 Jimmy Hudson 1999-05-05 
 Previous 
 article in series 
 Next article in series 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.