Guitar Lessons - How to Improvise: A Guide for Beginning Guitarists 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar 
 Lessons , How to Improvise: A Guide for Beginning Guitarists 

 How to Improvise: A Guide 
 for Beginning Guitarists 

 Published April 05, 2002 
 By Darrin 
 Koltow 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 There's nothing magical about improvising, except the great 
 feeling you get when you hit the right notes. In this article 
 we show you how to hit those notes. 
 Here are the steps we're going to approach improvising with: 

 Record yourself playing chord changes. 
 Play back the recording, while you play the pentatonic 
 scale over it. 
 Play with the pentatonic scale: pick any notes from the 
 scale you want. 
 Change to a minor pentatonic scale to add a blues feeling. 

 Before you begin doing these steps, you'll want to practice 
 this set of chord changes until you're fairly smooth at it. 
 In fact, using a metronome while you practice would be helpful 
 to you. Here are the chord changes you'll improvise over. 
 Play these changes slowly, with a blues feeling. 

 Blues Changes 
 Once you can play this piece with a metronome, it's time 
 for you to become just as comfortable with the pentatonic 
 scale. Practice the following tab until you can play it with 
 a metronome. Note the arrows, which indicate alternate picking. 
 What is alternate picking, exactly? It's a down-up pick stroke 
 that lets you hit notes a lot faster than you could if you 
 just used down-down or up-up strokes. To use alternate picking 
 on the tablature here, do the following: strike the first 
 note (C on string 6, fret 8) with a downstroke using your 
 pick. Strike the next note, (D on string 6, fret 5), with 
 the upstroke of the pick. For the next note, you'd return 
 to using a downstroke. 
 For the remaining notes, continue changing from up to down 
 stroke and back again. Changing from one string to another 
 when you're also changing the pick stroke direction is a challenge 
 at first. It's much easier to use alternate strokes on one 
 string at a time. Stay with it. The alternate picking will 
 eventually become second nature. For more about how to use 
 alternate picking, see this 
 article at GuitarNoise . 

 Pentatonic Scale 
 Once you can play the pentatonic scale with confidence, it's 
 time to record the changes and play over them. Using a tape 
 recorder, computer, or some other device that lets you record 
 and play back several minutes of music, record the chord changes. 
 Now for the fun. Once you're satisfied with the recording, 
 rewind it. Play the recording, and play the pentatonic scale. 
 How does it sound? If it sounds a little stiff to you, it's 
 time to play with the scale a bit. Rewind the recording, and 
 begin playing it again. This time, instead of playing a strict 
 up and down pentatonic scale, play whatever pentatonic notes 
 you want. 
 Don't be worried about hitting wrong notes. All the notes 
 are the right notes. All you need to do is pick some notes 
 and listen. If you still need some guidelines in choosing 
 notes, check out the following tablature. 

 Continue doing this, finding new ways to play the pentatonic 
 scale. To improvise truly means to play. Let yourself have 
 fun. Alternate the melodic patterns you use. Re-record the 
 chord changes with a different rhythm. There are endless ways 
 of getting the music to sound better than before. When you 
 take a break from your experiments, try this new variation: 

 Play exactly the same pentatonic scale, except move it up 
 the neck by exactly three frets so that your first finger 
 is on the eighth fret instead of the fifth. 
 In this new position, continue playing over the changes. 
 How does it sound? Welcome to playing the Blues. 
 Resources 
 Book: Creativity in Improvisation , by Chris Azzara. 

 Marc Sabatella's Jazz Improvisation Primer at http://www.outsideshore.com/primer/primer/ms-primer-3.html 
 Aebersold's play along CDs : http://www.jazzbooks.com/playalongs/greatstarts/Default.htm 

 Darrin Koltow 2002-04-05 
 Previous 
 article in this series "A Musician's Most Important Skill" 
 Next article in this series 
 "Improvisation for the Fingerstyle Guitarist" 

 Darrin Koltow 

 Maximummusician.com 
 shows guitarists and other musicians how to get more satisfaction from their 
 playing. MaximumMusician.com offers free articles, the Guitar Study newsletter, 
 ebooks, links and more. Guitarists can learn about improvising, harmonizing 
 melodies, playing by ear, good practice habits, motivation, and other topics. 
 The popular "Playing Guitar" and "Guitar Chords" beginners' 
 ebooks are here. 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.