Guitar Lessons - Busy Beginner on a Budget 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 Guitar Lessons , Busy Beginner 
 on a Budget 

 Busy Beginner on a Budget 

 Published September 12, 2002 
 By Blue (

 Cathi 
 Pearce ) 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 My core belief as a musician is that music is for 
 everyone. That means everyone, whatever the age or background, 
 from the teenage girl not wanting to stand out from her trendy 
 friends, right up to the 60 year old man who has always yearned 
 to learn an instrument, but reckons it's too late. 
 What annoys me most is how much discouragement there is out 
 there for folks wanting to take the plunge and learn to play 
 something. 
 Take the guitar: the most ubiquitous instrument available 
 today, used in everything from heavy metal ballads to classical 
 concertos to songs of revolution. It's a truly versatile instrument, 
 one with a thousand resources available to it by virtue of 
 its popularity. 
 Yet, if you're someone other than a young man expressing 
 a wish to learn, you can expect to run a gauntlet of criticism, 
 confusion and plain bad advice. People will say you need to 
 spend thousands on a decent instrument (untrue), have hours 
 and hours of spare time to devote to practice (untrue), definitely 
 need a teacher (I'll come back to this one) and probably should 
 have started twenty years ago when you were capable of learning 
 something new (my response to this is unrepeatable!). 
 I hear this advice being given, and watch hopeful faces dim, 
 dreams fade and the spark of creativity and love of music 
 get snuffed out before it has ever had a chance, before fingers 
 have been placed on strings and smiles (or sometimes curses) 
 evoked by the creation of music from wood and steel and hollow 
 resonance. 
 In this article, I intend to show that anyone can get playing 
 guitar in some fashion, despite the seeming cult of money, 
 time, instruction and age requirements lined in opposition. 
 BUYING THE INSTRUMENT 
 Let's take the first item, the instrument itself. Yes, the 
 more you spend on a guitar, the better it is likely to be. 
 In terms of acoustic guitars, the quality and type of wood 
 used has an enormous impact on the sound, and if you are in 
 a position to spend thousands of dollars on a high-end guitar 
 with lovingly hand-made solid spruce top, rosewood neck, ebony 
 fingerboard and finely worked shell inlays, that's great. 
 The error here is to assume that this is the only kind of 
 guitar to aspire to. 
 So there you are, the avid beginner. On a budget, yet wanting 
 a guitar even though you've never even held one before. Do 
 you indulge your new hobby while the kids need clothes, your 
 spouse wants to be taken out for dinner and there are bills 
 to be paid? That Martin or Taylor is starting to look like 
 an awfully risky investment. But everyone says you have to 
 spend good money to get a decent instrument! 
 Untrue. Or rather, true, but in relative terms. With today's 
 mass-production techniques, even the cheapest guitars have 
 value in terms of the music you can make with them. You can 
 pick up a starter steel-strung acoustic guitar from Tanglewood, 
 Yamaha or Fender Squier for around $150, which will sound 
 perfectly good and serve you well. 
 If money is really tight, and you aren't even sure if guitar 
 playing is something you'll take to, you can get a budget 
 classical guitar for $50. Yes, it's probably the wrong kind 
 of guitar for the music you want to play, but it has 6 strings 
 and frets in all the right places. You can strum it, learn 
 your notes, find out how it should sound, how to tune it, 
 how to pick out your first chords and tunes and generally 
 get the hang of handling this strange beast - and heck, it's 
 not worth a lot so you can haul it around with you, leave 
 it in any room, pick it up and play at any time and just plain 
 have fun with it. 
 STEPPING UP 
 You love guitars now and want something better? Great, go 
 out and spend a little more on a more suitable instrument. 
 You've realised you're probably not going to take to this 
 after all? Also great: you didn't waste all that money and 
 your spouse isn't going to kill you! 
 My first guitar was a student classical; I got it when I 
 was 16. Somehow I never found the time to learn. Fifteen years 
 later, it was still here, waiting for me to start over again, 
 and this time I fell back in love with that guitar sound, 
 and started learning to play for real. Playing that classical 
 led to me getting a steel-string acoustic, and then several 
 other guitars. Today, that old cheap instrument hangs on the 
 wall (tuned to DADGAD) and, yes, it still gets played. 
 FINDING THE TIME 
 Instrument acquired, your next obstacle is time. It is essentially 
 true that the more time you can spend practicing and playing 
 an instrument, of whatever kind it is, the better you will 
 get and the more accomplished you will be. 
 Let's take a step back and look at this for a moment. Why 
 are you learning to play guitar? Do you want to be in a band, 
 or be famous, or challenge the likes of Eric Clapton? Chances 
 are that if this article is striking a chord thus far, you 
 simply want to make music, have some fun, play and sing familiar 
 songs, maybe even write your own tunes if you can manage it 
 someday. Of course, we'd all like to be amazing players. But 
 right here and right now you just want to strum that sucker 
 and enjoy the noises you can create. 
 This is where a lot of poor advice comes in: the keen new 
 player wants to learn something - anything - that sounds nice 
 and gets them a musical fix with the least possible effort. 
 Not because of laziness, or lack of interest, but because 
 real life tends to get in the way of music. The stereotypical 
 teenager sitting in his room for hours on end, playing away 
 until his fingers bleed, may indeed have a life. But it's 
 one without kids, a mortgage, bills to pay, a job with which 
 to pay them and the myriad things that steal away time. The 
 "professional" musician (one who makes a living 
 from playing) has hours of practice under his belt. The compromises 
 and sacrifices along the line were made long ago, and he doesn't 
 think about them any more. 
 We regular folk, on the other hand, need to be a little sneaky. 
 Don't get discouraged by those who insist there's no point 
 learning to play if you can't give it infinite amounts of 
 time. Time is a flexible thing. If you have your guitar handy, 
 you can get in some practice most any time, often while doing 
 something else. 
 The purists hate the idea of sitting playing the guitar with 
 the TV on, but if you are watching the kids and they are watching 
 the television, what's to stop you from focussing on your 
 quiet strumming? Do you have ten minutes free time while waiting 
 for dinner to finish cooking? Then you've time to run through 
 that new song you were working on last night. Heading out 
 of town for a boring conference? Put the guitar in the car 
 and have something more interesting to do each evening than 
 picking out a cable movie. 
 Research has shown that playing, say only ten minutes at 
 a time - but playing often - is more successful than putting 
 in a solid hour once a week or less. And if you have your 
 guitar somewhere accessible, it's easy to grab it, practice 
 those elusive chord changes a couple of times, then go on 
 with whatever else needs doing. No, this approach isn't ideal, 
 but it solves the problem and lets you get to the music. 
 After all, the main point to all this is pleasure. Music 
 is for fun. It's relaxing or invigorating depending on your 
 mood. Even if you never get beyond House of the Rising Sun, 
 if that makes you happy, great! 
 LEARNING TO PLAY 
 Next step: learning to play. The best solution here is to 
 get a teacher. I used to think that was just a knee-jerk reaction: 
 there are so many books and videos out there, why take the 
 trouble to get formal lessons? In the long run, having someone 
 to guide you and show you the best way to play what you want 
 to play really is the best solution - but there are workarounds 
 for that too. Private lessons can be expensive, so if you 
 can't budget for that, check out your local community college 
 or similar, they are sure to run evening classes for adult 
 beginners (yet another advantage to picking a popular instrument 
 to learn!). They are usually well-run, and even though you 
 are learning with a whole room full of people rather than 
 one-on-one, you should get enough individual attention to 
 make some progress. It's a good way to meet new people too. 
 If you don't have the time for classes, then you're stuck 
 with teaching yourself. This isn't always a bad thing. Many 
 of the great guitarists down the years taught themselves perfectly 
 well. Most of them had an extra spark of genius that the rest 
 of us might not possess though, so don't expect instant miracles. 
 The choice of teaching materials out there is confusing, 
 so it might take a few false starts before you find the book 
 or video that suits you best. However, you are sitting in 
 front of one of the greatest boons to music ever created: 
 the Internet. A quick web search will show you just how many 
 sites are devoted to teaching basic chords and guitar care, 
 along with theory chord structure, jazz progressions - whatever 
 you need is sure to turn up. Some are just text based, while 
 others use flash and midi and even streaming video to demonstrate 
 technique, and it's all free! 
 A good approach is to use a few of these sites to learn the 
 basics. Once you have made a start, it will be easier to judge 
 other materials for how well they suit you. For example, I 
 prefer to see the music I'm playing as well as hear it, so 
 I look for videos that come with a printed booklet. And I 
 enjoy finger patterns more than power chords, which narrows 
 down the field still further. 
 AGE 
 Hopefully by now the desire to play guitar is back burning 
 as strongly ever before. So I will come to the last point: 
 age. Life begins at 40 they say. Where music is concerned, 
 life begins at any age you like. 
 The average harpist, you might be surprised to learn, is 
 a 40 year old woman who's raised a family and suddenly has 
 the chance to fulfil a lifelong dream, possibly by ditching 
 her no-good husband in the process! Mountain dulcimer players 
 tend to be out of high-school and there are as many folk coming 
 to more traditional instruments like piano and violin late 
 in life as there are tiny children starting with the Suzuki 
 method. 
 And the average guitarist? That would be you, whoever you 
 are - someone with the dream of making music, and with the 
 time and money to go about it (in other words, probably not 
 a lot of either!). Is it easier to learn when you're young? 
 Of course, everything seems easier then, but a lifetime of 
 experience and of listening to music will stand you in good 
 stead. You more than likely already possess skills you can 
 transfer to help you in your new interest. 
 And more to the point, choosing to play an instrument as 
 an adult opens up a whole new world you never even realised 
 was there for the taking. 
 So what are you waiting for? Go play! 
 Cathi Pearce (aka Blue) 2002-09-12 
 Previous 
 article in this series "AutoMagic Harmony" 
 Next article in this series 
 "On Soloing" 

 Blue 
 (real name Cathi Pearce) is a self-confessed instrument 
 addict, and having taken a long break from the recorder 
 and flute of her childhood, suddenly got the music bug 
 again several years ago. A celtic harp was shortly followed 
 by mandolin, fiddle, lyre and piano, all of which she 
 has learnt to play with varying degrees of success, 
 not to mention the numerous guitars now taking over 
 the house. Finding a teacher has helped her guitar skills 
 improve in leaps and bounds, and she can usually be 
 found working on her latest classical piece in between 
 breaking off for some 12 bar blues or nifty fingerstyle 
 tomfoolery. Still very much a beginner, Blue's main 
 difficulty is narrowing down her choice of what to play 
 next, with a whole world of music out there for the 
 asking. Her current challenge is getting the hang of 
 the new 12 string guitar that arrived several weeks 
 back. Blue lives in the UK with her concertina-playing 
 fiance Forest and a housefull of musical things. 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.