Guitar Lessons - The Long and Short Of It - Scale Length Explained 

 This month is ad free - click here to find 
 out why 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar Lessons , The Long and Short Of It - Scale Length 
 Explained 

 The Long and Short Of It 
 - Scale Length Explained 

 Published November 01, 2002 
 By 

 Tony Nuccio 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Although it's very rarely considered when buying an instrument, 
 the guitar's scale length (or neck length) is an integral 
 ingredient in shaping an instrument's tone and playability. 
 Scale length has nothing to do with playing scales and everything 
 to do with the length of the strings from the nut (that white 
 thing the strings go over, up there by the headstock) to the 
 bridge. Why does the length of the strings matter? The scale 
 (length) of the neck (and, ultimately, the strings) determines 
 two major aspects of a guitar's personality: the distance 
 between the frets, and the tension (or tightness) of the strings. 

 The distance between frets is calculated by some logarithmic 
 formula that I have absolutely no clue about. Luckily, it's 
 not really important unless you're building your own neck 
 from scratch. In a nutshell, the shorter the scale length, 
 the closer the frets are together. 
 This is a good thing if you have small hands or are a young 
 beginner. Also, many rhythm guitarists, like Elvis Costello, 
 John Lennon and Kurt Cobain, prefer (or preferred) shorter 
 scales when comping or chording. On the other hand, a longer 
 scale length comes in handy when shredding and playing leads 
 in some styles (like those of Malmsteen, Vaughn and Atkins) 
 because it keeps you from "tripping" over your own 
 fat fingers when getting all acrobatic. 
 Scale lengths can vary as much as three inches from the shortest 
 to the longest, and that doesn't even count basses. So you 
 can see how that variation can affect a guitar's "feel." 
 A guitar's feel is also affected by the tension of the strings. 
 A guitar with a shorter scale length (like the Gibson Les 
 Paul) requires less tension to reach concert pitch than a 
 guitar with a longer scale (like the Fender Strat). This is 
 true, as long as both are strung with the same gauge strings. 
 One advantage of less string tension is a "looser" 
 feel, making bending and vibrato more fluid. 
 So, then, why aren't all guitars built with a shorter scale? 
 Obviously we'd all benefit from that slinky feel, right? Well, 
 guitars with greater tension benefit from a "tighter" 
 sound due to better clarity in their higher overtones. This 
 is often referred to as "twang." Shorter scale guitars 
 also have trouble accepting heavier gauged strings because 
 the slackened tension causes wider vibration and fret buzz. 

 All this falls into the category of "tone." Why 
 doesn't a PRS Custom 22 sound exactly like a Les Paul? They 
 both incorporate dual humbuckers and a solid body, so they 
 should sound the same, right? However, the PRS has a longer 
 scale length and, therefore, a tighter, somewhat brighter, 
 sound. Shorter scale guitars, though, tout that beautiful 
 buttery tone which make Les Pauls and Jazz boxes such invaluable 
 tools. 
 Now that you have a bit of neck length knowledge, get out 
 and play some different model guitars to get a feel for what 
 all of this means. 
 Here's a chart of some common models and their scale lengths 
 to help you along. Good luck on finding that next "special 
 friend." And, when playing guitar, remember that, just 
 like in life, it's always best to stick your neck out, no 
 matter what the length. 

 Tony Nuccio 2002-11-01 
 Previous 
 article in this series "A Few Tips for Beginners" 
 Next to a list of articles 
 in this series 

 Tony 
 Nuccio is the founder of LeftyGuitar.com 
 and the author of two articles on Guitar Noise. Email 
 him at 

 tony@leftguitar.com . 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.