Guitar Lessons - Sevens, Threes and Nines 

 This month is ad free - click here to find 
 out why 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar Lessons , Sevens, Threes and Nines 

 Sevens, Threes and Nines 

 Published October 25, 2002 
 By Darrin 
 Koltow and David 
 Hodge 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 NOTE from David: This piece originated in two parts. 
 Darrin had written a "Guitar Tip" for the newsletter 
 while I had written a piece on ninth chords for what was 
 to be a weekly newspaper column (don't ask). It just made 
 sense to combine the two&#133; 

 "Bluesifying" Your Chords 
 Ever notice how some chords and riffs just have this sound 
 which can only be described as "blues-y?" There's 
 something about what you hear that puts the blues into your 
 head and doesn't let it go. 
 It's not that hard to make a chord progression sound more 
 like the blues. Most of you are aware of how chords are formed 
 from thirds, stacking every other note on the scale one atop 
 the next. The simplest chords, triads, come in four "flavors:" 
 major, minor, augmented and diminished. You can find out all 
 about this in " The Power 
 of Three ." 
 Add another third on top of a triad, and you've got a seventh 
 chord. 
 Here's a quick guideline to "bluesify" any major 
 chord: add a flat 7 on top of the basic triad. This will give 
 you a dominant 7 chord, which lies at the heart of the blues. 

 Too simple, you ask? Well, check it out. Here's your twelve 
 bar blues pattern in A: 
 A for four bars 
 D for two bars 
 A for two bars 
 E for one bar 
 D for one bar 
 A for two bars 
 (If you want to learn about the 12 bar blues, check out our 
 Easy Songs For Beginners Lesson, " Before 
 You Accuse Me .") 
 Now let's simply change each major chord to its dominant 
 7th: 
 A7 for four bars 
 D7 for two bars 
 A7 for two bars 
 E7 for one bar 
 D7 for one bar 
 A7 for two bars 
 Here are common open position seventh chords, plus some moveable 
 shapes: 

 Another thing that sings out the blues is toying with the 
 third note of the major scale. The note is a major third up 
 from the root, which is our tonal center. When you change 
 that major third to a minor third, you are making it a "blue 
 note." Toying with the third, by making it minor and 
 then making it major again, gives you a great blues sound: 

 This is especially effective when used in finger-style play: 

 Playing with the third of a major chord, especially if you've 
 made it a dominant 7th (as in the last two examples) is an 
 extremely powerful way to communicate the blues feeling. 

 Dressed To The Nines (or Jazzing Up Your Blues) 
 Jazz is not as far removed from the blues as people might 
 think. Certainly the open structure of blues lends itself 
 quite well to the improvisation of jazz. There are many jazz 
 guitarists with roots firmly embedded in the blues. 
 But most beginning or intermediate guitarists shy away from 
 jazz while they have no problem whatsoever in embracing the 
 blues. Intriguing, no? This phenomenon is often a matter of 
 perception - we think of jazz as being full of difficult chords 
 and strange scales. Jazz is exotic. Blues is down and dirty. 

 As with anything, you form such perceptions based on what 
 you know and how you put it into practice. We've just seen 
 and heard how simply adding the seventh to our major triad 
 gives us a blues feel. What you throw on top of the seventh 
 - ninths, elevenths and thirteenths - puts you in the realm 
 of jazz. 
 The ninth is a particularly fun (and easy!!) chord to play. 
 It is important to remember that your chord has to have both 
 the seventh and ninth. If it only has the ninth with no seventh, 
 it will simply be an "add9" chord. Here are some 
 open position ninth chords, plus a moveable shape (with the 
 root on the A string): 

 Ninths can be used in most cases where you'd use a seventh 
 chord. So, in the blues, which is often loaded with seventh 
 chords, you can have a field day. Have you ever heard a really 
 slow, almost seductive, twelve bar blues song but couldn't 
 quite figure out what the chords were? Chances are that the 
 guitarist was using ninths. A popular technique is to slide 
 down to the ninth chord from one fret above. Give this a try: 

 Finally, let me give you a quick exercise to use all the 
 things we learned today. If you need to give it a name, call 
 it Darrin and David's Blues: 

 We are playing our A7 in a shuffle pattern (where you can 
 also play the open G string if you like) when we make use 
 of a couple of passing chords in the middle of measure four. 
 This brings us to an Eb9, which we'll use to chromatically 
 slide down to the D9. If you want to impress your friends 
 that you know some jazz chords, the first passing chord (x0456x) 
 is a D7#9 and the second (x0567) is an A7add6. 
 Another thing that jazz players like to do when they play 
 the blues is substitute the tenth measure (D or D7 in this 
 case) with a chromatic climb and return. Here we show the 
 last four bars of our blues song as E9 followed by a step 
 up to F9 before returning to E9 and then finally back to A. 
 I also thought it would be fun to include a jazz style turnaround 
 that holds the A as a sustained tone while chromatically descending 
 from B to A. 
 Even if you play folk or rock, experiment with things like 
 seventh and ninth chords. No, they won't work every time. 
 But more often than not, you will find yourself with a great 
 sound that you'll want to use again and again. 

 Darrin Koltow and David Hodge 2002-10-25 
 Previous 
 article in this series "On Soloing" 
 Next article in this series 
 "A Few Tips For Beginners" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.