Guitar Lessons - Improvisation For The Fingerstyle Guitarist 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 Guitar Lessons , Improvisation 
 For The Fingerstyle Guitarist 

 Improvisation For The Fingerstyle 
 Guitarist 

 Published April 12, 2002 
 By Gilbert 
 Isbin 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 To compose something decent, you not only need the goodwill 
 of the muse but also at least some insight into harmony and 
 compositional techniques. As improvising is 'instant composing' 
 you will definitely need all these tools. 
 During this series of columns on improvisation I will always 
 start with a short practical example, analyse it and then 
 give some examples of what we can do with this idea. 
 So let's start with this one: 
 Concept : Arpeggiation with rhythmic diversity 

 Here the Right Hand fingers hold the chord form (the Em7) 
 while the Left Hand fingers play a picking pattern. For now, 
 since this is meant to be a simple exercise, the bass note 
 (the open low E) is played on the first beat of each measure 
 to have a marking point. As we get more skill and confidence 
 we will add more bass movement. 

 The fingers of the Left Hand are, in essence, fooling around 
 in the chord form, which leads to more independence and certainty 
 (well, after some experimenting&#133;) The finger indications 
 (p (thumb),i (index), m (middle) and a (ring)) are only suggestions. 
 You should feel free to execute them differently. 
 Advantage : 
 You are always sure the notes will fit into the harmony of 
 the piece as the improvised melody is derived totally from 
 the chord notes. 
 Some Chord Theory : 
 But after a while, only playing over Em7 chords would become 
 quite boring. That's why we will use Chord Extensions, notes 
 past the 7th degree, namely the 9th, 11th or 13th, which could 
 also be thought as 2nd, 4th and 6th. Adding these extensions, 
 which are built by stacking triads on top of the original 
 Em triad (see David Hodge's column, " The 
 Power Of Three "), is a standard practice of jazz 
 musicians and is quite essential to developing the skills 
 to improvise. 

 Diatonic scale of 
 Em 

 E 
 F# 
 G 
 A 
 B 
 C# 
 D 
 E 
 F# 
 G 
 A 
 B 
 C# 

 Degrees 
 1 
 2 
 b3 
 4 
 5 
 6 
 b7 
 8 
 9 
 b10 
 11 
 12 
 13 

 Em7 consists of 1,b3,5,b7 --) E, G, B , D 
 Chord extensions of Em7 might be : 
 Em9 : 1, b3,5,b7,9 or E,G,B,D,F# 
 Em11: 1,b3,5,b7,9,11 or E,G,B,D,F#, A 
 Em13 1,b3,5,b7,9,11,13 or E,G,B,D,F#,A C# 
 Em7/11 1,b3,5,b7,11 or E,G,B,D,A 
 Em (9/11) 1,b3,5,9,11 or E,G,B,F#,A 
 It would be impossible to execute all the notes from an Em13 
 chord on the guitar, since it only has six strings and the 
 chord has seven notes. As the 1, 3 and 7 are essential notes 
 to determine the chord family, you might omit the 5, 6 or 
 9 position. 
 Now, let's experiment on a two -chord progression, the chords 
 being Em7 and Cmaj7. 
 Chord extensions of Cmaj7 might be 
 Cmaj9 C E G B D 
 C add 9 C E G D 
 C 6/9 C E G A D 
 Cmaj7/6 C E G A B 
 Cmaj13 C E G B D A 
 Both chords and some of their extended forms are played all 
 over the neck, but are still played off of the chord shapes. 
 I specifically picked these chord shapes for this exercise 
 because of their simplicity as well as their fresh, lush sound. 
 Open and fretted notes are mixed which can lead to some beautiful 
 colourful results. 
 So, let's try this, shall we? 

 Pay close attention to the rhythms. Use a metronome or tap 
 your foot on each beat of the measure (on the quarter notes). 
 This exercise should be executed at a medium tempo, but you 
 should always start out slowly in order to get the timing 
 correct. Once you feel you have this, then gradually increase 
 your speed. 
 Measures 1 & 2 start with the basic (first position) 
 forms of Em7 and Cmaj7. In measures 3 & 4, we use our 
 first chord extensions, Em9 and Cmaj9. You should notice that 
 this voicing of the Em9 omits the B note (the fifth). The 
 Cmaj9, in this voicing, is a great example of why 9's are 
 often thought of as 2's, because the open D string is scrunched 
 right in with the C and E to either side of it. That why it's 
 a good idea on this phrase to give a little breathing room 
 between the initial appearance of the C and E, which start 
 measure 4, and the D, which appears three notes later. 
 The Em7sus in measure 5 is a very interesting chord in that 
 it is built on intervals of fourths: E, A, D and G. That's 
 just like your standard-tuned guitar! Harmony in fourths (or 
 quartal harmony ) has been very important in the development 
 of modern jazz in the 1960's - listen to McCoy Tyner, Miles 
 Davis and Chick Corea. It also played a very important role 
 in the music of such eclectic songwriters as Nick Drake and 
 Joni Mitchell. Quartal harmony is a refreshing alternative 
 to "tertial" chords (chords based on thirds) - an 
 escape from both major and minor harmonies and the implied 
 progressions that inevitable accompany them. 
 In measures 7 & 8 be certain to pay attention to the 
 big intervals created by mixing open and fretted strings. 
 Listen to difference in tone color in comparison to the chord 
 voicings you used in the first two measures. 
 The Cmaj9 chord in the last measure requires a bit of a stretch! 
 By playing the E note (12th fret on the first string) with 
 your pinky when you play the Em9 in the proceeding measure, 
 all you have to do is slide it down to frets for the D note 
 in the Cmaj9. That should make it simpler for you to execute 
 this rather tricky chord. 
 I hope you have lots of fun with these exercises in fingerstyle. 
 Next time we will take this idea a step further and improvise 
 over a part of Jimi Hendrix's Little Wing. 
 Cheers 
 Gilbert Isbin 2002-04-12 
 Previous 
 article in this series "How to Improvise" 
 Next article in this series 
 "Thematic Improvisation Part 1" 

 Beligan acoustic guitarist GILBERT ISBIN's early influences, 
 ranging from classical to jazz, blues, ethnic and freeform 
 music, has ultimately contributed to his now distinctive 
 and refined style. His music transcends the dualities 
 of classical/jazz and composed/improvised music and 
 is filled with strong melodies, rich colourful harmonies, 
 sound effects and polyrythms, highlighted by delicate 
 acoustic guitar picking. 
 Gilbert has recorded, to date, ten albums, which have 
 been highly acclaimed by the international music press 
 and which are distributed worldwide. He has collaborated 
 in concert and/or recorded with American and European 
 players, such as Cameron Brown, Joe Fonda, Ernst Reijseger, 
 Michel Godard, Jaap Blonk and Sandor Szabo. He performs 
 solo, with the Gilbert Isbin Group and in various small 
 ensembles like the Isbin/Colpaert/Loisel trio, a Belgian/French 
 line-up. 

 Be sure to visit his website .... http://users.pandora.be/gilbert.isbin/contents.html 
 and check out our CD review of Twins . 
 Concert Dates : 

 13 Apr. 2002: Gilbert Isbin Solo : International 
 Acoustic Strings Festival, Raalte, The Netherlands 
 (with a.o. Tommy Emmanuel) 
 21 Apr. 2002: Gilbert Isbin Solo : Gallery Athanor, 
 Gijverinkhove, Belgium 
 24 Apr.2002 : Jazz Halo Music Days : Gilbert Isbin 
 Solo/Pedro Solar, Benat Achiary (Spain) De Werf, Brugge, 
 Belgium 
 25 Apr.2002 :Jazz Halo Music Days : Gilbert Isbin 
 Solo/Pedro Solar, Benat Achiary (Spain) Bimhuis, Amsterdam, 
 The Netherlands 
 26 Apr.2002 : Jazz Halo Music Days : Gilbert Isbin 
 Solo/Pedro Solar, Benat Achiary (Spain) Th&eacute;atre 
 Municipal, Tourcoing, France 
 22 July 2002 : Gilbert Isbin Solo at the Electroshock 
 Festival in St. Petersburg, Russia 
 11 Aug.2002 : Gilbert Isbin Group at the Paulus 
 Festival, Festival, Oostende, Belgium 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.