Guitar Lessons - Thematic improvisation II - making something out of nothing 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 Guitar Lessons , Thematic 
 improvisation II - making something out of nothing 

 Thematic improvisation II 
 - making something out of nothing 

 Published June 07, 2002 
 By Matt 
 Butler 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 In our last discussion I mentioned that we would be looking 
 at a few ways to generate material to improvise with (or compose, 
 for that matter). One of the ways to do this, which we will 
 be discussing in this article, was influenced by serial compositions 
 such as those by Schoenberg, Webern, etc. We will be looking 
 at some of the ways we can take a set of numbers and derive 
 a motif from it. But we will not adhere to the strict rules 
 that the serialists set for themselves; we will allow ourselves 
 the freedom to do whatever we want. 
 Dial it in 
 Picture this: Johnny the guitar guy is on a gig where the 
 music is completely improvised and the leader has just looked 
 at him to start a piece. Johnny starts to panic because he 
 remembers the last time this happened he starting playing 
 a funk 'riff' which caused a 'jam' to happen and The Leader 
 sent him home. The Leader wants a thematic statement that 
 amounts to more than riffing. How can we help Johnny? Tell 
 him to think of a friend's or business's phone number and 
 apply it to the tonal pool that he is in; from there he has 
 a place to work from. What does this mean? Let's have a look: 
 Let's say that the number that Johnny came up with was 404-827-3470 
 and the tonal pool was in C major (CDEFGABC). The way this 
 group of numbers maps to the scale (pool) is direct: The root, 
 C, is 1, D is 2, etc. How do we handle zero? I treat it as 
 a wild card, so it can be anything, which can add a bit of 
 'spice' to your thematic material. For now I am treating it 
 as the minor third. You can treat it as the 9th, b9, #11, 
 etc. So how would a melody look/sound that is derived from 
 this? First, let's look at it as straight 8ths over a C major 
 triad (C-E-G): 

 It has a pretty interesting sound against a C major triad, 
 but let's look at the harmony that this new melody implies 
 by stacking each group upon itself and maybe a few inversions: 

 So now we have a couple of interesting sounds but have not 
 made music out of them yet. This is where we need to inject 
 some rhythm to move closer to the goal of making music with 
 it. In live playing this would be dictated by the current 
 context (we will get into the idea of rhythmic improvisation 
 in a future article), but since we are just theorizing let's 
 start with another device based on the phone number. Now we 
 will relate the number of sixteenths in each note to the pitch 
 of the note: 

 For our wild card (0), I chose a duration of one 16th note 
 and then four 16th notes, respectively. 
 The result is this: we've mapped both the pitches and the 
 rhythmic value to the numeric sequence. We used 16th notes 
 in the rhythmic mapping; try mapping with 8ths, quarters, 
 etc. 
 Another way to quickly generate new material is to use the 
 numeric values from the individual note durations to generate 
 a new set of numbers. For instance, let's say we have a melody 
 in bars four and five that has this rhythm: 

 If we are using 16th notes as the basis for our count we 
 would come up with the following set of numbers from the above 
 rhythm: 442 211 222 4 0 1 1 2 0, which would translate into 
 this: 

 Remember, we are showing it in 8th notes but you should make 
 it musical by mixing up both the order of the notes and the 
 rhythm. We can hear that this example is very common sounding, 
 almost parochial. Let's break it up a little and see how it 
 sounds: 

 Try to come up with permutations of your own. If you get 
 stuck, email me and I will send you some of mine. Don't feel 
 bound by these suggestions. If you hear that the group of 
 notes would sound better by changing it or adding a note, 
 then do it. The generated note group is only meant to give 
 you something to jump from, not constrain you. 
 Try using some of these devices to get you through rough 
 areas in composing and improvising. Not all of them will sound 
 good, but enough will that it will be worth the time. At the 
 very least it will often lead to a new idea, if not an entire 
 masterpiece. Think of how many people are in your local phone 
 book and all of the musical ideas that this could initiate! 
 Keeping the basic principle in mind that we discussed here, 
 try applying it to formulas from your calculus class or license 
 plates from your car or neighbors car. It will be left up 
 to you to figure out how to map the less obvious correlations 
 between odd characters and the music. For instance; not all 
 of the characters from a tag of LZM 4A2 would readily map 
 out. This is where you have to be creative! 
 In our next article we will discuss how to break apart common 
 licks and find a new truth in them as well as other devices 
 to aid in finding new note combinations. In future articles 
 we will look further into the delicate art of developing a 
 theme over the span of multiple bars. 
 .MAtt Butler 2002-06-07 
 Previous 
 article in this series "Thematic Improvisation Part 1" 
 Next article in this series 
 "AutoMagic Harmony" 

 .MAtt 
 Butler and the Matt Butler Quartet are based in Jacksonville, Florida. 
 To read more about his groundbreaking guitar work, hear his MP3s and find 
 out where and when they are playing, visit .MAtt at www.biodigitalmusic.com 
 or, for older material, head to www.mp3.com/mbq . 
 .MAtt is currently working on a project that he won't tell anyone about&#133; 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.