Guitar Lessons - Thematic Improvisation Part 1 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 Guitar Lessons , Thematic 
 Improvisation Part 1 

 Thematic Improvisation Part 
 1 

 Published April 26, 2002 
 By Matt 
 Butler 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 On our path to becoming proficient improvisers/soloists we 
 will, undoubtedly, make attempts to transcribe players that 
 move us, the hope being to capture some of the 'magic' and 
 bring it out in our own playing. We may also find ourselves 
 studying a virtual library of theory books trying to shed 
 light on some of the mysteries that we find in our favorite 
 players. After years of doing this we often find ourselves 
 with handfuls of licks, lines, and voicing wondering how to 
 free ourselves from it all and 'play from the heart' with 
 our own voice. The phrase 'play from the heart' is so subjective. 
 Allow me to compensate for any errors in interpretation by 
 providing you with a specific definition. To me, playing from 
 the heart means to have a connection to every note I play; 
 being aware of exactly what effect the present note(s) has 
 on the overall momentum, texture, and mood of the piece. Some 
 would say that this is a lofty goal. This would be true if 
 there were an end to it, but since the path is a life-long 
 pursuit, there is no end, and thusly, no way to identify the 
 defining parameters of a 'goal'. Every bit of progress made 
 in this direction is a success or completion of what could 
 be termed a 'goal' cycle. 
 In order to do have this sort of connection to the music 
 when playing, a release of musical agenda when 'performing' 
 must happen. Having an agenda, musically, can range from trying 
 to 'work in' things from our practice sessions to trying to 
 play in the style of a particular player. Both of these approaches 
 can produce good-sounding, cohesive music, but they both tip 
 the balance of our participation in the music from active 
 to preemptive. That is, we impose things (lines, voicings, 
 etc) on the music that may not have anything to do with the 
 piece other than the fact that it 'fit'. Again, even if it 
 sounds good, is it really true to the moment? 
 What exactly is the "moment"? 
 The 'moment' is the lump in your throat and the feeling of 
 sliding down the front of a 12 ft. wave! It's hearing the 
 drummer displace a snare hit and being able to react to it 
 within an eighth note. It's picking up on interplay between 
 the saxophone and bass player and wrapping them in the perfect 
 stack of notes, drawn from the pool of melodies improvised 
 up to that point in the piece. The 'moment' is the exact space 
 that you situate your musical self amongst the other sounds. 

 To be in the moment while playing/improvising music means 
 that we will be causing, and reacting to, events within 
 the music. 

 The last paragraph makes the 'moment' almost sound like a 
 scary place to be! It is actually the safest and easiest place 
 to be. We don't have to worry about remembering things that 
 we have practiced because we have no need to use them. This, 
 in turn, means that we don't have to add more to our list 
 of 'things that must be played correctly' throughout the course 
 of a performance and frees our mind. All we have to do is 
 listen and be aware of where the piece evolved from (melody, 
 rhythm, stylistic context, etc), the music will give us all 
 of the material we need for our improvisation. Open up and 
 play. 
 What is thematic improvisation? 
 When referring to 'soloing', thematic improvisation is a 
 mindset that dictates that each note we play is based on, 
 the result of, and ultimately indebted to the one we played 
 previous. This mandate eliminates the room for 'licks' and 
 lines that we may feel inclined to play. Our playing becomes 
 based on musical ideas that we pull from the 'head,' which 
 is a jazz term for the written opening statement or the initial 
 thematic statement of a piece. 

 The purpose of practice is to ensure that we are able to 
 'get around' on our instrument in order to bring forth our 
 ideas. 

 A musical idea is anything that happens through the course 
 of a piece whether it be an accidental string fart or a six 
 beat phrase (I have found that actually thinking of the word 
 "idea" will spawn a new theme in my mind). The action 
 starts a cycle within the group that will eventually need 
 to resolve. In order for it to resolve, we must pay attention 
 to how the other members of the group react/reply to it (to 
 whatever lesser or greater degree this happens) and co-develop 
 until the idea is concluded or evolves into something else. 

 The development of an improvisation should be as a pot 
 of cold water coming to a boil and then cooling. Be aware 
 from the first bubble to the last one. 

 What do I need to know in order to do this? 
 At this point it must sound like we have to unlearn everything 
 we already know in order to 'empty' ourselves. This isn't 
 so, we will be drawing (initially) from the 'basics', which 
 everything else is derived from, but our exercises and discussions 
 will be applicable to anything we may already have under our 
 fingers. We will work towards liberating the music from the 
 confines of licks, lines, and formulae. 
 Looking into what it takes to become a thematic improviser 
 we will see that, from an academic standpoint, as we practice 
 we will split our ideas up into halves, thirds... etc. We 
 will displace the melodic and rhythmic motifs against a pulse 
 provided by a metronome, drum machine, or some other reliable 
 time keeping source. It is through this that our mind will 
 first start to become aware of what it takes to expand a theme. 
 And where will we get our ideas to with which to practice? 
 Among others places, through the aforementioned transcription 
 process, experimentation with material we already know, and 
 any further study of the theoretical end of music. We will 
 also introduce different mechanisms that can used to give 
 us a thematic "jump-start" in future articles. 
 A quick thought on Transcription 
 One of the central ideas to the mindset of learning to improvise 
 (especially for students of jazz) is that of transcription. 
 Transcription in and of itself is a great thing. It can strengthen 
 our musical minds by helping us to pay attention to the details 
 of what the soloist is playing, the note-to-note evolution, 
 and how it is affecting the accompanying musicians. If that 
 is as far as we take the process, we would have all we need. 
 Without learning the 'solo' on our instruments we can get 
 what we need from it. What do we need from it? During the 
 transcription process we should observe the following: 

 Key center(s)/textures - where the soloist situates his 
 or her melodies in relation to the reigning tonic and how 
 the surrounding harmony expands and contracts to accommodate. 
 Interaction amongst the band members - are they passing 
 musical clues around the circle? 
 Your own personal impression of mood that the notes and 
 phrases played by the soloist helps to create (it's these 
 moods that we will strive to find during our own practice 
 sessions, not by playing things we have transcribed, but 
 through searching for combinations of notes and rhythms 
 that make us feel that way on our own - this is what people 
 mean when they say things like "John Coltrane was always 
 searching for something", etc) 
 Close attention should be given to the rhythmic relationships 
 between the voices - ie. Are saxophone and guitar playing 
 off of each other in a way that comes together to create 
 one phrase (each playing separate partials of the beat)? 
 Etc... 

 My experience with thematic improvisation 
 Early on in my life as a musician I sought liberation from 
 position playing, patterns, 'chords' and such. The way that 
 I choose to handle this was in the way that I shed (practiced) 
 and what I worked on. My first thought towards this goal was 
 around the age of 17. I believed that improvisation was, in 
 essence, spontaneous composition. What I had not yet realized 
 was that when playing in a certain context (such as the framework 
 of a 'tune') the 'solo' first needed to make musical sense 
 unto itself (i.e. no 'licks' or formulaic playing). And it 
 also needed to be a literal exposition on the head or main 
 theme, as it were (it took me another few years for this one 
 to hit). 
 Anyway, as a means to this end, I started approaching my 
 practice sessions as a time to learn to make strong musical 
 sense with very few notes (this is by no means the only thing 
 I worked on - there was the composing, reading, etc). The 
 only way to do this is to undertake the task of mastering 
 time and rhythm. Anything that is played with good time and 
 self-assured rhythmic intent will work anywhere. Add a real 
 sense of melody and you have a true voice. 
 I would start by first choosing a rhythmic backdrop (always!). 
 This often took the form of a metronome (or drum machine) 
 or a piece of recorded music. The next thing I would do is 
 choose 3 random notes. These would be literal notes, not a 
 graphical point on the guitar. In other words I would think 
 to myself "Eb, D, and B", as opposed to "4th 
 string 1st fret, etc&#133;" This way I had to use all 
 of those notes from everywhere on the fingerboard! And, I 
 had to make the playing of them sit well in the groove and 
 give the playing momentum. So I was making music with every 
 pitched inch of my instrument (well, at this point, the part 
 with strings at least). 
 When playing with the recorded music (often times Shostakovich 
 or Bartok string quartets, various fusion albums) the goal 
 was to interact with the music as though I were a part of 
 it. I am not talking about 'fantasy jamming', I mean that 
 I would try to be an additional voice within the music (not 
 *soloing*). This was difficult depending on a few things such 
 as: did the random notes I chose work with the music well? 
 If not, I would spend a lot of time trying to play in between 
 the 'inside' notes on the recording so the movement between 
 notes would make some sense. Etc&#133; As time went on I started 
 choosing 4 notes, 5 notes&#133; By the time I was using all 
 twelve I had discovered the concept of tone rows and went 
 on that tangent for a while trying to make them groove beautiful&#133; 
 When I worked with the metronome I would work on the same 
 thing, but an odd thing started to happen. I noticed that 
 I became sort of 'rain man-ish' using the metronome. I would 
 come out of my practice trance and find myself obsessively 
 regrouping the beats in bars of four by eights (5+3, 2+2+1+2+1, 
 etc) and sixteenths (this became really bad, after a while. 
 I was doing it on a macro and micro level at the same time 
 - partials, beats, bars, etc&#133;), all the while maintaining 
 a melodic/thematic/rhythmic mental mandate (needless to say, 
 I had almost no social life as a kid - nor now). 
 This (among many other things) has left me with the ability 
 to be free from the imposition of the instrument (for the 
 most part) to give more respect to the music that I am participating 
 in by allowing myself to be moved by it and play accordingly. 
 Taking the head and playing an exposition... 
 Conclusion 
 In my future articles we will cover: 

 Devices to generate thematic material for practice 
 Exercises designed to break apart, and find the music 
 in the licks, lines, and voicings we already know, having 
 them reemerge almost unrecognizable, yet fresh. 
 Approaches to group improvisation that will spur interaction, 
 contrapuntal playing, and a cohesive, controlled development. 

 Between now and the next time, take a moment to do some focused 
 listening and try to find examples of some of the things we 
 have talked about (group interaction, rhythmic variation, 
 lyrical, thematic playing, etc). A few of the recordings (there 
 are many, many more) that revealed some of these properties 
 to me are: 

 Keith Jarrett Trio - Standards Live, Still Live, Tribute, 
 Changeless, etc 
 Ravi Shankar - Live at Monterey 1967 [LIVE], etc (the 
 interaction between sitar and tabla is something else) 
 Miles Davis -'65 era trio, We Want Miles, etc 
 Ornette Coleman - Soap Suds, etc 
 Joe Henderson - State of the Tenor 

 Have fun. 
 .MAtt Butler 2002-04-26 
 Previous 
 article in this series "Improvisation For The Fingerstyle 
 Guitarist" 
 Next article in this series 
 "Thematic Improvisation Part 2 

 .MAtt 
 Butler and the Matt Butler Quartet are based in Jacksonville, Florida. 
 To read more about his groundbreaking guitar work, hear his MP3s and find 
 out where and when they are playing, visit .MAtt at www.biodigitalmusic.com 
 or, for older material, head to www.mp3.com/mbq . 
 .MAtt is currently working on a project that he won't tell anyone about&#133; 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.