Guitar Lessons - A Few Tips For Beginners (and Others!) 

 This month is ad free - click here to find 
 out why 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar Lessons , A Few Tips For Beginners (and Others!) 

 A Few Tips For Beginners 
 (and Others!) 

 Published October 31, 2002 
 By 

 Darryl Roberts 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 A bunch of assorted tips, insights and unsolicited pieces 
 of advice, from a beginner with 20+ years of experience. 
 Thou Shalt... 
 ...learn the difference between playing and practicing. 

 Both are essential, but don't mistake one for the other. 
 ...use a metronome while practicing. 
 If you don't learn good timing now, you probably never will. 
 Remember: the habits you develop now will determine what kind 
 of player you're going to be. This can be a good thing or 
 a bad thing.It's up to you to develop the habits that will 
 lead to the skills you desire. 
 ...listen to ALL KINDS of music. 
 Listen to a variety. The greatest players are almost invariably 
 the ones with wide-ranging musical tastes. Remember that no 
 style of music sucks; you just like some more than others. 
 Someone hates the music you love, but that doesn't mean it 
 sucks. And you can get ideas even from stuff you don't like. 

 ...STEAL!!! 
 Steal licks, phrasing and solos from everywhere and do it 
 all the time. If you like it, learn to play it - but then 
 you have to make it your own. Play it backwards, change the 
 tempo, play it in a different key. Go to a low note instead 
 of a high note. Experiment. Make mistakes and keep the good 
 ones. When you're finished, you'll be on your way to that 
 elusive quality called style! 

 Thou Shalt Not... 
 ...get sloppy in thy practice. The way you practice 
 is the way you will play. Develop good habits now while you 
 still suck. Then, when you're a better player, the habits 
 you developed early on will pay off in a big way! 
 ...run before you can walk. The secret to playing 
 well fast is - get ready for this - to first play well s-l-o-w-l-y. 
 If you can't play that lick perfectly at 60bpm, you have no 
 business playing it at 200bpm. 
 ...sacrifice emotion for technique. Speed and slick 
 sounding licks are great. There is a place for them. If that 
 is the kind of player you want to be, more power to you. Just 
 remember, though, that a good sequencer can take your place. 

 ...ignore technique. This is the flip side of the 
 emotion/technique argument. Having great technique and learning 
 (gasp!) music theory will not interfere with the emotional 
 aspect of your playing - unless you let it. Don't hide behind 
 the tired excuse that "all that technique gets in the 
 way of emotion." That's a sad excuse for not building 
 your chops. Face it: it's a cop out. The truth is you're just 
 too darned lazy. 

 A Few More Tips and Pointers 
 Don't pick at your calluses. 
 Use an emery board to smooth snags and rough skin. 
 Learn the whole song. 
 It's fun learning the signature riffs to favorite tunes. 
 But nothing is quite as frustrating for you or annoying for 
 others as knowing bits and pieces of 20 songs without being 
 able to play one in its entirety. 
 Don't give up. 
 Sometimes growth is maddeningly slow. Keep at it. You'll get 
 out of that rut if you keep plugging away 
 Find people who are better players than you. 
 Learn by watching. You might be surprised to see how willing 
 some people are to share their knowledge if you'll just ask. 

 Find someone who knows less than you and teach them. 
 You may not be a master guitar instructor, but passing on 
 what you know is a good feeling. It's also a great way to 
 learn. Teaching makes you think about things in a different 
 way, and in explaining a new concept to someone, you'll often 
 gain new insight yourself. It's good practice. Also, if you 
 can play a little and they can play nothing, they'll be a 
 little impressed. That's great for the ego! 
 USE YOUR PINKY!!! 
 I have never heard anyone say, "I wish I hadn't spent 
 all that time working on pinky speed/accuracy." Why shouldn't 
 you be able to use all the tools at your disposal? 'Nuff said 
 on that. 
 Accept both praise and criticism with the same attitude. 

 Humility and Gratitude. 
 Never boast about how well you play, or complain about 
 how poorly you play. 
 Let your playing speak for you. Let your praise come from 
 others, not yourself. There will be no shortage of people 
 willing to tell you exactly what they think of your playing. 
 It's okay to be critical of yourself, but don't get so hung 
 up on it that you hinder your growth. And don't go overboard 
 and slip into false humility. 
 Regardless of how good you get, you will probably never 
 be a rock star. 
 Look at the odds: there are literally tens of thousands of 
 really good guitarists out there. Some of them are great. 
 But few of them achieve any kind of fame. That's okay! Don't 
 let it discourage you! Keep playing, keep getting better, 
 and make music for the sheer joy of it. If you ever "make 
 it," that's the icing on the cake. 
 Play every single day of your life. Even if you just 
 run through scales or practice chord changes, play a little 
 every day. Not every day will be a great breakthrough, but 
 some days will. Cherish those when they happen, and build 
 on them. 

 Tape yourself. 
 No matter how bad you think you sound, tape at least some 
 of your practice on a regular basis. When you get a new idea, 
 record it. Save the tapes! Years from now, you and your friends/family/kids/grandkids 
 will get a great deal of enjoyment going back and listening 
 to your musical growth and seeing how you have improved. You 
 may even find yourself inspired by some of those old, forgotten 
 ideas. And if you are one of those few who make it big, you 
 can make a great "basement tape," sell millions 
 of copies, and get even richer and more famous. 
 Make music a PART of your life - not your whole life. 
 Be a real, well-rounded person. Learn something new - and 
 non-musical - every day. Love, trust and honesty make you 
 vulnerable, but they make you real and make life worthwhile. 
 Leave egos to people who think they have something to prove. 
 Treat everyone with respect. Be a human being first, and then 
 a guitarist. 
 Write songs. Some people are born with the gift. Others 
 have to learn it. Either way, just do it, and keep doing it. 
 You can only get better. If one out of ten is worthwhile, 
 you'll be doing great. 
 Spare time. There is no such thing. The time you get 
 is all the time you've got. ..Do something good with it. 
 Time, part II. Time spent with family and friends 
 is rarely regretted. Nobody ever lies on their deathbed thinking, 
 "Gee, I wish I had spent more time at work." 
 Playing live: Give it your all! When you have a live 
 gig, gear yourself up to give 100%, and then exceed it. If 
 you don't want to be there, don't show up. If you do want 
 to be there, act like it. Never, ever, ever take any audience 
 for granted. They all have a dozen other things they could 
 be doing than wasting their time watching someone go through 
 the motions. You owe them the best you have to give in every 
 set, every song. This goes for both paying and non-paying 
 gigs. It is what distinguishes a pro from a jerk who can play 
 guitar. 
 Play different. Not just different styles, but different 
 ways of playing. If you usually use a pick, try playing with 
 your fingers, and vice-versa. Get a slide and experiment with 
 open tunings. Play songs you usually play electric on an acoustic, 
 and vice-versa. Play your old familiar licks in a different 
 key. Experiment! It will keep your playing fresh! 
 Changing strings. Don't worry about what people tell 
 you. You don't need to change your strings once a week or 
 anything as extreme as that. Once you get used to playing, 
 you'll know when you need new strings. Like so many other 
 things about playing, this is a matter of personal preference. 
 And when it comes to buying strings, most are made by the 
 same few companies. Find the gauge you like, then buy the 
 cheap ones. 

 SPECIAL ADDITION: Thanks very much to Andrew Price for 
 the following info: 
 Below is a list of companies that do make their own strings 
 (and may make strings for others as well): 
 Martin, Gibson, D'Addario, GHS, Fender, Thomastik-Infield, 
 Vinci, Mapes, Dean Markley, LaBella, S.I.T., Ernie Ball, 
 Pyramid, Savarez, RotoSound, D.R., D'Aquisto,. 
 To see where I got this info from, check out this link 
 on Acoustic Guitar Magazine's web site (That's me using 
 the name "Georgia"): 
 http://www.acousticguitar.com/ubb/Forum1/HTML/003545.html 

 This leads to my next tip: 
 Don't let pride prevent you from growing as a player - 
 or as a person. 
 If you find out that you are wrong or mistaken or misinformed 
 about something, don't hesitate to accept it and make a correction. 
 It's better to be humble and correct than stubborn and wrong. 

 More stuff directly related to guitar: 
 A lot of beginners, before they really understand what they 
 are doing, try to press down directly over the fret. While 
 that may have some usefulness for someone trying to achieve 
 a particular effect, in most cases, you want to press down 
 on the fingerboard directly above the fret. 
 Up and down the neck 
 In typical guitar terminology, "up" the neck means 
 toward the base of the guitar (where the pickups or soundhole 
 are), and "down" the neck is toward the nut. Confused 
 yet? Okay, how about this: the 6th string is the thickest 
 one (also called "low E") and is the string closest 
 to the top when holding the guitar in typical, right-handed 
 playing position. It is also called the bottom string by some. 
 When you want to hit a high note, however, you go up the fretboard 
 (toward the bottom, if you remember), while lower notes are 
 "down" toward the nut (at the top of the guitar.). 
 Okay, I am confusing myself now. Let's try a little more philosophy. 

 Manners are cool 
 "Please" and "thank you" never go out 
 of style. Remember that rudeness is a weak person's imitation 
 of strength. 
 Slow and steady win the race. 
 Becoming a better player is just as much a matter of patience 
 and persistence as it is practice. Some skills come slowly, 
 while others will seem impossible right up to the moment they 
 actually click and become simple. Whether you learn by leaps 
 and bounds or at a snail's place, just don't give up. A year 
 from now you'll be better than you are today if you just keep 
 at it. 
 To Be Continued...someday! 

 Darryl Roberts 2002-10-31 
 Previous 
 article in this series "Sevens, Threes and Nines" 
 Next article in this series 
 "The Long and Short of It" 

 Darryl Roberts is a 38 year old sometime-guitarist 
 from Southern California. He is the father of 3 teenage 
 daughters, and plays guitar in a fruitless attempt to 
 maintain his sanity. Email him at 

 dbone0164@aol.com . 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.