Guitar Noise - Beginner Lessons 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 Guitar Lessons , Beginner Lessons 

 BEGINNER LESSONS 

 Just getting started? No problem! We have lessons covering 
 guitar basics (holding your guitar, tuning it), buying a guitar, 
 learning chords, reading tab and more. 
 Absolute Beginner 
 Part 1: Chords 
 By David Hodge 
 You've got a guitar but you haven't got a clue? We've been 
 getting a lot of email about this and before I go off on some 
 rant about how it takes more brains to figure out how to use 
 a computer than it does to play a guitar, let me introduce 
 our new series: Absolute Beginners. Part one gives you a general 
 introduction and teaches you how to play eight chords that 
 will get you playing in no time flat. If you can turn on your 
 computer and navigate the web, then playing the guitar should 
 be just as easy! 
 Busy Beginner on a Budget 
 By Blue (Cathi Pearce) 
 What annoys me most is how much discouragement there is out 
 there for folks wanting to take the plunge and learn to play 
 guitar. If you're someone other than a young man expressing 
 a wish to learn, you can expect to run a gauntlet of criticism, 
 confusion and plain bad advice. 

 Without a doubt our most frequently asked question 
 concerns buying equipment. We have already answered 
 this question many different times in many different 
 ways. Whether you need information on certain 
 brands and models, or you have a question about 
 new or used gear, shopping online, choosing effects 
 and accessories you will find the answer somewhere 
 here. 
 The 
 Rites of Spring 
 By David Hodge 
 Buying a new or used guitar can be an emotional 
 ordeal, especially if you haven't the faintest 
 idea of what you are looking for. This is why 
 it's important to do a bit of thinking and investigating 
 before even setting foot inside a music shop. 
 It doesn't matter if it's going to be your first 
 or fortieth guitar, take a moment to gather your 
 thoughts. 
 How To Buy 
 A Guitar Amp 
 By Jeremy Ledford 
 This is the first installment of two articles 
 that will try to help you choose an amplifier. 
 I will focus on beginning players today and intermediate 
 players in the next installment. You go into the 
 store and buy it right? Yes, it could be that 
 simple. But, without proper information, one could 
 end up making a very costly mistake. 
 How To Buy 
 A Bass Guitar 
 By Dan Lasley 
 This column will review some of the numerous things 
 that go into the design of a bass guitar. Some 
 matter more than others, and different people 
 have different tastes. Hopefully, when you are 
 done, you&#146;ll have an idea of what to look 
 for the next time you&#146;re in the mood for 
 a new bass. 
 [ Complete 
 list of articles on buying equpiment here ] 

 Guitar Basics 
 Stringing and Cleaning 
 Your Guitar 
 By Alan Horvath 
 I don't know why anyone would string a guitar by putting the 
 end of the string through the tuner-hole, and then winding 
 and cranking and winding and cranking ... Have you ever seen 
 the wad of string that sits around the peg of a guitar strung 
 that way? That is *not* the reason they give you all that 
 extra string. 
 How To Tune A Guitar 

 By Paul Hackett 
 Tuning a guitar is the single most important concept for a 
 beginning guitarist to learn. If your guitar is not in tune, 
 you will never sound good. 
 Posture 
 By Logan L. Gabriel 
 How many of you really understand the importance of proper 
 posture, it's effect on your playing and risk of injury? 
 More and more I see beginners sit in the way their favorite 
 player does, without regards to their body. 

 Playing 
 Easy Songs for Beginners 
 By David Hodge 
 If you already have a grasp of guitar basics (holding your guitar, 
 tuning it) then the next step is to start building a repetoire 
 of songs. This series of lessons will teach you a bit of music 
 theory and technique while you learn to play some pretty easy 
 and well known songs. For best results you really should begin 
 with the first lesson and work your way up. 
 How to Improvise: A 
 Guide for Beginning Guitarists 
 By Darrin Koltow 
 There's nothing magical about improvising, except the great 
 feeling you get when you hit the right notes. In this article 
 we show you how to hit those notes. 
 Easy Guitar Riffs 
 By Paul Hackett 
 My fascination with guitar riffs goes back a long way. I was 
 still only playing the air-guitar and washing dishes in a 
 restaurant when I ordered a tape from TV called Guitar Rock. 
 This lesson contains examples of some of the most popular 
 and easiest rock guitar riffs, including: Smoke on the Water, 
 All Right Now, Layla, Purple Haze and more. 
 Easy Guitar Riffs Of The 
 80s 
 By Paul Hackett 
 Some things get better with age. Old sneakers, a well worn 
 pair of jeans, classic cars, art, cheese, and sometimes even 
 music. Oldies, retro, classic rock - whatever you call the 
 music that you are nostalgic for - is likely to be a perennial 
 favourite. Whatever can be recycled and resold eventually 
 will be. And history will always repeat itself. 
 Easy Riffs of the 90s 
 By Matt Heger 
 While many guitarists complain about the lack of solos in 
 90s alternative rock, they contain many intense and memorable 
 riffs. These songs have become essential to any guitarist's 
 playing library. 
 Getting the Most Out Of Your Practice 

 By Jimmy Hudson 
 Never use tablature as a critch again. Follow Jimmy Hudson's 
 exclusive lesson on Getting the Most Out of Your Practice 
 and you will be well on your way to success with your musical 
 goals. 
 Reaching the Limits 

 By Abel Petneki 
 Tried everything but still can't play that solo no matter 
 how much you practice? This seems to be a common problem for 
 beginners - lets try a different approach. The problem might 
 not be you; it could actually be your guitar. 
 So You Want To Play 
 Guitar, Huh? 
 By Alan Horvath 
 My desire was so strong that you couldn't stop me from learning 
 if you tried! What else is there but desire? Can anyone teach 
 you without it? Well, I'm assuming since you're here, you're 
 of the same cut ... and are here, looking for ways of learning 
 some stuff on your own. 

 Lessons 
 by subject... 

 Beginner 
 Absolute Beginner , Guitar Basics , Buying a Guitar , Easy Songs for Beginners , Chords , 
 Tablature , Theory , More 

 Intermediate 
 Guitar Columns , Songs for Intermediates , Soloing and Improvisation , 
 Maximum Musician , Guitar Principles , Songwriting , More 

 Styles 
 Acoustic , Blues , Classical , 
 Heavy Metal , Jazz , 
 More 

 Topics 
 Buying Equipment , 
 Careers , Genres , Jamming , The Joy of Guitar , Performance , Scales and Modes , Soloing and Improvisation , Sound Engineering , Teaching , Tuning , Women , More 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.