JBM - Downloads

 Bibliography 
 |
 Calculations 
 |
 Downloads 
 |
 FAQ 
 |
 JBM 
 |
 Links 
 |
 Personal 
 |
 Software 
 |
 Topics 

 A new topic, Elevation , has been added. It shows
 the differences in trajectories when zeroing at different atmospheric conditions and how to calculate
 a trajectory for different atmospheric conditions.

 about these ads... 

 JBM - Downloads

 Downloads of acquired information, ongoing work, etc. Feedback is 
 appreciated. (Things that are readily available in print will not appear
 here -- I would like to keep this area for information not readily 
 available...)

 These programs were given to me by Robert L. McCoy and posted here
 with his knowledge. He worked at the US Army's Ballistics Research 
 Lab for many years, where he wrote these programs as part of his work. 
 I have made some changes to these programs (with Bob's knowledge) only
 as necessary to fix bugs. There are also some tabulated drag functions
 some of which Bob sent me and others from the Winchester text (see
 citation below).

 Drag Functions 

 Tabulated values of the G1, G5, G6, and GL drag (G) functions, taken from 

 Exterior Ballistics of Small Arms Projectiles
 , E. D. Lowry, Research Dept., Winchester-Western Division, 
 Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation, May 4, 1965.

 More Drag Functions 

 Tabulated values of CD vs. Mach Number for the 
 G1 ,
 G2 ,
 G5 ,
 G6 ,
 G7 ,
 G8 , and
 GI 
 (G) functions (e.g. CD of the standard G1 bullet, etc). Additionally,
 I have a list of CD vs. Mach Number for a 9/16" 
 sphere . I obtained 
 these from BRL. Note that the mach numbers are not the same for all 
 the tables. The first column is the mach number, the second column 
 is the drag coefficient.

 IntLift 

 A modified (modified by R. L. McCoy) version of M. A. Morris' 
 RARDLIFT code with corrections for small arms bullets and medium caliber
 cannon projectiles. Provides interim estimates of lift, overturning 
 moment and yaw drag coefficients. Inputs are very similar to McDrag 
 (above) but it does require the center of gravity location.

 IntLift2 

 A modified version of INTLIFT.BAS that has some bug fixes. The 
 original version was written to run on a Tandy1000. There were a 
 few problems with floating point comparisons, etc. I believe that
 this version fixes those bugs. 

 McDrag 

 Calculates bullet CD versus mach number based on bullet dimensions. 
 For more information on this particular program see 

 "McDrag" - A Computer Program for Estimating the Drag Coefficients
 of Projectiles,

 Robert L. McCoy, Technical Report ARBRL-TR-02293, February 1981, 
 [ADA098110].

 McGyro 

 Stability program. Calculates required twist and bullet stability.
 This is not Greenhill's formula.

 McTraj 

 Trajectory calculation program using a second order Huene predictor 
 corrector method, and a table of CD vs. Mach number to calculate 
 point mass trajectories.

 Other programs and items of interest, written by me.

 CGIs 

 This is a gzip'd tar distribution of the old versions of my online CGI programs 
 released free under the GNU Public License (GPL).
 I've added a couple of bug fixes -- hence the new version, 2.1. I won't be fixing
 these anymore. NOTE: This is "C" source code for my online programs. They must
 be compiled and run through a webserver.

 about these ads... 

 JBM Small Arms Ballistics . 
 Last update 30 June 2007, Copyright &copy; 1996-2007
 JBM 
 [V]