Errors and "science myths" in K-6 Science Textbooks 

 SCIENCE HOBBYIST 

 COMMENTS 

 BEST 

 NEW 

 SEARCH 

 "Science Myths" in K-6 Textbooks and Popular culture 

The complex and abstract nature of Science makes the subject difficult to
understand. But complexity is not the only barrier to our understanding
Science. The subject is made much more difficult by the presence of numerous
misleading "Science Myths" which circulate in the popular culture, which
are handed down from parents to children, and which have become so common
and widespread that they even appear in science textbooks and are taught
as facts in elementary school. 

( MORE )

 Dr. Hubisz,
 textbook 
errors (NEW). Also see
 forum 
and 
 Reviews of textbooks 
 REPORT A TEXTBOOK ERROR , AAP's "e-line"
 AP story: Study finds errors rife in U.S. science textbooks 
 (see research )
 Sci textbooks reviewed by AAAS 
 In The Bad Books (Beyond 2000)
 Forbes: The Great American Textbook Scandal 10/2000 
 Textbook Troubles 
 Textbooks Flunk Out 5/17/99 Boston Globe article
 Articles here 
 Articles elsewhere 
 Quotes 
 Links 

 SCROLL DOWN 

 Am I just a pedantic science-nitpicker? 

 Some Physical Science Misconceptions
&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp
( K-6 Grade) 

BAD PHYSICS: Misconceptions spread by K-6 Textbooks 

"ELECTRICITY" misconceptions 
 Comment Book 
 A Germ Theory of Education 
 A Lens Misconception 
 Wings and Lift page
 Lens versus Pinhole 
 Science Answers page
 Nave conceptions list from Operation Physics.
 Some resources 
 Some links to other Miscon sites

 Ignorance is not the problem in the world. It's the things people
"know" that aren't so. - Will Rogers 

 Some Electrical Misconception Articles: 

 "Electricity" misconceptions in K-6 textbooks 
 How SHOULD we teach electricity???? 
 The "Electricity" Map (GIF)
 Capacitor Misconceptions 
 "Static" versus "Current" 
 Explaining "electricity" with red/green plastic sheets.
 Which way does the "electricity" REALLY flow? 
 Static Electric misconceptions 
 What Is Electricity? 
 Speed of "Electricity?" 
 Are Amperes "Fundamental?" 
 "Static electricity..." that flows! 
 Sparks and Lighting 
 Acoustomagnetoelectricisim! 
 Understanding Electrical Energy Flow 
 Why "Electricity" is Impossible to Understand (long)
 All the "Electricity" articles here 
 Some resources on Elect. misconceptions 

 "I know that most men, including those at ease with problems of
the greatest complexity, can seldom accept even the simplest and most
obvious truth if it be such as would oblige them to admit the falsity of
conclusions which they have delighted in explaining to colleagues, which
they have proudly taught to others, and which they have woven, thread by
thread, into the fabric of their lives." -Tolstoy 

 Teaching Articles Elsewhere 

 Misconceptions as barriers to understanding science 
 ( NAP )
 Bob J's Chemistry Philosophy 
 Enhancing Learning Through Conceptual Change Teaching 
 Authentic Science: What Do Students Believe? 
 Constructivism as a Referent for Science Teaching 
 A Guide to Assessing, Selecting, and Using Science Textbook Visuals 
 Students' Conceptions and Problem Solving in Mechanics , L.C. McDermott

 Links to other Websites: Electricity 

 Electricity Preprint from Chabay and Sherwood (.pdf)
 Bill Drennon's Christmas Lights 
 The CASTLE Electrical curriculum 
 CASTLE capacitor kits and downloadable manuals

 Links to other Websites: 

 REPORT A TEXTBOOK ERROR , AAP's "e-line"
 FORUM: errors in middle school science texts 
 Review of Middle School Physical Science Texts 
 A. B. Fraser's BAD SCIENCE/BAD METEOROLOGY (excellent!)
 Forbes: The Great American Textbook Scandal 
 Getting Science Wrong, BOZ magazine
 List of Common Physics Misconceptions (from PHYS-L )
 BAD ASTRONOMY 
 BAD CHEMISTRY 
 Myths taught as science 

 Biochem Howlers , errors in several texts
 Why School Reform is Impossible (Papert)
 Texas: publishers fined for each textbook error 
 Optics Demos to fight misconceptions
 Math books reviewed 

Misconceptions as Barriers (Ch4 of " Science Teaching Reconsidered ")
 Ten Science Myths 
 Theories DON'T become Laws 
 Marilyn Vos Savant is Wrong 
 AAAS misconceptions bib. 
 STATS.ORG , spotlighting misuse of statistics
 The Straight Dope , fighting ignorance since 1973
 Ancients DIDN'T think the Earth was flat 
 Frequently Misused Physics Terms 
 Centrifugal "Force" 

Bibliography: biology misconceptions 
 Chemistry Misconceptions References 
 Naive Conceptions in Life Science 
 Nat. Assoc. for Research in Sci. Teaching (NARST)
 Dr. R. Feynman on K-6 Textbooks 
 Dispelling Science Myths 
 Technological Dis-empowerment 
 Student naive electricity concepts 
 P. Brna's Misconceptions Bibliography 

 Kid's Humerous Misstatements 
 The Textbook League (w/scathing reviews of K-12
texts)
 Physics Textbook Errors Database 
 The Challenge of teaching/learning intro physics (excellent!)
 Meaningful Learning Research Group: 

 1st International Seminar on Sci/Math Misconceptions 
 2nd Int'l Seminar on Sci/Math Miscons. 
 3rd Int'l Seminar on Sci/Math Miscons. 
 4th Int'l Seminar on Sci/Math Miscons. 
 Ordering info (CDROM available) 

 Top ten mistakes in Education 
from Engines for Education project
 Student's Alternate Concepts in Physics from C3P Project.
 Teaching physics so people understand
 Chemistry Common Misconceptions 
 Earth Science Myths 
 A PHILOSOPHICAL TOY (RICHARD FRAZIER) 
 Thought Contagion (memetics) 
 Kids' Science Books page
 Urban Legends: Science 
 Yahoo: urban legends 

 Physics FAQ :
 Does hot water freeze faster? 
 Clockwise bathtub drain? 

 Computer Virus Myths 

 "The Truth shall set you free... But first it will piss you off!
" - Anon 

 K-6 TEXTBOOK PUBLISHERS 

 Addison Wesley 
 Harcourt Brace 
 Holt, Rinehard, & Winston 
 Houghton Mifflin 
 Kendall-Hunt 
 McGraw-Hill 
 Merrill 
 Prentice-Hall 
 Steck-Vaughn 
 MCP Science 
 Scott Foresman 
 Wiley (JWS) 
 WH Freeman 
 textbookpublisher.com 
 (longer list)

 OTHER SECTIONS HERE 

 Science Hobbyist, top page
 Amateur Science 
 Cool Science 
 Physics Demos 
 Science Ed. Links Index 
 Tesla Coils 
 Weird Science 
 The Problem with Skepticism 
 Static Electricity 
 Electronics Hobbyist 

 Some Quotes: 

 Errors, like straws, upon the surface flow; He who would search for
pearls must dive below. -John Dryden

 Truth comes out of error more readily than out of confusion. 
- Francis Bacon

 It is one Thing, to show a Man that he is in an Error, and another, to
put him in possession of Truth. - John Locke 

 Common sense is the collection of prejudices acquired by age 18.
 - Albert Einstein

 The ill and unfit choice of words wonderfully obstructs the
understanding. - Francis Bacon

 You do not really understand something unless you can explain it to your
grandmother. - Albert Einstein

 Education is what you have left when you have forgotten everything you
learned in school. - Albert Einstein, 1936

 It is as fatal as it is cowardly to blink facts because they are not
to our taste. 
 - Tyndall

 Many errors, of a truth, consist merely in the application of the wrong
names of things. - Spinoza

 When even the brightest mind in our world has been trained up from 
childhood in a superstition of any kind, it will never be possible 
for that mind, in its maturity, to examine sincerely, dispassionately, 
and conscientiously any evidence or any circumstance which shall seem 
to cast a doubt upon the validity of that superstition. I doubt if I 
could do it myself. - Mark Twain

 I can live with doubt and uncertainty and not knowing. I think it is 
much more interesting to live not knowing than to have answers that
might be wrong. - Richard Feynman

 Things should be made as simple as possible, but not any simpler. 
 - Albert Einstein 

 The most erroneous stories are those we think we know best--and
therefore
never scrutinize or question. -Stephen Jay Gould 

 There are many hypotheses in science which are wrong. That's perfectly
all right; they're the aperture to finding out what's right. 
- Carl Sagan 

 An easily understood, workable falsehood is more useful than a complex
incomprehensible truth. - Thumb's Postulates 

If you have comments to make or great URLs to add here, you can
post to the

COMMENT BOOK , 
or send
 private
comments (I see both).

 /miscon/miscon.html 

Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com . 

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email.