What is Electricity? 

 TOP 

 ELECTRICITY ARTICLES 

 NEW STUFF 

 GOOD STUFF 

 HELP 

 What Is "Electricity"? 
(c)1996 William J. Beaty 
 Electrical Engineer

SEE ALSO:

Electricity is not Energy 

What is electricity, REALLY?! 

What is electricity? This question is impossible to answer because the
word " Electricity " has several different meanings. These different
meanings contradict each other, and the contradictions confuse everyone. 
If you don't understand electricity, you're not alone. Even teachers,
engineers, and scientists have a hard time understanding it. 

Obviously "electricity" cannot be several different things at the same
time. Unfortunately we have defined the word Electricity in a
crazy way. Because of the contradictory meanings, we can never pin down
the nature of electricity. In the end we are forced to declare that
there's no such stuff as "electricity" at all! 

Here's a quick example to illustrate the problem. 

 In household lamp cord, the charges sit in one place and
wiggle back and forth
(Alternating Current.) At the same time, the energy moves rapidly from
the distant
generators and into the light bulb. OK, now ask yourself this: does
"electricity" sit inside the wires and vibrate, or does it flow forwards? 
It cannot do both! This little question exposes a great flaw in the way
we talk about "electricity". If we can repair this flaw, our explanations
of "electricity" will finally start making sense. 

Below are the most common meanings of the word Electricity . Which
one do you think is right? Think about it carefully. If one of these 
meanings is
correct, all the others must be wrong! After all, a "science term" should
never have several conflicting definitions. Unfortunately dictionaries
and encyclopedias contain all of these. (Click the links to find out more
about each one.) 

 - "Electricity" means electric charge . 
 Examples: CHARGES OF ELECTRICITY. COULOMBS OF ELECTRICITY. 

 - "Electricity" refers to the 
 flowing motion of electric charge.

 Examples: CURRENT ELECTRICITY. AMPERES OF ELECTRICITY. 

 - "Electricity" means electrical energy .

 Examples: PRICE OF ELECTRICITY. KILOWATT-HOURS OF ELECTRICITY. 

 - "Electricity" refers to the amount of
imbalance between quantities of electrons and protons. 

 Example: STATIC ELECTRICITY. 

 - "Electricity" is a class of phenomena involving electric charges.

 Examples: BIOELECTRICITY, PIEZOELECTRICITY, TRIBOELECTRICITY,
 THERMOELECTRICITY, ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY ...ETC.

 - Other less common definitions:

 "Electricity" refers to the 

flowing motion of electric energy (electric power,
Watts of electricity)

 "Electricity" means 

electric field (Volts of electricity)

 "Electricity" means the

nitrogen/oxygen plasma
 (sparks of electricity)

 "Electricity" is a

field of science (Basic Electricity, Advanced Electricity)

If we wish to agree on a single correct definition of "electricity," which
definition should we choose? Well, maybe we don't need to choose just
one. Suppose we ignore the contradictions and pretend that ALL of the
above definitions are true. Below is the "clear" and "simple" 
description of electricity that results: 

Electricity is a mysterious incomprehensible entity which is invisible and
visible at the same time. It is both matter and energy. It's a type of
low-frequency radio wave which is made of protons. It is a mysterious
force which looks like blue-white fire and yet cannot be seen. It moves
forward at the speed of light... yet it vibrates in the AC cord without
flowing forwards. It's totally weightless, yet it has a small weight.
When
electricity flows through a light bulb's filament, it gets changed
entirely into light. Yet no electricity is ever used up by the light
bulb, and every bit of it it flows out of the filament and back down the
other wire. College textbooks are full of electricity, yet they have no
electric charge.
Electricity is a class of phenomena which can be stored in
batteries! If you want to measure a quantity of electricity, what units
should you use? Why Volts of course. And also Coulombs, Amperes, Watts,
and Joules, ALL AT THE SAME TIME. Yet "electricity" is a class of
phenomena; it's a type of event. Since we can't have an AMOUNT of an
event, we can't really measure the quantity of electricity at all,
right? Heh heh. 

Does my description above sound stupid and impossible? You're right. It
is. 
The word "electricity" has contradictory meanings, and I'm trying to show
what happens when we accept more than one meaning. Electricity
 is not both slow and fast at the same time. It 
 is not both visible and invisible. 

Instead, approximately ten separate things have the name
"electricity." There is no single stuff called "electricity." 
ELECTRICITY DOES NOT EXIST. Franklin, Edison, Thompson, and millions of
science teachers should've had a long talk with Mrs. McCave before they
decided to give a variety of independant science concepts just one single
name. 

 Mrs. McCave was invented by Dr. Seuss. She had twenty three sons. 
She named them all "Dave."

Whenever we ask "WHAT IS ELECTRICITY," that's just like asking Mrs. McCave
"WHO
IS DAVE?" How can she describe her son? There can be no answer since the
question itself is wrong. It's wrong to ask "who is Dave?" because we are
assuming that there is only one Dave, when actually there are many
separate Daves. Who is Dave? Mrs. McCave cannot answer us until she
first corrects our misunderstanding. 

For the same reason, we will never find a simple answer to "what is
electricity?" because the question itself is wrong. First we must realize
that "electricity" does not exist. We must learn that many different
things exist in wires, but that people wrongly call all of them by a
single name.

So never ask "WHAT IS ELECTRICITY". Instead, discard the word
"electricity" and use the correct names for all the separate phenomena. 
Here are a few of them:

 What is electric charge ?
 What is electrical energy? 
 What are electrons? 
 What is electric current? 
 What is an imbalance of charge? 
 What is an electric field? 
 What is voltage ?
 What is electric power? 
 What is a spark ?
 What is electromagnetism ?
 What is electrical science? 
 What is electrodynamics? 
 What is electrostatics? 
 What are electrical phenomena? 

These questions all have sensible answers. But if you ask WHAT IS
ELECTRICITY?, then all answers you find will just confuse you, and you'll
never stop asking that question.

 MORE ABOUT
"ELECTRICITY" 

 ELECTRICITY DOES NOT EXIST 

 ELECTRICITY IS NOT ENERGY 

 ELECTRICITY Q & A 

 MORE ELECTRICAL ARTICLES HERE 

 GO TO OTHER WEBSITES: 

Web Search 

This is part of Bill B's SCIENCE HOBBYIST website.

Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com .

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email.