Calculating Full-Range Correlations for the Mega Test 

 Calculating Full-Range
Correlations for the Mega Test 

 Grady M. Towers 

 Published online with permission from the
author 

 (Editor's 1 
note: This letter is published with the permission of Mr. Towers.
It is in response to Professor O'Rourke's remarks on the
unreliability of IQ tests in Insight #7, page 4.) Mr.
Towers is a former anthropology student and a self-taught expert
in psychometrics.) 

 1 Editor
is Ron Hoeflin -- DTM 

 Thank you for the O'Rourke data; it's always fun
to play with the numbers. I'm afraid, however, that Professor
O'Rourke should stick to engineering and leave psychometrics to
psychometricians. His conclusion that "if these tests
measure anything, they do so rather unreliably, so unreliably as
to make individual scores nearly meaningless", is completely
incorrect. He obviously doesn't understand the term reliability
in its psychometrically correct sense. What his calculations
prove is that the Mega Test is a parallel test to some tests but
not to others. The general rule of thumb in psychometrics is that
two tests are parallel if the correlation between them is
"nearly" the same as the reliabilities of the tests --
preferably KR-20 reliabilities. From the data given here, the
Mega Test is parallel to the LAIT, the GRE and the SAT. It is not
parallel to the CTMM or S-B. That's not surprising. The CTMM
doesn't have enough top, and too many S-B scores were probably
childhood IQs that have regressed to the mean, making the data
meaningless. 

 Before any of the data can be analysed, we first
must derive the standard deviations for each test. This is quite
simple and turns out to be... 

 O'Rourke data 

 Next, we correct the reported correlations for
range restriction. Unfortunately, the formula supplied to Ron
Hoeflin by Fred Britton is incorrect. The correction is usually
made using McNemar's formula which is... 

 where 

 r c = the corrected correlation 
 r u = the uncorrected correlation 
 S x = the unrestricted standard deviation 
 s x = the restricted standard deviation 

 See equation 9N.13 in Bias in Mental Testing . 

 Another formula that gives exactly the same
result as McNemar's was derived by Gulliksen. 

 where 

 So, using either of these two formulas, the
corrected correlations become... 

 original correlation 
 corrected correlation 
 (McNemar's) 

 LAIT 
 .625512 
 .6965385 

 CTMM 
 .258045 
 .3676387 

 S-B 
 .224477 
 .267126 

 GRE 
 .461738 
 .7814215 

 SAT 
 .517292 
 .80050 

 For the standard deviations on the original
norming samples for each test, I used those supplied by the
Langdon Statistical report, norming number 2: LAIT = 13.84; CTMM
= 16; S-B = 15.8; GRE = 255; SAT = 255. 

 Remember that three of these tests were not
normed on the general population. The LAIT was not, and neither
was the GRE or the SAT. This is also another good reason that the
Mega Test correlates so highly with them, but not with the CTMM
or S-B. Also, the "general population" standard
deviation for each is whatever the standard deviation was for its
original norming sample, not the true general population
standard deviation unless that really was the norming group . 

 Since we're on the subject of correcting for
range restriction, I might as well point out that there's also a
correction for range restriction on reliabilities. This was also
derived by Gulliksen. 

 The interesting thing about this formula is that
it can be turned around. It allows us to estimate the probable
reliability in a homogeneous high level group. This is important
because there's a psychometric "law" that says that no
test can correlate more highly with a criterion than the square
root of its reliability. Most of the tests cited here have
reliabilities near .9 or better. If you work out their probable
reliabilities for some of this data, you will find that there's
suprisingly little drop even in very high level groups. The
formula also has some surprising implications for the Mega Test.
The Mega Test data from the LAIT group shows a mean of 23.96 and
a standard deviation of 8.65 . I calculated a mean of 15.67
and a standard deviation of 8.55 for the 3047 (?) scores
obtained from the Omni sample (uncorrected for
classification error.) There was little or no drop in reliability
in this lower range, apparently. That's a little surprising. 

 Grady 

 Return to the Uncommonly
Difficult I.Q. Tests page.