Finnish Sauna 

 Finnish Sauna 

 I wrote this short guide to the Finnish Sauna for all 
you sauna lovers, 
as well as for those who have not yet discovered the truly rejuvenating 
experience of the sauna. The picture features a typical Finnish sauna on a 
lake,
into which you can plunge for a cool bath after a session in the sauna. 

 S auna, which is actually a Finnish word, has a long 
tradition in the daily lives of Finns. People had 
saunas in Finland already 2000 years ago. Today there are over 1 million 
saunas in Finland, which translates into a ratio of one sauna for every 
five Finns!
The sauna means a lot to the Finns. It is not only a place to get 
clean, but also to relax and socialize. 
Many important business deals have been made in the sauna.
This might seem a bit weird, but the truth is that, when compared
to a formal meeting, the atmosphere gets more relaxed in a sauna
contributing to a positive outcome. 

 T here are three types of saunas used in Finland. A 
modern sauna with an
electric heater is popular because of its convenience. It can also be built
into apartments. The more common type in rural areas is still a sauna 
with a wood
burning heater. Many people prefer this type over the electrically heated one.
The third type is a smoke sauna . 
It has a huge wood burning heater, and 
smoke from the burning wood is let out into the sauna. Before the sauna is
used, the smoke is let out through a small vent. While this type
of sauna is becoming rare, it can still be found. 

 T here are many customs related to the Finnish sauna. 
Before entering
the sauna, it is polite to take a quick shower. Also, if provided, 
use 
a little towel to sit on the sauna's bench. Temperature in the 
sauna ranges from 180 to 212 degrees Farenheit (80-100 degrees 
Celsius). It is usually the 
host who pours the water on the hot heater rocks to generate steam. The 
Finns even have a word for this - "lyly". 
The person 
pouring the water is responsible for adjusting the amount of water,
so that everyone in the sauna can enjoy it. Sometimes beer is also poured on
the rocks to fill the sauna with the aroma of baked bread. 

 A nother 
peculiar custom is to "whip" yourself, (or your guest!) with a bundle of 
birch branches called "vasta" or "vihta" in Finnish
(see the picture). This stimulates the skin's blood circulation, and also 
fills the sauna with a pleasant, fresh smell. After spending some time 
in the sauna, let's say 15-20 minutes, a cool shower or plunge into a 
nearby lake will top off the enjoyment. During winter time some "crazy" 
finns roll around naked in the snow or

 jump into a hole cut on the ice of a frozen lake in between steem baths. 

 A fter the sauna, it is nice to enjoy some cold 
beverages and snacks. The Finns love sausage, which can be warmed in an aluminum bag 
on top of the hot heater rocks while people are in the
sauna. I'm getting hungry! I better go and turn on my own sauna. 

 I f you are pregnant, have any heart problems, or if 
you are a 
senior citizen, you should consult your doctor before taking a sauna 
bath, because sauna temporarily increases you heartbeat rate. 

This is what the "lyly" sounds like! But to find out how 
the lyly really feels you must go into a real sauna
 J 
 "Lyly liss, lyly liss, eihn tm tunnu miss!"

 Above is a picture of a typical modern sauna and bathers. 
And 
 this is what they do and drink after taking a "lyly". This is a 3836K Mpeg video clip.

Want to see some nicer looking bather? Here is a picture of 
Sharon Stone in a Sauna .

Sometimes the Finns go to extremes in their love of the sauna. This sauna was built into a compact car. The builders drive around in their 
 Mobile Sauna. 
These guys built a 

sauna using ice blocks! 
 Sign My Guestbook View My Guestbook 
-->

Do you have questions about building a sauna? The 
 SaunaSite has answers.
 You can also read more about sauna on these sauna sites of 
 The Sauna Appreciation Society , 
 The Finnish Sauna and 
 Benefits of Sauna 

E-mail your comments to
 juha@eskimo.com 

 Page Stats 

 Copyright &copy 2000 Juha Kuosmanen