DeLorme's Map'n'Go Upgrade 

 DeLorme's Map'n'Go Upgrade 

 25 July 1996 (last update 30 July, 1996) 

Earlier this month DeLorme released a new version (2.0) of Map'n'Go.
Information about what was changed or enhanced will be outlined
and impressions will be presented.

 This comes from about 8 hours of
hands on operation (my colleague) and sales literature 

 Text in italics needs verification
or clarification. 

 Overview 
 Deficiencies corrected or reduced 
 Enhancements 
 New features 
 Deficiencies not addressed 
 Performance 
 Sources & References 

 Overview 

DeLorme has joined forces with AAA (American Automobile Association)
to combine AAA's accommodations and rating system with their route
planning system. The emphasis has been on lodging, restaurants,
campgrounds and things to see. The map details have been extended
to the city street level for several hundred cities and you can
search on addresses in these cities. And, the printing options
have improved dramatically.

Route planning has not changed much and you still cannot plan
a real timeline for a trip. And, lastly, performance could be
a problem for small memory machines and/or if you are requesting
a lot of detail.

 Deficiencies Reduced 

 Database errors we know of have been corrected. There were
occasions where it would insist on taking a forest service road;
or leave a good highway and go out of its way on a lesser one,
only to return to the original highway. This is not to say there
are still not errors.
 Printing the directions summary (itinerary) is now possible.
In version one, you could see it on the screen, but you could
not print it. It contains a line type symbol (stop, divided hwy.
2 lane hwy., etc.), name of road (hwy. number and local name)
or city, compass direction, nearest city if close, exit number
(sometimes), time since start of journey, distance since start
of journey, distance to go on this heading.
 Controlling the printing of strip maps is now possible. Version
one would allow suppressing individual maps by number, but you
did not know the area covered until it was printed (and it could
easily be tens of pages). Now you can chose the sections of your
route you want printed in a strip map via print preview.
 North at the top. Strip maps could have the compass orientation
in any direction, making it difficult to orient the map with your
surroundings. This is still true with strip maps (as they are
oriented so you are going from bottom to top), but you can also
print direction maps (sectioning you trip, similar to a strip
map) that are all oriented with north at the top (see new features
section).

 Enhancements 

 More street detail. They claim street level detail of 211
US, 20 Canadian and 10 Mexican cities (probably meaning urban
areas). E.g., major streets in Seattle were visible in version
1, but not in it's suburbs. Now you can possibly find your street
(or get close).
 More restaurants and lodgings, all with AAA ratings. All listings
from the AAA tour books are included. They also have prices . 
 Campgrounds with prices and whether they are privately or
publicly owned.
 More things to see and do, and AAA flagged if exceptional.
14,000 points of interest ( natural features to historic sites;
art museums to amusement parks). 7,000 fairs, rodeos, festivals,
etc.
 Filtering options galore. Select on type, price and rating
of lodgings and restaurants within selected distance from your
route. Select on category of attractions within distances of your
route. And, you can have different selections along your route.
 Specify your speeds through congested areas (You have to identify
congested areas).
 Stop over points can be moved up or down within your route.
This can be handy if you got some in the wrong order.
 Localized list of sites, lodging, etc. If you have most of
these turned off while you are planning, but you want all on around
a particular city, then double click on the city and turn on all
selections in the dialogue box.

 New Features 

 Direction maps are a way to divide up your trip into section
maps of 50, 100, 200, 300 or 1000 miles. They cover a much bigger
area than strip maps, and are oriented with north at the top.
 They have the appropriate direction summaries printed at the
bottom of the page. As comparison, the strip maps show your route
going from bottom to top, cover only 10's of miles in width and
variable lengths of your route, have more detail and blow-up of
cities, list miles on the left, and time on the right, and have
route changes pointed out. They can consist of a large number
of pages for a trip (say 30 for a 2000 mile trip).
 Exit numbers. They are now on strip maps. They might be
also be on higher magnification maps.
 Select lodging and restaurants by price, select by ethnic
type (explained in preceding section).
 Scenic route option added, and they still kept the quickest,
shortest and preferred.
 Online (Internet) information on changing conditions. Check
their free Internet site for construction along your route, recent
listings of events, and even the weather forecast. This information
can be included in your travel plan.
 Search on street addresses and include annotations on your
map.
 GPS link is advertised. Need DeLorme-approved GPS receiver
and portable PC with CD-ROM drive. See www.mapngo.com 
for more information. 

 Deficiencies
not Addressed 

 Cannot plan the real timeline of a trip, or anywhere near.
Stop-over time cannot be specified. You cannot select preferred
times of the day for traveling, nor start time of day .
All you get is estimated driving time.
 Cannot avoid certain areas without setting stop-over points.
If it picks a section of road you don't want and there is no town
along the section you want, you are out of luck.
 No gas cost estimate. 

 Performance 

 Potentially much slower than version one. My colleague has
an 8MB 586/90, 2x CD, Windows 3.11 OS. He placed the optional
20MB (which was supposed to improve speed) from the CD on his
hard disk (29MB total). Doing his first route of about 400 miles,
with the out-of-the-box settings was excruciatingly slow (he left
the room a while). The same route with all the attractions and
facilities turned off was maybe faster than version one. And printing
the four 100 mile sections of his trip (with fair detail) was
even worse. Ten minutes before the printer selected the first
sheet, an hour to complete the four sheets, and maybe 5 - 10 minutes
to recover after printing. He said in one case he went to bed.
His disk was very active the entire time. The CD was not a bottleneck.
 Small memory (8 MB) is probably not enough. They state this
as the minimum, but recommend 16 MB.
 Map'n'Go is a 32 bit application for Windows 95, but is compatible
with Windows NT 3.51 and Windows 3.1 or higher. 

 Sources & References 

My information is currently coming from one colleague that has
used the earlier version to plan many trips. He is feeding me
tidbits as he explores the new version. I also have access to
the sales literature.

See DeLorme's Home page 
and secondary page for more
information.