Road Atlas Products 

 The Products 
 Last update this page: 02/03/96 10:42 
 I won't address detailed differences in the products in this section. The comparison section 
 is reserved for detailed differences. 
 NOTE: so far, most of these products are for PC's. We need to know more about Mac 
programs. Apparently DeLorme's Street Atlas has a Mac version and there is something 
called Route 66, but I have no details. Microsoft is still marketing a Mac. Version of 
Automap, detailed below. 
 The products are listed below on this page; and a quick link immediately follows: 

 Automap Series from Microsoft 
 AutoMap Road Atlas 
 PC Version 
 MacIntosh Version 

 AutoMap Streets 
 Automap Destination Campground 
 Automap Destination Europe 
 Automap Destination Golf 
 Automap Destination Ski 
 Automap Pro 

 DeLorme Suite 
 Map N Go 
 Street Atlas USA 
 Phone Search USA 
 Requirements 

 Rand McNalley 
 AAA 
 Others 
 MacIntosh 

 The Automap series from Microsoft 
 Automap was an independent company before Microsoft purchased them (probably in 
1994). The copyright goes back to 1987. I believe they were one of the few in the market 
until recently; and the software was 5 to 10 times more expensive than you see now. Also, 
I believe they were involved in development of Global Positioning System software we 
might see in our cars in the not to distant future. 
 The last flyer I got from them (about 2 years ago) listed several products. I am including 
all of them in this review; but I have no idea if they will be supported by Microsoft in the 
future . The Road Atlas and Streets have acquired Microsoft's name; but Destination 
Campground has not. I hope the Destination series and features in Automap Pro will, at 
least, grow into the main products if they are not offered separately. 
 The Microsoft products can be ordered via Buffalo New York at 1-800-564-6277 or 
 1-800-813-7935 (or they will name a reseller near you). Hours are Monday-Friday,7AM - 
Midnight; Saturday 8AM - 8:30PM; Sunday 8AM - 7PM. Hours are EST. For fax, 
1-800-546-7516 (24hrs/day). 
 Mail to Microsoft Home, PO Box 810, Buffalo, NY 14207-9972 
 Microsoft's home page on the Road Atlas gives demos and more specifics of the Road 
Atlas. You cannot order there. 
 Now, the individual products: 
 Automap Road Atlas comes on floppies or a CD. It is a road map trip planning program 
that covers the 50 states, Canada and Mexico (to Mexico City). With it, you can find cities 
and towns; or plan trips; and along the way find sites of interest. To plan a trip, enter start 
and end points and places you want to visit along the way. It will propose a route and give 
an itinerary of directions, times, distances and gas cost. You specify speeds you prefer on 
differing types of roads; gas mileage, cost and capacity of you car; type of route 
preferred(fastest, shortest, scenic) and the types of information to show on the map (lakes, 
mountains, parks, etc). 

The trip can be saved and later refined. You can print the itinerary and any portions of the 
map desired. The CD version can also display a relief map showing elevation of the 
terrain ; pictures of sites of interest; and information on hotels, motoring rules, 
demographics, etc. 

The Road Atlas works in concert with Streets and the Destination series. The Destination 
series simply add a database to Road Atlas. The Streets cannot be involved in the routing 
or displayed at the same time; but you can switch back and forth between the Road Atlas 
and Streets (although not quickly). 
 MacIntosh Version of Automap Road Atlas is still available. I talked with Microsoft 
sales the end of January 1996 and they apparently have them in stock for $39.95 plus 
shipping. 1-800-564-6277 should get you a sales representative that is familiar with the 
Automap products. It is on floppies. (more on ordering) 

My guess is this is comparable to the version 3 PC edition. Probably only has 4 stop-overs 
and no driving time preference or vehicle mileage. Also, the older PC version would not 
let you save a journey so you could come back later and refine. It is on floppy, so it would 
not have the relief map or points of interest pictures or demographics. And, I would guess 
you may not see any upgrades. I used that version for many trips with good success. Just 
had to do each leg separately. 
 Automap Streets comes on 2 CD's. It covers detailed street information for most all 
towns and cities in the contiguous 48 states and Hawaii. You may show airports, water 
features, phone and zip codes, etc. You may go to desired street address, phone codes or 
zip codes. You cannot route through Streets. But, if you want to give directions to 
someone, you can copy the map to Paint and draw a route. 
 Automap Destination Campground is a database added into Automap Road Atlas. It 
contains most of the campgrounds and RV parks listed in the 1994 Trailer Life 
Campground Directory. You get the ratings and information found in the directory. The 
sites show as icons on the map and you can route to them. Double click on an icon and get 
the information and directions. No more asking, "gee, I wonder if there are any parks near 
this town"? It does not work with Streets; but you can enter the address in streets and see 
where it is on the map. 
 Automap Destination Golf From the flyer and confirmations of a user, it is a database 
add-on to the Road Atlas. It gives pop-up information on more than 11,000 golf courses in 
North America. Taken from Lanier Publishing's book Golf Courses, The Complete Guide . 
For the top 2,000 courses, you also get information about the facilities and a description of 
the course written by a golf pro You can search on golf course names just the same as you 
can locate a city. Each golf course appears on the map as a flag. Private courses appear as 
a red flag, public courses as a green flag. Their physical location is pretty accurate. 

 Golf may not work with the Microsoft's version of Automap. One reader did not upgrade 
from the older Automap version as he was told it would not work. I am hoping he got 
bad information. My guess is Golf is just another database as is Campground. If so, it 
should work with the latest version. Can anyone confirm or deny this rumor? 
 Automap Destination Ski ( no experience here , help!) From the flyer, it is a database 
add-on to the Road Atlas that gives pop-up information on more than 590 ski resorts in 
North America. It includes acres, number of lifts and trails, vertical drop, night skiing, 
altitude, snowfall, phone numbers, childcare, ski school, etc. 
 Automap Destination Europe ( no experience here , help!) From the flyer, it is a database 
add-on to the Road Atlas that helps you locate places anywhere in Europe - from London 
to Moscow or Stockholm to Athens; and plan routes between them. 
 Automap Pro ( no experience here, but ran a demo program , help!) This is like the 
floppy version of Automap Road Atlas. It's intended market was the traveling salesman. 
From the brochure: 1) Plan complicated trips accurately, easily and quickly including 100 
stop-offs; 2) Set arrival, departure and waiting time, overnight stops, order constraints for 
each journey; 3) Optimize journey order based on time or distance; 4) Define unlimited 
vehicles each with own parameters for costs, preferences, drivers' hours and average 
speed; 5) Save journeys and detailed route statistics or clip to other programs. It also lets 
you manage databases of customers and display on maps. 
 Like I said above, I have no idea what will happen to Automap Pro or the Destination 
series. If not carried separately, I hope they will merge into the Road Atlas. The features 
in Pro for stop overs and vehicles needs to go into the Road Atlas, and we all would like 
to see routing in Streets. 
 Back to quick links. 
 The DeLorme Suite 
 I have a colleague that has Map-N-Go and the Street atlas. We exchange notes and have 
even swapped so we could try the other product. They both have there plusses and minuses 
and we each preferred the product we were used to. Details will be in the detailed 
comparison; but the next paragraph gives an overview. 
 Map-N-Go is similar to Automap Road Atlas in functionally. I think it always needs the 
CD, but it may have better resolution on road detail and may show lesser roads. It is much 
better if you want hotel/motel information and has some campground information. It is 
slower (since you always need the CD) and it lacks "avoids" (it sometimes routes my 
friend over forest service roads and he has trouble avoiding them) It will not print the 
itinerary, but it will print detailed strip maps (like AAA's TRIPTIK) 
 Street Atlas USA is their city streets offering. You can zoom into a part of a city block or 
zoom out to a whole city. You can search on an address, zip code or phone prefix. Address 
are displayed as you move the mouse along a street. 
 Phone Search USA is a complete phone number CD set that integrates to the Street Atlas. 
You can lookup an individual, then pinpoint their location on a map. 
 System Requirements from their home page : 

 IBM or 100% IBM-compatible microcomputer with an Intel 80386 or higher 
processor or 100% compatible. 
 Microsoft&#174; Windows&#153; version 3.1 and MS-DOS&#174; version 4.01 or later. 
 Minimum of 4 MB RAM. 
 3 MB of available space on a hard disk. 
 ISO 9660-compatible CD-ROM drive with 640+ MB read capacity, with Microsoft 
CD-ROM extensions. 
 Microsoft Windows-compatible printer recommended, with 1.5 MB printer memory 
for 150 or 300 dpi laser prints, 6 MB for 600 dpi. 
 Microsoft Windows-compatible VGA card and monitor (256 colors recommended 
for viewing pictures). 
 Sound card recommended (required for audio playback). 
 Microsoft Windows-compatible mouse (strongly recommended). 

 Back to quick links. 
 Rand McNalley 
 { Come on, all you Rand McNalley advocates. Give me some help } and, can I use your 
name?, Email? URL? 
 I haven't a clue as to features. 

 Back to quick links. 
 AAA 
 { Come on, all you AAA advocates. Give me some help } and, can I use your name?, 
Email? URL? 
 Found this ad. somewhere . 
 Here's your chance to start planning the smoothest vacation or business trip you've ever 
taken! The AAA Trip Planner provides all the reliable and detailed information you need 
to make your next trip-from starting point to destination point and all stopping points in 
between-more memorable and enjoyable. This comprehensive CD-ROM is filled with 
driving directions, maps, even valuable travel information such as AAA ratings of hotels, 
restaurants, and popular attractions. And the convenient GeoLocate&#174; routing and mapping 
feature lets you view suggested routes of travel while you add the places where you'd like 
to sleep, eat, and visit along the way. Make the AAA Trip Planner your first stop before 
you start your next family vacation or business trip! 

 More than 125,000 destinations 
 More than 425,000 miles of road and highway data 
 Choose from 34,000 AAA-rated attractions, lodgings, and restaurants 
 Slide show presentations of all 50 states 
 Hundreds of national, state, and metropolitan area maps 
 Print maps and other valuable travel information 

 Back to quick links. 
 Any other products? Mac Products? 
 Automap had a MacIntosh version of their Road Atlas before they were absorbed by 
Microsoft. It is still available through Microsoft Sales and might still be on some store 
shelves. 

 Back to quick links. 
 Back to Introduction Page 
 Comments to Ron Bowser