Reviews from Readers 

 &#160; 
 Individual Reviews & Comments 
 ( last update 26 Nov 96 ) 
 This section holds the text of reviews/opinions/experiences I have received from individuals 
and given permission to use. Instead of just trying to extract features or lack thereof, I plan to 
publish their words as presented, then try to extract information to add to the other sections of 
this comparison page. I will do minimal editing. I may add some comments in this font and 
color; usually to point out where the mapping program may not do what you want . 
 When we get more than one review in this section, I will put forward links and list the products 
they talk about. 

 TripMaker, Map'N'Go, Automap and others 
 Comments on exit numbers and timeline details on TripMaker 
 Relief Maps plus DeLorme's 3-D Explorer 

 Nov 95 : The following is from a Bill Burrows who talks about several different products. 
 ---------- 
 I own and have used MS Automap Road Atlas, DeLorme's Map'n'Go, Softkey, Int'l Travel Map 
and Rand-McNally's TripMaker. I borrowed DeLormes Street Atlas to evaluate it. I find it 
interesting that I did not know about the extras you can get for Automap. I do have some for 
TripMaker. One problem I have is that there are updates to practically all the above and I can't 
keep up. I hear there is an update for TripMaker that takes care of their worst problem which is 
lack of control over stopping times each day as well as where it wants you to stop and stay 
overnight. Automap v 4 also lacks finesse in this area, but you can trick it into doing what 
you want Automap v 5 has improved this area. Map'N'Go does not have this facility at all . 
 Here is something I started for our local newsletter: 
 We were planning a trip to visit our daughter and husband in Gilbert, AZ and wanted to take a 
side trip to San Carlos, AZ. This is a good test of any trip planning program and I tried four of 
them: Automap from Microsoft, TripMaker from Rand-McNally, Map'n'Go by DeLorme and 
Softkey International, Inc.'s (The WordStar folks) Key Travel Map North America. What 
follows is is my experience up to mid-October. I originally intended to compare these 
programs, but in all fairness I cannot do that now. Several days ago I received an upgrade 
announcement from Rand-McNally and I heard just today by email from an RV'er in Canada that 
DeLorme has a new version. Both of these may address some or all of the items I considered 
flaws serious enough to drop them from consideration. 
 Several years ago I had purchased Automap from its originators in Arizona. Since then, the 
company had moved to Washington and then was bought by another company in WA - you 
guessed it! - Microsoft. I had always gotten the upgrades for the DOS version, but recently 
acquired the CD for the Windows version from Microsoft. 
 I say with no reservations (no pun intended) that I would get Automap for planning trips. I 
recently made a trip to Chicago in my car. The program lets you set the speeds you will travel 
and with the speeds set realistically, the ca. 200 miles trip took 3 minutes longer than Automap 
said. ..... Automap would do a better job on long trips if you could specify frequency and 
length of rests and its gas fill-up would assume you stopped for some specified time. For a 
long trip, you have to pick an average speed for the day instead of actual driving speed, or 
schedule each rest and gas stop . 
 You can temporarily avoid any number of road segments you choose. And I have to use this 
feature. I took advantage of the ability to set my "Home Location". I live in the country about &#189; 
mile south of US-6. On trip to points north or east, I get on US-6 and go east, passing under 
I-280/I-74, and turning on to I-80. However, Automap has always thought there is an entrance 
on to I-280/I-74 where there is only the underpass. I thus need to 'avoid' the short segment of 
I-280/I-74 so Automap doesn't tell me to take that segment to get to I-80. Map-N-Go does not 
have these avoids. A friend has found himself routed over forest service roads with no ability 
to avoid . 
 You can set any speed you wish for a number of highway/road types, AND for each type a 
different speed for different road conditions (fast, slow, urban, etc.) 
 We took a 3000 mile trip out through Wyoming and Colorado pulling our Coleman. (Was it hot 
going across Nebraska! 107F around Grand Island.) I needed to reset the speeds AND the mpg 
AND the price of fuel in Automap from what they were for the Chicago trip. The fuel stops 
were right on. That was especially good because the route we decided on to go across 
Wyoming was not populated with many towns! I set my own intermediate stops after first 
running the route with only a start and end. Oh yes, only Automap lets you set the usual time you 
start in the morning and the usual time you pull in to camp in the evening. We got along 
beautifully and the program was indispensable. 
 If you have a laptop, get the disk version of Automap. It lacks some of the color maps (shows 
topography) but otherwise is the same as the CD version and you can calculate side trips and/or 
refine your main route as you go. The new Automap v 5 is only available on CD and for 
Windows 95 or NT . 
 I've had Key Travel Map for over a year. I quickly found that it is very difficult to use and 
setting up a full journey is almost impossible. They only produce a CD version. It has street 
maps for many cities. Just put the pointer on the city name and right click. By doing this for 
Moline, it even shows the dead-end street on which I live out in the country. I can add an arrow 
pointing to the approximate location of my house and add a text box with the address. But the 
program does not have the option of setting this as the starting point for a trip. 
 Rand-McNally's Road Atlases have served me well over the years, so I had great hopes for 
their TripMaker program. It comes on 3.5" diskettes so I could put it on my laptop. The first 
thing to do is set up the options I wanted the program to use in calculating the route and times. 
First, I set the speeds for three types of roads - Interstates, U.S. Highways and State Roads. 
There's a button on that screen that takes me to a screen to set a sliding button for the length of 
the normal driving day. The daily distance is also indicated so I could have set the button for 
distance. In my case I set the normal driving day to eight hours. There is a calendar to set the 
start and finish dates you choose for the trip. Unless I missed something, Rand-McNally expects 
you to be driving all the time. The program will tell you to stop driving when you reach the 
length of the normal driving day - never mind that you are about 25 miles short of the nearest 
motel! Then it starts you out from that location the next morning. I tried to find out if I could 
make it from Gilbert, AZ to Colorado Springs, CO via Grand Junction, CO within a time 
constraint we had. I couldn't get any reasonable answers from TripMaker. Automap handled the 
problem with ease. 
 That's all I have written so far and haven't tried to polish it. You are welcome to use any of it if 
you want to. 
 Bill Burrows 
 Thank you, Bill 
 Top of page 

 Nov 96 : Comments on exit numbers and timeline details on TripMaker 
 ---------- 
 Rand McNally's Trip Planner lacks the one feature that, as far as I can tell, all of three of the 
programs lack... Interstate exit numbers. Of course, these are at their respective mile markers 
but the maps don't clearly show mile markers except at larger cities. Even the Text intinerary 
doesn't give exit numbers. 
 On a strange road (even an interstate highway), "Get in Left Lane of I75 as you near Exit 59A. 
Exit to the left onto I475 South" is much clearer than "Stay on I75 to I475 South." In the first 
example, you'd know to watch for exit 59 (by watching the mile markers), and when you got 
close to the 59 mile marker, to get in the left-hand lane, because the exit is to the left. You'd also 
know which of two exit 59's to take. I'm sure the information is already in the database. I'm 
puzzled why it is not offered to the user in any of the three programs. 
 I couldn't tell you how many times I've missed an exit because it wasn't clear whether the exit 
was to the right (as most are), or to the left. Often road signs don't make it clear, particularly on 
a multi-lane highway, where several junctions are within a half-mile of each other. I've also 
gotten messed up making the wrong exit "A-B" choice. Map'N'Go 2.0 does have a separate 
column on the itinerary with exit numbers, and I believe they are also shown on the map. 
They do denote A & B, but probably don't tell you wheather it is right or left. They also list 
the street name . 
 Trip Planner is configurable as to which route (Quickest, Shortest, Scenic) and you can 
configure each trip to avoid or prefer certain roads. However, on surface roads, it seems to 
ignore the inevitable red lights through small rural towns, because the speed limit (configurable 
by the user) is used to calculate trip time, as if your AVERAGE speed is the speed limit. 
Obviously, your average speed would be somewhat less (thus the time greater), since you often 
have to stop at one or more stop lights or road signs. Automap and Map'N'Go have the same 
requirement you figure average speed. Map'N'Go does not have the avoid feature . 
 Distributed on CD-ROM, the program has voice capabilities which "lead you through the steps 
of trip planning." You can turn this feature off, or select the "Quick Trip" feature, which skips 
many of the "steps" altogether. If you already know your destination and stopovers, this is a 
handy feature. The CD-ROM also enables the program to include some stunning pictures of 
scenery that you'll see on your trip. Its sister program ("Street Finder") integrates into Trip 
Planner seamlessly. You can set your exact destination down to the street address and the 
program will yield directions to the front door! Automap 5.0 won't route on minor streets, even 
though they may show them. I think Map'N'Go has this same restriction . 
 If you use the trip PLANNING feature, it asks you what you like to do, and finds areas along the 
way that you may want to stop and see. You define the time for a driving day and it finds the 
point of the closest stopover. You can set the duration of each stopover, and redefine 
arrival/departure times (otherwise, they are determined by the calculated driving time). 
However, don't (as I did) assume that a "stopover" involves an overnight stay, or of any other 
specific duration. As defined by the program, a stopover is simply a point that you may want to 
see that is on or near the main route. Stopovers can be on the main route or off of it (you define 
how far). In calculations, time to GET TO and RETURN FROM a stopover are used, but unless 
you define a duration for the stopover itself, no time is allocated. 
 One aspect that I found confusing until I got used to it: The programs holds the pre-set start and 
stop driving times as sacred. So, if you stop at a site for a few hours, but the driving day is not 
ended, your itinerary will put you back on the road, only to stop a few miles up when the 
pre-defined day ends. The program doesn't seem to care if the driving day ends at some 
God-forsaken interstate exit. That's where it calculates your driving day to end, and by-golly, 
that's where it ends! In all the trips that I planned, I considered a stopover to be of at least 
one-day duration... but not so if you use the program's definition. Automap 5.0 works similiarly. 
Also, it dropped the starting time feature and it has you starting so that you can make your 
first scheduled stop, even if it is several days away . 
 In addition, even if duration is defined for a stopover, in calculations involving stopover 
duration, it defines a full driving day and one-night stopover of "0" days duration. Of course, it's 
one day added to the duration of the entire trip, but I consider that to be one day's duration at the 
stopover, even if it's only to sleep. It's a matter of semantics, but until I got used to it, all my 
trips were longer than the sum of the total of their parts. Automap 5.0 seems to give duration in 
24 hour periods starting at departure time. My trip leaving late on day 1 and arriving 
evening of day 17 was timed at 15 days 21 hours . 
 Hope this helps... more later. 
 Top of page 

 Nov 96 : Relief Maps 
 ---------- 
 Let me preface my comments with what I was looking for when I purchased Road Atlas. I want 
good relief maps with emphasis on back roads and the towns they connect. Interstates are fine, 
but any map will get you there on an interstate. I recently purchased a motorcycle and want to 
find all those twisty mountain roads that cars hate. And now my experiences with Microsoft 
(condensed). I would prefer that you not use my name, but using the comments is fine. 
 I purchased MS Automap Road Atlas 4.0 about a week ago at CompUSA (they had that and 
Streets Plus, etc.). It seemed OK, but then I read about Automap Trip Planner on the web, called 
Microsoft and asked why they still had the old one in the stores. I was told that the new one was 
not available. I was also assured by a Microsoft technical support rep that Trip Planner was 
really Road Atlas ver 5, and was much, much better (specifically, the relief maps), but wouldn't 
be on the shelves for several weeks. I then went to Egghead on the same day and found Trip 
Planner (they had had it for several weeks, per the rep). So I purchased it and took Road Atlas 
back to CompUSA. Surprise! Trip Planner was terrible! It uses a strange (to me) interface 
(looks like the interface on the Encarta box). It is 10 to 100 times slower at screen refresh and 
trip calculation. The relief detail is gone (not just bad, but gone except for minor color 
variations) by the time you get below state level. It has far fewer towns and highways. I was 
very, very disappointed. So I took it back to Egghead, and went back to CompUSA and bought 
the Road Atlas 4.0 product. It's not perfect and seems a bit flakey at times, but it works and does 
have decent relief maps, some back roads, and a million small towns. I suspect that Trip 
Planner has a large number of features that Road Atlas doesn't with regard to destinations, 
attractions, motels, etc., etc., which are useful, BUT my prime objective was relief maps with 
backroad towns and highways. Please don't take my word for all of this - CompUSA will demo 
any program for you. When they get Trip Planner, give it a look. Also, please keep my 
objectives in mind. For speed reference I have a 100MHz 486 with 20 meg and a 6x CD player. 
If you have information on the quality of any of the other products specifically with reference to 
the quality of the relief maps, small towns, and back roads, I would certainly appreciate hearing 
about it.. (mail me if you know of such products and I will forward) I did notice that your table 
shows the AAA Trip n' Go product does have relief maps, and seemed to be a pretty good 
product. They, of course, have no sample images on their web site, so I guess it's back to the 
store..... 
 I agree the new relief map is far inferior to the older one. It looks ok from a high distance, 
but as you get closer you lose any feeling of depth. On version 4.0, you could get down close 
enough that the pixles blurred everything. This does not happen on 5.0, but you lose any 
depth feeling once you get below a 220 mile elevation. Go below 100 mile elevation and all 
contour colors are gone. 
 As for fewer towns, I have yet to determine is this is real or an allusion. We have lost the 
settings for "more town" and "more detail", even if it makes a mess of the map. We are now 
protected from ourselves. I tried one test. On Route 395 in California, I looked at a paper 
map of Bridgeport to the Nevada border. There were three small towns near the border: 
Walker, Coleville, and Topaz. Automap 4.0 easily showed Coleville, but could not find 
Walker and had Topaz as Topaz PO. Automap 5.0 would show Walker and Coleville once you 
got below 15 miles. It would not find Topaz. Automap Streets 5.0 would show the streets for 
the towns, but would not name them unless you did a find. 
 Top of page 
 25 Nov 96: DeLorme's 3-D Explorer 
 Later, I saw an add for DeLorme's 3-D Explorer which lets you roam around through the 
mountains. I informed him ( above comments ) and he went and tried it. Here are his 
comments. 
 Thanks for the info. I tried "3D Explorer" out this weekend. It is pretty amazing, all things 
considered. Resolution is pretty good, although there don't seem to be any landmarks other than 
terrain (no bridges, landmark buildings, etc.). It does require horsepower, memory, video 
memory, and a good CD-ROM drive. It also seems to have some bugs (features?) that make 
controlling it more difficult than desirable (control over altitude is sketchy at best). No crashes, 
just lack of control. The only way to go anywhere is by location - no overview locator map, etc. 
The only way to set altitude or speed is via controls, and it seems to reset every time you go to a 
new location - this would be ok, except the controls are extremely slow on a DX4/100-20meg 
system. ( A fast system and a joystick are highly recommended - which may help things). You 
also can't set an altitude and make it stick. The faster speed you go the lower it forces you to the 
ground. Altitude seems to be limited to between 2,000 and sometimes up to 10,000 feet. I also 
have the Street Atlas 4 product, which is pretty good, but haven't figured out how to load a 
Street Atlas 4 route into 3D Explorer. The help screens on both product are pretty basic, and of 
no help on this function. If I figure out the Street Atlas 4 routing, I'll let you know. I was also 
surprised at how out of date the Street Atlas 4 maps are. My home address was built in 1989, 
and didn't make the map. 
 Thanks for the info, 
 Top of page 

 Introductory Page | Text Comparison Page 
 Comments to Ron Bowser at samoyed@eskimo.com