Sample Trip 
 Here is a sample routing problem that shows the kind of
fiddling around needed to get the program to display a trip that
is acceptable to you. It is a team problem. You say when and
where you want to go. The computer gives a solution. You don't
like it. You refine the definition. It give another
solution&#133;.. and on and on&#133;. 
 This trip is using Automap Road Atlas and Destination
Campground. Delorme's will give something similar with different
tuning problems. Same for other vendors. This is not an
endorsement of Automap. This is an illustration of the kinds of
problems in specifying a trip that you might encounter in any
vendor's product. It so happens that the Automap products are
used as that is what I have. 

 The Trip 
 Let's say we are going from Courtenay, BC to
Coulee Playland Resort RV park near the Grand Coulee Dam in
Washington. In going to the Grand Coulee Dam, I displayed the
area for RV parks and chose Playland; but that will not be
illustrated. Courtenay, BC is on Vancouver Island in British
Columbia. It requires a ferry ride to get to the mainland. Let's
say we are towing a 30' trailer or 5th-wheel and don't want
narrow two lane mountain roads. Let's say I set my preferred
travel times as 9 AM to 5 PM. Gas mileage, etc, will not be
expounded upon, but the data pointed out. 
 For highways, let's say I set interstate as the preferred
type of road with small roads and ferries as not desirable. 
 I set up the trip with the start at Courtenay, BC(Can) at
08:00 and finish at Coulee Playland Resort, WA. I say to
calculate the quickest journey and a journey that follows my
highway preferences; then ask it to calculate. To save space, I
will not display the map for the quickest route, nor its
itinerary. But, the route is visible on the preferred journey map
below. It is the gray road and differs from the preferred route
in that it took a different ferry and it cuts across the
mountains on SR 20 instead of I-90. From the map you can tell
that SR 20 is a smaller road, but nothing would tell you if you
should avoid it or not. The relief map would tell you that you
are going through the mountains. This is the same problem as
reading a highway map and trying to decide road conditions. There
are no pass elevations, but the sites to see information on the
CD might help lead you to the decide this may be a mountain road
you would rather avoid. 
 The itinerary for the quickest journey has the miles: 348,
and time: 1 day 1 hr 11 min and a $54.15 cost. The Preferred is
488 miles at 1 day 1 hr 41 min and $76.24. Considerable distance
and cost difference, but only 30 minutes in time. The time and
cost figures are based on the speeds I put into the settings for
different road types, and the gas mileage and price figures I
configure for the vehicle. 
 So, I decide to go with the preferred route instead of the
quickest. Let's note a few things about the map. There is a green
start box and a red end box. The gas pump in a round circle is
where I need to gas up. The bed in a red circle is where I should
spend the night because the 5 PM day end has been reached. Some
little green boxes show times of the day I will be at those
locations. 
 Note that the preferred took a different ferry. You cannot
see it with what I have here, but it took me nearly an hour out
of my way to get on a ferry with a &#189; hour shorter crossing,
but I get there &#189; hour later. My preferences said I did not
like ferries, so it tried to avoid, and not being able to, chose
the shortest. Both the ferries cost the same and, with the rig
described, would add about $60 to the cost. 
 Now, let's go below the map and above the itinerary to note
some more about the ferry. 

 Preferred Journey Map 
 The itinerary says to check the timetable for the ferry.
Their timetable varies by season and time of day and day of week.
Since Automap does not have dates, there is no way it could
figure times, even if it had a table. Even then, you have loading
time and the chance of not catching the ferry because it fills
before your turn to board. You have to make the judgment on how
early you want to be there, adjust your start time so you will
arrive when desired, and make the ferry terminal a stop-over for
the amount of time between your arrival and the ferries'
departure. Then you ask it to recalculate the trip and you will
have a better estimate of the trip. Also, I would make the ferry
setting more desirable, or set some road avoids so it would pick
the ferry closer to my start point. 
 You will note on the itinerary that it tells us where to gas
up. This is based on my mileage estimate, how big my tank is, and
how low I say to let it get. One problem with automap is you
cannot decide to fill-up out of sequence and have it recompute
from there. I would likely fill-up where I spent a night or had a
stop-over, and I would like to tell automap these are my plans. 
 Neglecting the tuning for the ferry, lets look at the other
end of the journey. On the itinerary, you will note that we
should spend the night when we are an hour and 40 minutes away
from our final destination. Perhaps I should leave earlier or
drive later. I could change the end of day from 5 PM to 7 PM and
it would route me to my destination without an overnight stop. 
 But, let's say I decide to stop. Note: it will not abruptly
stop me in the boondocks at exactly 5 PM, but will get me to the
nearest town (one user says Map-N-Go will stop you abruptly).
But, it is probably not where you want to stop. And, you may
notice, it does not really tell you where you are stopping (just
the icon on the map). 
 Let's look at the next map (a blow-up of the overnight area). 

 Preferred Journey Itinerary 
 There is a KOA at Vantage, and private RV parks at Quincy and
Ephrata (as well as several others further away). Clicking on the
park at Quincy we get the RV Park listing from Destination
Campground. It gives facilities, cost, directions. 

 Overnight Region with RV Park Listing 
 So, if we chose this park, we would want to add it as a
stop-over in our journey and recalculate to get our final
journey. We may need to bump the preferred end of day beyond 5 PM
to let it go beyond the current point it chose for overnight. If
we had chosen a park before this point, we would have had to
specify a dummy stop-over time to finish out the day. 
 Well, I hope this illustration gives you an idea of how you
need to tune your journeys with the various route planning
programs, and Automap in particular. 

 Comments to Ron Bowser at samoyed@eskimo.com