Kevin A. Wheelock resume 

 Kevin A. Wheelock 

 Bellevue, WA 
(866) 833-4837 
 cl260@yahoo.com 

 Expertise | 
 Skills | 
 Work Experience | 
 Teaching Experience | 
 Education 

 Expertise 

 Software applications developer with experience in scientific programming and computational physics
on multiple platforms. 
 Experienced software tester using wide variety of test techniques.
 Extensive knowledge of operating systems, operating environments, and applications. 
 Excellent verbal and written communication skills.
 Exceptional planning and organizational skills. 

 Skills 

 Programming: 

 Skilled in C and Java under Linux, Windows, DOS, OS/2. 
 Working knowledge of C++ and Assembly language. 
 Experienced in scientific computing.
 Experience using Microsoft Visual Basic. 
 Familiar with FORTRAN, Pascal, and BASIC.

 Numerical Methods: 

 Experienced using wide variety of numerical methods in computational physics, including ordinary differential equations; linear regression and data modeling; FFT and spectral analysis; boundary-value problems; and turbulence and chaos in dynamical systems.

 Testing: 

 Extensive experience with functionality and scenario testing.
 Expert in hardware and software compatibility testing on multiple platforms.
 Skilled in usability testing techniques. 
 Familiar with load, stress, and performance testing tools and procedures.
 Experienced in localization testing procedures.

 OS/Software: 

 Extensive experience using Linux, Windows 2000/NT Server, Windows 9x, OS/2, DOS, Windows 3.1x. 
 Familiar with UNIX. 
 Skilled in use of Mathcad and other computational software.
 Extensive experience using a variety of office software products.

 Work Experience 

 Consulting Software Engineer, Freelance, Seattle, Washington, 1996-present

 Manage development of data analysis software and internal company website for Trans Energy Research Associates.
 Write many programs that numerically solve and analyze physical systems, including program that performs linear regression on petroleum distillation products and then calculates expected yields in other temperature ranges. 
 Provide extensive PC technical support (telephone and onsite) to small businesses and individuals.
 Developed data interface program for the Energy Information Agency at the US Department of Energy to manage massive data files and convert text-based annual reports to Microsoft Excel spreadsheets and an MS Access database that generate appropriate reports. This greatly simplified the use of petroleum predictor linear optimization model.

 Senior Test Lead , Veritest , Bellevue, Washington, 1998-2001 

 Primary company resource for Linux testing, Windows network testing, and heterogeneous networking testing.
 Managed team of up to six test engineers. Provided technical support, mentoring, and leadership. Managed personnel issues. Trained new test leads; mentored experienced leads and test engineers.
 Worked with and reported to clients such as Houghton Mifflin, Addison Wesley, Bedford-St. Martin's, Corel Software, Macmillan, and Wadsworth. Supported efforts to bid on new projects.
 Oversaw (and usually led) all education testing projects.
 Wrote and executed test plans. Executed test scripts.
 Led 18-month project resulting in demonstration to major client that a product could not be released without serious repercussions.
 Directed Y2K review and testing of all Corel products.

 Materials Test Technician, intec Inc., Bothell, Washington, 1996-1998 

 Performed mechanical fatigue and thermal testing, ultrasonic scanning, and microscopic visual inspections.
 Clients ranged from K2 Sports to Boeing Company.
 Test technician on collaborative project among Boeing, NASA, and intec for the High-Speed Civil Transport Project to determine best materials to use.

 Emergency Medical Technician, King County, Washington, 1994-1996 

 Chemical Lab Technician, Resolex Corp., Radium Springs, New Mexico, 1992-1993 

 Collected and analyzed data on the amounts of various contaminants in oleoresins (primarily benzene and single-bond hydrocarbons) as a function of operating temperature of the refining process and other factors. 
 Performed spectroscopic and wet chemical analyses of oleoresins and organic powders.

 Teaching Experience 

 Instructor, Physics/Astronomy, Bellevue Community College , Bellevue, Washington, 1999-present

 Teach physics and astronomy courses for all ranges of students and majors (art to engineering).

 Instructor, Math/Sciences, Olympic College , Bremerton, Washington, 1993-1994 

 Designed and taught elementary numerical methods in FORTRAN, the first scientific programming course taught at Olympic College in Bremerton. Trained students to install and use FORTRAN compiler and oversaw installation.

 Instructor, Physics, New Mexico State University , Las Cruces, New Mexico, 1989-1991 

 Helped design and construct physics lab experiments for the NMSU Physics Department that utilize PCs for data collection and analysis. Helped install two dozen PCs used in the new experiments, including installing and troubleshooting the Digital to Analog cards and specialized sensors used for data collection. Rewrote several existing student experiments to maximize value of the new equipment.
 Introduced interactive teaching methods - which permitted students to immediately apply topics covered in class - to standard physics courses.

 Education 

 MS Physics, New Mexico State University , Las Cruces, New Mexico, 1992 

 BS Physics, California State Polytechnic University , Pomona, California, 1989 

 Mail to: cl260@yahoo.com 
 Text Version | Word Version 
 Last updated: 2 Apr 2003