Alpine Scrambling 

 1999 Alpine Scrambling Course

 Tempted
by the lure of the mountains? Want the challenge of getting to the
top? Take our Alpine Scrambling Course and learn the skills you need
to safely and confidently travel in the mountains. 

 The Alpine Scramble Course prepares you to scramble a wide variety
of non-techniocal summits. Scrambling does not require roped travel
or technical equiment, with the exception of an ice axe. (Don't worry
- we won't be climbing ice in the Alpine Scrambling Course!) 

 Scrambles are strenuous mountain climbs, and you need to be in
good condition. (A rough measure of adequate conditioning is the
ability to hike up Mt. Si to the base of the Haystack with a full
pack in 2.5 hours of less.) 

 Through a series of lectures and field trips, you will learn how
to travel off-trail in both snowy and rocky terrain. We'll show you
the equipment you need for your confort and safety. You'll learn how
to use an ice axe to prevent falls and to stop them. You'll practice
how to use a compass and map and learn how to choose the best route
to your destination. We'll teach you techniques for traveling on rock
and skills for ascending and descending on snow. 

 After you've completed the course, you'l be ready to hone your new
skills on the many scrambling trips that we offer through the
year. 

 There will be information/registration sessions where you can
learn more. In December at the Mountaineers' Clubhouse there will be
presentaitons on both the Basic Climbing and Scrambling courses (see
 The Mountaineer magazine for dates and times, or call
206-284-8310). 

 Course Requirements 

 Attend all five lectures. 

 Complete all four field trips satisfactorily. 

 Reach the summit on three Mountaineers' scrambles, including
 one rock and one snow. 

 Complete the Mountaineering Oriented First Aid ( MOFA 
)
 course, which includes 30 hours of training over a five-week
 period. 

 Apply for graduation by October 1. 

 Course Schedule 

 (please see The Mountaineer for dates) 

 LECTURES 
 All lectures are held at the Mountaineers' Clubhouse, 
300 Third Ave. W, Seattle and run from 7:00 to 9:30 pm. 

 February - Course overview and equipment discussion
(mandatory - if you miss this lecture, you wil be dropped from the
course without refund) 
 March - Navigation workshop 
 April - Snow travel and avalanche awareness 
 May - Rock travel and reading the weather 
 June - Wilderness ethics 

 FIELD TRIPS 
 Carpools will be arranged to these all-day field trips. Choose
either the Saturday series of Sunday series of field trips. 

 March - Navigation ( Index ) 
 April - Snow Travel and ice ave practice ( Stevens
Pass ) 
 May - Rock scrambling and off-trail travel
( Anacortes ) 
 June - Scrambling experience ( Cle Elum ) 

 Registration 

 The fee for this course is $110. Registration opens/closes in
December. 

 You must be a member of The Mountaineers to attend this course and
all scrambles. If you are not currently a member of The Mountaineers,
please call 206-284-6310 and request an application. You may return
the application along with this form, and the clubhouse will fill in
your membership number. 

 Persons younger than 18 must have parental permission and
permission of the chair of the Alpine Scrambling Committee. 

 Mountaineering: The Freedom of the
Hills (6th Edition) published by Mountaineers
Books . Students who do not already have a copy may purchase the
text at The Mountaineers Bookstore at the student discount (25%)
price of $18.36 (softcover) or $24 (hardcover) plus tax

 Registration is limited and is on a first-come, first-served basis
(the class fills up quickly), so don't delay. 

 (Scramble Courses are also offered through The Mountaineers'
branches in Bellimgham 
, Everett 
,
 Olympia 
and Tacoma .
.)