Basic Refresher 

 2001 Basic Climbing Refresher Course 

 2001 Basic Climbing Refresher Course (Course #25507) 
 This course provides a review of basic climbing skills and provides an opport
unity to learn the latest methods for skills such as belaying and crevasse rescu
e, as taught in the Seattle climbing courses. The course is open only to member
s of The Mountaineers who 1) are graduates of any branch Basic Climbing Course,
or 2) have been granted Basic Equivalency, or 3) have approved extensions for th
e Basic Climbing Course. This course is offered only once a year. 

 How to Register: Complete the Course Registration Form (in the back of the G
o Guide). Include your graduation date from the Basic Climbing Course, or the d
ate you were granted Basic Equivalency, or a copy of your approved extension for
 the Basic Climbing Course. 

 Registration Deadline: Monday, March 12, 2001 

 Course Fee: $60. Payable to "The Mountaineers". Refunds will be made only
if you withdraw from the course prior to the second session (or if the course is
 cancelled due to lack of signup). The course fee does not include the cost of
the text, 

 Mountaineering: The Freedom of the
Hills (6th Edition) published by Mountaineers
Books . Students who do not already have a copy may purchase the
text at The Mountaineers Bookstore at the student discount (25%)
price of $18.36 (softcover) or $24 (hardcover) plus tax

available at the Mountaineers Bookstore 
at a 25% student discount. 

 Course Structure: The course consists of three lecture/practice sessions and
 two all-day field trips. Registrants will receive the Course Syllabus by mail
before the first session. 

 Schedule: 

 March 25 (Sunday): At the clubhouse, 5-9 pm. Introduction. Review and pra
ctice of knots, belays, prusiks, and rope handling. 
 April 8 (Sunday): At Seattle Vertical World, 7-9 pm. Professional instruct
ion and practice of rock climbing techniques. 
 April 14 (Saturday): At Mt. Erie, all day. Top-roped rock climbing. 
 April 30 (Monday): At Paramount Playfield, Shoreline, 6:30-9 pm. Crevasse R
escue practice. 
 May 5 (Saturday): At Hyak Ski Area, all day. Snow climbing and crevasse res
cue field trip. 

 Contact: Dale Flynn 
,
Refresher Course Subcommittee.