Untitled Document 

 Overview of the Seattle Climbing Program

 The Mountaineers Climbing program offers a number of opportunities
to become involved with technical climbing. We stress safety and
leadership in our classes and invite members of The Mountaineers to
join our program at any level . 

 Most new climbers enter the climbing program through the Basic
Climbing Class , which has been offered annually since 1935 and
provides graduates with a sound background for climbing in the alpine
mountains of the Pacific Northwest and beyond. For graduates of the
Basic Climbing Class who wish to brush up their skills, a Basic
Refresher Class is also given in the spring. 

 An option for those with a technical mountaineering background is
 Basic Equivalency . This allows
a member with experience and training from outside The Mountaineers
to become involved with the climbing program at the level of a
graduate of the Basic Climbing Class. 

 For those who wish to pursue climbing on a more technical level,
The Mountaineers offers the Intermediate
Climbing Class , and Advanced
Climbing Experiences . Those with an extensive technical
mountaineering background over many years on snow, ice and rock might
consider applying for Intermediate Equivalency. 

 Club Climbs are offered to
graduates of the Basic Climbing Course, in order to provide a more
relaxed environment than the instructional trips run in the Basic
Course. Extended trips to remote locations are also organised. 

 A number of climbing-related Seminars 
are offered through the year, ranging in subject from friction
climbing and crack climbing in the Leavenworth area to small-party
technical self-rescue and aid climbing. Usually the field trips are
open to Basic Climbing graduates or equivalents, though some may be
limited to Intermediate Climbing students or graduates. Seminars held
in the clubhouse are open to all. 

 The Crag Climbing Class is
offered to those members who prefer to concentrate on rock climbing
technique in readily accessible cliffs. A related Alpine
Scrambling Class (non-technical mountaineering trips, not
involving the use of climbing ropes or other technical hardware) is
offered yearly by the Seattle Alpine Scrambling Committee. 

 To provide learning experiences for these classes, the Seattle
Climbing Committee annually organizes several hundred Technical
Climbs to destinations in the Pacific Northwest and beyond.
Collected wisdom from climbers within and outside the Mountaineers is
gathered into the book Mountaineering:
The Freedom of the Hills (6th Edition) , available from Mountaineers Books 
which
is the publishing division of The Mountaineers. It is the primary
reference for our climbing classes. 

 Climbing Courses are also offered through the Bellimgham 
,
 Everett 
, Olympia 

 Tacoma .
 and Wenatchee 

branches of The Mountaineers. 

 A course registration form is available for enrolling in any of our
courses. 

 A quantity of Reference
Material is provided, and a Bulletin
Board is available for the use of Mountaineers climbers. 

 The Climbing Committee welcomes your Suggestions
or Comments . 

Safe Climbing!