Untitled Document 

 1999 Climbing Seminars

 Eligibiliy : Seminar field-trip sign-up is only open
to Basic Course graduates and Equivalents and Intermediate Course
graduates and students. Seminar lectures and presentations at
the clubhouse are usually open to all. Specific seminars may have
additional sign-up requirements. 

 Contact: Lowell Anderson 

 How to Organize a Denali Expedition: Seminar series 

 This three lecture, one field trip course will give you the
information and special skills you need to plan an expedition to
Denali (a.k.a., Mt. McKinley). Participants must be a basic climbing
course graduate or basic equivalency. Course limit is 30
participants. Course fee is $30. Registration is through the
clubhouse. For information call Marcia or Kurt Hanson, 935-6283. 

 Lecture 1, Monday, January 11, 7:00 PM Equipment. 

 Lecture 2, Tuesday, January 19, 7:00 PM Food, team dynamics
 and logistics. 

 Lecture 3, Tuesday, January 26, 7:00 PM Route descriptions and
 slides. 

 Field Trip, Sat-Sun, Jan 30-31 (Feb 6-7 as backup) -
 Expedition camping, sled rigging, fixed lines and crevasse rescue
 with sled. 

 Reading The Clouds and Forecasting The Weather : Mar 18, Thu.,
7pm at the clubhouse 

 Don't miss this, the second in a series of three 
lectures on forecasting mountain weather given by Mountaineers' member Michael Fagin. Mr. Fagin owns Washington Online Weather and has been 
forecasting and mountaineering in the Northwest for over 21 years. Each lecture is self contained so you need not have attended the first lecture to benefit 
from this one or the one planned for May 20 on "Forecasting Mountain Weather Via The Internet." The lecture series is open to all club members but should 
be of particular benefit to those of you who have recently or will shortly assume leadership roles in climbing and scrambling--new climb/scramble leaders, 
applicants for the respective leaders lists, and students of the Intermediate Climbing program. Direct questions to Lowell Anderson 
.