James Thiele's Newton Animal Sounds 

 James Thiele's Newton Animal Sounds 

This program shows pictures of animals and plays an appropriate
sound when the picture is tapped. The sounds and pictures are from an old
Hypercard stack called "Animals". I've discovered that young kids really like
the Newton, but there isn't much for them to do on it. This app is just for fun.

 Version 1.1

 The screen layout of this program from top
to bottom and left to right has the following elements:

 The name of the application.

 A picture of an animal.

 button which when tapped moves
to the "previous" picture.

 button, which when tapped
moves to the "next" picture.

 button which when tapped
shows the date, time, and battery level.

 when tapped will cause some
basic info about "Animal Sounds" to be displayed.

 closes "Animal Sounds".

Animal Sounds can be accessed in the following compressed formats:

 animals.zip (73K) for PC and UNIX.
 animals.sit (73K) for Mac, or
 animals.hqx (125K) for Mac.

 Note: You must possess a browser or utility capable of decompressing these
files in order to use them.

 Caveats: "Animal Sounds" eats up a lot of space.

 Only tested on Newton MP 100.

 Mostly harmless. 

 Legal stuff This program is Copyright 1994, 1995 by James
Thiele. It may be distributed freely as long as the program is unmodified and is
accompanied by this README file.

 Because there are too many lawyers in the world, I add the following
statement:

 This program is made available without any claim that it is suitable for any
use. The author's liability is limited to what was charged for it which was
nothing. It works OK on my MP 100, but I am not making any other statements of
other systems it could or should run on.

 Credits Whoever created the "Animals" HyperCard stack. There are no
credits in it, and since I got it a long time ago I don't know where it came
from.

 Author James Thiele

 You can let the author know what you think of this program by contacting
him in one of the following ways: 

 email: 
 jet@eskimo.com 
 World Wide Web: http://www.eskimo.com/~jet/ 
(Addresses valid as of 27 Oct 1997)

 Last modified 27.Oct.97