Magnetic Phenomena :: VortexScience.com 

 home &raquo; magnetic phenomena 

 How 
 does David Blaine levitate? 

 What 
 is the Matrix? 

 Where 
 you find 'free energy' 

 What is Vortex Mechanics? 

 The Transparent Universe 

 Gravity 

 Magnetism 

 Transmutation 

 Observe Natures Toolbox 

 Motion is all there is 

 Designing machines via natural principles 

 Fuel-less air and water propulsion 

 Harness Tornado Power 

 Vortex Water Systems 

 Kids 

 Teachers & Artists 

 Engineers & Designers 

 THE 
 MAGNETIC PHENOMENA 
 Empirical observation together with their logical deductions does not 
 seem to resolve the many problems we have in understanding the CAUSE of 
 magnetic fields. Let&#8217;s face it, whatever we deduce does not match 
 reality. Maybe there is something wrong with our attitude having to many 
 established dogmas, scientific fairytales and other myths which float 
 around in the heads of those who think they are experts and pretend to 
 know. 
 To say, that magnetic lines of force issue from magnetically oriented 
 material (the dipole theory) and site many types of materials which make 
 lines of force possible is not a good enough answer, because it still 
 ignores the basic cause, the invisible mechanics of space itself, which 
 appears to be the determining factor if there is a field coming off a 
 magnet or other objects existing in the universe. It should be noted here 
 that ALL objects organic or inorganic are surrounded by their fields which 
 is simple the centrifugal dispersion of the centripetal contraction process 
 of the invisible mechanics of Space Fabric. It is this mechanics we are 
 interested in which supplies us with the knowledge of how to approach 
 the construction of hardware leading to a multitude of effects which can 
 only be described as phenomena so far not experienced by humans. It concerns 
 the utilization of effects known as FREE ENERGY, LEVITATION, TELEPORTATION 
 MATERIALIZATION, DE-MATERIALIZATION and other effects too numerous to 
 be mentioned in this short note on magnetic phenomena. We will be back 
 with a lengthy article with lots of graphics and suggestions to help you 
 in your own research pointing out what lies ahead just around the corner. 

 Home 
 | Purpose | About 
 | The Vortex | Magnetism 
 | Articles | Feedback 
 | Vortex Store 
 | Login 

 Copyright &copy; 2005 VortexScience.com, all rights reserved.