Brisbane 

 Locations 

 SOLUTION ORIENTED MINDFULNESS AND HYPNOSIS Experiencing integrating and extending. A three day intensive taking your effectiveness and satisfaction to the next level in Brisbane May 1 - 3, 2012 Mindfulness has been around for centuries and is experiencing a wave of new interest. Originally a spiritual practice, it is becoming a popular adjunct to psychotherapy with a growing accumulation of evidence for its efficacy in helping a wide range of clinical problems from anxiety and depression to more extreme problems such as schizophrenia. Hypnosis has also been around for centuries and has been plagued by its association with magic and mind control, which have created some fears and concerns about its clinical use. When we explore the benefits that hypnosis offers - creating a direct experience of a preferred experience [a solution] - and integrate this with the healing experiences of mindfulness, each extends the depth and breadth of the other, taking our effectiveness and personal satisfaction to the next level. Milton Erickson's flexibility was legendary, and many experts have tried to understand and codify his approach, leading to a bewildering complexity of techniques and protocols which can be daunting to a beginner, and a challenge to the most experienced therapist. Erickson was adamant that we should not try to copy him, and said that we couldn't, in any case, even if we tried. Rather, he invited students to be more like themselves, to find their own way, their own style, their own voice. Rob had the rare privilege of learning with Erickson and experienced first hand some of his vast complexity. He made his own translation, simplifying some of the complexity to create a solid foundation and has the continuing joy of being part of a growing number of people who are developing their own complexities and style. In this 3 day intensive, CET with the Milton H Erickson Institute of Tasmania offers a unique opportunity to be immersed in the principles and applications of two of the most rapidly growing treatment models in contemporary psychotherapy that is hypnosis combined with mindfulness. The scope of the program is comprehensive, and presents the essential elements in an elegantly accessible way. The 3 day intensive is open to practitioners of all levels of experience who are passionate about their work. In this programme we will Explore beautifully simple methods of inviting anyone into the experience of hypnosis and to connect with their unique resources in a dependably reliable way, Combine hypnosis with mindfulness practices respectfully, seamlessly and easily, Generate ways of softening rigidities that keep problems stuck, and unique flexibilities in experience that hypnosis can contribute, In a mood of respectful lightness and safety so that whatever our levels of experience, we can find our own individual version of this method and apply it to our work readily and immediately. LEARNING OBJECTIVES Understand the principles and use of Ericksonian hypnosis Understand and use the principles of a solution approach in hypnosis A fail safe method of creating a hypnotic experience Integrating hypnosis and mindfulness Tailoring the process to fit each individual Feel confident to begin to use hypnosis and mindfulness in clinical practice with a wide range of situations PROGRAM DAY 1 Ericksonian hypnosis compared with traditional hypnosis problem solving or solution creating? Exploring "What's missing?" A fail safe method of inviting anyone into hypnosis Mindfulness practices Finding resources predictably Connecting clients with their resources in hypnosis and mindfulness A session format as a beginning to apply to any client DAY 2 Early learning - making change doable Therapeutic stories - how to find "the right story" Incorporating stories into a hypnosis and mindfulness session DAY 3 Applying the process to specific clinical situations Anxiety, depression, phobias, habits, pain management, trauma, relationships. Summary and review Contact: Kerri-Ann Sheppard, Kassan Events Pty Ltd, 02 8011 4609, contact@kassanevents.com Rob McNeilly, 0433 273 352, rob@cet.net.au, www.cet.net.au cet home