SeattleOtaku: Review - Gunsmith Cats 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Gunsmith Cats 

 A continuing manga series by Sonoda Kenichi,
character and mecha desgner for the original Bubblegum Crisis 
OVAs and Riding Bean , gets a fun, but brief, anime treatment in
the three-episode OVA Gunsmith Cats . Few of the
antagonists from the books appear in the anime -- apart from a humourous link
in a weapons warehouse when we're shown a certain artificial arm belonging to
a favorite villain in the first few books -- but many of the good guys are
here. 

 Story Intro 

 Rally Vincent, a Chicago-area gunsmith, and her explosives-fanatic partner,
"Minnie" May Hopkins, speed their way across the Chicago streets after
bounties and criminals. They're joined on occasion (and in this anime series)
by a computer-savvy and money-hungry informant, Becky, and the police chief,
Roy. 

 For the most part, this is a story that hasn't appeared in the books
(at least as far as I've followed them in the Dark Horse Comics reprint
collections). An ATF agent hires Rally and May to go after a gun-runner,
who winds up giving them information about another case involving the ATF. 
Before long, however, this new informant is killed by an ex-KGB hit-woman,
whose next targets are our heroes, Rally, May, and the ATF agent. 

 Other Notes 

 The books can be used almost as a manual of guns and cars, and the
anime keeps that detail going well (without the many footnotes of further
details). Streets and images of Chicago are well done also; a lot of
research was put into this with visits to real gun shops and police
precincts, as well as the skyline and various landmarks. It's nice to see
anime with famous non-Tokyo landmarks now and then. Sounds of the actual
items were used as well, which makes me drool over the Shelby Cobra a bit
more than the books did. 

 Also included are stunts the likes of which only Jackie Chan or John Woo
setup in live-action features. 

 Gunsmith Cats 
 Distributed by A.D. Vision Inc. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.