SMALL Articles 

 SMALL Articles by Joe Wagner

 PROPELLER FACTS AND FALLACIES

by Joe Wagner

Except for glider-only enthusiasts, all of us model flyers
have to depend on propellers to provide the motive power to get
-- and keep -- our model planes airborne. (Ducted fans are
merely small-diameter, multi-bladed props.) Yet few of us
truly understand propellers: exactly how they work, and why.

The Brits call propellers "airscrews". This name suggests that
props thread themselves along through the atmosphere in the 
same way as a bolt threads into a tapped hole. But that concept 
is FALSE. A propeller's a rotating airfoil, not a screw. It pulls
itself through the air exactly like a wing produces lift: by
deflecting the air molecules it strikes. A prop pushes these
behind it, and obtains forward propulsive force as a reaction.

True, the "pitch" of a propeller IS specified as if the prop
was intended to screw into something solid. For example, a
"9-6" prop has its blade surfaces tilted so they'd move forward
six inches if the prop was rotated one revolution through, say,
a block of clay.

(A propeller's "pitch angle" decreases from hub to tips, because
the tips travel farther circumferentially. The lesser-moving
inner portions of the blades have to be inclined more steeply,
so they'd "advance forward" the same distance per revolution as
the fast-travelling tips do.)

The real reason a propeller's blade surfaces are "twisted" is
to provide the angle of attack any airfoil requires to generate
"lift". However, there's a tremendous difference between the
way a WING airfoil produces its lift and the way a prop develops
thrust. In flight, an airplane's wing moves forward into an
essentially motionless atmosphere.

BUT A PROPELLER PULLS THE AIR IT WORKS WITHIN 
TOWARDS ITSELF.

If a model airplane wing's angle of attack exceeds 9 or 10
degrees, it "stalls". Then the airplane stops flying and
becomes a falling object. But a propeller can work just fine
with its blades set at 45 degrees or more! Such a prop's
steeply-angled surfaces definitely ARE "stalled", when they
begin revolving. However, the airfoil of a wing doesn't stall
because its lifting ability suddenly vanishes at high angles.
What actually happens is that first its "drag" shoots way up.
That excessive drag slows the aircraft greatly; lift drops in
consequence; THEN the airplane quits flying.

When a "high-pitch" propeller begins spinning, its blade airfoil
is also "stalled". But engine (or rubber) power keeps the prop
rotating anyway, despite the excessive drag the blades are
developing. The "lift" that the prop airfoil produces pushes
its working atmosphere backwards (the "slipstream"); then to
take its place more air gets drawn in from the front.

The blade's attack angle is lessened by this incoming airflow,
because that's already moving in the desired direction when the
blade strikes it. Thus drag goes DOWN and thrust goes UP as
incoming and outgoing slipstream velocities both increase.
Within a second or so, the propeller establishes its optimum
"working environment". The incoming airflow automatically
adjusts the angle at which it meets the blades, until maximum
effectiveness occurs for that particular prop diameter, blade
shape & pitch, and rpm. And this happens regardless of whether
the propeller is moving forward or not...

(That's why, when flying a rubber-, CO2-, or electric-powered
model, you should always allow the prop to attain its optimal
airflow before releasing the airplane. The "torque surge" of
a fully-wound rubber motor is more an illusion than a reality.
That sudden left-turning effect comes mostly from the prop
blades' excessive drag during the brief period between the
beginning of rotation and attainment of "optimum airflow".)

The most important variables affecting the thrust a propeller
can develop are its diameter and rpm. Thrust increases when
either of those go up -- in proportion to the square of the rpm,
and the FOURTH POWER of the diameter. If you should speed up
an engine-driven prop from 10,000 to 14,142 rpm, its thrust
output would double. And if you spin a ten-inch prop at the
same rpm as a geometrically-similar 5-incher, the thrust
developed will be SIXTEEN TIMES as great.

(I take advantage of these relationships in choosing props
for my 1/2A R/C models. Most .049 flyers employ 6-inch props.
I gain almost 40% more useful thrust with a 7-3 prop instead
of a 6-4. The rpm goes down, true. But the extra diameter
far more than makes up for that...)

Naturally, the power of the motor (or rubber) to turn its
propeller enters strongly into all this. A big prop absorbs more 
horsepower than a small one; one with high pitch needs more
power than a low-pitched type. Thrust doesn't come as a gift!
However, the "motivating devices" we install in most of our
model airplanes today can put out FAR more power than the air-
craft need to fly with. This allows us a wide choice of usable
propellers -- particularly with geared-down electric motors!

....Lately the noise engine-powered airplanes make has become a
"public relations problem". Besides using mufflers of various
types, many model flyers have experimented with changing
propellers in attempts to diminish the overall sound output.
Lowering prop tip velocity (with a smaller diameter at the
same rpm, or a larger one spinning slower) is one useful
approach. Another is reducing engine speed and thus the
frequency and intensity of its exhaust noise.

These sound-reduction methods can be combined, by either of
two opposite techniques. One method's to increase the propeller
pitch and decrease diameter. But I use exactly the opposite
approach for my own engine-powered models: it's far more
efficient.

Here's why. The working efficiency of any reactive propulsion
system (propeller, jet, or rocket) is found by comparing the
velocity of the vehicle to the velocity of its "backflow" relative 
to the vehicle. If these were the same (an impossible
condition, of course), the propulsion would be 100% efficient,
and there'd be no slipstream behind the aircraft. The air it
moved through would stay as motionless as the highway behind 
a moving car. However, the closer we can approach this ideal
with a propeller-driven aircraft, the higher its efficiency. Less 
energy gets wasted in engine heat, air turbulence -- and in 
noise generation.

The thrust we need to keep our airplanes flying comes from the
reaction that results from accelerating a mass of air rearward.
If this mass is low, like that behind a small-diameter propeller,
it's got to be accelerated quite a lot to provide appreciable
thrust. This produces a fast-moving slipstream, and efficiency
suffers. On the other hand, the air mass that a big prop acts
upon needs much less acceleration to achieve its thrust output.
(That's why a single-bladed propeller outperforms multi-bladers:
for the same shaft power it can be bigger in diameter.)

Another thing I like about large-size, low-pitch props is that
they minimize variation in their models' airspeeds. At takeoff
and at low model velocity they pull hard -- just when high
thrust is needed. But as airspeed builds up, their thrust
diminishes in proportion. The faster the model flies, the
smaller the effective attack angle of the prop blades becomes.
Below about 3 degrees, thrust output drops sharply. If the
blade angle of attack should go all the way down to zero degrees,
as in a high-velocity dive, the prop may even act as an airbrake.

One more important factor in propeller performance is blade
STIFFNESS. If a prop has flexible blades, they'll bend and
twist under the forces generated by torque, flywheel action,
and aerodynamic effects. There's little likelihood that such
bending and twisting will improve efficiency! For one thing,
when torsional forces on the blades of a flexible propeller
cause pitch to increase, the effect becomes larger as it moves
away from the hub. This is exactly what you DON'T want to
happen. As you can easily see by examining one, the pitch angle
of a propeller DECREASES from hub to tip. Reversing this
relationship by allowing the prop to deform under power --
as with certain "scimitar blade" designs -- cannot improve
efficiency.

True, SOME of the blade's area might possibly twist into a better
angle of attack than it had. But the rest of the propeller would
then be forced to operate at a WORSE angle. ALL of a prop's blade
area produces drag that absorbs power from the "motivating
source". For maximum efficiency, as much as possible of the blade
area must develop the most thrust it can. That normally requires
true helical pitch.

(I've performed experiments with identically-shaped model props
made from materials with different flexibilities. In every test,
the stiffer the blade, the higher the thrust output! Stiffness is
the main reason today's reinforced plastic "gas engine" propellers
work so much better than plain nylon ones, and why carved-balsa
rubber-model props [covered with tissue for added stiffness] will
outperform the flexible plastic types.)

Most engine-powered sport models and scale airplanes perform
best with a prop diameter roughly twice the pitch -- e.g.
7-3, 9-5, and 12-6 -- with maximum engine speed in the 10,000
to 12,000 rpm range. This also applies to direct-drive electric
motors. But for all other model power types: rubber, compressed
air, CO2, and geared electrics -- high pitch, large blade area
props provide better performance.

Here's a handy "rule of thumb" concerning propellers. The 
maximum speed a propeller-driven aircraft can attain is roughly
equal to the prop pitch in inches, times its rpm in thousands.

Example: An 8-4 prop at 10,000 rpm can't pull its model faster
than 40 mph. (4 inch pitch times 10K rpm = 40 mph maximum.)
The airplane can fly a lot SLOWER -- particularly if it's a high-
drag design. But even in a dive, it won't go faster than this "rule
of thumb" limit.

Back to Article Selection page.