Guitar Case | Tales From the Ili Valley 

 Buy 
 brand name guitar 
 strings for 60% less 
 Guitar 
 Secrets Revealed 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar 
 Lessons , Guitar Case , Tales From The Ili Valley 

 Tales From The Ili Valley 

 Published October 19, 2000 
 By Paul 
 Hackett 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Recently I participated in a cross-cultural experience that 
 was far removed from playing or teaching guitar. I travelled 
 to a remote area in northwest China to produce a documentary 
 about the people who live there. During the six weeks of production 
 I learned more than I could hope to fit into one article. 
 There are three important things I learned, however, that 
 are worth sharing today. 
 The first concerns making movies. I learned that making movies 
 on location means you cant eat when you are hungry, cant 
 sleep when you are tired and when you need to go to the toilet 
 well. 
 The second concerns making movies in China. If you are planning 
 to interview people in China dont expect everyone to be able 
 to speak Chinese. This was perhaps our biggest surprise and 
 obstacle. 
 The third concerns music. Often it is not so obvious, but 
 what David Hodge says in On 
 Gifts and Giving is true: "Music is a medium that 
 really works when it is shared." This became apparent 
 when our multi-lingual and multi-national film crew of four 
 found itself in a remote part of the world where there was 
 no common language for communication. 
 The People 
 The region we visited was northwest Chinas Xinjiang Uyghur 
 Autonomous Region. In English Xinjiang literally means 
 New Territories or New Frontier. While the region covers 
 1/6 of the worlds most populated country only 15 million people 
 inhabit it. That is roughly half the population of Canada. 
 The local population is comprised mostly of Chinas major 
 ethnic groups the Kazaks, Kygyz, Daur, Tajik, Uzbeks, Mongols, 
 Sibo, Russian and Uyghur (pronouced wee-gur ). 
 Our 
 film was concerned mostly with the Muslim Uyghur people. Quite 
 different from Han Chinese, Uyghurs have their own language, 
 culture, customs and music. They originally arrived in Xinjiang 
 from the grasslands of Mongolia and converted to Islam from 
 Buddhism sometime before the 8 th century. Originally 
 descended from the Turks, the Uyghur spoken and written language 
 still closely resembles Turkish today. Their traditions, customs 
 and music are also very similar. 

 The Ili Valley 
 Throughout Xinjiang are some of the key staging posts of 
 the ancient Silk Road. Not far from the border with Kazakstan 
 is the Ili Valley, a quiet place geographically isolated from 
 the rest of China by the the formidable Tianshan mountains. 
 Most people are here are Muslim and few speak Chinas official 
 language. This part of the world receives very few visitors. 
 In fact, this particular area of China was not officially 
 open to foreigners at the time we visited. That does not mean, 
 however, that the local people do not welcome outsiders. 
 One 
 gets the impression that the Uyghurs living here survive much 
 the same way as they have for centuries. In their small farming 
 communities people work the land that has been passed down 
 to them from generations before. 

 The Gift 
 Our movie is about the lives of Xinjiang people today. Staying 
 in Uyghur homes while making a movie about their lives turned 
 out to be a special gift. While we were in Ili we lived very 
 closely with the local people. We stayed in their homes and 
 ate their food. During the day we went out on the farms with 
 people. We were invited to the neighbours homes and even 
 went to a wedding. Communication relied on means other than 
 language. No one could speak English and only a few could 
 speak a bit of Chinese. We played with the children and made 
 games out of them teaching us their language. We wanted to 
 learn as much as we could in the little time we had. 
 At the end of each day everyone would gather after dinner 
 to talk. After we had wrapped up shooting for the day we would 
 turn the camera around. Using a little TV screen that pops 
 out of the side of the camera we could show them everything 
 we had recorded that day. As most homes were without electricity 
 let alone TVs this was the first time people could see themselves 
 on camera. Not only were they delighted to see their daily 
 lives and habits captured on tape, but also they got a chance 
 to see how we viewed them. They saw what they looked like 
 to the outside world. We also spent a lot of time teaching 
 people we met how to use our camera. It was a great experience 
 to turn the camera over to them so they could film their family 
 and friends and later watch the results. 
 Everyone in our film crew was also a musician. We took special 
 interest in local music everywhere we went. We tried to record 
 as many live musical performances as possible. In addition 
 to a video camera we also had an MD player with us. We recorded 
 a great deal of local songs performed by local musicians. 
 Most of them were farmers or labourers who were more than 
 happy to perform for us. Capturing them on tape It was better 
 than recording any of the professional musicians we met. 
 The most enchanting moments always came after the performances. 
 When we had finished recording we would immediately give 
 a set of headphones to the performer and let them listen. 
 It was the first time they had ever heard themselves sing 
 and play. They were delighted at what they heard. It was 
 not the ingenuity of the technology we brought, or the complexity 
 of such small machines that awed them. Their eyes shone when 
 they heard their own voices and instruments for the first 
 time. They like what they were hearing. 

 Our good friend Moidun, a farmer from the Ili Valley, played 
 many songs for us in the apple orchard behind his house. Moiduns 
 instrument is a two string duntar . It is a simple yet 
 elegant instrument with both strings tuned a fifth apart and 
 tuned to match his voice. The local songs he sang for us gave 
 us the true flavour of the Ili Valley. When he heard himself 
 on the MD recorder the first time he laughed, and immediately 
 passed the headphones to his friend. "Hey. Thats me," 
 I am sure is what he said. "I sound really good, dont 
 I?" 
 When it was time to leave this quiet valley parting was difficult. 
 We had been there four days already and no one would accept 
 money for all the trouble our presence had caused. We ate 
 and slept for free, and people had even taken days off work 
 to show us around. In a short time we had become good friends 
 with all the people who welcomed us. There were invitations 
 to stay for a few more days, and pleadings to eat at least 
 one more meal before we left. In the end we were extended 
 the warmest invitation imaginable to return anytime. Whether 
 it is a year from now or ten, they will be waiting for our 
 return someday. 
 Now 
 in the part of the world where I live the weather is starting 
 to get cold. All indications are that it is going to be a 
 long, cold winter. It is comforting to know that somewhere 
 in one of the worlds most remote and isolated corners I have 
 made friends and they are waiting for my return. 
 Paul Hackett 2000-10-19 

 Back to top 

 Previous article in this series "Reaching 
 The Limits " 

 Next article in 
 this series "Golden Breast Of A Hillside" 

 Copyright 2001 Guitar Noise. All rights 
 reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.