Guitar Case | The Little Things 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar 
 Lessons , Guitar Case , The Little Things 

 The Little Things 

 Published November 29, 2000 
 By David 
 Hodge 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 (NOTE: To get the full effect 
 of this introduction, you need to imagine that you're hearing 
 one of those larger-than-life voices. It can be laden with 
 effects, like those voice-overs for commercials for monster 
 truck rallies (or Guitar Center or Sam Ash, for that matter), 
 or it can be a booming yet natural voice which seems to have 
 borrowed from God, much like an old-fashioned evangelist or 
 a carnival barker. And we will not be spending our time today 
 discussing whether all these voices are essentially the same 
 character...) 
 Friends of Guitarists! Families 
 of Guitarists! Don't you hate the holiday seasons? You want 
 to buy your loved one something special that he or she will 
 appreciate but you're afraid of buying the "wrong" 
 thing. So, come Christmas morning, your beloved Guitar Player 
 unwraps the present only to find, yet again, that he or she 
 will indeed having plenty of socks to keep his or her feet 
 warm this winter!! 
 That's enough silliness, I think. 
 With all due apologies to R.L. Burnside, it can really get 
 bad, you know. 
 Last year I wrote a piece for 
 the holidays entitled, " On 
 Gifts and Giving ," in which I tried to explain a 
 bit about how I felt about music being a gift that should 
 be continually given. At the time, it led to a lot of interesting 
 (and occasionally lengthy) conversations among some of my 
 friends who don't play any instrument. And I was actually 
 quite surprised at the unexpected direction those conversions 
 took. 
 You should know something: most 
 of my friends and I share a fundamental belief when it comes 
 to giving someone a gift, whether it be for the holidays, 
 one's birthday or simply "just because." A gift 
 should convey several messages - that you care about a person, 
 that you want to share in that person's life and interests 
 and also that you want that person to share in yours as well. 
 A gift, ideally, tells not only a story of the receiver, but 
 of the giver as well. 
 But many of my non-musician friends, 
 I found, were very uncomfortable giving someone a gift of 
 music (other than a CD, but somtimes even then) to someone. 
 The main reason for this was the fear of buying "the 
 wrong thing," something the other person would not want. 
 I've talked with other people about this as well and discovered 
 that this fear is more common than I would ever have realized. 
 So, as a bit of a "public 
 service," if you will, I'd like to offer some shopping 
 guidelines for musicians and non-musicians alike. Just in 
 time for the holidays, too. You'd think that I might have 
 planned it this way on purpose or something... 
 First off, let me ease your mind 
 a bit - I will not tell you to buy someone a guitar! You should 
 never do this unless you're getting someone his or her first 
 guitar (and only knowing full well that this gift will undoubtedly 
 be replaced or, better yet, passed on somewhere down the road). 

 Also, I will tell you that if 
 your intended recipient is someone of a, oh, how to put it 
 politely? "singular" mindset - you know, only listens 
 to one type of music, has to have everything just so (whether 
 music or life), is leery of changes in his or her life - then 
 don't even bother. Nothing will please this sort of person 
 and it has absolutely nothing to do with you or your gift, 
 regardless of how he or she may make you feel about it. This 
 is strictly a personality thing; you could give this person 
 a million dollar guitar and he will fixate on the fact that 
 it doesn't come with the strings he "always" uses. 
 Fortunately for you, the majority 
 of true musicians have a wonderful sense of curiosity and 
 the need to experiment. This is why you should never really 
 worry about getting the "wrong" thing. There are 
 no wrong things! 
 But you do have to know something 
 about the guitarist you are buying for. Does he or she own 
 more than one guitar? Acoustic? Electric? Classical? More 
 than one of a couple of kinds? Does he or she perform a lot 
 or is your guitarist more likely to be found at home writing 
 and recording music? If you've got a performer, you must have 
 seen a show or two. Does he or she stand or sit while playing? 
 What styles of music do they play, aspire to play? What music 
 does your friend listen to on his/her own time? 
 You may not know this, but there 
 are a lot of things that guitarists always need, but 
 rarely purchase, usually because they are obsessing over their 
 next "big" buy. Guitar players go through stuff 
 that needs to be replaced fairly often. 
 Strings and picks come immediately 
 to mind. Anyone who doesn't need strings never plays. And 
 unless your guitarist is a classical player or one of the 
 "fingers only" school of style (or one of my friends 
 who still has the same picks he bought twenty years ago!), 
 he or she will always need picks. 
 "But there are so many different 
 kinds of strings and picks," you might say. "Which 
 one do I choose?" 
 Well, not to give away any big 
 secrets or anything, but unless you're buying for one of those 
 aforementioned personality types, anything will do. On my 
 last birthday, a friend of mine got me a brand of guitar strings 
 I'd never even seen before. They turned out to be the best 
 I'd played in a long time. I was truly amazed. 
 And even if it's not "the 
 brand I always use," hey, a person is always breaking 
 string and you can never have enough spares in any gauge. 
 The same goes for picks. Personally, I'm always trying out 
 new types simply for the joy of a new sound. 
 If you've got a regular performer 
 on your hands, a "pick holder," which is a device 
 that allows you to have an array of picks at your disposal 
 (no pun intended) right there on the mike stand is always 
 a nice idea. And it is much classier looking than two-sided 
 tape. 
 Speaking of stands, a guitarist 
 can never have too many of those, either. Guitar stands, I'm 
 talking of here. Or music stands, for that matter. On the 
 day I finally have more guitar stands than guitars, then I 
 will be able to offer stands to my guests who have not brought 
 (or do not have) one of their own. 
 Same goes for guitar straps. 
 You wouldn't think that these would wear out as quickly as 
 they do sometimes. And this is an item that is easily "personalized." 
 Think of it in the same terms as buying a tie. It can make 
 a great statement. 
 Other "little things" 
 that guitarists often need include guitar polish and cloths 
 (usually sold in kits but available separately), power cords 
 (connect the guitar to the amp or whatever) (and nowadays 
 people have so many effects that they can't have enough cords, 
 either) and capos. Yes, capos do wear out. Most people never 
 give this a second thought, but it is good to replace them, 
 especially if you use them a lot, every few years. You should 
 definitely know what type of guitar your friend plays if you 
 intend to purchase one. The easiest way is to simply ask - 
 "Hey, what's that thing do?" and listen (again) 
 to the explanation while making mental notes about the capo's 
 size and style. 
 If your guitarist is either just 
 starting out, or simply doesn't have one, I would recommend 
 getting him or her a tuner. Or a metronome (especially a metronome). 
 Or both (someone must make one that does both, surely?). There 
 are all sorts and you don't have to spend a fortune on these 
 items. A pitch pipe will not only work as well as an $80.00 
 tuner, it has no battery to replace! 
 If you live with an electric 
 guitarist, then a nice gift for both of you would be a "headphone 
 amp." This does exactly what you think it does - instead 
 of plugging into an amp, the guitarist plugs the headphones 
 into the guitar and voila, a personal amplifier. No longer 
 will you have to ask him or her to "turn it down" 
 while you're on the phone! I will warn you that this can lead 
 to all sorts of other problems but again, that's more to do 
 with the guitarist than the gift itself! 
 Conversely, if you know an acoustic 
 guitarist who plays with a lot of other guitarists, then a 
 nice pick-up is another thoughtful and relatively inexpensive 
 gift. 
 If you want to get something 
 to help stimulate an interest in a different direction, a 
 slide is a great choice. 
 As you might imagine, my two 
 favorite gifts are books and "toys." By "toys," 
 I mean an instrument that I might not ever get for myself 
 but is nonetheless a lot of fun to play. And I really shouldn't 
 call them "toys" because this is not to say that 
 I don't take them seriously. Au contraire! It can be something 
 as simple as a little percussion piece. A coworker gave me 
 an "egg" for our Christmas grab bag last year. It's 
 a pieceof wood that is, big surprise, shaped like an egg. 
 It's been hollowed out and filled with something so that you 
 can shake it like a maracas. For me it's great because it's 
 small enough to palm when I play so I can go from guitar to 
 percussion-back up and back to guitar in an instant. Harmonicas, 
 kazoos, little drums or tambourines, there is no end to the 
 things you can find. In fact, my friends and I have this unspoken 
 pact that we tend to pick up interesting percussion items 
 on any of our travels. 
 And books are always great. If 
 you shop around at any guitar store you are bound to see something 
 that your guitarist can benefit from, whether it is an all-purpose 
 "owner's manual type thing (" The 
 Guitar Book " by Tom Wheeler and " The 
 Guitar Handbook " by Ralph Denyer being two good examples) 
 or one of the many that exemplifies a particular style or 
 examines an artist or album. And it doesn't have to be an 
 album or an artist that your guitar player likes, it could 
 easily be one that you like. After all, he or she should be 
 happy to play something especially for you. 
 David Hodge 2000-11-29 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "When You Are Left Handed" 

 Next article in 
 this series "The importance of Knowing Different 
 Genres" 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.