Guitar Case | Reaching the Limits 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar 
 Lessons , Guitar Case , Reaching The Limits 

 Reaching the Limits 

 Published August 22, 2000 
 By Abel 
 Petneki 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Tried everything but still can't play that solo no matter 
 how much you practice? This seems to be a common problem for 
 beginners - lets try a different approach. The problem might 
 not be you; it could actually be your guitar. 
 Most guitarists start playing on an inexpensive acoustic 
 for obvious reasons: you don't want to invest too much until 
 you see whether you can really manage to learn playing the 
 guitar. Or you start learning classical guitar on a nylon-string 
 acoustic. Whichever the case, sooner or later you'll face 
 problems, which lie in the instrument itself. Simple, cheap 
 acoustics have wide, thick necks, short fretboards, the high 
 frets are unreachable, and extremely high action. (In case 
 you wonder: the action is the distance between the strings 
 and the fretboard.) These features can render playing really 
 difficult. And the solution? Well, the possibilities range 
 from some little DIY ("do it yourself") to buying 
 a new instrument. 
 Let's see... 
 Wide, thick neck: 
 This cannot be repaired or adjusted, but read on anyway... 
 High action: 
 On most guitars - including acoustics - the action is adjustable 
 at the instrument's bridge (where the strings are attached 
 to the body). I won't go into details here - consult your 
 favorite guitar shop. Most shop people are more than happy 
 to do simple repairs like this for a reasonable cost. While 
 they're at it, you can also get them to check for other things 
 they might be able to do to smooth out your instrument. The 
 ultimate goal is to set the action as low as possible without 
 any irritating fret buzz. This should help considerably. 
 Strings: 
 Nylon strings are easy to fret and bend, but most rock/blues/country 
 players prefer steel strings. Electric guitars always have 
 steel strings, except for the new classical/electric guitars 
 that some manufacturers are producing lately. Note: you shouldn't 
 put steel strings on your nylon-string guitar - chances are 
 that the neck will break because of the added strain. I learned 
 this the hard way, but that's another story...:-) Anyway the 
 thing to look for in our case is lighter gauge (thinner) strings. 
 Thin strings are easier to play on although they won't sound 
 as majestic as thick ones. If you don't have a clue about 
 your current string gauge, just take the old high e string 
 to the guitar shop and they will tell you the gauge; buy a 
 lighter set of strings. Another solution is mixing string 
 sets. Most rhythm guitarists tend to concentrate on the lower 
 strings (4th, 5th and 6th). One idea would be to buy two sets 
 of strings one light (or extra light) and one medium (or heavy) 
 and just use the appropriate three strings of each set. Of 
 course, you can also buy strings individually or buy special 
 sets optimized for this kind of use. 
 Picks: 
 Okay, the guitar pick is not part of the instrument, but 
 using an appropriate pick should help, too. Just experiment 
 with thinner and thicker picks. If you just strum chords all 
 the time you should go for a flexible one (e.g. 0.50mm thick). 
 More rigid picks give you more control during the solos. 
 Buying a new guitar: 
 Now, you don't have to literally buy a brand new instrument: 
 just try a friend's or an expensive one in the shop. In a 
 few minutes you will get the feel of the better guitar and 
 how it would affect your playing. Or try an electric if you 
 never played one - there's a huge difference. Remember that 
 as you upgrade your skills you might want to consider upgrading 
 your equipment. 
 Just one last thought: don't blame the guitar if you don't 
 practice enough. But bear in mind that the best guitarists 
 get to play the best guitars available - it's not just talent 
 and practicing. 
 Abel Petneki 2000-08-22 
 About the Author 
 Abel Petneki lives in Budapest, Hungary. 
 He started playing the guitar around two years ago and loves 
 it. Abel plays rhythm guitar in a garage band called "Zuzmo." 
 His current guitar is an Ibanez electric/acoustic. If he could 
 play with any guitarist, Abel would definitely choose Kurt 
 Cobain or Lou Reed. Or with any singer? Then he'd opt for 
 Liam Gallagher. You can email him at petneki@mail.datanet.hu 
 Back to top 

 Back to a list of articles in this series 

 Next article in 
 this series "Tales From The Ili Valley" 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.