Guitar Case | The Importance Of Knowing Different Genres 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar 
 Lessons , Guitar Case , The Importance Of Knowing Different Genres 

 The Importance Of Knowing 
 Different Genres 

 Published August 08, 2001 
 By Ryan Spencer 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Today we will talk about something that not many new guitarists 
 take the time to learn (no, its not theory). It&#146;s genres. 
 If you don't know what a genre is it simply means a classification 
 of a certain type of music such as blues. Now, when I started 
 playing the guitar I mostly liked to play metal, but after 
 meeting friends and other musicians I learned how important 
 it was to learn the different genres. 
 REASONS 
 There are many reasons to learn different genres. One is 
 to learn the theory behind it and another is to simply learn 
 the genre for musical knowledge. Hey, as the saying goes "knowledge 
 is power". But how do you learn different genres, and 
 at the same there are for reasons I believe there are many 
 ways to learn different genres. 
 These are the steps I use to learn about a new genre: 

 Listen to a bit of the music 
 Check a site or ask a friend to teach you about it 
 Learn how to play it 
 Learn the tricks and tips behind it 
 Learn a couple of songs 

 Many of these work and you can find out other things to do 
 as well. When you learn different music and (maybe) when you 
 travel around someone may ask you "hey can you play such 
 and such" you can play it for him. But just in case you 
 don't you can write it down and search for it. You don't have 
 to like all the genres you listen to but at least respect 
 them for what they can teach you. Whenever you learn a new 
 genre don&#146;t say, "I am learning such and such" 
 but instead say "I am absorbing a new form of music." 

 As an example, Let's say you are a beginning guitarist and 
 you hear about the blues. Now you can go out to a music store 
 or some sites and so forth and you find, and I suggest this 
 too, a "best of" type of CD. In this case let's 
 make it John Lee Hooker and maybe even Muddy Waters. Check 
 a site like this one. Or, if it's a much more unknown type 
 of genre (that is, it's unknown to you by its theory and how 
 to play it), then ask some friends who listen and play it 
 all the time. Study everything about the genre, the theory, 
 the history, even the sub-genres (we'll talk about those later). 
 As for the tricks used behind blues that is a simple thing 
 to answer. It uses some of the most common types of tricks 
 such as bends and slides and the tips they use behind the 
 tricks would be to use them more emotionally. Now going back 
 to the CD's we got at the music store lets say we decide to 
 learn Boom Boom by John Lee Hooker and Hoochie Coochie 
 Man by Muddy Waters. 
 WHAT MADE <that genre> WHAT? 
 Well that's a big question to ask. what genre made what genre. 
 To give a starting point in history the Spanish invented what 
 we consider the modern guitar and so came classical and flamenco. 
 But if you're asking about what made a lot of the genres we 
 have today, I would have to say I would the blues is the foundation 
 of a lot of the genres we know. Blues made many forms of music 
 (not all but a lot). So if you ever had to learn a single 
 genre I would go with blues as a good starting point. Blues 
 contains a major amount of the tricks used by today's guitarists 
 as well as a good deal of theory. But my suggestion is to 
 learn anything and everything you can. 
 DISTINGUISHING, VARIATIONS, COMMUNITIES 
 Most genres have branches in which many "sub-genres" 
 are formed by combining different theories. In blues there 
 are forms of "sub-genres", in this case country 
 blues or folk blues, acoustic blues, Chicago blues, Delta 
 blues, Texas blues, etc. These are all blues but they have 
 different flavors. Taj Mahal is more of a country/folk blues 
 person while guys like 
 Muddy Waters and John Lee Hooker (even though they experimented 
 with different forms of blues) played a form of Delta blues. 
 Jimi Hendrix too was a blues guy but he managed to combine 
 blues with so many different other styles. In making his music, 
 he influenced many others as well. 
 TIPS AND TRICKS (and other genres to check out) 
 Look at all the old stuff, Bob Dylan, Jimi Hendrix, Led Zeppelin, 
 and so forth. And whenever you're jamming with other guitarists 
 ask them what they listen to and check it out. Also check 
 out who are their role models. To wrap up, the major thing 
 is that in order to be a versatile guitarist you must be stretch 
 you knowledge. Learn as many genres as you can. Then learn 
 to incorporate them into your own style of playing. 
 Ryan Spencer 2001-08-08 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "The Little Things" 

 Next article in 
 this series "A Brief History Of The Guitar" 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.