Guitar Case | Talent Showcases & Open Mic Nites 

 Buy 
 brand name guitar 
 strings for 60% less 
 Guitar 
 Secrets Revealed 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar 
 Lessons , Guitar Case , A Brief History Of The Guitar 

 Talent Showcases & Open 
 Mic Nites 

 Published October 26, 2001 
 By Alan Horvath 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Many local clubs feature an "open mic" venue, where 
 songwriters and musicians of all kinds can get their feet 
 wet. It's a great way to find others to co-write with ... 
 or others to form a band, duo, or trio with ... and perhaps 
 most importantly, to perform for an audience and see what 
 it takes to pull off a show of your own. 
 Coffee Houses and Churches make the best settings for creating 
 an appropriate atmosphere. Clubs, or venues serving alcohol, 
 are usually bad for "intellectual art," which is 
 what open mics are, in my opinion. Let's face it, alcohol 
 doesn't exactly put people in a state of focused awareness, 
 eh? So, if you have a choice, or if you are thinking of starting 
 your own venue, avoid the places that are offering alcohol. 
 Of course, this isn't ALWAYS true, and often it isn't avoidable. 
 But it is worth noting. 
 Open mics are a lot of fun! Instrumentalists, poets, solos, 
 duos, trios, bands ... you name it ... will usually perform 
 3 or 4 pieces at a time - which makes it palatable for any 
 audience to enjoy. If you don't like the act that's presently 
 up, well, in 20 minutes they'll be gone and you can enjoy 
 the next surprise. And, often, it is a surprise! You never 
 know when some real talent might step up and do something 
 uniquely from the heart. If you're just observing, you'll 
 find yourself thinking how well you would do in comparison 
 to all that you've witnessed ... but be forewarned! This is 
 not as simple as it looks! 
 You may have done all your homework ... practiced to the 
 max ... compiled songs that are pure hits ... vocals and parts 
 worked out to dazzle any audience ... until you're sure you're 
 better than anything you've seen at the local open mics. But 
 on your first try you will most likely drop a bomb as big 
 as any you've seen - and in total disbelief! And, these will 
 be the excuses you find dripping off your bottom lip: "The 
 room was too noisy - I couldn't focus!" ... "I couldn't 
 hear myself! That sound guy is a real jerk!" ... "The 
 guitar wasn't loud enough." ... "The vocal mic wasn't 
 even turned on!" ... I could keep on going, but what's 
 the sense? Fact is, you didn't know what you were doing, and 
 did a poor job. You didn't really think you'd pull it off 
 perfectly your very first try ... did you? Of course you did! 
 You worked hard at this! You prepared thoroughly! So what 
 went wrong? Distraction. Unfamiliar surroundings. Lack of 
 experience. That's what. 
 So. What to do? Go back next week, and do it all over again. 
 Simple as that. This is what open mics are for! Let's face 
 it ... until you pull THIS gig off, you aren't gonna be touring 
 or getting paid for what you do. But if you focus, keep at 
 it, and figure out all the little things that go on in a club 
 atmosphere, it won't be long before you're a popular and welcomed 
 face at the local open mic scene. 
 Rule Number One: 
 Understand this: Absolutely every person in the audience 
 ... in ANY audience ... wants to see you do well. Really well. 
 They are rooting for you from the moment you get on stage. 
 Think about this for a minute, okay? Slow down ... give this 
 some serious thought ... in fact, stop and dwell on this whole 
 idea for a while, and recognize just how true it really is: 
 The audience is not sitting there judging your talent. And, 
 the audience is not sitting there waiting for the next big 
 thing to strike America like a bolt from heaven, either. They 
 don't care how "great" you are ... or how wonderful 
 you think you are. They are very simply out to have a fun 
 evening ... and when you get up on that stage, they are HOPING 
 you will be wonderful! If they see you struggling at all ... 
 with anything ... they are secretly praying for your success 
 ... sending you their energy and their precious love ... why? 
 Dig this: Because they are putting themselves in your shoes, 
 man! They are being "you!" Isn't that what you do 
 when you are watching and listening to an act? Meditate on 
 this concept. It's a true concept ... and it's a healing one, 
 too. When you get up in front of an audience, you start with 
 them on your side. 
 If you get up there trying to prove how good you are, you're 
 likely to do just the opposite. Try to let go of your ego 
 ... this isn't easy, 'cause it takes quite a bit of ego to 
 get up there in the first place, eh? But get this straight 
 - you are there for them ... they are not there for you. The 
 performers who have this one twisted around, are very obvious 
 ... and it's offensive ... not entertaining. 
 Now here comes Mr. Dichotomy: Forget about the audience and 
 just do your thing ... don't think about them, or how they 
 are going to react ... just do what you usually do ... you 
 know, when no one's around ... and let them witness that. 
 Go inside yourself ... focus on what you love ... and let 
 it happen. If you are thinking about the audience, you are 
 not going to be focused about what you are doing and you are 
 going to make a mistake ... and then you'll be thinking about 
 what the audience is thinking about you for making that mistake 
 ... and while you are concentrating on that dilemma, you'll 
 make yet another mistake and then ... oh, man. 
 In short, it all becomes a matter of what you really care 
 about. If you're overly concerned about what an audience is 
 thinking of you, you are bound to blow it. On the other hand, 
 if you care about what you are doing, it'll show as a sincere 
 presentation of whatever talent you have ... and that is all 
 anyone can ask for - including you. 
 Just know that any audience, from the very start, is on your 
 side ... so, be there for them by focusing on your song and 
 giving yourself over to that. It's not easy to develop this 
 kind of trust in yourself, let alone a room full of strangers 
 ... but you may as well, because in the end that's the way 
 it's going to be - or you won't be playing in front of people 
 for very long. 
 Rule Number Two: 
 Now ... the technical side of things. This is tough at first, 
 but after a few times it gets real easy: The first thing you 
 do when you get up in front of the mic, is plug your guitar 
 in ... test it in conjunction with your mic ... and get a 
 happy balance happening. Don't get all flustered, and don't 
 expect anyone to know what you need! You are the only one 
 who knows that. Simply say, "A little less guitar, please." 
 Or, "A little less vocal, please." Notice I said 
 "less." Amateurs tend to ask for "more." 
 Wrong idea. Less is more ... as I'll be pointing out. The 
 only time I ask for "more" is in reference to my 
 monitors. Those are the speakers (usually on the floor, right 
 at your feet, pointing up at you) that let you hear what you 
 are doing. If they aren't loud enough, you might wind up playing 
 in one key and singing in another ... without ever knowing 
 it! The audience will though ... be sure your monitors are 
 comfortable for you. 
 Okay. You've got a nice balance happening. You can hear your 
 guitar and you can hear your vocal. Now you are ready to play. 
 If you ever start playing before applying this discipline 
 (and you probably will), you will know - and you will never 
 forget - why it is so very important. If you can't hear yourself 
 in those monitors, you are going to do a lot of very silly 
 things ... and, like I said, you probably won't even know 
 it ... but the audience will. 
 Rule Number Three: 
 Relax. Pull back. I'm tellin' you ... this is a hot tip! 
 Play your instrument ... sing your songs ... quietly! Don't 
 be fooled! This applies to rock and roll bands too! I repeat 
 - pull back and play softer than you think you should ... 
 especially in a noisey room! There is something that happens 
 when you do this ... it can not be explained ... but you'll 
 see what I mean when you successfully apply this technique. 
 It seems to create a "controlled tension" in your 
 performance that adds magic and professionalism to any performance. 
 There was an open mic I use to hate playing. It was a long 
 narrow room with the stage all the way back at one end ... 
 the acoustics in this room sucked so bad it was unbelievable! 
 And to add to it, the place was usually packed with loud, 
 drinking, partying college students. I honestly dreaded the 
 thought of playing there, but went faithfully every week. 
 I knew it was one of the most important gigs I could play 
 ... because it was the toughest. I use to say, "Man, 
 if you can play this room and pull it off, you can play anywhere." 
 And that's why I did it. And, the first time I conquered that 
 room was the first time I played that room. I followed a popular 
 rock band who had the place filled with their fans ... no 
 one knew, or cared who I was ... and with just me and my guitar, 
 I got on stage and set up ... by the time I was ready to play 
 my first song, the room was so packed and so loud I couldn't 
 hear anything that mattered! I focused ... started playing 
 WAY softer than usual ... and with a quiet ballad, to boot! 
 By the time I reached the end of the first verse, I had the 
 attention of the entire room. And, man ... I can't tell you 
 how good a feeling THAT is! The next song was upbeat, and 
 from then on, they were all "mine." And, afterwards, 
 everytime I played that room I had their attention ... because 
 "first impressions are lasting ones." If I would've 
 tried to beat the noise of the room, instead of creating "my 
 own quiet, private party," I would never have done it. 

 Learn how to apply "controlled tension" by pulling 
 back and focusing on having your own private party on stage 
 ... and everyone will want to join you! 
 Some Other Stuff: 
 If you are using a mic on your guitar, don't place it directly 
 in front of the soundhole ... just slightly below the centerpoint 
 of the soundhole, pointing up at a 45 degree angle is better 
 ... I prefer using a pickup, for the same reason I prefer 
 using a headset mic ... I like the freedom to move around, 
 and I don't like seeing a "silver stick" in front 
 of my face and body. 
 Try and get there early, and place your guitar/equipment 
 near the stage ... there's usually a designated area - find 
 out where it is, and when you are called to play, be organized 
 and quick about your setup without sacrificing your satisfaction 
 with the monitors and sound. 
 When you feel your performances are up to snuff, ask the 
 club owner to listen to your sets and let him/her know you're 
 interested in a paying gig - be ready, also, with a promo 
 package for her/him to look at and listen to, and be sure 
 your name and phone number are on every thing. 
 Be supportive of every act that performs ... no matter what 
 your opinion may be. Everyone needs encouragement - especially 
 those who may *seem* to be wasting your time. If they have 
 the guts to get up there, they deserve your attention and 
 applause. 
 While you are on stage, keep an eye on the head-honcho-in-charge 
 for any signals ... he/she may want you to do another song, 
 or they may want you to wrap it up. Act like a pro. 
 Don't make excuses about or for anything. No one wants to 
 know whether or not you have a cold, etc., etc. - there's 
 nothing so unprofessional as making excuses about your voice, 
 or rambling on about some other unrelated issue. If you have 
 a cool story to relate about a song, tell it like a friend, 
 and it can truly add to the show ... but keep it to the point 
 and, for the most part, let your music speak for itself. 
 Last, but certainly not least, don't play any song you haven't 
 practiced to the hilt. As my other tutorials point out, you 
 should know your stuff backwards, forwards and upside down 
 if you ever expect to let the muse have it's way. 
 If you are interested in performing at an "Open Mic 
 Nite " check out more open mike tips from John Carrahars's 
 article " Getting Up On The Stage " 
 Alan Horvath 2001-10-26 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "A Brief History Of Progressive 
 Rock " 

 Next article in 
 this series "Getting Up On The Stage" 

 Copyright 2001 Guitar Noise. All rights 
 reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.