Guitar Case - An Interview With .Matt Butler 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 Guitar Case , Bill Edwards Interview 

 An Interview With .Matt Butler 

 Published April 26, 2002 
 By David Hodge 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 .Matt Butler and the Matt Butler Quartet are based in 
 Jacksonville, Florida. To read more about his groundbreaking 
 guitar work, hear his MP3s and find out where and when 
 they are playing, visit .MAtt at www.biodigitalmusic.com . 

 Who is .Matt Butler? Well, I could tell you that he is the 
 latest addition to the writing staff at Guitarnoise. Or I 
 could simply quote the biographical content from his website: 
 Most musicians simply play. Most composers simply write. 
 But few musicians, few composers have the audacity, the balls, 
 to question their sonic environment so thoroughly as to doubt 
 it all together, forcing themselves to deconstruct existing 
 musical theory to its most fundamental elements, then, from 
 the ground up, rebuild a new sound world, with elaborate new 
 concepts and philosophies to suit their unique needs. John 
 Zorn, Elliott Carter, Edgard Varese, Miles Davis, Frank Zappa, 
 John Cage, Harry Partch and Phillip Glass are a few names 
 that come to mind. It is in this tradition that Jacksonville 
 musician/composer Matt Butler creates. 
 First introduced to music by his mother, who would play Rachmaninov 
 on the family piano, Butler began playing keyboard instruments 
 at age 9. With heavy doses of classical music festering in 
 his blood, Butler started composing at 14. His interest soon 
 expanded to guitar, leading Butler down a winding path. His 
 was the way of the fledging renegade composer, shirking classical 
 theory in favor of the more organic need to unleash what was 
 banging around in his head. Though Butler engaged in some 
 "formal" education (he was kicked out of a Jacksonville 
 art-oriented high school, twice, then attended the Grove School 
 of Music), the headstrong guitarist was going in other directions. 
 He was, unwittingly, laying the foundation for an impressive 
 body of work. 
 The terrain Butler navigated as a young artist was unpredictable 
 as he investigated jazz fusion (Allan Holdsworth, Miles Davis), 
 traditional jazz (John Coltrane, Keith Jarrett), progressive 
 rock (Rush), East Indian music (Ravi Shankar) and the obligatory 
 list of shredders that included Steve Vai and Scott Henderson. 
 As Butler's interests grew, so did his ideas about music and 
 composition - and about performance. In his 20s, Butler began 
 piecing together bands to perform his compositions. Though 
 functioning within a jazz framework, Butler's music never 
 quite fit the mold. Heavy on thematic improvisations, Butler's 
 live gigs became workshops of a sort, where musicians could 
 breathe within Butler's expansive compositions. With the Matt 
 Butler Quartet, the Matt Butler Quintet and the End of the 
 World Orchestra, Butler leveled his sights at the senses of 
 those willing to listen - and he proceeded to obliterate them. 
 Butler's temperament paralleled his visceral approach to 
 music, and he put his players through a meat grinder. His 
 love for music, and his devotion to its passionate representation, 
 led Butler into disturbing realms. Butler became known for 
 walking away from the bandstand mid-performance leaving a 
 bewildered ensemble - and audience -- behind. His explanation 
 was simple: "I had nothing more to say." Butler 
 would rather preserve the beauty of the moment and leave in 
 tact the integrity of the live performance, than taint it 
 with superfluous nonsense. Groove and feel, sincerity and 
 meaning are of utmost importance when working over a Butler 
 composition, no questions asked. 
 Butler would often walk away from live performance and even 
 composing as well, frustrated with the lack of appreciation 
 by local audiences and numbed by the purveyance of bad music 
 on the scene. But he'd inevitably resurrect himself time and 
 time again, writing for his smaller groups and even staging 
 concerts of his "classical" compositions at the 
 University of North Florida. 
 This ideal, this dedication to pure musical performance, 
 continues with Butler's latest ensemble. Comprising Butler 
 on guitar, Joseph Yorio on saxophones, Sean Tarleton on bass 
 and Tim Stombaugh on drums, the 2002 version of the Matt Butler 
 Quartet is twisting Butler's compositions (new and old) into 
 new shapes and forms. It's the melding of years of composition, 
 and reams of Butler's musical concepts and theories (much 
 too detailed to talk about here) into a new assault. Butler's 
 music is as delicate as a butterfly and as intimidating as 
 swiftly approaching cinder block. And as Butler turns yet 
 another corner, don't be surprised if that butterfly just 
 happens to be flinging that cinder block right at your face. 

 If you've already read his article on Thematic 
 Improvisation , you know that, beyond the standard PR hype, 
 .Matt has some wonderful ideas about music. In order to give 
 our readers more insight into and his thoughts about music 
 in general, and his approach to music in particular, we had 
 a little on-line interview. 
 Guitar Noise: When you took up the guitar, you had already 
 had several years of piano. Do you feel that this helped you 
 at all? 
 MB: Well, those years were not 'formal' shedding/study 
 years. The time that I spent on the piano prior to picking 
 up the guitar was more a 'symptom' of the calling as opposed 
 to the beginning of the disciplined path. I would pick out 
 fragments of themes that I liked and improvise with them for 
 hours but I never approached it the way I have the guitar. 
 My approach to exploring the guitar has been very methodical, 
 but structured in such a way that I am free from clich&eacute;s 
 when I improvise. 
 GN: Do you use a single guitar in concert? What type? 
 What kind of equipment? 
 MB: My primary guitar is a Godin Multiac Jazz which 
 runs through a Roland GR33, Boss GT3, and into a Deville. 
 GN: To someone such as myself, who pretty much absorbs 
 much of his music through song, the idea of totally improvised 
 music seems both enchanting and dangerous. I mean, there must 
 be some structure to start with, right? Could you walk us 
 through what might typically (if you can call this "typical") 
 happen in one of your pieces? 
 MB: Well, there are a few ways a gig can go: one is 
 that we work from my compositions and develop the improvisations 
 from the thematic sections that these provide. Another way 
 is that we choose very short tone rows and develop those. 
 Finally, the group may take to the 'stage' with no idea what 
 is going to happen at all and we just play. 
 Now, none of this is to say that we don't exercise good judgement 
 in taste. We don't just play crap, we have a mutual goal within 
 the group and that is to make a cohesive, beautiful, if somewhat 
 dark, musical statement. 
 The structure of the improvisation is determined by the direction 
 in which the prominent voice is moving. It's up to the other 
 musicians in the group to decide what kind of impression to 
 create around the voice based on what they are hearing. 

 GN: I'd like to be able to ask you more questions about 
 this on the basis of your answer in order to flesh things 
 out. To play in this style one must have an incredible empathy 
 with one's fellow musicians. How does an individual go about 
 learning this skill? 
 MB: I don't know if anyone can quantify something 
 that is so intangible, but I can tell you some of what I did. 

 First, understand that anything you play causes a 'ripple' 
 to occur in the space that you are sharing with the other 
 musicians. They are going to be affected by it, and their 
 reaction will, in turn affect you. 
 I have always made a clear distinction between what I shed 
 and the actual music that I improvise/play. Early on in my 
 life, I picked about 5 things to shed and have not deviated. 
 I have played these same 5 things in my practice sessions 
 for my entire musical life. My approach is to perfect playing 
 these things, being able to control the tone, dynamics, rhythm, 
 articulation, etc. These are the same musical 'elements' that 
 I would have had to deal with if I was shedding 500 things. 
 I don't know that this is advisable for everyone, but I knew 
 from the time I picked up the instrument that I would only 
 play my own music, so I didn't have anything to lose. 
 Another thing I do is improvise with CD's of orchestral 
 music, string quartets, solo piano, rap, jazz, etc. I never 
 make an attempt to fit in stylistically, rather I just play 
 something that makes melodic and rhythmic sense. Sometimes 
 this sounds perfectly in step with what is going on, other 
 times it clashes and presents more of a challenge to make 
 music out of it. 
 On a macro level, I learned to play the guitar without learning 
 any specific music on it so when it comes time to make music 
 I am free to just deal with what is my head as opposed to 
 what is in my fingers. 
 I also had a vague idea of how my music would sound from 
 the beginning; I just didn't know that I did. In my head I 
 had this hazy, romantic vision of some guitarist's group improvising 
 amazing music. I always thought that was my vision of those 
 'great unknown' players that you hear about in music stores 
 and colleges&#133; you know what I mean: "yeah man, there's 
 this 15 year old kid in Alabama that is amazing! He's so this 
 and that&#133;!" Then your head fogs over and you start 
 to see a vision of this amazing guitarist playing sounds that 
 you have never heard before. Guess what. That's you! Just 
 as it was me in my head! Those sounds in my head were mine, 
 they didn't belong to the 15 wonder kind in Alabama. Over 
 the years that vision has become as clear as looking in the 
 mirror. 
 I was also lucky enough to grow up around musicians whose 
 sole aim was to develop their own voice and play improvisational 
 music, and that has continued to the present time. (Jacksonville, 
 Florida, man&#133; You would be surprised at some of the talent 
 that has come through my quartet!) 
 GN: How on earth did you find a theremin player? In Florida 
 no less? 
 MB: Well, Joseph (Yorio) plays many, many instruments. 
 Theremin being one of them, but he hasn't played it with the 
 group, yet. 
 GN: Do you have any current projects in development? 
 At the bottom of the queue is a view into the realities of 
 war that will probably make most people yack. Other than that 
 I am working on a book that will explain my approach to improvising 
 music and a guitar non-method. As always I play and compose 
 when the mood strikes. 
 David Hodge 2002-04-26 
 Previous 
 article in this series "Bill Edwards Interview" 
 Next article in this series 
 "Playing With Emotion" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.