Guitar Case - Singing 101 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar 
 Lessons , Guitar Case , Singing 101 

 Singing 101 

 Published September 21, 2002 
 By Nick 
 Torres 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Think you can't sing? Think again. Can you hum or sing the 
 pitches as you tune your guitar? Can you sing along with your 
 car radio? You can? Great! Now we know you can sing. It's 
 good to get that out of the way. 
 Think your voice is grating? Does it scare the children and 
 cats? Do dogs like to sing along? 
 Let me just say this about that: Bob Dylan, Neil Young, Tom 
 Waits, Dr. Hook, Brittany Spears and many more. Now, not everybody 
 has a voice that demands to be listened to, but everyone can 
 improve what they have. 
 I'm going to give you a brief overview of singing here, but 
 the best thing you can do for yourself is find a teacher and 
 take a lesson. Waste of time you say? Would you say a guitar 
 lesson is a waste? I didn't think so. Your voice as an instrument 
 is amazingly similar to a guitar, and just as complex. But 
 with just a couple of lessons, you can make a dramatic improvement 
 in your voice. Think of the great leap you made as an absolute 
 beginner playing guitar. Day one, you couldn't play anything. 
 Day two, you could play several chords. In a couple of weeks, 
 how much more did you accomplish? You can make the same kind 
 of dramatic improvement singing. 
 I don't know why this is especially so for voice lessons, 
 but people have the misguided idea that voice lessons are 
 for people who are already great singers. Well, this is absolutely 
 wrong. That's like saying if you're a beginning guitarist, 
 you shouldn't take lessons because you're not good enough 
 yet. It makes no sense at all. 
 "Really?" you say. "Well how would I go about 
 starting?" 
 I'm glad you asked. 
 Your first step is to find a teacher who can teach the style 
 you want to sing. Although the basics are the same from style 
 to style, if you're being taught opera, but want to sing thrash... 
 well you get the idea. Just talk to the teacher and make sure 
 he or she can get you on the road to your vocal destination. 
 While you're talking, find out the teacher's hourly and half 
 hourly rates. Rates vary all over the board, but for a beginning 
 lesson you can estimate $25 for a half hour. You can find 
 a voice teacher posted on a bulletin board at your local guitar 
 shop, at the local community college, and the yellow pages. 
 You can ask a singing friend for names and numbers of good 
 teachers or check with your local choir director. Don't forget 
 the music teachers at your local schools. 
 Make sure you take a tape recorder to your lesson. You'll 
 get a history of where you started, you can play the lesson 
 over and over, and you can record the teacher playing your 
 homework. Listen to it in the car and sing along. The nice 
 thing about being a singer is the equipment is so easy to 
 carry. You can sing just about anywhere. 
 No social commentary here, but if you smoke, don't do it 
 before your lesson. Besides your voice teacher giving you 
 endless grief, it dries out your sinuses and throat, it cuts 
 the amount of air you can breathe in, and causes all the other 
 nasty things printed on the side of the package. 

 The first lesson will go something like this: 

 You'll be told to sit up straight for the first of many 
 times. 
 You'll be told the mechanics of how your voice works. 
 Your teacher will play some simple 3 or 4 note partial 
 scales and ask you to duplicate them. 
 You'll be told to sit up straight again. 
 Then you'll get some direction about what muscles to 
 use to support your voice. 
 Next, you'll learn some imagery about how to free up 
 and project the voice. 
 Why aren't you sitting up straight? 
 Let's try those scales again using your new-found knowledge. 
 Then you'll get some exercises to practice for homework. 

 It is actually painless. Even after this basic lesson, you 
 should be able to see the building blocks forming. 
 Practice and Anatomy 
 Now, a word about practice. Singing isn't difficult. But, 
 like anything else, it takes practice and repetition to become 
 proficient. When you are learning to play a new song, do you 
 just play it through once and then announce, "Ready to 
 go"? No. You play it over and over until it sounds good 
 enough to take on the road. Same thing applies here. Take 
 those exercises and drill 'em. 
 Well, that is the lesson pitch portion of this column. Let's 
 move on to Anatomy 101. 
 It's analogy time. Remember I said the voice is amazingly 
 like the guitar? Let's think of the parts of your body that 
 make up your voice as the parts of a guitar. 
 Larynx membranes (vocal cords) are the strings. 
 Larynx muscles are the fretboard. 
 Your throat is the sound hole. 
 Your diaphragm/stomach is the guitar body. 
 Your sinuses are the type of wood used in the guitar. 
 So what happens when you sing or talk? Just about everyone 
 knows that you make sound by passing air over your larynx. 
 When you speak or sing, you exhale and push air up your throat 
 to the larynx. The larynx has two membranes stretched across 
 it that vibrate in the rushing air to produce sound waves. 
 By changing the tension on those membranes, you produce higher 
 and lower tones. 
 Piece of cake so far, right? Well, here is where you get 
 the difference between the $100 guitar and the $10,000 guitar. 
 Think of your body as the body of the guitar. If you only 
 use your upper body and throat to make a sound, you get the 
 thin, reedy sound of a Martin backpacker. Don't get me wrong; 
 I love my Backpacker. I keep it at work and practice at lunch. 
 But I wouldn't play it in concert. Now, if you breathe correctly 
 and support the sound from way down low, you open up a deep 
 resonating chamber and you get the full-bodied, dreadnought 
 sound. 
 Check out how your body is breathing right now. When you 
 breathe in does your chest rise and do your shoulders rotate 
 back a little? Great. That's all wrong, but very easy to fix. 
 Try this: find a place to get flat on your back. Note: If 
 you are reading this during work, now is probably not the 
 time. Anyway, watch your body as you breathe on your back. 
 Your stomach rises, yes? Your chest stays still, yes? That 
 is because you are filling your lungs to the depths. That 
 is how you want to breathe while singing. 
 Your diaphragm is moving down and creating a vacuum that 
 pulls air into your lungs. When your diaphragm pushes up, 
 air is expelled. This muscle is the lynchpin of singing. You 
 use it to support your voice like the bag on a bagpipe. You 
 squeeze it and the air goes up. If you have trouble staying 
 on pitch when you sing a note, here is the culprit. You must 
 maintain the muscular support from way down here to keep the 
 note steady way up there. 
 A little old lady voice teacher once told me, 

 "When you are supporting the note correctly, your 
 stomach muscles will feel like you are taking a dump." 

 I kid you not. 
 Let's look at your vocal chords - the "guitar strings" 
 of your voice. Problem is, you can't change 'em when they 
 get worn. Drink water before, during and after singing. Room 
 temperature is best before and during, cold after. This keeps 
 everything lubricated and allows for better vibration and 
 sound wave creation. 
 The throat/sound hole and the sinuses/wood work together. 
 They both color the sound. The sound hole allows a specific 
 volume of air to pass, which pushes along the sound waves. 
 Your throat does the same thing, and you want it to be as 
 relaxed and open as possible. Be aware of the muscles of your 
 throat and make sure they are not tensed up. This is not where 
 sound comes from; it is the path the sound travels along. 
 Closing the path simply lessens the sound quality. 
 The number one influence on sound is the sinuses or head 
 cavity. I made this the equivalent of the type of wood, but 
 maybe it should be type of wood, quality of workmanship and 
 quality of materials. It is that important. Think about what 
 you sound like with a head cold. None of the other areas mentioned 
 above are affected, just the sinuses. 
 What happens to your voice? It is muffled, unintelligible 
 and without depth or volume. So it is crucial you keep this 
 area relaxed and clear. When I'm performing, I take a little 
 bottle of baby saline nose drops and use them if I feel even 
 slightly congested. 
 Here are three brief exercises for the sinuses: 

 Hum a song and try to make the humming sound emanate from 
 the area directly between your eyes. Concentrate on the 
 feeling. When you sing, try to make your voice go up from 
 your body, past the larynx and out through that same area. 
 Buzz your lips together loosely. You know, make a motorboat 
 sound. See how the sound seems to be generated just in front 
 of your mouth. Try to get your singing voice to start out 
 there too. The idea is to make sure that your head and throat 
 are not pinching the sound down, but allowing it to resonate 
 and add richness. 
 Visualize a basketball player shooting a foul shot. He 
 starts by bending his knees, then straightening them to 
 add power. He then moves his arms up and shoots the ball 
 in a graceful arc toward the basket. This is the way the 
 voice should work. The diaphragm provides the leg power 
 and the voice gracefully arcs up and out toward the target. 

 So, you've gotten this far. Congratulations. Let me give 
 you four more little hints. 
 Listen to singers that sing like you'd like to sound. Copy 
 them. You can hear intonation, breathing, volume choices and 
 many more things on a recording. 
 Print out the lyrics and mark them up to indicate where you 
 want to breathe, what words you want to emphasize, and which 
 notes are slurred, loud or soft. 
 When you see someone hop up, take the microphone and burst 
 into song in a movie or on TV, laugh heartily out loud. It 
 doesn't work that way. You have to woodshed it first. 
 If you are playing and singing, as soon as you can play the 
 song through, and before you add polish to it, start singing 
 along as you play. This helps you to associate the lyrics 
 with muscle changes in your hands. 
 This hopefully clarifies some misconceptions and provides 
 an overall picture of what is going on when you sing. Voice 
 is not hard to improve. You just need to be willing to invest 
 a little time and practice. 
 Here is a recap: 

 1. Singing is a physical activity and can be improved through 
 proper practice. 

 2. Think about releasing the voice through your head. Don't 
 push or pinch. Send it merrily on its way from the depths 
 of your body up and out through your head. 

 3. Show no fear. If you start to worry what you sound like, 
 you'll tense up. You'll get up to sing and a little flat squeak 
 will escape. Get up there and show them! Belt it out! Be confident! 

 4. Did I say take a lesson? 
 And whatever you do, make sure you sit up straight. 
 Nick Torres 2002-09-21 
 Previous 
 article in this series "The Square Neck Dobro" 
 Next to a list of articles 
 in this series 

 London born, Washington DC area native Nick Torres 
 has been involved in music for more than 20 years. From 
 singing with the Paul Hill Chorale at the Kennedy Center, 
 to Regional Chorus, soloist at Trinity UMC in Alexandria 
 VA, bell ringing, amateur and professional musical theater, 
 and a band or two along the way. 
 Nick started singing rock and roll with a not to be 
 mentioned band that decided to move to California. He 
 chose not to go. The band got a new singer and promptly 
 landed a record contract. This has left severe psychological 
 scars on Nick, as is evidenced by his writing. Never 
 mention this incident to him, never. 
 Nick's influences are Ella Fitzgerald, Louis Prima, 
 Mahalia Jackson, Eddie Vedder, and Frank Sinatra. 
 Currently Nick is focused on spending as much time 
 as possible with his lovely wife and two children. When 
 he's not doing that he's practicing his acoustic guitar 
 and hanging out in the Songwriters Forum here on GuitarNoise. 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.