Guitar Case - Five Questions With LT 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 Guitar Case , Five Questions With LT 

 Five Questions With LT 

 Published June 21, 2002 
 By David Hodge 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 To read more about LT's background, or to check out 
 her articles on home recording, visit her website at 
 http://www.rubiconmusic.com . 
 Also don't miss our review of Pulse . 

 "LT" is Linda Taylor, guitarist, producer, songwriter. 
 If she looks familiar to you, it's probably because you've 
 seen her providing the wild music for the improvisational 
 comedy show, Whose Line Is It Anyway? 
 But, lest you think that she's someone who has just magically 
 popped into the music world, think again. Linda picked up 
 the guitar at four years old and has been involved in music 
 ever since. 
 LT's playing has taken her all over the world, playing with 
 standout jazz saxophonist Kirk Whalum, Japan's pop superstar 
 Namie Amuro and Tracy Chapman, just to name a few. Last year, 
 she released her first solo CD, Pulse 
 (of which you can read the Guitarnoise review), a joyous celebration 
 of her funk and R&B roots fused with a healthy dose of 
 jazz and blues. If you love instrumental guitar pieces, then 
 you will definitely want this CD in your collection. 

 When I first approached LT with the thought of doing an interview 
 for Guitarnoise, I had a lot of things to ask, and that 
 quickly turned into a lot more! Linda has graciously agreed 
 to answer questions on all sorts of topics that I think will 
 be of interest to you. For this segment, I thought it best 
 to start with some general introductions to her background, 
 her songwriting and current projects. In future segments, 
 we'll be covering soloing and improvisation, recording, producing, 
 songwriting and other aspects of making a career in music. 

 And so, without further adieu, here are today's five questions: 
 GN: While a lot of people now know you because of your 
 work on Whose Line Is It Anyway , you've actually been 
 in the music business for quite some time. Could you give 
 us some insight as to how you developed such a great feel 
 for both funk and jazz? 

 Thanks for the props! I've always dug funk and R&B. 
 I guess jazz came a little later. As a kid I spent virtually 
 all of my time playing along with EW&F, Isley Bros., 
 Ohio Players, Gap Band, etc., etc. I only regret that I 
 didn't start earlier - my teachers were trying to instill 
 theory instead of groove. Whassup with that? 
 So I worked out the rhythm stuff with the groove bands, 
 the single-line stuff and voicing stuff with the (at that 
 time) current R&B artists like Evelyn King, and Luther 
 and Jeffrey and all the Quincy productions. For soloing, 
 I pretty much stuck with BB King. "Live At The Regal" 
 is pretty much all you'll ever need to know about playing 
 the guitar, or playing any instrument for that matter. That 
 album is a study in communication. 
 Which is probably why my soloing tends to be more short-phrased 
 and rhythmic. I hear things rhythmically first, so that 
 tends to be where I start my approach. From there, I'm just 
 trying to find the one note that will say the right thing. 
 My interest in jazz came much later, despite several attempts 
 to 'get it' in high school and college. I like the harmonic 
 stretches, the structure plays and regrouping. It's certainly 
 more freeing than pop music, although sometimes I miss the 
 parameters of pop. Frankly, I think it's just as difficult 
 to hold a groove for five minutes on one chord than to noodle 
 a bunch of scary scales. I guess I like to play the scary 
 scales over the groove. That's a fun marriage. 

 GN: You've certainly played with people from many diverse 
 musical styles. Did you have to learn to change your own style 
 when playing with someone more "folkish" like Tracy 
 Chapman or more "pop" like Namie Amuro (and how 
 on earth did you ever hook up with her, anyway)? Or were you 
 able to bring your own stylings into the mix? How much say 
 does a backing musician have in this type of work? 

 In a pop situation, when you're a sideman touring for an 
 artist, the job is to play their music their way. The sideman's 
 personal style isn't really relevant, unless it's specifically 
 requested. Quite frankly, when people are playing my music, 
 I want them to start with the album. If we take off from 
 there, that's cool, but I have to trust them first. Make 
 sure they know where I'm coming from and where I'm trying 
 to go. 
 I've never toured with an artist who didn't want the sideman 
 to start with the album. Learn the parts just like the record, 
 use sounds as similar as you can, and play it just like 
 the album. There are exceptions to every rule, but let the 
 artist tell you otherwise. 
 I met Namie Amuro's MD through a good friend of mine, Kiki 
 Ebsen, whom I've toured with several times. It was an amazing 
 gig: Namie is as big in Japan as NSync is here. We were 
 doing stadium tours with a huge stage show, dancers, lasers, 
 tons of techs (ah...the good ol' days), the works. Great 
 gig! Talk about a specific gig - there were so many guitar 
 tracks on her albums, and basically Carlos Rios and myself 
 would just divide 'em up and play as many as we could. 

 GN: Do you feel your experience in supporting other artists 
 helped you when you approached other musicians to assist you 
 with your projects, such as your CD, Pulse ? 

 Absolutely! Being a sideman should be required experience 
 for being a solo artist. Being able to see the artist-sideman 
 relationship from both sides is really helpful. I think 
 I gained a lot of empathy for the front man's role once 
 I started hiring people for my own projects. 

 GN: Touching upon your songwriting, how much of it stems 
 from improvisation and how much of it is methodically planned 
 before anyone else even hears it? I guess I'm asking how you 
 go about writing your songs like, say, Baby Blue ? 

 Writing different styles requires different tools. In all 
 cases, I need to decide what I want the song to say. Is 
 this a groove tune that's going to make people shake, or 
 is this a tune that's going to make the listener think, 
 or smile, or hang on for dear life? I guess the one thing 
 I always want to do, no matter what style, is make the listener 
 feel comfortable enough to trust me. So if I dip and swoop, 
 they'll follow along because I've already shown them that 
 we're going home again. 
 Several of the songs from Pulse were inspired by 
 what I was studying at the time. NY Garden , for example, 
 was a play on Coltrane changes, the minor thirds moving 
 up and down. I wanted to combine the floating quality of 
 that kind of progression with the unwavering foundation 
 of funk. 
 Baby Blue was a different story. Wasn't quite as 
 scientific. I wrote the first part very quickly. It was 
 just one of those wonderful moments when you should be practicing, 
 but you're writing instead. But I wanted the bluesy part 
 to take off, in a way that blues progressions don't usually 
 do. That's how the second part happened. The best way for 
 me to get from A to B is to put down the guitar and just 
 start humming something. That is actually how I do most 
 of my writing now, just start humming. It works for me; 
 I don't have to be in front of a computer, or have an instrument 
 in my hands. 

 GN: What sort of projects are you currently working on 
 and are you still performing live? 

 Currently, I'm spending most of my time scoring for film. 
 It's a whole different way of thinking, and I'm really enjoying 
 the challenge. There's a technical side to composing for 
 film that I've never encountered before, such as frequently 
 shifting time signatures and tempos to accommodate different 
 scenes. It's a different world, but very satisfying. 
 I'm also producing and composing for other artists. I'm 
 working with Glenys Rogers, http://www.talkingwomanmusic.com , 
 an amazing singer. She's got a deep, rich alto, and her 
 vibe is somewhere along the lines of India Aire, or Macy. 
 We'll be playing in LA late in July, in promotion of her 
 second album. Watch her website for more details. 

 Next time out, we'll be asking LT questions about soloing, 
 improvising and technique. To read more about LT's background, 
 or to check out her articles on home recording, visit her 
 website at http://www.rubiconmusic.com . 
 She also has an article in the latest issue of Recording Magazine. 
 Peace. 

 David Hodge 2002-06-21 
 Previous 
 article in this series "Stringing and Cleaning Your Guitar" 
 Next to a list of articles 
 in this series 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.