Guitar Case - The Square Neck Dobro 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar 
 Lessons , Guitar Case , The Square Neck Dobro 

 The Square Neck Dobro 

 Published September 06, 2002 
 By Warren 
 Buttler 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Warren Buttler is one of the most interesting people I know. 
 He started off playing and teaching the guitar in his teens. 
 He did the usual club circuit and left it all to become a 
 policeman. After ten years of this, Warren became a counter-terrorism 
 agent. Following about a decade of that, he retired back into 
 civilian life and, in one of life's strange, unexplainable 
 moments, he became a guitarist again. 
 Through several emails and telephone calls, I've learned 
 to know the man behind the music. I'm proud to call him my 
 friend. 
 Warren has released two excellent albums, The 
 Properties of Mercy and The 
 Cultivation of Grace . I strongly recommend both. My 
 reviews are not biased because of my friendship with him. 
 Actually, I've found he has such an interesting style of playing 
 that I asked him to play on my upcoming album. To my great 
 pleasure, he has accepted! 
 On Cultivation , Warren plays a strange instrument 
 called a Square Neck Dobro. I knew what a Dobro was, but a 
 Square Neck Dobro? 
 This is Warren's eloquent explanation of the instrument. 
 A-J 

 The Square Neck Dobro 
 By Warren Buttler ( Healer4U@gate.net ) 
 www.wbuttler.com 
 A wonderful attribute of being a guitar player is the ability 
 to stretch our playing abilities, as well as our sound texture, 
 by learning additional stringed instruments. This used to 
 be called doubling or tripling. 
 Knowledge of the guitar is actually knowledge of the fret 
 board, and how the interrelation of finger technique and string 
 creates sound. This basic knowledge can be transferred to 
 other members of the stringed instrument family. Knowing the 
 fret board provides a platform allowing the guitar player 
 to "more easily" move from guitar, to 12-string 
 guitar, to bass, to mandolin, to violin, to baritone guitar, 
 and to Square Neck Dobro. 
 I believe that a guitarist who doubles on another instrument 
 becomes a better guitarist. 
 A limited knowledge and the ability to play a few songs or 
 a solo on a second stringed instrument teaches the guitarist 
 about melody, tone and the nature of music itself. 
 We can often become lost and isolated in the world of the 
 guitar. Discovering a second stringed instrument breaks loose 
 old practice habits, offers something new and unusual to practice, 
 and provides that "WOW" factor on stage. 
 A perfect example of a possible additional instrument for 
 the guitarist is the Square Neck Dobro. 
 Square Neck Dobro is a generic term for a resonator guitar, 
 which has a neck shaped like a two by four piece of wood. 
 This is played by laying the guitar body across the knees 
 in the seated position. A Square Neck is open tuned, usually 
 in "G" (gbdgbd), has a very high action, and is 
 fretted by using a variety of square or rounded steel bars. 
 Most players of this instrument use metal (or plastic, or 
 any combination thereof) thumb and fingerpicks on the right 
 hand. Strumming or finger picking is accomplished with the 
 same method used for a regular acoustic guitar, with a slight 
 adaptation to the horizontal position across the lap. 
 The interesting part of the Square Neck Dobro is the usage 
 of the steel bar for fretting chords or single melody lines. 
 This instrument offers the ability to do either in an open 
 tuning, with the limitations inherent in that tuning, of course. 
 For example, in open G tuning, standard minor chords are difficult 
 to obtain easily. However, striking root elements of the difficult 
 chord, or combining a drone and melody note, often covers 
 the situation -- especially in a group setting. 
 I came to the Square Neck Dobro not through its usual styles 
 of primitive country music, bluegrass or "Americana," 
 but in a search for tone textures for my new CD, The Cultivation 
 of Grace . 

 I was searching for a specific, swampy, spooky, Southern 
 American tone for one of the cuts, Georgia Nights, and happened 
 to pick up a Johnson Square Neck in a music store. I was easily 
 hooked. The overriding sound texture of the Square Neck is 
 a ringing, slide tone with a high timbre very different from 
 bottleneck slide guitar. Its tone and texture are unmistakable 
 and, although not usable universally on every song, the tone 
 may be that irreplaceable element you've been looking for. 
 The "sliding" nature of chords and notes on the 
 Square Neck allows you to play behind the beat of the music, 
 incorporating another unique element in your music. 
 I've used the Square Neck as both melody and rhythm instrumentation 
 on Cultivation of Grace . Those who may be interested 
 can pull up an mp3 of Georgia Nights at www.guitar9.com to 
 hear how, with no background on the instrument and a little 
 bit of study, an average guitar player was able to incorporate 
 the Square Neck. I also employed standard bottleneck guitar 
 in conjunction with the Square Neck. You can clearly hear 
 the differences between the tonalities of the instruments. 
 Some may be hesitant to buy a Square Neck Dobro due to fear 
 of a new instrument or cost factors. 
 The Square Neck appeared to me to be very user friendly as 
 long as one kept the proper perspective and enjoyed the learning 
 curve. In very few practice sessions, one could be picking 
 out simple melody lines such as Amazing Grace, and begin obtaining 
 the feel for usage of the bar and the slide technique for 
 basic major chords. However, learning the Square Neck is not 
 a matter of replacing guitar playing technique or styling. 
 Still, in a relatively short period of time, I was using 
 the Square Neck in gigging with my band Local Fourcast 
 on specific numbers. It added a wonderful touch to our tone. 

 In relation to consumer costs, the Square Neck Dobro is available 
 through many of the Korean importers of guitars, such as Johnson, 
 Samick, and the like, for a cost comparable to a student guitar. 
 One must incorporate into the costs a bar and the usage of 
 special, but not overly expensive, Dobro strings. To complete 
 the picture, multiple beginners' how-to videos are available 
 for the Square Neck, which really do assist the guitarist 
 in playing this unique instrument. 
 I realize that the guitar alone could be enough of a challenge 
 for anyone. I look toward comparable stringed instruments 
 as means for making practice fun, and as wonderful methods 
 to provide changes to your personal sonic palette. And, last 
 but not least, such instruments are windows into the greater 
 world of music and its relationship to the guitar. 
 Besides, you never know when that special band is looking 
 for the person who can play guitar, mandolin, Square Neck, 
 baritone guitar, octave mandolin, and &#133; 
 Warren Buttler 2002-09-06 
 Previous 
 article in this series "Five Questions with LT" 
 Next article in this series 
 "Singing 101" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.