Guitar Case - Playing with Emotion 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar 
 Lessons , Guitar Case , Playing with Emotion 

 Playing with Emotion 

 Published May 17, 2002 
 By Ryan Spencer 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 What would be my favorite aspect of music? That's actually 
 an easy answer. For me, it's one word: emotion . Yes, 
 emotion. 
 This was originally going to be an observation of emotion 
 in music, but evolved into explaining my favorite aspect of 
 playing, and my main reason for playing. I can remember why 
 I chose the guitar as my instrument to master (or at least 
 try to master!). When I was in the 6th grade, my mom told 
 me I had to do an extra-curricular activity. I chose music. 
 I decided to play the clarinet but by the end of the year 
 I just didn't feel like it was the instrument for me. The 
 next year I was watching a classical song being performed 
 on a local TV channel, and one main point popped into my head: 
 (Remember, I was only in the 7th grade.) Playing classical 
 instruments meant that you didn't write music. Only the composer 
 did that. 
 But why didn't I choose the bass, or maybe the drums? In 
 my view, with drum playing, you just banged a couple of things 
 and made a rhythmic movement. As for bass, you were only playing 
 a lot of low notes (Sorry, Dan!) Guitar was the only thing 
 in the nuclear band (guitar, bass, and drums) that soared 
 through and made its impression on your mind. When I heard 
 Jimi Hendrix's Little Wing, I experienced what emotion in 
 music really was. As the years progressed, I formed one of 
 many philosophies: that music is made with emotion, played 
 with emotion, and appreciated with emotion. 
 The Basics 
 So how do I explain exactly what emotion is in music? For 
 the most part, we tend to think that a majority of emotional 
 music is played with emotion. But instead, it is made with 
 emotion. Intensity plays a major role in playing with emotion. 
 Webster's dictionary defines intensity as an "extreme 
 degree of strength, force, energy, or feeling." To make 
 a scientific point, this means to vary the volume from quiet 
 to loud. But this is not just a matter of turning up the volume 
 knob on your amp. Intensity is how hard you pluck the strings, 
 how much effort you put into bending the strings and also 
 how much effort you put into all the other techniques. 
 Also, timing and speed play major roles in creating emotions 
 through music. Tempo often dictates the differences among 
 a plethora of feelings. A slow song in a minor key can induce 
 gloomy, romantic, or other emotions while a fast song in a 
 major key can induce upbeat, energizing and other motivating 
 emotions. 
 But apart from all the features of music that almost anyone 
 can relate to, there is another feature to deal with: individual 
 interpretation. Emotion is incredibly interpretive. People 
 grow up differently, live in different cultures, and have 
 different events happen to them in their lives. While we all, 
 thanks to globalization, have more shared or common experiences 
 with people from all over the world than ever before, we still 
 also have to be reminded that individual experiences will 
 always be the strongest triggers for interpretation of emotion. 

 For example, let's say a Japanese man and an American man 
 are listening to the same song. Even though they might agree 
 that the melody is melancholy, that a particular minor chord 
 is "sad" or "dark" or one of many other 
 descriptive words, each has a highly personal sense of what 
 is sad to them as individuals. Our societies interact with 
 each other, and in our own society, we communicate with the 
 particular group we're in. This leads us to the point that 
 we share and feel the same things in some situations, even 
 though we still have a personal rather than a universal interpretation. 
 Now, I might have just confused the hell out of you, but 
 let me clarify with some distinct examples. Let us look at 
 the song Every Breath You Take by Sting. Let us say 
 me, the metal head, my friend, the acoustic folk guitarist 
 type, and you were listening to our opinions and feelings 
 about the song. I express my feeling that the song is "gleeful" 
 and it contains the melody of some major progression. Most 
 of my sad songs are in minor. And my friend finds it quite 
 depressing, saying, "It seems like a man is trying to 
 express his pains of loss." You've just witnessed that 
 my interpretation was based upon the harmony of the song and 
 his was based upon what it may sound like in real life. 
 But how does this relate to the styles we play in, and the 
 environment around us? Well, since I'm a metal head, my opinion 
 was based upon the made with emotion concept. Since my friend 
 is a folk guitarist, his was based on the played with emotion 
 concept. Now, suppose we somehow agree that the song is "dark," 
 and then we compare it to Stevie Wonder's cover of it. His 
 version, if you haven't heard it, is almost a total opposite 
 in terms of style and interpretation. It's an awful lot like 
 Stevie's Sir Duke -- a fast tempo and a lot of horns. There 
 would be no doubt that, when we compared these two versions, 
 we'd definitely say Stevie's version is a "happy" 
 one. But is it the same song? What are the differences between 
 the two? Well, among other things, the singer's voice, the 
 tempo, and the different instruments have affected the song's 
 shape dramatically. 
 Perception is the reason for interpretation. Perception is 
 what renders or "bends" things differently in our 
 eyes, ears, mouth, nose, skin, and every other sensory organ 
 I didn't include. Since we live in different places and have 
 different things happen to us, perception is changed and edited 
 subconsciously. We can take the sense of touch as an example. 
 If you and I touched a rug, we would both agree it was "fuzzy," 
 but I may have a different response than you. This is similar 
 to perceiving music. We may agree on some things, like the 
 overall shape of the song, while we differ on the details. 

 Almost all societies have languages that can affect its people 
 emotionally and deeply. For music, this is all the more true. 
 What one may call a romantic love song with an odd ending, 
 another can call a sad tale. We must rely on the fact that 
 people have different views on things, and those views are 
 vast and infinite. 
 Music Appreciation (with Emotion) 
 For this next concept I will mention an event that happened 
 recently. I was at a Christmas party back in January. (Don't 
 you love how people plan!). I was quite bored from the lack 
 of things to do except eat. I pulled out my guitar, started 
 playing, and it led to striking up a conversation with a choir 
 teacher. I mentioned my new article, "Playing with Emotion" 
 to him. One of the interesting things he said, which I'll 
 quote exactly, was, "Well, it's more like actually taking 
 emotion out of music rather than infusing it with it. It seems 
 to me that the only two things that don't have emotion are 
 the drained-out pop music and the completely atonal music." 
 And I highly agree with him. 
 But how do I listen and appreciate music with the element 
 of emotion? Shouldn't we already be feeling it? Shouldn't 
 the artist already have infused some portion of emotion into 
 the song so that automatically it will pop out before we hear 
 it? First, we should clear out all preconceived ideas. You 
 may have heard people say that music, dance, or other non-verbal 
 form of expression is the "universal language." 
 If we boil down this idea, we get interpretation. So, all 
 in all, interpretation is the universal language. This leads 
 to the taking of emotion my choir friend talked about. 
 Now, as I already said, each person sees the details differently. 
 So, when we listen to a song, we must start nitpicking specific 
 portions of melodies, lyrics (meanings and tone), the guitar's 
 tone, the way everything is arranged, and all the other stuff 
 that doesn't need to be mentioned. If we just listened to 
 music normally, we would retrieve the "overall" 
 look to it. But as musicians, we must look deeper for our 
 inspiration. The reason we appreciate with emotion is for 
 our enhancement and for an extra muse. 
 I have suggested many times to people looking for inspiration 
 to sit down and concentrate on songs you wish to emulate. 
 If you focus strongly enough, your mind will start retrieving 
 small bits and pieces that you personally enjoy, and next 
 time you begin to write a piece, this subconscious element 
 will start weaseling its way into your style. As for me, I 
 will tend to play whatever I'm listening to at that time, 
 or what I've listened to for long periods. I'll play this 
 way for most of the rest of that period, or until I find something 
 else that I get into. 
 Our experiences form our perception. Our perception creates 
 our interpretation. Our interpretation affects our writing 
 and playing. Our playing and writing affect the emotion in 
 the song, and the process begins again for the next listener. 
 We will continue talking about the emotions in lyrics and 
 singing, but not until another time! If you have any questions, 
 please contact me directly at jeder@earthlink.net . 
 Rock on, everyone! 
 Ryan Spencer 2002-05-17 
 Previous 
 article in this series "An Interview With Matt Butler" 
 Next article in this series 
 "Stringing and Cleaning Your Guitar" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.