Guitar Case - If I Only Had (Another) Brain 

 This month is ad free - click here to find 
 out why 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar 
 Lessons , Guitar Case , If I Only Had (Another) Brain 

 If I Only Had (Another) Brain 

 Published October 18, 2002 
 By 

 Nick Torres 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 I was thinking about drummers the other day, probably because 
 I was trying to tune my guitar - the international symbol 
 for "start drumming now" - and I was reminded of 
 this Discovery Channel show about dinosaurs. 
 As we all know, dinosaurs had brains the size of a walnut; 
 and no, that is not the common link in my thought process. 
 But some of these critters were so big that they had a second 
 brain at the base of their spine to control their tail. The 
 theory goes that the signal from way up front would take way 
 too long to take to get to the back and balance would be impossible. 
 Where am I going with this you ask? 
 Think about what a drummer has to do: left foot, bass drum; 
 right foot, high hat; left hand, cymbal; right hand, snare, 
 often in syncopated rhythm. If I tried this I would spontaneously 
 combust. Perhaps this is the real reason for the dinosaurs' 
 extinction: one of the smarter ones invented drums. 
 Wouldn't things be so much easier if you had a right hand 
 brain, a left-hand brain and a singing brain? I mean, fingerpicking 
 and chord changes are hard enough. Try to add in singing while 
 doing that. 
 But this is exactly what we're going to do. Remember when 
 you first learned to play a finger picked song? Odds are you 
 chose to learn the right hand picking order 'til you had it 
 down, then the left hand chords, finally adding in moving 
 bass. Or, you used some variation on that theme. Order in 
 this scenario is not that important. 
 So the right hand goes to work, over and over playing the 
 picking pattern, and slowly it comes into focus. You may even 
 get it up to performance speed. So it's obvious you had the 
 ability to play the right hand part all along. Why couldn't 
 you just play it right off the bat? You had to create a muscle 
 memory. It's like a golf swing, sleight of hand magic, or 
 ballroom dancing. You ingrain a repeatable pattern into your 
 brain and create a memory that you can call back. 
 So now you got to get that left hand going. Even though you 
 could play the right hand pretty darn well by now, you had 
 to slow it down to let your left hand learn new things. You 
 may not notice this effect because it often doesn't last that 
 long. You'd expect the slower tempo to be a piece of cake 
 for your right hand. Yet, its performance degrades slightly 
 as you are forced to concentrate elsewhere. 
 Notice that you didn't just stop the right hand and practice 
 with only the left, fretting the notes without picking. You 
 added the two together. With practice you got faster and faster 
 with your left, until finally it could keep up to tempo and 
 you could play. 
 Two things happened there: you developed muscle memory in 
 each hand independently, and combined muscle memory. In other 
 words, you memorized a joint, associated muscle memory. They 
 became a single memory. 
 The best example showing muscle memory is from the Guitar 
 Noise lessons. If you learned Blackbird 
 first, then learned Scarborough 
 Fair , you'll notice that a couple of places in SF are 
 the same as Blackbird. The first few times you try to play 
 through SF, it just doesn't fit. Your muscle memory is suddenly 
 trying to play Blackbird rhythm. You have to create a new 
 memory. 
 So now you have a single muscle memory of both hands. You 
 have consolidated two into one. Okay, here we go into the 
 meat of the lesson. 
 This consolidated memory is exactly what you have to do with 
 singing and playing. Don't treat your singing like the red 
 headed stepchild of this group. Be patient with singing just 
 like you are with your hands. 
 Go back and play slooooowly. Look at the words written under 
 the chord changes and sing so slowly you can get them both 
 going at the same time. Once you have a song down on guitar, 
 you'll be amazed at how quickly you can bring the voice along 
 for the ride. But you have to take the voice on the same ride 
 you gave the hands. That is the only way to create a new joint 
 memory. 
 Let's take a look at the bridge from David's Blackbird lesson: 

 We only want to look at the six words "black bird fly, 
 black bird fly." First let's take some time to memorize 
 them. Let me know when you're done. I'm going to go practice 

 " Give A Little 
 Bit ." 

 Done already? Wow, you're good. 
 Just play the two notes directly above the word "black." 
 Do you hear your starting pitch? It is the 10th fret on the 
 D string. 
 Ready? Here we go. Do you have a fire extinguisher handy? 
 Spontaneous combustion could happen, you know. You are going 
 to play the two notes right above "black." Stop 
 playing but let it ring. Now sing the word "black," 
 just the one pitch. 
 Whooo hoooo, you are on your way now. 
 Notice in the tab there are two beats and two pedal notes 
 before you get to "bird." Try this: pluck the two 
 fingerpicked notes and sing "black" at the same 
 time. Don't stop singing the word "black." Just 
 hold it out, same note, no change, and play all the way to 
 "bird." Congratulations. 
 Now do the same thing with "bird." The note you 
 are looking for is the 5th fret on D. 
 If you have a problem with the transition, go back and work 
 slowly through it, just like you did with your hands. 
 Does this seem just a tad simplistic to you? Well, it is 
 just that simple. Imagine you were trying to tell someone 
 how to make your left-hand work with your right. It would 
 sound about the same. But the principle is sound. If you want 
 to sing and play, you have to put in the work to merge the 
 memories. 
 Someone once asked about how to sing during solos. Personally, 
 I take the B.B. King approach to singing during solos: I don't. 
 Sing, solo, sing, solo. It works for him, it works for me. 
 Besides, you only want to show off one thing at a time or 
 the rest of the band will hate you. 
 But if you want to be like Hendrix and do both, just take 
 the time, fix that associated memory between voice and hands 
 and you can do just about anything. 
 And sorry, but I can't help you sing solos while you play 
 with your teeth. 

 Nick Torres 2002-10-18 
 Previous 
 article in this series "Five More Questions With LT" 
 Next 
 article in this series "Choosing a Teacher" 

 London 
 born, Washington DC area native Nick Torres has been involved in music 
 for more than 20 years. From singing with the Paul Hill Chorale at the 
 Kennedy Center, to Regional Chorus, soloist at Trinity UMC in Alexandria 
 VA, bell ringing, amateur and professional musical theater, and a band 
 or two along the way. 
 Nick started singing rock and roll with a not to be 
 mentioned band that decided to move to California. He 
 chose not to go. The band got a new singer and promptly 
 landed a record contract. This has left severe psychological 
 scars on Nick, as is evidenced by his writing. Never 
 mention this incident to him, never. 
 Nick's influences are Ella Fitzgerald, Louis Prima, 
 Mahalia Jackson, Eddie Vedder, and Frank Sinatra. 
 Currently Nick is focused on spending as much time 
 as possible with his lovely wife and two children. When 
 he's not doing that he's practicing his acoustic guitar 
 and hanging out in the Songwriters Forum here on GuitarNoise. 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.