Guitar Case - A brief history of mine (Chapter 2) 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar 
 Lessons , Guitar Case , A brief history of mine (Chapter 2) 

 A brief history of mine (Chapter 2) 

 Published January 16, 2003 
 By 

 Len Collins 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 I had played through the sixties and into the seventies non-stop. 
 Now I was finally in a place of my own in London. The short 
 scale Rickenbacker that had been my only companion through 
 the years, lay quietly in the corner next to my Fender bass 
 amp. I used my bass amp when none was provided by the theatre, 
 club, pub or outdoor venue that had booked me. 
 I began to unwind (unravel would be a better word). I was 
 close enough to Highbury to walk to the football on a Saturday 
 afternoon. Being free on a weekend was quite a thrill. I had 
 missed watching the soccer more than I realised. 
 My new house was empty and clean, which was more than could 
 be said for my head. My brain resembled a much used tool shed, 
 it was full of useful but disorganised thoughts, tools and 
 memories. If my life were to flash before my eyes in a moment 
 of danger it would take at least 20 minutes to view the highlights. 
 I had put my first advert into a local newspaper and my first 
 pupil was due to arrive a week later. I knew what I wanted 
 to say to my new student but how to say it a was different 
 matter entirely. 
 Real life and teaching are two different things, I wanted 
 to bring both together. I began to retrace my steps through 
 each stage of my early progress, making notes on the really 
 important things, creating mental flow charts of where they 
 led. Above all I would show how all this knowledge would bring 
 imagination and confidence into guitar playing. 
 I remembered my first live guitar solo, in the middle of 
 a song right there in front of hundreds of people someone 
 in the band had shouted, "Go for it Len. Show them what 
 you can do!" I can't remember the title of the song but 
 I can remember it was in the key of F. I played that scale 
 with as much imagination as I could muster. I knew my fretboard, 
 my fingers responded well and I got away with it. Nobody threw 
 any bricks at me! 
 Over the years I met and played with many hundreds of musicians 
 who because of the freelance nature of the work most knew 
 their job extremely well. The music ranged from rock to jazz, 
 blues, heavy, country and folk plus whatever else was on offer. 
 The core to playing all styles to a high standard is knowledge 
 and the skills to use it. 
 Strangely It was the other type of musician I played with 
 that interested me; the chart bound rock and rollers. They 
 played by ear and were extremely energetic creating a multitude 
 of sometime from almost nothing. I loved the music. It was 
 a different challenge to play. I never wanted the chart success 
 they sought as their star burnt very brightly for a while 
 then went out leaving only a small trace of their creativity 
 behind. 
 Combining natural energy and knowledge was to be the plan 
 and the plan was good. Give guitar players a future. 
 I bought a Fender acoustic guitar and started, for the first 
 time in years, to play for myself. 
 People talk of the buzz of drugs and how much they have to 
 drink before they fall over. What a waste of time, and life! 
 Get a guitar, play music live and hard. 
 I enjoyed the emptiness and the music of those peaceful days 
 between ending my playing days and starting to teach. Although 
 playing on stage had been a daily routine for me I never got 
 rid of the sheer panic each time I saw the stage on which 
 I was to perform. 
 In my playing days one sight of bare wooden boards and I 
 was off to the toilet. 
 "Are you OK?" People asked as I rushed past them. 
 "Yeth." I gasped with one hand over my mouth while 
 the other struggled to push open any door that led outside. 
 Outside, or in the safety of the loo, I began to breath a 
 little easier. 
 The pain and the panic calmed down. Once I could breath without 
 the support of a wall I went back inside. 
 I busied myself tuning everything that needed it, checking 
 wires that looked loose and liable to explode and above all 
 creating tension among fellow musicians. By the time the gig 
 started I'd got the band fired up and had almost managed to 
 stop my hands from shaking. I led from the back in whatever 
 shadow could hide me. 
 Once the first track was over the nerves disappeared in an 
 explosion of adrenaline. Long hair flowing. Fingers like lightening. 
 I was earning my money. That was now the past. 
 Back in my quiet house I needed someone to love, to care 
 for and to live with. 
 Enter Budgie, my kitten. I played my guitar for her, she 
 sat on my lap and slept. I would feed her then she sat on 
 my lap while I played guitar for her. She slept some more. 
 The day of my first lesson. 
 My thoughts were organised and clear when I opened the door 
 to let in my first student. He took out his guitar, sat down 
 and looked at me. I looked at him. He blinked twice in quick 
 succession. Shortly after I did the same. I thought of wooden 
 planks and tried not to panic. The smell of freshly cut grass 
 crept in through the open window. 
 "Say something!" I said quietly to myself. 
 "What?" a terrified inner voice replied. 
 "Anything. Say hello. That might be a good start!" 
 "Hello" I said. 
 I picked up his guitar and asked, "Do you know which 
 end to blow into?" 
 I was away. He laughed and I taught. Budgie sat on my lap 
 and slept. Next week his brother started, then their friends 
 then friends of friends. I knew that I must be doing something 
 right. 
 It took a while for me to create a game plan, I decided almost 
 from the start to put all the main facts up front in the first 
 four lessons, then it was everybody for themselves. This meant 
 I had given my knowledge a base camp in peoples thinking and 
 my students could then work at their own speed. 
 The more natural and quick students were great to teach, 
 they were turning knowledge into creativity like an alchemist 
 turns lead into gold. The slower pupils however gave me nightmares. 
 Initially I spent most of the hours lesson complaining and 
 criticising those who were struggling which was depressing 
 them me. The lessons were losing their fun for these people 
 because I had forgotten how hard I had found playing the guitar 
 to play. 
 All that changed one day when instead of highlighting mistakes 
 I pointed out, to one particular musically challenged student, 
 that they had at least played the third bar in time if not 
 in tune. 
 The result was both stunning and immediate. His little eyes 
 lit up! 
 "Did I?" he asked amazed. 
 "Yes, you did." I said. 
 Charged with the power to do something right clearness and 
 accuracy entered his playing. Skills he never thought he had 
 lightened the day. I used the same approach in the next lesson. 
 It worked! 
 I have used that method every since. One other point that 
 I should make is that however much of a challenge a student 
 is I will never, ever give up on them. 
 Some though will never learn and cannot be taught, they will 
 always believe that they know best. It doesn't seem to occur 
 to them that they are paying for my help and advice. One such 
 person asked if putting steel strings on a classical, nylon 
 strung guitar would cause any damage. I pointed out that the 
 bridge was come off if he tried it. 
 "Are you sure?" He asked. 
 "Yes, it isn't built to take the extra tension. Don't 
 do it!" I replied. I could tell by the glazed look in 
 his eyes that that first thing he would do when he got home 
 was to change the strings. 
 "Don't do it." I insisted as he left. 
 One week later. 
 I had brought into my teaching room a large round table. 
 My music stand was to my right. I waited to see if he had 
 changed the strings. We sat down facing the table with the 
 guitar resting between us. 
 "I've changed the strings." He said. 
 "The bridge will come off." Said I. 
 The very moment I said the magic words, ' The bridge 
 will come off ', there was a huge twang and there, 
 wobbling on the table was the bridge with the six steel strings 
 still attached to it. 

 "I told you that would happen." I said with as 
 much control as I could manage. I know I shouldn't have laughed 
 but it was funny. The usual 'See you next week' wasn't offered 
 at the end of the lesson. 
 Budgie sat on my lap and went back to sleep. 
 Len Collins 2003-01-16 

 Previous 
 article in this series "A brief history of mine" 
 Next articles in this series 
 "A brief history of mine 3) 

 Len 
 Collins is the creator of Guitar Breakthrough, guitar tuition software 
 that provides the knowledge for all guitar players to become great guitarists. 
 Read our review 
 or visit the Guitar 
 Breakthrough website for more information. 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.