Guitar Case - A brief history of mine (Chapter 3: Gigs) 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar 
 Lessons , Guitar Case , A brief history of mine (Chapter 3:Gigs) 

 A brief history of mine (Chapter 3: Gigs) 

 Published February 15, 2003 
 By 

 Len Collins 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Since I began writing these articles people have asked me 
 about the playing days. Most, if not all, were challenging, 
 hard work and fun. So here is the story of the first, the 
 last and the biggest gig. All have an element of surprise 
 about them, if only to me. 
 The first gig took place at the Hackney Empire, a large theater 
 in East London. My school band rehearsed there on a Saturday 
 morning. This was a step up from the freezing cold church 
 hall where we had started. I can remember, quite vividly, 
 once walking home from the church hall, knee-deep in snow. 
 I had my amp in one hand and my guitar in the other. The roads 
 were impassable to traffic; we all got there and back as best 
 we could. 
 One particular Saturday the Hackney Empire manager asked 
 if we would like to come back at seven that same evening. 
 I thought that the chance of an extra rehearsal was great. 
 What I didn't know was tonight was to be our first performance. 
 We were getting to be quite a good band; I was playing really 
 well and so were the others. Our set was a good 45 minutes 
 and we were looking for gigs. We left our equipment in the 
 theatre and went home. 
 6:30 I arrived back at the Empire. The stage 
 was bare except for some platforms, the sort used by elephants 
 to stand on in circuses. The drums were set on one combination. 
 The bass player shared with the rhythm guitarist/singer and 
 on top of one particular, three-story pile was my guitar and 
 a microphone stand. The curtains were closed which was unusual 
 for one of our rehearsals. From the other side of the curtains 
 I could hear people chattering and settling down. Sometimes 
 there were technicians getting ready for whatever was planned 
 for the next day or two so I concentrated on what I was doing 
 and ignored the whispering and shuffling. 
 I had entered the theatre through the stage door so I never 
 saw the posters about "Local Talent Night." Tonight 
 it was our turn because the named band couldn't make it. 
 6:45 The rest of the band took up their positions. 
 Everybody was ready to do some work. 
 6:50 I climbed to the pinnacle of Mount Everest. 
 6:51 I looked down. This was proving to be 
 a really big mistake. I never knew I had a fear for heights 
 until that very moment. 
 The floor seemed to hurtle towards me! My eyes sprang from 
 my head to meet the onrushing stage. My legs began to make 
 plans to either find the nearest exit or simply fold beneath 
 me. Somewhere deep inside my brain a voice whispered "Don't 
 look down!" 
 Not looking down was a good plan. "Look up. Yes! That's 
 it, look up." 
 Up proved to be just as bad a choice as down. I don't know 
 the name for the fear of looking up, but I had it. My eyes 
 had only just painfully recoiled back into their sockets from 
 the looking down experience when they saw a ton of imaginary 
 masonry falling towards me, mixing with what I thought was 
 a descending lighting rig. 
 My heart beat like a bat escaping a sunshine holiday. 
 "Forget up!" screamed the voice inside my head. 
 "Look forward! Do it! What could be wrong with looking 
 straight ahead?" 
 I looked straight ahead and there they were: hundreds of 
 eyes all looking at me. A strange, eerie silence entered my 
 thoughts as I stared out. 
 "Think," whispered the voice between my ears. 
 After a brief, but very intense moment, I discovered that 
 I could breathe again. There was only one thing that I could 
 do. 
 I grabbed the microphone stand and shouted "One! Two! 
 Three!" into the microphone. My fingers broke into the 
 opening riff of "Twist and Shout." I became a super 
 hero. A cartoon cape sprang from my shoulders. My underwear 
 materialized outside my trousers, the color of which I couldn't 
 begin to imagine. A large letter G burned out from my chest. 

 The audience cheered and stamped their feet to every song. 
 It was a wonderful feeling, like being possessed by a professional 
 guitarist. The part of my brain that played guitar for me 
 knew exactly what to do. The hours of practice and rehearsal 
 had finally paid off. 
 We made a lot of friends that night. I calmed down, went 
 home and played guitar for a couple of hours. One small step 
 for mankind, one giant leap for me. 

 The last gig: 
 The sixties were a thing of the past and the mid-seventies 
 were approaching. I had slowed down and was playing small 
 gigs with a girl singer. I was looking to finish. A large 
 hotel in the South of London booked us. What I didn't know 
 was that the orchestra who were there for the dancing also 
 had me down as their guitarist. A ghastly red shirt flew towards 
 me and for the first time I was one of many. 
 The conductor glared at me a few times whenever I felt the 
 urge to improvise but for most part I behaved myself and went 
 by the dots. 
 Show time! The band sat patiently while I set up my equipment 
 at the front of the stage. The important point here is that 
 these musicians had seen it all (though they hadn't seen me) 
 and the best response I felt I could hope for was bored silence. 

 I don't know if you have ever noticed, but whenever a top 
 comedian performs with an orchestra behind them the musicians 
 always laugh. Not so for the amateur or the less funny act. 
 Neither do they show appreciation for a lesser musician. 
 One number was a special track. It contained one verse to 
 be sung while the rest was a guitar solo. I had worked on 
 this song for weeks but never performed it until this night. 
 The girl sang her verse beautifully then left the stage. I 
 sat there on my own, playing my heart out. Then it was done. 
 The applause was deafening and the orchestra cheered. I knew 
 this was to be my last gig, although after the show all the 
 members of the band wanted my telephone number. 
 One last twist in the tail of this part of the story is that, 
 after I took my place among the red-shirted musicians, I played 
 bass instead of lead guitar. This was a perfect ending to 
 a long and successful career. 

 The biggest gig also took place in the capital. 
 The telephone rang early one Sunday morning. The weather 
 in London was bright and clear and I had nothing planned for 
 the day except playing guitar. 
 "Would you like to do a gig in Trafalgar Square?" 
 asked a voice I didn't recognize. 
 "Sure," I said. This is my standard reply whenever 
 I'm asked to play. 
 "Can you put a band together?" I was asked. 
 "Yes, I think so. I'll see who's about." This is 
 also a standard reply. The way my brain reacts is speak first, 
 think later. 
 I was given the details and set about forming a band. Half 
 an hour later three musicians and I were travelling to the 
 center of London, keen to play. I had on yellow flared trousers, 
 a brightly colored shirt and my favorite green hat with a 
 wide brim, which my drummer borrowed when he heard that the 
 concert was being covered on the news that night! 
 The crowd was already immense when we arrived, I was happy. 
 The stage was to be beneath Nelson's column, an historic national 
 monument. We plugged in behind the lions! 
 The quartet that I put together had played together several 
 times in recent months, so the choice of songs for the set 
 was well established in our minds if not on paper. When we 
 played the sun shone, thousands danced, and I missed my hat. 
 To this day I'm still waiting for it back. 
 As the singer announced each song we rocked and we rolled. 
 Strangely enough, I had no stage fright for this gig. Maybe 
 it was the sunshine or just the good feeling of playing outside. 

 I said at the beginning of this chapter that all three gigs 
 had an element of surprise about them. This element came into 
 play when "Mr. Tambourine Man" was to be our next 
 track. Three out of four of us were away, except yours truly. 
 That was the first time that I had ever heard the Bob Dylan 
 piece. 
 "What key?" I asked the bass player as loud as 
 I could. 
 "It's in D but start from G!" came the reply shouted 
 above the noise. 
 In a small club or a theatre where everything is audible 
 this might have been fine but out there, what with the wind 
 and the clapping crowd I did the best I could. I knew which 
 chords to expect in the key of D so that was easy. The tricky 
 thing was that the song never seemed to end and that each 
 verse was of a different length. As always, I survived without 
 anybody noticing each time I lost the thread. I have a plan 
 for this; whenever I don't know where I am in a song I simply 
 switch to lead guitar. I use a lot of harmony for my solos 
 so I work on the basis that I should be right most of the 
 time. 
 I have to admit that I prefer being the only guitar player 
 in a band. Playing rhythm and lead keeps me on my toes for 
 the whole set. To be a great lead guitarist you first have 
 to be an even better rhythm player. To do both at the same 
 time is exhilarating! 
 Once "Mr. T" was over I asked the singer if she 
 had any more numbers to sing that I didn't know. She smiled 
 sweetly, said sorry and always checked before announcing another 
 song. We played well and had a lovely day in the sunshine. 
 I do miss my big, green, wide-brimmed hat. I wonder where 
 it is? 

 Len Collins 2003-02-15 

 Previous 
 article in this series "A brief history of mine 2" 
 Next to a list of articles 
 in this series 

 Len 
 Collins is the creator of Guitar Breakthrough, guitar tuition software 
 that provides the knowledge for all guitar players to become great guitarists. 
 Read our review 
 or visit the Guitar 
 Breakthrough website for more information. 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.