all_spark_plug_info 

 UnofficialBMW.com 
[an error occurred while processing this directive]

 From digest.v6.n65 Wed Jan 15 15:22:51 1997 
From: "David J. Kroth" <kroth@cineon.kodak.com> 
Date: Wed, 15 Jan 1997 09:49:12 -0500 
Subject: more NGK plug info 

Here's some more NGK plug info...

Forwarded mail from MBlue22999@aol.com

 From: MBlue22999@aol.com 
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 17:44:25 -0500 (EST) 
To: Tlee@atwc.teradyne.com 
cc: kroth@cineon.kodak.com 
Subject: NGK plug info

Terry,

I am an engineer at NGK Spark Plugs (USA) and I was forwarded a recent
post you made in the BMW Digest via a mutual Internet acquaintance
(Dave Kroth). He found me on the Talon Digest and has allowed me to see
some spark plug questions posted on the BMW Digest.

Okay, enough with the intro, I am writing in reference to a discussion
concerning a "platform" plug once produced by NGK for BMW. Now I am an
engineer based out of Chicago, IL and have never worked with BMW, but I
have seen some of their freaky spark plug design requests. I have seen
the "platform" plug (BCPR7ER) you referred to and I may be able to help
you with my attempt at an explanation.

> Picture a 3 legged stool in your mind, with the top platform being 
triangular with 
> 3 holes (I'm guessing for spark travel) in it

The holes have been punched into to the platform for a few reasons.
Since I was not involved in the creation of this particular plug, I will
pretty much be assuming the reasoning. One reason for the holes is to
allow the A/F mixture to pass by the initial spark. Once the flame
kernel begins, it is desirable to let it flow to the rest of the
combustion chamber and the holes will assist. Again, I have never
observed their combustion, but I would think they would get a better
"blow-through" than if the holes were not there. The edges of the
holes may also allow a possible sharp edge for a spark to travel to.

After all these complications, you may ask why they would ever design
such a plug. Well, the Europeans manufactures often use multiple
ground electrode spark plugs to allow longer life without using
expensive (and longer lasting) precious metals (Pt, Ir, etc.). US
automakers ask more of their plugs by claiming 100K mile tune-up
intervals vs. the European 100K km (or 60K mile) requirement.

The platform plug was probably a good design early on. The larger
ground electrode will give the spark path more options and thus gives
the plug longer life by not allowing a large gap growth over time.
There are also anti-fouling characteristics gained by this design.
The ground electrodes are also able to easily cool themselves into
the engine block with 3 different paths.

Here is a second excerpt from your post:

> If you call NGK, you will find out that this plug (BCPR7ER) is now 
> discontinued, and the replacement is BKR6EK=85

To begin with, let me give a rundown of what our spark plug numbers mean:

B Thread Diameter: 14mm
C Construction: Hex Size =3D 5/8"
P Construction: Projected insulator type
(K) Construction: hex size =3D 5/8" projected tip (ISO)
R Construction: Resistor Type
7(6) Heat Rating Numbers: 2 =3D Hot ->Colder
E Thread Reach: 19mm (3/4")
R Firing End Construction: Special Ground Electrode
(K) Firing End Construction: 2-Ground electrodes for Toyota, BMW

Once again, I have not developed the M50 engine you use, so this is all
mere assumption. I don=92t even know if NGK is original equipment in
the M50.

Anyway, I have seen programs change plugs after years of using the same
plug. This decision to change plugs can be driven by many things, but
usually ends up being financial. Then again, there may be performance,
emission, or fuel economy reasons as well. Some engines have been known
to use four different plugs manufactured by four different suppliers
within 12 years. It may so happen that BMW had minor changes that
required a different plug design, or they may have been using the wrong
plug for years. These are all possibilities that may have required NGK
to stop producing the "platform" plugs.

One quick note: You should avoid changing heat ranges of plugs at all
costs. A user should not change from the recommended heat ranges
unless serious modifications have occurred and problems were observed
with a particular heat range. NGK recommends the BKR6EK for the M50.
If you go up to a "7," you are risking never reaching the self-cleaning
temperature (or region) of that particular plug. A spark plug must
reach this temperature to burn off the carbon deposits accumulated at
lower speeds. If a plug is too hot (say a "5" for this particular
application), you run the risk of pre-ignition under high demand
conditions. Pre-ignition can occur if the plug is so hot that it will
ignite the A/F mixture before it sparks. I hope you never see
pre-ignition because it can rip an engine apart in a hurry.

The difference in heat ranges is simply the cooling rates of the plugs
into the cylinder walls. The industry does not have heat range
standards, so Bosch does not equal NGK, which does not equal AC, etc.
Bosch's equivalent plug to NGK=92s BKR6EK is indeed your F7LDCR, so I
assume you are safe.

I hope this helps out a bit, sorry I am not familiar with this
particular application. If you feel the need to forward this to the
BMW Digest (if it has enough substance), feel free.

Matt Blue 
OEM Product Engineer 
NGK Spark Plugs (USA), Inc. 
mblue22999@aol.com

End of forwarded mail from MBlue22999@aol.com

 -- 
Dave
kroth@kodak.com