all_mobil_1_filters 

 UnofficialBMW.com 
[an error occurred while processing this directive]

 From bans2138@nova.gmi.edu Tue Nov 11 08:00:24 1997 
Date: Tue, 11 Nov 1997 10:58:47 -0500 (EST) 
From: mahaRISHI <bans2138@nova.gmi.edu> 
To: mjoury@metronet.com, pauls@ontario.com, alan.alfano@snet.com, 
 lukensj@graham-ed.com, eliabar@aol.com, dalus@eskimo.com, 
 donohue@azstarnet.com, garry_grigg@fmc.com 
Subject: Mobil 1 Filters 

bimmer-fiels,

here is the mobil 1 filter info. you had requested. sorry if the
formatting is kind of bad. enjoy the info.

rishi

Mobil Introduces 
Mobil 1 High Efficiency Oil Filters Nationwide

Mobil 1 Filters Outperform All Others In Cleaning and Durability --

FAIRFAX, VA, November 5, 1997 -- Mobil Corporation today announced the
nationwide introduction of Mobil 1 High Efficiency Oil Filters, the most
advanced oil filters available for cars and trucks. The premium Mobil 1
oil filters remove significantly more contaminants than conventional
filters and are the most durable oil filters on the market. Designed for
all types of vehicles, Mobil 1 filters can be used on engines using
conventional oil or synthetic oil.

 "By adding the world's best performing oil filters to the Mobil 1
brand, Mobil further insures its leadership in providing quality oil
products and lubrications," said Kim Howry, Automotive Business Manager,
Mobil Lubricants. "Together with Mobil 1 Synthetic Oils, we now provide
a total package of the most superior lubrication and filtration."
Synthetic Fibers For Cleaner Oil

 Mobil 1 High Efficiency oil filters feature an exclusive, unique
synthetic filtering "media" (the fabrics in filters that trap
contaminants). Manufactured with high polyester and fiberglass content,
these synthetic fibers remove over 95 percent of harmful foreign
particles. 

 Mobil 1 oil filters achieve additional efficiency by using
significantly more filtering media than other oil filters. For instance,
the media area of a Mobil 1 High Efficiency oil filter (M1-301) is 377
square inches, versus 363 square inches in the closest competitor.
Increased media area provides more surface space to capture contaminants
and can also extend the life of the filter.

 In SAE J806 multiple pass efficiency testing, Mobil 1 High
Efficiency oil filters demonstrated a 96.1 percent weighted average
efficiency in removing damaging particles compared to an average of 82.07
percent (1) for conventional filters and 88.16 percent (2) for premium
filters. 
Stronger Construction

 Mobil 1 High Efficiency oil filters deliver unsurpassed
durability, and are more than capable of withstanding the pressure that
can build up in filters during cold engine starts. In Hydrostatic Burst
Pressure Tests, Mobil 1 reached 601 psi before failure, while the nearest
competitor failed at 303 psi.

 In another measure of durability (J806, 0-100 psi impulse fatigue)
Mobil 1 oil filters dramatically outperform conventional filters at
resisting hydrodynamic mechanical stress: 221,375 vs. 59,095 pressure
impulse cycles to failure.

 One of several keys to superior durability is heavier gauge
construction. The high strength metal shells and the base plates of Mobil
1 High Efficiency oil filters are designed with thicker and heavier metal
gauges.

 All Mobil 1 oil filters are designed to withstand five times the
normal system operating pressureof a typical automotive vehicle.
A Partnership Of Industry Leaders 
Mobil, the leader in high quality motor oil and lubricants, and developers
of the world's leading synthetic motor oil collaborated with Champion
Laboratories, Inc., America's second largest filter manufacturer. 
"Together our research and product development teams designed the first
oil filters worthy of the Mobil 1 brand," said Mobil's Howry.
Before the national roll-out, Mobil 1 High Efficiency oil filters were
successfully test marketed through a national auto supply retailer as well
as through car care professionals. Strong consumer satisfaction and
repeat purchases led to the decision to market the high performance
filters nationwide, making them available to car care professionals and
do-it-yourselfers.