www.Magnetricity.com ... SANKHYAKARIKA - Secret of SANKHYA - by G. Srinivasan 

 IMPORTANT: Your Browser is outdated. Please UPDATE your Browser 

 HOME TESLA Lightning Gallery News | Links Radio Schematics Magnetics 101 DIY Private 

 Quotations Tesla Image Gallery Biography Auto-Biography Colorado Springs Wardenclyffe Wardenclyffe Today 

 Ancient Vedic Physics 

 SANKHYA Introduction Book Details Sankhya Sutras Articles 
 Secret of Sankhya 
 by G. Srinivasan 

 Nikola Tesla was greatly influenced by this Ancient Vedic Physics 
 after meeting with and hearing the teachings of Swami Vivekananda 

 SANKHYA ARTICLES 

 Celebrating 
 11.76 
 Years Online 
 Saturday, September 21, 2013 

 Site Updates are in Progress 

 2 
 User(s) currently online 

 Preview G. Srinivasan's New Book ... 
 Secret of Sankhya : 
 Acme of Scientific Unification 

 in Adobe Acrobat PDF format (510 pages) (2 MB file) 
 Email : gsvasktg@gmail.com 

 SANKHYAKARIKA 
 Associated Articles 

 "The gift of Free Energy is just not an idealogical euphamism but a working reality" 

 Please see the following working prototypes created by inventive genius 
 based on intuitive insight that showed the lacuna in current Physics. 

 Muller magnetic motor/generator based on magnetic/electric interactions at 
 MullerPower.com 

 The Searle effect based on magnetic/magnetic interactions at 
 http://www.searlsolution.com 

 The SVG generator of De Palma and P. Tewari at www.tewari.org 

 ... and many more devices. 

 Articles 

 The axiomatic solution to deriving the ultimate power in the Universe. 

 The comparison of the present Sankhya translation with other eminent authors 
 to show the reason why the mathematics coded in it was never exposed and an 
 extraordinay theory lay dormant for centuries. 

 The comparison of Sankhya with the Theory of Relativity 
 shows that its concepts are superfluous in substantial space. 

 Age of the Vedas 
 shows the derivation of the time span of over 30,000 years when Sankhyakarika was created. 

 Rig Veda 
 gives a english translation of ancient Sanskrit where the first verse shows the process of extracting energy from space. 

 Atharva Veda first verse derives the quantisation of interactive phenomena. 

 Sanskrit 
 is a language created from coding a monotonous oscillatory tone into an expressive 
 alphabetical and numerical code thereby creating a vocalised language. 

 Tamil is a Sanskrit derivative 

 Siddhi 
 the simplest process of attaining the maximum effectiveness in life processes using the fundamental 
 PHO state to replenish your life energy without any constraints.

 Contact Us: 
 gsvasktg@gmail.com 
 gsankhya@dataone.in 

 PDF Download 

 Secret of Sankhya : Acme of Scientific Unification 

 and much more to come ... 

 Page Updated : 04|10|2013 
 Return to TOP of Page 

 Execution: 1.51 Seconds 

 HOME TESLA Lightning Gallery News | Links Radio Schematics Magnetics 101 DIY Private 

 Quotations Tesla Image Gallery Biography Auto-Biography Colorado Springs Wardenclyffe Wardenclyffe Today 

 Ancient Vedic Physics 

 SANKHYA Introduction Book Details Sankhya Sutras Articles 
 Secret of Sankhya 
 by G. Srinivasan 

 Nikola Tesla was greatly influenced by this Ancient Vedic Physics 
 after meeting with and hearing the teachings of Swami Vivekananda 

 Saturday, September 21, 2013 @ 11:48:28 am US Central Visitor IP : 
 207.241.237.102 Since: 
 12/19/2001 

 Uptime: 4293 Days 
 11.76 Years

 Last Revision: 04/10/2013 

 Comments, Suggestions, Questions are welcome via ... 
 Email Response to your Email may be somewhat slow ... I have many irons in the fire 

 "We the willing, led by the unknowing, are doing the impossible for the ungrateful. 
 We've done so much for so long with so little, we are now qualified to do anything with nothing" 

 ... Anonymous 

 "all men dream: but not equally. 
 Those who dream by night ... wake in the day to find that it was vanity; 
 but the dreamers of the day are dangerous men, 
 for they may act their dream with open eyes, to make it possible." 

 ... T.E. Lawrence 

 "For what is the best choice for each individual - is the highest it is possible for him to achieve" 

 ... Aristotle 

 Magnetricity 
 gladly accepts public and private
 Donations via PayPal 
 Magnetricity is a one-man labor of love. All proceeds from Donations 
 fund Magnetricity.com directly and your support is truly appreciated 

 Except where otherwise noted, all original Content is Copyright &copy; 2004 - 2013 Magnetricity.com 
 All Rights are Reserved and Protected by International Law. Please ask Permission for use. 

 I DO NOT Authorize ANYONE to Copy or Mirror this Site or its Content for ANY Purpose 

 Thank You For Visiting