www.Magnetricity.com ... SANKHYAKARIKA - Secret of SANKHYA - by G. Srinivasan 

 IMPORTANT: Your Browser is outdated. Please UPDATE your Browser 

 HOME TESLA Lightning Gallery News | Links Radio Schematics Magnetics 101 DIY Private 

 Quotations Tesla Image Gallery Biography Auto-Biography Colorado Springs Wardenclyffe Wardenclyffe Today 

 Ancient Vedic Physics 

 SANKHYA Introduction Book Details Sankhya Sutras Articles 
 Secret of Sankhya 
 by G. Srinivasan 

 Nikola Tesla was greatly influenced by this Ancient Vedic Physics 
 after meeting with and hearing the teachings of Swami Vivekananda 

 SANKHYA BOOK 

 Celebrating 
 11.76 
 Years Online 
 Saturday, September 21, 2013 

 Site Updates are in Progress 

 4 
 User(s) currently online 

 Preview G. Srinivasan's New Book ... 
 Secret of Sankhya : 
 Acme of Scientific Unification 

 in Adobe Acrobat PDF format (510 pages) (2 MB file) 
 Email : gsvasktg@gmail.com 

 SANKHYAKARIKA 
 Book Details 

 Book: Secret of Sankhya: Acme of Scientific Unification 

 The unique principle of perpetual dynamism is derived axiomatically through 
 combinatorial mathematics for the first time in the history of Physics and Cosmology. 

 The book Secret of Sankhya : Acme of scientific Unification. will expose for the 
 first time, the profound mathematical foundation in the Sankhyakarika (Sankhya). 
 The Sankhyakarika by Maharishi Kapila forms an axiomatic, mathematical core of the 
 Bhagavadgita. Authors of previous translations missed exposing its mathematical 
 content for a number of historical reasons (which I have explained in my article 
 in World Affairs ). 
 Briefly Sankhya axiomatic mathematics covers cosmology, gravitation 
 and particle physics, all of which are very advanced in its concept & presentation. 
 It presents all phenomenon as a holographic state through two new principles of 
 simultaneity and self-similarity, neither of which exist in current physics & cosmology. 
 I believe that it's exposure and its subsequent acceptance by the present 
 scientific community will be of much significance. It has the potential to become 
 a textbook for deriving the principles of simultaneity and self-similarity through 
 a combinatorial system of mathematics based on axioms. The importance of Sankhya 
 is emphasised doubly when one understands that none of the theories in physics or 
 cosmology are based on axioms. Sankhya mathematics provides a unified field theory; 
 totally compatible with the current concepts in science and predicts principles 
 that are yet to be discovered in physics. It gives total credence and mathematical 
 validity to the field theory of 
 Kshetrajna in the Bhagavadgita and thereby places 
 it in the archives of fundamental holistic science. The Sankhya theory forms the 
 foundation of Siddhi 
 meditative practices expounded in the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali. 

 " 
 The gift of Free Energy is just not an idealogical euphamism but a working reality " ... G. Srinivasan

 Please see the following working prototypes created by inventive genius 
 based on intuitive insight that showed the Lacuna in current Physics. 

 The Muller Magnetic Motor / Generator based on magnetic/electric interactions at 
 MullerPower.com 

 The Searle Effect based on magnetic/magnetic interactions at 
 http://www.searlsolution.com 

 The SVG Generator of De Palma and P. Tewari at www.tewari.org 

 ... and many more devices. 

 Articles by G. Srinivasan 

 SANKHYA - PDF 
 An Ancient Philosophy Unifies Science and Religion.

 Secret of Sankhya: Acme of Scientific Unification (Part 2) - Book Preview - PDF 
 ( Part 1 has not yet been released ).

 Age Of The Vedas - PDF 
 Shows the derivation of the time span of over 30,000 years when Sankhyakarika was created.

 An Introduction to the Rig Veda - PDF 
 Gives an english translation of ancient Sanskrit where 
 the first verse shows the process of Extracting Energy from Space .

 Axiomatic Solution to the Human Enigma - PDF 
 The solution to deriving the ultimate power in the Universe.

 SIDDHI - The ideal, scientific, non-religious, process to maximize Human life energy potential - PDF 
 The simplest process of attaining the maximum effectiveness in life processes using 
 the fundamental PHO state to replenish your life energy without any constraints.

 Tamil - PDF 
 Evidence that Tamil must have been derived from Sanskrit.

 Atharva Veda - PDF 
 Atharva Veda first verse derives the quantisation of interactive phenomena.

 The Sanskrit Language - PDF 
 Sanskrit is a language created from coding a monotonous oscillatory tone into an 
 expressive alphabetical and numerical code thereby creating a vocalised language.

 The Relevance Of Einstein’s Concepts to Sankhya Logic - PDF 
 Comparison of Sankhya with the Theory of Relativity shows that its concepts are superfluous in substantial space. 

 A Comparison of Sankhyakarika Translations - PDF 
 The comparison of the present Sankhya translation with other eminent authors to show the reason why 
 the mathematics coded in it was never exposed and an extraordinay theory lay dormant for centuries.

 Moolaprakriti - PDF 

 Volumetric Perpetual Harmonic Oscillator (or PHO state) - PDF 

 MAGNETIC PHENOMENON - PDF 
 ... Regarding BILL MULLER's Overunity Motor-Generator 

 "For I want all the stalwarts in Physics to muster together to change the mindset of the scientific ivory tower.
 As things stand Physics is a long way from accepting the fact that energy conservation equations will show the
 existence of overunity characteristics if the photon or unit charge is redefined as possessing mass or density 
 in the form of stored activity time. It will then see every magnet as a charge-energy flywheel that has stored 
 a huge number of 'charges with mass in motion'. 

 Hence BILL MULLER’s famous statement that 'every magnet is a motor' is absolutely correct."
 ... G. Srinivasan 

 TOTAL_ECLIPSE_EXPERIMENT.pdf and 
 TOTAL_ECLIPSE_PIX.pdf 

 A truly simple and unique experiment to verify Sankhya Theory's axiomatic derivations 
 during the Annular Solar Eclipse on 15 Jan 2010 

 and much more to come ... 

 Page Updated : 12|20|2011 
 Return to TOP of Page 

 Execution: 1.27 Seconds 

 HOME TESLA Lightning Gallery News | Links Radio Schematics Magnetics 101 DIY Private 

 Quotations Tesla Image Gallery Biography Auto-Biography Colorado Springs Wardenclyffe Wardenclyffe Today 

 Ancient Vedic Physics 

 SANKHYA Introduction Book Details Sankhya Sutras Articles 
 Secret of Sankhya 
 by G. Srinivasan 

 Nikola Tesla was greatly influenced by this Ancient Vedic Physics 
 after meeting with and hearing the teachings of Swami Vivekananda 

 Saturday, September 21, 2013 @ 10:32:50 am US Central Visitor IP : 
 207.241.237.102 Since: 
 12/19/2001 

 Uptime: 4293 Days 
 11.76 Years

 Last Revision: 12/20/2011 

 Comments, Suggestions, Questions are welcome via ... 
 Email Response to your Email may be somewhat slow ... I have many irons in the fire 

 "We the willing, led by the unknowing, are doing the impossible for the ungrateful. 
 We've done so much for so long with so little, we are now qualified to do anything with nothing" 

 ... Anonymous 

 "all men dream: but not equally. 
 Those who dream by night ... wake in the day to find that it was vanity; 
 but the dreamers of the day are dangerous men, 
 for they may act their dream with open eyes, to make it possible." 

 ... T.E. Lawrence 

 "For what is the best choice for each individual - is the highest it is possible for him to achieve" 

 ... Aristotle 

 Magnetricity 
 gladly accepts public and private
 Donations via PayPal 
 Magnetricity is a one-man labor of love. All proceeds from Donations 
 fund Magnetricity.com directly and your support is truly appreciated 

 Except where otherwise noted, all original Content is Copyright &copy; 2004 - 2013 Magnetricity.com 
 All Rights are Reserved and Protected by International Law. Please ask Permission for use. 

 I DO NOT Authorize ANYONE to Copy or Mirror this Site or its Content for ANY Purpose 

 Thank You For Visiting