www.Magnetricity.com ... SANKHYAKARIKA - Secret of SANKHYA - by G. Srinivasan 

 IMPORTANT: Your Browser is outdated. Please UPDATE your Browser 

 HOME TESLA Lightning Gallery News | Links Radio Schematics Magnetics 101 DIY Private 

 Quotations Tesla Image Gallery Biography Auto-Biography Colorado Springs Wardenclyffe Wardenclyffe Today 

 Ancient Vedic Physics 

 SANKHYA Introduction Book Details Sankhya Sutras Articles 
 Secret of Sankhya 
 by G. Srinivasan 

 Nikola Tesla was greatly influenced by this Ancient Vedic Physics 
 after meeting with and hearing the teachings of Swami Vivekananda 

 SANKHYA INTRODUCTION 

 Celebrating 
 11.76 
 Years Online 
 Saturday, September 21, 2013 

 Site Updates are in Progress 

 2 
 User(s) currently online 

 Preview G. Srinivasan's New Book ... 
 Secret of Sankhya : 
 Acme of Scientific Unification 

 in Adobe Acrobat PDF format (510 pages) (2 MB file) 
 Email : gsvasktg@gmail.com 

 SANKHYAKARIKA 
 Introduction 

 A correct theory should be simple, logically & numerically consistent and be in consonance with reality. 
 It should be based on an axiomatic foundation, so that the principle of causality is not violated. 
 The permanent foundation for a unified theory that defines all phenomena, at every point in space and time, 
 must be a non-dimensional and scale-invariant formulation, if it is to fulfill the criteria of universality. 
 In a unification paradigm, it is necessary to restrict the controlling parameter to a single variable, if it is to be effective mathematically. 

 The definition for the real and substantial nature of the substratum on which phenomena is based should evolve from within the theory because of 
 its axiomatic foundation. The intellectual dichotomy posed by the ordering of polarized concepts such as "maximum and minimum", "static and dynamic", 
 "start and finish", "left and right handedness" etc. should be resolved through an axiomatic unification paradigm, again arising from within the theory. 
 Since Universal phenomena existed long before the advent of human life, a correct theory must not depend on logic structured through intellectual analysis 
 that is contrary to the observed characteristics of natural phenomena. 

 Further, since the theoretical derivation forms the foundation for pursuing human activities efficiently, it must be amenable to observation and 
 practical verification, for only then its utility would be confirmed intellectually. The process of verification through observation depends on a 
 relative change, which restricts its means to a dynamic parameter such as time. The proof for the completeness of a theory should rest on the 
 unequivocal corroboration of its theoretical derivations, with every type of observational experience. 

 As a specific case, the spectrum of phenomena observed in parapsychological and spiritual domains have been widely reported through verified first 
 hand accounts, yet there is no place for it in current science, even as a hypothesis. Finally, its proof must be generated from within as a part 
 of its axiomatic derivational process and should not depend on arbitrary or external observational parameters. 

 The foregoing criteria form the derivative base for the unified field theory of Sankhya, (logic of counting in Sanskrit), created by Maharishi Kapilla 
 in a pre-Vedic period. Sankhya forms the core of the Bhagavadgita, embedded in the Mahabharata. Based on the foregoing principle, its axiom based 
 foundation, bound by rigorous logic, using combinatorial mathematics, inexorably leads to an austere formulation, 
 which is the epitome of intellectual elegance. 

 It is the only unified-field theory in existence that offers a complete scientific& mathematical solution in space comprising substantial components. 
 The 68 Sanskrit axiomatic theorems or sutras in Sankhya are transliterated, along with its mathematical derivations in part 2, for the first time, 
 as all earlier translators could not decipher its scientific content. The logical derivational process is presented below but the mathematical proof 
 is given later chapters. 

 " 
 The gift of Free Energy is just not an idealogical euphamism but a working reality " ... G. Srinivasan

 Please see the following working prototypes created by inventive genius 
 based on intuitive insight that showed the Lacuna in current Physics. 

 The Muller Magnetic Motor / Generator based on magnetic/electric interactions at 
 MullerPower.com 

 The Searle Effect based on magnetic/magnetic interactions at 
 http://www.searlsolution.com 

 The SVG Generator of De Palma and P. Tewari at www.tewari.org 

 ... and many more devices. 

 Articles by G. Srinivasan 

 SANKHYA - PDF 
 An Ancient Philosophy Unifies Science and Religion.

 Secret of Sankhya: Acme of Scientific Unification (Part 2) - Book Preview - PDF 
 ( Part 1 has not yet been released ).

 Age Of The Vedas - PDF 
 Shows the derivation of the time span of over 30,000 years when Sankhyakarika was created.

 An Introduction to the Rig Veda - PDF 
 Gives an english translation of ancient Sanskrit where 
 the first verse shows the process of Extracting Energy from Space .

 Axiomatic Solution to the Human Enigma - PDF 
 The solution to deriving the ultimate power in the Universe.

 SIDDHI - The ideal, scientific, non-religious, process to maximize Human life energy potential - PDF 
 The simplest process of attaining the maximum effectiveness in life processes using 
 the fundamental PHO state to replenish your life energy without any constraints.

 Tamil - PDF 
 Evidence that Tamil must have been derived from Sanskrit.

 Atharva Veda - PDF 
 Atharva Veda first verse derives the quantisation of interactive phenomena.

 The Sanskrit Language - PDF 
 Sanskrit is a language created from coding a monotonous oscillatory tone into an 
 expressive alphabetical and numerical code thereby creating a vocalised language.

 The Relevance Of Einstein’s Concepts to Sankhya Logic - PDF 
 Comparison of Sankhya with the Theory of Relativity shows that its concepts are superfluous in substantial space. 

 A Comparison of Sankhyakarika Translations - PDF 
 The comparison of the present Sankhya translation with other eminent authors to show the reason why 
 the mathematics coded in it was never exposed and an extraordinay theory lay dormant for centuries.

 Moolaprakriti - PDF 

 Volumetric Perpetual Harmonic Oscillator (or PHO state) - PDF 

 MAGNETIC PHENOMENON - PDF 
 ... Regarding BILL MULLER's Overunity Motor-Generator 

 "For I want all the stalwarts in Physics to muster together to change the mindset of the scientific ivory tower.
 As things stand Physics is a long way from accepting the fact that energy conservation equations will show the
 existence of overunity characteristics if the photon or unit charge is redefined as possessing mass or density 
 in the form of stored activity time. It will then see every magnet as a charge-energy flywheel that has stored 
 a huge number of 'charges with mass in motion'. 

 Hence BILL MULLER’s famous statement that 'every magnet is a motor' is absolutely correct."
 ... G. Srinivasan 

 TOTAL_ECLIPSE_EXPERIMENT.pdf and 
 TOTAL_ECLIPSE_PIX.pdf 

 A truly simple and unique experiment to verify Sankhya Theory's axiomatic derivations 
 during the Annular Solar Eclipse on 15 Jan 2010 

 and much more to come ... 

 Page Updated : 12|20|2011 
 Return to TOP of Page 

 Execution: 1.11 Seconds 

 HOME TESLA Lightning Gallery News | Links Radio Schematics Magnetics 101 DIY Private 

 Quotations Tesla Image Gallery Biography Auto-Biography Colorado Springs Wardenclyffe Wardenclyffe Today 

 Ancient Vedic Physics 

 SANKHYA Introduction Book Details Sankhya Sutras Articles 
 Secret of Sankhya 
 by G. Srinivasan 

 Nikola Tesla was greatly influenced by this Ancient Vedic Physics 
 after meeting with and hearing the teachings of Swami Vivekananda 

 Saturday, September 21, 2013 @ 11:04:27 am US Central Visitor IP : 
 207.241.237.103 Since: 
 12/19/2001 

 Uptime: 4293 Days 
 11.76 Years

 Last Revision: 12/20/2011 

 Comments, Suggestions, Questions are welcome via ... 
 Email Response to your Email may be somewhat slow ... I have many irons in the fire 

 "We the willing, led by the unknowing, are doing the impossible for the ungrateful. 
 We've done so much for so long with so little, we are now qualified to do anything with nothing" 

 ... Anonymous 

 "all men dream: but not equally. 
 Those who dream by night ... wake in the day to find that it was vanity; 
 but the dreamers of the day are dangerous men, 
 for they may act their dream with open eyes, to make it possible." 

 ... T.E. Lawrence 

 "For what is the best choice for each individual - is the highest it is possible for him to achieve" 

 ... Aristotle 

 Magnetricity 
 gladly accepts public and private
 Donations via PayPal 
 Magnetricity is a one-man labor of love. All proceeds from Donations 
 fund Magnetricity.com directly and your support is truly appreciated 

 Except where otherwise noted, all original Content is Copyright &copy; 2004 - 2013 Magnetricity.com 
 All Rights are Reserved and Protected by International Law. Please ask Permission for use. 

 I DO NOT Authorize ANYONE to Copy or Mirror this Site or its Content for ANY Purpose 

 Thank You For Visiting