www.Magnetricity.com ... SANKHYAKARIKA - Secret of SANKHYA - by G. Srinivasan 

 IMPORTANT: Your Browser is outdated. Please UPDATE your Browser 

 HOME TESLA Lightning Gallery News | Links Radio Schematics Magnetics 101 DIY Private 

 Quotations Tesla Image Gallery Biography Auto-Biography Colorado Springs Wardenclyffe Wardenclyffe Today 

 Ancient Vedic Physics 

 SANKHYA Introduction Book Details Sankhya Sutras Articles 
 Secret of Sankhya 
 by G. Srinivasan 

 Nikola Tesla was greatly influenced by this Ancient Vedic Physics 
 after meeting with and hearing the teachings of Swami Vivekananda 

 SANKHYA SUTRAS 

 Celebrating 
 11.76 
 Years Online 
 Saturday, September 21, 2013 

 Site Updates are in Progress 

 2 
 User(s) currently online 

 Preview G. Srinivasan's New Book ... 
 Secret of Sankhya : 
 Acme of Scientific Unification 

 in Adobe Acrobat PDF format (510 pages) (2 MB file) 
 Email : gsvasktg@gmail.com 

 SANKHYAKARIKA 
 Sankhya Sutras 

 The Sutras or logical theorems are in Sanskrit and are summarised and transliterated in Sutrasummary.doc and an English summary detail out the principles of the avantegarde theory. 
 A few of the significant theorems are given below to highlight the intellectual basis of derivation of principles that have not yet found a place in modern science. 

 1. The Dynamic Substratum: 

Investigating the triad of interactive stresses shows that such interactive modes of stresses exist but it would not have been detectable, had it not been for the existence of the synchronised - perpetual - dynamic - unmanifest state of existence (of the substratum). 

 3. The Axiomatic Three Dimensional Wave Fundamentals of the Substratum. 

Fundamental or root resonant oscillatory state is synchronised, coherent and stable; the first interactive oscillatory state is of maximum intensity; then there are seven levels of the harmonic oscillatory interactive stages followed by an expanding radiation above a sixteenth order of the fundamental value; the nuclear core is neither oscillatory nor harmonically interactive. 

 8. The reason why the fundamental SUBSTRATUM is Not Detectable. 

The non delectability (of the substratum) is due to the extremely attenuated reactions put out and not because it (substratum) does not exist. Only reactions are detectable. For when the reaction of the primary or first displacement takes place then a sequence of oscillations are detected that are either in its original form or harmonics . 

 9. Logical reasons why the SUBSTRATUM MUST EXIST if Manifestation EXISTS. 

It is a logical error to accept that continuous or all possible modes of action (manifestation) are possible without a physical cause; the ability to act in all possible ways must be due to the existence of a cause, therefore it becomes an axiomatic rule. 

 11. Characteristics of the Three States of Phenomenal Interaction. (GUNAS) 

The inability to discriminate between the triad of stressed states that form the dynamic connection is the cause of not detecting phenomenon in a synchronised, static or unmanifest state. The triplicity of dynamic forces that connect it, is a principle that applies to the first or primary intense state and the succeeding reactive states of manifestation and likewise to the nucleus which however is in the opposite state (non detectable state). 

 20. The State of Sustained Interraction is a State of Balance 

Because of the proximity of the static and dynamic states the static state seems dynamic and through the action of the gunas the dynamic seems to behave in a neutral mode that maintains a balance. 

 30. Definition of a Cyclic Vortex and a Spherical Harmonic Oscillator. 

When the oscillatory cycle counts, in all directions, act simultaneously or synchronously and is raised to the 4th power, a cyclic self-supporting vrithi (photon) is formed. When it acts non-synchronously or sequentially, it becomes detectable and measurable with a degree of certainty, in the initiating state, prior to the above. When the oscillatory count reaches the power of three and becomes synchronised, it acts simultaneously in all directions. It is then in a self-supporting harmonic oscillatory state but is not detectable or observable. 

 31. The Cyclic Vortex is kept in Continuous Oscillation ONLY by its Internal Potential. 

The cyclic vortex or spherical oscillator is kept in continuous interactive exchange up to the very end (limit) only by the nuclear or core potential developed by the mutual exchange of internally motivated and triggered self similar and self organised impulse or force and there is no other external potential cause. 

 37. Extraction of Potential Energy from the Purusha Domain. 

A comprehensive and extraordinary use can be made in the following way. The potential of the purusha can be attained from the minute coherent state hidden inside the it by repeated, precisely triggered inputs to initiate the primary interactions. 

 46. Interactions in the Synchronised State causes 50 orders of Change. 

The axiomatically ascertained order of the spectrum of interactive states due to the conditions of unbalance, non synchronisation, balance and coherent synchronisation caused by the interplay of three guna modes of interaction are 50 (order of powers). 

 62. Interactions are the cause of Manifestation as a Holographic Phenomenon. 

Therefore, nothing is bound, released or translocated. Only the oscillatory wave forms of interactions is bound or superposed by synchronisation, released by desynchronisation and transferred by transmigration due to unequal displacements and this dynamic state continues endlessly. 

 63. Interaction. 

The oscillatory waveforms superposition itself by its own potential to form the nuclear density by compressing it's waveforms to the seventh power when it becomes equal to the static nuclear potential and when it expands it releases all as one waveform at the same time. 

 67. Conversion of Kinetic Force into Static Potential as Inertia or Mass 

The basic principle of acquiring a mass is by synchronous super-positioning of oscillatory interactions on components into a coherent and super symmetric state that is relatively static by allowing the spin angular momentum to be converted to a dense, potential state by exchange or accumulation through a self similar proportion or ratio. 

 68. The Final Synchronised, Coherent, Dynamic State of Isolated Nucleus 

The process of acquiring mass is given effect by superpositioning the interactive vortex like waveforms by changing it into a gradually diminishing cyclic interaction that reaches a synchronised and balanced state within the first or primary activity boundary. The unhindered components of the substratum in the nuclear or central region within the primary boundary act, and behave in a synchronised state of relative freedom because of both of these factors - quality of coherence & synchrony and quality of perpetual dynamism therefore isolation or freedom to exist unhindered -- is ensured or accomplished. 

 Comparing Sutra 1. 

Investigating the possibility of eliminating the triad of stresses shows that methods exist but the results from such methods would not have been successful had it not been for the existence of the absolute - eternal - dynamic un-manifest state of existence of the substratum. 

The final proof of the entire spectrum of manifestation after sequentially analysing the logical factors is given in this Sutra. The opening Sutra itself follows the principle of looping back to create a circular rationale by choosing a phraseology that elliptically negates itself. The triad of stresses is a reference to the GUNA interactive states of TAMA, RAJA and SATWA. This Sutra explains how the Satwic nature of the vortex like interaction of the un-synchronised waveforms outside the primary boundary or Pradhana state, drift towards the nuclear centre because it is in a relative state of rest due to the coherent and synchronised condition of the PURUSHA location. The isolation of the nuclear core has an important significance for the dynamic state of the nucleus is possible only if there is a perpetual harmonic oscillation. Hence the nuclear core is in a perpetual harmonic oscillatory state that decays in infinite time or the vibratory state continues eternally. 

The Raja region closer to the Satwa interface has a larger oscillatory displacement amplitude but at the other end near the PURUSHA interface the oscillations combine or superpose together and act simultaneously as a coherent set of synchronised vibrations with a diminished amplitude. As the oscillatory ensemble drift towards the centre, the super-positioning quality increases the inertia or mass and at a particular point the superpositioning density reaches a maximum and all detectable oscillatory movements synchronise and act together in a coherent breathing mode or a whole spherical surface vibrates as a unit. Therefore the innermost boundary is isolated or screened by the outer spherically oscillating surface. The inner, static, stationery, passive, dense with maximum number of oscillations simultaneously occupying this location at the nuclear PURUSHA core acts as potential sink but because of the screening spherical boundary it can never become active enough to lose its' attracting potential or sink status. The screening spherical surface in the breathing mode is in an interactive Raja state that carries out the change from a sequential oscillatory state to a parallel or simultaneous super posed state. Since this conversion takes place over a rate changing factor of 2, there are (8-1) 7 intermediate levels of change as explained in Sutra 3 , those describing the Guna states and Sutras 63 & 65. The most important underlying principle is that all the descriptions pertain ONLY to vibrations taking place on or in the undetectable components of the SUBSTRATUM. The entire theory is based on analysing the eternally dynamic holographic state of the SUBSTRATUM 

 " 
 The gift of Free Energy is just not an idealogical euphamism but a working reality " ... G. Srinivasan

 Please see the following working prototypes created by inventive genius 
 based on intuitive insight that showed the Lacuna in current Physics. 

 The Muller Magnetic Motor / Generator based on magnetic/electric interactions at 
 MullerPower.com 

 The Searle Effect based on magnetic/magnetic interactions at 
 http://www.searlsolution.com 

 The SVG Generator of De Palma and P. Tewari at www.tewari.org 

 ... and many more devices. 

 Articles by G. Srinivasan 

 SANKHYA - PDF 
 An Ancient Philosophy Unifies Science and Religion.

 Secret of Sankhya: Acme of Scientific Unification (Part 2) - Book Preview - PDF 
 ( Part 1 has not yet been released ).

 Age Of The Vedas - PDF 
 Shows the derivation of the time span of over 30,000 years when Sankhyakarika was created.

 An Introduction to the Rig Veda - PDF 
 Gives an english translation of ancient Sanskrit where 
 the first verse shows the process of Extracting Energy from Space .

 Axiomatic Solution to the Human Enigma - PDF 
 The solution to deriving the ultimate power in the Universe.

 SIDDHI - The ideal, scientific, non-religious, process to maximize Human life energy potential - PDF 
 The simplest process of attaining the maximum effectiveness in life processes using 
 the fundamental PHO state to replenish your life energy without any constraints.

 Tamil - PDF 
 Evidence that Tamil must have been derived from Sanskrit.

 Atharva Veda - PDF 
 Atharva Veda first verse derives the quantisation of interactive phenomena.

 The Sanskrit Language - PDF 
 Sanskrit is a language created from coding a monotonous oscillatory tone into an 
 expressive alphabetical and numerical code thereby creating a vocalised language.

 The Relevance Of Einstein’s Concepts to Sankhya Logic - PDF 
 Comparison of Sankhya with the Theory of Relativity shows that its concepts are superfluous in substantial space. 

 A Comparison of Sankhyakarika Translations - PDF 
 The comparison of the present Sankhya translation with other eminent authors to show the reason why 
 the mathematics coded in it was never exposed and an extraordinay theory lay dormant for centuries.

 Moolaprakriti - PDF 

 Volumetric Perpetual Harmonic Oscillator (or PHO state) - PDF 

 MAGNETIC PHENOMENON - PDF 
 ... Regarding BILL MULLER's Overunity Motor-Generator 

 "For I want all the stalwarts in Physics to muster together to change the mindset of the scientific ivory tower.
 As things stand Physics is a long way from accepting the fact that energy conservation equations will show the
 existence of overunity characteristics if the photon or unit charge is redefined as possessing mass or density 
 in the form of stored activity time. It will then see every magnet as a charge-energy flywheel that has stored 
 a huge number of 'charges with mass in motion'. 

 Hence BILL MULLER’s famous statement that 'every magnet is a motor' is absolutely correct."
 ... G. Srinivasan 

 TOTAL_ECLIPSE_EXPERIMENT.pdf and 
 TOTAL_ECLIPSE_PIX.pdf 

 A truly simple and unique experiment to verify Sankhya Theory's axiomatic derivations 
 during the Annular Solar Eclipse on 15 Jan 2010 

 and much more to come ... 

 Page Updated : 12|20|2011 
 Return to TOP of Page 

 Execution: 1.81 Seconds 

 HOME TESLA Lightning Gallery News | Links Radio Schematics Magnetics 101 DIY Private 

 Quotations Tesla Image Gallery Biography Auto-Biography Colorado Springs Wardenclyffe Wardenclyffe Today 

 Ancient Vedic Physics 

 SANKHYA Introduction Book Details Sankhya Sutras Articles 
 Secret of Sankhya 
 by G. Srinivasan 

 Nikola Tesla was greatly influenced by this Ancient Vedic Physics 
 after meeting with and hearing the teachings of Swami Vivekananda 

 Saturday, September 21, 2013 @ 11:31:21 am US Central Visitor IP : 
 207.241.237.102 Since: 
 12/19/2001 

 Uptime: 4293 Days 
 11.76 Years

 Last Revision: 12/20/2011 

 Comments, Suggestions, Questions are welcome via ... 
 Email Response to your Email may be somewhat slow ... I have many irons in the fire 

 "We the willing, led by the unknowing, are doing the impossible for the ungrateful. 
 We've done so much for so long with so little, we are now qualified to do anything with nothing" 

 ... Anonymous 

 "all men dream: but not equally. 
 Those who dream by night ... wake in the day to find that it was vanity; 
 but the dreamers of the day are dangerous men, 
 for they may act their dream with open eyes, to make it possible." 

 ... T.E. Lawrence 

 "For what is the best choice for each individual - is the highest it is possible for him to achieve" 

 ... Aristotle 

 Magnetricity 
 gladly accepts public and private
 Donations via PayPal 
 Magnetricity is a one-man labor of love. All proceeds from Donations 
 fund Magnetricity.com directly and your support is truly appreciated 

 Except where otherwise noted, all original Content is Copyright &copy; 2004 - 2013 Magnetricity.com 
 All Rights are Reserved and Protected by International Law. Please ask Permission for use. 

 I DO NOT Authorize ANYONE to Copy or Mirror this Site or its Content for ANY Purpose 

 Thank You For Visiting