Review of Brute Force 

 Review of Brute Force (1947) 

 Despite being filmed in 1947, Brute Force 
retains a contemporary feel because of its vision of prison life as hell
on earth. Little contrasts with its unrelenting darkness. The prisoners
ruthlessly enforce their code of honour, their jailers sadistically
torture them and possibly worst of all, the public wants to do nothing
more than lock them up and throw away the key. It's truthful,
unsentimental and not much fun to watch. 

 There's little suspense in the story that would give the viewer a break
from this grim tale. Movie logic dictates that the residents of Cell R17
at Westgate Penitentiary meet an unhappy end after they drive a fellow
prisoner to a gruesome death for betraying their cellmate Joe Collins.
Never mind that the betrayer was forced to falsely implicate Joe by
Captain Munsey, who speaks softly and enjoys using his big stick on the
prisoners. Munsey's aroused by Joe's consistent refusal to submit to his
authority, so he settles for sticking it to all the prisoners and even
the alcoholic prison doctor. The sadomasochistic, homoerotic relation
between the jailer and the jailed gives Brute
Force enduring relevance. 

 Though innovative in that respect, the film's weighed down by
heavy-handed writing. Not content with inverting the usual moral order by
making the prisoners better and the prison guards the villains, the
screenplay makes Munsey the personification of Satan. Munsey boldly
opposes Christian beliefs as weak. If that weren't enough, Munsey's
nemesis Joe's initials are JC. (Three guesses as to who those initials
stand for.) But the religious allegory doesn't take because of Joe's own
ruthless, nihilistic behaviour, so the equation of Munsey with the devil
becomes overwrought. 

 Burt Lancaster pulls off a difficult acting job as Joe by conveying
both nihilism and square-jawed integrity in his refusal to accept Munsey's
superior might as right. Hume Cronyn does his best to shade his villainous
Munsey (remember, he is the personification of Satan!) with equal parts of
deceptive mild manner and sadism. Characterisations of supporting
characters are adequate, not transcending the stereotypes of the
Flamboyant Con Man, the Big Dumb Guy, and the obedient soldier 
conveniently named Soldier in this film. 

(February 25, 2001)

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2002)