Instructors and experience 

 Instructors 

 We here at Ronin Dojo are very proud of our
instructors. Each of our Sensei, (teacher or teachers), have had many
years of experience in the martial arts field, with special training in the area
of Karate instruction. It is with great pride that we introduce you to our
exceptional staff of Sensei. (Sensei is pronounced "sen-say"). 
Our ranks are filled with many other fine examples of Karate-ka's who assist
with the education of our students, however, they are too numerous to mention
here. 

 Hammond Sensei, 
 Godan,

 Kevin Hammond, 5th degree Black Belt, Head Instructor 
 1963 -
 1983 
 Studied
 various martial arts including; Judo, Tae Kwon Do, Goju Ryu, Hwrangdo,
 Shorin Ryu, and Kyokushinkai, achieving brown belt. 
 From
 1983 to Present 
 Studied Hyashi-ha Shito Ryu, Kotaka-ha Shito Ryu, and Gosoku Ryu,
 achieving Yondan (4th Degree Black Belt) in Shito Ryu and Gosoku Ryu in
 1994, Godan (5th Degree) in Seito Shito-Ryu in 2001. 
 "At the age of 10 I began taking Judo at a local
 club in Chicago, Illinois. As
 you can see, I have maintained my interest in martial arts, but have
 traveled from style to style. Sometimes
 this change was due to a lack of instructor (they moved on), my
 relocation, or an interest in another style. 
 My training in Shito Ryu began with the Washington Karate
 Association (WKA) under Thiry Sensei. I
 trained with many instructors at several locations in the Everett 
 Marysville area. One of the
 Everett locations was under Martin Sensei. 
 In 1985 there was a 'split' from WKA, and I followed Martin
 Sensei to Family Karate Center (FKC). There, in 1985, I earned my black belt." 

 "FKC under Martin Sensei was a Kotaka-ha Shito Ryu school with an
 affiliation to Gosoku Ryu under Kubota Sensei. I was head of technical
 curriculum, which included research, and development, and curriculum
 formatting for all FKC Dojos. I soon after opened a satellite school under FKC in
 Marysville,
 and have been teaching there consistently since that time. 
 In 1997 I purchased the Marysville Dojo from FKC and began my own school, Ronin Dojo." 
 "I
 maintain my training through a diligence in attendance of seminars, under many instructors, to enhance my
 knowledge and technique. I
 have judged and coached state, regional, national and international
 events. 
 I am an AAU referee in both Japanese and Chinese martial arts." 
 "Thank you for your time
 and attention. If you have
 further questions, please feel free to contact me." 

 McCulley Sensei, 
 Yondan, 

 Candy McCulley, 4th degree Black Belt, 
 "I have been training with Hammond Sensei 
 since 1990. 
 Karate has provided me with physical and mental growth, strength, and
 more. I am continually excited by learning and teaching, and find
 that they compliment and enhance each other. I teach the
 Introductory Program at Ronin Dojo. People who are interested in
 Karate often need to know more about what goes on and how we go about
 doing Karate before they become further involved. The Introductory
 Program allows time for questions and one-on-one instruction in the basic
 movements in Karate, and gives me the opportunity to share my excitement
 in Karate-do." 

 Carter Sensei, Sandan 

 Wilma Carter, 3rd degree Black Belt, 
 "I have been involved with martial arts 
 since 1986, all but two
 of those years with Hammond Sensei. It was because of my six year old
 grandson that I started my career in Karate. I originally thought of my
 participation in Karate as more of an exercise program where I might learn
 some self-defense. It wasn't long before I realized it was a way of life,
 a philosophy, and something that I wanted to pursue. I found Karate also
 satisfied a need for teaching, which is something that I had desired to do
 all my life. It is so satisfying to watch people grow in their
 self-confidence as they grow in their martial art. I also take great
 pleasure in teaching Karate to children in the "Kinderate" and
 "Junior Karate" programs. Most of my life has been dedicated to
 working with other people, especially children, (I was a school bus driver
 for 28 years, and have taught sign language at various institutions). A
 number of years ago, I developed a program called Kenko-Do, "The Way
 To Health". This program is based on a martial art that is less
 ballistic than Karate, and utilizes stretching and circular types of
 movements. In this class we learn healthy breathing techniques along with
 our Tai Chi and Chi Kung forms. My biggest pleasure is seeing people who
 were having problems walking, balancing, and moving in general, progress
 to the point of really feeling good physically and mentally. I love
 teaching... young, old, and in between. It is my life." 

 Elves Sensei, 
 Sandan, 

 Linda Elves, 3rd Degree Black Belt 
 "I started training with Hammond Sensei in the art of Shito Ryu
 Karate in 1990. I am the director of the Kinderate program, (a
 program designed for children ages 4-6, initially developed in
 1992). Karate is a wonderful way to teach children fine motor
 skills, listening skills, sequencing, goal setting, and personal safety in
 a fun, protected environment. I believe in life lessons learned in
 Karate, and I believe in the right for a child to feel strong and
 safe in any situation."

 Kurtzenacker Sensei, Nidan, 

 Don Kurtzenacker, 2nd Degree Black Belt 

 click
here for frames 

 Email
Us