Boston Ride 1986 

 Boston Ride 1986 

 Day One -- April 18, 1986 

 This ride began much like past club rides to Boston, such as Boston 1982 . I started in Stony Brook;
here is
the view out the dorm window early in the morning 
before leaving, on April 18, 1986. By the time I left, it had cleared, and it
was a beautiful sunny day . I joined the usual 
Boston route in Selden . This year there were only 
three groups (explanation of groups and other club stuff in Boston 1982 page)
in the beginning of the ride, but they soon spread out and we 
ended up humorously referring to different groups of riders who gravitated 
together as Group 1A, 1B, etc. Here's Pete White 
in Selden getting the groups together (at the right of picture). 

 Here's Group 1 taking a rest stop at Briermere 
Farms , on Rte. 48 northeast of Riverhead, NY. Pictured are Chris Black
and one of the Porter twins. There is quite a strong headwind, but then for 
the last 8 miles to Orient Point, the subgroups consolidated and about 13 of 
us rode in formation at a very good pace to the Point, as if there was no 
headwind at all. We boarded the Orient Point Ferry for New London, CT. In New
London we stayed at the new New London YMCA (TrOD. 66.6 from Stony Brook)
which had two floors; on the upper floor was the skylit wrestling room where
we put our sleeping bags on the mats; the lower level was where the locker
rooms, weight room, showers and sauna were. We had dinner and then returned to
the YMCA to shower. Unfortunately, the hot water was intermittent, so some
got nice hot showers, while I took a cold shower. I was happy to discover
the sauna just afterwards so I could warm up in there. We joked and talked
awhile and headed to the sleeping bags; while some who wanted more quiet 
headed downstairs. 

 Day Two -- April 19, 1986 (and afterwards) 

 We took our usual route through eastern Connecticut and Rhode Island. As 
yesterday, the groups spread out a lot; here's Sean and
some other riders just south of Hope Valley, RI. I stayed with the club 
at first in Boston and then went to stay with my brother at the Greek Orthodox
seminary in Brookline; by this time the trees were
beginning to bloom . I also took a side trip up to New Hampshire before
riding back; this is the view of Boston from the
northern suburbs , Lawrence, MA , Concord, MA , and Chepachet,
RI . 

 Click here to send me comments on this web page . 
 This site has been viewed times
since May 3, 2001. 

 nickz@eskimo.com 

Page created: September 10, 1999
Last modified: September 10, 1999