Windows 98

Getting 
Windows 98 
on the Local Area Network

Al Wong

May 11, 2003

I am using a D-Link LAN card 
( DFE-690TXD )
connected to
Windows 98 (Win98) computer.
To get the Win98 computer to work on the LAN, do the following:

 Run the Network Setup Wizard from the floppy disk you created
during your 

WinXP session with the Network Setup Wizard. 

Choose the second option:

This computer connects to the Internet through another computer on my network
or through a residential gateway.

After the Network Setup Wizard exits, reboot.

 Then do the following. See the Win98 help for detailed explanations on how-to:

 You need to create a unique name for this computer on the LAN.
Again, it doesn't matter what it is as long as it's different from
every other computer on the LAN.

 You need to create a group name. Again, it doesn't matter what it is
as long as it's the same group name on every computer on the LAN.

 You need to create another account with a username and password for the network.
It doesn't matter what the username and password is as long as you
 exactly match this account information with the WinXP server.

I would suggest you create a separate user account just for the network on each machine. 

 Then you may want to set some folders as Shared in the 
 File Manager. If you want older versions of Windows (like Windows 3.11)
to be
able to access your share folder, make the share folder name 8 characters
or less.

Please see the 

ICS main webpage
 regarding firewall information and updates.

You probably need to reboot again.

 Login to the network account you created above.

 Open a Command Window and type:

 ipconfig 

The IP address should be 192.168.0.XXX where XXX is a number other than 1.
The subnet mask should be 255.255.255.0 .
Use ipconfig /? to get help on this command.

 The Win98 computer and shared directories should now be 
recognized on the LAN.
Go to My Network Places and click View workgroup computers. 
This should bring up the other computer names on the LAN.

Internet Connection Sharing

 My Writings 

Last updated : March 13, 2004

Copyright 2003-2004 Al Wong, Los Angeles, California, USA