Windows XP

Setting up the 
Windows XP Server 
on the Local Area Network

Al Wong

May 11, 2003

My Windows XP Home (WinXP) computer has its own LAN card and phone jack built-in.
To make the WinXP computer run as a network server with a shared dialup, 
do the following:

 Run the Network Setup Wizard from WinXP. Choose the first option:

This computer connects directly to the Internet. The other computers
on my network connect to the Internet through this computer.

When the Network Setup Wizard prompts if you need to create a floppy disk
to install the other computers on the network, say Yes. Create a floppy.
You probably need to reboot now.

 Then do the following. See the WinXP help for detailed explanations on how-to:

 You need to create a unique name for this computer on the LAN.
Again, it doesn't matter what it is as long as it's different from
every other computer on the LAN.

 You need to create a group name. Again, it doesn't matter what it is
as long as it's the same group name on every computer on the LAN.

 You need to create another account with a username and password for the network.
It doesn't matter what the username and password is as long as you
 exactly match this account information with the other computers that are
going to be on the LAN.

I would suggest you create a separate user account just for the network on each machine. Make the network account on your WinXP server a limited 
account and not an administrator account.

Please note the WinXP computer does not need to be logged into the
network account at all but this account must exist for the benefit of the
other computers on the LAN.
All other computers must login to the network account to be recognized
by the LAN.

 Then you may want to set some folders as Shared in the 
 File Manager. If you want older versions of Windows (like Windows 3.11)
to be
able to access your share folder, make the share folder name 8 characters
or less.

 Please see the 
 ICS main webpage 
regarding firewall information and updates.

You probably need to reboot again.

 Open a Command Window and type:

 ipconfig 

The IP address should be 192.168.0.1 with a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0 

 The WinXP computer is now set up as a network server.
Now set up the other computers that are going to be on the network
with the floppy disk you created above.

 Once the other computers are set up,
go to My Network Places and click View workgroup computers. 
This should bring up the other computer names on the LAN.

Internet Connection Sharing

 My Writings 

Last updated : March 13, 2004

Copyright 2003-2004 Al Wong, Los Angeles, California, USA