Complete summary of The Big Clock 

 Complete summary of The Big Clock (1948) 

 In a city skyscraper, a man hides in the dark from a security guard.
He runs to a structure he can hide in--a big clock--and says to himself,
"Thirty-six hours ago, I was a respectable man." As he is hiding, he
flashes back to the previous day. 

 The big clock is the main attraction in the building of Janoth
Publications, a company that publishes many diverse magazines. The man,
George Stroud, is an editor with Crimeways magazine which seeks and finds
missing persons using George's method of "irrelevant clues." This day is
the last before George with his wife Georgette and their son George to
have the honeymoon George and Georgette never had because George was hired
quickly by the time-obsessed Earl Janoth. Their marriage is rocky because
George does not spend much time with his family. As he prepares to leave,
Janoth, his awe-inspiring, tyrannical boss, tells George not to leave on
vacation. George refuses and is fired by Janoth. George meets Pauline
York, a model for Janoth's publication Styleways and Janoth's mistress.
George and Pauline go to several bars and he misses his train with his
family. He sleeps off his drinking binge in Pauline's apartment, and she
makes him leave when she notices Janoth at her apartment window. When
Janoth comes, he and Pauline fight. He kills her with a sundial George had
bought her in a bar. Anxious to cover up, Janoth goes to his right-hand
man, Steve Hagen, for advice. 

 Not knowing that Pauline has been killed, George flies to West Virginia
to be with his family. Janoth pleads with him to come back and search for
the man who had last been seen with Pauline York, the man suspected as her
killer. Not wanting to disclose his rendezvous with Pauline, George agrees
to come back to his old job and search for the man, who is really himself. 
The staff of Crimeways fans out across the country to look for the
mysterious man "Jefferson Randolph," directed ineptly by George. George
discovers Pauline's body in her apartment and searches for her killer. 

 Meanwhile, the search for Randolph intensifies. When an antiques
dealer George and Pauline had visited spots George in the Janoth building,
the building is sealed off and the witnesses brought in to identify
Randolph. George hides in the big clock. With help from his wife and his
actor friend posing as a detective, George confronts Steve and Janoth and
identifies Steve as the killer. Steve gives Janoth up, and Janoth shoots
him dead. George pursues Janoth, who falls down an elevator shaft. 

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2002)