The Big Rock Conundrum 

You can support the work that goes into creating this online content by contributing
a small amount online. I suggest about $2-$3 for each year that you read the website.

 Charles W. Johnson 
 The "Big Rock" Conundrum 
 Last revised 28 July 1998 

 Common Arguments 
 Web 
 IRC 
 Usenet 
 Christianity 
 Evolution 

 Homepage 
 Feedback 

 "Can God create a rock so heavy he cannot lift it?" 

This is known as the "Big Rock" conundrum. It is often used by
atheists seeking to disprove the possibility of the Christian god, and
any other purportedly omnipotent god. Sadly, it is logically flawed.

Remember that omnipotence means "the ability perform all tasks."
However, "tasks" that are logically impossible, such as creating
square circles, are not really tasks at all; they are nonexistent, the
 null set . Thus they are not real actions for an omnipotent
entity to perform. The "Big Rock" conundrum disappears when you
consider this. In argument form:

Given:

 U : The Universal set of tasks
 A : A proposed task
 B : A proposed omnipotent entity
 r : A rock
 C x : Proposed task of creating object x 
 M x : Proposed task of moving object x 

Assuming:

 Omnipotence is the ability to perform all tasks. (All members of
 U )
 If the definition of proposed task A is
self-contradictory, then A is not a member of
 U .
 If A is not a member of U, then A is not a task.
 Any entity X can only perform real tasks (elements of
 U )

One can infer that:

 If A is logically impossible, then
 A is not a task (prem. 2-3)
 B has the ability to perform all tasks (prem 1)
 B only has the ability to perform real tasks (prem 4)
 B does not have the ability to perform nontasks (inf 3)
 B has the ability to perform all members of U (prem 1)
 If B performed Cr such that
 Mr is a nontask, B could not perform
 Mr (inf 4)
 If B can perform all Mr , then
 B cannot perform Cr such that
 Mr is a nontask (inf 4)

In conclusion:

 Either B can perform Mr for all
 r xor B can perform Cr such that
 Mr is a nontask.

The argument leads to the conclusion that an omnipotent being could
rationally be able to do one xor the other and still be omnipotent.
The conclusion to this argument is (A xor ~A), which simplifies to
TRUE. IOW, this is a tautology. And proves the argument to be valid
rather than contradictory (in which case it would end in a direct
contradiction, (A and not-A), or a paradox of self-reference, (A
implies not-A).

The obvious points of attack are premises 1 and 4. However, if you
assume that an omnipotent entity is able to perform both tasks and
nontasks, you will ALWAYS end up with logical contradictions or
paradoces of self-reference. To borrow a phrase from computer science,
 garbage in, garbage out . So, I submit that such a definition
of omnipotence is inherently empty and will not get you anywhere with
relatively rational theists. Another avenue of attack to this
definition is to analyze it from the perspective of set algebra: from
this view, it does not make a jot of difference whether you define
omnipotence to include logically impossible or not; nonexistant tasks
form the null set ( phi ), and the union of any set A 
with phi is always that set A ( A U phi =
 A ). Thus, either way you still end up with the same set U of
possible tasks.

If there is a contradictory conclusion of omnipotence, it lies elsewhere.

 Written and maintained by Charles W. Johnson
( cwj2@eskimo.com ). 
 All pages copyright 1996-2002 by Charles W. Johnson unless otherwise noted. 
 All rights reserved.