The Cosmological Argument - Charles W. Johnson 

 Charles W. Johnson 
 Atheist Resources: The Cosmological Argument 
 Last revised 6 August 1998 

 Common Arguments 
 Web 
 IRC 
 Usenet 
 Christianity 
 Evolution 

 Homepage 
 Feedback 

 The Argument from First Cause 

The cosmological argument for God, also known as the argument from
First Cause , has been one of the most frequent defenses of the
rationality of theism throughout its long history. Cosmological
arguments have been proposed by some of history's greatest intellects,
including Saint Thomas Aquinas and Aristotle. In essence, it states:

All events have a cause, and the world as we know it is comprised of
events. Everything that we observe is an effect of some previous
cause. Since there cannot be an infinite regress of events, there must
be some Uncaused Cause outside of the world, that is, a God.

The problems with this argument are manifold. Some debaters, drawing
on on some interpretations of Quantum Mechanics, may deny the iron law
that all events must have a cause. Some also question the premise that
an infinite regress of events cannot exist; however, a lot of modern
cosmology points to a Universe with a definite beginning point. The
issue of infinite regress will be dealt with at greater length below
when we consider Craig's Kalam Cosmological
Argument . One way to circumvent the dilemma while preserving a
definite beginning point for the Universe is to adopt the
"oscillating" model of the Universe, which has at times received the
support of Stephen Hawking, one of the foremost minds in modern
cosmology. In this circular-time model there is an eternal cycle of
bang/crunch events, where the "crunched" Universe "bangs" into
another. Equations have been developed which can reconcile such a
cyclical view with modern inflationary models of early Universe
history. The primary factor in determining whether such models of the
Universe's geometry are true is the total amount of mass in the
Universe; the amount of known mass is safely within the realm of an
open Universe, but dark matter may account for the "missing mass."

The logical implications of asserting that the Universe must have an
explanatory entity are also theologically troublesome: the belligerent
atheist can respond by asking why the Universe needs a Cause but God
doesn't. While at first such a question seems insipid and stupid due
to the conception of eternal God, it is not stupid in the context of
the Universe: for no apparent reason, the Universe is assumed to not
be self-sufficient, while God is assumed to be so, which simply shifts
the locus of the Uncaused Cause rather than resolving it. Thus, such a
superficially trivial question in fact forges an important argument by
analogy; the atheist is as justified in demanding, "What caused God?"
as the theist is in demanding, "What caused the Universe?"

Even if we were to grant the theist's argument for an external
Uncaused Cause, his conclusion that such a being is necessarily a God
is a non sequitur . This hypothetical explanation for the
Universe could be any number of things which we would not call a god
(indeed, Aristotle's metaphysical primary only loosely qualifies as
one)--the Cause could just as easily be the Tao or other
transcendental, unconscious forces.

The most critical flaw in the cosmological argument, however, lies in
its faulty understanding of time and causality. Modern cosmological
theory states that the beginning of the Universe is, by definition,
also the beginning of time. Causality requires time as a
 frame of reference 1 , and thus
by definition the beginning of time--and the beginning of the Universe
as well--has no cause in the traditional sense.

 The Kalam Cosmological
Argument 

The Kalam Cosmological Argument is a spin on the First Cause
argument which draws from medieval theology and subsequent
philosophical cosmology. Its primary supporter today is the
theologian William Lane Craig. Its essence is quite simple, following
the mold of the previously presented cosmological argument: whatever
begins to exist has a cause of its existence; the Universe began to
exist. Therefore, the Universe has a cause of its existence. Craig
goes on to argue that this cause is, in fact, a personal God, in order
to dodge the blunder of the prior cosmological argument. It commits
several critical flaws, many of which are committed by other
cosmological arguments. Because of this, it will be useful to consider
a rebuttal against this specific breed of First Cause.

The first premise may again be challenged: some schools of QM hold
that the existence of particles is a matter of probability. Indeed,
empty space seethes with "ephemeral particles" which wink in and out
of existence with no apparent cause (whether they have a hidden cause
or not is a matter of debate). The QM cosmologist may come again to
say that the Universe itself is explained by quantum fluctuation, thus
removing the necessity for God at the first premise.

But let us assume a more old-fashioned view of the Universe and move
on to the second premise. As Craig correctly points out, the argument
itself is quite simple, and most of the work on the argument is
necessarily debate over the second premise and its implications. Craig
uses two primary sub-proofs to demonstrate the necessity of a finite
Universe. First, he argues that an "actual," or completed infinity
cannot exist in reality. Second, he argues that time cannot infinitely
regress because of the impossibility of traversing an infinite set:
since infinity can never be reduced to finity by subtraction, if the
Universe is infinitely old (beginning at t=-oo) then there is no way
that it could ever reach the present moment (t=0).

Craig, however, never gives proper justification for the
first sub-proof. He cites thought experiments such as Hilbert's
Hotel 2 but never bothers to show
why these strange examples prove logical impossibility. His argument
is, verbatim: "Can anyone sincerely believe that such a hotel could
exist in reality? These sorts of absurdities illustrate the
imposibility of the existence of an actually infinite number of
things." 3 Read it carefully: Craig has
done nothing more than resort to personal incredulity. This is the
only justification he gives for his primary sub-proof. Why Craig expects
transfinite sets to act according to our presuppositions rooted in the
behavior of the finite sets which we observe is not altogether clear.
Craig, in essence, simply refuses to believe oo+1=oo, and attempts to
convince us by his lack of imagination.

The second argument may also be defeated by a number of devices. One
of the first is again an appeal to science. The oscillating, or
cyclical model of Universe history presented in the previous section
is one possible defense, because if time moves in a circle rather than
a straight line, then the problem of traversal is eliminated; there is
a finite beginning point, but one may traverse forever if he so
desires without reaching a boundary. Although Craig attempts to refute
this model, his attempt is anemic at best: he proposes two points
which supposedly defeat the model: (i) that no known physics explain
the re-explosion after the "crunch," and (ii) that there is not enough
observed matter to bring about the crunch. Both are essentially God of
the Gaps arguments: "I can't explain this, therefore God exists." (ii)
may be explained away by dark matter; this issue, as far as I know,
remains unresolved. (i) is subject to another problem: there is no
reason to assume that we can find a cause for the re-Bang, because the
crunch involves the end of time, and thus, the end of causality as we
know it.

A more fundamental problem of Craig's argument, however, lies in his
naive presuppositions about time. Craig explicitly presupposes "a
dynamical view of time according to which events are actualized in
serial fashion, one after another." 3 
Craig assumes that time, rather than an expanded dimension of the
Universe, is an external property of change and movement. However,
 this position is simply scientifically untenable . The
dimensional nature of time has been a fundamental part of physics
since Einstein, and its expansion in the Big Bang is one of the least
controversial notions in cosmology today. Further, Craig does not
realize the vast importance of the idea that the beginning of the
Universe is the beginning of time . Yes, there is some finite
distance into the past before which the Universe did not exist. But
that is because time is part and parcel of the Universe , not
some disjoint phenomenon in which the Universe exists. The Universe
did not non-exist for a period of time and then suddenly wink into
existence; at the moment of the Big Bang, the Universe simply
 was , and time only existed after that moment. The ultimate
cause cannot be traced back further because there is no frame of
reference in which to trace.

Finally, Craig attempts to justify that the Uncaused Cause of the
Universe must be a metaphysical primary with a will , a
volitional entity, which he (and I as well) considers a sufficient
condition for godhood. The argument is based on the notion of
sufficient causes: if A is a sufficient condition for B, then whenever
A is observed, B must also be observed. Thus, it is argued, if the
sufficient condition for the Universe's existence was simply the
action of some transcendental force, then the Universe should have
always existed, a notion which was already discarded in the process of
the KCA. Therefore, it is argued, the sufficient condition for the
Universe's existence was the act of will of its Uncaused
Cause, which occurred a finite amount of time ago and therefore
explains the finity of time.

This argument, however, is pitifully flawed and inconsistent with
Craig's previous argument. In his hypothetical dilemma, one must
wonder why the action of the force at a particular moment is any less
valid a sufficient cause than the volition of the God. Forces are,
fundamentally, relationships, and they do not produce the same result
for all values of their independent variables. However, this
comparison betrays an even more fundamental flaw of the matter:
 the argument hinges on time progression . If God does not will
the Universe to be at one moment , and then did will it to be
in the finite past, then there must be a time progression and a change
between these moments--God is dethroned from his eternal and immutable
posture outside time. Craig dismisses a Universe existing infinitely
into the "dynamical" past, but he proposes a God which exists backward
infinitely before the Universe. The incoherency in a system of
propositions is rarely so obvious. Thus we could turn Craig's KCA (if
we admitted its validity) against God Himself. Craig gives atheists
the tools for impiety by wanting to have his ontological cake and eat
it too.

 Notes 

 This necessity is established both in theory
and in practice of causality. In practice, one of the criteria
required for acceptance of a causal hypothesis is that the property
which is being caused cannot occur before the property which is
alleged to cause it. In theory, there are two primary notions of
causality: necessary condition and sufficient
condition . In the case of the former, if A is said to be a
necessary condition of B, then A must always be present while B is
present , i.e., in the same section of time . In the case
of the latter, if A is said to be a sufficient condition of B then
 B must always be present while A is present . Again, the
temporal frame-of-reference is required.

 Hilbert's Hotel is a thought experiment which
involves a hotel with an infinite number of rooms. All of the hotel's
infinite rooms are occupied and the NO VACANCY sign is lit
outside. However, a weary traveler arrives at the front desk and asks
for a room. "Very well," the management responds, and in order to give
the man a room, they simply shift the occupant of room #1 to room #2,
room #2 to room #3, and so ad infinitum . When all the guests
have been shifted, the hotel's guests still all have a room, but room
#1 is now left unoccupied and the traveler is free to have a room.

More weirdness ensues if the experiment is carried further. If the
traveler now in room #1 checks out the following day, then the hotel
still has no fewer guests--despite what the maid cleaning room #1 may
say. If all the guests are shifted back to the room they occupied
before the troublesome traveler arrived, then the hotel's only empty
room is filled and the VACANCY sign goes back to NO VACANCY. The
discovery of further oddities is left as an exercise to the reader.

 Craig, William Lane . " The Existence of God
and the Beginning of the Universe ."

Written and maintained by Charles W. Johnson
( cwj2@eskimo.com ). 
Copyright 1997-1998 Charles W. Johnson. 
All rights reserved.