Atheist Resources 

 Charles W. Johnson 
 Atheist Resources 
 Last updated 9 December 2001 

 Common Arguments 
 Web 
 IRC 
 Usenet 
 Christianity 
 Evolution 

 Homepage 
 Feedback 

 Atheism comes from the Greek
roots A- , signifying "without," and THEOS ,
signifying a god. Therefore, an atheist is a person who is
literally "godless:" she lacks the belief that any
gods exist, which is to say, she lacks theism. Originally the term was
used as a derogatory label for those who rejected traditional gods,
such as Socrates and early Christians. Over time, however, it has
come to describe a complete lack of theistic belief, a viewpoint which
first came into its own during the Enlightenment.

Because atheism has always been far in the minority compared to
theism, there is a common misconception that everyone important, or at least
everyone important in the European cultural arena, has been part of
an over-arching "Judaeo-Christian tradition." However,
there have been many famous and infamous atheists in the history of
the world and there are many atheist celebrities alive today. Atheists have
included: author and scientist Isaac Asimov,
comedian George Carlin, author and scientist Arthur C. Clarke,
paranormal investigator James "the Amazing" Randi, philosophers Robert
G. Ingersoll, Friedrich Nietzsche, Arthur Schopenhauer, and George H. Smith, Mexican
dictator General Victoriano Huerta, revolutionary leaders
Giuseppe Garibaldi and Bernardo O'Higgins, singers Billy Joel, Michael
Stipe, and Marilyn Manson, activist Marilyn Murray O'Hair, Objectivist
novelist and philosopher Ayn Rand, pornographic publisher Larry Flynt, talk
show host Ron Reagan, Jr., authors Gore Vidal and Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.,
secular Jewish leader Rabbi Sherwin Wine,
multibillionaire Bill Gates, and pediatrician Benjamin Spock.

This page is intended as a source of information for atheists and theists
alike that deals with a variety of topics, especially relating to common arguments
for the existence and nonexistence of god(s). It contains papers that I have written,
papers I have cowritten with others, papers that I am hosting for other people, and
papers that are maintained by off-site sources. It will probably be growing and changing
constantly, so you may want to check back every so often.

 Common Arguments and Important
Issues 

 Introduction to Atheism 
 Undernet #atheism Frequently
Asked Questions 
 alt.atheism FAQ: Common
Arguments 
 The Argument from First Cause (a.k.a. the
cosmological argument) by Charles W. Johnson 
 The Argument from Design by Charles W. Johnson 
 Pascal's Wager by Charles W. Johnson 
 Lord, Liar, or Lunatic by Charles W. Johnson 
 Various Ontological Arguments by Ed. Stoebenau 
 Atheism and Morality by Charles W. Johnson and Ed. Stoebenau 
 The Big Rock Conundrum by Charles W. Johnson 
 A Glossary of Terms for
 Undernet #atheism or people in general 

 Atheism on the Web 

 The Atheist Manifesto 
 Internet Infidels 
 Atheist Celebrities 
 The Non-Believer's Page 
 StarGazer's "No Gods" page 

 Atheism on IRC 

 Undernet #atheism 
 Undernet #atheism part Deux [Heathen's page]
 Dalnet #atheism 

 Atheism on Usenet (netnews) 

 The Atheism
Web : a shared FAQ resource for all atheism-related newsgroups
 The alt.atheism
homepage 
 The
 soc.atheism
homepage 

 Christianity 

 gospelcom.net online Bible :
NASB, RSV, NIV, KJV, Darby, and YLT, the Vulgate, foreign languages, and a search facility.
 Blue Letter Bible : Mostly valuable for its ability to display interlinear Greek and Hebrew passages.
 Scholarly Technology Group Bible Browser : Eight English translations, the Vulgate, multiple search types, and the ability to access the Apocrypha as well as the Protestant canon.
 Peter Kirby's Xtianity Page : A fair and balanced treatment of issues related to Christianity, including a wealth of information about biblical scholarship.

 Evolutionary Biology 

 The talk.origins homepage 
 Creation
"Science" Debunked 

Written and maintained by Charles W. Johnson ( cwj2@eskimo.com ) 
This page copyright 1998-2001 by Charles W. Johnson. 
All rights reserved.