The Ontological Argument 

 The Ontological Argument: an assessment 
 by Ed. Stoebenau 

The ontological argument is unquestionably one of the most interesting
arguments for the existence of God. Similar to all ontological
arguments is that the concept of "God" entails that there exists in
reality a being which corresponds to this definition, or more simply:
God exists. Any perusal of the philosophical literature will show
that the ontological argument is still very much debated in different
forms. I will show that the ontological argument does not succeed 
in what it tries to do, namely, prove that God exists.
I will consider the first form of Anselm's original argument,
Descartes' argument, Hartshorne's, and that of Plantinga.

Anselm first gave what has become known as the ontological argument in
his Prosologion . He used the definition that God is "that being
than which no greater can be conceived." Using this, he gave a
reductio ad absurdum, that if one claimed that this being did not
exist, then there exists a being which is greater than the being which
no greater can be conceived. A major assumption of Anselm's was that
whatever exists in both the mind and in reality is greater than that
which exists only in the mind. However, it is tough to see why one
should accept this premise as sound. Is five dollars actually being
in my pocket greater than 100 dollars existing in my mind? Can we
even make such a comparison? This does not seem likely. One cannot
claim that an old worn down coin is greater than a hypothetical brand
new one of the same date, just because it exists. Furthermore, the
premise that if one denies the existence of God, that there is a being
greater than the being which no greater can be conceived, presupposes
the actual existence of that being, so the argument runs in a circle.
Hence, Anselm's original argument fails.

Descartes' ontological argument is simpler than Anselm's, but
unfortunately is more question-begging also. His argument is:

 God contains all perfections.
 Existence is a perfection.
 Therefore, God contains existence (or God exists.)

The second premise is highly questionable at best. Generally, one
would think that bringing something into in existence would cause an
imperfection in the object; one does not see how at first why God
would be any different. For example, if one thinks of a perfect hill
(such as the one just outside of Buchanon VA), the conception of the
hill would be more perfect than a hill in existence; hence bringing
something into existence does not make it more perfect, and therefore
existence is not a perfection. So Descartes argument also fails.

Hartshorne's ontological argument is based on Anselm's second argument
and claims that God's existence is logically necessary. Hartshorne's
argument is given here, where "N(A)" means "it is logically necessary 
that A," "~A" means "it is not the case that A," "-->" is strict 
implication, "v" means "or," and "g" means "God exists":

 g --> N(g)
 N(g) v ~N(g)
 ~N(g) --> N(~N(g))
 N(g) v N(~N(g))
 N(~N(g)) --> N(~g)
 N(g) v N(~g)
 ~N(~g)
 N(g)
 N(g) --> g
 g

This argument is valid. Furthermore, given an Anselmian conception 
of God, premises one and five are sound. Premise two is just the 
law of the excluded middle, and premise three is a law of the 
modal logic S5. Premise nine is obviously sound, so this leaves 
premise seven as the only premise to question. Premise seven says 
that it is logically possible that God exists. If you were to change 
it to: 

7'. It is possible that God does not exist. 

Then using premise one, and 7', one gets this conclusion: 

10'. God does not exist.

Therefore, one must have a good reason to prefer "it is possible that
God exists" over "it is possible that God does not exist." However,
there does not seem to be. Therefore, with two premises of equal
prior (epistemically) likeliness leading to opposite conclusions, I 
conclude that Hartshorne's argument cannot succeed.

Alvin Plantinga's ontological argument is similar to Hartshorne's, and
falls to the same attack. Plantinga's argument is based on the
semantics of "possible worlds." For him, logically necessary
existence means "existing in all possible worlds," logically possible
existence means "existing in at least one possible world," and
logically impossible existence means "existing in no possible worlds."
A modified version of Plantinga's Argument follows:

 The proposition that a thing has maximal excellence if 
and only if it has maximal excellence in every possible world is 
necessarily true.
 The proposition that whatever has maximal excellence is 
omnipotent, omniscient, and morally perfect is necessarily true.
 There is a possible world in which the property of 
possessing maximal greatness is exemplified.
 Therefore, the property of possessing maximal greatness 
is exemplified in every possible world.
 Therefore, God exists.

Again, this argument can be critiqued similar in a way to
Hartshorne's, by using this premise: 

3'. There is a possible world in which the property of possessing 
maximal greatness is not exemplified. 

Combined with 1, we get: 

4'. Therefore, the property of possessing maximal greatness is 
exemplified in no possible world. 

From this, we can conclude that God does not exist. Since both 3 and
3' are equally likely and lead to opposite conclusions, I conclude
that Plantinga's ontological argument does not succeed.

I have examined four ontological arguments. I have concluded that
none of them succeed in what they try to do: proving God's existence.
They either rest on highly questionable premises, or on premises in
which different premises equally likely lead to opposite conclusions.
Therefore, if there is to be a proof for God's existence, it lies
elsewhere.

Other web sites:

 Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: Ontological Arguments 
 Variations on the 
Ontological argument 
 Prosologion of St. Anselm 
 Papers
by Graham Oppy. 

For further reading:

 Plantinga, Alvin: The Ontological Argument 
 Plantinga, Alvin: God, Freedom, and Evil 
 Plantinga, Alvin: The Nature of Necessity 
 Barnes, Jonathan: The Ontological Argument 
 Hick, John & McGill, Arthur C.: The Many-Faced Argument 
 Hartshorne, Charles: Anselm's Discovery 
 Oppy, Graham: Ontological Arguments and Belief in God 

Written by Ed. Stoebenau
( estoeben@vt.edu ) 
HTMLized and maintained by Charles W. Johnson
( cwj2@eskimo.com )