Pascal's Wager - Charles W. Johnson 

You can support the work that goes into creating this online content by contributing
a small amount online. I suggest about $2-$3 for each year that you read the website.

 Charles W. Johnson 
 Atheist Resources: Pascal's Wager 
 Last revised 22 February 1999 

 Common Arguments 
 Web 
 IRC 
 Usenet 
 Christianity 
 Evolution 

 Homepage 
 Feedback 

Pascal's Wager, put in its most famous form by the brilliant French
mathematician and philosopher Blaise Pascal, is one of the most common
and one of the most logically flawed arguments used by evangelists to
convince atheists to believe. It is properly conceived as an argument
for belief in God rather than as an argument for the existence of
God. In essence, it goes:

 Either God exists or He does not. 
 If there is no God, whether you believe in God or not, then there
is no afterlife. 
 If there is a God, and you believe in God, you go to Heaven. 
 If there is a God, but you do not believe in God, you go to Hell. 
 By statements 2-4, if you approach belief as a wager, betting on
God's existence is a win-draw proposal: either you gain eternal bliss
or end up with nothing like all other players. 
 By statements 2-4, if you approach belief as a wager, betting on
God's nonexistence is a draw-lose proposal: either you end up with nothing
like all other players, or you suffer eternal hellfire. 
 Therefore, belief is the superior choice from a wagering perspective. 

The reason why Pascal's Wager is so flawed should be obvious upon a
little examination. There are two ways to look at the argument, each
with its own problems: assess statements 1-4 as assumed premises, 5-6 as
inferences, and 7 as a conclusion, or else assess 1 as an assumed premise,
2-6 as inferences, and 7 as a conclusion.

In the first approach, it rests entirely upon four assumptions that
are highly contestable. Premises 3-4 are essentially a statement of
Christian belief, which means the only people that will accept them
are Christians. Thus, the argument reduces to "if you are a Christian,
then belief in God is superior from a wagering perspective," a rather
useless tautology that results in an argument that only convinces the
convinced. Further, premises 2-4 commit the fallacy of
 bifurcation : they state that there are only two possibilities
when there are in fact more. In this case, it posits that either the
Christian model is true or the secular humanist one is. However, many
other options come to mind. For instance, if Al-Lah is in fact God,
then both the believing Christian and the atheist may find themselves
doomed to eternal hellfire.

In the second approach, inferences 2-4 derive information from
nowhere. All that is assumed is that God either does or does not
exist. This says nothing about whether God saves His followers and
condemns the infidel, or whether there is a God who rewards the
skeptics and punishes the sheep, or whether there is a God who rewards
all, or any number of other possibilities. Because of this, inferences
2-4 are not logically connected to premise 1, thus committing a
fallacy of non sequitur . It has also been noted that the
Christian God, being omniscient would know the difference between true
faith and a wagering belief to hedge one's bets. A valid Christian
objection to this, however, is that Pascal's Wager serves as a method
to bring about faith, at which point God reveals Himself to the
believer and thus brings about a true faith.

 Written and maintained by Charles W. Johnson
( cwj2@eskimo.com ). 
 All pages copyright 1996-2002 by Charles W. Johnson unless otherwise noted. 
 All rights reserved.