Precocious 

Precocious 

 Christine Morgan 

 Authors Note: the characters of Gargoyles are the property of Disney
and are used here without their creators knowledge or consent. Some strong
language. 

 For how long, did you say? Goliath said, as if
hoping that he hadnt heard correctly the first time. He
 rubbed his thumb against the pad of his forefinger, where two tiny
puncture wounds oozed. There were no
 matching ones on the top, but only because the teeth had dug into the
hard spur of his claw instead.
 Ten days, Kurt Masters repeated. Well,
ten nights. Whichever. Three times a night for ten nights. Have
 to follow the full course of antibiotics.
 Blug! Amber Maza announced in disgust. A
dribble of pink liquid stained the corners of her mouth, and
 more had soaked into the hand-crocheted sweater that had been a gift
from Elisas great-aunt Agnes.
 Does it come in a pill? Elisa asked with
tired desperation.
 Sorry, nope. Given her unique biochemistry,
this is the only stuff that seems like itll help knock out that
 infection. But I can give you a plastic syringe to squirt it into her
mouth, maybe spare you a few bites.
 Goliath rumbled deep in his chest. Hudson
said that holding her mouth closed would force her to swallow.
 That only works on Cagney, Elisa pointed
out, and Hudson got bit too.
 If all else fails, try mixing it with applesauce,
Kurt suggested, handing them a dismayingly tall bottle. And
 dont worry. She should be feeling better in a few nights. Poor kid.
The ear infections bad enough, but I also
 think shes getting a few more teeth.
 Just what she needs, Goliath muttered.
 With a faintly malicious grin, Kurt added
a tube to the bottle and syringe. This is a topical analgesic that
 you can rub on her gums.
 Goliath only looked at him.
 The joys of parenthood, Elisa said, taking
a few tissues from the box on Kurts cluttered desk and wiping
 Ambers chin. She regarded the stained sweater, sighed, and unbuttoned
it.
 It came off, and Amber immediately unfolded
her wings and flapped them lazily back and forth, fanning herself.
 Thats another thing, Kurt said. Shes
running a little bit of a fever. I know its winter, but as long as
 youre inside, she doesnt need to be that bundled up.
 As if she understood him, Amber pulled the
matching cap off of her unruly dark hair and threw it on the floor.
 Seven and a half months old, she was twice
the size of a human infant of the same age, but still much less
 developed than a gargoyle hatchling would have been. She was nearly
as much of a climber as her cousins Tom
 and Dee, but the twins had been a lot more cautious about jumping off
of shelves and furniture.
 She crouched on the examining table and made
to leap, but Goliath intercepted her.
 Up, Daga! Up!
 The injury to his finger apparently forgotten,
the proud papa swung her high in the air and she squealed with
 delight.
 At least shes feeling better, Elisa sighed.
I was getting worried.
 Its normal for kids to be cranky when theyre
sick, Kurt said, and chuckled. Count your blessings -- at
 least you know shell sleep through once the sun comes up!

 * *

 Captain, youve got to be kidding, Matt Bluestone
protested. Why us?
 Because youve dealt with Dracon before,
Maria Chavez said. You know his tricks. And he knows
 you cant be bribed.
 He also hates our guts, Matt said. If you
think Pal Joeys going to cooperate ...
 I dont care if he cooperates. All you need
to do is keep him alive until Monday. Hell testify, well have
 what we need to nail Dracon. Again. Then, if the rest of Dracons toadies
decide to pay Pal Joey back for
 ratting on the boss, well, well get them too. In the meantime, Joey
gets his suspended sentence, we get Dracon --
 And Elisa and I get stuck babysitting the
weasel all weekend.
 If we dont keep him out of the way, Dracons
going to put him out of the way. Permanently. And
 speaking of Elisa, where is --
 Three quick raps, and the door opened. Hi,
Captain, hi, Matt, sorry Im late. Heard you wanted to see me.
 Partner, youre not going to believe 
what shit detail we pulled! Matt began.
 Trouble, Maza? Maria Chavez asked. You
look worn out.
 Amber, Elisa explained. Shes got an ear
infection, so she was driving us nuts all night. Crying, fussing
 ... terrible to admit it, but I was glad to get out of there for a
while.
 Well, good news, Chavez said with a sharklike
smile. Youre out of there all weekend. Im assigning
 you two to keep an eye on Pal Joey.
 What?!?
 Told you it was a shit detail, Matt grumbled.
Whatd we do, Captain?
 Chavez rolled her eyes. You didnt do 
anything, Bluestone. Youre the best Ive got, and this is a big
 case. We need that slimy creeps testimony to tie the knot in Dracons
noose.
 Starting when? Elisa asked.
 Starting now. I told Hanson and Strick that
youd be there to relieve them by six-thirty, and its quarter
 past now. So get going. She gave Matt a slip of paper. Address of
the safe house.
 Elisa and Matt shared a look. Tenacious, they
may have been, but they knew when there was no further
 point in arguing.
 Nothing like a weekend of playing cribbage
with a rat, Matt remarked as they headed out.
 Hey, Maza! Officer Morgan greeted her cheerily.
Hows Batgirl?
 Jeez, Morgan, keep it down! Elisa glanced
worriedly around, but the only person close enough to hear
 was Albert, the sweet but somewhat thick-witted janitor.
 You ought to bring her by again, Morgan
said. We all got a real kick out of seeing her.
 I bet, Elisa groaned, remembering.
 Three months ago, after having run out of
excuses for her fellow officers, shed agreed to bring Amber by
 the precinct. Wrapped up nice and snug in a blanket, her arched three-toed
feet concealed in booties, she was
 as darling and innocuous a baby as any of them had ever seen. Only
the little bumps at the outside edges of her
 eyebrows, which were hard to notice unless you were specifically looking
for them, marked her as anything
 but normal.
 Until shed sneezed.
 It had been a scene straight out of Dumbo.
Everyone gathered around, oohing and aahing, and then
 ker-choo! Off had come the blanket, out had popped the wings,
and silence so thick it could have been cut
 with a machete fell over the room.
 Uh ... Elisa had said.
 But then, to her overwhelming surprise, theyd
all burst out laughing. Shee-it, Maza, someone had
 hooted, you must think were really stupid! Half of us are
 detectives , for crying out loud!
 The rest of us arent such slouches either,
Morgan had chimed in. Give us a little credit, huh?
 Theyd known. All this time, theyd known.
Or at least guessed well enough that it hadnt come as a
 whopper of a shock. She remembered throwing a startled look at Rick
Alvarez, the hunk of the 23rd, whod
 been letting everybody josh him for months about having a secret fling
with her, and all hed done was flash
 her his pearly whites and wink.
 So theyd known, and if they minded they werent
getting in her face about it, and the worst she had to
 endure was her daughter earning the nickname Batgirl. She could live
with that, as long as word didnt get
 around to the wrong ears.
 In a way, it was really a relief. Just as
it had been a relief when her familyd found out that her relationship
 with Goliath was a lot more than friends. Amazing what people would
accept.
 She told Morgan all was well, and then she
and Matt swapped kid woes on the way down to her car. His
 son Orpheus was eleven months older than Amber, talking amazingly well
for a toddler, and it was unsettling
 how often he got his way.
 I think ... I think hes a little ... unusual ,
Matt confessed.
 Small wonder, Elisa said. His moms a figure
from Greek mythology, youre a nutcase conspiracy
 freak, and his godfather is the head of the Illuminati. Itd be weirder
if he was normal.
 Yeah, good point. Sometimes I think you,
me, and Xanatos should start a special preschool for freaky kids.
 Ill tell you this for nothing, Elisa said
wryly, Id rather be in your shoes or mine than Xanatos. Amber
 has wings, Orph is going to grow up to be the con man of the century,
but at least they dont upend the whole
 house when their magic lessons go wonky.
 What, has Aiden been giving Alex lessons?
 No, I think that smartass Puck gets his jollies
by staging accidents to liven things up.
 Like what, dare I ask?
 She ticked off some of the more recent ones
on her fingers. Transforming Hudsons clothes so that he
 was in drag ... Matt choked. ... reversing Bronxs gravity so he
was stuck to the ceiling ... making every
 faucet in the place run with root beer ...
 Okay, okay, I get the picture, he laughed.
Basically, were all screwed.
 That about sums it up. She started the car,
and with Matt watching for a tail in case Dracon figured
 on having them followed to the safe house, off they went in the chilly
dark of a Manhattan morning.

 * *

 Jericho prowled his sanctuary, his rooftop
dark Avalon, restlessly. As if all of the energy Demona was
 lacking had been somehow transferred to him. While she slumped, listless,
on the couch in the secret room
 behind her office, he paced and paced until he thought he might wear
a path in the stone.
 He didnt know what to do.
 He knew why , of course.
 Shed been getting better, and over the summer
had been almost back to her usual self. But as the nights
 lengthened and grew cold, as the anniversary drew near, shed begun
sliding back into the deep depression
 that had enveloped her in the terrible months following the loss of
their child.
 Nothing he could say or do would bring a smile
to her face. Something in her had been destroyed. Shed
 been able to throw herself into her work for a while, try to put the
tragedy behind her, but it would never be
 forgotten.
 How overjoyed hed been to learn they were
going to have a child! But his delight had been nothing compared
 to hers, just as his grief was nothing compared to hers. For long centuries,
shed lived alone and loveless.
 Then fate had conspired to bring her new hope,
but nearly every time, that hope had turned against her,
 leaving her worse off than she would have been if shed never known
it at all.
 First her clan, restored. Who became her enemies.
 Then Thailog. Who betrayed her.
 Then the discovery of Angela. Who had turned
from her.
 Of all those hopes, of all those new beginnings,
only he had remained steadfast, and true. They had each
 other, mother and son, lovers and mates, standing together against
the world.
 And just when it seemed theyd been blessed
beyond belief, with an egg of their own, a future for their
 clan ... disaster.
 That blow a harsher one than any of the others,
for the egg hadnt even had a chance. The same magic that
 allowed her to move among the hated humans and better plot her vengeance
against them had delivered the
 fatal blow to the unborn.
 Jericho would have given anything to make
it better. But what could he do? As long as she was under the
 transformative spell, they could never have another. Theyd not
even dare try, for to go through the same
 thing again would much more than double their pain.
 He had nowhere to go for advice. Hed even
become so desperate that hed tried asking Gustav Sevarius,
 but of course Herr Doktor had a better-living-through-chemistry answer
and offered to whip up some
 concoction that would ease or erase her anguish. That, Jericho knew,
would be an abhorrent solution.
 Nowhere else to go. Unless Hudson might have
some insight ... but things were tense as ever between
 the Nightstone and Wyvern clans, although theyd managed to keep out
of each others way for most of the
 year. An uneasy truce brought on solely by the fact that none of Demonas
plots had intersected with Xanatos.
 Hed briefly considered, and just as quickly
rejected, suggesting she seek the support of other women
 who had undergone miscarriages. His beloved Demona was not about to
go weeping and wailing to counseling,
 and still spoke in vehement terms about the woman who had visited her
in the hospital. Besides, they were all
 only humans. What would they know of her pain?
 No, she had only him. And in time, she would
move through her consuming darkness. Time. She had an
 eternity of it. And he was young, utterly hers, able to wait as long
as she needed. To wait and be with her, to
 love her with the singular obsessive devotion that only he could give.
 An image of her suddenly filled his mind,
drowning him with overpowering yearning. Though shed pleaded
 weariness and asked to be alone, he had to be with her. Had to hold
her.
 He hurried through the unlit and silent corridors,
letting himself into her office. The secret door was partially
 ajar, and he could hear melancholy music, from one of those operas
in which everyone dies in agony, issuing
 from the speakers.
 She was as hed last seen her, huddled on
the couch, wrapped around her misery. Tears tracked in streams
 down her cheeks.
 His heart twisted within him, and at the same
time rage boiled in his blood at the unfairness of it all.
 Wordlessly, he went to her and knelt before
her. She stared past him, through him, at the floor-to-ceiling
 window that looked out on a spitting flurry of sleet dashing itself
against the glass like flocks of suicidal moths.
 He folded her hands in his, then bent so that
the side of his face rested atop them. Closed his eyes.
 They sat like that as the sky went from black
to a dark blue-grey. Then he felt her slipping one of her hands
 free. But rather than push him away, she used it to stroke his hair
where it spilled across her lap.
 She sighed shakily. My Jericho, she murmured.
 Always, he promised. Always.

 * *

 We cant stay underground forever, Harry
the Hammer complained. Shes out there. Its out there.
 Born by now. Growing in evil every day!
 Jon Castaway nodded and let Harrys words
roll over him. Same speech, different day. Or night. Or ...
 hell, what time was it, anyway? He checked his watch. Almost dawn.
Thank God. Daybreak came so damned
 late in the winter! The nights were so long !
 And Harry was right about one thing. They
were out there. The gargoyles.
 Mocking him.
 But, dammit, Harry, what do you want me to
do? he snapped irritably. Yes, weve been keeping a
 low profile. I know youre disappointed. But until we come up
with a better plan ... until we come up
 with any plan at all, Im not going to stick my neck out and
get it chopped off!
 Harry, who hadnt expected any reply let alone
this sort of outburst, rocked back a little in his chair
 and stared at Castaway. Well ... um ...
 Well, um, Castaway sneered. Thats a brilliant
plan, Harry, why didnt I think of it before?
 Im just trying to help.
 Help! Castaway shoved away from the desk
and stood up. Is that what youre trying to do? And
 here I thought you were nagging me. If I wanted that, Id get married!
 Its just ... people are starting to talk.
 Starting to talk? Never shutting up, seems
more like to me! Im trying to juggle a thousand different things
 here, Harry, do you understand that? Ive had to completely redesign
our computer and communications
 systems thanks to that happy asshole David Xanatos, this corporation
is on shakier footing than a newborn foal,
 our contributions have dropped off like lemmings, we lost sixty of
our best men to that warehouse fire, and to
 top it all off, my dimbulb brood mares father has tracked me down
and wants to sue for custody of my son!
 These creatures have been around for hundreds of years, so can I just
have a few weeks to get my shit
 together without every one-track grunt like you mouthing off at me?
 Hey! Harry was just stupid enough to take
the offensive instead of beating a meek retreat, and likewise
 stood. Dont take it out on me if you cant cut it! We laid low for
most of last year because you kept
 promising us that New Years would be big, the biggest! Look how that
turned out! We was routed! I nearly
 got my butt kicked by that blue devil! And we didnt even scratch a
window at the Aerie Building before we
 got soaked to the skin! I caught pneumonia! Damn near died! All for
nothing! And instead of doing something
 about it, you want to sit back and let those sons of bitches walk all
over us! Jesus! Maybe Nickie was right!
 Nick was an idiot and youre no better!
 Weve got to do something! Its worse
than ever, dont you get it? Once we dropped out of sight, there
 wasnt anybody to keep people thinking right! Now most people dont
care. Far as theyre concerned, those
 monsters are just another buncha illegal aliens and nobody gives a
damn! Nobody cares theyre evil 
 except us, and were sitting here with our thumbs up our butts!
 We are not! Castaway shouted. He hated losing
control like this, God, how he hated it, but when even
 his own most loyal, fanatic bulldog bit the hand that fed him, it was
just all a little much to bear.
 You know whats going on out there,
Harry said, abandoning his yelling for a low, urgent tone. That
 woman. The Dark Madonna. You said shed be exposed. When, when? That
devil-spawn brat of hers has
 gotta be destroyed. You said it would all come out.
 What would you have me do, go to the press?
He laughed bitterly. Im sort of discredited nowadays,
 you know. Without proof, all it would be worth was a squib in the Daily
Tattler.
 What kind of proof do we need? Pictures?
 Photos would be a start, he admitted. But
really, Harry, do you think Mazas going to take her whelp
 to Sears to take advantage of their holiday portrait special?
 Bull-headed to the last, Harry persisted.
If we can get some proof, will you take action?
 Oh, fine, Castaway said just to be rid of
him. You do that. But Harry?
 Yeah?
 Make sure you leave a contact number for
next of kin with my secretary, would you?

 * *

 Steady on, lad. Hudson raised his voice to
be heard. Itll be dawn soon.
 Good, Goliath replied fervently.
 The rest of the clan sat around helplessly,
looking at Elektra, who was seated cross-legged on the rug trying
 in vain to distract Amber with some of her favorite toys. But the child
would have none of it, and alternated
 between gabbling fits of what sounded like babyish swearing and sustained
wails that made them marvel her tiny
 lungs could hold so much air.
 The antibiotics might be doing the trick,
but the gum-ointment apparently wasnt, although when Goliath had
 applied it -- needing the help of both Brooklyn and Broadway to hold
Amber down while he gently pried her
 jaws open -- it had numbed his fingers sufficiently that he hadnt
felt it when all four of her little fangs sank in.
 Shouldnt that baby Tylenol be kicking in?
Lex cried over the ruckus.
 I hope so! Angela was on her knees, digging
frantically through Ambers toybox. Try this! She tossed a
 hard rubber mailman at Elektra.
 Thats Bronxs! Aiden protested.
 Well, look what she did to hers! Angela
held up the sad deflated remains of a teething ring. Unless youve
 got any bright ideas, Ms. Wizard!
 Please, Goliath? Lex begged.
 No magic on my daughter! Goliath insisted.
 Bronx didnt object as Amber seized his chew
toy and chomped down, because of all the clan, only Bronx
 had the good sense to make himself scarce. Everyone else felt too guilty,
so they stayed and suffered along with
 Goliath.
 The dayll make the wee lass feel better,
Hudson said. A good stone sleep will settle her.
 Yeah, until she wakes up, Brooklyn muttered.
 Elisas lucky she had to work, Broadway
said, earning a dirty look from Goliath.
 Were we this much of a pain in the tail?
Lex wondered.
 Hudson just snorted. Multiply it by two dozen.
 But we were hatched more mature, Broadway
argued. Werent we?
 Amber had quieted some, enough to be coaxed
into Elektras lap. Tis partly that, Ill warrant. Shes all in
 conflict.
 Goliath nodded. Dr. Masters expects it to
be a year or more until her body has caught up with itself.
 Another year of this? Angela moaned.
 Aw, give her a break, shes teething, Lex
said. And her systems must all be messed up. No wonder
 shes frustrated.
 We should get to our perches, Hudson said
with a significant look at the greying sky.
 Daga! Amber demanded around a mouthful of
chew toy as Goliath rose. She held her arms up.
 Wont it be fun when all the eggs hatch?
Brooklyn commented to nobody in particular.
 Well, Im still looking forward to
it, Angela said archly.
 Goliath tucked Amber in the corner of his
arm and carried her upstairs, bringing his wing around to shelter
 her from the sleet. Her playpen, as Alex called it, was in the shelter
of a place where the battlements came
 together. He set her inside.
 Amber screamed indignantly and pulled herself
upright. Goliath winced guiltily but turned away and went
 to take his place on the wall. The rest joined him, and it was clear
from their expressions that there had
 seldom been days when theyd more welcomed the dawn.
 Though they couldnt see the sun through the
heavy pall of clouds, they felt the old familiar tightening of flesh
 and knew it was time. Stone claimed them, with Ambers yells still
ringing in their ears.

 * *

 Oh, this is great, Elisa said, wrinkling
her nose.
 Hey, its the maids day off, Pal Joey retorted.
 The squealer, once one of Tony Dracons most
trusted associates and now willing to tell all in order to save
 his own skin, was tipped back in a chair with his feet up, watching
an infomercial on home food dehydrators,
 and munching on a cold slice of pizza.
 Class all the way, eh, Joey? Matt took off
his tan trenchcoat and hung it on the back of the door, then
 swept a pile of newspapers and empty pop cans off of the couch so he
could sit down.
 The safe house wasnt really a house at
all, but a furnished studio apartment two steps up from a fleabag.
 Hot and cold running roaches, a radiator that rattled and clanked like
the Tin Man confronting the Great and
 Powerful Oz, a window with a view across a four-foot alley of a soot-stained
brick wall, and a fold-down bed
 that was currently folded up and looked to Elisa like it had been sealed
in place with mildew for a good ten years.
 I see the department budget is still strained,
she observed to Matt.
 The other two officers had gone, so it was
just the three of them. Stocked up with all the necessities -- a few
 decks of cards, a Scrabble game, a stack of videos with nothing more
recent than 1985, a case of ramen noodles,
 and a whole box of back issues of the Readers Digest.
 Laughter, the Best Medicine, Matt said.
 Yeah, yeah, Im watching TV here, Pal Joey
said.
 Heaven forbid you should miss a word of the
thousand and one uses for dried fruit. Matt grimaced at Elisa. I
 asked the captain, and now Im asking you. What did we do ?
 I havent taken her parking place lately,
and Im sure shes forgotten all about the time you called the FBI in
 to interview that hooker who swore shed been abducted by saucer people.
 They werent FBI.
 What?
 Never mind. So what are we gonna do?
 Wait it out. Elisa moved as far from Pal
Joeys shoeless feet as the small room would allow, and sank into
 one of the chairs. Tubular metal and split vinyl padding. Comfy.
 Outside, the dingy alley lightened a bit,
and Elisas internal clock told her it was dawn. But as she tried to get
 into the Drama in Real Life tale of a guy caught in a threshing machine,
she suddenly got the weirdest feeling that
 something was wrong.
 Something was very, very wrong.

 * *

 The intercom buzzed, and David Xanatos frowned
as he leaned over to push the button.
 Xanatos here, he said, by tone alone trying
to remind whoever was on the other end that hed just made
 it clear he was not to be interrupted.
 This is Breckenridge, sir, at the front desk?
 Yes, Breckenridge, what is it? Werent you
told I --
 I know, sir. Im sorry to interrupt, but
something strange just happened down here in the lobby.
 Strange how? he asked, interest overcoming
annoyance.
 Well ... is anyone up there missing a baby?
 What? What are you talking about?
 A baby ... the private elevator from the
castle level came down a few minutes ago, and a baby came out.
 Thats impossible, Xanatos said flatly.
Mr. Burnett drove my wife and son upstate to look at a private
 school this morning; they left half an hour ago.
 It wasnt your son, Mr. Xanatos. A smaller
kid, maybe one, two years old. Dark hair. Wearing a purple
 coat or something.
 Just a second ... With an unpleasant suspicion
growing in his gut, Xanatos punched up the monitors fed
 by the castle security cameras. Breckenridge?
 Here, sir.
 Where is she?
 Got into one of the other elevators. She
could be anywhere in the building.
 Find her. Now.
 But, sir --
 Just find her! He clicked off the intercom, drummed his fingers
fitfully on the desk for a few seconds, then
 left his office in a hurry.

 * *

 Photos would be a start.
 Fair enough. If that was what was needed,
thats what he would get. Somehow. Then, maybe, it would spur
 or shame Castaway into action.
 Harry regretted his angry outbursts, but someone
had to light a fire under that man. Couldnt run away from
 the world, couldnt hide from ones responsibilities. It was no use
hoping that God would take away the cup He
 had set before you, no matter how sour its contents. Drink it down,
that was the ticket. Drink it down, do your
 duty, for the glory of God and the grace of mankind.
 Castaway was faltering, that was all. Stumbling
in his faith. Lost some of his hope. Lost some of his purpose,
 his drive.
 Well, Harry was going to give it back to him.
 Sure, photos. That might just do it. Once
Castaway got an eyeful of the hellspawn born to the Dark Madonna,
 hed remember his calling.
 Yeah, and then everything would get back on
track. The fire, the ... the charisma that had seemingly abandoned
 Castaway over the past months would come flooding back. The members
who had started second-guessing their
 place in the world would lose all their doubts. The hammers would shine,
brilliant in their divine strength.
 And all would be well.
 All thanks to Harry. The only one who had
never lost faith. Never lost sight of Gods righteous plan. Surely
 this was what God wanted him to do. To steer Castaway back onto
the right path. To get rid of the demons
 before it was too late, before the world was thrown into a thousand
years of torment.
 He looked at the skyscraper. Up and up. Closer
to it now than hed been in almost a year. Ever since that
 midnight fiasco, when hed been at his moment of greatest glee, leading
a small army against the stronghold of
 Hell, only to be struck from above by gallons and gallons of water,
such force that it had knocked him flat into
 the gutter.
 This time, hed be much more cautious.
 Playing tourist, bundled and unrecognizable
in his overcoat and scarf, he goggled at the worlds tallest
 building and then fiddled with his camera, pretending to take pictures.
 The hellspawn child was there. He could sense
it. God was shining a light in his head. It was just like the
 Pope had said. The medication hadnt been able to take that shining
light away from that main man of God,
 and fear of demons wasnt going to take it away from Harry. Not when
hed met the Pope, spent long
 hours in the dayroom listening to him, touched his hand, eaten at the
same table.
 Evil was strong, and God worked in mysterious
ways. Harry knew that. Why, otherwise, God would just
 open up a crevice in the earth and send that whole building plummeting
back into Hell where it belonged, or
 strike down the demon child with a bolt of lightning. But that wouldnt
give Gods faithful the chance to prove
 themselves. Earned salvation was lots better.
 He crossed at the corner, acting like he was
admiring the building from that different angle. He wasnt the
 only one. Despite the foul weather, lots of people paused to peer upward.
Even native New Yorkers were
 awed and dwarfed by it. Or maybe they could sense the malevolent power
radiating from every stone and girder.
 Harry sure could.
 But how was he gonna get in there?
Place was guarded to the dogs and back. Literally. Harry normally
 didnt mind dogs, but these were big thick-chested beasts that were
probably Hellhounds masquerading as
 regular dogs. Theyd sniff the power of God on him in no time, and
be all over him with their sulphury breath.
 Plus, the security systems were top of the
line and the guards were packing stun-lasers and sidearms, and
 for all he knew, were themselves minor devils sent up to safeguard
the child.
 He didnt linger too long by the garage doors,
which gave onto an underground parking structure. Just kept
 ambling by, hunching his face into his collar as if to keep it out
of the worst of the wind and rain, taking little
 sip-glances instead of long drink-looks.
 How was he gonna get in?
 God, gimme a little nudge here, he pleaded.
 His watch beeped, and Harry about jumped out
of his galoshes thinking it was a sign from God. Then he
 realized it was eight oclock, or almost -- his watch was set seven
minutes ahead sos he would never be late.
 Harry Standard Time, he called it.
 Eight oclock.
 And a long line of cars waiting their turn
in front of those garage doors. Employees. Maybe evil themselves,
 maybe unknowing pawns of the dark powers. Showing up for work. Even
on the weekend. No rest for the wicked.
 He strolled down the street, past the line
of cars. Fancy stuff. Yeah, that figured -- the good went without,
 while the evil drove Jaguars.
 If he could somehow get into one of the cars
unnoticed ... thatd be a good trick, though. Not like he could just
 jump in, put a gun to the drivers head, force him to drive inside.
No way.
 Fuming, aware that he was rapidly running
out of time that he could keep meandering along without someone
 getting suspicious, he jaywalked over to a newsstand and pretended
to check out the headlines on the daily paper.
 Thinking, thinking, his brain running fast and furious as a hyped-up
hamster on a wheel.
 This isnt a lending library, buster, the
old fart tending the stand snapped after less than thirty seconds.
 Harry shot him a glower, but the old fart
wasnt looking at him anymore. Was looking past him with his
 seamed forehead even more wrinkled up.
 What the bejesus, is that a kid on the back
of that truck? he said as if he was sure he was seeing things.
 Half-thinking it was a variation on the your-flys-open
trick and the old fart would then clobber him one, Harry
 played along anyway and turned. Then his chin came all unhinged as
he saw the kid, clinging to a metal ladder on
 the back of a black truck with the red XE logo.
 The guards didnt even glance that way, being
more concerned with checking up on who was coming in 
 rather than going _out_.
 A kid, all right, and maybe the old fart thought
said kid was wearing a purple superhero cape, but Harry
 knew demon wings when he saw them.
 He stood there, the paper in his hand, so
stunned at his good fortune that it didnt immediately register on
 his brain that the truck was driving off down the street.
 Hey! he blurted belatedly. He broke into
a run, camera jouncing on its strap. Behind him, the old fart set
 up a ruckus as if Harry had just taken off with the Crown Jewels instead
of the Saturday edition. Not even looking
 back, Harry threw the paper over his shoulder and kept on running.
 God had, indeed, provided.
 All he had to do was catch up.

 * *

 Kurt Masters was a night owl.
 In med school, hed gone into the OB-GYN field
thinking it would be a good way to meet women, then
 found out he enjoyed delivering babies even more than seeing women
naked -- and also found out that the
 majority of women coming into the office werent much like centerfolds
or the stuff of fantasy.
 From there, hed gotten interested in genetics,
and gone back to school to get his degree in that, primarily
 curious about genetic conditions that could be detected and treated
prenatally. And reproductive technologies
 that could overcome some of the bloopers of heredity.
 Anthropology had been a hobby that had become
a degree when he realized hed taken almost enough
 elective courses to qualify. Hed always been fascinated by the idea
of ancient, primitive, or foreign cultures.
 All of that meant that lucking into a job
with Xanatos Enterprises was the best thing that could have happened
 to him. He would have done it for free, once he found out that he would
be the first person on the planet to be
 studying not only gargoyle physiology and reproduction, but interbreeding
as well.
 But just because he would have done
it for free didnt mean he was stupid enough to turn down the salary.
 Which was princely to say the least. He even got room and board as
part of the deal, not just a dorm room but
 a suite that was damn near palatial.
 He also got the boss knocking at his door
just three hours after hed bid farewell and good night to Elisa and
 Goliath.
 Blinking at David Xanatos, he ran both palms
up the sides of his face, fluffing his beard, and from there into
 his untidy auburn hair. Say that again? Can Amber what?
 Stay flesh by day, Xanatos repeated.
 Im sure shell eventually get the knack.
Elektra can, though she says its not easy. Why?
 Because shes gone.
 What do you mean, gone? He was wide awake
now, and followed Xanatos into the hall without caring
 that he was wearing just a pair of sweat pants and the boss was, as
usual, decked out in a three-piece suit that,
 despite the aforementioned princeliness of his salary, Kurt still 
couldnt have afforded. She cant be gone .
 Xanatos told him what Breckenridge from Security
had said. They stopped at one of the ops rooms and
 there, on the monitor, Kurt could see with his own eyes that Ambers
playpen was empty.
 Maybe shes in their -- he began, but Xanatos,
anticipating it, pressed a button to switch to the camera
 that showed the interior of the clans suite.
 Nothing, Xanatos said. And theres no way
anyone could have removed her from the castle without us
 knowing. The motion detectors on the outer perimeter are calibrated
for anything larger than a pigeon, the
 electronic sensors can pick up a pocket calculator, Aidens wards will
register hostile intent --
 Okay, okay, spare me the technobabble, I
get the picture!
 The point is, Xanatos said, and for the
first time Kurt realized the boss was close to panic, that Amber left
 under her own power. And weve got to find her. Before sunset.
 Ohhhh, Jesus. It sank in. Goliath is going
to ...
 Kill someone? Xanatos lip curled away from
his teeth in a pained grin. Probably. Any ideas who hell
 start with? Its you or me, doctor, and Im guessing itll be you.
He paused, exhaled gustily, and added, Then
 me.

 * *

 The feeling wouldnt go away.
 Elisa looked at the clock. Five after eight.
 She didnt want to be here.
 Not just because Matt was right about this
being a shit detail, not just because he and Pal Joey were driving
 her crazy with their arguments over what to watch, not just because
she had always preferred action to waiting
 and thus was always edgy and bored on a stakeout.
 No, something was wrong.
 Was it Dracon? Was that it?
 Ever since he and Brode had teamed up and
broken out of jail, her old buddy Tony had been busting his
 buns to rebuild the Dracon hold on Manhattan. Trouble was, there had
been plenty of other scumbags eager
 to move in, so hed had to fight for every scrap. If hed turned that
energy to honest work ... but no point
 worrying about that; Tony Dracon was one leopard who wasnt ever going
to change his spots.
 Hed finally gotten things put back together,
and now Pal Joey was about to bring it all crashing down. No
 way Tony would allow that. Not if he could help it.
 So did he know where they were? Was Glasses
or the thug-of-the-week currently moving into position? Was
 that why her nerves were jangling?
 She glanced over at Matt, who had commandeered
the remote control. He wasnt showing any signs of
 edginess, and usually he had the best danger sense on the force.
 Cop instinct.
 But it didnt feel like cop instinct.
Not this time.
 What the hell was it, then?

 * *

 Harry the Hammer charged down the sidewalk,
shouldering through the morning crowds, for once
 wishing it was Monday so the traffic would have been at a near-standstill.
As it was, the hour was right
 for the streets to be fairly well jammed, and he had no problem keeping
the truck in sight.
 So far, nobody had paid any attention to the
kid, who had climbed the rest of the way up the ladder
 and was now holding on to the roof with those devil wings blowing in
the breeze. Not because this was
 New York and nobody got involved -- Harry knew that wasnt always true,
just as it wasnt always true
 that everyone in California was a heathen drug addict sex fiend --
but simply because few people looked
 up. They stared at the pavement, window-shopped, averted their eyes
from each other or turned to openly
 ogle, but rarely looked up. That was one of the reasons why those gargoyle-demons
had been able to live
 among them for so long. Why, one of them could be perched above him
right now ...
 Harry smothered a fearful yelp and scanned
the ledges. True, it was day, but if the devil-child could be
 out and about, then why not the others? Their power was gaining in
strength all the time.
 Nothing. No ghastly faces leering down at
him.
 His heart rate dropping back to a more normal
level, he went after the truck. But just when he was
 getting close enough, just when he might have been able to make a grab
for that ladder and swing himself
 up, the hellspawn jumped.
 Wings spread wide, it swooped across and landed
on top of a bus in the other lane.
 Harry cussed a blue streak as he plunged into
traffic. Horns blared all around him, closed fists and
 upthrust fingers popped out of windows, and a moron on a ten-speed
missed him by a hair. The bus was
 picking up speed.
 Hey, buddy, what the fuck are you doing?
the cyclist yelled at Harry.
 He answered with a fast elbow to the face,
dumping the moron to the asphalt, and swung a leg over the
 bike. Some bystanders started hollering, and one would-be hero tried
to grab Harry by the collar of his
 overcoat, but Harry whirled his camera like a bolas and the hero backed
off before he got his dental work
 rearranged.
 Harry knew he was making a scene, and knew
he must look like a prime idiot wobbling and weaving
 through traffic with his coat billowing and his galoshes pumping the
pedals. But this was his chance, his big
 chance, and if he could pull it off, it would all be worthwhile.
 Photos would be a start ... yeah, great, but
when he brought the hellspawn itself, alive and kicking and
 squirming, that would be the ultimate.

 * *

 Okay, heres the tape. Xanatos put it in,
and he and Masters watched together as Goliath deposited
 the very upset Amber in her playpen. Shes pitching quite a fit.
 Those arent pain-cries. Shes not tugging
on her ear anymore, either. Shes mad.
 There they go. Xanatos leaned closer as
the tape showed the gargoyles freezing in place, one after
 the other.
 Amber paused in her carryings-on long enough
to yawn, but then her little face screwed up into a defiant
 snarl and she slammed her tiny fists on the confining walls of her
playpen. Then the most amazing look of
 surprise replaced her anger as she gaped at the motionless clan.
 I know shes ahead of her age in physical
development, Xanatos said. What about intellectual?
 Kurt shrugged, not removing his eyes from
the screen. Shes bright, I know that much, but other than that
 I really couldnt say.
 And shes not turning to stone. Explanation?
 From everything Ive been able to determine,
shes not a fifty-fifty hybrid. Most of her genetic makeup is
 human. Just as most of Elektras is gargoyle. Im fairly sure it depends
on the race of the mother. Elektra is a
 gargoyle who can pass for human, Amber is the opposite.
 Except for her wings, Xanatos noted.
 Which are a tremendous advantage, if we look
at it from a natural selection viewpoint. The feet, too ... a
 flying creature needs to have good grasping feet and strong calf muscles
for takeoffs and landings.
 Up until now, she turned to stone every morning
just like the others. Could the antibiotic have caused this?
 I doubt it. Shes mad. Shes totally pissed
off, pardon my French. The times Elektras done it, its taken a
 lot of willpower and determination on her part.
 If theres anything Id expect from the daughter
of Goliath and Elisa, Xanatos said dryly, its willpower
 and determination. She inherited a full measure of temper from both 
of them.
 Plus, unlike Elektra, Amber is closer genetically
to humanity, and shes also a lot younger. Elektra didnt
 know she was part human until she was already full grown. It had never
occurred to her to try to resist, so shes
 stuck by force of habit. But the younger you are, the more adaptable
you are. Some of the psychologists say
 that childhood can be just as much a period of forgetting as learning
-- look at the wide range of vocal sounds
 a baby can make, which they lose as they get older and learn one language.
 Fascinating as this is, Doctor, what do we
do now?
 On the tape, Amber had abandoned her verbal
protests, evidently realizing that it wouldnt do any good
 as no one was able to hear. Instead, a very familiar expression replaced
the surprise.
 Look at that, Xanatos marveled. Ive seen
that look before. Every time Goliath used to decide he had
 to thwart whatever evil plan I was cooking up next.
 Determination and willpower, Masters said.
And I think shes probably a lot smarter than I was giving
 her credit for.
 Just what we need, another child prodigy
around the place.
 Amber tried to dig her fingernails into the
wall, but she lacked strong gargoyle claws and couldnt get a
 good enough grip. The observers could almost hear the wheels turning
in her little head.
 Holding onto the top with both hands, she
hopped up and down experimentally. The hops became jumps,
 and she flapped her wings vigorously.
 Thats another thing, Masters said. Her
body is a lot lighter than a gargoyles would be. Id bet that
 shell eventually be able to fly, not just glide.
 The lift provided by the wings was enough
to let her bound out of her playpen and land sprawling. Cooing
 to herself with pride, she got up and toddled out of the cameras sight,
a small figure in red corduroy overalls,
 clunky leather-soled shoe-things that Fox called mukluks, and a T-shirt
that had been a gag gift from Brooklyn,
 with Chip off the Old Block on it.
 The T-shirt had holes in the back, and of
course Brooklyn had also given Goliath a gigantic matching one
 that read Old Block. But, to the extent of Xanatos knowledge, Goliath
had never put it on. A shame; that
 was something he would have loved to see.
 So, from here, she evidently made her way
to the elevator and down to the lobby. Where would she
 have gone from there? Breckenridge saw her getting into another elevator,
but so far, security hasnt come
 up with anything.
 Well, she could probably only reach the bottom
few buttons, Masters suggested. But the only things
 under the lobby are some of the labs, right? And the --
 And the parking garage, Xanatos finished,
feeling himself turn pale.

 * *

 Either it was the longest stoplight in the
history of the city, or something was going on.
 Dominique Destine tilted her head against
the window, but couldnt see what might be blocking the
 road. She pressed the button that lowered the shield of dark glass
between herself and her driver.
 Whats going on, Carl? Is there an accident?
 I cant tell, Ms. Destine, he replied. Everybodys
stopped, but I dont see any police or ambulances.
 Looks like theres a crowd gathering on the other side of the street,
though.
 She slid across the seat. True enough, a large
number of humans were ignoring the morning drizzle to
 crane their necks upward.
 Must be a leaper, she said, trying to hide
the satisfaction she always felt when one wretched human
 did her a favor and took his own life.
 Carl was one of Nightstones loyal drones,
kept content with his lot in life by Sevarius drugs, but he
 still had his share of morbid curiosity. Despite the cold, he rolled
down his window and called to a man
 hustling through the sea of cars. Hey, whats the deal?
 Theres a baby crawled out on a ledge, the
man replied excitedly. Some guys up there trying to
 save it.
 Resigned to the fact that the limo wasnt
going anyplace until this matter had been resolved, Dominique
 pulled on her stylish fur-trimmed coat and got out. Carl promptly opened
an umbrella to protect her
 impeccably-bunned scarlet tresses from the damp, but she pushed it
aside because it blocked her view of
 the goings-on above.
 Halfway up the building, on about the sixth
floor, a brawny man who struck Dominique as passingly
 familiar was inching his way along a foot-wide ledge, toward a child
who sat, feet dangling, apparently
 laughing and waving at the terrified (yet ghoulishly interested) people
below.
 Wanting a better look at the man, Dominique
pushed her way closer. She could see his face now, which
 wore an odd mix of exaltation, dread, and embarrassment. As if he wished
everybody would quit staring at
 him and go away. A camera swung from a strap around his thick bull
neck. The wind riffled through brown
 hair only a touch longer than a crew-cut.
 Then she placed him. He was listed on the
Anvil Corporation staff roster as Harold Hammerton the
 Second, aka Harry the Hammer, one of Jon Castaways lunatics. Quarryman
dirtbag. But evidently
 civic-minded enough to try and save a child in trouble.
 He got within arms reach and made a grab.
Missed, and the child -- it was a girl, Dominique saw,
 wearing red overalls and a purple jacket -- scrambled away from him.
They were directly over the crowd
 now, but nobody moved, either confident in his ability to make the
rescue, or suffering from the common
 affliction of cant-happen-to-me.
 Dominique didnt move either, though she had
more reason to be convinced of her own invulnerability
 than did those around her. For her, death was a spectator sport. Though
the prospect of seeing that child
 fall, seeing its brains leak from its smashed skull, didnt fill her
with the usual grim joy she took in human
 tragedy. An aching knot pulled tight in her belly.
 The man grabbed again, caught the child by
the arm. As he pulled her into his grasp, the crowd raised
 their voices in a cheer.
 But that cheer turned to a collective horrified
gasp as the little girl bit her rescuers hand, then squirmed
 free. And fell.
 Then, just before disaster, what Dominique
had mistaken for a jacket opened into light purple wings,
 and the child glided over the upturned, amazed faces.
 Some old lady yelled and swiped at the child
with a cane, missing but scaring her. The child faltered
 and would have crashed, but Dominique got there first.
 The small body collided with hers, rocking
her back on her heels.
 No! Shes mine ! Harry the Hammer
roared from on high -- now Dominique realized what hed really 
 been about up there. He drew a gun that looked big as a cannon even
six stories up, and the first thunderous
 boom blew a mailbox into confetti.
 Their eyes locked, and she saw him recognize
her. According to Castaways propaganda, she was a
 gargoyle sympathizer; he didnt want to risk panicking his followers
further with the news that evil might
 walk among them by day.
 The black hole of the gunbarrel lined up with
her head.
 Ms. Destine, get down ! Carl tackled
her just as Harry fired again. She held on to the terrified,
 shrieking girl as they were knocked to the pavement. The shot made
a crater between Carls splayed feet.
 Humans stampeded to the four winds. Dominique
got up and ran, hunching her body around the child.
 Rather that trying to get away, she raced toward the building, into
the recessed doorway, out of Harrys
 line of sight.

 * *

 A search of the garage had turned up nothing,
and Xanatos was really beginning to sweat.
 Maybe we should call her mother? Kurt ventured.
 Heres my phone.
 Wouldnt you rather --
 Do I look crazy to you?
 She cant have gotten out of the building.
 Weve got to assume the worst.
 You mean, were dead meat.
 Basically, Xanatos said. That my quest
for immortality should not only fail, but end like this ... life
 really sucks, Dr. Masters. He began dialing.
 What are you doing?
 Calling Elisa. Might as well get it over
with.

 * *

 Rick Alvarez and Marty Arnes were first on
the scene. The info had been sketchy at first, so they
 expected to find a suicide attempt in progress (though it had been
Ricks experience that few people who
 really wanted to die would go out on a ledge and wait for the cops
to show up; they wanted talking down,
 they wanted attention; the ones who really meant to kill themselves
would do it without fanfare and assorted
 dicking around).
 Instead, they found abandoned cars slewed
every which way, evidence of gunplay, and assertions by
 panicked bystanders that some maniac had opened up on them after the
kid hed been trying to nab
 sprouted wings and flew away. Of the maniac, there was no sign, and
a boy of about eleven insisted hed
 gone back through a window.
 Marty Arnes was newly transferred to the 23rd
Precinct, this was his first week on the job, and he scoffed
 loudly. Oh, come on, kids with wings? Gimme a break!
 Rick didnt join in the scoffing because he
knew just such a kid, though it was way past her bedtime. Of
 course, the kid had cousins who also had wings -- the Maza family
photo album was a wild ride to say the
 least -- but the Labyrinth was a good forty blocks from here.
 In the meantime, they had a situation on their
hands.
 Im going to get us some backup, Rick said.
Cop instinct told him the boy was right, their perp had
 already made himself scarce. But just in case he wasnt ... The headcase
might still be around here, and if
 whatever sort of popgun hes got can do that to a mailbox, I
dont want to put money on our vests. You
 get these lookie-loos out of here before someone winds up ventilated.
 Marty grabbed the bullhorn and from a reasonably
covered spot between two cars, started telling
 people to get off the street.
 Rick called in and got Officer Whitman, who
was Morgans brother-in-law. Whitman agreed to dispatch
 more units right away.
 Yo, Rick, one more thing -- I just fielded
a call for Elisa ... do you know whos looking after her
 daughter?
 Why? he asked, iciness coalescing in his
stomach.
 This mystery man, wouldnt leave his name,
says her daughters missing. I figure its a hoax, I mean, its
 the middle of the morning, but --
 Oh, hell.
 You mean its legit? Or a kidnap threat,
maybe?
 Listen, Whit, Im up to my neck here already.
Send the backup. But then see if you can get in touch with
 Elisa. Chavez knows where she is. Dont waste any time, okay?
 You got it, Rick.

 * *

 Harry the Hammer had, as Rick guessed, made
himself scarce.
 Hed blown it. God was not happy with
him. Bad enough that hed followed the hellspawn up the building,
 drawing the attention of half of Manhattan, but then hed lost 
her! And when hed tried to shoot the devils
 handmaiden who had appeared out of nowhere to rescue her, hed missed!
 His hand throbbed and stung, and he could
feel her vile poison working in him. Burning like fire, creeping
 through his veins.
 Had to do something. Had to do something quick,
before it killed him.
 If hed had a knife or an axe, he might have
stopped right then and lopped off his torn, tainted flesh. But
 he didnt. Only other choice was to put his faith in God and hope the
Almighty was going to give him another
 chance.
 With his tooth-marked extremity hidden in
one coat pocket and his gun in the other, he reeled up the
 steps of St. Bernadette's. He wouldnt have been surprised if the doorhandles
seared him when he took hold,
 but he wasnt that unclean. Not yet.
 A service was going on, the pews about one-third
full. Harry only went as far as the fonts of holy water at
 the rear of the church.
 He withdrew his hand from his pocket, stared
at it for a moment as a small whimper escaped his clenched
 jaw, then immersed it to the wrist.

 * *

 The first vacant building Dominique came to
was Varduccis House of Pasta, which had closed following
 a gangland-style shooting six months ago. The door and windows were
boarded over, but one of the boards
 was loose enough for her to easily pry it out and slip through the
opening.
 Once inside, she finally let herself exhale
and relax. No one had followed her. She was safe.
 They were safe.
 She held the child away from her and looked
closely at it for the first time.
 Dark hair. Dark eyes. Toffee-colored skin.
Lavendar wings.
 You ... youre ... who are you? she
demanded, though she knew the truth, shaking the little girl.
 Ammer, the child said, her eyes wide in
the gloom of the unlit restaurant. She must have seen something
 terrible in Dominiques expression, because she began to cry.
 Conflicting emotions stormed inside her. She
wanted to hurl the child to the dusty floor and stomp her
 lifeless, she wanted to cradle her close and reassure her, she wanted
to see Goliath and his human slut suffer
 as she and Jericho had suffered, she wanted to rid the world of this
foul hybrid, she wanted to keep her to
 raise as her own.
 Ambers tears splashed on her hands. Dominique
could feel her trembling. This fearless hatchling, who
 glided by day and laughed as she perched high above the humans ...
was trembling ... crying ... all because
 of her ...
 A single ragged sob burst from Dominique,
and she hugged Amber against her. Shh, shh now, little one.
 Its all right. Im not going to hurt you.
 Amber laid her head on Dominiques shoulder
with a soft sigh. Dominique closed her eyes in mixed
 heartwrenching pain and joy as she felt small arms creep around her
neck.
 She lost herself in the soft weight in her
arms, the scent of the child, the folded butterfly-leather velvet wings
 as she stroked them soothingly.
 Lost herself, yes, so lost that she didnt
pay any attention to the creak of hinges, the approaching footsteps,
 the stink of gunmetal. Lost, until she heard a voice.
 Well, well. An uninvited guest.
 Dominique gasped and opened her eyes to the
sight of two men. One bespectacled and black, covering
 her with a pistol. The other slim and smug, the dim light gleaming
on the white streak in his lush dark hair.
 I dont believe weve met, he said. The
names Dracon.

 * *

 The phone rang, and all three of them jumped
as if in anticipation of a blow.
 But Elisa didnt just jump, she barked a short,
explosive, Oh! that was very close to being a shout of
 alarm, and almost pulled her gun. Her pulse was racing, and a sudden
clammy sweat had broken out on her
 forehead.
 It rang again.
 She was closest to it, and Matt hoisted a
reddish eyebrow as if to ask, Well?
 She put her hand on the phone.
 This was it. Whatever had hit the fan, this
was it.
 Let it ring, a whispery but compelling voice
spoke up in her head. Just let it ring, its bad news, you dont
 want to hear it.
 Third ring. She drew her hand away.
 Je-sus Christ, Pal Joey said in exasperation.
Ill get it.
 No! Elisa stopped herself, swallowed, and
picked up the phone. Hello?
 Elisa? Maria Chavez asked.
 What is it? Whats happened? Is it my folks?
 Elisa, Im sending a car over. Goldbergs
going to take over for you. Just stay calm, okay?
 Is it Dad?
 No, its not your father. After a heavy
pause, she said, Its Amber.

 * *

 Oh, dammit ... David Xanatos groaned.
 The new tape, from one of the parking garage
cameras, clearly showed a little girl clambering onto the back
 of a truck just before it departed.
 He typed the trucks number into the computer.
A shipment of computer disks and VR headsets,
 Xantasia II -- Dragon Crusade, ConSPYracy, and Ghoul World. Three games
in one, magic in the making.
 Okay, that was something, at least; it wasnt
a load of weapons.
 He checked the trucks destination and groaned
again, trying to imagine what hed say to Goliath and Elisa
 if their daughter wound up on a flight to Tokyo.
 Put me in touch with the drivers now ,
he ordered. They couldnt be at the airport yet, just couldnt.

 * *

 The holy water didnt heal the devil-bite.
 When Harry took his hand out of the font,
which was now pinkish from his blood, the wounds were still
 seeping. But the poison was gone. He was sure of that.
 Feeling better already, cleaner, more uplifted,
Harry tied a handkerchief around it and quickly crossed
 himself before heading back outside.
 The drizzle was done, and it even looked like
the clouds were parting. Bits of blue showing through. An
 omen. God was still with him.
 He hurried back the way hed come, wanting
to jog but not wanting to attract any more attention.

 * *

 What do you know, Tony Dracon said. A baby
gargoyle.
 They were in the back room of Varduccis,
which theyd converted to use as a hideout after the restaurant
 had closed down.
 And wasnt it his good fortune that on the
very day he was trying to figure out what lever he could use
 against Maza and Bluestone, a baby gargoyle should just fall into his
hands? Someone up there liked him.
 Something the matter, honey? he asked the
redhead, whose glare was a killer. Look, I got nothing
 against you personally. Im a businessman.
 Wan my Daga, wan my Zaza, the kid sniffled,
holding onto Red for dear life.
 Glasses had tried to pry them apart, but wasnt
about to make that mistake again. At the moment, he
 was leaning half-bent over and spraddle-legged against the wall, barely
coherent but still keeping a machine
 gun trained on Red.
 The rest of his diminished gang had her covered
too, and kept a discreet distance, alternately wincing
 and smirking when they recalled the kick shed given Glasses. If thosed
been spiked heels, talk about body
 piercing! Ouch! She was limping, favoring that foot, and no wonder.
 I got nothing against you personally, Tony
repeated. Leave the kid with us, and you can go. Deal?
 She told him what he could do with his deal,
and Tony blinked.
 Nice language, he said. Okay, so what do 
you want? You look familiar; did you nab the kid or
 something? Ransom, is that whats on your mind? Or are you one of those
Quarrymen?
 She was out of her chair in a flash, supporting
the child with one arm and going for his throat with the
 other. Her fingernails were painted vermillion and sharp as needles.
 Tony reeled back as his gang moved in. Dont
hurt the kid! he shouted.
 The butt of a shotgun slammed into the back
of the redheads skull. Gino Monatella snatched the little
 girl out of her grasp as she went down.
 You want we should finish her, Tony?
 He touched his neck and looked, incredulous,
at the spots of blood. The bitch tagged me! They were
 no bigger than shaving nicks, but still! Do it.
 Sal Clemenza spun a silencer onto the barrel
of his gun. Gino brought the kid to Tony, who was still
 messing with his neck. She was squirming and fighting like a wet cat,
darting her head at Gino, hoping to
 plant those little fangs in his arm. And screaming to raise the roof.
None of them dared try to cover her mouth,
 for fear of losing a finger.
 Tony looked at the redhead, recognized her.
Sal!
 Too late. Sal pulled the trigger. Her body
jumped. Tony clapped a hand across his face and swore fluidly
 in Italian.
 You said to get rid of her, Sal argued worriedly.
 Do you know who that was? You just wasted
Dominique Destine!
 How was I supposed to know?
 Dont you read magazines? She was the CEO
of Nightstone Unlimited! We couldve gotten good
 money out of her!
 You told me to do it!
 Come on! Gino urged, struggling with his
captive. Lets just get the fuck outta here, what do you say?

 * *

 The chattering roar of the descending helicopter
threw Elisas hair around her head in a dark tornado, but
 she didnt bother to look.
 Rick Alvarez did. Xanatos. Whats he doing
here?
 Coming up with one hell of a good reason
why I shouldnt stuff his balls up his nose, Elisa said in the
 hardest voice Rick had ever heard. He actually took two steps back.
 Theyd cleared the street after searching
all of the cars and questioning all of the people, but nobody
 remembered anything between seeing Amber swoop through the air and
the gunfire starting. Nobody wanted
 to become a statistic, so theyd fled in all directions, and no one
had paid any mind to where one little girl might
 have wound up.
 It was Amber. Elisa had no doubts. Even before
shed spoken to Kurt Masters on the car phone on her way
 over here and heard his explanations and theories as to just why Amber
was wide awake and moving around in
 the daytime, she knew.
 Cop instinct?
 No. Maternal instinct.
 Harry the Hammer chasing after her daughter.
Now she knew how Goliath had felt last New Years, upon
 hearing that shed been carried off by Jericho.
 Shes alive, Elisa said.
 Rick glanced worriedly at her. Elisa ...
 She is. Id know if she wasnt.
 He knew better than to debate. We did a quick
sweep of the area, got someone who matched Harrys
 description coming out of St. Bernadettes. Havent come up with anything
since.
 Xanatos emerged from the helicopter, his grey
trenchcoat blowing around his legs and exposing the dull
 gleam of body armor.
 Youll need it, Elisa growled, looking pointedly
at him.
 Im here to help, he said. I imagine youve
got a lot of yelling to do, and Ill hear you out, every word,
 but first, lets find Amber.
 She came within an inch of letting him have
it anyway, but something in his eyes stopped her. They were the
 eyes of a man whod had his own child stolen away more than once, eyes
that knew how she was feeling.
 She took a deep breath and let it out slowly.
Fair enough.

 * *

 Two cop cars wailed past, and Harry faded into
an alley until they were gone. He wondered if he should
 contact Castaway, get some help out here.
 No. This was something he had to do alone.
 This was something he wanted to do
alone.
 But he was back at square one. The devils
handmaiden hadnt gone back to her car; her driver had left
 without her. Harryd seen him go.
 So she had to be nearby. Hiding out.
 Close.
 Someplace where she could wait out the day,
especially now that the sun was coming out. Didnt the
 sun turn them to stone? Yeah, like at the rally when theyd smashed
one of the monsters to gravel. Sunlight
 was their enemy. All those creatures of the night couldnt go out in
sunlight.
 Hiding ... but where?
 A dark place ... where nobody might find them
...
 His gaze happened upon the abandoned restaurant,
and it was as if a great starburst went on in his head.
 That was the place.
 He let himself in through the loose board
across the doorway, and paused while his vision adjusted to the
 dimness. There was another door standing ajar at the rear of the room,
and when he peered inside, he saw a
 bundle of rags on the floor ...
 No, it was a body!
 Harry rushed to it, took hold of a shoulder,
and rolled it onto its back.
 The woman! The devils handmaiden!
 He looked around. No hellspawn child, but
signs of a scuffle. An expended shell casing. An overturned
 chair. Lots of footprints in the dust, leading to a back alleyway.
 The sound of a car engine.
 Without thinking of his own hide, Harry plunged
outside. An expensive black car, surely the Lexus of Satan
 Himself, was driving away.
 Enraged, he almost gave chase, almost opened
fire on the car, but made himself stop. Bullets wouldnt be
 any good against that . He had to think of another plan, quick.
 He retreated into the restaurant before the
servants of evil saw him in their rearview mirror. He stood
 uncertainly by the corpse, trying to clear his mind and think.
 Help me out, here, God! Thy will be done,
You bet Your halo, but I need to know what to do. I need
 a sign.
 At his feet, the dead woman sucked in a breath.

 * *

 Just when they thought things couldnt get
worse, the press showed up.
 And, of course, seeing Xanatos right in the
thick of things, the reporters had a field day.
 Elisa wanted to grab them, slam them up against
the nearest wall, and screech in their faces that this
 was her daughter they were talking about, not some urban legend
brought to life, not some genetic experiment
 gone awry, her daughter . But that, she knew, would only get
her name and picture plastered on front
 pages all over the country. And it wouldnt help find Amber.
 Rick Alvarez finally turned up a lead. An
old woman, one Mabel Jenks from Nebraska, who had been
 knocked down and out in the panicked exodus.
 But shed regained consciousness, dismissed
the paramedics in a crotchety manner, and told Rick that
 she had tried to swat that critter clean out of the air with her
cane. Then some tart in a fancy fur coat had
 grabbed the winged child and run off with her.
 What did this ... tart ... look like? Elisa
asked urgently.
 Hooker, Mrs. Jenks declared. Hair dyed
just as red as a whores porch light, fur coat, high heels. I
 knew she was a tramp just looking at her.
 Rick and Elisa exchanged a dubious shrug.
A hooker? Rick mouthed.
 Which way did she go?
 How should I know? Right about then, half
the city trampled over me and damn near broke my hip
 again! She brandished her cane as if she might try to swat Elisa too,
then stomped off.
 It always warms my heart to see a kind, grandmotherly
figure like that, Xanatos remarked.
 I thought you were here to help ,
Elisa reminded him, scowling.
 But ... Elisa ... Rick said hesitantly,
Its not looking like theres much more we can do.
 Except wait, Xanatos said.
 I am not giving up!
 Without some more leads, theres no way were
going to be able to find one kid in a city this size! Rick
 gestured around. You know everybody on the force is going to be doing
their damndest, but --
 But nothing! Elisa sliced the air with both
hands in a vicious negative motion.
 She could be asleep, Xanatos said. Remember
Elektra? Kurt thinks that as soon as Amber gets tired,
 shes going to turn to stone.
 I will go over every building on this island
one inch at a time if thats what it takes, she vowed, curling her fists.
 Okay. Xanatos began fiddling with a remote
control, and a radar dish on the back of his helicopter began
 silently spinning. But Ill handle that part, what do you say?
 She frowned blankly at him, until six Steel
Clan robots zoomed into view. Then she understood. Youre
 going to have them scan all the exteriors?
 He nodded. Ive programmed them with surveillance
tape images of Amber, both awake and asleep. If
 shes on a ledge, well find her. He fetched his own helmet from the
helicopter, shed his trenchcoat, and
 extended his red metallic wings.
 I keep forgetting youre not such a bad guy
after all, Elisa said with a weak smile.
 Xanatos grinned, then lifted off.

 * *

 Dominique opened her eyes.
 She hated getting killed.
 There was a dwindling bump on her head, and
a tender spot on her chest. Oh, yes, and a lump of misshapen
 metal trapped inside her blouse. The wretched humans had shot 
her, and the healing processes had forced the
 bullet back out.
 She sat up, her bloodsoaked clothes sticking
to her mended skin, and saw Harry the Hammer gaping at her.
 But at least it didnt seem she was about to get shot again, because
his hands were hanging slack at his sides.
 You ... youre alive, he said. Is it the
devils work or the Lords? I asked God for a sign, and there you
 are, but was it Him that resurrected you, or not?
 Oh, keep your God, she snapped, getting
to her feet. What was she doing here, anyway? How had she
 gotten into this mess?
 Then she remembered -- Amber! Tony Dracon
and his murdering thugs must have taken her.
 Without another word for Harry, she burst
into the alley.
 Nothing. Nobody. Just fresh tire tracks.
 Her arms ached with the bittersweet memory
of holding the child. She pealed a desolate shriek to the
 uncaring sky.

 * *

 After an hour of not finding a single thing,
Elisa was about to lose her mind. She kept telling herself that
 Amber was all right, but the certainty with which shed said it to
Rick was being eroded by doubt.
 When it was clear there was nothing more that
could be done at the scene, she let Rick talk her into
 going to the station house, where she could coordinate with the search
units. But when they got there, Rick
 himself did most of that, while Elisa wandered the halls, breath stopping
every time a phone rang.
 Finally, when she was ready to start screaming,
she went out front and looked up, hoping against hope
 to spot a small shape on a ledge.
 Hello ... sugar.
 Oh, hell, Elisa sighed. Not now, Tony,
okay? I know you want Pal Joey, and I really dont give a
 damn. Ive got other things on my mind.
 He leaned against the wall, oh-so full of
himself. Bold as brass. Right there at the foot of the station stairs,
 and the cops couldnt touch him because all they had was suspicion.
At least until Monday, when Pal Joey
 spilled the beans. There was a black Lexus waiting at the curb, with
Sal Clemenza behind the wheel.
 But Elisa wasnt kidding ... she really didnt
give a damn.
 I think youll hear what I have to say. Ive
got a message for you to give to your gargoyle friends. I found
 something of theirs.
 She had already turned away, preparing to
ignore him, but now she froze. What did you say?
 Tony smirked, enjoying himself hugely. Werent
you listening, sugar ? You tell your gargoyle friends that
 Ive got their brat. Shes fine, and Ill be happy to hand her over
... if ...
 Elisa descended the steps like someone in
a dream. Tony ...
 I mean, its all up to you. I want Joey.
Weve got some things to settle, me and him. But if you cant do
 that, I understand. His grin widened. I understand, but I
dont know if your gargoyle friends will.
 No, you dont understand.
 Hey, I know Im putting you in a spot here.
Youre a cop. I respect that. But --
 She moved. Fast.
 The barrel of her gun was mashed against Tonys
lips before he even realized she was moving.
 Youre not dealing with Elisa Maza the cop,
she said, voice both low and fierce. Youre dealing with Elisa
 Maza the mother , and if I dont get my daughter back in the
next five seconds Im going to blow your teeth
 out the back of your goddam head! Do you understand that , Tony?
 His eyes were big and round and filled with
consternation and what might have been chagrin. He eased his
 head back far enough to speak. Hey, Elisa, take it easy, okay?
 My daughter, Tony. Now.
 You dont think I would have brought her
--
 Five.
 I need more time!
 Four.
 Ill get her, I swear!
 Three.
 Come on, Elisa, give me a chance!
 She stopped the countdown, but pressed the
gun hard against his teeth. And your scumbags better
 understand something too. If they try anything stupid, Ill kill you
on the spot, and then Im going after them.
 Me and my clan. Until every single one of them is dead.
 Sal, Tony called, the stink of fear coming
off of him in sickly fumes. Go get the kid! Hurry!
 Oh, no you dont, Elisa said. Were going
down there. Both of us. Youre going to take me to my
 daughter, and then youre going to let us go. Dont cross me, Tony.
 Wouldnt dream of it, he assured her.
 She eased off a little, knowing that one great
truth about Tony Dracon was that he was a coward at heart.
 Not that it would have mattered. Police procedure and her own safety
werent foremost in her mind.
 Shifting the gun to the back of his head,
she nudged him down the steps toward the Lexus. One of her fellow
 officers could come out at any minute, Travis Marshall could show up,
but none of it mattered.
 Boss ... Sal began.
 Just cooperate with the lady, Sal, Tony
said as he slid across the back seat and Elisa climbed in after him.
 The interior of the car still held a whiff
of her daughters scent. It almost brought her to anxious tears but she
 held on grimly to self control.
 Lets go, she ordered.

 * *

 Its the Hand of God at work! Harry the Hammer
insisted, following awestruck after her. Youve been
 given a second chance! I asked for a sign, and He answered by reaching
down His Hand and bringing you
 back to life! Dont you see? Theres still time for you to repent your
evil ways! God wants you to!
 Oh, shut up ! Dominique yelled, stamping
her foot. It was the same one shed used to kick Glasses, but
 thanks to her recuperative powers, the ankle no longer ached.
 If only the wounds to her soul could be so
easily healed.
 She went to the end of the alley, but there
was no sign of Dracon. He would be long gone by now, with his
 baby gargoyle hostage.
 And here she was, saddled with this idiot
human ...
 Pray with me! he exclaimed, near-overcome
with rapture. He grabbed her arm and tried to drag her to
 her knees.
 Enough! She disarmed him, assessed the gun,
thumbed off the safety, and pointed it at his face.
 Ponderous comprehension crawled across his
features like a lizard navigating a difficult rock. She waited
 for the moment ... ah, there it was! The blossoming realization of
terror.
 So much for your God, she mocked, and pulled
the trigger.
 Missed!
 Less than three feet from him and she missed!
 The explosion was colossal and loud in the
alley, startling flocks of pigeons. A trashcan beside Harry burst
 into flame and overturned.
 In that moment, Harry and Dominique wore the
same stunned and disbelieving expressions. Then, before
 she could fire again, he was bolting through the reeking-charnal burning
sludge, skidding and slipping but never
 quite losing his footing.
 Her second shot was centered squarely on his
back, she could already see his guts spraying out in front of
 him, but at that very instant, a dirty grey cloud dropped between them
and was blown apart in a shower of blood
 and feathers.
 Pigeons.
 Shed slaughtered a bunch of pigeons.
 Harry reached the end of the alley and kept
on going, not looking back once.
 Incredulous and highly pissed, Dominique stared
after him until a foul pall of greasy smoke, stinking of burnt
 garbage and smoldering pigeon-feet, gusted toward her.
 She flung the gun into the mess, not worried
about prints because the ones that Ms. Destine officially had on
 file bore no resemblance to the ones that actually tipped her fingers.
Before someone decided to investigate the
 noise, she retreated into the restaurant and from there made her way
toward home.

 * *

 A warehouse on the waterfront. One-time chop
shop, if Elisa recalled correctly.
 She looked at Tony, a flat and deadly look
that brought a simpering, worried grin to his lips.
 Out, she said, gesturing. You too, Sal.
 The three of them got out of the car and stood
in the warehouses shadow. Now Elisas cop instinct was
 buzzing like crazy, but it was still overpowered by that unstoppable
maternal force.
 Keys, Elisa said to Sal. He glance-checked
with Tony, got the nod, and handed them over.
 Stay cool, Elisa, Tony said. You want the
car? Hell, keep it!
 Youll get your mean machine back, Tony.
Right now, get your goons to bring me my daughter.
 Go on, Sal, he urged. Tell Gino to bring
the kid.
 Elisa waited, tense, gun still pressed to
Tonys side to remind him not to try anything cute. Sal vanished into
 the warehouse and they heard voices from within.
 Aw, come on, dammit! Come down! That would
be Gino Monatella, Elisa knew.
 How the hell did she get up there? Sal demanded.
 She climbed. Like a frigging monkey.
 Well get her down, the boss is waiting.
 Who do I look like, one of the Amazing Wallendas?
Im not going up there!
 Elisa prodded Tony with the gun. Tell them
to quit dicking around. Im running out of patience.
 Hurry it up in there, wouldja? He was perspiring
freely, but there was that old familiar shiftiness in his
 eyes again that Elisa didnt like.
 Hey, kid, look, I got a lolly! Gino tried
desperately.
 Amber! Elisa called, raising her voice.
Amber!
 From within: Zaza? Zaza! followed by a swoop,
a thump, and Sals remark, Nice catch, dickhead, and
 Ginos groan of discomfort.
 A small figure appeared in the doorway, and
Elisa nearly laughed with relief. When Amber saw her, the little
 girl broke into a huge beaming smile and toddled toward her as fast
as she could, arms outstretched and wings
 half-flared behind her.
 Zaza! Zaza!
 Elisa crouched and scooped Amber into her
arms, an embrace never more welcome. Amber clung to her,
 babbling excitedly, presumably telling Zaza all about her busy morning.
 No injuries, not even a scratch. A little
bit dusty and grubby, that was all.
 Tony had edged away, and all of a sudden Elisas
cop instinct came raving up full-force. She shifted Amber
 to one arm and raised her gun.
 Too late, sugar , Tony said, shaking
his head and smirking.
 Six guys popped out from behind dumpsters
and cars, the warehouse door rolled up with a rattling clatter to
 reveal four more, and all of them were armed.
 Tony, you bastard.
 Hey, you got your kid back. Now its time
for business. Lets talk about Pal Joey.
 She looked around for an escape route, but
the goons, led by a gingerly-walking Glasses, closed in and
 ringed her.
 No deal, Tony.
 Youre not in a position to argue, sugar.
No gargoyles around but that little one. And it sure would be a
 shame if she got caught in a crossfire. But, you know, regrettable
things like that happen sometimes.
 Amber had ceased her babbling and was now
tense in Elisas grasp, watching Tony warily.
 So, you see, Tony continued, having flipflopped
back to confidence instead of cowardice now that the
 odds were comfortably stacked in his favor, your only way out of here
is to cooperate. No bottom-of-the-ninth
 miracles to get you out of this one.
 A mechanical, amplified, sardonic chuckle
drifted down to them. Are you sure about that?
 An army of Steel Clan robots descended on
jet-heated downgusts, landing in a larger circle around Dracons
 men. Precise lasers made short work of the machine guns and more conventional
weapons, and in seconds the
 goons were routed and running.
 Dracon himself ran for the Lexus and was actually
behind the wheel when he remembered the keys were in
 Elisas possession. He went all the way across and out the passenger-side
door just as a particularly impressive
 pyrotechnic from the forearm-mounted blaster of a red and black gargoylian
battlesuit turned the car into a heap
 of slag. Tony kept on going, down the dock with his coattails flying,
and didnt slow even when he came to the edge.
 Splash.
 Then silence, but for the low steady hum of
the robots, and the click and whoosh of Xanatos removing his helmet.
 Xatos! Amber cried delightedly, and began
to laugh high and shrill.
 Elisa felt along the collar of her jacket
and pinched off a small lump of metal. Old habits?
 He nodded. Old habits.
 For once, she said, handing it to him, Im
glad.

 * *

 The End.

 1999 Christine Morgan ** vecna@eskimo.com 
** http://www.eskimo.com/~vecna