Babes in the Woods 

Babes in the Woods 

Christine Morgan 

 christine@sabledrake.com 
/ www.christine-morgan.org 

 Authors Note: the characters and world of Harry Potter are the
property of J.K. Rowling and are used here without their creators knowledge 
 or permission. Mature eyes only due to sexual content. April 2004.
7,500 words. 

 Ye girls um ye girls be careful out there, now. Hagrid blushed
a furious red above the tangled black bristles of his beard. 
 Ooh, thats so kind of you to worry about us, Hagrid, said Emily Fanning.
She pursed her lips as if she was about to blow him a kiss, and tossed
a sheaf of honey-blond hair back from her face.
 He had an enormous crate of clay pots balanced on his shoulder, and
in turning to watch them pass, overbalanced and nearly walked into the
side of Professor Sprouts new greenhouse. 
 The round little witch descended on him in a scolding flurry, rather
like a hen. For goodness sake, Hagrid, watch where youre going!
 The three sixth-year Gryffindor girls continued on their way, managing
to keep from bursting into giggles until they were well out of earshot. 
 Emily, that was mean ! Claire Cogsworth gasped. 
 But funny, Lily Evans said. Poor, dear Hagrid.
 I wonder how big his wand is?
 Emily! cried Claire and Lily in unison. 
 Undeterred, eyes twinkling, Emily said, I imagine its a right proper
broomstick.
 Well, youll never know! Claire, who was as tall and reed-slim
as Emily was short and buxom, had gone nearly as red as Hagrid. 
 Whats that to mean? Emily countered. Got your eye on him yourself?
 Certainly not!
 Youve got your eye on someone, that I do know. The way you daydream
in class and in the common room all the time, itll be a wonder if you
pass any of your exams.
 Youre a fine one to talk, said Claire. Lily, tell her!
 Tell her what? That youre madly in love with Sirius Black?
 Oh! The outraged squeal burst from Claire, and she went red all over
again. Ive never said any such thing. Why, its preposterous! The very
idea!
 So its true, Emily said. 
 It is not! Claire rounded on them, brown curls flying around her forehead
and hazel eyes flashing. Hes hes an arrogant self-obsessed vain
 irritating 
 Charming, mysterious added Lily.
 Handsome, sexy put in Emily. 
 Would you both quit! Sirius Black wouldnt look twice at me if I were
the only girl at Hogwarts, and you well know it.
 I think he looks twice or thrice at every girl at Hogwarts, Lily said,
tucking an errant auburn lock behind her ear. Do you know, Professor McGonagall
caught him once hiding in the girls bathroom our third year? He made some
remark about seeing what made Moaning Myrtle moan, and McGonagall put him
in detention for a week.
 He can make me moan anytime, Emily said. Mmmm.
 Stop it! Claire said. I mean it, Lily, Em, I really do.
 You do like him, dont you? Lily asked, peering closely at
her. 
 I never said I did.
 Emily looked at Lily. She does.
 Im not going to be friends with you unless you leave off, Claire
warned.
 Like to see you escape us, Emily said. Were all in the same dormitory.
 Sorry, Claire, Lily said. But why dont you just talk to Sirius?
Hes not so scary, is he?
 Not so scary? Lily, youve got to learn more about the wizarding world.
Here we are near the end of our sixth year, only one year away from graduation,
and youve never heard of the Black family? Claire shivered and rubbed
her hands up and down her bare arms. 
 It was a warm and mild weekend in June, and all three of the girls had
dispensed with their usual school uniforms and robes in favor of summery
clothes. That, as much as anything, may have had to do with Hagrids discomfiture.
Emily in particular had a fondness for very short skirts and very low-cut
sleeveless tops. Professor McGonagall had severely forbade her from wearing
them to class, but couldnt do much about it on the weekends. 
 Id heard he has some positively awful cousins, Lily said. 
 Emily scoffed. Thats not the half of it. What Ive heard is that Sirius
Black is the first one in his family for generations and generations to
 not 
be put in Slytherin. I dont know what the Sorting Hat was thinking. Hes
sneaky enough, and he can be a right bastard.
 Oh, Em, that wont convince her, Claire said. So can James Potter,
and she likes him right enough.
 James Lily trailed off, thought pensively for a moment, then went
on. James cant help being a show-off, I admit, and it is terrible the
way he always bullies Severus Snape, but hes gotten much better about
it ever since I told him off last year.
 To impress you, Claire said. Thats all he cares about.
 Now, when did we switch to talking about James all of a sudden? Lily
demanded. I thought this was about Sirius.
 James, Sirius, Remus, Peter, Emily chanted, flapping her hand. Theyre
always together anyway, though sometimes I honestly cant understand why.
 Claire shot her a narrow look. Theres no accounting for friendship.
 I mean it. Remus Lupin has been sickly and strange ever since he came
to Hogwarts. He has his times of the month worse than we do. Oh, hes
smart and all, and hes kind of cute in a disheveled sort of way, but
I dont know what the others see in him. And as for Peter Pettigrew, what
a nasty little wanker he is!
 Emily! they chorused again. 
 He is! If the Sorting Hat blundered with Sirius, it really botched
the job with Peter. Gryffindors are supposed to be brave, noble, and loyal.
Do you know, I heard that Peter once got a Ravenclaw boy to write a Defense
Against the Dark Arts essay for him? Paid him a Galleon, too.
 They reached the edge of the Forbidden Forest, cool green shadows spilling
from the tall, dense trees across the lush grounds. Lily glanced back at
Hogwarts. The castle rose in towers and turrets, its stone walls shimmering
like a mirage in the heat, its reflection cast perfectly on the surface
of the lake. Here and there on the grass, groups of students sat in the
shade or reclined in the sunlight, many of them either trying or pretending
to study. Off to one side, occasional swift blurs of yellow could be seen
as the Hufflepuff Quidditch team practiced for tomorrows game, the last
of the school year. 
 On impulse, Lilys gaze went to the beech tree where James and his friends
usually relaxed. She spied Remus Lupin, head studiously bent over a thick
book, and near him the pudgy form of Peter Pettigrew, munching on some
treat from last weekends Hogsmeade visit. But no James, and no Sirius. 
 She did, though, see the unmistakable figure of Severus Snape. He had
grown several inches in height this year but hardly gained any weight,
the effect therefore being like that of a scarecrow. His robes he always 
wore robes, as if hoping their voluminous cut would add bulk to his scrawny
body were faded nearly grey, the sleeves too short so that his bony wrists
protruded from the cuffs, the hem reaching only the middle of his pale
shins. Lank black hair fell in long draggles around his sallow, hook-nosed
features. His eyes, deep-set but sharp as those of a hawk, were staring
right back at her. 
 Lily turned quickly away. She hoped that neither of her friends had
noticed, but such was not her luck. 
 Your not-so-secret admirer is watching you again, Claire said. I
think he was about to wave, before you looked away.
 Some admirer. He calls me a Mudblood.
 Say what you want; I think he likes you because youre the only one
who ever stuck up for him. Emily shrugged. God knows why. Hes such a
wretched piece of work. But Saint Lily had to go and intervene on his behalf
one time too many, and now hes smitten.
 I just couldnt stand seeing James and Sirius be so cruel, Lily said.
Their stupid grudge its gone too far, it really has. And theres no
need for it. Severus is harmless.
 Harmless? Claires eyebrows went up. Hes practically given himself
over to the Dark Arts and you know it.
 Lilys lower lip stuck out. Well, I might, too, if I thought everyone
was against me. He has a troubled family life.
 Lah-de-dah, what the Muggles call a social worker, Emily said. 
 You dont know what its like, Lily said. When I got my Hogwarts
letter, someone from the Ministry of Magic had to come out and explain
to my parents what being a witch was all about. They were all right with
it after a while, but my sister never accepted it. She hates the whole
thing. Whenever I go home for holidays, its the same. I think Petunia
would murder me in my sleep if she wasnt also scared to death Id put
a hex on her.
 Maybe you should, Claire suggested. I know a brilliant Flat-Chested
hex.
 Is that how it happened? Emily dropped her gaze very obviously to
Claires scant bosom. Bit of a misfire, love?
 Better a misfire than a backfire! Claire retorted, gesturing at Emilys
canyonesque cleavage. 
 Lily, who was blessed with a nice and shapely figure that didnt go
to one extreme or the other, stayed out of it and let them bicker as they
entered the dusky overhang of the Forbidden Forest. They had special permission
from Professor Kettleburn, the Care of Magical Creatures teacher, to study
the mating rituals of thorn-faeries in their natural habitat. 
 Even with permission, the Forbidden Forest was nothing to joke about,
and Emily and Claire soon grew quieter as the shadows closed around them.
The twittering of birds a sunshine sound was replaced by the stealthy
rustle of unseen things moving in the bushes. 
 Wish wed see a centaur, whispered Emily. 
 Why? Claire looked around as if fearful of that very occurrence. First
Hagrid, now centaurs? Dont tell me youve a thing for horses.
 And I suppose youre wishing wed see a unicorn.
 Personally, said Lily, Ill settle for thorn-faeries.
 They followed a trail that Professor Kettleburn had led them down many
times before. It was different without the teacher leading the way, limping
along because half his foot had been bitten off at the start of the term
by a crococampus, a rare fish-tailed reptile with a long and toothy jaw
and a spiteful temper when its tank was accidentally overturned. The forest
crowded in on them, and the breeze through the leaves sounded uncannily
like the whispering of hundreds of students in the Great Hall, as they
awaited Professor Dumbledores welcoming speech. 
 This is a remarkably foolish thing to say and I know it, Claire murmured,
but do you have the feeling were being watched?
 Lily and Emily nodded. We probably are, Lily said. Maybe by Emilys
centaurs.
 Maybe by something worse, Claire said. Arent there werewolves?
 Thats what they say , Lily said, but --
 Before she could finish, Emily seized her arm and uttered a breathless
cry. There! Oh, Lily! There between those trees!
 Grabbing her wand from the pocket of her shorts, Lily twisted in the
direction that Emilys shaking hand was pointing. Claire rushed close to
them, her eyes huge in the gloom. 
 What, Emily? What did you see? hissed Claire. 
 I dont see anything, Lily said. What was it?
 A a shape, Emily said. A large, shaggy shape. Like a wolf. I saw
the gleam of its eyes.
 Claire bit her lip. You dont suppose 
 What? Lily asked, not taking her gaze from the spot between the trees.
Had she seen something? No only the swaying of boughs in the breeze.
But the breeze wasnt that strong. Had they been disturbed by the passage
of some animal? Or person? Or monster? A Slytherin girl had once told her,
trying to scare her, that there were spiders in the forest as big as horses. 
 Well, in Divination -- Claire said. 
 Oh, God, muttered Lily. Arent there hazards enough in the Forbidden
Forest without make-believe Divination phantoms?
 Its gone now, whatever it was, Emily said, regaining her composure
and seeming a bit abashed at her sudden fear. Lets go.
 A few minutes later, they reached a place where the path sloped down
into a pretty little glen, bordered on two sides by thorn-hedges and on
a third by a rambling brook that chuckled merrily over glistening stones.
The thorn-hedges were in bloom with multitudes of fine white flowers. Among
the flowers were flitting dozens of tiny beings with nut-brown bodies,
dragonfly wings, faceted eyes, and curving hooks like thorns where their
hands and feet should have been. 
 The faeries activity went on unabated as the girls entered the glade.
At the center, the ground was a curved mossy bowl out of which rose large
flattish boulders perfect for sitting upon. The tree canopy was sparse
overhead, with beams of golden sunlight finding their way down through
the deep green to dance upon the rippling water. 
 Lily, Claire and Emily sat down. Claire had brought a bag and now passed
around bottles of iced pumpkin juice and packages of shortbread cookies.
The cookie crumbs proved of great interest to the thorn-faeries, who showed
no fear as they dipped and zoomed with the skill of any Quidditch player
to retrieve the dropped morsels from the moss. Next, Claire took out rolls
of parchment and quills, and the three of them began making notes and sketches. 
 The afternoon became very warm, and despite the patches of shade and
the chilled pumpkin juice, Lily noticed that her friends quills were moving
slower and slower. So was hers. 
 You know what Id like to do? Emily asked. 
 Besides measure Hagrids broomstick? Lily replied.
 Youd get expelled, Claire said without raising her head. And, anyway,
Em hes three times your size. I mean ouch. 
 I wasnt talking about that .
 For once, Lily said in an aside to Claire. All right, Emily, what
would you like to do? Assuming Im not going to be sorry I ever asked.
 Id like to go swimming.
 In the lake? With the giant squid? Claires nose wrinkled. Not even
you are that --
 No! Emilys exasperated shout startled the thorn-faeries, which clicked
their thorns at her in a tsk-tsk motion. It has nothing to do with the
giant squid, or with tentacles what you must think of me, honestly! I
meant here. Theres a lovely pool just downstream a ways.
 But its too hot to walk all the way back to the castle for our swimsuits,
Lily said. Unless you plan to point your wand and say Accio, Bikini. 
 I plan, said Emily, setting aside her quill and standing up, to go
skinny-dipping.
 Claires mouth fell open. A thorn-faerie buzzed past, paused to look
inside, and went on unimpressed. 
 Youre not! Lily cried. 
 Emily pulled her top over her head as she stepped out of her shoes.
Her bra was lace-trimmed and heroically underwired, and while both Claire
and Lily had seen her undressed many times before there was precious
little privacy in a five-girl dormitory they both gaped at her in utter
scandalized shock. 
 You will be expelled! Claire said. If anyone sees you 
 Nobody will. Emily shed her skirt as well, revealing skimpy panties.
Well? What do you say?
 Lily laughed. In the Forbidden Forest? Are you mad?
 So much for brave, daring Gryffindors, Emily snorted. The bra went
next, followed by the panties. Ill be cool and refreshed while you sit
here, sweating and getting prickly heat. Which Im sure boys like James
Potter and Sirius Black will find oh-so-very attractive indeed.
 Not an hour ago you thought we were being watched, and you were jumping
at shadows, Claire said. 
 You thought we were being watched, dear-heart. Emily dipped
her bare toes in the water, balancing on a rock. The sunlight bathed her
blonde hair and creamy skin with gold. 
 It is hot, Lily said. 
 Claire rolled her eyes. You, too?
 Im only saying 
 Emily waded out, sighing. Its lovely, she said as the water reached
her thighs and she scooped up double handfuls of it to pour in rivulets
over her breasts. She arched her neck and poured more on her face. It ran
streaming through her hair and flowed the length of her body. 
 She preened and turned and made such a great show of enjoying herself
that Lily found it utterly impossible to go back to her notes on the thorn-faeries.
She set down her quill and looked at Claire. Claire was looking back at
her. 
 Race you, Lily said. 
 Go! Claire sprang up, fingers flying to the buttons of her blouse. 
 Moments later, their clothes were in untidy piles on the shore. Lily
won the race to the creek by the slimmest of margins Claires panties
had hooked around one ankle and she had to waste a precious half-second
hopping to kick them free. 
 Water splashed up in silvery fountains and cascades as they plunged
into the pool. It was only chest-deep at its deepest part, the bottom sand
and smooth pebbles. Little fish darted around their legs and the current
was a silky caress, exquisite on their skin. 
 They laughed and dashed water at each other, and wrestled all slippery
and wet trying to push each others heads under, and finally each girl
retreated to an edge of the pool and clung to the rocks there, floating
idly with legs outstretched, gazing up at the shifting patches of green
leaves and blue sky above. 
 All right, Claire said. I take it back. An excellent idea, Em. As
long as no one should come along and see us.
 Could you just picture it, said Emily. Imagine if someone did! Lilys
secret admirer could have followed us into the woods. He could be spying
on us even now.
 That isnt very funny, Lily said. She wrinkled her nose. 
 Or Hagrid if he could see this, he might just explode. Emily threw
back her head, soaking her hair this also having the effect of thrusting
up her breasts like two great white islands and giggled. 
 A twig gave a sudden loud snap. 
 Immediately, all three girls hunkered low in the water, so that the
surface lapped at their chins. Lily saw her own wide green eyes mirrored
in Claires hazel ones, and Claires sudden surety that the next thing
they knew, a stern and humorless Professor Kettleburn would emerge into
the clearing. Or, worse, Professor McGonagall, or Dumbledore. 
 The snap was repeated, and with it came the rustle of something large
pushing its way between bushy boughs. 
 Realizing that teachers were the least of their worries in the Forbidden
Forest, Lily threw modesty to the winds and charged out of the pool. Claire
and Emily both squawked her name in astonishment. She raced to the rock
where shed been sitting, grabbed up her wand, and whirled to face the
noise with her red hair flying like a banner around her body. 
 A shape appeared. Large and four-legged.
 Her first thought was that it was a centaur after all. Then she saw
the magnificent branching antlers, and the glossy brown coat, and relaxed. 
 It was a stag. A majestic stag, with keenly intelligent eyes and a proud
carriage. It stepped lightly through the underbrush and into the clearing,
and stood regarding Lily with a complete lack of fear. 
 Ooh, breathed Claire. Isnt he beautiful!
 Lily felt a chill, perhaps caused by the breeze on her wet skin. She
was suddenly extremely conscious of her nudity and saw herself as she must
look in the stags eyes. Naked in the woods, hair wild and unbound, in
a warriors stance with upraised wand, breasts heaving and nipples taut,
beads of water sparkling in the dark red curls of her pubic hair. 
 She lowered the wand. The stag blinked. Its forehoof pawed the ground
lightly. She read indecision in his posture. 
 Its all right, she said in a low, soothing voice. She wasnt sure
whom she was most trying to reassure the stag, her friends, or herself.
Slowly, she extended the hand that wasnt holding the wand. 
 The stag took another step, bringing him fully into the clearing now.
A twelve-point buck at least, his coat sleek with good health. His nostrils
flared as he pushed his velvety nose toward her outstretched hand. 
 Careful, Lil, Emily whispered. She and Claire were still hunched in
the pool, and Claire had her arms folded across her bosom for good measure. 
 Lily petted the stags nose. As if emboldened by this gesture, the stag
trotted right up to her. His coat brushed against her, dusty-warm and softer
than she would have expected. She stroked his head, patted his neck. The
stag pranced in place and tossed his head, blowing air through his lips
in a whickering sound. 
 She felt strangely like Diana, the Roman goddess of the hunt caught
bathing by Actaeon. Except, in that story, Diana had transformed the luckless
Actaeon into a stag and whistled up her hounds to tear him to pieces. This
was well, rather different. For one, she didnt have any hounds 
 Lily! Claire squealed in warning. Look out for the dog, look out!
 And, sure enough, when Lily turned she saw the head and shoulders of
a huge black dog through the trees. It was truly a massive beast, with
eyes that threw back the light in an eerie glow. The dog fixed its gaze
on the stag and made a guttural woof. 
 Acting without thought, Lily put her arms around the stags neck. She
wasnt certain whether she was doing this to protect the stag, or protect
herself. The stag bumped its side against her. He seemed unconcerned, and
returned the dogs gaze in a sort of lazy challenge. 
 Emily suddenly reared up in the water, flinging spray in all directions.
She held a sizeable creek-stone in each hand. The movement drew the dogs
attention and it froze. Its eyes seemed to widen as it saw Emily there,
waist deep in the pool, all long blond hair and big bare breasts, like
a mermaid. 
 Get! she called fiercely. You, dog, get away! She made a throwing
motion, which caused everything to bounce. 
 The dog grinned, tongue lolling. 
 Quick, Lily, Claire cried. The dogs gaze shifted, sweeping hungrily
over her trim, leggy figure as she scrambled onto dry land. Do something!
 What Lily did, she did without conscious thought. Still hugging the
stag around the neck, she swung astride his back. It was easier and far
more comfortable than mounting a broomstick, though the sensation of that
short, soft fur rubbing against her inner thighs and other intimate areas
brought a tingle sweeping through her. 
 At once, the stag sprang away. Muscles flexed in smooth power beneath
the stags hide. Lily clung to his neck, ducking her head as the antlers
dipped to avoid being entangled in low-hanging boughs. 
 They raced through the woods, and she felt more like wild Diana than
ever. Her knees hugged the stags sides, her breasts pushed against the
back of his neck. It was exhilarating; she voiced an excited, delighted
shriek as the stag gathered his haunches and propelled his body in a mighty
leap that carried them sailing over a fallen log. 
 From behind, from the thorn-glade, she heard Claire and Emily but could
not make out their words for the loud and strident barking of a dog. 
 The stag plunged onward, the rhythm of his stride causing Lily to rock
on his back in a most disconcerting way. Thoughts of school, professors,
rules, detention, House points and exams fled further from her mind with
each pace. Thoughts of her parents, her spiteful sister, and the entire
Muggle world were even further from her mind. 
 Finally, when they had gone an indeterminate distance in an unknown
direction from the glade, the stag slowed to a halt. Lily stayed where
she was for a moment, arms still around his neck, before she slid down
from her perch. 
 Her hair was in tangles, and she was breathless from the thrill of the
ride. Impulsively, she embraced the stag and kissed him square on the soft
black skin of his nose. 
 The stag nuzzled her, starting with her face and then under her chin,
down her neck. He exhaled a puff of warm air over her breasts. Lily trembled.
She caught his head in her hands, drew back long enough to study his deep,
expressive eyes, and then smiled. 
 He cocked his head curiously and butted his nose against her cheek. 
 You are such a handsome animal, she murmured, setting aside her wand. 
 His ears flicked. 
 She caressed his neck, then took a deep breath and tipped her head back,
and guided the stags head to her breasts. He jumped, cloven hooves stuttering
a tattoo on the forest floor, but recovered almost at once. 
 As a little girl on family holidays, she had sometimes held kernels
of corn in the palm of her hand to feed to tame deer. She remembered the
supple, flexible feel of their mouths as theyd accepted the offering.
Here and now, with this stag and this offering, the feeling was familiar
but magnified a thousandfold as he teased her nipples. It tickled in the
most wonderful way, and she made a sound somewhere between a giggle and
a sigh.
 The stag pranced back from her, flinging his head around in extreme
agitation. It took but a single look for Lily to divine the reason. His
arousal was most prominently evident, and when the stag noticed her noticing
 it ,
his eyes took on an expression of very human embarrassment. 
 Lilys lips twitched into a smile, which she hid with her hand. Perhaps
it was the forest, and this unaccustomed freedom from the often-stifling
rules of Hogwarts, but she had never felt more wicked and wanton in all
her life. 
 She moved closer, stroking the stags flank. He quivered at her touch
and tried to edge nervously away, but shed backed him against the gnarled
bole of an ancient tree and there was nowhere for him to go. 
 He had grown rather alarmed as well as aroused. The quivering continued
as if a current ran through him. He puffed a snort from his nostrils and
his eyes rolled like those of a horse frightened by a thunderstorm. 
 Easy, boy, said Lily, and leaned against him. The slightly rough but
slightly silky texture of his coat on her nipples was maddening. 
 Her hand slid over his flank, then down the muscular leg. The quiver
turned to a shudder, cloven hooves once more prancing in place. He craned
his neck back to stare at her with shock. 
 Shh, she breathed. Shh, now theres a good boy 
 She slipped her hand under him and found the slick and glistening length
that had protruded so stiffly from its usual concealment. As her fingers
curled around it, the stag jerked as if shot. His head flung back with
such violence that his antlers struck the bole of the tree. 
 Lily gripped him gently but firmly, running her thumb in a slow exploration
of his shape, applying an experimental squeeze that made the stags legs
suddenly unhinge. He braced himself against the tree, eyes rolling with
renewed fervor. 
 Leaning close to his ear, she whispered, Thats about as far as Ill
go with a stag, James Potter.
 Again, with a galvanic jerk, the stag jumped. His rolling eyes fixed
on her with a panicked look of discovery and guilt. 
 She released him and stood back, arms crossed beneath her breasts, head
tipped to the side, knowing grin on her lips. Honestly, how dumb do you
think I am?
 The stag made a very good approximation of an innocent shrug. 
 All of those pointed questions to Professor McGonagall about Animagi,
Lily said. That in itself might not have tipped me to it, but then there
were all those books you brought back to the common room, and that time
you got in trouble for snooping in the Restricted Section.
 He still tried to look innocent. 
 How many nights did I look out the window of my dormitory and couldnt
help seeing a stag racing across the grounds? The same stag, and the next
morning there youd be, half asleep in your breakfast porridge, hardly
able to keep your eyes open in class.
 A scoff of snorting breath. 
 Well, if thats the way you want to play it, she said nonchalantly.
She turned away, standing hipshot with her back to him, gazing over her
shoulder through a veil of auburn hair. She pressed the tip of her tongue
to her upper lip. Who knows what I might have done if youd trusted me
enough to share your secret. Who knows what I might have let you do.
 His eyes bulged and a nervous noise almost like a whinny came from his
throat. 
 Lily heaved a heavy sigh. But, oh well, since you dont trust me, I
should go. I left Emily and Claire at the creek, and they must be wondering
where I am.
 She faced forward and began ambling slowly, with much swaying of the
hips, off into the woods. Behind her, she heard a hasty scrambling noise,
a cough, and then a voice. 
 Lily --
 Turning, she saw that the stag was gone. In his place she beheld a disheveled
James Potter rising from his hands and knees. His black hair was more mussed
than ever, and hectic pink patches blazed on his cheeks. In deference to
the summer weather, he wore only satiny gym shorts. 
 Plenty of other boys in their year were taller, or stronger, but Lily
couldnt help admiring the lean muscles of James bare chest, arms, and
legs. Countless hours of Quidditch practice had honed him into a wiry but
eye-pleasingly athletic physique. 
 Too, the gym shorts clung and outlined his erection in very revealing
detail. 
 The two of them spent a timeless moment staring at each other. His hazel
eyes almost glowed as his gaze roved her body, lingering in the places
she expected it would before returning in speechless amazement to her face. 
 Hello, James, she said. 
 He tried to speak, growled more like a bear than a stag, cleared his
throat, and finally managed, Hi, Lily.
 So, she said. What was that all about? You followed us?
 His hands, normally so swift and sure when catching the tiny fluttering
Golden Snitch, fumbled around awkwardly, as if he could not decide whether
to cover himself, smooth his hair, or what. 
 Yeah, he admitted. Saw you um going into the forest.
 Lily set her hands on her hips and thrust her chest at him. Got an
eyeful, did you?
 More than we hoped! James blurted, and those pink patches burned like
roses set aflame. 
 We? She forgot her bold and taunting tone. Whos whos we ?
 He blinked at her. Um 
 It crashed over her in a wave of understanding. Sirius Black! That
dog was Sirius Black! I should have known.
 James nodded. His feet shuffled in the fall of leaves that covered the
floor, much as the stags hooves had done. 
 Lily thought of Emily and Claire, back at the glade with the dog, but
set it purposefully out of her mind. 
 You spied on us, she said, recapturing her earlier tone. Did you
like what you saw?
 Again, he nodded. 
 And me riding you? she asked. Naked on your back, holding tight with
my thighs?
 God, Lily! James said in a strangled voice. 
 She touched the tips of her breasts. And these, James?
 He had to scrub a hand over his mouth and chin. His throat worked as
he swallowed, and still, all he could do was nod. 
 And She let her gaze drop, most deliberately, to the jutting front
of his gym shorts.
 I swear, Lily, he stammered. I never never thought that I sorry
 um 
 Would you have done it to me? she asked. 
 He goggled at her. 
 If Id let you, I mean. If Id sort of gotten down on all fours and

 You wouldnt have, James said, and uttered a wild, shaky laugh. I
mean, a stag ?
 But I knew it was you.
 Still, really 
 Didnt you want to?
 How can you even ask? He held a forearm against the front of his shorts.
Course I did! Rather bloody obvious, isnt it?
 Now, thats not very fair, she said. After all, I havent so much
as a stitch on.
 Youre joking. If I took these off, youd youd fling them up a
tree or something.
 Would I?
 What are you about, Lily? James asked. I should say that if this
is your idea of teasing a bloke, youre the cruelest girl on the face of
the earth.
 I thought you liked me, James.
 Love you, dont I? he cried in abrupt anguish. Loved you since our
first year. Thought to myself the very minute I saw you in Ollivanders,
in Diagon Alley, that you were the prettiest girl Id ever seen. Then,
when we were both sorted into Gryffindor, I thought Id do anything to
get your attention. Thats why I went out for Quidditch, isnt it?
 You love me? gasped Lily. 
 Except then I went and made an arse of myself, he said. All that
stuff with Snape and everything. All right, I despise the slimy little
bugger, but most of it was because I thought itd impress you. I was wrong.
It made you look at me like I was dirt, and I hated that. Im sorry, Lily.
 You love me, she said, thoughtfully, almost to herself. 
 Yeah, I do, he said. He sounded like someone confessing to a horrible
crime. Youre the only girl Ive ever been interested in.
 Oh, James! She rushed to him, and he actually recoiled like he was
expecting her to strike him. She flung her arms around him instead, and
kissed him before he could recover from the surprise. 
 Her breasts were pleasantly flattened against his bare chest, and something
that felt very much indeed like the end of a broomstick pushed at her stomach.
James, pinned against the tree, was stock-still for a moment in absolute
astonishment, but then his arms went around her and the kiss turned into
a hot, hungry matter of greedy lips and probing tongues. 
 Somehow either his knees unhinged again or the two of them succumbed
to some unspoken agreement they slid down the tree and squirmed on the
ground until their bodies fit into an earthy cradle formed by two hunching
roots. Leaves crackled under them as they lay on their sides, facing each
other, and Lily found that her hand had gotten caught under the waistband
of James shorts. His hands, meanwhile, were busy with one cupping a breast
and the other gripping her buttocks to hold her more firmly against him. 
 She yanked at the shorts. In a frenzy of kicking and thrashing, while
miraculously managing without removing either of his hands from her anatomy,
James freed himself from the shorts. Now, when he rolled against her again,
the rigid length pressing her belly was velvety-warm skin. She worked her
hand between their bodies and took hold of him. 
 Lily, oh, Lily, he groaned against her neck. 
 Then, with a cry of abandon, he bent his head to her breasts and did
what he had done as a stag, only far more effectively. He licked and suckled
until she could hardly breathe from the sheer pleasure of it. 
 Lily moved her hand up and down, and James rocked his hips in time with
the motion in eager, helpless thrusts. He was far bigger in this form than
hed been as a stag, and Lilly suffered a momentary twinge of unease. 
 His fingers brushed the downy hair between her thighs. There, he hesitated,
so Lily threw her unease to the winds and seized his wrist. She guided
him. When he found the right spot, her back arched and she called his name.
 Wait, he panted. Lily, slow down, or Im going to its too soon.
I dont want to yet. Not yet. I want to want you to be first.
 He removed her hand from his erection, and before she fully knew what
he was doing, had shifted around so that his head was between her legs.
He kissed her inner thighs, first one and then the other and then again,
moving steadily upward, while Lily writhed and made small, wordless whimpers.
Then, just when the anticipation was such that she was sure shed scream,
or burst into flame, he reached the center and kissed her there, and his
tongue delved warm and slippery into her. 
 Lily did scream, but in ecstasy rather than impatience. She muffled
it by biting her forearm. Her other hand clawed as a fist into James unruly
hair. 
 He applied himself with the singular concentration he brought to the
Quidditch field, and perhaps this thought ran crazily through her turbulent
mind his talent as a Seeker proved itself in letting him find other delicate
and elusive objects as well as the Golden Snitch. 
 And then it happened, a thrilling explosion of release that shook her
from head to tightly-curled toes. She had experienced climaxes before,
solitary in her bed, but those had been nothing like this and when the
shudders finally passed, she fell back weak and wrung out on the bed of
earth. 
 James rose up from her with an awed expression, as if he was not sure
what to make of such a violent passion. And, too, there was more than a
little of the familiar James Potter swagger in his eyes, pride at what
hed accomplished. 
 She reached for him, drew him to her and gave him a fervent kiss. James
 that was 
 So, is it safe to hope that you might like me, too? he asked. At
least a little?
 I love you, you idiot, Lily said, trying to laugh while still shaking
and feeling like showers of sparks were bursting all along her nerve endings.
Ive loved you for years, even when you were being a brat.
 He rained sweet kisses over her face. She felt the prod of his erection
on her leg, and reached down once more to grasp it. 
 Me first, you said, she whispered. Now you?
 You dont have to, he said with what had to be painful chivalry. Unless
you want --
 Oh, I want, she said, rubbing. Though you might think me terrible

 What?
 I want it inside me.
 Lily?!
 Please, James.
 But I we I didnt think wed mmph!
 She covered his mouth with hers, silencing him, and pulled him down
atop her. He made some ineffectual noises of protest. They ended quickly
when her knees came up to hug his sides. Lily felt that lovely stiffness
against her, the tip of it nudging. 
 He sank in an inch and Lily caught her breath. 
 Did I hurt you? Lily, I dont want to hurt you.
 You wont, she said. Just slowly, James. Slowly.
 Another inch, and then another, easing in and causing a brief discomfort
swiftly lost in a marvelous sensation of fullness. James, poised above
her, had his brow furrowed and his eyes tightly shut. 
 Slowly, yes and deeper and there was none of the pain that Lily
had expected. Just that brief discomfort, already almost forgotten as he
was buried all the way inside her and their bodies were locked together
there at the base of the tree. 
 He opened his eyes and they were swimming with rapturous amazement as
he looked adoringly down at her. He mouthed her name. Then, with equal
and achingly tormenting slowness, he withdrew and drove deep again. 
 Oh, my God, James Lily clutched his shoulders. 
 I dont know he said through gritted teeth as he rocked, long
and steady, how much longer I can go slowly.
 Then ooh! go however oh, yes! however you like 
 James immediately quickened his pace, and the rapid urgency of his thrusts
almost did hurt, but by then Lily was heedless of any pain. Heedless
of anything but the tremendous building bliss of a second climax, and of
his face over hers, contorted with passion. 
 All at once he wailed and drove against her, drove into her, more forcefully
than ever. He buried his face in the hollow of her neck and shoulder, his
entire body taut as a wire and shuddering. Lily raised her voice with his,
aware that there were words in her cry but barely conscious of what they
were. 
 He sagged onto her, breath coming in uneven gulps. She hugged him, urging
him to collapse altogether and crush her into the ground with his full
weight. 
 Lily, he said. Lily, Lily.
 Gradually, as the tremors that wracked their bodies subsided, other
sensations intruded. They were both wringing with sweat, covered with dirt
and twigs and fragments of fallen leaves, and sticky in unmentionable places. 
 With a final kiss, they disengaged. Lily found when she stood up that
her legs wouldnt stop trembling, and she felt sore, a little bit ashamed
of herself, and at the same time better than she ever had in her entire
life. A glance at James told her that he felt much the same way. 
 Does this um does this mean that now youll go out with me sometime?
he asked. 
 Lily smiled. As long as youre on your best behavior.
 Promise.
 She retrieved her wand, and he retrieved his shorts. By now, the sun
had gone behind the mountains that ringed the Hogwarts grounds, and the
forest was all cool purple and dark shadow. 
 Wed better get back to the castle, James said. It must be almost
time for dinner.
 Lily gave him a peck on the cheek, and when he got an aw-shucks look,
followed it with a pinch to his bottom that made him jump. He grinned at
her. 
 All right, Evans? he said with a hint of the cockier James Potter
of years gone by. 
 All right, Potter, she replied. 
 They parted ways, him melting away into the woods while Lily retraced
the path the stag had taken. She reached the thorn-hedge glade and winced,
wondering what she would say to Professor Kettleburn about the interrupted
quality of her homework. 
 Her clothes were there, and to her surprise, so was Claire, sitting
on a flat stone with a slightly dazed expression and a small, vague smile.
 Before Claire could get a good look at her, Lily jumped straight into
the pond. The water was considerably colder now, and she broke out in goose
bumps as she washed off all the evidence of her encounter. The splash startled
Claire, who whirled. 
 Lily! You gave me such a fright!
 What are you still doing here? Lily asked. And wheres Emily?
 Claire dropped her gaze. I I was waiting for you. Yes. Thats what
I was doing.
 Claire?
 And Emily said she was going back to the castle.
 Lily frowned and eyed her friend suspiciously. Youve been waiting
here.
 Mm-hmm. Claire nodded. 
 What about the dog?
 Claire turned a sudden, vivid shade of red. Well, what about the stag?
she shot back in a shrill, panicky voice. Huh? What about that, Lily?
 You didnt ! cried Lily. Claire! You and Sirius Black!
 Dont be absurd --
 Me and James Potter, confided Lily in a sly tone, and winked. 
 Really? Claire seemed overwhelmingly relieved. Im so glad that you
know. But he made me swear not to tell. What they did, becoming Animagi
without telling the Ministry or the teachers or anyone --
 I dont care about that, Lily said, pulling on her clothes. Tell
me what happened!
 You rode off on the stag, and and Emily grabbed up her clothes and
ran for it, but the dog up close, he didnt look so fierce and I petted
him, but then, Lily, he started licking me. All over. I was scared, but
when I tried to leave, he snarled, so I didnt dare move. I started to
cry. That was when well, he transformed. And it was Sirius Black. He
kissed me. In fact, but you mustnt tell, Lily, you mustnt, or I wont
be your friend any more, we 
 She couldnt say it, only waved at a spot on the ground that looked
particularly matted down. 
 I wont tell, if you wont tell about me and James. We did, too.
 They gathered their discarded quills and parchment, and headed for the
edge of the forest. On the way, they shared the details, giggling and clinging
to each other in paroxysm of secretive glee. 
 As they crossed the long, sloping lawn toward the welcoming lights of
the castle, seeing the windows of the Great Hall all ablaze and knowing
that they were surely late for dinner, they saw someone else walking slowly
up toward the stone steps. 
 Emily? called Lily. Is that you?
 She turned toward them. Her face was set in a very contented smile and
her eyes were half-lidded, smoky. Shed drawn her blonde hair down around
her neck, but it ill-concealed an enormous red mark. 
 Is that a hickey? Claire was scandalized. Where have you been?
 Oh, said Emily dreamily, just at Hagrids cabin 
 **
 The End 

 April 2004 Christine Morgan ** christine@sabledrake.com 
** http://www.christine-morgan.net