birthday 

Harry's Birthday Party 

by Christine Morgan 

 Author's Note: Pandathaway was borrowed from "Guardians of the Flame."
The House of Infinite Dreams comes from one of the CityBooks by Flying
Buffalo.

 "Come on, Harry. Dinna be
such a lubber." Howie grabbed his arm and pulled him through the
 door. "'Tis yer birthday, after all, an' I'm meanin' to see ye have
a good time."
 Harold Ethelbald III
stumbled into the foyer of the House of Infinite Dreams. He and Howie had
 walked past the place hundreds of times, whistling at the half-dressed
women that leaned from the
 balconies and called out to the passers-by, and they'd often talked
about going in, but they never had.
 Until now.
 It was his fifteenth
birthday, and in the best teenage tradition, he had already had far more
wine that
 was good for him. It was mostly Howie's influence. Though a few months
younger, Howie was much
 more experienced in the ways of the adult world, or at least so he
boasted. According to Howie, he'd had
 his first woman almost two years ago, and he'ds been drinking since
he was tall enough to reach the bar.
 In many ways, the
boys were a lot alike. They were both attractive, with dark hair and grey
eyes,
 but Harry was tall and slim, with the wiry build of a fencer, while
Howie was already broad-shouldered
 with muscular arms that made the girls in their classes sigh. Not that
the girls had much of a chance to
 sigh over either of them. One of the other things they shared was a
dislike for the strict Academy, and a
 tendency to skip classes whenever possible. They both enjoyed drinking,
though Harry favored ruby wine
 and Howie had developed a taste for rum. And they both greatly appreciated
pretty girls.
 The House of Infinite
Dreams was certainly filled with those. The wide, velvet-carpeted foyer
was
 open to the second floor, with a long curving staircase and lots of
low, plush sofas. Women of all
 descriptions lounged about, chatting with well-dressed gentlemen, giggling,
artfully showing a bit of
 cleavage here, a glimpse of thigh there.
 "Howie, are you out
of your rum-soaked mind? We can't afford this place!" Harry tugged at his
 jacket and ran a hand through his hair. One unruly lock insisted on
tumbling over his forehead. His
 mother told him it was charming, but Vishina told him it made him look
like a sleazy dockside gambler.
 "Were ye not listnin'?
I said 'tis yer birthday, an' I'm buyin'. 'Tis an embarrasment to have
me best
 friend bein' a virgin." This last was delivered in a loud whisper that
caught the attention of a nearby
 wench. She turned and eyed Harry with a slow, speculative look that
made his knees weak.
 "Howie, shut up!"
He dropped his voice. "Besides, who said I was?"
 Howie threw back his
head and roared with laughter. The magical lamplight glinted on the gold
hoop
 he wore through his ear.
 Harry gave up. Howie
would never believe the story of what had happened on his last birthday.
He
 barely believed it himself. The problem with some things was that they
sounded like lies, even when they
 were true. Of course, some people, like Diana, would think he was lying
if he said the sky was blue.
 Howie would laugh his head off if Harry tried to tell him how Elspeth,
the upstairs maid, had sneaked
 into his bed last year and taught him about men and women.
 "Now then, lad, see
anythin' ye like? I've enough gold in me pocket to buy ye the best time
ye've
 ever had."
 He started to ask
where Howie had gotten the money, but shrugged. The wine and the proximity
of
 the women were making his head spin. He looked around the room.
 One of the women reminded
him of Vishina with her tawny hair and long dancer's legs. He
 considered her, but cast the idea aside. Vishina was more or less a
friend, but she was also a bitch and a
 tease. He didn't want to be reminded of her tonight. He spotted a new
girl drifting down the stairs, and
 his eyes widened. She was stunning. Her hair was the exact color of
a fox's pelt, cascading in smooth
 waves to her gently rolling hips. Her skin was fair, creamy, almost
translucent. Her full, pouty lips were
 enough to drive a man mad. She wore a clinging gown of black silk,
cut very low in the front and slit
 high on the side. As she came down the stairs, he saw most of a stocking-clad
leg and a flash of
 something that might be a garter.
 He tried to swallow,
because his throat felt suddenly tight. Howie followed his gaze and whistled
 appreciatively.
 "Well now, lad, there
be a fine present, just waitin' to be unwrapped." He signaled a striking
older
 woman in a burgundy velvet gown. "Me friend here would like to be spendin'
the night with yonder lass.
 'Tis his birthday."
 The woman smiled at
him and beckoned the redhead. Many of the men in the room, even those
 already engaged, paused to watch the fascinating motion of her walk.
 "Andrea, this young
man would like to celebrate his birthday with you," she said.
 Harry stared as she
approached. Her eyes were an unusual coppery shade, twinkling with merriment.
 She walked right up to him and slid her arm through his, pressing her
hip against him. She smelled of
 lilies.
 "Shall we go upstairs?"
she purred.
 Howie laughed again.
"Be off with ye, lad. Methinks I'll be findin' some amusement meself."
 Harry tore his eyes
away from the woman, though it was difficult. With his height advantage,
he
 could see a good deal of cleavage. Howie already had his arm around
a bouncy blond wench, and was
 even squeezing one of her abundant breasts.
 Shaking his head,
he let Andrea lead him upstairs.
 "Have you been with
a woman before?" she asked, letting her leg rub against him as they walked.
 "Um, yes," he said.
"Several times."
 She glanced sidelong
at him and curved those pouty lips into a smile. "A woman like me?"
 "Hell, no," he said,
then laughed. "I've never even seen a woman like you."
 "I hope you like me,"
she said, opening a door and motioning him through.
 "I'm sure I will."
 The room was tastefully
furnished in shades of rust and beige, with a large round bed piled with
 cushions. The light in the room seemed to find its way to Andrea, not
merely falling on her as it did
 Harry, but loving her, caressing her. He was so entranced by the play
of candlelight on her hair that he
 almost didn't notice when she undid her gown and let it fall free.
As soon as he did notice, he found
 himself struck dumb. Speech, his best weapon, his very life, deserted
him as he stared at her high, proud
 breasts barely held in place by a lacy black brasseire. Silky, lace-trimmed
panties clung to her hips. A
 garter belt cinched around her waist and fastened to the sheer stockings.
Her high heels gave her legs
 extra definition.
 He realized he was
staring openly at her exposed body, and forced his eyes back to her face,
 blushing guiltily. She laughed, not in a mocking way but in a pleased
way, and stepped closer.
 "You're supposed to
look at me," she said warmly. "That's why we're here."
 "I'm sorry," he said.
 "Don't be. Look all
you want." She turned, arms behind her head, displaying herself.
 He looked, letting
his eyes slide over her curves. Desire thundered through his veins. He
was dimly
 aware that he was hard as a rock, constricted a bit in his snug trousers.
 Andrea moved closer
to him. "You can do more than look," she breathed, lifting one of his hands
 and putting it on her breast.
 Like a man released
from a spell, he brought his other hand up and caressed her firm flesh.
He
 squeezed her breasts together, threatening to overspill the fabric.
She sighed and hooked her leg around
 his. Her hand slipped between their bodies and rubbed him through his
pants. He almost lost control right
 then, but he remembered what Elspeth had taught him and forced himself
to think about other things.
 "Mmm, and you're only
fifteen?" she said, her hand moving slowly, urgently.
 He answered by kissing
her. Her mouth opened and her tongue danced against his. He pulled her
 close, hands finding her sweet ass and holding her against him. She
moaned and ground her hips, still
 rubbing.
 "Why don't we get
you out of some of these things?" she murmured, taking her hand away from
his
 groin and pushing his jacket from his shoulders.
 He almost screamed
when she stopped touching him, but fought for control. As she unbuttoned
his
 shirt, he tried to figure out the brassiere. Unable to find the catch,
he finally gave up and slid the straps
 down, freeing her breasts. She sighed delightedly as he bent to capture
a large pink nipple in his mouth.
 Grabbing the back of his head, she pushed herself against him, nearly
smothering him. He loved it,
 feasting greedily on her ripe flesh. He somehow shrugged out of his
shirt without letting go of her. She
 tossed her head, her russet hair brushing against his bare back.
 He started to fumble
with his trousers, but she stopped him.
 "Let me," she said.
 He stood back, watching
in amazed lust as she knelt at his feet. Her breasts jiggled as she moved.
 She swiftly undid her brassiere and flung it to the side, then reached
for his belt. Gazing up at him, she
 slowly slid it free of the loops and threw it on the growing pile of
discarded clothing. She leaned in, still
 not taking her eyes from his, and gently rubbed her cheek against the
bulge in his pants. She nipped
 lightly, then cupped her mouth over the bulge and blew. Warm air filtered
through the material,
 surrounding him, heating him up. He moaned.
 "Sit down so I can
take off your boots," she said. He went unsteadily to the side of the bed
and sat,
 still watching her as she crawled across the floor, breasts swaying,
hair trailing on the carpet. Her
 movements were sinuous, catlike. She growled softly, a predator's gleam
in her eyes.
 She removed his boots
with agonizing slowness. He was more than ready to rip off his remaining
 clothes and throw her back on the bed. She motioned for him to stand
again.
 "Do you like me?"
she asked.
 He nodded. "Of course."
 She leaned in and
kissed his belly, flicking her tongue. She bit the edge of his pants and
made the
 mock-growl sound again. He reached down and touched her hair, twining
his fingers in it. She
 unbuttoned his pants and slid them down. He stepped out of them awkwardly
and she threw them on the
 pile as well.
 He started to say
something as she engulfed him in her warm mouth. Whatever he was going
to say
 came out in a long "Ahhh". Her head bobbed back and forth, her tongue
circling the entire length of his
 shaft, her full, pouty lips closed around him. His hips rocked and
his hands clutched uselessly at the air.
 Andrea gripped him in one small hand, moving up and down, as she looked
up at him. Seeing that he
 was watching, she deliberately licked her lips and bent her head to
her task again., She kept ahold of his
 shaft, massaging, as her lips and tongue concentrated on the tip. The
warmth, the suction, was
 maddening. He gasped and closed his eyes, enjoying the sensations that
coursed through him. He'd have
 to remember to thank Howie for this.
 She raised her head
again, hand still moving, and asked, "What do you want?"
 "I want you," he said,
reaching for her.
 She stood and shrieked
in surprise as he swept her up and dumped her on the bed. He undid her
 garter belt, finding the clasp as if by magic, and peeled off her panties.
He left her stockings on as he
 buried his face in the soft nest of russet hair between her thighs.
His tongue found her moist and ready.
 "Dorian!" she cried,
locking her legs around his neck. Silk whispered against his skin. He used
 every trick Elspeth had taught him, licking and nuzzling her, alternating
firm, broad strokes with light
 flickering touches to her pleasure button. Her high heels drummed on
his back. He slid his hands under
 her buttocks and raised her, tasting her sweet juices. She cried out
again as her body shook.
 Immediately, he rose
over her, holding her legs over his shoulders, and entered her. He thrust
 quickly and forcefully, extending her moment of pleasure, until she
was thrashing beneath him. Only
 then did he stop and shower her face and neck with kisses before starting
to move again. Andrea moaned,
 fingernails digging at his back. He heard himself moaning along with
her, rushing toward completion.
 She grabbed his shoulders
and pulled him down, crushing her. He muffled their cries by covering her
 mouth with his own. Her breasts pushed against his chest. He drove
into her again and again, harder and
 harder, until he could hold back no longer. His back arched as
he emptied himself into her.
 He lay atop her until
their breathing returned to something approaching normal. Her hair was
spread
 out across the bed, her head turned to the side, eyes closed. He kissed
her cheek, blew in her ear. She
 smiled and turned her head toward him.
 "Happy birthday,"
she whispered.
 "The night's not over
yet," he replied.

 * * *
 The End

 Copyright 1992 by Christine Morgan