Blood of the Jedi 

Blood of the Jedi 

 by Christine Morgan 
 ( vecna@eskimo.com ) 

 Authors
Note: the Star Wars universe and the characters from it are the property
of Lucasfilm Ltd. and are used here without their creators knowledge or
permission. All other characters belong to the author. 

 Mature
readers only, please, due to violence and sexual content. 

 This
is a sequel to
 "Night
Saber." 

 They
came at him in clicking, clattering swarms. 

 Prancing
and scuttling on insectile legs. 

 He
sheared through their chitinous-metallic carapaces, sparks flying, the
light saber thrumming in his hands. Yet as fast as he cut them down, more
enforcer droids surged forth to take the places of the fallen. Energy pulse-darts
stung his body, numbing him, slowing his reactions. 

 Desperate
now, he pushed out with the Force but barely budged the nearest droid.
Another reared up behind him. He sensed it, spun, slashed. It collapsed
in a jittering, smoking heap. 

 His
surge of triumph was short-lived as sharp pincers fastened onto him, yanked
him backward into a dark and confining shell. No amount of kicking and
struggling could persuade it to open. 

 "I
think thats enough for now," he heard his masters voice say. 

 The
enforcer froze, then slowly opened. He tumbled out onto the bare earth
and stood, brushing dust from his clothes. 

 "Vell,
Master?" 

 "Disappointing,"
Darth Sidious said, turning away and tucking his hands into the wide sleeves
of his flowing robe. 

 "Ohh,
thees ees very wasteful," Nali Dhorr said. The green-skinned sub-viceroy
of the now-defunct Trade Federation scowled as she surveyed the field of
broken droids. "Very, very wasteful." 

 "What
would you have me do with them?" the Sith Lord asked irritably. "Its this
or construction work, and frankly, I dont trust them for construction
work either." 

 "Disappointink,
Master?" He hurried over to them, smoothing back the strands of wiry white
hair that had escaped from his waist-length ponytail. "How might I improve?" 

 "They
are war droids!" Nali protested. "Designed for battle!" 

 "At
which they proved miserable. They failed me on Naboo, theyve failed me
in every effort since then. Why, the entire Galaxy knows that to stop the
droid army, all you must do is destroy their central command center. Until
you devise a better way of controlling them, Dama Dhorr, they are useless
to me." 

 "We
can bettah conceal de command center --" 

 "That
is what you said on Gethtooine," he snapped. "And still, the Jedi found
it. No. I will not base my strategies on machines any longer. Living soldiers
cannot be all put out of commission at once by a single well-placed laser
burst." 

 "Master?" 

 "What
 is 
it?" He turned and peered at his apprentice from the shadows cast by his
cowl. 

 "Please,
I vish to be vorthy!" 

 Sidious
sighed. "Dama Dhorr, if youll excuse us?" 

 She
huffed haughtily and left, followed by her droid guards. 

 The
apprentice knelt before his master. "How may I serve you better?" 

 He
felt the touch of a hand on his bowed head. "Darth Tepes, I cannot find
fault with your dedication and enthusiasm." 

 "Yet
I fail you, Master ... vy? Vat can I do?" 

 "I
fear the Force is not sufficiently strong in you. The training demands
more of you than you can give. Unfortunately, you were the best candidate
at the time." 

 "At
the time?" he echoed in consternation. "You cannot mean to ... replace
me?" 

 "If
a suitable replacement can be found, I may have to. As a matter of fact,
I do have my eye on one young fellow ... headstrong and stubborn, but I
sense that he might be corruptible." 

 "But
Master! I haff served you faithfully --" 

 "Yes,
Tepes, I know. I do appreciate it. But you must understand my position.
I am working to overthrow a galactic republic. The Jedi seek to undermine
my every move. I cannot let myself be burdened with less-powerful allies
out of sentimentality." 

 "Let
me prove myself to you!" 

 "I
have no doubts regarding the sincerity of your devotion. You are a diligent
pupil, but the fact remains -- the Force is not strong enough in you to
allow you to progress further in your training." 

 A
crestfallen moan escaped him. 

 "Tepes,
Tepes. I wouldnt dismiss you from my service entirely. You are dedicated
and have a knack for torture that is unrivaled. Im certain I will not
lack projects for you." 

 "Master,
please! Another chance!" 

 Sidious
shook his head sorrowfully. "My boy, you cannot change how strongly the
Force flows in your veins." 

 "Vat
if I could?" He looked up into that lined, weathered face. "Vat if I could
change that? Vould I then be acceptable?" 

 "Possibly,"
Sidious said, eyes narrowing. "How would you propose to accomplish such
a thing?" 

 "Give
me leave to try!" he pleaded. 

 His
mind-barriers, the product of many grueling hours of mental exercises,
might as well have been non-existent as the Sith Lord probed his thoughts.
He sensed his masters initial scornful skepticism, and then as Sidious
delved deeper, reading for himself how it might be done, that skepticism
turned to thoughtfulness. 

 "This
could also be a rather novel solution to the Jedi problem," Sidious mused,
stroking his chin. "Thus far, Ive had to hold off taking any direct action
against them. A Jedi is often more troublesome dead than alive. But this
... this is very intriguing, Tepes. You have my permission to proceed." 

 "Thank
you, Master!" He prostrated himself at Sidious feet and pressed the hem
of the Sith Lords robe to his forehead. "I vill not fail you!" 

 "See
that you dont." He tempered it with a smile, but the words were still
chilling. "See that you dont." 

 *
* 

 She
had grown accustomed to the day, but the night would always be her time. 

 Beneath
a sky as dark as the plait of hair hanging down her back, the woman in
black approached the stone tower. She moved with the silence of a cloud,
despite the carpet of dry autumnal leaves underfoot. Her golden eyes were
keenly alert to the forest around her. 

 Small
animals went about their nocturnal business. Find food and try not to become
food, the law of the wild. None of them bothered with her; she was ten
times the size of the largest hunter and quite a bit more dangerous. 

 The
tower rose well above the treetops. It stood at the end of a twelve-foot
wall that stretched for miles through the woods and across the countryside.
It was the last remnant of an old defense, between lands that had known
peace for the better part of a millennium. 

 Peace. 

 The
word itself was still strange to her. As strange as words like home ...
family ... or love. 

 Two
lights shone from the towers oval windows. One was near the top, a warm
and steady beacon shed followed from the village. 

 Shed
made that journey on foot, for there were no suitable landing sites this
far out. Sylvar was an agrarian/orchard planet, known galaxy-wide for its
bounty of fruit, nuts, and grains. Something was always in season on Sylvar.
The harvest never ended. 

 A
thousand years ago, warring factions had threatened to destroy this world.
Now it was a place of simple harmony, consisting mainly of widely-scattered
villages and traveling bands of workers from a hundred different cultures. 

 The
only other people who lived on Sylvar were a handful of artisans trying
to avoid distractions, some retired military types seeking a quiet refuge
from the bustle of Republic life, and those wishing privacy and isolation. 

 Such
as the inhabitants of the tower. 

 The
other light was on the ground floor. It flickered and flared inconstantly,
irregular spurts of green-white accompanied by grumbling in many alien
tongues. 

 Raven
went up to the low window. Her reflexes warned her to pull her head to
the side as a tool came flying out. 

 "Daz
abak arr!" 

 She
boosted herself lithely into the window and crouched on the curved sill.
"You curse like a spice miner, Skywalker." 

 Anakin
jumped, and whirled on her with a pair of metal shears in his hand. Then
he recognized her, relaxing with a grin. "Raven! I didnt sense you at
all!" 

 "Am
I getting better or are you getting sloppy?" She gestured around the room,
which was strewn with clothes, droid parts, and bits of unidentifiable
electronics. "Sloppier," she amended. 

 "This
isnt so bad," he said. "You should have seen the junkyard where I used
to work!" 

 She
hopped down from her perch. "What are you doing?" 

 He
made a face. "Working on my lightsaber. Obi-Wan says I have to. But its
tougher than I thought." Scorch marks on the worktable and blisters on
his fingers proved his point. 

 "So
the young genius has his limits, hmm?" she teased. 

 "Id
like to see you try." 

 "Thats
an art reserved for Jedi. Im lucky the Council let me keep the lightsaber
I have. They comfort themselves with the thought that one day itll break
and then Ill be out of luck." 

 "Well
... when it does, Ill fix it for you." 

 She
picked up the chewed-looking, gutted handle of the one hed been working
on. "Id better take good care of it until you figure out what youre doing." 

 "Im
getting the hang of it. Hey, I built a protocol droid when I was only nine."
He was thirteen now, tall and handsome in a daredevil boyish way that made
it easy to see how readily he could charm even a queen. 

 "From
a kit, wasnt it?" 

 "Yeah,
from a kit, so?" He laughed. "It worked. And so does the lightsaber. Sort
of. It just needs some fine-tuning." 

 Raven
activated it. A five-foot beam of pale emerald shot from the end, punching
a smoldering hole in the wall. 

 "Yow!"
Anakin cried. "Careful!" 

 She
switched it off and turned to him, arching one ebon brow. "Its rather
... extravagant, dont you think?" 

 "Uh
..." he stammered. 

 "Believe
it or not, Ani, there is such a thing as too big to handle." 

 He
scuffed one foot sheepishly. "I guess ... see, I just wanted ..." 

 Raven
stifled a bemused chuckle. "An impressive one?" 

 "Okay,
okay, I get the point!" 

 She
relented, though he was so fun to tease ... shed never had a kid
brother to torment ... and handed the silvery haft back to him. 

 "Im
glad youre back," he said. "Its been awful quiet around here. Theres
nothing to do on Sylvar." 

 "Which
is why youre here," she said, her resolve to leave off teasing not lasting
more than a few seconds. "To concentrate more on your training, and less
on the queen of Naboo." 

 Anakin
blushed and toyed with the long thin braid that lay over his shoulder.
The rest of his sandy hair was too long and indifferently combed. "Miss
 one 
session ..." 

 "Didnt
it also have something to do with Palpatine finding the two of you swimming
with no --?" 

 "Um
... maybe," he cut in, blushing even more brightly. "So, Raven, how long
are you staying? Are you home for good this time?" 

 Now
she grew somber. "I cant, Ani. You know the Council doesnt approve." 

 "I
also know you couldnt care less what they think." 

 "But
 you 
do." She cast her eyes at the door. "And he does." 

 "Itd
be easier if you would agree to be trained," he said. "Then the Council
wouldnt be afraid of you, because theyd know you were bound by the same
rules as the rest of us." 

 "Until
I broke those rules. I ... admire what the Jedi have accomplished. I admire
many of their goals and ideals. But there is much of what they teach that
I cannot accept. Thats why I left in the first place. Ive ... never been
one to be able to keep my opinions to myself..." She shook her head. "Im
not sure what Im trying to say." 

 "Youre
 not 
evil," he said with lower lip outthrust. "Maybe a little bit on the Dark
Side, fine, but not evil. Not like the one who killed Qui-Gon." 

 "The
Council doesnt see it that way." 

 "You
dont care what they think, remember?" 

 "I
dont care what they think of me . But what they think of Obi-Wan
means a great deal to him." 

 "And
hes already on shaky ground with them, and that is my fault," Anakin
said glumly. "Master Yoda always looks at me like Im something slimy that
oozed out of a rotten log on Degobah." 

 Raven
smiled ruefully. "Likewise, except that he looks at me like Im something
 poisonous 
that oozed out of that rotten log." 

 "My
futures clouded ... isnt everyones?" He looked up at her appealingly.
"Theyre judging me for things I havent even done, things I might never 
do! Its not fair!" 

 "I
know," she sighed, resting her hand on his shoulder. "And associating with
me isnt doing you, or Obi-Wan, any good in their eyes." 

 "It
does him good. Hes happiest when youre here, Raven. Even when
you dont agree." 

 "Well,
Im here now. I should go and say hello." 

 "I
guess I should adjust the lightsaber." He winked. "Ill probably be another
hour or two at least." 

 *
* 

 Darth
Tepes flung open the door with a resounding crash. "Eliry!" 

 "Down
here, my sveet," her voice crooned. 

 His
boots rang on the metal walkway, raised half a meter above the filthy floor.
He kept carefully to the center. The stench and the screams had long ago
ceased to bother him, but he could never get used to the bony, scabrous
claws that shot from between the bars to clutch at him as he went by. 

 "Back!"
Torek Roth, a burly man in the scarlet livery of Elirys personal guard,
thrust a pronged stick at the sea of haggard prisoners. Energy arced from
the end, eliciting a shriek and causing the rest to shrink back. 

 Their
eyes glinted murderously as they watched Tepes pass. He drew his crimson-edged
black cape closely around him as the passage narrowed and began its sloping
descent. 

 He
found Eliry at the bottom, a slender figure gowned in clinging red, with
a tumbling mass of white hair that fell to the backs of her knees. Her
skin was as winter-blue as his own. Her eyes, avidly observing the scene
before her, were orbs of opaque blackness. 

 Two
other guards had just finished securing a gaunt man to a metal frame in
the shape of an X. The man struggled feebly against the bonds that held
his wrists and ankles. He raised his terrified gaze to Eliry. 

 "Please,
Mistress! Be merciful!" 

 "Oh,
but this is merciful," Eliry replied, giving him a reassuring smile
filled with tiny needle-teeth. "Youre already dyink. Those sores vill
only spread, riddlink you vith infection. The flesh vill rot avay until
your bones are exposed, and even then youd linger. This is much kvicker,
believe me." 

 "I
wish to live! I beg you! Let me live!" 

 "But
there is no cure." She raised her hand, rings sparkling on three of the
six elongated fingers, the sheen of the enamel that coated her curving
nails catching rainbows in the dim light. 

 The
guards responded to her signal and rotated the frame on the wheel to which
it was affixed. The man wailed piteously as his legs went up and his head
pointed down. 

 Tepes
moved closer to inspect the prisoner. A Prhei, distant kin to the elite
race that ruled this world. The only outward differences were in the skin
-- pinkish, and in the case of the plague-ridden, blotched along the limbs
with oozing crescent-shaped splits -- and the extremities, lacking the
sixth finger and toe. 

 The
chamber around them was circular, soaring nine levels high to a domed roof.
The walls were lined with cages and catwalks, every cage filled beyond
capacity. 

 Tepes
stood alongside Eliry, bending to nip at her smooth shoulder. His teeth
left a dozen pinpricks. "Good evenink, cousin-vife." 

 "How
vent your day, my sveet?" 

 He
scowled. "As I feared." 

 "He
does not appreciate you." 

 She
turned as one of her maidens brought her a flat bronze box, and picked
daintily through the implements within until shed found the one she sought.
It was a hollow crystal cylinder the width of her smallest finger, one
end tapering to a curved blade. 

 The
man on the frame writhed with renewed vigor as he saw it. He tried to lash
his head side to side, but it was held firmly in place by clamps. He tried
to raise his shoulders to his ears, also to no avail. 

 "There
is vun ray of hope," Tepes said, stepping back to give her room to work.
"Hes granted me leave to pursue our plan." 

 "Has
he?" She affixed the blunt end of the crystal cylinder to a length of flexible
tubing that fed into the top of a squat, accordion-sided droid. 

 The
din in the dungeon increased tenfold as the prisoners began to shout. Pleas,
threats, and savage glee mingled into a roar. 

 Eliry
motioned to the guards. One of them threw a lever, and the frame rose until
the mans head was suspended at chest-height. The other trundled the box
closer. 

 "Ill
need your help," Tepes continued. "Your expertise. And vell haff to re-fit
a droid or two." 

 "Youll
have vatever you need." She felt for the mans pulse. "Poundink vith fear.
Perfect." 

 "No,
Mistress, no, please, for the love of mercy, please!" 

 "Shh,
now," she said kindly. "It vont hurt a bit." 

 With
that, she placed the tip of the crystal cylinder against the artery in
his neck. One swift push sliced deep, embedding the crystal. Not so much
as a drop stained his skin. Rich crimson fluid gushed into the tubing. 

 The
mans mouth gaped in a soundless scream as he felt his lifes blood pouring
from him. 

 "Nicely
done," Tepes said. "Your touch is so light, so skilled!" 

 "I
learned from the best, my sveet," she said, favoring him with a loving
smile. "Vould you care to cut the vein?" 

 "As
you vish." He plucked a razor from the box the maiden held, and flicked
it in one sure movement. The resultant flood ran along channels in the
metal floor and vanished through a grate. 

 The
sides of the droid began to bellows in and out, sucking the bright arterial
blood with such speed that the mans vessels collapsed. Beneath the grime,
his skin went pallid except for his face, which remained reddened. 

 The
droid whirred and hummed. A glass bubble bulging from its top began to
moisten with condensation. 

 "This
is so much tidier," Eliry remarked, crouching to adjust the droids controls.
"Ven I think of how our ancestors lived, it appalls me. Can you imagine
havink to do it ourselves ?" 

 "And
havink to ingest so much," he agreed, wrinkling his nose. "Eight to tvelve
hours comatose in digestion, and all to filter out the little bit ve needed." 

 "Yes,
I much prefer this." She peered into the clouded glass bubble, where yellowish-clear
droplets were forming. 

 "Vy
do you extract them down here?" Tepes asked. "The lab is kvieter, and certainly
cleaner!" 

 "Ah,
but its not as much fun, is it?" Eliry waved to the rest of the prisoners,
beaming as they cringed and stumbled over themselves in an effort to avoid
meeting her eyes, lest she choose her next victim that way. "I find their
fear nearly as invigoratink as the gift they give. Itll be interestink
to see if ve can bestir similar fear in the Jedi." 

 *
* 

 He
opened the door as she neared the landing. Light streamed around him, shining
on his brown-gold-chestnut hair, while she remained in the shadows of the
curved stairwell. 

 Light
and dark ... good and evil? Halves of the same whole, sides of the same
coin? 

 Or
just themselves? Two souls drawn together by Force or fate or nothing more
than random chance? 

 Raven
ascended another step. She couldnt see his face, needed desperately to
read his expression because his thoughts were carefully closed. 

 So
much that needed to be said, so many words hanging unspoken in the air
between them. The months shed been away stretched out to seem like years. 

 Rather
than try to voice them, she slowly extended her hand. As she did so, she
dropped the mental barriers hed taught her to create. Hopes and fears,
regrets and remembrances, all there for him to read if he wished. 

 Obi-Wan
stepped down to meet her, reaching out. Their fingertips touched, their
palms pressed together. The violet warmth and wispy smoke of the Soulfire
gloved their enfolded fingers. 

 "Ive
come back," she said softly. "I know we decided it was better if I left
... but I couldnt stay away." 

 "You
chose to leave. I never wanted that." 

 "It
had to be --" 

 "Raven." 

 She
bowed her head. 

 "Do
not change what you are ," he went on. "You worry about the future,
about what may be ..." 

 "At
the expense of the moment?" she said, repeating the words of wisdom hed
had from his master. 

 "Yes."
He caressed the line of her jaw. 

 Her
eyes drifted closed. "Yet your own Council cant do it; how can I?" 

 "What
do you mean?" 

 "So
worried about the threat Anakin may pose that they refuse to see the person
he is . If it does happen, Obi-Wan, itll be because they drove him
to it. Dont you think I know what it must be like for him? If, no matter
what I do, theyll denounce me as evil ... why, what a temptation to have
the game as well as the name!" 

 "Or
prove them wrong." 

 "Would
it work?" she asked, hearing her own bleak hopelessness. 

 "Even
Jedi can be wrong. I was." 

 She
opened her eyes and looked at him. "When?" 

 "When
I let you leave." 

 Her
inexpert mental foray searched his thoughts, finding no barriers and the
truth of how much hed missed her ... nearly as much as shed missed him. 

 "What
will we do?" she groaned. "Cant be together, cant bear to be apart." 

 "Trust
our feelings," he said. 

 "The
Council --" 

 "Theyre
not here." He drew her into his arms. 

 She
went with no resistance, giving in to the yearning passion she no longer
wanted to control. His kiss was at once burning and tender, needing and
giving. 

 Her
senses seemed all to meld into one, so that she experienced each sensation
in a multitude of ways. The feel of cloth beneath her hands as she gripped
his shoulders came to her as the taste of fresh-baked bread. His scent
was as the melody of winds secret whisper through the leaves. The sound
of his low sigh sent cool blue flames flickering in the darkness of her
mind. 

 "Take
me to bed," she murmured against his mouth. 

 Somehow,
they were in his room without seeming to climb the rest of the stairs or
break from their embrace. He swept a hand at the door and missed, but it
slammed gustily shut all the same. 

 The
months of separation crashed heavily down on her. So many desolate lonely
nights in the cold depths of space ... the hours seeming endless, the memories
bittersweet torture impossible to resist. 

 With
a breathy little growl, she fell back across the bed and pulled him with
her. Old fears at being pinned beneath the weight of a man were long gone
thanks to his gentle patience during their first weeks together. 

 Urgency
blazed in their reunion. They both understood that there would be time
later for languid and loving explorations; this time theyd been too long
denied. 

 It
was all Raven could do to wait until theyd both shed their clothing, a
testament to her willpower that she didnt use what meager mastery of the
Force she possessed to just shred them from his body the better to get
at the smooth warmth of his skin. Cream-colored Jedi garb and her own basic
black garments made a hasty pile on the floor. 

 "Oh,
yes, now," she gasped. Her mind was already open to him; now the rest of
her was as well, and it was never invasion but a welcome sharing, holding
nothing back, taking what was freely given. 

 She
felt as if she was formed of living crystal, dark glass with a heart of
amethyst radiance that glowed brighter and brighter still, illuminating
her from within. 

 He
said her name again and again as they moved together, steady but quickening
toward a conclusion just shy of frantic. 

 As
that moment drew near, he lowered his head to hers, not for a kiss but
to press their foreheads together, eyes tightly closed but each of them
still seeing the other as clear as could be. 

 Their
bodies shuddered in one shared exquisite release, souls seamlessly joined
for that eternally brief instant, just as two candle flames brought to
touch would flow into each other, impossible to tell where one began and
the other ended. 

 The
next thing Raven was aware of was the soft brush of his lips, and the realization
that in the intensity of her response she had wept without knowing she
did so. Obi-Wan gently kissed away those tears, stroked her hair and cheek. 

 She
raised one hand to trace her fingertips along his face, marveling at what
she saw not only with her eyes but with the sight of her mind. 

 There
were still unspoken words between them, but it didnt matter anymore ...
even if they were never quite able to say them, they both already knew. 

 *
* 

 Wooden
sticks the length and weight of lightsabers clattered in a blur of swings
and parries, until the taller of the two combatants broke from the exchange
and signaled for a stop. 

 "No
more," Raven said, mopping her brow. "Its too hot for this." 

 "Hot?"
Anakin echoed, lowering his stick. "You call this hot?" 

 "Your
world was baked by two suns, desert-boy. Mine had none." 

 "Tatooine
would fry you to a cinder." 

 "It
very nearly did." 

 Obi-Wan
smiled at their banter, watching from a spot in the shade of the tower.
A cool breeze riffled his robe and sent a swarm of crisp reddish leaves
skirling across the raked earth of the practice yard. 

 Raven
tipped her face into the breeze, closing her eyes in pleasure as the cool
air blew loose strands of night-black hair back from her damp brow. 

 She
had been back for seven days, and already it was as if shed never left.
The time shed been gone seemed unimportant, a dreary dream from which
hed finally awakened. 

 "You
were on Tatooine?" Anakin perked up in interest. 

 "Once,
briefly. And never again," she stated, dunking a dipper into a barrel of
water and dumping it over her head. 

 "What
were you doing there?" He hadnt even broken a sweat under Sylvars yellow
and mild sun. 

 Raven
wrung a stream from the hem of her tunic. "I owed your teacher some money." 

 "No,
you didnt," Obi-Wan objected. 

 "You
fed me, clothed me, paid my way around three systems," she said. 

 "Like
you didnt make it worth his while," Anakin snickered, then subsided as
they both shot him sharp looks. 

 "I
dont need the money, Raven," Obi-Wan said. "And Im a little afraid to
ask where it came from." 

 "I
knew there was a reason I came back," she said, choosing a piece of fruit
from the bowl beside Obi-Wan. "As its not the cooking, it must be the
high esteem in which you both seem to hold me." 

 "What,
were you a dancing girl?" Anakin guessed. "There were a lot of those on
Tatooine. The Hutts --" 

 "Was
I a what ?" Raven flung the fruit at him. 

 Before
it hit, he snatched it from mid-air with the power of the Force. Bringing
it to his hand, he took a bite, grinning at her with juice running down
his chin. 

 "I
take it thats a no," Obi-Wan said. "Something of a relief." 

 "Youre
as bad as him. No, I was not a dancing girl. I worked for Pran Kessel." 

 "The
smuggler?" Anakin asked eagerly. "Really?" 

 "Smuggling,
bounty hunting, some piracy here and there," Raven said. "And gambling;
thats what took us to your sand-pit. Mos Eisley, what a place!" 

 "Scum
and villainy," Obi-Wan said absently. 

 "Thats
putting it kindly." 

 "Well,
 Im 
going back someday," Anakin said. "To free the slaves. I promised my mother." 

 "Youll
go back," Obi-Wan said. "Once youve completed your training." 

 "Im
close, though, arent I? I finished my lightsaber!" 

 "It
does ... lets see how well you can use it." He tossed the recently-completed
one to Anakin and drew his own. 

 "Ill
sit this one out," Raven announced, making herself comfortable in the shade. 

 "While
you rest," Obi-Wan suggested, glancing at her, "you could work on lifting
objects." 

 Raven
grimaced. 

 "You
should develop your gifts," he said. 

 "Remember
what happened last time I tried that?" 

 "I
do!" Anakin said, slapping his thigh merrily. "You cracked the stone in
half instead of floating it!" 

 "Exactly,
and this is supposedly a peaceable technique you Jedi use to hold
off your enemies. Can you imagine what would happen if I directed that
at a living person?" 

 "Better
to practice and be prepared, so that youre not surprised into using it
unintentionally," Obi-Wan said reasonably. 

 She
fixed golden eyes on the bowl. It was heaped with yellow-orange globes,
with thin skin and crisp, juicy innards. plucked only that morning from
the trees surrounding their tower home. One hand reached out as if to grab,
stopping several inches away. 

 Obi-Wan
felt the Force thicken around her, saw a violet flicker in her eyes. Beside
him, Anakin winced in anticipation. 

 "Youre
concentrating too hard," he murmured. 

 The
bowl quivered, rattling on the table. One piece of fruit began to rise
jerkily from the pile. 

 "Relax
your mind," Obi-Wan said. 

 It
imploded as if suddenly squeezed in an iron fist. Pureed bits spattered
on the ground. 

 "Better,"
he admitted. 

 Raven
voiced her opinion with a few words shed probably picked up from smugglers
on Kessels Run. 

 Anakin
goggled. 

 "Repeat
any of that in the presence of the Council, the Senate, or the queen,"
Obi-Wan warned him, "and youll have to answer to me." 

 "See?"
Raven chose another piece by more conventional means. "Bad example. I havent
even been back a week yet, and youve got me swearing in front of the kid." 

 "Ive
heard worse," Anakin said. "There was this one time --" 

 "Can
we continue the lesson?" Obi-Wan tapped the haft of his lightsaber meaningfully
against his palm. 

 "Carry
on," Raven said, taking a bite. 

 They
faced off. Blue-white and pale green came alight in unison. 

 Anakins
first swing was coming right at him. He parried, then began launching a
series of testing strikes of his own. 

 "Dont
watch my hands," he cautioned. "Watch my eyes ... thats where youll see
the attack coming." 

 "If
we can see things before they happen," Anakin said, circling, "and thats
what makes our reflexes so sharp, how can one Jedi win against another?
Theyd both know what the other guy was going to do before he even did
it." 

 "Were
not infallible, for one. For another, our mental barriers can help shield
our intent. Youll also learn the knack of changing tactics at the last
possible instant, without projecting. Even Jedi can be taken by surprise." 

 He
demonstrated, starting off with a high-over arc but switching to a low
sweep. Anakin, already raising his lightsaber to protect his head, yelped
and leaped backward as Obi-Wans bright blade seared a line at his feet. 

 "And
sometimes," he said, "even knowing what your opponent is going to do cant
help you defend against it. Sometimes were simply outmatched. Or lucky." 

 Anakin
nodded and lunged, swinging at Obi-Wans left arm. Their blades clashed
inches from his right leg instead. 

 "Not
bad," he said. "Youll learn to do it as second nature." 

 "What
I really want," Anakin said, "is for you to show me how you do that double-jump-kick
thing. You know, where you go yah! with both feet at the same time --"
He tried to demonstrate and nearly ended up on his backside. 

 "Lets
focus on one lesson at a time." 

 A
chill prickled his flesh. He looked up, thinking at first that a cloud
had passed over the sun, but the sky was clear. 

 No,
it had come from within ... 

 He
turned inward to pursue it while holding his defensive stance. It seemed
he could almost hear a voice, faint and far ... not calling to him but
crying out in pain and dread ... 

 Sensation
... a spreading, creeping coldness and the feeling of something being taken 
... helplessness, immobility ... draining ... 

 Uri-Tan! 

 He
recognized the touch of that mind, the desperate flight of thought between
childhood friends close as brothers. 

 Losing
contact ... no, worse than that! Slipping away, clinging to a tenuous thread,
weaker and weaker ... 

 Obi-Wan
dimly realized that Anakin was trying again, coming at him with one intended
maneuver, diverting ... even as he brought himself back to enough awareness
to counter that plainly obvious move, Anakin was leaping-somersaulting,
 that 
was the real attack, landing behind him and ready to strike -- 

 "No!" 

 A
wooden bowl intercepted the green lightsaber. Charred splinters exploded
in a halo. 

 Obi-Wan
staggered, bringing a hand to his forehead. He dropped his weapon. 

 Raven
was there, shouldering past the stunned and stricken Anakin to support
Obi-Wan as he chased the vanishing trace of Uri-Tans mind into a frigid
and empty darkness. His legs refused to hold him upright, and if not for
Raven he would have gone sprawling. 

 "Did
I hurt him? Please say hes okay!" Anakin cried. "I thought hed ... I
didnt think it would ..." 

 "Easy,
Ani," Raven said. "You didnt hit him." 

 "But
I would have!" he said, agonized. 

 "You
 didnt ,
Anakin!" she said sternly. "Now gather your wits; I need your help!" 

 All
of this came to Obi-Wan as if he was listening to a conversation in a separate
room. He quested outward, found only an echo of the initial sensation ...
helpless ... draining ... so cold! 

 Then
even that was gone, and he blinked and was back in his proper surroundings.
Sitting with his back leaned against the tower wall. Raven kneeling over
him, Anakin hovering at her elbow with anxiousness contorting his face. 

 "Uri-Tan,"
he gasped. 

 Raven
frowned, perhaps thinking him delirious, but Anakin understood. 

 "Another
Jedi," Anakin said. "His blood-brother. They grew up together on Coruscant
after being taken away from their families." 

 "Dead?"
Raven asked Obi-Wan. 

 "I
dont know ... I felt his pain, his fear, his suffering ... but not his
death. There was something else ... something was happening to him,
being done to him ... something terrible." He convulsed in a shudder.
"It was no premonition. It was happening at that moment. And now, I cannot
reach him at all." 

 *
* 

 "Hes
gone," Mace Windu said. 

 Zadrek
Kellnu sighed heavily, massaging her temples and absently pushing back
a strand of auburn hair that had come loose from her elaborate coiled bun.
"Gone ... but not dead. We would have felt that." 

 The
rest of the Jedi Council sat in silence. In that instant, each of their
faces, markedly different from one another as they were, all bore identical
expressions of concern and dismay. 

 "That
makes five," Imlen Vdrin said, the membranous gills at his throat fluttering
in agitation. His voice was at once high as a reed instrument and underscored
with a deep hum. "And no answers, no explanations!" 

 "Accidents,
these are not." Yoda thumped his walking-stick against the arm of his chair.
"Action against us is being taken. The Sith it is!" 

 "We
never knew whether Qui-Gon Jinn slew the master or the apprentice four
years ago," Mace Windu said. "But there are always two, so one survived
... and has had time to gather strength." 

 "But
what are they doing?" Kellnu demanded, her dusky skin still ashen at the
memory of the last despairing cry of Uri-Tans mind. "If they mean to attack
us, why not kill them? Why this ... this ... we dont even know what is
happening to them!" 

 "In
danger are we all," Yoda said. "Worse things than death might there be.
If dead they were, contact us they might. But lost are they. Lost
even to us. The work of the Dark Side this is, hatred and evil." 

 "What
do we do?" Vdrin trilled furiously. 

 "Summon
the Jedi we must," Yoda declared. "All of them." 

 "What
of their missions?" Gol Xadir countered, clicking his hooflike knuckles
together. "Can we endanger --" 

 "Can
we endanger more of our own?" Mace Windu cut in. "Until we know what this
new threat is, we must proceed carefully." 

 *
* 

 "Were
going to get really sick of fruit and protein bars for dinner," Anakin
remarked, poking the slices of melon on his plate. 

 "Learn
to cook," Raven retorted. 

 "Whos
going to teach me? Not you, thats for sure!" 

 "I
survived on Rannok by what I could scavenge," she said. "We can live here
the same way, and a lot easier. You cant take two steps on Sylvar without
bumping into something edible." 

 "Unless
were stuck here until winter. Then we starve." 

 "He
wont be gone that long. And we can always walk to the village and buy
food there. Since he so considerately left the money I gave him." 

 They
both looked at the empty seat. A full day now, and already Obi-Wans absence
was getting to them. 

 Part
of it was the snub ... hed been summoned alone , most pointedly
alone. That bothered Anakin far more than it bothered Raven. She had neither
the expectation nor the desire to be involved with the Jedi Council any
more than was possible. 

 "I
have a bad feeling about this," he said. 

 "So
do I." 

 "They
know more than they told him." 

 "I
think so." 

 "And
I cant get past the feeling that hes going to be in trouble." 

 She
jabbed a chunk of melon fiercely. "Theres nothing we can do. Youre an
apprentice and Im an outcast, and the Council doesnt want to hear from
either of us. We couldnt have gone with him." 

 "No
..." he trailed off, getting a faraway look. His eyes widened but didnt
see her, his mouth dropped into an open O of alarm. 

 "Ani?"
It was too much like the way Obi-Wan had looked in the practice yard. She
reached over and shook the boy. "Ani, what is it?" 

 He
came out of it and blinked at her. "Raven, I see things sometimes," he
began. 

 "Yes,
the visions, I understand. Obi-Wan says its common." 

 "But
I saw something now ." The fright in his tone communicated itself
to her, overpowering her carefully-constructed barriers as if they didnt
exist. For the first time, she grasped an inkling of what the Jedi meant
... how much stronger it was in Anakin than in anyone else shed met. 

 "Possibilities,"
she said, her grip tightening on her spoon because her hands wanted to
tremble. "He says they are only possibilities." 

 "This
isnt like the time I saw myself fighting him!" Anakin protested. "This
felt
 real ! Hes in serious danger. Im scared." 

 "Theres
nothing to be scared of --" 

 "Raven,
stop it! I know you feel it too! Quit denying it! Obi-Wan says weve gotta
 trust 
stuff like this!" 

 She
exhaled slowly. "I dont want to feel it, Ani. If I have to sit
here and think that something might happen to him, I will lose my mind." 

 "Then
lets act on it and not just sit here!" 

 "Go
after him?" 

 "Yeah!
So were defying the Council; who cares?" 

 "But
how? This is Sylvar , one of the most out-of-the-way planets in the
galaxy! There wont be another courier ship until spring, and I doubt the
Councils going to send us one." 

 "Vance
Antilles has a star cruiser." 

 "Vance
Antilles isnt going to give us a ride anywhere. You know how he babies
that thing, washing it twice a week and coddling it more than he does his
wife." 

 He
leaned across the table, his eyes dark and piercing. "We have to
try, Raven. With or without Antilles help." 

 "How
do you suggest we do that?" 

 "Youre
the smuggler, the pirate. Think of something." 

 "Anakin,
are you suggesting we steal the personal star cruiser of a retired fleet
admiral?" 

 "If
you can get it, I can fly it." 

 "Why
dont you just use the Force and convince him to give it up?" 

 "Okay." 

 She
clapped her hands over her face. "Ani ..." 

 It
came to her then, striking her with an effect not unlike being whacked
in the back of the head with a plank. 

 The
damaged interior of a transport ... bodies struggling to rise ... Jefin
Valtac among them, the pilot cradling a shattered arm against his side
... smoke and screams ... metal peeling apart ... Obi-Wan crumpled in a
corner, eyes closed, so still ... so still ... shapes through the smoke
... man-shapes in black armor and crimson capes ... helms designed in snarling
gargoyle-faces ... 

 She
came out of it with a harsh gasp. "Ah!" 

 Anakin
nodded. "You saw it. Weve got to go, Raven." 

 "Yes."
She shoved her chair back from the table in one hard motion. "Lets go
see Admiral Antilles about a ship." 

 *
* 

 "This
vun is powerful," Darth Tepes said, brushing his fingers across the viewscreen. 

 The
 Vigilant ,
their target, stood out unmistakably against the pale backdrop of Festris
many-banded rings. Conversely, the gas giants clutter of moons provided
the perfect cover for the Drakuul to creep ever closer. 

 It
wasnt the ship itself that interested him. Or the scenery, spectacular
as it was. No, it was what his heightened powers told him was aboard the
 Vigilant . 

 "Called
you home, did they?" he chuckled. "Little knowink theyd only make my job
so much easier. Vun more Jedi ..." 

 Torek
Roth approached and bowed sharply. "Do ve attack?" 

 "Yes.
The usual orders apply." 

 As
Roth went off to deliver those orders, Tepes folded his six-fingered hands
in an intricate formation and smiled, quite pleased with himself. 

 The
 Vigilant 
had come out of light speed just beyond the outermost planet of the system,
and was now cruising at a more sedate speed through the clutter of moons
and asteroids on its way toward Coruscant, the fourth world from the sun. 

 "So
predictable," he said. "You, my as-yet-unseen friend, vill be the final
factor. How good of you to be so prompt." 

 "Vere
in position," Roth reported. "Your team is ready." 

 "Goot."
He turned to the five black-armored men waiting nearby, and brought one
closed fist to his forehead. 

 They
mimicked the motion, and Tepes nodded approvingly as the psychic cloud
that surrounded them intensified until it was nearly visible. 

 The
 Drakuul 
closed in, just another craft wending its way through the moons, no hint
of threat detectable ... 

 "Their
transmission systems vill shut down at your command," Roth said. "Theyll
have no chance to send a distress signal." 

 "Do
it in the same moment ve begin the assault, Roth. Ve vould not vant the
sudden loss of their communications to varn them of their peril." 

 "Yes,
Lord Tepes." 

 "Fire,"
Tepes said. 

 A
barrage of energy projectiles burst from the Drakuuls guns. The
 Vigilants 
defensive shields lit up under the onslaught, the smaller ship slamming
side to side from the impacts. 

 "Again." 

 A
second barrage was sufficient to tear the shields away in glimmering threads,
leaving the Vigilant utterly exposed. 

 "Hold,"
Tepes said. "Single shot, propulsion drive." 

 One
bolt lanced from the Drakuuls forward laser cannon. An explosion
rocked the craft. 

 "Pick
off those droids," he ordered irritably as a trio of squat dome-heads trundled
across the hull of the ailing ship. 

 Three
shots did exactly as he wished. 

 "The
 Vigilant 
is at your mercy," Roth said. "Lower bay open; tractor beam engaged. Vere
pullink her in." 

 Tepes
gestured to his five soldiers. They left their posts, the spots immediately
filled by standard crewmen, and followed him into the bowels of the ship. 

 *
* 

 The
 Vances
Pride decelerated out of light speed smack in the middle of Festris
moons. Raven recoiled as it seemed one barren cratered lunar surface was
coming directly at her face. 

 "Whoa!"
Anakin shouted, with far more exuberance than concern. He yanked at the
controls. 

 The
ship squealed like a wounded animal. The thrust of the sudden turn pressed
Raven so far into her plush ultra-leather seat that she thought she was
going to come out the other side. 

 They
soared over the cratered horizon with what looked like mere yards to spare,
and then a moon that looked like a solid ball of deeply-crevassed ice loomed
dead ahead. 

 "Uh-oh!"
Still exuberant, Anakin took them into a dive that caused all the etched-glass
and silver-gilt decorations in the passenger compartment to musically detonate. 

 "Youd
better just crash us," Raven said grimly, holding on, "because if we survive
and Vance Antilles sees what youve done to his ship, our lives wont be
worth a nubbat dropping." 

 "I
havent done anything that cant be easily fixed --" 

 As
they passed through one of the gas giants rings, a smallish chunk of ice
and rock met the soaring swooped intimate cocktail lounge that rose from
the tail section. 

 "Except
that," Anakin finished. "Better seal off that section or well lose pressure." 

 "Already
done." 

 Something
struck them with a clang and a small explosion. The lights in the cabin
stuttered, then came back steady. 

 "I
see Jefins ship!" he crowed triumphantly as they punched through the wide
flat ring and left a roiling hole in their wake. Ahead of them, the crippled
 Vigilant 
was being drawn into the underbelly of a larger craft. 

 "No!"
Raven slammed the heel of her hand on the brushed-velvet console. "Too
late!" 

 "Obi-Wans
aboard, but hes unconscious." Anakin started to say more, then hissed
through clenched teeth. "Raven, barriers, now !" 

 She
didnt debate, but instantly stopped her faltering attempt to contact Obi-Wan
and pulled her mental cloak close around her thoughts. "What is it?" 

 "Someone
on that ships trying to sense us, and hes not friendly. I better open
fire." 

 "With
the pathetic weaponry on this glorified space-yacht, Id be better off
holding my breath and climbing onto the hull to take a swipe at it with
my lightsaber." 

 Their
arrival had been anything but subtle, and now the other ship was coming
about to have a look. Raven detected a foul spidery crawling sensation
on the surface of her mind. 

 "Well,
if we cant attack, what are we going to do?" Anakin shivered, feeling
the same thing. "Sit here and get disintegrated?" 

 "Id
hope you would take evasive action." 

 "Ill
do better than that ... Im getting us out of here!" 

 He
sped straight toward Festris misty surface, a sight that reminded Raven
of Cahaldra except that Festri was mostly in shades of orange and brown. 

 "Are
you --" she began. 

 He
went to light speed. 

 The
rest of Ravens sentence turned into a yell as the Vances Pride 
plunged into the gas giant. 

 She
had a momentary impression of murky yellow, then the familiar streaked
starfield of space, then Anakin slowed down and the stars returned to their
normal shapes. 

 "Woo!
Did you see that? Right through the planet! Wow!" Seeing her wrathful glare
fall on him, he rushed on. "See, I figured, the only solid part of these
kind of planets, if they even have a solid part, is a rocky core
down at the center, no bigger than, say, Sylvar. We went in at an angle,
not straight, so there was no way we were going to hit that part. And going
as fast as we were, the atmospheres acidity and turbulence couldnt touch
us." 

 "I
ought to ..." 

 "Hey,
we made it, didnt we?" 

 "All
right, since you have all this so well under control, what next?" 

 "We
go back." 

 " Not 
at light speed! You could have popped us out the other side of that planet
and straight into a moon." 

 "Oh
... I didnt think of that." 

 She
moaned and sank her head into one hand. 

 "I
recognized the ship," he added. 

 Her
head came back up. "What?" 

 "Not
it specifically, but its a Bram ship. From beyond the White Nebula. We
can go straight to Coruscant, tell the Council --" 

 "No." 

 "Theyll
listen! This is an emergency! I picked up some stuff from whoever was on
that ship ... the Councils in danger! All of the Jedi are in danger!
We have to --" 

 Raven
swiveled her seat and grabbed him by the chin. "Worm slime to the Jedi
Council," she said deliberately. "Were going after Obi-Wan." 

 He
stared. "But ... you know hed tell us not to. Hed tell us that the safety
of all those people were more important than just one --" 

 "You
can take the escape pod if you want; it should have enough fuel to get
you to Coruscant or at least picked up by another ship." 

 "You
cant fly this --" 

 "Ill
manage." 

 "You
really, really love him," he said in awe. 

 She
averted her eyes. "Send a transmission to the Council, then." 

 "Cant
... our communicators down ... might have been when we passed through
the atmosphere." 

 "Then
lets go." 

 *
* 

 Obi-Wan
groaned and tried to raise a hand to massage his aching head. His arm moved
a fraction of an inch and then jerked to a stop, held by hard pressure
around his wrist. 

 He
blinked a few times to clear the dark blur from his vision before realizing
the dark blur was all there was to see. 

 Taking
slow, even breaths to focus his thoughts past the pain, he made a quick
assessment of his condition. 

 His
head was the worst. Without even touching it, he knew there was a swollen
lump above his ear, and when he moved that side of his face he could feel
crusted blood crinkling on his skin. 

 Nothing
broken. No serious injuries. Battered and bruised, to be certain, but alive. 

 Alive
and strapped down in what felt like a chair of smooth duraplast. In addition
to the bands around his wrists, his ankles were secure, and three wide
metal belts cinched him at chest, waist, and across the upper thighs. 

 He
was unarmed, barefoot, missing his cowled robe. His tunic and trousers
were smoke-blackened and smelled of laser scoring. 

 It
brought back his memory of the last few minutes of consciousness. The Vigilant 
had come out of light speed beyond Coruscants system and begun its final
approach toward the inner planets. All was going fine. Jefin was telling
a long, involved, and fairly obscene joke about a two-headed Pwillian whod
been courting two sisters. 

 No
premonitions, no warning, nothing. Hindsight let him look back on the faint
tremor of apprehension hed felt as being an indication of trouble, but
at the time hed dismissed it as worries about Uri-Tan and what the meeting
of the Jedi was going to bring. 

 And
then another ship, firing with precise aim to gravely damage the Vigilant ,
cripple and seize her. Jefins shout of pirates, raiders. A console spewing
sparks, sending one of the crew lifeless to the deck. The ship being tossed
and batted around. 

 He
remembered starting for Jefin, and then a wave of pure cold malice roared
out of nowhere and swamped his awareness. Hed stumbled, heard a solid
crack that seemed to reverberate down his spine, and had time to clinically
note that hed just landed on his head. 

 Then
nothing ... until awakening in this place of dark blur and metal bonds
and distant sounds that might have been echoed screams. 

 He
cast outward with the Force, trying to get an impression of his surroundings.
Square room, little more than a cell. One door. Triply-locked. Presences
nearby ... coming closer. 

 A
peculiar noise, a rolling mechanical rumble, brought him back to his current
state. He also heard the clunk of locks disengaging. 

 The
door slid sideways into the wall, and that cold malicious wave washed over
him again. 

 "Hes
avake," a womans voice said from behind a lamp. 

 "So
soon?" a man replied curiously. "Goot ... this vun is strong. Just vat
ve need." 

 They
appeared, the man coming in first, the woman behind him. Two others, guards
by their bearing, flanked the door. 

 The
man was tall and commanding, with sharply angular features and long white
hair pulled back from a pronounced widows peak. His red clothes and black
cape contrasted with pale blue skin. He smiled when he saw Obi-Wan looking
at him, showing plentiful, pointed teeth. 

 The
woman greatly resembled him, her beauty that of a merciless goddess carved
from glacial ice. As she set the lamp on a niche in the wall, Obi-Wan noticed
her hands, six long fingers to each. She smoothed her crimson gown with
a distracted ladylike gesture and beckoned to the droid that waited in
the hall. 

 "Velcome,
Jedi," the man said. "Do you know who I am?" 

 "You
are a Bram, than much is obvious," Obi-Wan said, willing his mind to be
serene. As well as he could with his wrists held down, he moved one hand
and added, "and youll unbind me at once." 

 The
Bram threw back his head and laughed. "Do you believe it, Eliry? He tries
to use that old trick on me !" 

 She
joined him in his soulless mirth. "Spirited creature, isnt he?" 

 "Let
me explain," the Bram said. He flipped his cape over his shoulder and rested
his many fingers on the black-ridged cylinder at his belt. "I am --" 

 "Sith."
The word hung like a death sentence between them. 

 "And
you are the vun called Kenobi. I haff you to thank for my elevation in
status; you killed my predecessor and cleared the vay for my advancement." 

 A
mental probe lanced against the barriers and was repelled, but left Obi-Wan
alarmed at how weak and scattered he felt. 

 "Ah,"
Eliry said, closely observing his reaction. "The drug is beginnink to take
effect." 

 He
would not give them the pleasure of asking any of the questions they were
waiting to hear. Instead, he shut his eyes to block out the sight of both
of them and their odd medi-droid, if thats what it was. 

 Hear
me, he thought. Jedi Masters, hear me . 

 Sluggish,
fuzzy ... as if he were trying to speak through wadded fabric. 

 "It
is
 shal ," the Sith warrior said, with a click at the front of the
word. "A contact agent, absorbed through the skin. It ... how to say ...
puts your little friends to sleep for a vile." 

 Eliry
coaxed the medi-droid to a spot in front of Obi-Wan. "Shall I begin, Tepes
my sveet?" 

 "Do
... I am eager to add this vuns strength to my own." 

 Obi-Wan
twitched at a touch on his leg. He opened his eyes and the woman was bending
over his lap. She cut a slit in the cloth of his trousers, just below the
restraint that held him in the chair. Then a second, on the other leg. 

 He
pushed out at her with the Force, but might as well have tried to blow
her away with a puff of breath. A creeping lassitude was spreading through
his limbs. 

 "Femoral
arteries," Eliry said. "Here, and here. Buried deep in the flesh, vell-protected." 

 He
still would not ask, knowing they would either tell him or demonstrate. 

 Anakin
... Raven ... warn the Council ... 

 "Oh,
stop," Tepes snapped. "It vont help. Veve done this before, you know." 

 Two
narrow segmented arms extended from the front of the droid. Each held a
glass needle affixed to a length of tubing, which snaked into the droids
inner workings. A third arm rose from its top, holding a clear cuplike
mask with another tube retracted inside. 

 Obi-Wan
strained against the bonds. Tepes grabbed him by the top of the head, fingers
settling over his scalp like a bony skullcap. 

 "You
dont need to move," he intoned, a weight of power in the words. 

 He
 felt 
his will bend, was unable to resist it. Tepes was right ... he didnt need
to move ... it wouldnt do any good ... 

 The
first of the glass needles pierced his leg. His throat constricted against
a shriek as it drove through muscle and into the artery. That pain had
not even begun to dim when Eliry thrust the second needle unerringly to
the mark in his other leg. A strangled cry escaped him. 

 A
steady red tide advanced up the first tube, but not the other. He watched
in horrified fascination as his blood flowed into the droid. 

 Eliry
adjusted a dial, and the droid began pulsing with a rhythmic whrrm noise
as a cycle of lights chased themselves across its control panel. 

 Seeping
away ... draining ... 

 What
hed experienced second-hand from Uri-Tan was now happening to him. The
terrible helplessness, the encompassing dread ... 

 Darker
liquid, purple-maroon, appeared in the second tube. It moved downward and
back into his leg, rejoining him. He could feel it entering, cooler than
it should be, oozing back into his bloodstream. 

 "In
case youre vonderink," Tepes said, leaning over Obi-Wan with a predators
grin, "vere extractink chemicals from your blood. The very chemicals that
the midichlorians need to survive." 

 Now
he had to ask ... "Why are you doing this?" 

 "See
here." The Sith tapped a fogged glass dome bulging from the top of the
droid. "The chemical vill collect here, and then I shall inject it into
myself. The more bountiful their environment, the faster the midichlorians
breed ... and the more powerful the host becomes." 

 "It
is the beginnink of a new era," Eliry said, gazing with adoration at Tepes.
" Ve shall decide who rules the galaxy." 

 "It
shall become a great empire," Tepes said, rubbing his hands together in
anticipation. They made a dry rasping sound. "My Master and I vill determine
vere to bestow the gift. In time, all the Force vill serve our purpose." 

 "That
will not happen," Obi-Wan said. Yet bit by bit, drop by drop, he could
feel it being leeched from him ... 

 They
acted as if they hadnt heard. Eliry consulted a gauge on the collecting
unit and nodded to Tepes. 

 "Soon
now," she said. 

 Cycling,
cycling, his blood leaving him, wending its way through whatever intestinal
path lay hidden in the droid, and then returning. He began to shiver from
a cold that permeated him from the inside. 

 Eliry
brought the mouthpiece cup to his face. He turned his head away. 

 "You
vill use it or die," she told him bluntly. "Your body is already beginnink
to fail." 

 His
heart was slowing, pumping listlessly at the cooling, thickened blood.
Looking down at his hands, he saw they were no longer clenched in defiant
fists but limp on the arms of the chair. Dissociated from him somehow,
as if they were stuffed gloves attached to his wrists. The skin had gone
a pallid greyish hue. 

 She
deftly inserted the mouthpiece. A tube snaked from it, making him gag as
it slid into his throat. A pair of bellows on the sides of the droid began
to whoosh in and out, inflating his lungs. 

 "Vell,"
Tepes said cheerily, "you are going to die anyway ... for a short
vile. But it vould be a shame to vaste your skills ... thanks to your trainink,
the physical reflexes vill remain even ven the livink Force has been stripped
from you. So vell convert you." 

 "At
the moment of death," Eliry said, "I shall introduce another substance
directly into your heart. It vill avaken you to your new existence." 

 Tepes
beckoned to one of the guards. The man stalked forward and paused, the
snarling draconian mask of his helmet tilting impassively down at Obi-Wan. 

 "Best
of all," Tepes said, "youll still be recognizable, for long enough to
make our foes neglect their defenses. Ve shall haff even the Jedi Masters
at our mercy." 

 The
guard removed his helm. 

 Obi-Wan
stared in shock. "Uri-Tan ..." 

 *
* 

 Raven
and Anakin looked from the viewscreen to each other, and she saw her own
dismay mirrored in the youths expression. 

 "Two
of us, against that thing?" he said. 

 "We
have to," she replied. "Hes there." 

 "How
can you be sure? Didnt you feel --" 

 "I
felt it!" she barked. "Of course I did! I felt what was happening to him,
before he faded so that I couldnt sense him at all." 

 "Hes
probably --" 

 "Dont
say it!" 

 "But,
Raven! What good is it going to do if we just get ourselves killed? We
might not be able to help him!" 

 "I
wont leave without knowing one way or the other!" 

 "Even
if we could get in there, how would we find him? We lost him! Ive called,
and theres nothing!" 

 Ahead
of them, the main city of Bram sparkled with lights. Most of the buildings
were low, crowded along streets laid out like the spokes of a spiders
web. 

 At
the center of that web, a single structure reared hundreds of feet in the
air. It was bleached-white and made of six curved spires that jutted up
from a central walled courtyard, the whole thing giving the impression
of a skeletal, clawed hand thrusting up from the earth as if to rend the
sky. 

 The
ship theyd encountered at Festris moons was parked in the middle of the
courtyard. Enough other craft were flying and hovering above the city to
make them as inconspicuous as they could be in a flashy star cruiser with
go-faster stripes and outlandish lines. If any of the crew of the enemy
ship saw them, they were sure to be noticed. 

 "We
dont have time, Anakin. He needs us. And we need him ... if he does die,
whatll happen to you?" 

 He
recoiled as if slapped. "No other Jedi would train me. Id lose everything." 

 "We
 have 
to do this." She stood and headed for the back of the ship. "Take us in
fast and low, every gun blazing. Open the side hatch long enough for me
to jump out. Then make a diversion." 

 "Then
what?" 

 "Improvise." 

 "Okay."
He settled his blast-goggles securely on his face. "Ready." 

 "Go!" 

 The
 Vances
Pride shot into motion. Even prepared for it, Raven was almost thrown
off her feet by the sudden burst of speed. She made her way to the side
hatch and held on as Anakin caromed between the bone-white spires. The
guns spat meek little bolts of energy. 

 They
dipped steeply, then the door in front of her irised open. She saw the
courtyard fifty feet below, heard the alarm claxons and shouts and the
heavier thump of laser cannons returning fire. Anakin swerved to avoid
one of these, and Raven leaped. 

 She
dropped lithely and landed in a crouch. For once, her choice of fashion
served her well; the guards racing for strategic posts and the rest scattering
for cover all wore black, or black and crimson. 

 One
of the guards saw her and realized where shed come from, but never had
time to raise the hue-and-cry. She was on him in a flash, not daring to
draw attention with a lightsaber here in the open, a kick to the gut and
lightning-quick a second kick that caught him square in the face as he
bent double. 

 Before
he even hit the ground, she was running for the nearest doorway. Mouthlike
arch lined with metal blades, portcullis, closing as whirling beacons lit
up the courtyard. 

 She
dove headfirst through the dwindling opening. One of the pointed blades
snagged her cloak and she tore it free. The door clashed shut, plunging
her into a darkness that would have blinded anyone who hadnt grown up
on a sunless prison moon. 

 Guard,
yawning. 

 Amethyst
flare, slicing. 

 Raven
jumped over the body, lightsaber in one hand, and ran down the passageway.
At the sounds of many voices, she ducked into an alcove and doused the
beam. 

 Guards,
wide awake. A lot of them. Armed. 

 She
tensed, ready. 

 Impact
and explosion, shaking the entire building. 

 The
guards changed course, taking a branch of the corridor that did not lead
them past Ravens hiding place. 

 With
a moment of relative safety to use, she summoned the Force as best she
could and tried to reach Obi-Wan. 

 Nothing
... hollow empty used-up nothing. 

 Dead? 

 No! 

 She
wouldnt allow it! 

 I
know youre here! she thought furiously. Answer me! 

 The
faintest of flutters, the dimmest of sparks, there and then gone but it
was good enough for her. He lived, and while maybe she couldnt consciously
find him, fate or Force or even Noct would lead her to him. 

 *
* 

 Obi-Wan
barely stirred when the alarms began to sound. He hadnt even flinched
when filaments within the medi-droids glass needle began to heat up as
it withdrew, cauterizing the deep holes closed. 

 "Hurry,
vere under attack," Tepes said, seizing the syringe that Eliry had just
finished filling. It contained a clear, thick fluid. "I had a feelink that
other ship might give us trouble." 

 "Jedi?"
she inquired with an air of unconcern. 

 "If
they are, vell put them to good use." He tilted his head to the side,
found the artery throbbing in his neck, and slid the needle deep. 

 Obi-Wan
watched with detached concern as the chemical that had been stolen from
him flowed into the Sith. 

 The
second glass needle began to grow warm in his leg, his blood having finished
its last circuit through the droid. He could hear his flesh sizzling, but
there was still no pain. 

 Tepes
exhaled, trembling either from reaction or exultation. "Ah ... yes! Now
it is complete! I haff powers to rival my own Master! I vill deal vith
this attack personally. Eliry, finish vith him." He tapped Uri-Tan on the
arm. "You, come vith me." 

 The
two of them hastily left, while the other guard remained alertly at his
post. Eliry balanced a black case atop the medi-droid. 

 Noises
of a battle raged above. Muffled explosions. Obi-Wan barely noticed. He
knew he should be more attentive, knew he should try to break free ...
but lethargy wrapped around him like iron chains, pulling him into a dark
and cold sea, down and down. 

 He
flinched at a jab, thought at first it was the promised injection that
would turn him into a living-yet-not servant of the Sith. But Eliry had
said that would go into his heart; this had been in the vicinity of his
head. 

 Or
had it? 

 He
dredged the last of his will and made himself attempt to return his awareness
to his surroundings and his increasingly unresponsive body. 

 Another
jab, and he understood its source. 

 "Here
..." he mouthed. Here ... 

 Just
holding his eyes open called for a titanic effort. He couldnt move so
much as a finger. 

 Eliry
either hadnt noticed his attempted response to the call, or didnt care.
She held up a small vial of blackish-red liquid. 

 "In
the ancient history of this vorld," she said conversationally, "a disease
svept through our people. Some of our ancestors realized that the key to
survival could be found in the lifes blood of other races. They took vat
they needed the only vay they could. Vat they didnt know vas that ve possessed
special chemicals of our own, found in our saliva. This is a concentrated
version." 

 Air,
dragging in and out of his lungs. His body wasnt his own, just a sack
of meat growing colder by the minute. His heart didnt beat in its familiar
rhythm anymore but convulsed then went slack for long moments, then convulsed
again. 

 Eliry
peered into his eyes. Hers were featureless black orbs that could have
been made from polished onyx, yet he could still read the cruel amusement
and scientific curiosity in them. 

 "You
are very close now to crossink over," she said. "Any moment now, your heart
vill come to a stop. There vill be a perceptible change in your eyes ...
thats vat Im vatching for ... as the midichlorians begin to die and take
you with them." 

 She
poked a needle through the cap of the vial and filled the syringe. 

 *
* 

 The
 Vances
Pride was no match for laser cannons. Anakin was all too aware than
a pilot a smidgen less skilled than he would have already been reduced
to burnt jelly in a crumpled can. 

 He
shut out all his worries and concentrated wholly on the moment. The star
cruiser had been designed more for looks than speed, and shuddered as he
got it to perform unfamiliar stunts. 

 Laser
shot, coming ... now! 

 He
veered a hard left, skimmed past a tower with a coat of paint to spare,
and whooped in glee as the cannon blew a big crumbling hole in the wall. 

 Something
blipped on the instrument panel. He spared a glance, saw a cluster of tiny
skimmers sweeping toward him. He identified the type if not the particular
make at once. One-man security ships, little more than a giant flying blaster
with a guard sitting on it. 

 Shielded,
though ... a mousy pop of energy from the Vances Pride only sparkled
prettily as it struck. And payback was a giant nova of yellow that bucked
his ship, made his teeth clack together so hard he couldve bitten off
his tongue, and ate up the last of his own shields. 

 "Now
Im in for it," he mumbled. 

 Spinning,
once and always a good trick. He barrel-rolled the star cruiser, one wing
swatting a skimmer as if it were a gnat -- a gnat that exploded when it
hit the ground. 

 Maybe
not such a good idea after all ... he managed to even out but there was
another tower coming right at him, and the controls had locked up. 

 Anakin
knew when he was licked. He scrambled to the escape pod, hit the ignition
almost before the door had fully closed behind him, and erupted from the
bottom of the ship. 

 The
 Vances
Pride smashed straight into the tower and burst into a colossal fireball.
The shockwave tumbled Anakins pod high into the sky, all he could see
were stars revolving dizzily, weird feeling of precognition as his rapid
breath gasped in the close confines. 

 The
escape pod slowed and began a downward trajectory. The steering mechanism
was only rudimentary, and the moment he grabbed it he knew he would be
lucky to land in one piece. 

 He
jolted it to the ground, bouncing across the courtyard like a skipped stone
on a placid pond. The last bounce brought it down on a guard, and Anakin
winced at the crunch, winced more as the pod slid greasily to a stop, cushioned
on the trail of the guards smeared-out corpse. 

 The
flaming wreckage of the Vances Pride and chunks of broken wall
were still raining down, and the rest of the tower had taken on a pronounced
lean. As Anakin fought his way free of the escape pod, he heard its ominous
rumble and realized it was coming down right at him. 

 He
raced out from under it, and it slammed down behind him. He was hurled
off his feet, landed on his stomach and got the wind knocked out of him,
and then covered his head as debris pelted him. 

 When
it ended, Anakin slowly got to his knees. He was nicked from flying bits
of stone and coated head to toe in dust and plaster, but considering that
the escape pod was now about the thickness of a slice of bread, he felt
fairly lucky, all told. 

 Until,
that is, he looked around and saw three guards closing in on him, with
blasters at the ready. 

 "Get
up, boy," one of them said. 

 He
rose, keeping his hands carefully within view. Two of them approached him,
while the one who had spoken kept him covered. 

 "Sorry
about all that," he said with his most disarming smile. 

 Before
they could answer, he jumped. 

 "Yah!" 

 Straight
up, simultaneous kicks, both feet connecting. The one to the left got it
in the forehead, the one to the right got it across the bridge of the nose;
they both went down hard. 

 Anakin
landed and immediately sprung in a forward flip, lightsaber taking off
the last ones arm at the elbow and then slashing-searing him across the
belly. 

 Panting,
emerald light blazing from his fist, Anakin stood in the center of the
three guards, all laid out around him. 

 "All
 right !"
he crowed. Then he snorted in disgust. "Shazbat! My best move ever and
nobody even saw it!" 

 *
* 

 The
corridor ahead of her ended in a balcony alcove overlooking a circular
room with a floor of mosaic tile in a swirl of red, black, and white. 

 Raven
stopped and leaned over, looking down. Long scarlet draperies hung to either
side of the balcony, rippling like twin waterfalls of blood. 

 As
she gathered a double handful and prepared to swing her leg over the rail,
she first sensed serious danger and then heard an imperious mans voice
ringing commandingly from below. She ducked instead, peering over the top. 

 He
stalked into the room with his cape flaring behind him. A near-tangible
aura of darkness engulfed him, one that seemed to absorb light, warmth,
hope. 

 Another
man was at his heels, wearing the armor she and Anakin had seen in their
prophetic vision. Four more like him hurried from other archways, all of
them meeting at the center of the room. 

 The
leader drew a lightsaber and thrust it over his head. It shed a poison-yellow
glow. In unison, the five others followed suit, their weapons shining in
many colors. 

 Raven
bolstered her mental cloak, eyes widening as she understood what had become
of Obi-Wans friend, and presumably other missing Jedi as well. This was
an evil that made even one such as her go pale. 

 She
poked her head up again, and thankfully saw that none of the lightsabers
were blue-white, none of the figures below familiar despite the concealing
armor. 

 A
strange heaviness settled over the group below. Silent communication, passing
among them with the speed of thought. It lasted only an instant, orders
given and accepted. 

 They
rushed out and Raven let them go. The moment the room was deserted again,
she vaulted over the rail and slid down the curtain, then ran down the
hall from which the leader had come. 

 She
rounded a corner and there was a guard, standing by a half-open door through
which issued odd mechanical sounds. He saw her and raised his blaster.
She drew-activated-swung even as he fired, deflecting it right back at
him. 

 It
hit him in the shoulder and he stumbled against the wall. The blaster flew
into the shadows. Raven struck so fiercely that she cleaved him in two
on a diagonal, from the collarbone to the waist. 

 The
pieces were hitting the ground as she kicked the door the rest of the way
open and sprang into the room. 

 A
woman whirled away from Obi-Wan, dropping a syringe. She curled her fingers
in a hard, swift movement, and the long sharp nails at their tips extended
into ivory daggers. 

 "What
have you done to him?" Raven demanded. She could not bear to look at him,
slumped in restraints and connected to the medi-droid. One glimpse of his
haggard face was enough to flay her raw with dread. 

 The
womans only reply was a piercing shriek as she launched herself at Raven.
She was cat-quick, dodging Ravens instinctive lightsaber slash and raking
claws at her eyes. 

 Raven
jerked her head back. Only one of the claws connected, splitting her eyebrow.
A red haze clouded her vision on that side as blood oozed into her eye. 

 The
woman lashed out at Ravens arm, seeking to make her drop her weapon. Raven
tossed it high, elbowed the woman in the mouth -- razor fangs shredding
her skin, breaking off in flesh and bone -- leaped up, caught the descending
lightsaber, pivoted and kicked. 

 Her
foe pinwheeled across the room, scarlet gown flying. She collided with
the wall and rebounded, and Raven thrust with both arms. 

 The
violet beam plunged into the womans chest to the hilt. Her body went rigid,
her bloodstained mouth worked feverishly. Her fingers stroked the air like
sharp spiders legs, inches from Ravens face. 

 Their
eyes met, fiery gold to opaque black. 

 "No
..." the woman moaned. "Please ..." 

 Raven,
trembling with rage, bared her teeth and shook her head silently. She twisted
the lightsaber in one hard wrench, then yanked it free as the woman collapsed. 

 The
corpse began to jitter. Winter-blue skin turned brittle and dry, then cracked
apart like old parchment. Raven stood over it, revolted and amazed, as
it withered and shriveled in on itself, until there was nothing left but
a greyish dustlike grit sifting from the clothes. 

 A
shaky breath escaped her. She turned off her lightsaber and prodded the
fabric with her toe, stirring it around. Nothing remained but the sparkling
jewels that had adorned her, some strands of long white hair, and a few
teeth. 

 Raven
pried loose the other teeth that had gotten stuck in her elbow and cast
them on the floor, scrubbing her hand on her tunic in distaste. 

 She
turned to Obi-Wan, and fell to her knees at his side. 

 *
* 

 "Get
away from the ship!" Anakin yelled, shoving his way through the crowd.
"Get away!" 

 His
voice was just one in the hundreds, and the rest were howling for revenge.
The freed Prhei surrounded the ship. They hammered at it, rocked it side
to side in hopes of upending it. 

 Make
a diversion, Raven had said. Improvise, shed said. 

 Well,
he had ... but it might have gotten a little out of control. 

 They
werent listening to him. All he could do was try not to get cooked with
the rest of them when the Sith Lords ship took off. 

 "Chicken!"
he shouted, waving his fist in a rude gesture. 

 Hed
seen the Sith emerge from a tower just as hed led the throng of Prhei
into the courtyard and knew him for what he was. Snooty, aristocratic-looking,
angular, a far cry from the savage visage of Darth Maul, but Anakin had
instantly recognized the stench of evil. 

 In
the excitement of freeing the prisoners from the dungeons, hed stopped
worrying about keeping a low mental profile. The Force in him drew the
Sith Lords gaze like a magnet. Their eyes locked, and hed felt the most
terrible lusting hungry greed roiling toward him. 

 Everything
was suddenly open to Anakin. He knew exactly what had happened,
not only to Obi-Wan but to the five men surrounding Darth Tepes. 

 "Take
him alive!" Tepes pointed his lightsaber at Anakin. 

 His
voice rang over the din of the alarms, and the Prhei turned like a flock
of birds in flight. At the sight of their hated captor, they loosed a collective
roar and surged forward, carrying Anakin with them like a twig caught in
floodwaters. 

 The
ex-Jedi had moved as one to defend Tepes, but even their skill couldnt
hold back the press of the enraged throng. Tepes, who had been anticipating
a straightforward battle, fled before he could be torn limb from limb.
He left his bodyguards behind, doomed to fall but certain to take a score
or more Prhei apiece with them. 

 Anakin
had tried to fight through to him, but the Sith reached his ship and leaped-flipped
inside. He slammed the hatch on the hands of his pursuers. 

 Now
he could see Tepes through the windshield. The engines roared. The guns
began to mow through the Prhei. 

 It
instantly turned them to panic, and now they were stampeding away 
from the ship as ardently as theyd been trying to reach it. Trampling,
lashing out in urgency. 

 Tepes
lifted off, out of their reach, and the Prhei vented their frustration
in a single mass shriek before falling on each other in their wrath. 

 Realizing
he was going to get ripped to bits if he lingered, Anakin got out of there
as fast as he could. He raced for the entrance through which Tepes had
come, suspecting hed find Obi-Wan still within. 

 He
scrambled over a section of fallen wall and was almost to the doorway when
a fist closed on the scruff of his neck and hoisted him off the ground. 

 "You!" 

 Uh-oh
... it was the big one, the one whod seen him letting the prisoners out
of their cells. 

 "Let
me go!" Anakin put all the power of the Force behind it. 

 The
command was immediately obeyed. Down he went, landing in the rubble and
bruising his tailbone. 

 He
mentally snatched up a hunk of debris and propelled it at the big mans
head. Anakin heard a noise reminiscent of whopping an underripe melon hard
with the haft of a knife, and the man keeled over. 

 "Three
cheers for the Force," he said, and dashed into the darkness. 

 He
still couldnt sense Obi-Wan, but he sensed Raven and could tell it wasnt
good news. They were too late ... theyd failed, theyd blown it ... all
for nothing! 

 *
* 

 "Youve
failed me," the hologram said, only twelve inches high on the projection
disk but towering with presence. "You ran like a coward." 

 Darth
Tepes glowered smolderingly but kept his head deferentially bowed. "I had
to escape, or they vould have destroyed me." 

 "Yes,"
Darth Sidious said flatly. "As they killed your wife." 

 "I
felt her dying scream ... the Jedi haff taken my voman from me." His knuckles
were dead-white around the ships controls. 

 "Do
you take me for a fool? The only Jedi there were the ones you left behind!
You were outdone by a boy and a maverick." 

 "No!
They vere Jedi ! I sensed the Force in them! And I vill see to it
that all the Jedi pay for vat they haff done!" 

 "While
I am normally in favor of my apprentices giving in to their darker emotions,"
Sidious said, interlacing his fingers, "you cannot afford to rush off in
a hate-filled fog." 

 "Vat
is it to you?" Tepes snapped. "You said how I disappoint you; ve shall
see how disappointink you find it ven I haff personally dealt vith the
Jedi Council!" 

 "You
dont mean to go to Coruscant! I cannot permit this." 

 He
sneered. "Vat vould you do? Dismiss me?" 

 "I
thought Id made it clear that I will tolerate no impertinence. Your first
duty is to me , apprentice. You will do as I say." 

 "I
vill make them pay! I haff powers now even greater than yours, Master !
Perhaps it is you who are unvorthy of me!" 

 He
slapped the controls, causing the bluish image of Sidious to contort and
then vanish in a snarl of static. 

 *
* 

 Jumping
over part of a dismembered sentry, Anakin skidded to a halt just inside
the room where Raven knelt by Obi-Wan. 

 She
spun and drew, then saw it was him and let her lightsaber drop. Her eyes
were haunted. 

 "Found
him," she said softly. 

 Anakin
came closer, taking in the entire scene -- medical kit, medi-droid, all
of it. "Hes dead, isnt he?" 

 "Hes
breathing." 

 "Raven
..." 

 "Hes
 breathing ,
Anakin!" 

 He
wouldnt back down, though his voice was near to breaking and he was fighting
off hot tears. "The machines breathing for him, Raven. Thats no way to
be. Whod want to live like that, dependent on a machine to breathe? We
... we have to let him go." 

 "You
mean unhook it?" 

 "We
cant leave him like this." He reached for the droid, then cried out as
she seized his wrist in a crushing grip. 

 "Its
not your day to kill him," she said. "He ... he has to live, dont you
understand? He has to live!" 

 "Theres
nothing we can do!" He told her what he believed had been done to Obi-Wan.
Warbles and beeps from the amiable medi-droid confirmed it. 

 "You
can communicate with that thing?" 

 "Yeah.
It was just following orders." 

 "Thats
what they all say." 

 "This
syringe would have done something else, I dont know what, only that its
 bad !"
He flung it against the wall, where it shattered and leaked black-red fluid
down the stones. 

 Raven
sat with her head down, tendrils of hair that had come loose from her braid
falling around her face. "Cant we get back what they took from him?" 

 "The
Sith Lord got away. Even if we could catch up, wed have to capture him
alive ... we dont have a ship ... theres no way we could find him in
time." 

 She
pressed her hand against Obi-Wans chest, raised his chin. His eyes were
closed, he looked twenty years older than he had when hed left Sylvar. 

 Anakin
bit his lip. "I know, Raven ... I wish there was something --" 

 "Can
you work this machine?" 

 "Yeah,
sure, but Raven, like I was saying --" 

 "Take
it from me." 

 "What?" 

 "My
blood, Anakin. Take it, and give him what he needs." 

 "No!
This is crazy! I cant ... I couldnt ..." 

 "You
can and you will!" She took his head between her hands and fixed him with
her glittering eyes. "It has to be this way. Im the only one." 

 "Im
--" 

 "Needed
to operate the machine," she interrupted. "And if he and his mentor were
right, youre too important to risk. You need him to guide and teach
you. That leaves me. Its what I choose." 

 "But
... but ..." 

 Whatever
he might have said was forgotten as a man appeared in the doorway and trained
a blaster on them both. It was the big one, the one that Anakin had dropped
with a chunk of debris. Now he was mad . 

 Anakin
grabbed for his lightsaber, but Raven just shifted her intense gaze to
him and reached out, curling her fingers. 

 The
blaster clattered to the floor. The man clutched at his throat and made
a hideous strangling gurgle. A tide of purple flooded his skin. 

 Ravens
eyes narrowed and she tightened her grip. 

 He
fell down, tearing at his neck now, desperate for air. His heels drummed
on the floor. 

 Her
fist clenched. 

 His
back arched. His larynx crunched, the small vertebrae cracked in rapid
succession like a chain of fireworks. He went limp. 

 Anakin
sucked in a deep breath of his own to assure himself he still could. "You
... wow!" 

 Raven
relaxed her hand. As if the events of the previous minute had never taken
place, she turned her attention back on him. 

 "We
have to save him, Ani. No matter the cost to me. I cant do it alone ...
but Ill try if I have to." 

 "The
first thing well need to do is warm him up," Anakin said slowly. "The
droids got a thermal ray that should counteract the chill in his blood." 

 She
examined the restraints, found them locked, and rather than look for a
key just wrenched them open with her will. 

 Obi-Wan
slid forward and nearly fell, but she caught him and carefully lowered
him to the floor, making sure the breathing tube didnt become kinked or
stretched. 

 Anakin
told the droid to activate the thermal ray. A cone of orange light beamed
over Obi-Wan. 

 Raven
brought his motionless hand to her face, rubbing her cheek along the back
of it. She kissed it, placed it across his waist, and leaned to brush another
kiss on his brow. 

 "All
right," she said, seating herself in the chair. "Lets get it over with." 

 The
droid obligingly extended twin arms. Its internal cleaning and sterilization
systems had removed every trace of Obi-Wans blood from the crystal needles
and clear tubes. 

 Raven
withdrew a short, slim knife that had been hidden in her braid, and Anakins
eyebrows went up in surprise. 

 "Smugglers
trick," she said, using the knife to make two cuts in the black fabric
that sheathed her legs. 

 He
started to point out that the droid lacked a second breathing apparatus,
but she already knew that. Instead, he gave her a quick and awkward kiss
on the cheek. "Is there anything you want me to do?" 

 "All
Id ask is to be avenged, and I dont want to put that burden on you."
She smiled, a sad and familiar sort of smile. 

 It
took Anakin back four years and halfway across the galaxy, to his last
glimpse of his mother. Grieving but knowing she was doing the right thing,
the only thing. 

 "Ill
do it, though. Ill find him, I promise." 

 Raven
nodded, then closed her eyes and held onto the arms of the chair as the
medi-droid rolled into position. 

 *
* 

 Warmth. 

 Tingling. 

 He
became aware of the beating of his heart, the regular coursing of life
through his veins. His nerves tingled, his muscles twitched as each independently
re-awoke. 

 Air
hissing in and out of him, sterile and tinned. 

 Was
this it? Was this the new awareness theyd told him of? Had he revived
not as himself but as a tool of the Sith? 

 No
... 

 No,
he sensed nothing of the sort. His thoughts, his will, were his own. 

 His
eyelids fluttered. 

 He
detected a presence nearby, felt a touch, heard a voice anxiously speaking
a name. His name. 

 Tried
to speak. Couldnt. Coughed against the invasive tube that filled his throat.
He gagged as it was withdrawn -- slithering, lurching sensation. Then gasped
in a breath. 

 Blood.
Ash. Decay. Mustiness. 

 A
veil, a murky grey veil, hanging before him. Blocking the way. Blurred
shapes half-seen through it. 

 A
thought, pulled whole from its thinker. 

 Hes
not going to make it, after all this, after what she did, hes not going
to make it! 

 "Come
on, Obi-Wan!" the voice urged. "Come back! Wake up!" 

 A
sharp slap. 

 He
lunged upright, crying out. Before he knew what he was doing, he had someone
by the upper arms, was shoving that person against the wall. 

 The
veil tattered and blew away. 

 "Anakin?" 

 The
youths face lit up with hope. "Obi-Wan? Youre back!" 

 He
let go and brought his hands to his face, dazed. "Alive. Im alive ...
and ... the Force ...so weak, but with me again ..." he turned his palms
up, looking at them as if the answer might be written there. "How --?" 

 It
popped like a bubble to the surface of Anakins mind, though he tried to
block it, tried to spare Obi-Wan the truth for a little while longer. 

 "No,"
he said strengthlessly, turning almost against his will. When he saw her,
it burst from him loud as thunder. "NO!" 

 Slouched
in the chair, arms dangling limp at her sides, head down. New scars on
her legs matched the ones he bore, and there was spilled blood because
Anakin wasnt as adept with a needle as Eliry had been. 

 He
was beside her without knowing how he got there. 

 Cold,
she was so cold! But ... 

 "Not
dead," he murmured. "Shes not dead!" 

 "I
couldnt do it," Anakin said. "Couldnt take it all. I thought maybe if
I just took some, itd be enough to help you and not kill her." 

 He
lifted her head, running his thumb over her lips to feel the breath she
took in shallow sips. She was deeply unconscious, her mind utterly dark
to him. Whether that last was from her condition or his weakened ability,
he wasnt sure. 

 "I
just couldnt," Anakin said softly. "I had to trust my instincts, right?
Stop when I felt like it was okay, right?" 

 Obi-Wan
swept him into a tight embrace. "Thank you, Ani." 

 "Are
you mad that we came after you?" 

 "I
should be. It was too dangerous, too great a risk. But under the circumstances,
I cant scold you. You saved my life ... more, you saved my soul ." 

 Anakin
nodded. "I know what they tried to do." 

 "The
other Jedi --?" 

 While
Anakin told him everything that had happened, starting from his vision
on Sylvar, Obi-Wan wrapped Raven in her cloak and fastened her lightsaber
to his belt. It seemed to be the lot of these Sith to deprive him of his
own; first losing one down a shaft then having a second confiscated. 

 "So
we dont have a ship anymore," Anakin finished, a bit shamefaced, "and
Admiral Antilles is going to pitch a fit ... but I figure thats the last
of my worries right now. Weve got to find Darth Tepes." 

 "Were
in no condition to --" 

 "Not
just because I promised Raven. I mean, technically, since shes alive I
dont have to avenge her; I can probably get out of that one. But I think
hes going to do something. I felt it. Hes going to do something to the
Council." 

 Obi-Wan
picked up Raven. Her head rolled against his shoulder. She was beginning
to shiver, which he took as a good sign. 

 "Then
we will need a new ship," he said. 

 Anakin
nodded eagerly. "Ill find us one!" 

 That
proved to be easier said than done; when they emerged from the tower they
found that the Prhei had descended into a full-fledged riot. The city beyond
the walls was in flames, mobs packed the streets. 

 "Whats
happening?" Anakin asked, staring out over the scene. 

 "Theyre
rising against their rulers," Obi-Wan said. "The Bram have dominated this
world for centuries, but I think thats just changed." 

 "Oops."
He looked sheepish. "Uh ... we Jedi dont have any big rules about messing
with local cultures, do we?" 

 "At
the moment, I wouldnt worry about it." 

 The
courtyard was silent, the action having moved into the city. They moved
slowly, picking their way, trying to find a path through the dozens of
bodies. Most were Prhei, but many were Bram guards. 

 "Wait,"
Obi-Wan said, catching sight of a black demon-visaged helm. "That one ..." 

 Anakin
inched over as if he expected the corpse to suddenly spring up and get
him, though the mans chest was a caved-in ruin. He gingerly flipped up
the visor. A human face, glassy-eyed and slack, stared back at them. 

 "I
dont know him," Obi-Wan said, holding Raven more securely in his arms.
"But he was Jedi." 

 "Do
you want me to look for his lightsaber?" Anakin asked reluctantly, clearly
not wanting to paw through the dead on such an errand. "Or ... bring the
body?" 

 "No."
He sighed desolately. "We cant take him with us, cant give him the funeral
a Jedi deserves ... we have to put the living first." 

 They
found an intact skimmer. Obi-Wan studied it, then turned to Anakin with
a questioning look. 

 "Yeah,
I can fly it," he replied. "But its a one-person craft, and even if we
could all fit, its only good for short-range flights." 

 "Then
take it, search for a suitable ship, and return," Obi-Wan said, carrying
Raven to an undamaged section of wall and setting her gently down in a
corner. "Well wait here." 

 "Are
you sure?" 

 "Its
our only hope." 

 Anakin
climbed inside, fiddled with the instruments, muttered to himself, and
then the skimmers engine chugged to life. He gave Obi-Wan a beaming thumbs-up
through the canopy. Obi-Wan returned it with a half-smile, then turned
away as the skimmer lifted off. 

 He
sat down beside Raven. She was still breathing shallowly but evenly, her
pulse slow but strong. Her skin was even paler than usual, chalky, tinged
faintly with blue. Resting on cold stones wouldnt help her, nor would
the chill in the air. 

 Obi-Wan
collected three red cloaks from fallen Bram guards, spreading one beneath
and wrapping the others around them as he huddled beside her to share what
little warmth he had. 

 His
arm ached dully. Now that he had the leisure to examine it, he found a
bruise flowering in the crook of his elbow and understood that this was
where Anakin had injected him with the chemical extract. Better there than
the neck, he thought, remembering the long needle sinking into Darth Tepes
flesh. 

 He
took deep breaths ... calm, calmer ... and sent a mental warning to the
Council. The effort left him with no inkling whether hed reached them
or not. No comforting sense of presence met his reaching mind. Too far
away, or his own powers were still too weak. 

 No
other options, then. They had to go after Tepes. 

 A
grating, dragging footstep brought his head up sharply, and he realized
with chagrin hed fallen into a near-doze. 

 Something,
someone, was moving across the courtyard. Limping, hunched over. 

 Raven
was still beside him, her color a bit improved. There was no sign of Anakin. 

 He
was suddenly sure it would be Eliry, reanimated by some hideous magic and
bent on finishing the job. 

 No.
He had seen the spill of dust that was all that remained of her. This was
... he opened his mind and instantly shied back in sweeping horror ... 

 Worse. 

 The
figure stopped, straightened up, and yanked off the black helm. Uri-Tans
familiar features were alien now. A wild light blazed in his eyes, his
mouth was twisted in a snarl. Blood was dried in a smear across his cheek. 

 His
clothes were in tatters, his armor dented from the damage hed sustained
at the hands of the Prhei. But aside from the limp, he was moving well
enough, and as his gaze locked with Obi-Wans across a heap of bodies,
he raised an unlit lightsaber in mute challenge. 

 "Uri-Tan,
no," Obi-Wan said, standing. "Listen to me!" 

 It
was no use, he knew that. The face was that of his friend, but the rest
of him was no longer Uri-Tan. The real Uri-Tan was dead, had died
when Elirys needle had found his heart and filled him with the essence
of evil. 

 Resignedly,
he drew Ravens lightsaber and moved to meet Uri-Tan. Both of them were
at less than peak, their respective ordeals bringing them to a fairly even
match. 

 Uri-Tan
looked at him without a hint of recognition, and activated his weapon.
It was a shade of turquoise as vivid as a shaft of sunlight through the
tropical waters of Marn, Uri-Tans homeworld. 

 The
beam jumped with a sputtering and spitting hum that Obi-Wan knew was the
sign of a damaged power source. The handle was badly scarred. 

 Despite
what he knew was truth, Obi-Wan could not attack first. He stood
his ground and waited as Uri-Tan came to him. 

 It
was like a training match in slowed motion, both of them with reflexes
dulled. But Uri-Tans intent was earnest enough to overcome that. He slashed
so fiercely that he nearly disarmed Obi-Wan, which would have ended things
in short order. 

 Obi-Wan
felt the searing heat pass his wrist, a shower of blue-green sparks stinging
his skin and leaving tiny smoking holes in his sleeve. He retaliated, knowing
he didnt dare attempt any maneuvers other than straightforward saber-play. 

 They
ranged back and forth through the corpses, death-stink rising sickly all
around them. Obi-Wan, still barefoot, slipped in congealed puddles and
streaks of Prhei blood. 

 Turquoise
and amethyst, flashing, flashing. 

 Uri-Tans
lightsaber cut out just as he made to parry, and Obi-Wans strike landed
on his shoulder. A chunk of armor fell away with glowing red-hot edges,
leaving the skin beneath blistered and black. 

 He
swung with the unlit hilt. It cracked Obi-Wan in the head, by malign mischance
hitting him right on the already-swollen lump left over from the assault
on the Vigilant . Novas burst across his vision and he dropped to
his knees. 

 Making
low glottal noises of anger, Uri-Tan pounded the hilt into his palm and
shook it. The beam sprang on, went out, sprang on again and stayed steady. 

 A
surge of transcendent energy poured into Obi-Wan. He was on his feet and
flipping backward as the turquoise lightsaber sliced through the spot where
hed been only a fraction of a second before. 

 His
powers were fully restored. Not stopping to question it, he vaulted over
Uri-Tans head. A well-placed kick in the small of the back sent Uri-Tan
face-first to the ground, but he held onto his lightsaber and rolled to
bring it up just as Obi-Wan jumped toward him. 

 The
turquoise beam nearly impaled him but he twisted in mid-air and swung hard,
severing Uri-Tans arm above the elbow and scoring a deep charred trench
in his side. 

 Somehow,
Uri-Tan got his weapon up in time to intercept a follow-up blow, but on
the hilt rather than the beam. Metal split asunder, the blue-green light
went hot yellow-white, and then Uri-Tan was engulfed in flames. 

 He
reeled backward with a terrible scream, the exploded remains of his lightsaber
still clenched in his hand. His legs tangled with those of a Prhei corpse
and he fell, rolling and howling. 

 Obi-Wan
ran to him, but the heat was too intense. He stood helplessly, unable to
give the killing strike that would have been more merciful, watching as
his former friend burned alive. 

 It
went on far longer than should have been possible. Maybe an effect of whatever
theyd done to Uri-Tan. Or maybe it only seemed that way to Obi-Wan. 

 At
last, the blaze died down enough for him to get close. But by then, there
was no need. 

 Obi-Wan
bowed his head, just as if it had been a proper Jedi pyre. He heard an
engine approaching and his restored senses told him it was Anakin without
even having to turn around. 

 The
boy approached hesitantly, eyes fixed on the leaping flames. Probably remembering
the funeral of Qui-Gon ... but such a difference! Qui-Gon had seemed at
repose within the fire, the shell of his body being burned away as his
spirit moved on to a new freedom. 

 "Your
friend?" Anakin asked softly. 

 "A
good friend," Obi-Wan replied. "Its better this way." 

 *
* 

 Coruscant
was most beautiful by night. 

 During
the day, the silvery buildings shimmered and the endless parade of vehicles
wove a tapestry against the blue sky, it was pretty enough. Brimming with
a sense of bustling business, life, and activity. 

 But
when the sun set and the skyscrapers windows sparkled, when the aerial
traffic turned to streams of light, the city-planet took on a rich dark
enchantment that made it seem less a civilization and more a wondrous thing
in its own right. 

 It
was a scene that normally filled Zadrek Kellnu with peace and purpose,
and a stroll along the high ledges of the Jedi temple usually soothed her.
Tonight, it could not ease the troubles that plagued her mind. 

 A
strange pall had fallen over all of them. Anxiety and grief, dismay and
dread, putting tempers on edge. Her fellow Jedi Masters were unsettled
and edgy, unable to pinpoint the source of these disturbing feelings. 

 The
Knights, being more prone to action, were petitioning for permission to
go and search for their absent brothers. They resented being denied, but
such was the way it had to be. 

 It
formed a conundrum that did not seem likely to be resolved. Until they
knew more, the Council would not endanger the lives of the Jedi; without
sending Jedi to seek answers, they would not soon know more. 

 Six
Jedi Knights lost ... not cleanly to death. To something unutterably foul,
unmistakably evil. The last, taken when he was responding to the Councils
own summons, carried the additional weight of guilt, for had they not sent
for him, he might have been spared. 

 Kellnu
sighed, not looking forward to the unhappy task that awaited her. As the
most empathic of the Council, it fell to her to inform the families of
the fallen. 

 True,
young ones strong in the Force were removed from their homes, brought here
to be properly raised and trained, but they were not barbaric about
it. Contact was still permitted, and such ties were encouraged ... not
only was it the kind thing to do but it let them keep an eye on families
that showed strength in the Force. 

 Such
relationships were not always so smooth. Some families resented the Jedi,
were not honored to see their sons and daughters snatched away. 

 Soon
she would have to deal with one of those very families. She would have
to tell them that the son they hadnt wished to be parted from would now
never return at all. 

 The
brother worried her most. None were more bitter against the Jedi than those
who had once been considered, and rejected. 

 She
suspected that his future was bound to the Jedi in some vital but concealed
way. How she handled him could affect that role, and she was uncertain
as to the best way to proceed. 

 This
curious blankness, this unsettling cloud ... it infiltrated her every thought
and mood. As if the combined weight of sorrow upon all the Jedi were coming
to rest on her. 

 Yet
through it, thin threads of disquiet wove themselves into a design, whose
pattern she could not foresee. 

 *
* 

 Anakin
had liberated a courier ship, long and narrow and boldly blazoned with
the colors of the Republic. 

 The
interior was not really equipped for passengers, consisting mainly of a
straight cramped corridor that ran from cockpit to rear, pocked with compartments
to hold packages. The crew of two shared a tiny living space tucked behind
the cockpit almost as an afterthought. 

 To
further complicate things, most couriers in this sector were Tadk, a humanoid
race that reached five feet at their full growth and were winged and hollow-boned.
This meant that the bunks were too small even for Anakin, the ceilings
were low, and the pilots seat was more of a perch than a chair. 

 But
it was a fast little ship. 

 Obi-Wan
didnt like to wonder what might have happened to the Tadk; Anakin reported
that there had been no sign of them. He hoped theyd flown away from the
riots in the city. 

 He
checked the autopilot and nodded in satisfaction, then went to the tiny
living area. 

 Anakin
was on the top bunk, feet sticking out the end and one arm dangling. He
snored lightly, his face squashed into a thin pillow. 

 Obi-Wan
knelt beside the bottom bunk and started in surprise to find Raven awake,
looking up at him with astonished golden eyes. 

 "How
do you feel?" he asked, taking her hand. 

 "Im
alive," she said in disbelief. "And ... so are you." 

 He
pressed his forehead to hers, closing his eyes tightly. A strong thought/emotion
flew between them, I feared Id lost you , born from both their minds
simultaneously. 

 "You
shouldnt have done it," he said. "Not for me, not for anyone ." 

 "It
wasnt your decision." 

 "I
wouldnt have permitted it." 

 "Thats
why it wasnt your decision." 

 "Youre
crazy, you do know that?" 

 "Always
have been. Anakin?" 

 "Hes
here, hes fine. Worn out." 

 "I
know the feeling. You?" 

 He
shook his head. "Nothing that wont mend. Bruises. A headache as if a construction
droid was hammering on sheet metal. What about you? I know what youve
sacrificed ..." 

 "Its
okay. Itll be all right." 

 "We
couldnt bring the medi-droid, but I will find a way to give back what
you gave to me. I promise you." 

 "Dont.
I wont take it from you. Youre the Jedi, not me. You need it. Its your
whole life. I can get by, and ..." speaking was wearying her, but when
he tried to shush her, she would have none of it. "And maybe its not gone
forever. We bleed, we heal, and our blood replenishes. Maybe the chemical
does too." 

 "Maybe,"
he allowed. 

 "Where
are we going? Coruscant?" 

 He
nodded. "Darth Tepes escaped, and Anakin thinks he means to move directly
against the Council. I havent been able to send them any transmissions,
and whenever I try and warn them any other way, its as if Im trying to
push my way through a dense cloud." 

 She
managed a ghost of a smile. "They wont be happy to see me. Didnt they
forbid you to ever let me set foot on that planet again?" 

 He
ignored the question. "I will make sure that they know what youve done.
How could they doubt you after this?" 

 "Master
Yoda will find a way," she said wryly. 

 "Would
it help to know that he doesnt like anyone?" 

 "Probably
not," she sighed, shifting to seek a more comfortable position on the bunk.
"But if were too late, it wont matter." 

 "We
wont be." He smoothed her hair back from her face, letting his hand linger
on her skin and relish the returned warmth. 

 "Tell
me honestly ... can we take this Tepes out, or are we rushing to throw
our lives away?" 

 "He
has the strength of many Jedi now," Obi-Wan admitted. "He is powerful.
But I will face him. You will stay on the ship and rest." 

 She
started to push herself up and he held her down with a minimum of effort. 

 "You
 will 
stay on the ship." 

 "Are
you trying to use that mind trick on me? Because its not working." 

 "I
wouldnt do that," he said after a pause to contemplate it, a pause during
which she looked as if she might be thinking of swatting him. "Im telling
you that this is what you must do. You cant fight. You can barely move.
Stay here, and let me handle this." 

 Even
her glower was sorely weakened. "And do nothing while you get yourself
killed?" 

 "I
will have Anakin with me, and many other Jedi. Once we raise the alarm,
Tepes wont stand a chance." 

 *
* 

 The
hour was late and the night was growing old, yet Zadrek Kellnu still walked
the ledges on her solitary vigil, watching the courier ships come and go
on late errands. 

 Most
fully-trained Jedi had no physical need for sleep, having honed their bodies
to the point where they could get by with a few moments a day of quiet
meditation. 

 But
sleep was a mental necessity as well, she knew. A chance for the mind to
sort through the cares of the day that couldnt be resolved by waking thought. 

 There
would be no sleep for her tonight. Not with so much to worry about. 

 The
boy, for instance. What was to become of the boy? 

 They
could not turn him loose to go on his merry way; he would be far too vulnerable
to their hidden enemy. For his own sake and all of theirs, he had 
to be properly trained and educated. 

 Some
Knight would simply have to take over for Kenobi in that regard, she thought
somberly, walking along the ledge. 

 Presentiment
touched her like the brush of a moths wing. She pulled her robe more closely
around herself as the night seemed to turn colder, and banished her other
concerns to analyze the warning. 

 She
shuddered, struck by the sudden knowledge that it was far more urgent,
immediate, and personal. Quickening her pace, she turned a corner and stumbled
over a body. 

 Vdrin
stared up at her, his features agape in horror and agony. The side of his
neck was torn away in a ragged wound. Judging by the discoloration of his
skin and the stiffness of the body, hed been there for hours. 

 How
could a Jedi Master have died without her knowing? How could he lay here
undetected all that time? 

 Someone
grabbed her from behind. 

 Mind
and body reacted together, silently screaming a warning to the others and
drawing a lightsaber that gleamed pearl-white. 

 No
sooner was it lit than it was struck from her grasp, spinning off the edge
and vanishing into the city below. 

 Six-fingered
hands slammed onto her shoulders and spun her, sharp nails ripping the
cloth of her robe to reveal her throat. 

 The
Brams face was streaked with dried greenish-brown blood, and strings of
gore dangled from his teeth as he snarled at her. 

 A
massive wave of blackness swamped her mind, blotting out psychic sensation.
Robbed of her powers, she could not save herself, could only stand as frozen
as an ice sculpture as the Bram lowered his jaws toward her neck. 

 Brilliant
amber flared, and Mace Windus voice boomed, "Kellnu!" 

 The
Sith -- for so she now knew it to be -- shoved her so hard that she struck
the waist-high rail and flipped over. 

 Zadrek
Kellnu clutched the top and hung there, feet kicking in open space, unable
to use the Force to boost herself back up, as helpless as a child. She
saw at an odd angle how the Sith leaped to attack, agile as the best of
the Knights. 

 Mace
Windu was a staunch and solid warrior, holding his ground without any of
the slick moves or fancy tricks that characterized the fighting style of
so many other Jedi. He was a wall, unbreachable and resolute. The Siths
best efforts met with an impenetrable defense. 

 They
moved out of her line of sight, leaving her with only her ears to tell
her how the battle was progressing. 

 Kellnu
still sensed nothing. Did those in the temple not know what was happening
out here? Her hands slipped and she fell, but caught a lip of stone and
found purchase. 

 The
battle ranged back into her view. She saw Windu stagger, not from a physical
blow but from the same black wave that had drowned her powers. Now the
Sith had more of an advantage and wasted no time taking it. 

 "I
now haff the powers of seven Jedi!" he boasted, driving Windu back with
a series of slashes and thrusts. "Soon I vill haff yours too!" 

 "You
will have nothing!" 

 So
saying, Obi-Wan Kenobi dropped from a higher ledge. A beam of violet sprang
from his fist. The moment he landed, he bounced on one foot and kicked
the startled Sith in the ribs. 

 "Psst!" 

 Kellnu
looked up with a gasp, and saw Anakin Skywalker leaning over the rail,
reaching. 

 "Let
me pull you up!" the boy said. 

 She
clasped his hands, sure that she would drag him over and down after her.
He strained, then his eyes slitted in concentration and she felt herself
drawn steadily upward by the unseen Force, and deposited safely on the
ledge. 

 Nothing
should have been able to stand against the combined assault of Kenobi and
Windu, yet the Sith was doing so. Barely, but successfully. 

 "Im
fine," she told Skywalker, catching her breath. "Help them." 

 He
saluted smartly and dashed into the fray. 

 The
Sith stunned Windu with a punch to the head, would have spitted him if
Kenobi hadnt parried for Windu; a backhand swing scorched a line across
Kenobis midsection and would have gutted him if the Jedi hadnt jumped
back with such alacrity; he bent with a forearm pressed along the wound,
not crying out but agony evident in his expression. 

 The
boy attempted a leaping kick and was batted out of the air; the Sith somersaulted
over Skywalker and stabbed downward; the boy rolled and arched into a bow
and the yellow lightsaber sank into the stone, leaving a hole. It wedged
and he growled, lashing out with a kick that landed between Skywalkers
shoulderblades. The boy yelped and rolled. 

 As
the Sith bent over to free his weapon, Kenobi shoved a hand at him and
sent him sprawling at Windus feet. The Jedi Master stepped hard on the
Siths wrist, pinning it, and breaking it by the sound. His lightsaber
tumbled over the edge and was gone. 

 The
Sith latched onto Windus leg with his teeth, shearing through flesh. Bellowing
in pain, Windu recoiled and fell on his back, blood not running but spouting . 

 Springing
upright, unarmed but still fast even by their standards, the Sith went
after Kenobi with a shriek of purest fury. "You killed my voman!" 

 "No,"
a female voice said. "That was me." 

 His
head whipped around, white ponytail flying. 

 A
woman in black was leaning on the wall to support herself, her fair skin
even paler, dark smudges beneath her eyes. 

 Kellnu
knew her at once, this prot&eacute;g&eacute; of a Dark Jedi dismissed from
their order. In that moment, in the shadows, she could have been Damon
Blake come back to life. 

 "Raven,
no!" Kenobi said through gritted teeth. 

 "I
impaled her through the heart," Raven continued relentlessly, inching forward.
"Watched her crumble away to dust." 

 "And
I freed your prisoners!" Skywalker announced. "Smashed your towers!" 

 "I
vill see you both die," the Sith vowed. He seized Raven and yanked her
to him. Her head fell weakly back, leaving her neck exposed and vulnerable. 

 "Ani!"
She thrust out an arm. 

 The
boy threw his unlit lightsaber and it socked firmly into her waiting palm.
As the Sith darted at her with the speed of a striking snake, she pushed
the end beneath his chin and depressed the button. 

 Emerald
light gushed from his open mouth, lit up his skull from the inside, and
burst out the top of his head. 

 He
struck out wildly, clawlike nails raking at Raven. His eyes were boiling
in their sockets, his hair was aflame, and still he lived, still he fought.
She lost her hold on the lightsaber and it slid out of his sundered head,
leaving a gruesome blackened dripping trail. 

 Kenobi
interposed himself as the Sith blindly reached to grapple Raven. The claws
found him instead, tearing, drawing blood; the scent of it maddening the
Sith further. His claws sank deep into Kenobis arm, the furnace cavern
of his mouth yawed insanely wide. 

 Raven
grasped Kenobis wrist, steadying it. Together, they brought the violet
lightsaber up and out, plunging it into the Siths chest. 

 Whether
he crumbled to dust or burned to ash, Kellnu was never fully sure. The
night wind whisked the remains away, leaving just the empty shell of armor
and clothing. 

 Raven
and Kenobi sank to their knees together and clung to each other in the
manner of grateful survivors. The boy flung his arms around them both.
All three of them groaned from their various injuries but none pulled away. 

 *
* 

 "Another
one," Darth Sidious said to himself. "That Kenobi is becoming a serious
problem." 

 Hed
witnessed all, his senses easily able to penetrate the muffling psychic
cloud that hed formed around the Jedi temple to confuse their powers. 

 Once
hed realized his temperamental apprentice truly meant to go through with
his attack, hed decided that lending a hand wasnt out of order. It had
prevented the Jedi from divining the danger until it was too late. 

 Now
one of the Council was dead, not much but a start. A shame Tepes hadnt
been able to get rid of more of them. He would have, if Kenobi and his
Padawan and his shades-of-grey woman hadnt turned up so inopportunely. 

 From
his personal chambers balcony, located near the great spherical hall of
the Senate, hed even had a visual view of the confrontation on the temples
high ledges. 

 His
powers had told him much more, picking up thoughts and feelings from all
the involved parties. He took delight in Mace Windus stalwart struggles
to avoid showing his pain, hands clamped to his leg in a futile attempt
at stopping the bleeding. 

 He
wrinkled his nose sourly as Zadrek Kellnu tore a strip from her robe and
tied a quick tourniquet. Would have been nice if Windu bled to death, but
his downturn of luck wouldnt even grant him that. 

 Tepes
flamboyant death had loosed not only his own living Force but that of the
drained and destroyed Jedi, which had been held in suspension until that
moment. 

 The
resultant disturbance in the Force made it difficult for Sidious to maintain
his dampening cloud. As there was no further need for it, he let it go
and formed a few lingering impressions to make the Jedi believe that it
had all been Tepes doing. 

 Kenobi
could never be turned, he admitted. For a time there, when hed been struggling
to come to terms with the death of his mentor, there had been hate and
anger in his soul. But he had turned it into a determination to live up
to and exceed the example presented by the late troublesome Qui-Gon Jinn. 

 The
woman? She lived cheek and jowl with darker emotions, thrived on revenge.
As a bonus, she was already half-trained and adept with a lightsaber, and
when her powers fully returned as they soon would, shed be a formidable
prospect. 

 Sidious
contemplated the fleeting touches hed had of her mind, and finally dismissed
it with a frown. No, she was too willful by half, one that would never
bow to a higher authority. Be it Jedi Council or Sith Lord, she would accept
no Master. 

 The
boy, on the other hand ... more and more, Sidious was certain the boy could
be turned. The Council was already wary of him. With the further arrangement
of events, hed be ripe for a change. 

 Such
arranging of events would take time. Years, perhaps. He would want to tread
very carefully this time. 

 In
the meanwhile, he was once again left without an apprentice. 

 The
temple was now bustling with activity, as the Jedi had awakened from a
daze they hadnt even known possessed them to the realization that their
very inner sanctum had been breached. 

 Sidious
smirked bemusedly, letting their consternation be some bitter balm to his
sour mood as he went back inside and closed the curtains. 

 *
* 

 When
three members of the Council came in, Raven and Anakin both rose from their
spots on either side of Obi-Wans bed and moved in front of him protectively. 

 The
only other remaining inhabitant of the infirmary was a Knight whod had
the misfortune to run afoul of Darth Tepes on his way into the temple;
that man had been spared the bite but it still remained to be seen whether
hed recover from his wounds or follow two other unlucky Jedi into death. 

 He
didnt stir as Mace Windu, Master Yoda, and Zadrek Kellnu entered the room. 

 Obi-Wan
sat up, wincing as the movement pulled at the burn across his stomach.
It was shallow but still painful. The gouges caused by Tepes claws had
closed to reddish scars, the deep healing itch the worst of that. 

 "Its
all right," he murmured. 

 Raven
gave him a look that implied he didnt know what he was talking about,
then returned her just-so-slightly defiant gaze to the Council members. 

 Anakin
nervously eased back into his chair, a bit gingerly because Tepes kick
had bruised his spine. 

 Everyone
waited in apprehensive tableau as they all sized each other up. Only Master
Yoda was unscathed. His wizened green face was pinched in heavy disapproval
as he stumped on his walking stick over to the end of the bed. 

 Mace
Windu walked with the aid of a crutch, his lower leg swaddled in bandages.
The brutal bite had become badly infected, necessitating surgery. 

 Zadrek
Kellnus arm was in a sling; shed gotten a serious sprain at some point
in the proceedings and hadnt even been aware of it until later. 

 "I
understand Ive put you in an awkward situation," Obi-Wan said, not contritely,
not apologetically, simply stating the fact. 

 Raven
said nothing, not even when Yoda harumphed and peered up at her. Her mind
was controlled and serene, even with her mental barriers still barely a
wisp. 

 Obi-Wan
could sense that shed been right, the chemical that had been drained from
her blood was gradually regenerating itself. The same might have happened
to him and the other Jedi, had they been given enough time, and not brought
to the point of death by the actual procedure. 

 "You
did break the Councils edict," Zadrek Kellnu said gently, "but under the
circumstances, we cannot fault you for it." 

 "Without
that distraction at a crucial moment," Mace Windu said, "the Sith might
have killed us all." 

 Yoda
harumphed again. "Done well, have you," he admitted grudgingly. "Discussed
this has the Council, and agreed that perhaps ... perhaps overcautious
were we in that edict." 

 A
faint quirk of a smile tugged at the corner of Ravens mouth. 

 "Does
that mean Obi-Wans not in trouble?" Anakin asked. 

 Kellnu
inclined her head. "Not at all. He has once again proved himself a most
worthy Jedi." 

 "What
about us?" he ventured, with a darting-quick glance at Yoda. 

 "You
disobeyed your teachers wishes, disregarded several laws of the Republic
... " 

 Anakins
face fell. 

 "But
as I said," Kellnu continued, touching the boy on the shoulder and smiling
down at him, "under the circumstances, we cannot fault you for it. If not
for you, both of you," she added with a nod at Raven, "another Jedi
would have been lost to us and we would still have been ignorant of the
threat posed by Darth Tepes." 

 "Your
willingness to put your life in danger to help a Jedi speaks well of you,"
Mace Windu said to Raven. 

 She
regarded him evenly. "I only did what had to be done. For what I believe
in, and for what Obi-Wan believes in." 

 "From
now on," Windu said, "you are welcome on Coruscant, and in this temple." 

 "You
mean she can be trained?" Anakin blurted excitedly. "She can be a Jedi?" 

 "No!"
Yoda thumped his stick. "A Jedi she shall not be. Too old. Too easily
ruled by emotion." 

 "Master
Yoda --" Obi-Wan began. 

 "I
will never be a Jedi, Anakin," Raven said. "Its not what I want, and we
all know Id be very bad at it. And I would certainly not want to force
the Councils hand, and take advantage of any gratitude they might feel
toward me." 

 Yoda
bristled, Windu frowned, and Kellnu looked stung. 

 "Its
enough," Raven went on, "not to be shunned, and perhaps to be judged by
what I do rather than why I do it or what I might do. Isnt
that all any of us want?" 

 "Yeah,"
Anakin muttered. 

 "Difficult,
she is," Yoda grumbled to Mace Windu. "Willful and disrespectful." 

 "Just
like her father," Kellnu said, her voice soft yet pointed. "But if we put
the burden of his past on her, were as guilty as anyone of being ruled
by emotion over reason." 

 Obi-Wan
couldnt believe that she would criticize other Council members in front
of them. By the astounded looks they gave her, they couldnt either. 

 "My
father?" Raven asked, brows knit in puzzlement. 

 "She
didnt have one," Anakin said. "Like me. She just ... happened ." 

 "When
I see you ..." Zadrek Kellnu came forward and pressed her fingertips under
Ravens chin, lifting her face and turning it, "Yes ... I see Damon Blake
in your eyes, in your hair, in the set of your jaw. He was your
father, Raven. And he was one of us." 

 "My
mother was tei-gam, a sacred bride of Noct," Raven argued. " Noct 
sired me, not the Noctus, not Damon Blake." 

 "Question
your heart for the truth," Kellnu advised. 

 "Blakes
daughter." Mace Windu snorted and rolled his eyes at Yoda. "That does explain
much." 

 "It
is true," Obi-Wan said. "I know it to be so." 

 She
sank onto the edge of the bed. "The Noctus ... my father ?" 

 "Enough
of this," Yoda said. "Permitted on Coruscant she is. The gratitude of the
Council that far extends." 

 "Thank
you," Raven said distractedly. Obi-Wan could sense the dawning realization
and acceptance in her, followed closely by fresh pangs of grief for the
man who had died to save her from Dol Bethra, cruel warden of the prison
moon that had once been her home. 

 Yoda
and Mace Windu left the infirmary. Kellnu remained, bending to give Anakin
a hug that startled him. 

 "To
you, young Padawan," she said, "my thanks for your help. The fear we felt
when you first came before us is so much less ... and your future, I sense,
is now so much more ... be well, Anakin Skywalker." 

 "Be
well, Master Kellnu," he said, trying to wipe away a tear without letting
on that the motherly embrace had affected him so strongly. 

 She
turned to Obi-Wan and he felt the warm gossamer brush of her mind, composed
and reassuring. He responded in kind. 

 Then
she was gone, and they shared a relieved glance all around. 

 "What
now?" Anakin finally asked. 

 "Home
to Sylvar?" Obi-Wan suggested, watching Ravens reaction closely. "All
three of us?" He held out his hand. 

 She
took it. "Sylvar." 

 Anakin
covered their hands with his own. "Like a family?" 

 "Yes."
Obi-Wan didnt drop his eyes from Ravens. "Like a family." 

 She
drew in a slow, tense breath and loosed it in a sigh. "Yes." 

 "Were
going home!" Anakins whoop was nearly loud enough to rouse the other Jedi
from his drugged state, but it ended abruptly when Raven added a few words. 

 "Where
 you 
can tell Vance Antilles what happened to his ship." 

 His
horrified expression gave way to a grin, and the three of them laughed
together as the lights of Coruscant began to shine against the darkening
twilight sky. 

 *
* 

 The
End 

 Page copyright
1999 by Christine Morgan ( vecna@eskimo.com );
characters of Star Wars the property of Lucasfilm Ltd. and used without
permission.