Christine's Feeble Attempts at Art 

 I have taken exactly one art class in my entire life -- as a
sophomore in high school, half my life ago. My main strength and talent
is as a writer. Please bear that in mind as you view the drawings I've
(against all good sense) posted here. "Don't quit your day job, kid!" 

 So, here are some of my attempts at drawing characters from my fanfic.
Comments are welcome, I suppose ... 

 Joy (Hudson's love; Something Old, Something
New) 

 Jericho (Angela's brother; Mother's Day) 

 Elektra (crossbreed; A Noble Indiscretion) 

 Angus (foundling egg; Lost and Found) 

 Aiden and Birdie (transformed into gargoyles;
Double Date) 

 Godiva (Love Machine) 

 Crimson (Hudson's rookery sister; Something
Old, Something New) 

 Ruth and Malachi (Avalon Clan; Angela's Awakening) 

 The White Gargoyle (Elektra's mother; A Noble
Indescretion) 

 Gossamer (Titania's messenger; Romances) 

 Janine and Moray (Future Imperfect) 

 Tom and Dee (Mutate kids) 

 Richard Mosswell and Squid Clan Gargoyle (The
Horror of Innsbrook) 

 Broadway and Elektra (Lead Me Not ...) 

 Aiden and Lexington (Xantasia) 

 Demona and Jericho (The Pure and the Profane) 

 Dissident Avalon Gargoyles (Broadway Goes
to Avalon) 

 Goliath learns to read (Breeding Season flashback) 

 Draga, of the London Clan (Menagerie) 

 Amber as an adult (Lyre, Lyre) 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button
to return to the previous page, or click on the shield to return to the
main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.