Coppers 
 Coppers 
 Coppers The Alchemist
(Author's Note: some of this material has already appeared in SJ
Games' Pyramid Magazine in the Supporting Cast feature, early
1996)

 On a street of mostly deserted buildings is a ramshackle little
house with boarded-over windows, weed-infested yard, and a small
sign reading "Open" posted next to a sliding view-panel in the door.
 This is the shop of the alchemist known as Coppers. His real
name is Benjamin Cyrus, and generations ago his family included
some of the greatest wizards in the land. Coppers is the last of his
line. The residents of town tend to avoid him, which is easy, because
he avoids them.
 Coppers is known for two things. First, his nickname. He
refuses to take any coins of silver, gold, or platinum, wanting only
copper. He will take gems and items in trade (so long as they do not
contain precious metals), though prefers copper. To buy an
expensive alchemical item in copper, usually the lowest-
denomination of money, requires a tremendous amount of coins.
 The other thing for which Coppers is known is his raving
paranoia. He believes that "They" are out there. "They" look just like
normal people, except for their "steely little eyes" and the "green
glowing wires" under their scalps. Coppers believes that "They" hate
magic and seek to destroy it in all forms, including people with
magical talent. "They" know that users of magic tend to be among the
wealthier classes and therefore have large amounts of silver and
gold. "They smell it on ya," Coppers always says.
 Because of his paranoia (he's also agoraphobic), Coppers
hardly ever leaves the house. He occasionally goes out at night to
gather plants or haul wood and water. He has food and supplies
delivered regularly, but will put any visitor through extensive
questioning and examining to make sure it isn't one of "Them," even
if it is someone Coppers has known for years. This investigation is
conducted entirely through the sliding panel in the door. Customers
must also go through this same process, and will also be asked if
they're carrying any silver or gold. If they are, Coppers will not even
open the door.
 Coppers himself is a bent, stooped man somewhere
between the ages of fifty and ninety. He has a balding pate with a
fringe of wild yellow-white hair, sharp features, bright blue eyes sunk
deep in nests of wrinkles, and about twelve teeth. His hands are
notable in that they are large, callused, scarred, yellowed as if by
nicotine, and marked with chemical burns. He wears a solid copper
neckchain with a flat copper disc pendant about the size of a tea
saucer, covered with protective runes, and his neck has gone green
from the constant contact. His usual garb consists of plain woolen
trousers, a shirt that might have once been white, old leather
sandals, and a large leather apron with many deep pockets.
 Inside, the shop is small, crowded, and smoky. There is a
counter running along the back wall, usually covered with odds and
ends (empty vials, crumpled parchment, bits of string, dishes with
forgotten food, etc.). On the end of the counter is a stuffed jackalope
(large hare with deerlike antlers) mounted on a stand with a
decorative piece of driftwood. This is Jake, and Coppers talks to and
about him as if he is alive.
 The rest of the front area is given over to shelves full of vials
and a large armoire with the doors torn off, where Coppers displays
the few magical items he has in stock. He is not much of an
enchanter himself, but has been known to trade items for potions. He
is a wizards of some ability, but uses his magic mostly in his alchemy
or for home defense.
 The vials are a hodgepodge of glass, metal, ceramic, old
preserves jars, inkwells, and the like. None are labeled, and they do
not appear to be categorized in any sensible manner. Coppers prides
himself on knowing exactly what is where (unless "They" have been
fiddling with his stuff).
 Behind the counter is a doorway with a tattered curtain
hanging in it, and a trapdoor in the ceiling. There is also a bin behind
the counter, filled to the brim with copper coins. Most are local, but
samples of currencies from many different countries are mixed in.
Next to the bin is a small, sturdy, locked chest containing various
gems and trinkets (the key is hidden in Jake's stand). There is a tall
stool with one leg shorter than the others, so it is propped on a stack
of bricks. Coppers falls off his stool at least four times a week.
 The curtained doorway leads to the back room, which is
where Coppers does his work. It is crammed with alchemical
equipment, tools, supplies, and ingredients. Again, there is neither
rhyme nor reason to the mess and only Coppers can find anything
back there. In addition to the equipment, this rom also serves as his
kitchen, with a small fireplace and cabinets. There is a small oaken
tub here that Coppers uses for his own infrequent baths as well as
mixing potions.
 The trapdoor has a slide-down ladder that leads to the loft.
This low-ceilinged space is where Coppers sleeps. There is a straw-
filled mattress, a fine wood chest with brass fittings that has seen
better days, a washbasin, and a chamber pot.
Ben Cyrus, aka Coppers.
Age 65, 5'8" (when not slouching, 5'5" otherwise), 120 lbs; balding
with frizz of yellowish-white hair, bright blue eyes, wrinkles
ST 10 IQ 15 Speed: 5.25
DX 11 HT 10 Move: 5 
Dodge: 5
PD 1, DR 1; front torso only from leather apron
Advantages: Eidetic Memory Level 1, Magery 2, Literacy.
Disadvantages: Absent-Mindedness, Skinny, Paranoia, Delusion
(gold and silver attract "Them"), Agorophobia.
Quirks: Believes Jake is alive; Will only accept copper coins; Always
tries to get customers to buy love potions; Never drinks alcohol;
Loves raisin bread.
Skills:
Alchemy -- 16; Botany -- 13; Cooking -- 14; First-Aid -- 14;
Geology -- 13; History -- 13; Literature -- 13; Merchant -- 14;
Metallurgy -- 12; Naturalist -- 13; Occultism -- 14; Poisons -- 14;
Pottery -- 14; Scrounging -- 13; Stealth -- 10; Spell Throwing
(Fireball) -- 12; Teaching -- 13; Weather Sense -- 14.
Spells (all at 15):
Sense Life, Sense Foes, Sense Emotion, Truthsayer, Compel Truth,
Hide Thoughts, Seek Earth, Purify Air, Create Air, Ignite Fire, Create
Fire, Shape Fire, Extinguish Fire, Fireproof, Heat, Cold, Fireball,
Seek Water, Purify Water, Create Water, Destroy Water, Dehydrate,
Test Food, Seek Food, Decay, Purify Food, Poison Food, Cook,
Create Food, Ferment, Distill, Recover Strength, Detect Magic, Aura,
Identify Spell, Analyze Magic, Light, Continual Light, Scryguard,
Scrywall, Counterspell, Dispel Magic, Apportation, Seek Plant,
Identify Plant, Sense Danger, Watchdog, Nightingale, Missile Shield.
Description:
 The first sight anyone ever has of Coppers is of a pair of
bright blue eyes peering suspiciously through a sliding panel in his
door. The eyes are nested deep in a face as brown and wrinkled as a
walnut, topped by a balding age-spotted pate fringed with yellowish-
white hair. His infrequent smiles reveal teeth as rickety as the fence
around a haunted house. His neck is tinged green from the solid
copper neckchain he always wears.
 Coppers' next most noticeable feature is his scrawniness. A
shirt of uncertain color billows around his thin frame, his bony wrists
and gnarled hands protruding from frayed cuffs. His woolen trousers
are cinched with a length of old rope. His feet, in leather sandals, are
as bony and scant of meat as the rest of him. Over all, he wears a
scorched and stained leather apron.
 Though disheveled, Coppers is anything but lazy. His
movements are rapid, jerky, almost manic. He is always whipping
around to look behind him, or scuttling across the room to check the
doors and windows.
Possessions:
 House/shop, yard overgrown with weeds, windows boarded
over. Door has sliding panel next to small wooden sign reading
"Open." Back room holds complete alchemy lab, shelves of
ingredients. Personal quarters in loft. Front room of shop lined with
shelves of vials. Huge antique armoire, etched-glass dorr panels,
used for display of collectibles and magic items. Stuffed jackalope on
piece of driftwood, small brass plaque on base reading "Jake."
Behind counter is huge bin filled with copper coins.
Background:
 Coppers is the last descendant of the Cyrus Clan.
Generations ago, his ancestors were magical advisors to kings and
emperors. In his youth, Coppers attended the finest magical schools.
But as he aged and grew increasingly peculiar, he abandoned high
society and established his ramshakle shop. He was married once,
but his wife left him and is now married to a wealthy merchant in the
city. Coppers has no children.
Personality:
 During his studies, Coppers realized that wizards had
enemies. These enemies, the mysterious "Them," wanted to control
or destroy everyone who knew about the use of magical forces.
Coppers believed that "They" were not human, although "They" could
pass for human to the untrained eye. "They" have small steely eyes,
and greenish blood that can be best seen flowing through the veins
on their scalps. "They" have sensitive noses and can smell out gold
and silver, which wizards tend to amass.
 Coppers' delusion has firmly entrenched itself. He will not
accept gold or silver as payment, only copper and gems. Before
letting anyone into his shop, he will quiz them to make sure they are
really what they appear to be, and that they are not carrying precious
metals.
 His fear of "Them" has made Coppers a recluse. He hardly
ever leaves the house, having his groceries delivered if he trusts the
delivery person. His only friend is Jake, the stuffed jackalope on the
end of his counter. Coppers believes that Jake is alive and watches
over the shop.
Quote:
 "I dasn't take gold, nor silver. They smell it on ya, see! Got
any ... coppers? Ten thooooouuusaand copper pieces will get you
this fine looooove potion!"
Adventure Ideas:
 Coppers can be used in any campaign when elixirs are
required or items need identifying. Characters will need to go through
an interrogation on each visit, even if they return more than once in
the same day. They will also need to get ahold of large amounts of
copper.
 If Coppers becomes a regular feature, the characters might
begin to notice even stranger things about the shop. Maybe it's the
way Jake seems to be in a different position. Or maybe it's the steely-
eyed man lurking in the doorway across the street ...
 Suppose that "They" are real, and "They" have realized that
Coppers knows the truth. "They" might try to kill him, but more likely
would want to capture him, because "They" want to control all magic
in the world.
 What are "They?" Where do "They" come from? And what
will "They" do when "They" realize that Coppers has shared his
suspicions with others?
 For another idea, suppose a wealthy merchant's wife is on
her deathbed and reveals that her eldest child isn't really the
merchant's offspring. The person in question could hire the party to
track down the real father, or for a real kick, the person in question
could be one of the characters!
Shopping at Coppers':
 Coppers' shop is likely (1-4 on 1d6) to have 2d6 of any of the
following elixirs -- Beast-Speech, Invulnerability, Endurance, Warrior,
Speed, Strength, Huntsman, Fear, Weakness, Lecherousness,
Death, Fire Resistance, Transformation, Flight, Water-Breathing,
Fertility, Healing, Antidote, Sleep, Love.
 At any one time, Coppers is likely to have a dozen or so
items in the armoire. These are all for sale at book price. Here are a
dozen examples to start with --
 1. Wooden whistle (Beast Summoning, any type)
 2. Dark blue woolen cloak (Itch, Slow Fall, and Mage Stealth)
 3. Black leather bracer with silver and garnet (Resist Pain)
 4. Bronze helmet with large rams' horns (Control Person)
 5. Plain grey wand with gold tip (Stone Missile)
 6. Necklace with cloud, snowflake, raindrop designs (Clouds,
Rain, Snow)
 7. Gem-encrusted bastard sword, named Sunsfire (Flaming
Weapon, Quick-Draw, Accuracy +1)
 8. Quiver of six arrows (each arrow has Accuracy +2 and
Puissance +2)
 9. Polished oaken staff with pewter dragon's claw gripping
crystal eye at end; the Staff of Pormyndwyn the Sage (Staff, Know
Illusion, Mage Sight, Mage Sense, See Invisible, See Secrets)
 10. Dagger with black hilt (Accuracy +1, Magic Resistance,
Puissance +2)
 11. Jade-handled eating utensil (Purify Food)
 12. Harp with strings made from a princess' hair (Mass
Suggestion)

 Click here to return to the previous page.

 Coppers / Copyright 1996 - Tim Morgan /
 vecna@eskimo.com