cruise diary 

 The Morgans go on Vacation: 
 Spring Break Cruise to the Yucatan 

 Christine Morgan 
March 2003 

 Photo Album: 

 Page 1 -- On
the Ship 

 Page 3 -- Copan
Ruins 

 Page 5 -- Chichen
Itza 

 Page 2 -- Dolphin
Swim 

 Page 4 -- Copan
Museum 

 Page 6 -- Cozumel 

 Day 1 &ndash; Saturday, Mar. 15 

 We finished the packing and went to bed early on Friday night. Dave, who
 had generously agreed to drive us to the airport, slept on the couch. At
the wee small hour of 2:00 am, we got up and ate a quick breakfast, loaded
the car, and proceeded to Sea-Tac. Becca was delighted that she got to ride
the whole way up front, Dave's car not having a passenger-side airbag. 

 At 3:30 in the morning, the airport is at its lowest ebb. Not even the
coffee places opened until four, let alone the check-in desks. We said good-bye
to Dave and settled in to wait in front of the desk until we could get our
tickets and drop off our luggage. Then it was more waiting in the terminal,
followed by a 6:00 am departure. 

 The flight, which had originated from Alaska, was packed full. Turbulence
 all the way, too. Tim was able to doze but I couldn't get to sleep. I read
 an entire book &ndash; Midnight Whispers , John Saul &ndash; on the
 way. Becca had her Gameboy, one of Santa's better ideas. 

 The Houston airport is huge, and when we finally got there we trudged for
 what felt like miles to baggage claim. There, we met up with Tim's family
 (his parents Dottie and John, and his sister Kathy). The lot of us piled
into a van and were taken to the cruise terminal, where we boarded the 
 Royal Olympia Voyager . 

 The ship was fairly small by cruise ship standards, but nice. Seven decks.
 Our cabins were on deck 4, on the right side of the ship facing forward
(I still have never learned which is port and which is starboard). Each
cabin had two single beds and a fold-down bunk bed, a decent-sized window,
a fridge, a closet of a bathroom, a closet of a closet, a safe, a television,
and assorted other bits of furniture. A lot of mirrors. Way too many mirrors. 

 And slightly bizarre artwork on the wall, black and white paintings that
 were more like psychiatrist's inkblots than art. The one on our wall, we
decided after much deliberation, was a Dalmatian dog in a beret, ripping
a page out of a book with its teeth, underwater, while a narwhal (well, Tim
insists it was a bomb, not a narwhal) lurked in the background. Numbered
in pencil, #154 out of 202. Couldn't decipher the artist's signature. 

 Most of the afternoon went by in a flurry of unpacking and assorted errands
 &ndash; signing Becca up for the kids' program, confirming excursion tickets,
 etc. We all reported as ordered for the lifeboat drill, standing there crammed
 in like sardines in bright orange life vests while the ship left Houston.
 None of that lining-the-rails confetti-tossing Love Boat stuff on
this trip. 

 Then it was time for dinner. We'd requested first seating, so that we'd 
at least stand a chance of getting Becca to bed at something approximating 
a normal hour (got to give us credit for trying, anyway). The food was pretty
 good, and I had made a deal with myself that I would try at least some new
 and unusual things on this trip. So, when the appetizer was a sort of seafood
 mixture, including tiny baby squids, baked in a puff pastry, I ate it. Tentacles
 and all. Wasn't too bad. Puff pastry, anyway, can excuse a lot. Later in
the trip, Tim would reject escargot, puff pastry or not. 

 John was brave enough to try the chilled banana soup, which would turn
out to be only the first of a series of chilled fruit soups. He said that
it was like a milkshake, but the rest of us took his word for it. Becca made
a friend of Kostas, our bread guy, and most of her dinners would consist
mainly of sesame-seed rolls and butter. I'd told her that she could only
eat chicken nuggets one meal a day &ndash; this was after going on vacations
with her in which she'd have them for lunch and dinner if she could, and
even breakfast should we dine at someplace like Denny's. But it turned out
that the ship did not serve chicken nuggets as a staple. Indeed, in the entire
9 days, they only put in one appearance on the menu. She now claims that
I owe her chicken nuggets for all the extra days. 

 We were all pretty exhausted from a long day of traveling, and Becca and
 I went to bed early as we sailed south into the Gulf of Mexico. The others
 stayed up a bit later, catching the evening show. 

 Day 2 &ndash; Sunday, Mar. 16 

 On our first full day at sea, which was also a day of rocking waves, mostly
 cloudy skies, and a brisk wind, Tim and Becca and I rose at 7:00 am for
the morning buffet. We found a nice spot in the deck 6 piano lounge, where
we would end up spending a lot of our spare time, and played our cunning
little travel version of the terrific board game Settlers of Catan 
. 

 I sneaked over to the ship's library to leave a copy of Curse of the 
Shadow Beasts on the shelf amid all the other paperbacks &ndash; ha, ha,
the masked author strikes again! &ndash; and picked up copies of that day's
crossword and brain teaser. There wasn't a lot in the way of on-board activities,
but whenever we were able, we tried to do the puzzles and make it to the
afternoon trivia contest. Yiorgos, the assistant cruise director, was one
of the highlights of the trip. He was a trim little fellow with sharp good
looks and an accent, spoke six languages, and overflowed with energy and
charm. 

 Now, as anyone who's cruised before may have noticed, median ages on these
 boats tends to be about 55 or more. A lot of older folks, a scattering of
 20's to 40's, and not very many kids. At 10:30, Becca joined some of the
other "junior cruisers" for a tour of the bridge, a coloring contest, and
crafts. They let her sit in the captain's chair and took a photo, which we
were allowed to purchase later for 15 bucks. 

 By then, the rest of the family had wakened, and they all went to a presentation
 on the upcoming excursions. Well, presentation might not be the right term
 &hellip; sales pitch? Anyway, we had already signed up for ours in advance.
 There was also an ongoing art auction, some guy with a bunch of paintings,
 animation cels (no gargoyles! not even Fantasia !), and sports card
 memorabilia. Tim's dad won a painting, free except that he got to shell
out for the shipping. 

 Becca and I felt a little seasick, but that didn't stop us from trying
out the shuffleboard courts and the pool. Actually, I found the pool to
be something of a remedy for motion sickness. The water in it, salt by the
way, was sloshing crazily all over the place. It was easy to trick the mind
that instead of being on a swaying ship, we were in a wave pool. That it
was the water moving, and not the ship, if that makes any sense. 

 Tim and I attended the trivia session. Teams of four, so we were grouped
 with a couple of nice ladies named Roxy and Irene. We didn't do too badly,
 though the questions were definitely aimed more at the target passenger
age demographic. 

 Dinner that night was the formal affair. We got all spiffed up and dropped
 in at the captain's cocktail party, then went to the dining room. Lamb,
they served a lot of lamb on the ship, it being a Greek ship and all. 

 And of course, the desserts. My intention, since I had been hit with the
 bad news about my recurrence of thyroid cancer two days before we left,
was to basically forget about eating right and drown my sorrows in desserts
and daiquiris. I only had one daiquiri the entire trip &ndash; I have a
very low tolerance for alcohol &ndash; but substituted the non-alcoholic
"strawberry whip." But I did eat many more desserts than I needed over the
course of those nine days. 

 Tim, John, and Kathy dropped some money at the blackjack tables. I watched,
 while Becca wheedled Grandma Dottie into buying her a package of Skittles
 in one of the shipboard shops. Then it was time to call it a night. 

 Day 3 &ndash; Monday, Mar. 17 

 Our first activity this morning was a date in the kids' room with Jacqui,
 the kids' cruise director. Becca and I were the only ones to show up. We
made a craft involving glue, crumpled up bits of colored crepe paper, and
cardstock templates shaped like fish. 

 Early that afternoon, we arrived at the island of Roatan, in Honduras.
Becca, Dottie, Kathy and I had a planned trip to go swimming with dolphins,
so we hopped in a taxi and off we went. I had been thinking that my cab
ride through New York would be the most unnerving of my life, but that was
before I got in the beat-up little car that careened through the narrow,
chicken-filled streets. The driver honked his horn more over those 20 minutes
than I have ever used the one in my car. 

 We got to a resort called Anthony's Key, which has a marine science center
 with models and diagrams of sea life. After watching a short demonstration
 of dolphin tricks, we were loaded onto a small motorboat and taken over
to another, and much littler, island. There, we got into our swimsuits and
waded out into the water. 

 Up until that moment, we'd all been hot and sweaty and cross, and second-guessing
 whether we'd really wanted to do this. But the water, clear and just the
perfect temperature over a gentle bed of sand, washed away all doubts. And
that was even before we got to meet Gracie! 

 Thirteen years old, sleek and deep grey, Gracie was our dolphin. The excursion-goers
 were divided into four groups of eight, each working with one trainer and
 one dolphin, while a couple of the younger dolphins swam about and buzzed
 the groups as they pleased. One of the girls in our group was scared of
them, didn't like them, and I think the dolphins could tell. They seemed
to make a point of exhaling through their blowholes right at her, spraying
her, making her squeal. 

 Being right there in the water with them was amazing. They didn't feel
like I expected. Their hides were like thick, slick rubber. Almost more
like a really good special effect than a living creature. But then, when
we got to put our arms under them &ndash; at this point, the dolphins would
arch their heads and tails out of the water, great photo op &ndash; I could
feel Gracie's heart thumping, so strong, and it really struck me that this
was a live, intelligent creature. 

 We had plenty of opportunities to take pictures, and there was also a guy
 from the resort shooting video. Which, of course, we had plenty of opportunities
 to buy later when they took us straight to the shop and made us sit through
 it. We didn't need the video, though I did buy Becca a ceramic toucan and
 myself a clever little box. I love clever little boxes, this one of different
 hues of wood with a nice satiny finish and a neat shape. 

 While we were having our dolphin adventure, Tim and his dad decided to
be risky and just hired a cab for the day. Their driver, Carol, took them
all over the island and directed them to a local eatery where they had skewered
 beef and shrimp that was basically soaked in butter and grilled. They also
 stopped by a market and came back to the ship each toting a case of cans.
 Soda for Tim, who goes through it at a pace that would have bankrupted us
 had he bought his quota on board, and beer for John. 

 I took Becca to the kids' room again, where we were once more the only
ones to show up for the scheduled event. We played a couple of cards of
Bingo. The show that night was a comedian/magician, and we went to that
one. He told the joke about the guy who goes to the movie theater with a
duck down his pants, the old "this one's eating my popcorn" one, and I couldn't
believe that Tim had never heard it. 

 We got a surprise that night as we were getting ready for bed. The ship's
 television had only half a dozen or so channels. TNT, TNT dubbed into Spanish,
 CNN (which got a lot of watching once the war began), a "mast cam" that
showed the exterior of the ship, a computer graphic of our course and location,
and a channel that was reserved for documentaries on the Caribbean and Central
 America. When we turned to the documentary channel, we were treated to the
 one and only Keith David narrating a show about sea life. 

 Day 4 &ndash; Tuesday, Mar. 18 

 For a vacation, we sure never seemed to get much rest. We had to be up, 
dressed, fed, and ready to go at the crack of dawn for our drive to Copan. 
If there's one main complaint I have about the excursions, it's that they 
were not adequately described in the brochures. The length of the bus rides, 
the necessary physical fitness required, etc. 

 Four hours on a bus. We'd spent four hours on the airplane. This drive
was through mainland Honduras, and the drivers were just as daredevil and
horn-loving as the taxi driver on Roatan. We would roar down roads and cyclists,
people, kids, or dogs would be at the edge of the pavement, and the bus
driver would honk like hell to warn them, but never would he slow down or
even swerve. It's a wonder we didn't run anybody down. 

 The poverty in Honduras was like nothing I'd ever seen before. Dwellings
 that were hovels in every possible sense of the word, single rooms, roofs
 of corrugated metal, some even with walls of cardboard. Lines of laundry
hanging right by the side of the road in the dust. Naked children loose in
fenceless yards. Guys running alongside the bus waving bags of fruit to sell.
It was painful to see. 

 At last, after a pit stop at a gas station and mini mart, we made it to 
the site at Copan. This was the best part of the trip for me. Copan was incredible.
 I'd read some tour books, watched videos, thought I was ready. But what
a difference, seeing the ruins in person. The sense of history was awe-inspiring.
 Not just history, but human history. People had done this. Thousands of
years ago. Without metal tools, without the wheel, without any of the modern
conveniences that we can't do without, they had built these fabulous structures.

 More, it was a place I could easily imagine people living. The Maya pyramids
 aren't monuments to death and colossal ego, the way the ones in Egypt are.
 There was a feeling of life and activity. These buildings had been used 
 , they served a functional living purpose. 

 I was also impressed by the sheer stamina that the ancient Maya must have
 possessed. They were a short people. Four, four and a half feet. But their
 stairs were a challenge for folks considerably taller. Big steps! And lots
 of them, too. It was quite a workout. I spent a lot of time herding Becca
 to make sure she didn't go tumbling down the side. 

 The visit to the ruins was followed by an outdoor lunch and a museum that
 had recreated parts of Copan we weren't allowed to see. The hidden temple
 of Rosalila, for instance, which had been discovered intact underneath one
 of the larger structures. We bought a bunch of souvenirs, including some
bits of stonework, and took lots of pictures. 

 One of the pieces I found the most interesting was Zotz, the leaf-nosed 
bat god who was depicted as basically a gargoyle. He had arms and bat
wings. He also, disturbingly, had a big pointy erection. Tim bought a statuette
of Zotz before he noticed that particular part, and we figured that we'd
probably better not let Becca take that one to school to show her classmates. 

 Hot and dusty and sore from the climbing, we piled back into our bus and
 had another four-hour ride back to the ship. We missed the dinner seatings
 but caught a late buffet, and then Tim and I had drinks on the mostly deserted
 pool deck while we watched the full moon. 

 Day 5 &ndash; Wednesday, Mar. 19 

 I had anticipated that Becca would want a break, so she and I hadn't signed
 up for any excursions today. The rest of the family left to take a riverboat
 up the Rio Dulce once we'd docked in Guatemala. Becca and I stayed behind.

 One thing about ships this big is that they have to have big docking facilities,
 too. Roatan was all right, but not exactly what I'd expected in a tropical
 port. Honduras and Guatemala were worse, because we were smack in the industrial
 district. Acres of cargo containers and concrete, cranes whining, lots of
 trucks. Not terribly exotic or romantic. At least from Guatemala, we could
 see some jungle-covered hills. 

 At this port, we were advised against wandering around outside the gates
 of the docking area. A line of booths had been set up along the pier, selling
 handicrafts and other items, and we were told that it'd be wisest, if we
weren't on an official excursion, to do any souvenir shopping there. Becca
and I took a quick walk down there, very quick because it was blisteringly
hot that day, and got a couple of tee shirts. 

 The rest of the day, she and I relaxed on the ship. We swam, we caught
her up on her homework (her teacher had sent some along, as well as telling
her to keep a trip journal of her own and do her regular nightly reading),
I wrote and mailed a few postcards, and we went to a close-up magic show
by the comedian/magician from the other night. Card tricks, and he was pretty
good. 

 The others made it back just in time for dinner. It was Becca's first full
 meal, as she had been living on bread, desserts, hash browns and milk for
 breakfast, and occasional bites pinched off our plates. But tonight, they
 served a fried rice dish with chicken and shrimp, and she stuffed herself.

 Tim had missed a few spots with the sunscreen that day, and barbecued part
 of his leg, his wrist around his watchband, and one side of his face (think
 Richard Dreyfuss from Close Encounters of the Third Kind ). 

 The evening's entertainment was another magic show by a Ukranian husband-and-wife
 team. He was really good, she was so-so, and in between acts we got the
Global Dancers in their feathers and skimpy showgirl style outfits. 

 Day 6 &ndash; Thursday, Mar. 20 

 Another early morning, but this time we abandoned the buffet in favor of
 the dining room. Eggs Benedict and pineapple juice, yum! And watermelon
&hellip; I think I ate watermelon at least twice a day, maybe more. 

 We were anchored about two miles offshore of Belize City, and had to take
 ferryboats called "tenders" to get to shore. All five of us went on the
day's trip, which was one of the most misleading in terms of what we'd been
led to expect. It was yet another long bus ride, way out in the middle of
nowhere to a place called Jaguar Paw Resort, where we learned just what
we would have to go through in order to go cave-tubing. 

 Nowhere in the description had it mentioned just how far we'd have to hike
 through the jungle in our swimsuits, lugging our inner tubes and life vests.
 Nor did we know we'd have to wade across the river, walk on paths of loose
 sharp rocks, or any of that. Dottie and John backed out, but the rest of
us trudged grimly on. 

 I managed to twist both ankles, thanks to wet feet slipping around inside
 sandals that had never been meant for wading rivers and walking on loose
rocks. Becca damn near lost her flipflops, and only the quick action of our
guide saved them from being swept downstream. Deirdre, a little girl we'd
met on board, did lose one of hers. 

 At any rate, we were miserably hot and grumpy by the time we got to the 
entrance to the cave. The sight did mollify much of our grievances, because 
it was really pretty awesome, the cavernous tunnel and river leading away 
into the darkness. We strapped miner's lights on our heads and plunked down 
butt-first in our inner tubes, and paddled down into the black. 

 Becca got a free ride, hanging onto our feet. Some dogs made the caves
their home, but the guides had warned us so we weren't too shocked when
an animal suddenly swam past. The water was cool and pure (or so they told
us; we still didn't drink any), and at several places the river passed caves
that opened onto daylight, with hanging green foliage and cool rock formations.

 We had to get out at one point and walk, dripping and lugging our tubes 
again, across a shallow stretch. At some point in the journey, Tim lost the 
plastic baggie that had contained his socks and his wallet. Thankfully, he'd 
had the foresight to take most of the stuff out of his wallet, including his
driver's license. He wound up losing one credit card, some cash, and his
ship's cabin key (which was also his ticket on and off the boat). It was
a pain, but it could have been a lot worse. 

 Eventually, we floated out near the resort, and got out of the river. Dottie
 and John had talked one of the guides into giving them a smaller tour, without
 so much hiking, and they met us when we emerged. We got dried off and dressed,
 and ran into a snafu over the lunch thing. We'd been supposed to have lunch
 at the resort, but weren't actually registered for it, so we had to get
back on the bus and return to Belize City. 

 There, we spent a little while in what they called Tourist Village, looking
 in shops, before catching a tender back to the ship. We had missed lunch
there, too, but they were serving tea and cookies in the buffet room and
pizza at poolside, so we finally got some chow. 

 That night was "Greek Night" at dinner, so everyone was expected to wear
 blue and white like the Greek flag, eat more lamb, and shout "Opa!" a lot
 (which is confusing to me, because while it means "Huzzah" or something
in Greek, in German it's the affectionate term for "Grandpa."). 

 After dinner, the Ukranian magicians from the other night were doing a
close-up magic show in the kids' room. We took Becca to that, and finally
collapsed into bed. 

 Day 7 &ndash; Friday, Mar. 21 

 The big day had arrived, the day of the Spring Equinox! The ship arrived
 at the port of Playa del Carmen, and this one, in my mind anyway, really
 looked like a proper tropical Caribbean port. It had gorgeous
blue-green water rolling in toward white sand, a bustling dockside with
coral-colored hotels, thatch-roof beach cabanas, windsurfers, etc. 

 And we didn't get to enjoy it, because they packed us onto a larger tender,
 marched us quickly through town (past a Subway and a McD's, which made Becca
 whimper), and loaded us onto buses for another, you guessed it, 4-hour drive!

 I had the bad luck to end up sitting over the rear wheel, so the floor
of the bus was sloped and put weird pressure on my knees the whole way.
By the time we got back, I would be hobbling. But first, we got to drive
through empty and really kind of boring countryside, way out into the middle
of nowhere, to Chichen Itza. 

 They gave us a nice lunch on a shaded patio at a hotel, where there were
 gift shops, caged parrots and black birds whose cries sounded like 4th of
 July bottle rockets, and dancers who could twirl with trays of drinks balanced
 on their heads. But then, our guide rounded us up to walk out to the site.

 Oh, and it was hot. The hottest yet. And steamy, because the sky was heavily
 overcast. And crowded, because close to 45, 000 people converged on the
site on this day of the year (though we found out that the phenomenon was
actually visible for two weeks on either side of the date). 

 In ancient times, the Maya had cleared all the trees for a long ways around
 their city for their farmland. Copan's had regrown, and some trees did surround
 Chichen Itza, but the bulk of it was wide open, shadeless glaring heat.
With ambulances parked around, as if just waiting to see who'd be the first
heatstroke of the day. 

 The main pyramid was damned impressive. It was enormous. Staggering. But
 by the time we got to the ball court, and were hearing the rules for the
umpteenth time, as well as what we'd already learned about in the books and
videos (which was basically that no one knows for sure whether the losing
team or the winning team were the ones who'd be sacrificed), I knew I couldn't
take much more. Neither could Becca. 

 We were hot and cranky, and because they'd dragged us here so early when
 the phenomenon didn't take place until sunset, we had three more hours to
 get through before the shadow of the serpent descended the side of the pyramid.
 If it even did, because it was cloudy. 

 So the two of us wimped out. We went back to the shaded patio to wait it
 out. I bought a coloring book of rain forest animals and a deck of cards,
 and while this mystic event was going on, we sat and had ice creams and
played Crazy Eights. The rest of the Morgans were doggedly determined to
stick it out, but Becca and I just couldn't do it. 

 And it turned out I was glad we didn't stand around out there and broil,
 because the clouds did interfere so there wouldn't have been anything to
see anyway. They parted for about seven minutes, after most of the crowd
had given up, so it turned out that of the five of us, only Kathy, who had
lingered to look around, caught any of the show. 

 Tim had found more stands selling stuff, and came back with two types of
 carved wooden jaguar heads. It was a challenge getting them into the suitcases
 when it was time to pack, but they are neat. I got a map of the area that
 will prove useful next time I run a game. 

 That long, grueling day seemed like it would never end. The 4-hour bus
ride back got us to Playa del Carmen well after dark, and in time for the
very last tender across to the ship. Of course, all the buses had
arrived then, and 500 of the 800 passengers had signed up for Chichen Itza.
They dangerously overloaded the tender and took 45 minutes to get us all
on, and over, and off again. 

 We grabbed some food, just barely making the late buffet before it closed,
 and collapsed into bed while the ship traveled about 9 nautical miles to
the next port. 

 Day 8 &ndash; Saturday, Mar. 22 

 Once again, Becca and I had different plans from the rest of the family.
 The others had all signed up for a trip to more ruins, at Coba. Boy, were
 they regretting the prospect of another long bus rise, another hot day,
 another guide going on about the rules of the ball game. There
was some talk of canceling, but in the end they went. 

 We were docked at Cozumel, which was almost as nice as Playa del Carmen.
 The water was the most unbelievable shade of rich turquoise that I have
ever seen. It didn't look real, that's how blue it was. More like something
out of a retouched travel poster. 

 The effect was marred somewhat by the gunships patrolling the harbor, and
 the guards with automatic weapons stationed along the pier. I don't know
if it's always like that, or if they had stepped up security on account of
the situation in Iraq. 

 Since one of the only channels we got was CNN, and since a fair number
of older folks are habitual news junkies, we had seen a lot of coverage
of war developments. It seemed at once weirdly distant and alarming. Here
we were, on our cruise ship with attentive and friendly crew, visiting all
these ports of call, removed from our real lives and the real world &hellip;
yet there was a war going on. I found it personally rather ironic, given
that the last book I finished writing was one about a group of people on
a Caribbean island when WWIII broke out &hellip; 

 But we weren't going to let our worries interfere with our vacation. Becca
 and I joined about 35 other passengers on the pier &ndash; moored near us
 was a simply gorgeous 4-masted clipper ship, registered in Luxembourg, a
fact that irritated Tim no end &ndash; waiting for our glass-bottom boat.

 And then the shore excursion director and the tour guide got into a fight.
 The guide told us that the boat's air conditioning was broken, so would
we mind delaying the tour until 11:00? That was two hours away. And Paula,
the shore excursion gal, started in on him about how would we know it was
going to be ready by eleven, and she wasn't going to let him waste our time.
They were nose to nose, yelling at each other, while we all stood around
with our mouths open. 

 It ended when Paula announced that she was canceling the excursion. She 
snatched our tickets out of our hands, said we'd all be credited a refund, 
and stormed up the gangplank. The tour guy made a big angry speech about how
"she has spoken!" and stormed off in the other direction. 

 Well, there we were, and nobody knew what to do. It was ludicrous. For
a minute there, I'd thought they were going to start throwing slaps and
punches at each other. Then another mom, who had her toddler and her 6-year-old
niece, declared that she was going to see if there were any other companies
that had glass-bottom boat tours. Becca and I decided to tag along with
her. So did her parents, and another couple. 

 It turned out to be a good move. The nine of us hired a boat for 30 bucks
 a person (15 less than we'd arranged through the cruise ship), and went
out. No air conditioning &hellip; but it was an open boat! I had to wonder
just what the heck kind of boat the original tour would have been on. Air
conditioning. What was the point, when we had a gorgeous sea breeze and
kicked-up spray from this awesome turquoise water? 

 We got a two-hour ride, seeing starfish, a lone manta, sand dollars, sea
 urchins, coral, and a colorful variety of fish ranging from teeny to four-foot-long
 parrot fish with big green clown lips. I think we had a better time, only
 a few of us on a small boat, than we would have in a big group, air conditioning
 be damned. 

 And at last, there in Cozumel, Mexico, Becca finally got her long-awaited
 chicken nuggets. There was a McD's overlooking the ocean, complete with
playplace. The only thing wrong was that their ice cream machine was broken
so we couldn't have shakes. After I took her to lunch, we wandered some
shops and went back to the ship to do more homework and swimming and playing
of Crazy Eights (she kicked my butt six out of seven games, as well as beating
both grandparents and Kathy). 

 The others got back just in time for dinner again, and afterwards, though
 they were tired, they wanted to go ashore and check out the shops. I stayed
 behind this time and did some writing on the aft deck. I managed to get
a prologue and first chapter done on the trip, writing longhand in a poor
spiral notebook that got waterlogged at one point so its blue lines were
all smeary. It seemed kind of strange to be sitting on a cruise ship, a
"strawberry whip" at hand, scribbling a horror novel. But it felt pretty
good, too. 

 Day 9 &ndash; Sunday, Mar. 23 

 Our final full day, entirely at sea. The ocean as we headed north for Houston
 was a deep cobalt blue with white froth, with a cool wind that made the
pool deck almost too chilly to sit in the shade. 

 We slept in (at least, compared to what we'd been doing) and had a nice 
long lazy breakfast. Tim and I foisted Becca off on Kathy, who took her to 
the kids' program scavenger hunt. She came in second because she couldn't 
find a cork and didn't want to sing at the reception desk on deck 5. 

 We got online on the ship's computers &ndash; Tim had done so briefly a 
few days ago to try and cancel the credit card lost in the underground river,
 since the same $21.00 that would buy us 100 minutes of internet time would
 only get us 8 minutes of ship-to-shore telephone. Moot point, since they
wouldn't cancel the card over the internet. He had to wait and call from
Houston. 

 But anyway, we had a lot of minutes left over. I posted to my LiveJournal,
 and checked out a few of my usual online haunts. It just figures, the one
 time in my life I leave the country, I'm suddenly sought after. One of the
 guys at SJ Games was trying to get in touch with me, and posted a notice
to the Pyramid message boards. It's nice to be wanted! 

 Becca got in her last swim. By then, her poor bathing suit was so stretched
 out and worn through and generally falling apart that we tossed it in the
 garbage. She went to the kids' farewell party while Tim and I packed, and
 then got our butts totally kicked at the last trivia contest. 

 That final dinner featured free champagne and the all-star of cruise ship
 desserts, the parade of Baked Alaska! Oh, but the look on Becca's face when
 the waiters streamed in with flaming heaps of meringue-covered ice cream
&hellip; her eyes lit up, and not just from the reflections of the leaping
blue and orange brandy-fueled fire. 

 We had gotten everything packed, miracle of miracles, even the jaguar heads
 and the banana paper book. We had to have our luggage, except for carry-ons,
 labeled and out in the hall before midnight. That led to some creative planning
 as we tried to figure out what to do with the stuff we'd need for that night,
 but we got it all worked out and fell asleep to the rocking of the ship.

 Day 10 &ndash; Monday, Mar. 24 

 We had to be out of our cabins by 8:00 am, when the ship docked in Houston.
 We spent two hours waiting around in the piano lounge while the crew organized
 everyone for clearance by the Immigration officials. Then they disembarked
 us in groups according to what airline or other travel arrangements we'd
made, which was supposed to streamline the luggage-finding process when we
got ashore into the terminal. 

 It didn't, not much. There was a lot of milling around and confusion. But
 eventually, we had our bags and were on our bus to the airport. Short bus
 ride, this time, less than an hour. People remarked on how much cheaper
the gas prices were than in their various home towns. 

 We got to the airport, managed to slip away from the masses and check our
 bags, and then have a final family lunch at a restaurant inside. The flight
 that Tim, Becca and I were on was first, and four hours later we were back
 in cool, grey, rainy Seattle. Dave picked us up at the airport &ndash; great
 guy! &ndash; and drove us home. 

 It had been a great vacation, a really good time. I doubt any of us would
 want to do the same trip again, and there were parts of it &ndash; the cave
 tubing and Chichen Itza in particular &ndash; that left something to be
desired, but I think we're all glad we did it this once.