Damien Part One 

Damien 

Part One: Atonement 

by Christine Morgan 

 Authors Note: the characters of Gargoyles are the property of Disney
and are used here without their creators knowledge or permission.
 Mature readers only, please, due to language, sexual content, and graphic
violence. Finished January 2000; approximately 21,000 words.
 Commercial: Don't miss Sabledrake
Magazine for more work by this and other authors!

 If she knew what he was doing, shed be furious.
 But once she understood, shed realize it
was in their best interests, and shed forgive.
 Comforted by that thought, Jericho settled
onto the ledge to wait.
 His blood ran at high tide with anticipation,
his eyes burned white at the thought of plunging to the wrists into soft
pink
 human belly. Yes, gloving his hands in the steaming mush of sundered
entrails, burrowing past lumpy organs, gouging his
 way deeper until at last his claws grated against vertebrae.
 If he did it right, his victim would even
still be alive until the moment when Jericho closed the spinal column in
his fists
 and crushed the bones and nerve cord together. Alive and screaming
as the guts leaked from the widening rip.
 A ranged weapon would have been safer, but
there was something so beautifully personal about doing it this way. Hed
 be able to look into his victims face as life spilled onto the ground.
 Jericho shivered as a near-sexual thrill swept
him. He bared his teeth to the sky and shook his head so that the icy wind
 rippled in his wild mane. His fingers curled in longing. A low guttural
growl slipped from his mouth.
 Ah ... but control .
 This time, he would not let his eagerness
lead him into recklessness. He had planned this with exquisite care, with
a painstaking
 secrecy and deviousness that was unlike him, and he was not about to
be ruled by his savage nature now.
 Not yet .
 Not like last time.
 He winced at the thought. No, not like last
time, never, never again. That his best intentions could have turned so
quickly to
 failure and shame ... and worse ...
 Bad enough that he had forgone caution and
attempted to capture MacBeth like that. He should have planned, waited,
 chosen his moment. But the televised trial had reminded him of how
he could have lost her, and seething impulse would not
 be denied.
 If he could have brought Tony Dracons head
to her on a plate, he would have done so. The news report showed the
 skunk-striped crimelord being led from the courtroom in chains, struggling
against the bailiffs and shouting threats at the
 turncoat, Pal Joey, whose testimony had landed Dracon a twenty-year
sentence. Now Dracon was behind bars and beyond
 reach of the justice that Jericho would have given him.
 Dracon had killed her ... even if it
had been one of his flunkies that actually pulled the trigger, the hand
only obeyed the
 dictates of the mind. Killed her, and left her for the rats and roaches
in an abandoned restaurant.
 True, shed come back ... but only by the
grace of enchantment. If not for that, she would have been dead and gone,
lost to
 him forever, her murder a matter of little consequence to those who
did it. Dracon would have and could have robbed Jericho
 of everything that mattered to him.
 But Dracon was nothing . So Jericho
kept telling himself. Couldnt have killed her permanently. There was only
one way that
 could happen ...
 And so in desperation hed seized upon the
idea of MacBeth. Who could . Who would . So tired of his long
and empty life
 that hed gladly take Demona with him.
 Intolerable.
 Yet MacBeth was equally invulnerable. A threat
that couldnt be ended. But ... a threat that could be contained.
 By imprisoning MacBeth, locking him away someplace
so secure that hed never be able to escape, Jericho would have been
 ensuring Demonas life for all time. She would never be taken from
him. Let the world throw as many gun-happy Dracons at
 her as it wished; she would rise again and again.
 His carelessness had been his undoing. Rather
than plan, rather than wait, he had let his impulses rule him ... and paid
a horrible
 price. Not only had he failed to capture the immortal Scot, but there
had been the blackly revolting events that had followed ...
 Jerichos gorge surged. He locked his jaw
against it, lest he advertise his presence here by spewing his supper onto
the oblivious
 heads of the guards below.
 When his innards grudgingly calmed, he gasped
several deep breaths to clear the phantom scent of oil and womanflesh from
his
 nostrils.
 Oh, better he had died that night ...
better timid Aiden had left him to his fate rather than seek help. Better
 anything 
than for
 Demona to have seen him like that.
 She said it didnt matter, she knew he had
not been in his right mind. Gustav Sevarius had analyzed the chemical residues
clinging
 to his skin and confirmed that sense-altering agents had been involved.
He was blameless, a victim.
 But it had hurt her. He had hurt her,
willingly or not, and he would sooner put out his eyes with a red-hot needle
than ever cause
 her pain.
 When done was done, what was left?
 Only atonement.
 And so Jericho would atone. Not with words,
for words were useless. Not with his body, because he was still unworthy.
 Until he made the love shine forth from her
smile again, until he had proven himself by a deed so devoted that it would
assure her
 beyond any doubt that he was hers and hers alone just as hed always
been, he would not let himself enjoy her embrace.
 She told him it wasnt necessary, but there
was a different truth in her touch. He was not imagining the hesitation
there. Tainted, he
 was tainted now, and could only be cleansed by his own actions. Once
he had proven himself again, he could go freely to her arms.
 He would not fail again. Though it was agony
to deny himself, and further agony to deliberately torture himself by watching
as she
 indulged her desires with Godiva ... the two of them, azure and indigo
entwined and writhing ... Demona and her insatiable electronic
 toy ... just the memory made his throat go dry.
 When the deed was done. Then and only then,
when he had redeemed himself, then he would no longer just watch.
Well, for a
 while, yes, why not, it was purest bliss to see Demonas expressions
of ecstasy, to be able to observe her for the perfection she was
 without being so caught up in his own onrushing passion ... watch for
a while and then go to her ... anything she wished, anything she
 commanded.
 Anything she wished. That was what he would
be, what he would do.
 What he would give her.
 Demonas fondest, most heartfelt yearning.
 Soon.
 Perhaps even tonight.
 His waiting and planning were about to pay
off.
 * *
 If she knew what he was doing, shed be furious.
 But once she understood, shed realize it
was in their best interests, and shed forgive.
 Comforted by that thought, Jason Canmore crossed
to the waiting taxi, moving with slow care despite the fact that the sidewalk
was
 salted free of ice.
 The air was so cold it blistered his nose
and mouth as he inhaled, then puffed out to hang in a cloud that momentarily
looked so solid
 that if he prodded it with his cane, it would fall and shatter on the
pavement.
 He probably could have done without the cane,
but the cold made his lower back ache as if it was clamped in a medieval
device meant
 to extract confessions. And with the deep freeze blanketing the city,
he knew there would be other places where the ice hadnt been
 tended. A single slip, and he could do himself all sorts of misery.
 The sky overhead was crystalline and sharp,
starlight glittering on the icicles that depended from the ledges. Jason
scanned all gargoylian
 shapes within view, just making sure that all of them were frosted
as well.
 He finished with a glance up at the lighted
window in Robyns room. Her silhouette passed briefly over it, the shadow
of a cordless
 phones antenna sprouting from her head.
 Her movements, what little he saw of them,
convinced him that she was just as tense and nervous as shed sounded through
the wall.
 His fault.
 She was only doing it to protect him, to protect
the family.
 Protecting the family was supposed to be his 
job. Hed let her down, and now she was putting herself in danger to keep
him out of jail.
 He hadnt thought of that. If he had, he might
not have been so diligent in his pursuit of recovery. When hed been in
that hospital bed,
 hooked up to more medieval devices, getting the use of his legs back
had been his only goal. Hed never stopped to think that his crippling
 injury was the only thing that had made the judge treat them mercifully.
The old theyve suffered enough angle.
 Now he was well again, not a hundred percent,
not the formidable athlete he had once been, but still no slouch. And some
people thought
 that a second trial might be much less lenient.
 Unless, that was, Robyn was willing to play
ball.
 Some choice. Put her ass on the line as part
of this secretive new task force, or she and her brother would both face
charges again.
 Robyn didnt know that Jason knew as much
as he did, which still wasnt much. She ducked the question whenever he
tried to ask her
 what she was looking so worried about, or who that had been on the
phone, or what was in that case that arrived via courier. No, shed
 just tell him she was taking care of some stuff, and that was that.
 Protecting him.
 That wasnt the way it was supposed to be.
He was the oldest. Hed been taking care of Robyn and Jon since they were
kids and had
 no one else.
 Fine job hed done of it, too.
 Maybe his own injuries had distracted him,
but that was behind him now. No more excuse of his paralysis and pain to
hide behind. Hed
 let it dominate his existence for too long, and now that he was himself
again, he was appalled at how much hed forgotten.
 No wonder he was being haunted.
 Hey, buddy, the meters running, the cabby
informed him through the narrowest possible crack of a rolled-down window.
 Right. Jason opened the back door and folded
himself in, carefully, minding his footing on the frozen river of dirty
ice in the gutter.
 Where we headed tonight, my man?
 Anvil Corp, on --
 Good deal. Brr. You let out all the hot air.
He flicked the heaters switch to its highest possible setting.
 Jason leaned back and tuned out the cabbys
chatter, looking up again as the car made an illegal U-ee. Didnt see Robyn.
Far as she knew,
 he was going to a movie. Shed have a fit if she knew the truth.
 That wasnt right . Robyn should be
here with him.
 He told himself that she would be. Next time,
maybe. Shed know better than any of them that they couldnt ignore the
past. Couldnt
 forget. It wouldnt let them.
 Do you believe in ghosts? Jason blurted.
 The cabby, who had been going on about his
sisters kid, only twelve but wanted to get his tongue pierced, what do
you think of that,
 kids today -- broke off and his reflected eyes regarded Jason warily
in the rearview.
 Say what, buddy?
 Nothing. Embarrassed, he pretended to be
enthralled with the scenery. They were on a street where iron bars covered
every window.
 Nobody loitered; the night was too damn cold for even the toughest
punks.
 After a fairly long silence, the cabby switched
on the radio and cranked it up.
 Dummy, Jason berated himself. Talking about
ghosts would only have him end up facing a competency hearing instead of
a criminal trial.
 It might get Robyn out of whatever mess she was getting into, but he
didnt particularly like the idea of spending the rest of his life in five-
 point restraint.
 He felt a gust of cold air against his cheek,
and even before he turned his head he knew it wasnt because someone had
opened a door or
 window. No, the very quality of the cold told him that. This
wasnt a brisk and clear winters chill. This was the damp and moldering
chill
 of death.
 Jason.
 Oh, God, he muttered, too low to be heard
over the music. He didnt want to. Couldnt help it. Looked.
 It was not his father as Jason remembered
him best. This was his father as Jason had seen him last. Broken. One side
of his skull caved in, a
 spongy mess of grey matter bulging through the shards of bone. The
eye on that side was pushed out in a bloodshot orb, the other squeezed
 tightly shut. His limbs were a bundle of jointed sticks and jackstraws
within his ripped red and black costume.
 What about me , Jason?
 Nooo ... Jason breathed.
 You forgot me.
 No, never.
 My death meant nothing to you.
 It meant everything !
 Turned your back on our family.
 We were wrong !
 Failed in your purpose.
 The gargoyles arent our enemies! They hate
the Demon as much as we do!
 She laughs.
 I know, he moaned wretchedly. I hear her
in my dreams.
 Why havent you avenged me, Jason?
 I cant ...
 Avenge me, Jason! You are a Canmore!
 Father --
 Your brother needs you. You left him, Jason,
you and Robyn left him. I always told you to take care of Jon. Youre the
oldest. Its your
 responsibility.
 The Demon cant be killed!
 You must continue my work, Jason.
 Well all die!
 He was thrown forward and almost flattened
his nose on the bulletproof divider between the front and back seats. Horns
blared and
 other cars swerved around the cab, which was braked in the middle of
the street.
 Hey, Hamlet! The cabby was pale and scared.
Out of my cab!
 Jasons face flamed as he realized hed been
overheard. Though they were still several blocks from his destination,
he didnt argue. He
 got out, and before he could even free his wallet from his pocket,
the cab took off again, turning sharply to swing the door shut. It sped
 away, leaving him standing there.
 No sign of his father. Just a few pedestrians
and other drivers looking at him. Jason sighed shakily and used his cane
to pick his way to
 the relative safety of the sidewalk. He fixed his sights on the giant
sculpture of a hammer-wielding man -- it was just like something out
 of one of the Batman movies, he thought -- and began to trudge in that
direction.
 * *
 If she knew what he was doing, shed be furious.
 But once she understood, shed realize it
was in their best interests, and shed forgive.
 Comforted by that thought, Jon Canmore buttoned
his jacket over the blood-pack strapped to his shoulder.
 A tiny wire led from it to his cufflink. One
push of the hidden button, and the pack would burst. And show up nicely
against his
 white suit.
 Youre certain you know what to do?
 Harry the Hammer tried to pick up the gun,
but it tumbled from his hand and bounced on the carpet. Do I have to wear
these? Its
 like having on oven mitts.
 Jon retrieved the gun. We want the illusion
to be perfect, my friend.
 Never seen one packing a 9-millimeter. Hows
that going to look?
 Much better than if you attacked me with
your bare claws. Mustnt chance anyone noting that youve got a zipper
up your back, or
 being close enough to try and apprehend you.
 Guess youre right. Id hate to get clobbered
by one of our own.
 Good man, Harry. I know weve had our differences,
but when it comes right down to it, theres no one Id rather have assisting
me.
 Im just glad to see were finally doing 
something.
 Jon chuckled. It has been a while. I do admit,
Im quite looking forward to tonight. If all goes well, well even bring
a lost sheep back
 into the fold. With Jason on our side, believe me, Harry, well have
all the doing something you could ever hope for. Now, youd best
 run along.
 Harry wedged the gun through his belt and
carefully made his way to the door.
 Mind the Steuben, Jon pointed out casually,
grasping a wing edge and bending it down. And once the deed is done, change
and
 hurry back. Your inspired rhetoric never fails to ignite the crowd.
As Ive always said, scratch a crowd, find a mob.
 You can count on me! He saluted awkwardly,
and left.
 Alone, Jon checked himself in the mirror.
Yes, very sharp, very natty indeed. A winters worth of sunlamps had given
him a nice even
 tan that went well with his blond hair, his mustache was neatly trimmed,
and when he smiled, his teeth sparkled and the corners of his blue
 eyes crinkled warmly.
 He was adjusting his tie when someone tapped
on the outer door. The tap was followed in short order by Margot Yale.
 I still think were underusing security,
she said.
 And you look lovely too, Jon replied.
 Which she did, a nice green gown not so bright
that it would draw eyes away from him, lace-trimmed wrap over her shoulders,
and some
 fairly nice jewelry. Not the Vandermere emeralds, shed been quick
to point out when he gave them to her, but hed simply had to remind
 her that the Vandermeres went along with the Vandermere emeralds, and
thus was laid to rest that discussion.
 Jon ...
 Dear Margot, do calm down. Yes, weve gone
lightly with the guards at the conference center, but remember, the rest
of our organization
 is holding a meeting of their own right in this building. They could
be on the scene in a matter of minutes should anything go amiss. Which
it
 wont. Im perfectly confident with the security arrangements.
 But for a rally --
 Meeting, he corrected with a hard but gentle
edge. Were merely meeting . No rabble-rousing. Not even media coverage.
Once
 weve decided our official stance on Senator Harmonds proposals, we
--
 Yes, yes. Margot flapped a hand at him irritably.
Call it what you will. Im just concerned.
 He brushed a kiss next to her cheek so as
not to disturb her make-up. And I do appreciate it. Now, then ... which
tie tack, do you think?
 She chose a small gold hammer and pinned it
through his silk tie. As she finished, the intercom buzzed.
 Mr. Castaway? Theres a gentleman here to
see you.
 Thatll be Jason, Jon said happily. Ill
be right down. He offered his arm to Margot. Shall we?
 Your brother ... are you sure about
this, Jon? Hes one of them . A sympathizer. He and that detestable
Maza woman --
 Margot, Margot, Margot, he laughed. You
do go on, dont you? Trust me. Everything is going to be fine.
 What if its not?
 Well, then, he said with just the right
amount of jovial levity, Ill count on you to take care of it, wont I?
 His spirits rose as the elevator descended,
so by the time the doors slid open and they stepped out, Jon felt as if
he might just float to the
 ceiling. When he saw his brother standing in the lobby, a wide and
genuine smile lit his face.
 Jason!
 Oh, and it was as if the intervening years
had never happened ... gone was the hateful wheelchair, the visible reminder
of the worst night
 of their lives. Jason was holding a cane, just holding it and
not leaning on it, and to the casual observer he might merely have chosen
it as
 a fashion statement, for it did go well with his charcoal-grey suit
and overcoat.
 His second thought was that the intervening
years had happened, and by the look of it, more besides ... Jason
appeared to have aged
 double what he should have. He was still handsome, but there was a
weathered haggardness to his features that hadnt been there before,
 and Jon fancied he could even see the advance of silver into Jasons
crop of black hair.
 It was most apparent around Jasons eyes,
their vibrant turquoise clouded with inner troubles and undershadowed with
the smudges of
 one to whom sleep was more and more of a stranger.
 Jon ... Jason said, and trailed off.
 They hadnt seen each other for almost two
years, since Jons son Bryce was born. That last meeting was probably best
not brought up.
 Ive visited your exhibition, Jon said.
Marvelous work. You always were the artistic one of the family. I even
bought one of your pieces.
 Lady in Garden. Its Mother, isnt it?
 Ive been following your career, too, Jason
said, but there was no bite in the words. They rang oddly hollow, with
just a touch of what
 Jon believed was wistfulness.
 Margot, my dear, would you excuse us? Id
like a few moments alone with my brother.
 Of course. Its nice to see you again, Mr.
Canmore, she said, with a polite nod, just as if she hadnt once vehemently
encouraged the
 courts to throw every book there was at not only the gargoyle-sympathizers
but these destructive vigilantes with no regard for human life
 or property.
 Jon beckoned. I think weve just time for
a drink before heading over to the auditorium. The rest of the stockholders
are there already,
 so we should have the bar to ourselves.
 So they did, except for the discreet and attentive
bartender. Jon felt much better once he and Jason were in a corner booth
with Glenlivet
 in front of them.
 I was so very glad you called, Jon said,
sensing that Jason wasnt going to start.
 Its just us. You can drop the British accent.
 Sorry. Been doing it so long now ... is that
better?
 Better. Jason took a hearty swallow.
 Jason, are you all right?
 He put his elbows on the table and his forehead
in his hands. God, Jon ... I dont know. Part of me says I shouldnt have
come here.
 The gargoyles arent our enemies! I tried to tell him that but he wouldnt
listen, any more than I expect ye will. In his stress, a hint of
 Jasons own accent began creeping back in.
 Who?
 But the Demon ... the Demon , Jon ...
its not all o them, its her. Shes the one. Her sorcery and evil. The
others are ... are just ...
 people.
 Thats not true and you know it!
 Thats what ye tried to tell me the
nights of the Hunters Moon.
 I was wrong.
 No, Jon! Ye were right! Goliath and the rest,
they might have been our allies. If wed thought to talk to them first
... if wed even been
 sure o our target that first time!
 Theyre all evil. The Demon may be the worst
of them, but you can rest assured that the others are just as bad.
 I canna believe that.
 Then why are you here? Why did you call me
after all this time?
 The Demon, Jason whispered. Shes still
out there. I dinna care about the others, but she must be stopped. If we
dinna at least try,
 were turnin our backs on our father and everything our ancestors
fought for and died for.
 At last you speak sense.
 Ive seen him, Jon. He comes t me. He canna
rest until we finish his work. He says she laughs at us an hes right!
I hear her laughin
 in my dreams. He started to say more, and changed his mind with such
suddenness that his teeth clacked shut.
 Jason, Jon said soothingly. Its all right.
Were together now, and we will finish Fathers work. He checked his watch
and finished his
 drink. Come on and have a listen. Youll see. Were not alone in this
now.
 What about Robyn?
 Shell come around. You did. And ... he
hung his head a little, and it was losing the two of you that set me so
against the rest of the
 gargoyles, at first. I thought theyd stolen my family away. It had
always been the three of us, dont you remember? Without you and
 Robyn, I ... I didnt know what else to do.
 An Father will rest?
 On my life I swear it!
 Jason drained his glass. All right. All right,
Jon. Ill come an listen t ye.
 They left the bar, took the escalator to the
second-floor atrium, and crossed the skybridge connecting the Anvil Corporation
headquarters
 to the conference center across the street.
 The lightly-manned security points were all
as they should be. Jon fingered his cufflink and hid a smile. What would
dear brother Jason do,
 he wondered, when it wasnt the Demon after all? Might just have to
re-think your position there, Jason-old-chap!
 The auditorium was on the tenth floor, carpeted
in topaz-gold that matched the threads running through the rich brown upholstery
of the
 seats. Drapes of a lighter champagne shade were tied in the center
with gold braided cord, revealing wedges of the light-spangled city view.
 At the front of the room, a podium stood before
a lowered screen. Later in the proceedings, Jon planned to have a short
video presentation.
 People like Harry the Hammer might think hed
spent the past year hiding his head in the sand, but hed actually been
quite busy. Even
 before the Harmond Bill, as it was already coming to be called, hed
been taking steps to re-create the Quarrymen and present them to
 the public as a civic-minded organization equivalent to any of the
benevolent fraternal orders.
 The seats were three-quarters full. Most of
the attendees were men in the comfortable upper reaches of age, wealth,
and weight. Solid,
 respectable members of the community. Bankers. Businessmen. Brandy
and cigars and five-hundred-a-plate Republican dinners.
 The rear rows were filled with a younger and
more diverse group. Chapter leaders, the boys who actually donned the blue
hoods and
 swung the hammers and personally recruited others into the honored
ranks. A few of them were in on his little stunt, just enough to make
 sure that nobody accidentally slaughtered poor Harry.
 Margot had, with her usual canniness, saved
Jason a spot in the front rank. Jon gave his brother a supportive nod as
he made his way up
 to the podium. A welcoming wave of applause greeted him, with cheers
and some chanting of his name from the back rows.
 Jon risked a glance up at the balcony. It
was dark, locked and guarded. But as it happened, the guard would have
been called away for
 just a few crucial moments. And spare keys were such handy things.
He thought he saw a shadow stir up there in the back.
 Satisfied, he turned his most charismatic
smile on the audience and began his speech, noting Jasons minor twitch
of disapproval as he
 poured on the accent full-force. Opening with a humorous anecdote to
get these well-fed moneybags in a jolly mood, he then got down to
 brass tacks.
 Some of these men were old friends of William
Harmond, moved in the same circles as the retired politician. But they
were here tonight
 instead of at the banquet in Harmonds honor, here and all but eating
out of Jons palm as he outlined all the reasons they should take firm,
 decisive action against Harmonds position.
 Because where will this lead, my friends?
Jon asked, gripping the sides of the podium and fixing them with a sincere,
concerned stare.
 Were already seeing --
 BANG! BANG! BANG!
 Jon jumped. No! Too early! Just one shot,
you idiot!
 He scrabbled for his wrist, hoping the initial
moment of confusion would cover the delay in the appearance of blood, preparing
to stumble
 back against the screen.
 But then he saw the smoke billowing from one
of the windows and realized it hadnt been the sound of pistol-blanks at
all but of small
 explosive devices.
 The window toppled inward, hinges and latch
burst like metal flowers. The entire twenty-foot-high frame and pane shimmered
like a
 mirage before striking one of the chandeliers and shattering. Glass
fell in whickering flickering lacerating shards onto middle rows of the
 audience.
 A gargoyle dove through the opening. Jon,
badly confused, thought to himself how amazingly lifelike Harrys costume
looked once he
 was playing the part.
 Then he realized that Harrys costume had
included no provisions for flying ...
 The gargoyle was upon him before he could
do more than take a single backward step. The podium crashed over at a
single swipe of
 the muscular tail. The gun that Jon had secreted in there just in case
was knocked out of its hiding place and into the third row.
 Jon recognized the blue-skinned male. His
mind flashed back to New Years Eve, over a year ago. The son of the Demon
and the hated
 Goliath. Worst of both worlds.
 He yelped in fright and turned to flee.
 A clawed hand slammed down on his shoulder,
popping the blood-pack. It doused his white jacket exactly as shockingly
as it was
 supposed to, adding a fresh spate of screams and shouts to the chaos
already reigning in the auditorium.
 The gargoyle spun him around and raked another
set of claws across his stomach.
 Once again, crimson soaked startlingly vivid
against the white, but this time there was something else that went with
it -- a silvery-hot
 bolt that seemed to shoot from Jons belly up to his temples and down
to his toes.
 The claws dug and him and then they
were in , awful and rupturing, widening the gashes and forcing themselves
deeper into his torn flesh.
 Jon shrieked and caught the monsters wrist,
trying to push the invading claws away from him, out of him.
 The gargoyle laughed, low and evil and utterly
self-contented.
 Blood everywhere. Blood and more. Jon was
suddenly afraid hed voided his bladder and just as suddenly sure that
incontinence was the
 least of his troubles.
 A stick rose and fell, landing with a meaty
 thwack !
 No, not a stick. A cane .
 * *
 Jason Canmore roared in fury and whipped his
cane around again. This time it hit the gargoyle full in the face, splitting
the skin of his
 brow ridge and cheekbone, driving his head back like a punted football.
 The gargoyles hand, slimed halfway to the
elbow with blood and other substances never meant to see the outside of
a human, came
 out of Jons body with a gruesome wet sucking sound. It was followed
by a slithery plop that was a coil of Jons intestine looping down
 to slap against the sodden front of his pants.
 The stink was unbelievable but Jason didnt
let it reach him. Rage wanted to possess him and he gave in to it gladly.
 Rather than swing, he thrust the cane like
a fencer. The tip, metal-shod but not sharp, punched through the gargoyles
wing membrane.
 Jason prepared to rip it downward, shredding
the bastards wing. But the gargoyle kicked, incredible starburst of agony
as Jasons elbow
 was slammed in a direction it wasnt supposed to bend, then a rotted-plank
crack and his right arm was a limp shell of meat filled with a
 thousand yellowjackets.
 Half-blinded by the pain, he somehow got ahold
of his cane with his left hand and lashed out, clumsy but good enough,
another hit to the
 head, ear-cartilage crunching like popcorn.
 BANG!
 The gargoyle jerked as a bullet drilled into
the thick part of his calf.
 Jason swung and missed, spotted Margot Yale
in the third row, gown and hair mussed. She was correcting her aim in proper
target-shooters
 stance, eyes wild but hands steady.
 The gargoyle saw the barrel of the gun line
up with his chest. He leapt/twisted as Margot fired. Hot lead carved a
bleeding crease along
 his side.
 He bounded for the gap where the window had
once been, plowing through and trampling the audience. In the back of the
room, the
 younger men were fighting to move forward through the struggling, escape-seeking
throng.
 Jason gave chase, but the gargoyle was
out and away before he could cross half the distance. Bellowing incoherent
obscenities, he hurled
 his cane through the gap and into the freezing wind, and ran back to
the stage.
 Margot was kneeling in a puddle of unthinkable
gore, Jons head cradled in the lap of her evening gown. Jason didnt dare
look too closely
 at what had been done to him. He bent over his brother, shaking his
head frantically.
 Jon! Jonny!
 Incredibly, horribly, Jon was conscious. Jaaaayyyyy-sssson
...
 Dinna try to speak!
 Someone call a doctor! Margot shrilled.
 Im a doctor, a portly gent replied on autopilot,
got near enough to have a gander at his would-be patient, and stumbled
away retching.
 Jaayysson ... you ... Jons chest hitched
and a runnel of blood flowed from the corner of his mouth. He raised one
hand, slow and
 unsteady like that of a drowner.
 Jason reached for it, but Jon didnt take
his. Instead, his trembling, red-dripping fingers wavered up, up, to touch
Jasons forehead.
 Always, Jon gurgled. Always ... be ...
 Aye, Jason said. I will, Jon.
 A faint smile tugged Jons lips. His eyes
rolled up, and he went limp. His fingers slid across Jasons face. Margot
caught the falling arm
 before it could land on Jons ravaged stomach. She burst into tears
and started rocking back and forth, keening Jons name like a banshee.
 Jason slowly got up. All around him, people
were running and carrying on, but he seemed to exist in the center of a
cloud that blurred sight
 and muffled all noise. He barely noticed when paramedics charged in.
 Moving as if sleepwalking, he made his way
over to the surviving windows and looked out. The glass showed him a distorted
image of the
 room behind him, and his own ghostly reflection ...
 With three red lines streaked diagonally,
the marks left by Jons fingers.
 Aye, Jason repeated softly. The Hunter.
 * *
 The wind whistled through the hole in Jerichos
wing as he left the scene.
 Hed have to be careful or it would tear more.
But on the plus side, it meant he didnt have to pretend to glide more
slowly and awkwardly
 than usual. Theyd have no trouble seeing where he was going.
 To that, add a bullet in his leg, the grazed
path of a second along his side, a painfully swelling brow ridge, a throbbing
ear, and a welt on his
 back that wasnt really worth mentioning.
 Still ... he had nothing to whine about. At
least his guts were still all where they belonged, and his plan
was going as it was supposed to.
 He hoped Castaway had spent at least one of
his last seconds mulling on the particular irony of it all. That he should,
on the one night hed
 staged his own mock assassination attempt by a Quarryman in a gargoyle
costume, be butchered by a real gargoyle ... that his best
 warriors would have been warned to expect a false attack and
by the time theyd realized it was genuine, theyd be too late do do much
 more than watch.
 Jericho laughed and congratulated himself
on his luck. Of all the things to overhear while casing out the Anvil Building!
Castaway and
 Harry the Hammer, thinking themselves so cunning and sly!
 The brother, though ... that had been unexpected
and almost dangerous. But almost didnt count.
 He dipped his head for a casual glance.
 Yep.
 Being followed.
 Just as planned.
 Now the tricky part. If they attacked tonight,
he was ready. Even wounded, he would still be able to go through with his
part. If cooler
 heads prevailed, they might be smart enough to wait until morning.
That would foul things up, though Jericho was still willing to bet that
 once dusk came, hed still have the conditions that he needed.
 Best of all if they considerately waited until
tomorrow night, giving him a days sleep to be back in fighting trim, but
he couldnt count
 on that.
 In fact, maybe the brothers presence would
be the extra fuel to the fire that would guarantee a hasty attack tonight.
 He glided on, faltering more visibly than
he had to as he descended toward the entrance. They wouldnt rush in right
after him, no. Theyd
 go back, tell the others, get their hoods and hammers and other toys.
By the time the fun really got underway, hed be far from here,
 waiting for what he knew would happen next.
 * *
 Aaron Gillespies motorcycle skidded on a patch
of ice. The side of a bakery truck loomed large, larger, a smiling blueberry
muffin-man
 with stick-figure arms and legs coming right at him.
 He tried to swerve and the wheels shot out
from under him. He and the bike screeched along the asphalt, sparks flying.
Aaron let go of
 the handlebars and parted ways with the machine, letting his momentum
carry him under the truck. A cushion of slush sent him on through
 like a pig in a mudslide.
 His head clonked against a pipe on the underside
but he was wearing his brain-bucket so he only saw stars instead of getting
scalped.
 He emerged on the other side with his jeans,
leather chaps, and jacket drenched. But the important thing was that when
he looked up,
 he saw the gargoyle swooping through an arch, and he knew exactly where
the son of a bitch was going.
 Now we gotcha! he panted excitedly. Shoulda
cleaned that place out years ago!
 The bike wasnt going anywhere, not with the
rear wheel bent like that. Aaron didnt even bother trying. He had better
things to think
 about than his bike. Like kicking some gargoyle ass! He was ready for
it this time!
 The lair, Aaron thought. The nest.
 A bunch of them. Yeah. Maybe even the ones
with which Aaron had personal scores to settle.
 Like the big-beaked dickwad whod tried to
pass himself off as a biker, only to have his bitch jump out and the two
of them trashed on
 Aaron and all his buddies. Or the tubba-lard that dropped a hot-dog
cart on Aaron once when the stupid twat whose purse hed grabbed
 started caterwauling even though he told her to shut her yap. Or the
old fart and the dog ... yeah, he owed them for butting in when he and
 some of his friends had been just having a little harmless fun stomping
some queers in the park.
 He jogged back the way hed come, and less
than a minute later, a dark blue van squealed around the corner. Ten people
had piled into
 it but there was room for one more, especially when Aaron told them
what hed seen.
 * *
 Harry the Hammer was sweltering inside his
costume but he didnt dare stop yet.
 Had to get away. Follow the plan. Even if
the plan had apparently gone totally bonkers. Play it like it was on track.
Dont think about J.C.
 Gods hands. He was in Gods hands now. If J.C. was, as his initials
implied, chosen to lead them ... but then, God had seen His own son
 put up on a post while Centurions jeered ...
 Tears made tickly paths on his cheeks and
he couldnt get at them with the mask on. He yanked at it, heard the farty
sound of Velcro
 letting go, and then cold air blasted his exposed face.
 He stuffed the mask into his belt. Had to
ditch the suit. If the cops found it, theyd know the whole thing had been
a stunt -- even though
 it hadnt been! but theyd never believe that, even if Harry
explained.
 Ditch the suit. Just like planned. Then go
back.
 But what would happen after that? How could
J.C. follow through? This wasnt a pretend wound, so he could gamely put
his arm in a
 sling and still play the charismatic leader, determined to triumph
despite his suffering. Not if he was ... if he was ...
 If he was , it was Gods will ...
 No!
 Couldnt be Gods will! Not for a gargoyles
hand to do the deed! They were creatures of evil! Beyond Gods control!
 Nothing was beyond His control!
 Except maybe for demons ... it was the end
times, Harry knew that. The end times. Oh, the date might be off by a year
or two, but
 the Imp of Darkness was already born and among them! Even if it wasnt
yet her time to rule, it was an era of evil.
 He became aware that he was praying continually
under his breath as he pelted up the fire stairs, his tail whapping the
steps behind
 him, his stuffed talon-toed overshoes dangling from their straps at
the end of his arm because he could barely walk in them, let alone
 run or climb.
 His wings scraped at the dingy graffiti-covered
walls and tried to wedge him in when he had to corner at the landings.
Couldnt stop
 to unhook them; theyd be as much of a bitch to carry as they were
to wear.
 How had it gone so wrong so fast? It wasnt
supposed to be like this!
 What had brought it upon them?
 J.C.s pride? Pride, the mother of sin?
 It had been the evil of the demons, that was
all there was to it. Insidious evil at work.
 If only hed been successful in killing the
Imp! Hed been so close ! But hed let God down twice, letting the
Imp and the Devils
 Handmaid escape. Hed seen right away that it had been a mistake to
presume to be guided by his own will. He was meant to be a
 follower, and hadnt shown proper faith in his designated leader.
 This plan was to have been his atonement,
and the Devil must have sensed it. Feared it! Known that the forces of
good and right
 were finally growing strong and gathering against him! That his Imp
and all her foul protectors would be sought out and destroyed,
 the Dark Madonna pierced through the breast and daubed with ashes and
sent to wander the land in garments of brambles, so that
 the righteous could cast her down with flung stones.
 So, to ruin Harrys road to forgiveness, to
undermine J.C.s power, the Devil sent one of his vile Minions to try and
ruin everything!
 Well, Mr. Splitfoot was reckoning without
Harry! He was going to carry out his mission! Either way, he was going
to carry out his
 mission! If J.C. was dead, Harry was going to do his utmost to see
that all the world knew his martyrdom. And if J.C. lived -- it
 seemed impossible, Harry had seen the Minions claws plunge deep, but
surely miracles were possible and who better to be the
 recipient than their chosen leader? -- if he lived, he would want Harry
to hold up his end of things.
 And he would.
 He reached the top floor, heart galloping
in his chest, and emerged onto the roofs iceswept lunar landscape. With
one eye fixed
 firmly skyward, half-expecting hoards of howling demons to dive down
on him, he unbuckled and shrugged out of the harness that
 held his fake wings to his back. Next was the belt, complete with attached
tail and loincloth.
 That left him in a padded purple bodysuit.
He wiggled out of it, thankful that it was bulky enough for him to have
worn ski pants and
 two sweaters underneath. He was still sweating like crazy despite the
frigid wind, despite the fact that it felt like icicles were forming
 on his nose and eyebrows and a fine glaze of frost was coating every
inch of visible skin.
 He wrapped the costume in as small a bundle
as he could manage, folding the wings around it and using bungee cords
to hold it all
 together. The mask slipped out and lay there, vacant sockets staring
up at him in mute accusation from beneath a snarl of hair. He
 stuffed it back into the middle and crammed the whole thing into the
big Army-surplus backpack hed hidden up here earlier.
 The whupping of rotors drummed louder in the
night, and a stark white beam speared from the underbelly of a helicopter
as it zoomed
 between buildings to zero in on the conference center.
 Harry hunched over, the weight of the backpack
dragging at his shoulders, and scuttled crablike to the far edge of the
roof. A crude
 bridge, just a bunch of planks held together by a few nails, led to
the next building over.
 Luckily, the same hard-frozen snowdrifts that
nearly landed him on his butt several times also prevented him from leaving
any telltale
 tracks. Harry crept across the bridge on hands and knees, all too aware
of the wind pushing at him and the bulging backpack.
 He made it, and dragged the plank construction
after him. Just as it clattered down, the helicopter began a sweeping circular
pass, and
 Harry threw himself flat.
 The spotlight traced the roof and ledges of
the conference center. That was where theyd be looking, at least at first.
It gave him a little
 time. He scootched backward, pulling the planks, all the way to the
other side.
 Hed planned it all. The next building was
undergoing a big remodel, and a large Dumpster full of wallboard and other
debris was
 parked squarely between them. Harry pushed his bridge over, watching
it flip and careen and almost get tossed by a sudden gust, then
 land right in the Dumpster.
 Two points, he cackled.
 Another helicopter droned into view. They
were going all out -- no, that one was a medical chopper. A good sign?
 His next stop was the roof access door. The
lock had been cut earlier that day by Harry himself; he supposed that someone
 might 
 have come up, seen it, and replaced it all in one day, but that hadnt
happened. He went in -- incredible relief just to get out of the
 cold -- and went straight to the incinerator chute.
 He shoved his bundle down, backpack and all,
into the hungry dark throat with a flicker of red far, far below ... like
a vision of the
 gates of Hell, so he was sending this gargoyle costume right where
it belonged!
 Harry paused a moment, leaning his head against
the wall, to wipe his brow and catch his breath. So far, so good. Evidence
was already
 charring into ashes.
 He still had the 9-millimeter, and the original
plan had been to ditch it too. But he hadnt used it, hadnt even drawn
it. It was still loaded
 with blanks, but he also had ammo so it was an easy matter to replace
that. He wasnt sure if it would be a good idea to drop the blank
 rounds down the chute too; he didnt know if theyd explode or not.
Better to err on the side of caution.
 There.
 What now?
 His part of the script called for rushing
back to the scene and joining the others, where J.C. would, wounded but
gamely plugging along,
 inspire them all to even greater efforts against the evil enemy.
 That wasnt going to be the case now. Which
meant the rest of the script was no good, and he had to improvise.
 What would J.C. do?
 He grinned a little at that, not sure if it
was blasphemous or not.
 It all crashed in on him then. He crumpled
to his knees with a miserable wail, seeing in his minds eye the blue monster,
rippling with muscle
 and malice, those demonic eyes full of white fire, witnessing the attack
in memory as clearly as if it were happening all over again, right here
 in front of him.
 Maybe there was something he could
do.
 Maybe it was time. Time to be the Hammer of
God, and smite down the evil beast that dared lay its filthy touch on a
righteous man.
 Harry looked up. There was nothing to see
but a watermarked ceiling with a single bulb hanging from a chain-pull
socket, but his face lit
 up as if he beheld the full majesty of all divine creation.
 He would do it. He would accept this glorious
task. What good man wouldnt? The chance to be the instrument of divine
wrath. Hed
 find the demon and he would slay it.
 With strong and purposeful strides, Harry
the Hammer set forth, never doubting that his faith would lead him to his
prey.
 * *
 Go wi him, Jason said. Stay wi him.
 What ... what about ... you?
 Margots hands were shaking as badly as her
voice, the water in the cup she held tossing like a stormy sea. But the
pill that one of the medics
 had urged on her was beginning to take effect. At least it had stopped
her from that terrible keening, and theyd been able to persuade her to
 let go of Jon so they could move him to a stretcher.
 Jason dimly supposed that he ought to offer
some words of comfort to her, but none would come. She would just have
to be strong. If she
 couldnt be, she wasnt fit to be a Hunters woman. Shed learn, or
shed run.
 Were taking him out now, an earnest, handsome
young medic said.
 Ill stay, Jason told her. Ye go wi Jonny.
 He didnt move as they wheeled his brother
out. Margot went with them, a plain white blanket held tight around her.
 The other wounded were being tended, the worst
of them transferred to ambulances. Already, the police were everywhere,
and already
 they had begun their snide suggestions that this was all a publicity
stunt that had gotten out of control.
 Jason turned away from them, knowing that
if anyone made such a remark to his face, he would kill that person.
 He watched out the window instead, the babble
of the room behind him fading so that it seemed he was viewing a silent
movie below.
 The medics appeared, rolling Jon toward the
waiting helicopter. He had a glimpse of the pale oval of his brothers
face. Not covered. Still
 alive.
 The street had filled up fast with emergency
vehicles of all descriptions. There werent many gawkers, thanks to the
hour, the wind, and the
 twenty-degree temperature, but there were some ... and Jason knew that
the reporters would be on their way.
 Another car threaded through the barricades.
Even from here, Jason could identify the red and white Fairlane.
 His jaw tightened until cords stood out on
his neck.
 Elisa.
 She got out of the drivers side, the wind
catching her black hair until she pulled up and tied the hood of her parka.
Matt Bluestone got out
 of the other side, winding a scarf around the lower half of his face.
 Margot, preparing to enter the helicopter,
stopped and turned. She and Elisa stared at each other across thirty yards,
with such venom that
 cops paused in their tasks to look.
 The glare-down was broken when a young thug
in a black leather jacket and motorcycle helmet raced up to Margot. Jasons
pulse sped up
 as he recognized the man -- one of several that had rushed from the
room to follow the gargoyle. Margot shook her head and pointed,
 directing him toward the building.
 Elisa and Matt hurried toward the man, but
couldnt reach him before he got inside. Elisa almost fell, and as is human
nature, looked to see
 what had tripped her. Went back. Picked it up.
 A cane.
 His cane.
 Jason backed hastily away from the window.
He headed for the exit, and when a medic tried to intercept him, mistaking
Jons blood for
 his own, Jason shoved him so hard that he went heels-up over one of
the seats.
 The elevator dinged just as he reached it
and the doors parted to reveal the young man in the helmet.
 Yere comin wi me, Jason said, seizing
him by the arm and propelling him halfway down the hall before the man
recovered.
 Hey! Hands off, okay? I was looking for you.
The Yale chick says youre in charge. That true?
 Aye. Did ye find where the monster went?
 The helmet bobbed in a nod. Yeah, but its
a nest, a fucking den of them, could be fifty or more! I seen it
on a TV show.
 Dye know where my brother keeps his weapons?
 Another nod.
 Third time pays fer all, boy. Can ye rally
me an army?
 * *
 I should be there with you, Goliaths deep
voice rumbled in her ear.
 Elisa snuggled her face down into the collar
of her parka as if for warmth and spoke into the tiny microphone. Bad
idea, big guy. This
 place is crawling with Quarrymen and theyre claiming a gargoyle
attacked them. If you showed up, theyd go nuts.
 Its not safe for you.
 Place is also crawling with cops, she told
him. Hang on, here comes Matt.
 Her partner shook his head and pursed his
lips as he approached, letting her know hed learned something and it was
a doozy. Get this --
 according to one of the saps on guard, our good buddy Castaway was
planning himself a little assassination attempt. Had a guy in a
 gargoyle suit all set up and everything. But it got out of hand, so
now theyre trying to save face, saying it was a real gargoyle.
 Thats a new one.
 I asked them to bring me this alleged phony,
and wouldnt you know, he skedaddled too. Convenient, huh?
 These guys. Elisa rolled her eyes.
 But even so, we better question everybody.
What are you doing with that thing?
 This? Found it out there. Tripped on it,
actually. But this is the weird part ... Matt, maybe Im crazy here, but
Id swear this cane belongs
 to Jason Canmore.
 Say what? What would Jason be doing
at this lodge meeting?
 Its got his initials on it.
 So maybe Jonny-boy took to carrying one.
Those are his initials too.
 Yeah ...
 Give him a call later. Right now, lets see
if we can find that guy in biker gear. He looked like he knew something.
 A hoax? Goliath asked softly as Elisa followed
Matt.
 Maybe. I sure wouldnt put it past them.
 They have been too quiet lately.
 I know. I dont like this. Theres something
all off-kilter about it.
 Be careful.
 Always am.
 I should be there --
 Goliath, come on, if this is a hoax
the last thing we need is a real sighting for these clowns. Theres something
you could do for me,
 though. Have Angela or someone call over to the Canmores and see if
Jasons there. He probably is and Ill feel like a dummy, but ...
 Should they be told what happened?
 Uh ... better leave that to me.
 The guy in biker gear wasnt around. Neither
were several of the others that Elisa would have expected to see. Most
of the really
 dedicated fanatics werent present, and the ones that she and Matt
tried to talk to were shocked to the bone.
 Elisa?
 Yeah, go ahead, Goliath.
 Angela spoke to Robyn. He paused weightily.
Jason has been out all evening. He told her he was going to a movie.
 Damn. Okay, but it still doesnt mean he
was here . Could be a coincidence.
 Coincidence? Aint no such animal, Matt
said agreeably, returning and giving her a cup of coffee. What is?
 That Jasons not home.
 Doesnt mean much. Its a big city.
 Im aware of that, Matthew.
 Im just saying, is all, that we might have
better luck starting with people who are here instead of worrying
about people who arent.
 Yeah? Its the people who arent here
that we should worry about. Like Harry the Hammer, for instance. Seen him
around?
 So what? Castaway was putting on a show for
the money-men. He probably left his real freakshows home so they didnt
make bad
 impressions.
 Probably, but I still dont like it.
 * *
 Jericho just had to laugh.
 From his vantage point, he could see the police
cars all clustered around one building, all the ambulances and activity,
the news
 reporters arriving to set up their cameras, the injured being led out,
statements being taken, questions being asked.
 And meanwhile, from the rear of the neighboring
Anvil Corp Building, a small fleet of vans was leaving with headlights
off, cruising slowly
 away from the scene, out of sight of everyone else.
 Six vans. Each able to hold between eight
and a dozen. A respectable fighting force, especially on such short notice.
Then again, maybe
 the Hunter had arranged to have his troops nearby, in case emotions
ran so high that a riot was called for.
 He shifted on his perch and his calf twinged.
Hed been able to dig the bullet out with his claws, and patch himself
up with supplies from
 a first-aid kit that hed tucked in with the rest of the gear that
he would be needing later. Since it looked as if the Quarrymen were going
 to oblige after all.
 Foolish humans. Just like Demona always said.
 The thought of her erased all the nagging
pains of his injuries. It would be tonight. Before dawn claimed
him in stone, he would be able
 to present her with the gift that she desired above all others. He
would see her eyes widen with joy, and she would look at him and
 know that his love for her was utter and complete. Shed throw her
arms around him ...
 Jericho made a small needful sound
 Anything for her. Everything for her.
 * *
 I double-checked all the wards, Aiden Ferguson
reported.
 And I checked the security systems, her
mate chimed in. Everythings all set.
 Goliath nodded approvingly at them. Good
work.
 You dont really think theyd come here ,
do you? Angela asked. Not after they tried a year ago New Years and
couldnt even get
 near?
 Brooklyn and Hudson tromped down the stairs,
Hudson blowing on his hands to warm them. Bronx sprang up from where hed
been
 lounging by the fire and cavorted gleefully around Hudsons legs.
 We took a quick patrol like you asked, and
nothings going on for blocks in any direction, Brooklyn said.
 Aye, were na the only ones to decide to
stay home tonight, Hudson added, giving Goliath a sour look; he was none
too pleased at
 being torn away from his Fawlty Towers marathon on PBS.
 Theyve gotta be up to something, Lexington
said. Elisas hunches arent often wrong.
 Yet not here, Goliath said thoughtfully.
Could they be moving against Nightstone?
 Well, if that be the case, Hudson said,
sinking into his chair with a grateful sigh, we neednt be bestirring
ourselves thelp.
 Yeah. Brooklyn poked Aiden. Demona and
Jericho can fend for themselves.
 She blushed.
 What about crashing the banquet? Lex suggested.
Its not like Xanatos and Senator Harmond made a secret about some gargoyles
 being there. They could be after Gabriel, Broadway, and Elektra.
 Maybe more of us should have gone, Angela
said.
 But Mr. Xanatos didnt want to freak out
the guests, Aiden said. He wanted the non-scariest ones of us. When
they all raised brow
 ridges at her, she blushed even darker. Except that I couldnt ever 
get up in front of all those people. Elektra was the runner-up.
 Gabriels pretty intimidating, though, Brooklyn
noted.
 But hes Katherines lad through and through,
Hudson said. A fair and diplomatic leader.
 Hhrm, Goliath commented.
 Is that hhrm, the princess wasnt very
diplomatic to us, or hhrm, and that means Im not? Brooklyn teased.
 The alarms commenced beeping. Lex was off
the couch like a shot, vaulting over the unconcerned Amber as she sat on
the floor with her
 blocks. The rest of the clan all tensed in readiness.
 Uh-oh, Lex said. Weve got an unidentified
coming in, and fast.
 That doesna help much, Hudson growled, hauling
himself back out of his chair.
 Aiden? Goliath asked.
 Her eyes went hazy. Nope, wards arent getting
anything, no hostile intent.
 Lex fiddled with his console; his personal
computer was hooked into the castles monitors. On-camera. Hey! Its Claw !
And hes got
 the twins with him!
 Huh? Brooklyn leaned over Lexs shoulder.
Whats ... whoa, hes hurt! Come on! He loped for the stairs with Angela
at his side.
 Bronx, protect Amber! Goliath ordered, then
followed.
 They came out into a cold so sharp that even
gargoyle hide broke out in goosebumps. The battlements twinkled beneath
a coating of frost.
 Claw was still a hundred yards out and listing
to the right, and the Maza twins, Tom and Dee, were flapping their own
little wings frantically
 as if in hopes of helping tow him along.
 It had only been a few weeks since his miraculous
awakening from the coma that had held him for so long. His limbs had begun
to pull up
 into a fetal position as those of coma patients sometimes did, and
despite coming out of it with a prodigious appetite, he hadnt regained
the
 weight or muscle tone hed had before. His tiger-striped fur was faded
and lusterless, and the wings that steered him toward the tower were
 so thin that the clan could see the starlight shining through the translucent
skin.
 Brooklyn and Goliath reached Claw at the same
time, each getting a shoulder under one of his arms. He raised his shaggy
head and blinked
 at them in relief.
 When they landed and the twins had scrambled
down, Goliath saw the puffed and blood-crusted wound on Claws back. It
was squarely
 between the tops of his wingjoints, and the fur around it was crisped
and black.
 Quarryman hammer, he said grimly, the muscles
of his own back twitching in sympathy.
 Hit him in the back ? Damn dirty fighters!
Brooklyn punched a fist into his other hand. So theyre at the Labyrinth?
Why?
 Claw nodded, and grasped the forearms of both
leader and second imploringly.
 Where are Maggie, Talon? Angela asked.
 Delilah? Hudson cut in, coughed self-consciously,
added, Samson?
 With gestures and expressions, Claw pantomimed
battle, a sense of urgency, conveyed the message that Maggie had sent him
to take the
 twins to safety and seek help.
 We wont know why until we get there, Goliath
said. Hudson, you and Bronx stay here with Claw and the children. The
rest of us will
 go. Without waiting for a response, he dove from the tower.
 Should we call Mr. Xanatos? Aiden asked,
leaping hand-in-hand with Lex.
 No time. Goliath reached for the transmitter
that hung from a cord around his neck.
 * *
 It was working perfectly.
 He knew the moment it all came together, because
down below, he could see the figures of the two detectives, Elisa Maza
and her
 trenchcoated partner, dash out of the conference center, go through
a clamoring line of reporters like a pair of charging bulls, leap
 into her car, and peel out.
 Still moving with care and caution, Jericho
slung a bundle over his arm and walked along the ledge. One corner, and
now he could
 only see the revolving whirls of flashers thrown onto the walls. Another
corner, and the scene was blotted from his view, but he could
 see a rising majestic skyscraper of glass and steel, topped with ancient
Scottish stone.
 And yes, there ... almost invisible against
the sky ... one, two, three, four, five shadows gliding away from it. Plus
the three that were
 with Senator Harmond, simpering and kissing up to humans. That left
only Hudson and the watch-beast, no doubt left behind to look
 after the child.
 He didnt even have to worry about the other
inhabitants of the castle; Xanatos had taken his wife and son to the banquet
as well to
 show that the gargoyle rights movement was a wholesome family pursuit,
and as an added stroke of luck, Jericho had ascertained
 from Demonas assistant Stephanie that Owen Burnett was vacationing
upstate until Monday.
 Jericho opened the bundle. Time to test the
prototype.
 The fabric was slate-grey woven with black
and silvery filaments. It was a light and loose billowy garment with pockets
for his wings,
 enclosed sleeves for limbs and tail, a baggy mask over his head and
face.
 He fastened it, enclosing himself head to
foot, then grabbed double handfuls of the material and tugged sharply.
 At once, the fabric shrank and contracted
to mold itself to his body. Even to his wings and tail, clothing him in
a stretchy, clingy, second
 skin. He could see through it with only a faint clouding of his vision,
breathe through it, move normally.
 This latest product by Nightstone was going
to make them a fortune, if Demona decided to put it on the market. The
military and covert
 branches of the government would go wild for Stealthweave, as would
less legitimate organizations and individuals.
 Best of all, no one was going to be able to
steal the design and duplicate it. If Xanatos could get away with selling
his VR games with
 magic in the making, it was only fair for Nightstone to make use
of similar advances.
 Jericho launched himself from the ledge and
headed for the Aerie Building. The Stealthweave patched the hole in his
wing membrane,
 putting an end to that whistling sound and enabling him to glide almost
as well as he did when unhurt. There was still pain, of course, but
 he would gladly suffer it an a thousand times worse for the sake of
his Demona.
 He flew in low, not wanting to silhouette
himself against the sky because while the Stealthweave did make him almost
impossible to spot,
 he hadnt come this far to begin taking chances now. It wasnt true 
invisibility; he could be seen if someone knew what to look for.
 When he neared the skyscraper, he caught an
updraft and soared toward the castle. Demona had described it so many times
that he felt
 as if hed grown up in those halls and passages. Although his only
personal visit had seen little else but the dungeon, he knew exactly
 where he was going.
 Closer now ... they would be picking him up
on their motion sensors or radar if they were going to. But no automatic
systems were
 preparing to blow him out of the air.
 The fabric over his eyes sparkled briefly
as he passed through the wards that surrounded the castle.
 Some of the filaments in the Stealthweave
were thread drawn by Demona from the very spool of magic itself and enchanted
to deflect
 any sorcery, divert it, cause it to part harmlessly around him like
water. There would be no way, even after, of divining what intruder
 had penetrated their defenses.
 He nearly laughed aloud.
 It was going to work!
 Ah, but he shouldnt get cocky now ... he
still had to find what hed come for and get back out without being caught.
 He circled the tower ... there was the portion
of the wall where Goliath was wont to roost ... and down below here, the
rest of the clan ...
 and there was the stairwell ... but light issued from beneath the door
at the bottom landing, so hed be wiser to enter through a darker
 and less-used way.
 His shadow pacing him across the courtyard
was misty and ill-defined, proof that the Stealthweave did its best to
divert light as well as
 other forms of energy. He landed, paused in momentary apprehension
-- here he was, actually setting foot on the castle grounds -- and
 when nothing happened, when no Steel Clan robots erupted from hidden
silos, he proceeded on his way.
 It wasnt being killed by Dracon that had
so upset Demona. He understood that now, and knew what it had been.
Not the death but
 the life .
 The child. Amber.
 A sister to him, he supposed, or half a one.
Not that he cared much for ties of biological kinship. But the daughter
of Goliath and his
 human brood mare had stirred something in Demona. Reminded her of what
shed spent a year trying to forget. The loss of hope. The
 loss of their own child, taken from them.
 That was what made her weep. The feel
of a child, an embrace brief and bittersweet, speaking to her of all that
she would never know.
 For she had never seen her own clans children
hatch; that honor had been granted to the princess-mother-thief Katherine.
Never had
 the chance to breed again, living as she had in such a time of fear
and uncertainty at first and then finding herself so alone even among her
 own kind. And then, finally, the surprise of involuntary breeding season
and the growth of a new life ... ended so cruelly and unfairly.
 He knew grief of his own but understood it
to be a fleeting thing, shallow compared to the depths of hers, the ache
in his heart nothing
 next to the hollowness carved in hers.
 Anything for Demona ... everything for Demona.
 If she wanted a child, he would give her one.
 By whatever means necessary.
 * *
 Harry the Hammer couldnt stand heights. If
man had been meant to fly, God would have given him wings. But God hadnt
... so instead
 the Devil had given wings to his Minions, so that they could wreak
their evil on humanity.
 But sometimes it was just plain unavoidable.
To face the enemy, one sometimes had to use the enemys means and methods.
 He told himself that, trying to reassure his
quaking nerves, and inched toward the edge.
 Just like the simulator, he also told himself.
And it was, the grips in his hands were identical to those hed used before.
He just had to
 imagine that the scene in front of him was an extraordinarily realistic
screen, with vents providing the wind and a city soundtrack
 providing the background noise.
 Before he could change his mind, Harry made
himself jump and hit the go-button. The jet-gliders twin engines screamed
and he was
 shooting straight ahead so fast that his lips skinned back from his
teeth.
 Eeeeyyyaaaaaahhhhh!
 Harry pulled too hard on the controls and
gravity dragged his internal organs all the way down to his crotch. The
skyline spun. One of
 Harrys flailing feet grazed a flagpole hard enough to rip the rubber
heel off his boot.
 He straightened out and leveled off, hiccuping
in reaction. Now he was beelining toward a row of lit windows, beyond which
arrogantly
 fit people ran on treadmills and pedaled vigorously to nowhere. He
streaked past, startling them and leaving calamity in his wake as feet
 faltered while canvas belts kept whizzing along and pedals kept revolving.
 Glancing in, he saw himself in the mirrors
that lined the far wall, distorted and strange, looking something like
a gargoyle himself.
 Then a jut of wall almost peeled the nose
from his face, and then he was looking in at a roomful of shameless harlots
in thong leotards, all
 on their backs thrusting their pelvises rhythmically in the air.
 He veered away from the health club, sweating
more than any of the exercisers.
 Harry was starting to get the hang of this.
It was just like the simulator. If he babied it, things would be
just fine; if he manhandled it, hed
 end up a spot of strawberry jam on a wall.
 Praise God! he shouted enthusiastically.
Lead me, Lord! Help me do Your will!
 Not five minutes later he skimmed up a wall,
over a rooftop, and almost had a mid-air with something that was a streaky
blur of greyish
 black. They passed each other with inches to spare, so fast that their
wakes spun each other in a circle.
 They hovered, Harry on his jets and the other
on an updraft, as they recovered from the dizzying spin. He couldnt see
its face, but didnt
 need to in order to know that his prayers had been answered.
 The aura of evil surrounded it in a cloud
more visible than the strange streaky-shimmery fabric hiding it from his
sight. A large bag of the
 same stuff, weighted heavily at the bottom, was clenched in its grasp.
 Harry realized a flaw in his plan ... he needed
both hands to control the glider, which left him none free to loose the
hammer strapped to
 his back. But the gargoyle was similarly hampered by the bag.
 Without a moments pause, Harry charged. A
wild victory whoop trailed behind him. His thumbs jammed down on switches
on either grip,
 and twin rows of sharp spikes popped from the leading edges of the
gliders wings.
 The gargoyle folded his wings and dropped.
Harry passed a yard over his head. His tail lashed up, meaning to ensnare
Harrys legs, but
 missed.
 Harry circled around for another pass, pouring
on the speed when he saw that the gargoyle was making a break for it. The
Minion had
 shifted the heavy bag into the cradle of his arms, informing Harry
about the value of the contents.
 They soared above the city, high into the
freezing wind. Harry had time to thank all the angels of Heaven for the
goggles that had been
 stored with the glider; as it was, the skin of his face felt both frostbitten
and windburned but it was a small price to pay for his impending
 victory.
 The gargoyle zigged and zagged, but Harry
was on him like a tick. Almost as if divine Hands were guiding his own
on the controls, letting
 him anticipate the foul creatures every move.
 Gaining, gaining!
 There!
 It was the tip of the wing, not the spiked
leading edge, but it struck the gargoyle in the small of the back, just
above the base of the tail.
 One of the doctors who worked for J.C. had
theorized a cluster of nerve endings there, analogous to the solar plexus.
The bellow that
 burst from the gargoyles throat and the way he crumpled like old newspaper
made Harry pretty sure the doc had been dead-on.
 Even better, he dropped the bag.
 Down it went, eliciting a new bellow. Body
contorted with pain, the gargoyle still forced himself to dive for the
precious bundle.
 Harry plunged after him. The blurred grey
outlines were hard to see, but he never faltered.
 The gargoyles claws snagged the falling bag,
wheeled to check where his adversary was, and Harry plowed into him with
the full row of
 spikes.
 Whatever else the fabric was, it wasnt armored;
as they were thrown apart by the force of their collision, Harry saw a
line of bleeding holes
 across the gargoyles chest.
 The gargoyle was hurled backward into a glass
rotunda. The glass cracked on impact but didnt shatter. He slid down,
struck a ledge, and
 dropped the bag again. Battered but desperate, the gargoyle threw himself
after it.
 Not this time! Harry called into the wind.
 He went for a crude tackle, letting go of
the controls and landing on the gargoyles broad back. The damnable cloth
was slick and slippery
 under his gloves, so he yanked off the hood and mask, and grabbed onto
the streaming scarlet hair like it was a broncos mane. He locked
 his legs around the gargoyles middle, and craned one arm behind himself
to get at his hammer.
 No standard-issue jobbie this, it was one
of the deluxe models, light enough to wield one-handed but solid enough
to pulverize stone or bone
 indiscriminately.
 At the whine of the hammer powering up, the
gargoyle lost all interest in the plummeting bag and writhed in an effort
to throw off his
 unwelcome rider. Harry held on tight as they did a barrel roll, aware
that he was praying at the top of his lungs, mostly a babble but it was
 extremely heartfelt and sincere so he was sure the good Lord wouldnt
mind.
 They bucked and tumbled across the sky. The
gargoyles tail coiled around Harrys neck and pulled just as Harry was
about to bring the
 glowing, sparking hammer down on his skull. He lost his hold and the
hammer slipped.
 On blind stupid instinct, he tried to catch
it.
 The head socked firmly into Harrys palm and
came alive with electricity.
 A tunnel of onrushing thunder and white light
swallowed him whole.
 * *
 Jericho collapsed in the center of the street,
hot hissing steam from a manhole cover bathing his face.
 The block was deserted. No one saw him and
fled screaming, or ran to pummel him as he lay gasping. He had the night
to himself for the
 moment.
 Sporadic convulsions wracked his limbs. The
Stealthweave had deflected most of the energy from the hammer, but his
head had been
 uncovered and the cloth over his chest was ragged with holes, so enough
had gotten through to jolt him half-senseless.
 He wasnt entirely sure how hed landed in
one piece, or what had become of his passenger. All he knew was that the
man was no longer
 on his back, either alive or as a galvanized corpse.
 His hair crackled as he lowered his head into
his hand. He could feel it standing up from his scalp, gradually settling
as the steam continued
 to gust out at him.
 The bag!
 He sat up too fast and the world reeled in
a sickening spiral.
 Oh, no! Oh, damn!
 Jericho tottered upright, swayed, and stood
drunkenly until his balance returned. His previous aches and pains had
been encompassed
 by new ones.
 Refusing to listen to the part of his brain
that was soberly telling him it was a lost cause, he stumbled back the
way he thought he had come.
 Cursing the Stealthweave now, for it would make the bag nearly invisible.
 He could hardly bear the thought of finding
it, of opening it. More shattered hopes, more despair. Everything he had
planned, everything he
 had suffered, would be for nothing. The life that he had promised Demona
would be gone, snuffed out, nothing left but a dead and broken
 reminder of their dreams.
 At least, he tried to console himself, it
would have been quick. The child would have felt nothing. No fear, no comprehension
of what was
 happening.
 Where was it? Had to find it, couldnt let
the Stealthweave or its contents be discovered by the humans.
 He looked up and around, trying to get his
bearings. There was the glass rotunda hed collided with, so it had to
be around here somewhere ...
 The graceful curve of an upswept wing drew
his eye. It was cast in clean, pure marble glittering beneath a layer of
frost, as if the statue might
 wake and break from her icy sleep.
 Winged Victory, he thought. The one named
after a running shoe. Adidas ... no, Nike, that was it. Long sleek limbs
well-revealed by short
 robes, poised as if about to take flight, a slim sword raised in her
outstretched hands ...
 A surprised and weary laugh burst from him.
The Stealthweave bag was caught on the end of Nikes sword, swaying twelve
feet above the
 hard granite stairs.
 Jericho shook his head in numb amazement.
 The ripping sounded very loud.
 He sucked in a breath, seeing what hed missed
before. Yes, the tip of the sword had pierced the bag and stopped its fall,
but now the bag
 was sliding down, along the blade. While the edge wasnt sharp, it
was causing the tear in the cloth to grow.
 Riiiiiiipppp ...
 It spurred him into swifter action than he
would have thought his battered body capable of. He vaulted to the top
of a parked car, denting
 the roof and almost slipping on the coating of ice, and from there
sprang toward the statue.
 He embraced Nike most familiarly around the
thigh and stretched up and out. Felt the curve of weight brush his palm.
 Riip!
 The bag plunked into his hand and he drew
it tight against his chest. Pressing his face into the side, he breathed
the warm scent that
 reminded him so much of Angela.
 Its all right, he murmured. Ive got you,
little one. Safe now. Safe now.
 * *
 ... repeat, we have a state of emergency for
a ten-block radius.
 Travis Marshall was hunkered down between
a SWAT truck and a police car, managing to sound calm while still keeping
his head down.
 He knew too many brother journalists who believed that nothing
bad could happen to them as long as they were doing their job, but he
 wasnt about to risk his future deluding himself that news only happened
on one side of the camera. Bad enough that he risked his future
 tagging along after Detectives Maza and Bluestone.
 Police in full riot gear have swarmed the
scene, he went on. Initial attempts to disperse the crowd with tear gas
only served to
 incapacitate the Labyrinth residents, already hard-pressed to defend
themselves against the instigators, who are equipped with gas masks
 of their own. Reports that the mob is composed mainly of Quarrymen,
the self-proclaimed anti-gargoyle radicals, have yet to be confirmed --
 Shit! Frannie MacAbbee, his intern, hollered
lustily.
 Were live , you ninny -- Travis began,
then saw what Fran was looking at. Shit!
 The two of them and their cameraman scrambled
for cover as what at first looked like a comet headed straight down their
throats.
 Fran pointed at the metallic wings. Its
one of those robots!
 It kept coming down, and in the instant before
it struck, Travis realized it was neither a comet nor a robot but a man
with a jet-powered
 hang-glider on his back. The man was lolling in the harness, unconscious
or dead, and his glider was sparking and smoking badly.
 Beautiful, the cameraman said, standing
up to focus on the glider. One of the jets sputtered out and it banked
above them, and the silver
 Q with a hammer-shape for a crossbar showed up clearly in the firelight
from two burning cars.
 One of the wings hit the roof of their van.
The glider cartwheeled down the street, and on one of its revolutions the
harness parted company
 with the rest of it. The man was thrown clear, missed going ass-first
through the windshield of Mazas car by about a foot, and ended up in a
 heap only a few yards from Travis and his team.
 The three of them looked at each other.
 Well? Frannie urged.
 Almost became the news, there, huh Trav?
The cameraman grinned. Weve still got live feed going.
 Come on! Travis went in a bent-double crouch
copied from action movies. He reached the man, and his mouth fell open.
Harry the
 Hammer.
 Id call that a confirmed report, then,
Frannie said.
 * *
 This might interest you, my lamb.
 Ive told you to quit calling me that, Demona
growled, knowing Gustav Sevarius would not be affected in the slightest.
She indicated the
 thick book, silvery ink glinting with eldritch light on pages of pure
black parchment. And Im too busy.
 Oh? He turned the portable television toward
her.
 It was showing scenes of flames and destruction
and humans fighting each other, with the Action News LIVE logo in the
corner. She could
 hear Travis Marshalls voice over distant shouting and crashing.
 Demonas mouth curled in a cruel half-smile
and she pushed the tome away. Well, I could use a break. Whats happening?
 Quarryman riot, Sevarius replied.
 She sat up straight. What? Where?
 The Labyrinth, evidently. Tell me, my lamb,
dont you know a Harry the Hammer?
 Leaning forward ravenously, she turned up
the volume and shushed him. Her eyes avidly devoured the footage, which
alternated between
 LIVE, recorded just moments ago, and recorded earlier.
 Demona gaped in amazement as they recapped
the alleged attack that had sent Quarryman leader Jon Castaway to the hospital,
where he
 was now in surgery and apparently barely clinging to life. She was
treated to a shot of him being lifted into a helicopter, and savored the
 expression on the whey-faced correspondent describing his injuries.
 Theres just something about the word disemboweled,
Demona purred.
 On the television, police in riot gear went
toe-to-toe with hooded hammer-wielders while panicked people stumbled around
in clouds of
 tear gas. There, quick as a flash, an image of four Quarrymen struggling
to bring down a seven-foot Sasquatch.
 How nice, my nephews on TV, Sevarius remarked.
 A shaky pan across the sky, and if those werent
the silhouettes of Goliath and his clan rushing to help, Demona would kiss
a pig. Hah!
 Fools! she said. Why bother? Only humans and former humans!
 And one gargoyle.
 If youre thinking of Delilah, youre so
wrong. That ... thing isnt worthy of the name gargoyle!
 He scoffed mildly. Of course, my lamb.
 In fact --
 Whatever she was going to say was lost as
the picture went back to LIVE. Part of the battle had ranged back aboveground,
and two large
 muscular figures were wrestling on the roof of a deli. One was a panther
mutate, and the other was a man in a black mask marked with red
 slashes.
 Demona was on her feet in a flash. Hunter!
 But Castaways in surgery, Sevarius said.
 Its the other one, the brother. She shook
her head, astonished. What happened tonight?
 Are you going to summon your clan?
 No. It could be a trap to lure me out. Its
 me 
the Hunter wants. Let him wear himself out fighting Goliath and the mutates.
Maybe for
 once I wont have to kill one of them. Wouldnt it be ironic if, after
all this, Goliath did my work for me?
 She sat back down once the scene changed,
and they watched the rest of the broadcast. Harry the Hammer, also barely
clinging to life,
 had been taken to the hospital. Of the estimated fifty Quarrymen, thirty-eight
were arrested. Their leader managed to elude capture, to
 Demonas disappointment but not to her surprise.
 It was already being called a backlash against
Senator Harmonds proposals, and then cut to an interview segment in which
reporters had
 corralled the old man as he was leaving the banquet. He was horrified
and dismayed to hear of the evenings incidents, and then they cut
 again, this time showing footage of a trio of gargoyles addressing
the banquet attendees.
 Demona jumped up again, appalled to recognize
Broadway and Elektra, as well as a male she suspected was one of Jerichos
rookery
 brothers from Avalon.
 No! she raged. What are they doing ?
First Thailog becomes a rock star, then that bitch Fox tries to parade
 my 
daughter around as
 a fashion model, and now this ? Going begging to the humans to
be treated as equals? They should be living in terror of us, not legislating 
us!
 Incensed, she put her fist through the screen.
 Sevarius sighed in the manner of a parent
whos just seen a tantrumy child break yet another toy, and used his cane
to lever himself up from
 his chair.
 She shook the smoldering, gutted television
off of her hand. Ill buy you a new one. It was the closest the old lizard
was going to get to an
 apology, but at least he understood and accepted that.
 Picking slivers of glass from her arm, she
went to the sink and washed up. As she was doing so, she heard a familiar
tread on the stairs.
 Poor Jericho ... he was letting that distasteful
business with the humans get to him. Yes, it had been awful, but it wasnt
the end of the world.
 Hed been drugged at the time. It wasnt as if she blamed him. And
it wasnt as if she hadnt done similar deeds herself, while stone sober.
 MacBeth ... Vito ... Nick Diamond ...
 She summoned a welcoming smile for her devoted
lover, but it widened into a gasp of shock as he limped in with a Stealthweave
suit hanging
 around him in shreds.
 Jericho!
 Im all right, he said, with a grimace probably
meant to be a reassuring grin.
 Quarrymen! You got caught in that --
 No ... not exactly. It wasnt like that.
I ... its a long story. He gingerly set a Stealthweave bag on a chair,
and began divesting himself of
 the sad remains of his suit.
 Demona helped him, and brought a damp washcloth
to wipe away the drying blood across his chest. Sit down.
 He obeyed, and looked up at her with adoration
as she tended his wounds. I did it for you. All for you, always for you.
 Did what?
 But I had to have a plan. A distraction.
Something to get them out of the castle. It went well. Almost perfectly.
Oh, Demona, if only you
 could have been there to see me slit his belly open!
 The Hunter!
 The Hunter. His flesh gave way like butter .
Look! I still have his blood on my claws!
 You did that ... why?
 Like I said, a distraction. I knew theyd
follow me. I let them follow me. All the way to the Labyrinth. Hid just
inside, so no one who lived
 there saw me, but the Quarrymen thought Id gone in, thought I was
one of them! And they did just what I knew theyd do. Declared war.
 The washcloth was forgotten as she stared
at him.
 So of course, mighty Goliath hurries to the
rescue. Left the castle undefended. Not even Xanatos was there. The Stealthweave
... it
 works perfectly . A ghost couldnt have passed through those
wards better than I did.
 What were you doing in the castle? She was
almost afraid to find out.
 The adoration in his eyes deepened and brightened.
It was for you. I failed you, shamed you. Had to make up for it
somehow. Had to ...
 to give you the one thing you wanted most of all.
 Jericho ... what have you done?
 He stood, touched her gently under the chin
to lift her face to his. I love you. There arent words in all the world
to say how much. I would
 do anything to keep you from being hurt. Or, barring that, to try and
make up for it. But I couldnt ... we couldnt. It would only happen
 again, hurt more, if we tried to do it ourselves.
 Do what?
 Have another child. He picked up the bag
and offered it to her. So I brought you this one.
 She took it and sank into the chair hed vacated.
Overwhelmed and more than a little fearful, she opened the bag.
 There, nestled in the folds of cloth, was
an egg.
 Whose is this? she asked tremulously.
 Ours.
 You took this from the rookery. From the
rookery in the castle.
 Yes. Theyll never know. They couldnt detect
me going in, and when they find it missing, all their security videotapes
and divinations will
 be able to tell them is that it just disappeared. We can keep it in
Stealthweave and hide it someplace that youve warded, and they
will
 never be able to find it. Its ours. Yours .
 But whose was it, then? Do you know?
 They had the rookery divided, with photographs
and toys, making little nurseries. I knew you wouldnt want Elektras,
because shes
 half-human. Or Delilahs. And Aiden ... he looked abashed and shrugged.
She helped us, and she was human once. That left --
 Angela! Demona whispered. You stole Angelas 
egg!
 One of them, yes. He knelt at her feet and
cupped her calves in his hands. Why not Angela? Why should she have two
eggs and us
 none? She owes it to you! Your own daughter, but she turned
her back on you. Its only fair that she should provide you a child to
 replace the love that she denied you!
 When she finds out --
 She wont. He reached up to caress her cheek.
Demona ... this is ours ! Yours and mine. Well raise it together,
 our 
way and not
 Goliaths! Well be a family, be a true clan, at last! No more
clones, no more loneliness. Here is our future, our hope.
 Her eyes flooded. Ours ...?
 Dont you want it to be that way?
 She touched the egg, first with a fingertip,
then, feeling its warmth and life, rested her hand upon it. Oh, Jericho!
 Please, Demona. Accept this. Let me atone.
Let me ... let me be a father.
 Yes! she cried, hugging the bundled egg
to her breast. Jericho, how I love you!
 He embraced her, the egg between them to feel
the beating of both their hearts, their mingled tears raining on its curved
shell.
 Its been so long, she said when she could
speak again. I cant remember which pattern of mottling means a boy or
a girl.
 If its a boy, Jericho said, holding her
hand to his face, I want to name him Damien, for you.
 And if its a girl -- she began, voice nearly
breaking with emotion.
 Antigone, Gustav Sevarius said dryly.
 Demona, irritated and having forgotten he
was there, gave him a dirty look to which he was totally immune.
 Jericho frowned in puzzlement, but she didnt
explain, just leaned forward and kissed him with more genuine tenderness
than shed shown
 anyone in over a thousand years.
 You are hurt and tired, she murmured. And
dawn comes soon. Go up to your sanctuary and rest. I will see to it that
our child is secured.
 Tomorrow ...? he trailed off hopefully.
 Come to me when you wake. Ill be waiting 
for you.
 He closed his eyes in momentary exultation.
A heartfelt tear slipped from beneath one lid, and Demona gently wiped
it away. Evidently not
 trusting himself to speak further without giving way to weeping, he
brought her hand to his lips and kissed the palm, then bowed to her as
 graciously as ever courtier bowed to his lady-queen, and left the room.
 Incredible, Sevarius observed. You couldnt
own him more completely if --
 Hush, you old lizard, she said, lacking
her usual bite. Hes more to me than that.
 Oh, is he? Im honestly to believe that you
actually do love that poor deluded, demented boy as more than a possession
and a conquest?
 Since when?
 She looked down at the Stealthweave-swaddled
egg in her arms. Since tonight, if not before.
 * *
 Once upon a time, dawn would have filled him
with a sense of relief. The gauzy trailers of morning mist touched rose
and orange by the
 rising sun would have cleared the dread from his heart just as they
cleared the shadows from the sky.
 Relief and hope. Relief for no danger could
stalk them by day, and hope that they might find the Demon held helpless
and immobile.
 Now the breaking day only brought Jason a
dragging sense of half-relief, because the world had gotten far more complex.
Now the Demon
 herself shifted form by day, and he didnt dare go after her although
the personal risk was less. The public took even less kindly to attacks
 on apparent humans than they did to gargoyles.
 And as if that wasnt enough, now he had other
enemies to contend with. The rest of the gargoyles, well, if they chose
to make this their
 fight he would oblige. Because he knew something now. He knew hed
been wrong ... it wasnt just the Demon any more. Unless shed
 come across sorcery to turn her male .
 No, there were others determined to make themselves
his foes. The one that had gutted poor Jonny, and the ones that harbored
him.
 They were good , Jason would give them
that. Very believable in their protests that they knew nothing about the
attack. But of course
 they were only delaying, giving their guilty clanmate a chance to escape,
pretending surprise and innocence.
 Not that theyd been given much of a chance
to talk. Even though they must have been expecting some repercussions,
they hadnt been
 prepared for the assault Jason had led. His army had gone through them
like scythes.
 It pained him slightly that some humans had
been hurt. Civilians, probably not even aware of what had happened, with
the bad luck to be
 in the way. But they hadnt been the main targets of his forces. That
honor had been reserved for anything with wings.
 Therein was the other reason the dawn no longer
relieved him. This new breed, the lightning-lashing mutates didnt turn
to motionless,
 helpless statues by day.
 To think, hed once called them friends. Met
with them socially. If things had gone differently so many years ago, if
Elisa had accepted
 him instead of choosing Goliath, the mutates might even have been family .
 That could no longer be. They were all against
him now, because they had sent one of their own to try and murder Jasons
brother, then
 stood against him when he sought to avenge that grisly and unprovoked
act.
 Oh, and how they had lied to him ...
he wondered bitterly how long theyd been laughing at him behind his back.
Letting him think he
 knew all of the gargoyles, that they all shared a common foe in the
form of the Demon.
 But that was such a patent lie ... there were
more turning up all the time. Two new ones seen with Harmond -- a grey-green
male and an
 ivory female. The homicidal monster from last night, so like the Demon
that he might as well have been her own offspring. And the deep
 blue female ...
 Jason winced as a painful spasm clenched him.
When it eased, he couldnt remember what hed been thinking about, but
was sure it
 wasnt important.
 What was important was where to go
from here. What next? Hed been listening to the news ever since his narrow
escape from the
 Labyrinth, and knew the score. Six dead, all human. Two were Quarrymen,
one was a policeman, and the rest hapless bystanders. Dozens
 more wounded, under police guard at several area hospitals.
 And not a single gargoyle or mutate among
the casualties.
 He ground his teeth. They had the luck of
the Demon herself, as if her malevolent power spread out to cover them
like an umbrella. Every
 single one of them practically unhurt, and now fled beyond his reach
to the height of the Aerie Building.
 Hed also heard how they were being hailed
as the defenders, valiant defenders swooping in to protect the innocents
and subdue the
 mob as peaceably as possible. Not one of the deaths had been caused
by inhuman hands.
 What do I do now? he asked the first rays
of the winter sun, peeling off his mask to let their pallid warmth fall
on his bruised skin.
 Couldnt go to the hospital, not to be treated,
not to visit his brother. The moment he showed his face, hed be arrested
and shackled.
 Couldnt go home. Theyd be expecting that,
the apartment under surveillance, Robyn possibly in custody. Theyd probably
sent Elisa
 herself to do that job.
 A pang of sharp agony pierced him. The apartment!
Theyd search his room, find his paintings! The ones he kept hidden away!
Theyd
 take them, and those paintings were the only things that kept the Demon
from infiltrating his dreams!
 Jason.
 Hitching in a breath, he slowly turned and
saw his father standing beside the stolen car that had gotten Jason this
far. This time, he wasnt
 a mangled corpse but whole and unmarked, though remarkably less substantial
than hed been in the taxi. Jason could easily see the lines
 of the car through him.
 Father.
 You dont need the paintings now, Jason.
Youve taken back the destiny that is yours, taken up your responsibility .
The Demon cannot
 laugh at you anymore, and I am closer to my final peace.
 The sweet, soothing balm of understanding
flowed over Jason. And Jon ...?
 Jon will live.
 He ... he will? A grateful sob burst from
his lips. He will live!
 But his road to health will be long, and
hell need you. Youll have to carry on until hes able to join you again.
 Yes! He paused, troubled. What about Robyn?
 His father shook his head sadly. Your sister
forgets who she is. She thinks she can clear her conscience by bending
to the law , and
 instead, shes only going to become a pawn in a game she cant begin
to comprehend. You must go your way alone for a while, Jason.
 Show her by example what it means to be a Canmore. Let her come back
on her own.
 He bowed his head. Ill miss her ... but
it must be this way.
 The Hunters road is a lonely one, his father
agreed.
 What should I --? he looked up, but the
specter had vanished, leaving only a scarred alley cat that hissed threateningly
as if it feared it
 would have to compete with Jason for the frozen bounty in the trash
bins beside his car.
 ... do? he finished in a whisper that was
almost a sigh.
 * *
 Dominique Destine took the private elevator
from her penthouse office to the sub-cellar, humming to herself, stealing
several quick glances
 at the heavy bag that rested at her feet.
 The doors opened and she picked it up, stepping
out into the cool, dimly-lit hall. A winged shape moved sinuously toward
her.
 Good morning. Godiva made the greeting sound
warm and sultry as a tropical storm. She tossed her head, the waves of
golden hair
 rippling between her indigo wings. I was just headed up to work, unless
you ... needed me for something? Her inhalation and the
 suggestive curl of her tail made the offer more than clear.
 The boys didnt wear you out?
 Nnnhah! laughed Godiva richly. They can
only barely keep up with me. Oh, speaking of which, you might want to have
the doctors
 take a look at Burbank.
 Stone sleep will heal any scratches you left,
Dominique grinned.
 Not that ... I think his hearts not as strong
as it could be. Remember, he was cloned from a much older specimen. The
data suggests
 that he might suffer some effects from the inevitable DNA breakdown
of aging.
 Maybe hes just not up to the sort of workout
you put them through. You could take it easy on him.
 I try, but Brentwood and Malibu, energetic
as they are, have to recuperate some time. Just the two of them arent
enough, and Im
 hardly going to push Burbank away.
 Arent there any other options open to you?
 There might be if your Jericho wasnt determined
to make me crazy. At first I thought I frightened him, but now I think
hes toying with
 me. He knows what I want, and he has to want it too,
but he wont give it to me. Must be your sadistic streak coming out in
him.
 I doubt its that, though he does have it.
 Then why? Has he said anything? Godivas
tiara of quills drew together and she eyed Dominique. Or is this some
game of yours,
 and you put him up to it?
 You might just not be his type.
 Im everyones type. Her tongue traced
the pursed heart-shape of her lips. I know he likes me. I can tell.
 Godiva, Godiva. You dont understand my Jericho.
In fact, until tonight, I didnt fully understand him myself. Hed take
you if I told
 him to, and pound at you until even your appetite is sated --
 Mmmmm, sounds good to me!
 But Ive left it as his decision, and hes
decided not to. He ... she smiled bemusedly, touched by the notion, he
wants to be faithful
 to me.
 Strange kind of fidelity, Godiva said. He
loves watching us together.
 I enjoy having him watch.
 So do I, but I wish just once, hed grab
 me 
instead of you when he cant stand it anymore! Oh, sometimes hell send
his tail over my
 way, but I want the rest! If all you have to do is tell him --
 Im sorry, Godiva. I cant do that. Hed
agree to please me, but I think I like him this way. Havent you noticed,
hes been denying
 himself for weeks now?
 I noticed. Thought it was because you were
punishing him.
 No, it was a self-imposed penance. He loves 
me, you see, and didnt want to come to my bed sullied.
 Sullied! He does know youre his mother,
doesnt he? Sullied ... tsk!
 Dominique ignored that remark, stroking the
curve of the eggshell through the light fabric. Now hes made up for it.
Hes proven
 himself to me and made me realize something I should have seen long
before now. Ive known that he would do anything I asked.
 Dutiful, obedient Jericho. But hes taken it a step further ... hell
do anything I want, even if I havent fully realized I want it. That,
 Godiva, that is love.
 What is ... thats an egg? I thought ...
that was fast! Godiva actually backed away, as if fearful that it might
be catching; even if her
 android body was capable of breeding, that would be the last thing
on her list.
 Were going to be parents, he and I. She
smiled dreamily, then sighed. If only we didnt have to wait so long for
the hatching! Ten
 more years ... it shouldnt seem like much when Ive spent a millennium
alone, but I wish it was sooner! I wish it was right away! A
 child of my own, to raise my way, to need me and love me with
blind devotion --
 Youve already got Jericho for that.
 And I know Goliath, I know Angela. If they
realize where this little one has gone, theyll try and take it back. Take
it away from me.
 One egg shouldnt be so much to ask. Jerichos right. Goliath gave
away three dozen of our clans eggs, but hed deny me this one just
 to hurt me. Once its hatched, though, once its mine ... there
wouldnt be anything they could do.
 Too bad theres no way to hurry things along.
Godiva shrugged, saying it offhandedly and clearly in disinterest, but
Dominique was
 riveted. Im going up to my office. If you decide you do need 
me for something, you know where Ill be.
 Fine, Dominique murmured, no longer listening.
 She continued down the hall as the elevator
doors closed. On her left was the rumpus room, which had once been a parking
garage but
 was now a two-story open space of concrete and support beams; it had
been taken over by the clones, who preferred an enclosed lair
 safe beneath the building to the risks and freedoms of the air.
 Theyd done their best to make it homey, but
since the advent of Godiva into their clan, what little standards of cleanliness
Gustav Sevarius
 had been able to foster in them had now gone the way of the dodo. They
lived like frat boys, amid a litter of aluminum cans and pizza boxes,
 and the pile of mattresses had seen such a hard tour of duty lately
that they were quashed into a single mass leaking stuffing from split seams.
 The three of them were there, Burbank actually
crouched in proper gargoyle pose, Malibu draped over the back of a swaybacked
sofa,
 Brentwood splayed out on the floor like a petrified and hairless bearskin
rug.
 Dominique barely looked at her so-called clan,
just closed and locked the door in case any of the regular staff mistakenly
wandered down
 this far. Not that it would matter much if they did; everyone who worked
for Nightstone had been treated to Sevarius special cocktails
 and behavioral modification videos.
 To get to her destination, she had to pass
some of the secret labs. She paused at one, thinking about what Godiva
had so casually tossed
 off with no idea of the implications.
 Hurry things along, she repeated musingly,
staring at a large tarp-draped cylinder hulking in one corner of a dark
and unused lab.
 * *
 Oh, come on, you know hes faking! Elisa
was too loud in her exasperation, earning warning glares from the attendants
in earshot.
 Im sorry, Detective, but I dont believe
he is. Weve noted lapses in short-term memory in ECT patients, and the
shock that Mr.
 Hammerton received was much more powerful than anything we use.
 But the entire night ? she
asked scornfully. You cant expect me to buy that.
 He also suffered multiple traumas when that
glider of his crashed. We cant rule out a head injury. The man is lucky
to be alive. And
 even barring his experiences of last night, I have to tell you that
Ive reviewed Mr. Hammertons file and wouldnt put too much faith in
 anything he might tell you.
 I know, I know, the mans a fruitcake.
 Detective, please ! the doctor hissed.
Show a little consideration for our other patients, if you dont mind!
 Right, okay, sorry. So youre not going to
let me talk to him?
 Not until weve stabilized him on a medication
regime.
 Look, Doc, if I can get him to confess to
his part in this phony assassination attempt, itll solve a lot 
of problems.
 I understand your position, but you have
to understand mine. I have to put the welfare of my patient first.
 Even before the law?
 The law backs me on this one. Its none of
my business, Detective, but I think youre taking this case much too personally
and
 overworking yourself. When did you sleep last?
 Youre right. Its none of your business.
 * *
 Stephanie Greene had the feeling she was being
watched.
 Ever-so-casually, as she turned a page, she
let her eyes roam briefly around the subway car. It was twenty-til-six
and packed shoulder to
 shoulder with commuters, more standing and swaying as the train clattered
around a turn.
 No one returned her gaze, or seemed to be
conspicuously-guiltily looking away.
 Probably the book that was freaking her out.
She didnt know why it should; shed read plenty of Dean Koontz before
and it never
 bothered her much. But she did wish that hed get off of this hypnosis
/ mind control / government conspiracy kick. It gave her the
 creeps for no well-defined reason.
 Wouldnt it be awful if the human mind was
so fragile and easily manipulated? If scientists, instead of being crusty-but-benevolent
like
 Gustav Sevarius, really could and did experiment on people so insidiously?
 Although she was too warm in her coat, boots,
and scarf, Stephanie shivered. The blocky grey-haired lady next to her
noticed the
 uncontrollable movement and gave Stephanie a dour and wary scowl before
returning her attention to her own book -- good Lord,
 The Total Woman by Marabel Morgan; Stephanie wasnt sure whether
she was more surprised to see it still in print or being read by
 someone like her seat-mate; the thought of that honey meeting
her man at the door in a Saran-Wrap toga was too much to bear.
 The image made her forget about her peculiar
reactions and she went back to Koontz, wondering how long it would be before
the latest
 in a series of plucky golden retriever characters saved the day. Man
was a blatant dog person. Stephanie herself often thought that if she
 wanted someone to slobber all over her face and drink from the toilet,
she could have stayed with Jim ...
 Being watched. Cold, hard, hostile ... sharp
pieces of ice.
 Her hands clenched convulsively and the paperback
squirted out of them like a watermelon seed. Bending down for it, she also
dropped
 her gloves. She scrabbled quickly for her belongings, an awkward task
with one elbow squashing her purse tight against her side to make
 sure no one took advantage of her distraction and dipped her wallet.
 Someone picked up one of her gloves and held
it out to her. Here ye are, Miss.
 Stephanie looked up into a striking pair of
turquoise eyes in a dusky-skinned face that would have been awesomely handsome
if not for
 the puffed bruises.
 Thank you, she said, with a fast and noncommittal
smile.
 Yere welcome. His smile was neither fast
nor noncommittal, and for a minute it was easy to forget all about the
bruises.
 But he said nothing more, only rattled his
newspaper as he turned to the business section.
 Definite hunk, Stephanie thought, not
without wistfulness, and opened the paperback again.
 When the train got to her stop, she stuffed
the book in her purse and put on her gloves while waiting for the press
of people to let her
 out. The hunk didnt emerge from behind the paper, ah well.
 Only four blocks to her building, but it felt
like a trek across the Antarctic wastes. The snow had frozen solid in uneven
dunes and
 ripples, and the howling wind seemed to be working in concert with
it to catch her off balance.
 She made it all the way to the steps without
falling, and then just as she thought she was safe, her right foot shot
out from under her.
 Oof! Flat on her fanny. Luckily, none of
her neighbors were coming in or going out. She got up, brushing at her
rear, and carefully
 climbed the rest of the way, muttering to herself and shaking her head
at her own clumsiness.
 As her key rattled home and the door started
to open, a large heavy body bulled into her from behind. Stephanie went
sprawling, this
 time on her stomach. A knee drove into her back and forced her breath
out in a tidal rush.
 Bright fear ignited in her, but she was too
dazed by the fall to even remember her self-defense courses let
alone try any of the maneuvers.
 She wheezed for air.
 Her assailant grabbed her under the arms and
hauled her roughly to her feet. He half-shoved half-carried her to the
rickety elevator,
 shoving her at the far wall.
 She rebounded in a clumsy spin, still holding
her keys, and tried to take a swipe at his face. He snatched the keyring
away and she
 recognized him.
 Stupid ! her mind screamed. Never 
make eye contact on the subway! Aunt Gerts advice, often heard and usually
followed even though
 shed always privately thought it was paranoid, and now look! She could
just see Aunt Gert clucking sorrowfully at the funeral, telling all
 the relatives how shed always tried to warn Steffie that Manhattan
was no place for a single girl.
 Scream and Ill snap yer neck, he told her,
and the way he said it, as if he was informing her that it was snowing
again, quelled the
 shriek that was about to explode out of her.
 Instead, she shrank against the wall, wondering
if her purse was heavy enough to stun him and wishing shed brought home
a nice big
 briefcase to clout him with. Just her luck to have finished all her
work early this week!
 He found her apartment key, which had 11-C
stamped on it, and pushed the button. The elevator began to jerkily rise.
Though he
 wasnt even touching her, she felt crushed, squeezed, trapped.
 They reached the eleventh floor, and Stephanie
was torn between hoping that someone would be in the hall and no one would.
She
 wanted rescue, didnt want to be responsible for one of the Farnbergers
or the Davinsky kid getting hurt.
 No one was there, and the only sound was Mr.
Farnbergers radio turned up too loud; some talk-jock was ranting about
a couple in
 Minnesota that had just, with the aid of fertility drugs, given birth
to a sickly set of octuplets, three of which had died.
 ... to give the rest a chance at survival
because they said it was all in Gods hands. Gods hands? God made
you barren! Dont talk
 to me about God !
 The man forced Stephanie into her apartment
and shut the door, dulling the rant to a muffled and unintelligible gabble.
 Sit! he ordered, pushing her toward the
couch.
 Stephanie did, holding her purse on her knees.
A star of awareness went nova in her mind and she remembered the taser.
It was down
 at the bottom of the purse, under the paperback and her wallet and
cosmetics and the other necessities of life, but if she could just get 
 to it ...
 She dumped the purse on the cushion as the
man threw the deadbolt. There it was! Futuristic and powerful, and when
she seized it she
 felt like King Arthur must have felt when he first laid hold of the
hilt of the sword in the stone.
 He lunged, and Stephanie let herself slide
onto the floor. She jammed the taser against his leg and shouted, Bastard!,
wincing in
 anticipation of jolting sparks.
 Nothing happened.
 Dead batteries.
 What the hell good was the thing if
the batteries went dead right when she really needed it? They were supposed
to be good for
 years and shed only had it for ...
 ... years ... oops ... oh, damn!
 The man slapped it away and yanked Stephanie
up by a handful of her coat. There was nothing warm or sexy about his turquoise
eyes
 now; they were chips taken from deep in a glacial crevasse.
 Im na goin t hurt ye, he said in a low,
intent voice. Ive a message for ye t deliver. He emphasized it with
a shake that made
 seams rip.
 What message? she whispered.
 Ye tell the Demon ... ye tell Dominique Destine
or whatever ye call her ... that the Hunters back. If in a week she gives
herself an
 the murderin blue whoreson up t me, Ill leave the rest o the gargoyles
be. She refuses, an Ill tell her secret t all the world.
 * *
 Jericho awoke bathed by a frosty glow, reflecting
from a blanket of clouds that seemed to lay only inches above the skylights
of his
 sanctuary.
 He stretched slowly, reveling in every crackle
of his spine. He yawned, flexed his wings lazily.
 No pain at all. The hole in his wing membrane
was gone as if it had never been, his brow ridge and ear no longer ached.
He crouched
 and tore away the bandage over his calf, revealing unmarked flesh beneath.
 Good as new, and better than ever in spirit.
 Her words came back to him as if hearing them
all over again. Come to me when you wake ... Ill be waiting 
for you. 
 He stripped and dove into the dark pool, rinsing
himself of what little dried blood remained on his skin. He stood beneath
the waterfall
 that plunged from one of the obsidian obelisks and tilted his head
into it to wash his hair.
 Waiting for him.
 Those words roused a hunger in him greater
than anything hed ever known before. Greater than the need for food, water,
air itself. She
 was waiting for him.
 After toweling himself off, he chose a fresh
loincloth and belted it on, and combed his talons through his hair until
it was partly dry and in
 a semblance of order.
 Waiting ... waiting for him ...
 And she loved him ... had told him so with
such emotion in her eyes and voice that it nearly made his heart burst!
 He composed himself enough not to run 
from his Dark Avalon, but neither did he dawdle on his way to her office.
 It was empty and unlit, but the door to the
inner room was ajar, and golden firelight beckoned him even before he heard
her voice.
 Jericho ...
 She stepped from the shadows and he was lost
in her beauty. The gown she wore was not so much cloth as it was black
mist swirling
 around her body, offering tantalizing glimpses and hints as she moved
toward him. Her hair shone like crimson satin, swept up in a coiled
 knot that begged him to loose it and let it fall free.
 Oh, Demona ... He went to his knees, brought
to tears by the sight of her. You are my every dream made real. I ...
I ...
 My love, she said, and he was shocked to
see that there were tears in her eyes as well. You are more than I ever
 dared 
to dream.
 Her wings flared slightly as she knelt with
him, and they remained there together for long moments, not touching, just
looking at each other.
 Jericho didnt trust himself to speak. In
all the time since shed first appeared to him on Avalon and brought him
home, through all of his
 lewd yearnings and her surprised but hearty acceptance, she had never
been like this ... gentle, unsure ... almost shy , though that was
 never a trait he would have expected to find in Demona.
 She didnt speak either, but only because
there was no need. Her touch spoke for her, as honest and curious as a
young virgins.
 Her fingertips lightly caressed his face as
if she was seeing him for the first time ... as if she was discovering
 herself 
for the first time in
 far, far too long.
 Trembling, he willed himself to remain still
and let her continue her tender exploration. Her hands slipped to his shoulders,
paused to toy
 with the strands of still-damp hair that curled around his neck, moved
down his arms to the spurs at his elbows, down his forearms to his
 wrists.
 She grasped them and brought his hands to
her waist. He held her there as she leaned forward, the edges of his palms
just at the
 beginning sweep of her hips.
 Oh, the fire dancing in her eyes, the earnest
and hopeful smile on her lips ... the soft white flame of her kiss blazing
through him ...
 unbearable in its innocence and promise.
 They gave themselves up into a silken embrace
unlike anything they had ever shared before, for this time it was 
a sharing, slow
 and sweet, weeping together in the extremity of their joy, and from
there sinking together into a drifting pleasant haze in which they
 communicated in murmured lovetalk and more gentle kisses.
 At some point Jericho sank deeper still, into
a doze in which he was dimly conscious of her leaving his side, but when
he roused
 and opened his eyes, she was coming back into the room wheeling a cart
ahead of her. The cart was laden with a dinner that had
 grown cold during the hours theyd spent in each others arms but they
devoured it anyway, feeding each other and laughing as lovers do.
 Much later, she set her unfinished food aside
and raised serious eyes to him. Jericho ... there is only one thing that
could make me
 happier than I am at this moment.
 Name it, he said, and if its in my earthly
power to do, I shall.
 Ten years to hold our child ... its too
long to wait.
 I dont understand. Would you rather have
another one instead? I didnt think youd want Amber, but if you do --
 No, no. Not that. Theres a growth tube --
get that grin off your face, darling, thats not what I mean! She snapped
her sharp white
 teeth in a playful nip on his wing talon. Its the machine Anton Sevarius
developed to accelerate the growth of embryos, to bring the
 clones to maturity in a matter of months instead of years. We could
put our egg in there, and bring it to hatching in just a week or two!
 Wed have our family, and by the time anyone else found out, itd be
too late for them to steal it back! We --
 Shh, shh, my love! He kissed her to silence.
You dont have to convince me. If that is what you wish, Im with you.
Well have our
 son or daughter sooner than we hoped. Our Damien ... or Antigone?
 Demona laughed ruefully. In that case, lets
hope for a boy!
 * *
 Continued in
 Damien, Part Two: Unholy Alliances 

 Copyright 2000 by Christine Morgan / vecna@eskimo.com 
/ http://www.sabledrake.com