Fiction from the ''Empire'' Game 

 A word of explanation by the author: these stories are set in
my game-world, which I have been developing since the early 1980's. The
premier deity of that world is Dorian, Goddess of Life. Much of Dorianism
is drawn from Jean M. Auel's "Earth's Children" series. These stories
are dedicated to Tim, Kim, and Dave. 
 Many place names andother parts of this game, and consequently these
stories, were taken from other sources. Pandathaway was the name of a city
in "Guardians of the Flame," Delain was the kingdom in Stephen King's "Eyes
of the Dragon," the lion-god Aslan is named after the one in Narnia, etc.
I borrowed a lot in those days ; ) 

Some of these stories are for mature readers only, please. 

 Song of the Wolf 
A young human, raised by elves, sets out to prove himself against the dreaded
Spider Sorceress. 

 The Birthday Present 
Harry's cousin Howie takes him our a'wenching. Mature readers only. 

 Lady of the Golden Bow 
All the Western Barony is anticipating the Baron's Tournament, none more
than Dame Jaenyth Maran. Inspired by the module Harkwood, by Steve Jackson
Games 

 One Night in Pandathaway 
Harold Ethelbald is a married man and a father-to-be, but he cannot resist
an innocent, lovely half-demoness. Mature readers only. 

 Amelia 
When the gods decree she is to bear a child, she makes Belden an offer
he cannot refuse. Mature readers only. 

 Greenvale 
Belden and Jaenyth, after their transformation into elves by Ariel, pay
a visit to her ancestral home. Mature readers only. 

 Daddy's Little Girl 
Lillith Ethelbald is the most alluring woman in heaven, earth, or hell
itself. And she's got her eye on her father, Harry. Mature readers only. 

 A Wolf to the Hunt 
An older, though not necessarily wiser, Belden Kaylaros goes on a revenge
spree against the assassins who've threatened his family. 

 Fire and Blood 
The companion tale to A Wolf to the Hunt, in which Wildfire's fury is unleashed. 

 Spring Break 
Harry is trapped in prep school, bored and unable to stop thinking about
girls. Mature readers only. 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button
to return to the previous page, or click on the shield to return to the
main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.