Quickie GURPS Rules 

Quickie GURPS Rules 

 In addition to the abilities inherent
in the racial package, your character will be defined by: 
 Statistics 
 Advantages and Disadvantages 
 Skills 

 Statistics are: 
 Strength (ST) -- how physically strong
you are 
 Dexterity (DX) -- how agile you are 
 Intelligence (IQ) -- smarts and memory 
 Health (HT) -- how much physical punishment
you can take, and how well you resist 
 sickness 
 You may choose to have your character
be strictly average in all Statistics, or you 
 may choose to spend points to raise the stats of your
choice, or gain extra points by 
 lowering stats. Just be sure not to drop any statistic
too low or your character may 
 wind up too weak, clumsy, dumb, or sickly to function. 

 Advantages and Disadvantages are divided into categories: 
 Social -- how you get along with others
and how they get along with you 
 Examples -- Odious Personal Habits,
Charisma 
 Mental -- your personality traits,
good or bad 
 Examples -- Strong Will, Megalomania 
 Physical -- any impairments or enhancements
to your bod 
 Examples -- Lame, High Pain Threshold 
 Supernatural -- any magical, psionic,
or otherwise unusual powers 
 Examples -- Magery, Vulnerability 
 (In general, personal Disadvantages are limited to about
40-50 points' worth, to 
 prevent point-mongering abusiveness; that rule will be
bent a little in the case of the 
 Third Race, who may have supernatural Disadvantages as
well as personal ones). 

 Quirks are a subset of Disadvantages,
worth 1 point each. Each character may get up 
 to 5 points' worth of quirks. These are little things
that help define the character's 
 personality but don't make a major impact. Preferences
for certain foods or colors of 
 clothing, a favorite saying frequently used, a hobby,
a dislike for cats, etc. are all 
 examples of quirks (though if a quirk is taken too far,
it may become an Odious 
 Personal Habit). 

 Skills: 
 Skills are anything your character
can do. Is he/she a warrior? Does he/she have an 
 interest in electronics? First aid training? Know how
to swim? Play baseball? 
 Gamble? Teach others? Speak foreign languages? Sing?
Sculpt? Ride a horse or a 
 bike? Cast a spell? These are all skills. 
 Skills are divided into Mental and
Physical, and how good your character is at any 
 given skill depends on how many points you put into it.
Some skills are Easy, some 
 Average, some Hard, and some Very Hard. It costs a lot
more points, for example, to 
 be a skilled archer (Archery is a P/H or Physical/Hard
skill) than to be a good cook 
 (Cooking is a M/E or Mental/Easy skill). 
 Physical skills are based off of DX,
so a character who is more agile will be better at 
 all things physical. 
 Mental skills are based off of IQ,
so a character who is smarter will be better at all 
 things mental. 
 There are a few exceptions to this
-- Carousing, the skill of partying hearty, is based 
 off of HT to reflect alcohol tolerance. 
 All characters will have their native
language at a skill equal to IQ+5 without 
 spending any points. 

 There are a few other things that will turn up on
your character sheet: 
 Go -- how fast you react during
a turn of combat; determined by DX+HT divided by 
 four. A turn is the 1-second increment that combats are
divided into. 
 Move -- how far you can move
in a turn; you may have different Move scores for 
 each type of movement. Move is expressed in "hexes,"
a hex a unit of space three 
 feet across. So, if your Move is 8 hexes, you may run
24 feet in a single turn. Your 
 Move is equal to your Go (rounded down) minus your Enc.
(see below). 
 Encumberance (Enc) -- how much
weight you are carrying in terms of personal 
 armor, weapons, possessions, flightless friends. Enc
affects your Move; if you are 
 carrying a lot, you will not be able to go as fast. How
much Enc you can tolerate 
 depends on your ST. So, for instance, Goliath can carry
much more than Lexington. 
 Dodge -- if you want to hit
someone, you'll use one of your Skills; if someone tries to 
 hit you and you don't want to be hit, you'll use your
Dodge. 
 PD -- if your character wears
armor, he/she will have Passive Defense (PD), which 
 means that your armor will help deflect weapons. 
 DR -- likewise, armor has Damage
Resistance (DR), which, if the PD doesn't work, 
 lets the armor soak up some of the damage that would
otherwise hit the character's 
 flesh. 

 Appearance, defined as lookin' good
or lookin' uu-gly, can also be an Advantage or 
 Disadvantage. If your character is better looking than
average for your species , 
 that'll cost points (how many depending on how much better
looking, from Attractive 
 up to Drop-Dead Gorgeous). If he/she is on the other
end of the scale, that will earn 
 points (from Unattractive to Hideous). How members of
other species react to his/her 
 looks depends on the viewer. 

 Equipment: 
 Your character will automatically
come with clothes, a selection of personal 
 weapons, and belongings. You'll want to make a list of
everything he/she carries 
 when traveling. 

 Now that you've got a big list of Statistics and
Skills, what do you do with them? 
 Now it's dice time. 
 GURPS 
is played using 3 six-sided dice (the regular old cube ones you see in 
 Yahtzee or Monopoly), abbreviated as "d6." You'll roll
3d6 (three six-sided dice) to 
 see whether or not you accomplish what you're trying
to do. 
 Example: big heavy boulder blocking
the door; you will "roll vs." your character's ST 
 to see if he/she can move it. Suppose your character
has a ST of 15. You'll roll and 
 try to get _less_ than 15 on 3d6. The amount you "make
it by" will tell how 
 successful you are. If you roll a 12, you "make it
by" 3, which is a decent success. If 
 you roll a 6, you "make it by" 9, and that rock is
going to really move. If, however, 
 you roll a 16, you "missed by" 1 and the rock isn't
going to budge. 
 Skills and spells work the same way.
Your character wants to climb a wall, so you 
 roll vs. his/her Climbing skill. Your character wants
to look up something in the 
 library, so you roll vs. his/her Research skill. Your
character wants to turn someone 
 into a newt, so you roll vs. his/her Shapeshift Other
spell skill. 
 Note on Criticals -- a "critical"
is either an extreme success or an extreme failure. 
 Any roll that is "made by" or "missed by" 10 is a critical.
This can be very good, or 
 very bad. A roll of 3 or 4 is always a critical success;
a roll of 17 or 18 is always a 
 critical failure. 
 Criticals are especially important
in combat and magic .
A critical success on an 
 attack can do extra damage to a foe; a critical failure
puts your character at risk of 
 damaging him/herself instead. A critical success on a
spell means that the spell is cast 
 with no energy cost on the part of the caster; a critical
failure can have a variety of 
 bad and/or dangerous effects. 

 Introduction 

 Quickie GURPS Rules 

 Being a Gargoyle 

 How Combat Works 

 Being of the Third Race 

 How Magic Works 

 Sample Character -- Ilona of Clan
Vancouver 

 Sample Character -- Nix the Water-Sprite 

 Pre-Generated Character Descriptions 

 E-mail the GM