Game -- Introduction 

Gaming at the Gathering! 

 The Gathering
99, Gargoyles World Tour in Dallas , will be the site for one of the 
 first convention RPGs based on Gargoyles .
This game will be run by fanfic author 
 and one of the con's writing guests, Christine
Morgan. To visit Christine's personal 
 gaming page, click here . 

 No experience is necessary to play.
A total of 10 players is the maximum allowed, 5 
 gargoyles and 5 members of the Third Race. 

 The game will use the Generic Universal
Role-Playing System, abbreviated GURPS , 
 by Steve Jackson Games .
(the Gathering 99 is very pleased to welcome Mr. Jackson 
 himself as one of our guests this year!) 

 How to Play 

 GURPS 
is a point-based system of character creation. In some games, like AD&D, 
 the player rolls dice to determine the character's abilities;
in GURPS , the player will 
 have a set number of points, and each ability, skill,
and advantage costs a certain 
 amount. 
 Example: Ambidexterity, the ability
to use both hands with equal skill, is an 
 advantage. It costs ten points, so is written (+10). 
 In addition, the player may elect
to take traits, flaws, and disadvantages that limit the 
 character's options and thereby gain points. 
 Example: Impulsiveness, the tendency
to rush into things without planning, is a 
 disadvantage. It earns ten points, so is written (-10). 

 Don't Panic! 
 We're in this game to have fun, so
it is not necessary to understand the rules. GURPS 
 familiarity or gaming experience is helpful but not necessary. 
 This GM's (stands for Game Master)
style of play doesn't rely heavily on rules. 
 In general, you'll just say what you want to do, roll
dice, and that'll be that. Only in 
 combat or spellcasting 
does it get complicated. And even then, it's a lot easier than it 
 looks. Hardly anyone can learn a game by reading the
rules; the only way to do it is 
 to jump on in and play. 

 The main rules to keep in mind are: 
 1. Have fun 
 2. Help others to have fun (don't kill off anyone else's
character or pick on fellow 
 players). 
 3. Remember that what you know about the world
may be very different from what 
 your character knows about the world. 
 4. Stay in character. 
 5. Have fun! 

 You have three options for designing your character: 
 1. Choose a Pre-generated character, already made up
and ready to go except for 
 choosing traits such as gender and appearance. Click
 here for a list describing the 
 Pre-generated characters that will be available. 
 2. If you are familiar with GURPS, you may make up your
character yourself, using 
 the racial packages for Gargoyles 
or Third Race and building with 200 points. 
 3. If you know what you want but don't know the game
system, e-mail the GM with a 
 list of traits and abilities you'd like your character
to have, and she will build it for 
 you within the alloted points. 

 Gaming at the Gathering 99: 
 There will be three seperate sessions
to the game. One group will be playing all 
 gargoyle PCs; their session will be first. Then those
players will get a break while the 
 second group, who will be playing characters from the
Third Race, have their turn. 
 Then, at the end, both groups will
be brought together for the big finale. The actual 
 times of these sessions have yet to be set. 

 The GM will provide: 
 Dice enough for everyone 
 Spare pencils and paper 
 A "battlemat" -- a clear piece of plastic marked with
hexes, used to figure out where 
 everyone is during combat 
 Pens to draw on the battlemat 
 Counters and/or figures to represent the characters and
opponents during combat 
 Pre-generated characters 
 Copies of characters created under Option 3 (see above) 
 GURPS rulebooks 
 Some refreshments 
 Calculator for figuring out all those complicated combats 

 You should bring: 
 Pencil and paper 
 Character sheet if you design your own 
 Drinks and munchies of your choice 
 Willingness to play and have fun 

 Optimally, everyone will rush out and
buy a few GURPS books, thereby
making our 
 gaming GoH Steve Jackson exceedingly happy ... 
 If you do, a Basic Book , the
 Compendium I , Magic , and Grimoire would all be good 
 choices ... though GURPS 
offers worldbooks for just about every genre, from fantasy 
 to space to superheroes, and nearly any setting or time
period you could wish (or 
 even all of them; let GURPS 
 Time Travel be your own personal Phoenix Gate!) 

 But, just in case you don't, click
 here for a simplified and hopefully-not-too- 
 inaccurate rundown on the game. 

 Your character will be built on 200 points. 
 If you want to be a gargoyle, click here 
 If you want to be of the Third Race, click here 

 Introduction 

 Quickie GURPS Rules 

 Being a Gargoyle 

 How Combat Works 

 Being of the Third Race 

 How Magic Works 

 Sample Character -- Ilona of Clan
Vancouver 

 Sample Character -- Nix the Water-Sprite 

 Pre-Generated Character Descriptions 

 E-mail the GM