How Combat Works 

Combat 

 How does combat work? 
 First off, the GM will list the characters
in order of who "goes" first. When you go 
 depends on your basic unmodified Move, so someone with
a higher Move will react 
 sooner than someone with a lower one. 
 Combat is handled in "turns." A turn
is one second long (game time; in real time it 
 will take much longer; a combat that lasts 30 seconds
in the game can take an hour 
 for the players). 
 At the beginning of the turn, the
character with the highest Go has the option of what 
 he/she wants to do. Then we progress down the list, until
we reach the end, and then 
 go back to the top and start over. In case of a tie,
the two characters involved each 
 roll 1 die, the higher number goes first for the duration
of the combat. 

 What you can do in one turn : 
 Move -- you can run/glide/fly/swim up to your
full Move score, but while doing this, 
 you may only attack in a "wild swing,"
which is a roll of 9 or less 
 Step* and Attack -- launch one attack on a foe 
 All-Out Attack -- by forfeiting your defense until
your next turn, you may choose to 
 make either 2 attacks, 1 attack at
+4 to skill, or 1 attack at +2 to damage. During an 
 All-Out Attack, you may move up to
1/2 of your Move score. Remember, All-Outing 
 leaves you wide open and vulnerable. 
 All-Out Defend -- you forego all attacks and concentrate
solely on defense, giving 
 you two different active defenses
(ie a Parry and a Dodge) againt the same attack, 
 with a limit of two Blocks and two
Parries per turn. 
 Step* and Concentrate -- spellcasters 
only, a whole other set of rules. 
 Feint -- a contest between your weapon skill and
your opponent's; you both roll vs. 
 your skill, and if you make it by
more, the amount you made it by is _subtracted_ 
 from your opponent's next defense
roll. An All-Out Feint and Attack is a possible, 
 though risky, maneuver. 
 Step* and Aim -- if you are using a missile weapon
or a missile spell, you will have a 
 much better chance of hitting your
target if you Aim. Each turn spent Aiming will 
 give you a +1 to hit, up to a +4.
The further away your target is, the harder it will be 
 to hit, so aiming is very important
in ranged combat. 

 Defending yourself: 
 Dodge -- try to get out of the way; your Dodge
is your adjusted Move plus PD; you 
 may attempt to Dodge as many seperate
attacks as you'd like each turn, though you 
 may only Dodge each attack once. 
 Parry -- if you have a weapon that can Parry,
you may attempt to deflect your enemy's 
 incoming weapon with your own. Your
Parry score is usually 1/2 of your weapon 
 skill, plus PD; certain skills such
as Brawling or Fencing give you a Parry of 2/3 the 
 skill. You get one Parry per turn
(unless there are unusual circumstances). 
 Block -- if you have a shield, you may attempt
to Block an enemy's attack, once per 
 turn. Your shield itself will add
to your PD. Your Block score is 1/2 of your Shield 
 skill, plus PD. Be aware, though,
that your shield may become damaged and 
 eventually useless. 
 Step* Back and (defend) -- by taking a step back,
you can add +3 to your defense; 
 you can only use this against one
attack per turn. 

 *Step -- defined as either an actual step of one
hex or a glide/flight of two hexes; if 
 you are close enough to reach your foe, you do not have
to actually step. 

 Hit Locations: 
 You may choose to aim at a particular
part of your foe's body when you attack 
 (except on Wild Swings and All-Outs). Each body part
has its own different 
 modifiers; it is harder to hit a head than a leg, for
instance. 

 Doing Damage: 
 In combat, there are three types of
damage that can be inflicted, and two ways of 
 doing it. The amount of damage you do depends on what
kind of weapon you've got 
 and how you're using it. 
 Types: 
 Crushing = blunt weapon such as club, fist, tail,
rock 
 Cutting = edged weapon such as sword, claws 
 Impaling = pointed weapon such as arrow, spear 
 Ways: 
 Thrust = a stab, jab, punch 
 Swing = a swing, kick, tail lash 
 Your ST will tell you how much Basic
Damage you do on either a Thrust or a Swing. 
 For example, an average gargoyle with a ST of 15 will
do 1d6+1 thrust (roll one six- 
 sided die and add 1 to the result), and 2d6+1 swing (roll
two six-sided dice and add 
 one to the result). 
 Each weapon has a listing for the
amount of damage it does. For example, a 
 broadsword does swing+1 Cutting damage, or thrust+2 Impaling
damage, depending 
 on how you use it. 
 So, that same average gargoyle would
do 1d6+3 Impaling if thrusting with that 
 sword, or 2d6+2 Cutting if swinging with it. 

 Hold tight, now, it gets a little more
complicated ... because there are added 
 attractions to Cutting and Impaling. 
 On a Cutting attack, any damage that
penetrates your foe's DR (armor, tough skin, 
 magical force field, whatever), is halved again. So if
you attack for 6 points of 
 damage and your foe has 2 points of DR, 4 points get
through ... and on a Cutting 
 attack, half again brings the total damage back up to
6. 
 On an Impaling attack, any damage
that penetrates DR is doubled. So, attacking for 6 
 points against that DR of 2 means that the 4 points that
get through are doubled to 
 a total of 8. 
 Still hanging in there? Good ... and
for the moment, don't even worry about how 
 certain body parts are more vulnerable to certain types
of attacks ... 

 Combat is the most complicated part
of nearly all role-playing games, but it's really a 
 lot easier than it looks. Promise. 

 Armor: 
 Each different type of armor has its
own PD and DR, its own advantages and 
 drawbacks. 
 Leather armor, for instance, like
Hudson's breastplate, has a PD of 2 and a DR of 2, 
 and is fairly light. 
 Chainmail has a PD of 3 and a DR of
4, but is heavier and against Impaling weapons, 
 it only has a DR of 2. 
 A Kevlar vest would have PD of 2,
DR of 14. 
 High-tech body armor a la Xanatos
... well, you get the idea. 
 Armor tends to be heavy, sometimes
bulky, and often expensive or hard to come by, 
 so think it out carefully when equipping and outfitting
your character. 

 Introduction 

 Quickie GURPS Rules 

 Being a Gargoyle 

 How Combat Works 

 Being of the Third Race 

 How Magic Works 

 Sample Character -- Ilona of Clan
Vancouver 

 Sample Character -- Nix the Water-Sprite 

 Pre-Generated Character Descriptions 

 E-mail the GM