Playing a Gargoyle 

So You Want to be a Gargoyle ... 

 That's great! 

 The year is 2000 A.D., and you may
be from any clan (including one of your own 
 devising) except for Clan Wyvern or Clan Avalon.
You may be from the same clan 
 as another player character if you wish, even be related
or mates, it's up to you. 

 You must be a pure gargoyle, no hybrids
please. 

 You may have any skills and interests
suitable to a modern gargoyle, though it is 
 unlikely that you will have strong magical powers. 

 No actual characters from the show,
TGS, or other fanfic will be permitted as PCs (in 
 the case of fanfic, if you are or have the permission
of the author, that may be 
 allowable but is not recommended ... just in case). 

 Please do not have any major ties to
the actual characters from the show, no 
 convoluted origins such as being brought forward in time
from before the attack on 
 Castle Wyvern or saying that Goliath had a brief affair
with Una during his trip to 
 1940 and your character is the result. 

 Introduction: 
 For several weeks now, the elders
and mystics of your clan have been experiencing 
 disturbing visions that center on a glowing ball in a
glass wall, leaving them with 
 feelings of warning and foreboding. Other clans have
reported similar visions, 
 leading the elders to conclude that some great danger
to gargoyle-kind is looming. 
 About this same time, the scientific
world is stunned by the discovery of several 
 ancient artifacts in the Antarctic, recently revealed
by a massive earthquake. 
 One of the images shown on television,
a picture taken by an archeological team led 
 by Brendan Vandermere and Dakota Jones, shows a bright
sphere buried in the ice, 
 as well as an excavated stone tablet with carved images
of a robed man holding aloft 
 a burning disk, while winged shapes collapse and writhe
at his feet. 
 The elders and mystics are certain
that these images relate to the one in the vision. 
 A group of gargoyles from these various clans have volunteered
to get together in 
 secret and try to learn more about this threat. You are
among them. 
 The game begins as you board the Mariko,
a private vessel provided by Toshio 
 Adachi, a friend of the Japanese Clan, and set sail for
the Antarctic. 
 The Antarctic, where the nights are
six months long ... 

 Being a gargoyle is a racial advantage
that costs 95 points and includes the following 
 as a part of that cost: 

 Advantages 
 +5 to Strength -- where an average human will have a
ST of 10, the average 
 gargoyle's will be 15 
 Striker (tail) -- you can use your tail as a weapon 
 Extended Lifespan -- you age at 1/2 human speed 
 Gliding, with Special Enhancement of riding on thermals
and air currents 
 Claws -- you may choose to attack hand-to-hand with fists
or with claws; using your 
 claws lets you do additional damage
to your opponent 
 Regeneration, Fast -- during a day's stone sleep, all
but the most extreme of wounds 
 (amputations, etc.) will heal completley 
 Temperature Tolerance -- extremes of heat and cold do
not affect you as strongly as 
 they would a human 
 Nightvision -- you have the ability to see well with
a very limited amount of light, 
 though not in complete darkness. 
 Recovery -- you regain consciousness in minutes rather
than hours if knocked out 

 Disadvantages 
 Inconvenient Size -- among humans, your body structure
(wings, tail) makes use of 
 clothes, furniture, vehicles, etc.,
awkward and difficult. 
 Sleepy -- defined as turning to stone during daylight
hours 
 Nocturnal -- you only function at night 
 Sense of Duty -- you feel a very strong urge to help
and defend your clan, your 
 friends, and anyone else covered by
your clan's 'protectorate.' 
 Social Stigma, monster -- although gargoyles protect,
humans in general will view 
 you as a scary monster; you have little
in the way of legal rights 
 Secret -- you go to great lengths to keep the location
of your home and the existance 
 of your kind a secret from those who
would harm you 

 Description: 
 Gargoyles come with an amazingly wide
range of physical features. Their skin color, 
 wings, hair, horns, tails, etc. vary widely even within
the same clan. So, basically, 
 anything goes. If, however, you choose something that
is different even from the 
 gargoyle norm, you may need to take additional Advantages
or Disadvantages to 
 reflect this (Lexington's wings are actually a minor
Disadvantage, because unlike the 
 rest of his clan, he cannot use his arms while gliding
as they are needed to keep his 
 wings spread). 

 To see an example of a gargoyle character, click here 

 Introduction 

 Quickie GURPS Rules 

 Being a Gargoyle 

 How Combat Works 

 Being of the Third Race 

 How Magic Works 

 Sample Character -- Ilona of Clan
Vancouver 

 Sample Character -- Nix the Water-Sprite 

 Pre-Generated Character Descriptions 

 E-mail the GM