Christine's Cast of Characters 

 Who's Who in Christine's Fanfic Universe: 

(* character created by another fanfic author; used by permission) 

 Abe Chalmers -- aged resident of Little Hollow. Flashie Thing. 
 Adams -- mercenary working for Sevarius. Sins of the Father. 
 Agnes Taylor (Aunt Agnes) -- Elisa's great-aunt; fearsome matriarch;
grandmother to Nikki. Family Reunion; The Wedding. 
 Aiden Ferguson -- daughter of Finella and Kenneth Ferguson; Lex's penpal
and girlfriend; sorcery student; unlucky bearer of 
 Hecate's Wand; First appearance: Where You Need
to Be; many others. 
 Alan Henderson -- ex-husband (now divorced) of Maria Chavez. Something
Old, Something New. 
 Amber -- former girlfriend of Orpheus Bluestone. Lyre, Lyre. 
 Andrews -- mercenary. Club Gung-Ho. 
 Anna -- ex-wife of Gustav Sevarius. Mentioned: Playing God. 
 Angus -- misplaced egg of 10th century clan; brought forward in time;
son of Coldstone and Coldfire; found and raised 
 by Eibhlin Driscoll. Lost and Found; The Wedding. 
 Apple of Eris -- Discordian artifact. First mentioned: Passions. Appeared:
The Heist. 
 Aquarius -- keyboard player ex-hippie member of Scarlet Angel. Double
Date; Fallen Angels. 

 B, Agent -- alias for John Bluestone; now with the MIB. Flashie Thing. 
 Babs (Barbara) -- brunette friend of Tiffy and Muffy. The Wreck of
the Margot; Three of a Kind. 
 Bill Thormont -- Nordic Heritage Museum board. Attraction (mentioned). 
 Billy -- male exotic dancer. Love Machine. 
 Binkie -- Broadway's nickname for Banquo. Lead Me Not. 
 Birdie (Roberta Louise) Yale -- niece of Margot Yale; drama student
and Aiden's roommate at the Sterling Academy; casual 
 girlfriend of Broadway. First appearance: Sterling
Silver; many others. 
 Black Fox, The -- video game alias of Xanatos. Xantasia. 
 Bobby Danvers -- sailor on the Nereid. The Tempest. 
 Bors -- boar-headed gargoyle of London Clan. Menagerie. 
 Bradley Donner -- mercenary working for Sevarius. Kittens. 
 Brand -- flame-winged gargoyle of the Pirate Clan. Tales From the Skiff. 
 Breckenridge -- doorman of the Aerie Building. Menagerie. 
 Brett Harley -- friend of T.J. Lawton's. FoxFire. 
 Brian Trinkle -- sailor on the Nereid, enspelled by Caliban. The Tempest. 
 Brianna -- mother of Bryce Canmore. Romances: First Date; Lyre, Lyre. 
 Brinkmeyer -- vacationer. Club Gung-Ho. 
 Bruce -- one of Vito's partners in crime. Passions. 
 Bryce Canmore -- son of Jon Canmore; named after great-grandfather;
the Hunter. Baby Makes Three; Lyre, Lyre; The Pure 
 and the Profane. 
 Bugs -- one of Vito's partners in crime. Passions. 
 Burke -- mercenary working for Sevarius. Sins of the Father. 
 Burt Lawton -- adoptive father of T.J.; resident of Joshua Flats. FoxFire. 

 Cal (Creepy Cal, or Caliban) -- half-mortal son of Sycorax; enemy of
Halcyon Renard and Fox. The Tempest; FoxFire. 
 Candee -- one of Alan Henderson's ex-girlfriends. A Gargoyles Christmas
Special (mentioned). 
 Carl -- janitor at Elisa's building. Black Roses. 
 Carlos Chavez -- first husband of Maria; partner of Peter Maza; father
to Carmen. Mentioned: Something Old, Something 
 New; The Wedding. 
 Carmen Chavez -- daughter of Maria and Carlos Chavez; now dating Vinnie.
First mention: Something Old, Something New. 
 First appearance: The Wedding. 
 Carnelian -- member of Avalon Clan; in love with the Lady of the Lake.
Broadway Goes to Avalon. 
 Caroline Harley -- Brett's mother. FoxFire (mentioned). 
 Cashmere -- Cordelia St. John's white cat. Romances: Fairy Favours. 
 Cecily -- Muffy's mother. Three of a Kind. 
 *Chas Yale -- Birdie's brother; law student. The Wreck of the Margot;
The Pure and the Profane. Created by Christi Hayden. 
 Charles Yale -- Chas and Birdie's father; Margot's brother. Mentioned:
Menagerie. 
 Chimera -- gargoyle beast of the Pirate Clan. Tales From the Skiff. 
 Chiselman -- one of Jon Canmore's aliases. Romances. 
 Cindy Bergman -- Sterling Academy drama student. Sterling Silver. 
 Citrine -- member of the Avalon Clan; Gabriel's blonde-haired mate.
First mentioned: Mother's Day. Three of a Kind. 
 Clarence -- designer of Godiva. Love Machine; Club Gung-Ho. 
 Clive Vandermere -- Brendan and Tiffy's father. The Wreck of the Margot;
Three of a Kind. 
 Cody -- friend of T.J. Lawton's. FoxFire. 
 Connie -- Fox's understudy. Attraction. 
 Cordelia St. John -- niece of the Grandmaster; dean of the Sterling
Academy; victim of a love spell involving Owen Burnett; 
 mother of Patricia and Sebastian. Sterling Silver;
Romances: Fairy Favours; Lyre, Lyre. 
 Corwin -- member of Avalon Clan; handsome son of Coldstone and 
 Coldfire; mateless. Mother's Day; Broadway Goes to Avalon. 
 Courtney Conley -- Lawrence's daughter. Black Roses. 
 Coyote XIII -- the latest upgrade. Future Imperfect. 
 Crimson -- rookery sister of Hudson's generation; in all likelihood
Brooklyn's mother. Something Old, Something New. 
 Cuthburt Vandermere -- Brendan's great-uncle. The Wreck of the Margot
(mentioned). 
 Cyrus Claiborne -- fisherman working for Petros Xanatos; The Tempest. 

 Dakota Jones -- adventuress friend of Brendan's. Mentioned:
The Pure and the Profane; Appeared: Tales From the Skiff. 
 Danny Driscoll -- Eibhlin's husband, drowned. Lost and Found. 
 Daniel "Dinny" Lester -- spoiled kid. Club Gung-Ho. 
 Daniel Taylor -- Elisa's great-uncle. Family Reunion. 
 Dante -- male exotic dancer. Love Machine. 
 Davidsons -- robbed family in Conley's neighborhood. Black Roses. 
 Deborah -- member of Avalon Clan; singer; mate of Laertes. Broadway
Goes to Avalon. 
 Dee (Diane Elisa Maza) -- Tom's twin sister; Talon and Maggie's daughter.
Kittens; The Wedding; Playing God. 
 Denker, Principal's son -- kid from Joshua Flats. FoxFire. 
 Deucalion -- member of Avalon Clan. Broadway Goes to Avalon. 
 Diane Conroy -- Sterling Academy student. Sterling Silver. 
 Dobbins -- the Black Fox's loyal man. Xantasia. 
 Dougal -- boy whose life Joy died to save. Something Old, Something
New. 
 Douglas Kearney -- friend of Eibhlin Driscoll; uncle of Rob. Lost and
Found. 
 Draga -- draconian gargoyle of London Clan; mother of Drake. Menagerie. 
 Drake -- draconian gargoyle of London Clan; son of Draga. Menagerie. 

 Ebon -- Thailog's post-traumatic amnesia alias; bass player and manager
of Scarlet Angel. Double Date; Fallen Angels; On the 
 Rocks; Three of a Kind. 
 Ed (Little Ed) Bluestone -- Matt's cousin; in jail. Flashie Thing (mentioned). 
 Edie -- see Eurydice. 
 Edwards -- mercenary working for Sevarius. Sins of the Father. 
 Eibhlin Driscoll -- widowed Scottish woman; found and raised Angus.
Lost and Found. 
 Elaine Kristin -- reporter for VIP Magazine. Fallen Angels. 
 Elektra -- gargoyle-human crossbreed; daughter of Prince Malcolm by
one of Goliath's rookery sisters; student of the Magus; 
 exiled from the Avalon Clan. First mention: Angela's
Awakening. First appearance: A Noble Indiscretion; many others. 
 Elke Wulfstan -- Lars' wife, Graeme's aunt. Attraction (mentioned). 
 Elswyth -- Avalon Clan; in love with one of Oberon's Children. Broadway
Goes to Avalon. 
 Equa -- daughter of Una and Leo; London Clan. Menagerie. 
 *Eric -- Chas Yale's roommate. The Wreck of the Margot. Created by
Christi Hayden. 
 Eurydice -- mythic Greek woman brought back to life by Matt Bluestone;
mother of Orpheus. The Heist; The Eurydice 
 Project; The Wedding; Flashie Thing; Lyre, Lyre. 
 Ezekiel -- member of Avalon Clan. Mother's Day; Broadway Goes to Avalon. 

 Fawn -- hatchling of the London Clan; daughter of leader; Hart. Menagerie. 
 Felix -- counterman at coffee shop. Black Roses. 
 Fergs -- Birdie's nickname for Aiden. Many uses. 
 Florence -- Broadway's nickname for Fleance. Lead Me Not. 
 Francisco "Cisco" Rodriguez -- mercenary working for Sevarius. Kittens. 

 Galen Driscoll -- Eibhlin's son. Lost and Found. 
 Garnet -- member of Avalon Clan. Mother's Day. 
 Ginny (Virginia) Vandermere -- Brendan's vivacious young stepmother.
The Wreck of the Margot; Three of a Kind. 
 Gizmo -- Aiden's teddy bear. Future Imperfect. 
 Gladys Bluestone -- Matt's mother. First mention: The Eurydice Project.
First appearance: Flashie Thing. 
 Godiva -- robotic exotic dancer built for Goliath's bachelor party;
later taken over by the "soul" of Anton Sevarius. Love 
 Machine; Playing God. 
 Goldberg -- mercenary. Club Gung-Ho. 
 Gossamer -- servant of Titania. Romances: Fairy Favours. 
 Gossman -- vacationer. Club Gung-Ho. 
 Grand Admiral -- Ionian gasbag. Flashie Thing (mentioned). 
 Grandmaster of the Illuminati -- voiced by Patrick Stewart; uncle to
Cordelia St. John. The Heist; The Eurydice Project; Lyre, 
 Lyre. 
 Graeme Wulfstan -- Wolf's real name, nephew of Lars; stage name: Grey
Wolf. Mentioned: Attraction. 
 Guadalupe Torres -- mercenary working for Sevarius. Kittens. 
 Gustav Sevarius -- older brother of Anton Sevarius; expert in memory
and mind control sciences. Fallen Angels; Playing God; 
 The Pure and the Profane. 

 Hans Runolf -- member of the Reich 2000, Inge's brother. Tales From
the Skiff. 
 Harold Blake -- Samuel's stepfather, Ivana Sevarius' second husband.
Sins of the Father. 
 Hecate -- mother of the Weird Sisters; warred with Oberon. Attraction
(mentioned). 
 Hecate's Wand -- potent magical artifact. First appearance: Attraction;
many others. 
 Hector "Heck" Gervaso -- Jericho's personal trainer; mercenary. Fallen
Angels; Club Gung-Ho (mentioned). 
 Hart -- leader of London Clan. Mentioned: Menagerie. 
 Heather -- sister to Douglas Kearney; Eibhlin's friend. Lost and Found. 
 Hillman, Mrs. -- Halcyon Renard's housekeeper. Romances. 
 Hippolyta -- chaste warrioress of Avalon Clan. First mention: Angela's
Awakening. First appearance: Mother's Day. 
 Howard Mosswell -- unfortunate heir to a dark legacy. The Horror of
Innsbrook; Three of a Kind. 

 Icarus -- crippled-wing member of Avalon Clan. Broadway Goes to Avalon. 
 Imp -- young gargoyle of the Pirate Clan. Tales From the Skiff. 
 Inez Paloma -- schoolmate of Beth's. Whirlwind. 
 Inge Runolf -- blond ponytailed woman originally from Xanatos' goon
squad. Kittens; Lead Me Not ...; The Pure and the 
 Profane. 
 Ivana Blake -- ex-wide of Anton Sevarius; remarried to Harold Blake;
mother of Samuel. Sins of the Father. 

 Jacob -- web-winged member of Avalon Clan; Tourmaline's ex-mate. Broadway
Goes to Avalon. Three of a Kind. 
 Jack Bluestone -- Matt's cousin, auto mechanic. Flashie Thing. 
 Jacqueline -- love interest of the Black Fox. Xantasia. 
 Jaimeson -- mercenary. Club Gung-Ho. 
 James Taylor -- Elisa's grandfather, Diane's father. Family Reunion. 
 Janine Xanatos -- hot-tempered daughter of Alex and Patricia. Future
Imperfect. 
 Jason Xanatos -- Alexander's younger brother, out of control magic
power. Future Imperfect (mentioned). 
 Jeff Morton -- Sterling Academy drama student. Sterling Silver. 
 Jericho -- son of Goliath and Demona. First appearance: Angela's Awakening;
many others. 
 Jerry Destine -- alias of Jericho; vice-president of Nightstone Unlimited.
Playing God. 
 Jerry "The Beav" Mathers -- mercenary working for Sevarius. Kittens. 
 Jetstream -- Renard's weather control supercomputer. The Tempest; FoxFire. 
 Joey -- kid selling Scarlet Angel stuff. Fallen Angels. 
 John Bluestone -- Matt's father; now Agent B of the MIB. The Eurydice
Project; Flashie Thing. 
 Johnny Harlowe -- member of Scarlet Angel, guitarist. Double Date;
Fallen Angels. 
 Johann Wulfstan -- Lars' brother; Graeme's father. Attraction (mentioned). 
 Jonesy -- one of Vito's partners in crime. Passions. 
 Josh Henderson -- son of Maria Chavez by her second marriage. Mentioned:
Something Old, Something New; appeared: A 
 Gargoyles Christmas Special; The Wedding. 
 Joy -- Hudson's lost love. Something Old, Something New. 
 Judge Halverson -- originally leader of Xanatos' goon squad; partners
with Inge Runolf; now has mechanical hand. Sins of the 
 Father; Kittens; Lead Me Not; The Pure and the Profane. 
 Judith Harmond -- Julianna's mother. The Wreck of the Margot. 
 Julianna -- lead singer of Scarlet Angel, daughter of Senator William
Harmond. Double Date; Fallen Angels; On the Rocks. 

 Kal-Tet -- little-known Egyptian goddess; Tales From the Skiff. 
 Kathe -- daughter of Angela and Brooklyn. Future Imperfect. 
 Kenneth Ferguson -- Aiden's father; professor of medieval history at
UC Irvine. Where You Need to Be; A Gargoyles 
 Christmas Special; Lost and Found (mentioned). 
 Kirsten -- Sterling Academy student, Cindy's roommate. Sterling Silver. 
 Klaus Dietmann -- member of the Reich 2000. Tales From the Skiff. 
 Koko -- mercenaries' name for female gigantapithicus. Sins of the Father. 
 Korinians -- supposed enemies of Earth. Flashie Thing. 
 Kostas -- old war buddy of Wolf's; mercenary; alias: Markowitz; real
first name: Ilya. Club Gung-Ho. 

 Laertes -- member of Avalon Clan; biological brother of Ophelia; mate
of Deborah. Broadway Goes to Avalon, others. 
 Lars Wulfstan -- descendant of Vikings; uncle of Graeme; sold Xanatos
the Eye of Odin. Attraction. 
 Lavesque -- mercenary. Club Gung-Ho. 
 Lawrence "Larry" Conley -- ex-boyfriend of Elisa's. Black Roses. 
 Lawson Keene -- mercenary working for Sevarius; related to Burke. Kittens. 
 Lazlo -- vacationer. Club Gung-Ho. 
 Leia -- daughter of Lex and Aiden; twin sister to Luke. Future Imperfect. 
 Liam -- Eibhlin Driscoll's city-dwelling brother. Lost and Found. 
 Lisa -- one of Alan Henderson's ex-girlfriends. A Gargoyles Christmas
Special (mentioned). 
 Lois Yale -- Birdie's mother. Mentioned: Menagerie. 
 Loralie Lawton -- adoptive mother of T.J. FoxFire. 
 Lucas -- male exotic dancer. Love Machine. 
 Lucy Bluestone -- Matt's aunt. Flashie Thing. 
 Lucy Taylor -- Elisa's aunt; swing dancer. Family Reunion. 
 Luke -- son of Lex and Aiden; twin brother to Leia. Future Imperfect. 
 Luke Harley -- Brett's father. FoxFire (mentioned). 
 Lydia Stephanopolos -- alias and human disguise of Titania, engaged
to Petros Xanatos. Menagerie; FoxFire. 
 Lynne Carstairs -- board of directors, Cutlass Cove. Tales From the
Skiff. 
 Lyonnes -- stage magician; one-time weilder of Hecate's Wand. Attraction. 

 McGready -- vacationer. Club Gung-Ho. 
 Madelaine -- royal temptress; Xantasia. 
 Mai -- Coyote's name for Beth. Whirlwind. 
 Malachi -- member of Avalon Clan; Ruth's mate. Angela's Awakening,
Broadway Goes to Avalon; others. 
 Mar-Alom -- priest of Kal-Tet. Tales From the Skiff. 
 Mark Wright -- Elisa's ex-boyfriend. Mentioned: Passions. Appeared:
Black Roses. 
 Martha Taylor -- Elisa's grandmother, Diane's mother. Family Reunion. 
 Maurice -- restauranteur. Romances. 
 Meadowgrove Country Club -- Boston. Three of a Kind. 
 Melusine -- mermaid gargoyle of the Pirate Clan. Tales From the Skiff. 
 Mindy Jannsen -- girl from Joshua Flats. FoxFire. 
 Miriam -- member of Avalon Clan; Uriel's mate. Broadway Goes to Avalon. 
 Mister Grinch -- Conley family cat. Black Roses. 
 Moonstone Unicorn -- magical artifact. Lead Me Not. 
 Mona Winger -- alias of Demona. Passions. 
 Moray MacLachlan -- son of Demona and MacBeth; "were-goyle;" betrothed
to Janine Xanatos. Future Imperfect; Baby 
 Makes Three; Lyre, Lyre. 
 Muffy -- platinum-haired friend of Tiffy and Babs. The Wreck of the
Margot; Three of a Kind. 

 Nadine Vandermere -- Brendan and Tiffy's mother. Three of a Kind. 
 Nana -- Janine's "little Texan spitfire" governess. Future Imperfect
(mentioned). 
 Nana Draconi -- grandmother to Vito and Tony Dracon. Mentioned: Passions;
The Heist. 
 Nathan Brettcastle -- Boston rich boy. Three of a Kind. 
 Nicholas Diamant / Nick Diamond -- ex-member of Scarlet Angel; Quarryman
rebel; Demona's plaything. Double Date; Fallen 
 Angels, Lead Me Not. 
 *Nikki Taylor -- Elisa's wild cousin; singer/actress; starred as Beatrice
in a musical updated version of "Much Ado About 
 Nothing." Black Roses; Love Machine; The Wedding;
Lead Me Not. Created by Leva Mavis. 
 Ngyuen, Doctor -- Halcyon Renard's physician; Romances. 

 Oatmeal -- Fox's nickname for Owen. The Tempest. 
 Onyx -- -- member of the Avalon Clan; Gabriel's black-haired
mate. First mentioned: Mother's Day. Three of a Kind. 
 Opal -- member of the Avalon Clan; Gabriel's white-haired mate. First
mentioned: Mother's Day. Three of a Kind. 
 Orpheus Bluestone -- son of Matt and Eurydice. Baby Makes Three; Lyre,
Lyre. 

 Pagan -- drummer for Scarlet Angel. Double Date; Fallen Angels. 
 Patricia St. John - Burnett -- daughter of Owen Burnett and Cordelia
St. John; betrothed to Alexander Xanatos; mother of 
 Janine; sorceress. Mentioned: Future Imperfect.
Appeared: Mother's Day; Lyre, Lyre. 
 Patsy Marks -- Sterling Academy student. Sterling Silver. 
 Paul Cannonner, Colonel -- owner and operator of the complete commando-training
vacation experience. Club Gung-Ho. 
 Paul Taylor -- uncle of Elisa. Family Reunion. 
 Peggy -- Matt's cousin. 
 Philip Blakemoor -- Illuminatus of the Fifth Circle. The Heist. 
 Philip Mosswell -- cousin of Howard. The Horror of Innsbrook (mentioned). 
 Philip Taylor -- Diane Maza's brother, died in Vietnam. Family Reunion. 
 Ping-Pong -- Vietnamese girl. Club Gung-Ho (mentioned). 
 Plain of Fire -- pocket dimension, lair of the Archmage. Three of a
Kind. 
 Prosky -- retired detective of the 23rd Precinct. Something Old, Something
New. 

 Queenie -- hostess of Club Victoria, where the men are real men and
so are the women. Love Machine. 

 Ramona Ruiz -- classmate of Beth's. Whirlwind. 
 Raptor -- Conley family dog. Black Roses. 
 Ray Bluestone -- Matt's uncle; dour disapproving farmer. Flashie Thing. 
 Ray Bluestone Jr. -- Matt's cousin; soldier stationed in the Gulf.
Flashie Thing. 
 Raymond -- Boston caterer. The Wreck of the Margot. 
 Reaper -- leader of the Pirate Clan. Tales From the Skiff. 
 Rhonda Henderson -- Josh and Sarah's stepmother. Mentioned: Something
Old, Something New; A Gargoyles Christmas 
 Special. 
 Richard Mosswell -- great-uncle of Howard. The Horror of Innsbrook. 
 Richards ("Iron Guts") -- officer of the 23rd Precinct. Something Old,
Something New; Black Roses (mentioned); The Pure 
 and the Profane. 
 Rick Alvarez -- police officer in the 23rd Precinct; Matt's partner
while Elisa was on her world tour; renowned for his dark 
 good looks. Lead Me Not; Flashie Thing; Lyre, Lyre;
The Pure and the Profane. 
 Rob Kearney -- nephew of Douglas, works for McKenna's Grocery. Lost
and Found. 
 Roberts -- vacationer. Club Gung-Ho. 
 Rollie Duncan -- owner of Lakeside Tavern. Flashie Thing. 
 Romeo -- exotic dancer at Club Victoria. Love Machine. 
 Ronette Williams -- nurse who helps Bryce Canmore escape; Quarryman.
Baby Makes Three; Lyre, Lyre. 
 Ronnie -- pilot, one of Vito's partners in crime. Passions. 
 Roy Hayden -- Sterling Academy student. Sterling Silver. 
 Russell Taylor -- cousin of Elisa, Nikki's brother, stage manager in
Seattle. Family Reunion. 
 Ruth -- member of Avalon Clan; Malachi's mate; Angela's best childhood
friend. Angela's Awakening; Broadway Goes to 
 Avalon; Three of a Kind. 

 Sal -- Lady Attewater's maid. Xantasia. 
 Samson (Samuel Blake) -- son of Anton and Ivana Sevarius; was terminally
ill before being abducted by his father and "saved" 
 by injection of a homo gigantapithicus (Bigfoot)
genetic compound; now lives in the Labyrinth. Sins of the Father; Kittens; 
 Playing God. 
 Sandra Conley -- Lawrence's wife. Black Roses. 
 Sarah Henderson -- daughter of Maria Chavez by her second husband;
becomes a detective. Something Old, Something New; 
 A Gargoyles Christmas Special; The Wedding; Lyre,
Lyre. 
 Scoburn -- mercenary. Club Gung-Ho. 
 Scottish Rogue -- alias used by MacBeth, 17th-century pirate hunter.
Tales From the Skiff. 
 Seeing Stone -- magical artifcat used by Elektra. Mentioned: The Wedding;
Romances; Broadway Goes to Avalon. 
 Sebastian St. John - Burnett -- son of Owen Burnett and Cordelia St
John. Future Imperfect; Lyre, Lyre. 
 Shelob -- Nightstone Unlimited's computer. Fallen Angels. 
 Short Hoggers -- servant to Oberon; gnomelike trickster. FoxFire. 
 Sirius -- alien doglike creature. Flashie Thing. 
 Skippy -- works at the coroner's office. black Roses. 
 Snake Mendoza -- classmate of Beth's. Whirlwind. 
 Sophie Kravitz -- landlady of Elisa's building. Black Roses. 
 Squid Clan -- Broadway's name for an evil race of subterranean aquatic
gargoyles. The Horror of Innsbrook. 
 Stan Ellington -- cameraman, Channel 8 Action News. Baby Makes Three. 
 Stanley -- staff member at Meadowgrove Country Club. Three of a Kind. 
 Stephanie Greene -- Dominique Destine's executive assistant. Club Gung-Ho. 
 Sterling Academy -- private college in upstate New York. First appearance:
The Heist; many others. 
 Steve Gelman -- sailor on the Nereid; enspelled by Caliban. The Tempest. 
 Strikehammer California -- West Coast branch of the Quarrymen. Fallen
Angels. 
 Stuart Kaplan -- party guest. The Wreck of the Margot. 
 Sycorax (Euguenia Sycorax) -- sea witch; mother to Caliban; Titania's
rival. The Tempest (mentioned); FoxFire. 

 Theresa "Terri" Marshall -- reporter for Channel 8 Action News; daughter
of Travis Marshall. Baby Makes Three. 
 Thisbe -- member of Avalon Clan. Broadway Goes to Avalon. 
 Tiffy (Tiffany Ann Vandermere) -- spoiled younger sister of Brendan;
blonde friend of Muffy and Babs. The Wreck of the 
 Margot; Three of a Kind. 
 Tina Diamant -- younger sister of Nicholas; student at the Sterling
Academy. Sterling Silver. 
 T.J. Lawton -- illegitimate son of Fox; adopted by Burt and Loralie
Lawton. FoxFire. 
 Tom (Thomas Reed Maza) -- son of Talon and Maggie; twin brother to
Dee. Kittens. 
 Tora Hawke -- commando trainer. Club Gung-Ho. 
 Tourmaline -- member of Avalon clan; Jacob's ex-mate. Broadway Goes
to Avalon. 
 Trouble -- Lex's name for the thug who accosts Aiden. Where You Need
to Be. 
 Txlpp -- Mimasite prince. Flashie Thing (mentioned). 
 Tybalt Diamant -- Illuminatus of the Fifth Circle; grandfather of Tina
and Nicholas. The Heist. 

 Uriel -- member of Avalon clan; Miriam's mate. Broadway Goes to Avalon. 

 Ventura -- clone of Angela. Mentioned: Fallen Angels, Club Gung-Ho,
Playing God. 
 Vito Draconi -- Tony Dracon's cousin; professional gambler turned thief.
Passions; The Heist. 

 Wayne Allen -- ex-boyfriend of Elisa's. Black Roses (mentioned). 
 Wendy Brandt -- Sterling Academy drama student. Sterling Silver. 
 William Harmond -- former senator, now with the Defense Dept.; public
supporter of the gargoyle cause; father of Julianna. 
 Playing God; The Wreck of the Margot. 
 Williams -- alias of Agent J. Flashie Thing. 
 Winken -- servant to Oberon; elfin trickster. FoxFire; Three of a Kind. 
 Wintersbourne, Lord -- wealthy nobleman. Xantasia. 

 Xanatopia Orbital Colony -- supposed space station inhabited by gargoyles.
Future Imperfect. 

 Zachariah -- member of the Avalon Clan; mateless; feisty. Broadway
Goes to Avalon. 

 Guest Appearances and References: 
 Niles Crane (Frasier) -- The Wreck of the Margot 
 Drew and Charlotte Pickles (Rugrats) -- The Wreck of the Margot 
 Robin Colcourt (Cheers) -- The Wreck of the Margot 
 Denzel Washington (sort of) -- Black Roses. 
 Jake and others from Spider Robinson's Callahan's universe -- On the
Rocks. 
 The cast of ER -- Baby Makes Three. 
 ZZ Top and the Eliminator (sort of) -- FoxFire. 
 J; L; Zed; and the MIB -- Flashie Thing. 
 Tracer Bullett, P.I. (borrowed from Bill Watterson's Calvin and Hobbes
comic strip) -- Lead Me Not. 
 Kandy Kane (from Stephen King's "Umney's Last Case") -- Lead Me Not. 
 Kronsteen Castle (from Robert McCammon's "They Thirst") -- Fallen Angels. 
 Dr. Wanless and the Shop (from Stephen King's "Firestarter") -- Flashie
Thing. 
 Shaddack and Moonlight Cove (from Dean Koontz's "Midnight") -- Sins
of the Father. 

 Did I miss anyone? E-mail me
with the humiliating truth ... 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button
to return to the previous page, or click on the shield to return to the
main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.