Gargoyles Fan Fiction 

 Something Old, Something New 
Captain Chavez makes a startling discovery in the precinct attic; Hudson
recalls his first true love. 

 Passions 
An exploration of some mature themes, for suitably mature readers only. 

 Ever After 
In 2031, the impossible alliance takes place and two age-old foes become
one. Mature readers only. 

 Where You Need to Be 
Lexington's online pen pal wants to meet in person ... and what is 
Owen up to? 

 Family Reunion 
A sequel to Passions, for mature readers only; Elisa attends a family gathering
in Las Vegas and tells all to Beth. 

 Sins of the Father 
Sevarius is determined to save the life of his son, at any cost. Mature
readers only due to violence. 

 Confession 
Brooklyn reveals a long-kept secret about events in the episode "Temptation;"
for mature readers only. 

 The Tempest 
The year is 1974 and somewhere off the coast of Maine, Halcyon Renard is
experimenting with weather control. 

 The Heist 
Vito Draconi is about to make the biggest mistake of his life -- robbing
the Illuminati. And Matt Bluestone is about to find out that getting what
he wanted isn't what he wanted it to be. 

 Attraction 
A sequel to The Tempest. The year is 1988 and the place is Seattle. 
When Xanatos and Fox meet again. it's like magic. Mature readers
only. 

 Sterling Silver 
Owen underestimates Aiden Ferguson's talent and his life will never be
the same. 

 Kittens 
Some uninvited guests crash Maggie's baby shower. Mature readers only due
to violence. 

 Night Moves 
Elisa discovers the power of the little black dress. Mature readers
only. 

 Double Date 
Thailog turns up playing bass in a rock band, and it's up to Lex and Broadway
and their dates to figure out what's going on. 

 The Eurydice Project 
Matt Bluestone doesn't believe in ghosts, magic or an afterlife. 
He's about to be proven wrong. 

 A Gargoyles Christmas Special 
City sidewalks. Busy sidewalks. It's Christmas time in the
city . . . 

 Angela's Awakening 
A tale of coming of age on Avalon. Mature readers only. 

 A Noble Indiscretion 
Prince Malcolm's diary reveals a long-kept secret. 

 Future Imperfect 
Manhattan. No more pollution. No more crime. Almost paradise. 
Or is it? Lex and Aiden are about to find out. 

 Black Roses 
A series of brutal murders lead Elisa and Matt to wonder: Is Goliath
a suspect . . . or the next target? Mature readers only. 

 Baby Makes Three 
Perviously on ER . . . no, wait . . . previously on Gargoyles
(a sequel to Ever After). 

 Mother's Day 
Anastasia Renard and Dominique Destine discover they have something in
common -- daughters who don't understand that sometimes mother knows best. 

 Whirlwind 
Beth Maza is seeing someone, and she has reason to worry that her father
won't approve. Mature readers only. 

 Lost and Found 
A lonely woman finds a very unusual souvenir on the bluffs near Castle
Wyvern. 

 Love Machine 
Party favors courtesy of Spank Me Mama. Cake by Bakerotique. Mr. and Mrs.
Xanatos host the bachelor/ette parties for Goliath and Elisa. Mature readers
only!!! 

 The Wedding 
The big night is finally here! And so are some unexpected guests. 
Rated PG-13 for Adult Situations. 

 Fallen Angels 
Horatio said it best: "So shall you hear of carnal, bloody, and unnatural
acts." Mature readers only! Demona seeks her revenge on Thailog in this
sequel to Double Date. 

 Lead Me Not ... 
The dynamic duo of Aiden and Birdie are back in this tale of kidnaping,
car theft, magic, and mayhem! Mature readers only. 

 Romances 
Three stories in one! "Girl Talk" -- for those Angela and Brooklyn fans
(mature readers only for this one!); "Fairy Favours" -- a look at Owen's
private life; and "First Date" -- Preston Vogel and Robyn Canmore go out. 

 Playing God 
Anton Sevarius is back from the dead and he's had an unbelievable makeover. 

On the Rocks 
 [removed at the request of Spider Robinson] 

 Flashie Thing 
The message Matt Bluestone leaves on his partner's answering machine mentions
alien artifacts and government agents, just before he disappears. 

 Broadway Goes to Avalon 
Elektra is persuaded to tell Katherine the truth about her parentage, with
tragic consequences. 

 The Wreck of the Margot 
Brendan is hosting his sister's birthday party aboard his brand new yacht.
Guess where Avalon sends Broadway and Elektra. 

 Menagerie 
Another magical blunder from the people who brought you Owen-and-Cordelia-in-love. 

 Club Gung-Ho 
Hudson and Jericho get more than they bargained for when they both sign
up for the "complete commando-training vacation experience." Mature readers
only due to violence. 

 The Horror of Innsbrook 
"You can tell it's Lovecraftian, because I use the word 'cyclopian' in
it." -- Neil Gaiman, April 1995. 

 Xantasia 
David Xanatos returns to a life of crime, meets another woman, and gets
shot. Avalon sends Broadway and Elektra someplace fun. And Aiden gets caught
with another guy. 

 FoxFire 
To save her son from Oberon's revenge, Fox must face some demons from her
past. Strong language. 

 Lyre, Lyre 
"It's like 'Gargoyles: The Next Generation' around here." -- Elisa Maza,
commenting on the same-day births of a good guy (Orpheus Bluestone) and
a bad guy (Bryce Canmore). Flashforwards to the future show their lives
and destinies to be linked. Some violence; reader discretion advised. 

 The Pure and the Profane 
Betrayal. Murder. Lust. Obsession. Those who don't like the direction the
Demona and Jericho storyline has been progressing should stay well clear
of this one! Mature readers only. 

 Tales From the Skiff 
Two short stories for the price of one, that take place before Broadway,
Brendan, and Elektra got home from their travels. 

 Three of a Kind 
From beyond the grave, the Archmage reaches out in revenge against the
Weird Sisters. Instrumental in his plans: Gabriel's three mates, and Tiffy,
Muffy, and Babs. Mature readers only due to violence. 

 Hotwire 
T.J. is having some trouble adjusting to life in the castle, until he,
Lex, and Brooklyn go out for some male bonding. Mature readers due to strong
language. 

 Dear Diary 
A short look at Aiden's thoughts as she makes a big lifestyle change. 

 Breeding Season 
The thrilling season finale to the ongoing saga, in which the clan prepares
for some new arrivals. In two parts due to length. Mature readers only,
please. 

 Shameless Plug 
It's not Aiden's fault this time. A magical accident sends two gargoyles
and one little boy into a world of magic and adventure. 

 Jericho on the Island of Amazon Women 
With a title like that, what more needs to be said? Mature readers only! 

 Ice Queen 
Owen Burnett used to wish he knew more about Cordelia St. John's past and
family. Now he knows ... 
 Mature readers only due to some adult content and language. 

 What Might Have Been 
Whether 'tis nobler in mind ... One gargoyle's choice makes all the difference
in the world. 
 This story is in two parts due to length; rated PG-13 for some adult
content and violence. 

 Cats and Dogs 
In the Amazing Oddities show, not all the freaks are the ones on display,
and the real thrills are by private arrangement only. 
 Mature readers due to violence, profanity, and sexual content. 

 The Scottish Rogue 
Dead men tell no tales ... but an immortal never forgets. 
 Mature readers due to some sexual content and violence. 
 In two parts due to length. 

 Dark Beauty Part One: Pursuit 
Hair as white as snow. Eyes as red as blood. Skin as black as ebony. 

 Dark Beauty Part Two: The Institute 
Ebon and Gabriel relate their ill-fated rescue mission. 

55 A -- Masks 
Sex, distrust, and Machiavellian deception. Mature readers only.

55 B -- Demon Whispers 
Demona's daydream, or Jon Castaway's nightmare? Mature readers only. 

 Precocious 
Everyone knew that raising Amber Maza would be an adventure. But they had
no idea it would be so much, so soon. Some strong language. 

 The Guardians: Alchemist 
The hope for the future may be found in the past. 

 Indigo 
What would you give for the perfect body? Mature readers only, please. 

 Beth of Both Worlds 
The "Party on Avalon" sequel to Whirlwind, first posted in Avalon
Mists 

 Revenge of the Amazon
Women 
The Golden One is back and ready for a rematch. Mature readers only, please. 

 The Boy With the Healing Hands 
A power like Julian's could change the world, but who has the right to
decide if, when, and how to use it? 

 Puck Teaser 
A light-hearted dare between lovers takes a dangerous and peculiar turn.
Mature readers only, please. 

 Damien, Part One: Atonement 
The most despicable deeds can be done out of love ... especially if it's
a Jericho kind of love. Mature readers only, please. 

 Damien, Part Two:
Unholy Alliances 
Threats of blackmail by Jason Canmore prompt Demona to open the Grimorum
Necronum ... which would be a big mistake even under ordinary circumstances!
Some violence. 

 Damien, Part Three: Devil's Night 
Little Damien is all grown up and raising hell ... literally. Mature readers
only, please, due to violence and some sexual content. 

 Continued in Section
2: Spinoffs and Other Stories 
 Read Christine's announcement of how
the decision to go into spinoffs came about 

 Click here to see
what's been added/updated on our site! 

 Like what you've read? Try more: 
 Published works by Christine
Morgan 
 The Silver Doorway 
children's books 
 The Trinity Bay 
horror novels 
 Sabledrake's
author page on Literotica 
-- mature readers only! 
 Other
fanfiction 
 Other
stories 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button
to return to the previous page, or click on the shield to return to the
main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission. Their use here is not for commercial
purposes, but because of our love for and the enjoyment that those
characters have given us, and we can't stand to see them sit idlely by
and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates. 

 This page has been visited 
times since the system last messed up and reset the counter.

 [ Previous
5 Sites | Previous
Site | Next
Site | Next
5 Sites ]
 [ Random
Site | List
All Sites | Join
the Adult Fan-Fiction Webring ]