The Morgan's Web Site - Gargoyles 

 Click
on the 
 shields below 
 to follow 
 the links 

 Christine's Gargoyles Awards: 

 Winner, July 1998 

 Links2Go "Gargoyles" Award 
 May 1999 

 Gargoyles Internet Reunion, February 2000 Fandom
Awards: 
 Favorite Fanwriter -- First Place 
 Most Influential Person -- First Place 
 Funny Fanfic -- tied for Second Place ( Love Machine, Masks ) 
 Long Fanfic -- Second Place (numerous stories) 
 Fanfic Series -- Second Place (continuing series) 
 Short Fanfic -- First Place ( Demon Whispers, Night Moves, Dear
Diary ) 
 Romantic Fanfic -- Second Place (for numerous stories) 
 Fanfic Character -- First Place (Jericho) and Third Place (Aiden) 

 Christine has been called "the Queen of Gargoyles Fan Fiction." Here
you will find almost 100 stories 
 based on Gargoyles.
 (see also Kimberly
T.'s vignettes set in Christine's fanfic universe) 

 The Gallery of Gargoyle fan art inspired by Christine's stories and
characters, contributed by several good 
 friends and talented artists. 

 Links (and Web Rings) to other Gargoyle Sites 

 The Gathering 1997, Essay and Photo Album 

 The Gathering 1998, Essay and Photo Album 

 The Gathering 1999, Essay and Photo Album 

 The Gathering 2000, Essay and Photo Album 

 The Gathering 2001, Essay and Photo Album 

 The Gathering 2004, Essay and
Photo Album 

 Christine's collection of Gargoyles merchandise 

 Becca Morgan's Lexington Page 

 Click here to see
what's new on the Morgans' site! 

 g 

 Use your browser's back button to return to the
previous page, or click on the shield to return to the main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.