The Gathering - 1999 

The Gathering '99 -- 

Christine's Report 

 Authors Note: this was written a full week after getting home, a full
week of packing, moving, scrubbing, painting, tiling, wallpapering, unpacking,
and were still not even close to done. Apologies to any names Ive gotten
wrong, anyone Ive forgotten, and anything Ive generally screwed up. As
always, comments welcome! 

 They say a cons not a con if everything
goes perfectly ... which means this years was one hell of a con!!! 
 But, luckily, most of the foul-ups
were kept from the view of the attendees, and only served to provide major
headaches to the con staff and the guests of honor. And in the end, a good
time was had by all. Provided, of course, that those who sunk much of their
own money into making it happen were reimbursed once all the receipts were
tallied and everything was settled. Or their time might not have been so
good. 
 We arrived in Dallas on Wednesday,
after some delays at the airport -- our layover in Houston wound up longer
than planned because once theyd loaded us all onto the plane, they then
found out that Dallas/Fort Worth Airport was not accepting any flights
due to weather. So they let us back off the plane and we milled around
for a while. Funny thing ... later that night, watching the local news,
the meteorologist never mentioned anything about this alleged bad weather
... 
 I admit it, Tim and I both bought
into the notion that Texas was all sagebrush and dusty cow trails. To see
greenery, lots of greenery, was a surprise. But once we got a faceful of
the air, it was no wonder. A dry heat? No way. Go to Arizona, New Mexico,
or Nevada for that. This was a true-as-could-be case of its not the heat,
its the humidity. Like getting slapped with steamed wool. 
 And hot. Especially coming from
an Octoberish Seattle summer. When the forecast lows are ten degrees
above the highs wed been used to ... ouchie. 
 But we were here, and the shuttle
to the hotel was moderately less hair-raising than my Manhattan adventures
the past two years. Moderately. Still pretty scary, what with construction
going on and the driver slaloming from one lane to the other. 
 At last, we arrived at the hotel
and the place seemed deserted. Got checked in, had a swim in the nifty
pool that was part indoor, part outdoor, and you had to swim under a black
rubber partition to get from one side to the other. The whirlpool was tepid,
alas; the water in the regular pool far warmer. 
 Although theyd changed the names,
the sign on the wall still pointed the way to the Jericho Restaurant and
the Jericho Lounge. Must admit, I got quite a kick out of that. 
 Thursday, we got up bright and
early for our planned side trip to Austin. Before leaving, I tried to leave
a message for Jennifer, Patrick, or somebody to let them know which room
we were in. But to no avail. The man at the desk couldnt find anyone I
knew or any reference to the con in his computer, and kept asking me if
I was sure I had the right hotel. Now, I was sure, and was also
sure he was going to be one surprised little man when throngs of obsessives
started turning up. 
 We almost didnt make it to Austin.
Renting a car turned out to be more of a problem than wed initially thought,
and the hotel shuttle dropped us off at the first place and if Tim hadnt
been able to run outside and flag the driver back down once we heard they
had no cars to rent, we might be stuck there still. Eventually, after a
couple of tries and a hearty tip for the shuttle driver, we got ourselves
a car and were on the road. 
 Talk about the wide-open spaces!
Antiques and fireworks appear to be very big in Texas; all the roadside
signs seemed to be about one or the other. Tim is a closet pyromaniac at
heart and would have filled up on fireworks if there had been any feasible
way of getting them back home. 
 Once in Austin, we found a leaving
place, as Becca calls drop-in day care centers. Then Tim and I drove to
Illuminati central, the actual headquarters of Steve
Jackson Games . We were there to drop off a couple dozen copies of Curse
of the Shadow Beasts for them to carry in their online catalog,
and also to get the tour. Reese, whose exact title escapes me, showed us
around the place and we talked for quite a while, swapping horror stories
about working in the psych field, catching up on game-industry gossip,
that sort of thing. Just before we left, having promised to pick Becca
up from the leaving place by one oclock, SJ himself rolled in and we said
wed see him and Monica on the morrow. 
 Outside of town are the Inner
Space Caves, which were discovered by the Highway Department thirty-some
years ago. Advertised as 72-degrees year-round. Which was true, but theres
no air moving down there, so its 72-degrees but kind of dank. Still, Ive
always enjoyed caves, and the formations were beautiful. I also got inspiration
for my next GURPS campaign, which is going to be set entirely in the dwarven
nations of Underearth (in the world where my book is set). And possibly
an idea for a fanfic. 
 On the way back, we drove into
a rainstorm. And what a rainstorm! Like a line across the highway, dry
on one side and then pelting-down bathwater-warm raindrops. Which was right
about when we realized we were in need of gas. Luckily, the first gas station
we came to had a covered place or else Tim would have been soaked. 
 At any rate, we got back from
Austin and found that a few folks had turned up in time for an informal
pre-con dinner. Thomas, Patrick, Jennifer, Sarah, Greg, and the three of
us all piled into our rent-a-car and Thomas truck, and off we went to
the Spaghetti Warehouse. 
 Becca hadnt seen Jennifer since
last fall when we paid a visit to her neck of the woods while down in So
Cal for my brothers wedding. But moments after meeting, Becca was all
over Jen (which kept a few other people from being all over Jen, to her
disappointment no doubt). 
 By the time dinner was done, it
was sluicing down rain. Warm rain. Drenched, with those of us wearing glasses
seeing the world through smears and sparkles, we crowded back into our
vehicles and made our way back to the hotel. I had two messages waiting
for me -- its so grand being THE Christine Morgan! -- one from Stephen
(but when I tried to ring his room, nobody was home), and one from Demona
May, whod been in the lounge but was there no longer. 
 Tim and Becca stayed in our room
to rest, while I accompanied the others to the makeshift con room (until
the front desk got everything straightened out). There, Patrick and Thomas
used video savvy to help Greg put a revised version of his pitches for
New Olympians and Dark Ages on tape, while Jen and I provided smart remarks
(it wasnt flat-out last year, though it did start with an f
...). 
 Then, as we were watching a couple
of garg-themed music videos, Demona May made an appearance with a couple
of guys whose names I never did catch. This led to a rather awkward moment
on my part because shed brought me the original drawing of Jericho and
Demona nude by a tree, but how was I supposed to admire it with Greg 
sitting there?!?! I mean, sure, the worlds not going to end in a ball
of flame if he glimpses a piece of fanfic or a drawing of a garg that isnt
his, but this was a garg nudie pic ... so I blushed, I stammered, I was
flustered, and everyone made fun of me. 
 Once Greg had retreated to his
own room (he apparently assures us it wasnt because of the nudie
pic, and as it turns out, he knows a fair amount about Jericho, but I guess
thats partly my fault because after all, I did announce that one
story in the comment room, the one about the amazons ...), there was a
small staff meeting in which I, being not precisely staff in that I didnt
do the hard work, was dismayed to hear how much deep guacamole we were
in. Financially, that is. All depending on the number of walk-ins and how
the auction did. There had also been a rather high number of snafus involving
transportation and the guests. And I soon came to realize that it would
be a small miracle if we got through the entire weekend without anyone
winding up bludgeoned and stuffed in the out-of-order elevator shaft. 
 But there wasnt much to be done
at that late state, at least from my spot. Except to volunteer to foot
the bill for our own room -- Id been surprised as heck anyway when the
committee offered to cover the actual nights of the con, while we were
to pay for the arriving-early-staying-late. So it didnt really matter
except to our credit card. But hey, its a business expense, right? 
 Tim had to get up way too early
on Friday morning to return the rental car -- would have worked out much
better in the long run if wed just kept the damn thing the entire weekend;
getting people to and from the airport would have been much less of a hassle
and saved a lot on cab fare. Then, at some ungodly hour (it was really
only 8-ish but felt like five), Jen rang us to ask if Id be meeting gaming
guest Steve Jackson and his con coordinator Monica Stephens at the airport. 
 Since having them attend was my
idea and my doing anyway, sure, no problem, I just had to wake up. They
were flying into Love Field, to which there was a free shuttle. But of
course, the shuttle wasnt available to take me out there, so I
had to cab it. Then, after meeting them at their gate, we tried to get
the shuttle back and the pinheads at the hotel desk didnt get it
together for a whole hour. Which we spent sitting in the covered but outdoor
shuttle bay, nearly getting on the wrong Radisson vans twice. The
wait was livened up by some poor man who had either been bumped by a car
or fell down in the street with a heart attack or something, so we got
to watch the emergency response teams show up and do their thing. 
 Finally, we returned to the hotel
and deposited their luggage in our room until check-in time. Now, as it
turns out, SJ has never even seen the show, only had the barest idea what
it was about, but because there were Illuminati involved, he was willing
to give it a try. Its really amazing that he chose to attend. There was
hardly any gaming at our con (my GURPS game was the only scheduled one
we had), but he hoped to do a little business in the dealers room and
find out what all the fuss was about. 
 Admittedly, I had ulterior motives
for trying to get him to the con. Sure, his name would be a good draw for
gamer-type attendees. But if we could get him hooked on Gargoyles ,
if we could show him what a rich and vibrant setting filled with intriguing
characters and complex plots it was, then maybe, just maybe, at some point
down the line he might be interested in seeing it turned into a game. I
think a few steps in the right direction were made; once Tim and I have
finished moving, SJ and Monica want us to send them copies of all the episodes. 
 In the down time that afternoon
(at least, down time for us; I imagine the actual working members of the
staff were racing about trying to get registration ready), Tim and Becca
and I accompanied SJ and Monica to the Dallas Museum of Natural History.
Very neat place. Becca would not be parted from the Beanie-dragon Stephen
had given her, which almost made for an interesting situation in the museum
gift shop is there anyplace that doesnt carry those critters these days? 
 We got back in time to begin setting
up in the dealers room. Tim and Monica struck a bargain and we wound up
sharing the center block of tables, part SJ
Games stuff and part Sabledrake Enterprises (hawking Gargoyles collectibles
as well as copies of my book; a list of what merchandise we still have
available will be posted soon for your shopping convenience). 
 Other temptations in the dealers
room included Pat Spillars table full of Star Trek and other memorabilia,
Jamie Murrays fabulous artwork (Worf in a studded thong, mee-yow!), and
Pat Elrods books. More dealers would later arrive: Wintersmith Dreams,
a place doing jewelry, another that I cant remember. There were also several
round tables set aside for open gaming, and one reserved for moi. I love
being famous! 
 Registration got underway with
the usual delays -- one of these years, maybe the badges will be ready
beforehand; at Dragonflight here in Seattle, when you show up, you give
them your name and they give you a manila envelope containing your badge,
a schedule of events, various coupons, a T-shirt if you ordered one, and
ka-boom, youre ready to roll. 
 Speaking of T-shirts, evidently
Christi got a great deal because the rejected and therefore discounted
ones that supposedly came out too purple looked, to my eyes anyway, the
same as the good ones. So there were shirts aplenty, and presumably still
are for those who couldnt attend but would like one all the same. 
 And the posters ... wow! Double,
even triple wow. Ten of them, and they were stunning. An excellent job
by our artistic siblings! 
 People were showing up then, and
I began collecting a few hugs; Stephen is such a big guy that I was afraid
he might actually try to pick me up, which would have probably resulted
in sincere regrets on his part; and I must salaciously say that one of
the best things about these Gatherings is being able to get my hands on
Mitch, however briefly (and dont start wondering what Tim thought of all
this; I do believe he got a fanny-pat from one of my best buds). 
 Id seen a few friends from last
year and others whose faces I was seeing for the first time, but the one
thing I regret about the con was that I was so busy, I didnt have much
of a chance to visit with many of my pals -- Noel, Doug, Thomas the Green
Baron, Coyote (love those window decals!!), others. I also got the THE
Christine Morgan treatment on several occasions; still not used to it;
still makes me feel both thrilled and embarrassed and I love it. Got so
that Id introduce myself just as Christine, and people would take it from
there. 
 I would later hear that Robby
from the TGS CR had been there but hadnt said hi ... am I really that
intimidating? Someone was it Starsinger? -- suggested calling up the
Pizza Hut in Oregon where Pistoff works and insisting on a personal delivery
and then holding him hostage for the rest of the weekend, but the drive
might have been a bit much for him. 
 Where the heck were all the New
York people? Kellie and Peter Fay were there, but that was about it. Makes
one inclined to grouse a little -- the rest of us spent yea money
flying to Manhattan two years in a row while they could get there for cheap;
when the time comes for turnabout, where did everybody go? Ha-ha, just
watch, well have it in L.A. or Seattle one of these years! Though I also
think Vegas would be a good choice. Well see. 
 Once people were registered and
wed done some last-minute fiddling with the schedule (actually, fiddling
with the schedule went on right up until the last few hours of the con,
but people were amazingly tolerant of it), it was time for Gregs presentation. 
 Greg had grown a beard, which
added a rather devilish maturity to his playful fresh-faced image; I understand
he shaved it off once he got home, the heartbreaker. Ah, well; at least
not all of my pictures of him this year came out with terrible red-eye
(Becca, on the other hand, had an extreme case of it in nearly every shot). 
 I came in late, having been helping
Tim in the dealers room and trying to scarf a quick meal of take-out Chinese
(and we wound up leaving the leftovers in the dealers room for something
like two days; dont tell the hotel staff!), but was still in time to be
pointed out with the other guests. Told everyone to buy my book -- as if
thats a news flash! 
 It was the third time Id seen
most of those videos, but no matter how Greg said we must be getting bored
of it by now, I know I was still enchanted. I always forget how floppy-funny-Dr.Seussy
Bronx looked in those early sketches. We also got a sneak peek at Starship
Troopers , and it was gorgeous. Now, I dont know much about CGI, but
judging by the indrawn breaths and murmured amazement from the rest of
the audience, I figure it was hellaciously impressive as well as gorgeous.
While Im not normally much of a one for sci-fi, I know Ill at least check
this one out. 
 Ive been to a lot of cons, but
you know what? These Gatherings are the best. The most special. The most
intimate. A game con, a fantasy con, even a Trek con, you get a lot of
people coming from different loves. A game con might see the GURPS people,
the AD&D people, the M:TG people. Fantasy cons will have subtle showdowns
between the fans of Anne Rice and Anne McCaffrey. Trek cons, there are
so many different types of Treks now that dissension is prevalent; arguments
over whos the best captain can jet really vicious. 
 Not so for us. Not yet. Maybe,
in thirty years when the shows come back strong and spawned a half-dozen
movies and a few spinoff series, then we can be divided. But for now, theres
just the most wonderful sense of camaraderie, of family. Of, it really
is the best word, clan. Were all brought together by our love and adoration
for this one particular show, so its no wonder that Greg, the man from
whose brow it sprang like Athena, full-blown and ready to kick ass, is
so admired and even revered (and he does love the attention; if its an
ego stroke for me to be here, its got to be a hundredfold for him!). 
 In addition to Gregs videos,
we were treated to two music videos put together by fans. One was sent
by Denis, who couldnt make it this year. The other was by (I know Im
gonna spell this wrong or maybe get it wrong altogether, apologies in advance!)
Kythera. 
 After the video thing, Greg left
to meet some relatives and the Clan Feud got underway. I zipped off to
do some other stuff, and get ready for my game which had been re-scheduled
to nine oclock that night in the con suite. 
 The con suite was crammed with
people, as was my game. I had seven people when Id originally planned
for five (two whod signed up early showed up late but by then I just went
on and let them jump right in). Talk about noisy! But it was fun, and people
were getting into character, and it seemed to me that it was fun for them
too. 
 I wish the third session hadnt
gotten canceled; I would have loved to have seen some of the players who
signed up for both gargoyle and Third Race characters play it like
multiple personality disorder ( not schizophrenia, actually; thats
a very common misconception) when the two groups came together. It would
especially have been fun to see how Wanderer would have handled playing
both Rudy, the pachycephalosaur-headed gargoyle from L.A., and Oubliette,
the seductive French wraith, at the same time. 
 The game was interrupted a few
times, once for Stephens beer-tasting party (which I missed), once for
an all-purpose food break (which was timely because I wandered over to
fetch a soda and walked in on a conversation about the difficulties in
writing erotica, which is, pardon the expression, right up my alley), and
once because Greg came in with Thom Adcox Hernandez and it became a photo-op
free-for-all ... and me without my camera! 
 Thom, its true, looks an awful
lot like the human version of Lexington seen in Mirror. And the eerie
part is that, while Keith Davids regular voice doesnt completely sound
like Goliath, Thoms does sound like Lex. Its more than a little
startling. Especially when, as I would later find out, Thom can be a bit
of a raunchy fellow! 
 The first year, I made some reference
to how I got the impression Greg was kinda scared of us -- what have I
 wrought ? kind of thing. The second year, he seemed a bit more at
ease. This year, he seemed quite at home, and I surmise by his fiendish
grin that he got a big kick out of seeing Thoms reaction to all of this. 
 We ran late in the con suite.
Poor Patrick, who was supposed to be sleeping there, had to chase us out
at quarter to one. For some reason, Jen had wound up bunking on a couch
somewhere with the Green Barons (with so many Thoms and Thomases, its
easier that way) dishy young she-cant-be-fifteen sister whose name I forget.
Of course, both Tim and Becca wouldnt have minded if Jen wanted to room
with us -- I just bet Tim wouldnt have minded! 
 My game wrapped up on the cliffhanger
it was supposed to, with the gargoyle characters frozen in ice by a magic
spell, til moon and wolf-tailed star collide. Then, wearily, I found
my way to bed and slept for what felt like two hours (it was more, Im
sure, but thats what it felt like). 
 I got moving Saturday morning
in time to catch the last half of the fanfic panel, featuring Stephen,
Patrick, and Pat Elrod. Stephen flatters me too much -- dont stop! --
by giving me so much credit for his hard work. But hey, if he really feels
Im such a life saver and all that, I just expect a signed first edition
of all his books. Deal? 
 Then it was off to the dealers
room for the second session of my game. Gunjack does not look seventeen!
Twenty-five and holding down a prosperous career, yeah. Seventeen? No way.
But then, a fair number of folks are that age. I feel so old ... to think,
if Id gotten an early start, I couldve been their mother ! 
 Anyway, the game went well and
ran a little over too (I game like I write, too long). The most memorable
moment was probably when the centaur smashed the literal toady Oscar into
goo with his iron-shod hooves, and then the party opted for some rather
ingenious methods of body-disposal ... that, or the not-very-smooth efforts
to get the mirror-dreading Oubliette down the mirrored stairway to the
Portals of Space and Time. Alas, we ran out of time before they could go
to the Antarctic and see if their plan to break the spell and free the
gargoyles was a success. 
 While I was running my game, Tim
was off with SJ doing the panel on the Illuminati. Tim seems to feel it
didnt go all that well, but then, hes a planning and organization kind
of guy and going into it cold without any idea what would be discussed
might have colored his viewpoint. 
 At some point in there, I managed
to swing through the art room for a longer look. Geez! Some really talented
people! I think that was about the only time I saw Christi except for during
the masquerade; she mustve lived there for the duration of the con, except
for the time she spent waiting fruitlessly at the airport; another miracle
nobody got killed that day. 
 I met her little son Ryan (what
a cutie!) and her husband; he took Ryan and Becca swimming and mustve
been hating life because Becca insisted on bringing her water guns and
both kids were ganging up on him. While they were thus involved, Tim and
I even had the chance to sit down to a nice quiet pizza. 
 So, anyway, the art room. There
I was, drooling my way through the art show: Karines cels, Christis masks,
the full-sized freestanding Titanias Mirror, beautiful art everywhere.
Then I came around a corner and saw Lexys work, and got a pleasant surprise.
There, in the middle of a bunch of images of Lexington, was one of him
with a very familiar grey dactyl-crested she-garg. As it would later turn
out, Thom himself wheedled Lexy into selling him the painting. 
 Then it was time for the radio
show auditions, which drew people like moths to the fire. I think just
about everybody but me mustve tried out. Lucky Jen spent most of the day
closeted with Greg and Thom, and the fact that she then wound up with the
moaning and grunting role really makes me wonder ... 
 With that going on, only a few
folks came to the panel on Writing Professionally, featuring Pat Elrod
and yours truly. Which, since Ive had exactly one article and one book
published, I didnt really feel all that qualified to speak on, but I did
get some good tips listening to Pats tales of woe with agents. 
 By then, Becca was getting a little
grumpy. I dont know if the rookery room thing ever happened; the only
kids I ever saw were her, Ryan, and Jack (who has the best dad in the history
of the universe, at least judging by the amount of goodies Dad bought for
him!). Becca spent most of her time in the dealers room, helping Tim make
change, and playing with her Darth Maul Legos. But she was ready for a
break, so we went up and relaxed in the room for a while. When I headed
downstairs to check out the radio play, the door was locked! I didnt want
to hammer on it and make a scene, so I meandered around to the door of
the dealers room and hung out with a few people. 
 At this point, I must mention
the woman an anonymous fellow (okay, I know who it was but dont want to
get him in trouble <g>) dubbed the cleavage monster. She had eyes
painted there. Presumably so that, since all the guys would be looking
there anyway, something would be looking back. Or, well, dont most men
polled insist that the first thing they notice about a woman is her eyes?
At any rate, she was a wowser; I dont know who she was except that she
was with the roadies -- I mean, the security people, Ogre and those guys. 
 Because the radio play ran late,
it was decided to move the celebrity panel to dinnertime. By now, it was
fairly certain that Frank Paur wouldnt be making it after all -- snafus
at the airport and such. It was time for the auction, which was held in
the dealers room while Greg and Thom signed autographs. 
 This year, when Seth wasnt there
to outbid me (never gonna let him forget that, mostly because I know it
makes him cringe and Im a sadistic old harpy), it turned out there were
only a couple of things I wanted. One, a production kit, climbed quickly
into the bidding stratosphere, so I let it go. The other, a plastic pencil-box
with some toys inside, I got for the amazing price of 20 bucks. The rest
of the time, I had my hands full trying to keep Becca quiet. She very quickly
got into the idea of shouting numbers, and I was afraid shed bid us clean
broke just by being enthusiastic. 
 The auction was conducted by Myhr,
Jamie Murrays alter-ego (dubbed the cat-man by Becca, she was afraid
at first but then came around and was fascinated), Pat Elrod, and assisted
by the woman with the eyes, who had somehow found a dress cut even lower 
than before. She was of great use in raising the ... bids, what did you
think I was going to say? Bids! ... by blowing into or nibbling on the
ears of bidders, bending over, and if theyda auctioned her off,
mercy me how the money would have rolled in! 
 We broke to get ready for dinner
and I changed into a moderately-less-frumpy red and black ensemble, but
my hair looked like homemade hell because I have been putting off getting
it cut for about six weeks. Ugh. Bleah. 
 The award for most painfully dedicated
fan goes to Aaron, who had a fresh Demona tattoo taking up most of his
chest. 
 Ah, the perks of fame! We guests
were first in the food line, had the primo table, and my family and I got
to sit with Greg, Thom, SJ, Monica, Myhr, and Pat Elrod. 
 Before the con, Id gone to great
lengths trying to explain to Becca what a voice actor was. This was helped
some by the way Paul Winchell was both Tigger and the guy on the Green
Eggs and Ham video. Because Lex is her favorite garg, Thom soon became
one of her favorite people. He seemed to genuinely like kids, and it tickled
her no end to hear him talk. 
 Dinner was quite good. Not too
spicy, even for a wuss like me. Then Becca, protesting all the while that
she wasnt tired, slumped over and wound up spending the next hour napping
leaned against Tim. Which meant she missed Thoms repeating a joke Keith
David used to pull on him, which, given the joke, may have been just as
well. Let me tell you, illusions were being shattered right and left! 
 Once everyone else had gotten
their food and settled down to eat, Greg got up and started fielding questions.
Some of them were familiar from years past, others were new. And the so-called
silly ones were among the best -- was Brooklyn chosen as second-in-command
because of his hair? Baldness discrimination? 
 Though Tim saved his silly question
until later -- ever since the 101 Dalmatians cartoon came out, its
bugged the crap out of him that he cant figure out where they got the
name Cadpig. So he tracked Thom down later, as Thom did a voice on the
show, to ask him. Thom didnt know either, so he asked Greg. Greg said
hed always wondered that himself. So if any of you know the origin of
the name Cadpig, please e-mail me 
and let me put Tims mind at ease. 
 But, really, you guys ... I wasnt
 trying to put Greg on the spot! It just seemed like a natural follow-up
to someone elses question about why Hudson was the only garg with a Scottish
accent (the reply -- because Hudson spent the most time around the humans,
who were accented, while Goliath and the rest of the clan kept more to
themselves and therefore didnt pick up the accent). But, gosh, ask a simple
little question about how come, then, the Avalon Clan, who were raised
by humans, didnt have accents, and the whole room erupts in an ominous
Oooooh sound. 
 To which Greg very deftly responded
that the Magus, who did not have a thick accent like Tom and Katherine,
did most of the teaching of the hatchlings (presumably, Tom and Katherine
were busy with other things), and why he felt compelled to jab his finger
in my direction and triumphantly crow, Gotcha! is yet beyond me ... 
 ... though, in an odd way, the
whole thing reminded me a little bit of a certain Blackadder episode
entitled Beer. 
 Someone asked when my next book
was coming out. Would that Id had a more hopeful answer! So, instead,
I rambled on for a couple of minutes about the recently-finished Black
Roses. And Greg almost read my book; he started it on the plane
but I cant compete with the in-flight movie when its Shakespeare in
Love . Same one was playing on our flight home, but I was too darn tired
to watch it; all I wanted to do was sleep. 
 The one time I wanted Becca to
speak up, she had to go and be all quiet. But I guess standing up in front
of a couple hundred people to recite the Gargoyles opener was a
little daunting for a kid just going on five. Still, she was loud enough
that at least the people at our table could hear her, and I think she got
caught on the video. And she remembered it quite well, too. My good girl! 
 After dinner came the break to
get into costume. Finally, the moment Becca had been waiting for! She was
after me to wear her costume from the moment we arrived on Wednesday! So
we get her suited up, a quick job as she refused to wear face paint, and
then went up to pester Jen, who was going as Saloon Girl Demona (now thats 
an action figure Id like to see!), and Patrick, reprising his role as
Puck. And the Green Barons sister ... was it Anne? ... who makes the most
damn convincing elfmaid I have ever seen. I think she weighs less than
one of my legs. Amazing. 
 That was when Becca firmly made
herself the darling of the con. Such a show-off. She must get it from Tims
side of the family. Honestly. But everyones reactions were just the attention,
the cooing, the picture-taking, and the admiration that she (and Mutti)
had hoped for. The kid just ate it up. Every time someone pointed a camera
at her, shed raise her little arms so her wings would show. Every time
someone pointed a camera at someone else, shed want to hurry over and
get in that picture, too. 
 Christi, who was dressed as Danu
and looked really cool alongside Greg Xanatos Bishanskys Lord Madoc
costume, went into the ballroom and fetched Thom so he could see Becca
in her Lex suit. He seemed to really enjoy that. Becca had chosen that
costume long before we knew he was going to attend, so it was a happy coincidence
all around. 
 After much fannying about, Pat
Spillars finally got all the costume contestants lined up none-too-quietly
against the wall outside the ballroom, and the festivities got underway.
Becca and Jack (in the Disney-crafted Goliath suit with the inflatable
wings that I sure wish came in adult sizes) were the only ones in the kid
division. Becca was called in first, and she loved it. All the applause,
the cheering, Gregs jolly cry of We have a winner!, all of it. Then
she stood, so good and obedient, at the head of the line as all the other
contestants were brought in. 
 We have a winner! is the thought
that went through my head and, I figure, everyone elses, when the guy
in the Graeme suit arrived. Who was that guy? Never caught his name, sorry!
But that was the most impressive costume Ive seen. Jen, who had bowed
out of this years competition partly because shed won last year and partly
because she was on the staff, would have had some trouble outdoing Graeme. 
 Incredible. A full-head mask with
beak that opened and closed, wings that extended and retracted ... wow.
The best of an excellent lot. 
 SJ commented on the percentage
of dresser-uppers; ours is much higher than most cons. Sure, youll see
a smattering of barbarians and vampires and Klingons (though, in truth,
Id sure never expected to see a Klingon like Skippy, winner of the Miss
Congeniality award), but they dont make up a very large percentage of
the total con-goers. We mustve had 30 or more people in costume. A good
showing! 
 I was glad that this year the
judges (Greg, Thom, and Jen) came up with some fun categories to give acknowledgment
to the cleverness or funniness of costumes. Best couple: Tony Dracon and
Elisa as a gargoyle; for instance. 
 And who could forget Mitch? Not
I! Not ever! Dressed -- barely -- in denim cutoffs, a vest, pointy ears,
and brown body paint, he strutted onstage accompanied by hoots and cheers,
then stripped off the vest, whirled it around a few times, pitched it at
Christi ... and then Jen, with a dollar given her by Greg, raced up and
stuffed it down his pants. 
 The real fun part was explaining
to SJ, who was watching, just what the deal was with that . He knew
some of the characters were from the show (by then having caught a couple
episodes, I believe), so I explained that others were from stories, and
that Mitch, well, Mitch was the fandom hunk and loved to show it off. Hmm
... if wedve auctioned him off as well as the woman with the eyes
... 
 Both the kids won prizes, and
to my delight, Becca got an audio-tape game that I didnt have in my collection!
What, taking the kids prize away? Hey, who made that costume? With a hot
glue gun, might I add? 
 Vanessas Lady of the Lake claimed
second, and damn it, I cant remember who got third. Was it Heather as
Hudson? Mightve been. I was sitting on the floor by the judges during
the initial presenting of contestants, and they were shocked to realize
that was a female under the beard. Or it mightve been Sarahs very convincing
Hyena get-up. 
 Greg did bemoan and bewail the
fact that he was a dirty old man when Fox (whose name I also forget) was
introduced. And of course there was Sexy Lexy, Myhrs nickname that will
probably follow and haunt her for the rest of her life, winner of the Thom
Adcox Personal Choice award. 
 Myhr was fabulous. Id heard he
underwent a real change of personality when he donned his makeup, but even
so, I was amazed. An older gentleman of dapper grey beard in real life,
its easy to miss how lithe he is. But once he puts on that poets shirt
and cat makeup ... whew! And such a flirt! The costume contest must have
been like a smorgasboard to him! 
 All in all, it was a great contest.
Coyote and Mandi as Rain and Rosanna, Noel as Sekmet, Siryn as Bluebonnet
the G99 Mascot (far too eerie a resemblance to be mere coincidence), Children
of Oberon, gargoyles everywhere ... a fabulous job! 
 When the judges retired to their
chamber (Jen closeted with Greg and Thom again, the lucky thing!), the
rest of us were entertained by a magician who was also with the security
team. Okay, I want to know how he did that balloon thing. Though I couldve
done without the razor blades; I shiver just thinking of it. 
 When the prizes had been handed
out, the music and dancing started. If youve never seen a dance floor
full of shaking tails and wings, you havent lived! And then, when people
were doing the Limbo ... I think I saw the poor younger and not yet evil
Archmage got bashed in the mouth by his own staff, impressed into use
as a Limbo stick, when one enthusiastic dancer didnt quite make it under. 
 By then, Becca was ready to get
out of her Lex suit and I was dying for a shower. So we took a few minutes
to do that, and then since Tim had expressed an interest in seeing the
 Starship Troopers video, which he hadnt seen as hed been holed
up in the dealers room during the presentation, I recruited Jen to help
sweet-talk Greg into showing it again. 
 That simple request was why my
game never happened Sunday morning, and why some of us got no sleep at
all that night. First off, a bunch of us went up to our room with a VCR
(I asked Thomas if there were any still hooked up and he just handed me
one), but then we couldnt get it to work with the hotel room TV, so that
meant another move up to the mostly-deserted con suite. Then, in addition
to the Starship Troopers video and the music one again, we also
got to see one that Thom had brought. A ... video resume, I guess, with
clips of his work in various movies and commercials. 
 Then Tim and I did a bad-parent
thing. Poor Becca was so tired, it was past midnight, shed had
such a long day ... that Tim took her down to our room, waited there until
she fell asleep, and then came back up to join the fun. Hed been kind
of down about missing out on so much of the social end of things, always
stuck in the dealers room or with Becca. We figured she would sleep like
a rock, or, if she did wake up, the overly-independent little cuss would
just come up and find us since she knew which floor the con suite was on.
Each time we checked, she was still sound asleep. 
 Okay, its all rationalization
... we did a bad thing and probably shouldnt have. But it was such a wonderful
night! Since she didnt wake up, since the hotel didnt catch fire, since
there was only potential guilt instead of actual guilt, it
was worth it. 
 The die-hard nutcases who stayed
up all night: me, Tim, Jen, Greg, Heather, Patrick, Flint (or is it Flynt?),
and Stephen (though he did nap on the couch for about an hour toward six
a.m.). Most others bowed out on us round about two in the morning. 
 Although there was much talk of having
Jen do a live reading of my most recent naughty tale, Demon Whispers,
it turned out neither of us had brought a copy. And, given the undercurrents
of sexual tension already running rampant at the con, such a reading might
have resulted in what the firefighters call flashover and then someone
would have had to fetch a bucket of ice water to cool people off. 
 Why did we greet the sunrise?
Aw, it was all Gregs fault. None of us were going to leave until he was
done talking, and he was just never done talking. Though he dodged my question
about gargoyle erogenous zones ... true, I agree, any part of the body
can be an erogenous zone if handled properly; I was just interested in
finding out which parts were more sensitive than others. You know,
the wing joint thing. Or to get his perspective on Christis dirty tail
trick. 
 Greg is one of the most intense,
impassioned speakers I have ever known. He rivets you with eye contact,
burns with charisma, and you can tell when hes feeling strongly about
something (even before he starts pounding on the table). 
 In previous years, as I believe
I've mentioned, I kind of had the impression that he was still a little
leery of all of us. This year, it was completely different. He was more
open, relaxed, at ease, at home, Greg-the-person instead of Greg-the-idol.
I can see why were all still barely more than kids in his eyes; even I,
being only three years younger, havent had nearly the struggle he has.
Of course, that could be why hes been working in the cutthroat animation
industry for so many years and Im toodling along doing my thing. 
 Over the past few months, Id
been becoming aware of some changes in myself, in regards to my plans for
the future. I realized that what I want is what Ive got -- to write, to
write well, to have some people whose opinions matter to me read what Ive
written and like it. I have a job that is remarkably easy and stress-free,
pays well, and gives me hours and hours to do what I love. I have a terrific
husband, a marvelous daughter, and I am in most ways content with my life.
Thats a grand feeling. 
 When Greg was talking that Saturday
night about wanting X and Y, about what youre willing to give up or do
to reach a dream, about realistic dreams and bullshit dreams, it really
came home to me how lucky I am. 
 Im doing what I love, and maybe
Im not getting paid the big bucks for it, but Im earning enough other
ways to be able to keep doing what I love. All I want is to write
well; if someday that results in a best-seller or a movie deal, thats
great, I wont turn it down, Im not stupid, but Im happy with what Im
doing and as long as the people who matter to me (and if youre reading
this, youre probably one of them) continue giving me the feedback and
attention I crave, thats all I need. 
 But the night wasnt all like
that ... there were plenty of saucy comments, more than a few rude remarks,
and a lot of all-purpose fun wickedness. Not sure whether the bit about
the glass-topped table counts as saucy, rude, or wicked or maybe all
three. There were other topics too -- if not for Greg, the Tarzan 
movie now in theaters might never have come to be! 
 Finally, it was almost seven in
the morning. I was supposed to run the third session of my game at nine,
in which both groups would join forces to try and free the imprisoned Titania
and Alexander and do battle with the ferocious Dire Wyrm, but I knew it
just wasnt going to happen. 
 Greg left to get a little sleep;
its a wonder he had a voice left! And the rest of us blearily staggered
to our respective rooms -- Jen, a la the Three Bears, found someone sleeping
on her couch and wound up sitting with us in our room, all of us trying
to stay awake, knowing that the minute we fell asleep, Becca would wake
up (poor tired girl had barely moved all night!). 
 The dealers room opened at nine,
and there were a few other panels going on. The Webmasters one, a TGS
one -- Stephen, running on just his nap, got to handle that one. And at
some point in there, Becca found a gigantic cricket on our Sabledrake table.
Okay, it was probably just a regular-sized cricket, but when its where
you dont expect to see it, any bug looks about twice its usual size. 
 I caught most of the closing ceremonies, and heard all about
Sarah and Draconis plans for G2K, next years Gathering in Orlando. The
date is still subject to change, but they landed a sweet deal with the
Disney people on park admission passes. Though I wonder why were not doing
this in January or something, when its not so hot! 
 Just as there had been trouble
getting people from the airport, so too were there last-minute gaffs
and goofs getting them back to the airport. Jen wound up escorting
Greg on a spendy taxi trip (such a hardship for her, Im sure). Slowly,
as check-out time drew near, more and more people said their farewells
and were gone. 
 The hotel staff were probably
glad to see our con break up. Theyd made a few blunders of their own,
with room mix-ups, construction theyd promised would be done by then,
one elevator out of order, and for some reason the heat in the hallway
was just roasting. And there were the usual lookie-loos peeking in on the
masquerade (though one hotel staffer did wind up buying a few things in
the dealers room). 
 A few of us then got together
in the hotel restaurant for dinner: the Morgans, Jen, Patrick, Thomas and
his fiancee (now wife, if I recall correctly; the big day was over the
4th of July, the day the fireworks happen <g>), SJ and Monica, and Thom.
Then Jen and Thom talked each other into going to a nearby tattoo parlor. 
 I say nearby, and it would have
been if it hadnt still been ninety-something degrees and ninety-something
percent humidity. And dopey old us, we tagged along. Only to find that
it was closed. So, no tattoos this time. I understand the two of them plan
to get together in L.A. and still go through with it. Jen is, I believe,
looking for a Demona-against-the-moon, and Im not sure what Thom was going
to have done.And I never did see his other tattoo, which, despite
being someplace that shouldn't be showed in public, he showed in public
... 
 When we got back from our walk,
there was no debate, we went straight for the pool. If anyone had told
me I wouldve been letting my fat flabby legs show for all the world (not
to mention one of the guests of honor) to see, I might have scoffed. But
it was too damn hot. I had ceased to care about the condition of my fat
and flabby legs ... besides, when I swim, I dont wear my glasses and therefore
its easy to delude myself into thinking that everyone sees as poorly. 
 The whirlpool was out of order,
and the outdoor section of the pool was infested with mosquitoes, but it
still felt fabulous. Becca decided to collect all the leaves floating on
the surface and give them to Thom -- with both Thom and Jen there,
she couldnt decide who her favorite was! 
 At some point in there, Tim and
I had gotten a short nap. But it was still unbelievable we were up and
functioning. After our swim and showers, we joined Jen, Patrick, and Thom
in Jens room and just kicked back and chatted. 
 I wound up telling Thom a little about how Lexington has fared
in my fanfic world -- he looked awfully alarmed when he heard about Jericho
and some of my more extreme stories; I hastened to assure him that Lex
in my world remained a fairly sweet and innocent young garg (the business
where Xanatos was spying on him and Aiden out the window notwithstanding).
But then, of course, we got talking about Christis fics, with the
shower scene, or the two girls on the pool table ... 
 Then it was a matter of go to
bed or sleep on Jens couch. So we went to bed, and by the time we got
up that Monday morning, Thom had already left, Jen and Patrick were leaving
in an hour, and except for the Fays and Demona May and a few others, we
were the only ones left. 
 Wed erred a little -- check-out
time was noon, our plane didnt leave until six that evening. So we put
our luggage in storage and cabbed it to the Galleria. Three words -- Marble
Slab Creamery. Oh, wow, the best ice cream Ive ever had. You pick the
flavor of your choice, and then they will plop it down on a marble slab
(hence the name) and mix it with your choice of treats. Cheesecake ice
cream with Heath bar and Nestles Crunch bits in it ... purely divine. 
 And as a final, fitting end to
our travels, when we were at baggage claim at Seattle-Tacoma International
Airport, a couple next to us were arguing peevishly ... and he called her
Margot ... 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button to return to the
previous page, or click on the shield to return to the main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.