The Gathering - 2000 

The Gathering 2000 -- 

Christine's Report 

 Author's Note: this even-longer-than-before
essay is brought to you by Sabledrake Enterprises, proud sellers of Christine
Morgan's MageLore 
novels. The second in the series, Dark of the Elvenwood , is now
available! Click here
to order your signed copy today! 
 *
 Day One -- Tues., August 1 
 Travel and Arrival 
 The shuttle trips to and from the airports said it all in terms of the
differences between where we
 were starting from and where we were going -- the driver that picked
us up in the rainy dark of a
 Seattle pre-dawn had a latte in his cupholder, and the driver taking
us to the hotel through the
 muggy heat of an Orlando afternoon had a slushie. That seemed to sum
it up nicely ...
 My carry-on bag was a large bright periwinkle Gargoyles tote,
and of all the ones on the conveyer
 belt, they had to pick it for a "random" by-hand inspection. Of course,
maybe it just looked
 strange going through the machine, crammed as it was with all my junk
plus Becca's six X-Men
 action figures. They also hand-groped Becca's bedraggled old Tigger
toy, the one she's had since
 her first Christmas and takes with her everywhere. Maybe they thought
the hard rattly ball in his
 tummy was a grenade.
 At any rate, they let us on the plane and our long day of touring scenic
airport concourses began.
 All three of us slept for a goodly chunk of the first leg of our trip,
though I was awake for enough
 of the in-flight movie to notice a familiar face -- Keith David. Had
I been using the earphones, I'm
 sure I would have caught the voice instantly, but as I had zero interest
in listening to the gripping
 saga of the pregnant chickie in Wal-Mart, I didn't. As it happens,
later when talking about it with
 Greg, his situation was just the opposite. He had the headphones on
but wasn't watching, and
 when Keith's voice came on, snapped his head right up.
 Boarding our plane for the second leg, Covington to Orlando, a young
woman right behind me
 pointed to my bag and remarked how she "loved that show!" So I told
her where we were going,
 to the con and all. Would've abducted her and dragged her along to
the hotel if we hadn't been
 coming in early to go to Universal Studios.
 Our reasoning was that none of us had ever been to Florida before, would
probably not have
 reason to go again (and after experiencing the heat, if we ever do 
go again, it'd by-gosh better
 be in January!), so we might as well hit all the parks and make a real
vacation of it. I told my
 boss that we'd come home sunburned, broke, and exhausted. As it turned
out, I was right on
 only two counts, thanks to diligent application of sunscreen.
 We finally arrived at the Ramada, and sorry to say it was quite a bit
more drab than I was
 expecting. Maybe seeing the other hotels as our shuttle dropped off
our fellow travelers had
 something to do with it. Our room was right by the lobby, which was
convenient for check-in, but
 it was almost as far as we could have gotten from the convention areas,
which was something of
 a drag. I understand why it was chosen and all, but the initial reaction
was on the enh side.
 So there we were, three weary, sweaty, crabby people. But there was
one burning thought in my
 mind preventing me from either collapsing or jumping in the pool with
all my clothes on -- had
 my books arrived or not? We'd called the hotel and they'd said no,
we'd gone to the UPS online
 package-tracking thingie and that said they'd arrived the previous
Wednesday, we'd called the
 hotel again and they said the books were there ... all of this
process hampered by
 communication difficulties and general ineptitude of the front desk
staff.
 Now we were right there at the desk, and talked to three successive
people who had no idea
 what we wanted. Books? Boxes of books? Simple cardboard boxes? No,
no boxes ... Morgan? Are
 you sure that's the name (pretty sure, yeah). I was an eyeblink away
from losing it, which is
 never a good thing because underneath this cute charming exterior beats
the heart of a ravening
 ogre, and by then all my safety systems were straining and hissing
and jetting steam. But the
 disaster was averted by the desk-dolts finally finding the books,
and we escaped to our room
 with the cartons in tow.
 The hotel had two pools, one covered over by the convention area and
one open right near us.
 The sight of the pool instantly revived Becca and she began clamoring
for a swim, but Tim and I
 were just too damn beat. We got unpacked, found out that Tim's miniature
diorama of the Weird
 Sisters casting their spell had been damaged in transport (this began
a long quest for a
 convenient hobby shop or game store so he could get some paint, a quest
that proved fruitless
 because they were all too far to reach without an hour and a half bus
ride each way or one
 whopper of a cab fare; he ultimately ended up doing a temporary patch
job with some of Crzy's
 body paint).
 At the center of the hotel is a little mall-type arrangement, with an
arcade and a grocery and
 some touristy knickie-knackie shops. That's also where the con suite
and one of the panel
 meeting rooms turned out to be. There's a deli between the lobby and
the outdoor pool, and the
 hotel restaurant is right beside the convention area. We decided just
to eat at the restaurant that
 night, for their buffet. The dinner one turned out to be nothing special,
though we would later
 find out that the breakfast one was much more passable.
 That ended Tuesday, with all of us turning in early and the alarm set
for 5:30 AM so we could
 catch the bus to Universal Studios.
 *
 Day Two -- Wed., August 2 
 Islands of Adventure 
 With the Universal Studios park-hopper pass, you get in two hours before
they open the gates to
 general admission. That is definitely the way to go, well worth waiting
for the sunrise (in already
 80+ degrees) for the bus. That bus nice , with posh comfy seats
and air conditioning and video
 monitors showing an endless loop of commercials for U. Studios, Sea
World, Wet & Wild, and
 Busch Gardens.
 None of us had ever been to a Universal Studios park. We chose Islands
of Adventure for our first
 day, thinking that Becca would like it better, and then the first thing
we did to the poor kid was
 scare the hell out of her by going on the Jurassic Park ride. We were
the only ones, all alone in
 the front of our boat, and at first all was well, toodling along, but
then there were raptors, and
 the ones she calls "spitty dinosaurs," and then the big T. Rex, and
then a much steeper scarier
 flume-plunge than even I was expecting.
 That was when I was reminded that she's only five ... Becca is a bright
and clever kid, but I'd
 forgotten that she wasn't automatically going to know, as I did, what
was part of the ride and
 what wasn't. When they were sounding the alarms because our boat had
gone "off course" into
 the raptor area, she really believed it. The rest of the day, she kept
asking me why that had
 happened, and I had to keep trying to explain that they did it that
way on purpose, that it was
 supposed to happen.
 But we got through it, though the photo monitor showed Becca with such
a look of abject terror
 that I couldn't bear to buy it and remind her forever of how scared
she'd been. Sure, she'd laugh
 about it someday, but she didn't need that souvenir. Besides, we spent
enough on other stuff.
 The only trouble with the early admission is that many of the attractions,
shops, and food places
 still don't open until nine, so we had to make several trips around
to do all the things we wanted
 to do. Like the pteranodon ride, zipping people along a raised track
with their feet hanging. We
 did the small Flying Unicorn coaster, and then Becca and I waited as
Tim went on the Duelling
 Dragons, one of those hanging-under coasters that you'd never get me
on because I don't like
 upside-down rides. Tim, though, isn't one for spinny rides, so he sat
it out as Becca and I helped
 Storm spin up enough electrical power to defeat Magneto. Skipped Spidey's
ride and the Hulk
 coaster.
 Seuss Landing was a big hit with Becca and helped her get over the trauma
of Jurassic Park. One
 of the attractions, based on If I Ran the Zoo, was a little water-squirty
area, and one of these
 days I am going to learn that it does no good to tell that child she
can only get wet up to her
 knees. She was drenched, and rode through most of the rest of the day
with her shoes and socks
 trying to dry out on the roof of the stroller.
 The Sinbad show was loads of fun, and of course the evil sorceress Miseria
had the coolest
 costume (that black and purple combo with red trim works so well for
so many villains!) and best
 lines. The princess (Amora, naturally) whupped some butt for a change,
and while the show was
 peppered with pop-culture references, they weren't as annoying as those
usually are. After,
 Becca got a plastic scimitar, and when we came out of the gift shop
one of the cast baddies was
 there for a photo op, and she ran right up to him.
 I completed a quest eighteen years in the making that day ... long ago,
when I started gaming, I
 wanted to have a bunch of fake gems to carry in my dice bag. But for
the longest time, the only
 ones I could find were the junky ones with flat backs with silvery
stuff on, and while I tried gluing
 those together, it just never worked. But when we walked into the Sinbad
store, eureka! A big
 bin, fill a bag with as many fake gems as you can for five dollars,
and my mission was at last
 complete. Well, not complete ... I wound up doing the same thing
a few days later at Disney
 because they had it too and their gems were even better ... I'm such
a child sometimes! But I
 finally had my bag of gems, and gloated over them shamelessly.
 Tim got his neat souvenir near there too -- a tent featured guys hand-striking
coins with your
 choice of designs. He got one with a gryphon on one side and an M on
the other, as the Morgan
 coat of arms for his branch of the name features a gryphon. The guys
at the tent were great,
 bantering and seeming to be having genuine fun.
 The Poseidon show, one of those hologram-water-fire extravaganzas, freaked
Becca out a little
 but was otherwise neat, though I confess I spent most of it not paying
attention to anything
 except trying to assure myself that yes, that was the voice of Tony
Jay we were hearing. First
 Keith, then Tony (voiced Anubis).
 We had dinner at the Mythos restaurant, which had fantastic decor and
a great view, but the
 food seemed to be making too great an effort toward fancy and came
off as pretentious. And
 many of the wait staff were on the surly side, but I bet if you had
to go around all day with a
 nametag reading Ares, Pan, or Hera, you'd get cranky too ...
 When we'd done all we wanted to do and were ready to go, it turned out
we were just in time.
 The clouds had been massing, and as we reached the bus shelter, the
skies opened. Now, I've
 seen rain before ... we live north of Seattle for crying out loud,
but it had been a while since I'd
 seen rain like this. Had been, in fact, since the 20-Year Celebration
of the SCA, held in Texas back
 in '87 or '88 (and I was cowering in a tent the whole time).
 This was a thunderstorm , with huge jagged sheeting bolts of lightning,
thunder that shook the
 bones, and rain that really did come down in curtains. The street went
from dry to flooded in
 about ten minutes, and we sluiced through water all the way back to
the hotel. So, obviously, we
 didn't go swimming that day either! But we were home in time to catch
 Survivor ,
a show on
 which Tim and I are both utterly hooked.
 Then it was to bed, because we were going to do the same thing the next
day. To bed, but not
 to sleep, thanks to several noisy passers-by.
 *
 Day Three -- Thurs., August 3 
 Universal Studios 
 Oh lordy, this was a hot one. The previous day, we were just wussy complaining
Pacific
 Northwesterners (when it hits 80 degrees here, people whine), but this
one was hot even for the
 locals. And our feet were aching already, but this time we were smart
and got the stroller right
 from the front gate so Becca at least got to ride in style.
 This park wasn't as good for small kids, and seemed to have much less
in the way of attractions,
 much more in the way of shows, tours, and the like. The Back to the
Future ride was bumpy,
 choppy, and not generally very good (especially when compared to Star
Tours, which is great!).
 Men in Black was more fun, letting you score points by shooting aliens,
though our car didn't do
 very well since Becca was only looking and I think one of the people
behind us wasn't shooting
 either.
 I dragged them on the classic Jaws ride, expecting it to be hokey and
it was ... but it was also a
 lot more suspenseful, a lot more adrenaline-pumping, than I thought
it would be. There's just
 something about that music, and about the idea of the unseen sharp-edged
death coming up all
 sudden-like from below! Becca loved that one and got herself a big
stuffed shark, so for the rest
 of the day I'd suddenly hear her going "duh-dun, duh-dun," and then
she'd hit me in the rear
 with it -- big target, I guess!
 For her, the best things were the E.T. ride and Feivel's (sp?) play
area. That one included a sort
 of waterslide thing that she got Tim to go on with her twice, so she
was soaked again. We also
 went on the Nickelodeon stage tour, and thankfully she was not 
the kid chosen to get slime
 dumped on her head, though not for lack of volunteering. She did get
picked to help them play a
 game based on The Wild Thornberrys , throwing cheese doodles
at someone with a velcro Darwin
 mask, and enjoyed that tremendously.
 I missed out on the Terminator show, since I have never had much luck
getting 3-D to work with
 my glasses (yes, I know they say it fits over regular frames,
but all I ever get is blur and
 headache). Tim enjoyed that one while Becca and I cruised around. We
saw the Ghostbusters car
 but they left before we got a photo op with one of the 'busters.
 We packed it in early that day, Tim's pockets jangling with squashed
pennies because he and
 Becca wanted to try every penny machine we found. I think we left Universal
Studios with ten,
 and then would get more at Disney. The clouds were threatening, but
by the time we got back it
 was clear enough to finally take Becca swimming.
 Tim didn't join us, spending that time trying to find hobby shops. He
said he ran into Denis and a
 few other con people, and at one point while I was in the pool I thought
I might've seen Denis go
 by but without my glasses I couldn't be sure, and didn't want to rear
up out of the water and yell,
 and scare a stranger (duh-dun, duh-dun ...).
 Later, though, showered and dressed, we went over to see what was happening
at the
 convention area, since the signs said registration would start at six,
or eight, or whenever. We
 started running into people, some familiar faces from previous years
and some names I knew
 from online.
 Starsinger was there, and it was good to see her again. Maybe she'll
come back to the comment
 rooms now? She'd left because of the atmosphere in there and her tempering
influence has been
 missed, I think. The guy in the wild winged hat turned out to be Vig,
so I finally got to meet him
 and would later drool over his work in the art show
 Demona May gave us a sneak peek at the art she'd brought, including
many pics of characters
 from my fics and some Barbies modeled after T'Chambleau, Aiden, and
the twins Kenneth and
 Finella from my Guardians series. Those wound up winning a prize in
the art show.
 A bunch of us then wound up taking over the hotel lobby, and I feared
we were going to get
 thrown out before the con even began when the talk turned to South
Park and some folks
 seemed on the verge of breaking into song. Tim and Becca and I went
back to our room for a
 while to rest from our busy day, and then went over to the deli for
a very late dinner.
 Of course, the very moment we were done, as we were about to go to bed,
that's when Crzy
 (henceforth referred to as Jen because that's how I know her best)
and Thom and the Weisman
 family rolled in. They'd been delayed, and Jen had nearly been bumped
from the flight but
 whipped up a convincing sob story that she and Thom were getting married
at noon on Friday
 and she had to be on the plane, she just had to ... it
worked, though I'm sure her husband
 Alan will be surprised to learn he's been replaced!
 It was the moment Becca had been waiting for all year, because she's
Thom's #1 Fan (junior
 division; senior division goes to Lexy). We met Beth Weisman and the
kids. Erin, whose sixth
 birthday was coming up on the 8th, had lost a tooth in Kellie Fay's
car on the way from the
 airport, and 3-year-old Benny is just a doll ... I told Jen that if
it ever came down to a cute-off
 between Benny and her son Fox, I don't know who would win!
 They all got checked in, and then Beth and the kids went to bed while
Greg joined a crowd of us
 on a trek for food (we Morgans, having just eaten, tagged along anyway
because Becca wouldn't
 be pried away from her two fave people -- Thom and Jen -- for anything).
It took us forever to
 get everyone collected, and then Denny's couldn't seat 15 for nonsmoking,
so we ended up at
 IHOP. Playing with one of those damnable triangle peg-jumping games.
And then Tim went and
 bought one to bring home!
 A word on jaywalking in Florida: one of the bus drivers said that Orlando
leads the nation in
 pedestrian fatalities, and I believe it! But the lights were so far
away ... we crossed in a mob at
 least, and survived. In the daytime, it's all the more tempting because
when the place you want
 to be is air conditioned and right across the street, and the light
is way down there shimmering in
 the heat like a mirage ... yeah, it's tempting!
 *
 Day Four -- Fri., August 4 
 Convention Begins 
 The con really got underway well before the opening ceremonies, which
weren't until late that
 afternoon. Registration went much more smoothly than in previous years
(for instance, the
 badges were already made up).
 The entrances to the dealer's room and art show were accessible either
from the outside or
 through the video room, so we did a lot of tromping through the video
room. After all, it was hot
 out there! Every time I stepped outside, my glasses tried to fog up.
 There turned out to be a total of three dealers. At our table, Sabledrake
Enterprises sold loads of
 Gargoyles merchandise as well as copies of my books. Across
the way, Abram and his team had
 the complete Wintersmith Dreams as well as some calendars (I never
did get around to buying
 one because I was saving my money for the auction and the Villains
store at Disney World, but
 the calendars looked great and had terrific art). The last booth belonged
to a lady whose name I
 never caught, who was selling jewelry and little sculptures and things.
She also did caricatures
 and face painting.
 The art show was as stunningly impressive as ever. I wandered through
in pained awe of the
 incredible talent on display. In addition to the paintings and art
on the walls, there was quite an
 array of 3-dimensional stuff. Crystal's mugs were fabulous (I got Goliath!
I got Goliath), and
 Sara's stained glass, and Kyt's miniature diorama, and Demona May's
soap sculptures and puzzles
 ... very well done, people!
 But it brings me to a bitchy little thing that's been on my mind for
a while now, so we interrupt
 your regularly-scheduled essay for Christine's Whiny Rant:
 How come the artists can sell their work and we writers can only give
it away? Just as much
 effort and creativity must go into a fic as into a pic, they still
many times involve characters from
 the show ... there's something that seems strange and more than a little
unfair about that. Of
 course, artists do tend to have more of a materials bill than writers,
but still ... it strikes me odd.
 Many of the pieces for sale or auction in the art show are already available
online, and anyone
 could have printed them out on just as nice paper. Could I, for instance,
bring bound copies of
 my stories, done up pretty on parchment-style maybe, and sell them?
I'd been under the
 impression that I couldn't do that.
 What would happen if I did? If I tried to sell the complete printed
collection in booklet form? I
 know if I tried to self-publish my fics, I'd get in hot water with
the Disney people. How come the
 artists can get away with it? What would happen if I did something
like what Stephen King is
 doing (though on a much more limited scale, obviously) and asked people
to send me money on
 an honor system for fics? I can't do that. Can I?
 I do take commissions for stories, sure. The Silver Flame thing has
been interesting and fun, but I
 have had to be very careful how I get around characters that belong
to Disney. I know artists,
 though, who take commissions not only for original characters but also
for ones from the show ...
 they can charge for that, but I can't?
 It isn't that I'm in the fanfic biz for money. I've written these stories
because I love what I do and
 I love hearing from people who enjoy reading them. But I work hard
on those fanfics. I put a lot
 of time and creative energy into them that I could be putting
into something that might
 someday be publishable.
 It just rankles a bit, that's all. And in an indirect way, yes, I have 
profited from writing fanfic. I
 have profited because it has given me the chance to practice my skills
and get feedback, and also
 because people who have read and liked my stories are the people who
trust me enough to buy
 my MageLore books.
 Where it really gets weird, at least for me, is when someone else is
selling artwork of my 
 characters. I'm not allowed to make any sort of money off of
characters like Jericho or Aiden,
 but the artists can? I mean, you go artists, more power to you and
all ... I admire your talent and
 skill, and am flattered as all get out that I've come up with characters
compelling enough to
 draw.
 But how come an artist can profit from my creation when I can't?
LOL, I mean, where's my cut?
 Where's my complimentary copy? At the risk of tooting my own horn here,
some of those pics
 aren't just selling because they are neat-looking gargoyles ... they're
selling partly because of
 who the characters are!
 I wonder if Greg and the gang feel that way about the same thing happening
with the official
 characters. I've been to plenty of cons and seen portraits of Star
Trek, Star Wars, Highlander,
 Xena, you name it ... I wonder if their people feel that way too.
 Well, that's enough of that; I'm supposed to be reporting on the con!
Onward!
 The Radio Show auditions began that morning. Becca and I went to Dunkin'
Donuts in the hot
 and ucky weather, and generally hung around the dealer's room meeting
people and selling stuff.
 At one point, we saw Beth and the kids out in the covered pool, which
the convention lobby
 overlooked through a set of floor-to-ceiling windows. We went out to
say hi, and Becca really
 really wanted to join them but we didn't have the time just then. I
also managed to slip on the
 wet bricks and bang my knee, always the same knee, and earned a big
ugly purple bruise.
 Coming back in, I got to meet Craig, one of the gang from Steve Jackson
Games' Pyramid 
 magazine boards. I mentioned that I was going to the con, Craig said
he lived near Orlando, so
 he came over for the afternoon! Luckily, he's a fan of the show, and
of my fic, so he wasn't
 surprised at my reputation (well, he also knew me for my GURPS Sex
article, which even pre-
 dated my fic, so I suppose there was nothing at all to worry about!)
 After that, we headed over to the con suite for the Ice Cream Social,
and Becca made a huge
 mess of her face. We caught the very end of Thom's talk on acting,
and he gave out sheets that I
 assume (since I know nothing of the business) were a photo resume sort
of thing. I got a signed
 one, even!
 My reading was scheduled for 4 PM, which was conveniently the very time
the hotel desk finally
 got organized enough to start letting people into their rooms. Until
then, everyone had been
 hanging around waiting. Then they all disappeared, and I thought I'd
be in there by myself. But a
 few people trickled in, and then a few more and more, until I had a
nice crowd of folks. Many
 that I recognized, and quite a few of those who confessed that they
read all my stories but never
 got in touch, the "silent readers." The ones that must think I'm dangerous,
maybe ... <g>
 I read a scene from the second half of the book, in which Solarrin pays
a visit to Thanis in time to
 find out that his old friends have gone haring off to the Emerin in
hopes of stopping his evil plan.
 I also talked a lot about myself and my writing, because once you get
me going (as this already-
 lengthy essay attests), it's hard to shut me up. Jen and Kenna booed
Alinora at every
 opportunity, as for some reason they've totally got it in for that
helpless innocent elfmaid thrust
 by cruel circumstance into a foreign time and land ... it's hardly
her fault!
 After that, a gratifyingly long line formed at our table in the dealer's
room, and I happily courted
 writer's cramp while signing copies. We did rather well, and sold several
of the first book too, so
 a huge thank-you to everyone who bought some and helped me out! Remember,
someday when
 I'm a famous author, you knew me when!!!
 The opening ceremonies were that evening, and we all greeted our guests
of honor. This year, in
 addition to Greg (who is really tired of us asking if we've scared
him off yet; he loves the
 attention and I don't think we will ever get rid of him now!) and Thom
Adcox (who was gung-ho
 one of us right from the beginning), we had character designer Greg
Guler and storyboard artist
 Vic Cook ... both of whom had something of a stunned look at least
at first.
 To kick things off, the jalapena-eating contest gave several self-punishing
contestants bellyaches
 that I don't even want to think about. The fumes alone made my eyes
water and prevented me
 from getting closer than fifteen feet to the table, and they were eating 
those things! Gack! The
 winners, Slash and Ashlee's Dad, tied at seventeen. Seventeen. Ouchie.
 Greg told the familiar stories of how the show came to be, how they
ended up with so many Trek
 actors, and good stuff like that. He can't believe we keep wanting
to hear them again and again,
 but by now he's got it down to a snazzy presentation. As always, the
video pitches and clips were
 a big hit.
 The charity for the auction had changed at the last moment (due to some
scandal or disaster that
 I never got the full scoop on), to the Make A Wish Foundation. We had
a very special guest with
 us in Ashlee, whose Wish had been to come to the Gathering. She went
home loaded down with
 goodies, like scripts and posters and I don't know whatall, and I hope
she had as great a time as
 she seemed to be having! Saturday night I had a great talk with her
mom that made my day;
 more on that later.
 During the ceremonies, Becca invited Erin and Benny to play with her
in the corner, as she'd
 brought a whole suitcase of toys and crayons with her. They had a great
time, and whenever
 Greg would put in a video, they'd all run over in front of the television.
At one point when I was
 checking in with them, Benny insisted on showing me his Superman big-boy
underpants, of which
 he was most proud. Bit of a mommy-bonding moment for me and Beth when
she came rushing
 over to collect him.
 Not at all a reticent child, Benny would holler Becca's name all the
way across a crowded room
 and throw himself at Jen, Siryn, or me at the drop of a hat. Erin was
more reserved but very
 sweet and polite, and colored a picture in Becca's book with her name
so Becca could remember
 her. The tooth fairy visited the hotel for her, too.
 A particularly interesting event came when Chris Rogers and Hudson got
up to address the idea
 of incorporating and organizing the fandom. It's an exciting idea,
a lot of work, but I think it
 would be a great thing. Membership fees, mailing lists ... I'd love
to do a quarterly newsletter and
 talked to Greg, Thom, and Abram Wintersmith about doing regular columns.
Hopefully, more
 structure would cut down on the amount of bickering and infighting
(of which I admit having
 been a part, or more frequently a cause). We're only going to get bigger
and better, and we need
 to keep it organized.
 Between the opening ceremonies and the showing of Starship Troopers,
we went back to the
 room for a little rest. I was supposed to be at a G2001 staff meeting,
so when the phone rang I
 picked it up with a sarcastic "Yes, dear," thinking it was Jen ...
it was the front desk! Because I
 had a delivery! They sent a bellhop over with a large beautiful floral
arrangement from Christi
 (Spike), congratulating me on the book. I took it along to the dealer's
room the next day so
 everyone could enjoy the flowers instead of leaving them sit in my
room all weekend. Thank you,
 Christi!
 Then Tim and Becca went across the street to Chuck E. Cheese while I
attended a G2001 staff
 meeting. Next year is the Big Push, in L.A. We sold special advance
pre-registrations for the one-
 time only price of 20 bucks, with a guarantee of a t-shirt for those
who turned out not to make it
 after all. I think the grand total for the weekend was 75 paid registrations,
which is a great start!
 Watch for a website to be up soon with many details about guests, panels,
contests, and more!
 Kathy and Patrick really worked their tails off on that, and Tim helped
out as well.
 I had never seen Starship Troopers, since it was always on some weird
channel or at some weird
 time. Greg brought some of the episodes, and from what I watched before
I gave in and realized
 we had to sleep, it looked very good though not usually my thing. Becca
would have stayed up all
 night watching them, but we persuaded her to get to bed.
 *
 Day Five -- Sat., August 5 
 Convention Continues 
 We decided to try the breakfast buffet at the hotel restaurant, and
found it to be far and away
 better than the dinner one. Tim gave high marks to the omelet bar,
and I stuffed myself on
 watermelon and those little mandarin orange slices.
 Most of the day's convention programming was devoted solely to the radio
show. While I
 understand why this happened (as I hear it, con staff wanting/expecting
to be in the show led to
 the scheduling of nothing else during the rehearsals), there were plenty
of people left over with
 nothing to do during that time slot.
 Hard to believe that, with the somewhat scanty amount of programming,
we almost lost the
 fanfic panel and had to make a fuss beforehand! And then the poor fanfic
panel got shuffled
 around like the unpleasant relative that nobody wants to care for.
Tsk. It did wind up happening
 eventually, though.
 I didn't attend the radio show but heard good reports from those who
did. During the
 performance, I minded the Sabledrake table in the dealer's room while
Tim took Becca swimming
 and for a nap. Since most everyone else was watching the show, I had
the chance to spend a lot
 of time hanging out with Abram and others of the Wintersmith Dreams
team.
 I'd forgotten to on Friday, but finally remembered to bring out the
binder full of Michael Heitz's
 terrific cartoons, and we wound up with a large crowd enjoying them.
Hadn't realized he was a
 friend of Guandalug (I know I spelled that wrong, and I never was able
to pronounce it, but
 anyway he and Duncan came all the way from Germany again and
every time I hear someone
 wailing about how far the Gathering is from their home so they can't
go, I think of them, or Rene
 Modesto, or Denis ... come on, people, these guys are crossing oceans ,
so quitcher bitchin!).
 The fanfic panel finally wound up happening after the radio show. The
panelists were myself, A
 Fan, Jenna, Mandi, and Kellie Fay. We didn't have a directed topic,
maybe we should have, but
 we all just ended up talking about what we do and what we've done with
our various stories and
 series. Heard some wowsers of thunderblasts during, and then, right
as we were about to wrap
 up, the power went out.
 I later found out that a palm frond had collided with the wires, leaving
the hotel in the dark for
 well over an hour. This happened right before the banquet was due to
begin, and the first half of
 dinner was conducted by candlelight (and the jittering blinding bursts
of flashbulbs as we all tried
 to take pictures).
 The seating at dinner was done partly by lottery. Greg and his family
were at one table, Thom at
 another, Greg G. and Vic at still another. Then, tickets were handed
out to the attendees and
 Becca helped Sara do a drawing to see who'd sit where. Much to my surprise,
I won a spot at
 Thom's table. So did Lexy, and Heather and her mom (the odds of that
were incredible!), and
 someone whose name I never caught. Also at our table were Siryn and
Sara, as part of the con
 staff privilege.
 The theme was Mardi Gras, with crowns and coins and necklaces and masks
serving as
 centerpieces. Becca came home with at least a dozen of the coins and
various other souvenirs.
 The dinner itself was buffet style, and the food was all right though
another dessert option might
 have been nice (not that I need the dessert, it just would have been
nice <g>). Each table was
 also given a trivia quiz with some really hard questions, and we did
our best to guess.
 During the post-dinner question and answer session, Lexy tried yet again
to get some info about
 Lexington's future love interest. And once again, Greg wouldn't give.
He does enjoy tormenting
 us, doesn't he? And speaking of Lexy, talk about dedicated ... she
has audio tapes of all Thom's
 radio commercials! I remember driving along with Becca once when a
Washington Mutual ad
 came on, and she started bouncing around in the back seat yelling "Thom!
It's Thom!"
 We Morgans scooted out to get started on our costumes, so never did
hear the trivia answers or
 find out who won. We trekked all the way back to our room (Jessie and
Amy were a few feet
 further, being next door to us) and began our transformation.
 Tim had worn that moustache for eight years. He started growing it right
after we were married.
 To see it shaved off into the hotel sink was a shocker, leaving his
face looking very bare. He was
 told several times that it made him look younger, and while I know
it was meant as a
 compliment, Tim's weird and has always wanted to look older 
than his years!
 He went as Owen, and the final effect was actually pretty damn eerie.
We sprayed his hair blond,
 he made himself a stone glove that turned out quite well, and found
the perfect suit (hemmed
 with, you guessed it, a hot glue gun because I can't frickin' sew <g>).
I chose to go as my fanfic
 character and part-time Mary Sue, Birdie Yale, complete with press-on
rose tattoo ... gosh I
 looked like a tart!
 And Becca was Bronx. I told her I didn't think I could do it. I mean,
come on, I can't sew, and I
 got away with hot gluing her Lex costume, but this was tricky and daunting
to say the least! I
 tried to talk her into something else. Little Elisa, maybe? But no.
It was Bronx, or, failing that,
 "evil robot Lexington" by Future Tense-ing up last year's costume.
 Amazingly, I pulled it off. Had to double-dye a turtleneck and sweatpants,
and that hat gave me
 all manner of grief because the dye wouldn't hold. I ultimately spray-painted
the bastard, and
 then when we finally took it off her, she'd sweated her head blue!
But the results were better
 than I had any right to expect.
 Becca loved it, and it was a big hit right up until the Sunday evening
awards ceremonies when
 they stiffed the kids division and didn't give them prizes. True, there
were only three of them,
 Erin and Benny as karate-practice Fox and Xanatos even demonstrating
until Benny got carried
 away and started whaling on his sister, and then both of them got carried
away literally by their
 dad.
 It was an impressive show of costumes, even more than previously, I'd
think. We had a lot of
 actual characters from the show for a change, including: Wedding Night
Demona (Jen), Maggie
 the Cat (Kathy), Titania (Jessie) and Oberon (Denis), Owen (Tim), Vogel
(Green Baron), Elisa as
 Belle (Sara and Andrea), Goliath (Lanny), Battle Armor Xanatos
(Tony), Trenchcoat Xanatos
 (Coyote), a couple of versions of Fox (Noel, in an auburn wig that
was actually a really good look
 for her, and Mara in a long vivid orange number), and the winner of
the Gorebash Memorial
 Award, Patrick Toman as Captain Maria Chavez!
 Poor Patrick ... he suffered for that ... Jen and Kathy and I talked
(nagged/browbeat/cajoled) him
 into it, and then Aimee did his makeup. How could he stand against
four iron-willed women? Sara
 pointed out that we have yet to go a Gathering without at least one
cross-dresser in the
 masquerade; Heather was Hudson last year, Becca's gone as Lex and Bronx,
and of course the
 infamous Gorebash-Elisa. I understand Patrick is already being beset
with suggestions for next
 year ...
 And Mitch went as Jericho. Sans wings and tail, regrettably, but he
was buff and blue and his
 loincloth was scanty, so I sure wasn't going to quibble! Then, to the
catcalls of all, he liplocked
 Jen in her Demona costume (what the hell, they were both already blue).
This would have been
 the year to do a reading of Demon Whispers, or a live-action skit from
The Pure and the Profane!
 <g> Later on, and I missed it but saw the pictures, he and
Lanny faced off for a battle of the
 hunks. The Men of the Garg Fandom ... like those firefighter calendars
... we should be selling
 those to fund the Gatherings!
 But to give cheesecake equal time with the beefcake, let us not forget
the ladies! Aimee in her
 skimpy cat-someone costume (anime, probably, but I am ignorant), prompted
Dark Horse to
 remark that the view was worth the 580 miles of driving to get there.
Ylla didn't need a costume;
 her tiger-striped dress was eye-catching enough! Many of the fae were
showing legs and
 cleavage. And the winner, whose costume and wings were every bit as
impressive as her bare
 midriff and legs, was Dreamie.
 Yes, the masquerade was a visual feast for all! Woo-woo, as Becca would
say. And my word, we
 are a talented bunch! Slash (great snakeskin-pattern wings!) played
guitar, and his mom the
 Celtic Witch recited a poem, dethroning last year's Best Couple, Tony
and Andrea.
 But last year's Best Couple wasn't through yet ... I don't know if this
is the full story, but as I
 heard it, they met last year when he was Dracon and she was
gargoyle-Elisa, and this year,
 right in the middle of the dance floor, he went to one knee and produced
a ring and popped the
 big question. And to rousing cheers, she said yes and they kissed,
and Greg loudly suggested
 they have the actual wedding at next year's Gathering! I don't know
if they will, but wouldn't that
 be great?
 So many fantastic costumes! Alison was purple with a big green mohawk,
Kythera had the best
 roar, there was quite the parade of denizens of Avalon, and all the
while some other group was
 having a private party outside by the pool ... what they must have
thought, I can't begin to
 imagine! It was a shame that Jannie was unable for last-minute medical
reasons to join us; she
 was to have been Anastasia Renard to Denis' Oberon and Jessie's Titania,
and I'm so sorry she
 had to miss out. There had been talk of getting everyone to sign a
big card for her, but if it ever
 happened, I didn't find out about it. Wishing her all the best, with
hopes for a speedy recovery!
 Greg had a couple of weird moments with the realization that Tim-as-Owen
looked just like one
 of his college roommates, and so did Aaron (who was considering getting
the Demona "evil
 shouldn't look this good" done on his back to match the other one on
his chest).
 Such fun! We partied for a while, took loads of pictures. There was
limbo going on, there was
 dancing going on (Bronx danced Owen and then with Jericho), I heard
much about the Green
 Baron's harem (apparently he even caught the eye of the hotel waitress),
and finally we just had
 to go back and get cleaned up.
 I can't help feeling sorry for the maid service, because there must
have been a lot of icky
 bathrooms in the aftermath of all that body paint. Our tub was yellow-brown
and silty-gritty with
 the residue of Tim's hairspray, and Jen said their bathroom looked
like the Easter Bunny
 exploded, all blue and purple and green. But when I was back to my
regular self, I said
 goodnight to Tim and Becca and went back to see what was going on.
I'd promised to bring my
 copy of the video George Lucas in Love to show Jen, so I toted
that along.
 The party was still going, with CDs alternating with Slash's guitar.
Greg held court in one corner
 of the room, surrounded and basking in the attention. Then someone
got ahold of a hat, I think it
 was Meredith's hat, and they put on Michael Jackson, and the moonwalking
began. Jen, Lanny,
 Siryn, and several people much younger, fitter, and more limber than
myself started doing
 cartwheels and flips, while I sat there reviewing what I knew about
cervical-spinal injuries ...
 After that, some of us went back and took over Patrick's room (the torrential
downpour that went
 along with the thunderstorm that led to the power outage had also caused
Jen's room to get
 flooded) and watched the video. If you haven't seen it, I heartily
recommend it, funniest damn
 nine minutes I've ever seen! But now Jen is after me to write something
similar based on you-
 know-who, and after what he said about his college roommate ... no,
no, I can't, he'll kill me! Bad
 enough that I did that silly Gathering Quest snippet!
 It got to be about four in the morning and we were on the verge of incoherency
when the
 evening finally broke up. The chivalrous Green Baron (a cutie at any
time but with his suit jacket
 off, collar undone, and sleeves rolled up, mmrrow!) walked me home,
and I crashed for about six
 hours, hoping to be conscious in time for Sunday's life-drawing session.
 *
 Day Six -- Sun., August 6 
 Convention Concludes 
 It'll probably be weeks before Becca's back on any sort of normal sleep
schedule, poor kid. Con-
 goer in training ... she may as well get used to the insane hours and
living on pick-up junk food,
 since her folks are gamers and she'll be to many more over the course
of the next several years.
 We dragged ourselves to the dealer's room and set up again (the room
couldn't be locked
 securely enough for any of us to feel comfortable leaving our stuff
overnight, so it was back and
 forth, back and forth, rather irritating actually). I caught the very
opening bit of Greg's
 scriptwriting panel, then slipped off to the con suite for some caffeine.
 I'd missed the ten o'clock drawing session, the Eve one, but Adam was
due to start around
 eleven-thirty and that was the one I'd promised to attend. Which was
a battle in and of itself ...
 there were some who thought that the only reason I wanted to attend
was to have me a gawk at
 Adam's bod. I tried pointing out that photography was an art -- no
dice. I tried suggesting that if
 a picture's worth a thousand words, I could just write -- no
dice there either.
 Siryn and Karine were in charge, and I think they were also worried
that not only would I be
 there just to gawk but that I'd also be unable to keep my yap shut,
thereby embarrassing the
 model and ruining the session and so on. Even with my promise to be
on my best professional
 behavior, I wasn't sure they'd even let me in the door. Was wondering
if I'd have to reveal that
 I've been drawing under a pseudonym for a while now and have even entered
MGC several times
 (won a Creativity category runner-up once, too, even!).
 But they let me in, and to think that they were worried about me !
It was the others who were
 acting up ::coughcoughalinsonjenaimeecoughcough:: , and I thought
I behaved myself very well
 indeed. It was certainly interesting. I hadn't had an art class since
high school sophomore year
 (1983, omigod, before many of the fandom were even born), and then
we never drew people.
 I was initially a little flustered, truth be told, but that quickly
gave way to sheer aesthetic
 admiration. He's so vain, goodness knows, and me even mentioning it
is just going to make it
 worse, but I have a certain fondness for colossally-egoed folk like
myself <g>. And he
 encourages me ... so I don't need to worry about making him uncomfortable
the way I'd be
 worried about making others uncomfortable if I raphsodized endlessly
about their bods.
 So I'll go ahead and mention the luscious golden-tan glow of his skin,
the smooth play of his
 muscles, the long clean lines of his limbs ... the man is a Ferrari
in human form, and he should 
 be vain ... he should be allowed to be naked all the time as a public
service!
 Luckily, I didn't make a total idiot of myself on the sketchpad, either.
Because our model
 demanded to see, and other people were looking at each others' work,
and to the surprise of
 many, I actually ended up with a more or less recognizable figure.
Not bad for a chicken-
 scratcher like me, eh?
 Then it was time for the auction. Or at least that was the plan, but
it was subject to delays. The
 autograph session was going on -- Becca showed me where Thom had signed
her hand, and
 when I inquired about it, she defensively said, "He drew on Jen first!"
and it was true, because
 she also had his monogram on her arm.
 There were only a few things this year that I didn't have (should I
bring up again how Seth kept
 outbidding me that one year, and make him squirm? too late <g>),
and nothing that I was
 absolutely dying for, so I left Tim to his own discretion and headed
off for the "Bend it, don't
 break it" fanfic panel.
 I later heard some stuff about the auction, including that the storyboards
for the Mirror episode
 went for some ungodly number in the 800's, and that one of the scripts
did similarly well. Tim got
 me the bus poster, so now I have both, though the new one got a little
crunched in transport and
 had to spend some time under boxes of books to flatten it back out.
 All weekend now, people (especially Green Baron and Denis) had been
asking me about the
 infamous Madame Destine. I hated having to lie to them, felt really
bad about playing along with
 this whole big weird secret ... but part of me, that evil part that
I know so well, wanted to really
 mess with their heads. <g> Guys, what were you expecting? It was
as if you wanted a ringside
 seat for this monumental meeting, that when she and I were face to
face it would unleash some
 explosive burst of sexual energy that would turn the whole con into
a giant orgy ... and I was so
 tempted to tell you something like, "Oh, sure, I met her this afternoon
at the pool, and she asked
 me to rub suntan lotion on her back ..."
 The auction started just as our panel was supposed to begin, so we hardly
had any attendance
 (fanfic, shoved and shunted aside like that unwanted relative, or does
it just seem that way to
 me because it's my favorite part of this fandom?). On the way there,
Green Baron pondered
 aloud if there even really was a Madame Destine, or if she was
made up. Then he asked me if I
 was secretly Madame Destine. Good grief! Aren't I busy enough?
 But I got up there alone, and then Kathy and Patrick joined me, and
dropped the bomb. They 
 were Madame Destine, her genesis partly a backlash of the struggle
and frustration they often
 encountered in their work with TGS (those Standards and Practices getcha
every time). Themes
 that could not be explored in TGS could be taken in new directions
under the pen of Madame
 Destine.
 So there we had it. Two of the most stable, hard-working, respected
writer/editors from TGS
 were living a secret life of naughty wildness. As Kathy said, it's
always those quiet ones you've
 got to watch out for!
 Though sometimes it's also the outspoken ones ... after the panel, while
most of the rest were
 watching the sneak peek at 3x3 Eyes , I had a date with a camera.
Mitch had asked me to help
 him out in building a portfolio for his moonlight career as a life
model. My mother's a
 photographer, so I've picked up a little from her over the years, and
hoped I wouldn't do too bad
 a job.
 Since both of us were pretty new at this, all things considered I think
we did pretty darn good, as
 a matter of fact. We shot two rolls on my camera and finished off one
on his, out by the covered
 pool. Drew some lookie-loos, especially this pack of kids trying to
figure out what the heck we
 were doing (wasn't it obvious? taking pictures of the guy in various
stages of undress!). We even
 got to try those shots where he's surfacing out of the pool with water
streaming and flying.
 The original plan had been to send the film to Mom to have her develop
them in security, but
 Mitch being Mitch, couldn't wait to see the results. So as soon as
he was dressed, he rushed off
 to find a one-hour photo place. Double prints and all, so I expect
a few for my scrapbook! <g>
 Some of us had made plans to do dinner before the closing ceremonies.
and Thom dragged us on
 a forced march all the way to Red Lobster. We only had a dozen or so
this time. Going around
 the table -- Greg, Erin, Tim, Becca, me, Mitch, Alan (Winter Wolf),
Kenna, Kathy, Patrick, Jen, and
 Thom. Mitch brought his photos and while the others waited for a table,
he and I snuck off to the
 bar and looked.
 The food was great but the service and seating and long walk to and
fro was slow, so we soon
 realized we were going to be late for the closing ceremonies. With
two of the guests of honor, no
 less! We really did try to call, but Jen's phone batteries were dead
and Mitch's wasn't working, so
 we had to scarf our food and scramble back, and were almost an hour
late. Thom ran on ahead,
 but especially those of us lugging kids had a hard time keeping up.
 We made it, though, and found that Hudson had been keeping the crowd
entertained. Sara and
 her team gave out the awards for the art show and the costume contest
(but not the kids'
 division, boo hiss, I cornered Sara later and made a fuss because Becca
kept asking me where
 her prize was and dammit I worked hard on that Bronx suit; Sara found
Becca a ribbon and a
 size-small Gathering t-shirt that she's been using as a nightie ever
since, to get me off her back
 <g>).
 At the end, the G2001 team set up in the back to take more pre-registrations,
and there were
 things to sign for the con staff, and a lot of mingling. It was during
this mingling that one of the
 best parts of the con for me happened. I was approached by Ashlee's
mom, who told me
 something that made my day.
 Ashlee had come to the con thanks to the Make A Wish Foundation. Her
initial Wish, according to
 her mom, had been to bring back a new season of the show, because watching
it had helped her
 when she was feeling low with her illness and she thought it might
have the same benefit for
 others. But even Make A Wish can't do everything, it seems, so her
second choice was to come to
 the con. Her parents were a little dubious -- how did they know we
were legit, we were okay
 people, we were worth it? So Ashlee tracked down my essays from previous
years, and those
 helped ease her parents' worries.
 Hearing that made me feel so amazingly good ... I know that many who
haven't been able to
 attend the Gatherings have taken some small comfort in being able to
read all my ramblings
 about them, but to learn that they actually were able to help bring
someone to join us, to
 convince someone's parents that we were good folks ... that is a great
honor and compliment,
 and I am so very glad it worked out! I hope Ashlee had a wonderful
time, and that we'll see her
 again next year!
 It was Tim's turn to stay out late, so he went wine-tasting with Mitch
and then, when Karine and
 her fella (our other Patrick) didn't want much, the two of them wound
up polishing off three bottles. This on top of the drinks they had at dinner
must've meant my man came stumbling home, and if 
 he did any midnight swimming or otherwise cavorting with Jen and company
when he ran into 
 them, he glossed it over in the re-telling (my mom, after seeing last
year's pics, wanted to know
 who the hell was that woman hanging all over my family <g>).
 Me, I slept. Like a dead thing. Becca kept wanting to talk to me, and
I don't know what I may
 have agreed to ... I would have said anything if she'd only hush up
and let Mutti sleep!
 *
 Day Seven -- Mon., August 7th 
 Disney World MGM Studios 
 I spent much of this week trying to remember if there was a technical
name for the torture that
 involves beating the bottom of someone's feet with a rattan stick.
Couldn't ever recall it, but by
 the time we were ready to go home, I sure knew what it might feel like!
 We hauled ourselves out of bed with great difficulty in time to catch
the 11-ish bus to Disney
 World. I think the plan was to meet in the lobby at nine, but for us
at least that was unthinkable.
 We went over on the bus, which dropped us off way out at lonely slot
140 in the parking lot of
 Epcot, and from there caught another bus over to MGM.
 The first order of business was a stroller, and these ones turned out
to be a bit of a problem
 because Becca was too tall for the roof, resulting in a huge mangled
snarl of hair every time she
 got in and out of it. She soon got tired of me chasing after her with
my comb, and I soon decided
 that fine, she could look like a cavekid, I didn't care anymore.
 We caught a lot of shows. The Indiana Jones stunt spectacular was a
hit, and Tim almost spent
 fifty bucks on a leather hat but decided against it ... at least for
now. He's always resented that
 hats have gone out of style, and would have been happy living in a
film-noir world.
 After she hated Back to the Future, I was braced for Becca to be disappointed
with Star Tours.
 But that wasn't the case; she loved it. And those Fast Passes are a
great thing! We zipped on
 through, and when you've got a kid with you, believe me, those lines
seem all the longer.
 The Hunchback of Notre Dame stage show was very good, but very frantic
as they tried to rush
 the entire movie into a half-hour. Esmeralda was a dish, which pleased
Tim as he tolerates my
 thing about Goliath (and Obi-Wan, and Agent Cooper, etc.) as long as
I tolerate his drooling over
 certain sexy gypsy girls. I took plenty of pics of her for him, too,
and bought him Marie Norre's
 gargoyle-Esmeralda from the art show.
 As Becca was waiting in line to hug Tigger, along came Jen, Kenna, Patrick,
Karine, and her Patrick. The bunch of us went to the animation show together
-- rrahr, rrahr -- and then we had to go for our Fast Pass to the Little
Mermaid show. Giant robot Ursula, very cool.
 And then I spent all my money. We found the Villains shop. I got a Chernabog
pin, a T-shirt, a
 set of pens, a notepad, a license plate, a windup walkie Maleficent
dragon, oh, all sorts of stuff.
 And a sorcerer Mickey for Becca. While I was there, I started talking
to the clerk about why they
 didn't have a plushie Chernabog. He laughed, said that if they did,
they couldn't keep it on the
 shelf. Now, isn't that the idea? They'd sell like crazy!
 Ooh, Chernabog ... it's partly his fault I got so hooked on Gargoyles
anyway ... other girls my age
 had crushes on Speed Racer, but me, I liked Chernabog and the foxy
version of Robin Hood.
 Warped from early on, that's me. I was delighted to get to see him
on the big screen in the
 animation show, and then again in Fantasmic.
 Fantasmic itself was horrendously crowded. An hour before the 9:15 show
was due to start, they
 were already only to standing room only. So we stood. Well, initially
we sat, on concrete steps.
 But when the show started, people began standing up, and some clown
behind us kept hollering
 "Sit down! Down in front!" and I came very close to rounding on him
and pointing out that they
 didn't call it "sitting room only." Sheesh.
 The astonishing bit was, as the close to 8,000 people filed and crowded
out at the end of the
 show, we spotted some familiar figures. Greg and Beth and the kids
were retrieving their strollers
 at the same time we were looking for ours. The Weismans looked twice
as beat as Tim and I felt,
 which is understandable as they'd been riding herd on two kids for
a longer day. Benny came
 bounding out of his stroller jabbering excitedly about the show we'd
just seen, and Greg gave us
 sort of a shell-shocked smile and announced wearily that they were
going back to the hotel.
 So were we, though they had chauffeur service via Kellie and we got
to retrace our route back to
 Epcot and then out into the vast empty parking lot to wait for the
11:30 bus back to the Ramada.
 That one wasn't on the printed schedule, but had just been announced
by the driver, so we
 joined a fellow group (including Kythera and Raven and a few others
from the con) all hoping we
 hadn't misheard. And it got later, and later, and more and more deserted,
and then finally one of
 the small busses showed up. For about twenty of us.
 But we all piled in, three people having to stand up, four or five of
us with unconscious children
 pasted sweatily to our laps. The bus shimmied and swayed alarmingly
on the road, and bottomed
 out badly when we got to the driveway. But we got there in one piece.
 *
 Day Eight -- Tues., August 8 
 Disney World Magic Kingdom 
 We managed to get up and get going early enough to meet Jen and Patrick
for a farewell
 breakfast in the hotel restaurant. Sara had given Tim a good deal on
leftover merchandise (and
 here I thought we were going to go home with fewer bags, dopey
me!) and also had a bunch of
 t-shirts from G99, and we had to send one of those home with Jen as
we'd exceeded our luggage
 limit.
 While waiting for the 9:45 shuttle, we saw Alison and Rene, and sat
near Bud-Clare and a friend
 of hers whose name I can't recall but who very kindly gave us a ponytail
holder so I could try and
 keep Becca's hair in line. As it turned out, they had a different kind
of stroller so she didn't wear it
 long after all, but I do appreciate it!
 This was the theme park I'd been waiting for, even if my feet felt like
hell and Tim's entire left
 foot was one massive blister. I grew up going to Disneyland on a yearly
basis and was dying to
 see the differences and similarities.
 First off was Adventureland, and we did everything. I prefer Tiki Room
Classic to the "under new
 management" one with Zazu and Iago, truth be told. Becca loved the
jungle boat ride (back side
 of water, I used that in a fic) and the Swiss Family treehouse. I discovered
the pineapple float,
 which was pinapple sherbet floating on pineapple juice, even more refreshing
than a lemon
 slushie.
 And then was my all-time favorite, the Pirates of the Caribbean! Yo-ho,
yo-ho, a pirate's life for
 me! We wants the redhead, send up the redhead! Woo! And more jewels
to gloat over in the gift
 shop! And all sorts of other goodies and trinkets. We opted for package
pickup, and that proved
 to be our downfall, resulting in the only major disaster we Morgans
experienced during the whole
 trip. Bad idea. We would have been better off toting the big bag with
us all day.
 It's funny but in all the times I've been, I have never once gone to
the presidential show. This
 time was no different. The Haunted Mansion remains my runner-up fave,
though it freaked Becca
 a little. Tim slept through the Country Bear Jamboree. We continued
our collection of squashed
 pennies (the grand total was 27, plus two squashed quarters )
 In Fantasyland, while we were in line for the Snow White ride, we glimpsed
Greg and Company
 (including Siryn and Sara this time) over watching the Merlin thing
in front of the carousel. But by
 the time we got out, we didn't see them ... until they walked right
up to us. They were on their
 way over to the toon area but we had a Fast Pass for Splash Mountain
and couldn't tag along. I
 also thought I spotted them while I was resting my feet as Tim and
Becca were in line for
 Autopia (or whatever they're calling it these days), but they were
gone before I could stir myself
 to go say hi.
 By then, we were all starting to get more than a little tired and crabby.
We got into one of the
 last possible fastpass slots for the Buzz Lightyear ride, went on the
People Mover (though they
 don't call it that anymore either) twice, and lurched on our aching
footsies back to Fantasyland to
 try and squeeze in a few more rides. I whirled with Becca on the teacups,
and then we stood in
 the longest line we'd hit for Dumbo of all things. Which was aggravating,
because we were under
 their tent when the fireworks started and missed the whole show. Then
a couple of bratty kids
 pushed Becca and took her Dumbo, then held up the ride fidgeting around.
 After that, the night utterly went to hell. We hurried for the gate
through waiting-for-parade
 traffic, and made our fatal mistake. I went to pick up our package,
while Tim and Becca went to
 drop off the stroller. We planned to meet outside the gate near the
Monorail entrance that we'd
 take back to the transportation center and then to Epcot, to catch
our bus.
 That was the plan, anyway. The Monorail part of it also turned out to
be the plan of about ten
 thousand other people. So I couldn't find them in the crowd. And it
had taken me so long at the
 package pickup window (smooth efficiency everywhere else in the park,
one dinky window for the
 packages) that I was sure they must have already gotten on.
 They weren't at the transportation center. I got on the train to Epcot,
and busted my butt racing
 for the bus stop, thinking they must be waiting there and we still
had time to catch that 11:30
 bus. Saw armadillos in the flowerbeds, startling me. I reached
the bus stop in time to see that
 they weren't there either, and agonized as the bus arrived. But I couldn't
leave without them, so
 I watched it go.
 Back I went to the Monorail station. And waited. As each successive
train came and they still
 didn't get off. I chewed off most of my fingernails from stress, and
when the last train showed,
 still no Tim and Becca. The track traffic controllers took pity on
me and helped me call around,
 and we eventually found out that they were at City Hall back in the
Magic Kingdom, had never
 left the park because they were waiting for me.
 Those two guys were the nicest darn guys! After closing up their station,
they drove me in their
 van all the way back to the transportation center, and Tim and Becca
caught the last train to
 there. So, after two hours of agonizing and worry, we all got together
again. Had to cab it back
 to the hotel to the tune of 35 bucks (probably more than it should
have been because the cabbie
 got a call allegedly warning him of a sinkhole and he had to take an
alternate route; sounded like
 a scam to us, so he didn't get much of a tip).
 A wonderful vacation up until that whole mess. But better that it happened
at the end instead of
 the beginning, and it all worked out okay. We did have to miss out
on the McDonald's with the
 world's biggest playplace, to Becca's disappointment, because the airport
shuttle would be
 picking us up at quarter to ten the next day and it was after two by
the time we made it back to
 our room.
 Thus concluded our vacation, except for sleeping on planes most of the
next day and arriving
 home safely still in time to see Colleen get booted off the island.
 *
 Additional Ramblings -- 
 These essays keep getting longer and longer ... a chore for me but one
I love to do. I know
 there's plenty that I neglected to mention, because even though I was
taking notes I must have
 missed a lot. Apologies to anyone that I failed to credit and to all
those people whose names
 slipped my mind (or anyone I named erroneously!).
 There were several things I didn't I get to do due to scheduling conflicts,
and many people I
 didn't get to spend much time with. Among them were: Greg G.'s character
design workshop,
 Vic's storyboard panel, the custom action figure workshop -- did that
one even happen?, Win
 Xanatos' Money, and visiting with people like Noel, Coyote, and many
other online pals. And somehow I managed to shoot nine rolls of film and
still never got a pic of either Greg G. or Vic!
 A few folks remarked on it, and yes, I have lost weight since last year.
60 pounds to be precise ...
 and I hadn't realized what a difference it made until I saw myself
on last year's video. I did it,
 believe it or not, with the help of hypnosis.
 I practically didn't need to pack any tops, since I came home with ::counts::
FIVE new t-shirts.
 Wow! They were: a Jericho Fan Club, a G2001 staff shirt, a MageLore
shirt made for me by
 Jessie, my official con shirt, and the Villains one I bought at Disney
World.
 And one of the neatest things for selfish old me about these cons is
that people keep giving me _stuff! Like Jessie's great MageLore shirt,
or the Jericho magnet by Demona May, or new art by Coyote (Denis -- scan
me that pic of Cat, okay?). I'm so spoiled! 
 Racked up a pretty good animal tally -- several roaches (maybe they
were beetles but they
 looked like roaches) as big as my thumb, a dragonfly with a six-inch
body length, two fast little
 lizards by the outdoor pool, and those two armadillos at Epcot. At
first I thought those babies
 were ugly possums (there's a redundancy for you), but no, they were
'dillos.
 All in all, it was a great vacation and a great con. I'm looking forward
to next year, the 5th
 Annual Gathering in Los Angeles. The G2001 team is already hard at
work planning events and
 arranging for guests. Watch for info soon, sign up early, and tell
 everyone !
This is the Big Push,
 people, our chance to get the attention of the folks at Disney and
show them that while we may
 be obsessive lunatics, we are serious obsessive lunatics!
 Thank you for bearing with me through this entire mammoth essay! Don't
miss the accompanying
 Photo Album!
 Christine Morgan 
 August 11, 2000 

 Previous Essays: 
 Gathering
97 / Gathering
98 / Gathering
99 

 MageLore
novels / Sabledrake
Magazine / Christine's
 Gargoyles 
Page 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button to return to the
previous page, or click on the shield to return to the main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.