The Morgan's GURPS page 

 GURPS has been a very important part of our lives. We have been
playing Steve Jackson's role playing game since 1987. Between the
two of us, we have playtested five GURPS sourcebooks. My wife and
I met while playing GURPS. We played GURPS on our honeymoon. 
We named our daughter after GURPS characters (and she was probably conceived
while we were playing GURPS). We still play to the day, although
we are down to playing only once a week. 
 Below you will find some articles written by us for your use and enjoyment. 
Feel free to use anything you find to your liking, but please do not re-publish
anything found here without first getting permission. 

 GURPS-based Fiction 

 GURPS Sex 

Alchemy Stuff 

 Alchemy Recipies 

 Coppers, the Alchemist 

 Acquisitions Unlimited -- serving the
discriminating alchemist since... 

 Fantasy Armor Revisited 

 Tallies -- a system for determining
when you can spend points 

 Language Spells 

 GURPS Links and Web Rings 

 GURPS Gargoyles for the Gathering
99 

 GURPS 
is a registered trademark of
 Steve Jackson
Games Incorporated . 
 This site is
not sponsored by Steve Jackson Games. 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button
to return to the previous page, or click on the shield to return to the
main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1999 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.