GURPS Sex by Tim and Christine Morgan 

 Author's Note: 

 A revised, updated, and expanded version of these rules will
go on sale October 13th, 2003, as a universal sourcebook adaptable to any
game system. Ask for it at your Friendly Local Game Store today! 

 The title is "Naughty and Dice: An Adult Gamer's Guide to
Sexual Situations." An online
preview is available in the August issue of Sabledrake
Magazine . 

 Covering everything from sex in pre-history to sexual habits
of alien races, this book will include sections on magic, mythology, horror,
character types, adventure ideas, pregnancy and contraception, and much
more. 

 Also: don't miss the GURPS
Sex program for Character Builder , by Mike Fountain. 

GURPS Sex 

by Tim & Christine Morgan 

 copyright &copy; 1993
 All Rights Reserved 

Part One: Introduction 
Sex is a topic that has been infrequently brought up in roleplaying games,
and it is high time that the matter was dealt with in a bold, straightforward
manner. In games, violence is glorified and excruciatingly
detailed. Each rulebook for an RPG has pages and pages of combat
rules, damage rules, and creative ways to really mess somebody up. The
example comes to mind of Arduin's critical hit charts, which were graphically
descriptive. 
 But few games address the issue of sex. Why? Lingering Victorian sensibilities?
A desire to protect the minors from moral corruption, while at the same
time encouraging combat? Who knows. 
 In GURPS Basic, we are given the skill Sex Appeal, defined as "the ability
to impress the opposite sex". It is a Mental skill, based off of HT, which
leads one to believe that it has something to do with physical action.
This becomes slightly more noticeable as one reads further and comes across
a reference to harems. But overall, the skill appears to be merely what
it was defined as: the ability to impress through good looks, charm, and
attitude. The image that comes to mind is that of a pretty girl hiking
her skirt to show a bit of leg and flag down a taxi, or a dashing bandit
giving a wink and a grin at the lonely old widow to get her to let him
sneak out the back door of the inn. It may be the precursor to getting
someone into the bedroom, but where are the rules for what to do once they're
there? 
 The Basic book also includes three disadvantages that are sexual in
nature. One of these is Eunuch, which has the briefest description of all
the disads. It does not differentiate between loss of manhood before or
after puberty, which can have different game effects. Lecherousness appears
as a disadvantage, a sort of compulsive behavior, but it could be taken
a step farther. And last but not least, there is a reference to a vow of
chastity under the Vow disadvantage (which is considered a minor vow worth
5 points). All of these could stand a little modification and enhancement. 
 In GURPS Cyberpunk, there is a reference to the "geisha" or "cowgirl"
chip under Occupational Chips. All of the other chips give detailed listings
of the ads, disads, and skills that the chip possesses, but this one clearly
states that "this chip includes skills not detailed in the GURPS Basic
set." So what does it let you do? 
 In GURPS Callahan's, there is the skill Erotic Art (P/H), which defaults
to Acrobatics and is defined as a "general knowledge of advanced sexual
techniques", with "the exact game effects left to the GM's discretion."
Where are the basic rules? 
 These examples all have one thing in common. They are all written in
a way that is rather vague and carefully worded, and can be confusing.
The time has come to quit dancing around the topic and take a serious look
at sex in the roleplaying game. 
 Now, some people might wonder exactly what kind of game you would have
to be playing to need these sort of rules. But any dynastic game, where
marriage and continuing a family line, will have a great emphasis on conceptive
ability. Any modern game, if it is any reflection at all of our modern
culture, will be riddled with sex because it fills every aspect of our
media. And, basically, any game with a real emphasis on character interaction
will have some sort of sexual activity going on. How many times have characters
tried to seduce a barmaid? 
 It is, admittedly, a difficult thing to handle in a game. It's hard
enough for a male player to have his character flirt with a female NPC
run by a female GM, but when both the involved parties are 
 male or both are female, there may be a certain awkwardness. But we're
roleplayers, darn it all, and if we can threaten villains without taking
it personally, we ought to be able to have an intimate conversation with
a lover in the same manner. 
 In GURPS Witchworld, we find the disadvantage of Parthenomania, a phobia
involving loss of virginity. A note follows that the GM should use great
care "to insure that this is not used to harass players", and that "adult
subjects should be handled tastefully, not viciously". That same guideline
should be used for all of the rules suggested by this article. 
 Any GM feeling that sexual content is inappropriate in his or her game
should feel free to ignore these rules. And players should be discouraged
from taking all manner of sexual disads in a game in which they will not
come into play. That should go for any sort of disadvantage anyway. Nobody
should be allowed to get away with taking fear of oceans in a game set
on a desert world where the largest body of water is the size of a small
swimming pool. 

Part Two: Skills 

Sexual Skills 
 (Note: Most Sexual Skills will be Mental, because attitude is everything
Also, the Shyness disadvantage applies to all Sexual Skills.) 

 Sex Appeal (M/A) 
 See GURPS Basic, page 64. 

 Flirting (Mental/Easy) Defaults to Savoir-Faire -2. 
 This is the ability to flirt with the opposite
sex. It includes making small talk, compliments, and flattery, sincere
or not. It is also the ability to determine if someone is only flirting
or is seriously making a pass. Modifiers: -2 for cultures very different
from your own, +1 if you have the Poetry skill at 12 or higher, +2 if you
have Poetry at level 20 or higher, and any bonuses for Appearance, Voice,
or Charisma. 

 Kissing (Mental/Easy) 
 This is the ability to kiss well, in a way that
is pleasing to the subject. It includes kissing a lady's hand and being
able to determine what sort of kiss is appropriate in a situation. A successful
kissing roll will prevent unduly sloppy or suffocating kisses. A critical
success on this skill may cause a lady to swoon! Height differences should
be taken into consideration if attempting a standing kiss. If the subject
is eight inches taller or shorter than you, a DX roll may be required.
 Modifiers:
-1 or more if you have a cold or bad breath. 
 Kissing in combat -- a character wishing to
kiss his or her opponent (like Bugs Bunny, or Sorcha in Willow, or Arnold's
character in Red Sonja) must enter close combat and treat the kiss as a
Grapple with a total DX modifier of -2 for the called shot. If the Grapple
is successful, a Quick Contest of the kisser's Kissing Skill versus the
victim's IQ is required. The victim is then Stunned for a number of seconds
equal to the amount by which the Contest was failed. Should the victim
win the Contest, there is no effect. 

 Seduction (Mental/Hard) Defaults to Fast Talk -4 or Flirting-5 
 This is the ability to consciously seduce someone,
possibly against his or her better judgement. It is treated as a Contest
between the seducer's skill and the subject's IQ plus or minus Will. The
subject also gets a +1 for each 5 points of disadvantages that would go
against being seduced. For example, a vow of chastity (5 points), would
give the subject a +1 to resist, while Fanaticism (15 points) to a religion
that frowns on that sort of thing would give a +3 to resist. Modifiers:
The seducer gets all bonuses for Appearance, Voice, and Charisma., a +1
if the seducer has the Psychology skill at 12 or better, a +2 for Psychology
at 20 or better, and a +3 if the seducer has the Empathy advantage. 
 Wearing down resistance -- Over a period of
time, a determined seducer can win even the most reluctant lover. Treat
this as a +1 to the seducer's skill for each attempt (one attempt per day
in which at least one hour of contact occurs) or a -1 to the subject's
reistance roll. This may be viewed in two ways, either that the seducer
is learning what tactics are most effective and tailoring the seduction
to fit, or that the victim is tiring of resisting. One of the best film
examples of this skill is in Dangerous Liasions, in which the sly Comte
pursues Michelle Pfeiffer's character relentlessly until he has overcome
not only her Strong Will and good Christian piety but also her marriage
vows. Of course, along the way he also falls in love with her, so this
skill can be dangerous to the user as well. 

 Foreplay (Mental/Average) Defaults to Intercourse -3 or IQ-5 
 This is the ability to arouse and satisfy a partner
without actual intercourse. It covers everything between kissing and penetration,
including the varieties of oral sex. Modifiers: +3 if you know your
partner well, +1 for DX of 12 or higher, +2 if DX is 16 or above. There
are no bonuses for Appearance or Charisma at this point, because the partner
is obviously attracted to you enough to get this far. The DX modifiers
assume that a graceful person will have better control of his/her body
and be able to use it more efficiently. 
 Default use -- the IQ default assumes that
you have seen/read/heard enough about the topic to have a general idea
of what to do. This may vary for characters depending on their background.
A 20th century American will have a lot more available information than
someone in Victorian England, for instance. 

 Intercourse (Mental/Average) Defaults to Foreplay -3 or IQ-5 
 This is the ability to satisfy a partner and yourself
in the complete act of sexual intercourse. It includes knowledge of basic
sexual positions and techniques. Modifiers are the same as for Foreplay:
+3 if you know your partner well, +1 for DX of 12 or higher, +2 if DX is
16 or above. If you wish to prolong the experience, the GM may require
a roll of HT + Strong Will in addition to a skill roll. The explanation
of the default use is the same as for Foreplay. 

 Advanced Sexual Techniques (Mental/Hard) Defaults to Intercourse -6 
 Prerequisites: Intercourse at 12+, DX at 10+ 
 This is the ability to successfully complete
complicated sexual acts, including knowledge of athletic positions and
other techniques. This skill is a rewrite of the skill Erotic Art from
GURPS Callahan's. It is not generally available to the average person,
since books or instruction may be required to learn it properly. Modifiers:
+3 if you know your partner well, +2 if your partner also has this skill,
+1 if DX is 16 or above, +1 if you have the advantage Double- Jointed. 

 Dominance (Mental/Hard) Defaults to IQ-6, Acting -6, Interrogation -6
or Intimidation-3 
This is the ability to be the dominant partner in a bondage relationship.
It includes knowledge of ties and gags, familiarity with various equipment,
and the ability to inflict slight pain without causing injury. Modifiers:
+3 if you know your partner well and he/she is willing to go along with
it, any bonuses for Strong Will. Note -- Characters with Sadism
who are adept in this skill are likely to get carried away. 

 Undressing (Physical/Easy) Defaults to DX-3 
 This is the ability to get out of your clothes
smoothly and gracefully, and is also the ability to undress others. Modifiers:
-1 to undress in the dark, -1 to undress in a hurry, -2 to remove unfamiliar
or complicated garments. 

 Stripping (Physical/Average) Defaults to DX-5 or Dancing -2 
This is the ability to remove your clothes sensually to music and evoke
an erotic response in an audience. Modifiers: +1 if you have Double-Jointed. 

 Professional Skill, Courtesan (M/A) 
See GURPS Callahan's. 

 Professional Skill, Prostitute (Mental/Average) Defaults to Streetwise
-3 or Merchant-5 
 Prerequisites: Foreplay 12+, Intercourse 12+ 
 This is the ability to be a common prostitute, streetwalker, gigolo,
house girl, etc. You make take a house as a Patron, or a pimp as an Ally.
You will have a -1 reaction modifier to any average person who knows you
are a prostitute, and a -2 from anyone with strong moral, legal, or ethical
objections. Occupational hazards include STDs, pregnancy, and arrest. 

 Professional Skill, Madam (Mental/Average) Defaults to IQ-5 or Administration
-4 
This is the ability to organize a "house" of working prostitutes. 
It includes dealing with clients, collecting fees, and taking care of all
of the details that go along with running any business. But, unlike other
businesses, it also involves the ability to avoid legal problems. 

 Professional Skill, Pimp (Mental/Average) Defaults to Streetwise -2
or Intimidation -3 
This is the ability to operate a small ring of prostitutes and collect
a portion of their earnings. 

Part Three: Ads and Disads 

Sexual Advantages 

 Multiorgasmic (+1 for women, +5 for men) 
You are able to climax more than once during a lovemaking session. This
will make you a valued and sought-after partner. +1 on reaction rolls for
women, +2 for men, once others learn of the advantage. As a drawback, some
may find the knowledge intimidating and feel uncomfortable with you. You
may also encounter jealousy. 

 Responsive (+1/level) 
You are very easy to arouse and take more pleasure in sex than the average
person. Your levels of Responsiveness are added to your partner's skill
at either Foreplay or Intercourse. But, your levels are subtracted from
your resistance roll to any attempt to seduce you. 

Sexual Disadvantages 

 Vow of Chastity (-5) Rewritten from GURPS Basic 
You have sworn a vow to refrain from sexual contact. You are at a +1 to
resist any attempt at seduction. This vow may be traded for Wedding Vows
(see below) if the character becomes married, with no point loss. 

 Wedding Vows (-5) 
You have sworn a vow of fidelity and faithfulness to your spouse. You are
at a +1 to resist any attempt at seduction. If you break this vow, you
must either atone for it or acquire the disadvantage of a Reputation, Adulterer
or Adultress (-1 to all reaction rolls, -5 points). 

 Frigid (-5; women only) 
You are unable to enjoy sex. You must make a Will roll to go through with
any sexual act, and even if you succeed you will remain tense and unable
to climax. Any attempt to seduce you automatically fails. 

 Impotent (-3; men only) 
You have difficulty reaching or maintaining a state of necessary arousal
to have sex. There are two different causes, and you must determine which
one applies: 

Physical problem. You have a physical or medical condition that inhibits
erection. If you wish to attempt sexual behavior, you must make a roll
at HT-2 to begin and another HT roll each minute of the session. 

Mental block. You have some stress-related condition that interferes with
your sexual performance. This stress can either come from the encounter
itself, or can come from external causes such as job stress or threat of
approaching doom (something common to adventurers). In a spontaneous sexual
situation, roll vs. Will. But in any stressful situation, you must roll
at Will -2 to begin and again each minute to continue. The GM may assess
penalties for your partner's behavior. For example, an unsympathetic, laughing
woman will give you a further -4 to continue. A stressful situation is
defined as any in which you are trying to impress someone, have a time
limit, or other event that can cause worry and concern. If you have the
disadvantage Shyness as well, you must include your minus for Shyness into
your roll. 

Impotence may (and should!) be added to the Fright Check. Effect
Table as a minor physical condition, which may be bought off once the character
has been able to get over the fright (GM's decision). 

 Premature Ejaculation (-2; men only) 
You have difficulty controlling your orgasm. When you are about to engage
in Foreplay or Intercourse, you must roll vs. HT or Advanced Sexual Techniques.
The amount by which you make your roll determines how long in minutes you
will be able to last. Some people (Jocks, Knights, malicious women, etc.)
may react to you at -1 if they find out. 

 Eunuch (-5; men only) Rewritten from GURPS Basic 
You have lost some or all of your genitalia, either accidentally or through
deliberate action. This can mean two different things: 
 1. Prepubescent. You were castrated before reaching puberty. Due to
the lack of hormones, your voice remains high and you have sparse facial
and body hair. You have no interest in sex, and any attempt to seduce you
automatically fails. Others who are aware of your lack react to you at
a -1. Overweight and Fat are also common traits. 
 2. Postpubescent. You were deprived of your masculinity sometime after
reaching puberty, so your voice has already changed and you have the build
and body hair of any adult male. You no longer have the ability to perform
sexually, although you might remain very interested in sex. Any attempt
to seduce you does not automatically fail, but will prove embarrassing
and unsuccessful. Others who are aware of your lack react to you at -2. 

 Erotophobia (-5/-10) See Phobias, GURPS Basic page 35 
You are afraid of sex. You will resist getting into any situation where
sexual content is high (a spicy movie, a sultan's harem, a stag party,
etc.). If you do find yourself in such a situation, you must make a Will
roll to stay. You do not discuss sex and are uncomfortable in the presence
of overtly sexual people. Erotophobes are reluctant to admit that they
might have sex, so they are not likely to take precautions should it occur. 

 Homophobia (-5/-10) See Phobias, GURPS Basic page 35 
You have an irrational fear of homosexuals. Any reference to homosexuality
makes you uncomfortable, and you will resist going to any place known to
be frequented by homosexuals. If you are the object of a pass, you must
make an immediate Fright Check at -2 for a mild phobia and -4 for a severe
one. In a modern game, this may also be combined with rupophobia, the fear
of infection, and the mistaken belief that all homosexuals are carriers
of AIDS. Please note that this is different from an Intolerance. You do
not necessarily hate homosexuals; you fear them. 

 Sterile (-5; men only) 
You are unable to father children, either due to an illness, accident,
or by surgical choice. Note that if you have had a reversable vasectomy,
this disadvantage may be bought off, but there will be a sizeable medical
bill. Some people (Jocks, Knights, malicious women, etc.) may react to
you at -1 if they find out. 

 Barren (-5; women only) 
You are unable to conceive a child, though you have no problems with your
sexuality. Depending on your culture, you will either be blamed, pitied,
or envied. In modern and futuristic societies, technological alternatives
will be available at a substantial cost. In a medieval society, any potential
suitor aware of your condition will react to you at -2. 

 Homosexuality (varies) 
This in itself is neither an advantage not a disadvantage, but it is a
lifestyle that is different from the norm in many cultures. The character
prefers the sexual contact of members of his or her own gender. Depending
on the culture, a homosexual may need to take a Social Stigma (minority
group, -10 points, -2 reaction from others but +2 from your own kind) or
a Secret (-5; see GURPS Cyberpunk page 25, where it states that if a Secret
is revealed you acquire new disads equal to twice the value of the Secret). 

 Hypersexuality (-20) Also known as Nymphomania or Satyrisis 
You cannot get enough sex. This is a stronger version of Lecherousness.
A Lecherous character must try to obtain the favors of another; a nymphomaniac
(female) or a satyr (male) must have some form of sexual contact daily.
Sexuality overshadows all other concerns and interests, to the point where
it interferes with your job and home life. This behavior can lead to dangerous
risk-taking and promiscuity. 
 If you fail to satisfy your urges, you will become physically ill, characterized
by a -1 to DX and IQ, Insomnia, and persistent headaches. You must roll
vs. Will -4 to avoid indulging yourself in a sexual situation, but there
is no minus for Appearance of the other person as per Lecherousness, because
a hypersexual individual will not be very discriminating about his/her
affections. 
 Most people will react to you at a -2 or more if they know about your
habits, depending on your culture. 

Part Four: Miscellaneous 

Sexual Variances 

 Fetishes 
A fetish is any object or stimulus that is linked to sexual arousal. Media
fetishes involve some sort of substance or material (silk, leather, lace,
etc.), while form fetishes involve objects and shapes (shoes, boots, stockings,
etc.) 
 If a charater is merely turned on by the presence of something, this
is only a Quirk, worth 1 point ("Likes women in high heels"). But if the
fetish is so strong that arousal is not possible without the object present,
it becomes a 2-point disadvantage ("Cannot have sex without silk sheets").
Fetishes may also be taken as Secrets, worth only a few points due to the
embarrassment caused if a fetish is discovered. 
 The following are some other sexual variances that could be used as
Quirks, Compulsions, Secrets, Social Stigmas, Odious Personal Habits, or
other disadvantages. Some of them are of such a nature that most cultures
consider the pursuit of them to be criminal acts. 
 It is strongly suggested that the GM forbid any of these that are inappropriate
to the game, or offensive to the players on a personal level. 
 Transvestism -- the character is aroused by wearing clothes
traditionally considered to belong to the opposite sex. Most often a Secret
or a Social Stigma (minority) unless done for entertainment (eg. female
impersonators). 
 Sexual Sadism -- the character is aroused by inflicting
pain on his/her partner. 
 Sexual Masochism -- the character is aroused by receiving
pain. 
 Voyeurism -- the character is aroused by watching other
people, either observing them nude or actually engaging in sex. Strip clubs
and movie houses allow an opportunity to engage in this behavior, otherwise,
it can lead to arrest. 
 Exhibitionism -- the character is aroused by exposing
him/herself to others. This can be a criminal act (a flasher), or a source
of income (a Playboy centerfold). 
 Bestiality -- the character is aroused by animals. Common
in rural societies, or in fantasy worlds where human/animal hybrids are
common (mermaids, for instance). 
 Gerontophilia -- the character is attracted to elderly
people. 
 Necrophilia -- the character is aroused by corpses. This
behavior is considered extremely deviant and psychotic by most cultures. 
 Pedophilia -- the character is attracted to children.
This behavior is also considered extremely deviant and criminal in most
cultures. 

Virginity 
Depending on the time, the culture, the character's gender, and numerous
other factors, virginity can be either an advantage, a disadvantage, or
neither. For a noblewoman in medieval times, her virginity is a valuable
commercial asset to help secure herself a good husband, and if her reputation
is tarnished, she may be utterly disgraced (as in Much Ado About Nothing).
To a teenage boy in modern-day America, virginity is often considered an
embarrassment to be gotten rid of as soon as possible. 
 In a fantasy world, a virgin may befriend unicorns (good), but may also
be chained to a tree to feed a dragon (bad!). Virgin blood is a common
ingredient in charms and potions. The spell Sense Life, which states that
the caster may determine the specific sort of life he or she is seeking,
can be used to test virginity. 
 Virginity can have spiritual bonuses and side effects as well. Sir Galahad,
known throughout his life as Galahad the Pure, is defined in GURPS Camelot
as a "spiritual" knight, as opposed to Lancelot and the others, who were
considered more "worldly". His rewards for purity included winning the
Holy Grail. 
 When it comes to resisting a seduction attempt, a virgin may be either
better or worse off, depending on the rest of the components of his/her
character. A strong-willed virgin who is determined to keep his/her virginity
is at a +1 to resist, while a virgin who is naive and unprepared is at
a -1. 
 The GM might wish to rule that a virgin cannot learn certain sexual
skills or even make a default roll. Only so much can be learned from a
book, after all. Someone can read a thousand cookbooks and still might
not be able to turn on the oven. 

Aphrodesiacs 
Any substance believed to increase sexual desire or ability is an aphrodesiac.
Many of these have gained the reputation by suggestive forms and shapes
(rhinocerous horn, banana, oyster). Other substances, such as cantharides
(commonly known as Spanish fly), have the reputation of being aphrodesiacs
but are in reality dangerous or poisonous. 
 Alcohol, in small quantities, has been found to decrease inhibitions
and subsequently increase sexual desire or activity. But alcohol in large
amounts has an adverse effect on sexual ability. Users of marijuana claim
that it acts as a sexual stimulant, though there is no documented proof
of this. Thus far, with a few exceptions in the science of pheremone research,
no true aphrodesiacs have been found. The power of an aphrodesiac is therefore
purely psychological. If the user believes that it will work, it most likely
will. 
 In a game, it is the GM's decision if true aphrodesiacs exist. The following
are some examples of possible aphrodesiacs: 

Jasmine Oil 
Perfume or scented oil, gives wearer a +1 on all reaction rolls by a member
of the opposite sex and a +1 to Seduction or Sex Appeal. Cost: a bottle
with ten applications is $20. 

Caraway Seeds 
When ground into a powder and mixed with water or wine, caraway seeds can
give the user a +1 to any roll to overcome Impotence, Frigidity, or Premature
Ejaculation. Cost: one dose is $10. 

Dried Ninta Berry 
This innocuous purplish-blue berry grows in temperate coastal regions.
Ninta berries are sweet and juicy, and can be eaten fresh, made into jam,
cobblers, and even wine. But dried ninta berries are a potent aphrodesiac,
temporarily giving the user the advantage of Responsiveness at one level
per berry with a maximum of three. The effect of dried ninta berries lasts
1d6x10 minutes per berry. Cost: $50 apiece for dried berries. 

Priapus (Elixir of Lecherousness) 
From GURPS Magic, page 90. Subject suffers the disadvantage Lecherousness
for 1d6 hours. Any form. $200 in materials; 10 days. Cost: $500/$700. 

Venus (Elixir of Desire) 
Subject becomes irresistible to members of the opposite sex. Gives a bonus
of +4 to Seduction and Sex Appeal rolls. Removes all negative reaction
modifiers for Appearance and Odious Personal Habits. Effect lasts for 1d6
hours. Any form. $500 in materials; 3 weeks; -1 to skill to create. Cost:
$750/$1000. 

Eroto (Elixir of Lust) 
Subject temporarily acquires the disadvantage Hypersexuality, overriding
any Shyness or other disadvantages that would normally curtail licentious
behavior. Effect lasts 1d6 hours. Any form. $400 in materials; 3 weeks;
-2 to skill. Cost: $1000/$1500. 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button to return to the
previous page, or click on the shield to return to the main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.