The Boy With the Healing Hands 

 The
Boy With the Healing Hands 
 by
Christine Morgan 
 ( vecna@eskimo.com ) 

 Authors Note: the
characters of Gargoyles are the property of Disney and are used here without
their creators knowledge or permission. Nikki Taylor (mentioned briefly) was
created by Leva Mevis. 

 The halls of the
modernized Castle Wyvern rang with youthful laughter as the midnight hour
approached. 
 Though
among the youngest, Alexander Xanatos led the pack, a clutch of paper scraps in
one hand. "This way! The next clue! Its by the elevator!" he
shouted. 

 Half a dozen
squealing children thundered past the double doors of the least formal but still
vast sitting rooms, where the adults were resting off a spectacular dinner.
Bronx galumphed after them, volleying excited barks. 
 "Good
idea, this treasure hunt," Fox said approvingly to Brooklyn, pouring
herself a second cup of coffee. "Theyre loving it!" 

 "As
long as they dont get too carried away," Xanatos said. "None of
your clues are going to lead them anyplace they shouldnt be, are they?" 

 "Hey,
I know what Im doing," Brooklyn said. 

 Angela
gave him a one-armed hug around the neck. "Hell be such a wonderful
father when our eggs hatch!" 

 "Yeah,"
said Lex, "a perfect eggs-ample to the rest of us!" 

 "The
yolkll be --" Brooklyn started, but Gabriels alarmed outcry stopped
him. 

 "No!
Dont start!" 

 "You
dont think," Ebon said smoothly, "omeletting that go
unanswered?" 

 Gabriel
winced. "Oh, no, now youve done it!" 

 "Done
what?" Lex asked. 

 "Do
 not get him started punning!
Trust me, friend, you will regret it!" 

 "Ebon?"
Angela raised a brow ridge. "Punning? You?" 

 "Is
there nothing else we can speak of?" Gabriel cast about desperately for a
topic. "Sports, movies, the weather?" 

 Ebon
smiled. "Ive become very fond of a bar not far from our house, where
punning is not only allowed, but encouraged. In fact, I won last weeks Tall
Tales competition." 

 Gabriel gave up and
folded forward, burying his face in his hands. 
 "Tall
Tales?" Angela asked eagerly. "Tell us!" 

 "First,
you must understand the rules," Ebon said. "Theyre fairly simple.
Each tale must be outrageous but not easily disproved, and must conclude in a
ghastly pun." 

 "Maybe
Gabriels right," Elisa said. "Maybe we should talk about something
else." 

 "Aw,
come on, Elisa!" Lex protested. "I wanna hear it!" 

 "How
bad can it be?" Goliath said. 

 Gabriel, without
looking up, groaned. 
 "Fire
away," Brooklyn said. "We can take it." 

 "Very
well." Ebon leaned back, crossing his arms. "This tale is set in Gold
Rush days, when the place to be was the Yukon. Because wool and meat were so
vital, sheep became very valuable. One of the wealthiest women in town was a
tough old lady named Beatrice, who had moved there from Boston but had become so
acclimated that everyone called her Yukoned Bea." 

 He
paused to sip from his mug, looked momentarily startled as if hed expected it
to contain something else, and went on. "Bea owned 26 sheep, which she
named for the letters of the alphabet. Ewe A, Ewe B, and so on. Bea ran the only
hotel in town, but she was opposed to drinking, and wouldnt rent rooms to any
man who had a hint of alcohol on his breath. This didnt sit well with the
local saloon-keepers, Hiram Lovedaw and Hubert Loff, so they bet Bea that one of
them could invent a drink that even her sharp nose couldnt detect. The winner
would get her best sheep, Ewe F. She agreed, and they went to work. Lovedaws
drink was called Blue Lightning, and Loff called his Mountain Dew (this was long
before the carbonated beverage of the same name). The day of the competition
arrived, and Lovedaw went first. He took a long swig of Blue Lightning. Bea
smelled his breath, and announced that she couldnt detect a thing. The it was
Loffs turn, and Lovedaw was hoping that his friend would fail. Do you know
why?" 

 Gabriel
was still hunched over, his body tensed as if braced for impact. The rest of
them looked at each other, and then Angela tentatively ventured, "No,
why?" 

 "If
Yukoned Bea whiffed Dew on Hugh Loff, Lovedaw won Ewe F." 

 There followed a
silence so profound that molecules could be heard to decay. Some of the
gargoyles wore puzzled expressions, but all of the humans stared at Ebon in
stark horror. 
 "Oh
..." Elisa said. 

 "My
..." Fox continued. 

 "God!"
Xanatos concluded, and nearly sprinted to the sideboard for a decanter of brandy
in a convulsive effort to numb the pain. 

 "Appalling,"
Owen whispered, and proceeded to whip out a notepad and start scribbling it
down. 

 "I
tried," Gabriel moaned. "I tried to warn you, but nay, lets not
heed Gabriel!" 

 "You
tricked me out of 20 million," Xanatos said, wiping his mouth after having
swigged straight from the neck of the decanter, "chained me in the hold of
an oil tanker primed to explode, helped found a rival corporation ... but I
think I can safely say, this is the worst thing you have ever done to me." 

 "I
dinna get it," Hudson complained. 

 "Lucky
you!" Brooklyn retorted. 

 The group of kids,
drawn no doubt by the screams voiced by their elders as the pun fully sank in,
peeked curiously into the room. 
 A
four-year-old flawless Asian doll called Mulan (chosen after shed become
enamored of the film of the same name), brushed a quick but intense gaze across
them all. Then, sensing nothing amiss, she grinned and waved. Her reaction
assured the others, who had instinctively glanced to her to read the emotional
weather of the room. 

 "Come
on!" Alex cried. "The tapestry in the Grand Hall! Thats where it
is!" Then the herd was off again. 

 By unspoken
consensus, nobody was going to further mention the awful thing that Ebon had
done. 
 Elisa looked at her
daughter Amber, who was playing in the corner with Julian. At three, he was the
youngest of the children that Ebon and Gabriel had rescued from the Institute.
They seemed to be having a minor disagreement over whose turn it was with the
Press-and-Guess, the uproar from the grown-ups having barely fazed them. 
 "Guys,"
she said, "you know, youve really been doing a wonderful thing, taking
care of all those kids, but theyre not going to be able to live like that
forever. Sooner or later, theyre going to need to go to school." 

 Ebon sighed.
"Yes, we know. They need a better home than we can provide. Even with Mrs.
Goodall, our housekeeper, to look after things by day, its not the best of
environments. Brittany and Blaze want families, normal lives. Neesha and
Gilberto want to go home to their own parents. Weve been trying to think of
what to do, without putting them in danger." 
 "The
scientists at the Institute must not 
get their hands on them again!" Gabriel said. "How can we be certain
theyll be safe anyplace but at Rocky Point with us?" 

 "The
Sterling Academy is still an option," Xanatos said, pouring himself another
drink -- a double -- in a glass this time. He offered the decanter around and
Fox grabbed it fast. 

 "Yeah,
right," Brooklyn scoffed. "Turn them over to the Illuminati; they were
probably the ones running the Institute in the first place!" 

 Goliath
slowly shook his head. "I believe that Miss St. John can be trusted. The
Academy was of benefit to Aiden, remember." 

 Owen nodded. 
 "Where
 is Aiden?" Angela asked
Lex. "I just thought she was going to stop by Birdies place for a few
minutes, and then be back for dinner." 

 "Yeah,
but once Birdie starts talking, you know how hard it is to get her to shut
up," Brooklyn said. 

 Broadway,
who had been sitting quietly on one of the loveseats with Elektra, the two of
them gazing into each others eyes dreamily (and it was all right that he took
up more than his half of the seat because she took up less than hers), now
glanced up. "Hey!" he warned his rookery brother. 

 "Hes
right," Lex said. "You know Birdie." 

 "The
point, though," Xanatos said to Ebon and Gabriel, "is that no matter
what you decide to do, the kids are going to need pasts thatll stand up to
inspection. If you planned to put them up for adoption, or enroll them in any 
school, theyll need birth certificates, immunization records, Social Security
Numbers, the works. For the ones that were kidnapped, thats easy, a little
fiddling here and there. But four of them were created in that lab. Thats
a little more tricky." 

 "Are
you offering your assistance?" Ebon asked. 

 "Would
you accept it if I did?" He shrugged. "I know youve your reasons
not to trust me, Ebon, and I can respect that ..." he winked at Goliath,
"hell, Im used to it. You probably want me involved in their lives as
little as possible, for fear that Ill mis-use their powers for my own
gain." 

 "I
wonder what on earth would give him that idea?" Fox batted her lashes at
her husband. 

 "But
I really only want whats best for the kids," he said. Then grinned.
"And if, someday, theyre inclined to be grateful, well, Im always
looking to recruit new talent." 

 "How
could they be put up for adoption?" Angela asked. "They are sweet, but
what happens when their new families realize what they really are?" 

 "What
are they?" Gabriels voice held a hint of challenge. 

 "Theyre
... different ," she
said. "How are you going to explain it to the adoptive parents that the
child theyve taken in can start fires, knock down walls, read minds, or
things like that, by the power of their will alone?" 

 "They
have lived with us for several months now," Ebon said. "Theyve
known what it is to keep ones very existence a secret from all but a few.
More than anything else, they want to belong, and they understand that to do
that, theyll need to keep their abilities under control and
well-hidden." 

 "Theyre
good kids," Broadway said. 

 Elektra
looked appealingly at Xanatos. "Cannot some way be found to reunite those
who were taken from their parents?" 

 "The
Institute will be watching, gentle sister," Gabriel said. "The moment
we tried, theyd just be stolen away again." 

 "The
only way to do it would be to convince the entire family to relocate and take on
new identities," Xanatos said. "Theyd have to give up all contact
with their friends and other relatives, change their jobs." 

 "Who
 wouldnt be willing to do
all that you said?" Angelas fingers entwined with Brooklyns. "My
God, they must have been frantic, they must have given up hope ... then to find
out their children are alive and well ..." 

 Amber
toddled over and tugged on the leg of Elisas jeans. She lifted the little
girl into her lap. "I hate to say it, Angela, but the world can be ugly.
Kids are beaten, abandoned, ignored ... they run away from home, they get hooked
on drugs, they turn to crime, or kill themselves ... and sometimes the parents
just dont care. Some arent willing to change their ways for the sake of
the kids they have ." 

 Angela
exhaled slowly. "I guess I know from personal experience how true that
is." 

 The
specter of Demona seemed to float above them, until Ebon spoke and broke the
spell. "Above all, I want whats best for the children. I want them safe
and happy, and never to be in a situation where they think they were better off
before we found them." 

 "I
think were all agreed on that," Xanatos said. "I can help you, if
youll let me." 

 "Well
consider it," Ebon said after exchanging a look with Gabriel. 

 Julian,
carefully holding a framed photo, approached Fox and offered it to her. She
absently scooped him up, tilting her flame-colored head against his dark one.
"Thats me, yes, and my father, and Alex." 

 The
boy touched the image of Renard in his wheelchair. "Hurts." 

 "Yes,
honey ... he cant walk." 

 The
boys lower lip pooched out and tears glimmered in his light blue eyes. 

 "Actually,
I have an idea," Elisa said. "Ever since Mom and Dad moved out of
their apartment --" 

 Here Goliath
glowered, and they all recalled the business a couple of years back when Demona
abducted the senior Mazas to arrange a hostage swap in exchange for Jericho. 
 Elisa
went on. "Theyve been having trouble finding a place they like. But just
last month, they lucked into a big brownstone practically on top of the
Labyrinth. Got the whole building for a song. The previous owners had to sell
because they just couldnt keep tenants. Too many complaints of winged
monsters." 

 Brooklyn
grinned. "Gee, I wonder why." 

 "So
Moms been talking about starting a little home-schooling enterprise. She was
going to start with Dee and Tom and some of the other kids from the
Labyrinth." She ruffled Ambers hair. "Maybe this one, too, huh,
Amber? Going to go play with Grandma?" 

 Amber babbled
delightedly. 
 "I
bet shed be willing to take on a few more," Elisa finished. "Its
not like your bunch would freak out over the twins." 

 "Thats
a wonderful idea," Fox said. She glanced pointedly at her husband.
"Dont you agree, David?" 

 "A
wise husband always agrees with his wife," he said. 

 A rousing victorious
whoop rose from elsewhere in the castle, and moments later Alexander and the
rest of the kids thundered back in, with Bronx still at their heels. 
 "We
found it!" Alex cried triumphantly. 

 Brittany,
at eleven the oldest of them, was carrying a small piata in the shape of a
treasure chest, twisting and turning to keep it out of the reach of eager
grasping little hands. Skinny as a rail, with hair straight out of Anne of
Green Gables, she nonetheless had a forceful presence of personality that
belied her scant size. 

 "Settle
down!" she ordered. "We have to get a stick or something!" 

 "No
we dont!" Gilberto protested, tossing too-long black hair out of his
deep brown eyes. "Let me at it, I can crack it open just by looking at
it!" 

 "Thatth
no fun!" Neesha said, lisping between the two front teeth that hadnt
finished growing in yet. "We thould all get turnth!" 

 "Okay,
okay," the laughing Brooklyn said, taking the piata from Brittany.
"Let me hang it up, and then you can all have a whack at it, what do you
say?" 

 Bronx
couldnt wait. He jumped up on Brooklyn from behind, bowling him over. The
piata sailed through the air, making half the adults duck to avoid a faceful
of crinkled tissue and solid papier-mch. Brooklyn crashed to the carpet and
Bronx charged right over him, intent on the piata. 

 "Bronx!
Down, lad!" Hudson bellowed. 

 Amber chose that
moment to loose one of her ear-splitting shrieks. 
 The
piata bounced on the carpet and one corner crunched in, spilling out three or
four Hersheys Kisses. At the sight of the candy, the kids all squealed and
jostled each other as they ran for the loot. Bronx got there first, hoovered up
the candy foil and all, and opened his jaws wide over the papier-mch shell
keeping him from the rest. 

 "Manners,"
Owen said, scooping up the piata and swatting Bronx on the nose with a
rolled-up copy of V.I.P. Magazine. 

 Bronx
yipped abashedly and slunk over to his spot beside Hudsons chair. 

 "Maybe
this wasnt such a good
idea," Xanatos said with a sidelong glance at Brooklyn. 

 "Oof,"
Brooklyn replied. 

 "Its
late," Angela said. "Theyre all overexcited." 

 "So
lets give them more sugar?" Elisa said, trying to contain the
rambunctious Amber who wanted to go join the big kids as they pranced around
Owen. "Great plan." 

 "Im
first!" Alexander jumped up and down. "Im first! Me! Me!" 

 "Your
son, all right," Goliath remarked to Xanatos. 

 Amber
threw off Elisas hands with an outflung burst of her wings and roared
petitely, eyes blazing. 

 "Your
daughter," Xanatos shot back. 

 "The
guests should go first, Alexander," Owen gently reminded. He hooked the
wire loop sticking out of the top of the piata on a nail leftover from a
Christmas wreath. 

 "I
cant reach!" Neesha complained. The other kids clamored for their turn,
while Alex grudgingly conceded Owens point. 

 Brooklyn
laboriously rose from the floor. "Ive got a stick and a blindfold." 

 While
an attempt was made to bring organization to the piata-bashing festivities,
Ebon turned to Xanatos. "If Mrs. Maza is agreeable, the children will still
need documented identities." 

 "Ill
start looking into it right away. It wont be cheap --" 

 "Thats
fine; I was able to retrieve much of my ... investment capital ... when
Nightstones computers crashed. And there are still royalty checks from the
Scarlet Angel albums." 

 "How?
Arent you legally dead, or at least missing?" 

 "I
created a dummy trust fund." He sighed. "Some day, I should like to
set that matter straight. At the very least, Juliannas parents deserve to
know. Once the childrens future is settled and secure, I intend to devote
more thought to it." 

 "Having
a gargoyle rock star -- God, that sounds bad," Elisa winced, " --
really did help bring you guys into a positive public light. Have you
considered, oh, I dont know ..." 

 "A
comeback tour?" Fox suggested. 

 "It
would not be the same." 

 "A
solo album, then?" 

 "When
I do announce myself to the
world," Ebon said, "Ill have to face some very serious questions
about what happened to the rest of Scarlet Angel. The fact that they were killed
by gargoyles wont do much to help our image. And my suspicious absence, my
long silence, wont look very good either." 

 "Wouldnt
it be wonderful if you could resume your career?" Angela said. "Your
music was so beautiful! Anything that can touch the souls of both humans and
gargoyles can only do good. Itd be so nice to have more people admire us for
a change, instead of fear us." 

 Ebon
shook his head. "I have written some songs ... but without a partner to
sing them with, its an empty effort." 

 "How
about Nikki Taylor?" Xanatos suggested with a wink. 

 Fox
rolled her eyes at the mention of Elisas sexy, fast-rising movie star cousin.
"Youre a dog, David darling, do you know that?" 

 With, or rather despite 
the help of Lex and the kids, Brooklyn and Owen had managed to get the piata
suspended from a rope. They had the children draw lots to see who would go
first, and that honor went to Blaze, a freckled tow-headed eight-year-old. 
 He was so excited
that he accidentally scorched the blindfold as Brooklyn tried to wrap it over
his eyes, then apologized and got his ability under control as Elektra deftly
twirled him in place. 
 "If
only Deborah were here," Gabriel said, smiling at Angela. "She has the
most beautiful voice Ive ever heard." 

 "And
Laertes is a great musician, too," Angela said. "Could you imagine? An
all-gargoyle band?" 

 "I
play the synthesizer," Lex piped up, grinning. 

 "All
right!" Brooklyn clapped sharply. "Were ready to go. Blaze, give it
a whack!" 

 "But
dont melt the chocolate!" Brittany added. 

 The
boy put his back into it. The stick, part of a broomhandle, whipped through the
air, missed the piata by half a foot, and hit Owen square in the mouth. 

 Alex and Neesha
screamed. Owen stumbled back, blood running through his fingers, and said
something unintelligible but probably blasphemous or obscene. 
 Blaze
yanked off the blindfold and his whole face became a gape of horror when he saw
what hed done. He swiftly tried to hide the stick behind his back. 

 "Owie,"
Amber said clearly. 

 Fox
sprang from her seat. "Ill get the first aid kit." 

 Little Julian, whod
been dozing in her arms, began to cry in confusion as she set him down in the
vacated chair. 
 Owen took his hand
away from his mouth, looked amazed at the blood on it. Blaze dropped the stick
and backed up as if getting ready to run for it. 
 "Hurts,"
Julian said. 

 "Owie,"
Amber repeated, agreeing. 

 "I
hep." He slid off the chair and toddled over to Owen, raising his arms.
"Up. I hep." 

 "Let
him," Gabriel said. 

 With
a very sour expression, Owen lifted the boy. Julian peered at him closely, not
seeming upset at all by the sight of the blood. He put his small chubby hands on
Owens cheeks. "All gone, bye-bye." 

 Owens
eyes widened. He took a handkerchief from his pocket and wiped his face. The
split in his lip was gone. 

 Fox, rushing back in
with the first-aid kit, stopped short. 
 "Theres
no need for that, Mrs. Xanatos," Owen said. 

 "What
was it like?" Xanatos asked. 

 "Like
a light in my head, sir." Owen thoughtfully pressed the tip of his tongue
against his teeth. "One of my teeth had been loosened ... now it is firmly
in place." 

 "Fascinating!
Gabriel, you told us of his power, but to see it in action --" 

 "Or
feel it," Owen added. 

 "Fascinating!"
Xanatos said again, softly. 

 "I
didnt mean to!" Blaze cried. 

 "Better?"
Julian inquired. 

 "All
better." Owen handed him to Gabriel. "He should wash up; there is a
bathroom just down the hall. Its all right, son, no harm done." 

 With the crisis
apparently taken care of, Mulan began insisting it was her turn to try. Brooklyn
gave her the stick and this time everyone stood well out of any possible swing
radius. 
 It
connected glancingly. The piata jerked and spun crazily at the end of the
rope, spraying candy from a small rent in the side. 

 Then
Gilberto lost his patience and shoved his hands at the piata. It split in two,
dumping a shower of silver and gold Kisses mixed with the gaudy sugar-jewels of
Ring Pops, foil-wrapped coins, and other goodies. 

 The rest of the kids
swarmed over the bounty. As Bronx made ready to plow into the fray, Brittany
paused with her hands overflowing and stared at him. At once, Bronx whuffed as
if struck in the gut, then stalked stiff-legged to a far corner. When he got
there, he blinked and flapped his ears, making a confused noise. 
 Goliath
observed these demonstrations and turned to Elisa. "Perhaps you should
allow your mother to meet the
children before any absolute decisions are reached." 

 "Yeah,"
she said slowly. "Yeah, good idea." 

 * * 

 The castle was quiet
again. 
 Alexanders
spacious bedroom was littered with children, sleeping on mats and covered with
blankets that were drawn right up to their chocolate-smeared chins. When theyd
crashed, theyd crashed hard, and none of them had so much as stirred when the
adults carried them to their makeshift beds. 

 Fox
smiled. It was nice that Alex got a chance to play with other kids every now and
then. She worried sometimes that he was being pressured to grow up too fast. His
waking hours were heavily scheduled, preschool and French lessons and karate
lessons and swimming lessons ... and of course magic lessons. He didnt have
very many chances to just be a regular kid. 

 Not that the heir to
two of the worlds largest fortunes would ever have much hope of being a
regular kid anyway. 
 She tucked his arm
back into bed and kissed him on the forehead. 
 Theyd
never gotten around to taking the old toddler bed out of his room after hed
graduated to his deluxe racecar model. It fit Julian perfectly. She looked down
at him, shaking her head slightly in remembered awe. 

 Elsewhere in the
castle, she knew, her dear David was hard at work compiling new false identities
for the children. Ebon was with him, and Elisa (presumably to keep a wary eye on
him; some things never changed), and of course Goliath would be hovering nearby
as well. 
 It
took their minds off of the Ventura problem, which was the real reason for this
weekend visit. In the months since shed been freed from the Institute and
attacked the castle (damages finally paid up, and the city was breathing down
Davids neck about the number of times chunks of masonry had plummeted to the
street since 1994), there had been no sign of the ruby-eyed clone. Angela
insisted she felt nothing, sensed nothing. That as far as she could tell,
Ventura was most likely dead. 

 Fox privately
thought Angela might be lying her sweet tail off ... though she acted like
everything was fine now, she was still in a colossal snit about the whole
episode. 
 Oh,
yes, Ventura was out there somewhere. And Fox would have bet any amount of money
that she certainly hadnt forgotten about what she felt was her real 
life, stolen and usurped. 

 But
it was beginning to look like they wouldnt be able to track her down. Not
until she came back for a rematch. That, combined with the fact that they also 
hadnt located the Godiva robot, had left David in a grouchy mood for weeks. 

 So
it was good that he had a new project to take his mind off of it. Though Fox
suspected that in the long run, it wouldnt do any good. Even with names,
Social Security numbers, birth certificates ... not one of these children would
ever truly be a regular kid. 

 How
could they be? They were different, and they knew it. She herself had lived a
fairly normal childhood, never aware that shed inherited something from her
mother besides the color of her eyes and the tilt of her nose. These kids would
never have even that illusion of normality. 

 Thinking of it made
her think of her older son, T.J., who strived for the normality that
would always be beyond his grasp. Shed finally told all to her father, and as
shed both feared and expected, it had dredged up all the old issues. 
 At
least he wasnt taking it out on T.J. Quite the contrary. Quite the
honestly-a-bit-worrying contrary ... Halcyon Renards devotion to Alexander
was utter, but always tinged with the bitterness that his grandson was a Xanatos.
But T.J. was no Xanatos. Not the son of Renards longtime rival and occasional
enemy. 

 Fox
grimaced uncomfortably, recalling Renards perfectly reasonable question: Whos
his father? and her truthful but shameful response: I dont know. 

 Thank
God T.J. himself took that part in stride! Hed never made a big stink about
her past, the circumstances of his conception. He still didnt fully trust
her; she could see that in his eyes. You abandoned me
once, those eyes said, so how do I know you wont
do it again? 

 But he and Renard,
once introduced, had taken to each other like long-lost friends. It was getting
so that David was starting to be concerned that T.J. would accept a job at
Cyberbiotics, put his unusual gift to work for his grandfathers company. 

 Fox
herself wondered if it would go even further. As it stood right now, her fathers
will passed over her and left the bulk of his estate to Alexander, except for
various bequests. But suppose Renard decided to make T.J. his heir? What then? 

 And
why did that prospect make her feel so cheated and guilty? Shouldnt she be glad 
for T.J. if that was the case? Proud of him? It certainly wasnt as if
Alexander would need the money! 

 She
could almost hear her fathers voice, and it was saying practically the same
things she imagined she saw in T.J.s eyes. 

 You
abandoned me once ... you defied me, tried to steal from me ... how do I know
you wont do it again? How can I trust you? Even when you gave me a grandson,
you did it with the help of a man I despise. 

 "Oh,
Dad ..." she sighed, picking up the picture that Julian had insisted on
carrying to bed with him. "I never did anything just for you, did I? But it
goes both ways; we never did anything just for each other. You always wanted to
control my life, said it was for my own good. I resented that. I still do. But I
wish ... just once, itd be nice if I could do something for you that really
had meaning ." 

 * * 

 Aiden
clumped down the stairs, threw her tote bag on the table, threw herself on the
couch, and announced, "I never want to see another naked male as long as I
live!" 

 "Bad
news, bro," Brooklyn said commiseratingly, punching Lex in the arm. 

 "Why?"
Angela asked. "Where have you been?" 

 "First
the clones and Godiva, now this." Aiden slouched down and put her hand over
her eyes. Then she remembered something, and lowered it long enough to glare at
Brooklyn. "And you , lets
not forget that !" 

 "What
happened?" Lex demanded. "Whod you see naked now, and should I be
jealous?" 

 "Its
a long, long story," Aiden said, a dark blush creeping to cover her face.
"MacBeth and 
Jericho." 

 Angela
gasped. "No! You mean ... together ?" 

 Aiden
shot off the couch as if a spring had erupted beneath her. "Gross! Angela!
No! Eew! Not like that !" 

 Lex
frowned. "Maybe you better tell us." 

 "I
dont want to. I just want to forget about it. Whyd I get involved? That
was stupid, stupid ! So
Jericho got captured, its none of our business!" 

 "Captured?"
Brooklyn perked up. "Good riddance ... was it Quarrymen?" 

 "Hey,
wait a minute," Lex said. "You left saying you were going to Birdies
... is that where you saw
MacBeth? You mean she was telling the truth?" 

 "I
thought she was pulling my leg!" Aiden wailed. "You know, one part
pure lie and two parts wishful thinking! But then I get there, all I wanted was
to pick up those videos I loaned her, and ... and ..." 

 "You
walked in on them?" Angela asked. 

 "Not
really ... he was in the shower ... hot fudge is sticky ... came out in a robe
... it fell open when he was fighting with Jericho." 

 "Go
back to the Jericho bit," Brooklyn urged. "Captured?" 

 "Birdie
squirted him in the face with whipped cream, and MacBeth kicked him out the
window. Then there was this hovercraft, right out of nowhere, snared him in a
net and carried him away." 

 "Why
were they fighting naked?" 

 "Angela!
They werent ! Only MacBeth!
Jericho was later!" 

 "Whose
hovercraft?" Brooklyn said. "Quarrymen, am I right?" 

 "No
... it belonged to a woman, this horrible, horrible 
woman! She ... uh ... had the hots for Jericho, I guess. By the time we got
there, she was going to ... or maybe she already did ... I dont know, I dont
want to think about it." 

 "Back
up a second." Brooklyn made a T for time-out. "You and MacBeth went
after them? Why? Like to rescue him?" 

 "Um
... well ... it wasnt me and MacBeth ... it was me and Demona ..." 

 She
braced herself for uproar and wasnt disappointed. Over the din of the three
of them exclaiming at once, she tried to explain. "I know, I know, hes a
skunk, hes a bad guy, hes the enemy ... but hes still a gargoyle and we
kind of have to stick together, right? I didnt know who those people were in
the hovercraft, whether they were the greater or lesser of two evils, so I went
to the Nightstone Building and told Demona what I saw." 

 "Why
didnt you come get us?" Lex demanded. 

 "There
wasnt time, there really wasnt ... and I didnt think anyone would help
me, and Goliath would tell me to let Demona fend for herself --" 

 "Yeah,
and he wouldve been right!" Brooklyn said. 

 "--
and she wasnt all that mean to me personally, even after I wrecked her plans
by not being a ... um, you know ... that time with the unicorns. So I had to
help her." 

 Angela
groaned. "Aiden, I thought I 
was too nice!" 

 "And
by the time we got there, that horrible woman had Jericho undressed," Aiden
said, now maroon from the base of her neck to the tip of her crest. "He was
all drugged ... messed up ... I really felt sorry for him. Demona and that woman
had a huge fight and in the middle of it I got him out of there. Then the
hovercraft went into the ocean, and Jericho went back and saved Demona, and its
been a really long night and I want a shower and I am going to scrub myself raw 
with a loofah because I just feel filthy !" 
 She left the three
of them dumbfounded, mouths hanging open. As she went into the bathroom, she
heard Brooklyn finally say something in a really tentative voice. 

 "Are
we going to tell Goliath about this?" 

 "No
 way !" came Lexs
emphatic reply. 

 * * 

 "You
dont have to do this," Elisa said. 

 "I
 want to do this," Fox
replied. 

 "We
were just going to drop by the Labyrinth for lunch, introduce the kids Mom and
my brothers family. I can handle it." 

 "Really,
Elisa, I want to come along. So does Alex." 

 "Yeah!"
Alex chimed in. "See Tom and Dee!" 

 Elisa
ran her hand through her hair. "Well, okay. I was planning on piling them
all into Brooklyns van; is that jake with you or do we need to round up one
of the chauffeurs?" 

 "I
didnt always ride in limos," Fox said, grinning. "You should have
seen the junker I had when I lived in L.A. the first few years. Made Birdies
car look like a showpiece." 

 The
rest of the children came down the stairs, Brittany carrying Julian, Neesha and
Mulan holding hands, Blaze and Gilberto arguing about video games. Amber had
protested, said she wanted to go too, but shed had far too tiring a night and
when the dawn came, she corked off into stone slumber with nary a peep. 

 "All
right!" Elisa clapped briskly. "Got your coats? Hats? Gloves?" 

 "I
lost my gloves," Blaze said. "But thats okay ... I can keep
warm." 

 She
eyed him with faint unease. "Uh-huh ... oh, Fox and Alex are going to tag
along." 

 "Yes,
we are." Fox beamed at them. "And on the way back, whos up for a
stop at FAO Schwartz?" 

 "The
toy thtore?" Neesha squealed. "Really?" 

 "Fox
--" 

 "The
biggest, best toy store in the whole world!" Fox affirmed. "Alex loves
it, dont you, buddy?" 

 He
nodded vigorously. "You should see the Legos!" 

 "Fox!"
Elisa elbowed her. "What are you doing?" 

 "Running
up Davids charge cards a little more." 

 "I
got ten bucks," Gilberto said. 

 "I
have a quarter," Mulan said shyly, then tucked her thumb in her mouth. 

 "No,
no, no!" Fox took Julian from Brittany and balanced him on her hip in
practiced mommy-fashion. "My treat, up to a hundred dollars each." 

 "Fox!"
she said over the instant uproar. 

 "Live
a little, Elisa!" 

 "A
hundred dollars ?"
Brittany gasped. "For anything we want?" 

 "You
bet. See, Elisa, Ebon and Gabriel take wonderful care of them, feed them, clothe
them ... but they dont know the first thing about spoiling 
them." 

 "Which
is exactly what youre going to do." 

 "Dont
you think they deserve it?" Fox asked. 

 Elisa
flung her hands in the air. "I give up. Fine. Labyrinth, then toy
store." 

 "Yay!"
they all shouted. 

 Several minutes and
a long ear-popping elevator ride later, they were piling into the black van with
tinted windows. Elisa hauled the specially-designed seat forward and used her
toe to flip up the modified bars that rested across the pedals -- easier for
curved gargoyle-feet to use. When all of her passengers were securely strapped
in, she drove out of the underground parking garage. 
 In
the rear of the van, the main topic of conversation was what each of the kids
planned to buy with their unexpected largess, while Alexander regaled them with
descriptions of what theyd have to choose from. To listen to him, FAO
Schwartz was even more amazing than the cave in which Ali-Baba had found the
treasure of the Forty Thieves. 

 The service tunnel
to the Labyrinth had once been used for delivery of kitchen and bath appliances.
It was dingy, low, and dark. The kids quieted as they drove into it, except for
startled exclamations when rats appeared briefly in the headlights. 
 "Cool!"
Blaze opined. 

 "Disgusting,"
Brittany said. 

 "Do
people live down here?"
Neesha asked. 

 "Bums,"
Gilberto said. "Winos. Junkies." 

 "There
are other people down here too," Elisa said. "Good, decent people down
on their luck. Its a hard city. Eats them up and spits them out." 

 "But
most of them are scumbuckets," Gilberto insisted. "I know ." 

 "Oh,
how do you know?"
Brittany asked archly. 

 "Because
my folks are. Scumbuckets. Druggies." 

 "Ebon
told us you wanted to go back to your family," Fox said. 

 "Yeah,"
he snarled, "so I can bust them up for selling me!" 

 "They
 thold you?" Neesha
looked ready to burst into tears. 

 "For
drug money. Sold me to the doctors, told me it was so Id have a place to live
and plenty of food. They didnt say nothing about the needles!" 

 "Jeez,"
Brittany breathed. 

 "At
least you had a family,"
Blaze said. 

 "Fu
--" Gilberto caught himself and Elisa saw him flush guiltily in the mirror.
"Phooey on them, I wouldve been better off an orphan! But sure, I wanna
see them again. I wanna go right up to them and tell them what I think, and then
crack their heads open." 

 Neesha began to cry.
Fox unhooked her seat belt and squeezed into the back of the van to comfort her. 
 "Theyre
not worth it," Elisa said firmly. "They did a horrible, rotten thing,
but you know what the best way to get back at them would be?" 

 "What?"
His dark eyes narrowed. 

 "Make
yourself a ten-times better person than they could ever be." 

 He
mulled that one over. "Id rather crack their heads open." 

 They
had arrived, no more time to debate. Elisa parked the van alongside the worlds
oldest camper-cap pickup trucks, and got out as some of Talons volunteer
sentries approached. 

 She sincerely hoped
these guys would never be called upon to deal with a serious threat. LeRoy was
somewhere between seventy and ninety, a tall scarecrow of a black man with a
face lined like a dry riverbed and a puffy fringe of white hair. He grinned at
her with teeth too perfect to be anything but false. 
 "Miss
Elisa!" he called jovially. "Weckome back!" 

 "Hey,
LeRoy, hi there, Gus." 

 Gus was almost
exactly the physical opposite of his partner on the watch. Five foot two and
pushing 400 pounds, pasty-fair skin ... he was often called Doughboy, and while
Elisa never used the nickname, she inwardly had to admit that it fit. 
 He
raised a hand that looked like a latex glove stuffed with cottage cheese, then
turned and began his slow course back to the table. Watching him move was like
watching an amoeba work its way across a microscope slide. He didnt walk, he
didnt jiggle, he just sort of flowed . 

 Their
guard post was a card table and a couple of chairs (Gus was a massive easy
chair with reinforced frame and a sheet of 3/4" steel under the cushion to
prevent sagging), with a space heater, a portable TV, a mini-fridge, and a
microwave. 

 "Whos
all this?" LeRoy asked as the kids came pouring out of the van and looked
around with varying degrees of interest and/or squeamishness. 

 "You
remember Mrs. Xanatos and her boy Alexander," Elisa said. 

 "Why
sho I do!" Flash of the teeth again. 

 She
introduced the rest, finishing with, "Theyve come down to meet Dee and
Tom." 

 He
smiled down at Neesha, who returned it through drying tears. "A right
pleasure to meet you!" 

 "Whys
that guy so --" Blaze began, gawking at Gus as Gus settled back into his
chair. 

 "Dont
be mean," Mulan said. 

 "Lemme
just call ahead, tell your brother youre here." 

 "Thanks,
LeRoy. Everything been okay lately?" 

 "Well,
aint been easy with the cold and all," he admitted. "Had some
flooding in the lower levels too with that last big storm; now theyre sayin
another systems movin in. An its looking like poor ol Claw wont
last much longer." 

 "Aww,
dammit," Elisa murmured. 

 "Its
got Miss Maggie pretty upset, too," he confided. "Feelin like she
and Mr. Talon and the twins are all alone in the world, bein like they are.
But I tell her that dont matter; she got friends and loved ones so that she
never be alone." 

 "Youve
got the right attitude, LeRoy." 

 He shuffled back to
the table, picked up a phone -- 
 "Look,
its got a cord on it, how
funny!" Alex laughed. 

 --
and set it down a few moments later. "You can go on in, Miss Elisa. They be
waiting for you." 

 She snapped him a
salute and he guffawed. 
 As they proceeded
down the passageways, Elisa could still see signs of the devastation that had
taken place a few years back. Half of the Labyrinth had collapsed in on itself,
and a broken water main had taken care of the rest. 
 But thanks in part
to large donations from Xanatos Enterprises and the Harmond Foundation, the
sinkhole and much of the damage had been repaired. 
 Had been better 
than repaired, actually; Travis Marshalls series of human interest stories on
the plight of the inhabitants of the underground community had greatly benefited
the cause. 
 Now
the Labyrinth, rather than being a shanty town of tents and shacks, was on par
with a decent-quality homeless shelter. They got modest funding, government
commodities, and every year around the holidays a local womens group got
together and provided a full turkey dinner. 

 Best
of all, from Elisas personal point of view, was that everyone involved knew 
that the Labyrinth wasnt just a human interest story. The Time 
cover photo of Samson and Delilah, plus follow-up articles on how humans and
gargoyles living in peace, had taken a few crucial steps toward public awareness
and acceptance (no one had gone into detail explaining the difference; for now
it was probably okay that the world believed the mutates to be furry gargoyles
instead of having to deal with the ugly truth of science run amok). 

 And
then there was former Senator William J. Harmond, whose staunch advocacy for
gargoyles had begun turning some wheels in Washington. Although retired, he was
still a man with a great deal of influence. When he said there would one day be
an amendment granting citizenship rights to gargoyles, Elisa believed him. She
just hoped shed still be around to see it happen. 

 It was nice to walk
through the Labyrinth and see some progress. The people were cleaner,
better-clothed, better-fed. She saw fewer instances of gaunt faces and haunted
eyes. There was no drug use down here, no hardcore boozing, no victimization or
abuse; Talon saw to that. 
 Nobody official was quite 
comfortable enough with it all yet to make him the actual director of this new
shelter, and her brother never set himself up to be in charge; Talon just had an
air of command about him. And his years with the police force left him with a
pretty strict view on what would and wouldnt be permitted down here. 
 As the surroundings
grew more hospitable, Elisa saw the kids lose their fears of being lost in the
sewers. Gilberto still had that sneer stamped on his face, but the rest looked
at the Labyrinth denizens with open childlike curiosity and compassion. 
 A large hirsute
figure shambled out of a doorway, arms full of cases of canned goods. His
green-gold eyes reflected shine back at them. 
 "Whoa!"
Blaze said. "Chewbacca!" 

 "This
is Samson," Elisa said, throwing him an apologetic look. 

 He only grinned,
having been called worse. 
 "Hes
not scary," Mulan said surely. "Hes nice." 

 "Yes,
he is." Elisa offered to take a case, but Samson declined, shaking his
large shaggy head. 

 "I
got it," he said, his voice a low and pleasing rumble with an undercurrent
of eerie woodland howl. "Your moms here." 

 "Great,
thanks!" She clapped him on the shoulder -- reaching way 
up -- and he passed through the crowd of children, meeting their stares with a
gentle smile. 

 Talon,
Maggie, and the twins lived in a seven-room dwelling that went to great lengths
to seem as if it wasnt underground. Fake windows, complete with drapes,
framed photos of landscapes in the convincing illusion that gardens and beaches
really were on the other side of the walls. The furnishings were homey, if
somewhat tattered by claw marks left by two rambunctious youngsters. 

 Diane
Maza, quite a bit more grey now than shed been back before she found out that
her son had been turned into a bat-winged panther-man and her daughter was in
love with a gargoyle, was in the front room trying to coax her grandson down
from the top of a high bookcase. 

 "Thomas
Reed Maza, you come down here right this instant and wash up for -- oh,
Elisa!" 

 "Hi,
Mom." 

 "Elisas
here already?" Maggie rushed out from the kitchen, drying her hands on a
dishtowel. They hugged like sisters; in the absolute dearth of tolerance from
her own relatives, Maggie had become more and more dependent on her in-laws for
familial affection. 

 Talon
came in from the bedroom, holding Dee upside-down and tickling her. "Hey,
Elisa!" 

 They all crowded
around one another, embracing and talking at once. Finally, Elisa pulled back,
presented the kids. 
 They
had been staring in fascination at the twins; thus far, Amber was the only
physically unusual child theyd seen, and she was mostly human-looking. But
Tom, with a pelt only a shade or two lighter than his fathers, and Dee with
her rosette-spotted tawny fur, were strikingly different. 

 But kids were kids,
and five minutes later they were all dashing down the hall to see the jungle gym
that Talon built. 
 "Wash
up before you come back!" Diane Maza called after them. " All 
of you!" 

 In
the comparative quiet, Elisa and Fox unfolded the whole story. Maggie in
particular was horrified at the idea of children being used for experimentation.
It had happened to her, but shed been in her twenties; it had happened to
Samson when he was only seventeen ... but this was even worse. 

 "So,
Mom, what do you think?" Elisa said. 

 "I
dont know, honey ... with these powers of theirs ... can they control
them?" 

 Talon
chuckled. "No worse than our two with their electric blasts." 

 "Only
two of them really have ..." She floundered, looking for the right word. 

 "Property-damage
capabilities?" Fox suggested. 

 "Yeah
... but they dont break more than any other kid. Remember Grandmas crystal
bowl? Or the time Beth set the drapes on fire?" Elisa reminded her mother. 

 A
timer went off in the kitchen. Maggie cupped her hands around her mouth.
"Lunch!" 

 "Hope
fish sticks and animal crackers are all right," Talon said. "Thats
all theyll eat." 

 "But
you cook the fish
sticks," Fox said. "Im still not over Aiden crunching them frozen
back during the breeding season." 

 "I
hope we have enough," Maggie looked worried. "If Id known everyone
was coming over today, I would have done something fancier." 

 "Well
survive, honest," Elisa said. "You dont have to trot out the fancy
china for us." 

 It took fifteen
minutes and the combined efforts of Diane, Elisa, and Fox, but they got all the
kids at the table, and with clean hands and faces. Brittany helped out by
pouring a round of milk for all, while Maggie dished out the meal. 
 While
they ate, Elisa watched her mother closely while trying not to seem as if she
were watching at all. She couldnt fool Diane, had rarely been able to. But it
didnt matter; before they got to the animal crackers, she was charmed. 

 By Neesha in
particular; Elisa and Talon shared a vaguely rueful glance because had things
gone differently in their respective love lives, Neesha could have been the
grandchild Diane had always wanted. 
 Maggies
worries proved needless; there was more than enough for everyone. Several times,
Elisa noticed her sister-in-law wearing a perplexed frown as she went to and
from the kitchen, and resolved to ask her about it later. 

 The news that their
next stop was the toy store almost prompted a mutiny from the twins, so Elisa
had to promise to bring them each a surprise. Not to the tune of a hundred
bucks, though, that was for sure. 
 When lunch was done,
the younger kids went back to the jungle gym. Samson knocked and asked if the
others wanted to see his model railroad. Talon was called away to deal with a
transient who was threatening to clobber someone with a length of pipe. 
 "How
traditional," Fox said as she helped clear the table. "Womens
work." 

 "They
are lovely children, Elisa," Diane said. "Id be happy to have them.
Im sure your father will feel the same way." 

 "Mom,
Im so glad! These kids really need a place. Ebon and Gabriel mean well, they
really do, but thats a hard life out there on the Point. I know you and Dad
will do a great job with them ... your own kids turned out mostly okay! ... and
youll have all the help you need. I swear." 

 "They
dont seem strange at all," Maggie said. 

 "Was
everything okay out there?" Elisa asked. "I noticed you looked a
little ... off, somehow." 

 Maggie
laughed, sounding embarrassed. "Youll think Im nuts." 

 "Hey,
you married my brother !"
Elisa teased. "Like I dont already!" 

 "Well
... look at this package." She held up a red box with a colorful pattern of
clowns and balloons on it. Circus Fun Cookies, it read in blindingly
yellow lettering. "It was half, maybe two-thirds full." 

 "Now
its empty." Elisa shrugged. 

 "But
there shouldnt have been more than four or five cookies apiece," Maggie
said in the voice of one who knew she was inviting ridicule. "And the fish
sticks ... how many did you have?" 

 "Uh
... seven, eight. I didnt know I was supposed to count." 

 "I
had six. Talon had ten at least. Mama Di? Fox?" 

 "Four,"
Fox said, patting her waist. "I had a big breakfast." 

 "Five
or six," Diane said. 

 "Maggie,
what are you getting at?" Elisa said. 

 "I
cooked a whole box ... a box of forty. And no way all the kids only ate one
each." 

 They
all looked at her like she was losing it. She couldnt visibly blush, not
beneath her savannah-gold pelt, but her fur bristled abashedly. 

 Before
any of them could come up with something to say, Alexander appeared in the
doorway. "I told him not to," he announced self-importantly. "But
he didnt listen." 

 "Who,
Alex?" Fox asked. 

 "Julian.
I said you cant go in there, but he did anyway." He bobbed his head
wisely. 

 "Where?" 

 "The
bedroom where the tiger-man is sleeping." 

 "Claws
room, oh, Ill go get him," Maggie said. "Its okay, theres
nothing in there that can hurt him. Whole place is childproofed. With my two, it
has to be!" 

 "I
thought you were playing on the jungle gym," Fox said, picking up her son. 

 "We
were. Neeshas a good climber but not as good as Tom. Can I have more
chocolate milk?" 

 "Weve
just got plain milk, sweetie; let me get you a clean cup," Diane said,
going to the cabinet. 

 "I
want chocolate," Alex said. 

 "Alex."
Foxs tone was warning. "Dont --" 

 "But
we had chocolate
before!" he insisted, jutting his chin stubbornly. 

 "Look,"
Elisa said, picking up one of the plastic cups that had been stacked on the
counter awaiting their turn in the sink. "Theres still some milk in this
one, and hes right ... its chocolate!" 

 Maggies
scream took them all straight back to the night of her baby shower. Elisa
dropped the cup, spraying the contents on her jeans, and ran. 

 The
door to Claws room was standing open, the darkness beyond lit only by a
single reading lamp and the glow from the machines that monitored his condition.
But now those machines were going crazy, green blips spiking across the screens. 

 At the bedside,
Maggie was holding the struggling Julian. 
 "Down!"
he demanded. "I hep!" 

 "Let
him go," Elisa said through lips that felt suddenly numb. 

 "But
he --" 

 "Maggie,
its okay, let him go." 

 She
did so with extreme reluctance. The moment his feet hit the floor, Julian
trotted over to the bed, climbed up, and reached for Claws head. 

 "Whats
he doing?" Maggie whispered. "I found him like that, on the bed, whats
he doing?" 

 The rest of the kids
were all squashing into the doorway, while behind them Fox and Diane looked on
in amazement. Elisa waved an apology and eased the door shut with her foot, then
turned her attention back to the boy. 
 His eyes were
closed, his face not tight in concentration but as relaxed as if he were on the
verge of a dream. His little fingers combed through the cream-colored ruff
around Claws face, stroked the orange and black stripes. 
 Claw opened his
eyes. 
 Maggie fainted dead
away. 

 * * 

 No one talked about
it. That was the strangest thing. 
 All the way to FAO
Schwartz, the kids chattered brightly in the back seat, as if nothing unusual
had happened. 
 Elisa had wanted to
cancel the trip, but knew even without Fox having to tell her that there would
be pint-sized hell to pay if they did. 
 So
theyd made their goodbyes, made their plans to see each other again soon, and
then left the Labyrinth while the doctor who did charity work in the
subterranean ward used heavy medical jargon to tell Talon and the
woozily-revived Maggie that he had no clue, but was sure there had to be some
reasonable explanation. 

 She could see Julian
in the rearview mirror, gazing out the window at the fluffy white flakes that
had begun twirling down from the dark sky. 
 The store employees
recognized Fox the minute she rolled down the tinted window, and from that
moment on it was absolute red-carpet treatment. If Fox had requested it, Elisa
was sure, they would have kicked out all the other customers and let them shop
in privacy. 
 But
Fox didnt request it. She rarely did. Thriving on the attention, she ushered
the crown prince Alexander and his friends into kiddie paradise. Six years and a
prison term after "The Pack" had gone off the air, she was still
mobbed by people wanting her to sign the cardboard backing on her action figure. 

 Elisa trailed along,
trying to keep an eye on seven kids at once. She commandeered a stroller and got
Julian into it without protest on his part, and as she bent down to do the
straps, she studied his dark eyes as if there was an answer to be read there for
the crazy questions in her mind. 
 Neesha
went straight for the dolls. Gilberto and Blaze found that even a hundred
dollars wouldnt go far in the video game aisle; they maturely elected to pool
their loot and buy a game system and as many cartridges as they could afford.
Brittany, for all shed been conceived in a test tube and raised in a
controlled environment, was the complete pre-teen crowd animal, glomming onto
the trendy merchandise. Little Mulan stocked up on books and videotapes. 

 "Looks
like its up to me to help you choose," Elisa said to Julian. 

 That turned out to
be easy; as soon as she came to stuffed animals and saw his whole face light up. 
 It took six clerks
to lug all the bags down to the van. Alexander now had enough Legos to build his
own life-size orbital space station, and as a last-minute choice had grabbed a
boardgame, Clue. 
 Elisa
laughed at the sight of it. "Oh, did Derrek and I ever get in some fights
playing that one! Junior crime-solvers." 

 Just
when she thought they were done and ready to go home, Fox threw her arms wide
and asked, "Who wants ice cream?" 

 "Its
 snowing !" Elisa pointed
out, but too late; no kid in history has ever said not me when asked that
question. 
 Next thing she knew,
she was driving through heavier flurries, not to good old 31 Flavors but to an
upscale dessert shop. 

 "Fox?"
she asked as the kids squashed their noses to the glass cases trying to decide
what they wanted. "What ... what do you think happened back there?" 

 "At
the toy store?" Deliberate pretense. 

 Elisa looked at her.
"Dont. You know what Im talking about." 
 "What
do I think happened? He healed Claw. Just like he healed Owen." 

 "Owen
had a split lip and a loose tooth. Claws been in a damn coma 
for two years! The best docs around swore hed never come out of it. But now
hes awake. Awake and -- well, not talking , but ..." 

 "Well
again." 

 "Yeah." 

 "Gabriel
told us what Julian could do. He was badly hurt. Compound fracture, wasnt it?
But Julian healed it right up. Its not that much stranger than what Gilberto
did to the piata last night, or Mulan knowing what someones feeling." 

 "I
guess," Elisa said. "But what about ... oh, never mind." She
chose butterscotch ripple and then had to defend it from Neesha, whod made it
her mission in life to sample what everyone else was having before deciding on
her own. 

 * * 

 The name on the
laminated XE identification badge read Sabra Indrani. 
 Anton
Sevarius pinned it to her lab coat, muttering blackly to himself as he fumbled
to make her one good hand maneuver the pin through the fabric. "It took you
long enough." 

 "I
had to revise your entire personnel file," David Xanatos said with a mild
shrug. "It wasnt easy explaining a transfer from our Investigative
Planning Department to the science team." 

 "So
good of you to give me back my job," Sevarius said sourly. "Now that Im
once more a valued employee, I trust I will be permitted certain freedoms?" 

 "Which
freedoms?" 

 " Any 
freedoms!" She swept her good arm to include the suite ... bedroom,
kitchenette, office, small lab. "My own off-site apartment?" 

 "Anton,
Anton ... Im letting you go back to work, thats a start, but Im still a
long way from trusting you. Once bitten and all that. More than once, in your
case." 

 "Im
a changed man." 

 "Obviously." 

 "Aside
from that. What youre doing is illegal, unethical, and immoral." 

 "Coming
from you, thats almost a compliment." 

 "Youre
holding me prisoner here, forcing me to work. Im as much a slave now as I was
when I was trapped in your computer." 

 "No,
this time youre on the payroll." 

 "But
still a prisoner. Denied my rights. As far as the rest of the world knows, Im
not mastermind geneticist Anton Sevarius, wanted for questioning in a variety of
touchy matters." 

 "Im
afraid you dont understand my position here, Anton. We are in the same boat.
Either of us has enough sensitive information to blow the other out of the
water." 

 "Sabra
Indrani is an innocent woman ... an innocent disabled 
 minority woman, no less. Youd have so many civil rights groups on your
neck that youd need a cervical collar." 

 "A
move that would put you instantly in the public spotlight. You might be able to
keep up the ruse, despite your tendency to overact, Ill give you that. Sabra
Indrani has no family, no close friends. No one to wonder at a change in
personality. But youd still be trapped. Youve expressed interest in
gaining access to the medical technology to repair or remake your body. Take me
to court, and ..." He hooked his thumbs together and flapped his hands,
miming a birdie just flying away. "But be patient, do as youre told, and
we can come to an agreement." 

 "Maybe
itd be worth it to bring you down." Her grin widened ghoulishly.
"Or maybe we could keep this all internal, strictly internal." 

 Xanatos
frowned suspiciously. "By which you mean ...?" 

 "The
gargoyles. Detective Maza. The mutates. The trust they have in you is not built
on firm foundations. If they found out you were harboring me ..." 

 "Youre
off the mark with that one. They knew about Godiva. Lexington dug into your
memory to find out about Ventura. I already had that discussion with Goliath. Of
course, he wasnt thrilled, but considering the reaction he might have had, it
went fairly well." 

 "That
was when you all believed me confined to a computer. Have you told them about
this latest development? Have you told them youre putting me back to work,
letting me use my skills?" 

 "Frankly,
Anton, I didnt think it was worth the mention." 

 "Ill
take that as a no. You know 
that Goliath would be furious." 

 "Nonsense.
What was I supposed to do, kill you? Youre inhabiting someone elses body.
The real Sabra may have done some questionable things, but her motivations were
at least understandable. When shes found, the plan is to reverse the process
--" 

 Sevarius
laughed like a yelping seal. "Shell never submit to that." 

 "She
doesnt have to agree. But she will need an intact body to come back to. Youre
currently in there. To wrest you out would put a lot of strain on that body,
leave it in a vegetative state. Until were ready to make the transfer, we cant
risk that. So were stuck with you for the time being. None of us may like 
it, but were being realistic." 

 "And
letting me back in a lab?" 

 "Im
beginning to think youre trying to talk me out of that decision. Thats
fine with me. There are other
geneticists out there." 

 "None
of my caliber!" 

 "And
at the moment," Xanatos continued with another shrug, "none of our
projects have a particularly pressing need for another one. I was doing you a
favor." 

 "You
make me sick," Sevarius declared. "A favor indeed! You want to milk
the fruits of my genius while you can, and then thank me by shoving me back in a
computer!" 

 "Milk
the fruits of your genius?" he echoed. 

 "You
know what I meant," Sevarius sulked. 

 "I
also know you were a temperamental diva even in your original 
body and things havent improved. All this bluster and posturing is your way
of trying to establish your place in the pecking order. Give it a rest. Go back
to work." 

 "Maybe
I dont want to." 

 "Thats
up to you. But personally, I think youre right. Even if we do find Godiva,
she wont go back willingly. We might have to destroy her. That would leave
you right where you are for the rest of your life. So shouldnt you make the
best of it?" 

 Sevarius
sighed and looked down at her withered legs beneath the light cotton blanket
draped over her lap. "Youve made your point, Xanatos. As usual." 

 "Good.
Here are some file names and passwords that you might find helpful." 

 "Xanatos!"
rang Elisa Mazas voice from down the hall. "I need to talk to you now !" 

 "Now,
if youll excuse me," he added, "Detective Maza sounds upset. Id
better see what she wants." 

 He
stepped into the hall and closed the door. The moment it latched behind him,
Sevarius wheeled over there and tilted her head to the wood. With her good hand,
she clumsily rolled the piece of paper hed given her into a tube, and placed
one end of the makeshift stethoscope against the door. 

 "Trouble,
Elisa?" 

 "You
tell me ... whered she take him? Whats she up to?" 

 "Slow
down, back up --" 

 "Dont
give me that, Xanatos! Youre lucky I found you first; Ebon and Gabriel are
just about climbing the walls! Is this one of your plots?" 

 "Wait.
Start at the beginning. I dont know what youre talking about." 

 "Where
did Fox take Julian?" 

 "What?" 

 "Fox.
Your wife. Julian. The little boy. Where did she take him?" 

 "I
... isnt she here?" 

 A
pause, in which Sevarius surmised that Detective Maza recognized the sincere
confusion in Xanatos words. When she spoke again, she was calmer and less
accusatory. 

 "Fox
took Julian out. Just him. None of the others. Not even Alex. After what
happened today --" 

 "Something
happened?" 

 "Julian
healed Claw. Brought him out of his coma. There was some other stuff too ... no.
Forget that part. But he did 
heal him. A gift like that is so valuable ..." 

 "And
knowing how mercenary Fox and I have always been, you suspected foul play,"
Xanatos said scornfully. "I suppose its all an Illuminati scheme. Oh,
yes, we cant let a talent like that be wasted, hidden away! Its got to be
utilized! Made the most of!" He made a disgusted noise very close to a
raspberry. 

 "Im
sorry," Maza said, so low that Sevarius could barely hear. "But she
didnt say a word to anyone, even Owen. Ebon is ready to tear the castle apart
looking for answers." 

 "Theres
no need. I think I know where shes gone." 

 * * 

 "Hello,
Daddy." 

 "You
could use the main entrance," Halcyon Renard said, glancing up at the
acid-melted lock of the roof access hatch. "But I suppose this is more fun ." 

 "That
wasnt my reason this time." 

 He
rotated his chair to face her, and his brows knit together. "Another child
of yours youve neglected to mention?" 

 The
small figure in Janines arms returned Renards gaze evenly, without the
fear that his age-raddled visage and shrunken body seemed to inspire in children
that young. This one was bundled up in one of Alexanders old snowsuits,
hardly anything visible but a pair of shy blue eyes, a button nose, and a cherubs
bow of a mouth. 

 "No,"
Janine said. "This is Julian. He was named after a singer." 

 "Mm-hm,"
Renard said. "Whats this about? Why did you come in through the roof? Weve
installed security measures, you know ... if I hadnt recognized you and
deactivated them, you could have been seriously hurt." 

 "I
didnt want anyone to see me bringing Julian in here. They mightve mistook
him for Alex, but even so, I wouldnt want anyone to think he was responsible
for it either." 

 She set the boy down
and began unwrapping layer after layer of winter clothing. 
 "Responsible
for what?" 

 "Daddy
... Julian can help you. Right, kiddo?" 

 "I
hep," the boy said to Renard, trying to pull off his mittens and looking
comically surprised when the cord -- what Renards own mother had always
called an idiot-string -- left them dangling at his wrists. 

 "Explain
yourself, Janine." 

 She
flicked the tip of her tongue nervously against her upper lip, a mannerism he
hadnt seen since she was a teenager. "Hes a ... special child. A very
special child." 

 "Arent
they all?" Despite himself, he smiled at the boy. 

 "He
has a gift ... its easier to show you than to explain. Please, Daddy, let him
help you. He wants to. I should have realized it last night when he brought me
the picture, but it didnt click until this afternoon." 

 "Up,"
Julian said, raising his arms to Renard. 

 "But
it has to be a secret," Janine said. "You cant tell anyone." 

 Renard
looked at the boy, standing patiently with his little arms in the air.
"What is this? Some sort of a silly prank?" 

 Janine
picked up Julian and deposited him in Renards lap. "Youll see." 

 Julian
was smaller and lighter than Alexander, whod done his share of riding around
as a second passenger in the motorized chair. 

 He
slowly brought his smooth, pink hands to Renards face. Renard nearly recoiled
from the touch, not accustomed to such and not wanting the boy to be repulsed by
the leathery feel of his skin. 

 "I
hep," Julian whispered, closing his eyes. 

 Over
the boys shoulder, Renard saw Janine watching with frightening, hopeful
intensity. Then she vanished, everything vanished, as a clean white glow
suffused his vision. A clean white glow that seemed to be coming from inside of
himself, blazing bright as a star, as the sun. 

 A strange heat grew
with it, a tingling heat that began in his head and spread through his frail
body. Flowed through him, igniting every cell with a white fire. 
 He felt it move down
his back and into his legs. The useless twigs that had pained and hampered him
for over twenty years twitched and burned. 
 Renard gasped in a
panicked breath, his lungs expanding more than they had in a decade. His heart
hammered, not in the spastic rhythm that had so lately begun to worry Dr. Nguyen
but in the solid beat of wellness. 
 A blink, and the
glow was gone. Everything was back to normal and nothing could ever be normal
again. 
 The
palsy was gone from his fingers, the pain vanished from his knotlike arthritic
knuckles. He couldnt feel the ulcer that gnawed at the tender inner wall of
his stomach. Couldnt feel the dull cramp in his lower back and pelvis that
came from sitting up too long. 

 He could feel
his legs. Inside his slippers, his toes curled at his command. With monumental
effort, he straightened one slightly, as much as the confines of his
bullet-front chair would allow. He felt the bump of his foot against the curved
interior. 
 With
a tremulous cry of disbelief, Renard stared at the boy on his lap. Julian
smiled, weary but happy, not proud of what hed done but pleased at the
effects. 

 "It
worked," Janine said, very near tears. "It really worked!" 

 "All
better?" Julian asked. 

 "My
God," Renard gasped. "Im ..." 

 "Oh,
Daddy! Oh, Julian!" She embraced them both, smacked a kiss atop each of
their heads, and picked up the boy for another hug. "Thank you,
Julian!" 

 "This
boy healed me?" 

 "I
told you I couldnt explain. But yes, he did. He did. Youre not the first.
Hes got a gift, the most precious gift in the world." 

 Renard
shifted his other leg. Already, just those few movements were leaving him shaky
and weak. "It has its limits. Im still old. Disease and injury, yes, but
not the ravages of time. Whats the price?" 

 "No
price," she said, startled. 

 "The
catch? What is it, Janine? A drug? How soon will it wear off? What are you going
to demand of me in return?" 

 Comprehension
was followed swiftly by deep hurt. "Its not like that. All I wanted was
to share this with you. Im not trying to get anything out of you." 

 "I
wish I could believe that. Tell me the truth, Janine." 

 "I
 am . Youre well again. Youll
be able to walk, once your legs have built up their strength. You just cant
tell anyone how it happened. Promise me that, please." 

 "This
isnt like you." 

 "Ive
made a lot of mistakes," she said. "Ive never lived up to the kind
of daughter you wanted, never took responsibility for my actions. Is that what
you want to hear? Ive never cared about honor or integrity. But this time I
am being honest. I saw a way to help you and I went for it. Maybe itll make
up for all the other rotten things Ive done to you all my life." 

 "Sincerity,"
he marveled. "For the first time, I hear sincerity from you." 

 " Please ,
Daddy!" 

 He
flexed his fingers, smoothly and without flares of agony. "Weve both 
made our share of mistakes. But it could be that its not too late to start
over." 

 * * 

 "Elisa,
got a minute?" 

 She
turned as Xanatos poked his head out of his office and waved. "Something
wrong?" 

 "No
... just something I think Id better fill you in on." 

 "Why
does that make my skin crawl?" She had been on her way down to the main
kitchen to rustle up a late-afternoon breakfast, since the gargoyles suite
was a case of Mother Hubbards cupboards again, but diverted into the office
and sat down. "Whatd you do this time?" 

 He
raised both hands innocently. "I saved someones life. But when I tell
you the whole story, youre liable to object." 

 Her
eyes narrowed. "Okay ..." 

 "Ive
been thinking about it for the past couple of days, figured it was time to come
clean. I wanted to explain to you first, alone, because youre slightly less
likely than Goliath to put me in the hospital." 

 "Youre
making me nervous." 

 After a deep breath
and a contemplative pause, he laid it all out for her. The real details
of the Godiva case. What had happened to her body and who was driving it. The
reasons he had glossed it over from the clan. 
 She
was too incredulous to be pissed. "You brought Sevarius back. After all the
stuff hes pulled. And youre putting him back to work ?
Why?" 

 "Because
up until the next time he betrays me, hell be worth millions --" 

 "Do
you need more millions?" 

 "Its
not only the money. Its what he might discover." 

 "Doomsday
viruses. New and improved mutagenic agents." 

 "Hes
... shes ... more
interested in regeneratives now. If Sevarius can come up with something that can
do what Julian can do, imagine the benefits to humanity. We were up all night
back-and-forthing the issue, after Fox took him to heal Renard. A valuable gift,
the most valuable one in the world, you said so yourself. But as Ebon so
stridently pointed out, Julian is only a child, young and very fragile." 

 She
nodded. "Talk about a dilemma. Should his power be made available? Who
decides how it should be used? Is the benefit worth the risk? What if he fell
into the wrong hands -- and are we even the right hands anyway? Yeah, Xanatos,
we went around that block until past dawn and still didnt get anywhere." 

 "A
small taste of what its like to be Illuminati," he said dryly. 

 "Then
you and Matt can keep it. Or maybe wed all be better off without the
Illuminati. What gives this secret society the right to make these kind of
decisions?" 

 "No
one gives us that right ...
the Society takes it upon itself." 

 "Fine,
whatever, were getting off the point here. So youre saying that if
Sevarius can whip up some sort of genetic cure-all, it eliminates the whole
Julian question. No need to put him at risk if there are other ways to get the
same results." 

 "Exactly." 

 "Though
it still puts you in the position of being able to pick and choose who gets
access and who doesnt. Make it available to your allies, withhold it from
your enemies, use it as a lever to make people do what you want." 

 "Well
..." 

 "Dont
sit there and look at me like you never thought of that. Its just one more
scheme to you. How can you 
come out of this on top? It was that kind of thinking that brought us the
Matrix, remember? A brave new world personally designed by you and Fox, with
your own best interests in mind." 

 "Weve
been over this familiar ground before. You dont think Im qualified to make
decisions of that magnitude. Im aware of that." 

 "Damn
right I dont! Look at your judgment! Youre willing to take Sevarius 
back under your wing!" 

 "Closely
monitored, yes." 

 "When
you know there are no other geneticists his equal, so whos going to monitor
him? Whos good enough to make sure he doesnt slip in a few optional
extras? Things that might not crop up for a few years down the line? Sure, he
comes up with something, you test it, it looks like it works, no side effects
right away, so you start administering it where you want ... and then ten,
twenty years later all of your elite 
wind up undergoing cellular meltdown. Wake up , Xanatos!" 

 "I
am awake, and I have considered every point youve brought up. Yes, I know its
a gamble." 

 "A
gamble! He designed a virus for Demona that would have wiped out all human life!
Did he ever stop to think that might include himself?" 

 "Actually,
yes ... hed introduced an undetectable component into the virus that would
have interacted with his own DNA and that of his relatives, leaving them
immune." 

 Elisa briefly
envisioned a world empty of all but gargoyles and Sevarius clones, and shuddered
-- it was worse, somehow, than envisioning one with all humanity
destroyed. "So you see? He double-crossed Demona. Hed do it to
you." 
 "What
would you have me do, Elisa? Kill him? Werent you just saying something about
how none of us should have the right to dictate life and death?" 

 "No,
you cant kill him! He
should be brought to justice --" 

 "As
Anton himself pointed out, hes Sabra Indrani now. If we reveal the proof of
how he got to be what he is, what do you think would happen? People have no idea
how far cloning and braintaping science have progressed. Itd shake their
trust in the whole system, just like it would if they found out the truth about
extraterrestrial contact." 

 "So
you mean that hes legally a different person now, with a clean record, and
the law cant touch him." 

 "Thats
precisely what I mean." 

 She
slumped back in her chair and rubbed her temples. "How do you live like
this?" 

 "How
do you ? There are some things
that just have to be kept under wraps. If we brought everything into the
open, next thing you know youd be a guest on Elaine! telling the
studio audience about your troubles with Goliaths ex-mate." 

 "Hell
freezes over, film at eleven," she said hollowly. 

 "So
do you understand why Im doing this?" 

 "I
understand that part, but I still think trusting Sevarius and putting him back
in the lab is just plain stupid." 

 "What
would you suggest as the best way to broach the subject with the
gargoyles?" 

 She
sat up straight. "Unh-uh, no way, count me out, Xanatos. I am not 
getting involved in that one." 

 "You
mean you think its best if they dont find out? You dont plan to tell
Goliath yourself this evening?" 

 "I
dont know what I mean. Why did you even tell me ?
Youve kept your dirty little secret since December, so why come clean
now?" 

 "Because
Antons being difficult, and if I dont give him ... her ... what she wants,
she threatened to tell all. I knew the only way to handle this with a modicum of
gracefulness was to tell you myself." 

 "What
does he ... she ... damn, thats just too 
weird!" 

 "What
does she want? Certain freedoms, as she put it. At the moment, Ive got her
confined to the science and medical units and her own suite, basically a
prisoner." 

 "Freedoms
as in a company car, expense account? Or do you mean something more along the
lines of freedom to conduct questionable experiments?" A chill raced
through her as if shed been injected with liquid nitrogen. "Oh, my God
... you were talking about developing healing drugs ... you are not 
going to let Sevarius get his hands on Julian!" 

 "Elisa,
I never said --" 

 "Is
that where this was leading? Take a few samples, isolate the gene that gives him
his gift? That is the lowest thing I have ever 
heard." 

 "Youre
getting way ahead of me here --" 

 "And
you ask me how to broach the subject with the gargoyles? You broach that 
subject to Ebon and Gabriel, and youll be in pieces before the last word is
out of your mouth." 

 "I
have no intention of giving Julian to Sevarius," he said sharply. "Sevarius
doesnt even know about him. Maybe once I would have considered it, but that
was a long time ago." 

 "It
wouldnt work anyway," she said. "Hes not like the other kids. I
can feel it. So can Fox. Cant you?" 

 "What
are you talking about?" 

 "Theres
more to him than that. Its crazy, I know it is. But theres more ." 

 "Hes
a little boy with a remarkable ability." 

 "Its
more than that," she insisted. 

 "What
is it, then?" 

 "The
..." she broke off and shook her head. "Youd send for the guys with
the butterfly nets." 

 "Dr.
Masters gave all the kids extensive physicals," Xanatos said. "Julians
just as human as the rest of them. Not one of Avalons own, if thats what
you were thinking. Owen would have picked up on that anyway." 

 "No,
thats not it." 

 "Somethings
on your mind, though." 

 "Like
I said, its crazy. Totally nuts. So far out there they dont even have 7-11s." 

 "I
promise not to laugh. Or call
the psych techs." 

 "Shouldnt
you be figuring out what youre going to tell the gargoyles?" she asked.
"Dusk in less than an hour, and if you havent fessed up by
suppertime, Im going to spill it all to Goliath and you can bet hell come
looking for an explanation." 

 "Ill
talk to him. Im just glad Ebon took the kids back to Rocky Point. I dont
think I could stand a repeat of the other night. I dont envy Fox having to
face that music, but she stuck to her guns admirably." 

 "I
have to agree with you on that one. She did a dumb thing, taking Julian out
without telling anyone, but she did it to help her father. I couldnt really
argue with that." 

 * * 

 "Tsk,
tsk," Anton Sevarius chuckled to herself, as she tapped in a password and
watched all of the protected medical files come up. 

 Her old password,
the official one, had been cleared. Having long ago foreseen such a time when
Xanatos might decide to lock then-him out, Sevarius had paid a hefty bribe to
one of the programmers to add a second, secret one. And here it was, working
just dandy, so many years later. 
 It
was a joy to be back at work. Shed spent the past couple of days accustoming
herself to the labs, making polite chit-chat with her new colleagues (though
most of them were sufficiently freaked out by her witchlike appearance to cut
that sort of social blather to a minimum). 

 Her
new password gave her access to several current projects. Xanatos had told her
to prowl around, decide what inspired her. Hed been right in his claim that
they werent currently doing much that was interesting. Kid stuff, to Anton
Sevarius. 

 But
shed offered up her talents to the leader of the team in charge of growing
replacement organs engineered to be compatible with anyones body, a plan
which might one day bring about organ banks with no need for donor-match
searches. 

 Kid stuff. 
 Still, she had to be
careful not to blow her cover by being too good. A couple of the team
members had once worked for her under her other guise and might be tipped off if
she didnt watch her figurative step. 
 The rest of the team
called it a night, but Sevarius made some excuses about wanting to catch up on
the research files and they swallowed it. Now she was alone in the lab, and it
was time to see what else Xanatos might be up to. 
 Medical records and
articles, yes ... ah, here was a familiar one, complete with transcribed
information stolen from her own once-computerized mind. Theories and
speculations on human-gargoyle crossbreeds. 
 What was this? 
 She
leaned closer, reading with increasing amusement Dr. Masters detailed notes
on the gestation and birth of one Amber Maza. That hardly came as a surprise;
the part that boggled Sevarius was that theyd accomplished it without a
little boost from science. 

 Data on gargoyle
breeding rituals and the resultant physical and hormonal changes ... monitoring
the actual egg-laying process ... but where were the analyses of the egg-sac
fluid, which could have been taken before the shells hardened? Where were the
tissue samples? The DNA sequences? The chromosomal breakdowns? 
 Sevarius pursed her
lips in disgust. And this Masters called himself a scientist ! Why, if shed 
had that opportunity --! 
 Ah, well. Next time. 
 She
moved on, scrolling idly through the "royal familys" records of
check-ups. Not much of interest there. 

 The newest entries,
a series of six child physical exams, caught her eye. Six exams in the same day,
for different children, all with names that rang no bells. 
 She opened the first
one. 

 Brittany (Inst. des.
F-17). 

 Inst.? 
 Well, well! Now this 
was interesting! 
 Reading swiftly
through, she scowled as she realized there were not nearly the battery of tests
a proper doctor would have ordered. But it was enough to tell her what she was
seeing. 
 Going
back to the main list, she spotted the name Julian and this time a bell
rang as insistent as if a really gung-ho salesman were on the stoop. 

 She read the entry
four times, each time with a growing certainty. Half of her mouth twisted into a
sardonic smile, and she barked her strange seal-like laugh into the silence of
the lab. 
 Her laugh abruptly
soured at the realization that Xanatos had known about this for days, had
let the boy heal his grumpy old father-in-law, and had made absolutely no
mention of any of it to her. 
 This child could heal 
her, mend her wasted legs just as surely as hed mended Renards, wash away
the paralysis that gripped her arm and face, make her whole again. And Xanatos
hadnt even so much as offered. 
 Bastard. 
 Perhaps it was time
to make good on her earlier threat. 

 * * 

 The
anticipated blowout hadnt been nearly as bad as theyd feared, but Xanatos
still seemed very glad when it was over. 

 Maybe
Goliath had worn himself out backing up Ebons tirade at Fox the other night.
Maybe he realized the futility of debate, something that would probably never
happen with Elisa herself; she would probably be arguing pointlessly with
Xanatos for the next fifty years. 

 Whichever the
reason, his attitude had been more one of unsurprised scorn and disappointment.
As if it was no less than what he might have reason to expect of Xanatos. 
 And it looked to
Elisa like that stung Xanatos a little. 
 "On
the brighter side," he said, "weve successfully set up the
credentials for Ebons wards. Its all nice and legal on paper now. They
officially exist. I arranged a transfer between fictitious foster homes, and were
set to enroll them in a private home-school." 

 Elisa
smiled. "Thats great." 

 Owen
opened the door. "Mr. Xanatos?" 

 "Yes,
Owen?" 

 "Dr.
Indrani is asking to speak with you." 

 Xanatos
looked from Goliath to Elisa, then back to Owen. "By all means, send her
in." 

 Owens
face was unreadable as he held the door wide to admit the wheelchair. 

 Elisa had been
prepared by pictures Xanatos had shown them, but it was still a shock. 
 As Sevarius saw the
company Xanatos was keeping, her smug expression turned bitter and suspicious. 
 "Hello,
Anton," Xanatos said deliberately. 

 Goliaths
lip curled back from his teeth. "Sevarius." 

 "Well,
I see youve taken this out of my hands," Sevarius said. "I was
coming to bargain with you." 

 "Blackmail
me, you mean." 

 "Call
it what you will. Goliath. Detective." A ghost of the smugness returned as
Sevarius asked, "Hows your daughter?" 

 Elisa shot Xanatos a
demanding look. 
 "Youve
been snooping, Anton." 

 "Yes,
and I am appalled at this Dr. Masters of yours. Hes the least thorough, most
addle-brained excuse for a scientist Ive ever encountered." 

 "So
you came to blackmail me. Was this to be my last warning before you went to
Elisa and the gargoyles with my deception? My last chance to agree to give you
those freedoms?" 

 "Oh,
Id moved on from seeking my own apartment," Sevarius said. "I just
want this body back in perfect working order. Id contemplated loosing a new
strain of biological contaminants --" 

 Here, if Elisa had
harbored any doubts, she lost them. No matter what form, nobody could say
biological contaminants as sumptuously as Anton Sevarius. 
 "--
but in the end I decided merely to ask nicely," she finished. 

 "Ive
told you, Anton, thats out of my hands --" Xanatos began. 

 "But
not out of the boys hands." 

 Elisa
and Goliath both lurched in their seats as if about to spring up and start
breaking things, beginning with Sevarius. They subsided reluctantly, but no one
in the room missed how Goliaths claws were digging channels in the wooden arm
of his chair. 

 "You
really have been
snooping," Xanatos said mildly. 

 "Im
prepared to offer you my complete loyalty --" Sevarius began, and Elisa
uttered a short, sharp sound somewhere between a snarl and a laugh. 

 "In
exchange for what?" Xanatos asked in a tone which said, as was the case,
that he already knew. 

 "To
be healed, of course." 

 "And
to have access to the boy, try and duplicate his ability?" 

 Sevarius
snorted. "No, of course not." 

 Taken
aback, Xanatos floundered. "What?" 

 "Even
I couldnt isolate any one particular gene responsible for that .
And none of you are remotely prepared to deal with him, if what I suspect is
true." 
 * * 
 The waves marched
endlessly, endlessly. Swells of deepest blue that curled into white as they
neared the shore, then dashed themselves apart on the stony beach. 
 Ebon swung slowly
back and forth. Moonlight waxed and waned as the porch swing moved in and out of
the shadows, showing the illustrations in the book he held. 

 "...
that Sneetches are Sneetches," he read, "and no kind of Sneetch is the
best on the beaches. That day, all the Sneetches forgot about stars, and whether
they had one, or not, upon thars." 

 Julian reached to
turn the page, but Ebon gently stopped him. 
 "Breakfast
time. Well read about the Zax later." 

 Behind
them, the small house was busy with light and noise. In a moment, theyd go
in, be swallowed up in the activity, but for now, Ebon was content to sit here
with the boy beside him, the boy whose coloring, delicate features, and sweet
nature could have made him Juliannas own son. 

 He tried not to
think how it would hurt to send them away. The children, his children.
Though Gabriel had rescued them, even against Ebons initial objections, theyd
come to see Gabriel as an older brother. Ebon himself was patriarch of his clan. 
 Strange when
chronologically he was younger than many of them. 
 But
hed lived two full lives in the short time hed been around. The first a
life of deceit and villainy, the second of music and love. Now he was
well-embarked on his third one, loss and remembrance. 

 Julian sat beside
him, not fidgeting, not fussing. Just as content as Ebon was, soothed by the
motion of the swing and the rhythm of the waves. 
 He tried to think of
what he would do when they were gone to their new place, their new normal life
of schooling and daylight. The house, so small, too small for so many ...
could he and Gabriel fill it with just themselves? They had once before, but it
was as if the house, as well as their lives, had stretched to accommodate. When
the children were gone, it would be huge and empty. 
 Gabriel
would probably be leaving soon after, Ebon realized. It wouldnt be enough for
the young male to stay out here in isolation. Hed been raised with dozens of
siblings, and Ebon alone would not be enough to satisfy that need for clan now
that the wounds of the soul that had brought him here had been mended by solace
and solitude. 

 Julian
snuggled closer and rested his head on Ebons arm. "Don wanna go skool,"
he murmured. "Don wanna go way." 

 Ebons
throat tightened. 

 "Wanna
stay here, wif you." 

 "Youll
like the --" He stopped, unable to bring himself to say all the right
things. How could he sound positive and upbeat about it when the thought of
losing this child was like a knife going into his heart? "Im sorry,
Julian." 

 "Don
make me go, Daddy." It wasnt a whine, only a soft plea that already knew
there was no hope. 

 Ebon
shut his eyes briefly. "I wish you could be my son. I look at Goliath with
his family and I envy him ... I think of Julianna ..." 

 "We
go see?" 

 "Go
see ...? Oh. No. Not tonight." 

 "Please?
I not hungwy yet." 

 He
glanced toward the house. Through the well-lit windows, he could see Mrs.
Goodall and Brittany by the stove, Gabriel rough-housing with the older boys,
the girls giggling as Neesha clumsily clipped barrettes in Mulans hair. 

 "Well,
just for a little while." He took Julians hand and they walked down the
beach, to a rise where a narrow path climbed through a split in an immense
boulder. Up and up, and when the going got too hard for the boy, Ebon balanced
him on his shoulders. 

 At
the top, a small sheltered nook was cradled in the shell of the boulder. The
wind whistled relentlessly around the opening that gave a sweeping view of the
Point, but inside, it was barely a whisper. The floor was grassy, the nooks
walls mossy. 

 "The
more I thought about it," Ebon said, setting the boy down and approaching
the headstone at one end of a mound, "the more I knew she wouldnt be
happy so far away, in California. After ..." he trailed off, having never
spoke of what had happened his first night in the bar, the night he had
contacted her for that aching but too-short moment. "I brought her here, so
that she would never be far from me." 

 "Tell
me?" 

 "She
was ... sad and beautiful ... with a voice like an angel ... she needed 
me in a way that no one had ever needed me before. From loving her, I learned
what it meant to protect, what it meant to be part of a clan. She was my
hope." He hung his head. "And then it was too late. She was gone
before I could tell her what she meant to me, gone before we dared to see if we
had the courage to acknowledge our love." 

 "I
hep." 

 Ebon
sighed. "Its too late for that, Julian. Even a healer cant help her
now." 

 * * 
 "If
you know whats good for you, Sevarius, youd better cut the crap and tell
us what youre talking about," Elisa said. 

 "There
really is no need for this animosity." 

 "If
I had proof on half the stuff
youve done, and proof that you were who you really are, Id have your butt
behind bars so fast youd think you were in a time warp!" 

 "Im
well aware of all of that, Detective." She folded her good hand across her
bad one. "Have you noticed anything else unusual about him? Beyond his gift
for healing?" 

 Elisa stirred, but
said nothing. 
 "Been
entertaining speculations that seem crazy?" Sevarius prompted. "That
seem more than crazy, that seem downright impossible in this day and age?" 

 "Get
to the point," Goliath growled. 

 "Let
me tell you a story. Before I met my untimely end --" 

 "Which
time?" Elisa interrupted coldly. 

 Sevarius
rolled her eyes to the ceiling. "The last time, when your brother killed
me." 

 "When
you abducted his wife." 

 "And
safely delivered their children. For which I never received any thanks, might I
add. No, my reward was to be confined to a life of electronic purgatory. A
lesser mind might have gone insane." 

 Elisa made a rude
face. 
 "At
any rate," Sevarius went on, "the point that Im trying to make,
unless youd rather argue about water long under the bridge ...?" 

 "Go
on," she said. 

 "Ahem.
Yes. I was involved in a rather remarkable project that may have some bearing on
this matter." 

 "You
were part of the Institute," Xanatos said. "Of course. Your own
brother was one of the founding scientists." 

 "Peripherally,"
Sevarius agreed. "But my participation was cut short by the circumstances
weve already addressed, and I was unable to see my research ... bear fruit,
as it were. The financiers of the project had some highly specific, not to
mention unscientific, demands. But you know how it is -- humor the
money-men." 

 "Get
on with it, Sevarius," Elisa said. "What kind of project? What are you
talking about?" 

 She
gave her a condescending look. "Cloning, naturally. My assignment was to
extract DNA from a rather unique source, form an embryo, and implant it into a
specially-chosen host. I completed the job not quite four years ago. The
resultant child would now be ..." 

 "Julians
age," she said with rising horror. 

 Goliath
leaned forward, tensed to rise. "Are you saying that he 
is one of your --" 

 "Not
necessarily. Im only saying the timing is right, and given his unusual
talents, its worthy of consideration." 

 Elisa
fought down an urge to pummel the crap out of Sevarius; she couldnt bring
herself to hit a woman in a wheelchair no matter the provocation. "Quit
playing with us and tell us what you did. What unique 
 source did you use for DNA?" 

 Sevarius
let them hang a moment longer. "Havent you guessed?" 

 Her fist curled ...
maybe there was a provocation worth the pummeling ... 
 "The
Shroud of Turin." 

 * * 

 A shimmering twinkle
of silver light appeared above the beach. It expanded suddenly into a bubble,
then winked out. Five gargoyles stood where there had only been wave-washed
stones a moment before. 
 Then
only four of them stood; the smallest of the group keeled over and would have
gone head-first into the driftwood if her mate hadnt caught her. 

 "Ooh,"
Aiden said, pressing her fingertips to her brow ridges. 

 "Owen
told you that spell would take a lot out of you," Lex said. 

 Goliath
assured himself that Aiden was all right, then looked around for Gabriel. He
didnt have to look long; Gabriel was already on his way down the rocky slabs
that served as steps leading from the house. The kids were close on his tail,
and waiting on the porch was a grey-haired woman. 

 "We
came as soon as we could," Angela said, greeting her rookery brother with a
hug. "Has there been any news?" 

 Gabriels
face was drawn with worry. "Nothing. I even went to his bar, nothing ." 

 "Well
find him," Brooklyn told Gabriel, then glanced at Goliath. "A search,
see if we turn up anything Gabriel mightve missed?" 

 "You,
Angela, and Lexington begin with that," Goliath agreed. 

 "Gimme
a minute to get my strength back and Ill try a seeking spell," Aiden
gasped, though if the pallor of her skin was any indication, shed need a bit
more than a minute. "If you have something of theirs, thatd help." 

 "Ill
get something!" Blaze volunteered. That was the cue for the rest of the
kids to all start talking at once. 

 "Can
you really find them?" Brittany asked. 

 "Its
those scumbags from the Institute, I know it!" Gilberto said. "Theyre
gonna get it so bad!" 

 "They
left my book on the swing," Mulan said. 

 "I
thaw a helicopter," Neesha added. 

 "Mrs.
Goodall," Gabriel turned beseechingly to the grey-haired woman, "could
you take them inside, please?" 

 Over their
objections, the housekeeper shepherded the children into the house. Goliath saw
small faces pop up instantly at the windows. 
 "Tell
me what happened," he said to Gabriel when the two of them were alone
except for the recuperating Aiden. 

 "Theres
not much more to tell than what I said on the phone. They were out here, on the
swing, and didnt come in for breakfast. Didnt come in at all. Ebon would
never get caught away from home at sunrise if he had Julian with him. This
evening, when I woke up, I glided down to the bar. No one there had heard from
him either." 

 "Was
there a helicopter?" 

 Gabriel
nodded. "Coast Guard, late last night, but it didnt come close to shore.
If it was the Institute,
wouldnt they have come for all of the children? And why would they take
Ebon?" He tossed his hands helplessly. 

 "What
do you know about Anton Sevarius?" 

 "A
little ... he was the scientist who created the clones and the mutates." 

 "But
he also worked for the Institute, and he is now once more in Xanatos employ. He 
... or rather, she , now ... may be involved." 

 "But
Goliath," Aiden said, getting up from the rock shed been sitting on,
"do you really believe all that stuff? I mean, it cant really 
be real ... can it?" 

 "What
matters is that Sevarius seems to believe it, and so did the ones who hired his
services." 

 "It
cant be Sevarius, though ... why would he ... uh, she ... uh ... gosh, thats
confusing ... why would Sevarius ask Xanatos to have Julian heal Sevarius if
Sevarius already had Julian? It sounds like they vanished right around the same
time Sevarius was telling you all of that." 

 "All
of what?" Gabriel asked. 

 Goliath
set the entire story before him. The failed evangelist, the museum robbery, the
cloning project, the fanatic insistence on the part of the evangelist to do
everything by the Book, the specially-chosen girl, all of the details that
Sevarius had known either first-hand or from later investigations. 

 Stunned,
Gabriel said, "You mean ... you cant 
mean ..." 

 "We
dont know," Goliath said. "Sevarius wanted to do tests, to see if
Julian was the result of that experiment. And get healed into the bargain. But
Aidens right. The timing of it doesnt work." 

 "Ill
try my spell now." Aiden picked up the book, smiled nostalgically.
"Stars upon thars, I remember this one." 

 "Who
else could it be?" Gabriel spoke in a low voice so as not to disturb Aiden
as she began to intone words in Latin. 

 "Ebon
has other enemies," Goliath said. "Demona, Ventura, even the
Quarrymen." 

 "I
would have heard sounds of a fight. He cant have been taken by force." 

 "I
sense something," Aiden said after a few moments. "Very distant, just
a flicker, cant pinpoint it. Far ,
Goliath. Almost out of my range." 

 "Both
of them?" Gabriel said. 

 "I
think so." 

 Relief
filled Gabriels expression. "So theyre alive, theyre
together?" 

 "Goliath!"
Angela swooped down on them fast, eyes wide. "You have to see this!" 

 Wasting no time with
questions, Goliath bounded to the top of a rock and from there into the air.
Gabriel and Aiden did the same, and they all followed Angela up to a bulking
split boulder on a bluff above the sea. 
 Brooklyn and Lex
were both there, standing well back from the center. 
 "This
is creepy," Brooklyn said as the rest landed. 

 He pointed from the
headstone -- knocked askew -- to the raw gouge in the earth. Whole chunks of sod
looked to have been torn out and flung aside, the soil was churned not neatly by
shovel and spade but by large powerful hands. 
 "What
is this place?" Goliath asked Gabriel. 

 "He
... he re-buried her here." Gabriel was pale. "Julianna." 

 They all looked at
the hole. 
 Aiden
swallowed and her throat clicked. "You dont think ..." 

 "N-nah,"
Brooklyn said unsteadily. 

 "That
was years ago!" Lex
squeaked. "There wouldnt have been --" 

 Angela
bumped him to shut him up before he could say the unspeakable.
"Goliath?" 

 He bent down and
sifted his claws through the loose earth. They snagged on heavy cloth and he
pulled, bringing up a stained canvas bag, six feet long. It had been slashed
open, because the teeth of the zipper that ran its length were locked tight with
dirt. 
 Something fell out
of the bag and rolled into the grass. Brooklyn retrieved it, a circle that
glinted dully in the moonlight. 
 "Ring,"
he said. "Gold, sapphire and two diamonds. I cant tell if theres an
inscription." 

 "This
cant be happening," Aiden moaned. "This cant be real!" 

 Lex
put his arms around her. "Hey, you shouldnt be saying things like that,
sorceress-turned-gargoyle." 

 "Thats
 magic , Lexington!" Her
voice was spiraling high and faint, as if shed inhaled half a tank of helium.
"Magic, I can cope with! This ... this ..." 

 "We
dont know what happened, though!" Brooklyn looked at the ring and
hastily dropped it, as if it had only then occurred to him where it had most
likely come from. "Maybe it didnt work, and he decided to get rid of the
body somewhere else." He pointed to the sea. "Maybe it almost 
worked and he had a total Cryptkeeper moment and had to destroy it." He
pointed again to the sea. 

 Goliath
realized that his second-in-command was perilously close to cracking.
"Brooklyn --" 

 "Maybe
he went looney-tunes and jumped in after!" Brooklyn went on, the words
coming faster. "Suicide pact, him and the kid, into the drink, eeeeeee!
splash! hasta la vista !" 

 "Brooklyn!"
Angela tried shaking him. 

 "Maybe
it worked ," Lex said
loudly. 
 They all looked at
him, even Brooklyn. 

 Lex
lowered the volume. "Think about it. Say that it did, it really fully did
work. What would that mean for all of them?" 

 Nobody had an
answer. After a long silence, Goliath dropped the canvas bag back into the empty
grave and covered it again. 
 "But
we dont know ," Angela
finally said. 

 "No."
Gabriel brushed his knuckles against her chin. "Thats why they call it faith ,
and its good enough for me." 

 * * 

 The End 

 Epilogue: 

 "Nice
boy," the first old man said, turning the apple slowly in his hand so that
the peel came off beneath the blade in a long unbroken ribbon. 

 "Looks
just like his mama," the second old man said. He finished hand-rolling his
smoke and tucked it in the corner of his mouth, reaching for a match. 

 Their
rockers creaked a comforting song on the wooden floor. There was a time when
their bones might have creaked just as much, a time when their fingers wouldnt
have been able to move with such cleverness due to the rheumatiz, but a few
things had changed in these parts lately. 

 They watched until
the two figures had gone around the curve of the road, leaving the cluster of
buildings -- general store (where they sat), diner, combined P.O. and volunteer
firehouse, not much else worth a mention. 
 Out
that way, there wasnt much but a few cabins mostly belonging to summer
people. Not that it was summer now, nor would it be for a long time yet, but the
bitter cold didnt weigh so heavy on them as it used to. 

 The
first old man carved off a shaving of apple and ate it down. "Seen the
dad?" 

 "Nope." 

 "I
hear hes a gargoyle." 

 "Ayuh." 

 They lapsed into a
companionable silence again, the chairs creaking and creaking on the floor, the
tang of apple juice and the sweet smell of tobacco mingling in the air. 
 "Be
snow tomorrow," the first old man said. 

 "Ayuh."