Harry Potter and the Fifth House 

 Harry Potter and the Fifth House 
 Christine Morgan 
 christine@sabledrake.com 
/ http://www.christine-morgan.org 

 Authors Note: the characters of the Harry Potter novels are the property
of their creator, J.K. Rowling, and are used here without her knowledge
or permission. All other characters property of the author. 53,000 words.
January, 2002. Adult situations, mild sexual content and violence. 
 ****************************************
 Chapter One Aunt Marges New Look. 
 It was the hottest
summer in recent memory, and the small house at Number Four Privet Drive
was all but unbearable from the heat and the humidity. Harry Potter hardly
noticed. Hed spent most of the summer away, touring the continent with
some new friends hed made during his previous year at Hogwarts School
of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Not that he let on that hed met them there.
As far as Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia were concerned, Harry had gone
vacationing with some nice, bland, mundane Americans.
 Muggles, in
other words. That being the wizarding-world term for non-magical folk.
Harry had spent the first several years of his life as a Muggle, with no
idea that there was any other way to be. Hed never known about his parents,
or the Dark wizard whod killed them. All of that had been revealed to
him on his eleventh birthday.
 Everything that
had seemed so new and novel to him then was now familiar, and muchly missed.
His life at Hogwarts was far preferable to that of Privet Drive. True,
he had to share his bedroom at Hogwarts with four other students, while
the small second bedroom he occupied here was entirely his own, but he
would have gladly given up all that privacy for the freedom and understanding
of his wizarding peers. 
 By now, Harry
was used to magic and fantastic things. Hed encountered dragons, basilisks,
hippogriffs, phoenixes, trolls, unicorns, half-giants one of his closest
friends, Hagrid the gamekeeper, was in fact half-giant elves, centaurs
 the list went on and on. Hed foiled more than a few evil plots and been
in mortal danger more times than most boys his age. Hed witnessed the
death of a friend (rival though that friend had been), helped a convicted-but-innocent
criminal escape from unjust justice, and generally led a life the likes
of which the lonely child whod slept in the cupboard beneath the stairs
for so long could never have imagined.
 Which wasnt
to say that Harrys life was easy now. He still had to endure the summers
with his aunt, uncle, and cousin Dudley. None of them liked him, a sentiment
that Harry wholeheartedly returned. Aunt Petunia despised Harry because
he was her sisters son, her sister the witch, the freak. Dudley, his cousin,
hated Harry with a selfish spitefulness that stemmed from Dudleys spoiled,
piggy nature. And Uncle Vernon 
 Well, Harry
had never been sure exactly why Uncle Vernon loathed him so. It couldnt
be the added expense of having been forced to take in his wifes orphaned
nephew; Harry had survived on hand-me-downs and leftovers. If anything,
the Dursleys got a free servant in Harry, for when he was living with them
hed worked like a house-elf. It was something else that offended Uncle
Vernon. Something about Harry and the very fact of his being a wizard.
Just why that should bother Uncle Vernon even more than it did Aunt Petunia
was a mystery to Harry. Unless it was because Vernon Dursley, being a plodding
and unimaginative sort, just couldnt cope with anything out of the ordinary.
 And things had
been plenty out of the ordinary with Harry around. His earliest, unconscious
uses of magic had led to various inexplicable events in his younger years.
Then, once Harry had been accepted at Hogwarts, the events had gotten slightly
more extreme. The time Hagrid had given Dudley a pigs tail, for instance.
Or the time that Dobby, a house-elf of Harrys acquaintance, had ruined
an important dinner party.
 Or, most of
all, the time that Harry had blown up Aunt Marge. Marge Dursley was Uncle
Vernons sister, a large and solidly-built woman with a hard face and harder
manner. Her disdain for Harry and her remarks about his shiftless, good-for-nothing
parents had finally made him boil over. He hadnt meant to cast
a spell. But in all honesty, he had to admit it hadnt entirely been an
accident either.
 That incident,
the blowing-up of Aunt Marge, was one that lived more clearly in Harrys
memory than in anyone elses. The Ministry of Magic had come on the run,
reducing Aunt Marge from her parade-balloon size to her normal (though
still substantial) girth, and had smoothed everything over in her mind
and the minds of the Dursleys with a few minor, judicious Memory Charms. 
 So it was that
only Harry really remembered what had happened that day. The rest of the
family remained vaguely uneasy about Aunt Marges last visit, aware that
 something had gone amiss but nobody was all that sure what. Harry
was certainly unwilling to remind them. He lived in dread of Marges next
visit.
 She hadnt been
to see her brother in quite some time. Not since the blowing-up business,
as it happened. The following year, shed written to say she was taking
her holiday somewhere else, at a spa in Sweden. This had occupied her ever
since. But all good things did not last.
 The letter informing
the Dursleys of her plan to come calling arrived on a day so hot that the
streets seemed sticky from melting tar. Dudley was most miserable of all,
carrying as he did all those extra pounds. His every effort at losing weight
 well, Aunt Petunias every effort at forcing him, since Dudley would
slack on his exercises and cheat on his diets and generally make life so
hellish for all of them that she lost the heart to press further had
proved fruitless. Dudley, the same age as Harry, was four times as heavy
and had to have special chairs now because hed broken half the furniture
in the house.
 Maybe that was
another reason he had to hate Harry, a reason that had become more pronounced
recently. As a child, Harry had been small and skinny, and Dudley had been
able to beat up on him. Now sixteen, Harry had shot up a few inches and
put on some weight, not a lot but good lean muscle that was well-toned
by his hours of diligent Quidditch practice. 
 Harry was taller
than Dudley now, with long legs that could have easily outrun his cousin.
Not that he had to. Dudley never gave chase anymore, and even if he had,
Harry was confident enough that he would have stood his ground, faced Dudley
down, and given back as good a thrashing as he got. Or better. 
 Although he
had grown up some and filled out, Harry was otherwise markedly the same.
He had the same unkempt black hair, the same vivid green eyes behind the
same glasses, and as always, the same lightning-bolt scar on his forehead.
The only real difference about his face was that hed lately been noticing
a fine black fuzz on his cheeks and chin, enough to necessitate shaving
once a week. 
 He studied himself
in the mirror sometimes and had finally concluded that while he was never
going to be ruggedly handsome, he wasnt exactly homely, either. Dudley,
whose flat face was surrounded by jowls and chins and topped with a ludicrous
crop of yellow curls, had taken to glaring at Harry all the more resentfully
lately.
 Aunt Petunia
was all in a dither when Marges letter arrived. She always went all-out
trying to impress Marge, always fretted that it would never be good enough.
She seemed to live in fear that Marge would sniff and scoff and make remarks
about how Vernon could have done better. 
 Says here shes
bringing a friend for dinner, Uncle Vernon said as he perused the letter,
frowning in his ponderous way. A gentleman friend.
 A dish smashed
on the floor as Aunt Petunia whirled away from the sink. A what?
 A gentleman
friend, Vernon repeated in a tone that said he couldnt quite believe
it himself.
 Dudley snorted,
sounding uncannily like the pig that Hagrid had intended to turn him into.
Harry kept, with great effort, an even expression and went on coring apples
for a pie that Aunt Petunia wished to bake. But inwardly, he was as boggled
as the rest of them. Aunt Marge had never come across as anything but a
solidly spinster aunt, and the very idea of her with a gentleman friend
was as absurd as 
 Harry cut off
that line of thought, for most of the absurd things he could think of had
already happened to him. In a world where even Professor Severus Snape
could have a girlfriend 
 Thinking about
 that made him grow a little warm. He cringed at the same time, as
if he could actually hear Hermiones cutting remark. She didnt
trust Ophidia Winterwind, who had taken over halfway through their last
term as the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher. It was Hermione who
got them all thinking Professor Winterwind was a vampire, an opinion supported
by the way she looked and the fact that she only conduced her classes at
night while hardly being seen during the day.
 And there was
the curiously coincidental matter of the jar of blood-flavored lollipops
she kept on the corner of her desk 
 Forcing his
mind back to the present, Harry listened as Uncle Vernon read aloud choice
bits from his sisters letter. It had gotten delayed at the post office
 one of the drawbacks of using conventional post services and not the
speedy, reliable delivery of owls, but Harry knew better than to say such
a thing in front of everyone and the crux of it was that Marge was due
to arrive the very next day. 
 Aunt Petunia
clutched at her heart when Uncle Vernon announced the specific day and
time. She flung a worried, warning look at Harry. 
 Is she certain
she wants to? Aunt Petunia asked anxiously. After what went on last time?
 Except that
none of them could exactly recall just what had gone on last time.
Harry busied himself with the apples and tried to look innocent, hoping
that the Memory Charms held. 
 Its going
to be fine, Uncle Vernon announced. He glowered at Harry. Wont it, boy?
 I dont see
why it wouldnt, uncle, Harry said.
 Hed just love
for something to go wrong, said Dudley. Hed love to pull one of his
pranks on us right in front of her.
 By the way he
covered his mouth as he said this, Harry knew Dudley was thinking of the
time hed eaten a jinxed toffee and his tongue had puffed up like a party
favor. Seeing that no one else was watching him just then, Harry stuck
out his own tongue at Dudley. His cousins eyes narrowed until they almost
disappeared in the folds and bulges of his cheeks. 
 The rest of
the day passed in an endless torrent of chores. The house had to be cleaned
top to bottom, the guest room aired out. Aunt Petunia was in an agony of
propriety, wondering whether Marge was going to expect her gentleman friend
to stay the night, and if so, where he was going to sleep. She expressed
her concerns in a loud hissing whisper to Uncle Vernon, something about
not wanting to provide a bad example for the boys. Uncle Vernon told her
that she was being silly, that of all people on earth, his sister Marge
was the last one to engage in any sort of inappropriate behavior. 
 Dudley didnt
have to lift a finger. He spent the day parked in front of his computer,
pretending to be playing a space adventure game but really, whenever his
mother was out of the room, surfing for dirty pictures. 
 Uncle Vernon
had gone off to work, after giving Harry a stern shake of the finger and
a glare, which wordlessly reminded Harry of the rules that must be followed
around Aunt Marge. For starters, she had been told that he was a student
at a reformatory, a lie that Marge was all too willing to believe. 
 That left Aunt
Petunia and Harry to do the cleaning and the cooking. More than once, Harry
was sharply nostalgic for Hogwarts, where all the meals were made and the
tidying was done by a veritable army of happy house-elves (happy despite
his friend Hermiones efforts to convince them they were being shabbily
treated). 
 He also thought
about all the times hed seen Mrs. Weasley, mother of his other best friend
Ron, go about her housework with a few flips and waves of her wand. He
contemplated sneaking his own wand out and making short work of the chores.
He was old enough now that the Restrictions for Underage Wizardry no longer
strictly applied, so the Ministry wouldnt come knocking but he could
just imagine Aunt Petunias shrieks if she walked into the kitchen and
found him casting cleaning spells on the pile of breakfast dishes.
 Somehow, he
got through that long, tiresome day. He was so exhausted that he didnt
even object when Uncle Vernon came home and told him that it would be best
for all if Harry spent the evening in his room. They didnt, Uncle Vernon
claimed, have adequate seating space or place settings. Not with Marge
bringing a friend and all. Harry didnt want them to set a table with mismatched
plates, did he? Or make someone sit on the rickety kitchen stool?
 Harry, knowing
full well whod be forced to perch on the stool, was almost glad to oblige.
He agreed to remain upstairs, where he planned to study quietly. He wasnt
even expecting any owls from his regular pen-pals Ron, Hermione, Hagrid,
or Harrys godfather Sirius Black. 
 Aunt Petunia
nagged Dudley into leaving his computer long enough to change into his
best clothes, or at least the best ones that still fit with only a minimum
of button-straining gaps all down the shirtfront. Harry was allowed to
make himself a plate of food, not the elaborate meal hed spent all day
helping Aunt Petunia prepare, but leftover macaroni cheese and some bread.
He was in the process of pouring a glass of milk to go with it when he
glanced out the window and saw a taxi pulling up outside of Number Four
Privet Drive.
 Harry watched
as the back door opened and a woman stepped out. His first thought was
that the taxi had the wrong house. Then he heard Aunt Petunias disbelieving
squeal from the front room, and blinked, looked again, and concluded that
the woman really was Aunt Marge.
 Uncle Vernons
sister had always rather unfortunately taken after him, the family resemblance
strong. She was big, thickset. Marge the Barge, Dudley sometimes called
her, and when hed been overheard saying it, hed claimed he was only repeating
what Harry had said first. This turn of affairs resulted in Harry spending
an entire weekend closed in his cupboard with no lights on. 
 Marge the Barge
 not anymore. The woman emerging from the taxi was still tall, but her
girth had changed dramatically. It was still a figure that would be called
full, but her waist was indented for the first time Harry had ever known,
and her hips and bosom actually looked like hips and bosom rather than
geologic formations. Her tailored suit was far more flattering than the
awful tweeds she had previously been fond of. Her hair was styled. She
was wearing makeup. 
 Amazed, Harry
stayed at the window even though he was supposed to be on his way up with
his re-heated macaroni cheese. He couldnt tear his eyes away from the
spectacle of this new and improved Aunt Marge. He wouldnt have thought
anything could shock him more.
 But then a man
got out of the other side of the taxi, and came around to direct the driver
as the luggage was removed from the trunk. The man was dressed in a snappy
blue suit with a shiny silver tie, his blond hair blow-dried and combed,
everything about him as normal and respectable and classy. It was his smile
 the one that had won the Witch Weekly Most Charming Smile contest
five times running that riveted Harry to the spot. 
 Aunt Marges
gentleman friend was none other than Gilderoy Lockhart.
 **
 Chapter Two Memory Unbound. 
 Harry couldnt
possibly remain in his room after this surprise. But he couldnt very well
just march into the dining room either. He contented himself with sitting
on the stairs, silent, his plate balanced on his knees as he listened keenly
to the conversation.
 Aunt Petunia
kept coming back, like a circling fly, to the same thing. She couldnt
 believe it, how had Marge done it, what was her secret ?
Marge explained at length, while snubbing the bacon-wrapped roast and the
potatoes in cream sauce and most of the other courses that Harry had slaved
over for the best part of the afternoon.
 It wasnt long
after my last visit, Marge said. Her voice was much the same, Marge-the-Barges
blaring claxon. Pass me that salad, Dudley, if youre not going to eat
it. No, heavens, no, that dressing is loaded with calories. Im strictly
on a health-food diet now, you see. Vegetables. Lean meat. Whole grains.
You should consider it, Vernon. Does wonders for the bowels.
 A tittering
laugh, nearly as devoid of rationality as the last time Harry had heard
it, came from the throat of Gilderoy Lockhart. The one-time wizard celebrity,
author of many books, and ex-DADA teacher at Hogwarts, was acting as if
hed never been anything but a Muggle, and a daffy one at that. Harry hadnt
heard anything of him since hed been carted off from Hogwarts, victim
of his own backfired Memory Charm a living example of why you should
never use another wizards wand, especially a second-hand old one that
had already been broken and ill-mended with Spell-O-Tape. As far as Harry
knew, Lockhart had ended up in St. Mungos Hospital. His presence here
was as bewildering as it was amazing. 
 You know Id
never had any complaints about my figure before, Marge was saying. It
was simply never a concern of mine, never an issue. But after that last
visit, I suddenly realized how much Id let myself go. I was grotesque.
I felt like a dirigible, as if I might just bloat up and float away at
any moment. It disgusted me. More, I couldnt even remember what made me
let myself get so big. Ive been having such problems with my memories
these past couple of years, dont you know. Thats how I met Gil, here,
but thats another story.
 Gil? 
Harrys eyebrows went up. 
 At any rate,
there I was, feeling big as a house and ashamed of it. So I enrolled myself
in the spa, and lived for eight months on sprouts and bean curd and kelp.
I took up walking, swimming, and eventually bought myself one of those
standing bicycles. Lost ninety pounds so far.
 My word! marveled
Aunt Petunia.
 Thats quite
incredible, Marge, Uncle Vernon said.
 I still have
forty to go, she said.
 Now, now,
came the voice of Gilderoy Lockhart, and it was him, unmistakable,
Harry would have known him anywhere. Hadnt he sat through a whole term
of listening to that man go on about himself and his fabulous exploits?
None of which, as theyd found out, had really been his doing at all. Dont
go letting yourself waste away to a stick, my dear.
 Oh, Gil. And
Aunt Marge giggled like a schoolgirl.
 Harry put aside
his macaroni cheese, having lost his appetite. He wished he could go down
there and ask what Gilderoy Lockhart thought he was doing here, but didnt
dare.
 Its really
most impressive, said Aunt Petunia. I hardly recognized you. This spa
 doesnt it sound wonderful, Dudley?
 Sounds horrid,
came Dudleys bored voice. Youd never catch me in a place like
that.
 But, Duddy-wuddy,
wheedled Petunia, look how well its worked for Aunt Marge. Your teachers
say --
 I dont care
what my teachers say, snapped Dudley. They had, as Harry well knew, been
sending home notes of concern about his size and his health for a long
time, and Aunt Petunias every attempt to curb his eating or encourage
exercise had ultimately met with failure.
 For a brief,
merry moment, Harry imagined how much better life on Privet Drive would
be if Dudley were indeed shipped off to Aunt Marges miracle-spa for eight
months.
 So, said Uncle
Vernon gruffly. What do you do, Mr. Lockhart?
 Im in advertising,
came Gilderoy Lockharts reply. 
 Harry bit back
a snicker. That was true, at least, though self-promotion might have been
a better choice of words. 
 Howd you two
meet?
 Thats what
I was about to tell you, said Aunt Marge. I mentioned Id been having
some troubles with my memory. Little lapses, you know. Spots of forgetfulness.
So I joined a support group for people with similar troubles. Gils a recovering
amnesiac.
 This time, the
snicker escaped and Harry had to muffle it by pressing his forearm over
his mouth. That was putting it lightly. When theyd brought Lockhart up
from the Chamber of Secrets, he hadnt even known his own name. 
 Oh, I say!
gasped Aunt Petunia. Amnesia?
 Total and utter
amnesia, Lockhart said in a carefree manner. I hadnt a clue who I was
or what I did for a living. Luckily, some kindly ladies took me in and
cared for me while I pieced my life back together. I may never fully reclaim
my past, but I think building a future is more important.
 Harrys mirth
faded as a strange thought came to him. Hed been going on the assumption
that Lockhart was here on some pretense, pretending to be friends with
Aunt Marge in order to get close to Harry. Throughout their entire acquaintance,
Lockhart had connived to get their photos taken together, and it wouldnt
have surprised Harry if Lockhart wanted them to go on tour together or
something. But now it occurred to him that if Lockharts amnesia were that
total, he might have forgotten everything about being a wizard.
 From the dining
room, he could hear the sounds of Aunt Petunia clearing the table. That
was one nice thing about his exile she couldnt very well make him clean
up. 
 Im not done
yet, Dudley protested. 
 You have to
save room for pie, Duddkins, Petunia said.
 Ill have room.
 Gracious, Dudley,
said Aunt Marge scornfully. You really should take better care of yourself.
Look at the boy, Vernon. Your wife is going to indulge him right into an
early grave, which hes digging with a fork and a spoon.
 This pronouncement
stunned the table. In previous visits, Aunt Marge had always expansively
complimented Dudley, saying how much she liked to see a solid and substantial
young man with a hearty appetite. Shed often use those occasions, too,
to toss an insult Harrys direction and call him skinny, reedy, or scrawny.
Dudley made a bleat of shock through a mouthful of food, and Aunt Petunia
stammered incoherently.
 Come now, Marge,
said Uncle Vernon. Dudleys a growing boy, thats all.
 Hes an overstuffed
Christmas goose, Marge proclaimed. Her chair scraped back as she rose
from the table. Lets go in the parlor, Gil, and give Petunia a chance
to clear. Then well all have tea.
 Harry stood
as quietly as he could, the stairs giving the faintest of creaks. He crept
backward up them with the innate grace hed honed by lots of practice sneaking
about Hogwarts when and where he wasnt supposed to. Hed gotten so that
he could pass pretty well unnoticed even without having to resort to his
Invisibility Cloak.
 Shadows on the
wall. Harry reached the landing at the top of the stairs and paused, peering
down for a look. He only got a brief one, showing him Aunt Marges profile
 hard and uncompromising as the carved figurehead of a ship and the
impeccable grooming and twinkling eyes of Gilderoy Lockhart. Neither of
them so much as glanced up the stairs. They were followed a moment later
by Uncle Vernon, who was rather red in the face. 
 Aunt Marge picked
up without missing a beat. Really, Vernon, you should do something. Take
a stand. That boy needs discipline. Youre not doing him any favors letting
that woman coddle him to death.
 Oh, now, really,
began Uncle Vernon.
 After all,
you handle that other one well enough. That spindly nephew of hers. Hes
not about, I hope?
 Spindly. Harry
rolled his eyes.
 No, no, not
at all, Uncle Vernon said. Hes away.
 Its the saddest
thing, Gil, Marge said, with the air of one imparting a great confidence.
My poor brother here, burdened as he is with the responsibilities of his
own job, home, and family, got stuck with a shiftless orphan to boot. And
not one of your charming orphans out of Dickens, either. This ones an
ungrateful, peculiar little brat.
 Uncle Vernon
cleared his throat. Marge 
 Im only slapping
down the cards, Vernon. Its hardly your fault. I know youve provided
a good, stable home for the boy. By rights, he should have grown up normal.
But you cant overcome genetics. Blood always tells, thats what I say.
Petunia knows her sister was a bad egg, and as for that Potter, hmf!
 Potter? queried
Gilderoy Lockhart. 
 Its no wonder
that son of theirs ended up in reform school, Marge went on. Theres
something not right about him, Vernon, Ive always said so.
 Weve been
over this before. Uncle Vernon sounded nervous and no wonder; Marge might
have forgotten the circumstances leading up to her blowing-up, but he hadnt. 
 Potter, mused
Lockhart.
 That awful
scar, too, Marge said. It makes him look like the very devil. Should
be a pitchfork, or three sixes in a cloverleaf like in that movie. Honestly,
Vernon, if ever there was a boy to turn to black magic or witchcraft, thats
the one.
 Harry, had he
been down there and allowed to take part in their conversation, would have
objected fiercely at that point. From the very day hed come to Hogwarts,
hed been determined not to be tempted into the Dark Arts. He could
have done, it would have been easy enough to get into Slytherin and befriend
Draco Malfoy surely even Snape would have softened toward him if he thought
that the son of his old rival was ripe for corruption. But he was of Gryffindor!
His pride stung at the accusation.
 Scar? Lockharts
voice was tremulous. Magic? Witchcraft?
 Uncle Vernon
laughed an anxiety-laden laugh. Figure of speech, Mr. Lockhart. Ill admit,
the boy is an evil-looking creature, but hardly wed never permit magic 
in our household even if it were real the very idea!
 It would be
just like him, though, said Aunt Marge, very darkly. I should hope, Vernon,
that if there was even the slightest indication --
 Marge! he
barked. We do not speak of such things in this house.
 Harry blinked.
He shook his head. Funny that had almost made it sound like Aunt Marge
did know something about magic after all. Hed always been under the impression
that Aunt Petunia was most eager to keep that unsavory aspect of her familys
history a secret from her husbands relations. Hence the story about Harrys
parents having died in a car crash, the same one that allegedly gave him
his scar. It would hardly do to tell how theyd in fact been murdered by
the worst Dark wizard since the Black Court of Count Douglas Tyrrell. 
 Do you know,
the most extraordinary thing is coming to me? said Lockhart. I think
Im beginning to remember 
 Oh, no, whispered
Harry, a sudden churning in his stomach that had nothing to do with his
half-eaten dinner. 
 Whats that,
Gil? asked Aunt Marge.
 Harry Potter,
wasnt it?
 My wifes nephew,
Uncle Vernon said. But think nothing of it. Hes --
 Why, yes!
Lockhart cried. Its all coming back! My goodness, and look at me dressed
like a Muggle! I say. How unflattering. Whatever did I do with my wand?
 Wand? choked
Vernon and Marge in unison.
 At that moment,
Aunt Petunia ushered Dudley in from the dining room with orders to make
conversation with your aunt while I dish up the pie. Dudley waddled past
the bottom of the stairs, not noticing Harry on the landing. His round
shadow stopped in the doorway to the living room as Aunt Marge spoke.
 Gil, whatever
are you saying?
 Didnt I tell
you? No, I couldnt have when Ive only just remembered it myself. Marge,
dear, isnt it splendid? Im a wizard!
 In the hush
that followed, molecules could be heard to decay. It was broken by the
thick sound of Uncle Vernon swallowing, and Dudleys craven whimper. 
 Youre a what ?
Marge asked icily.
 And not just
 any wizard! Lockhart announced with all the old familiar vanity
and pride. I am Gilderoy Lockhart, author of Magical Me 
and numerous other works! Have you got a quill? Id be happy to autograph
a copy for you.
 What? shrieked
Marge, drawing Aunt Petunia in a rush from the kitchen with suds on her
hands. 
 Harry covered
his eyes. He was sure that this was somehow against the Ministrys rules.
Should he do something? What could he possibly do that wouldnt make things
worse? 
 So youre the
famous Harry Potters family! Lockhart crowed. Capital to meet you! Simply
capital. Hes quite a marvelous young man, you know. Were very close.
I was one of his instructors for a time, and, dare I say, a close confidante
and personal friend. Marge, dear, you should have told me!
 Youre a 
youre a she couldnt finish.
 Dudley could.
He bleated, Wizard! at the top of his lungs and swung about, lumbering
for the stairs with a tread that made the foundations shake. He was instinctively
covering his backside with one hand well, trying to; it was like trying
to cover a sofa with a handkerchief and his mouth with the other. He
clomped up the stairs without watching where he was going, craning his
neck back over his shoulder. Consequently, he nearly ran right into Harry.
 Boo, Harry
said softly.
 Augh! Dudley
backpedaled, lost his footing, and bounced down the stairs like a big ball
of nutty-putty. He hit the floor, jolting the house again, and lay flat
on his back. 
 Distracted by
this, Harry had lost track of what was going on in the living room. Even
as Dudley landed, Gilderoy Lockhart was driven backwards into the entryway,
shielding himself with both arms as Aunt Marge beat at him with a spray
of daisies that Aunt Petunia had picked just that morning. Their stems
were broken and nodding crazily every which way. Petals and leaves showered
down on Lockharts hapless head. 
 Not the face,
not the face! he cried. 
 Out! thundered
Uncle Vernon. Out of my house!
 This is hardly
any way to treat a guest! Lockhart protested.
 Marge snatched
up a furled umbrella from the umbrella-stand by the door and beset him
with it. You filthy, lying, treacherous She went on in that vein, emphasizing
each word with another whack from the umbrella, and as her anger intensified,
she resorted to using words that Harry had never before heard spoken in
the Dursley house.
 Neither had
Aunt Petunia. She had rushed to Dudley to try and help him up, a losing
battle if ever there was one, but as Marge unleashed the vilest epithet
yet, she uttered a wailing scream and fainted. Lockhart promptly tripped
over her and landed on Dudleys considerable padding. But actual physical
contact with a wizard did what no amount of tugging by his mother could
ever have done Dudley bounded to his feet so fast he might have been
on springs. This propelled Lockhart straight at Aunt Marge. She screeched
and thrust the umbrella at him. It popped open and one of the spokes nearly
put out Lockharts eye.
 Uncle Vernon
was roaring and snorting, like a maddened bull. Only the fact that the
entryway was so crowded prevented him from getting to Lockhart and pummeling
him. Even with a wand, Lockhart would have been next to defenseless; without
one, he didnt stand a chance. 
 Yelping, he
swatted aside the umbrella and fled for the door, leaping nimbly over the
unconscious Aunt Petunia as he did so. Marge chased after him and Uncle
Vernon went after her. Maybe he was hoping to stop this before it turned
into a complete spectacle before the eyes of all the neighbors, or maybe
he was hoping to land a few punches of his own. Harry suspected the latter.
A wizard without a wand? A wizard who couldnt fight back with his foul
magic? That had to be hard to resist. Since he couldnt take it out on
Harry without fear of either retaliation or the wrath of Harrys godfather,
Lockhart would make an acceptable substitute. 
 Dudley ran the
other way. He reached the door of the cupboard under the stairs, which
had been turned into a closet since Harrys relocation to the upstairs
spare bedroom. Dudley wedged himself through the door and stuck like a
cork in a bottle. Harry could only see, from his angle, the back half of
Dudley sticking out. 
 Harry did not
move. He wanted to run after and see what became of Lockhart, but knew
that would only be begging for trouble. He stayed where he was, amused
by the grunts and struggles as Dudley tried to either force himself the
rest of the way into the cupboard or pull himself back out. 
 It wasnt long
before he heard Marge and Vernon returning. Lockhart might have only been
as clever as the average flobberworm, but he was fleet of foot when his
life or his precious looks were in danger, and even confused, he would
have easily outdistanced the Dursley siblings.
 Marge was sobbing
in between heaving gasps for breath. As they came in and Uncle Vernon closed
the door (and threw all the bolts and wedged a chair in front of it for
good measure, as if Lockhart were coming back with an army), she kicked
at the discarded umbrella furiously. 
 How do you
like that? I finally meet a decent man and he turns out to be one of them !
With another curse, she stormed into the kitchen and, by the sound, started
sloppily devouring the pie that Aunt Petunia had been about to serve. 
 **

 Chapter Three The Snake and the Bat. 
 Somehow, although
he hadnt done a thing and hadnt even been seen, it was all Harrys fault.
Uncle Vernon made that plain to him in the wake of the business with Gilderoy
Lockhart and Aunt Marge. It was all Harrys fault.
 His protests
of innocence fell, as usual, on deaf ears. He hadnt even let on that hed
listened, because that would have been taken as an admission of guilt.
Instead, counting the days until summers end, Harry had resignedly accepted
the blame. 
 He was dying
to know what had happened to Lockhart afterward. And before, for that matter.
Where had the erstwhile celebrity been these past few years? Why hadnt
the Ministry done something before now?
 These, like
many other questions simmering in Harrys mind, seemed destined to go unanswered.
The one that interested him the most, though, had to do with the notion
that Aunt Marge had apparently known about wizards all along, even if she
hadnt tipped to the fact that Harry was one until that disastrous dinner
party. Hed hoped to hear more that night, especially once she finished
the entire pie and went to work on Uncle Vernon's cognac. But he had been
confined to his room until the following morning, when a hungover and very
wretched-looking Aunt Marge left alone in another taxi.
 The days dragged.
Harry passed some of the time by writing letters to his friends, especially
making a point of asking Hermione if she knew what was up with Lockhart.
He tried to phrase this in a way that didnt make it seem like he was taunting
her; at one point, shed had a crush on him. But carefully as he phrased
it, her first few replies contained many acerbic comments about the way
the male students were now reacting to Professor Ophidia Winterwind. 
 Eventually,
though, Harry persuaded her he was in earnest. She wrote back and included
a few clippings from the Daily Prophet, the wizarding worlds newspaper.
Apparently, Lockhart had signed himself out of St. Mungos a few months
previously, against medical advice. Ministry operatives were supposedly
on the lookout for him, but as he was considered harmless, he was a low
priority. 
 That all changed
shortly after Lockhart left the Dursley house. He was detained by Muggle
authorities when he went running through the streets of London, waving
a stick and shouting that he was a famous wizard. Luckily, the Muggles
thought he was merely a madman, and he was finally returned to St. Mungos,
under more careful observation this time. 
 As for the other
burning question, Harry didnt even know how to go about asking it. He
couldnt see himself approaching Uncle Vernon to inquire just what, when,
and how long Aunt Marge had known about wizards. He suspected that it had
something to do with Uncle Vernons disproportionate dislike of all things
magical, which was a tantalizing idea. Overhearing a loud argument between
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia one night, which included her demanding of
him, why didnt you ever tell me, Vernon, me of all people, you know I
would have understood! only made Harry more intrigued.
 He was, though,
apparently doomed to disappointment. No further disclosures were made by
the time summer wound to a close. Often, Harry spent the last week or so
visiting the Weasley family at their charmingly ramshackle house, the Burrow,
but given that hed already had a holiday and that Mr. Weasley was so bogged
down with work, that custom was skipped over this year. 
 Harry planned
to meet his friends at Diagon Alley, the hidden street in London where
they bought their school supplies, and go from there to catch the train
that would take them all to Hogwarts. He had secretly unblocked the fireplace
and covered it with a spell of illusion, so that he could make use of Floo
powder with the Dursleys none the wiser.
 Floo powder
was never going to be as convenient as flying by broom, but as far as Harry
was concerned, it beat using a Portkey. Hed had limited experience with
Portkeys, but the last time, when hed been yanked by surprise into the
clutches of his mortal enemy, Lord Voldemort, had soured him on that method
of travel. 
 To make sure
he didnt disturb the Dursleys, he left late at night. He used his wand
to start a small, magical fire that required no wood. With his trunk packed,
Hedwig caged, and everything in order, he flung the packet of powder and
stepped in after it, saying, Diagon Alley, as he did.
 A whirling,
flickering, sooty blur became his world. Moments later, he was spat out
into the smoky warmth of the Leaky Cauldron, an inn and tavern on the border
between Diagon Alley and conventional, Muggle London. As it was late, only
a few patrons were about. Harrys arrival didnt go unnoticed, and as usual
he was recognized, but most people had finally gotten used to seeing the
legendary Harry Potter in person. He went up to the innkeeper and asked
for a room, and stowed his belongings. 
 Though it was
late and he was tired, the excitement of being back among wizards and witches
had revitalized Harry. He decided to go for a walk before trying to get
to sleep. The night was mild and pleasant, lit by a nearly-full moon that
sparkled in the leaded-glass windows of the many curious little shops.
The narrow, winding street was all but deserted. Hard to believe it would
be crowded with students the very next day.
 Harry was just
about to turn back, thinking that a nice hot butterbeer would be the perfect
thing before bed, when a fast-moving shadow caught his eye. It sailed across
a patch of moonlight on the marble wall of Gringotts, the goblin bank.
Something about that image, the perfect black shape of a bat on silver-white,
for some reason sent a shiver through him. 
 He quickened
his steps, came to the corner. The shadow of the bat descended, wings beating,
and abruptly swelled. Harry stopped short. The shadow grew and changed
until a very feminine silhouette stood where it had been. He couldnt see
the source, the body that cast the shadow, but he had a pretty good guess
who it was.
 You said midnight,
hissed an unfamiliar male voice.
 Im here, arent
I? countered a woman. 
 As Harry suspected,
it was Ophidia Winterwind, her voice like silk and dark chocolate. Hermione
had told them that Ophidia was registered as an Animagus, with the power
to turn into a bat. However, Hermione speculated that instead, Professor
Winterwind was a vampire and her Animagus registration was a false cover.
She couldnt be swayed from this, even when Harry had relayed what Professor
Dumbledore had said. Not a vampire in the accepted sense of the word.
What that meant, Harry had yet to figure out. 
 What he did
know was that she had at one time been interested in his father, but James
Potter had been too in love with his future wife Lily to care and that
Ophidias name had also been romantically linked with, of all people, Professor
Severus Snapes.
 Do you have
it?
 Of course.
 Harry edged
closer. His instincts were good when it came to knowing something dodgey
was afoot. Most people might have taken that as a clear sign to get away
before getting caught, but he believed in knowing what was up. 
 He peeked around
the corner. There, at the mouth of Knockturn Alley and it did 
look like a mouth, with crooked shingles like snaggle teeth framing a hungry
opening stood Professor Winterwind. Her pale skin nearly glowed in the
moonlight, which lent a frosty blue sheen to her long black hair. Her robe,
which looked more like a gown made of snakeskin, shimmered. Harry couldnt
see her ruby-pool eyes, as she was turned away from him, facing a man who
stood in the deep shadows of Knockturn Alley.
 The man was
only barely visible, as a shape in the darkness. Harry could only make
out his height and the imposing breadth of his shoulders. And his hand,
reaching out to accept something that Ophidia Winterwind was holding out.
His arm was sheathed in faint scales, and his stubby fingers ended in blunt,
curved claws. His hand shook with barely-restrained eagerness.
 Before I give
it to you, crooned Ophidia, lifting whatever she was holding a ways away
from him, I want to hear your oath.
 Give it to
me, you promised. He lurched closer to her, and as he did, Harry saw something
terrible beneath the hem of his robes, the man had no legs. He had, instead,
a muscular coil of tail like that of a giant serpent. 
 I did, in exchange
for what you promise me.
 I do, I swear,
now let me have it. Its mine!
 Your oath,
or Ill dash it to the stones. She stepped back, raised her arm as if
to do that very thing. Harry caught a quick glimpse of the object in her
hand. It was the size of a Snitch, triggering an immediate surge of interest
in him, but rather than shiny and gold with wings, it was mottled, like
an egg, and greenish. 
 A wild urge
seized Harry to whip out his wand, cry, Accio ! and summon the
egg-like thing to him. To see what it was. To find out what was going on.
Instead, he stood quietly and watched.
 In errands
three, muttered the man grudgingly, Im bound to thee.
 A flicker of
tiny colored sparks greeted this, spinning briefly between the two of them.
A spell. 
 And you know
what those errands are? she asked sweetly, tossing her head so that her
hair rippled and danced. 
 Yes, yes, now
please! Give it to me!
 You are bound
by your oath. Fail to fulfill, and what is done tonight shall be undone.
 I know. I understand.
 Very well.
She dropped the egg into his outstretched, clutching hand.
 He grasped it
and uttered a low groan of triumph. His arm withdrew into the shadows and
Harry had the impression of him cradling it in both hands, hunched over.
A terrible, sick laughter rang from him. It turned without warning into
a howl of pain.
 Ophidia Winterwind
watched avidly. Harry could see part of her face now, full scarlet lips
curved in a slight smile, a cheekbone sharp as a blade, the long fringe
of her lashes. The brief twinkle of teeth, quite pronounced teeth. 
 From the alley
came sudden, horrible sounds. Wet, fleshy, ripping sounds. The howling
of the unseen man turned into a series of hoarse, choking coughs. 
 Harry ran. He
didnt mean to, but his feet were moving before his brain could come up
with a better idea. And he didnt run away from the hideous noises
that might have been the sound of someone being violently dismembered and
disemboweled; he ran toward them. 
 She turned all
the way toward him. His running steps faltered as those blood-red eyes
fixed on his green ones. Harry, she purred. How good to see you.
 He came to an
unsteady halt. Good to see you, too, Professor Winterwind, his mouth
said, quite independently of his mind. 
 Whatever are
you doing out so late? She glided toward him in that way she had, that
way that made it seem her feet did not touch the ground. That way that
made her hips roll so alluringly. Her smile widened, and yes, he could
see her teeth. Especially the long, sickle-shaped, pointed canines. 
 Yet he wasnt
afraid. A delicious calm settled over him. He lowered his arm, wand hanging
at his side. The gristly popping and grinding noises from Knockturn Alley
seemed very far away and of no great importance. 
 Just walking,
Harry said.
 Looking forward
to classes beginning?
 He nodded.
 Yes she
breathed. Im looking forward to having you this year, too.
 It was like
being under the Imperius Curse. His mind was in a fog, and his body acted
like it was totally under the control of someone else. He found himself
extending a hand toward hers, without meaning to, and he twitched when
she clasped it. Her flesh was cool and white as alabaster.
 Harry tried
to speak but all at once he couldnt formulate English anymore. 
 Such a handsome
young man, Ophidia Winterwind said.
 He closed his
eyes. As soon as he did, he imagined her leaning toward him, baring her
fangs, angling toward the side of his neck. Any moment, hed feel the velvety
press of her lips and then the icy piercing pain no. He concentrated,
and spoke without looking at her.
 What are you
doing to him? The man in the shadows?
 With that, his
feeling of entrancement vanished. He was able to open his eyes and look
squarely at her. And rather than the flash of guilt he expected, he saw
only an honest surprise and concern.
 Helping him,
Harry. He was under a curse, which Ive now broken. Isnt that right?
She directed this last question at the alley.
 The man emerged.
The scales Harry had seen on his arm were gone, as were the claws. He walked
upright on two legs. Normal. Human. 
 It worked,
he said. The hissing quality was gone from his voice.
 You see, Harry?
No harm done.
 I Im sorry,
Professor. He felt abashed, ashamed. Had made a fool of himself. 
 She smiled,
this time with no sign of fangs. Its late, Harry, and Im sure youll
have a busy day of it on the morrow. Go, and get some rest. Im sure youre
very, very sleepy.
 The next thing
Harry knew, he was at the door of the Leaky Cauldron without being entirely
sure how hed gotten there. His walk had a dreamlike quality of unreality
about it, the odd angles of the buildings seeming to stretch and contract,
the sheen of the moon in the windowpanes giving them the aspect of eyes.
He was incredibly drowsy. 
 The downstairs
common room was empty now, and lit only by the banked bed of coals. Harry
shuffled to the stairs and climbed them, yawning as he went. 
 **

 Chapter Four Another Orphan. 
 He woke to a
banging on the door, and Ron Weasleys voice saying, No answer; he must
have gone out.
 Someone would
have seen him, Hermiones voice replied. You know he cant go anywhere
unnoticed.
 Some people
have all the luck, Ron muttered. 
 Harry roused
himself, groggy and wincing at the clear light streaming through slats
in the shutters. His head gave a sickly thump as he sat up. 
 Ron, he called,
his throat dry. Hermione. Im here. He swung his legs out of bed and
found his glasses. 
 Hes still
in bed, the sluggard, Ron said.
 Harry, its
nearly ten, called Hermione. You were supposed to meet us at Flourish
and Blotts first thing this morning to buy our books.
 Harry squinted
at the clock. True enough, it was almost ten, His head felt stuffed with
wool and his eyes were grainy. A peculiar taste coated the inside of his
mouth and made him suddenly desperate for his toothbrush. 
 Give me five
minutes, he said. Ill be right down.
 The mirror tsked
at him as he leaned close, squinting at his reflection. No wonder, staying
out half the night, it chided him. 
 He ignored it,
washed, and brushed his teeth. Didnt need to shave because hed done so
just yesterday, as the smooth skin and healing nicks attested. He wet his
unruly hair, combed it into submission knowing that it would be unruly
again before an hour was up and got dressed.
 Five minutes
later, he was downstairs in the bustling common room of the Leaky Cauldron,
where he just had time to wolf down a few pieces of toast before Hermione
dragged them out to do their shopping. 
 The summer had
wrought changes in his friends, too. Like Harry, Ron had shot up a few
inches, except in Rons case it was a matter of too many too soon. He was
gangly as a scarecrow, his bony wrists jutting well beyond the length of
his sleeves. His bright red Weasley hair was the same, but the straggling
moustache Ron was endeavoring to cultivate was new. It crouched on his
upper lip like a thin caterpillar. 
 Hermione, Harry
was mildly disturbed to notice, had grown in different directions. Their
first few years at Hogwarts, only the fact that she slept in a different
dormitory was any reminder that she was a girl. Not until the time shed
come dressed up to the Yule Ball with Viktor Krum had he and Ron really
been aware of the difference. Now, it was impossible to miss. Her flyaway
brown hair framed a quite pretty face, and when she turned scoldingly to
brace her hands on her hips at what was taking them so long, she bounced
in ways Harry hadnt associated with Hermione Granger before. 
 Weve got a
new instructor this year, she said as they joined the throngs of excited
Hogwarts students filling the streets. 
 No! Ron cried,
aghast. I thought she was staying on! Oh, its not fair, its bloody unfair.
 Not her ,
said Hermione impatiently. Shes still on.
 Is she ever,
Ron said in relief.
 I saw her last
night, Harry blurted. He rubbed his temples. Just for a minute.
 What did she
look like? Ron leaned eagerly toward him. Was she still you know 
vavoom?
 Hermione clucked
her tongue and rolled her eyes. In case either of you are interested,
its a new Muggle Studies teacher weve got this year.
 Yeah, yeah,
Ron said. His attention was all on Harry.
 Theres not
much to tell, Harry said. He related what had gone on the night before,
having witnessed Ophidia Winterwinds Animagus transformation, and the
conversation shed had with the scaled man in the alley. I dont know
what she gave him, but it was like hed been under a hex and whatever she
gave him dispelled it. She said she was looking forward to the start of
term.
 Arent we all!
 Some of us
for better reasons than others. Hermione swept through the door into Flourish
and Blotts, her class list held tight in one hand. 
 Harry and Ron
shrugged at each other and followed. The interior of the bookstore was
cluttered and crowded, and they had to wait quite a while to purchase their
new textbooks. Hermione grumbled something about how there wouldnt have
been such a line if theyd come early as planned, but Harry didnt catch
most of it and refused to feel guilty. Hed gotten to sleep late, and hed
been very tired. What of it?
 As they left,
their cauldrons loaded down with copies of The Standard Book of Spells:
Grade 6 and the others on their list, they ran into Rons sister Ginny.
Literally; she collided with Harry and pulled away with a blush and a giggle. 
 Ron glowered.
Hullo, Ginny.
 Hi, Ron, Harry,
Hermione.
 An awkward silence
fell. At the end of last year, Ginny Weasley had made it onto the Gryffindor
House Quidditch team, as a Chaser. Ron, having also tried out but not been
chosen, took it badly. His twin older brothers Fred and George, now graduated
and working hard to make a go of their joke shop, had been steadfast Beaters.
Rons secret dream, known only to Harry and the Mirror of Erised, had been
to become captain of the team, winner of the cup, Head Boy, and so forth.
His progress toward that dream had been sadly unsuccessful, and to have
his little sister breeze through the tryouts was a bitter pill to swallow.
 Harry felt awkward
around Ginny for other reasons, mostly because she was always so awkward
around him. Shed had a terrible crush on him for years, but when it came
to noticing that his friends were girls, he was worse off with Ginny than
even with Hermione. 
 Get out of
the way, Potter, youre blocking the door.
 The familiar
sneering tones of Draco Malfoy brought instant fists to Harrys hands.
He turned. On the train from Hogwarts at the end of term, Malfoy and his
cronies had been on the receiving end of some messy Transfiguration spells.
All the damage had been repaired, but clearly Draco hadnt learned to keep
his distance. Or else his pride wouldnt let him.
 Except there
was a new person in Dracos usual crowd. In addition to Crabbe and Goyle
 a pair of thick-bodied and thicker-witted thugs whose fathers, like Dracos,
were high among Voldemorts supporters and Pansy Parkinson, who was wearing
too much make-up and hanging on Dracos arm like a gangsters moll from
an old movie, there was a tall boy Harry didnt recognize although something
about him seemed familiar. 
 This newcomer
had to be seventeen or eighteen at least. He was much more powerfully built
than Crabbe or Goyle, and his eyes were watchful and cold. If he was of
Slytherin House, like the rest of his companions, Harry couldnt remember
having noticed him before. 
 Maybe it was
the addition of this big, formidable friend that gave Draco the bravado
to confront Harry like this. He must have figured that the new guy would
give the others pause. 
 Tension prickled
in the air between their two groups for a moment, but then a colossal explosion
blew out the window of Ollivanders wand shop. Sparks and rockets of fire
shot into the street. People ducked for cover, some casting quick warding
or defensive spells. When all was quiet again, a bare patch had been cleared
on the cobblestones around a small boy. He looked to have been flung backward
out of the shop. Lazy curls of smoke rose from his body and the wand in
his hand was fading slowly from white-hot to a dull amber glow.
 Another Mudblood
trying to make like a proper wizard, said Pansy, cutting her gaze at Hermione.
There really should be stricter laws.
 Harry pushed
past them, letting the Slytherin bunch enter the bookstore. He moved through
the crowd most of them were chuckling and shaking their heads now and
reached the boy just as Mr. Ollivander himself came out of his smoking
front door.
 No, no, that
one wont do, he said to the semiconscious boy. With a deft, hurried motion,
like someone flicking away a stinging insect before it could do harm, he
pinched the wand from the boys hand.
 You all right?
Harry asked.
 The boy coughed
and opened his eyes. They were an unusual shade of blue-violet, and dazed.
He had dark blond hair and his clothes were shabby and ill-fitting. What
happened?
 A simple mishap,
Ollivander said kindly. He smiled at Harry. Sometimes finding the right
wand takes a bit of trial and error.
 Harry helped
him up. Youre a first-year? He asked because the boy could have passed
for eight or nine, not eleven, the usual age for new students at Hogwarts. 
 I got this
letter and this list, said the boy, showing Harry a familiar style of
envelope written on with familiar green ink. It was addressed to Mr. Jeremy
Upwood, Eighth Bed From the Window, Second Floor, Northrup Home for Orphaned
Boys, Farnsworth.
 A Muggle orphanage,
Hermione said quietly, and Harry knew she was thinking the same thing he
was. Jeremy Upwood wouldnt be the first to come from that sort of background.
But there was nothing at all reminiscent of Tom Riddle in Jeremys perplexed,
pink-cheeked face. 
 Are you getting
on all right? Harry asked. 
 Jeremy stared
goggle-eyed at a trio of passing witches, cackling hags identical except
for the color of their hair. From there, his eyes moved to the display
of owls hooting on their perches outside of the exotic creature shop, and
then to a waddling goblin scurrying by on bank business. He looked even
more lost and bewildered than Harry had when hed suddenly been thrust
into this world, and at least then Harry had had Hagrid to guide him and
explain on the way.
 Its all for
real, isnt it? Jeremy held up his list. And Im really going to need
all of these things. A cauldron and all.
 Hermione thumped
on the side of hers. Weve all got them. Dont worry. It isnt as strange
as it seems. I was raised Muggle too, and didnt know about any of this
until I got my letter.
 Me either,
Harry said. Youll catch on. 
 A delicate thought
came to him, a subject he was always hesitant to bring up around the Weasleys,
but Ron had drifted over to gawk at the Skyblazer, a new broom in the window
of the sporting goods shop, and Ginny was headed inside to pick up a pamphlet
on Chaser techniques.
 Do you have
enough money? he asked Jeremy.
 I think so.
There was a fund left from my mum and dad, which the orphanage couldnt
touch. Was to pay for my schooling. So when the letter came, they turned
it over to me and showed me the door. I guess they were afraid. Didnt
believe it, or didnt want to.
 How long ago
did your parents die? Hermione asked gently.
 When I was
a baby, Jeremy said. In a car crash.
 Harry jerked
as if jabbed with a pin. Hed been told something similar about his parents,
and look how that had turned out. It was on the tip of his tongue to ask
Jeremy if hed been left with a scar from the so-called crash, but just
then he sensed someone watching him. He took a casual look around. 
 The tall, older
boy whod been with Draco Malfoy was leaning against the wall in front
of Flourish and Blotts. He had his arms crossed on his broad chest, and
his eyes glittered beneath low, dark brows. When he saw Harry seeing him,
he didnt even look away or pretend his gaze had happened upon them in
passing. He tipped his hand at Harry in an insolent way, and a hard smile
raised one corner of his mouth.
 Whos that,
do you know? Harry murmured to Hermione. She had been going over Jeremys
list, pointing out to him the various shops hed want to visit.
 Ive never
seen him before, she said. Certainly not with Malfoy.
 He must be
a Slytherin, though. Hes got the look.
 She nodded.
Ron came back, puffing and flushed with excitement. Theyre having a raffle,
he announced. For the Skyblazer. I put my name in. But Harry?
 Yeah, Ron?
 Dont buy any
tickets, what do you say? Let my luck have a chance for once.
 Sure, said
Harry. Ive got my Firebolt, anyway. Its a few years old, but Id be
willing to bet its still the fastest broom on the market.
 Oh, theyre
going to start talking Quidditch in a minute, Hermione said. In the past,
shed been able to ignore them by talking about other things with Ginny,
but now that Ginny was a Chaser, as far as Hermione was concerned all three
of them were helpless.
 Thanks for
your advice, said Jeremy. He dusted himself off and marched toward Ollivanders,
where Mr. Ollivander stood waiting for him with a pleasant, though moderately
apprehensive, smile.
 See you at
school, Harry called after. Had he looked so small and alone the first
time hed gone into that shop? The wand that had chosen him, with its core
of phoenix feather, rested in his pocket. He wondered what Jeremy would
wind up with. 
 Ginny, to Rons
disgust, entered her name in the raffle for the Skyblazer too. She insisted,
when he complained, that she had to have a decent broom, that Freds old
Cleansweep Seven might have been fine for him but she was a Chaser, not
a Beater.
 Rub it in,
why dont you? Ron said bitterly.
 Lugging cauldrons
filled with books, quills, various noisome and icky ingredients for Potions
class, they finished their shopping and got a table in the shade outside
a delicatessen. Harry always missed wizardly fare when he was with the
Dursleys. Once, on one of the rare occasions that Uncle Vernon had taken
the family to dinner and permitted Harry to come along, hed made the mistake
of asking the waitress for pumpkin juice, and almost had to spend the rest
of the evening sitting alone in the car. 
 They ate sandwiches
and sipped juice and waved to their various classmates when someone familiar
went by. Harry nearly choked on a bite when he saw Cho Chang, the girl
he was secretly or not-so-secretly interested in. Cho was a seventh-year
now, and Harry knew that if he didnt ask her out this time, hed never
have another chance. 
 But how could
he? Two years ago, Cho had been seeing Cedric Diggory, the Hufflepuff Quidditch
captain and one of the champions chosen to participate in the Triwizard
Tournament. Hed died in the course of that, murdered by Voldemort in a
fate surely meant for Harry instead. Nobody had ever come right out and
said that it was all because of Harry that poor Cedric had been there in
the first place, but Harrys own guilt was worse than any amount of blame
from others. 
 Last year, Harry
had stayed far away from Cho, respecting that she was in mourning for Cedric
and wouldnt want anything to do with the one responsible for his death.
He was glumly realizing now that a year probably wasnt enough, that ten
years might not be, that he may as well write Cho off entirely. It wasnt
as if shed ever seemed to return his interest, or shown anything other
than politeness toward him.
 He sighed into
his glass, stirring ripples on the surface of the pumpkin juice. Funny
 at the time of the tournament and the Yule Ball, the idea of having to
ask a girl to go with him had seemed like the most daunting and awful task
hed faced. Now, though, he kind of liked the idea. Girls were, well, nice
to look at.
 Of course, his
and Rons brilliant treatment of Parvati and Padma Patil had probably done
them in. Theyd virtually ignored their dates, and word of it was all over
Hogwarts. All over Beauxbatons, too. Harrys chances of getting either
of them, or any other girl in his year, to go out with him were roughly
equivalent to his chances of making friends with Professor Snape. 
 Thinking this
made him look at Ginny. She would go to a dance with him, of that
he hadnt a doubt. But she was Ginny . Rons little sister. It would
be like going with his own sister, if he had one. And as for Hermione 
 Harry gave up.
Girls might be nice to look at, and plenty of them might be good friends
and clever and funny and all, but the business of asking them out was just
too much trouble. 
 **
 Chapter Five Murder on the Hogwarts Express. 
 Kings Cross
Station was a buzzing hive of activity. Muggles rushed to and fro, nearly
all of them in a hurry. Even so, some were startled from their own business
to notice the admittedly unusual sight of four teenagers pushing carts
piled with distinctly un-Mugglish luggage. None of their carts had
cauldrons, or caged owls, or cloth-wrapped shapes that were still recognizably
broomsticks. 
 Ginnys broomstick
wasnt even wrapped. She wanted all the world to see the gleaming handle
and sleek twigs, and the sharply-angled lettering like script made from
lightning that read Skyblazer. 
 Harry and Hermione
had accompanied the Weasleys back to the Burrow for a final dinner the
night before they were due to leave for school. Fred and George came over
too, and as they were in the midst of regaling everyone with funny anecdotes
from Weasleys Wizard Wheezes their mother, Mrs. Weasley, listened to
these with a firm scowl of disapproval pasted on her features a large
brown owl came swooping in through the kitchen window and dropped the Skyblazer
squarely into Ginnys hands. A congratulatory note from the proprietor
of the shop had been tied to the handle. 
 Nothing would
do after that but for Harry to break out his Firebolt, and for the two
of them to practice out back. They took turns dive-bombing the gnomes that
infested the garden, scaring them into sight for Hermiones cat Crookshanks
to chase. Rons owl, Pigwidgeon, flapped and fluttered madly all about,
wanting to play and trying to keep up with the zipping, darting broomsticks.
Hedwig, Harrys snowy owl, ruffled up her feathers and hunched her head
down into them, and her expression was as patiently exasperated as Hermiones
own.
 Ron was purple
with indignation. When Harry had first gotten his Firebolt, a present from
his godfather, Ron had been all over Harry to let him have a ride. But
when Ginny offered him a turn on the Skyblazer, he sniffed and stalked
inside, and slammed the back door so hard that it sent the gnomes bounding
in new directions.
 He kept Harry
up until nearly midnight with his tossing and turning. Every so often,
hed rise up, punch his pillow, and snarl something under his breath. Harry
didnt know what to say. He felt bad for Ron, shown up by his own sister,
but it was nice to see Ginny so happy for a change. Shed had a bad first
year at Hogwarts what with the Chamber of Secrets and all. He figured Ron
would get over it. 
 They got up
at the crack of dawn to leave for the train station. The Burrow seemed
oddly empty now that Fred and George had a flat in town, upstairs of their
joke shop. Mrs. Weasley still made more food than was needed at meals,
and bundled up a big bag of leftovers for them to have for lunch. Nobody
wanted to hurt her feelings by mentioning Harrys usual habit of treating
them all to goodies from the snack trolley.
 While they were
waiting for their turn to surreptitiously approach the entrance to Platform
9 and &frac34;, Harry caught himself stealing glances at Hermione. She
was dressed up for the trip in a skirt-and-sweater combination not all
that different from ones hed seen in years past, but it was really remarkable
how shapely her legs were, and how fascinating the contours the sweater
followed.
 He had to consciously
quit looking at Hermione, though, when out of the corner of his eye he
caught Ginny looking at him with a suspicious furrow to her brow.
Last thing he needed was for her to get all jealous or worse, say something
to Hermione. There had been that nasty mess with Rita Skeeter two years
ago, and hed sooner be eaten alive by scorpion-ants than go through that
again.
 Making a big
show of deliberately looking elsewhere, Harry saw a cart with a trunk on
it, and just barely sticking up over the top, the dark-blond head and frightened
violet-blue eyes of Jeremy Upwood. He was rolling his cart aimlessly back
and forth, staring first at the sign that read Platform 9 and then the
one that read Platform 10, and was on the verge of tears. 
 Jeremy! he
called. Over here.
 I cant find
where Im supposed to be, Jeremy wailed. The ticket says --
 Its all right,
Hermione assured him. Just watch how we do it. Here, Ron, show him.
 Its easy-peasy,
Ron said. Watch.
 He checked to
be sure no Muggles were paying particular attention, then purposefully
pushed his cart straight at the brick wall dividing Platforms 9 and 10.
As he reached it, the wall wavered and he vanished through.
 Jeremys mouth
was hanging open. Harry grinned. Things that were old-hat to him now were
new again when he saw them through the eyes of someone else. 
 See? he said,
as Ginny and then Hermione went. Nothing to it. Here I go.
 His vision blurred
briefly as he passed through the illusory wall. Sometimes he wondered what
would happen if a Muggle accidentally blundered against it. Would the wall
know, and reject them? Or would the Muggle suddenly be standing where Harry
was now, in front of the shining scarlet train?
 The leading
edge of a cart slammed into Harrys ankles and almost knocked him over.
He jumped out of the way. Jeremy Upwood was there, gaping in amazement.
Harry grinned at him and winked, then went to where Hermione was waving
to him. 
 He lost track
of Jeremy in the crush of people all loading their luggage and boarding
the train. He spotted Ginny chatting with Dennis Creevey, younger brother
of Harrys admirer, Colin. Since Dennis had also made the Quidditch team
 Beater at the end of last years tryouts, Harry hoped Dennis would
be more likely to get to know him as a person now, and less of an idol. 
 The Hogwarts
Express pulled away from the platform with a bellowing hiss of steam, and
picked up speed as it chugged out of the station. Harry settled into a
compartment with Ron and Hermione. Ron was slumped by the window, wearing
a sulky look, and Hermione already had her nose buried in The Standard
Book of Spells: Grade 6 . Harry couldnt help being intrigued by the
way her skirt had hiked a little bit, exposing a pretty knee.
 Someone rapped
at the doorframe of their compartment. Neville Longbottom, whom Harry had
had a hand in turning into a frog last Christmastime, stuck his head in.
Hed recovered completely from that ordeal, and while Harry would never
be on Nevilles grandmothers list of favorite people, she had quit trying
to have Neville removed from Gryffindor House. 
 Neville, of
all of Harrys friends and classmates, had changed the least. He was still
pudgy and round-faced, still with a perpetual worried look that said he
knew things were going on around him and was trying his best to comprehend. 
 Do you know
whos come back to Hogwarts? he asked breathlessly, plopping onto the
seat beside Hermione. Harry had sat next to Ron, the better to keep stealing
peeks at her knee. 
 Professor Lupin?
Harry knew it was too much to hope for, but still 
 Ron roused from
his sulk. The girls from Beauxbatons?
 Neville shook
his head at both of them. Fyren Grimme!
 Harry was blank,
but Hermione looked up from her book and Ron rocked back in his seat. 
 No! said Ron.
Youve got to be kidding.
 Whos Fyren
Grimme? Harry asked, mentally kicking himself for once more being behind
the times and not knowing all he should about the wizarding world.
 Didnt Professor
McGonagall mention him? pondered Hermione. I seem to remember something
in one of her Transfigurations classes oh! When we were first-years,
and she was telling us why we wouldnt be allowed to practice any human
Transfigurations until fifth or sixth.
 I heard about
it from Fred, said Ron. Fyren Grimme was a year behind them, but everyone
knew he was going to be trouble. Slytherin, of course. Had Dark wizard
written all over him.
 You say that
about everyone from Slytherin, said Harry.
 Am I wrong?
 Well 
 Anyway, Neville
went on breathlessly, they finally got the spells undone on him and now
hes back.
 Hang on, said
Harry. That was how many years ago? And it took this long? When you were
a frog, Madame Pomfrey had you back to normal in just a few weeks.
 Dont remind
me. Neville made a face, perhaps recalling what it had been like to live
on a diet of pureed flies.
 I thought he
was expelled, Hermione said. That after he partway Transfigured himself,
he went mad and bit some students.
 It only had
half to do with Transfiguration, Neville said. Gran told me that he was
trying to turn himself into an Animagus, and something went wrong. He
went somber. And she told me that if I ever tried 
 He did, said
Ron. Bite some people, I mean. Thats what Fred said. I wouldnt think
Dumbledore would be in a hurry to let him back. Are you sure, Neville?
 Im sure,
said Neville. I passed by a bunch of Slytherins on my way to the bathroom
and Malfoy was introducing him around. Hes enormous. Well, not like Hagrid,
but big. Like Marcus Flint, Harry, do you remember him?
 How could I
forget? said Harry dryly. Flint, the captain of the Slytherin team, had
been a huge, mean bruiser whod been held back and had to repeat a year,
and taken out his anger about it on the Quidditch field as well as the
bodies of the opposing team. Something struck him. Say is he about so
tall, dark haired, shoulders like this?
 Thats him,
confirmed Neville.
 Thats the
one we saw outside Flourish and Blotts, said Ron. Blimey, he was a big
one. Tough-looking, too. Fyren Grimme and Malfoy, talk about a match made
in Hell. I bet Malfoys already poisoned him against you, Harry. Better
be on your toes.
 Always.
 Just then, as
if on some horrible cue, the lights snapped off, plunging them into darkness.
Total darkness, for at that moment the train was in a long tunnel. 
 A spate of screams
and startled outcries erupted. Harry bit back an alarmed exclamation of
his own. The last time something like this had happened, dementors had
been aboard. 
 He pulled out
his wand, the words Expecto Patronus poised at his lips. First would
be the chill, the awful bone-deep chill, like tendrils of icy mist wrapping
stealthy fingers around his insides and slipping into his marrow. Then
the voices, his mothers desperate pleas, his fathers last stand, their
dying shrieks. 
 Lumos ,
said Hermione. A glow lit the end of her wand. 
 The frightened
commotion elsewhere on the train died out as others did the same. Soon
the eerie flicker of wandlights was visible all up and down the corridor.
No dementors appeared. The train rushed from the tunnel and afternoon sunlight
poured in through the windows.
 What was that
all about? asked Ron as the overhead lights came back on too.
 He was answered
by a fresh scream, this one full of horror and very close. Harry and Hermione
were quickest to the door, Neville stumbling over Crookshanks and treading
hard on Rons foot so that the two of them didnt sort it out for several
seconds.
 The snacks trolley
was angled crossways in the corridor. The witch who managed it was standing
in the doorway of another compartment, staring down and now screaming through
her fingers as she covered her face. A gaggle of students surrounded her,
elbowing each other and going on tiptoe and trying to see in. 
 Harry shoved
through them. A surprising number gave way the moment they saw him, his
reputation acting like an invisible wedge clearing him a path. Hermione
came along in his wake, and they reached the witch.
 Whats the
matter? Harry touched her on the shoulder.
 She turned to
him, her face the color of curdled milk, and pointed.
 The compartment
at first glance looked empty, unoccupied. But there was something on the
floor a small and crumpled something 
 Its Jeremy!
gasped Hermione.
 Harry squeezed
past the witch in the doorway and dropped to his knees. Jeremy was face-down,
one arm bent behind him so that the tiny hand was palm-up and curled as
if begging for help. 
 Jeremy? Jeremy,
answer me.
 The boy didnt
move. He was still, so still, and it didnt look as though he were breathing.
Harry looked up at Hermione. She was chewing her lip in anxiety and agitation.
Behind her, the news was being passed from one onlooker to the next. 
 Carefully, gingerly,
Harry took hold of Jeremy and rolled him onto his back. Jeremy was limp
and cold. His eyes were wide, glassy, like jewels the color of twilight.
Unseeing. 
 I think 
He didnt want to say it because saying it might make it true.
 Hermione said
it for him. Hes dead, isnt he?
 A whispering
gasp, like wind through tall grass, stirred through the crowd and ended
all other talk. The witch moaned and covered her eyes. 
 Someones got
to do something, Harry said.
 But they were
all looking at him, as if expecting him to do something. Even Hermione
made a sort of well, hurry it up gesture at him. 
 He still had
his wand out, prepared as hed been to deal with dementors. Now he pointed
it at Jeremy and said, Ennervate !
 Light streamed
from the end, but pooled uselessly around the body. If hed been sleeping,
even if hed been unconscious Harry grimly shook his head at Hermione. 
 Hes not wounded.
What ? Was it ? she trailed off. 
 I dont know.
Harry sat back on his heels and ran a hand through his hair. He rubbed
the faint roughness of his scar under his palm and wondered if he would
have felt anything had someone gone and used the Avada Kadavra Curse
on poor Jeremy. The only other times hed been around when that spell had
been cast, it was by Voldemort. But this wasnt the Dark Lords handiwork.
Harry surely would have felt that. 
 Bedlam was taking
over the train, a near-panic spreading like wildfire among the students.
Harry didnt know what to do. When the dementors had come, Professor Lupin
had saved them and cured the worst of the residual chill with chocolate.
The trolley was right there within arms reach, but what good would chocolate
do for Jeremy Upwood now?
 Hermione had
come to similar conclusions because she was holding a thick bar, turning
it over and over in her hands. Isnt there anything we can do?
 Youre the
book-smart one, he said dismally. Dont you have any ideas? When she
shook her head, he looked up at the witch. What did you see?
 All the lights
went out, she said. Someone came out of this compartment, pushed by me,
nearly knocked me over.
 Who was it?
demanded Hermione.
 Couldnt see.
Mightve been a man.
 Harrys initial
impulse was to look around for Draco Malfoy, as he recalled the Slytherins
snide remarks about Mudbloods, Muggles, and stricter laws. But any suspicion
aimed at Draco quickly vanished when Harry saw him, rumpled and trying
to straighten out his clothes, emerging from the tiny, one-person lavatory
with Pansy Parkinson behind him. Pansy, too, was rumpled, her make-up smudged. 
 Malfoys face
was flushed and indignant, as if all of this had interrupted something
he really hadnt wanted interrupted, and he wasnt a good enough actor
to be counterfeiting those emotions. Further, when word reached him that
thered apparently been a murder on board, his look of surprise was entirely
genuine.
 The conductor,
a wizard in dark red robes with shoulderboards trimmed in gold braid, and
buttons all down the front with raised images of the Hogwarts crest, pushed
into the compartment. He blanched as he saw Jeremy, but gathered his wits
and motioned people back, sliding the door shut. Harry saw Ron, craning
to peer over the heads of the crowd, and then Ron was gone as the door
thunked home. 
 The snack-trolley
witch, inside with Harry and Hermione, collapsed onto the nearest seat
and began sobbing with her head in her apron. The conductor knelt opposite
Harry and, not without a grimace and a hesitation, grasped Jeremys outflung
wrist and felt for a pulse.
 Nothing, he
said. The lads gone. What did this to him?
 We dont know,
Harry said, and explained how theyd been in their compartment when the
lights went out, and then heard the witchs screams. 
 Shouldnt we
cover him? Hermione took a folded blanket from one of the upper shelves
and shook it out. Harry caught the other end and together they lowered
it over Jeremy. He made such a small, pitiful lump.
 Then, from beneath
the blanket, Jeremy hitched in a shuddering breath. His hand, which hadnt
been covered, spasmed as if grabbing at thin air. 
 Hermione voiced
a thin shriek and sprang back. Her bottom hit Harry, and the backs of his
knees hit the edge of the seat. He landed sitting, with Hermione in his
lap and her skirt flipped most of the way up her thighs, but thoughts of
her legs were as far as could be from his mind. He scrambled out from under
her and whipped the blanket off of Jeremy.
 Those violet-blue
eyes shifted to look at him. Their color was clouded, twilight sky viewed
through a thin veil of cloud, but alert. He sat up.
 The snack-trolley
witch pealed a scream like a siren and bolted for the door. She fought
wildly with the conductor, tore free, yanked the door open, and burst out
into the still-crowded hallway. Her sudden arrival set off new outbursts
of panic.
 Whats going
on? asked Jeremy Upwood in a faint, strained voice. 
 The conductors
mouth opened and closed, opened and closed. 
 Jeremy? asked
Harry cautiously. How do you feel?
 Im fine.
But he didnt look fine; he looked pale and drawn, and there was
a greyish underhue to his complexion that reminded Harry of something that
he couldnt immediately place. 
 The boy got
up, unsteadily. The doorway was a wall of faces and wide, astonished eyes.
He uncomfortably averted his face from them. 
 The conductor
reached out for Jeremys wrist, perhaps meaning to assure himself that
hed simply felt in the wrong place for a pulse. Jeremy edged away, tucking
his arms around himself. 
 Im fine, really
I am, he insisted. 
 I guess he
must be, Hermione said, with doubt coloring her tone. What do you think,
Harry?
 I think we
ought to just let it be, he said, telling her with a look that theyd
talk more about it later. 
 **
 Chapter Six The Green-Eyed Monster. 
 The rest of the
journey passed with a hectic, dreamlike strangeness. A story somehow got
around that Harry Potter had brought back a boy from the dead, and reactions
ranged from whisperings-behind-the-hand as he passed to Colin Creeveys
enthusiastic, puppy-like cavorting.
 Howd you do
it, Harry? Gosh! I thought no magic could raise the dead. Gosh! I wish
I hadnt packed my camera in my trunk. If youd wait right there, Ill
go get it, wont be a minute, and if I could get a picture of you and 
the boy Colin had finally gotten permission to put together a school
paper, though some thought the only reason Professor McGonagall had finally
agreed was so hed hush up and give her a moments peace. 
 Harry winced.
He could just see himself plastered on the first page of the first-ever
issue of the Hogwarts Happenings . And as bad as it would be for
him, it would probably be a million times worse for Jeremy Upwood. Nobody
needed to start off their school life with that kind of attention, as Harry
personally knew all too well.
 He managed to
duck Colin by saying he really had to talk to Hermione about something,
and escaped back to the compartment hed been sharing with her and Ron.
When people kept dropping by on all sorts of pretenses, Harrys only recourse
was to dig out his Invisibility Cloak, put it on, and sit quietly by the
window. From then on, whenever the door would slide open and someones
head would poke in, whoever it was would see right away that Harry wasnt
in there, and leave after mumbled apologies to Ron and Hermione.
 Jeremy was,
luckily for him, spirited away to the conductors office to recover from
the ordeal. Ron had done a little asking around, but nobody seemed to
know whod been riding in with him, or who the person that had bumped into
the snack-trolley witch might have been.
 Malfoy, Ron
said. It had to have been Malfoy.
 I dont think
so, Harry said, and told them why.
 Ron goggled.
You dont mean they were 
 It wouldnt
surprise me, said Hermione loftily. All the girls talk about Pansy Parkinson.
 Do they? asked
Ron. What do they say?
 He and Harry
had shared an unspoken fascination with what girls talked about ever since
their third year, when all of the girls had been called away to a special
assembly and all the boys sent out to play wizard golf one fine spring
day. Hermione had returned from that assembly with a smug glint in her
eyes. As if anybody needed more of a knowing look. 
 Hermione didnt
answer. She smoothed her skirt demurely, a motion which drew Harrys eyes
to her legs again. They were really quite spectacular, he was beginning
to understand. Not that he would ever say such a thing to her. Besides,
hed had the odd feeling for some time now that there was something between
her and Ron, something that all their bickering tried to mask. Thinking
that made him feel unaccountably envious and sad. Cho Changs image danced
briefly into his head and quickly out.
 The train arrived
at Hogsmeade Station beneath a sky in which the first brilliant pinpricks
of stars were beginning to appear. The students, all dressed in their robes
now so that they resembled an earthbound flock of crows fluttering busily
about, disembarked and struggled to organize their luggage. 
 Ullo, Harry!
boomed Hagrids deep, gruff voice. 
 The huge figure
waded through the crowd. Some gave him a wide berth the news that Hagrid
was half-giant, and Dumbledores liaison in forging an alliance with that
fierce race had made many people think that his jovial, bearish exterior
really hid a bloodthirsty menace. Not that Hagrid couldnt be fierce if
angered but he was slow to anger and really just a great marshmallow
at heart, especially when it came to his fondness for horrific monsters
that no one else in their right minds would have gone near without a full
suit of armor, every defensive spell known to wizardry, and a wand the
size of a battering ram. 
 Hugging Hagrid
wasnt so much a matter of sharing an embrace as it was of being nearly
hoisted off ones feet and shaken like a rag in a dogs jaws. Harry endured
this with good humor, as did Ron. When it came to be Hermiones turn, though,
Hagrid hesitated awkwardly and ended up sort of patting her on the shoulder.
He harumphed into his beard and mumbled something about how grown-up they
all were getting.
 What was that
all about? Ron asked as Hagrid turned to bellow his summons for the first-years,
who would join him on the traditional boat-ride across the lake. 
 I dont know,
said Hermione, but she looked like she had a fair idea. Harry, glancing
once more at her figure mostly concealed now by the loose flow of her
robes and thought he might have a fair idea too. 
 Heard yeh had
a bit of trouble on the way, said Hagrid in a rumbling undertone. Yeh
all fine, then?
 We are, said
Harry. But theres a boy who might need to see Madame Pomfrey straight
away, even before the Sorting. 
 He indicated
Jeremy, who was standing a ways removed from the rest of the first-years,
all the rest of whom were clustered close together as if for shared courage
in the face of this massive, wild-haired man. In the pale lights of the
station, Jeremy looked wan and very pale.
 Ill see to
it, Hagrid said. He clapped Harry on the shoulder hard enough to stagger
him, then collected his young charges and led them away in the direction
of the lake. 
 The remaining
students rode up to Hogwarts in magical horseless carriages. As always,
the sight of the castles many turrets and gleaming windows woke a feeling
of freedom and joy in Harry. Those halls, passages, towers, and rooms were
his home. Not that he knew them all. His father had, as had James Potters
friends, at least well enough to devise their enchanted Marauders Map.
But a few instances of corridors that no longer led where the map claimed
they did, plus the way the staircases of Hogwarts liked to move of their
own accord, led Harry to believe that the map might have become slightly
outdated in the years since his father had been a student. 
 They climbed
down from the carriages, trusting that their luggage would find its way
to their rooms. This was one of the many tasks of the house-elves, who
persisted in their cheerful servitude despite all of Hermiones best efforts
as a union agitator, despite the proud example displayed by Dobby. Hermione
hadnt quite given up her aim of seeing house-elves with fair wages and
benefits, but even her indomitable will was hard-pressed to deal with an
entire race of elves who could barely conceive of, let alone want, that
kind of help.
 This is always
my favorite part of the year, said Ron as they waited outside of the Great
Hall for its mighty doors to open. The feast.
 Honestly, Ron,
youd think your mother starves you, Hermione said. Its Harry who has
to live on scraps all summer.
 Ive nothing
against my mums cooking, Ron protested. But she never makes as much
as we want. Its magic, isnt it? Free. But whenever we say anything about
wanting a bit more, shell trot out that old clunker about starving wizards
in Africa and how we should be grateful for what we have. None of that
here. We can eat until we split.
 What a lovely
thought, she said.
 Harry hid a
smile. Hadnt he just been thinking that Mrs. Weasley cooked enough food
for an army, acting as if all of her children were still living and eating
at home even though nearly all of them now were off with places and jobs
of their own?
 The doors opened,
and they filed into the Great Hall. Ranks of candles hung suspended between
the floor and the star-strewn darkness of the enchanted ceiling. The golden
dishes on the four long tables sparkled with the promise of the feast that
Ron was so eagerly looking forward to. At the head of the room, the staff
table was already surrounded by the teachers. Harry spotted Dumbledores
shining silver hair and beard the moment he crossed the threshold. 
 Murmurs eddied
among the students as they saw Professor Ophidia Winterwind seated between
Professors Snape and Flitwick. This was the first time in most of their
recollection that theyd actually begun a year with the same Defense Against
the Dark Arts teacher theyd had at the end of the last year. Many of the
murmurs were colored with appreciation (from the male students) and sniffs
of jealousy or spite (from the females). Harry, having just seen her a
few nights ago, was struck once more by her ominous, alabaster-and-obsidian
beauty.
 Ophidia was
chatting gaily with Professor Flitwick, flicking her long lashes and pursing
her lips and generally flirting so outrageously that the diminutive Charms
teacher was bright pink and barely able to sit still. Snape, on Ophidias
other side, was regarding this with a flat, humorless demeanor that did
nothing to soften the sour, miserly lines of his face. 
 Is it just
me, Ron whispered as they took their places, or do they look different?
The witches, I mean. Look at Sprout.
 Professor Sprout,
who taught Herbology, was a plump little witch whose hands and clothes
were usually dirty from gardening. Now, she was as well-scrubbed as a newborn
infant, and in place of her comfortable jumper, she was wearing a yellow
robe sewn with green leaves and vines. 
 And Madame
Hooch, Hermione added with some wonder.
 The Quidditch
coach, a stocky and tough woman with hair nearly as defiant as Hermiones,
was similarly attired in new, fashionable robes. She even, though it was
hard to tell from here, looked to be wearing a touch of eyeshadow. 
 Harry looked
from one teacher to the next. He saw other small changes, nothing big,
but overall it added up to a sweeping sense of peculiarity. Everyone, wizards
and witches alike, were done up much smarter than usual. They were all
talking more vibrantly, their gestures more animated. As if each of them
wanted to be sure he or she was noticed. Even Dumbledore was resplendent
in robes of deepest purple, and his pointed hat was especially tall and
straight. 
 Madame Pomfrey
was not in attendance, and Harry took that to mean shed been called away
to see to Jeremy. Hopefully, the boy would be all right and hopefully,
Harry would have a chance to talk to Dumbledore or somebody about what
had happened on the train. 
 The only unfamiliar
face at the staff table was a man who looked to be in his sixties, though
Harry knew that sort of thing counted for little among wizards. He was
portly, with grey hair that was balding on top but made up for it with
the most massive muttonchop sideburns Harry had ever seen. Which was to
say, they were the only muttonchop sideburns hed ever seen on a
real person, outside of the moving portraits that filled the castle halls. 
 Except the
man was unfamiliar, but there was something about him that made Harry wonder
if maybe he had met him before. He leaned toward Hermione to ask if she
knew, because she always did.
 At that same
moment, though, Hermione had been leaning toward him to ask him something,
and their faces ended up so close to one another that their heads nearly
bumped. She gasped, and blinked, and Harry was fascinated by her eyes.
Velvety brown with a sheen like honey, and the pupils so large and dark
that he imagined he could see through to the inner, secret Hermione. Hed
never been this close to her, not like this, and for a moment forgot entirely
about what hed been going to say.
 She, too, didnt
speak. All around them the Great Hall was full of the noise of their classmates
settling into their seats, and no one else seemed aware of the two of them.
Or so Harry thought until Ron, across the table, flicked his golden goblet
with a fingernail and it chimed like a bell.
 Startled, Harry
drew back and Hermione did likewise. She busied herself with her napkin,
folding and re-folding it. 
 A silvery peal
of laughter rose from the staff table. Ophidia Winterwind, in response
to something that Snape must have said, put her hand on his upper arm and
briefly tipped her head against his shoulder, then shook a finger at him
as if hed been a naughty boy. 
 Professor Flitwick
immediately launched into a witty story of his own, puffing up and speaking
perhaps more forcefully than necessary. Professor Sprout tugged at Dumbledores
sleeve, making him look away from Ophidia and at her instead, and as she
began to talk quietly to him, she made a point of fluffing her curled hair
in a disconcerting manner.
 Theyre jealous,
Ron concluded after observing some minutes of this interplay. Shes got
the whole staff worked up. Look at that. Did you ever see the like?
 Nonsense,
said Hermione. Dont be silly.
 I swear, its
true, look at them, said Ron. All the witches dolled up, trying to compete
with her, all the wizards spruced up, trying to compete for her.
Its plain as day.
 Ill admit,
shes pretty, Hermione said. But to think that the teachers to think
that even Dumbledore 
 Her voice lost
strength, because just then Dumbledore arose, and as he stood proud and
commanding, they didnt miss the way his eyes darted to his right and then,
seeing that Ophidia was watching him with rapt adoration, he stood even
straighter and held his head high so as to present his most striking profile.
 See? hissed
Ron as an expectant hush fell over the room.
 Yes, I take
it back, youre right, Hermione whispered.
 The side door
opened on silent, stealthy hinges and Hagrid crept in. It should have been
impossible for a man his size to make his way unnoticed to his seat at
the end of the table, but most everyone else was distracted by the doors
at the end of the Great Hall opening once more to admit the first-years. 
 Professor McGonagall
led the procession. Her robes were midnight-blue and sewn with tiny silver
stars, obviously new and flatteringly tailored. She wore a matching silver
necklace made of small interlocked stars. And either she was a whiz with
cosmetics or shed been sneaking sips of a Youthening Potion on the sly,
but she looked at least ten years younger than Harry remembered. 
 This change
was not lost on the other students. For the first time, more eyes were
fixed on McGonagall than on the nervous line of first-years behind her.
At the end of the line was Jeremy Upwood, still very pale but evidently
all right because Madame Pomfrey in a new, crisply white nurses robe
 was bringing up the rear. 
 McGonagall marched
to the front of the room and spun with a grand flair. This was her moment,
everything about her proclaimed it, and she meant to make the most of it.
She made a grandiloquent beckoning gesture. 
 Hooves clattered
on the floor. A beautiful golden horse, so graceful that Harrys first
impression was that it was an adolescent unicorn, pranced forth. It was
bearing a shapeless, tattered hat on its back in place of a saddle. As
it reached Professor McGonagall, the horse reared up, hooves flashing prettily,
and let out a loud, musical nicker. 
 She snapped
her fingers. As the horse came back down, it changed seamlessly into a
stool. The hat, the Sorting Hat, was resting upon it, unchanged.
 Scattered applause
broke out but was stifled quickly as a rip in the side of the hat opened,
and began to move like a thread-edged mouth. A cracked, amused, and actually
not-quite-sane voice rang out:

 Appearances can be deceiving 

A cover doesnt make the book 

They say that seeing is believing 

But they dont know how deep to look 

For truth is hidden deep inside 

Like a story in the pages 

What is within, you cannot hide 

My fine and new young mages 

I am old and torn and plain 

I may not look like much 

Yet put me on and Ill obtain 

The truth with just one touch 

Oh, I am called the Sorting Hat 

And what that name espouses 

Is how I can in no time flat 

Determine all your Houses 

So step right up and try me on 

To see where you belong 

In Slytherin if ambition 

And cunning craft are strong 

Be Gryffindor if courage 

Is where your heart excels 

Or Ravenclaw if knowledge 

Will help you learn your spells 

Or is your heart of Hufflepuff 

Faithful, pure and true? 

I think weve waited long enough 

Come up; theres much to do! 
 The first-years
looked amazed and delighted by this novelty, a talking hat, and it helped
some of them get over the anxiousness of the Sorting. The rest of the students
clapped politely for the Hat, which nodded its point this way and that
as if in acknowledgement of their praise. Ron surmised that the Hat spent
all year thinking up each new song and lived for this one moment of glory.
 Professor McGonagall
instructed the first-years to come up when each was called, and then once
a House was declared, to go and sit with their classmates. The students
already seated shuffled around a bit to make sure the empty chairs were
visible.
 Unrolling a
long sheet of parchment, Professor McGonagall called out the first name.
A thin girl named Alison Appleby climbed the steps, sat gingerly on the
stool as if she feared it might collapse and spill her to the floor, and
waited with eyes squeezed tightly shut as the Sorting Hat was lowered onto
her head.
 The Hat considered
for a moment, humming to itself. Harry remembered from his own experience
that Alison would probably be hearing the Hats musing aloud in her head,
as it sifted through her psyche and judged by what it found there. Her
tension was evident in her knotted fists and the quiver of her chin, just
visible beneath the brim of the overlarge Hat.
 Ravenclaw!
the Hat announced.
 Cheers and applause
exploded from that table. Alison, looking shaky with relief, hopped down
and scurried over. Professor McGonagall called the rest one after another. 
 By virtue of
alphabetical order, Jeremy Upwood was last. He climbed the steps slowly,
and when he turned to sit on the stool, his eyes swept the room with a
strange, shadowed emptiness that touched Harry with a chill even from yards
away. Jeremy was awfully pale, as if he was about to faint, but his features
were composed.
 He was small
for his age, smaller even than the Creeveys, and the Sorting Hat plopped
all the way to his shoulders. Then it shivered, and went rigid, and for
one horrible instant Harry thought it was going to shout out Slytherin.
He glanced that way, saw Malfoy with his usual entourage plus Fyren Grimme.
 Time spun out
like an endless thread. The waiting hush turned into a restless fidgeting
rustle. At the staff table, a few concerned looks were exchanged. Professor
McGonagall took a step forward, perhaps meaning to lift the Sorting Hat
off Jeremy. 
 Before her hand
got there, the Hat cleared its throat not that it had a throat,
but that was the sound it made.
 Battenby!
it cried. 
 And now the
silence, disturbed before, was utter and complete.
 **

 Chapter Seven Charon and Dursley. 
 Professor McGonagall
lifted the Sorting Hat from Jeremy Upwoods head. Hers was the only movement
in the Great Hall until Dumbledore slowly rose from his chair. This acted
as a signal to the room, and all at once everybody was talking. 
 Hermione didnt
even wait for Harry and Ron to ask. Leaning forward, eyes bright, she said,
Theres nothing about this in Hogwarts, A History ! Though there
was a mention of a wizard named Battenby, Cyril Battenby, who was a contemporary
of Godric Gryffindor. Apparently, Battenby drew up the original plans for
the school, but died before construction was begun.
 Dumbledore shot a golden burst from his wand to get everyones attention.
Harry saw Jeremy standing beside the stool, his eyes wide and scared. Professor
McGonagall was looking down at him with an odd mixture of pity and what
seemed to be unease. 
 Minerva, said
Dumbledore, would you kindly summon Professor Charon?
 McGonagall nodded
curtly and left via the side door, carrying the stool and the Sorting Hat
with her.
 Whos Professor
Charon? Ron asked, low.
 Ive never
heard of him, replied Hermione.
 If youll all
please be so good as to settle down, Dumbledore called above the babble,
I have a few words to say before we begin the start-of-term feast. But
first, young Mr. Upwood, while we clear up this confusion, please have
a seat. Anywhere will do.
 Jeremy was frozen
in place, until Harry jerked his head in a come-here gesture. Relieved,
the small boy hurried to the Gryffindor table. People he passed turned
to stare quizzically. Jeremy sat, and offered a shaky smile in gratitude
at finding a few friendly faces.
 Ron started to question him, but Harry kicked his ankle under the table.
No sense badgering the kid; clearly, Jeremy didnt know what was going
on either. Unless the Hat had said something to him Harry started to
ask a question of his own and was in turn kicked by Hermione. 
 Dumbledore launched
into his traditional speech, informing new students and reminding old ones
of the various rules of Hogwarts. When he mentioned that the West Bailey
was off-limits, Harry noted raised eyebrows among some of the teachers,
as if this was news to them, too. The West Bailey was one of the oldest
parts of the castle, used for little now except storage, and right away
Harrys interest was triggered. What could there be to be found in the
West Bailey worth making it forbidden?
 During the bit
where Dumbledore told them that all third-years and above were allowed
scheduled weekend visits to Hogsmeade, the door opened again and Professor
McGonagall came in. She was walking quickly, nervously, and kept peeking
back over her shoulder as if she thought the figure behind her might suddenly
go for her neck. 
 Harry didnt
blame her. A chill swept over him as dark form entered the Great Hall.
Had he just been thinking about dementors on the train? Here was a man
just as hooded and cowled, wearing robes of a black so dark they seemed
to suck in the glow of the candles, so that no light actually fell upon
him but was absorbed some inches from his body. He walked in a perpetual
dim shadow, and a cold draft was in his wake. His height rivaled Hagrids,
but he was cadaverously thin, and when his hands slid from his sleeves,
they were white and long-fingered and bloodless as bare bone.
 The new arrival
brought those hands to his hood and pushed it back, so that the fabric
collapsed in a lifeless billow onto the narrow rack of his shoulders. The
face thus revealed was so like a skull that stifled cries sounded here
and there about the room before the students realized that his pure-white
hair was cropped close to the scalp and his skin was drawn tight against
the hard planes beneath. His eyes were the pink-red of an albino, set deep
in hollowed sockets. 
 You sent for
me, Headmaster. He made it a statement, in a voice that was at once both
ghostly and echoey. 
 Yes, Professor
Charon, I did. Thank you, Professor McGonagall. 
 She dipped her
head slightly in acknowledgement and retreated to her place at the staff
table. Dumbledore came around from behind it. 
 We have a new
student for you, Dumbledore said.
 Beside Ron,
Jeremy trembled. 
 Is that so?
murmured Charon. A new student for Battenby House? Where?
 Mr. Upwood,
if you would join us? 
 Gulping, Jeremy
got up. He sent a brief look of appeal to Harry help me! , that
look said but they all knew there was nothing to do but obey Dumbledore.
 As Jeremy approached,
Charon folded his long hands into the voluminous sleeves of his robe and
studied him. Yes, Headmaster. He is one of ours.
 Its all right,
son, Dumbledore said, putting a kind hand on Jeremys shoulder. Professor
Charon is Head of Battenby House. Youll be welcome there.
 Come with me,
Charon said. Ill lead you to the others.
 No one spoke.
No one stirred. The drop of a pin would have been deafening. 
 Professor Charon
wrapped his long bony fingers around Jeremys wrist and guided him. They
did not head for the door, but toward the wall nearest to the Gryffindor
table. Harry held his breath, half-expecting that theyd disappear through
it just as everyone did at the magical barrier at Platform 9 and &frac34;,
but instead, the wall itself fogged and faded.
 It was as if
the Great Hall was even bigger than it seemed. As if there was room in
it for yet another table full of students. But no candles illuminated this
add-on, and the only light came from some unseen source of misty blue-white
that made Harry think of the cold flame that had issued from the Goblet
of Fire. 
 Then he saw
them. A double row of people, hard to get a clear look at through the foggy,
semi-transparent wall. They were in robes, with crests in the usual spot,
but the crests were not in a design he knew. They were applauding silently,
their mouths open in cheers that went totally unheard. 
 Jeremys lined,
worried face smoothed out. A tentative spark of hope lit his eyes. He stopped
dragging his feet and pulled ahead of Charon, slipping from his grip. He
reached the wall and passed through unhindered. 
 The students
nearest him crowded around, greeting him. As Jeremy took his place among
them, the blue-white light brightened briefly. 
 Harry wasnt
consciously aware that he was moving until he heard Ron and Hermione urgently
whispering for him to stop. He did so, right in front of where the solid
wall should have been. 
 Odd things about
the students leapt out at him. Their hair, and what could be seen of their
clothes beneath the uniform robes, varied widely through what looked like
many centuries of fashion. They were all so pale, as if they hadnt seen
the sun in ages. 
 The crests on
their robes were in black and silver, and where Gryffindor had its proud
lion and Slytherin its sly snake, those of this mysterious Battenby House
had a black-winged bat. In fact, the effect of the crest took him right
back to that night outside of Gringotts, the moon-painted wall and the
black silhouette. Deja-vu washed over him.
 Jeremy looked
back, and despite what seemed to be the standard happiness at meeting all
his new classmates, there was a strange and awful desolation in his eyes.
Harry almost called out, but caught himself. None of the Battenby students
acted as if they were aware of him, and he realized that he couldnt hear
their voices at all, though by the way their mouths were moving, they had
to be speaking. 
 Harry Potter,
isnt it?
 He first thought
one of the Battenby students had spoken. But it was Professor Charon, who
had come up beside him and was examining him with a detachment that made
Harry even less comfortable.
 I understand
youre partly to thank for this, Charon went on.
 Excuse me,
Professor? 
 Fear no evil,
Potter. Fear no evil.
 With that, saying
nothing more and giving no other hint of explanation, Professor Charon
moved by Harry and through the spot where the wall should have been. It
snapped back into solid existence as soon as the trailing hem of his robe
had crossed. The other table was gone. The students were gone. And so was
Jeremy.
 No one else
appeared to have noticed the verbal exchange, though many people were watching
Harry as if they thought he was about to do something weird. Some of the
Slytherins, Fyren Grimme among them, had even half-risen to see across
the crowded Great Hall. Abashed, Harry hastily returned to his seat beside
Hermione.
 Did all of
you see that, he asked, or am I losing my marbles?
 Saw it, said
Ron. Spooky, wasnt it? Who are they, dyou reckon? I couldnt see that
great, but they looked well, our age and about. But weve been here six
years now and Ive never heard anybody Sorted into that House before. I
dont get it.
 I apologize
for the interruption, Dumbledore said. And for the delay. If the rest
of you are feeling as hungry as I am, youll be glad for me to say what
I have to say and get it over and done with, so that we might eat.
 Hear, hear!
a few voices called good-naturedly. 
 Already, the
incident with Jeremy seemed like something that had happened long ago,
or was of no consequence. Harry felt in himself a nudge to let it go, forget
about it, not important, pay it no mind. He steeled his thoughts against
it.
 Dumbledore showed
no signs of explaining. He merely picked up his speech where hed left
off, informing them of the specific dates of the Hogsmeade weekends and
reminding them that the House Cup was once more up for grabs, as it was
the start of a whole new year and all points were level-peggy. At this,
the Slytherins gave off a low growl, no doubt determined to win back the
honor that had been theirs so many times before Gryffindor had risen up
and wrested it from them. 
 In conclusion,
Dumbledore said, I have a new staff member to introduce. Most amazingly,
it is not our latest Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher -- 
 Here, a wave
of laughter went through the room, and a lot of heads turned toward Ophidia
Winterwind. She dimpled demurely but contrasted it with a smoldering look,
ruby eyes fringed by long lashes. It was the sort of look that made every
male in the room feel sure she was looking right at him and only at him,
a look rich with dark promise and affection. The girls and women muttered
like faraway thunder. Harry saw Pansy Parkinson give Draco Malfoy a hard
dig in the ribs.
 Ophidia finally
brought the force of her smoldering look to bear on Dumbledore, and astonishingly,
he preened beneath it just like any of the schoolboys. 
 Instead, he
said, struggling to find the thread of his speech, we are joined this
year by a new Muggle Studies teacher. As some of you know, Professor Atherton
took a leave of absence at the end of last year to get married; until she
returns, the spot will be filled by this gentleman. 
 He waved to
the man with the ruddy face and grey muttonchop sideburns. The man got
up, bowed, and smiled. Dumbledore met Harrys eyes in a manner that suggested
something of significance and also a touch of regret, as if hed wanted
to do this some other way. 
 If youll allow me to present Professor Edward Dursley.
 Harry jumped
up, banged his knee on the underside of the table, got his feet tangled
in the hem of his robes, and went down with a jarring crash full on the
floor in between the rows of seats. Face flaming, having now made a fool
of himself twice in as many minutes, he scrambled back to a somewhat dignified
posture. No one else except his friends knew why hed reacted so, which
meant that the rest of the room was once more acting like Harry had gone
mad. 
 Thank you,
Professor Dumbledore, Edward Dursley said. He addressed the students.
I do hope youll all take it easy on me while I get the hang of the place.
I stand before you as living proof that an old dog can learn new
tricks; I never had the privilege of attending this fine school, and am
deeply in the Headmasters debt for giving me this chance. I hope that
my qualifications half a lifetime spent living as a Muggle will serve
me, and you, well in the course of this course. He chuckled weakly at
his own joke. 
 Im sure youll
find a warm welcome here, Professor, said Dumbledore. And now, with no
further ado, let the feast begin.
 At once, the
tables were laid. Empty platters and bowls filled with food, re-filling
once they were emptied. Harry was almost too stunned to eat.
 Its a coincidence,
isnt it? said Ron through a mouthful of half-chewed bread. Dursley.
Cant be the same Dursley, can it?
 I think it
is, has to be, Harry said. When I first came in I thought there was something
familiar about him. Looks a bit, just a bit, like Uncle Vernon. But its
crazy!
 I saw the way
Dumbledore looked at you, Hermione said. He probably wanted to warn you
before, but there wasnt really a good time.
 Ron swallowed.
What I dont see is how it can be the same. You would have known, wouldnt
you, Harry?
 The way they
are about magic? Theyd have never told me.
 I think youre
about to get the chance to ask, said Hermione. Hes coming this way.
 Edward Dursley
was walking toward their table. He had a watch chain looping to the pocket
of his robes, and under them he wore what looked like a charcoal-colored
business suit. A bankers suit. With a tie. 
 Pardon me,
he said. Harry? Just wanted to say hello. Im told were related by
marriage, at least.
 He held out
a hand and Harry shook it. Edward Dursley had a businessmans handshake
to match his suit firm, dry, and efficient.
 I was just
wondering about that, Harry said. Are we?
 If Ive got
the facts of it, your mothers sister is married to my son. Imagine! My
son, guardian of the Harry Potter.
 Youre Uncle
Vernons father ? goggled Harry.
 Edward Dursley
took the seat that Jeremy had briefly occupied. He dished up a plateful
of food with a heavy hand on the serving spoons, and that in itself gave
testimony to his lineage. Im sure hed never acknowledge it. The old
I have no father bit, thats how it likely is with Vernie and Margie.
 Ron snorted
pumpkin juice out his nose at that. Hermione smothered her giggles in her
napkin. 
 Vernie and
Margie, Harry repeated, awestruck. 
 Came as quite
a surprise to me when I heard about you, Edward said. But then, I imagine
it must have come an awful shock to Vernon when he found out his nephew
was one of us. He hates all things magical, you see.
 I know, said
Harry. But I never understood why it bothered him so much. I mean, my
mother was Aunt Petunias sister, so it wasnt like I was his blood kin.
 No, that was
my fault. Im afraid that my being a wizard must have hardened his heart
all the more against you. Terribly sorry about that.
 How did it
all happen? Hermione asked.
 He helped himself
to a heaping mound of mashed potatoes and drowned them in a small ocean
of gravy. We Dursleys have been rock-solid Muggles for centuries, but
a few here and there down the line have had run-ins with magic. Never good
ones. Had a great-great-great-grandfather somewhere back there who was
a witchhunter. Others of the family had the bad luck to encounter the Black
Court. So, when I turned up a wizard, and got my letter inviting me to
Hogwarts, my parents refused to let me come. 
 Mine were shocked,
Hermione said, but they were happy for me once they got used to the idea.
 His face darkened.
Mine were not pleased, oh, no, not pleased at all. Thrashed me for it.
As if my father thought he could strap the magic out of me. In a way, he
did I forced it all out of my mind. Made myself forget. Did what he wanted.
The family used to own a steel mill, Harry, did you know that?
 Harry nodded.
Uncle Vernon didnt talk much about his past, but on occasion he did reminisce
fondly of days long before hed been born, when the Dursley name was well-known
and respected, and the Dursley fortune was no hill of beans. He never said
just how or why the family had gone from owning a mill to, as Uncle Vernon
did now, selling drill-bits for someone else, but it was obvious he yearned
for those bygone years. 
 So I went to
Muggle school, to university, and to work. Vice-president of the business,
under my brother. Got married, settled down. But all the while, it was
in the back of my mind. Building up. Like water behind a dam. We moved
house, and I found that letter stuffed way down in a chest that my mother
had forbid me to open I wouldnt have dreamed of doing so if she
hadnt been five years dead by then. The letter from Hogwarts. It brought
everything back. I looked at my life. Had a job that made money but was
dull as dirt. A wife, two children. A perfectly respectable, ordinary,
boring life.
 And you gave
it all up, Harry said. On a hunch, he added, You told them. Told them
you were a wizard.
 I couldnt
deny it any more. I wanted the things Id missed. The chance to do magic,
real magic to get out of that rut. To do something wild and fantastic.
A mid-life crisis, I suppose theyd say, but instead of buying a sports
car or having an affair, I took up magic.
 That mustve
gone over like month-old milk, said Ron.
 Edward Dursley
nodded. Did it ever. My wife threw me out that very day. If I hadnt gone,
she might well have brained me with throwing every dish in the house. My
brother fired me. I lost everything. But I still had my magic to sustain
me. Was able to get taken on as an apprentice, no easy task for a man in
his forties with a Muggle upbringing, I can tell you.
 Thats really
impressive, Hermione said. Youre a self-made man, a self-made wizard.
 Thank you,
young lady. I only wish Id handled it better. Things were much harder
on Mildred and the children. My brother saw to them for a while, but the
steel mill closed, and then a heart attack carried him off before he was
fifty. So they were on their own. I wrote them a couple of times but the
letters came back unopened.
 Harry had a
better grasp now of Uncle Vernons hatred and distrust of all things magical.
Hed said something once about having grown up poor and never wanting Dudley
to lack for comfort, never wanting to leave Aunt Petunia scrabbling to
make ends meet. He was a great believer in insurance, in sound investments,
in nest eggs and saving for a rainy day. And, of course, he abhorred wizards
because he felt his father had abandoned them. 
 Of all the people
in the world Harry never would have expected to feel sorry for, Uncle Vernon
was high on the list. Not as high as, say, Dudley or Draco Malfoy, but
on there all the same. Now he did, and it was a highly uncomfortable sensation
indeed.
 **
 Chapter Eight Art Appreciation. 
 The unbelievable
news about Uncle Vernons father, plus the advent of classes, should have
been enough to distract Harry from thinking about Jeremy Upwood, Professor
Charon, and the mysterious Battenby House. 
 But it didnt.
Oh, everyone else seemed to have forgotten it entirely Ron and Hermione
only remembered when Harry reminded them. It was almost as if and he
supposed it might not be beyond the realm of possibility that some spell
was in effect. Clouding their minds. Making everyone who had witnessed
the strange events suffer a sort of Memory Charm. Affecting all of them,
but apparently not Harry.
 He wondered
if his ability to remember somehow tied in with his ability to resist the
Imperius Curse and his luck at withstanding other spells. Wondered if he
should try to get an audience with Dumbledore. He was being eaten alive
by questions. What held him back was the notion that Dumbledore might have
been behind, or at least aware of, the spell, and might not take well to
knowing that it hadnt worked on Harry.
 For the time
being, he did his best to think of other things. There was a whole new
season of Quidditch practice to look forward to, and at their first meeting
in an overwhelming vote, the rest of the team chose Harry to be their new
captain since Alicia Spinnet had graduated. He wasnt sure if he was up
to it, but was honored by their faith in him and determined to try. 
 The composition
of the team had changed drastically since Harry was first made Seeker.
All of the rest had been older than him, and most had graduated and moved
on. He was very pleased with the performances of both Ginny Weasley and
Dennis Creevey. Ginny, on her new Skyblazer, was a whirlwind of red and
gold as she pursued the Quaffle. And Dennis, small but tough, proved to
be able to whack a Bludger farther than any other Beater in the school.
 If Quidditch
kept Harry busy and sent him to bed most nights with aching muscles, it
was only a drop in the bucket compared to the workout he got in a new class
hed signed up for this term. Magical Combat, also taught by Madame Hooch,
was only open to sixth- and seventh-years. 
 They would be
learning various magical defenses such as creating invisible shields against
projectiles. Harry wondered if that could be applied on the Quidditch field,
thereby sparing him a bruising from the Bludgers, but the spell required
such concentration that he knew he couldnt do that as well as keep his
eye on the Snitch). They would learn to momentarily make their hands and
arms hard as iron, for blocking a blow or delivering one. They studied
spells to increase their strength and agility under the effect of one
of these, Harry became dizzyingly quick and spells to strike at a distance
with unseen fists of force. The classic attack spells fireballs, lightning
bolts, jets of scalding water, daggers of ice were included in the curriculum
too. 
 Ron was in Magical
Combat with him, as were Neville, Dean, and Seamus. Of the sixth-year Gryffindor
girls, only Parvati took that class and seemed to find great delight in
trouncing and humiliating Harry and Ron most of all. She claimed she didnt
still hold a grudge over their neglect of her and her sister Padma (who
was in Ravenclaw, and luckily the Magical Combat course had Gryffindor
doubled with Hufflepuff), but after a session of repeatedly blocking what
would have been viciously low hits from Parvati, Ron swore that she was
still in a snit.
 Hermione disdained
that class, believing that magic was meant for knowledge and doing constructive
things, not beating people up. She was carrying a heavy course load, not
so heavy as the year in which shed had to resort to a Time-Turner just
to make it to every lesson, but she still had half again as much homework
as Harry and Ron. She had decided on a challenging triple major of Charms,
Transfigurations, and Thaumaturgical Engineering, with a split minor of
Arithmancy and Care of Magical Creatures. Her paper on house-elves was
so well done that, despite its obvious editorial slant, it was published
in the quarterly journal of the English Witches Association. 
 Just listening
to her talk about her classes gave Harry a headache. Since Quidditch wasnt
available as a major, he went with Defense Against the Dark Arts and Magical
Combat, in both of which he had been getting extensive extracurricular
experience anyway.
 Ron couldnt
make up his mind. His grades were adequate but average. He didnt shine
in any particular subject, and didnt do abysmally in any either. He and
Harry would never earn top marks in Potions, not as long as Snape was teaching,
and Divinations wasnt regarded by either of them as worth any serious
time. 
 Mr. Weasley
was after Ron to major in Muggle Studies, the better to follow in his footsteps
and take a job at the Ministry of Magic. Ron was against it, partly because
his older brother Percy was already working there and after suffering Percy
the Prefect, Percy the Big-Head Boy, Perfect Percy, for so long, Ron wanted
to do something else. He just didnt know what. 
 The work was
harder than in previous years. They were getting near to taking their O.W.L.s,
and it was past time to buckle down. A lot of students whod been coasting
and socializing their way through school were suddenly becoming aware of
this, so the atmosphere in the sixth-year classrooms was much more studious
and intent.
 Gradually, though,
as the novelty of the first week wore off and things got down to serious
business, Harry started noticing things. Out of the corner of his eye.
Half-heard when his mind was elsewhere. Sensed in some intangible way that
he couldnt describe. 
 Presences. He
detected presences around him. Not the ghostly, spiritual sort that would
send Professor Trelawney into tremulous rapture at a Manifestation. Not
the chill wind of a dementor, or the amiable nearness of one of the castle
ghosts. Not even Peeves the Poltergeist, who could never quite be described
as amiable. This was something else. Something new. 
 Weirdest of
all was the feeling that theyd always been there, but he just hadnt
noticed before. 
 He mentioned
this to Hermione one afternoon in the library. She was deep into a book,
as usual, but raised her head to listen. Strands and straggles of hair
fell across her face, she had an ink smudge on one cheek and a bit of feather
stuck to the corner of her mouth from the quill shed been chewing, and
the way she was bent over the book gave Harry a hitherto unsuspected and
entirely incredible view right down the front of her blouse. It was almost
enough to make him forget what he was saying. 
 Maybe youre
not looking right, she said.
 Huh? Harry
flushed guiltily, but of course she wasnt talking about what he was looking
at now . 
 The Potion
of True-Sight, she said. Its supposed to let you see that which is normally
unseen.
 Tantalizing
prospects danced in Harrys thoughts and he banished them. Surely that
wasnt the purpose of the potion, to look through girls clothes. He concluded
that somewhere along the line, hed developed a dirty mind. Maybe it was
just part of being sixteen.
 Hermione sprang
up (ruining his view) and vanished into the stacks. While she was gone,
Harry tried to go back to his studies but heard conspiratorial voices and
muffled laughter from a corner of the library. His roommates, Ron among
them, were crowded into that concealed nook, away from the prying eyes
of Madame Pince, the librarian.
 Look at this 
one, he heard Seamus Finnegan say, and then there was a stifled spate
of whistles and noises like wuh-ho-ho!
 Ron, looking
around to check and make sure they were unobserved, saw Harry and beckoned.
Hermione still wasnt back, so Harry got up, marked his place, and went
to see what they were doing. 
 The boys were
huddled around a large book that Seamus was holding. It was open to a photograph
of a shapely witch in pointed hat, corset, garter, stockings, and high-heeled,
high-buttoned black shoes. Because it was a wizard photograph, she wiggled
her bottom and pursed her lips at them.
 What are you
doing? Harry asked. Whered you get that?
 From the Art
section, Seamus snickered. Its works of art, all right! Look at this
next one, but dont drool on the book.
 He turned the
page and showed them a witch in a see-through gauze dress. She was holding
the skirt well above her knees, and leaned over so that her breasts nearly
tumbled out the deep neckline. They couldnt see everything, but they could
see quite a lot. 
 Turn to the
next one, urged Ron, his eyes alight.
 Seamus did,
and as one they all went, wow! so loudly that they then cringed and waited
to be discovered, chastised. But luck was with them. Madame Pince must
have been elsewhere in the library.
 The picture
was of a nude woman lying on a fur rug, her body wrapped lovingly around
a broomstick in a way that suggested it wasnt flying that was on her mind.
 What is 
this? Harry asked, marveling. 
 Enchantresses,
The Photos of Cliffton Stratford , Seamus said. You know, the famous
nude photographer.
 You mean like
in Squire magazine? Ron grinned. Fred and George had a subscription
to that, but they only got one issue before Mum found out. She hit the
roof.
 Those are pornography,
said Seamus. This is art.
 Whats the
difference? said Dean Thomas. A naked witch is a naked witch.
 Pornography
is evil, said Neville breathlessly. My gran says it turns nice young
boys into brutes and anyone caught looking at it should have their you-know
taken off with tinsnips.
 This pronouncement
brought them all to wincing silence for a moment. Then Seamus asserted
again, This is art .
 You ever seen
one? Dean asked.
 What, pornography?
Ron made a face. No, like I told you. Mum got ahold of it before any of
us had a chance for a peek, and threw it straight in the fire.
 A naked girl!
said Dean, exasperated. In person, for real, not just a picture.
 Yeah, sure,
boasted Seamus. Lots of times.
 Like when?
Dean challenged.
 Well have
 you ?
 Once, said
Dean with a lascivious smile. My cousin Polly. We were on holiday at the
beach, and she snuck out late one night to go skinny-dipping. I saw her
coming back to the house, bare as the day she was born.
 This lucky
blokes seen hundreds, Ron said, taking the book from Seamus and flipping
through it. What Id give to have his job.
 I dont think
Hogwarts offers that as a major, Harry said, laughing.
 Should say
not, said Seamus. He was expelled from Hogwarts thirty years ago.
 For what?
Dean asked. Taking naked pictures of girls?
 I dont know
for sure, but there was some sort of scandal, all right. Seamus reached
over Rons arm and turned to the about the author paragraph at the back.
See? Despite his interrupted schooling, Cliffton Stratford went on to
complete his education elsewhere. He was expelled.
 Turn back,
Ron said, snatching the book away. I saw something.
 Ill bet you
did, chuckled Dean. Botties and bubbies as far as the eye can see.
 Take it easy,
Ron, Harry said.
 Oh, sure, thats
fine for you to say. Ron blurred through the pages, image after image
of nude witches flashing by. Youve got that Invisibility Cloak, its
not like you couldnt go into the girls changing room any time you wanted.
 Cor! said
Seamus. Have you, Harry?
 No! he cried.
Of course not. He could have smacked Ron for blabbing, too hed been
careful to keep that cloak a secret from all but a few friends, though
some probably suspected. 
 Bloody hell,
said Dean. I would. Lend it to me, what do you say, Harry?
 Not a chance!
 Here! cried
Ron, so loudly that they had to hush him. He jabbed his finger at the page.
Her. That one. Know who she looks like?
 The image was
of a witch in what looked like a naughty outfit inspired by a school uniform.
Her blouse was open all down the front, her skirt hiked in back to reveal
wispy underwear, and she was leaning sideways on the edge of a desk with
her long legs outstretched and crossed at the ankles. 
 She held a supple
switch, the sort that some of the classrooms still had on display as mementos
of the days when discipline had been handled by other methods than subtraction
of House points. Mr. Filch the caretaker would have dismissed the switches
as sissy punishments, fondly recalling the days of racks, iron maidens,
and involuntary Transfigurations. 
 Saucy! Seamus
ogled her. A shame we dont have teachers like that! She could switch
my backside any time at all!
 But look at
her, Ron said. Look close.
 I look any
closer, my eyes will fall right out of my head, said Dean. Neville, leaning
over his shoulder, said nothing but his eyes bulged so that they might 
fall out at any minute.
 Ron tapped the
picture again. As it moved, the witch slapped the switch meaningfully against
her palm and re-crossed her legs. Call me crazy, but add forty years or
so and what do you get?
 An old naked
witch, said Seamus. Why would we want to do that?
 Harry blinked,
looked, blinked again. I say, Ron 
 You see it
too?
 See what?
demanded Neville. 
 It is crazy,
Harry said. But she could almost be a a young McGonagall.
 What are you
looking at?
 When Hermione
spoke, they all jumped and whirled around. Ron slammed the book so fast
he crushed his thumb in it and yipped in pain. He hid it behind his back
and they stood, a human wall with guilt writ large upon their faces. Hermione
read that guilt and her eyebrow went up. 
 Harry didnt
know about the others, but his dirty mind insisted on trying to put her 
in that book, Hermione with her skirt hiked and her blouse open. Then,
suddenly, he thought that the others were envisioning just that,
and wanted to spin around and punch them all. How dare they! 
 Its a library,
said Seamus in all innocence. What do you think were looking at.
 She said nothing,
just gave them more eyebrow.
 Its homework,
Neville tried, his words coming out in a squeak better suited to a pinch-mouse. 
 Homework,
she said.
 Sure, thats
right, homework, they all blathered.
 For what class?
 Five different
answers spilled out. They shared around a grimace, and then Ron stuck out
his chest and got all huffy and said, Well, and who appointed you assistant
librarian, anyway? Its none of your business.
 Fine, she
said curtly. Harry, do you care at all about this potion I just went and
looked up for you, or would you rather stay here and study art ?
 He felt like
his cheeks might burst into flame, they were so hot. Meekly, without a
word, he shuffled toward Hermione and then followed her back to the table
where their books were spread. She slammed the new one down on the tabletop
with a crack like a gunshot, drawing a stern scowl from Madame Pince. 
 How long were
you there? Harry asked, not really wanting to know.
 Long enough.
Honestly, I dont know what it is with you lot. Naked pictures. What next?
Those horrible spanky-governess books from the high shelf in the Victorian
Literature section?
 It was Harrys
turn to make with the eyebrow and Hermiones turn to blush.
 So I heard,
anyway, she finished lamely.
 Dont be mad,
he said. We were just looking. Its not like it did any harm.
 Its degrading.
What are normal girls supposed to do when all the boys are so obsessed
with pin-ups and supermodels? You get to expect everyone to look that way,
and then were not good enough.
 Trust me, Hermione,
youd be good enough, Harry said. Youre as pretty as any of those naked
witches. In clothes, I mean, because I havent seen you uh 
 He suddenly
 heard himself, heard the stupid things that were coming out of his
mouth, and shut up fast. He closed his eyes and waited for the explosion.
What would she do? Clout him over the head with the heavy, musty book shed
just brought back from the Potions, Elixirs, and Unguents section, that
was his first bet.
 When he wasnt
clubbed senseless, or poked with the sharp end of a quill, Harry risked
opening an eye. Incredibly, Hermione didnt look half so mad, looked almost
flattered judging by the pleased little smile she wore. 
 Rather than
push his luck, Harry pointed at the book. Did you find it?
 Yes, the recipes
in here, she said, sounding like she wasnt quite all the way composed.
She cleared her throat and smoothed back her hair. Yes. The Potion of
True-Sight. You squeeze a drop into each eye, and it will show you things
that cant normally be seen.
 Like someone
in an Invisibility Cloak? Harry asked. He thought again of Ron, saying
that with it, he could sneak into the girls changing room any old time,
and turned red again.
 Hermione didnt
notice, or, if she did, didnt ask. Probably. I bet Snape has some on
hand.
 Yeah, said
Harry glumly. Once he found out I had that Cloak, he would. But I cant
just ask to borrow some.
 I didnt say
you should, she said pertly. We can make it ourselves. Its easy, and
weve already got everything we need.
 Thanks, Hermione.
Youre swell, you know?
 I didnt do
anything. You could have gotten the book yourself.
 But you knew
about it, and youve always got good ideas. I like you.
 He froze. What
hed meant to say was I like that, but it hadnt come out quite right. 
 Hermione was
very still.
 Uh he said.
 I better go,
she said, gathering up her stuff. Got an Arithmancy quiz tomorrow and
I need to go over my quadmagic equations.
 Listen, Hermione,
Im sorry, I didnt mean to say --
 She smiled at
him, a quick smile, there and gone like a distant flash of lightning. She
started to leave the table, then turned back. I like you, too, Harry.
 Then she was
gone.
 **

 Chapter Nine Lady of the Evening. 
 Whether she truly
was a vampire or simply averse to daylight for some other reason, all of
Ophidia Winterwinds Defense Against the Dark Arts classes were held at
night. An extra period was set aside during the day for study hall, giving
the students a chance to keep up on their homework. 
 One evening
in October, shortly before the first Hogsmeade weekend, Professor Winterwind
arrived to class late. She glided to the head of the room, swept her cascade
of inky hair back from her alabaster face, and scanned them all with eyes
like twin dollops of blood. 
 There has been
news, dire news, she said. The Dark Lord is stirring again.
 Dire it was,
but hardly surprising. Harry had been braced for this moment since the
end of his fourth year, when he had been victim of a gruesome ritual that
had helped bring Voldemort back from a horrible half-life. He had summoned
his faithful Death Eaters to him and essentially declared his intention
to wage war on the rest of the wizarding world. 
 Dumbledore had
been working ever since to rally the forces of good against him, though
most of this work had been done as quietly and behind-the-scenes as possible.
What hampered Dumbledore the most was that many wizards, including a large
percentage of the Ministry of Magic, flat-out refused to believe any of
it. Harrys testimony had been discounted as the ravings of a troubled
child, and the death of Cedric Diggory was still regarded by some as a
dreadful accident. 
 At Hogwarts,
though, the truth was known and generally believed. It made things most
touchy, especially when it came to the Slytherins. Harry had personally
witnessed the appearance of the fathers of Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle among
Voldemorts Death Eaters. 
 But nothing
was done about this Lucius Malfoy had, upon being questioned by Dumbledore,
freely admitted that yes, he had once been a Death Eater, and yes, he had
answered the Dark Lords call that fateful night, but he had done so out
of fear for what might happen to his family if he refused. That, he said,
did not make him a current supporter of the Dark Lord. And surely no reasonable
person would blame the son for the past misdeeds of the father, would they?
Draco hadnt done anything worthy of expulsion, had he? 
 Lucius Malfoy
was so smooth a talker, so devious a debater, and a man of such influence
in the community that nobody was prepared to refute this. He might not
have been able to lie his way past a Truth Serum, but neither could he
be forced to take one unless accused of some crime. So, while everyone
 knew that he was still high in Voldemorts hierarchy, not a thing
could be done about it.
 This led to
Draco and his friend strutting about with even more arrogance than theyd
shown in the past. It all infuriated Harry. The legal system among wizards
was nearly as senseless and confusing as the one among Muggles.
 When Ophidia
Winterwind announced that the Dark Lord was stirring again, Draco smiled
that smug little smile that made Harry so earnestly want to punch his teeth
out. 
 Voldemort had
disappeared after his resurrection, vanished from sight. What little Harry
knew of his plans were vague to gather his forces and strike alliances
with other races such as the giants, and the dementors. Dumbledore had
taken steps to contact the giants himself, offering the hand of peace.
As for the dementors, Dumbledore had as little use for them as did Harry
himself. They were fell, evil creatures that would gladly go with Voldemort,
whose reign of suffering would allow them access to the sadistic cruelties
they cherished.
 No one knew
what else Voldemort might be up to at least, no one who was willing to
come forth and say so. But now, looking at that smug little smile, Harry
was more sure than ever that Lucius Malfoy knew, was involved, and doubtless
shared the information with his precious son.
 Agents of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named
have been sighted all across the country, Professor Winterwind said. Signs
of their sorcery has been found in several graveyards. It is suspected
that, failing to ally with the giants, the Dark Lord has turned his attention
to necromancy.
 Hermione shuddered.
She wasnt alone. Half the class did, by no means all of them girls, and
the rest (with the exception of Malfoy and his bunch, of course), looked
deeply troubled.
 In light of
this, Ophidia went on, I think well dispense with tonights planned
lesson -- they had been practicing spells of aura-reading, which would
supposedly let them determine a persons mood and intentions by the shifting
patterns of emotional energy around them, though of course they had also
been shown ways to cloak their auras or even project false ones, the better
to confuse ones foes, and concentrate on the best ways to identify and
deal with the living dead. Can anyone name a specific type?
 Shudder though
she might, Hermiones hand was first up as usual. Zombies, she said.
 Very good,
Miss Granger. Ophidia spoke coolly. Zombies reanimated corpses. They
have no memory of their former lives but exist solely to obey the will
of their Master. They are nearly unstoppable even dismembered, their
severed parts will keep creeping and clutching. Anyone else?
 Ghosts? ventured
Neville.
 She smiled warmly
at him, the warmth that was almost always present when she was addressing
one of the boys but absent around the girls. Not quite, Mr. Longbottom.
Ghosts are stranded souls who have passed on and returned, bound to the
place of their death or by some unfulfilled onus.
 Pansy raised
her hand. Skeletons, she said with a sneer at Hermione.
 Not so fast,
Miss Parkinson. Ophidia sounded amused. A skeleton is nothing more than
a zombie from whom the last vestiges of flesh have rotted.
 Ghouls, said
Draco.
 Excellent,
Mr. Malfoy, the professor purred, and Pansy bristled with jealousy. Ghouls
are generally not brought into being by the application of any external
magic, but rise on their own. They exist by feeding on the flesh of the
dead. While they are not bound to any Master, they can be swayed by promises
of carnage.
 Vampires,
snapped Pansy, although she hadnt been called upon.
 Vampires?
echoed Ophidia with a low laugh. The ignorant do refer to them as the
living dead, while the learned know that vampires are among the lucky few
whove attained immortality. Even if their bodies are destroyed, vampires
never fully leave. Their spirits remain, and can, under the proper circumstances,
come back in new bodies.
 Ron raised his
hand. What about shades, or wraiths? I heard theyre not really ghosts.
 She favored
him with a smile that nearly made Ron melt from his seat into a heart-shaped
puddle of goo on the classroom floor. Cleverly deduced, Mr. Weasley. Shades
are neither alive nor dead, existing in a twilight world only slightly
removed from our own. A world that is sometimes almost close enough to
see, or touch. Like the discorporate spirit of a vampire, a shade can for
a time inhabit the body of another, speaking through that others lips,
acting through that others hands and body, but only for short whiles and
not without great cost to both.
 They spent the
rest of the lesson discussing the more rare and exotic forms of the Undead
 mummies, ghasts, and so on as well as means of best confronting or
disposing of them. Salt, Ophidia Winterwind told them, was sometimes good
against zombies; its cleansing properties reacted strongly with their undead
flesh. Silvers mystical properties often made it a valuable weapon against
many magical creatures. So, too, were cold iron, ash, fire 
 Harry spent
much of the time until the bell with a terrible image in his mind Voldemort,
on a black steed, at the head of an army of relentless walking corpses.
The more they slew, the more raw material there would be, ready to rise
up and walk. Fallen foes would be changed to allies. 
 But it was what
shed said about the shades that nagged most at him. When everyone else
collected their things and left, he told Ron and Hermione hed be along
directly, and lingered behind.
 Professor?
 Yes, Harry?
She had taken the lid from the jar of blood-flavored lollipops on her desk
and tilted it his way. 
 Oh no thanks,
he said.
 Suit yourself.
She unwrapped one and licked it so sensuously that he almost forgot what
hed wanted to ask.
 Um ahem 
I was wondering about shades.
 Were you?
Her lips parted and she slid the deep red bulb between them.
 This twilight
world, Harry said, inwardly telling himself to concentrate, damn it, concentrate.
You said sometimes it seems very close to ours. Close enough to see.
 Or touch,
she said, savoring the word touch as if it, too, were a succulent treat. 
 Or touch,
Harry agreed. 
 His mouth was
dry and his pulse was thumping in his ears, beating on the sides of his
neck. Where the carotid artery was. He found himself remembering a paper
theyd once been assigned on vampires, and how most of them had gotten
a key fact wrong vampires didnt go for the jugular; they craved the
bright, oxygen-rich arterial blood. Could she see his pulse throbbing?
Could she hear it? Was she tasting room-temperature blood-flavored candy
and imagining a jet of liquid hot and pumping from the source?
 Ophidia twirled
the lollipop against her lips. Some of its dye or was it made from real 
blood? had come off on them and made them redder than ever. That is
what I said, yes.
 Harry could
barely remember or care what theyd been talking about. He was very conscious
that they were alone now, that due to the lateness of the hour none of
the other classrooms were occupied, that everyone else was on their way
back, or already ensconced in, their House dormitories and common rooms. 
 Shades! he
nearly shouted. 
 Her amused scarlet
eyes twinkled like jewels. Yes?
 You said they
were close enough to almost be seen and touched. Can they really 
be seen?
 By some, she
said. Some are more sensitive, more aware. Some can perceive the shadow
worlds that lay so close to our own. Are you thinking of that boy?
 Boy? Boys were
the last thing on his mind he was thinking of girls no, women ,
this woman, this moonstone and obsidian goddess with eyes that seemed able
to look right into his soul. 
 Jeremy, he
said, dragging the name out as if it was snagged on something. Yes. When
he was Sorted 
 Once again,
Harry, Im impressed. You dont mind if I call you Harry, do you?
 No, not at
all.
 Harry. Whenever
she said his name it was as if her voice curled, like warm smoke, down
deep into his vitals. Youre a most remarkable young man. The rest of
your classmates have forgotten all about that incident, havent they? As
strange as it was, theyve forgotten.
 Yeah.
 You think that
he became a shade. That he died under unusual circumstances and came back
somehow.
 Yeah! Harry
nodded vigorously. He did die, then? We thought so, Hermione and
me, but then he woke up he seemed all right, but not all right

 He woke as
a shade, yes, youre right. As has happened to perhaps a hundred unfortunate
students over the years. They couldnt remain among the living, nor could
they fully join the dead.
 So they go
to Battenby House, Harry said. Then he frowned. But Moaning Myrtle, the
ghost in the bathroom, she died and stayed where she was.
 A different
situation. Shades well they dont usually come back on their own. Someone
has to help them.
 I dont understand.
 What happened
on the train? The boy was found, apparently dead? What then? Did anyone
try to revive him?
 I did, said
Harry. I cast an awakening spell on him. I didnt think it would help,
I knew he was dead, but 
 But it was
enough. You must have cast your spell as he was still on the threshold
of death. It brought him back, but not all the way. You, Harry Potter,
were the author of his transformation.
 Harry gaped
at her. He had lost all interest in the seductive promise of that lollipop
being curled around and caressed by her tongue. The thought that he had
done that to Jeremy doomed him damned him it was horrible. 
 She replied,
as if shed read his mind, Some might argue that you did him a favor,
Harry. He is still, in a way, alive. He is among others of his kind. And
he might, one day, be fortunate enough to return to a warm, living body.
 But only for
a while, you said. He rubbed his scar, and wouldnt have been surprised
if it hurt. Bringing a poor little boy partway back to life that was
an act as cruel as anything a Dark wizard could have done. 
 Theres still
much about shades, and about Battenby House, that you dont know, dear
Harry. They have the means to come back. All the way. Time passes on a
different scale for them, but they grow and age as you do. They attend
classes, as you do. And when theyve completed their education, those whove
done well are given the chance to live again. That is Cyril Battenbys
legacy to his House. He was a shade himself, but he was an old man when
he crossed that border. He thought it was unfair that children should be
robbed of their future, and wove great spells to ensure that they would
have the opportunity to reclaim the lives that theyd lost.
 How? Harry
asked in a hoarse whisper.
 Ophidia Winterwind
raised her eyes to the ceiling. By her distant expression, she was not
seeing the cobwebs and roofbeams but something else, something altogether
wonderful. The Soulstone. Can you imagine, Harry, a crystal sphere filled
with the mist and light that is the very essence of life? Life force, Harry,
contained within a gem of unparalleled beauty. When the students of Battenby
House have attained their potential, a measure of that life force is given
to them, and they are alive again.
 Dumbledore
said there was no way to bring back the dead, not fully, Harry said. When
Cedric died. Because if there had been --
 He was not
a shade. The Soulstone can do nothing for those whove fully passed into
death. If only it could, we could have back those weve loved and lost.
That would be a great thing indeed, wouldnt it?
 Yes. He was
thinking of his parents, their lives cut so brutally short by Voldemorts
evil. Such violent deaths, such senseless deaths he still didnt know
 why . Why had Voldemort wanted to kill him ? Hed only been
a baby, just a year old, how could he have possibly posed enough of a threat
that Voldemort would seek out and destroy an entire family because of it?
 But for those
who are in the twilight realm, the Soulstone represents hope, a second
chance, she said. This boy, this Jeremy when he has grown and learned,
he may win back his life.
 I wish I could
talk to him, Harry said. Tell him Im sorry, explain what happened. And
 he felt his eyes widen. And ask him who attacked him! Someone did,
on the train. Someone murdered him. He was confused at first, but he must
remember. Professor, lately Ive been seeing things, or thinking I have.
At the fringes of my vision. Could I be seeing this twilight realm you
talked about?
 I should think
its very likely. You were close to them during the Sorting. You spoke
to Professor Charon.
 He said I was
partly to thank!
 There, you
see? A vital connection was forged between you and young Jeremy. I shouldnt
wonder that with just a bit of help, all would become clear to you.
 Hermione thought
maybe a Potion of True-Sight 
 Shes quite
the intelligent young lady. Why not try it, and see what you will see?
Now, not to chat and run, but I have a late dinner date and must beg you
to excuse me.
 What? Oh 
sorry. A spark of envy flared in his heart. He almost asked who she was
having dinner with, but couldnt do it for fear shed say it was Snape.
Thanks.
 Anytime. She
smiled her special melting smile at him and his stomach did a happy little
flip-flop. Let me know how it goes, and if I can be of any more help,
you have but to ask.
 She turned to
leave, affording him a view that was almost as nice from the back as it
was from the front. Everything swayed. 
 Oh Professor?
 Slowly, languidly,
she turned to him again. I think, Harry, that we neednt be student and
teacher after hours. Why not call me Ophidia?
 Ophidia. He
sampled the name, and it was like dark chocolate on his tongue. What about
Professor Charon?
 Oh, I hardly
think you know him well enough to be on first-name terms, she laughed. 
 I mean is
he a shade?
 No, certainly
not.
 Harry grinned
ruefully. Sorry. That was a dumb question.
 Not at all.
She began to glide down the corridor, and paused at the foot of the stairs
to look back over her shoulder. Hes a ghoul.
 **
 Chapter Ten A Rat in Rons Clothing. 
 Saturday morning
dawned grey and rainy, but no one was going to let the weather interfere
with their visit to Hogsmeade. Word had gotten around that the Broomstick
Boys were appearing at Madame Rosmertas tavern that night, and nearly
every girl in Hogwarts was giddy with the chance to see the band live and
in person.
 Hermione was
not one of them. Their music isnt even that good, she sniffed, as Lavender,
Ginny, and Parvati argued about which Broomstick Boy was the cutest. 
 Harry had told
her and Ron about his conversation with Professor Winterwind. He chose
to leave out the part about how shed invited him to call her by her first
name, since he knew that would send Ron into foaming fits. Hermione had
gathered the ingredients theyd need for the True-Sight elixir, and they
planned to brew it up after their return from the village. 
 Hogsmeade was
in the midst of Halloween preparations. Jack-o-lanterns had begun to appear
on doorsteps and windowsills, more black cats than usual roamed the cobblestoned
streets, and someone had strung fake jump-spiders on trick cords that would
drop down on the unwary and then wind back up. At sixteen, Harry found
he had lost some of his childhood enthusiasm for gluttony on sweets, consequently
spending less at Honeydukes than he had previously done. 
 Dean Thomas
got chased out of a newsstand and roundly scolded by a witch when he tried
to buy a copy of Squire ; she called him a filthy-minded wretch and
flung a bucket of water over him to cool your nerves. Dean, embarrassed
but undaunted, said that hed be sure to take a few sips of an Aging Potion
next time. 
 Electing not
to try to cram into the Three Broomsticks for the concert the building
was already so full that some fans had overspilled into the yard Harry,
Ron, and Hermione headed back to Hogwarts early. Ron was in a glum mood. 
 Whats the
matter with you? asked Hermione as they climbed the wide front steps. 
 Its just not
fair, is it? he grumped. Girls always say they want to meet a nice bloke,
polite, intelligent, fun to be with but try to ask one out and shed
rather go be all screaming-wild over six guys all named Lance.
 One of thems
named Joey, Harry pointed out. 
 Shut it, said
Ron. You know what I mean.
 Whod you ask
out? Hermione asked. 
 She sounded
moderately irked, and it occurred to Harry in a dismal, doomed sort of
way that she did like Ron too hed suspected as much all along from the
way they bickered and the most awful thing in the world would be for
them to get caught in a triangle. But that was just what was happening.
It could only be bad for all three of them. 
 No one, barked
Ron. Knew it would be a wasted effort, didnt I?
 Well, whod
you want to ask?
 Nobody in particular.
Just thought it might be nice to have a date once in a while. Lifes not
all school, you know. Not that youd ever believe it.
 I do so believe
it! School just happens to be very important right now. Its why were
here, after all. If all I cared about was my social life, I could have
gone to one of those snobbish finishing schools like Queensgate, majoring
in small talk, fashion, and artful flirting.
 Sounds dreadful,
Harry said.
 Thank you,
Harry, yes, it does. She stepped up to the portrait of the Fat Lady and
said, Hobnob. 
 The frame swung
out and she crossed into the common room. It was deserted. As they came
in, the fire bloomed to life in the hearth. The younger students had all
either gone to bed already or were down in the Great Hall having dessert. 
 Saturday night,
Ron said, looking around the empty room. And whatve we got planned? A
raucous evening of chess.
 You could have
stayed for the concert, Hermione said. Anyway, no chess weve got a
potion to mix up.
 Ron threw himself
into an overstuffed chair. This is just bloody wonderful. What am I supposed
to do while you two are on that? Study, I bet youre going to say.
 It couldnt
hurt and it might help, she retorted.
 Maybe Ill
go to the library, Ron said. Study some art.
 Harry winced
and made a throat-cutting gesture. Too late.
 Art, oh, yes,
the museum-quality work of Cliffton Stratford, she said acidly.
 Howd you 
blimey, Harry, whyd you tell her?
 I didnt, dont
look at me.
 The man is
a piece of disreputable trash, Hermione stated. He got kicked out of
Hogwarts, you know.
 We know, said
Harry.
 But do you
know why?
 Got a guess,
Ron muttered.
 He was having
an affair with a teacher! 
 Clearly, Hermione
had intended for them to be just as shocked and appalled by this news as
she evidently was. But with visions of Ophidia Winterwind dancing in their
heads, neither of them could mask their reactions quickly enough. Then
Rons mouth became an O.
 Maybe it was 
her! he said to Harry.
 Get out, Harry
replied, uneasily.
 Are we going
to mix this potion, or would you rather go ogle some more dirty pictures?
 Oh, fine,
Ron said. Im going to go upstairs and read. Have fun. He stalked off,
and climbed the curving spiral stair leading to the dormitory.
 Harry and Hermione
went to work on the potion. It was more complicated than theyd first thought,
and their fellow Gryffindors began trickling back in long before it was
complete. The group from Hogsmeade returned all in a rush, voices high
and excited as they talked about the concert. Lavender and Parvati were
hugging each other and giggling, telling anyone whod listen that Joey
Mack, the lead singer, had looked right at them and winked. Eventually,
people began drifting off to bed.
 There, I think
its done, said Hermione. Want to test it?
 I dont know
if theres anything to see, but might as well. Harry removed his glasses,
making the room go blurry around the edges, and tilted back his head. He
lifted an eyedropper full of the murky blue-grey potion. Its not going
to burn, is it?
 How should
I know?
 If it strikes
me blind and eats the eyes out of my head --
 If it does
that, Ill go fetch Madame Pomfrey myself, oh ye of little faith.
 Okay, okay.
Here goes. He squeezed the dropper, and a blue-grey drop welled out, hung
suspended, and then splashed directly into his open, staring eyeball. His
lids squeezed reflexively shut. He could feel a stinging, tingling sensation
spreading across his eye. 
 The other one,
Hermione said. Or youll be all crooked. And not too much. I read about
a man who overdid it and gave himself permanent x-ray vision, and it drove
him mad.
 Are you sure
that wasnt an old movie? He did the other, and sat up again blinking.
Both eyes were watering, and when he wiped them, blue-grey streaks came
away on his fingers. 
 Well?
 He looked at
Hermione. She appeared the same as always. So did the room. He wasnt sure
whether it had worked or not, since what would there be to see in here?
Then he noticed that Jill Taylor, a third-year girl known to be on the
stingy side, had a bag of Invisible Ice-Pops on her lap, and was casually
tucking one into her mouth while pretending to scratch her nose. 
 I think its
working, he whispered to Hermione. 
 Then he noticed
Ron. Ron, sitting in a corner and not talking to anyone. Ron, getting up
when Lavender and Parvati did, and following them across the room as they
headed, still giggling and hugging each other, for the staircase to their
dormitory. He was walking on tiptoe, as if 
 Good, said
Hermione. She stretched and rolled her head, her neck making little crackling
noises. I think Im off to bed. Good night, Harry.
 Wait! His
hand shot out and caught her wrist.
 She fell into
her chair again. What?
 Shh. He watched,
hardly able to believe his eyes, as Ron crept up the stairs behind the
girls. There was no doubt in Harrys mind as to what Ron was doing, but
he was clueless as to what to do about it. If he told Hermione, she would
hit the ceiling. If he yelled out, the secret would be given away, and
so far hed managed to keep it so that only a few of his friends even knew
of the existence of the Invisibility Cloak. 
 Harry, what
is it?
 Dont go up
there just yet.
 Why not? She
looked in the direction he was looking, saw nothing but Parvati and Lavender
moving around the central pillar and out of sight, and looked back. Why
not, Harry? What do you oh, no. No, no, no.
 Hermione 
 Is it Ron?
Her voice started to rise. Is it?
 Shh! Harry
hissed desperately. Yes, it is, all right, its Ron. But dont --
 Dont what?
She dropped to a hiss herself. Harry, hes going to peek at them while
they undress! Hes you havent been doing that all along, have you?
 No! Hermione!
 Have you?
 No, honest.
I wouldnt do that.
 But youll
lend your cloak to Ron so he can.
 I didnt! He
must have gotten it out of my trunk.
 Well, do something.
 What? Barge
up there after him? Parvati would fry me on the spot, or kick me into next
week.
 Then give me
that potion.
 What are you
going to do?
 Im going to
take care of this, she said sharply, and squeezed drops into her eyes.
She blinked rapidly, and got up. The nerve of him, really. And you, Harry!
 I didnt do
it! I didnt know. You have to believe me.
 Maybe youd
better start locking your trunk, then. With that, she spun on her heel
and stalked for the stairs.
 Harry lowered
his head into his hands and waited. He was amazed that Ron would do this,
not only spy on the girls but borrow the Invisibility Cloak without asking.
On the other hand, he was a little impressed by Rons audacity. It was
a gutsy thing to do, even by Gryffindor standards. Stupid, maybe, but gutsy. 
 A minute or
so later, a melody of screams came from upstairs. Screams and cries of
Eeeeek! Then a large, scrawny rust-colored rat came scuttling down the
steps, Lavender Brown hot on its tail. She was wearing a short nightie
in a color that matched her name and was beating at the rat with a towel.
Parvati was right behind her, in loose flannel drawstring pants and a cropped
shirt that left her midriff bare; she had one finger blazing like a brand
and was shouting at Lavender to get out of the way so she could have a
clear shot.
 The rat leaped
from the bottom step. By now, everyone in the common room was on their
feet and others were rushing down other staircases to see what all the
fuss was about. Parvati pointed and flame leaped from her finger, scorching
the rug and missing the rats pink tail by inches. The rat scurried frantically
under furniture as people jumped out of the way or tried to grab at it.
Hermione stood midway down the steps, where she had a good view. Something
silvery and rippling was draped over one arm and she was grinning devilishly. 
 A rat! Lavender
was shrieking. A horrid, nasty, smelly rat was in our bedroom!
 Several of the
girls cried out squeamishly. They were clambering onto tables and standing
on chairs to get off the floor. 
 What happened
next would have made Harry extraordinarily proud of his Quidditch team
if he hadnt been so worried about Ron. Dennis Creevey swung a bolster
pillow as if he were going after a Bludger. The rat flipped up and over,
and Ginny Weasley caught it, pivoted, and fired the rat end over end toward
Margaret Broughton, their Keeper. But rather than block the goal, Margaret
brought up a trash can and the rat went straight in with a sound like a
gong hit by a cloth-wrapped mallet. 
 Margaret turned
the trashcan over fast, so that it was resting upside-down on the floor
with the rat trapped inside, and braced her foot on top. She was a big
girl with masses of dark hair and a strong, thickset body that nonetheless
possessed speed and agility; if Hagrid and Madame Maxime had a daughter,
Harry thought, she might look quite a bit like Margaret.
 Got it! she
crowed. Ten points Gryffindor!
 Some of the
girls were still hopping skittishly from one foot to another. The room
was noisy with a clamor that only ended when the portrait hole opened and
Professor McGonagall rushed in with face cream and her tartan bathrobe
on. 
 A rat, Professor
McGonagall! Lavender cried. It was in our room!
 Miss Brown,
Miss Patil, youre hardly dressed for the common room. The rest of you,
please settle down while I get to the bottom of this. 
 Harry looked
at Hermione, whose expression of vindictive pleasure had been switched
for one of worry. Theyd been right there when McGonagall had torn into
Mad-Eye Moody (or the fellow whod been impersonating him at the time)
for using Transfiguration on a student. 
 Ill take the
rat outside and let it go, Harry said. Poor thing must have wandered
in.
 Thank you,
Potter, said McGonagall absently. She was giving a steely eye to Parvati
and Lavender, until they ran back upstairs to put on something more modest. 
 Everyone else
was talking at once, offering suggestions as to how the rat got in it
had followed them from the village, that was the most popular theory, drawn
by the smell of the Honeydukes goodies most of them had been bringing back.
Harry was able to get over to Margaret without drawing undue attention. 
 Someone had
been working on signs to wave from the stands during next weeks scheduled
match against Hufflepuff. Harry took a sheet of cardstock that read Go,
Go, Gryf-- on it, and slid it under the trash can. Holding it carefully,
listening to the scrabble of claws and the thump of the rats body against
the inside, he carried it to the portrait hole and out. To make sure McGonagall
didnt come out unexpectedly and catch him, he went all the way to the
boys bathroom before turning the rat loose.
 Ron, you idiot,
he said to it.
 The reddish
rat twitched its nose at him. 
 Well, now what?
Harry thought of his wand, which was sitting on the table next to the Potion
of True-Sight. A lot of good it did him there. 
 The door opened
and Hermione peeked in. She was shimmery around the edges, the same way
Ron had looked. All clear?
 All clear.
You can take the cloak off.
 She did, though
she kept it near in case someone else came in. You could have taken your
time getting out the portrait hole, she said crossly. It nearly shut
on me.
 Sorry. Are
you going to change him back? I forgot my wand.
 Im tempted
to leave him that way, she said, glaring at Ron. After what he did.
 Be hard to
explain.
 Hermione sighed.
True. All right. Stand back.
 Harry moved
away from the rat. Hermione pointed her wand at Ron he crouched, shivering,
as if she might sizzle him with a lightning bolt instead and said, Revertus !
 At once, Ron
Weasley, in human form again, was sitting on the bathroom floor. His hair
was standing out in all directions and the bruises from the brilliant triple-play
by Dennis, Ginny, and Margaret were beginning to show. Before he could
speak, Hermione thrust her wand in his face.
 If you ever ,
Ron Weasley, pull a stunt like that again, I will leave you that
way. And Ill tell McGonagall, too. Youd probably be in detention for
the rest of your natural life. I ought to. I ought to tell her about that
book in the library, too. If she knew about that 
 Well, why dont
you then, since youve gone and appointed yourself the moral guardian of
the whole school? Ron shot back.
 Because were
supposed to be friends ! Her voice ricocheted off the mirrors and
around the tiled walls. Though the way youve been acting, Peeping Ron,
I dont know why! Parvati and Lavender are our friends too. You have no
right to do that to them. If I were you, Id think very carefully about
whats more important to you.
 She threw the
Invisibility Cloak at Harry and left, and probably would have slammed the
door behind her if it hadnt been on one of those special hinges that made
it wheeze shut instead. For a long moment, neither he nor Ron said anything.
Her footsteps faded away. 
 Bugger, Ron
finally said. Now I know how Scabbers felt.
 Yeah, youre
lucky Crookshanks wasnt around. Ron, what were you doing, are you crazy?
You knew what potion we were making.
 I didnt know
you were going to bloody go and test it right then, did I? His eyes flashed
angrily, then dimmed into a gleam. Besides, it was worth it.
 You you really
saw them? With nothing on? Harry glanced at the door, knowing that if
Hermione could hear this conversation, shed Transfigure them both into
the lowly worms that they were and feed them to the owls. 
 Almost. They
were down to their knickers, Ron confided. Lavender wears ones with the
days of the week sewn on, little-girl knickers, but Parvati He rolled
his eyes in lewd appreciation. Black, lacy, and thin as a politicians
promise.
 We shouldnt
even be talking about it, Harry said.
 Yeah, why am
I telling you ? Let Hermione come up there and turn me into a rat
and you didnt even warn me. What kind of a friend are you?
 The room was
full of people. What was I going to do? Yell for you? And talk about
friends you didnt ask to use my cloak. Had to rummage through my things
to get it.
 Right. Ron
looked wretchedly ashamed. Sorry. I was a rotten blighter. Maybe she was
right to turn me into a rat. Its what Ive acted like.
 Well, dont
do it again. Harry stuffed the Invisibility Cloak inside his shirt. He
picked up the trash can to return it to the common room. Guess wed better
say that you were in the bathroom, if anyone asks. It wont be a lie.
 **
 Chapter Eleven Promises. 
 Harry tried the
Potion of True-Sight Monday, in Muggle Studies class. He had signed on
for it partly because he was still dumbstruck by the fact that Uncle Vernons
father was a teacher at Hogwarts now, partly to keep Ron company, and partly
because he thought it would be an easy way to get high marks. 
 While the wizard-bred
purebloods like Draco Malfoy struggled to understand concepts such as airport
security and the Euro, Harry dripped the blue-grey elixir into his eyes
and waited for it to take effect.
 He nearly yelled
aloud. 
 The twilight-realm,
as Ophidia Winterwind had called it, was all around him. The classroom
contained extra desks interspersed among the regular ones, and at most
of these desks sat students who looked transplanted from half a dozen different
times. There was a boy sitting unseen in front of Ron who could have stepped
straight from the pages of a Shakespearean play, and a girl practically
overlapping Malfoy whose high collar and prim hairdo spoke of the Victorian
era.
 Right there.
They were right there, amid them and among them, and nobody had the slightest
idea. Had probably always been. Right there. Nobody knew. 
 It gave Harry
the willies. They were sharing the same space. Who knew what they might
have witnessed? Overheard? Seen? Unnerving to think that times
when hed thought himself unobserved, he might have been surrounded. As
if panes of one-way glass were all around.
 If they could
see and hear Professor Dursley, Harry reckoned as they seemed to, since
they were attentive to his lecture they must be able to see and hear
the other students, although these shades of Battenby House acted as oblivious
to them as vice versa. 
 Is something
on your mind, Mr. Potter?
 Harry twitched,
thinking one of them had addressed him, then remembered where he was. Nothing,
Professor, sorry.
 This subject
matter may be old hat to those of us raised among Muggles, Dursley said,
but since youre in this class, I suggest you pay attention.
 Yes, sir.
He picked up the newspaper clipping on his desk, from an ordinary London
daily. Theyd each been given a clipping to read and do a report on. Harrys
involved a pair of vacationers whod gone missing in the countryside Saturday,
and were believed to have been the victims of foul play. 
 Malfoy chuckled,
which drew Dursleys eye to him. Something you wish to add, Mr. Malfoy?
Ive noticed youre not following the lecture as closely as you might,
either.
 Well, it doesnt
really interest me, Malfoy said, slouching in his seat and adding, Sir,
in a tone that oozed insolence. 
 One might inquire
as to why you signed on for it, then.
 I thought wed
be learning useful things about Muggles. Their weaknesses and all. As if
being Muggles wasnt weakness enough.
 You speak of
them as though theyre our enemy, Dursley said. 
 Arent they?
And dont they say, know thy enemy? Easier to crush them that way.
 Anyone who
is making the mistake of thinking Muggles are our enemies is grossly in
error, Professor Dursley said, addressing them all while staring coldly
at Malfoy. For one thing, they outnumber us by millions to one. Those
arent good odds for starting a pissing contest, young man. For another,
you may think theyre weak and useless because they have no magic, but
their technology can do things that even our best spells cannot. For a
third, Id hope it should be plainly evident to all that our worst enemies
come from within.
 So there, Malfoy,
said Ron hotly.
 I should have
figured youd chime in, Weasley. Your familys packed with Muggle-lovers.
That must be why they put up with you sniffing around that Mudblood, Granger.
But better be careful. Potters apt to steal her away from you.
 Both Harry and
Ron were on their feet, fists clenched. Malfoy rose more slowly. Crabbe
and Goyle followed suit, as if they were marionettes tied to the same set
of strings. The rest of the class looked on with varying degrees of apprehension
and interest.
 Thats quite
enough, gentlemen, declared Professor Dursley. Take your seats. Now ,
Mr. Weasley.
 Sit down, Ron,
Harry urged. 
 As for you,
Mr. Malfoy, Id recommend you watch your tongue. Ill not have that sort
of language used in my classroom.
 Oh, right,
said Malfoy. That shoe fits, doesnt it? I almost forgot. But then, it
should hardly come as a shock to anyone that Dumbledore would hire a Mudblood
as a professor, after the other riffraff he keeps around here.
 Ron and Harry
were both up again, but Professor Dursley was quicker. His wand flicked,
and a twinkling thread spun out and sewed glowing stitches through Draco
Malfoys lips.
 I said thats
quite enough, Mr. Malfoy, said Dursley. Dont bother to sit. Youre going
to the Headmaster right after class, and those stitches will come undone
only when youre prepared to tell him exactly what you just said in here.
 Dracos jaw
worked, but he couldnt open his mouth and only muffled grunting noises
came from him. Crabbe and Goyle exchanged an uncertain look, then plunked
into their seats when Dursleys gaze fell upon them. 
 Malfoy was going
a lovely shade of plum as he fought to wrench his sewn lips apart. He settled
for shooting venomous glares at Dursley, Ron, and Harry before stalking
to the door with his robes flaring around his legs in a flourish hed copied
from Snape. He slammed the door hard enough to shake dust loose from the
ceiling beams.
 Now, then,
Dursley said pleasantly enough. Where were we?
 That Malfoy,
Ron said bitterly, once class had ended. He slammed his books down, perhaps
imagining that he was slamming them into Malfoys face. Wish they could
leave his mouth sewn shut.
 Harry didnt
really have an opportunity to apply more eyedrops, so he joined Ron and
the river of people in the corridor. Every now and then, hed catch a glimpse
out of the corner of his eye, pale forms hurrying along with the other
students on their way to the next class. But each time he looked right
at them, they disappeared. 
 Harry found
it hard to concentrate in Transfigurations, as he couldnt help wondering
if they were surrounded by shades again. He kept wanting to look around,
and fidgeted until Hermione kicked him in the shin. 
 Furthermore,
Professor McGonagall was saying, youll find that it what are 
you looking at thats so fascinating?
 At this sharp
whipcrack, Harry could have leapt out of his skin. But McGonagall wasnt
talking to him. She was talking to Seamus and Dean, who both made an effort
to project shining haloes over their heads while simultaneously crumpling
and stuffing sheets of parchment into the pockets of their robes.
 Mr. Finnegan,
Mr. Thomas. Perhaps, since whatever you have there is clearly more interesting
than this lesson, you wouldnt mind sharing it with the entire class.
 No, thanks,
maam, said Dean, who had gone fishbelly white. His adams apple bobbed
as he swallowed. Thats all right.
 It is hardly
all right, Mr. Thomas. Bring it up here right now.
 Id really
rather not 
 I thought I
spoke clearly, Mr. Thomas. Five points from Gryffindor, and itll be ten
if you dont have that in my hand by the time I count three.
 Like a man going
to the gallows, Dean pulled the wad of parchment from his pocket and took
it to Professor McGonagall. She tapped it with her wand and smoothed out
the creases. 
 Then she 
went white. And fainted.
 Amid the bedlam
of shouting students, Harry got to her first. She had fallen halfway atop
the sheet of parchment. He heard Hermione ordering someone to go get Madame
Pomfrey, Ron importantly telling everyone to stand back, give her air. 
 The parchment
was an advertising flier, the sort of thing that might be stuck in the
window of a shop to promote an upcoming event. This one was for a wizard
arts-and-crafts gallery in Hogsmeade, but what instantly captured the eye
was the photocopied picture of a Cliffton Stratford portrait. It was the
witch in the modified school uniform, the one holding the hickory switch.
The one Ron thought looked like a younger McGonagall. 
 Underneath,
the script read: 

 Thirty Years of Beauty the Works of Cliffton Stratford 
 An exhibit spanning the artists career, from classics such as
The Headmistress (seen above) to a sampling of his newest works. Prints,
postcards, table-books, and original pieces will be available for sale
as well as for bid in a silent auction. 
 Exhibit runs November 10th through January 1st, at Laidley and
Huntingtons Fine Arts Gallery. 
 Join Cliffton Stratford in person at a reception on the evening
of November 9th from 7 to 10 PM. Refreshments will be served and autographs
will be available. 

 It was nearly
an hour later when Dumbledore asked in a tone that brooked no debate
 the five Gryffindor sixth-year boys to stay back a bit after the bell. 
 They were alone
in the otherwise empty Transfigurations classroom. Dumbledore had dismissed
the rest even before Professor McGonagall had regained consciousness, and
her hed dispatched to the care of Madame Pomfrey. The remaining boys were
so used to seeing her in a position of complete control and authority that
they hadnt known what to do when she started shaking and sobbing and had
to be led out by the school nurse after Dumbledore gave her his personal
oath that he would take care of this mess.
 Not a word,
Dumbledore finished, looking at each of them in turn. On your honor as
Gryffindors.
 They didnt
look or feel very honorable just then. The five of them Harry, Dean,
Seamus, Ron, and Neville stood with their eyes downcast and their feet
shuffling. 
 Yes, sir,
mumbled Neville, who looked about to cry.
 Have you told
anyone else about this? Dumbledore tugged his half-moon spectacles partway
down his long nose and peered at them over the tops of the rims. Other
classmates?
 No, sir, said
Dean. The fliers, I got those by owl post this morning. Signed up on a
mailing list in the art gallery.
 Yes, said
Dumbledore dryly. I understand you lot have developed a sudden interest
in art lately.
 Seamus opened
his mouth, changed his mind, closed it again.
 That book will
be removed from the library, Dumbledore said. It was apparently donated,
no doubt by Mr. Stratford himself. It should never have been permitted
in the first place.
 Thats censorship,
that is, Ron said sullenly.
 I prefer to
think of it as prudence, Mr. Weasley.
 It was really
her, then? asked Dean. The charred wisps of curled paper and a dusting
of ash were all that was left of the fliers, which had been incinerated
by a well-placed burst of fire from Dumbledores wand. I cant believe
it.
 Shut up, Dean,
Harry said. We just agreed not to discuss it.
 Dumbledore sighed.
However, as youre old enough, I suppose some form of explanation is in
order. Thirty years ago, Professor McGonagall had just joined the Hogwarts
staff. She had been a brilliant student, far ahead of her years intellectually
but unfortunately, rather unfamiliar with social interactions. Cliffton
Stratford was a sixth-year at the time, your age, but extremely worldly.
 Disgruntled
and a little insulted at that, Dean, Seamus and Ron muttered under their
breath. Neville was staring at Dumbledore as if he couldnt believe his
ears. 
 They had,
Dumbledore said, curtly, as if he didnt like having to talk about this,
an unprofessional relationship. When it was found out, Mr. Stratford
was expelled and Professor McGonagall very nearly lost her job. It was
decided that she should be put on probation instead. Her performance of
her duties since has been exemplary and I want to stress that neither I
nor the Ministry hold this one past lapse against her. Nor should you.
It would, however, harm her greatly if the full truth were known.
 Then whats
up with this Stratford? Harry asked. Whys he going around putting her
picture in his book, and in art galleries?
 Im afraid
that he always resented his expulsion from Hogwarts and sees this as a
mean, petty way to take his revenge. Hes spent the intervening years building
up his reputation as a photographer, starting with the various periodicals
but finally having made enough of a name for himself to warrant this book,
and this exhibition.
 We cant let
him get away with it, said Harry. The memory of McGonagall, who had always
been firm but fair with them, and the way shed looked shaken and on
the verge of tears as Madame Pomfrey led her from the room, burned in
his brain. Somethings got to be done.
 I assure you,
Harry, it will be, Dumbledore said. Now, Ive kept you over and made
you late for lunch. Do I have your solemn promise that what weve discussed
does not leave this room?
 They agreed,
and the trust he was showing in them he could, after all, have resorted
to Memory Charms and erased the entire incident left them feeling strangely
proud and more determined than ever to make him never regret his decision.
 They went to
lunch. Halfway through, Harry thought suddenly that what if the room hadnt 
been empty? What if some of the shades, who apparently took their classes
unseen alongside the rest of them, had still been lurking about? The news
would be all over Battenby House in no time 
 He shook his
head. That was silly. Even if they had, even if it did, he was the only
one who could see them unless someone else tried using a Potion of True-Sight.
And even should someone else try that, the shades werent much into gossip.
They had other things on their minds. Like being dead, and existing in
a shadow-world between this one and the next.
 Hermione wasnt
at lunch. Lavender said that shed stayed in the hospital wing with Professor
McGonagall. Teachers pet, she added with a sniff. 
 The news that
McGonagall had fainted, though, that made the rounds right quick. Harry
was glad that they had the class double with Ravenclaw; the Slytherins
were having too much fun gossiping even without having personally witnessed
it. At the staff table, the mood was subdued. Hagrid wasnt there either,
though he did poke his head in at one point and give Dumbledore a quick
series of signals and gestures, the meaning of which eluded Harry. 
 Harry decided
to try the potion again, just to see Battenby House in full numbers. He
applied the drops of the potion. 
 When his eyes
adjusted, he involuntarily rocked back in his seat. The wall was gone,
just as it had been on the first night of school. He could see the long
table, the shades gathered around it, and Professor Charon sitting a ways
apart from them at a small round table of his own. His plate was laden
with a joint of some sort of meat that looked a bit like pork but more
like 
 No. All the
food at Hogwarts was created by magic, the work of the battalion of house-elves
in the kitchens, but he couldnt see them summoning up a nice joint of
corpse. Professor Winterwind had probably been joking when she said he
was a ghoul. Dumbledore was greatly tolerant former Death Eaters, half-giants,
werewolves but even he would have to draw the line at real man-eating
ghouls.
 But it sure
did look like 
 The addition
to the Great Hall was lit by that same eerie blue-white light that reminded
him of the Goblet of Fire. Looking around, he spied the source and his
breath caught in his throat. 
 There it was.
The Soulstone.
 It was the size
of a Quaffle, perfectly round and smooth. The sphere was indeed filled
with mist and light, as Ophidia had described. He fancied he could see
shapes within it. Faces. 
 The Soulstone
hung suspended in mid-air above a pedestal of silvery prongs that flared
outward from a central base. It rotated slowly, like a planet. 
 Someone was
waving at him. He tore his gaze from the Soulstone and saw Jeremy Upwood.
Aware of him, in a way that none of the others seemed to be. Harry waved
back. 
 Ill help you,
he promised silently. Somehow, Ill help. 
 Magical Combat
was just after lunch. Madame Hooch outfitted them all in padded, enchanted
cloth armor that would discolor if struck by an offensive spell, and divided
them randomly into teams for a version of Capture the Flag. It was exhausting,
and the Gryffindors dragged themselves to Potions on legs that felt full
of ground bits of glass.
 Somehow, they
got through it. Malfoy, who could normally be counted upon to make some
cutting remarks, was in a darkly ominous and silent mood, still embarrassed
by what hed suffered at the hands of Professor Dursley. If hed been assigned
detention or lost points as a result of his meeting with Dumbledore, no
Slytherin was letting on.
 Snape was impatient
 not that he ever was patient , at least when it came to Gryffindors
 and kept checking the hourglass as if the class couldnt go by fast enough
for him. When it was nearing the time for the bell to ring, he ordered
them to clean up, be quick, quit dawdling, what were they majoring in,
sloth? He all but shoved them out the door, barking, Ill take care of
it, just go ! when Neville spilled a full jar of twinkleberry leaves
on his way out. 
 Whats got
up his nose? Ron wondered as they went into the hall. Hot date?
 Good guess,
Harry said as he spied Ophidia Winterwind descending the staircase. 
 She moved through
the crowd in the opposite direction like an eddy of black water, and nearly
caused several accidents as the boys tried to turn and watch her go by.
 Some have all
the luck, Ron said. Look at her. What does she see in him? I dont get
it, Harry, I really dont. Its all girls either nuts over a bunch of useless
pretty-boys in leather pants, or they go for the likes of Snape. Whats
he got that I dont?
 Come on, Ron,
shes twice your age.
 I want to see
what theyre up to.
 We cant go
spying on Snape again. Harry reflexively looked over his shoulder, sure
that the door which had closed in their wake would be open, and Snape would
be right there with his yellowed teeth bared in a sneer. The door was still
closed and he exhaled in relief. 
 Just for a
minute. Ron pulled him behind an executioner statue that provided a deep
well of shadow as a hiding place. Im never going to get a date if I cant
figure out how they do it, how they charm girls.
 Snape? Charm?
Youre feverish.
 Cant deny
she fancies him.
 I dont think
so, Harry mused. More like shes playing him.
 Oh, and I suppose
you think she fancies you .
 Im not that
much a fool. But youve seen how she is. He was in a whisper now, the
hallway emptying and Ophidia gliding nearer. She flirts with everyone,
even Flitwick, even Dumbledore. Shes got half the Slytherins wrapped around
her finger. And then there was that man I saw her with in Knockturn Alley.
 The snake-man,
Ron said skeptically. Are you sure you didnt dream that?
 Im sure. Now,
shh, or well be caught.
 They fell silent
as Ophidia, in her clinging black snakeskin gown, tapped on the door. It
opened at once and Snape was there with twinkleberry leaves stuck to the
hem of his robes like a sprinkling of fairy-dust. He did not look as pleased
to see her as he should have if they were indeed meeting for a hot date.
 Hello, Severus,
she crooned. I got your note, and came as soon as I woke up. You wanted
to see me?
 Yes, Ophidia.
I wanted to know whats the meaning of this . He pushed a piece
of parchment at her. What are you doing signing overnight slips for my 
students? I am still Head of Slytherin House, last I checked. Or have you
snatched that out from under me, too?
 Severus, she
chided. I thought you were over being cross about my getting the DADA
job.
 Thats not
the point, he said.
 Id hate for
you to be jealous of me. She swayed closer, and in an artful move that
Harry couldnt help but admire, took his wrist and whirled along his arm,
curling it around her as she went. She finished up standing with her back
pressed against him and his arm snug about her waist, her head tipped back
against his shoulder so she could gaze up at him with those ruby eyes.
Id much rather we put this silly rivalry behind us and were friends.
 Ophidia 
 Theres no
reason why not. You know how I feel.
 I do?
 Tell me. She
wriggled her bottom against him. How do I feel?
 Snapes jaw
quivered and he ground his teeth. I dont want to play your games.
 No games, Severus.
Not with you. I promise.
 No games? Then
explain to me what youre up to with my House.
 Its just an
extra-credit assignment, she said. I had no idea youd be upset.
 The Head of
House is responsible for all the students of that House. You should have
come to me. If something happens on this errand youve dreamed up, Im
the one who will have to answer to Dumbledore.
 I can handle
Dumbledore. Besides, its all for a good cause.
 Perhaps youd
tell me just what youve got in mind.
 And spoil the
surprise?
 His lips quirked.
Spoil it, do. Your surprises arent always pleasant.
 She twisted
 he had not, despite his protests, removed his arm from around her waist
 so that she was looking up at him, their faces only inches apart.
Wont you ever trust me, Severus?
 Trust isnt
in our nature.
 You might have,
once. When you wanted me to become a Death Eater, and wear the Dark Mark
with you.
 That was a
long time ago, and you know Ive rejected the Dark Lords cause.
 But dont you
see? Ive always been opposed to him. I know a way to stop him. Im so
close, Severus! I almost have everything I need. With a little more help,
I can do it, I know I can.
 Do what? Ophidia,
you cant think to go up against the Dark Lord. You were never powerful
enough.
 Im well aware
of that. But hasnt my real gift always been in getting others to do the
hard work for me? She batted her eyes at him and smiled a coy little smile. 
 Thats undeniable.
And its just what I think youre trying to do now.
 Ophidia inhaled
a deep sigh, which inflated a considerable part of her anatomy against
Snapes thin chest. Ron stifled an envious sigh. 
 There is a
drawback to my style, Ill admit, she said. I flirt, and I seduce, for
my own purposes. When Im in earnest, no one believes me.
 Are you trying
to say you have genuine feelings for me? I know you too well, Ophidia.
 I dont think
you know me well enough. She grasped his hands and drew them to her bottom,
and pressed her hips against him. We could get to know each other so much
better 
 You think distracting
me like this, said Snape in a constricted voice, will make me forget
that you went over my head?
 Maybe I just
think its long overdue, and something weve both wanted for a long time.
 He seemed to
be having trouble breathing, and Harry found that he could empathize. So,
too, could Ron he was gasping like a landed trout. 
 Youre using
me, Snape said.
 Then return
the favor, she said, and kissed him. 
 It proved the
end of Snapes resistance. He groaned against the fullness of her mouth
like a dying man and clutched her to him. Ophidia hooked her leg around
his hip, the skirt of her gown falling away along its long side slit, revealing
pale thigh above the tops of her smoke-colored stockings. Her garters,
Harry cataloged with something akin to delirium, were silver clasps in
the shape of snake-heads. 
 If they do
it right here, Ron choked, Im going to go mad. Seeing her thats one
thing but Snape? Itll strike us blind.
 Harry agreed,
but what could they do? If they were caught now, it would be detention
for sure, possibly expulsion, and not beyond the reach of probability that
Snape might just murder them on the spot.
 But they were
spared both the sight and the consequence of trying to sneak away. Snape,
coming up for air with his normally sallow face flushed to an almost human
hue, managed to utter the words, Not here quick in the classroom,
before plunging into another kiss. 
 They backed
into the room and Snape freed one arm long enough to slap at the door and
set it moving on its hinges. It creaked nearly to, though through the gap
that remained they could see Ophidias gown fall to the dungeon floor in
a black snakeskin puddle. 
 Now, Harry
said.
 Ron needed no
prompting. They crept out as fast as they dared and rushed for the stairs.
 **
 Chapter Twelve Midnight Rendezvous. 
 That was just
nasty, Ron said as they rushed, late, to the Gryffindor table. Snape
of all people. Yuck. Id rather catch my parents doing it.
 Doing what?
Hermione asked.
 Rons face went
as red as his hair. Nothing, he mumbled.
 Just then, dinner
was served. Harry and Ron had only just made it, and of course there was
no sign of the teachers theyd been spying on. Probably naked on Snapes
desk by now Harry grimaced at the mental picture. 
 Conversation
at the table centered mainly around the health and well-being of Professor
McGonagall, who was not present either. True to their words, none of the
sixth-year boys voiced what they knew. Hermione, Harry saw, looked thoughtful
and secretive. 
 Later, as they
returned to the common room, Ron yawned and stretched, making an exaggerated
show of it. Im all-over aches from Magical Combat class. Going to get
a hot shower, and then bed.
 Hang on, Harry
protested. What about tonight?
 Tonight? Hermione
marked her place in the book shed just opened. Whats up tonight?
 Oh, come on,
groaned Ron. Cant we sneak out some other time?
 Will one of
you please tell me whats going on? demanded Hermione sharply.
 Its Professor
Winterwind, Harry said. Seeing that suspicious tilt begin at her eyebrow
again, he hurried on. Shes approved an overnight pass someone in Slytherin,
and I want to know what theyre up to. Did it without Snapes permission,
and everything.
 Thats funny,
she said. As we were going in for dinner, I heard Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson
talking, all hushed, about some meeting tonight in the garden.
 Should have
known, Harry said, oddly disappointed hed expected better of Ophidia
Winterwind than to be in on anything with Malfoy, though there was no earthly
reason why he should have; she had been a Slytherin too, and if even Snape
didnt trust her 
 Well, Im game,
Hermione announced, closing her book entirely. When do we go?
 Huh? said
Ron. Who said you were going?
 Who said I
wasnt? And never you mind anyway, Ron Weasley. You were just going on
about how worn out you were.
 I only want
to know whats happening, Harry said. I can go alone if nobody else wants
to.
 I just said
I would, didnt I? Hermione said.
 Ill pass,
said Ron. Its been too long a day already. 
 We cant go
yet, Harry said to Hermione. I dont think theyll head out while everyone
else is still up. Might as well get a little homework done first.
 Suit yourself,
she said, returning to her book. Its about time you started paying more
attention to your schoolwork.
 I get by.
 Getting by
wont amount to much when its time for your O.W.L.s, she said. 
 Well, gnight,
then, said Ron. They returned the sentiment and he wove a path through
the other Gryffindors, about half of whom were studying and the other half
of whom were playing either wizard chess or wizard war, a card game legacy
from the previous year. 
 Hows McGonagall?
Harry asked after a while. Lavender said you stayed with her through lunch,
but I didnt hear you say anything about it at dinner.
 Shes upset,
and no wonder. Hermione looked somberly at him. I suppose you know what
made her faint.
 Do you?
 She told me.
 Dumbledore
doesnt want us talking about it. Word of honor and all.
 Yeah, same
here. I promised.
 Somehow, although
the exchange didnt convey much in words, it conveyed a lot in meaning,
and Harry nodded, willing to leave it at that. He was surprised that Professor
McGonagall had confided in Hermione, for whether she was or wasnt teachers
pet (as Lavender also said), it was still hardly the sort of thing one
might think a teacher would confess to a student. 
 Ill tell you
one thing, though, she added in a whisper after a while. Hes going to
answer for it.
 Stratford?
 Mm-hmm. Dumbledore
sent Hagrid to Hogsmeade, to bring him up here so they could give him a
good talking-to.
 Harry remembered
Hagrids absence from lunch, and the way hed poked his head in to signal
Dumbledore. Poor bloke. I dont envy him being caught between the lot
of them.
 Poor bloke
nothing! He deserves whatever he gets, the sneak. Using someones personal,
private pictures like that. I hope Dumbledore has Hagrid pull his arms
off. See him use a camera then.
 Such venom from
Hermione was unusual, and Harry wasnt sure what to say. He settled for
a noncommittal grunt and went back to his studies.
 The common room
gradually emptied. Harry had gone upstairs at one point long enough to
get his Invisibility Cloak from his trunk he kept it locked now, hating
to have to do it but knowing that if Ron gave in to temptation again, the
girls might kill him next time. Ron had already been snoring. 
 When all was
quiet, Harry and Hermione slipped out of the portrait hole and covered
themselves with the cloak. They had to huddle very close together, and
Harry found himself exceedingly conscious of the strawberry scent of Hermiones
shampoo, and the occasional warm brush of her shoulder against his. It
made it hard for him to concentrate fully on their mission.
 They worked
their careful way down the staircase. The Slytherins slept in a dungeon
dormitory, which probably contributed to their gloomy or mean ways. Being
closed away in the dark and the dank, with barely any windows and the whole
great oppressive weight of Hogwarts castle seeming to bear down on them
would do that to a person. 
 Harry didnt
know the exact way to the dungeon, but he and Hermione staked out a spot
where theyd have a good view of all the approaches. They didnt have to
wait long before two dark-cloaked shapes came stealthily down the corridor.
As they passed through a patch of moonlight falling in from a high arrowslit
of a window, Harry saw the white-blond hair of Draco Malfoy, as expected. 
 Draco and Pansy
eased open a side door and went out into the cool October night. Waiting
a few moments to give them a head start, but not too long lest they get
out of sight, Harry and Hermione followed.
 The two of them,
barely visible against the blackness of the grounds and sky, chose a path
that went from shadow to shadow but otherwise headed steadily toward the
greenhouse. Harry was close enough to see Draco take out his wand and unlock
the door.
 The loft,
Hermione whispered, her breath pleasantly tickling Harrys ear.
 Good idea.
 They went around
back. The window-walls of the greenhouse were humid and fogged, the indistinct
shapes of plants pressing here and there against the glass. At the rear
of the long building was a ladder leading up to a door, which gave onto
a loft that ran half the length of the greenhouse. It was where Madame
Sprout kept sacks of fertilizer, spare pots and tools, and other brick-a-brack. 
 The ladder was
too narrow to let them climb together, so Hermione went first with Harry
right behind her. The Invisibility Cloak couldnt cover all of him. An
observer might have done a double-take at the sight of a pair of disembodied
legs going up one rung at a time. 
 Inside, the
air was warm and moist, redolent with the earthy, green smells of plant
life. The twinkleberry bush, from which Snape had gotten the fresh leaves
theyd been using in Potions that afternoon, shed a dim, shifting light
that cast everything else into monstrous shadows. 
 What with the
strange lighting and all, Harry almost walked right into Crabbe before
realizing that the hulking figure wasnt a stack of barrels draped with
a dropcloth. He froze, Hermione blundering into him, and put his hand over
her mouth before she could ask what was the matter.
 Guiding her,
he inched away. There was Goyle, too the pair of them lurking in the
dark like thugs in an alley. Not speaking. Not moving. Looking down with
identical greedy expressions and a sort of greasy gleam in their eyes.
 Harry and Hermione
moved with painstaking silence as far from them as they could. If they
thought they could have gotten back out unnoticed, they would have gone,
but it was a clear wonder that neither of the brutes had heard them climbing
in. Whatever was going on below had fascinated them. 
 Slower, said
Draco Malfoy from somewhere beneath them. Yes. Like that.
 Beneath the
translucent silkiness of the cloak, Hermione looked quizzically at Harry.
Together, they crept to the edge of the loft and peered down. 
 They couldnt
see Malfoy, but his shadow was cast onto the floor by the twinkleberry
bush. His shadow, and a short, somehow bent and bulgy one that Harry couldnt
identify. Then he understood. It was Pansys shadow, and she was on her
knees. On her knees in front of Malfoy.
 His guess was
confirmed a moment later with her peevish, whining voice. You never do
me like this.
 So? Malfoy
sounded annoyed.
 So its not
very fair. I do it for you. Its supposed to be reciprocal.
 Barely more
than breathing the words, Hermione said, I think we made a mistake. This
has nothing to do with Professor Winterwind. This is 
 Yeah, whispered
Harry, wrinkling his nose. 
 How about a
shag, then? suggested Malfoy with a sneer. Thats reciprocal.
 I dont know,
Draco, whined Pansy.
 Crabbe and Goyle,
their tongues practically hanging out, leaned over to see better. If they
didnt watch out, theyd fall and crash right into the soil-filled planters
of henbane and cinquefoil. Harry would have bet anything that Malfoy knew
they were there, and Pansy didnt. A fresh dislike for Malfoy shot through
him. Not that anything low and disgusting from Malfoy could have surprised
him anymore.
 We have to
get out of here, hissed Hermione. 
 Harry couldnt
have agreed more. He would have sooner been back in the dungeon spying
on Snape.
 Whats there
to know? said Draco. Youre my girlfriend, arent you?
 Of course,
but 
 So are you
going to or not? I can always find some other girl who will.
 Dont say that,
Draco!
 Its up to
you, Pansy. Make up your mind. I havent got all night.
 Okay, then.
I will. But not here.
 Why not? Now
Draco sounded fiendishly eager. Well just throw down those empty burlap
sacks at a swipe of his wand, a pile of them spilled over and spread
across the floor. 
 Now, Harry
said, and began edging away. 
 But Crabbe and
Goyle, keen to see, had moved. They had the invisible Harry and Hermione
cornered against the rail of the loft, and to make matters worse, one of
Goyles big feet was on the cloak. 
 He could see
Hermiones wide, alarmed eyes and tried to soothe her with a smile. He
couldnt even whisper because surely, as close as Crabbe and Goyle were,
it would be heard. Below, cloth rustled and Pansy mewled something about
not being sure she was ready for this.
 Too late now,
said Draco. Or do you want everyone to know what a tease you are?
 Harry thought
that if he yanked hard on the cloak, it might unbalance Goyle and make
him fall over the edge. But the risk of exposing some part of himself or
Hermione was too great. He suddenly knew that if they were found up here,
it would be the worst fight yet. There wouldnt just be hexes thrown back
and forth, but combat spells and if he lost, Draco would probably kill
him outright. 
 But and the
thought was so horrible his mind almost couldnt complete it they might
have something else in mind for Hermione. The atmosphere in here was charged
with lust. He could all too easily imagine Draco giving Hermione to Crabbe
and Goyle, and in that instant he could have fried the lot of them on the
spot.
 By the bleakly
horrified look in Hermiones eyes, much the same thoughts were going through
her head. Harry groped for her hand and squeezed it, trying to reassure
her. As long as they werent discovered, theyd be all right. It just meant
having to stay where they were. 
 They could close
their eyes to the scene below, but they couldnt close their ears. It seemed
to take forever, though later, when Harry checked his watch, he found that
the entire session had lasted a mere matter of minutes. The wet slap of
flesh, Pansys initial pained complaints that turned into encouraging groans
and gasps (and ended in a petulant bleat of complaint when Draco evidently
finished before she was done), Dracos own harsh commentary (You like
that? Move your arse, bitch, there, thats the stuff. Oh, yes, you love
it, dont you, you little slut?) and the heavy breathing of Crabbe and
Goyle were awful to hear. 
 The worst part
was that, as gross as it was, there was something darkly exciting about
it. Harrys pulse was beating, his hands had gone sweaty, and lewd pictures
 like those from Cliffton Stratfords book, say kept dancing through
his mind.
 But finally,
it was over. Pansy apparently wanted to talk about it after, but Draco
didnt care to bother with conversation. They left, and moments later Crabbe
and Goyle went out via the ladder.
 Did you see
what they were doing? said a pale and shaken Hermione once the greenhouse
was silent again.
 I didnt look.
Did you?
 Not them .
Crabbe and Goyle. She looked like she might throw up. They were never
mind, its too vile.
 Harry could
guess. Hed heard those sounds too, the fleshy rubbing sounds of boys taking
matters into their own hands. It was a noise he was familiar with from
long nights in a dorm where five of them slept, and sometimes when one
thought all the others were asleep but he wasnt about to tell any of
that to Hermione.
 Lets go,
he said. I need some air.
 The air was
indeed very welcome. Crisp and cold with a hint of the nearing winter,
it seemed all the fresher after the damp and biological scents of the greenhouse.
At the bottom of the ladder, they stopped and drew deep breaths, the Invisibility
Cloak slung over Harrys shoulder.
 It wasnt them,
Hermione finally said. We were wrong. What a mistake, oh, I cant believe
they did that!
 Doesnt surprise
me at all, said Harry. Malfoy is scum.
 And that we
had to be right there hearing it She shuddered. Lets walk for
a while, Harry, because if I tried to go back and sleep now, Id probably
 dream of it.
 They walked,
down by the lake which was inky and rippling whenever the giant squid surged
past. The water lapped at the shore. They passed Hagrids cabin, its windows
dark but for the muted burnt-orange glow that told of banked coals. Fang
the boarhound was probably splayed out in front of the hearth, snoring
just as gustily as Ron had been. 
 Extending into
the lake was the dock where the Durmstrang ship had been moored during
the Triwizard Tournament. Harry and Hermione went out to the end of it
and sat, feet dangling. 
 Its certainly
not like in the books, Hermione said pensively after several quiet minutes
had passed. Minutes in which her mind, like Harrys own, seemed to have
inevitably drifted to the scene theyd just witnessed. 
 What do you
mean?
 That. Sex.
Not much like I thought it would be.
 Dyou think
about it? Here was something that hadnt really occurred to him. He knew
boys did, sure, nearly all the time once they turned fifteen or so, but
girls?
 Sure, I do,
Hermione said, with a giggle that was half a sigh. Ive read all about
it.
 What did you
call them? Spanky-governess books?
 This time, the
giggle was only a quarter-sigh. Not those . Well, not just those.
Medical books. Anatomy. Things like that. And my mother reads a lot of
romance novels. You know the sort?
 Yeah, said
Harry. Hed seen them before. Covers with pictures of women whose dresses
seemed about to slide off their bosoms, men with no shirts and pants so
tight you could have counted the coins in their pockets. Aunt Petunia
reads them sometimes. But I didnt think there was anything in them except
kissing, and then its the end of the chapter.
 Some of them,
Hermione said. But some are racy, really racy. Though not as much as those
horrid letters in Squire magazine, the ones that always start out
Dear Squire , I never thought this would happen to me and go
on to tell about twin blondes or something.
 Harry was absolutely
flabbergasted. You read Squire ?
 No! Ick, why
would I?
 Then how do
you know --?
 Well, I did
see a copy once. The cartoons were kind of funny, actually. But all that
stuff, the books, those letters I think they just give everyone the wrong
idea. False expectations. I know when I was a little girl, I always used
to daydream about what my first kiss would be like, and look how that turned
--
 She stopped,
coughed, and found the piling at the end of the dock suddenly of great
fascination. Harry was flabbergasted again. And jealous, far more than
he ever would have suspected.
 Was it Viktor
Krum?
 Its really
not all that --
 Did you go
and visit him that summer? I thought you decided not to!
 I didnt! My
parents werent about to let their fourteen-year-old daughter go off to
Bulgaria to meet some eighteen-year-old. Its not as bad as if Id wanted
to run off with a middle-aged man Id met over the Internet -- as they
were both Muggle-raised, she knew hed know what she meant by that, but
they still said no.
 When was
it at the dance? He didnt know why he was torturing himself like this.
 Hermione sighed
a sigh that was no giggle at all. It was just before he left. No big deal.
It wasnt at all like I thought it would be. He was scratchy with stubble
and his lips were too wet and his nose nearly dislocated mine.
 Oddly, or perhaps
not, this pleased Harry. Well, what did you think it would be like?
 The way it
is in the books, I guess. She gazed off across the rippling black water.
That Id be standing there with a handsome boy, and hed gently take me
by the shoulders or the upper arms and turn me toward him. That Id see
it first in his eyes, the intention in his eyes. And then hed touch me
under the chin and raise my face toward his as he leaned in. It would be
gentle at first, his lips just brushing on mine, but then wed be overcome
and hed pull me close as I put my arms around his neck 
 She broke off,
laughing. Oh, stop, listen to me, I sound silly. Never mind. Wed better
go back before were missed.
 Probably should.
Harry got up, and as Hermione stood up too, he couldnt help himself.
 He took her
gently by the shoulders and turned her toward him. She looked up, puzzled,
and then must have read it in his eyes, the intention in his eyes, because
hers widened with comprehension. He touched her under the chin and tipped
up her face, and brushed his lips tenderly on hers. 
 The sensation
was electrifying. Harry trembled, suddenly wanting to crush her against
him and seal her mouth with a deep and exploring kiss. If he did, shed
probably slap him and push him into the lake to cool off 
 He was just
thinking that when Hermione, with a soft cry, threw her arms around his
neck. Startled, he took a step back and they both almost went into the
lake, but he recovered and pulled her close and kissed her just as deeply,
just as exploringly, as hed wanted to. The breeze blew her hair in feathery
wisps against his face. 
 They parted
slowly, unsteadily. Harry could not believe what hed just done, nor how
much hed liked it. Worth a slap, if she decided to slap. Worth a dunk
in the lake, even worth the pneumonia that would surely result.
 Oh, Hermione
said in a small, stunned way.
 Was that 
was that all right? Harry wasnt sure if he was asking her opinion on
the quality of the kiss or whether it was all right hed presumed to do
it at all, but either way, her only answer was a starry-eyed nod. 
 Out in the lake,
the squid surfaced with a splash, and they both reacted like people wakened
abruptly from a dream. All at once it was hard to look at Hermione, and
Harrys face felt hot. His lips still tingled. 
 We, um, we
should go back, he said in a hoarse voice that was barely his own.
 Right, she
said in a voice that was similarly light-years from her usual.
 They said nothing
more, perhaps because neither of them quite trusted themselves to speak,
as they left the dock and headed for the castle.
 **
 Chapter Thirteen The Tombs. 
 Harry woke Tuesday
morning with the feeling that something was very badly wrong.
 Of course there
was! Hed kissed Hermione! And liked it, too. 
 The events of
the entire previous day and night came back to him. What with everything
that had happened, especially in the greenhouse and after, was it any wonder
he felt out of sorts? As if the whole world were ever-so-slightly off-kilter?
Everything had changed. 
 He dragged himself
through the process of washing and dressing, doing his best to avoid meeting
the eyes of his fellow students. They all seemed a bit off too, snapping
at each other over inconsequential things. Probably upset themselves by
yesterdays conversation with Dumbledore. The knowledge that the witch
in that picture really was McGonagall had to have worked on their
brains in the wee hours. 
 As they went
down to breakfast, it became plain to Harry that everyone was not quite
right. Hermione, he could understand. She could only glance at him for
a moment, the memory of their kiss shining in her eyes, before looking
away. 
 And Ginny 
with the unformed telepathy that he was beginning to believe all girls
possessed in some measure, Ginny was regarding him and Hermione with a
hurt and angry suspicion. 
 All that would
have been understandable. It was when he factored in how all the
students, the teachers, and even the portraits in the hall and the occasional
drifting ghost, were curt and cranky that Harry started to wonder what
was up.
 Something was
missing.
 Something was
wrong. 
 Hagrid wasnt
at breakfast, and that only added to Harrys disquiet. 
 The arrival
of the morning owl post didnt make things any better. Several people at
Harrys table, including Hermione, received copies of the Daily Prophet ,
and the front page was taken up with screaming headlines: Dark Lord Strikes
Scottish Cemetery, Dozens Disinterred. The story accompanying the headline
went on to say that in the boldest move yet, agents of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named
had frightened a Muggle gravedigger into a heart attack, dug up all the
graves, and presumably raised the occupants as the undead. The Ministry
was hard at work convincing the Muggles that it was a case of pre-Halloween
pranksters, nothing more. It was, the paper added, the third such incident
this fortnight.
 Harry watched
Snape closely as the Potions teacher read through the paper. Snapes expression
was unreadable, yet unpleasant nonetheless. As it was daylight, there was
of course no sign of Ophidia Winterwind. Harry remembered what shed told
Snape. That she had a plan, some way to stop Voldemort. That had been just
before shed turned on the charm and the two of them had retreated into
the classroom, so no more information had been forthcoming. 
 Resolving to
try and talk to her after Defense Against the Dark Arts tonight, Harry
choked down the rest of his food. The eggs and toast had gone tasteless,
his mouth soured by that newspaper article.
 The meal period
trudged irritably on. Many times, Harry had the feeling that someone was
standing near him, trying to get his attention. It wasnt until he was
pushing away his half-finished glass of orange juice that he slapped himself
in the forehead and applied more drops of True-Sight.
 The twilight
world of the shades swam into being in front of him, but it was different.
Something had changed. It was dark, for one, what light from the Great
Hall that filtered thinly into that realm seeming only to emphasize the
darkness.
 Jeremy Upwood
was right at Harrys elbow. He wore a pleading, mournful look.
 Hi, Jeremy,
Harry said. It came out almost a question, as he didnt even know if theyd
be able to hear each other. 
 Hermione shot
him a quick glance, divined what was going on the blue-grey smears around
his eyes probably clueing her in and struck up a discussion with Colin
and Parvati to distract the rest of the table from him. 
 You have to
help, said Jeremy. His voice was a dim and distant echo of its former
self. Please, Harry. Youre the only one who sees, the only one who knows.
 I want to help,
he said. What can I do?
 Its stolen.
 What -- He
neednt finish. The silvery prongs that had held the Soulstone now supported
only empty air, explaining the absence of the blue-white radiance that
used to illuminate the Battenby table. 
 Someone came
last night, said Jeremy. He took the Soulstone away. Harry, it was him .
The one who the one who killed me.
 Harrys blood
chilled to ice water. Do you know who he is?
 Jeremys pale
head shook side to side, but his twilight-blue eyes never left Harrys
face. But I know where he took it.
 Can you get
it back?
 Again, the slow,
solemn shaking of the head. Only the living can trespass in the realm
of the dead.
 You sound like
your professor, Harry said, remembering how Professor Charon had uttered
the cryptic fear no evil to him. What do you mean, the realm of the
dead?
 The tombs,
said Jeremy. He took it to the tombs.
 The Marauders
Map had shown the tombs, catacombs even lower than the dungeons. Harry
had asked Hermione about it once, wondering whod be buried there.
 Anyone whos
everyone, shed replied. There arent any great wizarding cathedrals
like there are for Muggles, so most of the great wizards and witches of
the past were buried here. Ive heard that some still are. Important people.
 The obvious
question had gone unasked because Harry couldnt stand to hear the answer.
He wasnt sure if he wanted to know where his parents were buried, or visit
them if he found out. He had beheld their visages in the Mirror of Erised,
heard their voices courtesy of the dementors, and come face to face with
their ghostly echoes in his last battle with Voldemort. That was far more
than hed ever expected.
 Now that he
thought about it, he also remembered some of the ghosts, Nearly Headless
Nick and Moaning Myrtle chief among them, making reference to the fact
that they were glad ghosts werent bound to the location of the body because
it would get boring down in the catacombs. 
 Why did he
take it there? he asked Jeremy now. And how come you can talk to me,
and not anybody else?
 Were bound
together, Harry. Because you were there. Because you raised me, made me
what I am.
 He flinched.
Im really sorry about that, honestly I am. I didnt mean to.
 Jeremy shrugged
wistfully. It beats being all the way dead, and it beats being at the
orphanage.
 I want to help.
Tell me what I need to do.
 Find the Soulstone.
Bring it back.
 Any hints on
how? What about Professor Charon? Cant he trespass down there? Thinking
of Charons dining habits, Harry wished he hadnt even brought it up. 
 He went last
night when the theft was discovered, Jeremy said. Blatant fear radiated
from him as surely as the flickery light of life force had come from the
Soulstone. He never came back.
 Does Dumbledore
know?
 I dont know.
 All right.
Ill go down there and have a look.
 Jeremys smile
of relief was the last thing Harry saw as the potion wore off again. He
gradually became aware that, Hermiones chatter aside, some of his classmates
were still giving him odd looks. Breakfast was over and the first bell
rang, summoning them to their daily routine.
 Which posed
Harry an awful dilemma. He couldnt very well cut class, but if the Soulstone
and Professor Charon were missing, he didnt want to waste time. He wavered
for a moment, torn.
 Whats up with
you? asked Ron.
 Trouble. Something
I need to do. He looked at Ron and Hermione. If Binns asks, if Binns
even notices Im not there, cover for me, would you?
 They agreed,
though reluctantly. At least the first class of the day was History of
Magic, and experience had taught them that they could pass notes, doodle,
read, or even sleep without Professor Binns saying anything except to go
on with his seemingly endless lectures on the passing of various Ministry
laws, the faerie convention of 1886, and so on. 
 When everyone
else filed out into the corridor, and split off to take the various routes
to their classrooms, Harry lagged behind and veered off to Gryffindor Tower. 
 Peeves the Poltergeist
was playing darts halfway up the stairs. His target seemed to be Mrs. Norris,
which to Harry was a mixed blessing. Peeves was a pain, but if any creature
within Hogwarts deserved getting turned into a dartboard, Mrs. Norris would
come in high on his list. Maybe even in the top five, right behind Malfoy,
Snape, Crabbe, and Goyle.
 Unfortunately
for Harry, Peeves was easily distracted by the appearance of a new target.
The next thing Harry knew, four darts were whizzing toward him. 
 Defende
Missilus ! he cried. Magical Combat coming in handy. The spell bloomed
around him, invisible but there, and caused all of the darts to veer off
course by the barest degree necessary to leave him untouched. He felt the
breeze of their passage.
 Peeves squalled
in outrage, sensing hed been cheated. Think youre so good against darts,
eh, Potter? came his cackle. Lets see how that spell holds up against
a piano!
 The staircase
above him was swiveling, making gritty grinding sounds as it did so. Looking
up, Harry saw the leading edge of a grand piano poised and inching out
over the drop. It would flatten him like a cartoon character.
 He started to
lunge up the stairs, but while his attention had been occupied on the staircase
above him, the one he was on had also decided to play tricks. Two more
steps would have sent him off into space, to plunge fifty feet onto the
marble floor below. 
 Spinning the
other way, he ran down the flight of steps just as the piano teetered and
fell. It hit the stairs above and behind him with a terrible din wood
splintering, the abused twanging of strings, all clatter and crash and
cacophony. And then it began to roll.
 Unevenly, more
of a tilt-and-slam-and-tilt-and-slam, but it was swapping ends as it rumbled
down the stairs after Harry. Desperate, he jabbed his wand back over his
shoulder and shouted, Pugnatis !
 A bolt of energy
shot from his wand. It hit the piano a split second before the tumbling,
splintery mess would have rolled over Harry and squashed him into the stairs.
Instead, some other mass hit him, something light and crackly and smelling
of dust and ink. Although not as heavy as a piano, the sudden deluge of
paper in rolls and paper in sheets was enough to knock Harry sprawling.
He fell face-down on the landing, covered in paper.
 He rolled over
and sat up, and looked at what the piano had become thanks to his Transfiguration
spell. It had been replaced with an approximate mass of sheet music, everything
from beginning childrens lessons to entire concertos. 
 Peeves had disappeared,
probably rushing off to find someone to report this mess to in hopes of
getting Harry in trouble. Deciding not to be here when Peeves got back,
Harry shook himself free of the pile of music and hurried to the nearest
accommodating staircase. 
 His Invisibility
Cloak was secured in his trunk again. It was getting a lot of use this
month. Pulling it on, he couldnt help but think of how it had been to
be huddled so close to Hermione under here. He fancied that he could still
smell a hint of her strawberry shampoo caught in the cloaks fabric.
 The halls were
empty by the time he got to the ground floor. From the various classrooms
came the drone and murmur of school in session. Harry headed down, passing
Snapes dungeon and the lower, unoccupied chambers where they came for
lightning-bolt practice (and where hed once been partly at fault for turning
Neville into a frog). 
 The passageway
leading to the tombs was black as Voldemorts soul. The light at the end
of Harrys wand did little to push back the hungry, encroaching shadows.
The air was so cold it seemed liquid, and congealed around his lower legs
in a layer of mist. 
 But someone
had been down here recently. Some of the hinges had fresh scrapes in age-old
rust, and oil was still wet and glistening upon them. The bronze door handles,
caked with verdigris, were shaped like wraiths in flowing shrouds, their
arms stretched up and bent back over their elongated heads. Their eyes
and mouths were open in stretched ovals of spectral doom.
 Nice, Harry
said to himself. Very nice. Welcoming.
 The handle felt
slick and skinlike beneath his hand. As if, should he squeeze it, the door
would come awake and raving like a pinched beast. He depressed the latch
and pulled very carefully.
 More mist, and
a cold draft, swirled out around him. Patterns formed and dissipated in
the low-hanging fog. Beyond was a darkness so total it might have been
the empty space between stars. His wandlight was pitiful and inadequate
in the face of such a darkness.
 He stepped inside,
and was immediately struck by a vision of the door swinging shut, latching,
locking, trapping him in here with the dead. For there were dead,
he could feel them if not see them. Rank after rank of coffins, set into
wall niches or atop stone biers, and in the oldest sections there would
be crumbling skeletons that had been buried in nothing but winding cloths. 
 Harry lowered
his wandlight to the floor and searched for something with which to prop
the door open. The fog hid any helpful items from him, so he settled for
wadding up his Invisibility Cloak and wedging it in the gap. It would end
up damp and dirty, and any lingering scent of Hermiones shampoo would
be replaced by the gravemold aroma of this place, but it would have to
do. 
 Shivering 
and telling himself it was only from the chill in the air Harry moved
deeper into the tombs. The small, shaky sphere of his wandlight showed
him a scene very much like that which hed expected. Coffins, biers, niches.
Some with plaques on which names, dates of birth and death, and inscriptions
could be read. He didnt want to look too closely. Suppose he were to see
his parents names? Their death was real enough to him already, had always
been real. He didnt need any more reminders. 
 Nor did he particularly
need to be down here in what was essentially a graveyard. Hed had enough
of that after being captured by Voldemort. The memories of that horrible
night were never far from him. Cedric dying killed by Voldemort with
no more caring or effort than one might take to swat a fly. Death always
seemed closer in such places, with the visible trappings of it as far as
the eye could see.
 Swallowing and
feeling a dry click in his throat, Harry moved further into the crypt.
The niches in the walls were four or five high, the biers crowded close
so that there were only the narrowest paths between them. Paths it was
impossible to walk without now and then bumping or brushing against the
cool, slick stone. Some had raised stone effigies atop them, witches and
wizards reclined with their arms crossed on their chests, some with wands
held the way Egyptian mummies held ankhs. He recognized a few from portraits
in Dumbledores office. Past headmasters. Still moving in the pictures,
usually nodding and napping but giving the impression of life. While here,
they were frozen and irrevocably dead. 
 Blue-white light
shone on a section of wall ahead. Harry, who had been on the verge of giving
in to his nervousness, steeled himself and continued his stealthy creeping
among the biers. He followed the light into an older section of the tomb.
The coffins here looked very old indeed. Centuries old. 
 The lights
source seemed to be coming from a chamber beyond this one, accessible through
a stone archway. This archway was held up by columns shaped into statues.
The one on the left was a skeletal figure with a hood and a scythe. The
one on the right was some sort of bird-woman, with feathered wings folded
close against a nude body and a wickedly-curved beak. The stones of the
archway were inlaid with runes. Most of the letters were worn away or obscured,
and Harry could only read the last bit. It read: God Grant They Lie Still.
 He doused his
wandlight and moved carefully forward. Now he could hear rustlings, and
a muffled noise that sounded like someone trying to speak through a gag.
It set his nerves on edge. Still gripping his wand, he sidled along the
passage. It ended in another archway, with a massive iron-bound oak door
that stood wide open. 
 The room beyond
was a nightmare of angles that didnt add up. The floor was sloped upward
toward the downhill corner, the ceiling soared in a drooping Turkish dome,
squatting stone imps and looming gargoyles cast monstrous shadows, and
the coffins in here were not only padlocked but many were bolted to the
floor with metal straps, or as wrapped in chains as Marleys ghost. Some
of the niches in the walls were smaller, holding sealed urns and jars that
Harry was sure contained cremated remains.
 There were torch
sconces along the walls, all of them bronze demons and devils. The torches
in them were unlit and ancient, ready to crumble at a touch and so warped
from the constant moisture of the atmosphere that if lit, theyd probably
smolder out sick plumes of smoke but shed no light. The blue-white beacon
that had guided Harry here came from the Soulstone. 
 The glowing
sphere was suspended near the middle of the room, in a rusted crows cage
that could have come right from Filchs beloved torture chamber. Beneath
it, the floor had been cleared bare. A double pentagram was sketched in
stark white chalk on the stones. Unlit candles rested at each of the five
outer points. Between the two thick lines of the pentagrams were designs
and symbols in other colors red, yellow, a burning bile green. These
were nearly phosphorescent, emitting their own strange light into the blue-white
glow of the Soulstone.
 Two figures,
naked and bound, lay at the center of the inner pentagram. They were gagged
and awake. Their eyes were fixed in dread on the slowly-swinging cage above
them. Two urns also sat within the pentagram, positioned just above the
heads of the helpless captives. Both were of black ceramic glazed in a
translucent red like a veneer of blood.
 The two people
were in their early twenties, a man and a woman, neither of them anyone
Harry knew or did he? Hed seen them somewhere before, and would probably
be able to remember if his head werent so filled with other thoughts,
so distracted by the scene before him. This was Dark magic at its Darkest.
Necromancy. The pentagram was used in the summoning of spirits or demons.
Sacrificial victims laid out for some hideous ritual.
 He had to get
them out of here. As he moved toward them, the nearer, the man, saw Harry
and looked at him with frantic fear. As if Harry was no ordinary-looking
teenager well, ordinary-looking for a Hogwarts student, in his black
robe with the Gryffindor crest, and a wand held tightly in his hand.
 Its all right,
Harry whispered. Im not going to hurt you.
 The woman, craning
her neck to see over the man, made pleadingly hopeful sounds from behind
her gag. As Harry came closer, twisting to avoid touching any of these
biers even more than he had the other, he suddenly knew where hed seen
them before.
 The mans eyes
widened in terror. Looking not at Harry now, but past him.
 The gnarled
tip of a wand touched Harry at the base of his skull. 
 A force bolt
here, hissed a low voice, and your head would fly clean off, Potter.
 Harry felt as
cold and immobile as any stone effigy. 
 Put down your
wand, the other commanded. Nice and slow.
 His arm extended
out to the side. Harry reviewed Summoning Charms in his mind. He deposited
the wand atop a chain-wrapped coffin, the lid of which was cracked as if
something in it had beat so furiously against the underside that it had
very nearly split apart. 
 A hand snaked
out, in every sense of the word. It was covered in fine overlapping scales,
the fingers tipped in claws. The long and nastily supple arm was draped
in the loose sleeve of a black robe identical to Harrys own. Except that,
if he could see the patch sewn on the chest, it would be the green and
silver of Slytherin. 
 It all made
sense now. Harry could have kicked himself for not seeing it sooner.
 You wont get
away with this, Grimme, he said, and was proud by how even and sure he
sounded. 
 You of all
people, Fyren Grimme replied, almost amused, should be on our side in
this matter.
 Harry risked
a half-turn, enough to let him see the massive seventh-year. Grimme had
resumed the form hed worn when Harry initially saw him. Half man, half
serpent. His legs had fused into a muscular, scaled coil. His eyes were
lidless and vertically slit. A quick black tongue flecked testingly through
his pebbled, greenish lips. 
 On your side?
Kidnapping Muggles for sacrifice?
 The two vacationers,
whose pictures hed seen in the clipping that Professor Dursley had given
him on Monday morning was that only yesterday? had subsided into blank
stares of horror. Huge silent tears spilled from the womans eyes. 
 Stopping the
Dark Lord, said Grimme.
 Stopping 
him? Now why dont I believe you?
 Youre in no
position to take that tone, Potter. Grimme propelled himself closer with
a smooth flexion of his coils. He thrust Harrys wand up his sleeve. 
 I thought she
cured you, Harry said, backing up a step. But warily. He didnt want to
set even the heel of his shoe across the boundary-lines of that pentagram
until he knew what spells might be on it.
 Grimme hissed
again, and his eyes flared dull yellow. It wore off. Ive been promised
another.
 For a price.
 Theres always
a price. What of it? At least I got something in exchange for my services,
Potter. Unlike you. You did your bit for free.
 What are you
talking about? Harrys stomach rolled with vertigo.
 I killed the
boy. You brought him back.
 I dont know
what you mean. What does this have to do with Jeremy?
 One more shade
was needed. Grimmes fangs, not vampire fangs but wicked needle-thin cobra
fangs, flashed as he grinned. Clear serum poison was oozing from them.
One last bit of life force to bring the Soulstone to full power, or power
enough to do the job. I couldnt have brought him back. It had to
be done by someone of good heart and good intentions.
 Harry remembered
the odd, detached feeling hed had on the night hed seen Ophidia Winterwind
and Fyren Grimme in Knockturn Alley. He remembered how hed gotten back
to his room by autopilot, and how slow hed been to awaken. 
 She mesmerized
me, he said in dawning realization. Programmed me to try and revive whoever
you killed, even though I knew it was too late. But what does she want
the Soulstone for? Why was it so important that there be that much life
force?
 I told you,
said Grimme with an impatient darting of his tongue. To stop the Dark
Lord. Thats a goal I think you should appreciate more than most.
 If it involves
killing innocent Muggles, how can I possibly appreciate it? Harry cried.
Thats doing Voldemorts work for him!
 Omelets and
eggs, Potter, rasped Grimme harshly. Cant make the one without breaking
the other. A few Muggles now to save all of them later you do the math.
Besides, who ever said they were going to be killed? He shook his hairless,
scaled head. On the contrary. Theyll live, oh, yes, they will. Forever.
 Im not letting
you do this, Harry said. Whatever it is, Im not letting you.
 Dont be a
fool. I spent five years like this. Five years . As a freak. Even
my own family couldnt stand to look at me. I wont let you, or anyone
else, prevent me from having my true body back.
 With that, he
reared back. Flaps of skin on the sides of his neck fanned out into a hood.
He spat a clear stream at Harrys face.
 Harry dove,
rolled, and as he came up to his knees thought that he was getting pretty
sick of this. Spooky dark places and snake-monsters first the Chamber
of Secrets and a basilisk, or Voldemorts graveyard setting and Nagini,
and now this. 
 Accio Wandus !
he called. 
 But Grimme anticipated
him, and had pressed his arm hard to his torso, pinning Harrys wand inside
the sleeve of his robe. Grimme jabbed out his own wand and the force bolt
with which hed threatened to blow off Harrys head shot from the end,
a brilliant bullet of swampfire green edged in silver. 
 Harry dove the
other way. The bolt struck a bier and left a crater. Cracks spread out
in a slow network, with a grating sound. Chunks fell away. Harry scrambled
on hands and knees as the entire bier disintegrated. The coffin atop it
hit the floor and bone dust puffed out. 
 It was a game
of chase, and hide-and-seek then. Harry kept a few steps ahead of Grimme,
taking refuge behind caskets and gargoyles while his foe slithered after
him. Sometimes hed spit, sometimes hed loose another force bolt, and
once a fine rain of venom landed on Harrys robes. They immediately began
to steam and erode. He couldnt have been out of them quicker if a willing
naked girl had been waiting for him ludicrous thought though it was to
be having at a time like this. 
 In chasing him,
though, and enjoying it with all the zeal of any hunter, Fyren Grimme wasnt
being so mindful about holding his arm just so. Harry popped up, shouted,
 Accio Wandus ! again, and yelled wordless triumph as his wand sped
out of Grimmes sleeve and into Harrys waiting hand.
 As Grimme whirled,
hood framing his face like a fan, Harry sent a jet of flame straight at
him. The snake-man twisted just enough to escape with a long scorched patch,
but then the battle was on in earnest.
 **
 Chapter Fourteen Bitten. 
 If Fyren Grimme
had been expecting an easy victory, he was disabused of that notion in
the first five minutes. True, Harry only had a few weeks worth of Magical
Combat classes under his belt, but he was almost as apt a pupil in that
as he was at Quidditch. And the old adage held true in a race between
fox and hare, wholl run faster? The hare for the fox is only running
for his dinner and the hare for his very life. In this case, it was a snake
rather than a fox, but Harry supposed it would do.
 They had taken
temporary refuge on opposite sides of the crypt from each other. Harry,
panting and pressing gingerly on a swelling knot on his cheekbone where
a ricocheting rock had nailed him, was crouched behind a bier calculating
his chances of getting to the door. Each time he calculated, he felt all
the more despondent. 
 The glow of
the Soulstone was augmented now by a sullen orange glare that had sprung
up as a result of fireball and flame jet spells. The old wood did not burn
in a lively fashion, smoldering much as Harry believed the ancient torches
might have done, but here and there the trailing ends of shrouds leaked
out, and these caught quite well. 
 The only portion
of this room thus far undisturbed was the pentagram. Grimmes evident reluctance
to break or cross the lines was as great as Harrys own, lending him more
reason to believe that some fearsome spell was marked by those broad chalk
strokes. It meant he couldnt try to rescue the Muggles, but it also meant
that it would be harder for Grimme to make hostages of them.
 Across the way,
he could hear Grimmes muttered, pained curses. Harrys last attack, a
lightning bolt, had seared through Grimmes robes and left a long charred
streak on his reptilian lower half. Neither of them was unbloodied.
 It felt like
midnight down here. Harry knew that wasnt so. He could still taste the
orange juice from breakfast. He should be sitting in History of Magic between
Hermione and Ron right now, nearly dozing in the dusty patch of sunlight
falling through the high windows as Professor Binns lectured endlessly. 
 Instead, he
was down here in this black pit of the dead, and more than a little fed
up with himself. Brave old Harry Potter, rushing off on his own to set
things right when was he going to learn? The world would not end, Hogwarts
would not come crashing down, if once just once he would stand
back, take a breath, think it through, and go to the proper authorities. 
 Too late for
such ruminations. He heard the scrape of scales on stone and lunged out
from behind the bier just as Grimmes wand loosed a volley of force bolts.
These were aimed not at Harry himself but at the coffin, blasting it back.
Harrys heel was clipped as the six-foot box slammed down where hed been.
It did not so much break as detonate, shards of wood spraying out like
shrapnel. The resident of the coffin was reduced to a jumble of bones,
covered in slats and splinters, and the whole entwined with heaps of chain. 
 Grimme was advancing.
Harry threw himself flat and fired off a force bolt of his own. It skimmed
past Grimme with a hairs breadth to spare, when it should have hit the
shielding spell! Harry cast one of his own, and Grimmes next shot parted
his hair but did not touch him.
 Uttering a glottal
roar that would have done credit to an alligator, Grimme rushed Harry.
His claws sliced the air. 
 Harry made it
to his knees and flung an arm in front of his face. The defensive spell
turned it briefly hard as steel, chipping one claw and making the rest
glance harmlessly off. Jumping up the rest of the way, Harry drove his
shoulder into Grimmes midsection. 
 Fetid breath
coughed out. Grimme doubled over. As he did, though, this brought him within
striking distance and his fangs plunged deep into the meat of Harrys upper
arm. The pain was white-hot and horrendous. Grimmes lower jaw unhinged
and came forward with gruesome eagerness. A second burst of pain screamed
along Harrys arm as the row of sharp bottom teeth dug in. One wrench of
his head, and Grimme could pull away a gory semicircle of Harrys flesh.
To complete the fun, Harry could already feel poison pumping like molten
lava into his bloodstream.
 Harry made a
fist, concentrating as well as he was able with his arm feeling as though
it were melting off from the shoulder. An invisible glove of power formed
around his hand. He swung, and the sensation was one of incredible boosting . 
 The invisible
fist hit Grimme where his ear normally would have been, where there was
only a small hole in the scaly side of his skull. Grimme was driven sideways.
His teeth and fangs ripped out of Harry and drew a scream. 
 He could see
shreds of his white uniform shirt caught in that pointed ivory maw. Blood
was running freely to his wrist and from there dripping onto the floor. 
 Grimme, dazed
but still moving, straightened up and held his head as if to steady it.
Harry, left arm hanging limp at his side, could have pressed his attack
or made his escape. 
 He chose escape,
knowing that Grimmes poison was being pumped briskly through him with
each rapid thud of his heart. He ran for the door, shouting something incoherent
to the Muggles still bound in the pentagram. Something about how they neednt
worry, hed be right back. He was going numb. Numbness was a relief from
the pain but horrifying in its own right. His arm already might have belonged
to someone else for all the use he could get of it. And a tingling tide
was washing out from the site of the wound. Across his chest and back.
Up his neck.
 Stumbling, his
throat feeling like it was closing to a pinhole and a high-pitched humming
in his ears, Harry got out of the smaller chamber. He was pelting toward
the archway as fast as his legs would carry him when he saw movement ahead. 
 No, it was just
his own shadow, cast wildly on the walls by the light of the Soulstone.
It wasnt the statues flanking the entrance coming to life to get him.
 Behind him,
Fyren Grimme roared again. Not an alligator this time but a dinosaur, some
ferocious meat-eater fresh from the primordial swamps. The rasp-slither
of his tail was louder as he gained.
 Harry made it
through the archway, unbothered by the statues that stood to either side.
But now he could not see, the darkness stretching out in front of him.
The numbness had reached his jaw.
 His right arm
was still functional. He raised it, and his wand, and the light that poured
forth was enough to make him squint. He charged between the biers, eyes
fixed on the slice of darkness that marked the door hed propped open. 
 A coffin was
resting on the floor right in front of him. Hed seen it before, polished
ebony kept so scrupulously clean that hed wondered if the house-elves
made regular forays down here to tidy, too. It poked up from the low-lying
mist like a dark island.
 A force bolt
hit Harry square in the back. He had let his shielding spell lapse somewhere
along the line. The numbness dulled the pain but it was still like being
walloped with a Bludger. Harry was pitched forward toward the coffin. 
 He tried to
turn his helpless lunge into a leap, thinking that if he could just clear
it, hed have a straight shot for the door.
 The lid opened
as he leaped.
 His shins cracked
hard against the edge. His fall-turned-leap became a graceless somersault.
The mist provided no cushion to the stone floor. Every bone felt jarred
loose. Harrys teeth came together hard enough to crack a walnut. 
 The mist billowed
over him, veiling his vision with white. His wand had flown free in the
landing and was still giving off light somewhere to the right of him. A
broken groan rattled from his lips. 
 Movement, a
shape near. Grimme?
 No. 
 Stepping out
of the coffin as lithely as a dancer was Ophidia Winterwind. A simple shift
of sheer black silk covered her from sternum to knees, belted by a scarlet
cord. A velvet pouch hung from this cord. In the snowy pallor of her face,
her eyes burned like embers. 
 Harry wanted
to get up, but none of his limbs were obeying him. He dimly wondered if
hed snapped his spine and paralyzed himself when he hit the floor.
 She stood over
him, and at a wave of her hand the mist over his face parted and swirled
away. 
 Oh, poor Harry,
she said. Youve been bitten.
 To his surprise,
his voice worked. I know what youre up to. I know what you did.
 You might have
some ideas, dear boy, but youre mistaken. Here. Let me help you. Ophidia
held out one carmine-tipped hand. 
 Stole the Soulstone,
Harry said, or tried to. It was as good as a tongue-twister. 
 For good reason.
Take my hand, Harry.
 No.
 The poison
will finish you in seconds, unless you accept my help.
 Dont care,
he said. The numbness had reached his tongue now, making it feel thick
and puffy, like it did after a trip to the dentist. His words came out
slurred. 
 She stepped
over him with one long leg and stood a-straddle, hands on her hips. Stubborn
creature, arent you?
 Grimme scraped
and slithered nearby, but she waved him off. 
 Killed Jeremy,
Harry said with an increasing slur. Stole the --
 All will be
made clear to you. Ophidia knelt, and lowered her body onto Harrys. Her
breasts pushed on his chest, her thighs bracketed his, and a slow, rich
smile played about her ruby lips as she peeled away the tatters of his
shirt. 
 Harry jerked,
thinking crazily that this was what almost every warm-blooded male in Hogwarts
had been dreaming of, and now that it was happening he had rarely been
more terrified. 
 Dont thrash
so, she said, amused. Im trying to help you.
 Her tongue slicked
her lips, and then she opened her mouth. The twin crescents of her fangs
glimmered. 
 No, Harry
said mushily. 
 Someone must
suck out the poison. 
 She lay full
atop him, pressing her face to his upper arm. His blood smeared over her
chin and cheeks. He could feel nothing, but he could hear the revolting
sounds. Sucking and lapping. A blunt pressure that was probably truly needling
pain as her fangs pierced him. 
 A vision came
to Harry then, so clear that he would have mistaken it for a memory except
he had no such memory in his head. An alcove between two buildings. Himself,
slack-jawed and glassy-eyed, lost in a fog of hypnosis as she writhed against
him. Her breath cold on his neck, her lips warm. And then the pain, brief
but sweet, so sweet, and the heat unspooling through his veins as he gave
himself over to her, surrendered 
 Then it had
been over. Too soon. Leaving him aching and unfulfilled. Hurt. Confused.
Wanting more. Wanting all. To give until he was drained, to be hers for
all time. But he was denied. Left needing. And in that vulnerable state,
her whispering, insidious voice curling into his mind like the very mist
in which he now lay. 
 She rose from
his prone body and wiped delicately at her lips. It was a useless gesture
 her face was wet with his blood and drips of it fell onto the white expanse
of skin, pooling in the hollow of her collarbone and then trickling into
the valley of her cleavage. Her eyes were glowing now, radiant as
jewels.
 Harry could
not move. The numbness had been leached from him, the scalding poison gone.
Grimmes ghastly bite had faded to a pinkish ring of scars, healed not
by phoenix tears but by Ophidias saliva. But he could not move. He was
leaden, frozen with horror. And morbidly fascinated with that one trickle
of blood, running down, down 
 I could have
killed him, Grimme snarled. His tail lashed the mist, roiling it. 
 Thats the
last thing I want, Ophidia said sternly. Harry Potter is our ally.
 Never. He
tried to say it strongly but what came out was a faint murmur that even
he could barely hear. 
 The enemy of
our enemy, and all that, she continued. Hes faced Voldemort twice now
and earned a draw think of what he could do once Voldemort is stripped
of his powers. He will be such a force for good as this world hasnt seen
since the days of Godric Gryffindor himself. No Dark wizard will be able
to stand against him once the Dark magic is no longer theirs. This young
man will be a paladin for the White, Fyren. Hell be legend. Moreso than
he already is.
 But what about
us, then? complained Grimme. Were still Dark wizards.
 There are many
colors of darkness, many shades of black, Ophidia said, nearly sang. In
the struggle between good and evil, there must be some balance. One side
is truer by its opposition to the other. Voldemort does not serve Dark
magic for the sake of the Dark. He uses it for his own ends. Hed just
as soon have gone with white magic if it would have won him the prize he
so cherishes.
 Youre mad,
gasped Harry.
 She looked down
on him with sympathy and something horribly akin to love. No, Harry. I
see more clearly than anyone. Even Dumbledore, bless his wise old head.
He has served the White all his life, but he and those like him have lost
sight of it. Theyve been muddled by well-meaning dolts such as those at
the Ministry. They claim their purpose is to regulate magic fairly, but
theyve become so bogged down in petty rules and foolishness that theyve
lost any real power. Thats why they can only hinder Dumbledore in his
efforts against Voldemort. And too many wizards follow their example. Theyre
afraid to act lest they get in trouble with the Ministry, oh alas, oh alack.
It is wizards like you, Harry, and like me, who will set the world to rights.
No quibbling over rules and bureaucracy. Action, Harry. Thats the key.
 His strength
was returning to him. In fact, he felt as whole and healthy and full of
vigor as if hed just been released from a weeks bed rest in the hospital
wing. But at the same time, he felt unutterably foul. She had bitten 
him, insinuated her will into his mind, gotten him to do her bidding. Worst
of all, hed liked it. Liked having her lips on him, her teeth in him,
her body tight and warm against his. It filled him with a black excitement. 
 He tried to
fight it off as if it was the Imperius Curse. Suggestion was more powerful
than command, seduction stronger than control. His soul felt dirty and
violated.
 Dont look
at me so, Harry, she wheedled. Im sorry for the covertness? Underhandedness?
Well, whatever Im sorry if my methods distress you. Im sure that once
youve given me the chance to explain, youll agree. Whatever our pathways,
our destination and goal are the same.
 I dont think
so.
 No? Wouldnt
you like to see the threat of Voldemort and his Death Eaters removed forever?
 Warily, knowing
it was a trap, he nodded. 
 And war, Harry,
think of war. Theres one brewing now and you know it. The Dark Lord is
raising the dead, making himself an army with which to overrun whatever
pitiful resistance Dumbledore can drum up. Now, dont bristle so I have
nothing but the highest regard for his abilities. Its the abilities
of the rest of the wizarding world that makes me wring my hands in despair.
They wont want to fight until its too late.
 He nodded again,
because in his gut he knew it was true. Dumbledores efforts to get the
Ministry to listen had met with indifference or hostility, and most people
seemed perfectly happy to ignore the very real danger. She was right. They
wouldnt want to organize and fight until they believed it was happening,
and they wouldnt believe that until Voldemort was laughing victoriously
over their heaped and smoking bodies.
 There was nearly
war fifteen years ago, Harry, Ophidia said, putting her hand on his shoulder.
It was cool, and until she touched him he hadnt realized he had made it
to his feet. But he was standing, leaning against a bier to be honest,
but standing. Do you know why there wasnt?
 Because of
me.
 Because of
you. Her hand moved, tracing the scar, and it was like she was stroking
a nerve ending that ran all through his body. If not for you, Voldemort
would have gathered his followers and unleashed devastation all around.
Untold lives would have been lost. But he was stopped. His plans were shattered.
Help me stop him again.
 I dont trust
you.
 I hear that
quite often, actually. Thats all right. Im not asking for your trust.
Only your help.
 Its the same
thing.
 If we dont
act now, he will come. Hell come with an army of the Undead at his back,
and he wont quit until the ground runs red with blood. People will die.
Needlessly. Your friends, Harry. Families will be torn apart. Everything
that we have, everything that wizards like Dumbledore have worked so hard
to build and maintain, will be smashed asunder.
 Im not denying
that Voldemort has to be stopped, Harry said. But your way is wrong.
 Havent you
ever heard of fighting fire with fire? she chuckled. No, pardon me, this
is hardly a time for humor. Let me show you what I intend. Youll see.
Its the best way, Harry. Maybe the only way.
 **
 Chapter Fifteen The Black Court. 
 Harry stood in
the chilly crypt, thinking to himself that this was the sort of thing better
done at midnight. Not, as a peek at his watch confirmed, still an hour
shy of lunch. 
 He must have
been missed by now, and by teachers less oblivious than Professor Binns.
But there was a tendency where Harry was concerned for the instructors
at Hogwarts to turn something of a blind or benign eye to his doings. He
got away with more than every other student in the school combined, a fact
that sometimes caused him a good deal of distress and embarrassment. Hed
never asked to be famous, certainly hadnt set out to become a hero. 
 And sometimes,
it really did have its drawbacks. Such as now. Here he was, in a good deal
of trouble, and nobody knew where he was. Worse, in all likelihood nobody
was even worried enough about him to wonder. He couldnt rely on the sort
of last-minute rescue or deus ex machina , even that had gotten
him out of his previous perils. 
 You cant do
this, he tried one last, desperate time. Theyve done nothing to you.
 And I have
nothing against them, Ophidia Winterwind assured him. They are serving
a greater purpose, thats all.
 The topic of
their discussion, the Muggle pair still lying bound and gagged on the hard
stone floor, regarded them with blank and uncomprehending stares. The terror
that had filled the womans eyes was drowned in a sea of bewilderment.
The man drifted in some state between shock and catatonia, as if the events
had finally ripped his mind free of sanity. 
 Above them,
the Soulstone glowed and shifted with cool fire. The candles at the points
of the pentagram had been lit, adding their own flickering red flames to
the tableau. Fyren Grimme, who had plaintively asked Ophidia for the permanent
cure to his affliction and been sweetly told that hed have to wait until
the ritual was complete, was off to one side with his scaled face snarling. 
 That belongs
to Battenby House, Harry said. The life force is meant for them. You
told me so yourself.
 I did, and
it is but there is not enough in the Soulstone to restore the shades.
There is, however, enough for my purpose. The Upwood boy had great vitality.
We could hardly have chosen a better to open this way for us.
 Its theirs !
cried Harry. If you use it for this, theyll never be able to come back!
 Harry, Harry,
she said, shaking her head. She reached to comb her fingers through his
unruly black hair, but he jerked his head away. She pouted briefly. Life
force is a marvelous thing, Harry. It dwells within each of us, and it
continually regenerates. Parents give a portion of their own into their
unborn children, and regain what was lost. So, you see, what I take from
the Soulstone today will eventually to use a Muggle term recharge.
 Ophidia had
taken his wand. When Harry made a halfhearted move, knowing that even if
he got it hed never be able to fight them both despite having been healed
of the poison by her awful, wonderful bite, she chided him and put it into
the pouch at her belt. The pouch was far shallower than the wand was long,
but the eleven inches of holly with its core of phoenix feather did not
poke through the bottom. It vanished as if the pouch were deep as a well
and he knew it would be useless to try and summon it.
 She was wielding
her own wand at the moment, which was supple ebony. It traced mystic sigils
in the air. They hung there in red strokes of flame. Ophidia walked around
the pentagram, and each mark she made in the air was a mimic of one inscribed
in chalk on the floor. When she had completed the circle, the hanging symbols
both brightened and diffused, and settled down to sink into the stone.
The chalk marks came alight, outlining the pentagram in fire. 
 The jars,
Ophidia said, gesturing to the sealed black urns that rested by the heads
of the captive Muggles. Can you guess what they contain, Harry?
 He couldnt,
nor did he particularly want to. She told him anyway.
 Four hundred
years ago, the wizards of England were led by one man. Count Douglas Tyrrell,
alternately called Douglas the Terrible, and Black Douglas. Does that name
ring any bells?
 The Black Court,
Harry said. But he didnt lead the wizards. They cast him out. Killed
him. He was a Dark wizard.
 The history
that they teach you in school is often rather biased, she said. I could
tell you the whole story, but why dont we let him speak for himself?
 She raised her
wand above her head in both hands, and invoked the words of a lengthy and
complicated spell. Harry shouted, hoping to distract her concentration,
but to no avail. 
 The Soulstone
wavered and began to dim, its light lowered by an unseen rheostat. 
 A spectral glow
formed around the urn nearest the Muggle mans head. The waxen seal of
it cracked and fell apart in brittle slivers. The lid wobbled, shook, and
began to twirl. It was like watching a spun coin revolve down onto a table,
except in reverse. The lid tipped up and up until it was spinning on edge,
then flipped into the air like a tiddlywink and hit the floor, where it
broke.
 Corpse-grey
mist exhaled from the open top of the urn. It spread out searching grey
pseudopods, making Harry think of the giant squid. 
 This sight brought
the Muggle man back from whatever far place in which hed taken refuge.
He recoiled from the ectoplasmic mass floating above him, and his chest
heaved with panicked breath. Air whistled in and out of his nose.
 The mass separated,
branched, and dove into the Muggles wide-open eyes, gasping nostrils,
and ears. In a matter of seconds the entire insubstantial substance of
it had vanished into the mans head. 
 His back arched.
His throat swelled with what had to be a horrible, larynx-splitting scream.
He was touching the floor with just the back of his head and his heels,
his body a bow. 
 No! Harry
yelled. Youre killing him! He ran toward Ophidia, but she brought him
to a halt with a single commanding look. 
 The man shuddered
and went limp, eyes rolled back, lids jittering spasmodically. Then they
popped open, dark and full of awareness. He yanked at the chains that held
him and the chains snapped as if theyd been made of paper. The man arose
and drew the gag away.
 He showed no
signs of his former fear. His mouth was a cruel slash, one eyebrow sardonically
slanted.
 My Lord Count,
Ophidia said, inclining her head to him. Welcome.
 Harry hadnt
thought he could go any colder. Black Douglas?
 If youll but
spare me a moment, my lord, added Ophidia, Ill restore your lady to
you.
 Please do.
It was a rollingly rich voice, a confident voice. And, Harry was certain,
absolutely not the natural voice of the body standing before them.
 Ophidia repeated
her spell. The other urn began to undergo the same effect. 
 The Muggle woman,
having seen what befell her companion, thrashed in her chains and tried
to get away, but when she touched the glowing lines of the pentagram she
jerked away as if burned. Another grey mass rose from the urn and flowed
into her through her eyes, nose, and ears. She, too, screamed soundlessly
and went first rigid, then slack, and finally stood unencumbered beside
the man. 
 My Elsbeth,
Douglas Tyrrell said, extending his hand. We live again.
 Is this the
best we could get? said the woman huskily, looking down on the bare Muggle
body with a wrinkle of distaste. 
 Harry reeled.
Ophidia had told him that shades could temporarily inhabit living bodies,
but somehow nothing about this brought shades to mind. Jeremy and the other
students of Battenby House that hed seen hadnt struck him at all similar
to these two.
 What, then,
did that leave?
 He knew as he
looked at Ophidia Winterwind. Vampires.
 Very good,
Harry! If we were in class right now Id award Gryffindor ten points for
the correct deducement.
 You raised
vampires! He rubbed his neck in memory of that Knockturn Alley bite, the
one hed mistaken because shed fogged his mind into it for a shaving
nick. 
 Fyren, Ophidia
said. The pentagram.
 He slid forth
in eager obedience and snuffed out the candles. The lines of power faded
back into chalk, which Fyren then scuffed with the muscular weight of his
coils. Douglas and Elsbeth Tyrrell stepped out of the broken spell, moving
tentatively in their new bodies. Above them, the Soulstone was dark and
empty, a glass ball containing nothing but shadows. 
 The situation
had gone from bad to markedly worse. Harry backed up, but there was nowhere
to run. Grimme was between him and the exit, and a single glance from Ophidia
would be enough to ensure her charm spell held him in check. 
 The Black Court,
said Ophidia in satisfaction. Four hundred years ago, Harry, they ruled
the Dark wizards with a firm hand. No one could perform Dark magic without
the express permission of the Black Count and his Countess. He controlled
it all. He regulated it all. If someone displeased him, that someone ran
the risk of losing all power. Dont you see now what I intend? The beauty
of it?
 Sure, I see
it, Harry said. Youve brought them back thinking theyll snatch control
of all Dark magic away from Voldemort and his Death-Eaters.
 Precisely!
 And instead,
we get them ! He pointed at the two, who glared hotly at him. Their
reign was one of absolute terror and control. You think, you honestly think,
that theyll be better than Voldemort?
 Harry, my dear
Harry, this is hardly a case of better-the-devil-you-know! Count Douglas
was a wise and just ruler.
 And a vampire. 
 He had seen
the subtle changes taking place in the possessed Muggle bodies. Douglas
Tyrrell was two inches taller already, his chest and shoulders broadening.
His skin had paled, nowhere near Ophidias alabaster hue but getting there.
His hair had deepened toward auburn. Elsbeth, though, had gone dusky, an
olive complexion with an ashen undertone. She was shorter, wider, a fleshy
Rubenesque nude with a mane of curly dark hair. In both of them, the eyes
had gained a reddish cast and the lips had pushed out as the teeth beneath
reconfigured themselves. 
 A real 
vampire, Harry amended. He was understanding it all now. And thats whats
in it for you, isnt it, Ophidia? Youve always wanted to be one. Thats
what youre all about. The look, the Animagus power, the blood lollipops,
the fangs. Howd you do it? Biting me, enthralling people, howd that work?
 Very, very
good, Harry, she said softly. That would have earned fifty points. The
fangs are Transfigured, hollow. The left contains a Healing Potion, the
right a mixture of Hypnosis and Pheromone elixirs. Dont tell Severus;
he thinks Im no good with Potions. It was true when we were in school
together, but Ive improved greatly since then.
 The Count and
Countess had completed their changes. All they needed were the blood-red
robes and black capes with the high fan-shaped collars, and theyd be exactly
as Harry remembered from illustrations in textbooks and histories. They
were examining themselves and each other, not paying particular attention
to the others, but by the posture of Black Douglas head, Harry knew he
was listening. 
 So what now?
Harry asked. He felt more naked than ever without his wand, not that it
would have done him much good even if he could have gotten it back from
its resting place down the front of Ophidias gown. Seize power?
 I think first
a bit of catching-up might be in order, Ophidia said. They were killed
in the traditional method four hundred years ago. A stake through the heart,
decapitated, and then burned. Only the swift actions of one of their most
loyal followers a Winterwind, if I do say so myself prevented their
ashes from being scattered into running water. That would have been the
end of them. Their ashes were preserved instead, sealed into those jars
and hidden here. Ill need to bring them up to date on all thats happened
since. By then, it should be night.
 Here, Elsbeth
scowled. You raised us by day , you foolish wretch?
 You need not
fear sunlight here, Ophidia said, sounding nettled. We are deep below
the castle.
 Be that as
it may, said Douglas with a placating gesture to his wife, there is still
the matter of our Hunger. We cannot hunt by day, and we cannot last until
night without sustenance.
 Ophidias expression
was one of sheerest rapture. Which is why, my lord, I offer myself. I
have always craved the un-life of the vampire. I have drunk of blood --
here Harry rubbed at his neck, and his arm, and felt his stomach slide
greasily around. and I have brought you back for twofold reasons. Firstly,
that youll take your rightful place and put an end to a plague of verminous
Dark wizards. And secondly, that youll accept me into your Court.
 You ask much
for one small service, said Black Douglas, but by the way he was looking
at Ophidia, it was clear he wouldnt have minded at all taking a nice deep
bite of her ivory-smooth throat. 
 Elsbeth didnt
miss it either, and her scowl turned thunderous. It does seem that there
is much more we need to know before we agree to anything, husband .
And theres still the matter of my appetite to consider. 
 At this, she
sent speculative glances over Harry and Fyren Grimme, and returned to Harry.
Grimme was fidgeting, obviously wanting to remind Ophidia of her promise
and get the cure that would restore him to his human form, but realizing
this was hardly the time for such interruptions. Harry himself would have
been downright glad of an interruption anything to get that avaricious,
frightening gaze to shift elsewhere. 
 You wish one
of the boys? inquired Douglas of his wife.
 The reptile
looks far too cold-blooded, Elsbeth said. You know I dont care for
gazpacho, darling husband mine. Ill have the brunette. Hes got an aura
about him that promises a most enticing feast. 
 Ophidia started.
My lord, my lady, no hes not a part of the bargain. He is to be among
your opposite number. Can you not see that the power of the White Court
is all around him?
 Which is but
another reason to deal with him now, Elsbeth said, taking a step toward
Harry. Before he attains it. Paladins are best when theyre unripe.
 I brought you
back! cried Ophidia. Is this the thanks I get?
 What did you
expect? Harry shot at her. You raise the leaders of the Black Court,
and think theyll play fair? Theyre as Dark, as evil, as Voldemort or
any of the others!
 Douglas chuckled
with a warmly mocking tone. He had somehow gotten next to Ophidia without
seeming to move, and he placed the tips of his fingers under her chin to
lift her face toward his. He tilted her head, which exposed the long line
of her neck to him. Dont fret, pretty one. Half your bargain is made. 
 His lips which
were not vermilion but a rusty black peeled away from his fangs. The
fangs themselves were nothing like Ophidias. These were snaggled hooks,
streaked with yellow, and the top pair were met by a bottom pair that rose
from the lower jaw. 
 Elsbeth Tyrrell
was right in front of Harry. She was a short woman, the top of her head
coming level with his nose, but this meant that she was looking straight
ahead at the pulse throbbing under his jaw. Harry had run out of room for
backing up. 
 Ah no, wait,
Ophidia said, interposing her hand between herself and Douglas nightmare
grin. Theres perhaps some things left to explain She was doing her
best to back away from the vampire, circling around toward Harry. 
 We must be
fed, Douglas said to her. You raised us. Are you not responsible for
us?
 Second thoughts
showed in the taut, anxious frown that knit her ebon brows. But her questing
eyes locked into Douglas burning ones, and the tension began to seep slowly
from her. Harry saw her fall into that piercing stare the way one might
fall into sleep, unprotesting. 
 Except, with
a quaver to her voice, she said, Fyren stop them.
 Give me whats
mine and I will, he hissed.
 She fished into
her pouch, her arm sinking nearly to the elbow in a bag that looked no
more than four inches deep. I yes 
 No, Douglas
said calmly. 
 He pulled her
hand back out. Something snagged on the interior of the pouch and turned
it inside-out as her hand emerged. An amazing amount of items spilled/bounced/clattered
to the floor. Quills, vials, blood-flavored lollipops, Harrys wand, scraps
of parchment, lipstick, jewelry, an old-fashioned pocket watch, a hairbrush,
a jar containing something mottled and swamp-looking. 
 Then everything
happened at once. 
 **

 Chapter Sixteen Dissolution and Resolution. 
 Fyren Grimme
dove for the jar with a low, needing cry. A similar cry came from the lips
of Elsbeth Tyrrell, as she darted her head sideways at Harry, mouth opening
wide. Crooked, vicious fangs came at him. Douglas curled an arm around
Ophidia and yanked her into his grasp. Ophidias head fell back, her hair
a midnight waterfall, her throat vulnerable. 
 And Harry? What
did Harry do while all this was going on? He was not idle. As the cold,
loathsome breath of Elsbeth doused his skin in a clammy residue, he ducked
and pushed away from the bier hed been pressed against. He knocked the
jar away as he went for his wand. It skittered and rolled, glass making
brittle clinking sounds on the stone. Fyren wailed in fury, his claws closing
on empty air.
 Wand in his
fist, Harry turned and was driven to his knees by a scrabbling figure.
Elsbeth was on his back. She had him by the hair and was pulling his head
until he could only see the chaotic arches and moldings and vaultings of
the ceiling above. Corners meeting at wrong angles. A ring of gargoyles
leering down. Then all was obscured as the hungry vampire-woman leaned
over him.
 He bent and
twisted, losing a handful of hair clear to the scalp. She struck again.
He got his arm between them, shouting a spell almost as an afterthought.
 The result was
most gratifying. His forearm went hard as iron, and Elsbeths grotesque
assortment of teeth broke apart on it. A stinging hail of enamel pelted
Harrys face. 
 Ophidia Winterwind
screamed. It was high and shrill and sustained, a silver spike of a scream
that went through flesh and vibrated in bone. Vials that had fallen from
her pouch shattered in sympathetic response. The jar, which Fyren Grimme
had just scooped up, did likewise and his hand was filled with shards and
the preservative slime in which the mottled egg-sized object had been contained.
 Something else
shattered, gritty bits of crystal raining down on Harry from above. 
 Harry spun toward
Ophidia and saw her limp in Douglas embrace. The Black Counts mouth was
poised just above the artery as he paused to savor the moment and lick
his lips. 
 A bowl-shaped
fragment of the Soulstone fell past Harrys face on its way to the floor.
He caught it with the reflexes of a Seeker, though it was many times the
size of a Snitch. He balanced it on one hand, half a sphere with a rim
of diamond points. 
 An impulse seized
him and Harry did not question it. Reparus ! he called, and tapped
the crystal bowl with his wand.
 A storm of flying
glass flew all around him. He stood at the center of it, unscathed. The
sound was scratchy and brittle as the Soulstone reassembled itself into
a perfect ball. But it did not stop there. Harry was shaken like a leaf
in a gale as a wind was sucked into the Soulstone. It was as if he held
an airless vacuum in his hand, a black hole, one that would draw in everything
around it. 
 Magical force
buffeted the chamber. Grimme, his robes whipping in the tumult, barely
noticed as he raised the dripping egg with the mottled greenish shell to
his face. It was crusted and spined with glass, but that did not stop the
snake-man from stuffing it whole into his mouth.
 Noooooo! shrieked
Elsbeth, and launched herself at Harry. She had continued to change, becoming
hideous and haglike, a sunken-cheeked Nosferatu from her rapacious
hunger. 
 Even as she
jumped, Douglas dropped Ophidia Harry saw her fall like a sack of laundry
 and cried out a Noooo! of his own, this one aimed more at his wife. 
 Too late. She
passed near the Soulstone and a gaseous mist erupted from her body. From
her very skin. She voiced an agonized cry that seemed to come from an impossible
distance. 
 Light was filling
the Soulstone. A blue-white cloud coalesced at its heart and grew.
 Elsbeth staggered
back, arms crossed in front of her face. Her metamorphosis went wild. Her
skin paled, darkened, smoothed, wizened. The Soulstone continued to drain
the stolen life force from her, and with a pop that drove Harrys
eardrums into his head, the ectoplasmic mass that hed seen before suddenly
exploded from her mouth. The body of the Muggle woman, her former self
once more, collapsed in a dead faint. 
 The mass surged
toward Harry, taking on the aspect of a demonic face that was all mouth
and smoke-teeth and holes like eyes. He couldnt let go of the Soulstone,
could do nothing as it swept toward him in a banshee howl 
 A streak whizzed
past Harry and into the mass. It did not pass through but carried the pinned
and writhing essence of Elsbeth Tyrrell across the room, where it hit the
wall and was seemingly stuck there. Stuck by virtue of the arrow, with
a shaft of ash and head of cold iron, impaling it through the center. 
 The Black Count
unleashed a terrible cry, harrowing his face with his hooklike fingernails. 
 The shapeless
mass for an instant resembled a woman. Then amorphousness returned, and
with it solidity. A sickly lump was nailed to the wall by the arrow. It
dried, flaked, and fell away into dust, leaving the arrow at the center
of a dark and sinister stain.
 Harry held the
Soulstone aloft. Now you, Douglas Tyrrell! His voice did not sound quite
like his own, but he attributed it to the deafness and ringing in his ears,
and the rushing noise of the wind. 
 The glare he
got was pure, distilled hate. He couldnt help but flinch from it, and
in the moment of his flinch, Douglas raced straight for the wall. He altered
as he went, turning smoky and transparent. The old myths wolf, bat, body
of mist. The Black Count streamed toward the fissured wall, meaning to
escape into it.
 Helios ,
came a weak whisper. Ophidia Winterwind, clinging to consciousness by a
thread, leveled her wand at the wall. 
 Sunlight, dazzling
and hot, banished the artificial night of the subterranean chamber. Harrys
eyes gushed water, squinting painfully. In that unrelenting noonday brightness
 and this was not the day as it might be outside right now, not the clear
but cool sun of October; this was a July in the desert the crypts and
gargoyles were robbed of their spooky malice and could have been props
of a carnival haunted house. 
 Heat roared
through the room. Harry saw Ophidias snow-white skin redden and blister.
But the fleeing misty form of Douglas Tyrrell twisted like a rag in midair.
A ghastly, unearthly screech sounded. Abruptly, the body of the Muggle
man reappeared. He was like a man in the throes of a seizure, a man in
the electric chair. More energy streamed into the Soulstone, and another
ectoplasmic mass was ejected from his mouth like a clot of grey vomit. 
 This clot shriveled
and began to smoke in the stark magical sunshine. In moments, there was
naught but a spill of dust, fine as powder, and another charred mark upon
the floor. The Muggle man crumpled. 
 The sunlight
winked out, casting Harry back into darkness illuminated only by the glow
emanating from the now-full sphere balanced on one outstretched hand. Then
the wind of the Soulstone ceased. The humming of power that had trembled
up Harrys arm faded to a low quiver. 
 He gasped a
breath, surprised that he was there to do so, and slowly surveyed the room
around him with eyes that were still dazzled and seeing streaks and spots. 
 Fyren Grimme
was on the floor, contorted and groaning like someone suffering horrible
cramps and pains. Blood leaked from his torn mouth. Ophidia Winterwind,
sunburned but unblemished by bite marks, sank in a swoon amid the litter
from her pouch. The Muggles were alive, if only barely, judging by the
sporadic rise and fall of their chests. 
 Harry?
 He nearly dropped
the Soulstone. 
 Three figures
stood in the doorway. The one who had spoken, Hermione, was looking at
Harry like shed never quite seen him before. A species of awe was in her
gaze. Ron, to her left, was blinking and amazed.
 And standing
between them, lowering a crossbow and blowing a strand of lank black hair
out of his eyes, was Professor Severus Snape. 
 Huh? Harry
said. His befuddled mind couldnt seem to summon words. 
 Well, Mr. Potter,
Snape said. Saved the world already, and its not even Halloween.
 Harry was still
speechless.
 Hermione ran
to him but stopped a yard away. Harry?
 He realized
how he must look. His robes were gone, only a few scraps of cloth remained
of his shirt, he was covered in blood and dust. He probably looked more
like Sirius Black in Sirius most disheveled, fresh-from-Azkaban state
than he did his father in that moment. Further, he was holding a crystal
that pulsed and cycled with cold radiance. Ron and Hermione might be in
awe, but Snape seemed to regard him with what Harry almost took for a grudging
respect. Or maybe it was merely the shine of the Soulstone in Snapes dark
eyes. 
 Im all right,
he said. 
 His body belied
the words, as he commenced with a shivering that once again almost tipped
the sphere from his hand. He gave his wand to Hermione and cradled the
Soulstone in both hands, ever-so-carefully lowering it to a depression
in the floor. Then and only then did he let himself shudder in earnest
as the reaction set in. 
 You must be
freezing, Hermione said. She hastily stripped off her own robe and threw
it around his bare shoulders. 
 What happened?
Ron finally asked. What is all this? He peered suspiciously up at Snape.
And howd you know, anyway?
 I would suggest,
Mr. Weasley, said Albus Dumbledore as he appeared behind them, that you
do try harder to use a more proper tone when addressing a professor.
 The passageway
was filling with people, many of whom hesitated before filing into the
chamber. Madame Pomfrey checked first on Fyren, then joined Professor Dursley
in taking charge of the unconscious Muggles. Snape passed his crossbow
unconcernedly to Ron and went to Ophidia Winterwind. He stood over her
with his eyes briefly closed in what surely seemed to be genuine grief. 
 Dumbledore, Professor McGonagall, and Professor Charon came toward
Harry. The Head of Battenby House looked much the worse for wear. Hermione
tried to coax him into sitting down, but Harryd had enough of talking
to Dumbledore from chairs or hospital beds.
 Im all right,
he told her again.
 When you didnt
come back 
 Hermione, its
okay.
 Why dont you
let me be the judge of that, Harry? asked Dumbledore. He bent, picked
up the Soulstone, and held it out to Professor Charon. The Soulstone made
weird St. Elmos Fire frolic along the rims of his half-moon glasses as
Charon took it. In the meantime, Orcus, I believe this belongs in your
care. Harry, Professor Charon has related his story to me we found him
sealed into one of the spare coffins.
 Which brought
back unsavory memories, muttered Professor Charon. Grimme caught me by
surprise, struck me from behind. I only revived when I heard the sounds
of your battle.
 So, Harry,
said Dumbledore. Id like to hear your side of it. Tell me everything,
if you dont mind.
 Swallowing,
Harry began. He started with what he now remembered from Knockturn Alley,
spoke of Jeremy on the train and what hed seen with the Potion of True-Sight,
mentioned what theyd discussed in Defense Against the Dark Arts, glossed
over just how hed gotten the idea that someone from Slytherin House
was up to some extracurricular activities on behest of Professor Winterwind,
said nothing whatsoever about the late-night trip to the greenhouse and
what had happened after Hermione, he noted, was looking down and blushing
and well aware of what he was not saying and moved on to Jeremys revelation
about the stolen Soulstone and what hed found when hed traced it here. 
 I see, Dumbledore
said. Severus? Whats your part in this?
 When I saw
these two, Snape said, indicating Ron and Hermione, sneaking off toward
the dungeons instead of heading for lunch, I made it my business to follow
and question them. Once I heard their suppositions, my worst fears were
confirmed.
 Are you telling
me that you knew what Miss Winterwind was up to?
 Miss 
Winterwind. Harry didnt think that Dumbledores choice of words was an
accident. He was normally quite proper about referring to professors as
professors. Oddly, although shed gotten him into this mess, tricked him,
lied to him, and damn near gotten him killed and/or turned into a vampire,
he caught himself feeling sorry for her. 
 I did have
some idea, but Id been under the impression it was something she was researching,
as a possibility. Not something she intended to attempt so soon. Snape
crouched and gathered Ophidia into his arms. Id known of her fascination
with the Black Court, and thought it was for obvious purposes. I also knew
she had always been opposed to the Dark Lord. When she found a way to combine
the two 
 And Grimme?
McGonagall asked. I remember the day he Transfigured himself, and how
badly it all went wrong. What did she give him to undo the spell? What,
when none of our methods worked?
 An echidna
egg, Snape said. Steeped in a mixture of Polymorph Potion, and mercury
for reversal.
 McGonagall sucked
in a gasp. Echidna eggs and mercury are toxic!
 Snape nodded.
Precisely why we never tried that remedy on Mr. Grimme ourselves. The
risk was too great. Apparently, he felt otherwise. Enough so that he even
agreed to a geas that bound him to perform three tasks for Ophidia.
 Killing Jeremy
Upwood, Harry said, Kidnapping the Muggles, and then stealing the Soulstone.
But the effects wore off, and he was changed back.
 So, guessed
Hermione, to get another dose, he had to agree to help her with this ritual?
 Snape nodded
again. Curled against his chest, her lashes sooty on her cheeks, Ophidia
Winterwind looked small and innocent as a child. He held her effortlessly,
and stroked her hair in an absent manner as he heaved a sigh. There you
have it, Professor Dumbledore. All the facts of her little conspiracy.
 What what
will happen to her? Harry asked. She did, at the end, change her mind.
She cast the sunlight spell that destroyed Black Douglas.
 Dumbledore raised
a hand to quell him. I am going to have to consider this matter very carefully,
Mr. Potter. Both she and Fyren Grimme have committed serious crimes. We
may be able to undo some of them how are the Muggles, Madame Pomfrey?
 A little banged
up, the nurse said, but otherwise unharmed.
 Memory Charm
should soon set them right, added Professor Dursley. Id be happy to
oversee getting them back where they belong.
 Very good,
said Dumbledore. Minerva, what about the vampires?
 Finished,
Professor McGonagall declared.
 And you, Professor
Charon, have the Soulstone once more in your custody. Dumbledore looked
evenly at Harry. So most of their deeds are undone but a boy is still
dead, Harry. And there were abuses made on your person, as well.
 Hermione held
Harrys hand tightly. He smiled at her, grateful for her caring. 
 Im fine, really.
Its Jeremy I feel worst about.
 Professor Charon
spoke up. With his face underlit by the glow of the Soulstone, he looked
more cadaverous and strange than ever. That too can be remedied in time.
With this . He will progress rapidly through Battenby House, I think,
and should have his chance to rejoin the world of the living. It is not
as if he is truly dead, so it is not as if he is truly murdered.
 What are you
all saying? blurted Ron. That youre going to let it go? Let them get
away with it? Come on! After all theyve done? So it can be fixed, thats
grand, but that doesnt make it like it never was. You cant slap them
on the wrist or sit them in the corner and tell them not to do it again.
 Mr. Weasley
is very right, said Dumbledore. Consequences are certainly in order.
For Mr. Grimme, its safe to say were all aware of how persuasive Miss
Winterwind can be. Further, acting as he was out of desperation to end
an intolerable state of being, I feel that he should not be held wholly
to blame for his actions. Nonetheless, that which explains a behavior does
not necessarily excuse it, and he shall be given detention for the rest
of the term, and lose all Hogsmeade privileges. 
 And the echidna
eggs? McGonagall asked. You cant expect to continue treating him with
those.
 Would you have
that be a fitting punishment? Dumbledore asked. Consign him to that monstrous
state forever? Not even I am so strict, Minerva.
 Youll poison
him otherwise!
 We merely need
to explore the ramifications of this cure that Miss Winterwind devised.
Im sure that with the expertise of those such as Madame Pomfrey and Professor
Snape here, we can come up with something that will do the job without
harming the boy. It is, however, likely to be a long, tedious process.
Not without its unpleasant moments and potentially painful side effects.
And that, I think, should be punishment enough.
 What of Ophidia?
Snape asked. 
 Dumbledore ran
his hand along his silvery beard thoughtfully. It seems, Severus, that
well be needing someone to take over teaching Defense Against the Dark
Arts for the rest of the year.
 Snapes face
tightened and his eyes flashed. Oh, really.
 On such short
notice, that duty might need to fall to one of the other professors. I
hardly have time to advertise for the job. What do you say?
 A long moment
stretched out. Dumbledore was offering the opportunity Snape had coveted
for years, and here was Snape not leaping all over it. His expression
was torn, tormented. 
 It seems to
me, Snape said at long last, and not without difficulty, that in the
past, Professor Dumbledore, youve been willing to give new teachers a
second chance and not hold their impulsive indiscretions against them.
 McGonagall drew
herself up as if about to protest, glanced at the students, and said nothing.
 Snape, not even
looking her way, went on. We have all done things in the course of our
lives and the course of our careers that we regret. Weve all had occasions
when weve been tempted, or misled, or failed to see the error of our ways.
You have been most accepting of our stumbles and weaknesses. As no no
lasting harm has been done, wont you extend that same second chance to
Professor Winterwind?
 **

 Chapter Seventeen A Heros Reward. 
 Dumbledores
office was hazy with dust motes, and smelled comfortingly of leather-bound
books, old parchment, and the lingering echo of a previous Headmasters
pipe smoke that not even decades could entirely chase away. 
 The room was
spacious enough, but seemed crowded already by the amount of furniture
in it and the portraits taking up every available inch of wall space. When
several people were added, the room took on an apparent dimension no greater
than the cupboard under the stairs where Harry had spend the first eleven
nights of his life. 
 Elsewhere, Hogwarts
was getting ready for the evenings festivities. It was Halloween. The
Great Hall was decorated, there was to be a scavenger hunt and other games,
and as a special treat, a large supply of Potion of True-Sight had been
laid in. On this night of all, the barriers between the worlds of the living
and the dead and the twilight realm between them grew thin. Any student
who wished could apply the drops and see with his or her own eyes the shades
of Battenby House. 
 The previous
few days, since the events in the catacombs, had passed in a flurry of
gossip and speculation. Everywhere that Harry went, he was resigned to
being pointed at and whispered about again. No one knew precisely what,
but no one doubted that hed somehow saved them all from certain doom.
Fyren Grimme fared somewhat worse, as word of his detention got around.
But the chief topic was Ophidia Winterwind, whose classes had been temporarily
taken over by Snape while she was put before a disciplinary review board.
 Todays meeting
was to announce the final decision of that board. Since it had concerned
him rather personally and directly, Harry had been invited to sit in and
hear Dumbledores judgement. Ron and Hermione were allowed to attend as
well, having witnessed the final outcome.
 Ron still couldnt
get over what Snape had done. He had it right there in the palm of his
hand, he said nearly every time they were alone. And he gave it all away.
I cant believe it.
 He might still
have his chance, Hermione said. Dumbledore may decide to dismiss her
anyway.
 But with Snape
arguing for her Ron shook his head. Its amazing, it really
is. The job he always wanted.
 Or the woman
he loves, Hermione said. I think it was very noble of him.
 So do I, Harry
said, though the concepts of Snape and nobility still didnt jell well
inside his head.
 Be that as it
may, it wasnt up to Snape. It was up to Dumbledore, and they took their
places in his dusty office. The various other professors similarly took
their spots, and at last Dumbledore came in. There was a young woman with
him, and it took Harry several seconds to recognize her. He heard Rons
stifled cry of surprise, and Hermiones.
 The woman was
Ophidia Winterwind and yet, it wasnt. She was still tall and slim and
curvaceous, but in high-collared robes of plain black she hardly looked
the same at all. Her skin, once healed of the horrible sunburn, had settled
on a more normal fair tone rather than the pure alabaster white it had
been. Her hair was unchanged, but her eyes were altogether different. Not
red anymore, but ordinary brown, sad and soulful. 
 Most of all,
the intangible aura of promise and danger and sweet seduction that had
surrounded her was absent. She was to all intents and appearances a normal
woman. Pretty, yes, even beautiful but humanly ordinary. 
 After reviewing
all of the information, Dumbledore said once hed greeted the assembly,
I offer the following solution. Ophidia Winterwind shall be kept on as
a professor at Hogwarts, on five years probation. She will give up all
the dark glamours with which she surrounded herself. Her classes will be
conducted during normal school hours. She shall be subjected to periodic
and random aura readings to assure her continued good faith. A single infraction
will result not only in her immediate dismissal but a full investigation
by the Ministry of Magic. Is this acceptable?
 Professor McGonagall
did not look overjoyed. In fact, she looked most troubled. Possibly, thought
Harry, she was remembering a time when shed been brought before such a
review board herself. After some hesitation, she nodded.
 So did Snape,
and the others. Lastly, Dumbledore turned to the penitent herself with
a raised eyebrow.
 Yes, Headmaster,
she said in a low voice. I agree to your generous terms. You have my deepest
apologies. You all have. 
 There was more
that was said, but that was the crux of it. When the meeting was done,
Harry, Ron, and Hermione headed slowly down the hall, marveling over how
different shed looked. Hermione was smugly satisfied by this. 
 Now all you
boys wont be drooling so much, she said.
 I wonder about
Snape, said Ron. Think hell still like her? Shes not nearly so so
 well, malicious and delicious.
 Ron, youre
a pig, sniffed Hermione. You honestly are.
 Im just saying!
 Harry glanced
back. Shh. Doesnt look like theyre having any problems.
 Behind them,
having lingered to be among the last to leave the room, Snape was walking
with Ophidia Winterwind. 
 Come on, Harry
whispered.
 Not more eavesdropping,
Hermione complained. Wont you ever learn your lesson?
 We learn more
this way than in class, Ron said.
 Ill say,
said Harry wryly. Not always what we want to learn either.
 Hermione shared
his thought and made a face, clearly remembering, as he was, what theyd
heard and seen in the greenhouse. But the siren song was too great to deny,
and they slipped into a nearby office and closed the door all but a crack. 
 I will fully
understand, Severus, Ophidia was saying. Im not the same now.
 Not outwardly,
perhaps.
 Her breath was
almost a sob. I lived that way for so long that it wasnt only outward.
I wanted it so much that sometimes I started believing it was true. Now,
what am I? Nothing special.
 You were always
special, Snape said, and in the darkened room Ron mimed gagging. You
still are.
 And you what
you did for me Severus, I know what that must have cost you. Why, youve
wanted that job as badly as I wanted to be a real vampire.
 But when you
had your chance, he said, you realized other things were more important.
So did I.
 They moved out
of earshot after that. Harry exhaled a disgruntled sigh. Its getting
harder to hate him all the time.
 I think he
feels that way about you, too, Hermione said.
 Ron snickered.
So Snape gets a happy ending. Whodve thought it? Lets go see if theyve
posted the lists for the scavenger hunt yet. I may not know the castle
as well as Fred and George did, but Ive got to have a pretty good idea.
 They went down,
and the list was indeed posted. As each student touched the parchment tacked
to the wall beside the doors into the Great Hall, a perfect copy peeled
away into his or her hand. People were already rushing around and chattering
excitedly, trying to plan the best way to collect owl feathers, werewolf
howls, ghost fingerprints, green bedroom slippers, dragon scales, dried
ink bottles, and the like. 
 Want to team
up? Ron asked, brandishing his list. 
 Its not for
me, Harry said. Sorry, Ron. Ive gone chasing around Hogwarts looking
for weird items often enough lately. Im just going to go down and say
hi to Hagrid, see how he made out with Stratford.
 That was the
other news, its true ramifications known only to a select few. On the day
that Professor McGonagall had fainted, Dumbledore had dispatched Hagrid
to find Cliffton Stratford. The gallery had subsequently cancelled the
upcoming exhibition of his photographs. True to his word, Dumbledore had
seen to it that the book was removed from the school library, and possibly
arranged to have all copies confiscated as well; Harry wouldnt have put
it past him. 
 As for Stratford,
hed been turned over to Hagrid along with instructions to take him for
a little nature walk into the Forbidden Forest. That tantalizing hint had
been the last piece Harry had heard, and until now hed been too busy to
pay Hagrid a visit.
 Ill come with
you, Hermione said. I havent seen Hagrid in ages.
 Oh, come on,
said Ron. Theres fifty points in it for the House of the winner. Arent
you going to do your part for Gryffindor?
 I got thirty
points for Gryffindor just the other day, when I aced an Arithmancy test
that no one had ever completed before, she said. Ive done my part.
 Ill concentrate
on the next Quidditch match, Harry said. 
 Fine, but dont
expect to share in my glory when I win, Ron said, and off he went.
 Dusk had come
early, creeping over the grounds in velvet shadows. The pathways were lined
with jack-o-lanterns, a host of skeletons (not all human; most of them
had been gleaned by Hagrid from the Care of Magical Creatures archives
and museum) hung from the trees, and giant spiderwebs possibly woven by
the horse-sized children of Aragog caught dew and glimmered in intricate
design.
 Hagrids cottage
was dark. Knocking got no answer, and when the door proved unlocked, Harry
went inside. Hagrid?
 No one was home
except Fang the boarhound, and a sabertoothed kitten that Hagrid had recently
adopted. The kitten, tawny-brown with enormous teeth depending from its
upper jaw, was already as big as a cocker spaniel. Hagrid had, in the same
spirit that led him to name a gigantic three-headed dog Fluffy, named the
sabertooth Mittens by virtue of its two white forefeet. 
 A note was on
the table, held down by a paperweight of a tarantula in amber. Harry read
it while Hermione played carefully ! with Mittens. 
 Have gone to
a costume party with Olympe, Harry read. At the Three Broomsticks. Back
late.
 A costume party,
he and Madame Maxime? Hermione laughed. What in the world could they
possibly disguise themselves as?
 Good question.
He replaced the paperweight, studying it for a moment because he could
have sworn the tarantula had moved. What now? I guess we could still catch
up with Ron.
 Lets go down
by the lake instead, she said.
 Um all right. 
 Neither of them
spoke as they walked down to the shore, then out on the dock. Harrys heart
was beating fast with a curious blend of trepidation and excitement. 
 She stopped,
and turned to face him. Harry, Ive been thinking about this a lot since
 well, since that other night we were out here.
 Were you?
The seesaw of his emotions tipped toward trepidation. Was she going to
slap his face, call him a bastard?
 You kissed
me.
 Yeah.
 Did you like
it?
 What? Of course
I liked it! He faltered. Why? Didnt you?
 The night hid
most of her blush, and her voice was almost too quiet to hear. Yes. But
it surprised me. I didnt think you were interested in me that way. I thought
you and Cho 
 Ive had a
crush on her, you mean? He chuckled a little. And Cho, unless were on
the Quidditch field, barely knows Im alive. Theres never been anything
real there, Hermione.
 What happened,
then? Why me?
 I dont know.
Youre a great friend, always have been but somehow, all of a sudden,
I mustve started thinking that maybe there was more. Started seeing what
I should have seen before, how pretty you are and all. But then I also
thought that, well, you and Ron 
 Ron, dont
ask me about Ron, I like him well enough as a friend and all but sometimes
he drives me so crazy, infuriates me, that I just want to hit him but
the books say that something like that can be an indication of a hidden
attraction oh, Harry, I dont understand any of it. All the books in
the world cant prepare you for the real thing, not when it comes to boys.
 Hey, theres
no how-to book for dealing with you girls, either, he said with a grin.
But, Hermione would you go out with me?
 As in, on a
date?
 A date, yeah.
Dinner. Next Hogsmeade weekend. The Golden Gryphon.
 Harry, that
place is really expensive!
 That doesnt
matter. What do you say?
 Well yes,
all right. Id be happy to.
 Great! Harry
felt a large, and probably goofy, smile break over his face. He shoved
aside all thoughts of what Ron or anyone else would say. He had a date.
So now what?
 If I remember
right, she said seriously, now Im supposed to rush off and tell all
my friends and well squeal and giggle and whisper behind our hands whenever
we see you.
 Really? Harry
said, aghast. 
 She smiled.
No! Other girls, maybe, but thats not me.
 Im glad.
 But if you
want, you can kiss me again.
 Another joke?
 No joke. You
just cant call me your girlfriend yet. Since we havent even had our first
date and all. But a kiss would be nice.
 He moved closer
to her, clasped her hands in his, and leaned down to kiss her.
 **
 The End. 

 page copyright 2002 by Christine Morgan / 
christine@sabledrake.com