Incineratrix Ignited 

 Incineratrix Ignited! 
 A City of Heroes 
fanfiction story 
 by Christine
Morgan 

 Prologue: 
 At twelve, Ashley was old enough to know what death meant.
Real death. Not a cape's trip-to-the-hospital death. Not a bad guy's "arrested"
death. 
 Actual, final real-person death. 
 It meant that her father was never coming home. It meant
that her father, or what they had been able to find of him, was in that
box, going into the ground. 
 She stood beside her mother, wearing a new black dress
that she would have hated even if not for the occasion. Aunt Betty had
bought it, had shown up at the house with it that morning just as Mom and
Ashley were both realizing that Ashley had nothing suitable to wear to
a funeral. Mom had gotten crying all over again. Mom had barely stopped
crying in four days. Since the phone call. Since the fire. 
 FOUR FIREFIGHTERS DIE IN KING'S ROW INFERNO, the headline
had read. It was in the "Call of Duty" section of the paper, along with
a story about two police officers slain in a shootout with the Hellions. 
 As always, the larger part of that section was taken up
with what the capes called the "Agony of Defeat" list. Emerald Crusader
defeated by Vahzilok. Mighty-Mite defeated by Trolls. The Brick defeated
six times in Perez Park. Raggedy Android defeated by Cannon Knights. Mystic
Argenta defeated twice by Circle of Thorns. 
 That, Ashley had always thought, wasn't fair. The defeated
capes would be back in action the same day, but the police officers and
firefighters were gone for good, taken from their grieving families. And
nobody in Paragon City cared. 
 Where had the capes been when her father and the others
entered that burning building? Wasn't it important enough to bother with?
All they cared about was doing their own thing. Some of them would walk
 or leap, or fly right past a mugging or a murder. Too busy. Too special.
They had bigger and better things to do. 
 And still, people loved them. Adored them. Fawned over
them. Rushed up to them on the streets to tell them how great they were. 
 While men like her father worked their whole lives trying
to help others, paid for it with their lives, and got a few lines
in the paper and the city to foot the bill for the funeral. 
 At last, the service was over. The mourners milled around
the cemetery, talking in low voices. They were family members, friends
of the family, and the greater extended family of firefighters. A gleaming
red procession of fire engines had formed an honor guard to the four hearses,
sirens off but lights whirling and flashing. 
 A single news crew had shown up, filming the event. Ashley
figured it'd be good for maybe another three minutes on the evening news.
Right after the announcement of the winner of the latest Atlas Park costume
contest, right before the weather. She could almost hear the newscaster.
" one hundred thousand influence. And in other local news, Paragon City's
fire department turned out in force today to mourn the loss of four of
their own " 
 Words of comfort were given and received awkwardly, everyone
knowing that no matter how heartfelt the condolences, there was no way
that such words could be anything but empty and meaningless. The three
widows and one widower all looked like they only wanted to get out of here,
to go home with their kids and try to pick up the shattered pieces of their
lives. They had all known that this was the risk. But that knowing did
not make it any easier. 
 Every time someone else came up and said to Ashley's mother,
"Mrs. Burns, I am so sorry for your loss," or "Oh, Connie I know how
much you'll miss him," Ashley felt like screaming. And when they turned
to her, their gazes so sad and solemn, she wanted to kick them and slap
them. How dare they tell her they knew how she must feel? How dare they
tell her that her father would have wanted her to be strong and brave for
her mother's sake? Who were they to tell her any of that? 
 As soon as she could, she slipped away from Mom and wandered
through the crowd, head down, blond hair hanging in her face. She knew
that the funeral was supposed to help her think about her father's soul,
gone to someplace better. Not his poor, charred body, and how he'd had
to be identified by dental records. Not what it must have been like for
him in those last moments. 
 The department had made arrangements for them to see a
counselor, someone whose job it was to help them deal with their grief.
Ashley couldn't stand the thought of talking about Dad to anyone but Mom.
She didn't even want to talk about it with Aunt Betty and Uncle Jim, or
her cousins. Least of all the other kids at school. 
 She didn't want to go back to school. They would want
to hear everything. They'd ask her horrible questions, wanting to know
exactly what had happened to her father. They'd ask if she had seen his
body, and what it had been like. And if the teasing about her name had
been bad before 
 What did you have to do to change your name, anyway? 
 What had her parents been thinking, naming her Ashley
Burns? What had her father been thinking, becoming a firefighter with a
last name like Burns? He used to laugh about it, say that it was destiny. 
 "At least I didn't want to be a chef," he would say. "No
one would have come to my restaurant." 
 Ashley had gotten away from the cluster of people around
the four graves, moving over the gentle green lawns with their embedded
brass plaques or rising stone markers and white crosses. This part of the
cemetery was reserved for city employees, so she saw the mottoes of the
police and fire department repeated over and over. They were decorated
with flower arrangements, flags, stuffed animals, photographs. 
 She noted with morbid interest that many of the dates
of birth and death were too close together. Too many men and women who
had died younger than they should have. Who had probably, like her father,
died in pain and terror. 
 Circling back, she chose a path that would take her through
a pretty copse of trees. It was one of the nicest parts of the cemetery,
and in the small region of her mind that could be glad about such things,
she was glad that her father was buried here. There were so few green places
in Paragon City that were nice. Even Prometheus Park was so dangerous
these days that no kids ever went there. 
 And Perez Park? Ashley couldn't remember the last time
she had been to Perez Park. On a picnic, maybe, as a little girl of three
or four. She had dim memories of being fascinated by the dense tree trunks
and denser foliage, and the labyrinth of always-gloomy paths. 
 The day was unseasonably bright and warm, and in her black
dress and tights Ashley was sweating. She stepped into the cool patch of
shade and wiped her face with the handkerchief Aunt Betty had put into
her little purse. 
 She was not looking forward to what came next. She wasn't
even sure what to call it. A reception? Like after a wedding? Everyone
would be going back to the firehouse for food and cake. That seemed grossly
inappropriate somehow. Cake? How could they eat cake? 
 " sure about that?" someone asked in a tone of rising
anger. 
 Ashley looked around and saw that she was not alone in
the little grove. Two men were at the far edge, with their backs to her
and their heads leaned conspiratorially close. She recognized both of them.
Charles Vayle was her father's captain, a stocky man with a grey crewcut.
The tall, lean man with the dark hair and the scuffed leather jacket was
Detective Cordova, the uncle of a girl Ashley knew from school. 
 Captain Vayle had been the one who'd spoken, who'd sounded
so angry. Ashley held her breath and prepared to back out quietly, not
wanting to disturb them. But Cordova's words stopped her in her tracks. 
 "We're sure. We found traces of accelerant all over the
scene. It was set. It was deliberate. Same M.O. as the tenement fires over
in the Gish." 
 "Son of a bitch!" Captain Vayle swore, slamming a fist
into the trunk of a tree hard enough to make a swirl of leaves fall loose.
"Tell me you're going to catch the guy, Jack." 
 "We're doing everything we can. But, listen, Charles,
you've got to keep this to yourself for now." 
 "What?" barked Captain Vayle. 
 "Not my idea. I want to go public, tell the papers, get
it on the news, warn people about this firebug. He's escalating. First
it was abandoned warehouses, bad, but uninhabited. Now this apartment building." 
 "So why don't you?" Vayle chuckled bitterly. "Let me guess.
Pressure on the department from the mayor's office. Nobody wants to admit
that we've got an arsonist on the loose. We've got hooded creeps summoning
demons on rooftops, we've got mad scientists swiping cadavers from the
morgue and turning them into walking flyblown zombies, we've got gang members
running riot wherever you look, but they're afraid that an arsonist will
scare people and give Paragon City a bad name." 
 "About that, yeah," Cordova said. He sighed. "And, well,
it is King's Row. Not like it's happening in Steel Canyon." 
 "You don't need to explain it to me," Vayle said. "If
someone burns down a building in SC, that's news. If it happens in King's
Row, it's urban renewal. Damn it, Jack I lost four men!" 
 "I know." Cordova grasped his shoulder. "We're going to
catch him. I promise." 
 "Paula's waiting for me. I'd better go before she starts
wondering where I am." Vayle shook his head and they moved off through
the trees. 
 Ashley sank into a sitting position. She could not believe
what she had heard. 
 Someone had set that fire? The fire that had killed
her father? Someone had done it on purpose? 
 Accelerant she knew what that meant. That meant gasoline,
or lighter fluid, or something else to burn fast and hot and help a blaze
get started. 
 Not an accident. Not an oven mitt left on a stove burner
 not a cigarette dropped between the cushions of the couch not an unattended
candle too close to the curtains not faulty wiring not a stroke of
lightning not even a little kid messing with matches. 
 Arson. On purpose. Her father was dead because someone
liked to start fires. 
 Didn't that make it murder? 
 She sat where she was, arms wrapped around her knees,
staring vacantly at nothing. In her mind's eye, she was seeing the apartment
building, shabby and run-down like so much of King's Row. Grimy brick with
an old metal fire escape zig-zagging up the side and big rattling air units
on the roof. Overflowing trash bin in the alley. Blowing newspapers. Forlorn
shopping cart at the corner. 
 Just another piece of low-income housing, where the halls
always smelled of frying hamburger and cat pee. The plaster would be gouged
and marked with graffiti. The radiators would clank and the pipes would
gurgle. The babble of televisions and radios. Crying babies. Couples arguing
about money, complaining about work. 
 And then, late that night, someone sneaking in through
an open window or unlocked door. Some wild-eyed, grinning punk with greasy
hair and zits, pot leaves and the names of heavy metal bands tattooed in
blue ballpoint ink on his arms. 
 She saw him clearly in her imagination. Saw him hunkering
in a corner, dousing wadded-up newspapers and dirty rags with lighter fluid.
Touching a match, and watching, his sallow face underlit by flickering
orange as the fire spread. 
 Everyone who lived in the building had survived. She knew
that, had heard all about it from Mrs. Owen, a friend of Mom's whose husband
had also died in the blaze. An elderly woman, an insomniac who lived on
the first floor, had smelled the smoke. Though the building was old, it
did have a fire alarm, and the old lady had pulled it. 
 But the fire department had arrived to a scene of confusion.
Not knowing whether or not anyone was still trapped inside, Ashley's father
and five others had gone in to do a search, while the flames leaped and
roared and windows shattered in storms of super-heated glass. 
 They had rescued three people who had been overcome by
the smoke and two children who'd been hiding, frightened, in a bedroom
closet. They had rescued a fat pug dog and a yowling Siamese cat. Then
the floor collapsed under them. 
 Two of the firefighters had emerged, one of them badly
burned and the other with a broken arm from a falling beam that had knocked
him through a wall. The other four had not. By then, no one else could
get in, and their friends had been forced to wait until the fire was extinguished
before going in. 
 And now, Ashley knew, it had been arson. It had been deliberate.
Her father and three of his friends had been murdered. 
 All because someone liked to play with fire. 
 ** 
 Thirteen Years Later 
 She paused at the curb, taking in the site in a long,
measured look. 
 It was still smoldering, blackened beams jutting up from
a pile of rubble. Here and there amid the debris, she could see identifiable
objects a washing machine, the slightly melted remains of a row of bowling
trophies, a television with imploded screen, a clock that was still ticking.
But most of it, yes, most of it was destroyed. 
 Long filthy-black rivers of water washed into the gutter.
A few firefighters in full gear moved carefully around, searching for hot
spots to douse with the hoses. 
 The street was barricaded at both ends by sawhorses and
police cars. When the house had been ablaze, she was sure that every neighbor
on the street must have turned out to gawk. It would have been a brilliant
fire-rose, blooming red-orange in the night. There would have been shrieking
sirens and activity. 
 Now, though, it was daylight. The flames were gone. Only
soot-mud and the acrid tang of old smoke in the air remained. People had
gone off to work, gotten the kids to school, or ducked back inside to try
and see themselves on the morning news. 
 One of the nearest firefighters raised a hand. "Ashley!" 
 "Jase? That you?" 
 He pulled off his helmet, revealing dark hair all tangled
and pasted to his head. His tanned skin was streaked with residue, but
his blue eyes were bright. "None other." 
 Jase Moritz, in Ashley Burns' informed opinion, could
have claimed any month if he ever wanted to sit for one of those hunky-firemen
calendars so popular in other cities. There was, of course, no call for
that kind of thing here. Who cared about monthly pictures of hunky firemen
photographed with their shirts off, when you could choose from calendars,
magazines and posters by Superhero Illustrated, Paragon Prime, Girls
of Galaxy City, Atlas By Night, or any of a hundred other companies? 
 Well, Ashley thought as she crossed the singed lawn toward
him, she would have bought one. Every year. 
 She and Jase had known each other since grade school.
Neither of them had exactly followed family expectations. Jase's parents
were both doctors, but Jase had joined the fire department rather than
go to med school. And rather than become a firefighter herself, like her 
father, Ashley too had taken a slightly different direction. 
 "Miss! Miss, excuse me, you can't be here." A uniformed
police officer hurried over, portly and flushing either from exertion or
embarrassment at letting a civilian get this close on his watch. 
 "Officer Relnick, it's all right," Jase said. "This is
" 
 "Ashley Burns," Ashley said, digging one of her cards
from her pocket. "I'm with the A.I.U." 
 Relnick took the card, scrutinized it, and then looked
her over. She was dressed in a functional, casual way suitable for tromping
around sites like this, in sturdy hiking boots, jeans, and a roomy Paragon
City University sweatshirt with the sleeves pushed up. Her thick, wavy
blond hair was cropped short, and she wore neither make-up nor jewelry. 
 She saw the skeptical look on his round, red face and
slid her sunglasses partway down her nose. "Is there a problem?" 
 "You're with the Arson Investigating Unit," he said. 
 "Yes." 
 "And your name is Ashley Burns ?" 
 She managed a thin smile. "Whatever jokes you want to
make, Officer Relnick, believe me, I have heard them before." 
 "I bet you have." He nodded. "Okay, then. Do whatever
you do." 
 "Oh, I will." She headed for the house, Jase Moritz pacing
her. "Anything obvious?" 
 "Not yet." Jase pointed. "Looks like it started in the
kitchen." 
 "Anyone hurt?" 
 "No, thank God. The Curtises were on vacation. Hawaii.
Hope it was a good trip, because having to come back to something like
this will really suck." 
 Ashley picked her way through the rubble that had once
been a family's life. Years, even decades of memories, up in smoke. Photo
albums, keepsakes, clothes, toys, books, personal papers whoosh, crackle,
and gone. 
 In the middle of a relatively unscathed patch of what
had probably been the living room, she found a large aquarium. The glass
walls had burst, spilling gallons of water that had saved the carpet. The
fish, however, had not come off so lucky. 
 She saw a silver trinket box that would probably clean
up fairly well. A bunch of dolls fused into bizarre pink plastic blobs
around the skeleton of a dollhouse. The blistered remains of a three-ring
binder that had held some little boy's collection of supergroup trading
cards, a few of the masked faces still discernible. 
 But she was not here to salvage, not here to take notes
for an insurance company. She was here to do her job. 
 ** 
 Three days after his return from Hawaii, Albert Curtis
was arrested and charged with setting fire to his own house. 
 He had lost his job four months previously, a fact that
he had kept from everyone including his wife. Every day, Albert had gone
off to 'work' taking odd jobs here and there but spending the rest of
his time in local bars. 
 When the family's savings had begun to run out, he decided
to burn the house down and collect on the insurance. Two million, he presumed,
would be enough to get them all started in a new life. 
 He had rigged what the investigators all agreed was a
fairly clever device, hooked up to the automatic cat-food dispenser that
doled out a week's worth of kitty kibble in daily doses. When the device
clicked around to Thursday, it had triggered a fuse that ignited a leftover
4th of July firework in a nest of kindling. The resulting flames had spread
from the kitchen throughout the house, gutting it. 
 The cat, an orange-stripe longhair named Skittles, was
out of the house at the time. 
 Albert Curtis had thought his alibi on a Maui beach
at the time of the fire would be airtight. But all too soon, the entire
story came out. His former employer testified, as did three bartenders
and a fellow patron who remembered Albert joking about insurance money
two days before the family left for Hawaii. 
 His wife divorced him and got custody of the kids. Albert
went to jail. The insurance company got to keep their two million. 
 And all because one diligent arson investigator found
a few snips of fuse wire and chemical residue from fireworks near the cat-food
dispenser. 
 ** 
 "Who would do something like this? Who would burn down
a church? How? And why?" 
 The priest was distraught, and understandably so. He waved
his arms around the room, and it took the best efforts of the cops on the
scene to try and calm him down. The hem of his cassock was wet, dragging
trails of grey-brown muck on the floor. His white hair stood up in crazy
corkscrews, streaked with soot. 
 From the outside, there hadn't been much evidence of the
fire. A single stained glass window had been broken, jagged panes still
hanging at the edges of the framework. Part of some saint and some angel,
with scrolls inscribed in Latin floating around their heads. The rest of
the colorful glass shards were sprayed across the floor. Inside the church,
indicating that something had been used to smash the glass from the outside. 
 The rest of the stained glass windows, intact, glittered
like jewels in the morning sunshine and threw a kaleidoscope of color across
the pews and wooden floor. The upper reaches were filled with soft shadows.
There was a hush of reverence about the place, even with firefighters and
police going about their business. 
 An early-bird altar boy had been in the process of setting
up for services when he had smelled smoke, and found one corner of the
church engulfed in a growing inferno. He was a brave boy and quick-thinking,
and first tried to smother the flames with a fire extinguisher kept in
a closet. But the fire had spread too rapidly, forcing him to retreat and
call 911. 
 His timely arrival and action had prevented a disaster.
Really, only that corner was seriously burnt. There was some smoke and
water damage, but all things considered, the church had come off not too
much the worse for wear. 
 Ashley's gaze made a practiced arc, following the path
that she expected a fuel-filled bottle stoppered with a lit rag the classic
Molotov cocktail, an oldie but a goodie might have struck after coming
through the window. Right away, she knew that something was wrong. 
 The actual fire had been well out of range of the window.
Even allowing for a mighty throw that would have done an NFL quarterback
proud, the angle was all wrong. 
 She did see something along her projected path,
though, and proceeded to it with her arson investigation kit swinging at
her side. The satiny finish of the floor was scarred in a few places along
the way, as if something heavy and with rough edges had bounced along before
 yes, there it was, a brick. It had come to rest underneath a pew. 
 So, the brick had been hurled through the window, shattering
a large hole in the glass. But a thrown brick would not have been able
to start a fire. It had no handy threat letters rubber-banded to it, no
spray-painted hate messages. Just a brick, red-brown and crumbly, the sort
of thing that could have fallen off any old King's Row building and been
picked up out of an alley. 
 Not a Molotov cocktail, then. The gaping window was large
enough to have admitted someone, if that someone clambered through carefully
or didn't mind risking a few cuts on the hands. The brick had just been
to gain entry into the church. 
 Ashley moved on to the corner where the fire had started.
She watched where she stepped, not wanting to track through or slip in
the puddles left by the fire hoses. She expected to find a stack of charred
hymnals or some other papery substance that had been soaked in accelerant
and then ignited. 
 The fire extinguisher had left curds of foamy scum that
had been washed to the edges by the hoses. The extinguisher itself, a long
red cylinder, lay where the altar boy had dropped it. Black scorch marks
reached well up toward the ceiling and fanned out across the walls. The
floorboards were edged in charcoal, but the floor had not caved in. 
 More scorch marks dotted the backs of pews and the side
of a gorgeous antique cabinet. They had a random scattering distribution
to them that made Ashley's brows knit in a frown. It didn't fit. It wasn't
right. The pattern was all wrong, not fitting with anything she knew. 
 She went to work with tweezers and swabs, collecting samples.
The longer she was at it, the more her frown deepened, until it became
a scowl that furrowed her forehead into lines. 
 Around her, the usual activity and mop-up went on. She
was so accustomed to it that she paid little notice. Nor did any of them,
used to her, register anything more about her than the fact of her presence. 
 Three hours later, well past lunchtime though she hadn't
had the time, opportunity, or appetite for food, she showed up sooty and
disheveled at her supervisor's office door to present her findings. 
 Nan Holbrook flipped slowly through the pages of scribbled
hand-written notes, then raised her head. Her eyes were narrowed, her thin
lips pursed. "What's this supposed to be, Burns? Was it set, or not?" 
 "It was set," Ashley replied. "I'm sure of that.
I just I've never seen anything like it before. The lab results won't
be back until tomorrow at the earliest, but I'm betting that there won't
be a trace of any accelerants." 
 "What caused it, then?" 
 "I don't know yet." 
 "I need more than that." Holbrook flicked her fingers
at the sheaf of papers. "Right now, Burns, you're giving me nothing. There's
no indication that it was deliberate." 
 "There's no other possible cause. No wiring in that part
of the building at all, so no electrical fire. No flame sources " 
 "In a church?" Holbrook's eyebrows arched. "Admittedly,
it's been a while, but every church I've ever been in was wall-to-wall
candles." 
 "Nothing in that part of the building. No melted wax anywhere
around the burned area. Even if someone had held the wick end to the wall
until it caught which, come on, you know as well as I do would have taken
all day there would have been wax runoff." 
 "It could have been anything," Holbrook said. 
 "Look at these scorch patterns," Ashley said, fanning
out a diagram. "These suggest several different attempts at getting the
blaze going. It's almost like what you'd expect from someone shooting short
bursts from a flamethrower." 
 "Could that be it? Some nut opens up with a flamethrower
in church?" 
 Ashley tried to hide her annoyance. Nan Holbrook knew
better than that. "A flamethrower uses fuel," she said. "There'd be traces.
Chemicals." 
 "You said the results haven't come back." 
 "When they do, they won't show any. I've worked on flamethrower
cases before. Remember that car down by the Aqueduct? It was toasted hood
to trunk with a flamethrower, and it was covered with chemical residue.
I could smell it." 
 "So this could be a different kind." 
 "I doubt it. I've got a feeling on this one." 
 "Fine." Holbrook exhaled and tapped the papers on the
desk, squaring the stack. "When you get more, let me know. But unless you
can come up with something more substantial than a feeling, it's looking
like this one might get past us. We've got to have a little bit to go on,
at least." 
 "It's arson," she said. "It's got to be. There's no other
explanation. I've checked." 
 Two days later, she still had no other explanation. Every
lab test had come back negative for every accelerant imaginable and some
that she had never considered. The building's wiring was examined and showed
no faults. Meteorologists from Skyway City and Steel Canyon confirmed no
lightning strikes anywhere in the area. 
 Holbrook had insisted she follow up on the flamethrower
theory, but her every inquiry into the hardware told her that even the
classified military prototypes used fuel that left a detectable trace.
The incident had happened early on a Sunday morning, but not so early that
the streets of King's Row had been totally empty, and no one in the vicinity
had noticed anyone running around toting a contraption made up of nozzles
and cylinders of any description. 
 "Spontaneous combustion?" Holbrook asked sourly when Ashley
presented these latest findings or lack thereof. "Act of God?" 
 "Funny," Ashley said. 
 "We need to close this one, Burns. You've got diddly-squat.
We can't keep an investigation open with no evidence and nothing to support
it except your hunch." 
 "I know there's something going on with this,"
she persisted. "Can't I keep looking into it?" 
 "As long as it doesn't interfere with these new cases,"
Holbrook said, handing her a scrap of paper with two addresses printed
in block caps. "Put it on the back burner, so to speak." 
 She took the paper and left the office, grumbling. 
 The first address was a mom-and-pop grocery in the Gish,
which had been closed a week ago after a Hellions robbery in which the
owner and proprietor as well as a clerk and two customers had been shot.
Last night, the empty store had gone up in flames. The fire had spread
to the buildings on either side, but had been contained before it could
get further. 
 A few shriveled, melted scraps of police tape from the
previous crime were still visible, curled on the sidewalk like dead snakes.
The police had found the back door kicked down, and believed that someone
had broken into the store hoping to rob the place, then set it on fire
either to cover his tracks, or out of disappointment at finding nothing
in the register. 
 Ashley went in the same way, and had only gotten two steps
into the building before something clicked. She backed out, and examined
the door frame and surrounding wall. 
 Scorch marks. And the plate that held the doorknob and
lock was warped, disfigured, as if from a blast of incredible heat. Someone
had tried to burn through the door, or used fire to weaken the lock before
kicking it open the kick was obvious from the shoe prints on the door
itself. 
 Running the scene turned out to be a nightmare. There
were trace accelerants everywhere the store had sold hair spray, lighter
fluid and two dozen other flammable household products. While these had
played their own part in helping the fire to spread, Ashley was convinced
it had been a natural result of the fire. They had simply overheated and
exploded on the shelves. 
 At what she determined was the ignition point itself,
she didn't find anything. And along the walls, just like in the church,
she found the same scattered burn marks. 
 ** 
 SERIAL ARSONIST PLAGUING KING'S ROW? asked the headlines. 
 Nan Holbrook slapped the newspaper down on her desk and
gave Ashley a sour look. "Well, Burns?" 
 "What do you want me to say? Yes, I talked to that reporter." 
 "And told him we have a serial arsonist? Are you trying 
to start a panic?" 
 "People need to know!" 
 "We don't have any proof that these fires were set. We
have a string of coincidences and no actual evidence." 
 "They are connected! It's the same guy, I know it is!
We've got to catch him, stop him, before someone else gets killed." Ashley
pointed to the sidebar article, which described how an elderly couple had
died in a house fire that had also put their live-in housekeeper in the
hospital with second-degree burns and smoke inhalation, and claimed the
lives of their nine parakeets. 
 "Burns, I'm well aware of what a crusader you are," Holbrook
said, clearly making an effort to be patient and supportive. "I know how
much you hate it when an arsonist gets away with the crime. You're tenacious.
Usually, that's a good thing. You get results. But this time, you're getting
obsessed." 
 "I want to find this guy," Ashley said. "I want to catch
him." 
 "There is no guy. There is no evidence." 
 "There is ! I just I just can't figure it out.
How can you sit there and say that these fires aren't connected? Look at
everything they have in common! Someone's found a new way to start a fire
and keep it going without using any accelerants that we can identify. We've
got to find out what, and how, and who, and stop it!" 
 "You're getting too personally involved with this one.
How long has it been since you've taken a vacation?" 
 "Oh, God!" Ashley flung her arms in the air. "This is
where you tell me I've been working too hard, how I need a break! And when
I say I don't want one, you'll turn it into a threat. We must see all the
same movies. You're the crusty supervisor who refuses to believe anything
out of the ordinary until it's too late and I'm proven right!" 
 "If I am," Holbrook said, bolting upright and no longer
sounding like she was making an effort to be calm, "then you're the chick
in Twister who grows up to be a storm chaser so she can hunt down
and kill the tornado that took her Daddy away!" 
 Speechless with shock and fury, Ashley stared at her. 
 Holbrook turned maroon. "That was low," she said, dropping
her gaze. "Ashley, I'm sorry. I shouldn't have said that. I shouldn't have
dragged your father into this." 
 "I quit." 
 "Ashley!" 
 She turned and stalked out of the office. 
 The A.I.U. shared quarters with several other city agencies,
and most of the time, the various rooms were lively with conversation and
people hurrying around on various errands. Now, except for the clatter
of computer keys somewhere, and the incessant ringing of a phone, it was
quiet. Everyone in the hall was frozen in the manner of kids playing statue-tag,
clutching coffee cups or manila folders full of documents. 
 When Ashley appeared, there was a sort of universal scramble
as they all tried to go about their normal business and act like they hadn't
heard. But she knew, with a dull flare of anger, that they'd been listening. 
 Not that she'd ever made any secret of her reasons for
going into this line of work. All she'd ever wanted, from the time she
was twelve years old, was to help catch arsonists. Stop them. Prevent families
from losing their homes, people from losing their lives children from
losing their parents. 
 "Ashley!" Holbrook stuck her head out. "Don't do this.
Come back in and let's talk about it." 
 She continued on her way, spine stiff, jaw clenched. Her
own office, which she shared with Angie Reeves, was a small one at the
end of the hall. Angie was nowhere to be seen, which was a small blessing.
They had never gotten along all that well anyway. Ashley cared about catching
the bad guys. Angie cared about making sure nobody bilked their insurance
companies out of undeserved fortunes. And since Ashley had been the one
to break the Curtis case, Angie had barely been speaking to her anyway. 
 Ashley grabbed her purse, shoved some personal effects
into a cardboard box, and picked up the folder she'd been compiling about
the latest string of suspicious fires. Holbrook didn't follow her and try
to talk her out of it as Ashley expected. No one said anything to her as
she walked to the elevators and hit the button. 
 ** 
 She got off the train and emerged from the station, seeing
Atlas Park unfold in front of her in a panorama of towering statues, lush
greenery, fountains, and the flag-topped rotunda of her destination, City
Hall. 
 Hitching the strap of her bag higher onto her shoulder,
Ashley moved briskly and with purpose along the sidewalk. She veered into
a parking lot, passed a green sedan, and was pulled up short when someone
grabbed her purse. 
 "Just give it here, lady." 
 There was a hard tug. The strap slipped. Ashley grabbed
for it and suddenly found herself at one end of a tug-of-war. Her opponent
was a man with a blond crew cut, wearing an orange shirt with the sleeves
torn away. Another man stepped from behind the car, holding a baseball
bat. 
 "Help!" Ashley blurted. "Someone, help!" 
 "Think of it as charity," snarled the one with the bat. 
 Crew-Cut pulled harder. Ashley refused to let go. Loose
change, lip balm and a packet of tissues fell from her purse. Then, out
of nowhere, a sparkling wave of pink-purple force struck Crew-Cut in the
chest and knocked him flying. 
 The sudden release of tension on the purse strap made
Ashley overbalance and fall on her butt on the blacktop. 
 "Great, Boy Scouts and Brownies," the man with the bat
said, turning and drawing himself up in a hostile stance. 
 Crew-Cut staggered upright just in time for a long sheeting
wave of purple light to skim under both thugs, sweeping their feet out
from under them again. The one with the bat slammed into the side of the
car. 
 Ashley just sat there, mouth hanging open, as a diminutive
elfin woman pranced up in thigh-high stiletto-heeled boots. The rest of
her costume was as outrageous as the boots, skintight and revealing, the
color of cotton-candy. A long topknot, also pink, flounced from the top
of an otherwise bald head, with pertly pointed ears. 
 Carefully, Ashley crouched and stood and backed off, eyes
wide, hands held up to show that she was unarmed and harmless. Neither
the thugs nor the pink woman paid any attention. 
 Crew-Cut drew a gun and took a potshot at the elfin woman,
who stiffened slightly but showed no other signs of pain as the bullet
ripped into her. She thrust out a hand and more pink-purple sparkles erupted
from it, knocking Crew-Cut over for the third time in as many seconds.
He got up and ran for it. 
 Baseball Bat took a swing. The Louisville Slugger bounced
off the woman's bald head with a horrible hollow thunk. She retaliated
by popping him in the nose with one ladylike little punch. Incredibly,
it was enough to crumple him he bent double, then fell to his knees,
then sprawled face down on the painted lines of the parking lot. 
 Heels clicking, the pink woman raced after the fleeing
Crew-Cut, who had jumped a tall wrought-iron fence and charged into the
street careless of traffic. The pink woman sprang lightly onto the fence
and swept her arm. Another sheet of purple light skimmed out, catching
Crew-Cut and bowling him over. He, too, collapsed onto his face and did
not move again. 
 The little pink woman swiveled this way and that, as if
checking to see whether she had missed anything. Ashley went over to her,
amazed. She had seen costumed heroes before, of course she had she'd
grown up in Paragon City. But never up this close. 
 "That was amazing!" Ashley heard herself squeal, and actually
clapped her hands with giddy excitement. 
 An impish smile made the pink woman's eyes and teeth twinkle,
and then she was on her way, running toward Prometheus Park, trim little
legs pumping, trim little bottom switching back and forth, topknot flinging
side to side. 
 Getting hold of herself what had come over her, gushing
like that? what a stupid thing to say! Ashley picked up her purse and
her scattered belongings. She proceeded into Atlas Plaza, passing the hovering
police drones with their flashing red and blue lights. 
 The plaza was full of capes. Ashley skirted them, sometimes
having to sidestep out of the way as they rushed past without a second
look or bounded over hedges and low walls. She went up the steps and through
the large glass doors into City Hall. 
 The inner rotunda had a marble floor and an echoing dome
of a ceiling. It was ringed with statues. Capes came and went, some talking
to officials, others heading for a desk marked "Supergroup Registration."
To Ashley's right, a brass sign identified the wing housing "New Hero Assignments." 
 She turned left, into the mundane administration section.
Much less glitz and glamour here threadbare carpets, dented filing cabinets,
the smell of dust and old paper, crowded offices, harried-looking people.
Phones rang, keyboards clattered, fax machines hummed, coffee makers gurgled. 
 Although she had technically resigned, she still had her
Arson Investigation Unit identification card, and showing it got her into
the Hall of Records without question. Once there, she went to work searching
through the old files. She was looking for a connection, anything to explain
or shed new light on the King's Row fires. After a while, she found a possibility. 
 There had been a similar series of fires in Cherry Hills
a few years ago, back when Cherry Hills had still been a nice neighborhood.
Ashley read through the files carefully, but didn't find much. The details
were sketchy at best. 
 Maybe she could learn more by going there and having a
look around. She could talk to the guy in charge, a cop named Wincott.
The name rang a faint bell. He was on various city task forces, mostly
dealing with the sharp increase in gang violence. 
 Judging by what had just happened to her, within sight
of City Hall, she wondered how good of a job they were doing. Every day
it seemed like there were more and more criminals loose on the streets. 
 She did not relish the idea of paying a visit to Cherry
Hills. That part of town was called the Hollows now. It had gone bad in
a hurry, turning a once prosperous neighborhood into the next thing to
a war zone. The decline had been literal as well as figurative during the
last big quake, which had caused a sizeable portion of the neighborhood
to tumble into massive sinkholes. 
 These days, the Hollows was walled off and patrolled by
armed guards, and the gangs still ran rampant. She didn't even know how
many gangs there were these days. First there had been the Outcasts
and the Trolls, duking it out for turf. Then new gangs had moved in. Where
did they all come from? Why couldn't something be done? 
 Should she really bother Wincott with her trifling concerns?
One arsonist wasn't much when it came to the big picture. And there probably
wasn't much of a connection anyway. 
 But she had to find out for sure. If there was 
some link between the Cherry Hills fires and the ones in King's Row, she
wanted to know what that link was. Wanted to know who was responsible,
and put that person behind bars. Anything Wincott could tell her might
be useful. 
 Ashley put the files away, left City Hall, and headed
for the Hollows. On the way, she witnessed an armored figure with a battleaxe
hewing through fly-buzzing animated corpses, a man whose lumpy green skin
was covered with long bony spines, and crackling electric-blue lightning
from a myriad of small robot-like creatures attacking a black-clad woman
who wielded a katana. 
 Then she was at the entrance to the Hollows. The massive
wall that surrounded Atlas Park was broken by a gate. The two guards examined
her AIU credentials, heavy-duty shotguns slung over their shoulders, and
finally let her through. 
 She came out into a war zone of chain link topped with
barbed wire, the air peppered with regular gunshots. Officers crouched
behind fortifications made from sandbags, ratcheting their shotguns and
taking aim. Many of the buildings were still standing, but had a vacant,
abandoned look. 
 Wincott was easy enough to find, but Ashley had to wait
a few minutes until he got through talking to a muscular man with a robotic
arm, a tall woman wearing patriotic colors, and a green scaly man with
a tail. 
 Wincott gave her a dubious once-over as she approached.
Clearly, she was not the sort he was used to dealing with, not an ordinary
like her, just jeans and a sweatshirt. "Can I help you?" 
 "Ashley Burns," she said, showing him her A.I.U. identification.
"I'd like to talk to you about some suspicious fires in Cherry Hills." 
 ** 
 She spent the next several days hiking back and forth
all over Paragon City, following leads. Wincott had directed her to talk
to some woman in Skyway, who had in turn referred her to a doctor in Atlas
Park, who had told her about a streetwise guy back in good old King's Row. 
 It was maddening. With movement came the illusion of progress,
but three days after venturing into the Hollows, Ashley still, really,
was no closer than before to discovering the identity of the arsonist.
She was beginning to suspect that Wincott and these other people were simply
giving her the runaround, trying on purpose to frustrate her. In her more
paranoid moments, she even wondered if they were covering up for the firebug,
if it was all some big conspiracy. 
 Her phone had been ringing off the hook Nan Holbrook
wanting her to reconsider, Jase Moritz asking if it was true she'd quit
her job, her mother calling every day thank goodness for answering machines. 
 "You should talk to Susan Gavins in Steel Canyon," the
streetwise guy in King's Row said. "She might be able to help you." 
 He gave her directions, and off she went. Steel Canyon
was an upscale district of glittering skyscrapers. It was beautiful in
a cold and impersonal way. The lakes were perfect, man-made and flawless,
set in manicured parks like diamonds against clean green felt. 
 And even here, gangs and zombies and deranged little robots
ran rampant through the streets. 
 Ashley found Susan Gavins standing outside of a nightclub,
reading the paper. She was a busty young woman with wild punker hair and
a short skirt. The sight of her dimmed Ashley's hopes further. This would
be another dead end, or another trip all the way across town to talk to
yet someone else 
 "Yeah, I think I know who you're looking for," Susan Gavins
said. "At least, I know a guy who's been bragging about all these fires
he's set. He's an Outcast. Hangs out at this abandoned warehouse in Atlas
Park. I can tell you where it is." 
 "How come you haven't told the police?" demanded Ashley. 
 Susan Gavins pointed down the block. Ashley looked, and
saw a scene right out of a horror movie a madman in a butcher's apron,
holding a cleaver, was about to chop into the skull of some poor victim.
A policeman, unmistakable in his blue uniform, strolled around the corner,
froze, and suddenly turned to run with jerky high-knee-pistoning steps
and panicky waving arms. 
 "That's why," Susan said. "I saw a Hellion snatch a policewoman's
purse the other day. Did she arrest him? Shoot him? Nope. She stood there
yanking on her purse until some cape happened by and lightning-blasted
the Hellion. Then that policewoman was all over him, going on about how
this was the most exciting thing that had ever happened to her, he was
a saint, she hoped her kids would be just like him. Enough to make you
puke." 
 ** 
 The abandoned warehouse was in the Downside district of
Atlas Park. Ashley knew that it was crazy to be going there, much less
going there alone, but what else could she do? 
 She'd thought about calling someone, maybe even Nan Holbrook,
but ultimately rejected the idea. No one else would believe her. She'd
have to find this Outcast arsonist herself, get proof, figure out how he
was starting the fires, and then go to Holbrook and present the
case. 
 Downside was a bad part of town. She'd had to run away
twice from groups of shotgun-toting guys in skullface masks, and once had
walked around a corner to find a full-scale brawl going on in the middle
of the street. 
 Half a dozen capes were in the process of mowing down
three times their number of gang members armed with hatchets, baseball
bats, knives and guns. The fight was a dazzling, dizzying display. There
were pulses of emerald green light, shopping carts flying through the air,
pointy metal things littering the sidewalks. A white-haired man in a tight
blue-and-white bodysuit hovered above the melee, exhaling jets of frost.
A cheetah-woman sprouted claws from her hands. A gigantic brawny figure
that seemed hewn from stone stood in the middle, not even noticing the
gunshots and hatchet blows that barely penetrated his rocky armor. 
 When it was over, a bunch of Ashley's fellow spectators
ran up, surrounding the capes, bowing and babbling effusive praise. Ashley
herself managed to resist, and proceeded on her way. 
 She reached the door into the warehouse, opened it, and
slipped inside. 
 Right away, she knew she had gone too far. This was crazy.
Stupid. Dangerous. She had made a huge mistake. 
 The interior of the warehouse was divided into grimy hallways.
Bulletin boards, pin-ups and old safety posters covered the walls. The
air was close, thick with the smells of stale beer and cigarette smoke,
and even staler sweat. Empty cans and bottles covered the floor. Cardboard
boxes and crates were stacked helter-skelter around large corrugated-metal
cargo containers. 
 She could hear distant music and nearer voices. Rough
male laughter echoed off the metal walls. 
 Stay calm, Ashley stay calm. Just have a quick look
around and then get out of here. Maybe you'll find something you can use
to convince Holbrook and the police. Just don't let them see you. 
 The thoughts did little to settle her racing pulse. Feeling
clammy with sweat and ready to scream from built-up adrenaline, Ashley
inched her way forward until she could peer around the corner. 
 A man was there, pacing back and forth, socking his fist
into his palm with solid meaty smacks. Past him, she could see a desk covered
with papers and blueprints. 
 Ashley cursed silently. She was sure that the papers on
the desk would contain something useful. But with that Outcast in the way
 if only he would leave! She could zip over there, find what she needed,
and get out with him none the wiser. 
 Then, as if granting a wish, someone called out from the
depths of the building. "Yo, Vinnie!" 
 "What?" the pacing man yelled back. 
 "Torch wants ta see ya! Shake a leg, huh?" 
 "Awright, awright." Vinnie headed down the hall. 
 Torch? The name had galvanized Ashley. Who else could
it belong to but the arsonist? He was here ! Here in this building! 
 But what was she going to do? Catch him herself? Not likely.
Where was a cape when you needed one? 
 As soon as Vinnie had moved out of sight, Ashley hurried
to the desk and started pawing through the papers. Maps of offices another
warehouse with a note indicating that a rave was being held there later
that night a hospital part of the city sewer complex a shipping manifest
for ammunition a purchase order for two thousand baseball bats ... 
 What was she expecting, anyway? A signed confession? An
arsonist's autobiography? "How I Did It," by Torch? 
 Then she saw something almost as good a map of someplace
labeled "Phoenix Labs," with fire alarms and smoke detectors circled in
red, and "BURN BABY BURN!!!" scrawled across it in large block letters
written in blazing orange crayon. She snatched it up for a closer look. 
 "Hey! There's some chick in here!" 
 The voice was Vinnie's. Ashley whirled, sending a flurry
of papers cascading to the dirty floor. The edge of the desk dug painfully
into the small of her back as she pressed against it, paralyzed with terror. 
 He was running down the hall toward her, swinging a baseball
bat. Behind him she saw three other Outcasts break into lumbering trots,
drawing guns. Then a fourth appeared, and just by looking at him she somehow
 knew ,
deep in her heart, that she'd found Torch. He didn't look any different
from the others, but something about him radiated an even greater degree
of danger and menace. 
 Vinnie had almost reached her. The paralysis that had
been holding her motionless suddenly snapped. Ashley ducked as he threw
a punch, then took off for the door at a flat out sprint. 
 A gunshot roared. A bullet pinged into the wall, inches
from her, as she ran. She groped for the knob. It didn't turn. 
 Ashley risked a frantic glance back. Vinnie and the other
Outcasts were closing in, and Torch was right on their heels. 
 He raised his arms in a vee above his head. His palms
flared with heat and light. Fiery projectiles shot toward Ashley. 
 She wrenched the knob. It turned. The door swung open
and she fell out onto her hands and knees in the gravel yard around the
warehouse. The blazing darts of fire sizzled over her head and struck the
side of a large metal trash can, blistering the paint and partly melting
the metal. 
 Palms abraded, knees skinned and bleeding through the
torn denim of her jeans, Ashley ignored the stinging pain and lunged to
her feet. She could hear the heavy crashing footsteps of the Outcasts stampeding
toward her. 
 There was a high chain link fence enclosing the yard.
Ashley knew she could never climb over it before they shot her, so she
veered left and ran down an alley between the warehouse and another. 
 More flaming darts streaked past. Torch was gaining. The
end of the alley was up ahead, the street, cars and people going by. She
didn't want to endanger anyone else by leading this lunatic into the midst
of a bunch of innocents, but she had no other way to go. 
 A bullet plucked at the baggy sleeve of her sweatshirt.
Screaming, Ashley ran even faster. The end of the alley was close 
 Whack! 
 The baseball bat met the side of her head with a sound
that reverberated through every bone in her body. Ashley pitched sideways
into the warehouse wall, stumbled, and fell sprawling. She twisted and
looked up. 
 Vinnie. He raised the bat again. 
 Someone jumped down from the roof, a lithe male shape
dressed all in maroon, his features concealed by a hood. He barely seemed
to touch the ground before launching into a spinning kick that catapulted
Vinnie ten feet away. Vinnie slid down the opposite wall, limp as a dishrag. 
 The pursuing Outcasts, Torch included, immediately shifted
their focus to the newcomer. They closed with him. Guns popped. Torch's
hands blazed. The hooded hero leaped and kicked. 
 Though her head was swimming and she was seeing stars,
Ashley clawed her way to a standing position and reeled out of the alley,
leaving the noisy mayhem behind. She clung to a lamppost until her vision
cleared. When it did, she ventured back to the alley and looked in. 
 The bodies of unconscious Outcasts were all over the place.
The hooded figure he was short, just a kid, Ashley realized stood with
his fists on his hips in the middle of them. She couldn't see his face
but sensed that he was scowling. 
 "Nice costume," she said, it honestly being the first
thing that came to mind. 
 "The boss got away," he said. "Ran for it, the chicken!" 
 Just then, a man dressed all in yellow and black stripes
with a wasp emblazoned on his chest jogged by, paused, studied the kid
in the hood, and said, "Hey, want to team up? I've got a mission." 
 "Sure!" the kid replied. 
 "Wait!" Ashley said. "I want to tell you about " 
 But she was too late. Off they went, springing over the
chain link fences with ridiculous ease. 
 "Torch," Ashley finished. "I know where he's going to
strike next, damn it!" 
 No good. They were gone. 
 ** 
 At last, she understood. She knew how the fires had been
started. The way the scorch marks had been spread around, the reason there
hadn't been any traces of accelerant. Torch had ignited the blazes with
the fire he shot from his hands. He didn't need gasoline or lighter
fluid or kindling. 
 "You're kidding me, right?" Nan Holbrook's voice snapped
through the phone line. "This is some joke, Burns." 
 "It isn't a joke! I was there. I saw him do it." 
 She was at one of the phone kiosks, wondering in the back
of her mind what had ever happened to the actual old-fashioned phone booths 
that would afford a person a little privacy. With traffic droning by, and
people passing, she had to hunch and cup her hand around the receiver just
to hear and be heard. 
 "A cape." 
 "He's not a cape. He's an Outcast." 
 "Fire-blasting like a cape?" 
 "I know how crazy it sounds," Ashley said, combing her
fingers through her hair in a distracted gesture. "But I'm telling you
what I saw. He held up his hands, and they glowed, and then bursts of fire
came out. He tried to kill me." 
 "Look, I know the capes can be a nuisance, but they never
harm the rest of us," Holbrook said. "Hero Boy saved my cousin from the
Skulls." 
 "I said he wasn't a cape!" 
 "I'm not sure what you're saying. Are we supposed to believe
that there are gang members out there, running around with super powers?
Next you'll be telling me that the Circle of Thorns are real wizards." 
 "I know what I saw," Ashley said. "And I know what he's
planning. He's going to burn down Phoenix Labs." 
 Holbrook scoffed. "Not a chance. Do you even know what
Phoenix Labs is? They design flame retardants, fire-proofing additives
for paints and plastics, and heat-resistant coatings for cookware. That's
got to be the least likely place in all of Paragon City that would burn
down." 
 "But " Ashley began, and found herself talking to a dead
line. She swore and slammed the receiver into its cradle. "That's why 
he'd target the place!" she yelled at the kiosk. "Of course it is, you
stupid woman, can't you see that?" 
 A phone book in a sturdy binder was attached to the kiosk
by a length of chain. Ashley thumbed through it until she found a Galaxy
City listing for Phoenix Labs. She tried the number. 
 "You have reached the office of Phoenix Labs," a chirpy
female voice said. "Our business hours are from eight a.m. to five p.m.
Mondays through Fridays, and nine a.m. to one p.m. Saturdays. If you know
the three-digit extension of the party you are trying to reach, please
enter it now. If not, please press zero or stay on the line." 
 She checked her watch. Almost seven. She pressed zero
anyway and waited. The female voice came back on. 
 "I'm sorry, no one is available to take your call at this
time. Please call back during normal business hours or leave your message
after the tone. Thank you for calling Phoenix Labs." 
 There was a beep, followed by expectant silence. Ashley
opened her mouth, decided that there was no way she could say what she
had to say without sounding insane, and hung up. She swore again, thumping
herself on the forehead with one frustrated fist. 
 Even if she had been able to get a hold of someone at
the lab, and told them what she knew, that person would contact either
the police or the fire department who would then contact Nan Holbrook
 who would tell them that Ashley Burns was under a lot of stress lately
and not to be taken seriously. No one was going to believe that a renegade
super-powered Outcast was going to charbroil the place with fire bolts
from his bare hands. 
 And even if by some miracle they did believe her,
what if she warned them and then Torch never showed up? He had gotten away
from the kid in the hood, and he'd known that his hideout had been breached.
He must have realized that there was a good chance his plans had been uncovered.
To attack the lab anyway would be too big a risk. 
 Then again, he was a psycho firebug. He might decide to
step up his timetable, burn the place sooner than scheduled. In fact, she
was sure that was just what he would do. Strike now, strike fast,
before she did have a chance to report to anyone. 
 Ashley tore out the phone book page with the Phoenix Labs
address, folded it, and shoved it into her pocket. If she couldn't convince
anyone else, she would at least look things over herself. 
 ** 
 It was a short ride from Atlas Park to Galaxy City, and
the address she had was not far from the train station. All the same, it
was eight o'clock and full dark by the time she arrived in front of the
sleek white building with the tinted windows. 
 The sign was yellow with red lettering, the 'P' in Phoenix
designed to look like a stylized bird rising out of a flame. The front
doors had the hours and phone number stenciled onto the glass. They were
locked. 
 For one wild moment, Ashley contemplated picking up a
trash can from the curb and flinging it through the windows. The alarms
would go off, the police would come, and if Torch was around, he wouldn't
try anything with the building being watched. He might even be spotted
and arrested. 
 What was more likely, she knew, was that she would
be spotted and arrested on charges of vandalism and malicious mischief.
Holbrook's view under stress, cracked would become the main one. She'd
be lucky to get off with only court-ordered therapy. 
 A gangly longhaired hippie ambled past and raised a casual
hand in greeting. A nurse glanced at Ashley with idle curiosity. A businessman
paused in his cell phone chatter to eyeball her. 
 Wanting to get away from the attention, Ashley retreated
across the street to a small, dark bar with a cramped and smoky interior.
The television mounted in the upper corner was broadcasting highlights
of the day's arena matches, capes making like gladiators and going up against
one another in organized sporting combat. A Rikti War pinball machine flashed
and jangled beside a neon sign advertising Back Alley Beer The Brawler's
Best! 
 A tired-looking waitress came over and plunked a bowl
of pretzels onto Ashley's table. "Getcha?" she asked. 
 She had only thought to have a soda, but the long grueling
day she'd put in seemed to weigh down on her. "Do you have Fireman's Red?" 
 "Can or bottle?" 
 "Bottle." 
 Her booth was by a window. By the look of them, the blinds
had been lowered since they were installed, thick with a sort of greasy
dust. Ashley parted the slats and looked at a filthy pane of glass and
a small graveyard of dead flies on the sill. She could see the street beyond,
though dimmed, as if viewed through a smeared filter. 
 The waitress returned with Ashley's drink, setting a glass
on a cardboard coaster and popping the top off the bottle. She prepared
to pour. 
 "No, thanks," Ashley said, reaching for the bottle. The
glass looked clean, but "Like this is fine." 
 "Suit yourself. That's two-fifty." 
 Fireman's Red was not the best beer in the world and not
the worst. It had been her father's favorite and was the favorite of most
of the firefighters she knew. A solidarity thing, Jase Moritz had said.
Plus, it came in a dark red bottle and had a label featuring a Dalmatian
wearing a fireman's hat. What more did they need? 
 She sipped from the neck of the bottle, letting her gaze
roam around the bar to touch briefly on her fellow patrons. Most were men,
so deep in their drinking that, thankfully, they were oblivious to a single
woman in their presence. They stared blankly at the television, where a
man in bulky high-tech battle armor was squaring off against what appeared
to be a bull-headed minotaur. 
 Now that she was sitting and trying to relax, she was
reminded of her various aches and pains, and the looks she'd gotten on
the train with her jeans torn out at the knees, the heels of her hands
raw and scraped, and a swollen knot on the side of her head where Vinnie
had clocked her with the baseball bat. She probed this last wound, wincing.
A crust of blood had dried and matted her short blond hair. The flesh felt
puffy and tender. 
 Asking for a glass of iced water also got her a skeptical,
disapproving eyebrow from the waitress. Ashley dunked a napkin and held
the cold, wet wad against her head. Freezing rivulets trickled down her
neck, making her shiver. She dabbed at her scraped palms and knees, too.
In the dimness of the bar, she couldn't be sure how badly she was banged
up, but she thought she'd survive. 
 Drinking more beer, she looked out the window again. It
was full night, the Phoenix Labs building across the street dark except
for a quick, almost furtive flicker of light in one of the windows. 
 Hard to tell through the tinted glass, but 
 Ashley got up, leaving the bottle half-full on the table.
She threw down a dollar tip and went outside for a better look. 
 The windows were dark. The building was empty. She had
probably only seen a glimmer of reflection from a passing car's headlights,
or some passing cape flying by wrapped in a glowing aurora. 
 She had almost convinced herself of this when she saw
the flicker again. This time, she was sure it was coming from inside Phoenix
Labs. 
 The front door was shut and locked like before. Ashley
hurried down the side of the building, newspapers blowing in eddies of
breeze. To her right was a high board fence. From the other side, she heard
flies buzz and a clotted, gravelly voice say, "Think of it as organ donation." 
 Shivering, she picked up her pace and came around to the
rear of the building. A little park was tucked between two long rectangular
pools, the fountains turned off for the night. At the far edge of the park,
mostly concealed by trees, a pair of men huddled in what looked like a
drug deal. 
 The back door of Phoenix Labs was ajar, the doorframe
blackened. 
 Her heart stuttered. "Torch," she whispered. 
 He was here. Now. Inside. The fire might already be started.
She didn't have time to run and find a phone. But what else could she do?
Not go in after him, certainly that would be crazy. 
 If it was so crazy, how come her feet were carrying her
that way? How come her hand was pulling the door open? How come she was
stepping inside? 
 What exactly did she think she was going to do? Even if
Torch was alone, with Vinnie and his other pet goons currently cooling
their heels in jail, he would still overpower her. He had powers. She was
just an arson investigator. Fit and tough for a normal citizen, sure, but
nothing compared to even the weakest cape. 
 And yet here she was. Inside. 
 The back door gave onto a small room with vending machines
along one wall and bulletin boards along another. The motionless air had
a faint but bitter tang to it, the smell of chemistry. 
 Mouth dry, heart in her throat, Ashley edged around a
corner. A hallway stretched before her, offices opening off of it on both
sides. Low-wattage yellow bulbs in wire cages shed enough light to let
her see where she was going. 
 She crept down the hall, her feet silent on the sensible
carpet. In each office, she saw desks and filing cabinets and computers.
At the end of the hall was an intersection, with an empty conference room
dead ahead, a stairwell to her left, and a large set of automatic sliding
glass doors to her right. 
 Through the glass doors, she could see another long hall,
this one floored in industrial grey linoleum and lined with rows of lockers
and hooks. Hard hats and lab coats hung from the hooks. At the far end
was another door, heavy steel, and designed to function like a garage door,
sliding up along a track. 
 The light she'd seen had been from one of the upstairs
windows. Ashley avoided the automatic glass doors, not wanting the noise
of their opening to alert anyone to her presence. She went slowly up the
stairs instead. 
 Another hall. More offices, more conference rooms, something
that looked like a break room with cafeteria tables, chairs, and more vending
machines. 
 Ashley smelled smoke, and a sick-sweet scent like burnt
cookies. The front of the snack machine had bubbled and been partially
melted away. A sticky mess of chocolate oozed and dribbled down the machine
in brown streams. Charred bits of foil and paper candy wrappers drifted
like flecks of ash. 
 Scorch marks covered the walls. A patch of carpet smoldered
dully. A small kitchen-sized fire extinguisher was mounted on a bracket
next to the microwave. Ashley took it, noticed something wrong with it
right away, and saw that the entire mechanism had been hammered and twisted
out of shape, rendering the red canister useless. 
 "Nice try," Torch said. 
 He filled the doorway opposite the one she'd come in through.
His hands, tendrils of smoke rising from them, dangled at his sides. Recognition
lit his eyes. 
 "You," he said. "I remember you. What, are you some sort
of cape-in-disguise?" 
 Numbly, Ashley shook her head. 
 "Cop?" 
 "Arson Investigation Unit," she said. 
 Torch threw his head back and bellowed laughter at the
ceiling. " You're the one!" he crowed. "I heard there was some stubborn
bitch asking around about those fires. Well, you finally found me. Happy?" 
 "Not really." 
 "Guess you know by now how they all got started." He lifted
his smoking hands. "This is the future, baby. We Outcasts, we've got connections.
I'm one of the first, but there's plenty others. Guys who can start fires.
Guys who can control electricity. Guys who can freeze you into an ice cube.
Guys who can turn into living boulders. Wait and see. The Outcasts are
going to rule this town." 
 "If you can do all that, why " 
 "Oh, shut up," he said. "Don't give me the speech about
how we should use our powers for good. Capes are a dime a dozen in Paragon
City, and there's damned little profit in being a hero." His grin was terrible.
"Besides, I like the burning. I like seeing buildings go up in flames." 
 "You like killing people?" she shot back. 
 "Yeah," he said. "Matter of fact, I do." 
 "Bastard," she said through gritted teeth. "Did you wet
the bed and torture animals when you were a little boy, too? Or is it just
the fires that you get off on?" 
 His face darkened. "You're a mouthy one, aren't you?" 
 "What, you're going to burn me?" She shrugged haughtily.
"Some tough guy, using your powers on a normal. I saw how you ran from
that cape earlier today. Can't face the big boys, can you?" 
 "You think one of them's going to bust in here and rescue
you, huh? Is that it? Keep me talking while some pair of tights sneaks
up? Not going to work, baby." His hands were suddenly gloved in flame.
He raised his arms over his head. 
 Twin darts of fire shot from his palms. Ashley dodged
sideways, tripped over a folding chair, and almost went down. She cleared
a table in a graceless scramble. Still holding the broken fire extinguisher,
she swung her body to put all of her weight behind the throw, and let it
fly. 
 The red metal canister crunched into Torch's face, breaking
his nose and splitting his lips. It landed on his toe with a sound like
a mallet striking a bundle of twigs. He howled, then shrieked a string
of obscenities. 
 Ashley didn't wait around to see what happened next. She
bolted out of the break room, descended the stairs in what felt like a
single bound, and screamed as the world turned to a red-hot burst of agony. 
 The next thing she knew, she had belly-flopped onto the
carpet at the foot of the stairs, striking her chin on the floor. Her sweatshirt
was on fire. Ashley rolled frantically to stifle the flames, screaming
again at the searing pain in her back. As she rolled, she saw Torch plunging
down the stairs toward her, his face a mask of blood. 
 The automatic glass doors slid open as she skittered toward
them on all fours. Another jet of fire streaked past her and set a row
of lab coats on fire. Ashley lurched to her feet and broke into a limping,
staggering run. Her eyes were on the steel door at the end of the hall,
her only thought that if she could reach the door and get through, she
might be able to lock it from the other side. It would take Torch a long
time to melt his way through solid steel, which could give her time to
escape. 
 She grabbed the handle and heaved. The door rattled obligingly
up on its track, but she hadn't counted on how high the clearance was.
The lower edge of the door was now four feet above her head. She couldn't
reach it to drag it closed again. She saw a long metal pole with a hook
at one end, propped against the wall for just such a purpose, and snatched
it. 
 Torch's words were mangled by his crushed nose, but Ashley
understood him anyway as he charged, shouting, down the hall toward her.
"Oh, no you don't, you bitch!" 
 Panting, not wanting to think about how badly she must
be burned, Ashley stabbed the pole toward the door, trying to catch the
hook. It missed, snagged, slipped free, snagged again, held. She pulled.
The door rattled downward six inches, ten, a foot, two feet 
 Fire. Whistling bursts of it like small fireworks or incendiary
devices, exploding from Torch's hands. Ashley had to let go of the pole
to get out of the way. It swayed back and forth, its hook still caught,
then came free and clattered on the linoleum. 
 He was on her. There was no more time. Ashley jumped back,
then turned and ran deeper into the room that had been revealed when the
steel door rose open. 
 She was in a vast open chamber full of pipes, seething
vats, tables, stools, drums with biohazard symbols stenciled onto their
sides, and squat concrete cylinders topped with metal mesh. Eerie orange
light and yellow smoke issued up through the metal mesh. The air was steamy,
humid. 
 Catwalks and unlit florescent lights were suspended from
the ceiling. The tables were covered with beakers, Bunsen burners, glass
tubing, and racks of test tubes. Hissing sounds and a thick, liquid bubbling
filled the room. 
 Ashley fled through an obstacle course, Torch hot but
literally! on her heels. Every few seconds more jets of flame would shoot
past, but either by luck or by skill none scored a direct hit. Ashley was
banking on luck, and also dismally aware that her luck must be running
out. 
 Small fires had erupted all around, marking the wild,
weaving path they had taken through the vats and pipes. A beaker burst
with a musical tinkle, the reddish fluid that had been contained within
it igniting in a brilliant whoosh. Dark smoke spiraled through the grids
of the catwalks. 
 Other smoke, a churning grey-white billow streaked with
sulfurous yellow, poured and spread across the floor. Seeing this, Ashley
felt a new surge of fear. Smoke like that, fearfully hot but denser than
air, could only be toxic. 
 A series of small explosions like machine gun fire were
followed by a single colossal mortar blast that shook the entire room.
The hanging lights swayed as if in the grips of an earthquake. Bolts tore
loose, sending sections of catwalk scything down. 
 Ashley saw Torch stop short in the middle of the destruction.
His jaw dropped and his eyes grew round as comprehension dawned. The interior
of the lab was a hellish inferno, masses of smoke and walls of fire, coursing
rivers of burning chemicals. 
 His expression was the strangest mix of exultation and
terror. Ashley, crouching behind a vat, watched him as he turned in a slow,
wondering circle, taking in the fiery scene. 
 "How do you like that, baby?" he yelled above the cataclysmic
explosions. "Torch is the big man now! How do you like it, huh? Hot enough
for you?" 
 "We've got to get out of here!" she shouted back. "The
whole place is going to go up!" 
 "Burn, baby, burn!" Torch flung up his arms, arrowing
his lethal flaming darts in the direction of her voice. 
 They hit the vat, which was already almost blistering-hot
to the touch. The superheated metal shattered. It was the side away from
Ashley, preventing her from being shredded on the spot by the thousands
of glowing shards. 
 But as the contents washed out in a burning tidal wave,
she was first swept off her feet and then engulfed, immersed in molten
fire. 
 ** 
 here's another one 
 heat alone should have 
 kee-rist! what happened to her? 
 not to mention the fumes 
 still be alive? 
 fried her like bacon if she 
 even blistered, how can you explain that? 
 smoke inhalation and the toxic gases 
 no way she could still 
 explosion damn near 
 helluva looker 
 hardly a mark on her 
 impossible 
 the clothes right off her back, but her hair's not
even singed 
 familiar does anyone know her? 
 contain the blaze, keep it from spreading to 
 other guy? 
 complete list of everything they had in 
 mean anything by it, just saying 
 specialists over at Chiron 
 figure out what 
 with the A.I.U., I think 
 whaddaya mean sexual harassment, I wasn't talking to 
 someone on the phone who might know 
 maybe part of a purse but anything in it is 
 so sue me for having eyes! a man can't help looking! 
 have injuries we can't see so be careful 
 whole place could have gone sky-high 
 day you get to see a naked broad 
 can't get an accurate temp with the ambient heat in
here 
 eggheads working on? 
 on three one, two 
 ice packs melt as soon as we 
 call me an asshole, you stuck-up 
 how either of them survived 
 out of here before I kick your 
 team standing by at Chiron and the ambulance 
 with a sheet or something 
 from Holbrook, knows who she 
 on the eleven o'clock news with her bare 
 practically need kitchen mitts just to touch 
 like a high fever 
 tell me how to do my damn job, I know how to 
 symptoms, delirium, raving, brains could be boiling
in her head 
 need a 
 smoldering, would you look at that? 
 combustion? 
 the ambulance; we need a chopper 
 reprimand? what the hell? 
 time to waste or she'll 
 like heat ripples over a barbecue 
 bring her temp down too fast it could 
 police doing anything at all? 
 trail of a serial arsonist and 
 steaming? see it? when the cool air hits her skin 
 those reporters out of our way! 
 guy into custody 
 knew her dad 
 more ice packs, it's all we can 
 so hot I can barely 
 helicopter right down on the roof 
 ** 
 Ashley opened her eyes to a riot of color. At first, the
shapes and hues made as little sense to her as the disembodied voices she
remembered hearing while floating in the darkness but the color gradually
resolved itself into flower arrangements, mums and daisies and carnations
and tulips in vases, in baskets, in paper cones. 
 She blinked and shifted her gaze and saw spots. Lots of
spots. Black spots on white. Dalmatians. A cluster of stuffed toy Dalmatian
dogs, some wearing fire hats and red coats, some holding red satin heart-shaped
pillows. 
 What's black and white and red all over? A firehouse Dalmatian. 
 The stuffed animals filled a chair beside what she now
recognized as an adjustable bed, cranked up so that she was half-sitting,
half-reclining. The flower arrangements were on a table. Get-well cards
were lined up along a windowsill, and through a gap in the mint-green curtains
she could see a slice of what looked like Atlas Park. 
 So. She was in the hospital. 
 She looked down. 
 A plain white sheet and a plain yellow blanket were drawn
up to her chest. Her arms lay atop the blanket, clad in the thin cotton
sleeves of what could only be a hospital johnny. Her forearms and the backs
of her hands looked normal, unmarked. Gingerly, almost afraid to, she turned
her hands over and examined the palms. 
 Unmarked, as well. Even the scrapes were gone, the scrapes
she remembered getting when she had taken her spill in the gravel. 
 The contours of her body looked familiar through the blanket.
She could see the long lines of her legs and the poking-up bulges of her
feet, and when she tried to twitch her toes, the shapes beneath the blanket
moved obligingly. 
 Her body ached a little, as if she had slept too much
or in an uncomfortable position. But she could feel her limbs. They worked
when she tested them. 
 That left her head, her face. 
 More afraid now at what she might find, she raised her
hands and skimmed her fingertips over her cheeks and forehead. She expected
to feel a mask of bandages, or shiny, lumpy burn scars. Instead, she felt
her own smooth skin. She reached higher and sank her fingers into the familiar
wavy thickness of her blond hair. 
 Ashley pushed back the sheet and blanket. As she'd suspected,
she wore a short cotton johnny, an ugly thing, light blue with darker blue
patterns like a china plate. Her feet were encased in stretchy white booties
with nonskid nubbies on the bottom. From ankles to thighs, her legs were
as unmarked as her hands and face seemed to be. 
 She swung them out of bed and got up. The room revolved
and she had to steady herself on the wall, but she stayed upright and her
equilibrium soon returned. She crossed to a closet-sized bathroom, gripping
the flaps of the johnny together behind her, and flipped on the lights. 
 Her image stared back at her from a plain rectangular
mirror. It was not a stranger's face in the glass, not disfigured or reconstructed,
but the same face she had seen the last time she'd looked into her mirror
at home. However long ago that had been. 
 Out in the main room, someone tapped on the door. 
 "Who is it?" Ashley called. Her voice came out in a husky
croak. She coughed, all at once aware of a sooty, dry taste in her mouth.
She washed it away with a drink of cold water, then tried again. "Who is
it?" 
 By then, the outer door had opened and a man's head poked
in. He was wearing a crisp white coat and had a stethoscope slung around
his neck. His hair was iron-grey, as was his short well-trimmed beard,
and his eyes were vivid blue nestled in crinkles of good humor. 
 "Ah, Ms. Burns," he said. "Good to see you up and around." 
 Still self-consciously clutching the johnny closed a
worthless gesture anyway; the entire hospital staff had probably already
seen all that there was to see she shuffled back to the bed. There was
a bathrobe lying across the foot of it, white with blue pinstripes. Ashley
put it on and tied the belt. 
 "Doctor ?" she hinted. 
 "Philips," he said, and recited his credentials. "You're
in Chiron Hospital, but don't let that worry you. As far as we can tell,
you're not hurt and you're not sick." 
 "How long have I been here?" 
 "Four days." 
 "Is that all?" She touched her uninjured face again. "What
happened?" 
 "What do you remember?" he countered. 
 "There was a fire," Ashley said. "Phoenix Labs. An arsonist.
Torch. Did they get him? Tell me he didn't get away." 
 "A man was arrested at the scene," Dr. Philips said. "He's
been charged with several counts of arson and one of attempted murder." 
 "Who'd he try to kill?" Ashley asked, then laughed a smoky
cough of a laugh. "Oh. Me." 
 "You. And you're a lucky young lady." 
 "I'm not arguing with you," she said. "But how come
I'm not burned? The fire the stuff in the vat it should have scalded
me to death at least and the fumes " 
 "Have a seat, Ms. Burns," he said, waving toward the bed. 
 She sat tensely on the edge while Philips drew over one
of the chairs. "I was hurt even before the fire," she said. She showed
him her palms and knees, and touched the side of her head. "Here, and here,
and I had a knot on my head where I got hit with a baseball bat. Are you
sure it's only been four days? How could all that just just go away?
How come I'm even alive?" 
 "You've experienced an origin," he said. 
 "A what?" 
 "An origin." 
 "Meaning ?" 
 "Ms. Burns, as you probably know, the scientists at Phoenix
Labs were engaged in several simultaneous research projects. All were related
to the control and manipulation of fire." 
 "Yes, I know that. They were making fireproofing chemicals,
flame retardants, that kind of thing. That's probably why Torch wanted
to burn the place. They would have put an end to all his fun. But what
does that have to do with me?" 
 "As nearly as we can determine, the various chemicals
in the laboratory vats became superheated and combined into new, unstable
mixtures. You were exposed to these mixtures. You breathed the fumes. You
were immersed. The chemicals permeated your skin, entered your bloodstream." 
 "Then why am I alive?" 
 "Because, Ms. Burns, for reasons that we still do not
fully understand, the chemicals bonded with your cellular structure. They
changed your very DNA." 
 Ashley did not dare to move. "What are you saying, Doctor?
Exactly?" 
 "You're right, you should not have survived that fire.
But you did. You came out of it whole, healed of your previous injuries,
entirely unscathed. Your clothing was entirely consumed by the flames but
you were left without so much as a blister. We can only conclude that your
exposure to the Phoenix Labs chemicals rendered you something more than
human. Super-human, if you like." 
 "No, I don't like !" Ashley cried. "Are you .. you're
not you can't be telling me what I think you're telling me! I'm no cape!" 
 "Maybe not before, but you certainly are now." 
 "That's crazy." 
 "We've run extensive tests these past four days, Ms. Burns.
It's undeniable. You're not just a normal citizen of Paragon City any more.
You've joined the elite." 
 "I I can't do any of that stuff," she said. "I don't
 I don't fly I don't " 
 "As I understand it, most capes need a while to get the
hang of their abilities," he said. "Especially people like you, who've
had a sudden and unexpected origin." 
 "It's a mistake," she said. "It's got to be a mistake." 
 "How else can you explain the fact that you're alive?"
he asked. "By rights, Ms. Burns, you should have died that day. A normal
person would have. But through fate, or luck, or pure coincidence, the
chemicals combined in just the right way to bring you through unharmed.
To make you more than you were." 
 "What if I don't want to be more than I was?" 
 His smile was both wry and rueful. "You don't have much
of a choice." 
 "I'm still me. I'm still the same person." 
 "Oh, absolutely! You could walk out of this hospital and
go back to your regular life, I'm not saying that you couldn't. But you
are also changed, and you can't hide from that forever. Sooner or later,
it'd come back on you. Something would happen." 
 "Stop it," she said. "Are you saying people would know?" 
 "Frankly, some people already do," he said. "The circumstances
in which you were found made it very clear to everyone involved that something
extraordinary was going on. But what of it? Plenty of Paragon City's capes
don't bother with secret identities." 
 "I'm not a cape! All right, I lived through that fire
and I shouldn't have, but that still doesn't mean I have any powers." 
 "Actually, Ms. Burns " 
 "What?" Goose bumps chased chills over her flesh. 
 "A colleague of mine, Dr. Evanston, has done considerable
work with SERAPH. I took the liberty of calling her in to consult on your
case. As far as she can determine, she expects you to develop an entire
range of fire-based powers." 
 "What?!?" Ashley's voice cracked. "Like Torch? Is that
what you mean? I'm going to be like that bastard? Shooting fire from my
hands, burning down buildings?" 
 "Not at all," he said, taking on a tone perhaps meant
to be soothing. "Someone like you, naturally, would not use those powers
for selfish or malicious ends. Not when there's such a need for you on
the side of law and order." 
 "God, you really mean it, don't you? You really think
I'm a cape." 
 "How I envy you," Philips said. 
 "That's a hell of a thing to say after you've just told
me I'm not human anymore!" 
 He shook his head, looking earnest, and she saw with astonishment
that he actually meant it. He had the wistful, dreaming look of every little
boy she'd ever seen at the Statesman Day Parade, watching the costumed
heroes go by. 
 "I've known more than a few scientists in my day who've
tried to instill powers," he said. "Experimental serums, deliberate exposure
to radiation, the gamut. Every mad-scientist clich&eacute; you could think
of. A few of them only met with failure, and they were the lucky ones.
Most wound up dead, or worse. I've known just three whose efforts got them
the results they were looking for." 
 "And then someone like me comes along, happens to be in
the wrong place at the wrong time, and gets powers? Is that it?" 
 "In a nutshell. You should be thankful, Ms. Burns. You
should accept the marvelous gift and opportunity you've been given. To
turn your back on it, ignore it, run from it " He went to the window and
pulled aside the curtain. The towering statues around Atlas Plaza stood
large against the night sky. " would be to spit in the faces of all the
capes who've gone before you." 
 ** 
 "Well, there," Connie Burns said, making a final adjustment.
She stepped back, hands on her hips, mouth quirking in a frown. "I don't
know about this, honey." 
 "How bad does it look?" Ashley asked. 
 "Not bad , I wouldn't say bad ," her mother
said. "But it's well, awfully flashy, isn't it?" 
 "I think that's the idea." 
 "And revealing." 
 "Mom!" 
 "Well, it is. Maybe you're not showing much skin, no cleavage,
but honestly, honey, it might have been spray-painted onto you. And those
boots! My goodness! With the heels? They look like the kind of boots a
woman would wear who gets paid by men to spank them." 
 "I kind of like the boots," Ashley said, extending a leg.
The boots in question were fire-engine red, banded and metallic, knee-high
with stiletto heels. "I guess they are a little dominatrixy, though." 
 Above them, a pattern of bright yellow flames rose partway
up the thighs of a snug red jumpsuit. She turned to the mirror, figuring
she might as well view all the damage at once. 
 "And the shoulders !" her mother said, flinging
her hands in the air. "You'll put someone's eye out." 
 The yellow-flames-on-red was repeated on her arms. Her
hands were bare, but her wrists were encircled by red metallic bracers
that matched the boots. The shoulders all right, maybe the shoulders
were on the extreme side they flared out in dramatic yellow swooping
spikes. Above a red half-mask, her short blond hair was backswept, looking
artfully windblown. A yellow belt completed the ensemble. 
 "Yikes," Ashley said, studying herself from head to toe. 
 "I told you. Flashy." 
 "Flashy." 
 "And revealing, like I said." 
 "You're right." She could hardly believe the way the jumpsuit
supported and emphasized her breasts, and when she swiveled and craned
her neck, the view of her butt in the mirror was enough to boggle her mind. 
 "You're really going out dressed like that?" 
 Ashley grinned. "Mom, I'm not going on a date." 
 "God help us if you were. I can only imagine the sort
of men you'd bring home." She clucked her tongue. "I don't know what the
neighbors will say. If your father was still with us " 
 "You don't think Dad would approve?" 
 Her expression softened. "He'd be proud of you no matter
what, honey, and so am I." 
 "Thanks, Mom." 
 "Our daughter, the cape. Who'd have thought it? You've
just got to be careful out there. Promise me. These SERAPH people, they
might not know what they're talking about. They might send you into some
situation that's too much for you to handle. I don't want you to get hurt." 
 "I'll be careful." 
 "You're sure you want to do this?" 
 "I have to. Torch might have gone to jail, but he wasn't
the only one out there. The police have a hard enough time with ordinary
gang members. They need me." 
 "I suppose." She sighed, then smiled. "Have to fight fire
with fire?" 
 "Right," Ashley said. She took a wide stance and clenched
her fists. Halos of flame appeared around her hands, curling and crackling.
"Fight fire with fire." 
 "So, you've got the outfit," her mother said. "You've
got the powers. You've got a contact and a mission and everything. I guess
you're ready." 
 "Except for one thing," Ashley said. "I need a name." 
 "A name?" 
 "You know." 
 "Oh, right. A superhero name." 
 "I have to register, and all the good ones are probably
taken. Do you have any ideas, Mom?" 
 "Phoenix? Phoenix Labs, rising from the ashes " 
 "No good," Ashley said quickly. "Can't use that one." 
 "I've got it!" her mother said, snapping her fingers.
"Incinderella!" 
 "No way!" 
 "What, then? Go with the boots and be the Fire Dominatrix?" 
 "Hang on " Ashley said. "That almost works." 
 "I am not having a daughter going around Paragon
City calling herself Fire Dominatrix!" 
 "No, no. Combine the two." Ashley squared her shoulders
and lifted her chin. "I'll be Incineratrix!" 
 **