Lead Me Not . . . (part 2 of 2) 
 Lead Me Not . . .
 by Christine Morgan

 Click here to return to Part 1. 
 "Cut the bullshit," Margot Yale snapped in a manner that was
not at all in keeping with her courtroom image. She slapped the table
hard enough to make Matt's coffee cup jump and rattle. "You know and
I know that you're hooked up with these monsters!"
 Elisa's eyes flashed dangerously, but she, with a visible effort,
smiled and folded her hands and began humming. For some reason,
Margot sat back sharply and gave Elisa an alarmed, fearful look.
 Matt shifted his gaze between the two women, not sure why
"Disco Inferno" would cause such a reaction.
 He rustled some papers to get their attention again. Margot's
gaze settled on him like a plague of fire ants. "All these eyewitness
accounts agree that Brendan Vandermere's car was not damaged by a
gargoyle."
 "Yes, by a woman in an evening gown, who jumped out of the
back of an ambulance waving a gun." Margot dripped sarcasm and
lifted her chin in a way that said she was questioning Matt's breeding
and suspecting a fair amount of simian heritage. "Which is even more
preposterous than gargoyles!"
 Elisa opened her mouth to retort, and at that moment the phone
jangled urgently. Matt scooped it up. "Bluestone here."
 "Matt, it's Alvarez. Were you looking for a chick with a
parachute?"
 "Anybody hears you talking like that, the Captain'll have your
butt in a sling," Matt remarked, but his brain was clicking into high
gear. "Anyway, yeah. What have you got?"
 "She crashed through a skylight into a meth lab. Messed
herself up pretty bad, and it took the druggies all damn day to call it in
because they were looking out their own rears."
 Matt got the hospital room number from Alvarez, then hung
up, aware that Elisa and Margot had turned the heat on their antagonism
down to simmer and were both watching him.
 "Ms. Yale, I'm sorry, but we'll have to continue this another
time," Matt said, standing up. "We've got a matter to investigate that
pertains to the case. We'll be in touch."
 Elisa was also on her feet, and moving out the door. Margot
glowered. "_I'll_ be in touch, Bluestone, don't worry about that!"
 "I wasn't worried," he assured her warmly, and followed Elisa
into the hall. "We've got the redhead, and if we go now we might be
able to get something out of her before she starts whining about her
rights like her partner downstairs."
 "Let's go, then! You drive; my keys are in my jacket and I
don't want to waste any time going back for it."
 "I'm parked in the alley."
 They hurried toward the back stairs, weaving through the
cross-shift crowd.
 "Hey," Matt said suddenly, "what about the kid, the Goth,
what's-her-name --?"
 "Birdie, and FYI she's Yale's very own neice." Elisa stopped
and looked around. "Damn, probably in hiding. Well, she's a big girl
and can take care of herself for an hour or so." She went briskly
onward.
 Over the general level of hallway chatter and slamming of
lockers, they heard, "Maza! Bluestone!"
 "It's the Captain, come on, step on it, pretend you didn't hear!"
Elisa tugged him into the stairwell and let the door clang closed behind
them.
 * *
 Birdie elbowed her way through the cops as politely as
possible, hid in the broom closet when she caught a glimpse of Aunt
Margot's lime-green babushka bobbing her way (what _did_ possess the
woman to think that thing was stylish?), and burst into the room where
Matt and Elisa weren't.
 She turned around and saw Matt's unmistakable carrot-top
headed down the hall.
 "Elisa! Matt!" she called, but they didn't so much as pause,
probably not hearing her above the din. So she dipped into her innate
talent for mimicry, which wasn't as handy as being a sorceress or
anything cool like that but it did have its uses.
 "Maza! Bluestone!" she barked in such a good imitation of
their boss that many heads swiveled toward her in surprise. But, darn it
all, Matt and Elisa only poured on the speed.
 Muttering the first several minutes of dialogue from "Four
Weddings and a Funeral" under her breath, she pushed less politely
through the crowd and finally had to admit that she'd lost them.
 Thinking maybe they left her a note, she went to find their
desks. Matt's half was scrupulously neat with a framed photo of his
ladyfriend Edie and a clear pyramid with a hologramatic eyeball
floating eerily in it as the only decorations. Elisa's side was by no means
a pigsty, but it did show that she had a less-than-letter-perfect approach
to paperwork, and a fondness for those cinammonny Hot Tamale
candies. Her jacket was hanging over the back of her chair.
 No note.
 Birdie turned to the cop at the next desk. "Hey --" she began,
and when he raised his ink-dark Latino eyes to hers and smiled with
perfect white teeth that seemed even whiter against his dark skin, she
instantly wondered if there was a "Men of the 23rd Precinct" calendar.
 "Hey," she said again, with altogether different inflections.
 His grin widened. "Looking for Elisa and Matt? They headed
to the hospital."
 Faster on her mental feet than her weight would ever let her be
on her physical ones, Birdie nodded. "Yep, I know, Elisa sent me to get
her jacket." She picked it up, and just as she'd hoped, keys jangled in
the pocket.
 "See you later," he said, tipping his pen at her.
 Some remark about flicking his Bic nearly popped out of her
mouth, but she reined it in at the last moment and gave him her best
Betty Boop smile instead.
 She slung Elisa's jacket over her shoulder and left the room,
allowing herself one last appraisal of the cop whose nameplate read
Alvarez. Elisa didn't need a window seat with a view like that just one
desk over!
 Minutes later, she was closing in on the Fairlane again, aware
that what she was about to do was downright crazy. Sure, she had the
keys, she didn't have to resort to hotwiring, but she was still boosting a
cop's car from right in _front_ of the police station. Not the brightest of
plans.
 She donned the jacket, and with it tried to don Elisa Maza.
Hard-nosed cop, gutsy, determined, independent, deeply committed to
the cause. Birdie had too much hip to get Elisa's walk down pat, but she
captured most of the attitude and went right up to the car as if she had
every right to be there.
 She nearly lost it when the first two keys she jabbed at the lock
didn't do the trick, but third time was the charm and the door opened
obligingly.
 The engine started up with an eager roar, and Birdie pulled
away from the curb.
 * *
 Sunset.
 The hour of the gargoyle.
 Owen Burnett, his face drawn with weariness, waited patiently
as the clan went through their usual noisy evening calisthenics. He
brushed chips and dust from his shoulders with the resigned distaste of
an actor in a medicated shampoo commercial.
 Lexington sprang down in front of him. Though stone sleep
was supposed to rejuvenate them, the smallest gargoyle looked as if he
had tossed and turned all day.
 "Well?" He packed an encyclopedia's worth of anxiety into
that one word.
 Owen succinctly outlined the day's progress. Or, rather, the
lack thereof. The only good news he had was Elisa's report that Birdie
had been unable to find Broadway's boot-loser.
 "Nothing?!" Lex agonized. "What about Alex's spell?"
 Owen shook his head. "She is nowhere in Manhattan. All we
could get, and this was after much trying, was a vague image of the
moon."
 "The moon?" Angela echoed. "She couldn't be there! That's
impossible! Isn't it?"
 "Even with sorcery," Owen agreed. "It may, however, be a
symbol." His throat moved as he swallowed, and the clan realized with
some concern that he was nervous. "A symbol of someone, or
someones, with a lunar aspect."
 The rest didn't get it, but Goliath's brow drew together in a
deep crease. "The Weird Sisters?"
 "Possibly," he admitted. "Although abduction by mercenaries
is not their usual style. They may have done it to throw us off the
scent."
 "Why would the Weird Sisters want Aiden?" Angela
wondered. "I thought they weren't permitted to interfere in human
affairs."
 "Now, lass, we all know how well the Third Race obey their
laws," Hudson said.
 One corner of Owen's mouth twitched slightly, then he was
somber again. "There is the matter of Hecate's Wand to consider. It was
made by the Sisters' mother, and they might not consider the wand, nor
its bearer, as a part of human affairs."
 "But the wand is in Aiden's room!" Lex protested. "She didn't
have it with her!"
 "I took the liberty of moving the wand. It is sealed in Coyote's
containment chamber, which is made from magical iron. The Sisters
will not be able to reach it, if that is their desire."
 "You put Humpty Dumpty together again after Goliath
squashed him in Arizona?" Brooklyn asked.
 "Of course. Mr. Xanatos doesn't like to waste resources."
 "Where is Xanatos?" Goliath asked.
 "In the dining room. As is MacBeth. We recently had a call
from Detective Maza. She and Matt are at the hospital now, so they
may be able to get some information from the woman, Fleance. You're
all welcome to join them so that we may plan our next move."
 Lex hung back. "I'll be along in a while," he said.
 When the rest of them had gone, Lex crept down the stairs to
Alexander's room. He eased the door open.
 The young boy was sprawled on his bed, the blankets all
kicked back to reveal the Star Wars sheets that Lex had picked out. One
little arm was draped over his winged teddy-goyle, and in the other
hand he clutched tight to a beanbag stegosaurus Aiden had won for him
at a street fair last summer.
 The poor kid looked worn out, the purplish smudges under his
eyes not faded even in sleep. Lex hated to wake him, but he had to.
 "Alex!" he whispered, giving the boy a gentle shake. "Hey,
buddy!"
 Alex mumbled something and burrowed into his pillow.
 "Come on, Alex," Lex urged. "Help me out here, 'kay?"
 "Hmph?"
 "I need to know where Aiden is," Lex said. "Show me what
you saw."
 "Moon."
 "Yeah. Can you show me?"
 Alex flopped over onto his back, his eyelids at an unsteady
half-mast. He sleep-talked a spell, fanned his fingers, and a hazy
glowing image appeared in the air. Lex saw a pale, full moon rising
behind a thin row of trees. Nearly as soon as he saw it, the image faded
and Alex rolled onto his tummy again.
 The moon? It looked wrong somehow. Even weirder, it looked
familiar somehow.
 "Thanks," Lex said, ruffling the boy's hair. He tiptoed out,
closed the door quietly, turned, and bumped smack into Broadway.
 "You want to sit around and wait for Elisa to call, or you want
to go out now?" Broadway asked.

 * *
 The most helpful thing that Elisa and Matt could get out of
Fleance was a suggestion that both Goliath and Edie might have
objected to strenuously.
 No amount of good-cop/bad-cop made a difference, since the
redhead was doped to the gills but still with it enough to be stubborn.
Elisa was fuming by the time they got back to Matt's car and rang up the
castle.
 "We're back to Square One," she announced via speakerphone.
 It was right about then that Brooklyn revealed that both Lex
and Broadway were missing.
 And it wasn't long after that they got back to the station and
found that Elisa's car was gone, and so was Birdie.
 * *
 "There's Elisa's car!" Broadway pointed, thankful that their
friend had such a distinctive set of wheels.
 The Fairlane was at the edge of a postage-stamp-sized patch of
parking lot between a gas station and a dry cleaner's, parked next to a
pair of phone booths. A brunette in a red jacket was poring over a map
spread on the hood of the car.
 Lex spiralled down, and Broadway followed, after making sure
the lot was more or less unpopulated. It was only as Lex made his
touchdown on the roof of the car that Broadway realized the brunette
wasn't Elisa.
 "Find anything?" Lex demanded.
 She jumped a foot. "Jeez, Lex, you scared the hell out of me!"
 "Birdie?!"
 "Birdie?" Broadway landed too. "Where's Elisa? What ... hey,
what's with the jacket? Does Elisa know you've got her car?"
 "Long story. Listen, guys, I'm glad to see you." She quickly
filled them in on the blonde and the note. "But I can't find the damn
observatory! It's not in the phone book, not on the map --"
 "The observatory!" Lex smacked himself upside the head.
"Not the moon! I knew it looked familiar! It was on 'Beyond 2000,' the
one Hudson got mad about --" he coughed guiltily at that point, then
went on. "They were doing a show about the future of astronomy, and
part of it was about the older observatories. Hayden-Mavis, I'd bet you
a million bucks! That's where she is!" He clawed his way to the top of
the phone booth. "Let's go!"
 "What about Demona?" Broadway asked. "Shouldn't we get
the rest of the clan in on it?"
 "You can wait, but not me!"
 "Lex, wait --"
 Birdie slung her arms around his neck. "Come on, stud, he'll
need backup."
 "But the phone's right there -- oh, darn it!" Broadway shrugged
and went after his rookery brother.
 * *
 The moon was waning, so it rose more than an hour after
Dominique's dramatic transformation into Demona.
 Aiden couldn't help but admire Puck's handiwork, though she
didn't dare comment on it because she'd gotten the idea that Demona
hadn't quite tipped to the fact that Owen and Puck were the same being. 
The caliber of magic at work here made her feel woefully inadequate,
silly as it was to be comparing her paltry skills to those of a milennia-
old immortal. It only made her all the more tempted by Demona's offer.
A little correspondance course in addition to her other studies.
 What was the harm? Sorcery was itself neither good nor evil. It
was all in how it was used. Just because Demona used her power to try
and destroy humanity ... but not _all_ humanity that she ever met,
present case in point.
 They'd put together a dinner of canned stew and peaches. It
still felt like a campout, and after her initial nervousness, Aiden was
surprised to find herself getting along better with Demona than she did
with any of the others except Lexington. They did seem to have some
things in common, or maybe it was the bond of their magical talent.
 The previous night's drizzle had departed, leaving a crisp and
clear sky sparkling with stars. The bite of December, only a few days
away, was already in the air.
 Aiden shivered a little, but was too excited by the prospect of
witnessing the marvel of the Moonstone Unicorn to be bothered by the
cold. They were out on the sloping lawn, so overgrown that it was really
more like a wild meadow, the bulk of the dome behind them.
 Demona laid out the statuette, a scroll, and a tiny vial with a
quarter-inch of red liquid inside. In the east, the moon was peeking over
the horizon, crisscrossed by the beams of the trestle bridge.
 "Here, hold this," she said, giving the statuette to Aiden.
 Although it seemed to be made of solid stone and gold, it
wasn't as heavy as it should have been. It felt light and somehow alive
in her hands.
 "This," Demona said, holding aloft the vial, "is unicorn blood
mixed with powder of unicorn horn."
 "You mean, they're real? Really real?" Aiden was aware of
how childish and naive she sounded, but it was too late to take the
question back.
 Demona only nodded. "Watch." She tipped the vial so that a
single drop of blood poured out.
 Aiden watched, not sure what she was supposed to see. The
blood struck the ground, spread, and vanished.
 "Are you familiar with the lore of sowing dragon's teeth?"
Demona asked.
 "Like in those old Sinbad movies, right? The skeletons?"
 "The effect is much the same, though the special effects, I
think, you'll find considerably better!"
 The ground before them began to shift and heave. Soil and
grass rose up in a mound, taking on a horselike shape. And then, much
like a gargoyle shedding its stone skin, earth fell away in clumps and
flew away in a gritty spray, and a gleaming white unicorn stood before
them.
 Not a statue. Breath plumed frostily from its nostrils. Huge
liquid soulful eyes with long soft lashes. A shining twist of golden horn
rose from its brow.
 "Wow," Aiden breathed.
 Demona had moved back a little, slightly behind Aiden. "Here,
read the scroll. You don't have long before it changes."
 "Changes?"
 "No time to debate. Read!"
 Holding the Moonstone Unicorn in one hand, Aiden skimmed
the scroll, doing a quick translation and run-through just to make sure
she had the pronunciation right and that it wasn't some sort of evil
humanity-destroying apocalypse.
 "Uh ..." she said, as the unicorn was beginning to curl its lip in
a fairly menacing manner and paw at the ground with one dainty gold
cloven hoof. "What's this part about a chaste vessel?" 
 "It's not calling for a human sacrifice. It's just that a virgin
must cast the spell."
 Aiden lowered the scroll and stared at Demona. "Oh, boy, talk
about rotten timing!"
 "What are you --" Demona's eyes became deadly little slits.
"You didn't! Your school file, your personality profile, my contact at
the Academy --"
 As her eyes narrowed, Aiden's grew wide. "_You_ were
behind the kidnapping!" she gasped. "It was all a set-up! I'm such an
idiot! Stupid, stupid, stupid!"
 "When? When, damn, you, when?"
 "T-two nights ago," she stammered, blushing and at the same
time feeling like the world's biggest dope for not having seen through
the ruse before. And then her gaze was drawn from Demona to the
unicorn, and embarrassment and self-recriminations paled as raw horror
took over.
 A few minutes before it changes, Demona had said. Changes.
 The golden horn was now a diseased-looking growth that
shaded from bone-white to blood-red to death-black at the tip. The lush
satiny mane grew spiked and wiry. The flowing tail shriveled into a
ratlike whip with a leonine tuft. The dainty hooves became deeply split.
The soulful eyes were now urine-yellow. Even as she watched, the head
altered so that the jaw was a crocodilian collage of teeth. The body
hunched into an almost camel-ish shape, covered with coarse bristly fur.
 At first, it had appeared as the typical fantasy unicorn. Now it
was closer to the type seen on medieval tapestries, the type that could
be lured by a maid but more often than not would skewer her with its
sharp horn.
 The spell, which Aiden now realized would have let her hold it
to its beautiful form and bind it to her will, was useless.
 A gargoyle snarled, right in her ear and scary enough to divert
her fear from the unicorn. 
 Friendly Dominique, repentant Demona, those personas were
gone now. She was with the real Demona now, and God help her!
 "I just want to know one thing, before I let it gut you,"
Demona said. "Who? Who ruined your virtue, and ruined my plans?"

 * *
 "There it is!" Lexington called.
 The dome, which Owen had mistaken for the moon, bulked
against the sky. The true moon was a frosty semi-globe in the east,
shedding white winter light over the overgrown grounds. Easy to spot
the figures below.
 "It's Demona, all right," Broadway said grimly.
 Birdie, clinging to him like a kid riding piggyback, said
nothing but looked a little ill at the prospect of going hammer-and-tongs
against the queen bee of evil gargoyles. Sure, she'd done well enough
helping defend Ebon against the Quarrymen, but she'd been in the body
of a gargoyle herself at the time. Tonight she was only human, without
even magic to back her up. Still, she wasn't about to turn back, and
Lex's estimation of her edged higher.
 He forgot all about Birdie, though, as he got a good look at the
third figure.
 "She's summoned a monster to devour Aiden!" he cried, and
went into a steep dive.
 * *
 Aiden stared into Demona's hellfire eyes and knew she was
going to die.
 At least I won't die a virgin, she thought, and the absurdity of it
made her laugh.
 Demona's eyes flared even brighter, painting the landscape
crimson. She raised one hand with claws outstretched, ready to flay the
skin from Aiden's face. "Who, I asked you?!"
 And then, right on cue, Lex swooped out of the night.
"Demona!"
 "You?!" she shrieked. "You perverted little human-loving
imp!"
 Lex didn't dignify that with a response but tackled Demona
around the waist. The impact sent them both tumbling across the grass.
 Sent the vial of unicorn blood flying from Demona's other
hand.
 "Oh, no!" Aiden reached out with her magic as the uncorked
vial spun and sprayed its contents in an arc of ruby droplets. The force
of her spell seized the glass before it broke, but too little, too late.
 Distracted by that, she didn't even notice that the unicorn was
lunging at her until she felt the steam of its breath. She threw herself
gracelessly backwards. Its loathsome furry side left a rug burn on her
arm and knocked her down.
 The unicorn turned and came around for another pass. Aiden
struggled to sit up and saw it charging. She yelped and tried to roll to
the side.
 Broadway and Birdie landed hard, right between Aiden and
the oncoming creature. It veered away, making a startled and almost
funny bleat.
 Demona and Lex were rolling in a biting and kicking tangle.
She was bigger, but he was agile and swarmed over her. He scrambled
into her back, dug his knees into her wing joints, seized a double
handful of her scarlet hair, and yanked.
 She howled in fury and pain as her head came up. She and Lex
saw it at the same time, and both gargoyles froze in place like
mannequins.
 "Holy guacamole, Batman," Birdie said in a soft, awed voice.
 Heard of unicorns? Aiden thought crazily. Sure, I've heard of
unicorns.
 But it wasn't heard, it was herd, a half-dozen of the graceful
white animals birthing themselves from the earth. There had only been a
few drops left in Demona's vial, but even one might prove to be too
many for them to handle, so seven was surely out of the question.
 They tossed their heads, they reared and pawed the air, they
nickered sociably at one another, and then as they caught sight of their
changed sibling running wild and free over the grass, they began to
transform.
 The first two to complete the change raced at the nearest
targets, which happened to be Demona and Lex. Their own spat
temporarily back-burnered, they leapt up.
 "They can't fight us in the air," Demona said. She bent and
laced her fingers, and Lex didn't even hesitate at stepping into her
cupped hands and letting her leg-up him skyward. She then ran for a
skinny little twig of a tree and got herself some altitude.
 "Yes, they can!" Lex pointed, and they all saw very clearly that
the unicorns were running upward on nothing but thin air, their split
hooves striking sparks and trailing smoke.
 Aiden suffered a brief flashback to the time she'd inadvertantly
enspelled Owen, and thought that if Birdie produced a boom box and
started playing "Ride of the Valkyries," a herd of monster unicorns
would be the least of her best friend's problems.
 Birdie did not appear about to do anything of the sort. She was
currently staring at an approaching unicorn. "Nice beastie," she
murmured. "Want a lump of sugar?"
 It snorted and gouged the earth with its forehooves.
 "Get inside!" Broadway commanded, spinning her toward the
distant door of the observatory and planting himself in front of the
unicorn.
 Aiden gathered her wits and cast a spell. For months, she'd
been working on levitation, and had finally gotten to the point where
she could lift herself off the ground.
 Her control wasn't the best, making her think of a video game
with arrows for up, down, back, forth, left and right. She couldn't do
diagonals, couldn't turn terribly fast, couldn't do anything fancy. But it
was sufficient to get her airborne just as a unicorn thundered by beneath
her now-dangling feet.
 The one facing Broadway was weaving side to side, swishing
its leonine tail edgily and wrinkling its nose. When he lunged at it and
roared, the poor thing skittered backward, hooves shooting in all
directions like Bambi on ice.
 The ones that had followed Lex and Demona into the air were
giving them a good chase. The gargoyles banked and soared on
updrafts, the unicorns galloped as if the sky was a series of steep
switchbacks. Higher and higher went the chase.
 Aiden cast a witchbolt at one that had come up after her,
hoping for the fireworks that she'd gotten when zapping the Hunter. No
such luck. Just the same meek little blob as ever, and she missed
besides.
 "Hey, horny!" Birdie yelled. She hadn't made a break for the
safety of the observatory, but instead, Aiden saw with dread as she
looked down, had removed Elisa's red jacket and was flapping it like a
matador's cape. "Toro! Toro!"
 The unicorn lowered its head and went after her. Birdie
jumped aside, making the leather jacket snap like a whip.
 Three were in hot pursuit of Lex and Demona. Broadway was
menacing one. Aiden let herself drop ten feet to avoid another. Birdie
was backing steadily toward the edge of the meadow. That left one
unaccounted for ...
 Nope, there it was, coming right at her. She realized she still
held the statuette and the scroll, and sort of thrust them out in front of
her like a shield, hoping it might give the creature pause.
 She got its attention, but only seemed to make it mad. She
twisted her body and its horn snagged the overlarge sweater and just
nicked Aiden's side. The other one that had been after her made another
pass and she ducked, getting clipped on the top of the head with a hoof.
 "Arriba, arriba, andele!" Birdie yipped in a really good Speedy
Gonzalez imitation.
 She waggled the jacket enticingly. The unicorn went for it. At
the last instant, Birdie jerked it out of the way and the unicorn went
horn-first into a treetrunk. It bucked and kicked and went basically
crazy, but was stuck fast.
 Demona, doubtless pissed that the no-magic human had
managed to deal with her opponent before any of the gargoyles,
signaled to Lex. He nodded. They swooped toward each other, each
with a unicorn all but nipping at their tails.
 Just when it seemed this game of chicken might end with a
horrific crash, they both went straight up, their bodies only intimate
inches apart. The unicorns, not so quick on the uptake, rammed
headlong into each other.
 There was a sound that reminded Aiden of the time some of
her high-school classmates had dropped a pumpkin off a freeway
overpass. The visual, though, was more like tomatoes hurled against a
wall.
 Demona and Lex glanced down to survey their handiwork and
slapped each other's hands, grinning maniacally. It was as if they hadn't
been trying to throttle each other only minutes before.
 Aiden's next witchbolt smacked a unicorn on the snoot. It
faltered and shook its head briefly. The other one that had been chasing
her was distracted by Birdie's loud and insulting antics below and went
for her. But, like the ill-fated Khan, Birdie was used to dealing with
things two-dimensionally and wasn't expecting an attack from above.
 The unicorn came down at her. She realized her error and tried
to get out of the way. It missed her with its horn but got her with its
meaty shoulder. This time, the sound was that of a medicine ball hitting
an exercise mat. Birdie uttered a breathy "Oof!" as it flattened her.
 Broadway, having cowed his foe into a complete quivering
surrender, sprang to Birdie's defense. He roared and brought his hand
down on the unicorn's rump hard enough to buckle its rear legs. It
crashed and rolled, nickered plaintively, and stretched its neck to lick at
his foot.
 A thought like a fishhook tugged in Aiden's brain, but
whatever it was, she lost it as she saw what none of the others had yet
seen.
 Demona and Lex, now engaged with the biggest of the herd,
hadn't paid much attention after watching the mid-air collision of the
other two. They hadn't caught the significance of the grisly rain that had
pattered down from the heavens.
 Flashback time, part deux. This time it was a movie she'd
loved as a kid, so much that she'd even named her teddy bear after the
cute little fuzzy thing. Gizmo. Gremlins. What she saw below her now
was a soil-and-grass version of what had happened when the evil
gremlin Stripe had gone swimming.
 The entire meadow was churning.
 The vial had held seven drops. The goosh from above was
buckets' worth.
 Horned shapes began rising up. A dozen, a hundred, more.
 _Now_ the others were aware, for all the good it did.
 Demona, stunned by what she saw, didn't have a chance to get
out of the way as the biggest of the herd, the first one that she herself
had summoned, plowed into her from behind. Its horn went clear
though her -- even in the weird lighting, Aiden could see the tip burst
from her chest like an erupting alien. Her scream split the sky.
 The unicorn squealed in triumph and galloped across the sky
with Demona nailed to its head like a butterfly on a pin.
 Aiden very nearly got dished up a helping of the same fate, but
she heard Lex's warning cry and looked away from the horror below
and the gory impalement above. The unicorn she'd zapped with her
feeble witchbolt was coming at her for another try.
 She hurled another bolt, and this time her wish was granted.
The silvery lozenge struck square between the eyes, just under the base
of its horn. Light bright enough to read the fine print by exploded in
front of Aiden, and a heatless force sent her sailing weightlessly back.
 Her levitation spell almost deserted her as the earth and stars
swapped places, but she recovered before she took the fast way down
and righted herself. Her hand slipped on the statuette and she juggled it
for a secure hold.
 The unicorn was gone. No blood, no fuss, no muss, no bother,
just gone.
 And below, hundreds more were rising from the earth like a
weird remake of Night of the Living Dead.
 Lex glided to her side, and in his eyes she saw what she knew
all too well. They didn't have a chance.
 Or did they?
 The fishhook was back, digging into the fabric of her thoughts.
She stared at the Moonstone Unicorn, and the scroll, the dratted useless
scroll --
 Aiden smacked herself in the temple. "Stupid!" she scolded
herself.
 She tore Demona's gold scrunchie from her hair, used it to
rubberband the scroll to the statuette, and drew her arm back as if she
was going out for a long pass. "Broadway!"
 He looked up. Two unicorns were cowering at his feet like
beaten puppies. Aiden threw, using her magic to guide the special
delivery because she sure as heck wasn't about to trust to her athletic
skill.
 Broadway caught it, but his wide genial face was one big
question mark.
 "The scroll!" Aiden cried above the din of the new unicorns
shaking their hides free of dirt. "Read the scroll!"
 "Gotcha!" He flashed her a thumbs-up and began unrolling it.
 "What's that?" Lex panted.
 "Our only chance, unless Birdie lied to me!" She reached out
and clutched Lex's hand. "I just hope he's not being graded on
pronunciation!"
 Slowly, ponderously, Broadway read the Latin words. As he
did, the herd fell silent and turned their deep soulful gazes upon him.
When he got to the part about the statue, he paused to say, "oh, yeah,
this!" and held it out.
 And when he finished, the entire herd dipped their golden
horns in equine bows, then began to rear and prance and whinney
excitedly. Aiden had the crazy urge to start singing "The Circle of
Life."
 Broadway stood there, amazed, as he was surrounded by
unicorns, all of them butting eagerly at him, trying to lick his hands and
face, brushing their sleek white hides against him.
 "He did it!" Aiden sighed in relief. "It's safe!"
 Cautiously nonetheless, she and Lex descended. The unicorns
sniffed at them and snorted expressively, but didn't make any hostile
moves. They were far too intent on Broadway.
 The bestial ones, two unencumbered and one still firmly
wedged in the treetrunk, changed back to their prior beauty. Of the one
that had carried Demona off, there was no sign. Aiden guessed it had
been beyond reach of the spell, beyond hearing.
 She pushed her way through the jostling herd and found
Birdie. Elisa's jacket was crumpled next to her.
 "Birdie?" Aiden gently shook her.
 She groaned, and said without opening her eyes, "Next time
you invite me to spend the weekend, Fergs, I think I'd be better off just
shooting myself in the head."
 * *
 "I kinda wish they didn't all have to go," Broadway said sadly.
 "Xanatos complains enough about Bronx," Lex pointed out.
"How do you think he'd react to having a unicorn around the castle?"
 "Besides," Birdie said, "you're going to have to put up with
enough smartmouth from Brooklyn as it is, without having a unicorn
around to remind everyone how you saved our necks."
 Broadway mumbled and blushed a little. "Yeah, I guess you're
right."
 "How'd you figure it out?" Lex asked Aiden.
 "I saw that they weren't attacking him. They went after the rest
of us readily enough, but it was like they _couldn't_ hurt Broadway.
That, combined with what I knew of the spell and what Birdie said the
other day ... well, I put one and one and one together and got three!"
 "Good thing, too," Birdie said. She punched Broadway
playfully on the shoulder. "See, there was a method to my madness after
all! And you thought I was just playing hard to get!"
 "It's better they go back where they came from," Broadway
said, looking remarkably like Goliath did whenever he wished people
would shut up about his personal life. "New York hasn't gotten used to
gargoyles. Can't imagine what they'd do when people realized there
were herds of unicorns on the loose."
 "There's still the other one," Aiden said.
 "It can't kill Demona," Lex reminded her. "Eventually, she's
going to get unstuck and there'll be one less unicorn in the world."
 "Yeah, and then she'll be back!" Birdie hugged Elisa's jacket
around her shoulders. "So maybe we should get our bad selves gone?"
 "What about this?" Broadway held out the Moonstone
Unicorn.
 Aiden sighed. "This is where someone's supposed to make a
speech about destroying it so it can't do any more harm or fall into the
wrong hands, and then we bash it on a rock. Same goes for the box of
tricks she's got in the observatory. But someone else is going to have to
do it, because I just can't."
 "Goliath didn't destroy the Eye of Odin, the Phoenix Gate, or
the Grimorum right away," Lex said. "And they _did_ fall into the
wrong hands. He said the Eye and the Grimorum got wrecked, and that
he got rid of the Gate forever."
 "But some stuff is _good_," Broadway argued. "What about
that Aztec sun-amulet, or whatever it is, that keeps the clan in
Guatamala safe?"
 "It's all in how you use it," Birdie said. "Me, I'd say we'd be
nuts to break perfectly good magic widgies. We shouldn't leave it here
for the demon bitch from hell, yeah, agreed, but doesn't Fergs here
deserve a little something for her time?"
 "Haven't I caused enough trouble already?" Aiden shook her
head ruefully. "Hecate's Wand, remember? And I don't think Owen or
Mr. Xanatos are going to be pleased with me after all of this. I certainly
don't deserve a reward!"
 "No, Birdie's right," Broadway declared. "We should take
them back with us. We can't let Demona get them, yeah, but we
shouldn't go around destroying things that are so old, or powerful."
 "Okay," Aiden said heavily. "But I'm giving everything over to
Owen, okay?"
 "Fine by me." Birdie chuckled. "Not that it's going to matter
after Elisa catches up with me! I'd almost rather face Demona!"
 * *
 At first, there hadn't even been any pain, just a deep iciness.
And then she sucked in breath to scream, and the ice turned to volcanic
flame.
 On they went, her wings fluttering uselessly as the galloping
hooves carried them across the sky. She squirmed, sending agonizing
explosions through her tortured body, but could not wiggle free of the
horn that jutted from her chest.
 She coiled her muscular tail around the unicorn's neck and
began to squeeze.
 When it realized what was happening, it began to thrash and
try and fling her clear. She held onto the tip of the horn and held on
tight, grinding her fangs against the pain as she was flung side to side
on the spiraled column.
 Tighter and tighter she squeezed.
 The galloping faltered. The unicorn dipped its head and now
Demona was fighting gravity as well. She let herself slip free and felt a
warm torrent of blood gush down her back and belly.
 She swung under the unicorn, hanging by the tail still wrapped
around its neck. This brought her claws into gutting range, but she
stopped herself just before she slashed. She needed another blood-
shower like she needed, well, a hole in the chest!
 Spreading her wings, she pulled a trick riding maneuver that
no circus acrobat could hope to equal and wound up sitting on the
beast's back with her tail still in its death-grip. Now she could add her
strong hands to the constricting tail.
 When she'd snapped the neck of Thailog's human lover, it had
been a thin and brittle sound. The unicorn's broke with a krak! that
Demona felt all the way up to her shoulders.
 It convulsed and went limp, and together they plunged toward
the glinting snake of the river.
 * *
 The night was still young when two gargoyles and two humans
arrived on the topmost tower of Castle Wyvern with their chest of loot.
 A good thing, too, because they'd need all of those hours
before dawn to explain, apologize, and take their verbal lumps. Penance
and punishment would doubtless not be over with by the time the sun
rose, or indeed by the New Year.
 Broadway and Birdie volunteered to go down first and face the
music, leaving Aiden and Lex alone on the roof.
 They nervously did a little bit of avoiding each other's eyes.
Then they both spoke at once.
 "Aiden, I --"
 "Lex, I --"
 " -- am so sorry," they said together.
 A brief laugh eased the tension. Lex got the next words in first.
 "When I heard you were gone, I was afraid you ran away
because of what happened the other night," he confessed.
 "Oh, gosh, no!" Aiden gasped.
 "Because I'd hurt you, because I was selfish and a pig and a
rotten ... lover."
 "No, Lex ..."
 "So, if you don't want to ... be my girlfriend any more, I'll
understand."
 "Lexington! That is so not what I want!" She started to cry.
"Don't you dare break up with me, not after the day I've had, or I'll just
fall down and die right here! I want to be a lot of things. A good
student, a decent sorceress, yeah, that's great, but most of all I want to
be your girlfriend." 
 "I thought I lost you," he said, dangerously near tears himself.
"That I'd never see you again, and our last memories would be bad
ones." He opened his arms to her and she went, resting her head on his
shoulder. He tipped his cheek against her hair. His wings lay over her
arms like a soft cloak.
 "Demona told me a lot of lies and half-truths, but she was right
about one thing," Aiden said against his neck. "She told me I see only
the good in people. She said it like that was a bad thing, like trust and
naivete are crimes. But she was right. I was ready to see good in her,
even. So how could I ever see bad in someone like you, Lex?"
 "There's a little bad in everyone, I guess."
 "Even me," Aiden admitted. "I really wanted to believe her,
Lex. I really wanted what she offered. The power ... it seemed so much
more important than the lives of those men that died trying to attack us.
I forgot all about them for a while. I was really tempted."
 "But when it came right down to it, you didn't give in," he said,
kissing her ear.
 "This time. What happens next time?"
 "We'll look out for each other," he said. "That's the best we
can do."
 She held him in silence for a while. "Lex?"
 "Yeah?"
 "I ... when we're done being grounded, that is, I want to ... try
again," she whispered.
 He knew right away what she meant. "Aiden, we don't have
to."
 "I know we don't have to. But I want to try. Okay?"
 "Okay? You're asking me okay?" He laughed a little. "Sure,
yeah, okay! No problem! And I promise, we'll go as slow as you want."
Then his face fell. "When we're done being grounded? Oh, no, there
goes another thousand years of my life!"
 * *
 Two nights later, Broadway returned to the movie theater.
 The half-destroyed building next door, where the cops had
discovered a modest arsenal in addition to another hovercraft, was
slated for demolition next week.
 Everything else on the street was back to normal. The
wreckage was cleared away, the newsstand was repaired, and most of
the shops were now sparkling with holiday decorations. The first snow
of the year was just beginning to powder Manhattan.
 His mood should have been light, festive. He wasn't even in
trouble with Goliath. None of them were, except for a stern scolding
about not calling for backup. Well, Birdie had gotten it up one side and
down the other from Matt and Elisa, but they still had to applaud her
gutsiness.
 Aiden, except for a few scrapes and bruises and a new depth to
her eyes that signaled the end of a variety of innocences, seemed to be
coping well with her ordeal. And Lex had calmed down and issued
heartfelt apologies to all concerned, most especially MacBeth.
 Broadway himself wasn't doing so well. It wasn't that Brooklyn
teased him about being the world's oldest virgin (though he did). It
wasn't the absence of the unicorns, though in a weird way he did miss
them. He'd even been praised for saving the others, even though Aiden
was the one who should be praised because she'd been the one to think
of it.
 It was the boot.
 He landed on the narrow ledge where he'd left the woman,
meaning to leave it and the bouquet of lilies there, but the rising brisk
wind and flurries of snow made him change his mind.
 He jumped down to the theater marquee and snuck through the
door into the dark hallway. He could once again hear the flirty pseudo-
1940's dialogue of Tracer Bullet and his dishy secretary, Kandy Kane.
It brought a ghost of a smile to his lips.
 She had enjoyed the movie. He decided to leave the boot in the
old projection room. That way, he could bring fresh flowers every so
often. Kind of a ... what do they call it? ... a shrine.
 He was halfway across the room before he realized he wasn't
alone.
 "It's you!" he gasped, seeing the woman sitting all bundled up
in a quilt, a bag of caramel popcorn open on her lap. "You're all right!"
 She smiled that oh-so-nice smile at him again. "You said you'd
be back. I knew you'd not disappoint me. Forgive me, that I waited not
upon the ledge, for it did seem a perch most unsafe."
 "But -- how -- " he blundered around, then shoved the bouquet
of lilies in her direction. "These are for you."
 She set aside her popcorn and gathered the flowers to her,
inhaling deeply. "Thank you! They are lovely!"
 In the flickering half-light coming through the square by the
projector, she looked odd. Not bad-odd, but different-odd. She was
minus the fedora and trenchcoat, both of which were hanging on a
nearby peg. There was something about the way the shadows lay upon
her face that made Broadway pause. It wasn't just that she was pretty,
but there was something eerily familiar ...
 He held up the boot. "I found your shoe." Then, grinning at
Brooklyn's jest about Cinderella, he went to one knee in front of her and
held out his hand expectantly.
 She gave him a long, thoughtful look and let the quilt fall
away, extending one of a pair of slender but shapely gams (as Tracer
Bullet would have said).
 At the end of that eye-pleasing length was a taloned gargoyle
foot.
 He dropped the boot.
 "What -- who are you?!" he stammered.
 "I thought you knew," she said. "I am Elektra."
 * *
The End.

 Click here to return to the Gargoyles Page.

 Lead Me Not . . / Page Copyright 1996 - Tim &
Christine Morgan /
 vecna@eskimo.com