New Stuff 

 What's New on the Morgans' Site 

 Christine's
LiveJournal 
 Sabledrake
Forum 
 The Christine
Morgan information site 

 January 6th, 2006 

 Happy New Year! We're almost a week into it, and I hope
everyone's 2006 is off to a great start! 
 We have lots of projects, cons and events coming up, plus
various other news and updates: 
 -- I am looking forward
to once again being a guest at RadCon ,
over President's Day weekend (Feb 17-19) in Pasco, WA. 
 -- The 10th
Annual Gathering of Gargoyles will be held in Southern California this
summer. We'll be there; will you? 
 -- For the Gathering, Tim and
I will be editing the 3rd in a series of fanfic anthologies to be sold
at the con. The previous ones were about the Phoenix Gate and the
 Eye of Odin ; this time, completing the set, the theme is the Grimorum
Arcanorum . Submissions for stories and interior art are now open! Find
the guidelines here ! 
 -- I expect to finish and post
the second part of Only the Good within
a few weeks. 
 -- Because the ElfLore books
are out of print and the rights have reverted to me, Sabledrake
Enterprises will be publishing a three-in-one volume of the Complete
Elflore Trilogy this year. Stay tuned! 
 -- I also hope to have the 6th
 Silver Doorway book, The
Alchemist's Girl , out this year! 
 -- Leather,
Lace and Lust, an erotic anthology in which appears my short story
"I Am ...", has been re-released and is now available through Amazon.com! 
 -- In the Original
Fiction section, I've posted a short superhero story, " The
Last Vigil ." Feedback welcome! 
 -- The third Trinity Bay book,
 Changeling
Moon , is getting some good reviews! 
 -- I am currently at work on
a new horror novel, Birthright , and have three other books ( His
Blood, Tell no Tales , and Scoot ) out awaiting response from
various publishers. 

 * 

 From Nov. 24th -- 
 Added a couple of links to the (probably hopelessly outdated
by now) Gargoyles Links page. 
 Here is a video
clip of Becca doing a Fear Factor Halloween stunt . 
 And here's me, having lost 85 pounds and gotten a new
'do: 

 (and Ichabod, our sweet but dumb white cat) 
 Happy Thanksgiving, all those who celebrate it! 

 * 

 From Nov. 15th -- 
 Nothing much new to add at the moment. I am participating
in National Novel Writing Month 
for the second year in a row. Goal: to write a complete, at least 50,000
word, manuscript in one month. Last year, I did it with Scoot , though
since it's a genre-defying quirkfest, I still haven't decided exactly what
to do with the darn thing. This year's project is a horror novel called
 Birthright ,
one I'd tried to write before and trashed to start over from scratch. As
of today, I'm at just over 35,000 words. Not too shabby. 
 And when I'm not working on that, I've mostly just been
spending my time playing City of Heroes and/or City of Villains. Here's
 some
recent screenshot fun ! 

 * 

 From Oct. 28th -- 
 Wow, it's been way too long since I've updated here, and
a lot has happened! 
 To begin, I've passed my one-year anniversary since the
weight-loss surgery, and have lost over 80 pounds! 
 Also, the 3rd Trinity Bay book, Changeling
Moon , is now in print and available for your horror reading pleasure!
Order your signed copies direct from the author, ask for them at your favorite
bookstore, or get them online at Shocklines .
Here's a look: 

 For thousands of years, they have lived among us. Their abilities have
given rise to our oldest legends and our deepest fears. They are changelings.
Shape-shifters. Hunters. Creatures of the night. Ruled by the moon, and
by their own savage hungers. Some wish only to survive unnoticed in our
world, to be left alone and have as little to do with us as possible. They
keep to their laws and traditions. They keep to themselves. Their first
and only loyalty is to the pack.
 But there are those who are outcasts from their own kind. Outcasts,
like the beautiful and ruthless Simone Drachen and her perversely devoted
son. They have broken the ancient laws, tasted of the forbidden, and gained
greater power from it. To them, humans are not something to be avoided
and tolerated. To them, we are prey.
 And now they have come to Trinity Bay, where one troubled young woman
will be caught in the midst of their deadly conflict.
 Aiden Ferguson has lost everyone she ever cared about. Orphaned, alone,
reclusive and shy, she leads a quiet existence in her little house on the
beach, until a chance meeting with a handsome stranger begins to draw her
out of her shell. An unexpected friendship with a flamboyant actress draws
her out even more. For the first time in years, Aiden is learning to love
life again just as her life, her soul and her very humanity are threatened
by the cold white light of the . . . Changeling Moon 

 And, at long last, what some of you have been waiting
for ... a new fanfic! In the Guardians 
series, here is the explosive " Only
the Good, Part One ." Please do be advised that Part Two will likely
not be available until after the first of the year, so if you don't want
to spend the next couple of months wondering what happens next, you might
want to consider waiting until both are posted. For reasons of violence,
adult language and sexual content, this is for mature eyes only. 
 Tim and I are on staff for the Gathering
of Gargoyles 2006 , to be held next June in sunny Southern California!
I'll be editing the third Gathering Anthology, details pending but I'll
leak the theme now just in case anybody didn't simply guess the obvious
-- the Grimorum Arcanorum . Naturally! So get those ideas brewing,
folks ... I will be wanting your stories and illustrations! 
 And because you just can't keep a bad garg down no matter
how you try ... 
 Jericho 
debuts (minus the wings) on the new CoH expansion, City
of Villains! 

 Gee, when you put all these updates together like this,
it sure looks like I have a one-track mind! There's something of a common
theme here, methinks! ;) 
 In other news, I am once again participating in National
Novel Writing Month . Beginning on November 1st, I will be working on
a horror novel called Birthright . I've tried this one before, got
about halfway through before deciding it wasn't working and junking the
whole thing. Now I'm switching POV characters and starting the whole thing
over from scratch. Wish me luck, and see you on the other side! 

 * 

 * 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button
to return to the previous page, or click on the shield to return to the
main menu. 

 You've enjoyed the fanfic; now
try the novels! 
 The
MageLore and ElfLore Trilogies 
 Black
Roses 
 A
Gnome Away from Home 
 by Christine Morgan 
 Signed copies now available! Order 
yours today! 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours,
 click
here to view my very reasonable rates.