I can't find Curse of the Shadow Beasts in my area 

 Ordering Books 

 Archmage of the Universe, by Christine Morgan 
 The evil minotaur mage Solarrin has risen to power
in Thanis. With the Highlord under his sway and the nobles living in fear
of him, and the elven and dwarven ambassadors already falling under his
spell, he has no cause for concern. Nothing could threaten his dominanance
... unless by chance, his former companions haven't simply fled 
in their terror of his might. 
 As it happens, they haven't ... they've gone off
in search of the only one whose magic surpasses Solarrin's own, the Archmage
Talus Yor. But the biggest problem now facing Arien Mirida, Cat Sabledrake,
and their friends is this -- bringing Talus Yor back from the dead. 

 On sale now: $11.95 

 Dark of the Elvenwood, by Christine Morgan 
 Elven mage Arien Mirida was living what should have
been the perfect life. Lord High Librarian of Thanis, 
 sharing a home with the lovely Alinora, friend
and student of the Archmage Talus Yor, the curse that had plagued his family
finally broken . . . yes, all should have been well. 
 Yet a shadow lingers over Arien's heart, a shadow
in the shape of a young thief and the memory of a love impossible to forget.
When adventure calls and brings with it the promise of a reunion with Cat
Sabledrake, Arien is quick to accept the dangerous quest and his life will
never be the same . . . 

 On sale now: $11.95 

 Curse of the Shadow Beasts, by Christine Morgan 
 Enter a world of magic, adventure, and romance. 
A world of noble elves, powerful wizards, and clever thieves. A world
where a ruined castle beckons the curious, an ancient curse plagues the
innocent, and love is not only forbidden . . . it may be punished
by death. 

 Special price: $8.00 

 Order the entire set of three
for only $30.00 

 Shipping Costs: 
 Within the United States, shipping is done by US
Priority Mail. Shipping costs are: 

 1 book 

 $3.50 

 2 books 

 $3.95 

 3-4 books 

 $5.15 

 5-6 books 

 $6.35 

 7 or more books 

 write us 

 Foreign shipping is $7.00 for one copy,
$10.00 for two, and $12.00 for three. 
 Also available -- Black Roses 
sample chapter on tape -- only $1.75 for shipping in the U.S. 

 Tax: 
 Washington State residents must pay sales tax of
8.6% on all orders. Tax is charged on both books and shipping. 
If you are unsure of how to figure tax, please e-mail us at sabledrake@sabledrake.com. 

 Payment Methods: 
 We can accept payments in a number of ways: 

 Check or money order: 

 Please send payment to our address below along
with the important information. 

 VISA or Mastercard directly through us: 

 You can call or e-mail us with your credit card. 
E-mailing is not recommended as it is not secure. For US residents,
Paypal is highly recommended for credit card transactions. 

 VISA or Mastercard by Paypal: 

 Secure credit card payments can be made over
the internet through Paypal. If you are unfamiliar with this service,
do yourself a favor and sign up. They'll give you (and us 
if you say we sent you there) $5.00 for your trouble. Visit them
at www.paypal.com . Our e-mail
address for them is sabledrake@sabledrake.com 

 Important Information: 
 With all orders, please include your name, address,
phone number, e-mail address, and the names of anyone to which the books
should be personalized. 

 Our Information: 

 Sabledrake Enterprises 
 PO Box 30751 
 Seattle, WA 98103 
 USA 
 425-317-9241 
 sabledrake@sabledrake.com 

 Use the back button of your browser to return to the previous page,
or click on the scroll at the left to return to the Main Index. 

 Unless otherwise noted, all information, artwork,
writing and page construction is copyright 1998 by Tim and Christine Morgan.
 MageLore
I: Curse of the Shadow Beasts is copyright 1998 by Christine Morgan.