Original Fiction by Christine Morgan 

 Dorian's Own 
A collection of short stories that follow Rick Avery's journey from boyhood
as a gypsy foundling to a holy knight in the service of the goddess Dorian. 
Set in the fantasy world of Orelar and based on characters from a GURPS
roleplaying game. Adult content. 

 The Loves of Sir Richard 
A thousand years before Rick Avery was born, he lived another life as a
Tarlakian knight, Sir Richard Riktov. Based on characters from a GURPS
game. Adult content. 

 The Empire Chronicles 
A series of stories from a GURPS game of the late 1980s. Starring Belden
Kaylaros, the destined but reluctant hero; Harold Ethelbald, the ambitious
and unscrupulous nobleman; and Wildfire, the impetuous sorceress. 

 'Dem Bones 
From the Black Swamp, a group of skeletons set out in search of the legendary
Throne of Bone. Based on the popular trading-card game, Magic:
The Gathering . 

 Santa's Daughter 
A new holiday legend, in which young Noelle must save Christmas from the
evil Witch of the Ice. 

 The Reindeer that Wasn't 
When a stork leaves a dragon's egg at the North Pole, the reindeer try
to raise the hatchling as one of their own. 

 Offering 
One girl is chosen from the village. Adult content, mature readers only
please. 

 The Wedding Day 
A rhyming account of events that took place on the day we became Tim and
Christine Morgan. 

 The Ravishing of Constance 
On the island of Veradoga, the governor's daughter finds she has more to
fear from her own brother than from the pirates that plunder the seas.
Mature readers only. 

 Jocasta 
A retelling of the Oedipus myth from the queen's point of view. Mature
readers only, please. 

 Good Girl Revenge 
Busty, sassy rock star Bluette helps innocent Maeve Colwyn avenge herself
on her rat of a boyfriend, 
 in this story written for Brian Vigue. Mature readers only, please. 

 Safe Sucks 
A mother's disapproval is only the least of the complications when Kyra
Rand is ready to take her 
 relationship with the sexy Donovan to a new level. Mature readers only,
please. 

 Ties that Bind 
The alluring elven owner of the Lord's Retreat puts on excellent performances,
both public and private. 
 Mature eyes only, please. Set in the world of the author's
fantasy novels . 

 Infernal 
Corruption at a girls' school prompts a guardian angel to descend into
Hell, only to fall into the clutches of 
 a lecherous demon. Mature readers only; this is the author's dirtiest
work to date. <eg>
 Inspired by a Story Ideas thread on Literotica ,
where the story's
also posted and can be voted on (hint, hint). 

 The Last Vigil 
A bittersweet tale of a fallen, and forgotten, hero. 

 Like what you've read? Try more: 
 Published works by Christine
Morgan 
 The Silver Doorway 
children's books 
 The Trinity Bay 
horror novels 
 Sabledrake's
author page on Literotica 
-- mature readers only! 
 Gargoyles 
fanfiction 
 Other
fanfiction 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button
to return to the previous page, or click on the shield to return to the
main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.