Other Fan Fiction by Christine Morgan 

 Newer stories at the bottom! 

 A Matter of Pride 
Scenes we never saw from the movie The Lion King. Adult content. Mature
readers only, please. 

 Firepelt 
The Lion King. A sequel to "A Matter of Pride." A tale of obsession and
revenge in the Pridelands. Mature readers only, please. 

 My, What a Guy 
Beauty and the Beast. Gaston romps with the triplets. Mature readers only,
please. 

 Hellfire 
Hunchback of Notre Dame. Judge Claude Frollo is tormented by visions of
Esmeralda. Mature readers only, please. 

 Wa'DIch Ghom 
Based on Star Trek The Next Generation, involving Deana Troi and Worf.
Adult content, for mature readers only, please. 

 Fully Functional 
Based on Star Trek The Next Generation. The engineering crew make a woman
as a birthday present for Data. Adult content, for mature readers only
please. 

 A Scooby Doo Adventure 
A thoroughly vulgar and disgusting, yet eerily accurate depiction of the
gang from the Mystery Machine. The author still cannot understand what
possessed her to write such a thing. Mature readers not easily grossed
out, please. 

 Night Saber 
Star Wars Episode One.
 On a desolate prison moon, a young Jedi learns what it is to embrace 
the Dark Side. Mature readers only, please. 

 Blood of the Jedi 
Star Wars Episode One.
 A fate worse than death awaits the victims of the new apprentice to
the Lord of the Sith. Mature readers only, please. 

 Sacrifice 
Star Trek: New Frontier (novels by Peter David)
 Captain Mackenzie Calhoun is kidnapped along with a mysterious and
alluring visitor. Mature readers only, please
 Illustration by Jennifer Anderson. 

 Harry Potter and the Exchange Student 
 America! echoed Hermione, aghast. You must be joking! Theyre
the Muggliest Muggles of all! 
 Not only is Hogwarts hosting a new student, but someone is trying to
prevent Harry's return to school, and the new Defense Against the Dark
Arts teacher is the brother of a former Slytherin student with links to
Snape and Harry's parents. Written for Becca. 

 Harry Potter and the Fifth House 
An even longer and much saucier fanfic novella, sequel to the one above.
When a student is Sorted into a House 
 that no one's heard of, an ominous mystery ensues. But distractions
-- such as a book of naughty photos, spying
 on people caught in the act, and realizing he's seeing Hermione in
a new way -- might interfere with Harry's 
 ability to figure out what's going on. Adult situations and content;
mature eyes only please. 

 Iron Chef Pokemon Battle 
A crossover that probably never should have happened, in which Ash tries
to earn a badge by challenging 
 Morimoto to a Pokemon battle and gets something quite different than
he bargained for. 
 "Marvelous! Bravo." -- J. Kovalic. 

 Pirates of the Caribbean: The Story of Bootstrap
Bill 
A book is delivered to the home of Will and Elizabeth Turner. It is a diary.
His father's tale, in Bootstrap's 
 own words. His journey from home, his capture into the crew of the
 Black
Pearl and subsequent adventures ...
 the mutiny, the curse, and what happened after Barbossa had him thrown
overboard. PG-13 for violent themes. 

 Babes in the Woods: A Hogwarts Story 
Gryffindor sixth-year Lily Evans and two of her friends have special teacher
permission to venture into the 
 Forbidden Forest. But they sure don't have permission for what they
do once they're there! Mature eyes 
 only; sexual content. 

 Harry Potter and the Slytherin Spy 
Set directly following the events in Order of the Phoenix , and not
connected with any pf my previous HP 
 fanfic, this is a lengthy novella that will be posted in weekly chapter
installments. Some chapters will contain 
 violence and adult language. 

 Incineratrix Ignited! 
A City of Heroes story
about Christine's fire-blaster, on the Guardian server. 

 Tales of the Black
Scorpion 
A City of Heroes story
about Christine's katana-scrapper, and his supergroup ,
on the Triumph server 

 Like what you've read? Try more: 
 Published works by Christine
Morgan 
 The Silver Doorway 
children's books 
 The Trinity Bay 
horror novels 
 Sabledrake's
author page on Literotica 
-- mature readers only! 
 Gargoyles 
fanfiction 
 Other
stories 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button
to return to the previous page, or click on the shield to return to the
main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.