Christine's Ramblings -- Intro 

 . 

 Introduction 

 ** 

 Intro / 1-20 
/ 21-40 / 41-60 /
 Others 

 Introduction: 
 What is this? Ramblings?
What the heck does that mean? 
 Basically, Constant
Reader, it is yet another forum in which I, Christine stroke 
 my ego and run my mouth about my favorite toipic
-- my writing. Specifically, my fanfic. 
 I'll explain how
each title and story came to be, what I hoped to accomplish, 
 what I actually did accomplish, how certain
characters took occasionally unexpected turns.
I'll also share some behind-the-scenes snippets of what was going through
my admittedly warped brain at the
time. 
 So, if you want
to learn more of the behind-the-scenes goings-on and put up 
 with me bragging and strutting, please read
on! If not, hit your Back button to escape
back to the stories ; ) 

 Prologue: 
 In early 1996, my
husband Tim asked me, out of simple curiosity, why I hadn't 
 written any Gargoyles fanfic yet. 
 At the time, I
had made a few forays into that arena, most notably with "A 
 Matter of Pride," a story that, I'm told, is
practically a must-read for all newcomers to The
Lion King fandom (and here I thought I was deeply disturbed and nobody
in their right mind would ever 
want to read something that combined sex and Disney 
 cartoons -- okay, I was still fairly naive
at the time, having yet to fully discover how the 'Net
could bring together those who shared certain points of view -- and that
there were a heck of a lot more
of them than I'd ever imagined. I wasn't alone!) 
 But ... Gargoyles?
Because I knew that I had a knack or a flair for writing the 
 naughty stuff, and I wasn't sure how I felt
about the prospect. Trek, sure, Disney, fine, I could
write sexy fanfic about those. 
 But ... Gargoyles?
Gargoyles was different ! It got ahold of my soul in a way 
 that no other show had ever been able to do.
Could I do justice to such characters? Would
I cheapen them, diminish them in so doing? (some would say "absolutely;"
you know who you are <g>) 
 I didn't want
to, pardon the pun and the vulgarity, fuck it up. If it was to be 
 done, it had to be done carefully, lovingly,
right. 
 Another reason
I held off was because the show was still going on. But when I 
 learned of the hiatus that would take place
that summer, between the stirring finale of Hunter's
Moon and the debut of The Goliath Chronicles, I had several months to play 
 with. Several months without Gargoyles. 
 I thought I could do
it. I wanted to do it. At the time, I had yet to make the 
 acquaintance of my fellow Gargophiles and so
I had no idea how such stories would be received.
I figured that nobody outside the pervs in the alt.sex.stories newsgroup
would even see it. 
 Still, I wanted
to give it a try. And the rest, as they say, is history ... 

 As of this writing (6/20/99), there are
56 stories in my ongoing fanfic saga plus a few others done for TGS and
other projects. 

 . 

 Click here to go to the main index page. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.