Dorian's Own by Christine Morgan 

 A word of explanation by the author: these stories are set in
my game-world, which I have been developing since the early 1980's. The
premier deity of that world is Dorian, Goddess of Life. Much of Dorianism
is drawn from Jean M. Auel's "Earth's Children" series. These stories
are dedicated to my husband, Tim, for whom they were written as birthday
and anniversary presents. 

 The character Rick Avery was originally created as a 25-point farmboy.
He and his friends (other PCs) Damon and Taren became adventurers in a
lengthy (four years real time) campaign that would take them all over the
world. 

Many of these stories are for mature readers only, please. 

 Mother 
The last survivor of a vicious attack on a gypsy camp stumbles into the
village of Stonebridge to birth her child. 

 Differences 
Rick begins to realize that he's not like the other children, and makes
friends with Damon and Taren. 

 Wanna Bet? 
Teenage Rick meets a dwarf who gives him tips on gambling and adventuring. 

 Initiation 
Rick's first time. Mature readers only. 

 Unmasked, Unchained 
Tura is a land where men are slaves, and rebellious women fight to free
them. When Rick and his friends are captured and sent there, a fugitive
princess and would-be paladin rescues him from a terrible fate (or so she
thinks). Mature readers only. 

 Teacher's Pet 
Rakvian girls are supposed to be demure, but a willful teacher, with the
help of aa willing paladin, teaches them more than their fathers or future
husbands ever expected them to learn. 

 Festival 
Rick and his friends have returned from the fairy realm to find that twenty
years have passed. Rick's former flame Nikolia now has a daughter, who
becomes his new love. At a village in the Chaos Mountains, they attend
a festival in honor of Dorian's Gifts. Mature readers only. 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button
to return to the previous page, or click on the shield to return to the
main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.