s_flame 

 Silver Flame 
 A Division of Sabledrake
Enterprises 
 Christine Morgan 

 Do you have: 
 A story waiting to be told? 
 A character crying out for a past? 
 A game needing enhancement? 
 A romantic milestone deserving the perfect unique gift? 
 *** 
 If so, Silver Flame is the answer! 
 *** 

 Christine
Morgan is a popular writer in the Gargoyles 
fandom, and creator of dozens of other stories both fanfiction 
and original ,
known best for her erotica. She is a long-time role-playing gamer whose
work has appeared in Pyramid magazine, GURPS Villains , and
on the Steve Jackson Games website.
She also is the editor of Avalon
Mists , a Gargoyles online 'zine on the Gargoyles-Fans
site , and co-editor and frequent contributor to Sabledrake
Magazine , an online 'zine dedicated to roleplaying games and fantasy/sci-fi
fiction. 
 Her published
work to date consists of the MageLore trilogy 
and the first in the subsequent ElfLore 
trilogy from Renaissance Alliance Publishing .
She has also written a series of horror novels coming soon to audio book
from TimeFare Productions 
and has a short story in the upcoming anthology The
Book of All Flesh . 
 *** 

 Now Christine's
talent is available to you, the Silver Flame customer! Let her write your
story! 
 *** 

 You provide
the information: names, descriptions, histories, settings ... as much detail
as possible. 
 If your story
includes action/combat, nudity/sex, or strong language, please specify
how graphic you'd prefer it to be. 
 Be aware that
Silver Flame specializes in fantasy, magic, and romance. Sci-fi, high-tech,
and modern weapons are not the author's area of expertise, but she's always
willing to take on a new challenge. 
 *** 

 Options: 

 $15.00 -- 1,000 to 1,500 words 
 Perfect for the GM: legends, prophetic
dreams, visions, near-death experiences, letters, journal entries. 

 $30.00 -- 2,500 to 3,000 words 

 $50.00 -- 5,000 to 6,000 words 

 $80.00 -- 8,000 to 9,000 words 

 Oldest profession surcharge -- Erotica $5.00
extra (for adults only) 

 What do you get? 

 Your story e-mailed to you in .txt, .doc or HTML
format 

 Your story mailed to you in hard copy, laser-printed. 

 Your story posted in the Silver
Flame Archive (optional). 

 Ordering information: 
 Christine Morgan / Sabledrake
Enterprises 
 P.O. Box 30751 
 Seattle, WA 98103 
 E-mail: christine@sabledrake.com 
 Make checks payable to Sabledrake Enterprises 
 Sorry, no credit card orders! 
 Please allow 6-8 weeks for writing
and delivery. 
 Include an e-mail address or
phone number where you can be reached with additional questions about your
story or character. 

 From our legal department: Stories will
not include copyrighted characters, real people, or characters from other
fanfiction without permission of the author. Silver Flame reserves the
right to decline stories at the author's discrection. All stories remain
copyright Christine Morgan and she retains all rights to these stories
although the buyer recieves unlimited reprinting rights as long as such
reprints are free of charge for readers and Christine Morgan is credited
as being the author. 

 Page Copyright 1998 -- Christine Morgan -- vecna@eskimo.com