Sabledrake Enterprises 

What is Sabledrake Enterprises? 

 Sabledrake Enterprises was originally founded to help advertise, distribute
and sell Christine Morgan's first book, Curse of the Shadow Beasts ,
and it takes its name from one of the characters of that book. Tim,
however, had been considering forming a business for some time, in order
to sell older, out of print role playing games. So Sabledrake took
on both of these roles, and has since expanded into other areas, including
all kinds of role playing games, board games, and war games, as well as
Gargoyles merchandise. 
 Below you will find links to pages that list all of the items we have
for sale. Take a look and if you see anything you like, read the
ordering information below. 

This page has a new home. Try is at http://www.sabledrake.com/sde.htm 

 MageLore
I: Curse of the Shadow Beasts 
 Games for Sale (roleplaying games, board games,
etc) 
 Game
Auctions currently being run 
 Disney's Gargoyles 
 Puffball Mania! 
 Collectibles 
 Blue Fox
Jacket 

 NEW > Let the Silver Flame burn
for you! Commission your own personalized Christine Morgan story! 

Ordering Information 
The information available on the above pages is rarely 100% up to date. 
While it is updated frequently, there will always be some period of time
between when orders are placed, and when the item is removed from the list. 
Therefore, to avoid any confusion, please e-mail us at vecna@eskimo.com 
to confirm availablity. Please include the item number in your request
to be sure there are no misunderstandings. We will confirm your order
and pricing. Payment must be made by check, money order, or credit
cards. Immediately upon recieving your money order, or upon your
check clearing our bank, we will send out you order. 
 Orders are normally sent by 1st ClassUS Mail, not insured, and
all shipping and handling prices are given assuming this method of shipping
within the US. Other shipping arrangements can be easily made upon
request, as well as foreign shipping. Please allow a day or two for
a price quote for any of these alternate modes of shipping. 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button
to return to the previous page, or click on the shield to return to the
main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.