Spring Break 

Spring Break 

by Christine Morgan 

 Author's Note: Pandathaway was borrowed from "Guardians of the Flame."
 For Tim, Christmas 1999.

 He was going to study this time. Honestly.
 The curtains were drawn, casting the room
into dimness relieved only by the
 single glow of the enchanted lamp on his desk. His books were laid
out neatly, his notes
 were in order, and there would be no distractions.
 Even if his roommate returned to the suite
they shared, which he wasnt supposed
 to do until late, Harry had posted a sign on his bedroom door instructing
that he not be
 disturbed for anything short of Cataclysm.
 Diplomacy in the Modern Era. Fully
three inches thick and heavy enough that
 should he drop it on his feet, hed never need snowshoes again. Not
that he needed
 snowshoes now, here in temperate Pandathaway. Three solid inches of
diplomacy.
 Volume I. 
 Dorian wept, Harry muttered, opening the
tome to the marked page. He began
 reading about shifting alliances and disputes in the provinces of Kyrios
Entys within the
 last hundred years.
 He was doing all right, some of the information
actually sinking in, the direction
 that his theme paper might go beginning to formulate in his head, when
he turned a page
 and found himself staring at a depiction of the Treaty of Ordropolis,
which had involved a
 double marriage, the son and daughter of one monarch to the daughter
and son of another.
 The two brides were shown in traditional Entysan
garb, which veiled them from
 khol-outlined eyes to chin, but left their breasts bare. Their skirts
hung very low on their
 sweetly-rounded hips, and were of a sheer material that revealed their
legs and even
 hinted that they were wearing nothing beneath.
 The artist had captured the scene in exquisite
detail. Lingering, some might note,
 too much on the nubile girls (fourteen and sixteen, the caption read)
and far less so on the
 more elaborate outfits of their grooms and fathers.
 Looking at the inked images, Harry could practically
smell their lotus blossom
 perfume, hear the soft jangle of the bells on their earrings. He ran
a finger down the page
 and instead of vellum, imagined that he felt the satiny warmth of olive-toned
skin.
 A prominent discomfort had arisen beneath
the desk.
 Study, he reminded himself.
 His glance fell upon one of the grooms, whose
dark hair fell over his forehead in a
 wavy lock, whose foxlike features were not all that different from
those Harry saw in the
 mirror every day. Easy to picture himself in that mans place, lucky
recipient of a lush
 young bride. There was a suggestion of a glint in the mans eyes, a
suggestion that the
 artist had caught him thinking not of the holy vows he was supposedly
swearing but of
 the delights that would be awaiting him in his marital chamber.
 Harry slid into a daydream so vivid that he
could detect the smoky tang of
 incense, the strumming of sitars. In a marble-columned room, a round
bed draped with an
 Entysan tigerskin beckoned ... his hands unfastened a veil and showed
him the lush lips of
 his new wife, crimsoned and parted and beckoning ...
 Someone knocked on the door to the outer suite,
jarring Harry from his daydream.
 He jumped and almost blushed, before realizing that
he was safe and alone in his room
 and not in class ... not like last time ...
 Another knock, louder. Harry shook his head
briskly and turned to the next page.
 Trade negotiations. Good. Dull as dirt. Just the thing to get his mind
back on his studies.
 The outer door opened.
 Crays not here! Harry called, exasperated.
 Avast ye, Harry-me-lad! a rolling voice
returned merrily. Where are ye
 hiding?
 Howie? He shoved his chair back, caught
the rear legs on the edge of the carpet
 and almost went over, then hurried to his door. Howie, by the gods!
 They stared at each other across the sitting
room, and burst out laughing in unison.
 You look --
 Ye look --
 Whats come of ye, cuz, yere dressed like
a jester!
 Whats come of me? Look at you !
 Howie wore buff-colored pants, big black boots
with downturned cuffs, and a
 maroon greatcoat over a white ruffled shirt. His hair, black as Harrys
but not nearly so
 well-groomed, was tied back with a colorful scarf of red and gold,
his face was half-
 covered with a curly beard, and a silver hoop was seated firmly in
one earlobe.
 Nice legs, Howie remarked snidely.
 Harry looked down and grimaced at the royal
blue tights and goldenrod-hued
 tunic, complete with crown-wearing dragon stitched on the left breast.
All right, all right,
 maybe I do look like a jester. But its the school uniform.
 Aye, I canna scarce believe it! To find ye
here ... tis a sorry shame, cuz.
 Tell me about it! Harry beckoned, and they
retreated into his room. Where, with
 the door not only closed but locked this time, he dared to lift a floorboard
and retrieve a
 flagon of wine from the space beneath. If Id known you were coming,
Id have gotten
 some rum.
 Nay, Ive had rum aplenty to suit me, Howie
laughed. For a while, betimes. So
 what are ye doin here? When Id heard yed gone to a prep school,
I thought mears be
 deceivin me!
 Theyre still trying to convince me the Academy
is right for me, Harry said,
 pouring them each wine in blue ceramic mugs with the school logo on
the side in gold
 paint. My fathers still got it in his head that Ill follow in his
footsteps.
 Arr, whens the man goin to learn? Is he
thinkin that yer magical talentll just
 sprout like chest hair as ye get older?
 Maybe, I dont know. All I know is Im stuck
here, and its driving me mad,
 Howie, it really is.
 Ye should have come to sea with me. In fact,
why dont ye? Strap on yer sword,
 grab yer money, and lets go! The Pursuivant s a fine ship.
He puffed up and hooked his
 thumbs behind the lapels of his greatcoat. And yere lookin at her
second mate.
 Thats great news! Second mate, already!
 Aye, while yere whilin away yer days in
this monks cell!
 Monks cell is right! I swear, Howie ...
thats whats the worst about it! Do you
 remember my birthday?
 When I took ye to the brothel? Aye, that
I do.
 Ever since, its all I can think about.
 The brothel or the wench?
 Women. Girls. Romps in the sheets. Cant
keep my mind on anything else. He
 chuckled ruefully. Its gotten so bad that I sometimes wonder if Diana
put a lust spell on
 me as a prank last time I was home!
 Ahhh, Diana! Howie caressed the name. Shes
growin up right comely, that
 lass!
 Dont get your hopes up, or anything else
for that matter, cuz. Shed just as soon
 lightning bolt you as look at you.
 That may be. But yer sister dinna seem the
type to cast that sort of spell on ye or
 anyone. He drank deeply, then added, Mores the pity!
 I dont know whether Im lucky or damned
that they keep us separate for classes.
 Its bad enough seeing them on the campus and at meals; if they were
right in the
 classrooms, my grades would be even worse than they are. As it is,
I start listening to the
 teachers and the next thing you know, my minds a thousand miles away
in a Symbyan
 harem!
 Be that why yeve the window shut on such
a bonny spring day?
 Howie pulled back the curtain and looked down
on the triangular yard. Harrys
 dorm was on one point, the other boys dorm was another, and the girls
dorm was the
 third. Each was on a hill, with paths sloping down to meet at Student
Square in the center.
 Student Square, a large ivy-covered brick building with white shutters
and trim, housed
 the dining hall, bookstore, a few shops, and the lounge.
 The day was bright and sunny, still weeks
away from the sweltering summer yet
 to come, and as the afternoon waned, the yard was full of students
on their way back from
 classes. Royal blue and goldenrod as far as the eye could see, the
females in blouses and
 mid-shin skirts instead of tunic and tights.
 I thought it would help me keep my mind on
my books. For all the good it did.
 Harry flipped back to the Entysan picture and Howie whistled appreciatively.
 It gets worse and worse, Harry continued.
The other day, I was in economics
 class --
 Howie interrupted with a noise of disgust.
Economics! Gods save ye, cuz!
 -- and I was looking out the window, not
really paying attention, and then the
 Headmistress of Girls went by ... oh, Howie, you should see her ...
she must be over
 thirty, and she dresses as demure as can be, hair in a bun, spectacles,
spinster-clothes with
 their high collars and all ...but I was watching her cross the yard,
and it was really windy,
 and a gust caught her skirt and threw it clear to her waist.
 Aye? Howie grinned.
 Aye, and she had on stocking-belts as red
as a succubus nipples and no knickers
 at all, a pert and trimmed little bush between the most luscious pair
of thighs youve ever
 clapped an eye to ... I nearly burst right out of these damn tights!
Thank the gods that they
 make us wear such long tunics, or I never would have made it back to
my room!
 Gilwans mighty horn! Why dont ye go out
and get a piece, lad? Yere not six
 blocks from Madame Delorrias!
 I know! From the library cupola, you can
see Madame Delorrias! But we have to
 get a permission pass to leave campus, and have it stamped when we
get back, and the
 bastards Truthsay us to find out where we went!
 Bollocks!
 They do!
 And ye put up with this? Sneak out some night!
 Oh, it gets better, my friend, it gets better.
When we enroll, each of us gets a tidy
 little tracking spell put on, that will alert them if we try to leave
without a pass.
 Howie groaned. If Id known, Idve smuggled
ye in a wench or two! And I
 suppose theyve got ye Geased sos ye canna boff any o those bits
o crumpet yonder.
 He jerked his head toward the girls dorm.
 No, actually, they havent done that. But
were not allowed to have visitors of the
 opposite sex in our rooms, and theres precious few other places to
go. Harry scowled
 bitterly. And the rules are stricter for some than for others. My
roommate, Cray -- short
 for Crayton -- has girls in his room whenever he pleases, and no one
says a word about it.
 They turn a blind eye because hes the schools star grassball player
--
 Howie made that noise of disgust again. Arse-grabbin
snots, the lot o them!
 But me? The times Ive tried, Ive no sooner
gotten a hand even close to Dorians
 Garden when the Headmaster will have one of his inspections. Now
all the girls know
 theyre dogging me, and steer clear to save themselves the demerits.
 Doggin ye? Dinna get paranoid on me, Harry
... mayhap yeve just had a run o
 bad luck.
 Or mayhap the fact that my grandmother is
on the Board of Directors has
 something to do with it.
 Och, blood-spattered hell! Howie spat. And
the old bats still bound to keep ye
 well under her thumb, is that it?
 Bad enough that Im a disappointment as a
mage, but gods forbid I should do
 something to tarnish the Ethelbald name!
 Yeve got to take the wheel o yer own life!
Yere never goin to be what they
 want to make ye, so all yere doin is makin yerself crazy tryin
to please. When its plain
 they dinna give a tinkers shit about ye.
 I know, I know. He drained his wine and
poured another. But I keep hoping
 that if I stick it out long enough, maybe this diplomat thing will
work out. And then Id be
 able to get away. Able to travel, see the world, meet kings and emperors
and sultans --
 And their daughters.
 And their daughters, Harry agreed. Id
be free.
 Ye could do that now. All ye have to do is
get yerself one o those passes, tell
 them yere going to run some errands in the marketplace, and neglect
to mention that the
 marketplace is in Dalanar or Ellia or Rakvi! A ship and the open sea,
what more dye
 need?
 Harry sighed. But it wouldnt be the same,
going as a common sailor or even a
 ships captain, as it would be going as the Pandathan Ambassador. If
Im ever going to be
 that, I cant afford to burn my family bridges. And if I left school,
if I ran away, my
 grandmother would make me wish Id gotten Calaan mad at me.
 Here be my prescriptions. First off, yeve
got to get a good fuck or two. Clears
 the mind. Then yeve got to decide which is more important to ye. Yer
freedom and self-
 respect, or playing kissy-bum with yer grandmother for the rest o
yer bleedin life!
 Good advice. Wish I could take it. But I
told you. Every girl on campus knows
 that the Headmaster is keeping a close eye on me.
 Though yer spring break was comin up. Yell
just have to spend it with me.
 Well tour the brothels and taverns until yer balls are so drained
that yell not be able to
 get it up until Yuletide!
 Oh, gods, I wish! Harry said fervently.
But Ive already got plans.
 And by the sour tone o yer voice, Ill warrant
theyre not plans o yer own
 devisin.
 No. One of my aunt Pigeons old friends has
invited the family out to spend two
 weeks at her estate. Dad cant go because of the Council, but Mom is
taking me and
 Diana. Two weeks with my uncle Charles, the most boring man in the
world, and the sons
 vying to dethrone him! Ill probably hear more about economics on my
break than I did in
 the entire last semester of classes.
 Yere doomed, lad. Still, maybe itll take
yer mind off women. Howie paused,
 thinking. Or ye could have yer frolics with the servant girls. Yeve
done that before.
 My luck, theyll all be white-haired Dalnari
grannies and crones with noses like
 baling hooks.
 Ye know what they say about cats at night.
 Im not that desperate.
 Ye will be, if ye keep dating yer hand.
 And having to listen to Cray rattle his headboard
with one beauty after another.
 Its a wonder he has the strength left to play grassball!
 Howd ye get roomed with the likes o him?
 Lunari only knows. Harry rolled his eyes.
Grandmother probably arranged it on
 purpose just to get me.
 A floorboard creaked stealthily in the outer
room, but before either of them could
 react, Harrys door was flung open and the Headmaster stood there,
glowering at them
 with his pinched yellow-brown eyes.
 Mister Ethelbald! Duh-rinking !
 Harry belatedly tried to shove the flagon
behind his back. Howie snatched it from
 him and turned belligerently to face the old man.
 This be mine, and Ill thank ye to knock!
Pah! A school, yed think people could
 learn some bloody manners!
 Howie, dont! Harry winced.
 Yours, is it? I doubt that. I doubt it most
strenuously.
 Headmaster --
 Is this the sort of guest your family would
approve of, Mister Ethelbald?
 He is family, Harry pointed out. My cousin.
 Oh is that so? A black sheep and a blacker
sheep. Most interesting. He rubbed
 his hands together with a sound like lizard skin. Well, this cousin 
of yours needs to be
 on his way now, else Ill be forced to take steps.
 Howie looked ready to take steps of his own,
but Harry waved him down. Of
 course, Headmaster. Howie, youd better go.
 Yere beaten, then, cuz. His expression
of saddened disappointment cut Harry
 to the quick. Theyve got ye for sure, and yell be suckin their
bilgewater forever. But if
 ye change yer mind, ye know where Ill be. He bit his forefinger insolently
at the
 blustering Headmaster and strolled out past him, the flagon of wine
tucked under his arm.
 Harry wistfully watched him go, then took
a deep breath and waited for his
 demerits.
 * * * * *
 The supper hour had come and gone, but Harry
hadnt noticed. Now, as he finally
 pushed himself away from his desk, with the actual contents of the
entire four chapters
 hed been supposed to read burning in his memory, he was ready to write
his paper.
 And starved.
 But it only took a glimpse down the hill to
show him that the lights were off in the
 dining hall. The lounge was open; he could even hear the music and
see the shadows of
 dancers moving past the windows. There, he could at least get a bowl
of stew, but it
 would also mean being surrounded by distracting girls. If he was going
to get his paper
 done, hed better just stay put.
 Luckily, he was prepared for such an eventuality.
He went home for the weekend
 twice a month, and his mother always sent him back with a care package.
It was getting
 down to the dregs now, but he was still able to scrounge up a quick
meal of not-quite-
 stale bread, cheese, and meat so thoroughly preserved that it would
probably outlast him.
 Two more demerits. He didnt want to think
about what his total was, but he
 consoled himself with the knowledge that at the end of the semester,
only a few days
 away, his slate would be wiped clean and he could come back and start
fresh after spring
 break. He was still a few demerits away from more severe disciplinary
action.
 He finished his meal, washed up, and stretched
the kinks and knots out of his
 back. Then he did a few practice lunges and ripostes, reflecting that
even if he was getting
 nothing else out of school, his fencing was already improved. Too bad
there wasnt a
 prosperous living to be made as a duelist.
 Fed, limbered, and more relaxed, Harry sat
back down and started working. He
 whispered to himself as he did; talking came so much more naturally
than writing! If only
 he were allowed to present his homework orally!
 He was on the third page and just getting
warmed up when he heard a key rattle in
 the outer door.
 Oh, perfect.
 Cray was back early, probably sneaking in
another girl. He could look forward to
 another concert of giggles and moans, the Creaking Bed Duet.
 Hello?
 Even though it was barely above a conspirators
whisper, Harry recognized the
 voice. Sherla, Crays most recent conquest. He summoned up a vision
of her -- rich
 golden hair, heart-shaped face, lovely legs.
 It would be rude not to answer, even though
she sure wasnt looking for him.
 Harry opened his bedroom door.
 Hello, Sherla ... Crays not home.
 The moment he saw her, he knew something was
wrong. She was too tense, even
 for a girl whod just snuck into one of the boys dorms alone. And
her big blue eyes were
 puffy, red-rimmed.
 Plus, as he spoke, she jumped and guilt
screamed across her features.
 I ... I ... didnt think anybody was here,
Sherla said, inching back out the door.
 Harry frowned. I thought you and Cray were
going to the new illusion-show over
 at the Academy tonight.
 Emotion brought a pink tinge to her cheeks.
He stood me up.
 He gaped at her. Why? Cray, miss a date?
 Oh, Im sure he kept his other date. She
bit off the words sharply.
 Uh-oh. Hed always expected this would happen
sooner or later. At any given
 time, Cray had from three to six girls on the string, and each of them
thought she was his
 one-and-only. Amazing, the things a fellow could get away with when
he had bronzed
 good looks and a build like a marble statue.
 He could have covered it up. Could have convinced
her. Cray would have owed
 him one.
 But why? Cray was a strutting self-important
bastard of the purest ray serene, and
 would never acknowledge, let alone repay, any debt to Harry.
 In that case ...
 Oh, thats right, Harry said easily, with
a wide winning smile. Tonight was
 Loresa!
 Loresa ! I knew it! That rotten no-good
--
 Shh! He motioned at the open door. The
Headmasters already been at me once
 today; if he finds you in here, hell bite my head off and spit it
into the harbor.
 Sherla shrugged angrily. I passed him in
the hall. He knew I was coming to
 Crays room. It didnt matter.
 Of course. His mouth went sour as curdled
milk.
 Loresa. What does he see in her ?
 Harry made it look like he was in the know
but choosing not to say.
 What? You have to tell me, Harry!
 Sherla, hes my roommate, I dont want to
get involved. I mean, sure, I hear
 things from time to time, and hes always talking about his various
girlfriends -- He
 widened his eyes at what sounded like a slip.
 She closed the door behind her and came toward
him. Various girlfriends. What
 kind of things does he say?
 I ... Ive said too much already. He backed
toward his room.
 Please! I have to know!
 Well ...
 Please!
 About Loresa, at least ... He cast about
in his mind ... what was it about Loresa?
 She was another blonde, Cray was limited in his tastes, but ... Shes
kind of got a
 reputation. I guess Cray thinks there are things shell do that ...
that you wont.
 Like what? she demanded.
 All the nights hed listened to them through
the walls ... but there had been
 something, hadnt there? He distinctly remembered ...
 Something he always begs you to do.
 Her mouth dropped open and she covered it
with one hand. And Loresa does?
 Oh! Oh, that slut, that tramp, that trollop!
 Now Harry was really wondering! All hed heard
were Crays whining pleas of
 come on, Sherla, just once, we can stop if you dont like it.
 Plus, he ventured onward, remembering another
difference between the girls.
 Shes ... no, never mind.
 Shes what? What? Please, you have to tell
me!
 Why? Sherla, Im sorry he stood you up, but
what good does it do to get wound
 up about it? Its just the way he is. None of his other girls are upset.
 How many does he have?
 Gods, I am really making a mess of this!
Harry feigned being distraught, ran a
 hand through his hair. I just figured all of you knew, and none of
you minded. I had no
 idea --
 How many?
 Four, I think.
 Four! She held onto the back of a chair
for support. Four! But he told me ... he
 gave me his spare key! Held up beseechingly.
 His brothers a locksmith, Harry said. Hes
got a drawerful of spare keys.
 Her fist curled around it so hard he bet shed
be seeing the reddened imprint there
 tomorrow, then she hurled it against the wall to Crays room. That
snake! He lied to me!
 Well, its for the last time! I am through with him!
 Im really sorry. He hung his head and looked
miserable. I always thought you
 were the prettiest one. Smartest. Nicest. Too good for him. A shame
he couldnt see how
 special you were. That hed let you get away just because of a set
of --
 A set of what?
 He couldnt meet her eyes, abashedly motioned
toward her bosom. Saw the
 realization dawn on her just what feature Loresa had that was superior
to hers.
 But shes huge ! Freakishly so! She
looks like a great big milk cow! And the way
 she wears her blouses ... she tailors them to be too tight, you know!
 Oh, he knew, every male on campus knew.
 So thats it, Sherla fumed. A pair of melons
and a ready mouth and hell go
 arunning!
 Aha, Harry thought. Thats what
he was begging for. 
 But if you suspected he was out with someone
else, he ventured, why did you
 come looking for him?
 That scream of guilt crossed her face again,
and she pulled a short-bladed knife
 and a paint-pen from her skirt pocket. I was going to ...
 Trash his room? Harrys eyebrows climbed
in astonishment.
 She nodded.
 Getting back at him like that wont help.
 Why not?
 Hell laugh. Hell say, look how upset I
got her. Ive seen it before, he
 admitted. Theres got to be a better way. How he did love a good
gamble ... now it was
 time to see if this one would pay off.
 Sherla bowed her head, then looked up at him,
and in his mind Harry heard the
 tumble of gold coins -- jackpot! Do you think Loresas are better
than mine?
 He laughed with a hint of embarrassment. I
... I wouldnt know. I mean, hers are
 right out there for all the world to see, but otherwise, those blouses
they give you girls
 kind of leave everything to the imagination.
 Oh. She slipped the top button, and Harry
stared in an incredulity that was only
 partly feigned. Another button. And another. Now the upper swells of
her breasts were
 visible, and the beginning of her cleavage.
 Um, Sherla ...?
 I asked you a question, Harry. A fourth,
then a fifth, and she paused to untuck
 the hem of her blouse from her waistband. The fabric yawed open as
she moved, giving
 him an eyeful of luscious flesh nestled within a pale blue silken chemise.
 He cleared his throat. I ... I can see enough
now to be sure of one thing. Theyre
 beautiful. Youre beautiful.
 She let the blouse fall from her shoulders.
Her eyes were blue and cold, the eyes
 of revenge, exactly as hed hoped.
 Better than Loresas?
 Like you said, hers are too big. But, um
... you really shouldnt be ... um ... doing
 that.
 Why not?
 I may not be known as a campus cocksman like
Cray, but I am only human. He
 coughed and averted his gaze, tugged at his tunic as if trying to cover
the swelling there,
 drawing her attention to it precisely as planned. I cant help ...
reacting.
 Are you scared of me, Harry?
 No, scared, nah, not me. He produced a shaky
laugh.
 Are you my friend?
 Of course I am!
 Then youll help me?
 Help you what? Trash Crays room? No, I cant,
I --
 No, youre right. That wont do. But I still
need help. He made me feel so bad, so
 terrible, worthless. I need to know if Im pretty.
 You are, he assured her in complete honesty.
 She stepped toward him, reaching for the ties
that held her chemise closed in
 front. I need to feel good about myself.
 He stammered, watching avidly as she bared
herself to the waist. He hadnt been
 lying, her breasts were beautiful. This was going better than his wildest
hopes, but how
 far did he dare to push it? A single misstep would be catastrophic.
 Id like to help, he said, swallowing so
that his throat clicked audibly. But what
 ... what can I do?
 Touch me, she invited, almost pleaded. Make
me feel pretty.
 Harry started to oblige, then stopped as if
struck by a sudden thought. Youre not
 using me to get revenge on Cray, are you?
 Certainly not! she lied, and he inwardly
smiled in satisfaction.
 Because I wouldnt want to do that to him,
he said. We may not be the best of
 friends, but he is my roommate. I ... I wouldnt want you to feel like
you were getting
 back at him through me. Or even ... doing anything you dont want to
because it might
 hurt him.
 He saw the light rise in her eyes, but she
said, This isnt about Cray. She took
 his wrists and pulled him toward her.
 Ah, Dorian, he murmured, letting himself
be pulled, letting her guide his hands
 to cup the twin globes of her breasts.
 Her back arched and she uttered a little gasping
sigh as he gently brushed his
 thumbs across her nipples. He let the reluctant-adolescent act fall
away and sought her
 lips in a compelling kiss.
 Sherlas mouth opened in surprise and he thrust
his tongue into it before she could
 voice a protest. One of his hands stole around to the small of her
back to hold her against
 him, the other massaged her breasts more urgently. Hers fluttered by
his elbows as if she
 wasnt sure what to do with them.
 He sensed her startled indecision, her sudden
worry that she had gone too far and
 gotten more than she bargained for, but then her body shivered and
she pressed herself to
 him with a low moan. The previously undecided hands encircled his neck.
 Their kiss broke and he moved to her jawline,
her earlobe, finding the sensitive
 spots and nibbling at them.
 Oh ... oh ... Harry, what ...?
 So beautiful, he whispered, inching down
to her collarbone, then further.
 Her fingers curled in his hair, tightening,
as if to stop his progress, but
 halfheartedly. When he reached the tip of her breast and drew it gently
into his mouth,
 even that token protest stopped and she held his head as if she might
never let go.
 The uniform skirt was secured by a series
of small clasps. Harry undid them so
 deftly and without ceasing any of his other activities that Sherla
didnt notice what was
 happening until the skirt puddled to the floor and left her in knickers,
stockings, and belt.
 No succubus-red here; the school colors of blue and gold continued
even to these
 garments.
 Harry knelt with fencers grace, sinking slowly
so that his lips could kiss a path
 from breasts to navel -- a dart of his tongue there made her giggle
through her moans -- to
 the upper edge of her knickers. They were pale blue and sheer, fitting
snug against her
 hips and lower belly, puffing out over a mound cushioned by a lush
patch of dark blonde
 hair.
 This, he could tell, was something she hadnt
counted on. Fully prepared to do
 what she must to avenge the slights dished up by Cray, but she hadnt
considered the
 prospect of her own arousal. He read it in the rosy flush on her pale
skin, the taut points
 of her nipples, the sweet perfume of her musk.
 The complexity of womens underclothes could
confound many a man, but Harry
 divested her of them with ease.
 Sit down, he urged.
 She did so, moving like one in a dream, on
the narrow couch. Her eyes, meeting
 his, were swimming with surprised longing.
 You ... I never thought you would ...
 Shh. He parted her knees and knelt between
them, running his tongue along her
 inner thigh.
 What are you doing? she breathed.
 He paused and raised his gaze back to hers.
Didnt Cray ever ...?
 Ever what?
 Kiss you here. His hand settled lightly
on her mound, the hair crisp and soft
 beneath his palm.
 She shook her head slowly. Ive heard some
of the other girls talk about that, but
 I never believed them. But he ... he wanted me to ...
 Let me kiss you here. Please. You dont have
to do anything for me unless you
 want to, just let me do this for you.
 Youre ... so different now!
 His fingers moved lower, finding damp heat.
Will you let me?
 By way of answer, she let her head fall against
the back of the couch and her legs
 relax apart. He bent and breathed of her scent, then opened her folds
with his thumbs and
 brought his tongue to her tender center.
 She exhaled in a long sighing, Ooohhhhhh,
that contained a world of wonder.
 He kept on, gently lapping as he inserted two fingers
deep into her channel to probe and
 explore.
 Soon Sherlas fingernails were scratching
convulsively at the cushion, her breath
 heaved and her hips writhed, but the few cries she made were the low
and muffled ones
 of a girl accustomed to the risk of being caught.
 When the final treasure of Dorians Gift was
finally hers, she trembled all over
 and her inner flesh clasped at his fingers in a way that made his heartbeat
race even faster.
 He pillowed his head on her thigh and waited
with a smile -- a rather smug smile,
 he had to admit -- as she rode out the waves.
 Oh by the gods, she panted. That was ...
oh!
 Thank you for letting me, he said. Did
it help?
 Help? She blinked, then remembered. Yes.
Very much. Ive never felt
 prettier.
 Youve never been prettier.
 It was the truth, nothing was lovelier than
a woman in the afterglow of rapture,
 unless maybe it was a woman on the very fringe of reaching it.
 He made sure she saw the passion warming his
eyes. Now was when she should --
 But what about you? That cant have done
much for you.
 On the contrary, it gave me a great deal
of satisfaction.
 Dont you want more?
 He chuckled self-deprecatingly. I wouldnt
refuse, but I dont want you to feel as
 if I expect it.
 I want to, she declared as if she had just
convinced herself of it. Let me return
 the favor, Harry, please.
 He let some of his confidence fall away, replacing
it with a bit more of the unsure
 youth routine. You mean ... you cant mean ...?
 I do mean that.
 If youre sure ...
 I am. She unlaced the collar of his tunic.
But youll have to help me take this
 silly thing off; Ive never been able to do it very well.
 Happy to oblige! He shed the tunic as she
slid onto the floor beside him.
 I never noticed before how nicely made you
are, she said, skimming her hands
 over his chest and stomach.
 He refrained from remarking about how girls
like her were too busy swooning
 over the behemoth-sized grassball players to pay any attention to other
sports, only
 shrugged as if he was a little embarrassed and enjoyed her caress.
The bulge in his tights
 was straining its outline unmistakably against the thin fabric.
 No, I never did notice, Sherla murmured
as she ran one fingertip along the rigid
 length. Lay back, Harry, let me get you out of these tights before
you split them.
 He complied most readily, stretched out on
the rug as she knelt over him with her
 hair swinging in golden waves around her breasts. She rolled the tights
down and off.
 His rod, freed from confinement, sprang up
stiffly from its thick black nest. Sherla
 took hold of it, and began to rub with excruciatingly pleasurable skill.
Cray might have
 found her lacking in some respects, but Harryd often heard him boasting
that what she
 could do with her hands alone would put a high-priced whore to shame.
 The sensations swirled through him and he
had to struggle not to give in to them.
 So long since anyone but himself had touched him
there, and his body was in a frenzy,
 but he didnt want it over too soon. Wanted to savor it, make it last,
because gods knew
 when hed get another chance!
 Sherla bent down with her face twisted into
a little grimace, as if braced for
 something foul but determined, for her revenge, to carry it out. Her
lips brushed the tip,
 her tongue flicked out for a quick sampling taste. Then a longer one.
He groaned
 helplessly as smooth, warm, wet pressure slid over-under-around the
head.
 He saw it in her eyes. Her new awareness of
two things -- that it wasnt at all what
 shed expected, and that he was utterly in her power. Then a cunning
glint that told him
 she was going to apply herself to this task as shed never applied
herself to anything
 before, that she was going to do her all to make it something that
Harry would never
 forget ... and by extension, strike back at Cray because he would never
experience it
 himself.
 Oh, and she did. The practiced expertise of
her hands was quickly adapted, and
 Harry nearly had to put a pillow over his face to stifle his cries
as Sherla proceeded to
 give him the best mouthplay of his life.
 Not even thinking of economics could forestall
the inevitable for long. He held
 onto her head as it bobbed up and down, his muscles tensing, his jaw
clenched, a ribbon
 of fire winding through his body to collect in his loins ...
 A key in the lock.
 What hed subconsciously been waiting for
this entire time. They could have gone
 to his room, he could have coaxed her to, but he hadnt. A daredevil
trait, some might say
 suicidal, because he wanted Cray to catch them in this act of
all acts.
 The door opened and Cray was there, one arm
looped around Loresa so that his
 fingers were hidden inside her gaping blouse. They were both drunken
and laughing and
 shushing each other, and just as their expressions were blasted into
shock, Harry quit
 trying to hold back.
 Sherla hadnt heard, hadnt seen. She started
as the first jet of his fluid filled her
 mouth, then redoubled her efforts, throat working smoothly as she drained
him of what
 felt like a years worth of pent-up passion.
 Harry couldnt keep from crying out this time,
so he made sure it was not loud but
 incredibly intense, the sort of soul-wrenching end-of-the-world cry
that would make any
 red-blooded male wonder what in the name of the gods a woman could
do to make a man
 sound like that, like he was dying from sheer ecstasy and was happy
to go.
 In that instant as his limbs were slowly melting
to quaking masses of jelly and
 sparks seemed to race along every nerve, Harry figured that this was
worth the beating he
 was probably about to get. Take that, Crayton Oakwood IV, you stone-brained
son of a
 bitch!
 Sherla raised her head and ran her tongue
across her lips, power and pride and
 accomplishment all shining from her like rays of light.
 Cray made a noise, somewhere between a rooster
getting its neck wrung and a
 teakettle reaching the boiling point. His face was so clogged with
blood that Harry
 wouldnt have been surprised to see his head explode.
 Hearing that noise, Sherla turned, and saw,
and froze.
 Harry sat up. All he really wanted to do was
lay there a while longer basking in
 the relief and contentment of the moment, but he reasoned that his
skull being about the
 same size as a grassball and conveniently there on the floor might
make Cray try to kick it
 through the window for a home-team goal.
 Loresa, no fool, ducked out from under Crays
arm and sidled down the hall. Cray
 didnt even notice her leaving, his gaze fixed in disbelieving rage
on Sherla.
 Somehow, Harry thought, I doubt this is quite
how Dorian intends for us to make
 use of her Gift ...

 * * * * *
 Fighting with your roommate, eh? Harold Ethelbald
Senior said, arching his
 iron-grey brows as he studied the sheet of parchment.
 Is that all it says? Harry reached, but
his grandfather whisked the sheet away
 with a quickness that belied his age.
 What else might it say?
 Nothing about ... girls?
 You had girls in your room?
 Let me see that! Come on, Grandfather, please!
 This time the older man relented, and Harry
read over what the Headmaster had
 written. No mention of Sherla or Loresa or the reason that he and Cray
had managed to
 turn their entire fourth-floor suite into a shambles and land themselves
in the campus
 infirmary.
 That ratty old whoreson, Harry grumbled.
Wasnt about to get Cray in any
 more trouble.
 Why dont you tell me what really happened?
The steel in Harold Seniors eyes
 made it not really a request.
 Are you going to tell Grandmother?
 Pfffff, boy! Do you think Ill need to? This
nonsense -- he thwacked the
 parchment with a limber finger, -- might go in your records, but you
can bet your
 backside that shell have even more details than you give to me, all
that before we get
 home.
 But if this is the official report, Harry
said, then I only earned ten demerits.
 Only, he says.
 Rather than the fifteen it would have been
for having a girl in the room. Which
 means I wont get expelled from school.
 The way youre carrying on, my boy, it looks
to me like youre trying for it!
 Harry chewed the ball of his thumb. Not intentionally
...
 No, but youve got a self-destructive streak
in you. He snorted. Must be one of
 those things that skips a generation; your fathers as straight an
arrow as they come.
 Which means your sons will be too, but youd better watch out for your
grandsons!
 But could you blame me? I have never liked
it here. Look at me, Grandfather.
 You know Im not Academy material. Ill never sit on the Council like
they want. Dianas
 got the talent, so why do they keep after me?
 Maybe you should ask them.
 I have, he said glumly. I dont even think
they know. But if they let me out of
 their sight for a single minute, they think Ill wind up the most notorious
scoundrel in all
 of Andur.
 That youll take after me, in other words,
the old man laughed. Chin up, boy.
 Youll have to eat a plateful of grief for todays escapades, but like
you said, you didnt
 get expelled. So you havent thoroughly disgraced the family. They
wont be too hard on
 you. Besides, you look like youve been run over by an ale wagon, so
they might even
 take pity on you.
 Harry just looked at him, knowing full well
that his grandmother didnt take pity
 on a living thing. She didnt go out of her way to kick starving orphans,
but by now they
 knew enough to scramble out of her path when they saw her coming.
 Hows the other fellow look? Harold Senior
asked. Has he got a shiner to
 match yours?
 Two, Harry said proudly. Cray may be fast
on the grassball field, but his idea
 of a punch is a roundhouse that makes the air whistle. All I had to
do was step aside and
 hed pull himself halfway around in a circle. Then Id pop him. He
called them sissy
 punches, until I broke his nose.
 Thats my boy! he cheered, then hushed as
the school nurse -- a dour old
 drayhorse whose lumpy potato figure and gargoyle face had instantly
squashed any
 budding daydreams Harry might have harbored about attentive bedside
care -- scowled
 menacingly at him. Now, then, howd you get into it with him anyway?
 Harry sighed and fessed up, doing his best
to make it sound like what it appeared
 to be: Crays jilted girlfriend seeking to get back at him by throwing
herself at his all-too-
 human roommate. He didnt go into detail, either about precisely what
Cray walked in on
 or how he had manipu -- no, encouraged , subtly encouraged, that
was a better term --
 Sherla into anything.
 And hed been right; in the end, their encounter
had been more than worth it. Hed
 soon forget the crunch of Crays fist when his one lucky blow had connected,
but the
 memory of her mouth would follow him the rest of his days.
 Damn me, but I wish I were young again,
his grandfather chuckled. Not that
 Id trade my life with my family for anything, you understand.
 Harry didnt understand; the man sitting before
him had been married to Charlotte
 Ethelbald (nee Sinclair) for better than fifty years, and there were
probably men
 condemned to a life sentence in the deepest prison pit in Pandathaway
who, given a full
 explanation and a chance to meet the lady in question, wouldnt trade
with him.
 How come you came instead of Grandmother?
he asked.
 I was home when the message got there. Harold
Senior shrugged. Down in my
 workshop, you know. She was off at one of those charity suppers, to
raise money for
 something or another. Involved with a lot of causes, is your grandma.
Thought Id better
 take care of this myself, because if they pulled her away from it or
your father away from
 his enchantings, youd be in even hotter water than you already are.
 Thanks, Grandfather.
 But you tell them that I scolded you so fierce
that you think youre going to have
 blisters, have you got that? Probably wont make them be any easier
on you, but miracles
 happen now and again.
 He can go now, the nurse informed Harold
Senior. Poultices and some
 willowbark are in this bag; heres a list of local chemists, herbalists,
and alchemists if he
 needs anything stronger.
 What, no healing spells?
 She sniffed. Our policy is to reserve magical
healing for serious injuries.
 In other words, Harry said, they think
I deserve it and theyre going to let me
 suffer. I bet Crays not getting a bagful of poultices and being showed
the door. Big game
 this tenthday, after all.
 The nurse chilled him with a look, then turned
to his grandfather. If you wish to
 pursue further treatment on your own, thats up to you.
 Might just, Harold Senior said. Come along,
boy. You didnt get expelled but
 you did earn yourself a three-day suspension, so that means the semesters
over.
 What? Harry grabbed the parchment again,
read the rest, and with a
 monumental effort of will was able to avoid cursing his heart out.
When that battle
 passed, he shook his head wearily (the motion causing a hitherto unsuspected
herd of tiny
 pains to stampede over him) and sighed. Well, I guess I dont have
to worry about
 finishing that paper.
 His grandfather eyed him craftily. Think
so?
 He thought about it and grudgingly admitted,
No. Suspended or not, theyll want
 me to hand in all my assignments.
 Harold Senior slapped his own knees and stood
up. Come on, then. Lets get
 your things together and see you home.
 * * * * *
 The next two weeks seemed stretched out before
Harry like a prisoner on a torture
 rack.
 He began the holiday squashed into a coach
with his mother and sister, aunt and
 uncle, and one of their sons (the other son, Aeric, being the youngest,
had to ride up with
 the driver).
 Squashed into a coach, his cousin Chas' elbow
digging into his ribs, the swaying
 motion making his lunch churn gruesomely in his stomach, sweltering
despite the cooling
 spell the driver had cast.
 And it was only going to get worse from here.
 This will be so nice, Joanna Ethelbald said,
smiling at her children. Its been
 too long since weve visited the country.
 Diana glanced up from her book and returned
the smile. Yes, Mother.
 Dont you agree, Harry? she hinted.
 Yes, Mother. His reply was far more hollow
than Dianas.
 It will be good to see Rheda again, Aunt
Pigeon said. And so good of her
 husband to welcome us!
 How long have they been married now? Joanna
asked.
 Harry looked out the window and listened with
half an ear to their discussion of
 Anson Byrtwold, the Southern Barony horse breeder. Man was said to
have one of the
 finest stables in western Andur, but he attributed his success to the
fact that his estate was
 located several miles from the nearest town with all of its distractions.
 Harry could ride, but it was something he
saw more as a necessary transportation
 evil than something to be pursued for fun.
 He already knew how it was going to go. His
mother and aunt and his aunts old
 chum would cloister themselves in the tea room and get tiddly on apricot
cordial,
 munching petite triangular sandwiches, talking about old times and
new gossip and the
 latest developments in Pandathaways famous chapter-plays. Lord Byrtwold
and Uncle
 Charles would fall naturally into discussions of business, with the
cousins joining in,
 because while both of them might be younger than Harry, theyd been
born as old misers.
 That would leave Harry with only Diana for
company, and anyone who took
 Theoretical Applications of Enchantment Magics to read on the
trip was not going to be
 lively company.
 When theyd been younger, his little sister
had been a pesky nuisance always
 wanting to tag along and tattle when he and Howie were up to mischief.
Recently, as their
 father realized that Harry was showing no signs of turning into a dedicated
mage, hed
 devoted more of his attention to Diana, and she in turn had seen that
there was one area in
 which she could outshine her big brother.
 He wouldnt even have his own schoolwork to
help pass the time. Under
 Grandmothers eagle-eyes, he had completed his paper, taken three tests,
and delivered a
 presentation. All was in order for him to return to classes at the
end of the break, albeit in
 a different room. And wasnt it so terribly convenient that the only
other room open in the
 entire dorm was the one just two doors down from the Headmasters own
quarters?
 Trapped. Howie was right. Oh, sure, in his
own way Howie was just as bad as the
 rest of the family, trying to push Harry into being and doing what
he wanted Harry to be
 and do; in that respect, Howie wasnt all that unlike Grandmother.
But at least the things
 Howie suggested were exciting, adventuresome. Things suited for a hot-blooded
young
 man.
 He smothered a sigh. Here they were in the
Southern Barony, where if the tales
 were true the young women pranced along the beaches in skintight knickers
and a grin,
 their tanned bodies glistening beneath a coating of sun-oil. But he
wouldnt be seeing any
 of that, oh, gods no, perish the thought!
 Mother and Aunt Pigeon were still talking
about the wedding. What Harry
 recalled most clearly about that big stuffy affair were itchy clothes,
a droning ceremony,
 sharp pinches on his arm whenever he fidgeted or was on the verge of
falling asleep, and
 getting bullied by the grooms son from his first marriage.
 And of course Othelia will be there, Aunt
Pigeon said. Do you remember her,
 Diana? Oh, you two were so darling in your matching flower girl dresses!
 Harry hid a yawn behind his hand and tried
to think. Othelia? Ah, yes, the brides
 daughter from her first marriage. Dianas age. Wasnt that a treat?
Even Diana, the
 bookworm, would have someone to talk to. Or maybe if Harrys luck was
really in, the
 Byrtwold boy would be there too, ready to give Harry another orc-burn.
 No, that was all in the past. Drefan Byrtwold
was a couple of years older than
 Harry, which meant that anyplace in Andur except for civilized Pandathaway,
hed be
 considered an adult. Harry considered himself a fairly good observer
of behavior, and
 could not think of a single instance in which hed seen one grown man
give another an
 orc-burn.
 They stayed at an inn that night, and either
the dinner of chicken-in-cream sauce
 or the way Mother and Aunt Pigeon gushed over how charming the place
was made
 Harrys already unsettled stomach cramp up on him mercilessly.
 He retired to the room he had to share with
his cousins without even a backward
 glance at the serving girls, even though one of them had been well
worth a second or third
 look.
 The next day was better, bringing a smoother
road and a cool wind washing in
 from the ocean. Harrys appetite improved, though his spirits remained
low.
 Soon the road left the beach and curved up
into the higher country, a land of
 grassy plateaus and stands of cottonwood trees. Weathered old posts
and the remains of
 rambling stone walls rose among wildflowers like remnants from some
fabulous,
 forgotten society. The hint of seaspray on the air was weaker, elusive.
 Byrtwolds estate was unimaginatively named
The Cottonwoods. It was set far
 back at the end of a long meadow, the road running straight up the
center to the covered
 porch. Fences lined the road, and dozens of horses tossed their maned
heads curiously,
 nickering to their brethren pulling the coach as they went by.
 Arent they lovely! Diana gasped. Like many
girls of her station, shed gone
 through a phase in which shed been fascinated with horses, but never
so severely as
 some of her silly young friends.
 The house was spacious and unpretentious.
It lacked the columns and fountains so
 popular in Pandathan architecture. The walls were thick to keep out
the heat and the
 windows were wide to catch the breeze.
 To one side of the house, a massive tree stood
alone and covered with blossoms
 just beginning to give way to fruit. A swing suitable for two people
hung from one of its
 sturdy lower branches, and Harry spotted a brindle cat sprawled across
the seat.
 The coach creaked to a halt, and the Ethelbalds
clambered gratefully out. The
 front doors -- two of them, painted white and inset with ovals of stained
glass that showed
 a rising sun and a crescent moon -- opened and a host of servants came
out. They
 swarmed around the coach, unloading the trunks and baggage strapped
to the top.
 Ludmilla! a womans voice called.
 It took Harry a moment to remember that Ludmilla
was his aunts given name;
 hed never heard Uncle Charles call her anything but Pigeon.
 Rheda! his aunt responded, hurrying toward
the steps as the woman came down.
 Harry knew he was staring, but no one was
looking at him, so that was all right.
 Hed assumed that a friend of his aunt and
mother would look like his aunt and
 mother, the same small dumpling-plumpish matronly type. Reading spectacles
suspended
 by a beaded chain, prone to fancy chocolates and chapter-plays and
needlepoint, that sort
 of thing.
 Rheda Byrtwold was worlds away from that.
Hed seen her once before at her
 wedding, but his only impression then of the bride had been someone
dressed up as a
 giant pastry, with sleeves poofed out to here and a skirt that four
people could hide
 beneath, the whole ensemble topped with layers and layers of cloudy
veil.
 Now he could see, and he liked what he saw.
 Her hour-glass figure was sheathed in apple-green
silk dotted with white silk
 flowers. The neckline plunged dangerously low but modesty was given
a nod by way of a
 lace-trimmed flounce. The dress was sleeveless, her arms bare and tanned
from shoulder
 to the dainty white lace gloves. Her hair was light brown feathered
with grey, swept up in
 a lace snood in the back.
 She wore the broadest-brimmed hat Harry had
ever seen, which not only shaded
 her face but cast an eclipsing shadow on the ground. It was held side-slanted
on her head
 with a ribbon. and burdened with fake fruit -- green apples for the
most part -- and doves
 so lifelike they seemed about to chirp and flap their wings.
 He recovered from his momentary stunned state
as their striking hostess moved to
 greet first his mother, then Uncle Charles.
 In every case, her greeting was the same:
catching up both hands in those dainty
 gloves, leaning forward to peck the cheek, and a dazzling smile and,
Welcome to The
 Cottonwoods!
 Goodness me, is this little Diana? Where
does the time go? Such a fine young
 lady! And ... Joanna, this cant be your son! Why, it seems
like only yesterday that he was
 playing tin soldiers on the staircase! Come here, Harry, let me have
a look at you!
 Her eyes were as apple-green as her gown,
and twinkling with exuberance. Harry
 returned her smile as warmly as he could.
 Thank you for inviting us, madam, he said
as she grasped his hands.
 A handsome, well-spoken gentleman; Joanna,
you must be very proud! She
 leaned forward to kiss his cheek, but as the brim of her hat obscured
their faces from the
 rest, planted it on his mouth instead. A quick but searing-hot kiss,
finishing with a flick of
 her tongue against his lower lip.
 She stepped back, and Harry was astounded
but didnt show it, bowed to her and
 watched intently as she moved on to his cousins. Neither of them got
such a reception,
 and when she turned away from them, he thought that her gaze shifted
back to him for too
 long a moment.
 Rheda went back to his mother and aunt, and
started telling them all about the
 house as she ushered them up the steps and through the front doors.
The rest trailed after.
 Harry brought up the rear, alternately wishing hed worn looser trousers
and speculating
 that these two weeks might be much more interesting than hed first
expected.
 * * * * *
 The pace of life was slower here in the Southern
Barony. During the hottest part
 of the afternoon, activity slowed to a crawl and the day fell silent
but for the sleepy drone
 of bees.
 Harry spent that first afternoon on the porch,
with a tall glass of lemonade close at
 hand and a book open but unread on his lap. Even reading seemed like
too much of an
 effort. It was nicer just to sit in the shade while the heat-shimmers
made quicksilver
 patterns on the horizon, and the horses drifted across the meadow like
mirages.
 The book also helped conceal his erection.
There was one part of his body that
 didnt care about relaxing in the drowsy heat. That part wanted to
do something much
 more energetic.
 A few yards from him, Rheda and his mother,
aunt, and sister were seated around
 a white wicker table with lemonade glasses of their own. The three
older women were
 trying lackadaisically to teach Diana a card game. Harry was too far
away to hear the
 rules, but close enough to admire the curve of Rhedas neck as she
fanned herself.
 She knew he was watching her. He was certain
of it. The sly sidelong glances she
 kept tossing his way, the pink tip of her tongue coming out to wet
her lips, the way shed
 turn her body to make her abundant breasts press against the silk of
her gown and outline
 them so clearly she might as well have been wearing nothing but a sheen
of apple-green
 paint.
 He didnt know what to make of it. She was
old enough to be his mother, for
 Dorians sake, far older than the girls dorm Headmistress whose stocking-belts
had so
 captivated him, but that didnt seem to matter. On the contrary. It
intrigued him all the
 more. What might a woman of her age and experience be able to teach
him?
 The very thought made a nerve that seemed
to run through the core of his body
 thrum like a lute string. His forehead was shiny with sweat that couldnt
all be attributed
 to the weather.
 A beautiful, voluptuous older woman flirting
with him. He certainly wasnt
 complaining, but he was wondering like mad. Why? Was she genuinely
interested, or
 merely having fun teasing him, or was there some more sinister aspect?
Had she, for
 instance, been put up to it by his grandmother as a test?
 Whichever it was, he wasnt about to make
a fool of himself by acting on his
 impulses. It was her game; hed be more than happy to play along until
he figured out
 what the rules were.
 As the sun dropped toward the sea, it turned
to a scarlet ball and streaks spread
 across the sky. Blood of the gods.
 Once the fiery orb slipped from sight, the
air cooled and the wind stirred and the
 land seemed to come to life again. A ripple of renewed energy swept
through the house.
 The servants bustled about, the horses capered in the fields and ran
with their necks
 arched and tails streaming behind them like flags.
 Dinner was served as a buffet, few hot dishes
but a marvelous selection of cold
 cuts, salads, and chilled desserts. A thin and reedy girl sang in a
thin and reedy voice,
 accompanied by a piper and a harpist.
 Uncle Charles and his sons appeared from the
depths of the house, arguing over
 ledgers. Chas was supposed to be a partner in the family business soon,
Aeric felt that he
 should be one as well despite his lack of years, and just listening
to them was almost
 enough to put Harry right to sleep.
 Midway through the meal, Anson Byrtwold and
his son arrived. The horse-lord, as
 he liked to be called, was a blocky, bow-legged man who looked as if
he would be far
 more at home in a saddle than walking the earth. He was jovial and
loud, prone to
 slapping people heartily on the back without realizing that his work-hardened
strength
 made them stagger.
 Drefan, a slope-browed troglodyte as a boy,
had only changed in that hed gained
 six inches in height and was now a slope-browed troglodyte of a man,
sullen and
 unhandsome, communicating rarely and then only in grunts or monosyllabic
replies when
 asked a direct question. The only one of the guests he seemed inclined
to pay any
 attention to was Diana, following her every move with his piggy eyes.
 Anson and Rheda brimmed with lively conversation,
and soon even got Uncle
 Charles and the cousins talking about something besides his business.
Harry was bemused
 and astonished, and found himself thinking about what his grandfather
had said. Straight
 arrows, skipping a generation? Obviously, Harold Senior didnt spend
much time around
 his other grandsons!
 When everyone had finished eating, Anson led
them all into his pride and joy, the
 game room. Harry had never heard that the Southern Barony people were
such
 inexhaustible card-sharks, or known that there were so many games to
be played.
 He had trouble concentrating on his cards
when they all took seats at the big table,
 though, because Rheda had contrived to be seated next to him. Apple
blossom perfume,
 her throaty giggle, the occasional touch of her foot against his as
she shifted in her chair
 ... good thing this wasnt a glass-topped table, because he had no
book to put over his lap
 this time!
 Good thing indeed ... four rounds later, as
Drefan was ploddingly but with great
 burning concentration dealing out the cards, Harry felt Rhedas palm
settle onto his leg.
 He didnt jump, didnt bleat in surprise,
didnt betray his reaction in any way
 except for a virtually unnoticeable quaver in his voice as he was regaling
Mother and
 Aunt Pigeon with a funny anecdote from the Thespians Club at school.
 Her hand rested where it was for a moment,
then squeezed gently. He glanced
 casually in her direction but she seemed to be listening intently to
his story, smiling
 merrily.
 Harry kept talking, elaborating, drawing it
out, making them laugh. As he did,
 Rheda slid her hand up his thigh, then curled down and in until her
fingertips were at the
 inseam of his trousers.
 By now, Harry had completely forgotten what
had actually happened at the
 Thespian Club that day and was making up his story out of whole cloth.
As he was the
 center of attention and using both of his hands to gesticulate and
emphasize, there was no
 way he could subtly get one of his down there to either move hers away
(was he insane?)
 or move it where he so throbbingly wished it to be.
 The pressure lifted and he inwardly groaned
in mixed disappointment and relief.
 But then, balancing on pearl-enameled fingernails, her hand walked
like a small animal
 up and up, treading lightly over the buttons of his fly.
 He paused for a much-needed gulp of icy lemonade
and continued his story,
 which was winding toward its climax ... now there was a word ...
 Tap ... tap ... tap ... on his buttons ...
like harpsichord keys or a little girl playing
 hopscotch. Not unfastening, just pushing down briefly on each one as
if counting them.
 Then with a suddenness that made him pinch the side of his tongue between
his teeth so
 as not to gasp, she gripped his rod firmly through the cloth.
 He concluded his story, which by now bore
no resemblance to anything that his
 friends in the Thespian Club would recognize, and everyone laughed.
Mother and Aunt
 Pigeon started applauding, and Harry could have screamed because if
they all did, Rheda
 would have to as well, which would mean shed need to take her hand
away, and he
 didnt want her to do that, not ever! Unless it was only to replace
it with something else,
 with her fabulously pouting mouth, perhaps.
 But she didnt, and the applause died off
quickly as Drefan passed out the last of
 the cards and the focus returned to the game.
 Harry picked up his cards and tried not to
let his hands tremble. He looked blankly
 at them, unable to tell the suits apart, conscious only of her fondling
him, slowly and
 somehow thoughtfully, as if she was attempting to measure the length
and girth and shape
 of him by touch alone.
 Then, agonizingly, damnably, it was her turn
to bet. She let go of him and went on
 with the game. Harry lost quite badly that round.
 He recovered his wits enough to do better
in subsequent rounds, and by the time
 they were done, he had subsided to a half-hard state, which, thanks
to the flickering
 gaslamps the Byrtwolds used instead of steady and unforgiving Continual
Lights, would
 be easy enough to conceal long enough to get to his room.
 They all said their goodnights, made plans
for a more formal dinner the next
 evening to celebrate Rhedas daughter Othelias return from her paternal
grandparents
 house, and parted ways to their rooms.
 Harry closed his door but did not throw the
bolt. Each of the guest rooms had two
 beds, and he wasnt sure whether it was luck or someones purposeful
planning that he
 had ended up in a room by himself. He was hoping for purposeful planning,
but hed
 settle for luck; either way, he was in here alone and would it be out
of the question to
 think that maybe, just maybe, he might be visited in the night?
 The moment he let himself imagine, his erection
came back full-force and raging.
 He didnt want to seek his own relief, because what if she did come
in and he wasnt
 ready? But suppose she didnt come in; gods help him, hed never
get to sleep!
 He stripped and washed and contemplated putting
on the long shirt and loose
 pants that were his usual night attire, then decided against it. The
night was too warm,
 even with the breeze blowing in the open window.
 Nude, he lay down and pulled the sheet over
himself. Below his waist was a
 protrubance that, covered in the pristine white cotton, looked like
a tree branch buried in
 a snowbank. The soft fabric was woven with a texture that chafed enticingly.
 He rolled over, but that was no good; now
the source of his distraction was pinned
 beneath his body and the bed, and if he rocked just a little, thrusting
against the mattress,
 and envisioned someone beneath him ...
 He rolled again, this time onto his side with
his face toward the window. There.
 Now sleep. 
 She had groped him right there in the game
room. 
 He buried a strangled groan in the pillow.
 Think about something else! 
 She had kissed him on the mouth, darted
her tongue against his lips -- 
 Something besides that! 
 He saw her in his mind as vividly as he had
that afternoon, fanning herself, tiny
 beads of perspiration rolling down her neck and into the dark valley
of her cleavage ...
 Scent of apple blossoms ... breathing it in,
fragrant and intoxicating ...
 The click of the doorlatch lifting sounded
loud as a whipcrack.
 Harrys breath caught in his lungs. He lay
with his eyes wide open and staring at
 the window, listening to the faint creak of hinges, the thump of a
door being carefully
 closed, the brush of feet on the rug crossing the room.
 If its Mother coming to say goodnight,
I will lose my mind, Harry thought.
 But the scent of apple blossoms was stronger
now, and he knew it wasnt from the
 tree outside.
 Dear gods, he couldnt move! His body was
locked, frozen.
 He sensed someone leaning over him, and then
warm air blew in his ear, a breath
 that carried the shape of his name in a whisper.
 Harry.
 Say something! 
 His glibness had deserted him; Mmm? was
all he could manage.
 The sheet was raised, letting in a draft.
Then the draft was gone and Rhedas
 satiny plush curves were pressed against him. She pulled the sheet
up to cover them both,
 snuggling against him so that her breasts were plumply crushed against
his back and his
 buttocks were up against her hips and mound. Her legs molded themselves
along his and
 they lay together nestled like spoons.
 You are a very handsome and desirable young
man, Harry, she murmured in his
 ear, working her arm between his arm and body so that she could twine
her fingers
 through the hair of his chest. Are you a very experienced young man?
 Ive been with a few girls, he said, keeping
his voice low.
 Id like for you to fuck me.
 The coarse word from a friend of his aunt
and mother was joltingly arousing. His
 rod lurched like a stallion at the reins.
 Id like that too -- understatement of the
Age! -- but ... your husband?
 What Anson doesnt know wont hurt him, but
if you dont want to risk it, I
 understand.
 He took hold of her wrist and brought her
hand down. Ill risk damned near
 anything!
 Her fingers wrapped around him unobstructed
by cloth. He was already seeping
 droplets of clear liquid, making the head of his member slick, moistening
the slow firm
 pumping of her hand as it moved persuasively.
 The moment I saw you, I knew I had to have
this, she purred, emphasizing with
 a squeeze. I knew you were just the man Ive been looking for.
 When I saw you ... it was a chore to form
coherent words, ... I ... you ...
 I wasnt what you expected? she giggled,
and lapped her tongue along the rim
 of his ear.
 Not at all what I expected.
 You thought Id be just like your aunt.
 Uh-huh.
 Arent you glad to be wrong?
 Uh-huh!
 Be on your back for me, my darling young
Harry.
 He turned and she crawled atop him, and they
kissed with hungry open mouths
 and fencing tongues. He stroked the sleek line of her back from shoulderblades
to full
 firm bottom, thinking ramblingly of silk and apple blossoms and balmy
southern
 evenings.
 She shifted, and the tip of his rod was surrounded
in heat.
 Now, she sighed. Inside me. I want you
inside me.
 Her hips lowered as his rose urgently, one
deep stroke immersing him fully. She
 was already well-oiled by her own passion and moaned rapturously. Harry
clutched her
 buttocks and pulled her down as she rocked, soon finding that she liked
it best when he
 timed short hard thrusts to match her downward movements.
 Release came in a sudden and overpowering
frenzy. There was no chance of
 delaying his pleasure this time; Rheda rode him relentlessly as her
inner flesh contracted
 around him, milking his seed, wringing from him such a shattering climax
that his eyes
 seemed to bulge in their sockets and a thunderous rush drowned his
ears and for several
 moments he lost all sense of himself and floated in a close and enveloping
darkness.
 He wasnt sure how long he was lost, but soon
sensation returned and he gradually
 realized that they were still locked together, his softening length
still buried within her,
 their bodies and the bedclothes soaked.
 Rheda raised her head from his shoulder and
kissed him lingeringly. He returned
 it as best he was able, which was rather weakly, and smiled up at her.
 I wish I could curl up beside you and sleep
in your arms, she whispered.
 Thatd be nice. His voice reminded him of
a falling leaf, seesawing lazily down
 through the air.
 And wake you in the morning to go again,
she added, licking her lips.
 Mmmmm!
 But tomorrow, I may have another request
for you.
 I will be happy to be of service, he said.
Any service you might require.
 Good. Youll be perfect for the task I have
in mind.
 She kissed him again, and tucked the sheet
back around him as she left the bed.
 There was a crumpled robe on the floor and she put it on, not that
it concealed much, as it
 looked to be spun of moonlight and mist.
 Harry watched as long as he was able, until
she slipped out the door and vanished
 like a ghost. Then, with a silent message of thanks to the gods, he
plummeted into a
 dreamless sleep.
 * * * * *
 When he went downstairs the next morning, he
was half-convinced that everyone
 would know, they would just see it all over him no matter how carefully
composed he
 kept his features.
 Theyd be horrified, disgusted, his mother
would weep and wail and wonder how
 on earth she had raised such a vile and despicable son. Maybe Anson
Byrtwold would call
 him out, or, more likely, the horse-lord would take after him with
an axe.
 He walked into the sunlit dining room with
some trepidation, and found only
 cheery greetings from Mother and Aunt Pigeon. They were the only ones
in attendance,
 poring over a book of dressmakers designs.
 Good morning, sleepy-head! his mother trilled.
We werent sure if wed see
 you before lunch.
 Nothing like the country for a good nights
rest, Aunt Pigeon said. Here,
 Joanna, what do you think of this one? With a three-quarter sleeve,
maybe, and a fuller
 skirt?
 Did I miss breakfast? Where is everyone?
 There are some muffins and fruit on the sideboard,
dear. I think, Pidge, that I like
 this one better, though Id do away with that ghastly collar.
 Anson took Charles and the boys out to the
foremans office, on the west end of
 the ranch, Pigeon said. Rheda is showing Diana around the gallery;
Diana was
 interested in her collection of Glantrian ceramics.
 And what are you two lovely ladies up to?
He selected a chocolate-swirl muffin
 and leaned over to look at the design book.
 Rhedas seamstress is coming tomorrow to
measure Othelia for some summer
 frocks, his mother explained. We thought it might be fun to have
some Southern
 Barony styles to take back to the city.
 This one would be very flattering on you,
Mother, Harry said, tapping one of the
 pictures. In a nice soft pink, nothing too bright, and the trim in
cream. It would be
 perfect with that shawl you have, the one sewn with the tulips.
 Hes right, Joanna!
 Harrys always had an eye for fashion, his
mother proudly replied. Oh, it
 makes his father tear his hair out sometimes, the money this boy would
spend on clothes
 if he could get away with it, but I have to admit, he dresses much
more nicely than any of
 his friends.
 If only I could get my two to care about
how they dress! Theyre as bad as
 Charles, I swear; they get out of bed and put on the first things they
see in the wardrobe
 whether they match or not. Their minds are always on business.
 So Othelias coming back today? Harry started
to sit, found a binder of fabric
 swatches on the chair, and moved it. I know I must have met her at
the wedding, but I
 can hardly remember what she looked like.
 I remember, his mother said dolefully. The
poor child! I almost didnt let
 Diana be a flower girl, because I was so worried shed outshine little
Othelia.
 Yes, she was a bundle of sticks, wasnt she?
Aunt Pigeon clucked as she shook
 her head. And that hair, my word!
 Mother nodded. Like shed been struck by
lightning. Theyd tried to control it
 with a bow, but all through the ceremony, strands would keep coming
loose. Still, a very
 sweet girl.
 Very sweet, Pigeon agreed.
 Was she the one that knocked over the punchbowl?
Harry asked, a fragment of
 memory coming back to him.
 Id forgotten that! His mother rolled her
eyes skyward. And it couldnt be just
 any punchbowl; it was one of the magical ones theyd rented. Why it
wasnt
 Shatterproofed, Ill never know.
 Aunt Pigeon took the binder of swatches and
began flipping through. How about
 this blue?
 Too greenish, Harry said promptly. It wouldnt
work with your skin tone at all.
 Youd want something with a richer shade ... more like this one.
 Oh, Harry, I dont know, its awfully bold.
 For a whole gown, maybe, he allowed, sliding
the design book over. But if you
 had something like this, you could use the blue for the panels here
and here, and these
 parts in another fabric. A subdued flower print, maybe, or one of the
new patterned silks.
 She considered it, and tittered as she turned
to his mother. Joanna, youre
 wasting this boy having him trained for the Academy; you should get
him his own shop!
 The richest women in Andur would be flocking to him!
 They both laughed then, and Harry half-heartedly
joined in, because it was such a
 rollickingly good joke, an Ethelbald in the clothiers business? Unforgivable!
 Inexcusable! Wouldnt matter if he was a merchant-baron and a Guildmaster,
with a
 thousand employees and a fortune so vast it would make the Emperor
blanch. He would
 still be -- gasp! -- a craftsman !
 He finished his muffin, dabbed his lips with
a napkin, and stood. I think Ill go
 see what Dianas up to. Glantrian ceramics? Sounds interesting.
 Its just a light lunch on the back terrace
today, his mother reminded him.
 Dinner will be early, and Rhedas promised us entertainment
after.
 Harry hid a grin, last nights entertainment
still very fresh in his mind. Thank
 you, Mother.
 He left them with their design books, though
it seemed likely that they were both
 going to take his suggestions. Maybe his tastes did occasionally run
to the extravagant --
 he would give his eyeteeth for a cloak of purple estincloth, say, or
a dragonsuede jacket,
 but he knew that if he dared broach either matter with his father,
Harold the Second
 would age twenty years right in front of him.
 The gallery was a long room on the second
floor, overlooking a narrow balcony
 over the porch. Its floor was gleaming hardwood in an intricate herringbone,
the walls
 covered in understated tan flocked paper. The shelves and glass-fronted
caged were of
 rosewood, and contained Glantrian pieces ranging from antique cosmetic
pots to
 painstakingly detailed sculptures and figurines.
 Diana and Rheda were at the far end, in front
of a shelf holding a dozen or more
 jars. Each was about a handspan in height and painted with colorful
coats-of-arms; the
 lids were carved from semi-precious stones into the shapes of people
or animals.
 They heard him come in. Rheda, in a lemon-yellow
dress with off-the-shoulder
 puffed sleeves, turned and smiled at him. And heres your brother!
Sleep well, Harry?
 Marvelously.
 Harry, come and look! Diana beckoned. These
are actual Glantrian death-jars!
 Death jars? he echoed, wrinkling his nose.
 Lady Byrtwold was just telling me how theyre
used ... each Glantrian household
 has one, and when a member of the family dies, before theyre entombed,
the closest
 relative severs the right forefinger of the corpse! Her eyes were
wide with morbid
 fascination. Then they wrap it in twine and keep it over the fireplace
for ten days, right
 there in the house, Harry, can you imagine? And then, when its dried,
they put it in the
 jar with the others, and keep using the same jar until there are ten
fingers inside!
 Thats positively ... Claani, Harry said.
 No it isnt, Diana said seriously. Its
not like the use the fingers to summon up
 the spirits of their relatives, or as if the fingers creep about at
night to strangle people.
 Honestly, Harry!
 Its gruesome. If one of our parents died,
would you want to do that?
 Were not Glantrian, she said as if that
was that.
 Rheda picked up one of the jars and objects
clattered inside. Harry could all-too-
 easily envision the dry brown twiglike contents. He saw that the lid
was sealed in place
 with a thick coating of wax. She held it so he could see the back,
where the names and
 dates of the deceased were listed neatly.
 The ones we have are all over a hundred years
old, she said. This one is the
 oldest; it dates back almost four centuries.
 Isnt it incredible? Diana reached, then
hesitated. May I?
 Help yourself, just dont open them. She
winked. Some say that the last thing
 they do after sealing the jar is put a curse on it!
 Serious, studious Diana wasnt impressed.
Im not detecting any enchantments.
 Harry had given up trying to spook her with
ghost stories years ago, but he added
 with a sly grin, There are more kinds of magic than can be explained
in Pandathaway,
 sister dear.
 Nothing cannot be explained.
 The stories from Krudanga --
 Oh, stop it, Harry, next youll be telling
me about Grandfather and the Bee
 People.
 Rheda laughed, and it was smoky and deep and
sent a pleasant tingle down
 Harrys spine. It was nothing at all like the girlish giggles of his
mother and aunt. I dont
 think your brother much cares for this part of the collection. Ill
show him our prize. This
 way, Harry, Ill introduce you to King Calvin.
 I didnt think Glantri had ever been a kingdom,
Harry said, accompanying her to
 the other end of the room. Just independent principalities that have
been at war with
 each other since they discovered they had neighbors.
 Diana remained where she was, carefully taking
down one jar after another to read
 the writing on the back. It disturbed Harry a little, made him wonder
if his innocent-
 looking sister was leaning toward a degree in necromancy. He could
just see her as one of
 Master Aravans terrified and overworked apprentices.
 Quite true, Rheda said, coming to a halt
before the crowning glory of the
 collection. It was on a marble pillar draped with black velvet, and
cordoned off with
 brass-topped posts and heavy gold bellpull ropes. This is King Calvin
the First, Unifier
 of Glantri.
 The statue had been broken on an angle, so
Calvin was missing his right arm --
 the set of his shoulder suggested that it had been upraised, possibly
with the short cavalry
 saber so popular in Glantri -- and his chest and belly were split at
a diagonal. But his
 upper torso, left arm to the elbow (this one made Harry surmise that
it had been
 outstretched to hold reins), and his head were all intact.
 Never heard of him, Harry said.
 Id be more surprised if you had.
 He twitched as she idly reached behind him
and patted his rear. With a small,
 impish smile, she left her hand where it was as she spoke.
 Calvin here was the prince of House Chimera.
He had a large army and larger
 dreams, and set out to conquer all of his neighbors. Her voice dropped
to a whisper. Do
 you remember agreeing to do a favor for me?
 Her hand was still on his backside. Across
the room, Diana was engrossed with
 the death-jars, and Harry realized that Rheda had positioned them so
that the pillar
 blocked them from the waist down so that her actions would be hidden
even if Diana
 turned.
 I remember, he murmured.
 He was remarkably successful, she continued
loudly. So much so, in fact, that
 soon he had taken over all but one principality. Whispering again:
Your grandmother
 warned me about you.
 What did she say? He almost forgot to keep
his voice low, so added in a more
 normal speaking tone, What happened then?
 It was winter, and Glantri gets very muddy
in the winter. To pass the time,
 Calvin started making arrangements for his coronation. He commissioned
his crown, his
 new castle, and of course several statues of himself in heroic poses.
Whisper: She told
 me you were a lecherous young rakehell, overly charming, and the only
course of study
 that really interested you was the bedroom arts.
 He huffed disparagingly, which applied to
both Calvins presumptive pride and
 Grandmothers fairly accurate assessment.
 Then Calvin led his armies onto the field
... She paused, or would seem to from
 a distance as she whispered, She wanted to warn me so that I could
protect my servant
 girls.
 And he lost? Harry asked, adding, Ill
just bet she did.
 Oh, he lost. He was trounced, chased halfway
to the sea, and then cut down.
 With Calvin dead, the conquered princes or their heirs demanded that
everything hed left
 behind be destroyed. His flags were burned, his statues smashed.
 Diana stepped out onto the balcony, and Harry
dared speak normally.
 She never lets up. But ... if she told you
all that ... why ...?
 Because, dear Harry, it was the best news
I could have heard! Your
 grandmothers error was the same as yours -- she assumed that I would
be just like Joanna
 and Pigeon. A fussy, slightly daffy middle-aged lady.
 Ive never been more glad to be proved wrong,
Harry said.
 Yes, it was wonderful news. Anson is an excellent
provider, but his appetite has
 diminished while mine has increased. A healthy, lusty young man paying
me a visit ...
 how could I resist such a gift? And I thought it might also provide
the solution to another
 problem. Thats the favor Id like to ask of you, Harry.
 What is it? Im at your service, completely.
 Its my daughter.
 Othelia?
 Yes, Othelia. Shes nearly Dianas age, and
Im worried about her. When a girl is
 a little girl, no one pays her any mind. But when she starts to become
a woman, things
 change.
 And as shes returning today, with Grandmothers
warning well in mind -- he
 began sourly.
 Simply put, I want you to bed her.
 His brows rose sharply. Excuse me?
 Its only a matter of time before someone
does. Id much rather have Othelia
 taken into womanhood enjoyably than rudely poked by a rancher or one
of the servants,
 or even, gods help us, that slackjawed stepson of mine.
 It wasnt often that Harry was struck speechless,
and on the few occasions he was,
 it never lasted long. Gods, am I hearing this?
 Youre young, handsome, experienced, and
the sample I had last night tells me
 that youll be an instructive and considerate lover to my Othelia.
You wont be using her
 for your own selfish pleasure.
 But ... sorry, this is all a little strange!
Being asked to stay away from someones
 daughter, that I could understand!
 Think of it as a good deed. In olden days,
the Dorianites used to make sure that
 all virgins were properly initiated, but times have changed and now
we just have to make
 do.
 Harry stared into the white marble orbs
of King Calvin the First, but the long-
 dead Glantrians expression of purposefully regal arrogance wasnt
helpful.
 His thoughts flashed back to what his mother
and Aunt Pigeon had been saying.
 Now he could call up a mental image of Othelia as shed been at that
wedding, a homely,
 scrawny, gamin-faced child with an uncontrollable mass of hair so tightly
curled it looked
 kinked and frizzed. All knees and elbows and lines and angles, nary
a curve to be seen.
 Hed always prided himself on seeing beauty
in many different types of women.
 His tastes were not limited to a certain sort, not like Crays consuming
interest in only
 blondes. He had acquaintances who were drawn irresistibly to specific
features like legs
 or breasts or bottoms, but Harry himself couldnt be classified by
those means. Simply
 put, he liked beauty, in all its myriad forms.
 His memory of Othelia, therefore, didnt much
encourage him. He opened his
 mouth to suggest that her mother might be worrying needlessly, then
closed it partly out
 of politeness and partly out of his knowledge that some men wouldnt
care whether a
 woman were plain or homely or downright revolting so long as there
was a receptacle
 they could fill. Drefan Byrtwold was probably one of those.
 Rheda was watching him with impatience-tinged
amusement. If its taking you
 this long to make up your mind, perhaps your grandmother was wrong
about you after all.
 I didnt think Id have to talk you into it.
 How could he tell her that it wasnt any moral
reservation that had him stumped,
 but the worry over whether or not hed be able to go through with it
once he got a look at
 her? Howies adage about cats at night clanged in his brain like a
bell. With the lights out,
 did it matter? An offer like this surely didnt come along often in
a mans life. Turn down
 the chance to bed a virgin with her mothers full knowledge and permission?
Hed be
 crazy to refuse!
 Id be honored to do this favor for you,
he said as modestly as he could manage.
 She leaned close to kiss him, brushing her
breasts against his chest. Thank you.
 Though Im not sure how I should go about
it, he admitted. Flirting with her in
 front of my family --
 Oh, goodness, Harry, theres no need for
that. You dont have to seduce her!
 Leave all the arrangements to me.
 He goggled at her. I dont think Im following
...
 Ill explain everything to Othelia. Then,
when the time is right ... one of Ansons
 mares is due to foal soon and he and Drefan usually spend the night
in the stable when
 that happens ... Ill bring you to her room.
 You mean ... just go to her, no romancing,
no courting, just go to her in the night
 and ... and ...
 And fuck her, Rheda said bluntly. If it
would make you more comfortable, I
 could stay.
 Ah ... no ... I dont think that would help,
honestly. Its going to be odd enough
 without having her mother sitting there watching! For Othelia as well
as for me. Well
 muddle through somehow.
 Youre such a darling, Harry! Just promise
me youll be as kind and gentle as
 you can.
 You have my word.
 * * * * *
 What have I gotten myself into? Harry
wondered bleakly as he stood on the porch
 with the others and watched the coach rolling up the road leaving a
plume of dust rising
 in its wake.
 Was it his imagination, or was Diana giving
him a suspicious look? Shed been
 out on the balcony during most of his conversation with Rheda, so she
couldnt have
 heard. Could she? He supposed it was even within the range of possibility
that his
 intelligent little sister had made use of one of her handy spells.
There were a host of them
 that dealt with such things, werent there?
 If she did know something, Diana wasnt saying.
 The coach came to a stop, and the same swarm
of servants rushed out to begin
 unloading six months worth of luggage. Like the Entysan goddess of
the underworld, she
 spent half of the year with her mother and the other half elsewhere,
not the Abyss in this
 case but at the home of her fathers parents. According to Rheda, the
lady and gentleman
 were of advanced years and doted on their only living grandchild. In
the interest of
 securing a tidy inheritance for her daughter by keeping in their good
graces, Rheda was
 quite agreeable to the arrangement.
 The footman opened the door and Othelia emerged,
blinking, into the daylight.
 Harry breathed a silent sigh of relief. No
raving beauty, perhaps, but she wasnt
 the walking scarecrow that hed privately been dreading to meet.
 Othelia was as tanned as the beach-prancing
girls of Harrys fond daydreams, but
 there the resemblance ended. Slim, almost boyishly so, she moved with
an energetic
 awkwardness that reminded him of broken punchbowls.
 Her wild ash-brown hair had been ruthlessly
tamed into a thick braid that fell to
 the small of her back, though several snaky tendrils had come free
to blow around her
 face. She brushed them back with quick birdlike flicks of her fingers;
the hair would
 cooperate and then rebel the instant she forgot about it.
 The elder Ethelbald women rustled disapprovingly
as they took in Othelias outfit.
 Close-fitting cotton trousers of faded blue-grey showed every inch
of her long coltish
 legs, and when she embraced her mother, Harry noted that the trousers
clung sweetly to
 her narrow hips and small but shapely bottom. Her white blouse was
knotted above her
 navel, exposing the indent of her midriff.
 Introductions were made, and when Rheda brought
her to meet him, Harry found
 himself looking into a pair of clear and alert but rather naive dark
brown eyes. Her voice
 was very soft, low, the sort that would infuriate schoolteachers no
end and have them
 always asking her to speak up , please!
 He smiled, trying to let his interest be known
to her while not making it obvious
 to anyone else, and she returned a tentative grin that was quick as
a lightning-flash, there
 and gone but while it was there, just for the briefest of instants,
it brought about an
 amazing shift in her features that turned her moderate prettiness into
something much
 more.
 Harry was beginning to feel considerably better
about this whole thing. Also a
 little bit like a selfish cad -- Rheda thought he was doing her a favor,
when he suspected
 that it would turn out to be the opposite -- but who was he to correct
a lady? That would
 be rude.
 They all went into the house, Rheda talking
Othelias ear off and confirming for
 the bemused Harry how come the girl never seemed to speak above that
low-pitched
 murmur.
 Dinner was a large and festive gathering.
In addition to their houseguests, Anson
 Byrtwold had also invited the ranch foreman and his wife, the local
healer and her
 husband, and two other couples from neighboring houses (though here
in the high country
 of the Southern Barony, a neighbor was anyone whose chimney-smoke
could be seen
 from the property, as opposed to densely crowded Pandathaway.
 Throughout the meal, Harry observed Othelia
as surreptitiously as possible. It
 gave him a peculiarly thrilling sense of power to know, not just wonder
or hope or wish,
 but know that although they were strangers to each other, he
would be in bed with her,
 possibly before the week was out. On the heels of that came another
rush of power, this
 one stemming from the slinking and lewd business of bedding both mother
and daughter
 within the same span of days.
 She hadnt quite outgrown her childhood clumsiness.
Her posture was one of
 always awaiting the next crash of shattering glass, her movements a
conflict like that of
 someone trying to control a frisky horse that didnt mean any harm
but just couldnt
 control it.
 The promised after-dinner entertainment turned
out to be a comedic troupe,
 including a juggler, a clownish tumbler, and a pair of men performing
skits and telling
 jokes just off-color enough to send the ladies into scarlet-faced fits
of laughter.
 At one point, Harry spotted Rheda leading
Othelia from the room. They were gone
 a goodly while, and when they came back, the girl was wide-eyed and
stunned. When she
 saw Harry looking at her, she jerked and her elbow struck a vase; it
tottered and almost
 plunged to the floor but she saw it and averted the mishap.
 When the entertainment was over, Anson suggested
they return to the dining room
 for dessert, and following that, anyone bold enough could join him
in the game room for
 a few rounds of cards.
 Othelia slipped outside, and on impulse Harry
decided to follow. If he was going
 to rid the girl of her virginity, he reasoned, it might not be a bad
idea to at least talk to her
 first.
 He found her by letting his ears guide him
to the squeaking ropes of the swing.
 She coasted back and forth in shallow arcs, in and out of the trees
spreading shadow.
 She saw him and pushed her feet against the
ground, stopping the swing. By the
 set of her body, he suspected she was inches away from bolting like
a skittish pony.
 Hi, he said as mildly as he could.
 Hi, she murmured in that low voice, and
it occurred to him how well-suited
 such a voice would be for pillow-talk.
 Would you mind if I sat down?
 She scooted over as far as the arm of the
swing allowed, and he settled onto the
 other end, allowing that distance in the middle.
 There was no point in dithering about. Your
mother told you, didnt she?
 Othelia swallowed hard and nodded.
 Do you ... I mean ... if you dont want to,
we dont have to. Id certainly
 understand. We only met today, we dont know anything about each other.
Your mother
 believes she has your best interests in mind, but its really up to
you.
 She explained it all. He had to strain to
hear her. She knows whats best.
 What about you? What do you want?
 One shoulder hopped in an endearing shrug.
It does have to happen sooner or
 later. Might as well be planned out. Some places, people are married
to someone they
 havent ever met, with no say in it.
 Harry slid closer. No, Othelia, thats just
it ... you do have a say.
 So did you, and you didnt refuse. Her eyes
met his directly for the first time
 since their introduction.
 He chuckled a little. Not many men would.
Were a self-centered breed. The
 chance at being with a pretty girl isnt something we could easily
turn down. But because
 I agreed when your mother asked me doesnt mean anything if you dont
want to. I would
 never do anything against your will.
 She sighed. I suppose Ill go along. I know
she cares, thinks shes doing whats
 right, and she probably is. You seem nice enough. Im just nervous.
Ive been kissed by a
 couple of boys, but thats all.
 Thats a good place to start. He slid all
the way over to her, and as she turned to
 look at him, he cupped her face between his palms. He could feel tension
shaking through
 her, but she closed her eyes and didnt try to draw away as he lowered
his lips to hers.
 He made sure that first kiss was everything
it needed to be -- tender enough not to
 frighten her, passionate enough to let her know he desired her, long
enough to let her
 overcome her initial surprise, short enough to leave her wanting more.
 Ill go back to the house now, he said,
and left her sitting breathlessly on the
 swing.
 * * * * *
 On the surface, a pool might look placid and
peaceful, while strong or even
 dangerous currents are coiling in the depths.
 That was how the next five days at The Cottonwoods
passed. Outwardly, a
 relaxing time of lazy spring days and evenings in the game room. But
to Harry, immersed
 as he was, the currents pulled with irresistible force.
 It was nothing like the maddening urge that
hed mentioned to Howie. There was
 no element of frustration to it, only a building anticipation between
himself and Othelia.
 Every time they were in the same room, he
felt it become stronger, more electric,
 like the heat lightning that flashed on the horizon at the end of humid
afternoons.
 Whenever their eyes met, a spark jumped, and on
the infrequent occasions that they had
 reason to touch, a miniature thunderbolt seemed to leap between their
skins.
 Not even Rhedas late-night visits to his
room could affect that anticipation. She
 was a tremendously skilled and knowledgeable lover, secure enough in
herself to pursue
 her own pleasure with a vigor that dizzied him.
 One night, she bade him sit still on a chair
at the end of the bed and watch as she
 caressed herself to a quaking climax. He nearly dug fingermarks into
the arms of the chair
 to keep himself from leaping at her. Then she switched places with
him and it was her
 turn to watch. It was nothing like when he did the same thing in his
bed at school; having
 an audience was first hotly embarrassing and then wildly erotic.
 Several times, he sat down to begin a letter
to Howie, but those attempts always
 wound up crumpled and cast into the kitchen stove. Howie wouldnt believe
a word of it.
 Harry sometimes wasnt sure he believed it himself and he was living
it!
 No one else seemed to have any idea, except
possibly Diana. He never quite had
 the nerve to approach her and ask, but he was sure she suspected something.
 The seamstress and a bevy of assistants arrived,
and the house became a
 whirlwind of measurements and cloth and pinning up hems and cutting
and stitching. The
 foreman and Uncle Charles came up with several ways to improve the
running of the
 ranch, and spent many an hour cloistered with Anson Byrtwold. Chas
developed an
 obsession with playing darts and the thunk of his throws could be heard
from the game
 room at all hours of the day. Aeric struck up a friendship with the
foremans son and was
 venturing out into what he called the wilderness for the first time
in his life.
 The time passed quickly, and one evening as
they were partaking of another buffet
 on the terrace -- the shrimp salad surpassed any Pandathan restaurant
-- one of the ranch
 hands hurried in to announce to Anson that his prize mare, Phantom,
was ready to drop
 her foal.
 Harry looked at Rheda, whose eyes were sparkling
as she gave him a barely-
 perceptible nod. Othelia sensed the change in the room and knocked
over Dianas glass of
 lemonade, then spilled a dish of olives as she tried to mop it up.
 At last, dinner was over. There were no card
games, not with Anson and Drefan
 off in the stables. Diana retired to a quiet corner of the parlor to
study, everyone else
 found quiet pursuits to occupy them until bedtime.
 Harry feigned great weariness, though he had
never felt less like sleeping in his
 life. He went to his room and began the long wait, horribly sure that
the foal would be
 born in record time and Anson would come back, thereby ruining all
the plans.
 Much later, when he was beginning to think
that the entire household, Rheda and
 Othelia included, had fallen asleep, he heard a soft step in the hall
outside.
 Rheda was there, wrapped in her moon-mist
robe, but instead of coming in and
 bolting the door behind her, she summoned him with a gesture.
 Are you sure about this? he asked in a hush
as she led him into the hall.
 I am, and she is. Arent you?
 Of course.
 She likes you. That will make it easier for
her. Remember your promise.
 I wouldnt forget.
 Now he knew how she had gotten to and from
his room so many unnoticed times.
 His door was directly across from a swiveling panel.
 Formerly the housekeepers stair, she informed
him in a whisper.
 They emerged in the upstairs hall. Rheda,
holding his hand as if he were a little
 boy needing to be crossed on the streetcorner, walked him to a closed
door. She tapped
 softly, then opened it. Harry followed her inside.
 The room was that of a child on the cusp of
young adulthood. A few toys,
 treasured ones, were arrayed on a bench in front of the window.
 Othelia was standing in the middle of the
room, hands folded demurely before her.
 In her thin sleeveless nightgown and bare feet, she looked even younger
than she was.
 Her hair was unbraided and surrounded her in a crinkly nimbus.
 My little girl, Rheda said lovingly, kissing
the girl on the cheek. After tonight,
 youll be all grown up. Harry will take such good care of you, my darling.
 They embraced, then Rheda hurried from the
room in a billow of sheer cloth and
 was gone. The door clicked shut.
 Harry threw the bolt and turned to Othelia.
She had her head shyly down, but he
 could see that she was sneaking glances at him. The robe he wore was
indigo cotton as
 thin as her nightgown and far shorter, ending just above his knees.
The belt was loosely
 tied, leaving most of his chest bare.
 A long moment passed in which he openly looked
at her and she kept sneaking
 those glances. He moved closer.
 Othelia.
 Do we kiss first?
 Id like that.
 She raised her head and he took her carefully
into his arms, letting their bodies
 press together as he kissed her. He could feel the nubs of her breasts
against his chest,
 small and sweet like a pair of nestled doves.
 Her hands crept up to his shoulders, curious
but tentative, as if she feared that he
 was going to push her away. He did not, of course, and they rested
lightly there while he
 continued to kiss her, coaxing her lips apart that he might delve his
tongue into her
 mouth. She tasted of peppermint and cool breezes.
 Othelia backed up with a puzzled expression,
and peeked down. Harry realized
 that an urgent part of him was protruding from the overlapping flaps
of the robe, and she
 had felt its prod against her belly.
 Its all right, he said, bringing her hand
down to touch it. This beast is easily
 tamed; he only wishes to bring you pleasure.
 She stroked him as she might stroke the nose
of a foal. Your skin here is so soft,
 she murmured.
 As is yours ... especially here. He pulled
a string and the bodice of her
 nightgown came unlaced, letting him slip his hand inside to cradle
a breast.
 She gasped and her grip tightened instinctively,
eliciting a groan from him. As she
 worriedly started to let go, he shook his head.
 You didnt hurt me. Dont worry about that.
It felt good.
 That ... that feels good too. What youre
doing.
 Im glad.
 Her nightgown fell from her shoulders and
bunched around her waist, and Harry
 cupped both breasts while bending to kiss her again. Her caress along
his rod became
 bolder, making him swell and stiffen with greater arousal.
 The bed, he said against her mouth. Lets
lie down.
 As she headed for the bed, he stopped her
long enough to free the cloth caught
 around her hips. It crumpled to the floor. She sat on the edge, then
leaned back until she
 was fully reclined. Some of her nervousness had returned, causing her
to curl one arm
 across her breasts and drape the other over the fine silken hair between
her legs.
 Harry stretched out on his side, half-raised
on one elbow. He covered her with
 kisses, lips and cheeks and eyelids and chin and the tip of her nose,
then lower still,
 teasing the sensitive spot beneath her ear, the side of her neck, the
base of her throat,
 lower and lower until her arm fell away and gave him access to her
bosom. He nuzzled
 and suckled, attending to each side with loving thoroughness.
 Do you like that? he asked.
 She hitched in a breath and nodded.
 If I should do something that you dont like,
tell me. Or if theres something Im
 not doing that you want me to, tell me that as well.
 Her cheeks were blushed pink, but she nodded
again.
 He bent to her breasts again, and caressed
her ribs, her stomach, the mild flare of
 her hip. She was much more relaxed, her legs no longer held protectively
together.
 Im going to put my hand here now, he told
her, and did so, just resting it there,
 his palm molded to the contour of the mild rise of her mound.
 That feels nice, she whispered.
 It can feel even nicer. Part your legs a
bit more.
 She did, and he pushed his fingers through
the silky hair to rub with aching
 gentleness along her furrow, kissing her at the same time and muffling
her low moan with
 his mouth. She shifted her hips and he felt the firm little bud, the
nubbin of Dorians
 Jewel; Othelia moaned again as it came into contact with his hand.
 He went very carefully there, not wanting
to be too direct with his touch and send
 her over the line into discomfort. He spread his first and second fingers
so that they were
 to either side of the bud, and rubbed even more slowly. His fingertips
found her opening,
 explored gingerly.
 It will hurt, wont it? she asked between
shuddering breaths.
 It might, but Ill try to make it as painless
as possible. He moved down the bed
 and started kissing and nibbling at the delicate flesh of her inner
thighs. First, though,
 Im going to put my mouth here, where my fingers were. That wont hurt
at all.
 Her brows knit as if she doubted him, until
he began running his tongue over her
 cleft in long licks and swirls. Her hips bucked helplessly and the
sound that came from
 her throat was the loudest hed yet heard her utter. Hed been able
to put his own burning
 desire aside to focus on her, but the noises of her cresting pleasure
nearly did him in.
 Othelia ... its time.
 She was panting, making feeble clutching gestures
with her hands. Harry took that
 as a sign of agreement and positioned himself, the tip of his rod poised
at the opening to
 her channel. She was wet with his saliva and her own secretions, easing
his passage as he
 drove slowly into her.
 The tightness was overwhelming, close and
hot, surrounding him, seeming to pull
 and suck hungrily at his stiffness. Othelia gasped and mewled, clinging
to him, and he
 wanted to plunge all the way in, but there was the barrier, blocking
his way.
 Be brave, Othelia, be brave for me, and itll
be over in an instant, just a brief hurt
 and then sweetness, only sweetness, I promise.
 Im ready.
 He drew back a little and then thrust hard,
sealing her lips with a kiss as she cried
 out, and then he was buried fully within her, holding still, absolutely
still but for the
 involuntary throbs and flexes of his rod, every ounce of willpower
he possessed going
 toward holding still and not moving, not moving no matter how much
he might wish to,
 how he yearned to withdraw and then sink back into her, that re-entry
that was so
 unbelievably fine, but he didnt, he held still, kissing her, kissing
the sudden tears that
 had sprung to the corners of her eyes, kissing her until she started
to move beneath him,
 hips rising and falling like the tide, so he did withdraw, and sank
back in, and it was ... it
 was ...
 They cried out together this time but with
no pain, only pleasure, and Harry
 rushed headlong toward the precipice and over, pouring himself into
her dark and secret
 chambers, and her eyes flew wide open as she called out, Oh! Oh! Oh !
and convulsed
 in his arms with her first climax thundering through her veins and
then she was sobbing
 joyously and had ahold of him by the sides of the head so she could
rain kisses all over
 his face, sobbing and laughing.
 Eventually, reluctantly, Harry disentangled
himself from her and lay down beside
 her, and wondered briefly if they had wakened the whole house, but
the only one whose
 room was close enough to hear was her mother, and Rheda would be anything
but
 outraged if she had heard her daughters passionate outbursts.
 Othelia rolled her head on the pillow and
smiled at him; already, her eyelids were
 drooping sleepily. Harry leaned over and kissed her on the lips, smiling
in return.
 It seemed like far too much effort to get
up and find his way back to his room. He
 pulled the sheet over them, and drifted off with his arm laying across
her waist.
 His last thought before sleep claimed him
with its velvety blackness was that if
 this was what getting suspended from school could do for him, hed
pick fights with his
 roommate any day.
 * * * * *
 The End

 Copyright 1999 by Christine Morgan