Tim Morgan 

Tim P. Morgan 

Usually I have a rule that I live by: Better to be silent and
thought a fool than to open your mouth and prove it. I guess
by blabbing about myself here I'm breaking my rule, but then, what good
are rules if they can't be broken? 
 Well, let's see. Where should I start? I guess you want
to find out a little bit about me, or else you wouldn't have chosen to
come to this page. I was born in September of 1969 in Eureka, CA,
a medium sized town in very northern California (300 miles north of San
Francisco, 100 miles south of Oregon; on the coast). I lived there
or around there until I was 20, except for 2 years. One year I spent
in Chicago, and the other I spent in Leuven, Belgium. My father teaches
Psychology at Humboldt State University (click here 
for his web site), and was a guest professor in Chicago and Leuven. 
 Hmmm. I'm getting a little boring aren't I? Well, I'll try
to get the boring stuff over with quickly. I graduated from Arcata
High School in 1987 and went to Humboldt State University for 1.5 years. 
While in college, I met Christine. Tired of school, I worked at Burger
King for the longest 3 weeks of my life and then got a job at Radio Shack. 
In 1990, we moved to Seattle, WA and I continued to work at Radio Shack
up here. Shortly thereafter, I managed to get the best job in the
world -- at a game store. The name of the store is Gary's
Games and Hobbies and since then I have become the manager. 
 Anyway, Christine and I were married in 1992 after a long engagement. 
We held the wedding on a boat in Humboldt Bay and wrote our own vows ,
followed by a fantastic honeymoon on an Alaskan Cruise. Our daughter
Rebecca was born in 1994, and in 1996 I made this series of web pages. 
 Was that short enough? Well, if you're still with me, here is
some less boring, more personal information about me. I'm a Libra,
and pretty much match the typical Libra profile. My passions are
European History and Role Playing Games. Since my primary interst
in RPGs is in fantasy genres, these two passions of mine help each other
along and encourage one another. Works out pretty well. 
 My favorite color is green, my favorite ice cream is chocolate chip
cookie dough, and my favorite food is meat (any) and potatoes. My
favorite kinds of music are 80s pop (including Genesis, Billy Joel, and
Huey Lewis and the News) and classical music (including Renaissance dance
and other early
music , Wagner, Chopin, and anything with a harpsichord). 
 My style of dress is somewhat unusual and something that I am known
for. I only wear solid colors, no patterns. I mostly wear black
and grey, but I have a few colored shirts to throw in for variety. 
I only wear dress slacks, and just the thought of wearing jeans makes my
skin crawl. My shirts are all fairly formal and I always wear a tie. 

Gaming Resume: 
I started gaming in the summer of 1982. One of my grandparents had
sent me a Basic D&D set for Christmas a year or two before, and then
that summer, I found it in the closet and instantly fell in love. 
I took it with me to Belgium and was able to find more gaming supplies
there. I went whole hog into AD&D, although I did also buy a
copy of Top Secret. 
 In High School, I started branching out into other gaming systems. 
I played in an excellent Gamma World hybrid game (the guy who ran that
game now owns a game store in Eureka, CA called North
Coast Roleplaying ). I ran a Psi World (the imfamous Domino's
Pizza Game) game and a few others. But the big game I played in high
school was Aftermath! an excellent game by FGU (if you can get past
the high mortality rate and the rule contradictions - there are three different
formulas for determining your carrying capacity). 
 In college (and a little my senior year) we began playing GURPS. 
I moved out of my parent's house and became a full time gamer and fit my
school work in when I had the time. 
 Since then, I have played little else besides GURPS. I do try
to read and familiarize myself with as many new games (and older ones)
as I can. I ran a Vampire: The Masquerade campaign for almost a year
in 1992-93. I am currently very intrigued by FUDGE, although I haven't
had the chance to play it yet. 
 Conventions attended: GenCon '83, GenCon '85, the 1985 RPGA writer's
conference held in Lake Geneva the week before GenCon, DunDraCon '87-89,
DragonFlight '91, 94-96, Origins '95 (we worked in the Steve Jackson Games
booth - Maybe you saw us). 

 My Hobbies include: 

Painting Miniatures. 

Playing Magic and other card games. 

Reading history books. 

Making Mead - click here to
see where I get my supplies. 

Collecting old games. 

Going to garage sales (looking for old games). 

Searching the 'Net for odd fonts ( here's 
a good site). 

Researching our family geneaology. 

My favorite books are: 

 Cows, Pigs, Wars and Witches - The Riddles of Culture by Marvin
Harris. 

 Oath of Fealty by Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle. 

 Foucault's Pendulum by Umberto Eco. 

 Through the Gates of the Silver Key (short story) by H. P. Lovecraft. 

[with an ashamed look on my face] Just about any piece of Victorian Erotica. 

 Heroic Worlds by Lawrence Schick (a must for any RPG collector). 

Ten random things I hate: 

Whiners. People who complain about stuff but won't get off their
butt to do anthing about it. 

People who make a huge deal about inignificant trivialities. 

Cars. 

Telephone Solicitors. 

Long distance telephone company commercials. 

Academic books without proper footnotes or endnotes. 

Card game companies that constantly change the rules to their games with
little or no notice. I won't mention any names. You know who
you are. 

The high price of clothes. 

Temperatures over 80 degrees. 

TCI Cable. They don't have many good cable channels, and they keep
getting rid of the good ones for another news channel. 

Ten random things I like: 

Rain. 

Salt, on everything. 

Buying books that I'll probably never read, but would be really neat if
I ever did. 

Saying "No I can't go to sleep this early. Life is too short to sleep
through it." and then flopping down on the couch and flipping channels
because there's nothing good on. 

Listening to the same CD over and over again. Aren't repeat buttons
great?!? 

Neat electronic gadgets and computer hardware. 

Christmas, anytime of the year. People really look at you funny in
July when you're humming Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer (which is by the
way, one of the greatest gifts television has ever given us. I have
it on tape and occasionaly I watch it no matter what season it is.) 

Television documentaries. 

Soda, preferably Pepsi, but I'm not picky anymore. I drink a lot
of soda. 

Playing poker. The only problem is, I don't have any time to play. 

Three Celebrities I Think are Really Really Attractive: 

Michelle Pfieffer 

Joanne Whalley (formerly Kilmer) 

Famke Janssen 

Five Animated Characters I Think are Really Attractive: 

Esmerelda - from The Hunchback of Notre Dame 

Anastasia - from Anastasia 

Belle - from Beauty and the Beast 

Fox Xanatos - from the Gargoyles TV show 

Lisa Hayes - from Robotech (I had a huge crush on her in High School) 

Oh, and one other thing: My favorite Bond is Timothy Dalton (it would have
helped if they had given him a decent script), and my favorite captain
is Kirk. 

 . 

 Use your browser's back button
to return to the previous page, or click on the shield to return to the
main menu. 

 We are always happy to hear from our viewers. 
If you have anything you want to say, feel
free to e-mail us. 
 Page content copyright 1992-1998 by Christine Morgan
unless otherwise attributed. Some works may be based on copyrighted
or trademarked characters that belong to someone else. Their use
here is not meant to be a threat to those copyrights or trademarks, and
are used here without permission with the hope that no one will mind. 
Their use here is not for commercial purposes, but because of our
love for and the enjoyment that those characters have given us, and we
can't stand to see them sit idlely by and not have more exciting adventures. 
 Page design copyright 1998 Tim Morgan. 
 If you like this page, and would like me to design
yours, click
here to view my very reasonable rates.