Lord Verdant's Desire 

Lord Verdant's Desire 

Written by: Christine Morgan 

 A Silver
Flame Story for Thomas Forsyth 

 Author's note: the people, places, gods, and things of
the Northlands of are the property of Christine Morgan and may not be used
without permission. Mature readers only, please. 

 "Halt! Who goes?" 
 "The Lord of the Emerald Deep,"
the coachman replied. 
 Within, Verdant stirred from
a light doze at the sounds of the voices. He ran a hand through 
 his mussed hair and yawned, then stretched as much as
the confines of the coach would allow. 
 "The lord of what?" the first
voice asked, askance. 
 "The Emerald Deep," the coachman
said again. 
 "Where might that be?" 
 Verdant sighed and pushed the
door open that he might lean out. "Southeast Hachland, good sir." 
 The moment he stepped down,
he knew where they were. Gamelin Gate, a mammoth arch of 
 stone supposedly built centuries ago by the dwarves of
Montennor. The Gate and a few miles of high 
 fortifications were all that remained of the Gamelin
Wall, the rest destroyed well before even the time 
 of Verdant's grandfather. 
 Against the gently rolling golden
grainfields of the southernmost duchy in the Northlands, the towering 
 edifice seemed a relic of some forgotten age. The road
which passed beneath the carved blocks of 
 wind-smoothed granite was little more than a hardpacked
dirt track, rutted by wagon-wheels. 
 The guard had emerged from a
station concealed within the foundation stones. He was dusty and looked 
 uncomfortable in his uniform of scarlet and midnight
blue -- the Duke's colors. When he shifted his gaze to 
 Verdant, one eyebrow climbed skeptically on his weathered
brow and the same corner of his mouth turned 
 up in a wry grin. 
 "And who are you?" 
 Verdant sighed again, knowing
that the youthful features beneath his crop of lush black hair made him 
 appear even younger than his eighteen years. He straightened
his cape and tossed it back over one shoulder, 
 so that the emerald and gold crest-brooch pinned to his
doublet could catch the sun. 
 "The Lord of Emerald Deep,"
he explained patiently. He gestured to the green-clad outriders that had 
 accompanied him. "We go to Tradersport. By your leave."
His tone made the last words a command rather 
 than a request. 
 The guard took in the quality
of Verdant's clothing and the fine barding of the riders' horses, and dipped 
 his head in a gruff nod. "I cry pardon, lord. You and
your company may pass through." 
 With that, he stepped back and
bowed, leaving the way open before them. Verdant swung back aboard 
 and drew the drapes open. 
 The gates themselves, logs so
large that they could have come from the high forests of Lenais bound with 
 iron bands as wide as a man was tall, stood open. Judging
by the way the grass had grown up around their 
 bottoms, Verdant hazarded a guess that it had been a
score of years or more since they'd actually been moved 
 from their resting place. 
 On the other side of the arch
clustered a small village. The people -- families of the soldiers assigned
to this 
 post, no doubt -- stopped to stare as the richly-appointed
coach went by with its escort of armed men. 
 "Must not be many travelers
passing by this way," the coachman muttered. 
 "Think of the land we've come
through, Lewik," Verdant reminded him. "Betwixt here and Dark Lake, there's 
 not much in the way of places to visit." 
 "Do you wish to stop here for
the night?" Lewik indicated a building whose placard bore the Northlands-wide 
 emblem of a mug, a spoon, and a bed. 
 "Gods, no." Verdant eyed the
ramshackle construction. There was a cat sprawled on the steps, flies droning 
 around its head, and as it did not move in the time it
took the coach to roll by, he concluded it was dead. "We can 
 put many more miles behind us, and camping roadside,
even in a muddy ditch, seems like a cleaner and more 
 pleasant alternative." 
 Lewik clucked to the horses
and they picked up their pace, and soon Gate-Town was vanishing in the 
 distance. Verdant watched the fields pass by for a while,
waved indulgently to the more presentable of the 
 peasant girls, and eventually grew bored with the scenery.
He closed the drapes and settled into the cushions, 
 which, after much travel, had squashed into the imprint
of his form. 
 He crossed his feet on the bench
across from him, laced his fingers behind his head, and entertained himself 
 with speculations of what the days ahead might bring.
Such thoughts, however, soon resulted in a pronounced 
 state of discomfort in the region of his breeches. His
hand strayed in that direction. 
 "Save it," he murmured, restraining
himself. "Not much longer now. We'll be in Tradersport soon, and then 
 ... oh, and then ...!" 
 Two days later, as the sun was
low in the west and their shadows stretched out long before them, Lewik 
 rapped on the roof of the coach. 
 "Tradersport, my lord. We've
just come into sight of it." 
 Verdant stood on the seat and
pushed open the trapdoor. A strong sea-breeze ruffled his hair. 
 They'd just topped a rise, and
ahead, the land sloped down to the Fanrel Inlet. To the south, the sunlight 
 glimmered on the sea like a spray of gold and rubies
scattered on a sheet of turquoise satin. To the east, the 
 wide Jelinas River was a blue ribbon curving among the
hills that climbed toward the duchy of Keyda and 
 Lake Jeline. Where the river met the sea, there was Tradersport. 
 The harbor of tall-masted ships.
The turreted brick and white-shingled castle of the Duke. The pearlescent 
 Tower of the Archmage of Gamelin, said to be an echo
of the Tower of the Archmage of Thanis but also 
 bearing a distinctly elven flair. The baronial estates
lining the river, barges moving to and fro. The tent-filled 
 marketplace, teeming like an anthill at this distance. 
 "Tradersport," Verdant said
with much satisfaction. "Well done, Lewik. Into the city, then, and we
shall 
 find an inn." 
 "My lord ..." 
 "What is it? Have you something
on your mind, man?" 
 "I know my lord has ... business
to attend to here ..." 
 "Yes, my late uncle left me
some properties I must needs investigate, why?" 
 Lewik cleared his throat. "Well
... I'd also heard that my lord had other business." 
 "Oh." Verdant laughed. " That 
business. Yes, what of it?" 
 "It's true, then?" 
 "Depending on what you heard,
perhaps." 
 "My lord doesn't really mean
to ... to visit ... to wallow in the ... to go to the temple of Talopea?" 
 "Wallow in the filth?" Verdant
parroted, and laughed all the harder. 
 Lewik turned, the reins laying
loosely over his knee, his face set in a stern frown. "My lord, need I
point 
 out that your family has been, for generations now, faithful
followers of Bright Helia and Wise Galatine?" 
 "You needn't point that out,
Lewik, I'm well aware of it." 
 "So it seems to me, my lord,"
he persisted doggedly, "that your ancestors might be dismayed at this?
Your 
 lady mother was the most devout Helianite ever to have
--" 
 "I wouldn't say that; Helia
is the goddess of chastity as well as of the sun. Mother must have 'sinned'
at least 
 once." He tapped himself and grinned. 
 Lewik scowled. "But even so,
my lord ... to go from that to Talopeanism ..." 
 "I'm not converting to the Talopean
faith, Lewik, I assure you. I'm merely ... curious." 
 "Curiosity of that nature, my
lord would be better addressing in Galatine's sacred rite of marriage." 
 "I will marry, someday. But
in the meantime, Lewik, I intend to see just what all the fuss is about.
Calm 
 yourself. I'll be fine. It's a temple, after all." 
 "Temple! Brothel, more like
it." 
 "Lewik, they're priestesses!" 
 "Coinwenches with incense and
candles." 
 "Oh, really now --" 
 "I speak the truth, my lord!
They ask for an offering instead of demanding payment, but 'tis all the
same!" 
 "I'd no idea you were so well-versed
on the Talopeans," Verdant said slyly, enjoying the flood of beet-red 
 that instantly colored Lewik's face. 
 "My lord! I've never ... I would 
never ..." 
 "Mayhap you should. It'd settle
your nerves." 
 "I advise against this, most
stringently." 
 "Noted. Now, press on, I want
to find an inn before the supper hour." He let the trapdoor fall back into 
 place as he sat down, chuckling to himself. 
 Coinwenches with incense
and candles, indeed! We'll just see about that, he thought. We'll
just see. 
 The streets of Tradersport were
so crowded that the coach was slowed to a crawl. Verdant saw many strange 
 and wondrous things out the window. Emerald Deep was
arguably the most beautiful place in all of Hachland, 
 but it was fairly remote, and his journey thus far had
been through small towns and villages of mostly ordinary 
 Northlands-stock humans. 
 Here, though, orcs and orckin
walked in the open, gnomes were everywhere, and a few elves drifted in
and 
 out of the shops in that graceful I've-all-the-time-in-the-world
manner. No dwarves, not so close to the open sea, 
 but he spied a minotaur family, a bull and a cow with
matching nose-rings, a calf close on their heels. 
 And not only the presence of
the other races, but even the humans came in a host of varieties. Pale
Northlanders, 
 golden-skinned Plainsfolk, cocoa-complected Islanders,
ebony Perrifaulians, and every blended shade in between. 
 The slave market offered more
spectacle -- goblinkind crammed a dozen to a cage, mountain trolls squinting 
 painfully at the sun, rock trolls glaring sullenly and
making deadly lunges at any passers-by who came too close. 
 Lewik turned away from the marketplace
and into the quieter, more scholarly neighborhood of scribes, tutors, 
 mapmakers, and artists. From there, it was only a few
streets more to Hampton Gardens, where the wealthy 
 merchants and minor nobles lived. And there ... 
 "Stop the coach!" Verdant commanded.
"It's the Avenue of the Gods. I've always wanted to see it." 
 He emerged, his guards moving
closer as if they expected all manner of ruffians to come boiling out of
the 
 serene parklike surroundings. Never mind that he was
armed himself, and though young was already gaining 
 something of a reputation as a swordsman in Hachland;
he was still their lord and they were sworn to defend him. 
 The Avenue of the Gods was a
well-mown and tended lawn bisected by a two-wagons-wide walkway of salmon 
 pink (and, Verdant thought, really rather ugly) marble.
Seven smaller walkways branched off of it, each leading to a 
 hexagonal open-sided rotunda, the roofs supported by
fluted columns. All in that pink marble, and ringed with 
 carefully-spaced and nicely-groomed white birches. 
 At the center of each rotunda
was a white alabaster statue. Each was carved in a different style, all
too 
 obviously by vastly different craftsmen, and each depicted
one of the gods. Here was Galatine, god of justice and 
 wisdom. There, Tarana the Lady of Growing. Kelvennor
the Creator. Honorable Blackmoon. Chaste Helia. Even 
 the humorless god of the dead, whose name it was believed
was bad luck even to think. 
 Verdant turned away from that
statue with a barely-repressed shudder, and went instead to survey the 
 voluptuous curves of Talopea. 
 Desire in alabaster. Half-reclined
on a couch, one hand resting with teasing concealment on the juncture of
her 
 lushly perfect thighs, the other poised just above one
ripe and magnificent breast. 
 The guards, trailing after,
nudged one another and winked when they saw the image that so captured
their young 
 lord's attention, but Lewik made a disapproving face
and busied himself checking the horse-harnesses. 
 "Whoever built this place,"
Ferd, one of the guards, remarked, "must have had a cousin who owned a
pink marble 
 quarry." 
 "I wouldn't have thought there
was so much in all the world," Verdant said, reluctantly turning away from
the 
 statue of Talopea. "It's a singularly ill hue, isn't
it?" 
 Ferd shrugged and ogled the
goddess' likeness. "Then again, with things such as that to look
at, who notices the 
 marble?" 
 "True enough! But we've put
in a long day; let's find an inn and see about something to eat." 
 "And drink," Keljac, another
of the guards, said to murmurs of agreement from his fellows. 
 Verdant strolled to the end
of the Avenue. He paused, momentarily finding it odd that the arrangement
was 
 unbalanced -- four gods on one side, three on another,
but set up in such a way it seemed the designers meant to 
 include an eighth rotunda but someone pointed out at
the last minute that there were only seven gods of the Northlands. 
 Not counting Steel, of course,
the Thanian patron of warriors, but the Steelite faith was only a few decades
old 
 and the Avenue of the Gods was said to pre-date the founding
of Thanis. 
 Yet, where such an eighth rotunda
should have been, there was only a grassy square, ringed with birches like
the 
 others, with a plain stone birdbath set in the middle. 
 Verdant chalked it up to poor
planning, and went back to his coach. Not long after, he was relaxing in
one of the 
 private sitting rooms of the Hampton Arms, not the most
expensive inn in Tradersport, but more than adequately 
 suited to his needs. 
 He dined on succulent whitefish
in a spicy Perrifaulian sauce and sampled a few too many Islander liqueurs,
so 
 sweet and syrupy that he may as well have been drinking
honey. When he was sated (reminding himself to have a 
 light but filling breakfast on the morrow, as he certainly
hoped he would need the energy), he started to his room. 
 And stopped when he heard his
name mentioned. Ah, there they were, Lewik and the guards, seated around
a 
 long table and feasting on roast goose with walnut stuffing,
washing it down with copious amounts of ale. 
 "No, no, if that's all he wanted,
there are maids aplenty back home who would be more than willing," Ferd
said. 
 "Mark me, he's got something else in mind." 
 "You don't think ..." Keljac
began, then vigorously shook his head and reached for a fresh mug. 
 "What?" Lewik asked, mouth set
in a grim line. 
 Keljac snickered into his ale.
"Well, there's Talopean priests , too, you know." 
 "That's sick," Roge said. 
 "I can think of a few reasons
he might not want to have his fun with the maids back home," Ezjai suggested.
"Lord 
 Verdant's young, a good-looking chap, and rolling in
coin. Any Emerald Deep girl is going to know that, and set her 
 sights on marriage." 
 "A good point," Ferd allowed,
"but I still think he's more in mind than any decent woman would allow." 
 "Like what?" Keljac leered. 
 "I don't think you need me to
tell you 'like what,'" Ferd chuckled. "You've probably 'like what' more
than the 
 rest of us combined." 
 "I'm sure," Lewik said in a
clipped tone, "that once our lord sees with his own eyes the perversity
and depravity 
 that goes on in those places --" 
 "Perversity and depravity!"
Ferd and Keljac chorused, knocking their mugs together so hard that ale-froth
sloshed 
 onto the goose carcass. 
 "He'll come to his senses!"
Lewik raised his voice. "And we can go home." 
 "Fifty marks says otherwise,"
Ezjai said, plunking a purse on the table. "Fifty marks says he doesn't
budge from 
 the temple until he's scarce able to walk from
all the plowing and tilling!" 
 Verdant coughed. Loudly. Purposefully. 
 Their lewd laughter ground to
a sudden halt, and they were all looking at him with varying degrees of
chagrin. 
 Verdant approached the table slowly, noting how they
all glanced at each other as if wondering who would be the 
 first to lose his post. 
 Then he picked up an unclaimed
mug and said, "Save your money, Ezjai; I don't plan on leaving until you
have 
 to come in and carry me out!" 
 Most of his retinue erupted
in lusty cheers and guffaws, while the remaining few shared expressions
of resigned 
 disgust. 
 Verdant drank off the ale --
very rich and strong, a welcome change after the cloyingly sweet liqueurs
-- saluted 
 them with the empty mug, and headed for his room. Having
drunk far more than he was accustomed to, he fell instantly 
 into a deep and dreamless sleep. 
 When he awoke, the light of
a beautiful southern day was shining through the shutters, painting warm
stripes across 
 his skin. He got up gingerly, expecting the wallop of
a hangover, but only found that he had the mildest of headaches, 
 which passed once he'd dunked his face in cool water
and downed his morning kofa and pastry. 
 He spent two days visiting the
offices of his uncle's business associates. Papers to be signed, goods
to be inspected, 
 a ship to be toured. 
 But finally, with only a few
more details to await completion, he was able to take a few days of rest.
The next three 
 days were his . The gift he'd been promising himself
ever since his birthday, several weeks gone. 
 Lewik had given up trying to
talk him out of it, he noticed. In fact, his coachman was in a blue silence,
though not 
 fully ceding the matter, no, not by a long shot. Lewik
took the roundabout route through town, making sure to pass 
 the Galatine temple and the open-air ring of pure white
standing stones where Helia's faithful greeted the dawn with 
 their joyful cries. And even the temple of Blackmoon,
for good measure. 
 But at last, the coach pulled
up outside of the flowered vine-laden wall that rose to a discreet height
around the 
 temple of Talopea. From the outside, there was nothing
to indicate what went on within. Just that wall, covered 
 with rainbow blooms and almost too richly fragrant. They
hung down from the arched portal in a rustling, perfumed 
 curtain that concealed all of the grounds beyond except
for a stretch of grass and a pathway of smooth flagstones. 
 "I doubt there's anything in
here that can harm me," Verdant said to his guards, some of whom seemed
not 
 un-eager to tag along. "Meet me here at the sixteenth
bell. Until then, consider yourselves off-duty." 
 That taken care of, Verdant
pushed aside the curtain of vines and stepped through. 
 The din of the city could no
longer reach him. No sounds of shod hooves on cobblestones, creaking wheels 
 and axles, merchants shouting about their wares, children
carrying on in the street, none of it could be heard on 
 this side of the wall. 
 Instead, he heard only the low
and pleasant drone of bees sampling the flowers, the silvery trickle of
fountains, 
 soft lute music, and from somewhere beyond his sight,
the throaty laugh of a woman. 
 The path led through a garden
of incomparable beauty to a terrace, beyond which was a flight of shallow
steps 
 leading up to the temple proper. It was a construction
of white stone, all curves and few angles, rounded domes that 
 called to mind feminine delights, windows from which
sheer draperies fluttered, and open corridors with columns that 
 seemed to be shaped suggestively like nude figures. 
 He saw a few people, mostly
pairs or small groups elsewhere in the garden, limbs and bodies entwined.
There 
 was a languid sense of desire in the air, of pleasures
recently finished but still remembered, of pleasures anticipated. 
 Verdant walked along the path,
toward the terrace. Now he could hear splashing, as well, as of someone
swimming. 
 He passed a man of impossible handsomeness, napping beneath
a tree with a book -- My Lady's Chamber -- on his 
 chest. In the open collar of his shirt rested a golden
pendant on a chain. The oval and the line, symbol of Talopea. 
 Three steps led to the terrace.
Verdant climbed them, and saw the splashing sounds were indeed coming from
a pool. 
 Liquid sky caught in white marble. Around the enticingly-curved
pool were several tables, padded chairs, and platforms 
 easily big enough for two or three to rest upon with
comfort. 
 A leisurely-swimming woman,
long black hair floating behind her like a veil, saw him and waved. He
returned it, 
 aware that he was grinning, and hoping that he didn't
look too foolish. 
 She glided smoothly through
the water, the trailing veil of her hair giving him peeks at a shapely
torso unhampered 
 by any clothing. When she reached the edge nearest him,
she surfaced like a sea-spirit, raising both hands to slick her 
 hair back from her face, and showing him two luscious
breasts that bobbed briefly out of the water. 
 Oh, yes, and around her neck,
the Talopean pendant. 
 "Welcome, stranger," she said
cheerfully. "I see by your garb that you are new to this place." 
 "I'm from Hachland," he said,
losing himself in lovely eyes as green as the lake for which his home was
named. 
 Her laugh was night-music. "I
meant new to this temple; no one here wears so much! Aren't you miserably
confined?" 
 He swallowed. All of a sudden,
though he hadn't given it a moment's thought before, he was keenly aware
of how 
 heavy his velvet breeches and doublet were, of how his
boots rubbed at his ankles. "Now that you mention it ..." 
 "I am Ilana, Nahle Cortia servant
and admirer of Talopea, the Desired One." She hoisted herself gracefully
out of 
 the pool, her sleek buttocks slapping against the slick
flagstones with a sound that made him think of bodies meeting 
 in passion. Without a bit of shyness, she held out her
hand. 
 Verdant touched her palm in
greeting, willing his eyes to get back inside his head where they belonged,
for they 
 felt like they were about to fall right out. Here he
was, Lord Verdant of Emerald Deep, talking to a blamelessly 
 shameless naked woman. Though such had been his plan
since the moment he'd realized the settling of his uncle's 
 estate would bring him to Tradersport, he still could
scarcely believe it. 
 "I'm pleased to meet you, Priestess
Ilana. My name is Verdant." 
 "So, tell me," she said, rising.
" Aren't you miserable in all that scratchy, restrictive clothing?" 
 She was of a height with him,
and nearly of an age (or so he suspected; it was difficult to tell as she
seemed so 
 much more worldly than other girls he knew). Droplets
beaded and ran down the valley between her breasts and 
 over her delectable hips, and sparkled like diamonds
in the midnight plush of her mound. 
 "Very miserable," he admitted,
and didn't add, 'and moreso by the moment!' It was true, but by the amused 
 look in those green eyes, she already knew the state
he was in. Knew, and was not at all displeased. 
 "Would you care for a swim?" 
 "Thank you," he choked out.
His hands seemed to sprout nothing but thumbs as he worked at the clasp
of his 
 cloak. Just when he thought he would have to give up
and pull it over his head, probably strangling himself into the 
 bargain, it came undone. 
 "You can put your things there,"
she said, indicating a nearby table. "Will you be wanting something to
wear, 
 or not? We have swim garments in all sizes." 
 "No, thank you," he said after
a brief panicked blankness of mind. "That won't be necessary." 
 She smiled. "I trust you've
come to learn about the ways of Talopea?" 
 He didn't trust himself to do
more than nod. 
 "And you've never visited one
of our temples before?" 
 This time, a shake of the head
was all that was required. He was able to manage that and also unstrap
his swordbelt. 
 "Do you know what Talopea is
about?" 
 "Pleasure," he said, and in
the back of his mind he heard the voices of Lewik, his grandfather, and
the priest of 
 Galatine in Emerald Deep merge into one scolding, shocked
clamor. He silenced it with an effort of will. 
 "Yes, that's right," Ilana said.
"Too much of the world is discomfort, unhappiness, and misery. Here, we
dedicate 
 ourselves to the pleasures of the senses. Indulgence
and passion. For Talopea gave us the capacity to enjoy, and it is 
 an offense to Her to ignore our own desires." Matter-of-factly,
she moved close to him and helped him unbutton his 
 doublet. "To find pleasure, and to give it to others,
is Talopea's greatest gift to us. Those who do harm to others for 
 their own selfish and cruel urges corrupt that
gift. We must only do what we, or our partners, are willing to do." 
 Verdant shrugged out of his
doublet. "That sounds ... very reasonable." 
 Ilana slid her hands up his
upper arms to the shoulders. "Ooh, so strong," she purred. "We only approve
of 
 swordplay to defend ourselves and our pleasures, but
have to admit, nothing else makes for such a fine figure 
 on a man! We've priests here who train until they are
as expert at the art of war as any knight you'll see, but 
 have never drawn blood. It's all for the sake of making
themselves pleasing to the eye, to the touch." 
 "I can't say I've never drawn
blood ..." 
 "We don't need to talk of such
unpleasant things." She sealed his mouth with a kiss that left him breathless.
Her 
 skin was still damp from her swim, imprinting her outline
moistly on his linen shirt. Her lips tasted of sweetberries. 
 It crossed his mind that he
was standing full out in the open, kissing a nude woman he'd met only minutes
before 
 ... and not just kissing her but eagerly accepting her
help in shedding his clothes. But who would see? Only more 
 Talopeans and their guests. 
 With that thought, he put his
arms around Ilana and pulled the lushness of her body more firmly against
his. He 
 had utterly forgotten about swimming, and cared not a
fig if he ever swam again. There were far better things to be 
 done! 
 From his mouth, her lips moved
over his cheek to his throat, then up to his earlobe. His shirt had somehow
come 
 open, and he gasped at the soft and full press of her
breasts on the bare skin of his chest. 
 "Have you been with a woman
before?" she murmured. 
 "No," he said, figuring she
would be able to tell soon enough anyway. "Not like this." 
 "Something must be wrong with
the girls where you're from, that they'd let a man like you alone for so
long." 
 "It's not that they didn't try;
it's what my uncle said he'd do if he found out. And my mother. It would
have 
 broken her heart." 
 "I see." She gently led him
to sit on one of the benches, wide and padded and surely roomy enough for
use as a 
 bed if needed. "You don't need those boots." 
 "Now they're both gone, and
I can do as I please. What I want is to ... to learn what makes a woman
happy." He 
 kicked off his boots. 
 "I think we can oblige." Ilana
removed his belt, then called toward the temple proper. "Anneke!" 
 Verdant fought a mad urge to
clutch his clothes around himself, fought it and won. He looked around,
and saw 
 the woman Ilana had hailed as Anneke. 
 She was striding toward them
like a lioness crossing a plain, all tawny-bronze-tanned skin and a fall
of tousled 
 auburn-chestnut hair pinned back on the sides with ruby
clips. Her arms and legs were well-muscled but not mannish, 
 not in the least bit mannish though she looked very strong.
She wore the outfit of a priestess, two rectangles of nearly 
 translucent red silk held together down the sides with
gold cord and sandals with straps that rose over her shins. 
 Anneke was several years older
than Verdant or Ilana, but if anything, it only added a confident maturity
to her 
 beauty. Here, her face said, is a woman who knows what
she wants, what she likes, what pleases her. 
 "Ilana! What have you found?" 
 "A young visitor," Ilana replied,
raising Verdant's hand so she could flick her tongue over his fingertips.
"He's come 
 to learn about women." 
 "He's come to the right place." 
 "Verdant, this is Anneke. Anneke,
Verdant." 
 "Charmed," he said, his voice
quavering just a little when Ilana drew his finger into her warm mouth. 
 "Anneke is of the Nahle Dahlia,"
Ilana said. "Her rank is higher than mine." 
 The older priestess studied
Verdant with a smoldering hunger that made him feel light-headed. "Which
means I 
 could claim I was better suited for his instruction." 
 "Oh, Anneke, that's not fair!"
Ilana protested, laughing. "I saw him first!" 
 "But you haven't even gotten
him out of his trousers yet." 
 "I'm working on it." She reached
for the laces, and that was when Verdant realized just how readily apparent
was 
 the proof of his interest. 
 "Ladies ..." he said thickly.
"Ladies, I couldn't resist even if I wanted to. I give myself over to whatever
you care 
 to do." 
 "For the praise of Talopea,"
Anneke said. 
 "Yes, praise Talopea!" Ilana
added, lowering her hand just enough so that the heel of it contacted the
part of 
 Verdant that strained so rigidly against the velvet. 
 A harsh cry burst from his throat,
but had no more begun than was muffled as Anneke bent over and kissed 
 him. Hers was a more demanding, testing kiss than Ilana's,
and sent new fire coursing through his veins. 
 "Someone's been denying his
pleasure far too long," Ilana murmured. "Why do you torment yourself so?" 
 Verdant couldn't answer, occupied
as he was with Anneke's hot and questing tongue. She tasted not of sweetberries 
 but of cinnamon. 
 It was just as well, because
words would have failed him anyway as Ilana undid the last of the laces
and folded 
 aside the upper flaps of his breeches. 
 Some outraged part of his mind
tried one last time to shriek in shock and propriety, that here he was
with the 
 staff of his manhood standing out in full view. A moment
later, it didn't matter, because the staff in question was 
 not very visible anymore, mostly enclosed between Ilana's
curled and caressing hands. 
 "An excellent kisser," Anneke
said. 
 "And so very well made," Ilana
added. 
 Verdant groaned softly, unable
to say more. Sensations whirled through him in a delicious storm. He would 
 have expected it all to be over the instant one of them
held him so intimately, yet now he felt suspended in a 
 timeless state of arousal. 
 "Would it please you to touch
me?" Anneke asked. 
 Quite a needless question, in
Verdant's opinion, but he was still speechless. All he could do was nod
desperately, 
 and let her lead his fingers to the cord on the right
side of her garment. One quick tug, and the cord unraveled all 
 down the side, and the silken rectangles fell away. Now
she was nearly as nude as Ilana, except for her sandals 
 and the ruby clips in her hair. 
 Her torso was as athletically
well-defined as her limbs, with high proud breasts and a nest of darker
curls below 
 her taut belly. When he hesitated, unsure where to begin,
she caught his wrists and drew them upward. 
 "Yes, that's right," she sighed.
"Gently, but not so lightly that it tickles, yes, a firm but gentle kneading,
and here, 
 rub your thumb like this ..." 
 He complied very willingly,
while Ilana coaxed him to raise his hips enough for her to strip off his
breeches. She 
 sat beside him on the bench, one hand moving in tantalizing,
agonizing strokes, while she avidly watched as Anneke 
 instructed him. 
 "Now your mouth," Anneke said.
"Soft kisses here, yes, and there ... and then your tongue ... ah, young
Verdant, 
 you have the instincts of a born Talopean!" She held
him by the back of the head and pressed his face against her 
 breasts, moving her leg so that she stood straddling
his knee. 
 He found her hips and pulled
her down. Now she was half on his lap, her thighs imprisoning one of his,
and it 
 was an easy thing for her to add her hand to Ilana's.
They were both caressing him now, up and down, and he bent 
 his head to them both, what a shame the gods gave him
but two hands with four beautiful breasts so eager for his 
 attention! 
 Somehow they fell back across
the bench in a tangle. Anneke's chestnut hair swept across his stomach
as she 
 shifted, and then he cried out as she drew him deeply
into her mouth. 
 "Women like to be kissed that
way too," Ilana breathily informed him. He stared at her, uncomprehending,
until 
 she rose up and lowered herself toward his upturned face. 
 Oh, gods, she tasted of sweetberries
 there too ... coherent thought left him, and he feasted on her like
a starved 
 man, letting the movements of her body and her moans
guide him on his way. 
 A rushing building explosion
thundered in his loins. He thought Anneke would release him and he grieved
in 
 anticipation of that loss, but she redoubled her efforts,
and when the spasms seized him, she stayed just where 
 she was, her clever tongue coaxing until the last drops
of fluid were drained. 
 Overcome, he lay gasping while
Ilana waited poised above him and Anneke moved alongside him as undulant 
 and sinuous as a serpent. 
 "Oh ..." he managed. "Th ...
thank ... Talopea!" 
 The two priestesses smiled indulgently.
Something in the told-you-so curve of their lips sent renewed strength 
 coursing through Verdant. He grasped Ilana's hips and
brought her down again, applying himself more diligently 
 than ever. 
 He felt Anneke tracing lazy
spirals on his stomach with her forefinger, felt that finger wander lower
into the 
 dark thicket of his groin. And then, to his amazement,
he was growing swollen and ready again. 
 Ilana writhed and quaked. Verdant
detected a new, even more secret taste and knew it was the taste of her 
 pleasure, knew it even before she raised her voice in
a wanton peal of delight. That aroused him all the more, so 
 by the time she curled, sated, at his side, he was nearly
aching for what Anneke did next. 
 She swung her leg over his hips
and took hold of him, guiding. That first instant of contact, as her soft
flesh 
 parted before his stiffness, was galvanic. As she sank
down with terrible, wonderful slowness, he uttered a long, 
 drawn-out cry that seemed to encompass every ecstasy
he had ever known. 
 Anneke rocked gently, her thighs
tensing and relaxing, tensing and relaxing, as he slid back and forth within
her 
 hidden darkness. It seemed to go on forever and be over
at once, an eternity and an instant, and how she moved, 
 like the ocean before a gathering storm, like a river's
current sweeping toward the rapids, like a lioness beginning the 
 final run for her prey ... 
 His back arched so that he lifted
her completely from the bench, and she shuddered as her own pleasure crashed 
 over her in waves, and together they called their thanks
to Talopea before collapsing, shivering with reaction, in a 
 warm heap. 
 Verdant lost track of himself
after that, after wearily raising his head and finding that their adventures
on the 
 terrace had drawn an audience of Talopeans ... women
of all descriptions, from ripe and mature senior priestesses 
 to acolytes barely past adolescence ... guests of the
temple, priests, so many people. 
 He didn't care how many days
passed, who was watching, only cared about pursuing and giving and sharing 
 Talopea's most generous gifts. 
 His clearest memory during that
time was of Anneke, she who seemed to possess his mind just as fully and 
 completely as she possessed his flesh, inviting him to
share a meal with her. To his delighted surprise, her idea of a 
 meal was to lie back on a long, low table and let herself
be covered with delicacies and treats. 
 Her eyes had drifted closed,
her body quivering only the tiniest bit as acolytes anointed her breasts
with syrups 
 and creams, placed segments of candied fruits in a Talopean
oval-and-line on the plane of her belly, and dusted her 
 limbs with fine-ground sugar and cinnamon (to add to
her own unique taste). 
 Then, opening her compelling
eyes, she had beckoned for him to dine from that sumptuous living serving
dish. 
 Which he had done, slowly, savoring, pausing only to
sip from a goblet of warmed wine like liquid velvet. 
 At some point on the third day,
he tumbled headlong into a sleep populated by memory's dreams, particularly
of 
 Anneke. Anneke lying before him on a bed of silk, opening
herself to him in welcome. Anneke kneeling as he 
 reclined, her own meal arrayed upon him, as he watched
her dine. Of all of the women, she was the one to 
 haunt his thoughts both waking and sleeping. 
 He woke on the morning of the
fourth day, naked beneath a light sheet, aching pleasantly from head to
toe, and 
 found not Anneke's lovely face looking down on him but
a trio of men. 
 "Huh!" Verdant lurched upright,
scrambled for the sheet as it started to fall away, and then recognized
them. 
 Relief washed through his veins.
Many Talopean priests had made offers, but accepted his refusals with good 
 humor; for an instant, he'd been alarmed they'd changed
their minds. 
 "Lewik, Ezjai, Ferd, you startled
me." 
 "A good thing I didn't take
you up on that bet, my lord," Ezjai said, amused. "Looks like we did have
to come 
 and retrieve you after all." 
 Lewik was regarding the Lord
of Emerald Deep as if he were some piece of clotted muck clinging to the
bottom 
 of his boot, but his voice was carefully neutral. "If
you are ready to go ...?" 
 "Uh ... my clothes ..." 
 "A yummy piece of pastry named
Ilana said these belong to you," Ferd said, dropping a bundle on the bed
and 
 winking at Verdant. 
 "I'll be along soon," he said,
making no move to get out from under the sheet. "If you'd be so kind as
to wait 
 for me outside?" 
 "And risk you becoming ... distracted
again?" Lewik asked, grimacing. 
 "On my honor --" 
 Lewik snorted. 
 "I say, on my honor, I will
be along soon." He drew himself up as tall as the situation allowed, still
holding the 
 sheet in front of him and aware that he must look quite
a bit like one of those statues in which modesty is preserved 
 by a strategically-draped piece of cloth. "Need I remind
you, Lewik, I am still your lord. If you've some dispute 
 with me, we can find some means to settle it." He glanced
meaningfully at his sword, which lay with his garments. 
 "That won't be necessary ...
my lord," Lewik said. "We'll wait outside." 
 Once he was alone, Verdant let
the sheet fall and stretched. His bones crackled in a most satisfying way,
except 
 for his neck, which gave such an alarming creak and pop
that he was suddenly sure he would fall over stricken with 
 paralysis from the chin down. 
 No such awful thing happened,
however, and he was soon washed and dressed. His innards woke and began 
 speaking, pointing out to him that he'd only had one
meal on the previous day ... not very filling , but extremely 
 satisfying , he thought with a grin. 
 He all but skipped from the
room that, if his dim memory was true, some helpful young acolytes had
led him to 
 when he was too exhausted to move under his own power. 
 His grin widened. Yes, three
acolytes, none of them older than sixteen, two of them twins with hair
like cornsilk 
 and the third a brunette with a mouth Talopea herself
might have envied. And he hadn't turned out to be as exhausted 
 as he thought ... 
 "... last time I saw a smile
like that was on my da's hound the time he drank a whole jug of mead,"
Ezjai was 
 saying to Ferd as Verdant trotted merrily down the stairs
and into the garden. 
 "That, my friends, is because
it is such a splendid day." He flicked each of them a gold mark. "My thanks
for 
 retrieving me, though I'd be happier to stay longer.
A week, a year, a lifetime ..." 
 "Just keep in mind, my lord,"
Ferd said, "that priests can't be landholders." 
 Verdant threw back his head
and laughed to the sky. He spotted Lewik, way over by the exit, looking
as 
 stone-faced as Galatine's own statue. 
 "Come on, I am dying for breakfast,"
Verdant announced. He crossed the garden with that spring in his step, 
 and noticed the few early-rising Talopeans watching him
with the fond amusement of people who had seen others 
 act this way many a time before. "Then, I suppose, I
must needs tend to the matters of my uncle's estate. Oh, that 
 reminds me ..." 
 He'd nearly reached Lewik, but
wheeled around and headed back to the temple. Just inside the main doors,
he 
 found an alabaster offering-urn painted with images of
lovemaking in gold and silver, set all around the rim with 
 gems. He opened his purse, peered in, shrugged, and dumped
it all into the urn. 
 As he was turning to leave for
the second time, he caught Ezjai and Ferd elbowing each other and ogling
an 
 approaching woman. 
 "Anneke!" 
 If he felt energetic, she positively
 shone . Right in front of his awed and envious guards, she embraced
him and 
 gave him a kiss that he felt down to the soles of his
boots. 
 He reveled in the feel of her
against him, and it was only when he reluctantly stepped back that he realized
she 
 was not wearing the customary garb of a priestess but
tight suede trousers, a gold silk blouse with a scooped neckline, 
 and a light cape similar to his own. And she had a satchel
slung over her shoulder. 
 "Traveling clothes?" he asked
with great dismay. "You're ... you're leaving?" 
 Anneke nodded. "Making a journey.
I've been at this temple a long while now, and all of the Nahle Dahlia
are 
 expected to spend some time going about the land." 
 "But where? Why? I was hoping
to come back tonight, and ... see you again." 
 She chuckled and ran her fingers
through his hair. "Ah, Verdant, you are as dear as you are delightful.
But I've 
 been putting off my departure long enough already." 
 "Where will you go?" He clutched
at her hands desperately. 
 "I haven't decided. The city
is grand, but I think I'd like to see the open country, the small villages.
It's my task 
 to show others the glory of Talopea; so many of the humble
folk are ignorant of the pleasures their bodies can afford 
 them --" 
 "Come with me. Back to Emerald
Deep." 
 Ferd and Ezjai blinked at him.
"My lord ...?" 
 "It's got everything you could
wish. Open country, small villages, ignorant humble folk, all of it." 
 Her eyes searched his for a
moment, then she smiled gently. "Verdant, do you know what you're asking?
Do you 
 understand that I am a priestess and --" 
 "Of course. I understand all
of that. But, Anneke ..." he showered kisses on her knuckles and palms,
"I still want 
 to learn from you. I want all my people to learn
from you. Bring Talopea to Emerald Deep." 
 "Lewik is going to burst his
brains," Ferd muttered. 
 "Bollocks to that, the Helianites
are going to burst their brains," Ezjai replied. 
 "Still, just 'twixt me and thee,
comrade, I'm all for it," Ferd finished with an elbow nudge. 
 Verdant largely ignored the
two of them, his attention fixed on Anneke. He had to think of something
to ... aha! 
 "I've got a nice coach." 
 "A coach?" 
 "You weren't planning to ride ,
were you? All that jouncing on sweaty horseback, out in the hot sun all
day ... 
 when you could be rolling along, smooth as could be,
in a coach with cushioned seats." 
 "You're devious, Verdant, but
I like the way you think." She hefted her satchel and tucked her arm through
his. 
 "And I must say, I wasn't looking forward to traveling
alone. I so prefer the pleasures of company ..." 
 The look on Lewik's face suggested
that he was about to burst his brains when Verdant introduced Anneke
and 
 explained that she would be accompanying them all the
way home. It mattered not a whit to Verdant. His thoughts 
 were full of her. Anneke in the coach, Anneke at inns,
Anneke in the forest glen where they might camp one moonlit 
 night, Anneke on the sunwarmed flat boulder that rose
up from Emerald Deep like the back of some submerged beast 
 ... Anneke as the Lady of Emerald Deep? 
 He blundered his way through
the final meeting to settle the Tradersport portion of his uncle's estate,
and left the 
 office with the nagging feeling that he'd signed over
far more than the usual legal fee, but it didn't matter. He had far 
 better things to think of than a paltry few thousand
marks. 
 Soon they were bidding farewell
to the city, Verdant in his coach with Anneke across from him and Lewik,
who 
 had barely said two words to him since leaving the temple,
perched in the driver's seat. The outriders flanked them 
 more closely than before, and Verdant was quite sure
it wasn't out of concern for his safety. 
 Let them listen! It mattered
not! 
 The sunlight slanting through
the windows set her chestnut hair afire and brought a sheen of rose-gold
to her skin. 
 She stretched out her legs and crossed her feet on the
cushions beside him, and it was only natural, as he told her of 
 his homeland, to let one hand fall to caress her ankle,
her calf. 
 And from there, only natural
to unlace the low walking-boots she wore and draw them off, baring her
feet and 
 running his fingers along the tender soles. How he loved
to hear her laugh! 
 "Planning to start at the bottom
this time and work your way up?" she asked teasingly. 
 "Perhaps." He raised her foot
and kissed each pert toe. "Or I could just meet you in the middle." 
 He barely had the presence of
mind to draw the drapes before she pulled her blouse over her head and
cast it 
 indifferently aside. As he continued kissing her toes,
her instep, the saucy nub of her ankle, she leaned back in the 
 seat and cupped her glorious breasts, stroking them until
the tips were tight with excitement. 
 Anneke's other foot slid between
Verdant's thighs and her toes curled playfully over the swelling she found
there. 
 Like most Talopean garments,
her trousers were designed for ease of removal, with laces up the outside
of both legs. 
 He merely had to pull one cord, and the suede parted
like water. Ankle to calf, calf to knee. There, he paused to kneel on 
 the floor, her foot now resting on his shoulder, while
he trailed kisses over the newly-revealed skin. 
 "Mmmm, I think you're one of
the best students I ever had," she sighed as he began on the other leg. 
 "I want you to teach me everything ,"
he said, slowly pulling on both laces to see if he could have them be completely 
 undone at the same instant. 
 Success! He peeled the fabric
away, and now Anneke was nude on the cushions, just as he'd envisioned
her, both 
 of her hands busy with her breasts, one of her legs still
raised over his shoulder, the pose causing the dark-furred center 
 of her to part just enough to afford him a glimpse of
the glistening, coral-hued flesh within. 
 He kissed his way there, over
the fluttering tiny muscles of her inner thigh until he could dip his tongue
yet again into 
 that cinnamon-sweetness. She curled a fist loosely into
his hair and tilted her hips to meet him, murmuring wordlessly in 
 approval. 
 Aching to be buried in that
soft warmth, Verdant loosed his own trousers -- not so easy to get out
of as hers, a pity! 
 -- without raising his head from his studious efforts. 
 He already knew the cues of
her body well, and sensed that she was cresting toward her climax. Then
he stopped, 
 leaving her panting and breathless. "I want ..." 
 "Yes," she purred. "Sit." 
 Verdant clambered backward onto
the padded bench, and she stepped over the discarded pile of clothes, turned 
 around, and snuggled down on his lap. Reaching beneath
herself, she guided him and cried out as he sank deep. 
 His arms encircled her waist,
his hands filled themselves with her breasts. She flexed smoothly, gliding
up and down 
 on his lap. Then, at the moment of her ultimate pleasure,
she froze in place, so that the only sensation Verdant was 
 aware of was the slick convulsive contractions of her
passage around his stiffness. 
 "Anneke!" he shouted. Oh, intense
and overpowering, he couldn't wait another moment, but held her by the
hips 
 and drove firmly up into her. His thrusts sent Anneke
to greater heights even as he yielded and poured himself copiously 
 into her hidden depths. 
 Without disengaging from her,
he slid to the floor and they lay entwined. 
 "Yes ..." he gasped. "Want to
learn ... everything. Teach me ... everything." 
 "Didn't I already?" she mused
smugly. "Oh, wait, there's this ..." 
 "Ohhhahhh!" 
 "Wouldn't want to forget that
..." 
 He flopped onto his back, chest
heaving. "No. I suppose not. Gods, woman ... how do you ... I thought I
... isn't 
 a man ...?" 
 "Talopea is generous," she said,
stretching out languidly beside. 
 "That's putting it mildly."
He winced as a beam of sunlight speared through a tiny hole in the coach's
front wall 
 and struck him in the eye. It winked out a moment later,
as if a shadow had passed over it. 
 No, not a shadow ... 
 He realized what it was, and
nearly laughed aloud. But that would only let Lewik know that he'd been
caught 
 peeking. Instead, already feeling revived, Verdant rolled
onto his side and pulled Anneke to him. 
 And was glad that it was a long,
long way to Emerald Deep. 
 **** 
 The End 

 1999 Christine Morgan ** vecna@eskimo.com 
** http://www.eskimo.com/~vecna