wildfire1 

Fire and Blood 

by Christine Morgan 

 "Mother, stop!" the
Queen of Delain screamed.
 When the young Queen's
words had no effect, unable to penetrate her mother's fury, the Earl of
 Riverwood went into action. Normally the most peaceful of men, always
ready to calm his tempestuous
 wife, he recognized that his music would not help in time. Therefore,
though he hardly ever raised a
 hand in anger, he stepped forward and slapped his wife sharply across
the face.
 Gwendolyn Torrance
Waldegrave whirled on her husband, black hair whipping around her face,
 cheeks flushed with rage, eyes wild. Aron stood his ground, though
the air around him grew tight and
 tense. He reached out, ignoring the searing heat that threatened to
blister his fine minstrel's hands, and
 pulled her into his arms. She resisted, the temperature in the room
climbing several more degrees. He
 refused to let go.
 "Darling, please,"
he said, keeping his voice even and melodious. "Belynda is not hurt. You're
 frightening her. Please calm down."
 His words penetrated
her blinding anger, dissolving her immediately into hysterical sobs. He
cradled
 her head against his chest, stroking her long hair, murmuring soothing
words.
 "Assassin --" she
managed to say before starting to cry harder, clutching him with a panicky
strength
 that belied her diminutive size.
 "It's all right, Mother,"
Belynda said. "He's dead."
 Though the Queen was
still trembling with fear at her recent ordeal, she drew herself up and
took
 charge of the situation. Aron was proud of her. Ignoring the smoldering
heap of ash that was all that
 remained of the cloaked man that had appeared without warning in the
midst of her grand hall, stepping
 over the charred crossbow bolt that had so recently been flying toward
her crowned head, Belynda
 addressed the gathered nobles. She had to raise her voice to be heard
over the crying of several of the
 ladies, her own mother included.
 "Lord Tyrone," she
said to an older gentleman whose long moustache was badly singed, "Send
for
 the Royal Healer and have him bring his assistants. Lady Evaine, Baroness
Korsta, see to the other
 ladies." The two women, the most composed among the court, curtseyed
and started herding their
 charges into the least-scorched corner of the hall.
 "Sir Daniel," Belynda
said, a slight blush staining her cheeks as the handsome, muscular young
 knight swiftly knelt at her feet, "select a few able men to put out
the fires."
 "At once, my Queen,"
he said, kissing the hem of her sooty gown.
 Her blush deepened.
Aron suppressed a smile. It was hard to believe that the girl-child whose
 tormented birth he had witnessed was now almost a young lady, and every
inch a Queen.
 The grand hall of
Delain's palace was hot and smoky despite the cool evening weather. Expensive
 tapestries imported all the way from Garland hung in blackened strips.
The woven carpets were still
 ablaze in spots. Of the assembled nobility and courtiers, a dozen were
burnt and many of the rest were
 coughing or slapping at tiny fires in their hair or clothes. One of
the long tables was engulfed in flame,
 and it was to this target that Sir Daniel and his men moved first.
 The commander of Belynda's
palace guard hurried in amid a great clatter of armor. He sketched a
 rapid bow and delievered his report still gasping for breath.
 "There are no signs
of any others, Majesty. We're starting a search of the entire castle, and
I've sent
 men into the streets."
 "My babies!" Gwendolyn
said, bringing her head up with such speed and force that she clipped Aron
 under the chin and almost made him bite off his tongue. He paid it
no mind, lost in sudden fear for his
 infant sons.
 "What about my brothers?"
Belynda asked the commander.
 "Awakened by the ruckus,
Majesty, but unhurt. I posted a guard."
 "Double it!" Gwen
ordered.
 The commander glanced
to the Queen, who nodded. Aron felt the knot in his stomach ease a bit.
His
 wife and sons were the most important things in the world to him, more
than his earldom or even his
 music. The thought of any harm coming to them, or to the gifted and
wonderful girl that he wished was
 his own daughter, made his blood burn.
 Gradually, order was
restored to the grand hall. The Healers arrived and began tending the injured.
 The flames were extinguished. And Gwen brought herself under control
long enough to examine the
 remains of the would-be assassin. The guards tried to stop her, but
one look from her smoky eyes was all
 it took. Wordlessly, they fell back.
 Aron watched as his
wife knelt beside the man she had killed. She had used no spells or other
magic,
 though she was one of the most powerful fire-mages in Andur. What had
utterly destroyed the assassin,
 virtually in the blink of an eye, was a small ring of red-gold. Her
first husband had hated that ring, and
 to this day still did. But Aron thanked the gods for that ring, and
thanked the pyreads for giving such a
 gift to a human girl. It translated the wearer's emotions into temperature.
At the sight of the man in black
 dropping from one of the ceiling beams, a crossbow pointed at her daughter,
Gwendolyn's rage had
 erupted like a volcano. The twang of the crossbow had nearly been lost
in the roar and crackle of flames.
 Her face twisted into
a pucker of disgust, Gwen poked through the ashes. Aron moved closer. Some
 of the nobles watched curiously, while others turned away. Sir Daniel,
his work finished, stood
 protectively near the young Queen.
 Something white appeared
in the ashes. Gwen picked it up and dusted it off. As it came clear, Aron
 felt the room grow warm again.
 It was a knife, a
black-and-white-handled knife with a simple legend carved around the hilt.

I have sought him, I have found him 
 "Fourcity," she said,
clenching it in one small hand. Many of the nobles stared, fascinated,
as the
 metal blade began to melt and run like wax.

 * * *

 Gwendolyn Torrance
Waldegrave, also known as Lady Aiden, mother of the Queen of Delain, wife
 of the Earl of Riverwood, who was believed to be the secret true love
of Prince Peter of Delain, and was
 the former wife of the notorious Harold Ethelbald, entered her room
and closed the door.
 She crossed calmly
to the mirror and regarded her reflection. Her fair skin was smeared with
soot,
 and her hair was in complete disarray though she had spent an hour
arranging it before the feast. Her
 lovely gown of scarlet silk was charred, the hem burnt away to expose
her fancy stockings and gold
 dancing slippers.
 She smelled of smoke.
She had smelled smoke on the day that her family died at the hands of
 horrible dogsbody demons. Ever since, she had associated that scent
with anger, loss, and despair. She
 had smelled smoke the time she had set fire to the lawn at Greenvale
and boiled exotic fish in their
 fountain pool. She had smelled smoke when they had rescued Peter from
the Needle and she'd caused
 half of Delain City to go up in flames. The time she remembered most
vividly was the night from hell
 when she'd been caught in the midst of a battle between the Overlord's
forces and Alan IV's avenging
 army. She'd thought death would come for her that night, for her, Toby,
and for baby Belynda, whose
 future as Delain's Queen was as yet unforseen by everyone except possibly
Rannian.
 Thinking of the placid,
dark-eyed Seer made her mad all over again. Why hadn't Rannian warned
 her that assassins would be coming after Belynda? She had spent the
last twelve years in a state of
 paranoid fear that someone would try and take her precious little girl
away from her. She had spent
 thousands in Pandathaway's magic shops purchasing items to protect
her daughter.
 She forced herself
to take a few deep breaths. She could not be mad at Rannian. If Belden
were to be
 believed, the Seer was Lunari himself. She had spent half of her life
hating the gods to no avail. Rannian
 must have known about the assassin, and seen that she would handle
it herself without any harm coming
 to Belynda.
 She brushed out her
long black hair and braided it into a single plait. There was little thought
to her
 actions as she slipped out of her gown and into a worn outfit of dark-colored
leathers. Her drake, red
 Phoenix, watched her anxiously and chirped once or twice, but she ignored
even that. Her thoughts were
 on Fourcity.
 She'd spent a large
part of her young life in the city in the center of the Four Duchies. Her
parents
 had held lands away to the west, near the borders of the Duchy of Rhaff,
but following their hideous
 deaths, she had been forced to live with the inhuman creatures that
claimed to be her uncle and cousins.
 She'd been a virtual slave,
bound by terror, unable to escape until one day when the torment had become
 too much to bear. Fourcity had been a prison, a place where she had
spent cold winters locked in a
 windswept attic, huddled in misery and constant fear. Like the smell
of smoke, it was something she
 linked with the bad feelings. She rarely went back, and every time
she did, the urge to destroy grew
 stronger.
 The time had come
to stop denying those urges. Fourcity had gone too far. In her mind, the
assassin
 was just a single part of a huge, horrible monster. The actions of
that one man could be laid at every
 door in the city. Every single person was to blame.
 Aron knew what she
was planning. He knew her too well, even better than she knew herself.
She
 was glad that he knew her well enough to stay out of her way, because
she did not want to argue with the
 man she loved. She did love Aron, though for a long time she had despaired
of ever loving again. He
 made her feel safe, precious, treasured. It was entirely unlike the
thrilling, tingling feelings she'd had for
 Harry, or the sweepingly romantic emotions she'd felt for Peter. Harry
had turned out to be an uncaring,
 unloveable cad. Only Rebecca, the gods alone knew why, could see anything
in him to love despite his
 callous treatment of her. And Peter, dear Peter, had literally been
the handsome prince of her dreams.
 Fate and circumstance had kept them from seeking any sort of lasting
passion.
 She would never forget
the things his brother Thomas had said on the day that Belynda became
 Queen. Could it be true that Peter had been in love with her all that
time? That he had never married in
 hopes that she would someday come to him? She remembered the way his
dark blue eyes had lit up when
 she appeared in his throne room the day he'd been reviewing ladies
under pressure from his advisors to
 choose a bride, the genuinely warm and delighted smile with which he'd
greeted her, and the quickly-
 hidden look of disappointment that had come over him when she'd explained
that she wasn't there for
 that purpose.
 She thought about
him sometimes as she walked the halls of the palace, the same halls where
he had
 played as a boy, before the awful incident that resulted in his false
imprisonment. What did he think, she
 wondered, if he looked down from the Realm Beyond to see what had happened
in Delain? Did he
 approve of Belynda, who could have been his own true daughter? Did
he remember what had really
 happened that night in the Needle, or was his memory, like hers, clouded
by wine and confusion? She
 wished she could remember, wished she could tell Belynda who her true
father was. She supposed she
 could consult the Seers, but fear held her back. Fear that Belynda
might actually be Harry's daughter.
 There were three men that Belynda could call Father, but Harry was
the only living one who had any sort
 of likely claim. Aron, who loved Belynda best of all, had the least
claim.
 Her sword was hanging
way in the back of the closet. She got it out, ignoring Phoenix's worried
 protests, and held it up. Deciding that she would not need the blade
for the night's work, she tossed it on
 the bed. She stamped her feet into her old adventuring boots, which
she hadn't worn in years, and threw
 her cloak over her shoulders. Glancing again in the mirror, she gasped.
It was like looking back through
 time. She touched her face, almost expecting to feel the ugly scrawled
scar that one of her cousins had
 left as a reminder of his cruelty. The skin remained smooth and unblemished.
Otherwise, it was like
 seeing herself as she'd been all those years ago. She could almost
expect to go to Funess and see Toby as
 a child, instead of the good-looking young man he'd grown into. She
could go to the Grey Pony and see
 Sara, still years before the terrible events that would lead her to
murder Peter and die herself on Delain's
 chopping block. She could visit Coppers' shop and find just a crazy
old man, instead of a crazy old man
 who now had a peculiar Damonite wife and a son named after a jackalope. 
Yes, the years
 had brought a lot of changes, and while some of them were bad, many
had been good. The girl she'd
 been back then had been ugly, ashamed of her scar, distrustful. She
was still distrustful, particularly of
 Fourcity and anything that Harry had to say, but she was no longer
ugly or ashamed. Even the possibility
 of her infidelity did not trouble her, because the people of Delain
blessed her for it. They loved their
 Queen, and under Belynda's rule, Delain prospered as it never had.
 Thinking of her daughter
reminded her of her purpose. Fourcity had tried to hurt her baby, and
 Fourcity was going to pay. She pulled up her hood and went into the
nursery that adjoined her chambers.
 The guards, on edge, reacted in alarm to the sight of a hooded figure
entering the room and nearly shot
 her down before one of them recognized her. She hastily pushed back
her hood and apologized, keenly
 aware of how close she had come to being killed by the very people
whose presence she'd demanded.
 The guards returned
to their posts, and she approached the oversized crib. Her twin sons, Alan
and
 Peter, were snuggled beneath a fluffy blanket. Her familiar, a fox
named Sasha, was lying awake and
 watchful at the end of the crib.
 Peter's hair was dark,
like her own, and Alan's head was covered by a reddish fuzz. Even in sleep,
 he bore a strong resemblance to his father. The palace staff had given
them the nicknames of Smoke and
 Fire. The twins were inseperable, and the joke, "wherever there's Smoke,
there's Fire", had already
 grown old.
 She touched their
tiny faces. Following Belynda's difficult birth, she'd been terrified of
having
 another child. But Aron had wanted a child of his own so badly, and
it was the only thing he had ever
 asked of her. Thankfully, the twins had come quickly and easily, though
their timing was awkward. They
 had been born right in the middle of the dramatic revelation of Belynda's
heritage, sharing their birthday
 with her coronation day.
 Leaning over, she
kissed them each on the forehead. Peter wrinkled his nose, perhaps smelling
the
 smoke that still clung to her, and rubbed his eyes.
 "I love you, babies,"
she whispered. Beckoning to Phoenix, she tucked the drake under the blanket.
 "Take care of them."
 "Don't worry," Sasha
said, causing the guards to look around uneasily. The people of Delain
had
 laregly gotten used to her menagerie, which consisted not only of Sasha
and Phoenix but a young
 hippogryph, a tame bear, and half a dozen other creatures. The fact
that Sasha could talk was still the
 cause of some superstitious concern. Delain was slowly coming to accept
magic, but the road was long
 and rough.
 "Nobody's going to
hurt these cubs," Sahsa continued. Phoenix warbled in agreement.
 "Not with you on guard,"
she said, stroking the russet pelt. "I'll see you later."
 She nodded to the
guards, and went back to her own room. Standing in the center, head down,
she
 closed her eyes and concentrated on Fourcity. Dismal, dingy, hated
Fourcity. When her destination was
 firmly fixed in her mind, she opened her eyes and looked once more
around the room. It could be that
 she would never see it again.
 Forcing the negative
thought away, she decided she was ready to go.
 Gwendolyn Torrance
Waldegrave, also known as Lady Aiden, had entered the room. But it was
a
 woman called Wildfire that teleported out.

 * * *

 She arrived in Fourcity
mere heartbeats later, and the dirty, narrow streets were worse than she'd
 remembered. She imagined she could see the dogsbodies lurking beneath
the faces of everyone she
 passed. Some of them looked her over with the eyes of a predator, scanning
for jewelry or pouches of
 coin. She carried no money, not anticipating needing any on this trip,
and the only article of jewelry she
 wore was the one that she intended to use.
 The rage that had
gone undiminished, since she first saw the man in black raged up inside
of her.
 This time, there was no gentle Aron to soothe her, no innocent people
that might be harmed. There was
 only Fourcity, the place of her tortured childhood. Like the phoenix
that she revered, she had come home
 to burn. By destroying Fourcity, she would not only be avenging herself
on those who would try to hurt
 her daughter. She would also be destroying her past, freeing herself
to rise reborn from the ashes of what
 had been.
 "You should have left
me alone," she said.
 A passing mad glanced
at her curiously, then decided she was just a harmless loony. He never
had
 time to rethink that opinion, because seconds later, the flames began.

 * * *

 Chaos reigned in Fourcity
that night. One one side of town, a strange vigilante showered the poor
 with plundered goods from a looted Tristan temple, and the priests
of the god of theives had been routed
 and killed. Elsewhere, the fires spread hungrily from one building
to the next, consuming everything in
 their path. New blazes sprang up in a random, wandering trail of destruction.
The people of Fourcity,
 human and dogsbody alike, did what they could to battle or escape the
raging fires, and many of them
 feared that the gates of hell had opened wide.
 By daylight, less
than half of the buildings were still standing, and most of those were
severely
 damaged. Blackened bodies littered the streets. Many were human, but
the few survivors found some that
 were obviously inhuman, hideous demonic shapes. Those discoveries strengthened
the rumor that a gate
 had been opened.
 The dukes, visiting
the city later in the day, were inclined to agree. Such overwhelming destruction
 could not have been caused by anything less than the forces of the
Abyss itself, they said.
 Meanwhile, one woman returned to Delain. She was blistered from
the ferocity of her own flame,
 exhausted, emotionally drained, and finally satisfied. Fourcity had
pain, paid in the only coin that she
 would accept. In fire and blood.

 * * *

 Copyright 1992 by Christine Morgan