Guitar Lessons - Chromaticism 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 Guitar Lessons , Jazz , 
 Chromaticism 

 Chromaticism 

 Published March 02, 2002 
 By 
 Hans 
 Fahling 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 If you&#146;ve heard of arpeggios, you have probably wondered 
 how they could possibly be used for improvising on the guitar?! 
 This column talks about the use of chord tone structures as 
 a grid for progressively adding the in-between elements, such 
 as passing tones, bebop sequences and many more important 
 musical building blocks of improv. We will illustrate how 
 modes are arrived at in the context of chromaticism, metric 
 control, and bebop scales. 
 Let&#146;s take a modal chord progression and progressively 
 layer the tools we will need to create to get to those above-mentioned 
 in-between elements. Here is a chord progression taken from 
 Coltrane&#146;s Impressions : 
 ||---- 16 bars of Dm7 ---||--- 8 bars of Ebm7 
 ---||--- 8 bars of Dm7 ---|| 
 Let&#146;s examine the first of the two chords : Dm7 ; 
 here&#146;s the arpeggio at the fifth position (that is, starting 
 at the fifth fret on the neck): 

 In a different layout (root on 5 th string, 5 th 
 position): 

 Looking at the &#147;partials,&#148; the notes that make 
 up this chord, we have the root (D &#150; all of which 
 are circled on the fret chart), the b3 (F), the 5 
 (A), and the b7 (C). These are arranged in a range 
 of just over two octaves with the lowest note being a fifth 
 and the top note a seventh. 

 Practice this form on the guitar for a few moments, 
 starting at first very slowly on the lowest root, playing 
 to the top note, back down to the lowest note, and back 
 up to the root. Always use alternate picking! It 
 helps to realize that this is the same as a D minor 
 pentatonic scale with the fourth (G) omitted. 

 Once this gets easier after a few minutes (or however 
 long it takes to practice to the point of the arpeggio 
 becoming automatic in your movement), play a Dm7 chord 
 voicing before and after you play the arpeggio; this 
 is helpful, because it creates a reference point to 
 something familiar. Start the arpeggio now on not only 
 the root, but the other partials (third, fifth, or seventh) 
 as well. 

 With chord tones you are able to truly reflect the sound 
 of the changes in a tune. The notes in-between give you options 
 as to how to color your lines. Notice how the chord tones 
 (boxed) in the illustration below fall on the strong beats 
 (1, 2, 3 ,4 ) and the passing tones on the weak beats; 
 also, the passing tones in this ascending line approach the 
 chord tones by half steps, practically functioning as leading 
 tones to the chord tones. 

 Practice this approach now in similar fashion: Slowly 
 from the lowest to the highest notes in this position; 
 make sure to play the notes of the arpeggio (the boxed 
 chord tones) with down strokes , and the passing 
 tones with upstrokes. It is amazing how fast 
 you can get at playing this type of phrase with alternate 
 picking &#150; but take several days to slowly build 
 speed; 

 start the phrases on different notes &#150; down beats 
 as well as up beats, but be aware of metric placement: 

 The most common choice for the 
 downward movement is the use of the Dorian scale (add 
 major 7 th ) as illustrated blow: 

 In some circumstances, the following 
 scales [with differences to dorian indicated] need/can to 
 be used: 

 Aeolian (add major 7 th ) [step 
 6 is minor] 
 Phrygian (add major 7 th ) [steps 
 2 and 6 are minor] 
 Melodic Minor [a special case that will 
 be discussed in the following] 

 It will take a bit of time and practice to assimilate 
 the elements illustrated above. But it will be very 
 rewarding to then move on to the application part with 
 taking a play-along track (self-made or a recording 
 of So What by Miles Davis or the song Impressions 
 by John Coltrane) or with a musician friend, and to 
 try a few improv techniques. 

 Briefly apply the same practice steps to Ebm7 by moving 
 everything up one half step. Then play along with the 
 music using the elements elaborated on; make sure to 
 change after 16 bars to Ebm7 &#150; the arpeggio, the 
 passing tone layout, the resulting Dorian bebop scale. 

 Take time to get used to the new tools, and focus on the 
 metric placement of the notes. You will notice how your consistent 
 practice with careful regard to up and down strokes has paid 
 off by giving you control over what notes to play when. The 
 important chord tones will reflect the changes in your playing, 
 enabling you to resolve your lines carefully and true to the 
 harmonic background. With consistent practice this metric 
 control will be accompanied by astonishing facility and speed 
 and greatly improve your alternate picking. 
 Hans Fahling 2002-03-02 
 Go 
 to a review of "The Hans Fahling Quartet" 
 Next lesson in this series 
 "Pattern-playing in Bebop Scales - not just for Jazz" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.