I have been studying methods of electro-statically charging the
vapours to be reformed because electrifying or ionizing the vapours is
essential for plasma fuel reforming.

I see 2 different methods used in the past,

1. If water with some electrolytes is vapourized (like in a bubbler)
then the liquid left behind tends to take on 1 charge and the vapours
tend to take the opposite charge.

2. Using the Triboelectric effect, wet steam passing through a nozzle
of wood, or some other similar material of the triboelectric series,
tends to charge the wet steam and leaves the container with the
opposite charge.

But if method 1 is used at the same time as method 2, the first method
tends to completely short out the effect of the other. It seems to me
that the longer the length of conductive plumbing is used from the
output of a bubbler to the input of a reactor, the more static charge
in the vapours will be shorted back to the bubbler.

For this reason, it seems like only non-conductive (non collapsible
under vacuum) tubing should be used from the bubbler output to the
reactor input.

Even after entering the reactor, it seems like the reactor walls would
quickly short out any static charge in the vapours.

While trying to find a way that vapours could stay statically charged
in the reactor chamber I started exploring the ideal of thermal
momentum. Paul and Molley Pantone put forth the idea that rapidly
cooled or heated water, that undergoes a phase change, from liquid to
gas for example, can also under-go a type of thermal momentum.

Normally thermal momentum, sometimes called a "Thermal Flywheel
Effect" only refers to a mass' ability to maintain its current
temperature when something external is trying to change its
temperature. The definition does not include the characteristic of
actually overshooting and going to an even higher or lower temperature
than the external source.

However, the Pantones observed this happening in the GEET reactor. For
more than 100 years scientist still can't come up with a solid theory
or proof as to exactly how thunderclouds get electrified. Most places
on the net or in libraries will say what is thought to be the cause
but I've read many science research papers saying no actual cause is
yet to be proven and all we have is theories with flaws.

When water's temperature rapidly shoots beyond where it is heated or
cooled to, the heat energy has to come or go to some place. I'm
thinking the extra lost heat energy in thunderclouds is turned into
the electricity that creates the lightning. But I don't know exactly
how yet.

If electrification can occur within the reactor chamber from a rapid
change in vapour temperature and the extra energy converted to
electricity then there is no longer a problem of the reactor metal
having already shorted out the charge before it gets to the reactor.

Donato Tommasi found that he could only create a steam magnet not just
from electrically charged vapours but rather only when the vapours
moved rapidly through a temperature gradient.

But he was unable to reproduce the effect every time.

Naresh