Hey Guys, Wes Shrimp Po' Boy comin' at ya again and I'm hopefully making this one of the last GEET Fuel Processor related videos until I get my first reactor's infrastructure finished and all of that bolted to a tiller so I can revive that old thing and make it run again.

Now for those of you who already saw any number of videos on the GEET Reactor Playlist, I'll use the specific timestamp at where I finished the intro and I will let you know when to skip to once I've repeated these basics to the newcomers of the video series.

GEET stands for Global Environmental Energy Technology and specifically, the GEET Fuel Processor is a fuel reformer invented by the guy who started the company, Paul Pantone.

OK, I'm done with the rehashed material, skip to now.

The GEET Reactor is at worst, a fuel reformer that can use exhaust heat to crack apart E85 into a mix of hydrogen and carbon monoxide, can crack diesel enough to make a gasoline engine run like normal, do the same with kerosene, etc... and it'll work.

At the moderately best, it COULD become a plasma reactor that'll crack anything you want to use as a fuel (except synthetic lubricants and antifreeze) into a clean burning reformate at garage tolerances if the conditions are right, I'll get to that part soon..

You can potentially convert ANY combustion engine into running on this.

NOW, if you can get it to function beyond that and make it able to crack anything you vaporize down (except synthetic lubricants and antifreeze) to its constituent atoms at the least of the extremes, that's gonna have to be confirmed by more people, but I WILL go into THAT further later in this video..

That last one I'll get into, because it's a bit finicky to recreate unless we can make more people willing to build their own, do experiments, and publish their results.

So as I was saying, the GEET Reactor is a fuel reactor in the form of a 2 pipes of steel, iron, black iron, duplex stainless steel, or ferritic stainless steel that you're going to add to your system, then inside the intake reactor pipe, you will add a fuel reactor rod.

The diameters of the pipes, the lengths of the pipes, the orientation of the reactor, whether or not you intend to run the reactor in reverse orientations (like backwards horizontal reactors, upside-down vertical reactors and upside down diagonal reactors as the examples), what mixtures you want to vaporize together to break down into reformate or "syngas", and lastly, the spacing between the inside wall of the intake reactor pipe and the surface of the rod will determine the length of the rod.

You can measure that by burning in a rod for 35 minutes to 2 hours, taking the rod out, moving a liquid compass up from the middle of it until the north hand points at the right spot, mark that spot with whatever color matches with the north hand in the compass, then slide the compass down the rod until its south hand points at the proper spot, mark that with whatever color matches with the compass' south hand, and lastly use a caliper to measure the length between those spots to get the exact millimeters you need.

The engine doesn't factor into the size of the rod necessarily until you scale up to a big enough engine that the reformer you currently use can't make enough reformate to fuel the bigger engine until you scale up to a new reactor to compensate and use heavier fuels to vaporize fully.

Propane, butane, natural gas, acetylene, ethylene, ethane, and other such simpler gases won't need much space to be broken up, the reactor rods for those will be VERY short.

Fuels like kerosene, light naphtha, gasoline and such will need longer rod lengths to ensure enough space to make that reaction happen to them.

Diesel and anything bigger will need a bigger fuel reactor and much longer rods, that's because those are MUCH bigger molecules to crack down.

You will need AT LEAST 10 to 20% either liquid fossil fuels, fuel gas, or alcohol to make an easier to crack mixture of vapors and then the rest be any other liquids you want to vaporize down, such as soured tea, water, soda, old coffee, old beer, fruit juice, whatever.

Now, to convert a vehicle engine to use this will take some more modifications than you need for a small engine like a generator, lawn mower, pressure washer, etc..

Hilariously, this thing operates on a combination of high school physics put together in a finicky ass, unusual way.

Let's start with what goes into making vapor and carrying the vapor.

You vaporize a liquid by making a pressure drop or a "vacuum" to cause air to move to and through the vapor making section, that'll cause the liquids to be rubbed against by the air, which induces a shearing force due to the rubbing of the materials and the vacuum effect being made.

Shearing is the occurrence of a shear strain, which is a deforming of a material due to rubbing against another material whether it's material a moving and rubbing against material b, or material A and material B rub against each other as they move in opposite directions.

Shear flow is the flow induced by a force in a fluid, like the Couette flow, which is the flow of a viscus fluid in the space between two surfaces, one moving tangentially relative to the other, which causes a shear stress on the fluid to make it move.

Another example is different, adjacent layers of fluid moving alongside each other with different speeds, the thicker one of the fluids is, the more resistant to flow and the more prone to shear stress it is.

Basically, the air induces a shear on the liquid in the vaporizer of choice, causing it to move until it bubbles, creating actual bubbles and droplets along with vapor, then the said vapor, droplets, and bubbles move with the air that rubbed against the liquid to deform and then vaporize under vacuum and rub the various surfaces inside the vaporizer, in the case of the bubbler for the GEET or a screen cone inside the back of a modified carburetor, they all rub against the stainless steel wool or the wire mesh cone and that induces another shearing stress onto the bubbles and droplets causing them to break up into vapor.

The vapors of various liquids and air mixture flow at different rates against and alongside each other due to thickness or "viscosity", the movement, the vacuum and all other sorts of reasons, the molecules collide into each other and rub, these actions if the mixture is a positive charge and the vaporizer's parts have a net negative charge, will create static electricity by what's called Tribocharging.

These vapors carry that static charge until they go inside the reactor itself and there's another combo of effects that I WILL get into soon.

Once inside the reactor, to be specific, the middle pipe with the "Reactor Rod" inside that serves multiple functions.

Let's get into those shall we?

The first function of the rod is it acts as a venturi, which basically is a narrowing of a hole that makes fluids that flow into it speed up.

The vapor air mix speeds up and spirals around that rod due to this as well.

The vapors are traveling up one direction and the exhaust, that hot mix of gases are spiraling downward around the middle pipe, copying how twisters, hurricanes, and tornadoes work, making a high wind in the middle pipe due to the colliding of hot and cold fluids, making strong enough windiness to make that rod hover and spin.

That speeds up the overall mixture of fluids being reacted apart, also extracting the kinetic and heat energies from the exhaust.

The other function of the rod is to invoke not just Venturi effect, but also raise the vacuum in the region the rod hovers in, which is called the Bernoulli Principle.

This will speed up and due to various factors including shear stress on the fluids, make them spiral and rub along the surface of the reactor rod and the inner wall of the intake pipe to the fuel reactor.

EVENTUALLY, what happens if you allow static electricity to build up in the vapors, sparking will happen in the reactor, that sparking converts static electricity into electrical current.

What happens when you have ions, electrons and the current they carry pass through a wire coiling around an iron bar?

Faraday's Law acts on the iron bar, making it into an electromagnet.

When this happens and there is remnant magnetism in the reactor rod, the intake reactor pipe and the exhaust pipe around that where the rod and exhaust pipe's north and south ends match, but the intake pipe's north and south are opposite, you know, opposites attract, you will cause Lenz's Law to act on the two pipes, making 2 more electromagnetic fields since they will conduce a bit of current, which due to the remnant magnetism in the pipes lined up properly, the other magnetic fields will already have their paths for them to move and do their things established.

That also accelerates or speeds up the spiralling of the vapor air mix around the rod.

Since you got various liquids in vapor form and they flow together at varying rates alongside and against each other, being spiralled fiercely by these other factors I mentioned already, you have sheared flow and it's axial or parallel to and alongside the rod and the path of the inner pipe.

If these effects can manifest and they can all interact with each other enough, this is where the really wild sounding claims come into factor in, a plasma pinch is said to form just a little south of the middle of the reactor and the reactor rod.

What's pretty cool is when you have a shear stess on a solid, it'll deform it, but when you have different sections of a plasma flowing against each other at different rates, making a shear flow, it does the opposite to a plasma pinch, it stabilizes it.

WILD!!

Now, this unironic shear-flow stabilized plasma pinch fuel reformer claim is wild and has some implications, but that's what's essentially claimed by the inventor of this reactor and again, I'm just stating the more extravagant claims about the GEET.

Theoretically, it's not impossible, but we need to run some experiments to confirm if we can reproducibly manifest this particular combo of effects.

We need people building these things, test running them on their pieces of equipment doing exactly as I said in other videos AND this video about the reactor rod and how to burn new ones in, then give their results to the public.

NOW, as sketchy as this sounds, I do have a list of clues to help you and see if these effects are more likely to be possible if not outright being recreated.

1. The Muffler will be cold, maybe even icy to the touch.

2. You get an emissions reader and it won't register NOx, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide OR any hydrocarbons, they'll all be ZEROS.

3. You get one of those thermal guns and you scan the reactor, you see multiple spots in both sides of the REACTOR ITSELF have cold and hot spots where you would not thing they're normally supposed to be.

4. You won't see any VISIBLE pollution coming out the muffler.

5. If there is NO exhaust smell at all.

6. If all these things work accordingly, there should be electromagnetic interference, enough of one to wipe memory cards, your credit card, your debit card, and such like that.

7. If ALL These happen, when you stop running your engine, remove the reactor rod, get your liquid compass, and see if the north and points at the end facing up, turn the rod over and see if it still does the same thing again and again.


8. If ALL These happen, when you stop running your engine, remove the reactor rod, see if you got an old computer that you're not attached to, turn the computer on and you have the rod placed near it and see if it finishes off that old computer, as in wipes it.


NOW, I'll suggest again my rather nutty experiment I posited in the GEET Tech and How It Works series I did.

This said nutty experiment is to see if this can work or not and maybe even engender a plasma reactor effect more easily at bare minimum, so in the words of a great Dolly Parton song, here I go!

Like I said before, the original script for that included Ukraine's Chernobyl waters, but I'd rather not talk about that place and its current conflict, so let's stick to the rest of the subject and the other candidates I updated.

Now, I'm not gonna tell anyone to do this, if anything, it's just an experiment that could be done to debunk or prove the most controversial of the claims and I ALSO openly state I WILL NEVER ADVOCATE IT BECAUSE IT IS DANGEROUS AND COULD AT BARE MINIMUM GET YOU IN TROUBLE...

If that advisery doesn't sway you away from this and you're from Japan near Fukushima or in Minnesota near that nuclear plant that's emitting that toxic waste and you're this ballsy and you're still gonna do it...

Let's try the online resources once again, but cross-reference the Free Online Plans with the stuff in my Mega.NZ folders for the GEET Reactor I took years compiling for you all to check out!

Let's use ALL the info I gathered for this and try to make this work with preheating of the fuels, running 1 modified carb for EACH fuel, pull the mixed vapors & a small amount of exhaust smoke with a STRONG vacuum through the intake pipe with the rod in it by making the vapors go into two seperate pieces of fuel line that will fit onto a Y splice, then finish going into the intake of the reactor, make it to where the engines still work at optimal operating temps, and listen closely about how to burn in a rod for the inner pipe.

Let's do these steps in order to carry out some experiments so we can see what's going on and use the the Air Management Flow Valve Alternative and Modified Carburetor from the free online patents as well, but make SURE you have AT LEAST a 30-mesh screen CONE in the fitting the modified carb mounts to and let's see how well it goes.

Now, if yo do this experiment, PLEASE make sure the GEET Reactor is on the side of the engine that the exhaust is on, make the end of the outer pipe point away from you if you're going horizontal, up if going vertical, the south end should point towards you if horizontal, or down if vertical.

The tees need to be checked for remnant magnetics, if there are, the tee with the wide end making your ball compass point north should be screwed onto the end of the outer pipe pointing down or towards you, the wide end of the other reducing tee making the compass point south should be screwed onto the end of the exhaust pipe pointing away from you or up, if you're using galvanized tees, this may not be necessary, or you can just heat the tees up to a dull red color and let them cool, that way the Curie point was reached.

All the reactor piping will be screwed together with the remnamt magnetic signatures lined up based on opposites attraction in magnetics which you will see by using a compass to check them out and you're set to go further into the plans.

When looking at the intake and exhaust of an engine, look for a threading inside the ports, Briggs & Stratton engines usually already have them made for 1/2 inch pipes, other engines will need to be threaded with a threading tool that matches the pipe threads you have on your pipes EXACTLY, if you have to, you can use a couple threaded pipe unions to join sections of exhaust pipe together.

Make sure you use high temp sealing paste like sodium silicate, Red RTV or something, it all needs to be sealed and have no leaks, NO TEFLON TAPE, NO PIPE DOPE, NONE OF THAT SHIT ON THE REACTOR PIPE ITSELF, NOPE!!!

Consider using a modified carburetor for gasoline or kerosene and a seperate modified carburetor for the preheated radioactive waste contaminated water for the experiment since it'd make things less complicated due to only preheating the radioactive water would be required.

You'd need a way to pipe the radioactive water from a safe distance to the externally radiation shielded water container that would be used for this generator or a safe way to carry it without poisoning YOURSELF with radiation like a dumbass..

Go back to Episode 1 at this timestamp to listen again to how to make a proper reactor rod.

Once you've got your new rod, as you cut it to length, shape the end of the rod that causes the compass to point south to a bullet point or a 18 degree bevel fine point and then make the end that makes said compass point north cupped or make it as smooth and flat as possible.

FINALLY, when the new rod is burned in and everything's running accordingly, we start running the engines, hook up the exhaust smoke to an exchaust analyzer system connected to a computer with a program that will analyze the tail pipe gases and the program should be also able to register anything on the table of elements as part of it's design.

Once the results are in, open-source the results, just open-source them as soon as you can to as many places as you can, open-sourcing them to 8chan, 4chan, archive.ph and internet archives are your most likely bets.

If you're building a push mower or something and you're gonna do the bubbler route, ***PLEASE BE FUCKING CAREFUL***

With that, I bid you guys farewell for now as I, Wes "Shrimp Po'Boy" Savage sign out.
