The idea of an intelligent energy that recognizes life,
Another word for that would be plasma.
Yeah.
Plasma is recognized as the fourth state of matter.
It was about 1983, I believe June of 1983 in Moscow,
scientists from all over the world all gathered to discuss whether or not they would accept plasma as that fourth state of matter.
There were some that still were holding off saying they didn't believe it was a state of matter.
Well, after many weeks of arguing, they all concluded that plasma is, in fact, the fourth state of matter
and should be recognized for that.
They had, then, another week of lectures on plasma that went on,
and the book of Al Bateman and Super High Frequency Plasma Generators was created there.
One of the scientists that got up drew a picture.
If you looked at that book, I think it's on about page 26,
there's a picture of what he said
was what the other scientists were saying
was a plasma generator
and what they were saying
was that as the plasma
or fuel vapor is fed up into the tube
it has to be sealed off here
and then put under a high amount of pressure
and then bombarded with electrons
so that when it was released at the other end
the new plasma fuel would come out
and burn very efficiently.
Well, one of the 600 scientists at that conference said,
I believe you're all wrong.
I believe if you use a vacuum to pull it into the chamber,
that it would generate its own plasma field.
He was laughed off the stage and asked to leave the conference.
It was so preposterous.
But the same week that that was happening in Moscow,
I built the first blue engine, which is up against the wall over here,
and it did run with a vacuum.
and it was self-generated.
I just didn't know it was called a plasma generator
for ten years.
Let's talk about how the GEET fuel processor actually works and what it does
and the principle behind it.
Well, it's an acceleration chamber.
Dr. William Hsu made the comparison back in about 1996-97.
He worked 20 years of his life on a seven-mile circle, underground in Beijing.
And when he came over and looked at ours, he held up the rod that's in the center of it, makes it all work,
and he says, what you do for 25 cents, we do for billions of dollars.
The big difference is yours works.
You're talking about an acceleration chamber?
An accelerator.
You found a way of accelerating the molecules and exciting them and exchanging heat in such a way
that you can break it down.
it's a total transmutation of elements you're able to produce hydrogen and helium from crude oil
and you release all of these elements in an electrical field that's self-generated we can't do
that now here is back to the rod assembly this was set up so that you can turn it in any direction
you want you can have the vapor the exhaust comes out here finally escape over at this point this
is the engine now the opposite direction so if the exhaust is going up the fuel
vapor has to go down so this would hook up to a fuel delivery system whether
it's a bubbler carburetor injector air and fuel go in here go through the
reactor they get converted to geek gas by it being accelerated around the rod
in the center and then the new gas coming out is fed into the intake of the
engine Wow we could use garbage on this we could use wood coal a liquid or a
a solid anything that can be vaporized is fuel
now when we started pointing the rod up it was because repeatedly throughout the bible
i recognize since many of the things we've dealt with are found in the book of ezekiel
and other bibles we started checking into what it said real closely and he mentions that the
chariot came from the north well wait did they have compasses back then well how about when isaiah
said he looked north to the heavens or moses when he looked north and asked for guidance
well north was up simply as simple as that that's it a north star he looked north to the heavens
um i'm sorry we didn't have compasses back then so north was up we have referred to this
It's biblical north.
We don't get any liquid fuel to our engines or furnaces.
All it is is a vapor.
By pulling a vacuum, which has been removed from most books, from 1955 on, all vacuum
technology that would help mankind was removed.
Actually this is not a plastic bottle, it is a combination of gas, diesel, and kerosene.
if you put this in an electric element underneath it and let it melt, the vapors you're going
to get off it are the vapors for gas, diesel, and kerosene. So if you redistill this back
into fuel, you have the fuel to run engines, power plants, whatever you want with no pollution
if you're using a geek. So why are we burying all the plastic in garbage bits? The government
doesn't want to see this technology used. That'd replace their pumping more oil out.
buying more of it and they're trucking it and flipping it around you mentioned vacuum technology
and the education material in that subject just kind of went black somewhere in the 50s about 50
60 years ago if you go back to the 1950s which i've gone to many old bookstores antique stores
and i bought the old encyclopedias and they couldn't figure out why somebody would want an
old encyclopedia set from 1955. I mean, it isn't worth anything. Oh, there are ornaments in my
home. Oh, okay, they helped me load them. For five bucks, you buy a whole set. But when you open it
up to Tesla, there was about 50 pages. When you open it up to vacuum technology, there was about
150 pages. The American Vacuum Society had all kinds of information in there. But 1958, nothing.
Gee, it all got erased.
Tesla, two paragraphs.
Why?
It's technology that would open people's minds up
to realizing that what we have today is garbage.
Tesla knew how to make a telephone call
so he could call anywhere in the world
using the Earth as a transmitter.
And it was a local call, crystal clear.
A lot better than my cell phone.
Yet today, we still don't get calls as clear as what he had.
That was in the 1890s.
So we're talking about, I mean, we've got all these issues about plastics and the use of them,
and of course the fact that they're not biodegradable, okay,
and what you're saying basically is they actually are.
A transmutation can occur.
Once you put them through a transmutation process, you now have clean, healthy fuel,
and you have nice, clean, fresh air coming out the tailpipe.
during one of our tests in California we're running on crude oil from Angola
and the exhaust papers that we were getting were cleaner or the exhaust was
cleaner than the air in the room we had three to seven parts per million
hydrocarbon in the air in the room but coming out of the tailpipe there was zero
to one part per million we had 21.1 to 23% oxygen coming out the
tailpipe and 20% oxygen in the room
The number of applications for using plasma energy is unlimited. It could replace our need for fuel in every piece of equipment we now have on the planet. It could take products that we now consider waste, vaporize it, to then use that as a new fuel.
How much energy is there in a can?
Well most people would look at an empty can. We don't want to
promote a name brand here but they look at this can and say well empty that's
only worth
two cents or five cents for recycling value. Well
that represents using a gate reactor in understanding the process
the equivalence of three and a half gallons of gasoline.
So what does that can worth to me?
A lot more than it is to you.
When it comes to medical applications, many, many medical applications here, just the thought
of being able to go get an x-ray that's safe, 20 years ago, if you'd asked me that, I'd
have said, I don't know if that's possible.
But after I saw the first x-rays we did, I was dancing.
It was like, yeah, what have we discovered here?
Then the flip side of that was, if there is a radiation that we're having here, is it
harmful?
So there was a little fear I had for a little while that if there was something harmful I wouldn't be able to market it.
But we had it checked out by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in Utah and they said it's totally safe.
It's not alpha, beta, or gamma.
They have no idea what it is, but plasma puts out a different frequency that will expose x-ray film.
So it's a question of would people rather have that big expensive MRI machine or something that can be built for a few hundred bucks.
When I was released from that facility in Utah, the torture chamber as I call it,
I was told I would be lucky if I lived four to six months. Really? I'm glad you're a doctor and
you have your opinion. My opinion is I'm going to be here a long time so I will take care of
getting myself cured. The first thing I did when I got to Oklahoma was to find a place where I could
get cinnamon oil milk thistle clove oil 10 drops in here every morning every
lunchtime every dinnertime 21 days later I go in for a blood test so I'm we're
looking for hepatitis C herpes other things like that anything you find came
back and said mr. Pantone you're an excellent health that's what I needed to
here, thank you. That's what you expected. That's right. I said, why would you think you had all
those problems? Because that's what I was diagnosed with by five different doctors.
Oh no, they made mistakes. I said, well, we've got all the panels of the blood work that were
done and they all confirmed that I had problems. But they wanted to give me interferon and some
other stuff that would cause psychiatric problems. Well, I'm sorry, we are a country now that is
basing the legal system or illegal system i think it's called criminal system the better way of
wording it right because it is criminals running the system but we base it all on hypothetical
comments made by uh psychologists which you can't hold them legally responsible for right
well wait a minute in any other crime if somebody does something to you you can hold them responsible
for it, but it's an opinion of that doctor. I don't want opinion, I want fact. I mean,
I see some of the people that were treated in that place and they were being given injections
and all this because they opened their mouth and said, but what about my rights? You don't
have rights. That was the most popular comment in there. You don't have rights. And right
now in America, that's happening more and more.
When I got in the gate, I couldn't explain how it worked. People would ask how it worked.
I'd point to it and say, fuel goes in here, clean exhaust comes out there. What more do
you need to know?
Yes.
Well, they needed to know why it worked. Well, since there was no book in the world
on it, I had to start coming up with all the different discoveries and one at a time documenting
each and every one of the discoveries so that later we could put together the book. And
This is the first draft of the book, which is only 181 discoveries so far that we've made.
And the list will go on and on and on from here.
But things that scientists said could only happen out in space, we can recreate right here on the table.
A good example of that was we had a gentleman here from Europe.
He had just built his first engine.
He wanted to test it, and we have a policy.
The first time you run any engine or furnace, you have to do it outside.
to see how good it runs, make sure there's no gas leaks.
Well, he had started his up outside, but he had set it down in a puddle.
So a little bit of water was running over the top of the board
that he had the engine mounted to.
About 10 minutes later, there's a knock at my door in the office,
and they said, you've got to come out right now.
We've got tornadoes at the back door.
Well, they were going towards the back door.
I was running to the front door.
And they're going, no, no, no, it's out here.
And I said, yeah, and I'm going out here.
That's right.
Going out of the direction.
I don't need to see a tornado personal and up close.
And he convinced me, no, they're little tiny ones.
They're being produced by the Geet.
That stopped me in my tracks and I turned around and I said, what did you just say?
He said, no, around the bottom of Geet, they're forming tornadoes.
Many of the things that we have been able to accomplish, according to science, was not possible.
But once you start bringing the scientists in and showing them,
that's when they back up and go, okay, our books are wrong.
But continue.
What's next?
Come on, teach us.
That's what I'm all about.
I love teaching.
