This is Talk for Food.
Your portal into quantum possibility.
I'm Adam Abraham.
Each week I'll be your guide on this expedition
where we'll explore the near and far reaches
of this thing called life on Earth and beyond.
talk for food is brought to you by philo's books publishers of i am my body not a freed man an
emancipation proclamation and producers of understanding mms conversations with jim
the only feature-length documentary on the subject of the miracle mineral supplement
on Earth.
Yes, there are many things we can do
to control a tornado.
If you want to divert it from hitting buildings and all,
if you can just get ahead of it,
then you turn on a specific frequency
and it will pull that tornado any direction you want
until it dissipates.
So we could control it.
Well, if we're talking about controlling tornadoes and stopping them, you know this is an idle talk, so it must be Talk for Food.
Hello again, everyone. Thank you for joining us again, for tuning in to Talk for Food on web at talkradio.net with Adam Abraham.
And yet, you're listening to, I started you off with a little teaser, something more of our conversation with Paul Pantone, the developer of Geet Technology, Global Environmental Energy Technology.
And this is part of our conversation that we had, which in fact is going to be part of a DVD called Indelible Promise.
Now, you are hearing portions of that right here, right now as a listener and viewer of Talk for Food, but this is going to be part of a DVD.
Paul Pantone has been for 20 some odd years developing what he called Geet, and methods that are based on natural phenomenon, natural laws, laws of nature, oneness with respect of nature.
That's what Geet is, is what it does, and it affects many, many elements of life.
And so you're hearing some of this, seeing some of this as it is being recorded as a function and part of our radio show, our video show.
But this is information that is not widely available.
When you start thinking, in 2011, a tornado basically leveled Joplin, Missouri, causing about $3 billion in damage and 117 lives.
Also in 2011, 178 tornadoes basically went through the state of Alabama, and that one affected, wow, sheesh, it cost 482 lives, I'm reading from CNN Money, and $5 billion in damage.
Now, if there was and is a way, real, honest to God, genuine way to not only control the movement of tornadoes, but basically to nullify them, to stop them in their tracks, do you think, let me put it this way.
Do you think it's better for us to run around and chase the storms and look at them and record them and, you know, get back and forth and play cat and mouse with them, even while lives are at stake?
Or would it be better to take some knowledge, take some action based on some understanding and stop it?
Would it be better to have $3 billion, actually, from these two events, from Joplin, Missouri, and the Alabama tornadoes alone in 2011, $8 billion and almost 600 lives, not to mention the thousands, the tens of thousands of lives that were affected, or would it be better to have taken active, conscious, knowledgeable methods to stop those?
I have to ask you, because Paul Pantone has been presenting this information for some time,
and tornado abatement is just one.
We're thinking of tornadoes right now.
General public is that this is something that we don't have any answers for.
Yes, we do.
Now, are you willing to talk to and respect and listen to people who have studied it and come up with the answers?
Or do they have to come through some particular channel, some particular university, some particular process and authority to say, oh, well, maybe this is, I'm not sure.
Let's get a peer review and see what they say.
You know, the saying and the seeing is in the actual doing and the abating.
And that's something we've been more inclined to put the actual results aside to come up with and to come up with a committee to see what they have to say about it.
Well, at any rate, our conversation today is going to be a continuation.
Our show today is going to be a continuation of our conversation with Paul Pantone.
We're going to take a break now.
We're going to get into it.
and there's more
but I want you to understand and appreciate
there is something to be known
to be understood
and I'm sharing it with you
even though there is a product
that you can share this with other people as well
called Indelible Promise.
You need to hear this
and we're making it available to you.
Let's take a break.
We'll be back with Paul Pantone
and we'll talk about
to become a tornado cowboy when Talk for Food returns on web at talkradio.net.
American adventurer Jim Humble discovered how a simple chemical compound and powerful oxidizer,
chlorine dioxide, could be effectively used to reduce toxicity within the human body.
The buzz on Jim's discovery, MMS, Miracle Mineral Supplement, is spreading, but not the understanding.
Until now.
understanding mms conversations with jim humble is a new dvd available only at understanding
mms.com the understanding mms dvd will show how you can be part of your own solution to toxicity
here's the documentary producer this is adam abraham inviting you to get informed and help
others to be informed of this amazing way to reduce the body's load of toxins harmful microorganisms
and pathogens from the waters inside our body.
Get your understanding today for only $29.95 at understanding-mms.com.
That's understanding-mms.com.
Use passcode RBN to receive 10% off.
Our health really depends on it.
All right, this segment of Talk for Food gets started on webtalkradio.net, also on iTunes with Adam Abraham.
And as you may know, this conversation with Paul Pantone began at the Extraordinary Technology Conference in 2011 in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
It spilled over into an invitation to visit him at his home in Oklahoma, really in the heart of Oklahoma, which I really enjoyed.
And it led to what we are now will become, Indelible Promise.
And you can find that on IndeliblePromise.com.
But you don't have to do that.
You can listen to this now.
Now, Indelible Promise will be available December 1 and on from there.
So depending on what time you are listening to or hearing or viewing this program.
But the conversation, the subject matter is diverse.
We give you a teaser to talk about getting hold of, studying, creating and studying tornadoes.
But it's about understanding how to create them, and not just how to create them, it's really about the dynamics of energy, but more so how to work with them to understand their energies, understand the dynamics that cause them to come into being, also how to stop them.
But there may be even other understandings that we can gain when we come at it from a standpoint of understanding and mastery, as opposed to simply about avoiding some damage.
There may be ways that we can use the energies that are on display, the tremendous amount of energies that are on display in a tornado, in ways that serve humanity, instead of ways that, not say destroy, but certainly disrupt.
So, here it goes, Paul Pantone.
So, the fuel processor is just one of the Geet technologies that can really be, you talk about a paradigm shifter, it can have just an amazing change.
Well, when I got into Geet, I couldn't explain how it worked.
People would ask how it worked, I'd point to it and say, fuel goes in here, clean exhaust comes out there.
What more do you need to know?
Yes.
Well, they needed to know why it worked.
Well, since there is no book in the world on it, I had to start coming up with all the different discoveries
and one at a time documenting each and every one of the discoveries
so that later we could put together the book.
And this is the first draft of the book, which is only 181 discoveries so far that we've made.
And the list will go on and on and on from here.
but things that scientists said could only happen out in space we can recreate right here on the
table a good example of that was we had a gentleman here from europe he had just built his first
engine he wanted to test it and we have a policy the first time you run any engine or furnace you
have to do it outside to see how good it runs make sure there's no gas leaks well he had started his
up outside but he had set it down in a puddle so a little bit of water was running over the top of
board that he had the engine mounted to about 10 minutes later there's a knock at my door in the
office and they said you got to come out right now we've got tornadoes at the back door well
they were going towards the back door i was running to the front door and they're going
no no no it's out here and i said yeah and i'm going out here that's right going out the direction
i don't need to see a tornado personal and up close and he convinced me no they're little tiny
ones they're being produced by the geet that stopped me in my tracks and i turned around i
said what did you just say he said no around the bottom of geet they're forming tornadoes
with that i went to the back to see what was going on my secretaries and my wife everybody's
packed around this engine and they're all out in the rain what the heck is going on so i walk up
real close and lo and behold there's some little 14 16 inch tornadoes where the water was running
across the board very thin you could see a ridge forming a nice round circle and it would start
coming up in the air and doing a wiggle and all of a sudden the funnel cloud would form and it
would come right up to the edge but it wouldn't touch the reactor and one after another as one
would start to weaken a little bit and start moving further away the next one would start
getting bigger and bigger and it'd move in and push him out of the way until it just disappeared
bang it's gone well i saw this and i was going wait a minute there's lightning bolts
inside those tornadoes oh tornado and lightning lightning inside the tornado so i ran back to
the dressing room and i grabbed a coat hanger that had a shirt on it threw the shirt on the
floor ran out there i'm all excited and i take the coat hanger i stick it against the pipe and
down to the tornado and lo and behold i get blown back about 25 feet i'm sitting on my butt with my
hair kind of out wild, my fingers smoking. I went, holy Toledo, those little tiny tornadoes
have a wallop. Get my camera, hurry up, we've got to do this again. Well, my employees started
grabbing me going, no, no, no, boss, you're not going to do that. No, no, give me a rubber
mat to stand on and a wooden plank. Let's insulate ourselves and get me some rubber gloves
and then we'll do it. And I grabbed the welder's helmet so that the flash wouldn't hurt my eyes.
Well, I kept getting over there, and I'd lower the helmet right in place,
and I'd touch that little tornado right to the tip, and bam!
I killed about 43 tornadoes in about 30 minutes.
Ah, so you learned how to create them and how to destroy them.
And how to destroy them.
Now, knowing this, and then years later I see on television,
it was on Discovery or one of the programs where they were saying,
to study tornadoes, we have to send these trucks worth half a million dollars each out
and all these people
and endanger their lives
to study them out in the field.
Then we have to chase them
and we have to find out
where they're going
and we get very little knowledge
from them.
I said, good Lord,
we can build one right now.
It doesn't have to be
more than 40 pounds.
It's about this big
by 10 inches wide,
about two feet tall.
And even girls can pick them up
and carry them.
They're not that heavy.
So we could sit there
and build one
for every university
in the world
that wants to study tornadoes.
But do you see any universities
pounding on my door?
No.
Seemed by favor.
They're running in the other direction, too, it seems.
Well, no, you got it.
They're running towards money, though.
They get government grants to buy the trucks and pay the kids to go out and chase them.
And why not do it right in the classroom where we can do it up close and personal
and control that tornado?
Now, if I can ground a tornado out,
that gave me an immediate idea on how to save a lot of tornado damage and lives.
You're listening to Talk for Food on web at talkradio.net with Adam Abraham.
And you may also be watching, viewing this on YouTube or wherever else we may have this video presentation.
And we're talking with Paul Pantone.
I just have an over-the-shoulder launcher that has a 25-foot tail that drops out of copper.
Nice, flat, wide copper strip that just drops out.
The minute the missile gets into a vacuum to the center of the tornado,
it would immediately do a nosedive into the ground to ground it.
The implosive forces would draw it down, correct?
Correct.
So at that point, you could have tornado stoppers instead of watchers.
Wow.
Different TV show now.
Storm chasers.
Storm killers, yeah.
Storm stoppers, yeah.
That's actually right.
But look at the change that can occur.
We are so accustomed to watching disaster, waiting for disaster, expecting it to hit, all of that, but with no clue as to what to do about it.
So making these discoveries is great, but you need to compile the knowledge, which is why now I'm at 181 pictures and drawings of all the different discoveries.
But we now need to bring in the experts from each field to help me validate each and every one of them as much as we can of what is going on and why.
Since we're not going to find science books out there that haven't.
So we may end up with a large series of books.
TV has programmed us into believing things.
Like in Star Trek, the first episodes, when you see the Enterprise taking off and you hear the sound.
well folks there's no sound in a vacuum there's no sound out in space you wouldn't hear it take
off but wouldn't be entertainment without the sound right right absolutely wow you mentioned
vacuum technology and the education material in that subject just kind of went black
somewhere in the 50s about 50 60 years ago if you go back to the 1950s which i've gone to many
old bookstores, antique stores, and I bought the old encyclopedias. And they couldn't figure out
why somebody would want an old encyclopedia set from 1955. I mean, it isn't worth anything.
Oh, there are ornaments in my home. Oh, okay, they helped me load them. For five bucks, you buy a
whole set. But when you open it up to Tesla, there was about 50 pages. When you open it up to
vacuum technology there was about 150 pages the american vacuum society had all kinds of
information in there but 1958 nothing gee it all got erased tesla two paragraphs why it's technology
that would open people's minds up to realizing that what we have today is garbage tesla knew
how to make a telephone call so he could call anywhere in the world using the earth as a
transmitter. And it was a local call, crystal clear. A lot better than
my cell phone. Yet today, we still don't get calls as
clear as what he had. That was in the 1890s. He built
his radio-controlled, remote-controlled boat that he used to take out there
in Michigan or New York. The man was many years
ahead of his time. So when Dr. Sue and many of the other scientists I met
with including dr andreas richter they all said paul you're 50 to 100 years ahead of mankind
we don't even have a clue of why it works so unless somebody can teach us how and why it works
all we have is the notes in our books that say you're wrong but here i am looking at it working
so what did you or have you uh learned from observing the the tornadoes that uh well certainly
You learned how to stop them.
They are very controllable.
You can pretty much program where they're going to go.
If you have one coming and you'd like to divert it a specific direction,
all you have to do is create a heat pattern to pull it off to the direction you want to go.
So, yes, there are many things we can do to control a tornado.
If you want to divert it from hitting buildings and all, if you can just get ahead of it,
then you turn on a specific frequency and it will pull that tornado any direction you want until it dissipates.
So we could control them.
I'm picturing a new form of emergency response team, for example.
And it doesn't mean that it has to be different people.
It could be the same people just learning something new.
It could be the same people.
It could be highway patrol on the road that are out there to save lives every day already.
If they have the equipment where they could just get out, set it up on a tripod, aim it, look through the scope, hit a button, and fire that missile.
Shoot it into the center of that tornado.
So if it hits the center and goes down, it's going to blanket right there on the spot.
You're going to have a hole in the ground where the lightning hit.
But it's done.
And when you start thinking about the forces that are in that tornado, they are so strong.
The centrifugal forces are so strong, they can take and take a house who knows where.
Well, then the implosion, the centripetal forces are strong enough to exactly just what you said.
They will take it down.
It won't go any further than that.
Nope.
It'll stop it right there.
It just takes a willingness to just be open.
Wow, that is amazing.
So if we could take a thousand engineers who work on that one project and scientists, that's great.
But how about the x-rays?
I mean, we found that when we hold a piece of x-ray film up next to the reactor rod like this while it's running,
the film is completely exposed.
It goes through lead, it'll go through your fingers and everything else.
But in one of the x-rays where the man was holding it up, the technician, with a lead glove on,
these four fingers showed on the film as soft tissue, like an MRI.
But when you looked at the film in a bright light, you could see the bones of the thumb on the other side.
But you could not see the lead glove at all.
It went through the lead.
It saw life.
It recognized life and let life show, but it did not see the other.
Now, we've hit that phenomenon with Yul's Brown's gas.
Brown's gas, uh-huh.
If you're running along cutting steel and aluminum and bricks and everything else,
you run across your hand, it doesn't cut your hand.
Gee, okay, it senses light.
Well, when we take that same technology like Sonny Ward has,
where you have two electrodes coming together to create a plasma ball,
you can take steel, anything you want, and drop it in there.
Coins, they drop into the ball of white light, they don't come out.
They're vaporized.
But drop a banana in there and it comes out a banana.
Probably a little bit more energized, too.
Probably.
So why is it that plasma recognizes life and will not hurt life?
Because it is life.
It's intelligent energy.
Yes.
So we are making these discoveries.
We're documenting everything we can.
So we have a lot to learn.
This is only the beginning.
So, the idea of an intelligent energy that recognizes life, another word for that would be plasma.
Yeah.
Correct.
Okay.
Plasma is recognized as the fourth state of matter.
It was about 1983, I believe June of 1983 in Moscow,
well, scientists from all over the world all gathered to discuss whether or not they would
accept plasma as that fourth state of matter.
Because there were some that still were holding off saying they didn't believe it was a state
of matter.
Well, after many weeks of arguing, they all concluded that plasma is, in fact, the fourth
state of matter and should be recognized for that.
they had then another week
of lectures on plasma
that went on and the book of
Al Bateman and super high frequency
plasma generators was created there
one of the scientists that got
up drew a picture
if you looked at that book
I think it's on about page 26
there's a picture of what he said
was what the other scientists
were saying was a plasma generator
and what they were saying was
as the plasma
or fuel vapor
is fed up into the tube
it has to be sealed off here
and then put under a high amount of pressure
and then bombarded with electrons
so that when it was released at the other end
the new plasma fuel
would come out and burn very efficiently
well
one of the 600 scientists
at that conference said I believe
you're all wrong
I believe if you use a vacuum to pull it into the chamber
that it would generate
its own plasma field
he was laughed off the stage and asked to leave the conference it was so preposterous but the
same week that that was happening in moscow i built the first blue engine which is up against
the wall over here and it did run with a vacuum and it was self-generated i just didn't know it
was called a plasma generator for 10 years this is one of the active agents and elements and it has
many, many applications, not just
fuel, essentially. The number of applications for using plasma energy
is unlimited. It could replace our need for fuel in every piece of equipment
we now have on the planet. It could take products that we now consider
waste, vaporize it, to then use that as a new fuel.
How much energy is there in a can?
Well, most people would look at an empty can. We don't want to promote a name
brand here, but they'd look at this can and say, well, empty, that's only worth two cents
or five cents for recycling value.
Well, that represents, using a gate reactor and understanding the process, the equivalence
of three and a half gallons of gasoline.
So what does that can worth to me?
A lot more than it is to you.
Absolutely.
Wow.
And then you started getting an appreciation for the value we're actually getting, or should
I say the value we're wasting using the methods that we're using right now
with this throwaway type of disposal mentality.
Well, if you were to take all your plastic and your styrofoam and your plastic bags
and you shove it into a heat exchanger and you extract the heat you need
to turn it back into gas, diesel, and kerosene,
you could either separate it into the three fuels or just use all the vapor in a gate
and you have no pollution.
So it depends on what kind of fuel do you need.
Here in this country, we have been a throwaway society.
We waste and waste, and we never stop wasting.
People really don't look at all the waste product we have.
But refrigerators are so idiotic.
Heat rises.
So where do you put the compressor?
Underneath it.
Right, right.
I'm sorry.
Look at some of the better grade commercial units where they're on top.
Because the heat's rising.
You don't want to sit there and heat the box you're trying to cool off.
Unless, of course, you're a refrigerator company or a power company, then you like these.
And look at the amount of insulation you're trying to keep on an average day.
You're trying to keep the temperature in the fridge at 38 degrees or freezing in the fridge.
Yet you're trying to heat the house up 70.
There's a lot of temperature differential there.
And what do you have for insulation?
Oh, about one inch, half inch.
Well, why isn't that solid insulation?
Why isn't it more like a thermos bottle so you can keep that cold in and the heat out?
Because they want you to waste electricity.
They don't want it to last that long.
So why make it so it will?
And then, of course, we're still believing we've got the latest and the greatest.
I mean, it's always the latest and the greatest until their next latest and greatest shows up.
Well, yes, but I have to look back at history.
I mean, we're coming up now to a point where between the solar flares and a planet coming by our area of the galaxy here,
where a planet five times our gravitational field coming by us is going to alter our fields,
and I believe we're going to have earthquakes, volcanoes, and other horrible disasters, we're not going to have power.
If the projections I've seen are even close to active, we could be anywhere from two to ten years without power.
Well, if you generate your own power on demand, then you're going to have what you need.
But don't count on the government.
Don't count on a utility company.
They're not going to be there.
So how do you keep your food?
I mean, people say, oh, well, after four or five days, the meat's no good.
Well, wait a minute.
Our grandparents and our great-great-great-grandparents didn't have fridges.
They learned how to use clove, cinnamon.
They used all kinds of organic things to treat the meat.
How many people do you know have served you a piece of ham at holiday time that have cloves in it?
Yes, I remember that.
Almost everybody has.
Do you know why they were in there?
That I did not know.
It's a preservative.
Now, what do they tell you about pork?
Oh, you don't want to leave it out too long.
It'll go bad.
Well, that's funny.
In my house, we put all these cloves in the ham on Thanksgiving.
It was served all day long, sitting on the table.
And when we were done, there wasn't room in the fridge.
So we just put a cloth over it that was damp and come back for days.
It'd be sitting on the table.
It didn't go bad because the clove oil, which is later used in our society to make Novocaine,
kills all the germs and bacteria.
The meat sits there staying good.
Five, six days later, your meat's still good.
So by putting cloves in the meat, it will help preserve it.
Putting salt on it will help preserve it.
So you put cheese cloth with a salt pack on it, and your meat's going to be good for four to five, six months.
You didn't need a refrigerator.
Not long after this conversation, I was talking to my mom.
I asked her, if you didn't have any electricity, what would you do to preserve the food?
And, you know, she wasn't really sure.
and it really shows how we have come to forget we have not been passing on it shows up what we
are passing on from generation to generation or perhaps what we are not passing on from generation
to generation it's not that we don't know or not that we haven't known but what are we actively
using what information or knowledge are we actively using now and how could it help us
This information is so vital, so valuable that, well, it's not forgotten.
Point is, can we spread it?
Right now, we're taking a break.
When we come back, we'll continue this conversation with Paul Pantone, where he will share more.
Nuggets of knowledge when Talk for Food returns with Adam Abraham on webtalkradio.net.
Jim Harshman is made to change from water treatment to water transformation technology,
having installed a unit from Photonic Water Systems for almost two years now.
He tells you in his own words what has changed.
Well, here's the problem we had when we built this house in 2005 or 2006.
We got it done and found out the water was extremely hard.
There was a lot of calcium buildup on the outside of the pool and also into the misters inside the courtyard.
And so we know we had an issue with the water right off the bat.
So in trying to solve that, this is where we started to play around with the different options that were in the market.
Kind of explored what was on the home shows at the different green shows and also home shows that the Phoenix area was having.
And, you know, it was just a major problem, so we had to get it solved.
And we ran into the product, and I guess we can't say enough about it.
I mean, it took an intolerable scum problem, a white hard water problem,
and just neutralized it to where we don't have the buildup anymore.
We don't have the buildup on the pool, the courtyard, fountain,
or into the various systems that we have,
such as your misters and your shower heads.
So it's 100% work.
Now, how it works, I have no idea,
but it's not how it works that I'm worried about.
Available at photonicwater.com.
We come in all shapes and sizes,
but for all our apparent differences,
we share an important oneness.
I am my body.
Not.
Now your child can discover the oneness
behind human diversity with I Am My Body.
Knot from Phylos Books.
This progressive book written by Adam Abraham helps parents and teachers
introduce some of the most basic human concepts and questions.
Celebrate the body and the spirit with I Am My Body, Knot.
Order now.
Just $19.95 plus shipping and handling.
I Am My Body, Knot is available at phylos.com.
That's P-H-A-E-L-O-S dot com.
Order yours today.
Hi, this is Mary Meadows, and you're listening to Talk for Food
on webtalkradio.net.
The second half of Talk for Food
starts right here and now
on webtalkradio.net
with Adam Abraham.
And without any further ado,
you know who we're talking to.
You know what we're talking about.
We're talking about GEET,
global environmental
energy
technology with Paul
Pantone, his developer, its
soul and heart.
Anyway, let's continue.
During tests, when I was much younger,
we took a refrigerator that's compressor
we shot on, and we pulled a little
pump piece of
the tube,
the filler used in an inner tube
for car. The stem.
We put one of those inside of it,
and we pulled a vacuum
on the refrigerator. It wasn't much of a vacuum, but we had put a dozen oranges in there
in a couple trays of strawberries. About a month later, it opened the door up. We had
to break the vacuum first, let the air out, open the door, and there's no mold. There's
no fungus. Everything's fresh. Took a strawberry, tasted fresh, grabbed an orange, closed the
door, pulled a vacuum on it again. Came back a month later. A year later, the orange that
was still left was still good and fresh it took six months before the first sign of any mold on
the strawberries six months wow okay this is just by pulling the air out pulling the excess air out
of the chamber that doesn't need so bacteria can't grow no oxygen no breathing okay you got it
so by building boxes that are airtight and then pulling a vacuum on them you can have your food
in there for six months to a year you don't have to worry about going out and getting a lot of food
but if you don't have power
you better understand vacuum technology a little bit
you better understand herbs
and how they work
I mean it wasn't that important to us
because we have refrigerators
and power and all these things
but back when Christopher Columbus was sent over here
it was for a trade route
because they needed all of those herbs
to keep the meats and things fresh
and salt was the main method of doing it back then
unless they could get their hands on cloves
Well, coming up with a shortcut to bring the cloves in would help.
But now we can go down to the health food store and buy bottles of clove extract, 100% pure clove.
It doesn't take more than a few drops of that.
Rub your meat down with it, and it's going to stay good.
Wow, that is amazing.
I was thinking when I said no oxygen, no breathing, but actually it's no oxygen, no oxidation.
We'll probably be in the cave here.
We also did cut apples in half, and we put them in the refrigerator to see how long they'd stay good.
And when we pulled the vacuum on them immediately and opened the door up 30 days later, there was no browning to the apples.
So even though it was air temperature, not refrigeration temperature, in a vacuum, they didn't oxidize.
Wow. These are the things. We're talking with Paul Pantone, developer of GEET, which is Global Environmental Energy Technology, and natural-based, life-affirming-based nature-respecting and working with, in harmony with nature, but to do some things that our society thinks is, in general, not possible.
Many of the things that we have been able to accomplish, according to science, was not possible.
But once you start bringing the scientists in and showing them,
that's when they back up and go, okay, our books are wrong.
But continue.
What's next?
Come on, teach us.
That's what I'm all about.
I love teaching.
Now, you were talking about giving us some introduction to plasma, too.
Let's talk a little bit about some of the elements of plasma
because I think there's something really special here.
Years ago, a professor had told me that it would be unusual,
but if I ever got to a point of getting the proper scientific equipment
where we could film plasmoids, I should call him.
And I said, what is a plasmoid?
He said, it is a radical particle that is created around plasma
that is the most erratic behavior you've ever seen.
Even though it's electrical in nature, electricity normally spirals in a straight line.
These little things move in such erratic behavior.
It looks like they're trying to tie themselves up into knots or something.
Here's a picture of their tight movements.
I don't know if you can zoom in on that at all.
But he had told me that these little things are the hot particles created from the plasma field.
They're very bright.
and normally around the outside edges of plasma.
So I told him if I ever saw anything like that with equipment,
once I could afford it, I would call him.
Accidentally, one of my employees had put together a unit wrong,
and we had two or three people using power equipment that day out in our shop,
and when the third piece of equipment turned on, it blew the breaker for the garage.
Well, I heard the breaker trips.
So I went running down my house, down to the breaker box to turn it back on.
And just as I turned it on, I could hear the guys out in the shop saying, turn it off.
Wait a minute.
Okay, I'll turn it back off.
So I ran back down to the garage.
I opened the door.
I said, what's going on?
He said, step in.
Get your eyes adjusted.
You aren't going to believe what you're going to look at.
Well, I hear one of the engines running right below the step.
After maybe three or four minutes, my eyes got accustomed to everything.
I said, what am I looking for?
is look down around the exhaust pipe.
Well, all the way around the exhaust pipe,
I could see these little red squiggly things just shooting.
But it was exactly like that professor said.
They were erratic in behavior, moving in all directions.
Well, I reached down, I put my finger down there,
and one of them touched my finger.
And it felt worse than any beast thing I've ever had.
Burn, pain, it was a jolt.
I pulled back on, ooh, don't do that one again.
Well, I looked beside me and I could see the edge of a piece of glass from a window.
So I grabbed it.
And right below that was a piece of aluminum.
So I held the glass down next to it.
And I moved it back and forth a little bit, watching the reflection on the glass.
It was neat.
So then I took the aluminum and held it down there.
And I could see the reflection off the aluminum.
But every now and then I could see a piece going through the aluminum.
And they only worked for maybe a half a second to a second.
Then the ends burst into a red dot.
They're gone.
The energy is dissipated.
Another one is recreated, though, immediately.
Well, I told him, I said, do me a favor.
I'm going to turn the lights back on.
I want you to put a rope around this engine.
Don't let anybody touch it until I get a hold of this professor.
Was this like a chain reaction, you might say?
It was some type of reaction that I couldn't identify.
A cascade.
A cascade effect.
One after another after another.
But they were all so erratic that I couldn't explain it.
So I wouldn't let my employees near it anymore that day.
I got inside, called the professor up.
He came up from UCLA.
set his cameras up, everything he could right next to it.
Well, don't put a digital camera close to it.
You'll erase it, and it destroys your memory card.
Don't put a credit card near it.
Credit card's not usable anymore.
Well, he had his cameras and computers all set up around it,
and he filmed it.
And after he filmed it, he had everything put away again for his trip home.
And he came in, I was sitting at my dining room table,
and he was like a kid in a candy store.
Oh, man, I got it, man.
I can't wait to get that on the computer and see what it looks like
and we're going to enhance it, we're going to do this and this
and slow it down, I got high speed film, it's good
and he's, what are you doing?
I said, well, big magnifying glass
I said, look at these tunnels
he said, what?
I said, through an 8 inch piece of glass
those little radical devils went in and tunneled
all the way through it and then came back out
I mean, 90 degree, 160 degree bends
but if you look at it, you can see a perfect tunnel made
thinner than human hair
Well, he grabs the magnifying glass, and he's looking at it,
going, I've never seen anything like it.
Well, every now and then, you can see one where it just went through the glass completely
at a different angle.
If you turn it just right, you could see right through the glass.
But it was a beautifully polished tunnel.
He said, can I have the glass?
I said, sure you can.
He said, how about that piece of aluminum?
I said, yeah, sure.
So he took it.
There must have been hundreds of little holes in there.
If you held it up to the light, you couldn't see.
Couldn't see any of the holes.
But if you held it up with a magnifying glass big enough,
you could see the little holes he said i've got to get this back we got we got to study this well
when he got home and found out nothing worked on his computer or cameras it was all wiped out
he was bummed out i would guess but he did have the glass and the aluminum to prove they were
there and he said i really saw them with my own eyes and all of his buddies are going sure you did
plasmoids are not visible to the human eye but then again some of the other phenomenon that
we've created is not visible by the human eye so once we build the unit out of all glass so you can
see what's going on inside and you see lightning bolts shooting down the length of that rod back
and forth and at the very end of the rod where the cupped end is the north end you'll always see a
ball of pure white light when you're getting a perfect reaction you have a ball of white light
it creates an energy field pulling energy from as far as 60 to 100 feet away
Wow, wow.
Did you ever do that again?
Did you ever repeat the...
Last point?
Yeah.
No.
The reason we did that and left it for him to see it was just so he could see it.
That generator had to be shipped out to a customer.
So once he left, we went ahead and corrected what the problem was.
One of our employees had used Teflon tape to seal everything.
And he thought to make the screw stick better in the block of the engine,
He'd even wrap the screws with a coating of Teflon tape.
So nothing could ground back to the engine.
And here this entire electrical field is trying to ground to something, and it couldn't.
So it was just dissipating out into space around itself.
There was another time where we were running it,
and we ended up watching the aurora lights coming out the end of the,
right through all the metal.
We were getting the aurora lights on a dark evening.
So you were doing aurora borealis, too.
Yeah.
But to be able to replicate everything about planet Earth
has let us do a whole new map of what planet Earth is
and how planet Earth works.
Up till now, or I should say, up till 15 years ago,
I thought the planet had a single axis
that went from the North Pole to the South Pole as one piece.
What I've determined is the North Pole has a North and a South area to it,
and the South Pole has a North and South to it,
about the thickness of the crust.
So when the North Pole is turning to the right,
the South Pole is coming towards it.
equal distance. So to flip the poles would be quite easy.
If it was one large pole, it would be very difficult to flip the poles.
I see. And during the tests we've done, we validated in Sydney, Australia and in
North Hemisphere, we found that there are some
opposing things there that can prove our theories.
Which means that it wouldn't take that much energy as we go through the
galactic belts
to switch the North and South Poles. And we would feel as if
the whole pole shifted but it didn't it's just small fields of energy you're listening to talk
for food on web talk radio.net with adam abraham and we're talking with paul pantone the develop
developer of geet global environmental energy technology and this is also part of a video
record. I don't want to call it a documentary, but to be called Indelible Promise, to be available
on four DVDs at indeliblepromise.com. Let's continue to the conclusion of this show.
Have you determined yet or seen a way that this method and way of thinking could be applied
towards some of the other events that we are anticipating,
like fields from large bodies, so to speak, coming through space.
Yes.
When I first invented the gate and built the first one, I started in 1979.
By 1983, I got the first model running, but I still wanted to make it better,
which I told you, inventor syndrome.
You can never make it good enough.
Right.
When I went down and I saw getting 21% oxygen out of the nail pipe,
zero carbon monoxide, zero carbon dioxide,
zero hydrocarbon if i can do this good i can do better i can get more oxygen well
there is no satisfying an inventor he always wants to do one better so even perfect isn't
good enough you want to go better so i started calling around trying to get information i called
the president ceo of texaco chevron exxon everybody i could back then trying to get help
They turned me on to their head scientists.
They'd work with me a little bit.
They sent me crude oil.
They really were cooperative back in 1983.
And they stayed that way until about 1993.
And then all of a sudden, they kind of cut me off.
When they saw the videotape showing zero emissions running on crude oil,
and they heard that you could run a car 90 times better mileage than you could on gas if you're using crude oil.
If it's not evident to you already, the point of the change, the point that Paul is making and the point that may have caused the oil company executives no longer to be that interested in helping develop this technology,
might be the fact that the whole refinery process,
I mean, of whatever they do between the time the oil comes out the ground
and the time it gets into your tank,
I mean, outside of delivery itself would be unnecessary.
I mean, not only is it the cost of getting out,
but all the quote-unquote refining that's being done right now
simply adds to the perceived cost of the oil.
And the GEET process basically circumvents all of that,
renders it unnecessary.
So seeing that, it just may be that they thought,
well, maybe we shouldn't go any further with that.
And I saw one of your old videos.
That's an old video.
And oxygen was coming out the tailpipe.
But when they realized how good it was running, I got cut off.
No more crude oil for me.
I couldn't get it from anybody.
So I started getting into different people.
I called Smokey Eunuch and other people.
I said, Smokey, what secrets can you tell me about fuel that you found aren't in science books?
And he said, well, I did get kicked off a racetrack for putting mothballs in the tank
because it gives you about a 30, 40% increase in horsepower.
Plain old everyday mothballs?
He said, yeah.
Okay, so I dropped the mothball in my tank.
I took off, headed to my dad's down in Beverly Hills in a car,
my old Toyota, 320,000 miles on it,
top speed going downhill 60 miles an hour.
Uphill, 50 if you were lucky.
Well, I got as far as Sacramento,
and all of a sudden I realized I'm doing 120.
and i looked behind me nobody's pushing me so it had to do something with what's in the fuel tank
so i got off on the interstate five and i started heading south and i'm past the end of the
speedometer and i realized i i got full power again well when i filled up again i put another
mothball in uh i took off out of the gas station and as i was pulling out my rear end tried to
passed me oh hey you had some power on the on the road there yeah we didn't know that car had
anything left in it but it had plenty of power in it it was the fastest trip i ever made to la
got down there did my business on the way home i ran out of mothballs only brought a couple with
me so now i'm putting regular gas in it then it's getting back to 75 and 80 didn't want to go faster
And I realized just how much power is in napoleon.
Well, I mentioned that on a radio show.
A few weeks later, I go down to the store to buy more mothballs,
and they said, I'm sorry, but we don't carry them anymore.
They've been pulled off all the shelves.
Now, if you look at a box of mothballs, right on the bottom it says,
not to be sold in California.
And on the side of the box it says,
may not be used under federal law for anything other than killing moths.
Oops.
So I guess they don't want you to get that better mileage and clean the valves out
But it sure cleans the engine up and gives you power
Well, I called Smokey back and thanked him and I said is there anything else you can tell me and he said well
Yeah, he said I got kicked off another track for using a piece of screen
Screen he's yeah, just put the screen under the carburetor. It'll give you about a 30 percent improvement mileage
Well, I took a piece of screen and I looked it up anything I could find out it
It was good to screen rocks out of your water line up under a faucet.
This is what this is, 40 mesh.
It'll clean out debris coming in through your faucet.
Now they're all made out of plastic.
But in 83, you can still find this in a few stores.
But fire won't go through a screen.
So it's a method of stopping flame, which I thought that was interesting.
Then I heard that in 1962, Ford Motor Company also found out and patented putting a screen under their carburetors
so the mechanics wouldn't die or get burned when backfires occurred.
And I was not aware of it at the time, but some mechanics working in shops, when it would occur,
they would be inhaling as they pulled away and the flames would go right down into the lungs and burn them.
And they'd suffer for two or three days before they finally died.
A very painful death.
Well, Ford Motor Company found a way of stopping it.
Simply put a piece of screen underneath the carburetor.
Well, the problem was...
They cared about the...
Oh, they really cared. They did.
They wanted to protect...
They took an initiative that the other companies did not do.
Okay.
Yeah, well, they put it under the carburetors
and started sending out their little Ford Galaxies
in the middle of the year with the screens under it.
Until the customers started calling up saying,
hey, how come the car I got in January
only gets this many miles a gallon?
The new one I just got is getting 30, 40, 50% better.
Well, they pulled up everything they could on those two cars
and said the only thing different was a piece,
oh God, that screen.
Pull them out.
So they recalled every one of their cars that year
for safety inspections,
pulled the screens out without telling the customers,
sent the cars back out saying it passes safety,
and everybody got crappy mileage again.
Well, after I heard about this from Smokey, I put it on my dad's Mustang.
He had just purchased from Ford, and he was getting about a 40% increase in mileage.
He took it in for its quarterly checkup or regular checkup that they called him and said,
you need to bring your car in, and he brought it in for an inspection.
They took the screen out.
I went back to the car dealer when I found out his mileage had gone back down.
I said, why did you pull the screen out?
They said, we're not allowed to have that in there because it's not authorized by the factory,
and if you put it back in there, we're going to void your dad's warranty.
I said, but it improves the mileage and reduces pollution.
We don't care.
Our orders come from Detroit, and our orders are no screens under carburetors.
So my dad told me to put it back on, and before he'd take it back to service again,
he would make sure it got pulled out.
But he wanted the better mileage.
anyone given the choice gosh and looking at what gas cost it in those days compared to today
it was still a no-brainer you still wanted the better mileage yeah well from 1983 to about 1987
i must have installed about three to four hundred of these in california and nevada and uh everybody
i put them on their car got the minimum 15 percent most of them in 30 40 range two of the vehicles
came back at 70% improvement in mileage.
They were big commercial buses with old carburetors.
Now, would this work only with a carburetor?
This would only, well, we'll go into it.
Okay.
That's a bad question.
Well, what happens with it is the screen blocks the flow.
If it's straight through like this, it doesn't interfere with the flow.
If you have the Canon WD-40 up, it goes straight through.
If you hold it at a 45-degree angle and hit it with WD-40, it comes out as a mist, like a smoke from a cigarette.
That is what burns in the engine, not the liquid.
So this just helped to break it down so it would burn.
You have less pollution.
And injectors are supposed to spray a real fine mist.
Well, they don't.
If you hook this up to an electrical system and you watch how this pulses,
it sprays out a wide mist, which is mostly liquid.
It is not the way the car companies have indicated.
It's a vapor.
No, it's a liquid sprayed out.
And the sad part was when we tested these, injector against injector, from the same package,
some of them would put out 50% more than the next one would out of the same package.
We got a hold of the place we bought them at the car dealership or the parts store
and said, how come there's such a wide spread?
And they said, there's no quality control.
We don't have to.
your bionate injectors, that's what you get.
There's no way to calibrate them or adjust them.
There's only one spray.
Well, because of that, you're wasting 50% of the fuel on some of the cylinders
to get the car up to full speed.
Right, right.
So these are no longer what the manufacturers were saying, efficient.
Bull! Carburetor is more efficient.
These were a way of conning people to get out of carburetors because this is new and improved
when it really isn't improved.
It's just new.
And I'll bet you if you follow the money, you'll find some politician's name,
look to the patent, or controlling the marketing rights to this,
and that's why they're being used today.
Now, to me, the carburetor was the wheel, and if it's properly done, it rolled smooth.
Now we're using an eight-sided wheel, and some of the spokes aren't all there.
but it conned the public into believing injectors were the way to go.
If people today had to drive a 1940s or 50s car without their GPS and without their fancy stereos
and without all the fancy stuff, they would hate it.
But we could get those up to over 100, 150 miles a gallon easy.
Why can't we do that with the modern stuff with computers?
It's because of the garbage that's being controlled by people that hold the patents, mostly politicians.
Well, if it was up to me, I'd keep the conversation going because even as I review this conversation with Paul Pantone, I personally am entertained and informed and impressed by nature, by the man in terms of what he is sharing.
I keep discovering that we have a lot of tools available to us that are, well, the key word is available.
It's not so much beyond our ability to comprehend.
We have tools that are available that can help us change our world in some phenomenal ways.
Just in the last two shows that we've done, we've talked about some specific things that could have impact that totals billions of dollars every year in expenditures as well as in lives, countless billions.
And these are billions that we know of.
We are concerned about nuclear fallout from Fukushima, from the Japan earthquake and the nuclear reactor that blew up there.
We have problems closer to home.
We have, I don't know how many, countless of tons of spent nuclear material that we have just been storing and storing and storing.
It's sometimes at a cost of billions of dollars.
But the more important thing is the fact that that nuclear waste does not stop being nuclear.
We need to do something naturally to abate it, to nullify it, to neutralize it.
and they are being stored because we're operating under the belief that we can't.
Well, what if we can?
What if there is a way?
The reason why we're doing all of this,
or at least the reason why I'm doing this,
is because I believe that there is.
There is reason to believe that there is a way to do it,
and it's easy to check.
Now, the question is,
do we really want to make nuclear radiation
and spent nuclear material?
Do we want to make it safe again?
If you have any questions or comments or suggestions to me,
you can reach me and email me at adamattalkforfood.com.
And if you want to find or reach Paul Bantone,
go to geetinternational.com.
There are ways to reach him there.
I thank you, Paul.
I thank you for being a part of this adventure
and the quantum possibility.
Let's do it again next week on Talk for Food Returns
on webtalkradio.net.
Be well.
Thank you for watching and listening.
We'll see you next week.
Talk for Food is a Philo Smelly Works production.
