Let me see, any quick comments you can give me about, as the inventor of the device, how
did this idea come to you, I guess?
Oh, that's a whole video, come on.
Oh, okay.
So, but it does use a vortex, it creates a plasm ball, and it is a really unique design.
It doesn't have the normal flow through, it seems like, the regular engine mine.
No, we have so far made 197 discoveries that are documentable and replicated.
We have four that have come in in the last week we have not yet been able to replicate.
These are from different people who have built gates from our plants,
and they keep finding more and more discoveries in science.
So right now we're at the tip of the iceberg,
and I'm going to concentrate starting out tomorrow
on just writing a book about all the different things.
Well, there were two things that impressed me about this device.
Again, just as kind of an outsider's perspective, I guess.
The first one being, you know, with alternative science stuff,
it's always, is this thing a real device?
And obviously your device runs, it runs great.
The second being, in terms of people who might be saying,
who might be saying well you know there's a hoax here it runs a regular engine obviously you've
mixed sugar with gasoline you run it off water you run it off all sorts of stuff as long as
there's a little bit of fuel there it runs great so we can pretty much rule out any kind of strange
stuff that people might accuse you of right well we can also use just water if we wanted to but
that's not politically correct yeah we can use salt water if we want everything is a fuel if it
can be vaporized it's fuel and once it's a plasma it's all a little bit more combustible than normal
Well, it is no longer hydrogen or any normal element that's on the atomic chart.
We have a new element here.
It does not explode, it implodes.
Almost like, almost sounds reminiscent of the hydrenos.
Some people have compared it to a lot of things.
Yeah, yeah.
Inside, we'll go show you the books in just a minute, on all the different things.
When you say, well, how do we know this isn't a hoax?
Well, if it was a hoax, why would MIT come out and look at this, run back, and make one little change?
Instead of using the exhaust from the engine, they have an electric heater with a fan behind
it, and they got a patent.
Millions of dollars for R&D by our great government.
You know, the strange thing, though, is I haven't heard hide nor hair about this from
the government.
So if MIT has it, maybe they're sitting on it or something.
Well, no, MIT released it about the same time as we had OPEC at our house talking to
us.
When they released it publicly in November of 1999,
they were attacked by university professors all over Europe
who had written letters to the Nobel Prize Committee
saying that my wife and I should be nominated for the Nobel
Prize.
Well, again, it's highly demonstrable.
Highly demonstrable.
That has street cred.
But then they turned around and attacked MIT,
saying, you're a bunch of thieves.
That isn't yours.
That's Paul Pantone's.
You know, I'd heard something similar from Eugene Malove
about MIT a while back.
Yes, as a matter of fact, a couple of weeks
before he was murdered, Eugene called me up
and gave me the names and phone numbers
of a lot of other scientists from MIT
that would probably financially back this.
But he said, the strings are every university
wants to have their name on a technology,
and they want the inventor's name removed.
Sure, sure.
He warned me of this ahead of time.
Yeah, but you are nonetheless making
wonderful progress with it.
It's a wonderful tool.
It's now being taught in Paris.
There's a classroom over there teaching it.
We've had people getting engineering degrees in Europe,
but not here.
And we're accepted into European universities and not here.
Yeah, I've heard that also with a number of different technologies.
So right now we're gearing up to start worldwide production outside of the United States.
Absolutely.
Well, again, you're Paul Pantone, and this is the Geet Technology,
and you're online at geetget.com.
You got it.
