Does that need to think that people all over the world are using your invention?
It feels great. We're opening a school in two weeks.
People are here for training in the Netherlands, and in four weeks
we'll be opening our school in Australia.
It's called the GEET system, a fuel booster system that connects to any engine.
Inventor Paul Patone says it creates zero pollution.
So how does it work? Patone says the complex pipe system vaporizes the fuel
before it reaches the engine, so the soda never actually reaches the engine.
To make it run, some gasoline or diesel fuel has to be mixed with the soda,
but Tone says it's getting global attention.
Tractors, trucks, all over the world, people are building it, all different shapes, configurations.
And you can download the system's plans for free.
For more information on creating your own fuel booster, just log on to casa.com.
The Cash for Clunkers program is running out of money.
The House stepped in with $2 billion in new stimulus funds, but they still need this.
Some federal stimulus money is headed to Las Cruces and Santa Fe to spruce up its transit systems.
In all, both cities will get $3 million.
The money will buy new buses and be used toward maintenance upgrades.
And the city of Santa Fe will also beef up its transit security.
A total of $12 million will go toward dozens of similar transit projects across the state.
Did you ever consider using soda pop instead of gasoline in your vehicle?
We know caffeine fuels people, but cars too?
One inventor is taking alternative fuels to the limits and filling up his tank with Mountain Dew.
And it works.
KRQE News 13's Kelly LaVoy joins us from downtown with more.
Marie, it's an invention to make the world a cleaner place, but people are really having fun with it.
Besides soda, how about using coffee or even pickle juice to start up your engine?
Okay, I'm going to start out with about 120%.
In front of a dozen unlockers, inventor Paul Patone showed people what a few drops of dew can do.
It's an invention 30 years in the making.
It's called the heat system, a fuel booster system that connects to any engine.
The best part, Patone says, whatever alternative fuel you add, it creates zero pollution.
So how does it work?
What we do running an engine, Patone says the complex pipe system vaporizes the fuel before it reaches the engine.
So the soda never actually reaches the engine.
I haven't invented the engine.
All I've invented is the fuel delivery system.
And this system will fit a gas engine, a diesel engine, a furnace, a boiler.
don't fit anything, including jet turkeys.
To make it run beside soda, gasoline, or diesel fuel has to be mixed in with it.
But people all over the world are getting even more creative.
They're using his invention on tractors and lawnmowers.
Back to you.
Thanks, Kelly.
And you can download the system's plans for free.
