Fat Women and Feminism (Connecticut NOW Newsletter, October-November 1974 

 Connecticut NOW Newsletter, October-November 1974 

 The situation: a consciousness-raising group. Topic under discussion: their bodies, and their feelings about them.
 A common thread runs through all the women's comments - each one thinks she is too fat. The session ends in a self-deprecating
 sort of debate between two members, each describing herself as "huge," over which needs to lose the most
 weight. Both weigh less than 100 pounds. Two other members of the group remain silent during this exchange, wondering
 what their "sisters" must think of them: these two women are fat. 

 Being fat and female in our society means that your chances of being accepted into a college or university are
 less than those of a fat man and only half a slim woman's chances, given equal qualifications; most job opportunities,
 including traditionally women's careers - teaching, secretarial, clerical, nursing - are not available to you because
 of arbitrary weight restrictions; if you can get insurance coverage at all, you will probably find yourself listed
 under Medical Disability, regardless of the state of your health, and have to pay exorbitant premiums; you may
 not even be able to find clothing in your size, and if you do it will be overpriced, of poor quality, and possibly
 dowdy, too; birth control may be impossible to obtain, and if you become 
 pregnant you may not be able to get prenatal care; should you be raped, no policeman will take your attempt to
 report it seriously. 

 These are all feminist issues. Fat women are victimized by society's valuation of women in sexist terms: since
 according to the predominant aesthetic a fat woman is supposed to not be attractive to men, she is not considered
 a "real" woman. Far from recognizing the basis of fat women's oppression as sexist, however, and speaking
 to the issues involved - issues of importance to all feminists - the Women's Movement has unconsciously reinforced
 and perpetuated society's stereotypes against us. Fat feminists are in a sense stepsisters in our own movement
 by its adoption of the ultra-slim body style approved by Madison Ave. and with it the dieting-as-a-way-of-life
 style necessary for most women to maintain this unrealistic ideal. For women, and this includes a sizable number,
 not able or willing to starve and otherwise torture their bodies into the desired configuration, this amounts to
 a betrayal of some basic feminist principles. 

 The ambivalence with which most feminists approach the subject of weight is, in fact, an indicator of its importance
 as a feminist issue. Women's bodies contain more fat biologically than do men's, and proportionately more women
 than men are termed "overweight"; women are also twice as likely as men to become fat, due to metabolic
 and other changes during pregnancy. Despite this, a double standard still prevails by which a certain amount of
 paunch is socially acceptable on a man but even smaller-than-average women feel they must lose weight. In view
 of this, it is self-contradictory for the Movement to not support women's right to be fat without being pressured
 or harassed into the self-destructive "reducing" schemes which take thousands of women's lives every
 year. Fear of fat, programmed into all women from childhood by our anti-fat, anti-woman culture, is used to manipulate
 us and separate us from each other. It is time for feminists to recognize this manipulation as sexist and, to begin
 to examine their own attitudes toward fat, both in relation to themselves and to their sisters who are fat. 

 It is time for fat women to come together with the Movement to voice our concerns, and to make the Movement recognize
 fat as a legitimate women's issue and support our struggle for an end to weightism. We must expose the dangerous
 reducing fallacy (less than 2% of dieters lose weight permanently) that makes us see our weight as a personal failure
 rather than a political issue and allow our bodies to be abused for the profits of the powerful diet and reducing
 industry. We must debunk the myth that one is fat by choice or gluttony (most fat people are normal eaters) to
 create a positive image for ourselves based on an acceptance of the fact that it is as natural for some women (and
 men) to be fat as it is for others to be thin. 

 Stripped of the benefits of male chivalry, the condition of fat women reflects the true position of women in our
 society. We must not be silent any longer; for as long as fat women are oppressed, no woman can be liberated! 
 --Karen Jones 

 This information is a public service of 
 Largesse, the Network for Size Esteem [ http://www.eskimo.com/~largesse/ ] 
 and may be freely copied and distributed 
 in its entirety for non-commercial use in promoting size diversity empowerment, provided this statement is included. 

 Site Navigation 

 LARGESSE
 HOMEPAGE 
 SIZE-POSITIVE
 EDUCATION & SUPPORT 
 INTERNATIONAL
 NO DIET DAY (MAY 6) 
 FAT
 LIBERATION ARCHIVES 
 WEIGHT
 DISCRIMINATION 
 & LEGAL RESOURCES 
 DECONSTRUCTING MEDIA MISINFORMATION 
 BOOKS 
 ORGANIZATIONS 
 PRINT
 PUBLICATIONS 
 VIDEOS 
 LINKS