jessamyn.com: abada abada 06/02 

 mailto | 

 visit? | 
 pix | 
 link? 

 Jessamyn is in... 

 VT | WA -->

 VT | WA 

 plans 

01jun... wumpus 
02jun... BWC 
03jun... trivia 
05jun... BBQ 
08jun... clothing swap 
08jun... MeFiSea 
10jun... trivia 
11jun... VT 
13jun... greg in WI 

 2002 

 Jan : Feb : 
 Mar : Apr 
 May : Jun 

 2001 

 Jan : Feb : 
 Mar : Apr 
 May : Jun : Jul : Aug 
 Sep : Oct : Nov : Dec 

 2000 

 Jan : Feb : Mar : Apr 
 May : Jun : Jul : Aug 

 Sep : Oct : Nov : Dec 

 1999 

 Jan : Feb : Mar : Apr 

 May : Jun : 
 Jul : Aug 

 Sep : Oct : Nov : Dec 

 1998 

 Jan : Feb : Mar : 

 Apr 

 May : Jun : Jul : Aug 
 Sep : Oct : 
 Nov : Dec 

 1997 

 Jan : Feb : Mar : 
 Apr 
 May : Jun : Jul : 
 Aug Sep : Oct : 
 Nov : Dec 

 08jun02 . . . . . 
highly recommended 

So, I saw one of the best movies I've ever seen last night, in a tiny crowded theater that we got to at the last minute. The movie is called For All Mankind and it's basically a collection of home movies from space. All the astronauts that went to the moon between 1968-1972 [when I was just a tiny kid] were outfitted with 16 mm cameras. This movie puts a lot of that footage together, and adds a lot of tense shots of mission control, music from Brian Eno and voice overs by the astronauts themselves describing what it was like to be the first people to ever see the Earth from anyplace that was not, well, the Earth. The film seem to take place in a time before irony, when people were really eager to do the best job they could and a lotof the narration which would seem cheesy if talking about any other subject, becomes reverential. Even the planting of the American flag on the lunar surface -- an action that nowadays would take place with huge amoutns of chest-thumping and "we're number one!" crap accompanying it -- seems like an achievement for the entire planet, not just the men who did the moonwalk. The film also has a sense of humor, and you see the astronauts clowning around, taking pratfalls on the moon, messing around in zero gravity and complaining about the bodily functions of other atronauts. 
There's also a solar eclipse coming up on Monday , for all you folks in the Western US. Check the sky right about 5 pm.

 04jun02 . . . . . 
last month with the old registrar 

I finally did it, I transferred my last domain away from godforsaken Verisign and to my preferred domain registrar, Gandi . They're French, they charge in Euros and they do everything by email. So long Verisign and your bogus renewal notices and your complicated interface and your incredible assertion that trust is really what you should base your business relationships on , as oposed to say, good service, low prices or just general lack of shitheadedness. It went seamlessly. Thanks again to eskimo.com who has been hosting my major domains since 1996. 
I'm tired of linking to new trivia questions, all further trivia pages will be linked here . This week trivia attendance was down almost 70% so I did two rounds, saved the good questions for next week, and drank a coupla [free] silly cocktails. Thanks for everyone who showed and stuck with me through the Vice Presidential Trivia category. Next week will be my last week as trvia master for probably six months, so if you've been meaning to show up, this would be your week. 
For my East Coast readers, 4th of July weekend BBQ will be happening again this year. Details, such as they are, are here . Everyone is pretty much welcome, and thanks to Fred , I have a croquet set.

 02jun02 . . . . . 
 last month in the new place 

I always feel that if I start a month with a vengeance, I can get away with slacking off later on. This weekend got me going on a Wumpus Hunt , a puzzle hunt of sorts through downtown Seattle where rhyming clues brought us a number of places to find phrases that needed to be filled into acrostics whch itself fed a meta-acrostic containing the final clue. There were about four teams, maybe 20 people, and the sun was out and the ride free area was, well, free. I had a great time, thanks mucho to Dan and Lisa for organizing and running the whole event and my lovely team Robert , Jane and Manuel . Then I went home and wrote trivia questions, read a whole book, slept in preparation for yesterday in which I..... went to brunch, ate too much food, tried to convincingly admire other people's babies while resigning myself to never being able to finish a sentence, and enjoyed both the sunshine and a fire in the fireplace. Then off to a Blank White Card Game where the owner of the gelateria [with a fire in the fireplace, again] was so intrigued by our strange scribblings that he gave us all two-for-one gelato coupons. New cards are in the same place as the old cards . Nina just let me know that there is an article in Games Magazine about BWC this month, exciting. After a quick trip home to put on something fancier than the same pants I'd been wearing all week, I went out to my friend James Whetzel's house for a house concert . James is an accomplished musician in a lot of different cultural traditions and last night he was playing some Indian classical music, doing some Tuvan throat singing
 and showing us a bit of palm wine guitar music [though not all at once]. He was accompanied by his friend Lowell Lybarger on tabla who did an impressive tabla tutorial for us and, if this is the proper verb, just whaled on those tablas [wailed? waled?]. We all got to view this in the comfort of James's parents living room and get served beer by his brother and play with the dog, what a neat evening. 
This week I pack, next week I leave. I'm having a BBQ for the 4th of July weekend which anyone in the Vermont area is welcome to come to. Sparse accomodations but lovely company. 
You know, it seems that in a day and age where people are still made to admit they're Jewish before being murdered by extremists, you'd think people might want to be more careful about their " shyster " characters not inadvertently resembling lousy Jewish stereotypes. You might think that, anyhow.