WELCOME to Holly Llamas 

 Welcome to Holly Llamas. We're a small llama
farm located about 20 miles north of Seattle. My husband and I have been raising
llamas since 1987 when our two sons left home. Some have said it was empty nest
syndrome. I think it was love at first sight! 
 At the time our sons moved out, we had a
couple of female pygmy goats, a male and two female Japanese sitka deer and a
female burro. We have such limited space (only 1 3/4 acres) but had managed to
raise a variety of animals while our sons were growing up. Our experiences with
cows, a wonderful quarterhorse and other assorted livestock had given us some
background in raising critters. 
 We knew nothing about llamas, though, when an
ad in a local newspaper for a llama for sale caught our eyes. We fell in love
with Levi, a seven year old male llama, and brought him home. His gentle nature,
intelligence and ease of care convinced us we needed to have more llamas. Within
six months we bought two more and the deer, goats and burro were sold. Since
then we've devoted our small farm to llamas. 
 We limit our herd to around ten llamas. With
some planning and a lot of crossfencing, this number is manageable for us and
allows us to devote time to each llama. We breed for healthy, conformationally
correct llamas with that silky fleece we admire. We have both North American and
Bolivian crosses. Our young herd sire One Note Samba is
just getting old enough to breed. We're excited about seeing what he will
produce. We will also share our experience with you in our search
for a herd sire . 
 We would also like to invite you to visit
 Chena and her new cria . You can find out a little about
 birthing and newborn care here. 
 You may also want to see another of our sweet
females, Jazz, and learn about our training
methods and some of our herd management
procedures. 
 Please stop by Wren's page. She's our
 "Christmas Llama" and has information about
 what folks like to do with their llamas. 
 From time to time we're able to offer some
very special llamas to others. Our sale page reflects
what we currently have available and our adopted llamas 
page includes those who have recently found new homes. 
 The brothers in the photo at the top of this
page are Bailey and Scooter. Bailey is our priceless gelding. Calm, friendly and
serious about protecting the young llamas he sometimes has to baby-sit, he is a
favorite with all who visit our farm. (He actually thinks he manages the place!) 
 Don't forget to check out our
 friends who have llamas, folks who sell llama products
or publications and associations you may join to learn more about llamas. 
 We now have links to other interesting
animals we're sure you'll enjoy visiting. 
 You can find out more about our first llama
 Levi , but be sure to
bring a box of kleenex if you visit this site. 
 Thank you for stopping by our website. Please
also stop by our farm or give us a call, or e-mail. We are always happy to
talk with fellow llama llovers! 

 Holly Llamas Russ & Jean Hardman Lynnwood, WA 425-743-0015 

 Camelid Web Ring 

 Updated 11/26/98 Web Pages Designed by Sandy Stillwell 

 Copyright &copy; 1997, 1998,
by Russ & Jean Hardman. All rights reserved, including the right of
reproduction in whole or in part, in any form. This document or Photos can not
be reproduced without the written consent of the owner.