Llamas for Sale 

 Holly Sale Llamas 

 Hanae Mori 
 Female - DOB 5/25/97 LW Shalimar X Chena 

 Hanae Mori (pronounced Han nah Mor Ray) is a 1/2
Bolivian knockout from the tips of her beautiful ears to her wooly toes! She
has striking color, crimpy, silky fleece and a terrific, outgoing personality. 
Hana's father is LW Shalimar, a prestigious full Bolivian herdsire, and her
mother,
 Chena, is a MGF Tundra daughter. This flashy, solid
young girl is available for adoption now and will be able to leave mom this
Spring. 

 Coltrane Riff (Colt) Male - DOB 7/21/97 Incognito X
Jazzabelle 

 Coltrane Riff (Colt), an outrageously handsome male
with style and presence, grabs the heart of everyone who sees him! He has those
qualities we all desire in a potential herdsire...a gentle disposition, 
excellent pedigree and conformation plus beautiful, soft wool. His father,
Incognito, is a Senor Wenses son, and his mother, Jazzabelle ,
is a Jouster daughter. Colt has it all!! 

 Snickers Female - DOB 2/24/90 Benjamin X Marseille 

 Snickers has produced four wonderful healthy crias for us
including our incredible Chena. Since she is related to
 One Note Samba (our new herdsire) we're looking for a
new home for her. She has dense, red wool (sheared 4 months previous to this
picture) and an easy going disposition. A wonderful mother with plenty of
milk...she'll make an excellent addition to your herd. 

 Bugaboo Gelding - DOB 9/18/96
 Babaloo x Tootle Lu ILR# R177011 

 Ptarmigan (Tarmy) Male -DOB 7/28/97 MGF
Tundra X Snickers

 Does this guy look like he's sleeping? Washington llamas aren't
used to seeing sunshine! This young Appaloosa male has great conformation and a
gentle disposition. To know him is to love him! Registered with ILR, of course. 
 Patrmigan (Tarmy) is Snicker's 1997 cria and is a large, solid
male. Tarmy has inherited his mother's laid back personality and promises to
be a wonderful companion to a lucky new owner. He will be ready to join you
this Spring. 

 All llamas sold by Holly Llamas come with our continued support. 
We are a very small farm and are extremely eager to make sure the llamas we sell
and our new friends (buyers) are both happy with the adoption! Please call or
email us for more information about any of these special llamas. 
 email us 

 HOME 
 SAMBA 
 CHENA 
 WREN 

 JAZZ 
 LINKS 
 ADOPTED LLAMAS 
 E-MAIL 

 Holly Llamas Russ & Jean Hardman Lynnwood,
WA 425-743-0015 

 Updated 3/24/98 Web Pages Designed by Sandy Stillwell 

 Copyright &copy; 1997, 1998, by Russ & Jean
Hardman. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or
in part, in any form. This document or Photos can not be reproduced without the
written consent of the owner.