One Note Samba, our young Herd Sire 

 ONE NOTE SAMBA 

 One Note Samba, our young herd
sire, is 1/2 Bolivian. His sire is the marvelous full Bolivian stud, FW Lambada,
owned by Bill and Joan Martin of Far West Llamas. His mother, Tootle Lu, is
North American. We are very pleased with the result of this cross. Samba is
strong and athletic with wonderful silky fleece. His first babies should be on
the ground in June and July of 1998. Samba's one note is quality! 

 Herd Sire Search 

 Our effort to find our perfect herd sire has been
quite an adventure. Our first attempt was to purchase a youngster only six
months old as a prospective herdsire. We were sadly disappointed when he neared
two years with knock knees and buck teeth! Not exactly what we had in mind for a
stud! 
 A year later we purchased a beautiful, flashy
youngster at an auction and anxiously awaited the day when he would be able to
breed our females. This male at two years was everything we hoped for with
straight legs, wonderful conformation and color. Unfortunately, he didn't seem
to have a clue as to what to do with a female llama! After much discussion, we
decided he might just be too young and waited another year for those hormones to
kick in. 
 Sadly, he didn't improve with age and at three
years old still did not understand how to get the job done. He would bump into a
female, she'd react and he quickly go the other direction! The people we bought
him from took him to their farm so he could learn from the other studs. Our
friends thought this was hilarious, of course, and kidded us about our llama in
"stud school". He did breed at their farm and we brought him home. 
 A couple of months later, we were so excited
to have him breed our best female who had recently had a cria. Well, same old
story and this time we decided to leave them together for a few days to see what
might develop. Since nothing seemed to be happening we decided it was time to
give up on this guy. We wanted a stud we could depend on so this guy was
returned to the folks we bought him from who then gelded and sold him. 
 You may have guessed what happened next! The
following spring this female was taken to another farm to be bred and vigorously
rejected the male. After a blood test, it was determined she was pregnant and
four months later had a handsome appaloosa son. This male evidently performed in
the dark by sneaking up on a kushed female before she had a chance to reject
him! 

 After all this, we were so pleased when Samba came into our lives.
He is so beautiful and gets better every day! He has now bred his first female
and knew exactly what to do. He is an aggressive yet gentle breeder and was
certainly worth waiting for! We've learned so much since we bought that first
young male and are so anxious to see Samba's babies in 1999. Samba's one note is
quality! And the best part of having our own stud is that we can finally keep
our females and crias home with us! 

 HOME 
 JAZZ 
 CHENA WREN 
 LINKS 
 SALE LLAMAS 
 ADOPTED LLAMAS 
 E-MAIL 

 Holly Llamas Russ & Jean Hardman Lynnwood, WA 425-743-0015 

 Updated 6/14/98 Web Pages Designed by Sandy Stillwell 
 Copyright &copy; 1997, 1998
by Russ & Jean Hardman. All rights reserved, including the right of
reproduction in whole or in part, in any form. This document or Photos can not
be reproduced without the written consent of the owner.