Wren, our Christmas Llama 

 Wren 

 I'll bet you didn't know we have reindeer in Washington! Did you
expect "rain dear'? This picture of Wren gave quite a few people a chuckle
when they received our Christmas card! She was the only one of our llamas who
would put up with those undignified antlers. Wren was pleased when this photo
made the front page of the Seattle Times and was featured in a article about
animal Christmas cards in the Everett Herald. She demanded star treatment after
that! 

 Christmas is a very special time for llama owners. There are so
many things to do with your llamas. A local individual does very well with his
llama who delivers Christmas presents for a fee. Other llamas cheerfully pass
for camels in live Nativity scenes and are a real hit for an unusual Christmas
party. 

 The rest of the year, uses for llamas are only limited by your
imagination. Many people enjoy backpacking with llamas. Hikers, hunters and
forestry workers have discovered the wonderful help and companionship llamas can
provide in the backcountry. They are known for their agility and low impact to
the terrain due to their padded feet. Even if you just want to picnic, why not
let a llama carry your load? 

 Llamas have soft, fine wool and many spinners and weavers use it
to make wonderful garments and blankets. The wool may be felted for beautiful
hats or hooked into charming rugs. 

 Some llamas are trained to pull carts or visit nursing homes,
hospitals and schools. Very special llamas provide pet therapy. If you have a
stressful life, just being around these calm, serene animals will help mellow
you out! 

 More and more llama owners are enjoying the friendly competition
of showing llamas in halter, showmanship and obstacle classes at many local and
regional shows. Youngsters are finding llamas to be excellent 4-H animals
because they are easy to train and have such a calm, gentle nature. 

 Llamas have been used successfully as guard animals for sheep but
care must be taken to select the proper mature llama for this job. 

 Some llama owners breed their llamas to provide the joy of
ownership to other llama lovers. Many owners don't require their llamas to do
much of anything (like most cats and dogs) other than being wonderful, gentle
pets and companions! 

 HOME 
 SAMBA 
 CHENA 
 JAZZ 

 LINKS 
 SALE LLAMAS 
 ADOPTED LLAMAS 
 E-MAIL 

 Holly Llamas Russ & Jean Hardman Lynnwood,
WA 425-743-0015 

 Updated 3/24/98 Web Pages Designed by Sandy Stillwell 

 Copyright &copy; 1997, 1998, by Russ & Jean
Hardman. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or
in part, in any form. This document or Photos can not be reproduced without the
written consent of the owner.