Babe: A Pig's Fan's Shrine 

 Babe:Pig on the Web 

 Disclaimer 
 Babe: A Gallant Pig Goes a Long Way and Babe: Pig in the City are the
property of Universal Studios. No infringement of copyright is intended.
However, I do intend to give free advertising to both these
films! Website design and layout are my copyright. 

 Babe ... the Best Film Ever! 
 I almost didn't see the first Babe film in the theatre. Mostly I
ignored its great reviews and terrific word-of-mouth acclaim. Cynically,
thought I, this was a movie about a talking pig! Eventually I gave in and
saw Babe at a second-run theatre. 

 Babe changed my life forever 
 I saw Babe four more times in the theatre. I gave up pork, ham,
bacon, prosciutto and all other porcine products. I used it as a teaching
tool to discuss freedom, tradition and political obligation with my
students. Most of all, Babe made me recall what I knew as a child and had
learnt to forget as an adult: that wonder is the core of the encounter
between the human and animal species, that dreams should be held close,
that everyone, even your enemy, needs a second chance. 

 What is Babe all about? 
 The first Babe film depicts the quest of a young orphaned pig, Babe, 
to become a sheep pig. 
 In the second film, Babe embarks on quest in the city to save the 
farm. 

 This website is very much under construction. While it's
being developed, here are some pictures to look at. 

 Images from Babe 1 

 Babe leads the boss to victory 
 Babe and Farmer Hoggett meet 
 Another photo of Babe and the farmer meeting 

 Babe and Farmer Hoggett regard each other 
 Babe and Farmer Hoggett together 
 Babe in the box 

 Ferdinand "Ferdi" the duck 
 The poster 
 The poster in black and white 

 Fly and Rex 
 Fly 
 Fly again 

 The Hoggetts 
 The Hoggetts in black and white 
 Ferdi gets Babe to keep the time 

 Maa 
 Maa again 

 Images from Babe 2 

 Champion Babe 
 A family portrait 
 Esme and Babe look for a hotel 

 Babe in front of the pet hotel 
 Babe looks out his hotel window 
 The City outside Babe's hotel window 

 Ferdi rouses Babe 
 Babe meets the not-so-great apes 
 Babe leads the homeless city dogs 

 Babe looks out the truck 
 Will she get her pig back? Esme finds it's all up in the air 

 Esme explains it all 

 Writer-director George Miller 
 Miller and friend 

 Email 
me