Mullspace | Accretions | The Book List 

 Portal | Kat Litter | Tales | Lectures | Eye Candy | Accretions | Kat Who? | Poke 

 posted: February 16, 2002 

 Reading Matter 

 Well, here are some of the authors and books I have recently or not so recently fallen in love with for one reason or another. Some of it's good, and some of it is merely silly. 

 Fiction 

 Neal Stephenson 
everything, especially: 
 Cryptonomicon (This may be my favorite fiction book of all time) 
 Snow Crash 
 Zodiac (instructions on how to be a moral eco-terrorist are pretty 
funny, too.) 

 Eric Nylund 
once again, pretty much everything but start with: 
 Dry Water or 
 Pawn's Dream 
 Signal to Noise and 
 Signal Shattered are a little rough and depressing in parts 

 Anne Perry 
 Face of a Stranger (I'm fascinated with amnesia stories, though 
they are often done poorly. This one was not and it's a nice, period mystery, well researched and neatly written.) 

 Jonathan Lethem 
 Gun, with Occasional Music (If you are a bit of a Phillip K. Dick fan, 
you'll feel right at home with this one.) 

 Christopher Moore 
the first two, Practical Demon Keeping and 
 The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove must be read in this order, but, 
 Blood Sucking Fiends is not in the series and is pretty funny. 

 Connie Willis 
 To Say Nothing of the Dog 
 Bellweather 
 The Doomsday Book (grim in parts, but excellently-written and 
thought-provoking) 
 Remake 

 Emma Bull 
although I've enjoyed all her books, these are the best and strangest: 
 Bone Dance 
 Finder 

 Will Shetterly 
 Nevernever 
 Elsewhere 
 Chimera (better than Gun, with Occasional Music, but on similar themes 
and not so ultimately depressing) 

 Michael Marshall Smith 
 Only Forward 
 One of Us (except for the ending....) 

 Rick Hanson 
 Spare Parts (*laugh!* Nothing like a chase through Seattle in a giant 
tooth....) 

 Neil Gaiman 
 Neverwhere ( I wish he'd written more in this universe) 
 Good Omens (saves Terry Pratchett from an excess of cute) 
 The Sandman ("comic book" series, comic my butt...) 

 Louis L'Amour 
I know what some of you are thinking, but try the guy, he was good, especially: 
 Fair Blows the Wind 
 The Walking Drum 
 Haunted Mesa 

 Joshua Dann 
 Timeshare series 

 Elizabeth A. Lynn 
 The Sardonyx Net 

 William L. DeAndrea 
 Chronos (and the rest of this series) 

 Ian Flemming 
All James Bond stories/novels 
 Chitty Chitty Bang Bang (much better and much darker than the film) 

 William Shakespeare 
everything 

 Alexandre Dumas (pere) 
 The Three Musketeers (and the rest of this series, except for 20 Years After , which is both boring and depressing) 

 Alexandre Dumas (fils) 
 The Count of Monte Cristo (abridged, unless you really like minute 
descriptions of period clothing and food. It's a book about vengence 
and getting over it. Get over it.) 

 Mark Twain 
 Roughing It 
 Huckleberry Finn (there's a reason this is a classic. Read it even if 
banned in your neck o' the woods--hell, all the better reason) 

 Sharon McCrumb 
 Bimbos of the Death Sun (if you've ever been to a Sci-Fi con, you'll 
swear it was this one... except for the murder.) 

 Rafael Sabatini 
 Scaramouche 
 Captain Blood (No, they weren't just movies) 

 Lewis Carrol 
 Alice in Wonderland (and pretty much everything else this twisted man 
ever wrote) 

 Robert Heinlein 
 The Moon is a Harsh Mistress 

 Dashiell Hammet 
(the stylish and subtle spirtual brother of Chandler) 
 The Maltese Falcon 
 The Glass Key 
 The Dane Curse 

 Raymond Chandler 
(the archtype of detective noir) pretty much anything, but don't miss: 
 The Big Sleep 
 The Little Sister 
 Farewell, My Lovely 

 Jane Austin 
I just find her funny, I guess, and my favorite books are: 
 Pride and Prejudice and 
 Emma 

 Charlotte Bront&eacute; 
 Jane Eyre (Don't ask why, it just sticks with me) 

 Tim Powers 
(I just discovered this guy with the help of my friend Jason Wood) 
 Last Call 

 Non-fiction 

 Leon Lederman & Dick Teresi 
 The God Particle (the search for the Higgs Boson) (well-written and easy-to-understand, though some of it is now a little out of date) 

 Gordon Kane 
 The Particle Garden (particle physics for tyros, like me and the cover is trippy) 

 David Lindley 
 Where Does the Weirdness Go? 

 Simon Singh 
 The Code Book 

 Laurent Bozereau 
 Ultraviolent Movies (Hey, I like films, even unpleasant ones) 

 Jack Kornfield 
 A Path with Heart (Zen for real people) 

 David Cordingly 
 Under the Black Flag (The history of piracy. Excellent research and 
fun to read. The later, updated edition has some extra pictures and 
information which is worth hunting down.) 

 Richard Heny Dana 
 Two Years Before the Mast (more boats) 

 Mark Twain 
 A Pen Warmed Up in Hell and other essays and letters 

 Jeffery Kacirk 
 Forgotten English (Just interesting words and lots of them) 

 Jonathan Swift 
 A Modest Proposal (and other essays) 

 Bill Bryson 
 Mother Tongue--The story of English and how it got that way (brilliant 
and very funny) 

 I also read several magazines as pointers to more in-depth information: 

 Linux Journal 
 Wired 
 Discover 
 Simthsonian 

 If you've looked this list over, you may notice some recurring themes: 
particle and quantum theory, time travel, cryptology, English, 
cynicism and rude political commentary, boats, adventure stories and 
film- (book-) noir. There's also a lot of science fiction and fact 
listed here, though, in fact, I read a lot of mysteries, as well. 
Unfortunately, I have been less deeply moved by mysteries than by 
speculation. I'm a voracious reader and, obviously, I've read a great 
many more books than this in a lifetime-to-date, but these represent 
the ones I remember with much thought and consideration, of some kind, 
to this day. I have not included books whose impact upon my mind was 
utterly negative, though there are several of those; books so 
horrifically bad in either plot, execution or implication that I threw 
them across the room, cursing and yelling, or sneered poisonously and 
consigned to the returns and recyling bin. (Huxley's Brave New World 
was one of the latter. All you dystopia-fans may now villify me, but I 
still say it's one of the worst-written and poorest-realized books in 
the history of speculative fiction.) 

 I am very respectful of books. I don't dog-ear corners unless I have 
no choice. I don't splay them out, likewise. I use bookmarks on even 
the cheapest paperback and when I lend a book, I do so with both 
enthusiasm and solemnity, expecting the new reader to treat it with 
the same respect I would. I'm a dweeb. Can't help it. I love books. 

 Most of the writers listed here are people whose work I will gladly 
re-read and willingly take a copy of anything they've written I have not read, 
yet. Missing from this list are a great many writers I respect as 
craftsmen, but whose work I cannot, personally, stomach. Phillip K. 
Dick being a prime example.(And the first person who says I write like 
him will be tied to a ducking stool and held under the effluvia which 
is known as the Hudson River for 3 days without a re-breather.) 

 One division of books which is not listed here is technical manuals, 
of which I chew contemplatively on 2 to 5 each year in the necessary 
pursuit of staying vaguely current with something besides my own 
angst. I also have not listed the many reference books I read, browse 
or consult annually, as that would become boring quite quickly. But I 
do, in fact, read reference books, including dictionaries, as if they 
were works of fiction or collections of essays. I am a wordy-girl, 
after all. How do you think I got that way? 

 Back to top of this page, please. 
 Back to the List lists . 
 &copy; 2002 M. Kathleen Huffine/Kat Richardson