Mullspace | Bio & Resume Link | Bragging and Blather 

 Portal | Kat Litter | Tales | Lectures | Eye Candy | Accretions | Kat Who? | Poke 

 Who is This Woman? 

 updated: April 26, 2004 

 Once again, it's time to answer the question "who are you, Kat?" 
 Writer, principally. Editor, secondarily, but a very close second. General creative omnivore. My name is Kat Richardson (aka Kathleen Richardson or M. Kathleen Huffine and, no, I'm not obsessed with cats.) Sometimes you'll catch me in the TTLG game forums under the nick "Strangeblue". 
 This site is, essentially, a place for me to mess about. Almost everything here is first-draft and very little of it is serious. I'm the sole designer on this website. I'm self-taught at Flash, PhotoShop, Gimp, HTML and CSS (though I'm a bit of a W3C standards nazi) and provide all the graphics, design, content and support, myself. Sticking your head in here is like sitting down to coffee with me and letting me ramble. 
 I've been writing or telling stories since I was six and reading voraciously to support this habit since I was three. My dad was an English teacher, so maybe that's where I get it. Sometime between six and seventeen, I finally figured out that writing is what I do. So, I have a BA degree in Magazine Journalism (Editing option) from California State University, Long Beach, which I got because I realized I couldn't make any money with a degree in Vocal Music or Pre-19th Century History (my previous majors) and there was no way I wanted a Creative Writing degree, for the same reason (so naturally, I spend more of my time writing creative stuff than journalism...). I really do love words, love the English language, books, playing with ideas and juggling them around to see what they do. It's just really cool. 
 This cool-factor is responsible for dragging me into some of the most interesting projects I've ever worked on: games, movies, novels and shorter fiction, and this website. In the past few years, I've worked on several wild-blue creative projects: 

 Plot Lead, T2X: Shadows of the Metal Age. I got to herd creative cats to create the plot, story-arc, and major characters for this massive, freeware, fan-made game expansion for the Looking Glass Studios games Thief and Thief 2 . It's still in development, but should be coming out for non-commercial release end of 2004 under the aegis of The Dark Engineering Guild. Fun stuff! www.thief2x.com/ 
 Developer, Whisper City Total Conversion for Max Payne. Got to do lots of plot and character development as the sole plot monkey on this ambitious TC. Alas, the IP was bought in May, 2002, and the computer game was closed up. There maybe a remnant of the TC at: the old wildpixels directory if Ken hasn't removed it. 
 Writer/Cultural Developer Moon Elves . Wrote all the cultural stuff for this table-top RPG supplement for Dark Quest Publishing. Published August, 2002, and still available at DarkQuest's source book page . 
 Screenwriter/Associate Producer, The Glove , a short spoof of horror films and gamer culture from Beer & Smokes. Currently available through FilePlanet.com or a whole DVD, including great soundtrack by Satovan and an interview with moi at Beer & Smokes . 
 Writer/Co-Developer, Dangerous Days--a Tech Noir graphic adventure game. In development with my favorite creative partner, Ken George. Very cool, if I say so myself, and I get to do all kinds of great stuff: writing, character development, world-design, etc in my favorite genre. Ken has the graphics and coordination duties and there's a pretty cool composer working on the project, too, along with a lot of other smart people. Should be a trailer and page up at Wildpixels soon, but still in pieces as of this writing. You can get a glimpse at Ken's work there, too. 
 I've also got a novel-length manuscript doing the rounds of publishers ( Greywalker --a paranormal detective mystery) and a Science Fiction novella ( Shatter ) running about, looking for a home. And, of course, I continue to write new stuff all the time. 
 Until recently, I was the Content Manager at WhiteTie, Inc. If it was Content, I did it, plus a few other duties, too. 
 Right now, I'm on a Technical Editor contract through Sakson & Taylor --my contract recruiting agency. They do a lot of Microsoft contracts and some for Bungie, too. (Ooo! Games! Halo....) And I read The Sunday Funnies at the Evergreen Reading Radio Service once a week with my broadcast partner, Jeff Cavanaugh. 
 On a personal note, I'm an oddball by a lot of standards. I live on a 35-foot sailboat. I don't own a car. I walk everywhere or ride my bike, because I want to, not because it's PC. I love Classical music (I was training to sing Opera, at one time), but I'm also totally enamored by Jazz and Rock. I do a little Swing Dancing, once in a while, too. I cook a little, when I can abuse someone else's kitchen (the boat galley is rather small). I read a lot, mostly mysteries, crime noir and science fiction as well as non-fiction science (especially physics and technology), history and sociology thrown in. When I can, I like working out at the gym and I am a decent target-pistol shooter. I keep ferrets, a cat and a husband. I love movies, but don't see very many in theaters since ticket prices went up. And I adore wicked games like Thief, Deus Ex, Grim Fandango and Post Mortem. 

 There's a lot more info on my formal resume; these are just the things I really enjoy. If you'd like to see the resume, or just say "hi," please send me an e-mail: mull.space@lycos.com . 

 Back to top . 

 &copy; 2004 M. Kathleen Huffine/Kat Richardson. All rights reserved.