Mullspace | Accretions | Way Too Many Links 

 Portal | Kat Litter | Tales | Lectures | Eye Candy | Accretions | Kat Who? | Poke 

 updated: June 3, 2002 

 Links, Links, Links 

 Ok, here is my way too long and utterly boring list of sites which are far too important in my life for one reason or another. 

 Last month's links: 
 This is where I'll put links from the Portal page. I'll incorporate the really good ones into the main body the next month 

 Near and dear: 

 Warlock's Den/Neon Buddha (my husband's place) 
 Wildpixels ('net home of my friend Ken George, designer, artist and wildman) 
 Mark Walling (my bud and Glove producer/director) 

 Projects current and recent: 

 The Glove (short film project for which I adapted the screenplay) 
 Dark Quest (for whom I wrote the Moon Elves cultural material and the folks who acquired Whisper City ) 
 Shadows of the Metal Age (for a while, I was the Story Lead on this fan-made project based on the Looking Glass Studio's game Thief ) 

 Games and such: 

 TTLG (where my internet life started) 
 Theseus and the Minotaur (drives me insane) 
 Neocron (MMORPG which would probably suck out my brain if I gave it half a chance) 
 Deus Ex 2 (I'm currently addicted to the first game and looking forward to this one a lot . Let's face it, Warren Specter could burp The Star Spangled Banner and I'd probably love it....) 
 Appeal (makers of the prettiest game never to be successful in the US: Outcast. Website is cool-looking, too, and Outcast 2 is due out within the next year or so. Yay!) 
 Lozenge and Hampshire (pure silliness) 
 Bossmonster (Check the Games directory) 

 Weirdness, Coolness, Silliness, and Violence: 

 The Onion 
 Stick Death (yay! Ok, I'm sick... so what? You knew that.) 
 Joe Cartoon 
 Synj Industries 
 Sinfest 
 Bizarro (I almost got fired over this guy, once) 
 Sluggy Freelance 

 Art and Photography: 

 Brom (the creepiest artist you'll ever love who isn't Giger) 
 Craig Mullins 
 Yanick Dusseault 
 Ursula Vernon (The other artist at /setik, James Trevett, is cool, but most of his pages give a 404 error.) 
 Virgil Finlay (a pulp illustrator from the 30s-50s) 
 Gallery of Thieves (Julia Smith's place) 
 Silver Screen Sirens (commercial, but great pics of classic movie stars) 
 George Hurrell (greatest of the Golden Age of Hollywood photographers) 

 Reading and Writing: 

 The Space Child's Mother Goose (the coolest book of "nursery rhymes" ever printed, now re-printed by Purple House Press) 
 Tart City (I wanna be one when I grow up....) 
 Project Gutenberg 
 Baen Free Library (selected books from Baen's Sci-Fi collection for free! How cool is that?) 
 Amazon.com (how else could I afford my habit?) 
 Oxford English Dictionary ( the dictionary of the English Language) 
 Devil's Dictionary (Ambrose Bierce wrote it and it's still wickedly funny) 
 PNWA (Pacific Northwest Writers Association, horrible site, but a wonderful organization, someday I'll have to get off my ass and join....) 

 Hobbies and Obsessions: 

 Savoy Swing (still learning how to "cut a rug" with these folks) 
 Modern Ferret (very nice folks, here, though the magazine is struggling) 
 Ferret Central (the ultimate internet resource for ferret information) 
 The Ferret Company (publishers of The Ferret Calendar )

 Back to top of this page, please. 
 Back to the List lists . 
 &copy; 2002 M. Kathleen Huffine/Kat Richardson