Athens 

 Athens (&#913;&#952;&#942;&#957;&#945;) 
 We spent more time in Athens than anywhere else on our vacation - about four
days when we first got to Greece, followed by a couple overnight stays between
visits to other places and a couple days at the end before flying home. 
These pictures are taken from all those times and they're presented generally in
chronological order. 

 Lyn At Panathenaic Way 
 Taken on our first day in Athens. We had reserved a room the
 first night at a hotel that looked close to the airport. The plan
 was to crash there (since we were arriving at 4am) and head into town
 the next day to find a room a little closer to the action.
 As it turns out, the Hotel Miranda is close to an airport - the old
 airport. Athens has recently opened up a new airport all the way
 on the other side of the city. So we had quite an exciting
 high-speed taxi ride to our hotel, at 4am on deserted Athens streets,
 with a taxi driver who didn't speak much English. What a way to
 start a vacation. 
 After some other adventures (including getting lost at least once) we
 finally got a room and walked over towards the Acropolis. It was
 pretty late so we didn't go in, but instead walked around the vicinity. 
 The Panathenaic Way was an important road in ancient Greece that led
 up to the Propylaia, or entrance to the Acropolis. During the Panathenaic
 Festival which was held each year to commemorate the birth of Athena, the Panathenaic
 Procession would follow this road up to the Acropolis. This
 procession was a very important event, and in fact one of the friezes on
 the Parthenon is believed to depict a Panathenaic Procession. 

 Statue Base On Panathenaic Way 
 This was the first of many statue bases we would see with Greek
 inscriptions on them. 

 Roman Agora - Gate of Athena Archegetis 
 This was the entrance to the Agora (marketplace) that existed at
 this location during Roman times. It dates from around the time of
 the birth of Christ, during the reigns of Julius and Augustus
 Caesar. The middle space between the columns is wider to allow for
 wagons. The side ones were for pedestrians. In the
 background the Acropolis is visible. 

 Propylaia (North Wing) 
 On our second day in Athens, we visited the Acropolis. This is
 the north wing of the Propylaia (monumental entrance), taken from the
 stairway. 

 Parthenon West Side 

 Black Cat Near Parthenon 

 Parthenon East Side, Morning 

 Parthenon - Closeup of East Pediment and Frieze 
 You can see the few pieces of sculpture left on the Parthenon. 
 The horse's head that is left on the Pediment is from the chariot of
 Helios (the Sun). Reclining next to it is Dionysus. Most of the
 surviving sculpture from the pediment is now in the Acropolis Museum and
 the British Museum. The East
 Pediment originally depicted the birth of Athena. (This is
 appropriate given that the Parthenon was a temple of Athena and indeed
 she was the patron goddess of the city of Athens.)
 The larger evenly-spaced rectangular holes held a row of Persian
 shields taken as booty after a battle against the Persians in 334 BC and
 dedicated on the Acropolis by "Alexander and the Greeks, except the
 Lacedaemonians." The small groups of holes between them
 (directly under each triglyph) at one point held the bronze letters of
 an inscription in honor of the Roman emperor Nero. 

 Temple Of Augustus 
 The remnants of a small circular temple are gathered here to the
 east of the Parthenon. According to an inscription found on them,
 the monument was erected in honor of Augustus (emperor of Rome) after 27
 BC.
 I like this picture quite a bit. 

 Temple Of Olympic Zeus - View From Acropolis 
 You can see a reverse angle view (of the Acropolis from the
 viewpoint of the Temple Of Olympic Zeus) further down on this page.
 In front of and just to the left of the temple is the Arch of
 Hadrian. 

 Erechtheion East Side 
 The Erechtheion is a temple dedicated to Erechtheus, a mythical
 king. It's a pretty unusual building for a Greek temple, since it
 is actually three separate sections (a north portico, or porch; a main
 section; and a south porch which has six statues of young maidens, called
 Korai , serving as the columns).
 If the rightmost column of the main section looks different, there's
 a good reason. It's not the original. It's a cast of the
 original column, which is now in the British Museum. 

 Erechtheion - Door From North Portico 

 Horde of Tourists on Propylaia Steps 
 I tried to keep the tourists out of my pictures for the most
 part. But I thought it would be good to have at least one picture
 showing what the crowds are like in the morning at the Acropolis. 

 Athenian Agora - Statue of Giant 
 After visiting the Acropolis we walked just north to the ancient
 Athenian Agora. The Agora was the center of public life and
 government in ancient Athens. This is a statue of a giant which at
 one point adorned the entranceway to a grand concert hall, the Odeon
 of Agrippa , which was located here. Notice that he has a
 lizard's tail. 

 Athenian Agora - Hephaesteum East Side 
 The Hephaesteum dominates the site of the Athenian Agora. It
 is one of the best-preserved Doric temples. 

 Athenian Agora - Hephaesteum West Side 

 Athenian Agora - Lyn Looking Over Agora 

 Athenian Agora - Church Of The Holy Apostles 
 Building on the site of the Agora didn't stop after the classical
 Greek and Roman periods. This small Christian church was
 originally built in Medieval times, around 1000 BC. It underwent
 restoration in the 1950s. The Corinthian capital in the foreground
 is presumably much older. 

 Lyn at Theatre of Dionysos 
 The next day we visited some ruins on the south side of the
 Acropolis. This is the Theatre of Dionysos, which is sometimes
 referred to as the birthplace of theatre. It underwent many
 changes over the years. You can see some 3D visualizations of what
 this theatre might have looked like at various times by clicking here . 

 Flower At Theatre of Dionysos 

 Lion-Footed Chair at Theatre of Dionysos 
 I love this chair. I want one just like it. Too bad it
 probably weighs hundreds of pounds... it's made of solid marble. 
 This seat, with its prime location, was reserved for the Priest of
 Dionysus.

 Stoa of Eumenes 

 Propylaia at Night 
 We walked around Athens one night and got a few cool nighttime
 shots. Here's a nice shot of the Propylaia on the Acropolis. 
 The Temple of Athena Nike is on the right, unfortunately covered in
 scaffolding as it is undergoing renovation. 

 Moon Over Temple Of Olympic Zeus 
 This is one of my favorite pictures from our trip. While
 walking around the Plaka (Athens' oldest, most historic, and not
 coincidentally most touristy neighborhood) we came across this
 incredible sight - the full moon rising behind the Temple Of Olympic
 Zeus. 

 I knew I had to get this picture at all costs. Because of the low
 light, I needed to use a tripod. Unfortunately, there is a fence
 surrounding the archeological site, and I couldn't see any place to set
 up a tripod where the view wouldn't be obstructed by the fence.
 However, there were a few stray dogs in the area, and they had dug a
 hole under one part of the fence so they could get in and out. I
 knew what I had to do. I crawled through the hole and got inside
 the fence, where there was a convenient place to set up the camera and
 get this wonderful shot. Were the results worth it? I think
 so. 

 Temple Of Olympic Zeus - From Southeast 
 The next day we went back and happily paid our admission fee to see
 the temple during daylight.
 Work on the Temple Of Olympian Zeus was started in the 6th century
 BC, but started and stopped many times. It was finally completed
 in 130 AD... about 700 years later! 
 Only 16 of the original 104 columns of this temple remain, but they
 serve to give a good idea of the grand scale of the temple. Most
 of the original columns were probably taken away over the centuries and
 used as building material. 
 You can see the Acropolis in the background here. 

 Temple Of Olympic Zeus - Closeup of Capitals 
 This temple must have been an incredible sight to see in its
 heyday. You can see here the intricately sculpted Corinthian
 capitals. 

 Temple Of Olympic Zeus - Fallen Column 
 This column was felled by either an earthquake or a thunderstorm
 (I'm not sure which) in 1852. 

 Temple Of Olympic Zeus - Chad 
 You can get an idea of the size of these columns. I'm sitting
 on one here. 

 Sleeping Dog and TT 
 There are a lot of stray dogs and cats in Greece.
 This picture was taken in the parking lot outside the Temple Of
 Olympian Zeus. I thought this dog might be dead at first, but I
 looked close and I could see him breathing. He was just sleeping
 in that position! I thought it was pretty funny. 

 National Archeological Museum - Poseidon Bronze 
 An amazing bronze sculpture called the Poseidon of Artemision. 
 Photos do not do it justice. Many bronze statues have not survived
 the ages; this one was found, appropriately enough, in the sea. 
 Poseidon would originally have been holding his trident in his upraised
 right hand. 

 National Archeological Museum - Varvakeion Athena 
 This is a miniature copy of the cult statue of Athena that stood in
 the Parthenon. The original statue, made by the famous Greek
 sculptor Phidias, stood 11 meters high. This copy dates from Roman
 times. 

 National Archeological Museum - Aphrodite, Eros and Pan 
 This statue, found on Delos, dates from about 100 BC. Pan is
 trying to make a move on Aphrodite (she's the goddess of love, after
 all) and she's about to smack him with her sandal. Eros seems to
 be causing trouble as well. 

 Tower Of Winds 
 This tower near the Roman Agora was notable for having sundials on
 its walls, as well as containing a water clock inside. On each of
 the eight sides there is a relief carving of the mythical wind
 associated with that compass direction. 

 Propylaia at Evening 
 The Areopagus is a rocky hill in Athens where, according to myth,
 Ares stood trial for killing one of Poseidon's sons who had raped Ares'
 daughter. Ares was eventually acquitted, but the Areopagus became
 the location of the court in Athens. (In fact, the name Areopagus
 is still used for the modern Greek supreme court.)
 The Areopagus is also mentioned in the Bible 
 as a location where the apostle Paul preached Christianity after
 traveling to Athens. 
 We hiked up to the Areopagus one evening to watch the sunset. 
 Here is a view of the Propylaia from there. 

 View Of Plaka From Areopagus 

 Sunset From Areopagus 

 Flower Garden 
 While walking the back streets near the Acropolis, we came across
 this lovely little flower garden. 

 Parthenon At Night 
 We ate dinner one night at a restaurant to the south of the
 Acropolis. This was the incredible view from our table. 
 The building in the foreground is the Herodeion, a theatre which has
 been renovated and is still used today for concerts 
 and theatrical
 productions . The Herodeion was built by Herodes Atticus in 161
 AD and originally had a wooden roof.