Corinth 

 Corinth (&#922;&#972;&#961;&#953;&#957;&#952;&#959;&#962;) 

 Corinth was a major trade and manufacturing center throughout the classical
Greek period. It benefited from being near a narrow isthmus separating the
Corinthian Gulf and the Saronic Gulf. Ships were taken out of the water
and pulled across land to get to the other side. In modern times there is
a canal built through
this isthmus allowing ships to pass. In fact, the idea of building a canal
there goes back thousands of years. The Roman Emperor Nero ceremoniously
started building a canal around 62 BC, but this was unsuccessful and the canal
wasn't actually finished until 1893. 

 Corinth reached its peak later under Roman rule, when it became famous for
extravagance and decadence - sort of the Las Vegas of its day. 

 Lechaion Road 
 This road, the main road into the city, connected ancient Corinth to
 the nearby port of Lechaion. 

 Peirene Fountain 
 This is the fountain that still supplies water for Ancient Corinth
 to this day. The water actually came from behind the arches to the
 left, but at one point the large basin in the center of the courtyard
 was filled with water as well. 

 Lyn Looking at Marble Wall 
 The interesting thing about this wall was that it was covered in
 beautiful grey marble, but only an inch thick or so. Underneath
 the marble, there is a regular stone wall. 

 Temple of Apollo 
 The most incredible thing about the Temple of Apollo is that unlike
 most large Greek temples where the columns are made from drums stacked
 on top of each other, its massive Doric columns are carved from single
 blocks of stone. How they managed to move these and lift them into
 position, I have no idea. 

 Lyn Under Temple of Apollo 
 This was one of the few temples we visited that wasn't roped off to
 keep tourists from going up to it. This picture with Lyn standing
 next to one of the corner columns helps to give an idea of the massive
 scale of the place. 

 Arch and Temple of Apollo 
 The arch in the foreground was actually the roof of a shop. 

 Acrocorinth - Entrance 
 Up on a hill overlooking Corinth, there is a fortress called
 Acrocorinth. This fortress has been used since Archaic times and
 contains ruins dating from as early as the 7th century BC all the way up
 to the 19th century. At one point in the 13th century, while under
 Byzantine occupation, it withstood a five-year siege by the Franks
 before finally being captured.
 This picture shows the three gates that a visitor must pass through
 to get inside the fortress. There is also a moat to cross -
 visible at the lower right. 

 Acrocorinth - Looking Down Through Gate 
 This is a view looking through the second gate.