Delos 

 Delos (&#916;&#942;&#955;&#959;&#962;) 

 Due to its advantageous location in the center of the circle of islands known
as the Cyclades, Delos was an important and wealthy trading post in ancient
Greece. It also had important religious and mythological aspects. The
myth goes as follows: 

 Zeus, though he was married to Hera, had a tendency to be unfaithful and at
one time made advances towards a nymph named Asteria. Out of respect for
Hera, Asteria rejected Zeus' advances and flung herself into the sea, falling
like a star. Zeus punished her by turning her into a barren island which
was not anchored to the bottom of the sea, instead being blown around by the
wind. 

 Later, Zeus got the goddess Leto pregnant. Zeus' jealous wife Hera
decreed that Leto should be driven out of all the cities of Greece, so Leto was
forced to wander until finally reaching the floating island that is now called
Delos. When she set foot upon the island, four columns rose from the bed
of the sea, forever fixing Delos to its present location. 

 After nine days of labor (prolonged because Hera would not allow the goddess
of childbirth, Eileithyia, to come to the island to assist), Leto finally gave
birth to Artemis and her twin brother Apollo. 

 Delos today is uninhabited except for people working there - the entire
island is essentially one big archeological site. 

 Cistern of Theatre 
 Delos had a fairly sophisticated water system. This cistern
 near the theatre collected rainwater and served as a water supply for
 the town. 

 Minoa Fountain 

 Terrace Of The Lions 
 One of the most famous monuments on Delos is the Terrace Of The
 Lions. These lions, still majestic after centuries of exposure to
 the wind, overlooked the Sacred Lake where Apollo was born. (The
 lake has been drained now.)
 These lions are actually replicas - the originals (see below) have
 been moved to the museum to guard against further deterioration. 

 Stoivadeion 
 This platform was a sanctuary of Dionysus. The phallic statues
 at either side originally had wings and were a symbol of Dionysus. 

 Original Lions 
 These are the aforementioned lions that have been moved to the
 museum. 

 Lyn Looking at Mosaic In Museum 
 Some of the most striking things found on Delos are the elaborate
 mosaics which decorated the floors of some of the opulent mansions found
 here. This one has been moved to the museum and hung on the
 wall. You can see a mosaic in situ further down on this
 page. 

 Temple Of Isis 
 Since Delos was such an important trading post, there are some
 temples dedicated to non-Greek gods and goddesses. This one still
 contains a cult statue of the Egyptian goddess Isis. 

 Panoramic View of Delos 
 We climbed all the way up the stairs to the top of the highest point
 of Delos. A temple of Zeus was built up here; not much of it
 remains. However, there is a stunning view of the entire island.
 I stitched together a number of pictures to make one wide panoramic
 view of the island. You'll need to scroll right because it's far
 too wide to fit on most monitors. 

 House of Cleopatra and Dioscourides 
 One of the mansions of a wealthy family. Most of these houses
 were built around a center area with stone columns and a mosaic floor,
 which you can see here. Apparently these people (named Cleopatra
 and Discourides, according to the inscriptions found) were also a bit
 arrogant, since visitors were greeted by statues of the owners of the
 house. 

 Anchor Mosaic 
 Here is a picture of one of the many amazing mosaics which have been
 uncovered on Delos.