Olympia 

 Olympia (&#927;&#955;&#965;&#956;&#960;&#943;&#945;) 

 Olympia is of course famous for being the site of the original
Olympics. The first official records of the winners of the Games date from
776 BC, but by this time they were well established. All Greek citizens
(but not women) were able to attend the Olympics and compete in them. 
While the Games were in progress, there was a sacred truce across all of Greece;
no cities were allowed to fight with each other. 

 The Olympics were no longer held after 393 AD, due to a ruling by Theodosius
the Great which forbade all "pagan festivals." 

 Nike of Paionios 
 Now in the Archeological Museum at Olympia, this statue's base
 contains an inscription which states that it was dedicated by the
 Messenians and Naupactians to commemorate their victory over the
 Lacedaemonians (Spartans). This battle apparently took place in
 421 BC. 

 Hermes of Praxiteles 
 Praxiteles was a famous sculptor in ancient Greece and this is one
 of his masterpieces. The god is depicted holding the infant
 Dionysus. In his right hand he would have been offering something
 to Dionysus, probably grapes. 

 Temple Of Hera 
 The Temple of Hera, or Heraion, dates from the 7th century BC,
 making it one of the oldest monumental temples in Greece. 

 Olympic Stadium 
 The Stadium had no seats except for a few for judges (visible on the
 right embankment). Spectators would sit on the grassy hills. 
 You can see a man about to cross the finish line in the photo. 

 Lyn at Olympic Stadium Entrance 
 This arched passageway (unfortunately you can't see the arch in this
 photo, but part of it still
 remains ) was used by the athletes to enter the stadium. 

 Chad Near Stadium 

 Fallen Column Drums From Temple of Zeus 
 The Temple Of Zeus was a massive Doric temple and is considered to
 be one of the definitive examples of the Doric style. Its massive
 foundation remains, but the columns have been toppled due to an
 earthquake in the 5th century AD.
 The Temple contained a huge gold and ivory statue of a seated
 Zeus. Sculpted by Pheidias (who also made the statue of Athena in
 the Parthenon), it was very famous and was considered one
 of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.