Santorini 

 Santorini (Thra, &#920;&#942;&#961;&#945;) 

 Santorini is one of the most famous islands in the Cyclades. It was
originally called Thira (and in fact many Greeks still call it that). The
island is volcanic ,
and in fact a huge eruption in the 16th century BC caused massive destruction
and significantly changed the landscape. 

 Well known for its natural beauty and many picturesque churches, Santorini is
very tourist-oriented. The sheer cliffs on the inside of the crater are
stunning, and the caldera in the middle is still active. 

 Two Churches In Evening 

 Church With Two Bells 

 Sunset Dinner in Fira 
 What a fantastic view we had for this dinner. 

 Fira At Night 

 Fira During Day 
 This picture was taken from the same location as the above night
 picture. 

 Wine Fields 
 Santorini is covered with vineyards. But due to the harsh dry
 climate, the grapes are not grown on trellises; instead, the vine is
 coiled up on the ground. 

 Mules on Stairs to Old Port 
 For decades, visitors to Santorini would arrive at the port at the
 bottom of the cliff, where there is a long winding stairway up to Fira,
 the biggest town on Santorini which is perched atop the cliffs. 
 You could ride a mule which is a lot easier than walking.
 There is also a cable-car now which you can ride. But the mules
 are still there. 
 Unfortunately, the ferries and most ships now dock at the new port,
 which is further south and is pretty boring in comparison. 

 Chad Skipping Rocks 
 Notice the black pebble beach - this is a volcanic island after all. 

 Pink Church In Ia 
 One day we rode the bus out to Ia which is a very picturesque
 little town, and slightly less touristy than Fira. 

 Blue Domed Church in Ia 

 Ia Town Square 

 Sunset Over Caldera 
 Santorini is famous for its sunsets. Unfortunately, the three
 nights we were there, it was pretty hazy so the sun would disappear
 behind a thick layer of haze before going down behind the caldera. 
 Even so, it was still striking.