TRAFFIC WAVE EXPERIMENTS 

 TRAFFIC WAVES 

 GOOD STUFF 

 NEW STUFF 

 HELP 

 TRAFFIC "EXPERIMENTS" 
 AND A CURE FOR WAVES & JAMS 
 William Beaty 1998 

 WAVES 
 MERGE-JAMS 
 EMAIL 
 LINKS 
 FAQ 
 COMMENTS 

 My first 'experiment': accidentally erasing waves! 

Once upon a time, years ago, I was driving through a number of stop/go
traffic waves on I-520 at rush hour in Seattle. I decided to try
something. On a day when I immediately started hitting the usual "waves"
of stopped traffic, I decided to drive slow. Rather than repeatedly
rushing ahead with everyone else, only to come to a halt, I decided to try
to drive at the average speed of the traffic. I let a huge gap open up
ahead of me, and timed things so I was arriving at the next "stop-wave" 
just as the last red brakelights were turning off ahead of me. It
certainly felt weird to have that huge empty space ahead of me, but I knew
I was driving no slower than anyone else. Sometimes I hit it just right
and never had to touch the brakes at all, but sometimes I was too fast or
slow. There were many "waves" that evening, and this gave me many
opportunities to improve my skill as I drove along. 

I kept this up for maybe half an hour while approaching the city. Finally
I happened to glance at my rearview mirror. There was an interesting
sight. 

It was dusk, the headlights were on, and I was going down a long hill to
the bridges. I had a view of miles of highway behind me. In the other
lane I could see maybe five of the traffic stop-waves. But in the lane
behind me, for miles, TOTALLY UNIFORM DISTRIBUTION. I hadn't realized it,
but by driving at the average speed, my car had been "eating" traffic
waves. Everyone ahead of me was caught in the stop/go cycle, while
everyone behind me was forced to go at a nice smooth 35MPH or so. My
single tiny car had erased miles and miles of stop-and-go traffic. Just
one single "lubricant atom" had a profound effect on the turbulent
particle flow within the entire "tube." 

It's always a good idea to drive without changing speed and without

competing with other drivers for bits of headway. But I'd always
assumed
that the reasons were philosophical rather than practical (i.e. try to be
a calm, nice person.) But my above experience shows differently. A
single solitary driver, if they stop "competing" and instead adopt some
unusual driving habits, can
actually wipe
away some of the frustrating traffic patterns on a highway. That "nice"
noncompetitive driver can erase traffic waves. I suspect that the
opposite is also true: normal competitive behavior CREATES the traffic
waves. 

Suppose we push constantly ahead, change lanes to grab a bit of
headway, and always eliminate our forward space in order to prevent other
drivers from "cutting us off". If tiny traffic waves appear, we will rush
ahead and then brake hard, leaving larger waves behind us. Repeated
action causes the waves to grow. Ironic that the angry people who drive
as fast as possible might unwittingly participate in "amplifying" the
very conditions that they hate so much. 

 MORE EXPERIMENTS 

I rarely commute on 520 where the good traffic waves appear. I started to
miss having opportunities to cancel them. However, I soon realized that
the same process could be used to affect small traffic jams too. "Traffic
waves" are simply a series of small traffic jams with even spacing. Each
little jam is destroyed when a large empty space approaches it from
behind. If no new cars are feeding into the jam from behind, yet cars are
leaving from the front, then the jam is eroding away. If the jam is small
enough, or if the empty space is large enough, then the jam can be
annihilated entirely by a single car, as I had done with traffic
waves. 

Now I remember something from years farther back. When leaving one of
those "rubbernecker slowdowns", I always tried to accelerate like mad. I
figured that if everyone did this, then the slowdown would evaporate. 
Yet this did little good, because the car ahead of me would not
accelerate. I could not force the cars ahead of me to stomp on the gas
too, so I could do nothing to aid the "evaporation" of the traffic
stoppage. Aha! I can control the people behind me by slowing
down, but I cannot control the people in front of me by speeding up. 
Therefore, I can destroy a small traffic stoppage. I just
have to slow down long before I approach it. But once I'm in the jam, I
can do nothing to aid the "evaporation" at the other end. 

Accelerating out of the end of a traffic jam can do nothing unless
EVERYONE would do the same, and there is no way to change everyone's
behavior. But just one single car , if it decelerates while
approaching, can change the behavior of everyone behind it. And soon
these people behind you will take the place of everyone in the jam. Your
single car can bite a huge chunk out of the region of stopped traffic. 
If you refuse to pack together with everone else to form a "parking lot,"
the jam can be made smaller. Or if you gradually build up lots of empty
space before encountering the slowdown, perhaps you can "eat" the whole
slowdown just as the trafic waves were "eaten." 

 STANDING WAVE: a "rubbernecker slowdown" 
...without rubberneckers! Traffic-waves need not drift backwards. 
Sometimes they sit in one place. Once this type of traffic wave is
established, it can last nearly forever. New cars MUST slow down as they
enter, and that's what makes the wave persist. You cannot dissolve the
slowdown by accelerating out at the end, since you're still blocked by the
driver ahead of you. The solution: bring a huge space in as you approach
it. This temporarily cuts off the flow of incoming cars which feeds it and
keeps it alive. A single dirver can easily erase a small slowdown.

On my evening commute on I-5 southbound from Everett there is always a
right-lane traffic jam at one of the Lynnwood off-ramps. Close-packed
cars must crawl along at 2mph for a very long time. Therefore I
intentionally approached that distant jam in the right lane, and started 
letting a
REALLY huge empty space open up ahead of me. By the time I hit the jam,
there was maybe 1000ft of empty road ahead of me. Sure enough, my big
empty space stopped traffic from feeding it from behind, while the front
of the jam kept dissolving as usual. By the time I arrived, the jam was
about half the size it had been. Amazing. This wasn't any little traffic
wave, yet one single driver was able to take a huge bite out of
it. 

Obviously my actions did more than just reduce the size of the jam. In
order to create the empty space, I was temporarily driving about 10 mph
below the speed of the heavy traffic. I did this for several minutes, and
therefore I was causing a slight slowdown behind me. After I arrived at
the jam,
the jam was smaller. When all was said and done, part of the traffic jam
had been removed. However, it was changed into a mild slowdown, and it
was spread
backwards upstream over several miles of traffic. Rather than driving at
50mph only to crawl along through a traffic jam for several minutes,
everybody was now driving at 40mph for a few minutes before the jam, but
then having a much smaller traffic jam to endure. The nasty, frustrating
part of the 2-mph jam was changed into a large "fuzzy" area of reduced
speed. If I had done it correctly, I could have erased the whole jam,
transforming it into many minutes of slightly-slow driving for everyone
behind me. (If I could have started 30mi upstream of the jam, maybe I
would have only needed to drive 3mph slower than traffic.) 

Another thing that happened: I made it easier for other cars to merge, so
I probably removed part of the jam in the adjacent lane as well. The jam 
was
caused by drivers trying to merge into an exit lane. Drivers in the exit
lane weren't letting them in, so they sat unmoving in the thru-lane,
causing a bigger jam. By inserting a big space, I wasn't only taking a
bite out of the jam ahead of me. I was also eatin the jam in other lanes.
The traffic jam was like "grid-lock" and I was breaking up the gridlock by 
putting spaces between all the cars.

 "Anti-traffic" 

Here's a general principle I take from the above. (I guess it's obvious in
hindsight!) ANTITRAFFIC DESTROYS TRAFFIC. Empty spaces can eat a traffic
jam. While I was slightly slowing down
to allow a space to gradually open up before me, I was creating a
pulse of "antitraffic" ahead of me. When my antitraffic-pulse finally 
collided with the dense
"traffic" of the jam, the two annihilated each other like a positron
meeting an electron. It's nonlinear soliton physics. The soliton waves 
destroy each other, leaving only a slight fuzzy smudge behind. 

My next thought: if I took several friends along on my experiment, we
could have spaced our cars out over many miles. Each of us could have
allowed a big blob of anti-traffic to appear, and then the successive
impacts of the antitraffic could have completely erased the traffic jam at
the Lynnwood exit. When traffic is sparse, we cannot keep a large space
ahead of us, since it's easy for cars to pass a slightly-slow driver. But
several separate drivers could bring less-enormous spaces along with 
them,
and any traffic jam would succumb to the barrage of "antitraffic." 

Another lesson I learned: plan ahead. Plan WAY ahead. When stuck in
traffic jams, I discovered that I cannot affect them by "peeling
out" after I'd made my
way
through the jam. I hoped to make the far end of the jam dissolve faster.
It
never worked because I couldn't get rid of the slow guy ahead of me. But
if I'd planned way ahead and brought a big empty space along
with me into the jam, I could use that space to manipulate the jam. I can 
control the traffic only by applying the brakes.
Once I get myself packed in with everyone else, I can do nothing. In order
to have an effect, I must behave differently BEFORE the jam, not while
trapped inside it. 

 Ooops! Damn! 

While doing all of the above, I once caught myself behaving normally and
creating a huge traffic wave. What a hypocrite! Bad habits die hard.

Traffic was heavy and I was in the left lane. I had to merge across
several lanes in order to get to my exit. I merged right once, but the
next lane was packed solid (but it was moving, not jammed.) Nobody would 
let me in. I drove like this for a long while, then started driving 
fairly slow
in order to drift backwards along the lane. I found a slot and got in,
but now I had to merge right once more. Many minutes had passed, and my
exit was coming up. The right lane was packed solid, NOBODY WAS LETTING
ME IN. I drove slower and slower, and in a panic I finally forced my way
into a small gap, making the guy behind me jam on brakes. After awhile I
realized that I had just created a huge traffic wave with my behavior.
Just like any rubbernecker I had suddenly slowed way down for no good
reason. But I had an excuse, I had to get to my exit! To make matters
worse, I had nearly come to a complete stop, and brought two entire lanes
of traffic to a near halt too. I probably left a long-term traffic wave at
that spot on the highway. But it wasn't my fault! Yeah, suuuure. 

In stewing about this I realized that EVERYONE has this same problem: an
inability to merge in dense traffic. Others were probably doing the exact
same thing that I did, and this would make the "wave" near the exit worse
and worse. The simple cure is to give up; not merge, and miss the exit. 
I shouldn't have forced the issue, I should have let my exit go past. 
But there is a bigger issue here. People SHOULD be able to merge. Why
was traffic packed so tightly? One obvious reason: to punish the idiots
who will jump into any little space. I had always done the same myself. 
I never allow a space to appear ahead of me, or some other driver will
immediately swerve into it during their quest to cheat by running to the
front of the line. But my sort of closed-gap driving would also prevent
any necessary merges at off ramps (and merges at on ramps
too, of course.) By eliminating the space ahead of me, I become part of
the impenetrable wall which creates the "waves" and screws up the traffic
at highway ramps. The "gear teeth" cannot mesh, so the "machine" grinds
to a halt. The "zipper" becomes jammed because the "teeth" of the zipper
are resentful about other teeth moving into the space ahead of them. 
It's almost like gridlock in a city. City drivers know to never block
intersections. But we highway drivers are ignorant, and our behavior
creates needless "highway gridlock" during every single rush hour. 

So, if I keep a few car-lengths of space open ahead of me, not only can I
use it to help vaporize waves and jams, but it also eliminates one of the
major causes of waves and "highway gridlock." It eliminates the "solid
wall" of traffic at merge areas, and lets people merge without slowing
down and creating traffic waves behind them. Take a look at this animation . 
Ideally a merge-area will act like gear teeth. But if everyone is
defending themselves against opportunistic drivers by eliminating all gaps
in traffic, then the valid merges cannot take place either. 
A traffic jam is created. Sometimes the jam is the fault of people like
me who panic while missing their exit and who come to a complete stop. 
Sometimes the jam is the fault of the huge blinking yellow arrow which
blocks one entire lane of traffic during construction. But the traffic jam
is ALWAYS the fault of those who refuse to let anyone merge ahead of them. 
"Just merge behind me." No, that doesn't work, since the guy behind you
doesn't want any merges either. Everyone in the whole lane is saying the
same thing!

 Delusions of Grandeur 

Seattle suffers from many separate rush-hour traffic jams. Why should I 
stop with
the jam at the Lynnwood I-5 exit? With enough people (maybe with
cellphones and GPS
units), we could intentionally smooth out ALL the traffic jams on all the
main Seattle highways! 

This is all fantasy at this point. It's probably illegal for several
people to "conspire" to mess with traffic patterns (would we be arrested
under a drag-racing law?) [NOTE: IN TORONTO, TO PROTEST THE LOW SPEED 
LIMITS, SEVERAL
PEOPLE FORMED A
ROLLING BARRIER DURING RUSH HOUR. THEY DROVE AT JUST UNDER THE SPEED
LIMIT FOR HOURS, CREATING A HUGE SLOWDOWN. THEY WERE ARRESTED BUT LATER
RELEASED WITHOUT CHARGES.] And while
it is possible for a single driver to have huge effects on traffic
patterns, some things can't be done by a few people. For example, suppose
I want to eat the entire I-5 and I-90 traffic jam south of the city. I 
would have to go
all the way to Tacoma, then drive north. But if I tried driving slightly
slow, a space would never open up ahead of me because nothing stops other
drivers from passing me. In my experiments, I could make my "antitraffic"
spaces only because traffic was very heavy, and because only a very few
people had the opportunity and the ambition to leave their lane and move 
into my empty space.

 Rolling barriers made of State Troopers 

OK, so here's how to dissolve a major interstate traffic jam. Start many
miles upstream from the jam. Put a row of State Trooper vehicles across
the road and have them drive towards the jam. They drive perhaps at 
55 rather than 70 as everyone else had been driving. Nobody can get by
them, and so all the traffic behind the State Troopers is moving at 55 or
so. In front of them a vast space opens up. After many minutes, the
traffic which had been feeding into the city traffic jams simply stops
arriving. There is no new traffic for many minutes.
The huge jam trickles away. Just as the last of it is gone, the row of
State
troopers and the 55-mph traffic arrives, and the jam has been transformed 
into miles and miles of
slightly slow traffic upstream from the old location of the jam.

But does this increase the throughput of the highway? YES!!! It allows 
people to merge again! By removing the close-packed region, the lanes of 
traffic at the exits and entrances are able to merge... so even though the 
close-packed region is now a big fuzzy slowdown, the flow of traffic does 
greatly increase. 

The situation is not so simple if extra traffic is entering from numerous
on-ramps. The "rolling barrier" can't affect these extra inputs, and if
nearly all of the traffic is from on-ramps, then 
the "rolling
barrier" idea would be worthless. In that case it can only control the 
main highway and not all the on-ramps. 

Ah, but what about "rubbernecker
slowdowns" at accident sites? A rolling barrier could let the slowdown 
evaporate, and
change it into a wide area of slightly-slow traffic a few miles upstream
from the accident. Would the slowdown re-form? Would rubberneckers hit
the brakes and re-create the "traffic standing wave"? I dunno. Sometimes
"rubbernecker slowdowns" persist for hours after the accident has been
cleared. This suggests that the slowdown is self-perpetuating. 
Rubberneckers only trigger it, but they don't keep it going afterwards. 
If so,
then "erasing" the slowdown might be worthwhile, because once it's erased,
it will only re-form very slowly (or not at all). If the slowdown
normally persists for several hours, yet it only takes half of an hour for 
the police to
erase it, why not erase it? True, the slowdown is not "gone," since it
has become a wide area of slightly slow traffic. However, over many
months of slowdown-erasure, this could prevent lots of fender-benders and
road-rage incidents, and eliminate thousands of man-years of anger and
frustration.

Also, the average speed and traffic throughput on the highway MIGHT
actually improve if region of stopped traffic could be removed. 
"Removing" the jam just spreads it out and does not immediately alter the
average speed. But the resulting improvements in speed might be more than
you'd expect. After all, things are not "linear" in traffic flow, since
those who sit at 0 mph for many minutes in a jam cannot compensate by
driving at 120MPH afterwards. And once a jam is 
gone, the
remaining region of slightly-slowed traffic might disperse fairly rapidly,
whereas a traffic jam/stoppage is a different animal and would only erode 
away very slowly. A traffic jam might even
self-perpetuate once it has formed, whereas a region of slowness might 
disperse instead. And there's another thing that
happens when we "spread the jam"... 

 MAKING A REAL DIFFERENCE 

During a year of practicing the "wave-smoothing" driving habits, I kept
looking
for places where I could make a big difference in traffic flow. Yes, I
could always use an empty space to move a piece of the traffic jam
to another location.
With a big empty space, I could even spread the cars apart as I moved
the slowdown, the way I did it
with the jammed sections in the "traffic wave." Finally I saw that there
was one common situation where I could do some real good.

If you drive in heavy highway traffic, you've probably seen a traffic
wave develop at a construction site where one lane is blocked. You crawl
and crawl at 3 mph until you get to the bottleneck, then you take your
turn merging as the two lanes sloooooooowly come together. Then you race
off
at 60 mph! The
merging lanes formed a terrible bottleneck, yet the open lanes ahead were 
not a bottlneck.
A "traffic wave" develops
at (and behind) the merge zone. 
After the bottleneck, it's clear sailing. 

But why?

WHY must a bottleneck develop at a merge zone? Well, obviously because 
there's too
many cars on one road. And because everyone
must take turns slowly merging together. WRONG! Under low-traffic
conditions, everyone still 
takes
turns, yet everyone merges as a high speed flow. A 
bottleneck never
appears. 

Traffic jams develop at a merge zone whenever the cars get so close
together that there are no
gaps
between them. Without gaps, nobody can merge, and so the traffic comes to
a near halt. It turns into a "four way stop sign" intersection. But 
whenever traffic comes to a near halt, people always
pack themselves together. Huh. This is screwy. At the place where the
lanes merge together,
close-packed cars cause the bottleneck, but the bottleneck is the cause
of the close-packed cars...

But, but... 

Do traffic jams CAUSE
THEMSELVES? After thinking about this even more, I realized that the
answer is yes. It goes like this: 

 Traffic is going slow
 Everyone packs together and closes up the gaps
 Fast merging becomes impossible
 Incoming cars create a huge back-up
 Cars must slooooowly take turns merging
 This makes traffic go slow
 Go back to the top of this loop and repeat.

This is absolutely fascinating because this self-caused situation has
a counterpart: 

No. 2

 Traffic flows along rapidly
 Nobody closes the gaps (they follow the 2-second rule?)
 Merging is easy
 Streams of traffic flow together like a zipper
 This allows traffic to go fast
 Go back to the top of this loop and repeat.

At a merge zone, fast traffic causes traffic to remain fast, while slow
traffic causes a jam to persist. Weird!
The difference between these two situations is enormous, yet EITHER ONE
can arise on the exact same highway under the exact same amount of
traffic. In the first one,
the speed might be 2 mph, while in the second one it could be 40 mph. And
here's the important part: because the situations create themselves once 
they are established, they
can sometimes switch from one to the other. A smooth flow can hit a 
glitch and turn into a traffic jam. Or somebody can switch 
them intentionally. 

Suppose the traffic at a merge zone was flowing fast as in Loop Number 2 
above. 
Suppose I wanted to wreck everything. I could slow way down and make all
the cars pack together behind me. This would keep the other lane from
merging into the closely-packed lane. Cars in the merge-lane would pile 
up
too. Then I drive off laughing evilly, because I have just CREATED
MASSIVE LONG-TERM TRAFFIC JAM! 

Or, I could do the opposite. Suppose everything is jammed up at the merge
zone. Suppose I accumulate a huge space ahead of me and bring it into the
jam. When the huge space gets there, the other lane of cars can suddenly 
change
lanes, spread out, and start flowing fast. Next, I speed up and merge
with it, and so do the cars behind me. The "zipper-like" flow has begun. 
The switch has flipped. I have just ERASED a long-term bottleneck. As
they say in those old Ranier Beer ads, pretty cool, eh?

NEXT, PAGE 3: MERGING-LANE TRAFFIC ANIMATIONS 

 WAVES 
 MERGE-JAMS 
 EMAIL 
 LINKS 
 FAQ 
 COMMENTS 

 Good Stuff Here 
 Childhood brain-modifications 
 Closedminded Science 
 Science Projects 

Created and maintained by Bill
Beaty . Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com .

Hosted by ESKIMO NORTH , offering
full unix shell services 
If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email.