The Evergreen State Society 

 The Evergreen State Society 

 About 
 The Evergreen State Society 
 Nonprofits in Washington 
 Washington state government
 contacts 
 March 26, 2001, "The High
 Performing Nonprofit" 
 Published Commentaries 
 Civil Society in Everyday Life
 meetings 
 The Internet Nonprofit Center
 and NONPROFIT FAQ 
 Evergreen Awards 

 Welcome! 
 Civil Society in Everyday Life breakfast
 meetings. The next meeting will be on September 11
 ( note this is the second, not the third, Tuesday of the month). Our
 guest will be Ron Sher , owner of Third Place Books in Bothell and Elliot Bay
 Books in Seattle. On October 16, Jan Levy , Executive Director of Leadership Tomorrow
 will join us. See below 
 for the usual arrangements. 

 The Evergreen State Society is a Seattle-based nonprofit organization
addressing policy issues and management questions in order to strengthen the
nonprofit sector in Washington state and beyond.
 Programs and Activities 

 Nonprofits in Washington 1999 provides a
 comprehensive look at the nonprofit sector in Washington state by use
 of statistics from state and federal agencies. It also includes
 a review of the taxes which nonprofit organizations in Washington
 state may be obligated to pay.
 Highlights of the
 report are available here. 
 A copy in Adobe Acrobat (.pdf) format may be downloaded for
 $7.00. Visit MyPublish 
 to register with a credit card number and download the file. If you prefer a
 paper copy, send $12 (includes postage and handling) to PO Box 20682,
 Seattle, WA 98102-0682. 
 The complete text of the earlier (1994) edition of Nonprofits in
 Washington is available online in HTML format. See
 http://www.tess.org/misc/npinwa.html . 
 On a related theme, Washington state government agencies affect the
work of nonprofits in many ways. The Evergreen State Society maintains an online
 list, with thumbnail sketches of the ways each agency's programs
 connect to the field. It is available at http://www.tess.org/misc/gov2.html . 
 As part of the report on "Building the Entrepreneurial
 Nonprofit" (see next section ), Mark Hugh, CPA, of
 Clark Nuber in Bellevue has posted his outline 
 discussing Washington state taxes that may apply to nonprofit organizations.
 Dr. Mary Stewart Hall has posted her advice on how to seek a job in the
 nonprofit sector in the Puget Sound Region at http://www.mnpl.org/find .

 The Young Lawyers Committee of the King County
 Bar Association prepared How to Form and Maintain a Nonprofit Corporation
 in Washington State . Printed copies are available for $5 to cover
 printing and handling from 

 King County Bar Association 
 900 Fourth Avenue, Suite 600 
 Seattle, WA 98164-1060 

 The handbook includes
 chapters by Society President Putnam Barber and many other close observers
 of and experts on the nonprofit sector in Washington state. "The High Performing Nonprofit"
 March 26, 2001 The Seventh Annual
 Nonprofit Executive Series conference was held in the
 Northwest Rooms at the Seattle Center. Speakers' handouts and other
 notes from the conference are available through the
 conference website at http://www.nwforum.org/nonprofit ;
 the full conference agenda and some
 background materials for the sessions are also posted there. Elizabeth
 Boris, who is director of the Urban Institute's Center
 on Nonprifits and Philanthropy as well as president of the Association
 for Research on Nonprofit Organizations and Voluntary Action ( ARNOVA ),
 and William Ryan of Harvard University's Hauser
 Center were among the featured speakers. The plenaries and
 concurrent sessions outlined the latest research findings and
 presented important ideas about what it takes to be a high performing
 nonprofit. 

 "Building the Entrepreneurial Nonprofit" On
April
10, 2000, this
conference brought together nationally recognized experts and local leaders to
discuss the leadership implications of the pressures on nonprofit organizations
to become "more business like" and to earn more of their income from
commercial activities.

 The reports on many of the presentations in the full agenda and links to
 useful background information can be found at
 http://www.nwforum.org/nonprofit .The
conference report also includes summaries of responses to the pre-conference
survey and a profile of the more than 400 participants. "Building
 the Entrepreneurial Nonprofit" was offered by the Not-for-Profit
 Leadership Program of Seattle University, the Nonprofit
 Management Program and the NW Forum 
 of the Daniel J. Evans School of Public Affairs at the University of
 Washington, and The Evergreen State Society . Commentaries
 by the Society's President appear several times a
 year in The Chronicle of Philanthropy and other publications. 
 The Society also responds occasionally to invitations from government
 agencies for reactions to policy initiatives. Many of these documents are
 accessible through this list
 of published statements. A recent example: "Charities
 Shouldn't Take Donors for Granted" appeared in the Chronicle of
 Philanthropy on June 1, 2000..

 Civil Society in Everyday Life breakfasts
 are
held at 8 am on the third Tuesday of most months in the 1891 Room of Bellarmine
Hall on the Seattle University campus (near the intersection of 12th Avenue and 
Columbia Street). At each meeting, a guest with an interest in a subject related
to understanding civil society shares experiences and insights. Recent
guests have included Hubert Locke; Norma Straw and LaiLani Ovalles, of the YMCA Youth
Engagement Project; Seattle City Council Member Richard Conlin; and Jim Diers,
Director of the Seattle Department of Neighborhoods. An email distribution list is used to announce upcoming
guests and send reminders. To be added to this list, send your request to CSEL@TESS.org . 
There is no charge for these programs; drop-in participation is invited. 
The cafeteria of Bellarmine Hall is nearby and offers bagels, coffee and other
breakfast items for sale. 

 The Internet Nonprofit Center and the NONPROFIT FAQ offer
an extensive library and archive of information for leaders and observers of the
nonprofit sector in the United States. To access this resource, visit http://www.nonprofits.org/ .
The Evergreen State Society maintains the NONPROFIT FAQ and provides webservices
through the Internet Nonprofit Center for related activities such as the Multi-State
Filer project of the National Association of State Charities
Officials. Evergreen Awards for Contributions to
 Community Life in Washington state. On February 22, 1999, The Evergreen State Society honored the 1999
Evergreen Award recipients in a ceremony at the Old Capitol
Building in Olympia. The citations for these ten outstanding
contributors to Washington's communities can be read at 99 Program . The 1998
Evergreen Awards are described online at 
 98 Program .
Included is a list of more than 125 Evergreen Award
Nominees from previous years. 
 About The Evergreen State Society 

 The Evergreen State Society strengthens healthy communities by
fostering nonprofits 
and more informal organizations like blockwatches and book clubs. It is a civic organization incorporated in
Washington state and recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a
public charity under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. 

 The Board of Directors 
 has five volunteer members from around the state. 

 Read about some past
 activities of The Evergreen State Society. 

 The work of The Evergreen State Society is made possible by grants and
 gifts from supporters. The society is a member of The Giving Network. You
 can make an online gift that will support this work on behalf of nonprofits
 by clicking here 
 and choosing the "Make a donation
 now" button. Both The Giving Network and the Society are
 registered as required by RCW 19.09 with the Charities Division of the
 Office of the Secretary of State in Washington. For more information,
 contact http://www.secstate.wa.gov/charities/ 
 or call 1-800-332-GIVE (Washington state callers) or 360/753-0863 (from out
 of state). 

 Copies of the Society's Form 990 for 1997 and 1998 as filed with the
Internal Revenue Service are available online in .pdf format (readable with
the Adobe Acrobat reader). 1997 Form
990 (1055Kb file)
 1998 Form
990 (550Kb file)
 1999 Form 990 
 (980Kb file)
 2000 Form 990 
 (2,974Kb file) 
 The 1997 and '98 online versions of the Society's Information Returns were created using the service Eric Mercer
offers through http://www.990online.com . This site also has a
great deal of information about
the use of Form 990 and other related questions. The 1999 version was created in
 the office of The Evergreen State Society using Kiplinger TaxCut Deluxe
 software and the Adobe Acrobat file maker. 

Putnam Barber, President ( resume ) 
The Evergreen State Society 
Post Office Box 20682 
Seattle, WA 98102-0682 
206/329-5640 :: fax 206/322-8348 
Send email to info@tess.org 

 Feedback: We are interested in your feedback. For comments
about the content of this, or any other page on the site, please email the Editor . 

 Copyright notice: The Evergreen State Society
webpages are prepared and published by The Evergreen State Society, in 
Seattle, WA, USA. Copyright, 1999, 2000. Material by others included here is
copyright by the original author unless otherwise specified. 
For reprint permission, please email the Editor .