                   A Review Of William J. Hooper
                   and his All-Electric Motional Electric
                   Field Generator

                        By James E. Hartman

                       Revised Feb. 1, 1996

                             FORWARD

This paper is a review of both published data and personal perceptions
and thoughts on the subject at hand.

                               BODY

In the 1960's - William J. Hooper developed what could be a real
workable system. In Hooper's view there are three different forms of
electric fields due to the distribution of electric field, two are do to
induction.  He put forth an interesting theory with the v x B terms of
dynamic electrical circuits. He assigns a difference to electric fields
generated by differing methods.

The most important for propulsion is called the "motional" electric
field. He gos to extraordinary lengths to differentiate the motional
electric field arising from:

                              E=v x B

with an induced electric field due to time changing magnetic field

                              __      -@B/
                              \/ x E=    @t

and with static fields related to stationary electrical charge.

To understand Hooper's analysis, consider the Lorentz force from

                              E=v x B

which Hooper interpreted it as E  , the induced motional electric field.
                                m

He claims to have experimentally verified that it is different from
other electric fields and that it was akin to GRAVITATIONAL fields.

Unlike electro-static fields this force acts in line with the electric
field. One important result is that for the total system the super
position of all B fields can be zero but the motional electric field
can still be nonzero.

Consider a long conductor folded back on itself at its center labeled
as b. The current then flows from one end, a, to the center, b and then
finally reaches the other end, c. the magnetic field from the current
flow from a to b is B, and from b to c is -B.

They must be equal and opposite since each has the same current flow
(but in opposite directions). Likewise the velocity of the electric
charges must also be equal and opposite. The the B field is calculated
from the sum of the parts, then its magnitude gos to zero.

On other hand its calculated from super-position of E fields then it
sums to a nonzero quantity. It can be disagreed that either the
assumption of super-position of the B field (and hence separability of
force fields) is incorrect or Hooper's idea of a "motional electric
field" is correct.

Hooper concluded that the magnetic field (associated with currents)
moves with the charge carriers within the current. This is consistent
with Ampere's law and at variance with Biot-Savart law.

* I'll leave it up to you mathematical majors to affirm this claim.

Two U.S. Patents (3,610,971 and 3,565,013) by Hooper have claimed
gravitational-like fields from the motional electric field of v x B.

Superconductors are said to be on the order of 10^12 times better than
normal conductors and he foreseen improvement in them. Improvement would
reflect improved propulsiveness.

Hooper and along with others have claimed to have witnessed the
gravitational and ANTIGRAVITATIONAL forces in the functioning
of this said device.

The following claims are from U.S. Patent 3,610,971:

"It is desirable to have an apparatus with which to experimentally
study gravitational and antigravitational phenomena under steady
continuous conditions." "It should be noted that this field is
practically uniform and parallel close to the disk, hence it is not
attractive in its action on neutral matter. Its action on such matter
can only change the state of electrical polarization in the matter. Any
change thus effected in the state of polarization should cause the
earth's gravitational field to act less intensely, on any object placed
close to the undersurface of the device, causing it to weigh less,
become weightless, or to actually be accelerated upward by
antigravitational action of the earth's field."

FUTURE APPLICATIONS -

"- In a very short interval of time (1969) an intense B x V field
should effect the reversal of the gravitational polarization of an
object. Once achieved, only a small expenditure of energy would be
required to hold the polarization. Energy from atoms of the earth would
supply the lift and propulsion through the medium of the earth's gravity
field. The most formidable problem would appear to be the problem of
holding the B x V generator at cryogenic temperatures. In view of the
overall possibilities of this invention, this problem does not appear to
be incapable of a solution. A Breakthrough in finding superconductive
materials or even near superconducting at slightly elevated temperatures
from those presently (at that time) required would greatly aid in the
solution of this problem."


In Fig. 4 - "The antigravity gravity control features of the coils 73
and 74 thus control the lift and movement of vehicle."

                         FINAL THOUGHT'S

What was this man's drive -

"This country's space projects have become expensive beyond the ability
of the of the average man to comprehend. Achieving lift by means of
costly propellants will someday soon be seen as akin to primitive man's
use of awkward clubs as a means of exerting force."

With the ozone layer hole seemingly growing larger every year.
Perhaps, I speculate that project HAARP in Alaska was built to produce
OZONE to heal the earth's atmosphere. Such devices has Hooper's may give
off charged negative ions and therefore may aid in the healthfulness of
humans (Hence, the Home Ionizer) as well healing the atmospheric properties 
over a longer period of time.

With advances in new superconductivity technologies and with a NASA
Budget that is shrinking. What a real bargain for the tax payer and the
well being of our atmosphere.

With a $35B dollar a year NASA budget. They perhaps could build a small
fleet of nice B x V reusable Spacecraft and aircraft that are perhaps
environmentally more sound.



                             REFERENCES

William J. Hooper, "ALL-ELECTRIC MOTIONAL ELECTRIC FIELD GENERATOR",
United States Patent # 3,610,971., Patented Oct. 5, 1971


Frances G. Gibson, "THE ALL-ELECTRIC FIELD GENERATOR AND ITS POTENTIAL",
Electrodynamic Gravity, Inc., 1983

