Energy Science - Technologies affecting future environment 

 Energy Science 

 This website offers an insight into the science of space, energy and creation and the related technological consequences affecting our future environment. 
 This tree of knowledge is rooted in the aether and has three branches: 
For the general reader there is an introductory overview; a fascinating account of the mysteries of physical science. 
 For the physicist there is a comprehensive reinterpretation of what has been misconceived. 
 For the technologist there is the challenge of gaining access to the non-polluting energy resource of the space medium. 
 Select which branch you wish to explore. ***** 

 This is not a commercial website. It is an educational site operated on a non-profit basis by Energy Science Ltd. under the direction of Dr. Harold Aspden, who in his retirement years provides the financial support needed to sustain this venture. Dr. Aspden acknowledges his gratitude to the Internet facility for providing the means to tell the world about his lifelong exploration of the unseen sea of energy that we inhabit in ignorance of its overwhelming power. 

 THE SECRETS OF NEW ENERGY SCIENCE 
 Nature has creative power. You may believe there was a Big Bang and that our universe was created in an instant at the beginning of time. If you are right then you subscribe to the philosophy of decay, as energy is degraded and its entropy increases. In your wisdom you see no point in seeking out alternative energy sources which imply scientific principles contrary to man&#8217;s experience to date. Having earned my living from the fruits of invention, as someone trained to evaluate and protect inventions in a highly technical corporate environment I do not believe that we know all there is to know about Nature&#8217;s way of recycling energy in its role as a Creator. 
 I believe that the 21st century will witness a revolution on the energy front as man contrives to survive and ultimately win through in the fight to stave off planetary pollution. These Web pages are my personal contribution to that effort. I hope you will be interested in what I have to say. My approach is simple and direct in that I have founded my case on a study of Nature&#8217;s most basic creation, namely the particle which accounts for 99.9% of the mass of the hydrogen atom, the proton. That is why I have a special interest in the emerging technology we call &#8216;cold fusion&#8217;. However, the story I will tell is rooted in the spin-off from my early Ph.D. research on the anomalous loss of energy encountered in all of the world&#8217;s electrical power systems. Hidden in that mystery is a secret concerning Nature&#8217;s way of regenerating in an electrical form, energy already shed as heat, before that heat is absorbed into the quantum underworld which governs the proton creation process. 
 NEW SCIENCE BEHIND NEW CASINOS 
 There is a whole new science also about new online casinos. You may not believe this, but a new UK casino is completely different from any other gambling product you have ever encountered before. If you are familiar with Quantum Casino , you may know that when it comes to chemical and physical reactions &#8211; that protons are absolute protagonists of &#8211; chance leads to predictability. similarly to that, chance is a key component at new online casinos. Just like in a chemical reaction, when you play a new slot for example, there is always an element that unchains a sequence of events &#8211; spin and see the symbols land in a perfect combination that grants you a nice win. 
 Again, when you play at a new casino, you need to know the power and strength of chance, as it ultimately leads to predictable results. Without considering other forces such as entropy and decay, keep in mind that statistically, the outcome of events governed by chance is predictable, provided that the sample size is ample enough. It is not possible to predict the outcome of a single spin at a slot machine but after several spins, making a prediction will be much easier &#8211; and winning will also be more likely to happen. 

 UPDATE 
 PHYSICS WITH ASPDEN 
 OVERVIEW TOPICS 

 &copy; energyscience.co.uk