Guitarnoise.com | Blues Guitar Lessons 

 HOME 

 WHAT'S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask the Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar Lessons , Blues Guitar Lessons 

 Blues Guitar Lessons 

 Basic Blues 
 This lesson is for beginners and intermediate players. It takes 
 a look at the basic 12-bar blues form. This form is familiar to 
 almost any guitarist. Every guitarist interested in blues, folk, 
 country or rock should know the 12-bar blues by heart; Just switch 
 on the "auto-pilot" and play. 
 The Blues Melody and Blues Scale 
 This blues lesson is for intermediate players. Those who want to 
 play blues, should know the blues scale. Guitar players should know 
 how to finger blues scales all the way up the neck in the so called 
 "box position". 
 Blues Notes and Passing Tones, 
 Bending 
 If you read my previous lesson on the blues scale, you will remember 
 that the blues-tonality is unstable and unsettled, because you play 
 a minor of scale over major chords. You should also remember that 
 one and a half steps up from the root gives you a minor third, and 
 two steps up from the root gives you a major third. I will also 
 remind you of the VII note, where you have the VIIb note in the 
 blues scale, but a VII note in the major scale and in the chords. 

 Blues Feeling 
 This is another intermediate lesson. The goal of this lesson is 
 to show you how to get a good blues feeling. Don't think about it. 
 Just pretend you are Jimi Hendrix and play. 

 One-Chord Booogie Grooves 
 Blues has always been a stylistic sponge, soaking up the sounds 
 of other, more popular musical trends and incorporating them into 
 its timeless framework. Over the years elements of rock, Latin and 
 funk have all been added to the blues vocabulary. Of course, the 
 influence goes in the other direction too, some times in ways that 
 are less obvious. 
 Blues Turnarounds 
 These turnarounds are mainly in E, but I've put in a few in other 
 keys. They are just a collection of things I've picked up over the 
 years. I'd be very interested in any others anyone's got. 
 Introduction to the Texas Shuffle 
 You can read theory and play scales all day long, but without 
 hearing (and playing) how they are applied in a practical sense, 
 their value is greatly diminished. This lesson is an introduction 
 to the Texas shuffle, with apologies to SRV. 
 Blues Licks 
 The following Licks are very simple and as I think they sound authentic. 
 Especially for Beginners, they sound cool and help to "open the 
 Blues ear..." 

 Other Resources 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Blues Websites 

 Blues Guitar Books 

 Guitar Player Forum 

 Ask The Expert 

 Newsletter 

 Copyright 2001 Guitar Noise. All rights 
 reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.