jessamyn.com: How I See It by Ari Frede 

 1 : What youre saying means that Im doing this all wrong.
 2 : Youre not doing it wrong, youre just missing it. I think if you
meet someone you like, theres a window of time you can hook up. If you
wait too long, you cant hook up any more.
 1 : How long does that take? For you? You dont have to speak for all
women.
 2 : (thoughtfully) When I cant stand to lose the person.
 1 : (digesting) Now, what does that mean? That goes against everything
Ive learned. Growing up, I believed I should get to know the woman Im
interested in. Care for who she is. Be attracted to who she is on the
inside.
 2 : Right.
 1 : But if I do that, then Ive waited too long, and I can only be her
friend.
 2 : (visibly uncomfortable)
 1 : And what does that mean about failure in relationships? That means
that you want to hook up with someone you dont care about, but all the
time you hope you can build the relationship to the point that you dont
want to lose each other.
 2 : God.
 1 : (to audience) This is pretty much the way our conversation happened
that night. But I never came out and said, "this is us were talking
about."
 2 : And a good thing. I would have freaked out.
 1 : I think my falling in love with you will always be there. But now
its more like a strata in a rock formation. There are other things
piling on top of it. One day it will be only a stripe.
 2 : Youve got to get over that.
 1 : Get over what? You treat me as one of your closest friends! You love
the attention.
 2 : But its hard to be comfortable around you.
 1 : How hard is it?
 2 : Its hard to think that you want me and I dont want you in the same
way. I want us to want each other the same way. At my level.
 1 : But you like me a lot. Ive dreamed of arguing this with you for so
long. Check it out: You told me, "in a way, it would be perfect." Those
were your exact words when I approached you. I think youre into me, but
the biggest things standing in your way are that youre enjoying being
alone and that youre terrified of inevitable failure.
 2 : I am enjoying being alone. And I do believe all relationships end
badly. Especially if they start off like this.
 1 : But heres what would happen. Youd let loose and open up to the
idea, wed have our glory days of high, ecstatic romance, and then wed
start leveling out. Some conflict would arise and wed make reparations.
Wed keep doing this over and over, but each time youd feel that the
reparations were shoddier and that the conflicts were more serious. Then
wed bottom out, and wed both feel crappy, but the thing that could
save us is when you realize even though our relationship will have to
end some day, whether by death or disaster, that the trip was beautiful,
that you enjoyed it, that you felt love and were loved.
 2 : Thats optimistic. How long do you give us?
 1 : Oh, I dont know. Fifty years.
 2 : (stunned silence.)
 1 : Im interested in the story of you. I want to watch you when you make
these leaps. And see you when you come back to bed with me. I am so
curious to see you pregnant -- the image in my head astounds me. And as
a mother. A mother of a teenager. Making rules, breaking rules. Im not
interested in having a family but Im interested in having a family with
you.
 2 : How can you say these things? Youre fucking crazy! You want me to
jump off a building holding your hand!
 1 : That way you feel when youre turning the page in a really good
chapter? Thats how I feel about you. (extends hand.) 

Curtain.