jessamyn.com: it's visiting season! 

 I just got to Vermont, please come see me. 

 specifics 

 email 

 phone 

802.439.6031 

 mail 

PO Box 14 
West Topsham VT 05086

 street address 

138 rte 302 
West Topsham VT 05086 
 From Manchester Airport 
Take a Greyhound bus to Montpelier. 
Call me, I will pick you up 
If you get in too late for Greyhound [6 pm?], start thinking of incentives
for me
to drive two hours to get you. 
 From Boston 

 take rte 95 
 to rte 93 
 to rte 89 
 to rte 91

 take exit 16 from rte 91 onto rte 25 in Bradford, go left off
 the exit onto rte 25

 rte 25 goes for 17 miles and dead ends into rte 302, go
 right

 my place is 1.6 miles on the right, the third house after the
 Hidden Drives sign, driveway is immediately before the barn

 if you pass the giant barn, you have gone too far 
 somewhat helpful map 

 generalities 

 Pretty much everyone's welcome, with some notice.
 After one week, you will transition from houseguest to day laborer
and I will put you to work.
 Check abada for calendar info.
 There are a finite number of weekends, I may double-book. I'll try to warn you if I think you won't get along with my other friends. 
 I have one or two extra beds. Big crowd? Bring sleeping bags. First come, first served.
 P/Zesto is on vacation but the place does have its share of cat hair. 

 hardships 

 I cannot stress enough that there is nothing to do out here, in many conventional senses. Please come prepared to amuse yourself, or amuse me.
 If you are here and appear bored, I can put you to work, never fear.
 Your cell phone will not work here.
 There is no shower here, just a big old tub. Please cope.
 The place is in many ways a cabin. If you snore or screw loudly you
will be forced to sleep in the barn.
 If you smoke, you smoke outside.
 There is a TV with no antenna and a VCR. You can bring movies, I haev 
a few, but I'm sick of them already.
 Heating with a woodstove means it's chilly at night. It can also snow at any moment. Dress warmly.
 Vermont pretty much closes at 8 pm.

 offerings 

 I have enough coffee and tea here to survive a mid-length siege, even 
if you drink some.
 new addition of Greg means 100% more chances to be greeted by someone 
cheery in the morning 
 It always helps to bring food, beer or board games. I have Scrabble, backgammon, puzzles, cards, Battleship and popcorn.
 If the weather is nice, there is a grill. Appearances nonwithstanding, I eat meat.
 I have 20 CDs. Bringing music is appreciated. There is a guitar of sorts, a baby grand piano and a banjo mandolin.
 40 acres of whatever in the backyard.
 When you turn out all the lights here, you can see a zillion stars.