True/False Quiz Answers 

 Answers 

 1. 

 Correct!

 Posters advertising Coke and the Bon Marche,
 homework assignments with Mission Macaroni logos,
 in-class TV commercials for M &Ms, assemblies
 promoting the sale of Fundwraps wrapping paper,
 "Coyote Jr. High" salespeople making pitches
 during social studies classes, curriculum
 materials sponsored by Hershey's chocolate
 (showing the role of chocolate in the food
 pyramid), school newsletters with Campbell's
 logos, book covers advertising McDonald's,
 vending machines with Snapple signs, and reader
 boards with Pepsi logos have already crept into
 the Seattle Public Schools.

 2. 

 Correct!

 In 7 out of 10 middle schools and 4 out of 10
 high schools, Seattle students are required to
 watch 2 minutes of TV commercials every day in
 class. These are ads for soft drinks, gum,
 candy, sneakers, etc., pitched to the early
 adolescent market. By contract, all teachers
 must show the program and may not turn the sound
 down. By law students must attend school. Every
 day...

 3. 

 Correct!

 Any revenue generated from the sale of ads would
 go into the General Fund, which faces a $35
 million shortfall over the next three years, just
 to pay its usual bills. Anything under $35
 million will not affect class sizes.

 4. 

 Correct!

 In Seattle, each principal decides whether or not
 to sign a contract with Channel One and whether
 or not to renew it after each three year period.
 Channel One is a 12-minute, commercially-produced
 TV infotainment show with 2 minutes of ads geared
 to teens. Schools with Channel One cede control
 of twelve minutes of curriculum time a day to
 those with a narrow commercial interest. That
 adds up to 6 taxpayer-funded school days per
 student per year.

 5. 

 Correct!

 Whereas textbooks must be reviewed by a textbook
 committee composed of subject matter experts in
 the district, the sponsored classroom materials
 simply show up in the teachers' mailboxes and are
 used at the discretion of the individual teacher,
 who may or may not have analyzed the scientific
 basis of the claims made in the materials.

 6. 

 Correct!

 Any revenue generated form the sale of ads would
 go into the General Fund, where it could be used
 for anything. There is no guarantee that
 advertising revenues generated at a band concert
 will go exclusively to support the band, or even
 to support the band at all. Under the new
 advertising policy, extra-curricular groups will
 not be allowed to pursue sponsorship agreements
 on their own.

 7. 

 Correct!

 Any revenue generated form the sale of ads would
 go into the General Fund. The district does not
 have the funds to pay for existing programs, much
 less new programs. Further, there are already
 many after-school programs for Seattle youth
 funded by the Families and Education Levy and
 non-profit organizations such as Rotary and the
 Boys and Girls Clubs. Many are under-enrolled.

 8. 

 Correct!

 The only other major district in the U.S. which
 permits corporate ads is Colorado Springs. In
 its first year, district was able to raise only
 $73,150 and in its dsecond year, by expanding
 advertising into the elementary schools, raised
 only $85,265, even after plastering school buses
 and school walls with advertising. The Seattle
 School District estimates that it needs $35
 million over the next 3 years.

 9. 

 Correct! 

 Law makers are equally likely to conclude that
 districts with corporate sponsors will no longer
 need taxpayer funds.

 10. 

 Correct!

 Although most state funds for schools are
 earmarked for certain uses, a school district may
 petition to use the funds differently. Most
 districts do not make use of this waiver option.

 11. 

 Correct!

 The new policy does not address this issue.

 12. 

 Correct!

 The advisory committee is hand-picked by the
 Superintendent; any person kown to be against
 advertising in schools is disqualified from being
 on the committee.