Arguments 

 The Case Against Advertising 

 What's Wrong with Commercializing the Public Schools? 

 Harming Students Effective ads will cause
 students to desire things that are not necessary
 for their well-being, or may even be harmful to
 their well-being. Most products that advertisers
 pitch directly to students are either marginally
 harmful (fast food, soda pop) or unnecessary and
 therefore wasteful of resources (expensive shoes,
 blemish cream).

 Opposing Parents Ads create perceived
 needs in youth for products their parents do not
 want them to have or cannot afford in the family
 budget; in this, the district is working in
 direct opposition to the parents' goals and
 values.

 Disproportionality of Negative Effects 
 Creating a desire for expensive products that
 children do not need will harm poor families
 most.

 Distraction We want you to focus on
 learning. A commercialized environment distracts
 their attention.

 Loss of Trust We want youth to trust
 their school staff. Endorsing products which
 youth know are not good for their bodies, good
 for the environment, or good for human rights
 lowers staff credibility.

 Incompatible Missions The mission of a
 corporation is to make money. The mission of a
 school is to educate students. The mission of
 advertising is to influence how or what people
 think. The mission of education is to teach
 people to think for themselves.

 Slippery Slope Schools which rely on
 sugar daddies instead of a fair and equitable
 source of funding will become dependent...and
 unable to 'just say no'.

 Corruption To allow advertisers to enter
 schools is negligence; to get a kick-back for
 this is corruption.

 Waste of Taxpayer Dollars I Every time
 school secretaries and/or teachers spend time
 sorting through their junk mail from
 corporations, they are wasting taxpayer dollars.

 Waste of Taxpayer Dollars II Every time
 students and teachers spend class time watching
 infotainment and television commercials provided
 by Channel One, they are wasting taxpayer dollars
 and opportunities for real education.

 Incompatible with District Goals Time
 wasted by students processing commercials and ads
 in schools is time taken away from learning.
 This is counter-productive to building a
 world-class learning system. 

 Advertising fashion and beauty items runs
 counter to the goals of developing girls'
 self-esteem, teaching them to value their health
 and fitness more than conventional beauty, and to
 have serious work/career aspirations. What does
 the district want girls to be?

 Public vs. Private The public has paid
 for public institutions, to serve the public
 interest. Elected official have no right to sell
 off portion of the public institutions to private
 interests. The state has a mandate to fund
 public education. Parents deserve to have a
 choice between public and private schools for
 their children, rather than a choice between
 privatized and private schools.

 Wrong Signal to Legislature Getting
 revenue from ads can only undermine current
 efforts to convince the legislature that we need
 full funding of education.

 Ignores Public Opinion All public polls
 in recent years have stressed 'back to basics'
 and providing a safe, orderly learning
 environment. Trying to generate funds to pay for
 after-school sports and other activities is not
 putting first things first. Adding ads to the
 school environment will distract students' focus
 from learning.