
ELECTRICITY MISCONCEPTIONS IN TEXTBOOKS - - -William J. Beaty

   billbeskimo.com
     _________________________________________________________________
   
  Accesses since 8/19/95:
  
   [INLINE]
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   Add Your Own
   
UNDER CONSTRUCTION

   Sorry if the following is a bit contentious at times. I wrote it in an
   attempt to get some things off my chest. If you keep watching this
   site, I'll probably clean it up and make it sound a bit more
   professional. Also, this file is still under construction and is being
   written, edited, corrected, etc. It does currently contain some
   mistakes of its own. I placed it online as a sort of 'trial by fire'
   in order to hear readers' responses and target weak or unclear
   sections for improvement. Please feel free to make comments to the
   author at billbeskimo.com -Bill B.
   
   ELECTRICITY DOES NOT EXIST
          The term "electricity" is a catch-all word with many meanings.
          Unfortunately these meanings are contradictory. There is no
          single substance or energy called "electricity." When we say
          "quantity of electricity," we could be talking about quantities
          of charged particles, or energy, or potential, forces, fields,
          net charge, current, power, or even about electrical phenomena.
          All of these are found under the definition of the word
          "electricity." Part of this problem would vanish if we used the
          word "electricity" only to designate a field of science or
          class of phenomena, in the same way we use the words "physics"
          or "optics." We do use it this way occasionally. But then we
          immediately turn around and do the equivalent of teaching our
          kids that the "optics" comes out of the light bulb and passes
          through the lens!
          
          Here are a couple of examples of errors caused by the
          contradictory meanings. In AC electric circuits the *charges*
          wiggle back and forth, but the *energy* moves continuously
          forward. This is analogous to the way that sound moves
          continuously forward while air wiggles back and forth. By
          applying contradictory definitions to the the term
          "electricity," we teach that electricity sits in one spot in
          the wires and wiggles, but at the same time electricity moves
          forward rapidly. Garbage! It's like saying that sound and wind
          are the same thing! And the error is directly tracable to the
          bogus "electricity" concept.
          
          Another: when a battery lights a bulb, we explain that the path
          of electricity is into, through, and back out of the bulb, and
          that none is used up. Then we say that electricity flows from
          the battery to bulb and is totally converted to light! So does
          the bulb consume "electricity" or does the "electricity" flow
          through it and back out again? As far as students are
          concerned, we've just told them that it does both at the same
          time!
          
          Another: There are two forms of electricity, positive
          electricity and negative. NO, the two forms of electricity are
          static and current. NO, there are many forms of electricity,
          triboelectricity, bioelectricity, myoelectricity,
          piezoelectricity. Which is right? All and none, because the
          word "electricity" has multiple contradictory definitions.
          
   THE ELECTRICITY WHICH FLOWS IN WIRES IS NOT MADE BY BATTERIES OR
          GENERATORS
          Electric currents in copper wires are a flow of electrons, and
          these electrons comes from the copper atoms. Those electrons
          were in the metal before the battery was connected. They were
          even there before the copper was mined and made into wires!
          Batteries and generators do not create these electrons, they
          merely pump them, and the electrons are like a pre-existing
          fluid that exists within the wires. A generator takes electrons
          in from one wire and simultaneously spits them out the other
          one, and at the same time it pushes them through the coil of
          wire within the generator and through the entire electric
          circuit. A generator or battery is a closed-loop pump, but it
          does not supply the substance being pumped. A generator is like
          your heart: it moves blood, but it does not create blood. When
          a generator stops or when the circuit is opened, all the
          electrons stop where they are, and the wires remain filled with
          electrons. But this isn't unexpected, because the wires were
          full of vast quantities of electrons at the start.
          
   THE "ELECTRICITY" FLOWING INSIDE OF WIRES DOES NOT FLOW AT THE SPEED
          OF LIGHT
          In metals, electric current is a flow of electrons. Many books
          claim that these electrons flow at the speed of light. This is
          incorrect. Electrons flow incredibly slowly, at speeds on the
          order of centimeters per minute. It's the energy in the circuit
          which flows fast, not the electrons. When the electrons at one
          point in the circuit are pumped, electrons in the entire loop
          of the circuit are forced to flow, and energy spreads instantly
          througout the circuit. Energy and electrons are two distinct
          entities. Electrical energy is composed of electromagnetic
          fields. It does not travel along with individual electrons. The
          energy does not even flow inside the wires.
          
   ELECTRIC ENERGY IN A CIRCUIT DOES NOT FLOW IN A CIRCLE
          When you connect a light bulb to a battery, energy moves from
          the battery to the bulb. If this phenomena is examined in great
          detail, we find that the energy is composed of EM fields, that
          it moves as wave energy, that it exists only outside of the
          wires, and most importantly, that it TRAVELS ALONG BOTH WIRES
          on its way from the battery to the bulb. So when you plug a
          lamp into a wall socket, you should not imagine that the energy
          is a mysterious invisible entity travelling back and forth
          inside the wires. You should think of it as a mysterious
          invisible "tube"-shaped flow that comes out of the outlet, runs
          out along BOTH wires, and dives into the filament of the
          lightbulb.
          
   CHARGE
          The word "charge" has more than one contradictory meaning, so
          if you are using it, you are probably creating misconceptions.
          "Charge" refers to several things: to net-charge, to quantities
          of charged particles, and to "charges" of energy.
          
          For example, even when totally neutral, metals contain vast
          quantities of movable electrons. So, should we say that they
          contain zero charge, or that they contain immense quantities of
          charge? Or if I place an electron and a proton together, do I
          have twice as much charge as before, or do I have a neutral
          hydrogen atom with no charge at all? Misuse of "charge" makes
          descriptions of electric circuits extremely confusing. Electric
          currents are a motion of neutralized charge, so if you teach
          that a wire is uncharged, and that current is a flow of charge,
          how can anyone make sense of a situation where a wire is
          uncharged yet contains an enormous flow of charge?
          
          Another one: if you charge a capacitor or a battery, you move
          charges from one plate to the other, and the device as a whole
          has exactly the same charge whether it's "charged" or not! When
          speaking of "charging" batteries or capacitors, we've suddenly
          started talking about energy, and a "charged" battery has quite
          a bit more energy (but exactly the same net-charge, and the
          same quantitity of particles) as an "uncharged" battery. This
          concept is very important in understanding simple circuitry,
          yet it is never taught, because the misleading term "charge"
          stands in the way.
          
   CONTACT ELECTRIFICATION OR "STATIC ELECTRICITY" IS NOT CAUSED BY
          FRICTION
          "Static electricity" appears when two dissimilar insulating
          materials are placed into intimate contact and then separated.
          All that's required is the touching. For example, when adhesive
          tape is placed on a surface and then peeled off, both the tape
          and the surface will become electrified. No friction was
          required. Of course if one of the materials is fiberous and
          does not give a very large footprint of contact area, the
          process of rubbing the material upon another can greatly
          increase the total contact area. But this rubbing is not the
          cause of electrification.
          
   "STATIC ELECTRICITY" IS NOT ELECTRICITY WHICH IS STATIC
          "Static electricity" exists whenever there are unequal amounts
          of positive and negative charged particles present. All solid
          objects contain vast quantities of positive and negative
          particles. When these quantities are not exactly equal and
          there is a tiny bit more positive than negative (or vice
          versa), we say that the object is "charged" and that "static
          electricity" exists. When the quantities are equal, we say the
          object is "neutral" or "uncharged." "Charged" and "uncharged"
          depends on the sum of opposite quantities. Since "static"
          electricity is actually an imbalance in the quantities of
          positive and negative, it is wrong to believe that the effect
          has anything to do with lack of motion, with being "static." In
          fact, "static electricity" can easily be made to MOVE along
          conductive surfaces. When this happens, it continues to display
          all it's normal characteristics as it flows, so it does not
          stop being "static electricity" while it moves along very
          non-statically! And when an electric circuit is broken and the
          charges stop flowing, they don't turn into "static electricity"
          and begin attracting lint, etc. A quantity of unmoving charged
          particles does not constitute "static electricity." If you
          believe that "static" and "current" are opposite types of
          "electricity," you will forever be hopelessly confused about
          electricity in general.
          
   ELECTRIC CURRENT IS NOT A FLOW OF ENERGY
          Electric current is a slow motion of charged particles. On the
          other hand, electric energy is made of fields and it moves
          fast. Electric energy can move in a direction opposite to that
          of the electric current. Electric energy can even move
          continuously forward in the same wire where the direction of
          the current is alternating back and forth at high frequency.
          Electric energy is composed of electric and magnetic fields,
          and it exists in the space surrounding the wires. Electric
          current is very different, it's (usually) a flowing motion of
          electrons, and electrons are material particles. Electric
          current is a flow of matter, not of energy. When electric
          current exists in an electrolyte (in batteries, salt water, the
          earth, or in your body) it is a flow of charged atoms called
          ions, so there is no denying that it is a flow of material.
          Current is a matter flow, not an energy flow.
          
   ELECTRIC POWER CANNOT BE MADE TO FLOW
          Power is defined as "flow of energy." Saying that power "flows"
          is as silly as saying that the stuff in a moving river is named
          "current" rather than of "water." Water is real, water can
          flow, flows of water are called "currents," but we shouldn't
          make the mistake of believing that "currents" are a substance.
          Energy is sort of like a stuff, and it can flow along. When
          electric energy flows, it's flow is called electric power. But
          electric power has no existance of its own. Electric power is
          the flowing motion of another thing. Electric power is an
          energy current. This impacts the concepts behind the units of
          electrical measurement. Energy can be measured in Joules or
          Ergs. The rate of flow of energy is called Joules per second.
          For convenience, we give this rate of flow the name "power,"
          and we measure it in terms of Watts. Yet Watts have no physical
          substance-like existance. The Joule is the fundamental unit,
          and the Watt is a unit of convenience. It is probably a good
          idea to teach only the term "Joule" in early grades, to
          entirely avoid the "watt" concept, and to only introduce it
          years later when the students feel a need for a convenient way
          to state the energy-flow-per-unit-time concept. Unfortunately
          many textbooks do the reverse, and keep the seemingly-complex
          "Joule" away from the kids, while spreading the "watt" concept
          far and wide!
          
   LIGHT AND RADIO WAVES DO NOT TRAVEL AT 186,000 MILES PER SECOND
          They only travel at 186,000 miles per second while in a perfect
          vacuum. Light travels a bit slower in the air, and it travels
          LOTS slower when inside glass. Radio waves move much slower
          than 186,000 miles/sec when they travel within
          plastic-insulated coaxial cable. The term "speed of light" is
          misleading, because the complete term actually reads "speed of
          light in a vacuum." There actually is no set "speed of light,"
          and light (and electrical energy) can travel at many different
          speeds.
          
   ELECTROMAGNET COILS DO NOT USE UP ENERGY TO MAKE MAGNETISM
          Coils only require energy to initially create a magnetic field.
          They also require energy to defeat electrical friction when a
          field is being maintained. But if the friction is removed, the
          magnetic field can exist continuously without energy input. If
          frictionless (superconductive) wire is used, a coil can be
          momentarily connected to an energy supply to create the field,
          then the supply can be removed and the field will continue
          forever.
          
   Voltage
          
          
   STORM CLOUDS ARE NOT CHARGED BY FRICTION
          Some books claim that the separated charges in thunderstorms
          comes about when clouds rub against each other, or when the
          rain moves through the air. This is not correct. In fact, the
          true explanation for storm electrification is unknown. There
          are several possible explanations, but none of them has been
          yet proved true, and all have problems. Here's one: in a
          mixture of hail and rain, the ice and water become oppositely
          electrified through contact. The large hail then falls faster
          than the small raindrops, so two large regions of opposite
          charge are gradually created within the cloud, one above the
          other.
          
   BEN FRANKLIN'S KITE WAS NEVER STRUCK BY LIGHTNING
          Many people believe that Ben Franklin's kite was hit by a
          lightning bolt, and this is how he proved that lightning was
          electrical. A number of books and even some encyclopedias say
          the same thing. They are wrong. When lightning strikes a kite,
          the spreading electric currents in the ground can kill anyone
          standing nearby, to say nothing of the person holding the
          string! What Franklin actually did was to show that a kite
          would collect a tiny bit of electric charge out of the sky
          during a thunderstorm. Electric leakage through the air caused
          his kite and string to become charged, and the hairs on the
          twine stood outwards. The twine was then used to charge a metal
          key, and tiny sparks could then be drawn from the key. (He used
          a metal object because sparks cannot be directly drawn from the
          twine, it's not conductive enough.) This suggested that some
          stormclouds carry strong electrical charges, and it IMPLIED
          that lightning was just a large electric spark. The common
          belief that Franklin easily survived a lightning strike is not
          just wrong, it is dangerous: it may convince kids that it's OK
          to duplicate the kite experiment as long as they "protect"
          themselves by holding a silk ribbon. Make no mistake,
          Franklin's experiment was extremely dangerous, and if lightning
          had actually hit his kite, he certainly would have been killed.
          
          
   ELECTRICITY IS NOT MADE OF ELECTRONS
          Electric current in metals is a flow of electrons. But electric
          current doesn't only flow in metals. It also flows in
          electrolytes. Electric currents in electrolytes are flows of
          electrified atoms. So when an electric current is passing
          through a battery, it is made of moving atoms, not of moving
          electrons. A similar thing happens when a current passes
          through the earth, the ocean, and your body. All the electric
          currents in your brain and nerves are composed of moving sodium
          and potassium atoms!
