
   Forbes.com
   
   The Great American Textbook Scandal
   
   ONE DAY IN MARCH OF last year Leonard Tramiel, a balding, dark-bearded
   man of 45, sat alone in a science classroom in Milpitas, a
   middle-class community on the south end of San Francisco Bay. Having
   earned a Ph.D. in physics from Columbia University and having made a
   bundle in Silicon Valley, Tramiel now taught occasionally around the
   Bay Area as a volunteer.
   
   Savoring a few quiet moments before 30 eighth graders surged into the
   classroom, Tramiel opened their astronomy textbook, Prentice Hall's
   Exploring The Universe, to the lesson for the day. Tramiel was
   surprised to see that Prentice Hall had inadvertently reversed two
   photographic images, giving a misleading impression of how the moon
   looks as it passes through its phases. Tramiel turned back a page. The
   book said that the moon probably had been born when a giant asteroid
   had struck the earth, tearing a chunk of material from the planet, and
   that the Pacific Ocean may be the hole left behind. What was this
   doing in a science textbook? The asteroid theory hadn't been taken
   seriously for over 30 years. Tramiel turned back another page and read
   that the far, or dark, side of the moon had been photographed for the
   first time by the Lunar Orbiter, a U.S. space probe. He knew for a
   fact that the Soviets had taken those first photographs.
   
   Three errors in three pages. At home that night, Tramiel read the
   textbook cover to cover and found dozens of errors--of fact, of
   interpretation, of concept.
   
   Tramiel called Prentice Hall's 800 number. An operator said someone
   would get back to him. Nobody did. Calling again three days later,
   Tramiel insisted on staying on the line until someone helped. A woman
   identifying herself as one of the editors of the series came on to
   assure him that the errors had been corrected in a subsequent edition.
   Tramiel obtained the later edition and found only three of the dozens
   of errors he had found had been fixed.
   
   Two other Bay Area scientists Tramiel showed the book to, the director
   of space at NASA's Ames Research Center and an astronomy professor at
   a local college, termed the Prentice Hall book "horrible."
   
   His interest in textbooks now fully aroused, Tramiel examined a new
   Prentice Hall book used by his older son's private middle school in
   Palo Alto. According to the title page, Science Explorer Astronomy had
   been written by Jay M. Pasachoff, a professor of astronomy at Williams
   College whom Leonard Tramiel knew to be a renowned scientist. But the
   book contained such idiocies as references to a "history book from
   around 800 B.C.," when books did not exist, and to the "rotating"of
   the earth around the sun, when every schoolboy is supposed to know
   that the earth rotates on its axis but revolves around the sun.
   Tramiel checked in with Pasachoff and was not surprised to hear how
   the errors got in the book--in the editing process, after the book
   left Pasachoff's hands.
   
   It isn't just Prentice Hall, owned by Pearson Plc., that churns out
   rubbish for our children to learn by. Scott Foresman, another Pearson
   company, Holt Rinehart and a range of other publishers are guilty of
   producing textbooks condemned by experts for their errors and
   omissions. The whole $4 billion elementary and secondary textbook
   industry has the problem. In the intensely lobbied textbook selection
   process in states like California, intellectual content takes a back
   seat to salesmanship, political correctness, self-esteem for the
   students and the need to dumb-down lessons so that one product can
   capture a large market. In the U.S., textbooks sell well if they are
   designed to hold the attention of children accustomed to MTV and
   spiffy Internet graphics; they don't sell well if they are
   challenging. Says Diane Ravitch, a leading historian and analyst of
   education: "You get a snappy visual package, but it's more like a
   comic book. The packaging overwhelms the content."
   
   Contrast what goes on abroad. William H. Schmidt, who teaches applied
   statistics at Michigan State University, in 1995 analyzed 800 math and
   science textbooks from 50 countries in grades four, eight and twelve,
   and related the results to learning, as measured by improvements in
   test scores over the space of a year. U.S. students, and the textbooks
   they learned from, did not do well at all. The U.S. ranked no higher
   than 16th on 20 key math areas taught in the eighth grade. In
   decimals, fractions and percents, U.S. eighth graders ranked 27th,
   behind their counterparts in such countries as Slovenia, Iran, Latvia,
   Romania, Iceland and Thailand. Schmidt found that a Japanese
   eighth-grade math text devotes about 25% of its focus to "congruence
   and similarity," a core part of geometry. The comparable U.S. book,
   published by Pearson's Scott Foresman, devotes only 2%.
   Correspondingly, the Japanese students ranked second in their learning
   gain in this area; the U.S. ranked 34th.
   
   Center stage in the schoolbook quality debate is California, which
   centralizes book selection for most of its 8,563 public schools. Given
   the $500 million a year at stake there, it's no surprise that most of
   the big publishing houses maintain offices in Los Angeles and the Bay
   Area, keep lobbyists in Sacramento, and spend millions selling books
   in the state. Nor is it surprising that Delaine Eastin, California's
   superintendent of public instruction, has sought and received campaign
   contributions from textbook publishers. Paramount Communications (now
   Viacom) even held a glitzy fundraiser for Eastin four years ago on the
   Paramount lot in Hollywood. At the time Paramount's Simon & Schuster
   unit had textbook divisions doing millions of dollars of business with
   the state.
   
   The decision of which texts to buy is in the hands of the18-member
   Curriculum Commission, made up of school board heads, teachers and
   other academics around the state. The commission gets advice from two
   panels of teachers and college professors and its own rulings can be
   overridden by an 11-member state board of education. Let's look in on
   the selection process that went on for the 2000-2001 school year
   science textbooks.
   
   On Mar. 17, 1999 state educational authorities summoned the big
   publishers to Sacramento for a briefing on the content standards their
   books would have to meet in order to have a chance for approval. In
   fourth-grade earth sciences, for example, publishers were told their
   books must teach students the differences between igneous, sedimentary
   and metamorphic rocks.
   
   By August the publishers were ready. They submitted 15 sets of science
   teaching material for California's consideration. The vetting process
   became contentious. One of the review panels gathered at the Red Lion
   Inn in Sacramento to vet the submissions of three publishers--Houghton
   Mifflin; SRA, a McGraw-Hill subsidiary; and Delta Education, owned by
   Torstar Corp., a Canadian publishing firm.
   
   Delta's submission was a teaching system that relied on gadgets and
   toys to demonstrate scientific principles. There were no textbooks. In
   its camp Delta had Kathy DiRanna, a former biology teacher and now an
   education activist. Opposing Delta: a hard-science contingent of
   committee members who were disgusted by the early-1990s trend toward
   fuzzy math and soft teaching and were doing what they could to stop
   it. The hard-science crowd preferred submissions from Houghton Mifflin
   and McGraw-Hill's SRA division, for which DiRanna had a barrage of
   criticisms.
   
   At the same time, another panel heavily criticized Scott Foresman's
   submission. Little wonder. Scott Foresman diagrammed an electrical
   current erroneously. It failed to explain the cause of hurricanes. It
   failed to note that air temperature cannot be measured accurately when
   the sun is shining directly on the thermometer. It failed to show how
   to differentiate among igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks.
   
   At that point Scott Foresman, Houghton Mifflin and SRA/McGraw-Hill
   sprang into action, seeking opportunities to revise their material.
   Kathryn Costello, the president of Scott Foresman's elementary
   education group, flew from corporate headquarters near Chicago to meet
   with Leslie Peterson, president of the Novato school board and an
   advocate of stricter standards who had led the panel that panned Scott
   Foresman books.
   
   Costello brought with her Elizabeth Jimenez, a Los Angeles-based Scott
   Foresman regional vice president. The three women met in the lunchroom
   of the Novato school district, a low-slung brown building in the small
   community north of the Golden Gate Bridge. "We want it to work; tell
   us how it can work," demanded Costello. "What can we do?" asked
   Elizabeth Jimenez. "We'll do whatever it takes."
   
   Houghton Mifflin, meanwhile, flew in its vice president and national
   sales manager, Sue Schultz, to try to repair the damage done by Kathy
   DiRanna. Schultz met with most of the members of the Curriculum
   Commission, including Richard Schwartz, 56, a high school chemistry
   teacher from Torrance who has witnessed a lot of watering down of
   science texts in his 30 years at the school. For example, the current
   text that he uses, Introductory Chemistry, from Houghton Mifflin's
   D.C. Heath division, has only four pages on pH, the measure of
   acidity. A mid-1970s Holt Rinehart text called Foundations of
   Chemistry had 14 pages on the subject. The Heath text makes made no
   mention at all of Hess' Law, a critical formula for measuring heat in
   certain chemical reactions.
   
   The Houghton Mifflin officials tried to assure Schwartz and the other
   panel members that most of their objections were minor and that
   Houghton Mifflin could satisfy them. SRA/McGraw-Hill representatives
   made similar pleas.
   
   While Leslie Peterson was meeting with the two Scott Foresman
   executives, Leonard Tramiel, the Palo Alto astrophysicist, was 40
   miles south in San Mateo, examining more textbooks. He looked through
   a Holt Rinehart book, Holt Science and Technology, that appeared to be
   one of the better submissions. Or was it? The book said that protons
   are helium nuclei; they are in fact hydrogen nuclei. The book said
   that nuclear energy was first suggested as a possible energy source
   for the sun in 1899; it was in the 1930s.
   
   Richard Schwartz called the science panel of the Curriculum Commission
   to order in the early afternoon of Nov. 16, 1999. Leonard Tramiel was
   the first witness. Without identifying Holt Rinehart, Tramiel said
   that he had reviewed a text under consideration and found 30 errors in
   100 pages. "This morning I checked the [panel's] report on this book.
   Only 3 of the 30 errors had been found. We cannot trust the textbook
   industry to correct the mistakes in their books."
   
   The textbook marketers pleaded for time. Prentice Hall, Houghton
   Mifflin and Scott Foresman officials all offered elaborate plans for
   mending their products.
   
   But would any real effort be made? During the Christmas holidays a
   large box from Scott Foresman containing books and teaching materials
   arrived at Richard Schwartz's home. "Scott Foresman has made an
   all-out effort to comply with all the changes suggested," Elizabeth
   Jimenez wrote. "We have also gone further by enlisting the help of Dr.
   Stan Metzenberg...." The mention of Stan Metzenberg riveted Schwartz's
   attention. Metzenberg, a biologist at California State University in
   Northridge, had been a leader, along with Nobel laureate Glenn
   Seaborg, in the effort to make the standards for California science
   teaching as rigorous as possible. If Scott Foresman had recruited him,
   it was a genuine coup.
   
   Schwartz continued reading Jimenez's letter. "We have removed
   extraneous chapters lessons at all grade levels as identified by Dr.
   Stan Metzenberg.... All revised new lessons are being reviewed by Dr.
   Stan Metzenberg...."
   
   Richard Schwartz was impressed. Maybe Scott Foresman had met the
   challenge after all. He telephoned Metzenberg. "Did you realize Scott
   Foresman is saying you approved all their programs?"
   
   "What?" an incredulous Metzenberg replied. "I didn't help Scott
   Foresman. I certainly didn't review their material. I've never seen
   it."
   
   After speaking to the stunned Metzenberg, Schwartz began perusing the
   "revised" material Scott Foresman had sent. It was filled with pages
   that were blank, except for the words "lesson to be inserted." Binders
   were mangled from hasty packing. Schwartz closed the box like a
   coroner zipping shut a bagged body.
   
   From his office at Cal State Northridge, Metzenberg dispatched a
   blistering memorandum to Scott Foresman's Elizabeth Jimenez, with
   copies to all the officials who had gotten her package, asking that
   Scott Foresman cease and desist from using his name in promoting its
   texts. Scott Foresman sheepishly withdrew the science program from
   California's consideration.
   
   Last January the full Curriculum Commission met to vote on the
   publishers' submissions. "I call on you once again, as I did in
   November," implored Leonard Tramiel from the speaker's podium. "Do not
   recommend these books for adoption. We have no assurance that these
   materials are accurate."
   
   A majority of the commission voted to reject the SRA McGraw-Hill
   texts. Approved were several of the other publishers' submissions,
   including those of Prentice Hall, whose books Tramiel had found so
   full of errors.
   
   "I have to approve them," Schwartz told Tramiel privately. "The books
   we have now are so bad, and the new books are significantly better,
   that I can't in good conscience reject such an improvement."
   
   "If you don't reject 'such an improvement,'Tramiel retorted, "we'll be
   stuck with them for the next six years until the next science
   adoption."
   
   On Mar. 16, 2000 the California Board of Education, meeting in Los
   Angeles and acting on a unanimous recommendation of the Curriculum
   Commission, voted to approve three kindergarten-through-fifth and
   sixth-grade science programs, including those produced by Harcourt
   Brace and Houghton Mifflin, and three programs for sixth to eighth
   graders, including the programs of Holt Rinehart and Prentice Hall--a
   total of 6 programs from the 15 originally submitted.
   
   Many of the books, the board acknowledged, still contained errors.
   
   --Additional reporting by Dirk Smillie
   
   
