A GERM THEORY OF EDUCATION                         (c)1997 William Beaty

   Like disease infections which travel between hosts, information travels
   between textbooks.  It does so when students are taught from one book,
   and then they grow up to write another.  It can happen more frequently
   when a fully-grown textbook author uses another book as reference when
   writing a new textbook.

   As in epidemics, a particular piece of information can spread 
   exponentially: the more textbooks it occupies, the more likely other
   textbooks will be to acquire it.  The spread of a particular fact can be
   more than exponential: the more textbooks it occupies, the higher its
   perceived credibility.  If many textbooks assert the same thing, it
   must be "true," and therefor it should be included in any newly-written
   text.  Or so we might believe.

   Textbooks and humans act as independent populations which can 
   infect each other.  Textbooks are disease vectors.  (Or if you
   want to get Dawkinsesque, humans are the disease vectors, and a
   textbook author is simply an efficient method which textbooks have
   evolved for producing more textbooks!  ;)

   There is a "Typhoid Mary" phenomena.  If a piece of information gets
   into an authoritative reference book, it spreads like wildfire.

   Unfortunately, all of the above mechanisms function regardless of
   whether a piece of information is true or false.  The bad information
   can be spread just as easily as the good.  If most reference books
   contain a particular error, then all new books will probably aquire
   that error too.  Useful knowledge can spread among texts and
   references, but this makes them vulnerable to a "disease" of misleading
   facts, incorrect facts, and common misconceptions.

   Some authors are more prone to the infection than others.  A non-expert
   author who relies more on reference books than on direct knowledge of a
   subject will promote the spread.  Authors who work under the assumption
   that "this many textbooks can't be in error" will cause the infection
   to spread faster than exponentially.

   There are competing infections.  Incorrect information competes with
   correct information for the same environmental niche, like cowpox
   competes with smallpox.  If you *know* the correct information, then
   the misconception cannot infect you.  But if you have been taught
   the misconception early on, then later encounters with the true version
   will fall on deaf ears.

   Evolution forces are important in textbook diseases.  As it travels
   from book to book, an error can start out as an inadvertent mistake,
   and be honed and polished into a ravening plague which easily conquers
   the correct version of that particular information.

   There is an uninfected population of books and humans as well as an
   infected population.  There is also a population which has been
   innoculated: authors, students, and educators who are specifically made
   aware of the error can no longer become infected.  Even better, those
   who become aware of the "germ" concept can begin developing a strong
   intellectual "immune system" which deals with all sorts of killer
   diseases.

   The best route to conquering the disease: search out information
   about misconceptions.  Don't just try to aquire knowledge, also build
   up your defenses by learning about the enemy.  Line up and roll up your
   sleeves!
