BAD PHYSICS: Misconceptions spread by K-6 Grade School Textbooks 

 up to SCI. MISCONCEPTION | 

 COMMENTS | 

 GOOD STUFF | 

 NEW STUFF | 

 SEARCH 

 Google: 

 ELECTRONIC 
 SURPLUS 
 CATALOGS 
The Big List 

 STUPID BILL B. VIDEOS ! 

DIY GENERATOR 

Microwave Mayhem 

BOTTLE SMASH! 

cold. black. POPSICLE. 

 EATING dry ice! 

DANGEROUS MAGLEV! 

RECURRING SCIENCE MISCONCEPTIONS IN K-6 TEXTBOOKS 
 William J.
Beaty 

 ALWAYS UNDER CONSTRUCTION 

See also another misconceptions list by Dr. J. L. Hubiz

 WARNING: 

This file is currently being written, edited, corrected, etc. It does
still contain some mistakes of its own. I placed it online as a sort of
'trial by fire' in order to hear readers' responses so I could target weak
or unclear sections for improvement. (And, as my site points out, NOBODY
is perfect so we should always practice critical thinking. Take all
information with a grain of salt, including everything here!) Please feel
free to send public comments to me with the 
 COMMENT
BOOK . If you prefer that nobody else sees your comments, send
private comments to me via this form. 

Please read before commenting: Am I just a nitpicker ? 

 THE MISCONCEPTIONS 
 Up to MAIN MISCONCEPTIONS PAGE 
 Jump to ELECTRICITY MISCONCEPTION PAGE 
 COMMENT BOOK , publicly express your opinions on all this
 Try "SCIENCE MYTHS" SPREAD BY K-6 TEXTBOOKS 

Videos: 

What color is water? 

" Lest you think that I am quibbling over minor points of language, I 
note 
that in my experience many of the misconceptions people harbor have their 
origins in imprecise language... Precise language is needed in science, 
not to please pedants but to avoid absorbing nonsense that will take 
years, if ever, to purge from our minds. " - Dr. Craig F. Bohren, 
Physicist 

 THE MISCONCEPTIONS: 

also: 
 Electricity Misconceptions 

 Static Electric Misconceptions 

 SCIENTISTS USE THE SCIENTIFIC METHOD? not quite.
 LAKES AND OCEANS ARE BLUE BECAUSE THEY REFLECT THE BLUE SKY? No.
 CLOUDS REMAIN ALOFT BECAUSE WATER DROPLETS ARE TINY? Wrong!
 THE SKY IS BLUE BECAUSE OF COMPLICATED PHYSICS No, it's simple.
 A LEMON-BATTERY CAN LIGHT A FLASHLIGHT BULB? doesn't work!
 SOUND TRAVELS BETTER THROUGH SOLIDS & LIQUIDS? No it doesn't.
 GRAVITY IN SPACE IS ZERO? It's actually strong.
 FILLED AND EMPTY BALLOONS DEMONSTRATE THE WEIGHT OF AIR? Misleading.
 GASES ALWAYS EXPAND TO FILL THEIR CONTAINERS? Not quite.
 FRICTION IS CAUSED BY SURFACE ROUGHNESS? Obsolete idea!

 ICE SKATES FUNCTION BY MELTING ICE VIA PRESSURE? nope.
 THE EARTH HAS 92 CHEMICAL ELEMENTS? 
 LIGHT FROM THE SUN IS PARALLEL LIGHT? The sun is *wide*!
 A WING'S LIFTING FORCE IS CAUSED BY ITS SHAPE? , no, by trailing edge angle.
 FOR EVERY ACTION, THERE IS AN EQUAL AND OPPOSITE REACTION? Newton said otherwise.
 BEN FRANKLIN'S KITE WAS STRUCK BY LIGHTNING? He'd have died.
 THE MAIN LENS OF YOUR EYE IS INSIDE THE EYE? 
 WHEN ONE PRISM SPLITS LIGHT INTO COLORS, A SECOND IDENTICAL PRISM CAN RECOMBINE THEM? 
 CLOUDS, FOG, AND SHOWER-ROOM MIST ARE MADE OF WATER VAPOR? 
 RAINDROPS HAVE POINTS? 

 "Errors, like straws, upon the surface flow; He who would search for
pearls must dive below." - John Dryden

 AIR IS ALMOST ENTIRELY WEIGHTLESS? 
 SHADOWS VANISH ON CLOUDY DAYS BECAUSE THE SUN ISN'T BRIGHT ENOUGH? 
 INFRARED LIGHT IS A FORM OF HEAT? 
 THERE ARE SEVEN COLORS IN THE RAINBOW? 
 THE EARTH'S NORTH AND SOUTH MAGNETIC POLES RESIDE JUST BELOW THE SURFACE? 
 LASER LIGHT IS "IN PHASE" LIGHT? 
 LASER LIGHT IS PARALLEL LIGHT? 
 LASERS ARE COHERENT BECAUSE ATOMS EMIT IN PHASE? 
 IRON AND STEEL ARE THE ONLY STRONGLY MAGNETIC MATERIALS? 
 RE-ENTERING SPACECRAFT ARE HEATED BY AIR FRICTION? 

 CARS AND AIRPLANES ARE SLOWED DOWN BY AIR FRICTION? 
 THE NORTH MAGNETIC POLE OF THE EARTH IS IN THE NORTH? 
 SALT WATER IS FULL OF SODIUM CHLORIDE MOLECULES? 
 LIGHT AND RADIO WAVES ALWAYS TRAVEL AT "THE SPEED OF LIGHT"? 

also: 
 Electricity Misconceptions 

 Static Electric Misconceptions 

That's the way all the
books were: They said things that were useless, mixed-up, ambiguous,
confusing, and partially incorrect. How anybody can learn science from
these books, I don't know, because it's not science. - RP Feynman , in 
 Judging Books By Their Covers 

 Want books? Try searching

amazon.com : 

 (try "science projects" too) 

CORRECT: There is no single list called "The Scientific Method." It is a myth. 

See the links and references below.

The rules of a science-fair typically require that students follow THE
SCIENTIFIC METHOD, or in other words, hypothesis-experiment-conclusion. 
The students must propose a hypothesis and test it by experiment. This
supposedly is the "Scientific Method" used by all scientists. 
Supposedly, if you don't follow the rigidly defined "Scientific Method" 
listed in K-6 textbooks, then you're not doing science. (Some science
fairs even ban astronomy and paleontology projects. After all, where's
the "experiment" in these?) 

Unfortunately this is wrong, and there is no single "Scientific Method"
as such. Scientists don't follow a rigid procedure-list called "The
Scientific Method" in their daily work. The procedure-list is a myth
spread by K-6 texts. It is an extremely widespread myth, and even some
scientists have been taken in by it, but this doesn't make it any more
real. "The Scientific Method" is part of school and school books, and is
not how science in general is done. Real scientists use a large variety
of methods (perhaps call them methods of science rather than "The
Scientific Method.") Hypothesis / experiment / conclusion is one of
these, and it's very important in experimental science such as physics
and chemistry, but it's certainly not the only method. It would be a
mistake to elevate it above all others. We shouldn't force children to
memorize any such procedure list. And we shouldn't use it to exclude
certain types of projects from science fairs! If "The Scientific Method"
listed in a grade school textbook proves that Astronomy is not a science, 
then it's the textbook which is wrong, not Astronomy. 

 "Ask a scientist what he conceives the scientific method to be and he 
adopts an expression that is at once solemn and shifty-eyed: solemn, 
because he feels he ought to declare an opinion; shifty-eyed because he is 
wondering how to conceal the fact that he has no opinion to declare." 
 - Sir Peter Medawar 

There are many parts of science that cannot easily be forced into the mold
of "hypothesis-experiment-conclusion." Astronomy is not an experimental
science, and Paleontologists don't perform Paleontology experiments... 
so is it not proper Science if you study stars or classify extinct 
creatures? 

Or, if a scientist has a good idea for designing a brand new kind of 
measurement instrument (e.g. Newton and the reflecting telescope) 
...that's certainly "doing science." Humphrey Davy says "Nothing tends so 
much to the advancement of knowledge as the application of a new 
instrument." But where is 'The Hypothesis?' Where is 'The Experiment?' The 
Atomic Force Microscope (STM/AFM) revolutionized science. Yet if a mere 
science student had actually invented the very first reflector telescope 
or the very first AFM, wouldn't such a device be rejected from many school 
science fairs? After all, it's not an experiment, and the list named "The 
Scientific Method" says nothing about exploratory observation. Some 
science teachers would reject the discovery of the Tunneling Microscope as 
science; calling it 'mere engineering.' Yet like the Newtonian reflector, 
the tunneling microscope is a revolution that opened up an entire new 
branch of science. Since it's instrument-inventing, not 
hypothesis-testing, must we exclude it as science? Were the creators of 
the STM not doing science when they came up with that device? In 
defining Science, the Nobel prize committee disagrees with the science 
teachers and science fair judges. The researchers who created the STM won 
the 1986 
Nobel prize in physics. I'd say that if someone wins a Nobel prize in 
the sciences, it's a good bet that their work qualifies as "science." 

Forcing kids to follow a caricature of scientific research distorts
science, misleads generations of students, and it really isn't necessary 
in the first place. 

Another example: great discoveries often come about when scientists notice
anomalies. They see something inexplicable during past research, and 
that triggers some new research. Or sometimes they notice something 
weird out in Nature; something not covered by modern theory. Isaac Asimov 
said it well: 

"The most exciting phrase to hear
in science, the one that heralds new discoveries, is not 'Eureka!' (I
found it!) but 'That's funny...' " 

This suggests that lots of important science comes NOT from proposing
hypotheses or even from performing experiments, but instead comes from
unguided observation and curiosity-driven exploration: from sniffing 
about while
learning to see what nobody else can see. Scientific discovery comes from
something resembling "informed messing around," or unguided play. Yet
the "Scientific Method" listed in textbooks says nothing about this. 
Intest their 
lists start out with "form a hypothesis." As a result, educators treat
science as deadly serious business, and "messing around" is sometimes
dealt with harshly. See: science teacher satire .

"Let me state the method position as follows: 'There is something called 
the scientific method, and someone who understands this method will be 
able to understand all of science, regardless of the specific subject 
matter that person has been taught. Thus the goal of science education 
should be to teach that method.' 
It's hard for me to understand how anyone 
could hold a position that is so clearly untenable." Dr. James Trefil, 
"Two Modest Proposals Concerning Scientific Literacy."

 BOOKS 

 The Art of Scientific Investigation 
 Advice to a Young Scientist 
 The Seeds of Discovery 
 Scientific literacy and the myth of the scientific method 
 Fifteen Myths of Science (McComas lecture on DVD)

 ARTICLES: 

 Nature of Science: dispelling the myths .pdf (McComas 1998)
 Quiz on myths of science .pdf (TST Nov '04)
 Ten Science Myths (McComas)
 Neuroscience of Screwing Up Wired
 Berkeley Understanding Science 
 MCREL standards: III #1 no fixed Scientific Method 
 What is Science? R. Feynman
 Scientific Methods (Denker)
 The Scientific Method (Simanek)
 On Scientific Method (Bridgman)
 About Science (Stanbrough)
 Theories DON'T become laws 
 Dispelling Common Science Myths 
 An improved version: What Is Science? (about.com)
 The REAL Scientific Method (humor)

" Why should there be the method of science? There is not just one way 
to build a house, or even to grow tomatoes. We should not expect something as 
motley as the growth of knowledge to be strapped to one methodology. "
-Ian Hacking

CORRECT: The ocean is blue because water is a blue substance.

Many people are sure that bodies of water are blue because the water 
reflects the sky. But wouldn't this only make the shiny 
surface-reflections look blue? And doesn't water sometimes 
 remain blue on 
cloudy days ? Exactly. There's no mystery here; water looks blue 
because water *is* blue. Pure water is a blue chemical. It's not just 
the sky that creates the colors we see.

What color is water? 
(Wbeaty youtube 1:08)

But what if you pour yourself a drink; in that case the water is clear,
right? Well ...it's not blue as far as your eyes can tell. But what if
the water in your cup actually was very very slightly blue. You'd
never see it. You'd only notice the blue color if your cup was many feet
wide. 

In fact, that's exactly how it works: pure water is nearly clear, but it's
very very slightly blue. A small amount of water is too thin a layer, so 
a small
amount looks clear rather than blue. But look through thirty feet of
water, especially with a white sandy bottom, and you'll see a strong 
color. Gaze 
into a hundred feet of deep
pure mountain lake water against a white rocky bottom on a sunny day
You'll see 
exactly what color the water
actually has. Yet if you scoop a canteen full of that lake water, it will
seem totally clear.

See: 
 - "Why is water blue?" J. Chem. Edu., 1993,70(8), 612 

 - Causes of Color 
( idea.org )

 - London South Bank U.: Water absorption spectrum 

 - Wikipedia: Color of 
Water 

To see some obvious blue, go to the Bahamas and compare the difference 
between the white sand beaches, the underwater sand in shallow water, and 
the sand in deeper water:

 Bahamas: Man o War 
Cay 
 Bahamas: Cat 
island 

 CORRECT: The sky is blue because air is blue.

This one isn't purely a textbook error. Still, it involves misconceptions 
on the part of authors. 

Why is "the sky" colored blue? Usually the books start going on about 
wavelengths 
of light, Tyndall effect, and Rayleigh scattering. It's a bit much for
young children. First the books try to teach some correct but complicated
physics. Then they use it to explain blue sky and sunsets. But what
happens when kids don't understand the physics? Doesn't this make the
explanation useless? And do the kids just give up? 

It's all wrong: you don't need complicated physics to understand this. 
The sky is blue for a very simple reason:

 The Earth's atmosphere is not a perfectly transparent 
material. Instead it is blue! 

Take away the air, and we'd see the same black daytime seen by the lunar 
astronauts. No air, no blue. There is no "sky" up there; no solid 
surface. All we're seeing is sunlit air. 

A cloud of air looks blue for much the same reason that a cloud of 
powder looks white. 
 Powder isn't invisible . Neither is air. Throw some dust upwards 
on a sunny 
day and you'll see a visible white cloud. But what happens if you could
throw some AIR? You might think that a cloud of air would be invisible. 
You'd be wrong. Air isn't invisible, instead its molecules scatter light 
in the same way that any small particles do. Deposit a huge cloud of air 
onto 
the surface of the airless moon, and you'd see its bright blue color 
against the 
blackness of hard vacuum. Air is a powdery-blue
substance. (But then... shouldn't air be a white substance. Yes! And 
that's where the complicated physics comes in: explaining why air looks 
blue rather than white.) 

The color of air can be confusing because air seems transparent. Capture 
a jar full of air, but you see no color. It's true that small amounts of 
air are almost perfectly transparent. But so are small amounts of water. 
Go to an opaque muddy river or pond and use a cup to dip out some water. 
The water looks fairly clear, no? Yet the deep river is opaque brown. 
Whenever you try to look through ten cups of water, or a hundred cups, the 
water seems to turn into opaque brown paint. Yet a single cup of river 
water almost looks clean. 

Air behaves similarly. A mile of air looks clear, but ten miles of
air looks misty blue, and a thousand miles of air looks opaque white. 
The air is acting like the dirty river water where a thin layer looks
colorless but a thick layer does not. Air acts like a fogbank where 
distant objects are invisible, yet you can see your own hand just 
fine. 

"The sky" is blue because air is a powdery blue material; a collection of 
tiny specks, and when the sun 
shines upon it, we can see this blue color. Each molecule of air behaves
like mote of dust. Stare upwards on a sunny day, and
you're looking into a thick cloud of brightly-lit air. (Note: there
really is no "sky" up there at all. The sky is an illusory surface. 
You're not really looking at a blue surface. There is no "sky" 
which is colored blue, instead you're just seeing
the Earth's layer of blue air against the blackness of outer space. )

OK, suppose you could go far out into space away from the Earth, then 
build yourself a thin hollow glass bubble a thousand miles wide. Viewed 
from the Earth, your empty glass bubble would be almost invisible. OK, 
now fill your bubble with air. It won't be invisible any more. It will 
look like a giant droplet of bright blue paint. It probably even looks 
whitish in the middle, since very thick layers of air seem as white as 
milk. What if you let your giant glass bubble crash into the moon? The 
air inside would pour out over the moon's surface and form a thick 
temporary layer of atmosphere. The moon wouldn't look white anymore. It 
would have the same blue borders that Earth has. 

Photos of sunlit air, observed against black space:

 Astronomy Picture of the Day: Moonrise 
 Spacewalk ,
 Spacewalk 2 

OK, now here's a question. Smoke is white, milk is white, and powder is
white. A big cloud of particles should look like white smoke, not like 
blue dye. Why is air blue? Shouldn't it look white? And even more important, why
are sunsets red? (Does this mean that air is also a red substance?!!
I'd have to say yes!) Air is colored reddish for transmitted light, but
it's color is bluish for reflected light. The color of air is not fixed, 
instead it's like opal jewlery: the color changes with viewing angle.

Ah, if you start asking why air acts like this, *now* you finally need the
advanced physics explanations. Many physics books will explain Rayleigh
scattering; explain why an air molecule looks like a bluish dust mote, 
but looks reddish when lit from behind.

 CORRECT: 
Clouds actually remain aloft because they are warm inside.

Clouds are heavy. Evaporated water (the H2O gas) is not heavy, it 
actually is 
less dense than air, so
moist air rises. But when the water-gas condenses to form clouds, it
contracts by about 1000 times and turns into very dense liquid water. 
(Imagine that the helium in a balloon condensed into a liquid. Would a
tiny liquid-filled balloon still be buoyant? Nope.) 

Even a small 
cloud contains
many tons of liquid water. How can clouds remain aloft? 

Many sources claim that clouds remain aloft because the water droplets are
so small and widely separated that gravity has less effect on them. This is
wrong. It doesn't matter if you break up a body of water into tiny
droplets; its weight remains the same. You can't fool gravity. If a
cloud contains tons of water, it will be pulled down to the Earth's
surface with the same force whether the water forms a cloud or whether it 
forms raindrops. The answer lies elsewhere. 

Some sources claim that clouds remain aloft because of updrafts: because
the air had been rising, and the rising air blows the cloud droplets
upwards. Wrong again: 
An updraft
should be quickly halted as soon as the low-density water vapor turns
into a dense liquid. The excess weight will slow the updraft, 
stop it, then reverse it. To keep clouds aloft, we'd need some sort of 
weirdly constant updraft, or one where thermal energy is being created, 
not an updraft that's easily reversed by a falling cloud. 

Still other sources claim that clouds stay up there because the droplets
are very tiny, so they settle through the air very slowly. This is true,
but it still doesn't explain how weighty water can remain aloft. Stop and 
think
a bit... if we have hundreds of tons of water, will its weight disappear
simply because it has been divided into tiny droplets? No, instead the
heavy droplets drag the surrounding air downwards as they fall. Air which 
contains
water droplets is denser than normal air. Its weight is increased by
almost exactly the weight of the suspended water droplets, which works out
to around 1/10 percent of the weight of the air in a particular volume.) 
Dense air falls fast! In other words, the tiny droplets will still race
downwards because they form heavy white cloud-stuff, and both the droplets 
and
the air between them will be dragged downwards by gravity. Anyone playing
with humidifier fog 
knows this: dense white pours downwards like a liquid. Yet even some 
professional meteorologists are saying these
things about droplets. They should know better. 

So why *DO* clouds stay up there? Why don't they pour downwards to form a
ground-hugging fog? The answer is simple: the weight of the cloud's
droplets is countered by the buoyancy of heated air between the
droplets. Clouds are like hot air balloons! 

Whenever liquid water condenses from H2O gas, it releases thermal energy. 
When moist air turns into droplet-filled air, the droplets are hot, and
they warm the air too. The heated air expands and becomes less dense. 
Is this enough to stop the falling droplets? Yes, it's more than enough, 
and the warm foggy air flows upwards.
Clouds stay up there because they're significantly less dense on average 
than the surrounding air. In fact, if the water droplets should meld 
together, then fall out 
of the
cloud as rain, then the remaining hot air is no longer weighed down by
tons and tons of water, and it rises even more quickly. This low-density, 
upward 
moving warm air is the
"engine" which drives the violent updrafts in thunderstorms and
hurricanes. Hot air with its water removed no longer floats serenely
along as clouds, instead it can form upward jets with hurricane velocity. 

Try making this "Touch
The Clouds" device and you'll discover that droplet-filled air can be 
very
dense indeed. You can easily pour it from a pitcher and fill some cups. 
But we 
also know that hot air is less dense that cool air of the same pressure, 
so hot must rise through cooler air. Mix the two ideas together: dense 
air which is
full of water droplets becomes less dense when heated, and at a certain
higher temperature it should be buoyed upwards by the atmosphere even 
though 
it's still full of suspended mass-bearing water droplets. If we could 
make the 
humidifier-mist warm enough, it would rise and form indoor 
ceiling-clouds. 

More thinking: helium gas rises in air, but liquid helium does not. 
Liquid helium is heavy, like liquid water (though not quite as heavy as an
equal quantity of water.) 

So, what happens when helium gas
condenses into liquid? It shrinks greatly, becoming more dense than the
surrounding air, then it dribbles downwards like any liquid. It falls
downwards if it's a large blob of liquid, and it falls downward even if it
takes the form of tiny droplets. If the helium in a balloon was changed
into liquid, the balloon would fall. The same is true of water. Water
vapor (h2o gas,) like helium, is lighter than air, and it will rise. 
However, if that vapor should condense into droplets, it greatly contracts
in size and greatly increases in density. A cloud of water droplets is
heavy, and on average it should fall downwards. Even if the 
droplets are 
so tiny
that they individually settle slowly, the droplets together have
significant weight, so the droplets should drag the air downwards as they
go. The dense, droplet-filled air may fall quite quickly, even though the
individual droplets remain "stuck in the air" because of forces of
viscosity. 

Whenever vapor condenses to form droplets, it releases "heat of
condensation" which causes the remaining air to expand. The warm air can
expand even MORE than the volume left empty by the condensing vapor,
causing the average density to fall and causing clouds to rise upwards
rather than just float. When clouds first form, they usually pour 
upwards, not
downwards. They're a bit too warm, so they try to rise to a higher level.

 Wrong: 
Scientific American "Ask an Expert" Tell them to calculate the heat
released by condensation of cloud water, the temperature of resulting air,
and the weight of a 1KM cloud compared to 1KM of nearby air which is 
cooler yet droplet-free.
 Wrong: New Scientist "Last Word" 
 Wrong: National Geographic Kids 
 Wrong: UK ScienceLine 
 Wrong: Star Tribune: kid's weather questions 
 Wrong: Madsci: ask an expert 
 Wrong: U. Indiana Moment in Science 
 Wrong: U. Corp. Atmos Research 
 Wrong: NASA p.u.m.a.s. (they even mention "lighter than air"... then deny it! 

 Wrong: 

 Wrong: Starbase outreach pgm 

Correct:

 Steve's Weather FAQ 

n 

 CORRECTED: A single lemon battery cannot light a flashlight bulb 

Some gradeschool science books contain "experiments" which do not
work. The 
prism experiment below is one of them. Another is the "lemon battery" 
or "potato battery" used to run a flashlight bulb. If you stick some 
copper and zinc
into a single lemon, this "battery" does create a small voltage. Touch 
your
lemon-cell to the wires of a loudspeaker or headphones and you'll hear a
clicking sound. Connect it to an old-style panel meter (a voltmeter or 
milliamp-meter; the kind with the
moving needle,) and your lemon can make the meter needle move. Three or
four lemon-cells connected in series can run an LCD digital clock or 
light up a red Light Emitting Diode LED. (If you try the digital clock or 
LED, remember that polarity is important, and if it doesn't work, try 
reversing the connections.) 

HOWEVER... the lemon's electrical output is far too feeble to 
light up a
standard flashlight bulb. Same with motors, buzzers, etc. The lemon
battery is too weak. The experiment described in the books doesn't
work. 

How can I be certain? All those books say one thing, and I'm just 
one person who says differently. Doesn't the majority rule? No, 
because science is based on reality staying the same, and Nature ignores 
what humans vote upon. It doesn't matter how many books say that 
lemon batteries can light a flashlight bulb. Nature can't be 
fooled. 

Let's look at a real world example: I stick a fairly wide copper 
strip and a similar zinc strip into 
a lemon. (This works much better than copper pennies or zinc nails.) 
Clean the strips with sandpaper beforehand.
First use the strips to tear up the inside of the lemon, then insert the
metal strips very close together to give best results. The area of each
"battery plate" is around 1 inch square. Measured voltage: 0.91V. 
Measured short-circuit current: two milliamps (0.002 Amps) immediately
decreasing to a constant half a milliamp (0.0005 amps.) What does this
mean? Well, a typical flashlight bulb draws an ENTIRE QUARTER OF AN 
AMPERE when lit. Not a half-milliamp, but 250 milliamps or 0.250 Amps. 
To light up a normal flashlight bulb, you'd need
500 lemons wired in parallel! 0.2500amps / 0.0005amps = 500 lemons.

However, there are specialized light bulbs which draw very tiny currents. 
Maybe the experiments in the books weren't talking about a standard 
flashlight bulb? (Most of them never say. But I'll give them the benefit 
of the doubt, although perhaps I shouldn't.)
From Radio Shack we can get a #272-1139 incandescent bulb which only draws
around fifteen milliamps (0.015 amps) at 0.7 volts when lit very dimly in 
a darkened room. This is the most sensitive incandescent bulb I've ever 
encountered. To light this bulb we only need 0.0150A/0.0005A = 30
lemons wired in parallel. THIRTY LEMONS. And the bulb is so dim that you 
can't see the glow unless the room is dark. But wasn't the lemon's 
electric current higher
at the start? 0.002 amps, not 0.0005 amps? Yes, so with only TEN LEMONS
wired in parallel, maybe we could cause the special hyper-sensitive light
bulb to blink on for a second or two before going dark.

This still translates into " the experiment doesn't work ." One 
single lemon cannot 
light up any sort of incandescent bulb. At best we can use several lemons 
to light an LED. 

If a science book contains the lemon battery 
bulb-lightning experiment, it means that the author never performed the 
experiment to see if it works. LOTS of books and websites say that a 
single lemon can light a flashlight bulb. Every single one of these is 
wrong. The mistake is like a kind of infection. If you aren't careful, 
then your 
science website can catch a disease! 

Can't we build a larger lemon-juice battery in a jar which will light a 
small bulb? 
Yes, but your battery needs to be fairly large; much larger than a couple
of metal parts stuck into a lemon. At the very least you'll need a jar
for the juice, plus some sheets of copper and zinc several inches wide. 
If you don't have that special Radio Shack bulb, then you'll need more 
than one lemon-juice jar hooked in series to make the 1.5 volts needed by 
a standard flashlight bulb. (I'll try building one of these and report 
back about how large the copper and zinc plates must be.) 

If you really want to light up a small lightbulb, why not build an ELECTRIC GENERATOR 
instead? 

 How to cheat! There is a secret way to make a lemon-cell light up
an incandescent bulb. You have to cheat. Buy yourself a "super
capacitor" or "memory backup capacitor" via mail-order surplus. They
cost a few dollars. You want a value between 0.1 farad and 0.5 farads. 
Try one of these suppliers: All Electronics Electronics Goldmine Jameco Electronics 

To light a bulb, first build a lemon battery and connect it to the 
terminals of the supercapacitor. (Me, I use alligator clip-leads bought 
from Radio Shack.) 
Wait for a few minutes. Now connect your flashlight bulb to
the supercapacitor terminals and it should light brightly for a few
seconds. (If not, then remove the bulb and try connecting your lemon cell
to the capacitor for 15 minutes to make sure the capacitor gathers enough
energy.) The capacitor slowly collects electrical energy from the lemon
battery, then it dumps that energy into the flashlight bulb over a very
short time. You can even use this trick to let your lemon battery run
a low-voltage buzzer or turn a small motor (look for "solar cell
motors" from various mail order suppliers or Radio Shack.) As with the 
bulb, you must
charge up the capacitor for many minutes, then use it to run your bulb or
motor for a few seconds. 

It's not an ideal experiment, and it's hard to explain how capacitors 
work. But it's easier than trying to connect thirty lemon-cells in 
parallel!

 Four lemons light an LED 
 Note about Lemon energy 
 Tongue tingle, but no lightbulb 
 Digital watch yes, lightbulb no 
 Google search for websites with the bad lemon experiment 

 CORRECTED: 
Ice skates do not function by melting ice via pressure 

It is commonly stated that ice skates have low friction because ice melts
when pressure is applied to it. This is not quite correct. A
demonstration using an ice cube, a wire, and two weights is often provided
to illustrate the phenomena. However, while pressure does affect the
melting point of ice, the pressure provided by the skates is not enough to
melt ice except when the temperature is a fraction of a degree below 0C. 
Also, the icecube and wire demonstration is very misleading because it is
always performed in a heated room, and the wire doesn't melt ice entirely
by pressure, it melts the ice by thermal conduction of warm room
temperature along the wire. (Also, narrow gaps in ice always freeze closed
because the simultaneous melt/freeze process at water/ice boundary acts to
flatten points and fill crevices) Another point: the weight of small
objects is too low to create high pressure, yet small objects do
experience low friction when on ice. The low friction of ice is probably
caused by a layer of liquid water a few hundred molecules thick which
always spontaneously develops on the surface of ice. Also, melting from
frictional heating can provide liquid water as lubrication. Here's more on this whole
debate, and also a bit from BAD
CHEMISTRY 

 CORRECTED: there are not 92 elements on Earth 

Uranium has the highest atomic number of the elements commonly found in
the environment, and some books will tell you that there are 92 elements
found on earth: atomic numbers 1 through 92 (hydrogen
through uranium). This is wrong. Unfortunately there are two elements below Uranium
which are radioactive and have extremely short half lives. These are
Technetium and Promethium. These two elements do not occur naturally on
Earth, and this reduces the total number of elements found
in the environment to 90. However, in the 1970s a natural uranium reactor
was found in an ancient streambed in Africa, and the mineral deposits at
the site contained traces of a long-lived 
Plutonium isotope (atomic number 94.) This brings the
total number of elements on the Earth back up to 91. (Note: Technetium,
though not found naturally on Earth, is present in some stars, detected by
spectral analysis.) See THE PHYSICS TEACHER, Vol.27 No.4 p282 

 Light from the sun is parallel? Nope. 

Some books state that because the sun is so far away, sunlight arriving at
the Earth is almost perfectly parallel. This is incorrect. The book 
authors
reason that, the more distant the object, the more parallel the light, and
since the sun is so far away, sunlight is perfectly parallel. They make a
mistake. While it is true that light from *each tiny point* on the sun's
surface is just about perfectly parallel by the time it reaches our eyes,
light from the sun as a whole is not. This is because the sun, though
very distant, is very large. A similar situation exists with light from
the sky. We wouldn't say that the blue sky emits parallel light. Yet
light from the sky comes from many miles away. 

Because the sun is a disk, it creates shadows with fuzzy edges called 
"penumbras."
If sunlight were perfectly parallel, there would be some interesting
effects which are usually covered up by these fuzzy edges.
First
of all, if sunlight was genuinely parallel, then to us the sun would look 
like a very bright
point, like an intensely bright star or a welding arc. Also, shadows on
the ground would lack penumbras and be almost perfectly sharp. Without
the penumbras, diffraction of light waves would be revealed, and parallel 
dark
and bright lines would appear at the edges of shadows. At nightfall the
advancing shadows of distant mountains would be seen to race across the
ground. During sunset the brilliant pointlike sun wouldn't gradually sink 
below the horizon,
instead it would wink out. During the day the variations in air density
would cause the ground to be covered by moving patterns of light; patterns
similar to those seen on the bottom of a swimming pool but in this case
made by "waves" in the sky. Solar and lunar eclipses would lack
penumbrae. Looking at the sun might burn your retina, since the parallel
light would be focused to a tiny point. And if sunlight were perfectly
parallel, a large convex lens could concentrate sunlight into an intense
pinpoint rather than into a small disk. Also, a if a small concave lens
were placed near the focus of a large convex lens, the pair lenses could 
be used to concentrate sunlight and form it into a thin, dangerously 
powerful parallel beam. Try doing this with the real sun, and all you get 
is a large, projected image of the sun's disk. 

CORRECTED: with an aircraft wing, the lifting force does not come
from the difference in curvature between the top and bottom surfaces. 

First read the entire: wings/lift webpage 

Some books say that the lifting force appears
because the wing's upper surface is longer than the 
lower surface. 
They state that air dividing at the leading edge of the wing must rejoin
at the trailing edge, therefore the upper air stream must move faster, and
so the wing is pulled upwards by the Bernoulli effect. This is not
correct: the air divided by the leading edge 
 does NOT rejoin at the
trailing edge, and there is no "race" to catch up. 

The same books often 
contain a misleading diagram showing a
flat-bottomed wing with flow lines of the surrounding air. (see below.)
This diagram actually shows a zero-lift condition. The lifting force is 
zero because the air behind the airfoil does not descend. In order to 
create 
lift in a three-dimensional situation, a wing must deflect air 
downwards .

Both the explanation and the diagram have serious problems. They wrongly
imply that inverted flight is impossible. They wrongly imply that an 
aircraft with a symmetrical wing (a wing with equal
pathlengths above and below) will not fly. They also
wrongly suggest that an aircraft can violate the conservation of momentum 
by remaining aloft without reacting against the air, and without causing a
downward motion of the air. 

Yet upside-down flight is far from
impossible; it is a common aerobatic move. And many wings have equal
pathlengths, including even the thin cloth wings of the Wright Brothers'
flyer! And anyone standing under a slow, low-flying plane, or below the
thin, fast wings of a helicopter will know that there is a very great
downward flow of air below the wings. All of this indicates that there is
a serious problem with the "curved top, flat bottom" explanation. Below
is an alternative. 

Go listen to NPR Science Friday Radio Archive , where physicist D. Anderson 
debunks the various lifting-force myths.

Also see the NASA Aerodynamics Education site:

 "Longer Path" myth is debunked 
 Simple Newton Explanation is debunked 
 "Half Venturi" myth is debunked 
 "Lift is partly Newton, partly Bernoulli" myth is debunked 

Here's my attempt at a correct explanation:

As a plane flies, the leading edges of its wings have little effect on 
the 
air, while the 
trailing edges have a huge effect.
The wings' trailing edges always move through the air at an angle. 
This "effective angle
of attack" causes the wing to apply a downward force to the air. 
In order to create lift, the wing must be tilted. Or 
rather than being tilted, the wings can be curved or "cambered", 
which makes the trailing edge of the wing tilt downward at an angle. 
The trailing edges of the wings cause the departing air to move downwards at an angle. As a 
result, the wing is pushed
upwards and backwards. (These two pushes are called "lift" and "induced 
drag.") 

The tilted lower surface of the wing causes air to move down, but that's
not the only thing. The TOP of the wing also guides the 
flowing air. This is called "flow attachment" or "Coanda Effect."
As the wing moves forward, the air ABOVE the wing moves down, and the 
wing is forced upwards.

In other words, as any plane flies, its wings must send a stream of air 
diagonally
downwards, and the wing acts like a 'reaction engine' just
like a jet engine or a rocket. Unless a wing is either tilted or 
cambered, it cannot force the air downwards and cannot generate any 
"lift." 

It may help to imagine a hovering
helicopter: a helicopter can hover because its rotor applies a downward
force to the air, and the air applies an upward force to the rotor. As a
result, the air flows downwards while the upward force supports the 
craft.
But like any airplane, a helicopter rotor is a moving wing, and it's this 
small tilted wing which
sends the air downwards. Like any wing, helicopter rotors are reaction 
engines, they
push air downwards, and the air pushes them upwards. They are not "sucked
upwards," and neither are airplanes. 

You may have seen a plane's downwash of air in movies: a "cropduster"
plane sends out a trail of fertilizer mist, and the trail of mist does not
float, instead it moves immediately down into the crops, driven downward
by the moving air. Air from wings can even be dangerous: if a plane flies
too low, the downwash from its wings can knock people over. 

The "Bernoulli effect" is still true. It explains how the top of the 
wing is able to "pull downwards" on
the air flowing over it. And the Bernoulli Effect proves extremely useful 
in calculations
of the lifting force during classes in airplane physics and during
experimental work in aerodynamics. But airplanes also obey Newton's 
laws: accelerate some air downwards, and you'll experience an upwards 
force.

 WEBSITE: Airfoil misconceptions in K-6 textbooks 
 SOME EMAIL DEBATE 
 My improved explanation: DISK BALLOONS 

 Sound travels better through solids? No. 

Many elementary textbooks say that sound travels better through solids and
liquids than through air, but they are incorrect. In fact, air, solids,
and liquids
are nearly transparent to sound waves. Some authors use an experiment to
convince us differently: place a solid ruler so it touches both a ticking
watch and your ear, and the sound becomes louder. Doesn't this prove that
wood is better than air at conducting sound? Not really, because sound
has an interesting property not usually mentioned in the books:
waves of sound traveling inside a solid will bounce off the air outside
the solid. 
The experiment with the ruler merely proves that a wooden rod can act as a
sort of "tube," and it will guide sounds to your head which would
otherwise spread in all directions in the air. A hollow pipe can also be
used to guide the ticking sounds to your head, thus illustrating that air
is a good conductor after all. Sound in a solid has difficulty getting
past a crack in the solid, just as sound in the air has difficulty getting
past a wall. Solids, liquids, and air are nearly equal as sound
conductors.

It's true that the speed of sound differs in each material,
but this does not affect how well they conduct. "Faster" doesn't mean
"better." It is true that their transparency is not exactly the same, but
this only is important when sound travels a relatively great distance
through each material. It's also true that complex combinations of
materials conduct sound differently and may act as sound absorbers
(examples: water with clouds of bubbles, mixtures of various solids, air
filled with rain or snow.) And last: when you strike one object with
another, the
sound created inside the solid object is louder than the sound created in
the surrounding air. So, before we try to prove that solids are better
conductors, we had better make sure that we aren't accidentally putting
louder sound into the solids in the first place. 

 Gravity in space is zero? Wrong. 

Everyone knows that the gravity in outer space is zero. Everyone is
wrong. Gravity in space is not zero, it can actually be fairly strong. 
Suppose you climbed to the top of a ladder that's about 300 miles tall. 
You would be up in the vacuum of space, but you would not be weightless at
all. You'd only weigh about fifteen percent less than you do on the
ground. While 300 miles out in space, a 115lb person would weigh about
100lb. Yet a spacecraft can orbit 'weightlessly' at the height of your
ladder! While you're up there, you might see the Space Shuttle zip right
by you. The people inside it would seem as weightless as always. Yet on
your tall ladder, you'd feel nearly normal weight. What's going on?

 The reason that the shuttle astronauts act weightless is that
they're inside a container which is FALLING! If the shuttle were to sit
unmoving on top of your ladder (it's a strong ladder,) the shuttle would
no longer be falling, and its occupants would feel nearly normal weight. 
And if you were to leap from your ladder, you would feel just as
weightless as an astronaut (at least you'd feel weightless until you hit
the ground!)

 So, if the orbiting shuttle is really falling, why doesn't it hit
the earth? It's because the shuttle is not only falling down, it is 
moving
very
fast sideways as it falls, so it falls in a curve. It moves so fast that
the curved path of its fall is the same as the curve of the earth, so the
Shuttle falls and falls and never comes down. Gravity strongly affects
the astronauts in a spacecraft: the Earth is strongly pulling on them
so they fall towards it. But they are moving sideways so fast that they
continually miss the Earth. This process is called "orbiting," and the
proper
word for the seeming lack of gravity is called "Free Fall." You
shouldn't say that astronauts are "weightless," because if you do, then
anyone and anything that is falling would also be "weightless." When you 
jump out of an airplane, do you become weightless? And if you
drop a book, does gravity stop affecting it; should you say it becomes
weightless? If so, then why does it fall? If "weight" is the force which
pulls objects towards the Earth, then this force is still there even when
objects fall.

 So, to experience GENUINE free fall just like the astronauts,
simply jump into the air! Better yet, jump off a diving board at the
pool, or bounce on a trampoline, or go skydiving. Bungee-jumpers know
what the astronauts experience. 

Space isn't remote at all. It's only an hour's drive away if your car 
could go straight upwards. --Fred Hoyle

 CORRECTED: For every action, there is not an
equal and opposite reaction. 

Newton originally published his laws of motion in Latin, and in the
English translation, the word "action" was used in a different way than
it's usually used today. It was not used to suggest motion. Instead it
was used to mean "an acting upon." It was used in much the same way that
the word "force" is used today. What Newton's third law of motion means
is this:

 For every "acting upon", there must be an equal 
"acting upon" in the opposite direction.

Or in modern terms...

 For every FORCE applied, there must be an equal FORCE
in the opposite direction.

So while
it's true that a skateboard does fly backwards when the rider steps off
it, these motions of "action" and "reaction" are not what 
Newton 
was investigating. Newton was actually referring to the fact that when 
you push on something, it pushes back upon you equally, even if it
does not move. When a bowling ball pushes down on the Earth, the 
Earth pushes up
on the bowling ball by the same amount. That is a good illustration of
Newton's third Law. Newton's Third Law can be
rewritten to say: 

 For every force there is an equal and opposite force. 

Or "you cannot touch without being touched." 

Or even
simpler: Forces always exist in pairs.

 CORRECTED: Ben Franklin's kite was never struck by 
lightning 

Many people believe that Ben Franklin's kite was hit by a lightning
bolt, and this is how he proved that lightning is electrical. A number
of books and even some encyclopedias say the same thing. They are wrong. 
When lightning strikes a kite, the electric current in the string is so
high that just the spreading electric currents in the ground can kill
anyone standing nearby, to say nothing of the person holding the string!
What Franklin actually did was to show that a kite would collect a tiny
bit of electrical charge-imbalance out of the sky during a thunderstorm.

Air is not a perfect insulator. The charges in a thunderstorm are 
constantly leaking downwards through the air and into the ground.
Electric leakage through the air caused Franklin's kite and string to 
become charged, and the hairs on the twine stood outwards. The twine was 
then used to charge a metal key, and tiny sparks could then be drawn from 
the key. Those tiny sparks were the only "lightning" in his experiment. 
(He used a metal object because sparks cannot be directly drawn from
the twine; it's conductive, but not conductive enough to make sparks.) 

His experiment told Franklin that some
stormclouds carry strong electrical charges, and it IMPLIED that lightning
was just a large electric spark. 

The common belief that Franklin easily
survived a lightning strike is not just wrong, it is dangerous: it may
convince kids that it's OK to duplicate the kite experiment as long as
they "protect" themselves by holding a silk ribbon and employing a metal
key. Make no mistake, Franklin's experiment was extremely dangerous. 
Lightning goes through miles of insulating air, and will not be stopped by
a piece of ribbon. If lightning had actually hit his kite, he would have 
been gravely injured, and most
probably would have died instantly. See LIGHTNING SURVIVOR RESOURCES 

 The main lens of your eye is inside the eye? Not quite. 

Some textbooks assume that the small lens found deep within the eyeball is the
eye's main lens, and the cornea of the eye is simply a protective window. 
The textbook diagrams even depict light rays passing into the eye and only
bending as they pass through this internal lens. But in the human eye,
the small lens found within the eyeball is not the main imaging lens. The
cornea is actually the main lens; it is the strongly curved transparent
front surface of the eye. Most of the bending of the light occurs at the
place where the light enters the surface of the cornea. When you look at
your eye in the mirror, you are looking directly at the eye's main lens. 
When you want to change the focusing power of your eye, you apply
"contact lenses" to the cornea surface, or you undergo surgery which
re-sculpts the cornea's curvature. The smaller lens inside the eye acts
only to alter the focus of the eye as a whole. Muscles change its shape
in order to correct the focus for near and far viewing. Without this
small internal lens, human vision would be blurry, and vision
would be
unable to accommodate for near and far views. But without the cornea lens,
[the human eye would be blind] IMPROVED VERSION: without the cornea 
lens, human
vision would rely upon the pinhole-camera effect of the eye's pupil,
and vision would be incredibly blurry. Open your eyes underwater in
dimly-lit conditions to see what vision would be like without a cornea.

 CORRECTED: when one prism splits light into colors, a 
second identical prism cannot recombine them. 

A single prism can split a sunbeam into a rainbow. Many children's
science books show how a second similar prism can be used to recombine the
colors. This is incorrect, two prisms do not work as shown. Prisms of two
DIFFERENT sizes can split and then focus the colors into momentary
recombination at a particular distance. With THREE prisms in a special
arrangement, the splitting
and complete recombining of colors can be accomplished. But books which
depict one prism splitting the colors and a second identical prism
recombining the colors into a single white beam are in error, and are no
doubt the source of endless frustration for those of us who try to
duplicate the effect with real prisms.

 The "rainbows" can also be recombined by placing a screen at just
the right place, and by bouncing the colors off many small mirrors so the
colored beams converge upon a screen. Recombination can also be done with
a convex lens or a concave mirror and a screen. I hope that very few
students will attempt to perform the color recombination experiment
depicted in their books, for disappointment awaits. (MORE) 

 Clouds, fog, and shower-room mist are water vapor? No. 

All three things are made of small droplets of liquid water hanging in
the air. When water
evaporates,
it turns into a transparent gas called "water vapor." When it condenses
again, it can take the form of rain, snow, rivers, and oceans, but it also
can take the
form of clouds, mist, fog, etc. Fog can make surfaces wet, but not
because of condensation. Instead, the fog droplets collide with the
solid surface. Fog is liquid water, not a vapor. Fly an ultralight
aircraft
slowly through a large dense cloud, and you'll become damp. To look for
water vapor, look at the bubbles in rapidly boiling water. Look at the
small empty space at the spout of a boiling teakettle. Look at the far
end of the teakettle's plume of mist, where the mist seems to vanish into
the air. Look at the empty air above a wet surface. In these situations
you see nothing, and that's where the vapor is. Water vapor seems
invisible because it is transparent. Clouds and fog are not transparent. 
They are composed of liquid droplets. 

 CORRECTED: raindrops don't have points!! 

Nearly every
drawing of raindrops depicts them as having a sharp upper point. This is
wrong. Surface tension of water acts like a stretched "bag" around the
water, and unless some other force is acting, it pulls the water into a
spherical shape. Our eyes do see tiny droplets as a blur, but a flash
photograph reveals that small raindrops are nearly spherical. The larger
ones are distorted by the pressure of moving air, but this doesn't make
points, it makes them somewhat flattened. Think of it this way:
underwater bubbles are not pointed as they rise, just as falling water
drops are not pointed as they fall. And while it's true that the SYMBOL
for water is a droplet with a point, REAL water droplets look nothing like
the symbol. And when water drips from a faucet, it never actually has a
point. Instead it has a narrow neck, and after the neck has snapped, it
is yanked back into the falling ball of water. See Dr. Fraser's BAD SCIENCE for
lots more about this. 

 Air is weightless? No. 

We are not conscious of
air's weight because we are immersed within it. In the same way, even a
large bag of water seems weightless when it is immersed in a water tank. 
The bag of water in the tank is 
supported by buoyancy. In a similar way,
buoyancy from the atmosphere makes a bag of air seem weightless when it's
surrounded by air. One way to discover the real weight of air would be to
take a bag of air into a vacuum chamber. Another way is to weigh a
pressurized and an unpressurized football. A cubic meter of air at 
sea-level pressure and 
0C temperature has a mass of 1.2KG. The non-metric rule of thumb says 
that the air that would fill a bathtub weighs about one pound. 
Here's a simple way to 
detect
the mass of air even though the air seems weightless: open an umbrella,
wiggle it slightly forwards and back, then close it and wiggle it again. 
When you wiggle it when open, you can feel its increased mass because of
the air the umbrella must carry with it. (Ah, but then we must explain 
the difference between weight and mass!) 

 CORRECTED: Filled and empty balloons do not demonstrate 
the weight of air. 

Many books contain a incorrect experiment which purports to directly
demonstrate that air has weight. A crude beam-balance is constructed
using a meter stick. Deflated rubber balloons are attached to the ends,
and the balance is adjusted. One balloon is then inflated, and that end
of the balance-beam is supposed to sag downwards. The demonstrator then 
explains that a large amount of air weighs more than a small amount of 
air. 

Unfortunately this experiment lies. When immersed in atmosphere, buoyancy
causes full and empty balloons to weigh the same. But then why does the
above experiment work? Usually it doesn't! In fact, the experiment will 
fail
unless you know the trick: you must inflate the balloon near to bursting. 
The experiment secretly relies on the fact that the air within a
high-pressure balloon is denser than air within a low pressure balloon. 
Of course the demonstrator never mentions this to the students, and the 
books which contain this demonstration don't mention density effects 
either.
Obviously the density effects do not DIRECTLY demonstration anything 
about the weigh of
air, so it's dishonest to tell students that this demonstration 
can directly weigh air. 

To illustrate the problem, try this instead: attach two opened paper bags
to the balance, adjust it, then crush one bag so it contains little air. 
The balance will not change. What does this teach 
your class; that air
is... weightless? Yet air does have significant weight. We just can't
detect this weight directly by using paper bags. Or balloons. 

Here's a way to make the experiment more honest. Perform the balance-beam
experiment again, but blow one balloon REALLY full so the rubber feels
hard and the balloon is about to pop. Blow up the second balloon so it is
ALMOST full, but still a bit stretchy. Try to keep the balloons almost 
the same
size. Now the balance will show that, even though the balloons are nearly
the same size, the "hard" balloon is heavier. Does this teach misleading
things to your class? No, instead it exposes the dishonesty of the
original demonstration. In truth, balloons filled with air will not weigh
more than empty ones as long as the balloons remain immersed in the 
atmosphere. However, COMPRESSED air does weigh more than
UNCOMPRESSED air. Perhaps this modified demonstration would be 
appropriate in more advanced classes. But this website is about 
K-6 grade science. 

Can we demonstrate the weight of water to a fish?
What if we lived underwater, how could we use the balance-beam to measure
the weight of water directly? The answer is that we cannot. If a
water-filled balloon and an uninflated balloon were compared underwater,
the experiment would show that they weigh the same, which seems to prove
that water is weightless. When underwater, a bag full of water weighs
just the same as a flattened bag which contains nothing. The situation
with air is similar: if we live our lives immersed within a sea of air,
we cannot use a balance to easily detect the actual weight of the air. (In
fact, a bathtub full of air weighs about a half kilogram, but we cannot
sense this weight while living in an atmosphere.) 

It's hard to teach the weight of water to the fishes, and hard to teach
the weight of air to human grade-schoolers. These experiments could only
work if performed in a vacuum environment (say, on the moon's surface.) We
humans are like fish underwater: we're not aware that our ocean of air has
any weight. 

To better demonstrate the weight of air directly, hook a heavy bottle to a
vacuum pump, pump all the air out, seal it, then weigh the bottle. Break
the seal and let the air in, then weigh it again. The difference in
weight is the weight of the air contained in the bottle. Another: use a
balance to compare the weight of two vacuum-containing bottles, then open
one of them so it becomes filled with air. The bottles will then weigh
differently, and the difference is the true weight of the air in one
bottle. Or another: build a balance using upside-down paper bags, then
place a candle below one of them, then remove the candle again. That bag
rises, indicating that a volume of warm air weighs slightly less than a
volume of cool air. (Don't set the bag on fire!!) But note that this
candle experiment says nothing simple and direct about the actual weight
of a volume of unheated air.

 CORRECTED: in the everyday world, gases do not expand to 
fill their containers. 

What is the difference between a liquid and a
gas? Both are "fluids", both can flow. Gases are USUALLY less dense than
liquids, although gases under fiercely high pressure can approach the
density of liquids, so that's not a good criterion. The main difference
is that gases are a different phase of matter: a gas can be made to
condense into a liquid form, and a liquid can be made to evaporate into
gas. Another major characteristic: because there are bonds between its
particles, when a liquid IS PLACED INTO A VACUUM ENVIRONMENT, it will not
expand continuously, while a gas in a vacuum chamber will expand
continuously until it hits the walls. 

This is very different from the oft-quoted rule that "gases always expand
to fill their containers." This rule only works correctly if the
container is totally empty: the container must "contain" a good
vacuum beforehand. However, we all live in a gas-filled environment. All
our containers are pre-filled with air. In our environment, any new
quantity of gas will not expand, it will just sit there. If you squirt
some carbon dioxide out of a CO2 fire extinguisher, it will not instantly
expand to fill the room. Instead it will pour downwards like an invisible 
fluid and form a pool on the
floor. It behaves similarly to dense sugar-water which was injected into
a tank of water: it pours downwards, and only after a very long time it
will mix with the rest of the water. "Mixing" is very different from
"expanding to fill!" The rule about gases does not involve mixing,
instead it involves compressibility and instant expansion into a vacuum.

In an air-filled room, dense gases act much like liquids; they can be
poured into a cup or bowl, poured out onto a tabletop, and then they
run off the edge onto the floor where they form an invisible mess. :) 
Less dense gases will stay where they are put, like smoke or like food
coloring which has just been injected into a fishtank. Gas of even lesser
density rises and forms a pool on the ceiling. Only in the world
of the physicist, where "empty container" always implies a vacuum, does
the rule about gasses work properly.

 CORRECTED: Shadows do vanish on cloudy days, but not 
because the sun isn't bright enough. 

Shadows appear when an object blocks a light source. The shape of the
shadow is created by the shape of the opaque object
AND by the shape of the light source. On a cloudy day the whole sky acts
as a light source, and a person's shadow spreads out and becomes a dim
fuzzy patch which surrounds the person on the ground on all sides. The
shadow is so spread-out that it seems absent entirely. When the sun is
visible, the same shadow is concentrated in one specific place and becomes
easy to see. But even the shadows made by sunlight will have fuzzy
borders, since the sun is a small disk rather than a tiny dot. On cloudy
days, the fuzzy borders of your body's shadow become much much larger than
the shadow itself, so that the shadow seems to vanish. 

 CORRECTED: FRICTION IS NOT CAUSED BY SURFACE ROUGHNESS 

Some books point to surface roughness as the explanation of sliding
friction. Surface roughness merely makes the moving surfaces bounce up
and down as they move, and any energy lost in pushing the surfaces apart
is regained when they fall together again. Friction is mostly caused by
chemical bonding between the moving surfaces; it is caused by stickiness. 
Even scientists once believed this misconception, and they explained
friction as being caused by "interlocking asperites", the "asperites"
being microscopic bumps on surfaces. But the modern sciences of surfaces,
of abrasion, and of lubrication explain sliding friction in terms of
chemical bonding and "stick & slip" processes. The subject is still full
of unknowns, and new discoveries await those who make surface science
their profession 

When thinking about friction, don't think about grains of sand on
sandpaper. Instead think about sticky adhesive tape being dragged along a
surface. 

 CORRECTED: NO, INFRARED LIGHT IS NOT A KIND OF HEAT 

Infrared light is invisible light. 

When any type of light is absorbed by an object, that object will be 
heated. The infrared light from an electric heater feels hot for two 
reasons: because surfaces seem black, and because the IR is extremely 
bright light. Just because human eyes cannot see the light which 
causes the heating does not mean it's made of some mysterious entity 
called "heat radiation." When bright light shines on an absorptive 
surface, that surface heats up. 

And this is no benign misconception. Those who fall under its sway may 
also come to believe that *visible* light cannot heat surfaces (after all, 
visible light is not "heat radiation.") Misguided science students may 
wrongly believe that warm objects emit no microwaves (since only IR light 
is "heat radiation"), even though hot objects actually do emit microwaves. 
Or they may believe that the glow of red hot objects is somehow different 
from the infrared glow of cooler objects. Or they may believe that IR 
light is a form of "heat," and is therefore fundamentally different from 
any other type of electromagnetic radiation. 

In his book " Clouds in a Glass of Beer ," Physicist C. Bohren points out that this 
"heat" misconception may have been started long ago, when early physicists 
believed in the existence of three separate types of radiation: heat 
radiation, light, and actinic radiation. Eventually they discovered that 
all three were actually the same stuff: light. "Heat radiation" and 
"actinic radiation" are simply invisible light of various frequencies. 
Today we say "UV light" rather than "actinic radiation." Yet the obsolete 
term "heat radiation" still lingers. Since human beings can only see 
certain frequencies of light, it's easy to see how this sort of confusion 
got started. Invisible light seems bizarre and mysterious when compared 
to visible light. But "invisibility" is caused by the human eye, and is 
not a property carried by the light. If humans could see all the light in 
the infrared spectrum, we would say things like this: "of COURSE the 
electric heater makes things hot at a distance, it is intensely BRIGHT, 
and bright light can heat up any surface which absorbs it." PS, if 
you're interested in physical science misconceptions, 
Bohren's Book is an excellent resource. He's like me, and complains 
about several specific misconceptions which keep his students from 
understanding science. 

 CORRECTED: THERE ARE NOT SEVEN COLORS IN THE RAINBOW 

Actually here
is a very large number of distinct colors in any rainbow. And neither are 
there sharp divisions between the
bands of color, yet numerous textbooks depict them. In reality,
between yellow and green we find yellow-green, and between green and
yellowgreen is GREENISH yellowgreen, and on and on. How many colors are
in a rainbow? Thirty? Sixty? It's not easy to say, for it depends on 
the particular eye,
and
the particular rainbow. What of the teachers and students who look in
vain for the yellow-green in their textbook's depiction of rainbows?
They've crashed into a long-running textbook misconception: the strange
idea that rainbows have exactly seven distinct bands of color and no
more, and with nothing in between those uniform bands of 'official' 
color. 

 CORRECTED: ACTUALLY, THE EARTH'S NORTH AND SOUTH
MAGNETIC POLES RESIDE DEEP WITHIN THE EARTH'S CORE 

Many textbooks have an erroneous diagram of the earth which shows a
bar magnet within it, and the ends of this bar magnet extend to just
beneath the earth's surface. These diagrams depict the magnet's field
lines as radiating from spots on the earth's surface. This is very
misleading. The earth's magnetic poles actually behave as if they're deep
within the earth, down inside the core. The Earth's magnetic field does 
not
come from
a giant bar magnet, but if we IMAGINE that it does, then the imaginary 
"bar
magnet" inside the earth is short, stubby, disk-shaped, and part of the 
iron core deep inside the planet. 

The typical textbook diagram is incorrect, and
there are NO INTENSE MAGNETIC FIELDS at the land surface near the earth's 
"north
pole" and "south pole." If you stand at the Earth's south magnetic pole, 
metals 
aren't attracted to the ground more strongly than anywhere else. The 
Geomagnetic 
"poles" on the earth's surface are not places where the field is strong. 
They are simply
the points on the landscape where the field lines are perfectly vertical. 

Proper diagrams
should instead show the field lines to be radiating from poles inside the
earth's core. They should show the field lines around the northern and
southern areas of the earth's surface as being approximately vertical and
parallel, not "radial" like a spiderweb and not concentrated into special
points on the surface. 

Another error associated with the above: some books claim that the
earth's field at the magnetic poles is much stronger than elsewhere. This
is untrue. The field strength at the north magnetic pole above Canada is 
about the
same as the field strength in Virginia! And the strongest field in the
Earth's northern hemisphere does not appear at the north magnetic pole at
all, the north pole actually has a weaker field than elsewhere. The
strongest fields in the northern hemisphere are not in one but in two 
places: west of
Hudson bay in Canada, and in Siberia. 

LINKS 

 Correct diagram of Earth's field 
 NOAA questions about Earth's field 
 Field strength map 
 The Great Magnet, the Earth 

 LASER LIGHT IS "IN PHASE" LIGHT?
WRONG. 

It's incorrect to say that "in laser light the waves are all in
phase." When two light waves traveling in the same direction combine, 
they inextricably add together, they do not travel as two independent 
"in-phase" 
waves. The photons in laser light are in phase, but the WAVES are
not. Instead, ideal laser light acts like a single, perfect wave. 

 When the light wave within a laser causes atoms to emit smaller, in
phase light waves, the result is not "in phase" light. Instead the result
is a single, more intense, amplified wave of light. In-phase emission
leads to amplification, not to multiple in-phase waves. If the atoms' 
emissions weren't in phase, the result would NOT be light that's out of 
phase. Instead the atoms would absorb light rather than amplifying 
it. 

 Each atom in a laser contributes
a tiny bit of light, but their light vanishes into the main traveling
wave. The light from each atom strengthens the main beam, but loses its 
individuality in the process. 99 plus 1 equals 100, but if someone 
gives us 100, we cannot know if it is made from 99 plus 1, or 98
plus 2, or 50 plus 50, etc. 

All the *PHOTONS* in a single wave of light are in phase. This might be
one
reason that people say that laser light is "in phase" light. However,
in-phase photons are nothing unique, and they don't really explain
coherence. Any EM sphere-wave or plane-wave is made of in-phase photons. 
For example, all the photons radiated from a radio broadcast
antenna are also in phase, but we don't say that these are special "in
phase" radio waves, instead we just say that they are waves with a 
spherical wavefront. Even if all the photons in laser light are in 
phase,
it is still incorrect to say "all the WAVES are in phase." Photons 
are not waves. They are quanta, they are particles, and they do not
behave as small, individual "waves." Yes, all the photons are in 
phase, but only because they are part of a single plane-waves. 

The light from a laser is basically a single, very powerful light wave.
Single waves are always in phase with themselves, but it's misleading to
imply that a single plane-wave or sphere-wave is something called an "in 
phase" wave. Laser light could more accurately be called "pointsource" 
light. Sphere 
waves or plane waves behave as if they were emitted from a single tiny 
point. 
The physics term for this is "spatially coherent" light. Light from light
bulbs, flames, the sun, etc. are the opposite, and are called 
"extended-source" light. Extended-source light comes from a wide source, 
not from a point-source, and the waves coming from different parts of the 
source will cross each other.
Starlight and the light from arc welders is "point-source" light and is
quite similar to laser light. Light from arc-welders and from distant
stars has a higher spatial coherence than light from most everyday light
sources. (Note: the sun is a star, correctly implying that light becomes
more and more spatially coherent as it moves far from its source. This is
a clue as to the REAL reason that lasers give spatially coherent light! 
(See below) 

 CORRECTED: LASER LIGHT IS NOT PARALLEL LIGHT 

Light from most lasers is not parallel light. However, if laser light is
passed through the correct lenses, it can be formed into a tight, parallel
beam. The same is not true for light from an ordinary light 
bulb. If light from a
light bulb were passed through the same lenses, it would form a spreading
beam, and an image of the lightbulb would be projected into the distance.
Laser light can form beams because a laser is a pointsource, and when you
project the image of a pointsource into the distance, you form a narrow
parallel beam! However, it is simply wrong to state that laser light is
inherently parallel light. Laser light can be FORMED INTO parallel light,
while the light from ordinary sources cannot. 

Most types of lasers actually emit spreading, non-parallel light. Lasers
in CD
players and in "laser pointers" are semiconductor diode lasers. They
create cone-shaped light beams, and if a parallel beam is desired, they
require a focusing lens. The same is true for the lasers in inexpensive 
"laser 
pointers." Take apart an old laser-pointer, and you'll
find the plastic lens in front of the diode laser inside. 

Classroom "HeNe" lasers also create spreading light. The laser tube
within a typical classroom laser contains at least one curved mirror
(called a "confocal" arrangement,) and it creates light in the form of a
spreading cone. It's a little-known fact that manufacturers of classroom
lasers traditionally place a convex lens on the end of their laser tubes
in order to shape the spreading light into a parallel beam. While it's
true that a narrow beam is convenient, I suspect that part of their reason
is to force the laser to fit our stereotype that all lasers produce thin,
narrow light beams. The manufacturers could save money by selling "real"
lensless laser tubes having spreading beams. But customers would
complain, wouldn't they? We have been brought up to believe that laser
light is parallel light. 

 CORRECTED: LASERS EMIT COHERENT LIGHT, BUT NOT 

BECAUSE THE
ATOMS EMIT IN-PHASE LIGHT WAVES 

In-phase emission causes the AMPLIFICATION of light, it doesn't cause 
coherent light. Because the atoms emit light in phase with incoming 
light, they will amplify the light, but they amplify incoherent light too, 
and they don't make it coherent. The coherence of laser light has another 
source...

Laser light has two main characteristics: it is "monochromatic" or very
pure in frequency (this also is called "temporally coherent.") Laser
light also has a point-source character of sphere waves and plane waves 
(also called "spatially coherent.") 

Even fairly advanced textbooks fail to give the real reason why laser
light is spatially coherent. They usually point out that the laser's
atoms all emit their light in phase, and pretend that this leads to 
spatial coherence. Wrong. It is true that the fluorescing
atoms in a laser all emit light that's in-phase with the waves already
traveling between the mirrors. But the in-phase emission only creates
 amplification of the traveling waves, it does not create spatially
 coherent light. For example, if you were to feed incoherent light 
into a HeNe laser tube, the atoms would emit in-phase waves, and the laser 
would amplify the light. But the brighter light would still be 
incoherent! Lasers 
certainly can
amplify the COHERENT wave which is trapped between their
mirrors. But how did the light within the laser get to be coherent in the
first place? 

Lasers create coherent light because of their mirrors. 

The mirrors in a laser form a
resonant cavity which preserves coherent light while rejecting incoherent 
light. How does it work? Imagine a
simplified laser having flat, parallel mirrors. As light bounces between
the mirrors, the light "thinks" that it's traveling down an infinitely
long "virtual tunnel". (Have you ever held up two mirrors facing each
other? Then you've seen this infinite tunnel.) When a laser is first
turned on, it fluoresces; it emits light which is not coherent. 
Different random light waves start out from different parts of the laser. 
After a
few thousand mirror bounces, all the waves have added and subtracted to
form just one single wave. In the case of flat-mirror lasers, this wave 
is a nearly perfect plane wave. A single plane wave is coherent (to be
incoherent, you must have at least two different waves.) 

This can be a bit confusing. After all, the individual atoms each emit a 
wave. Don't all these waves add up to messy incoherent light? No. The 
in-phase emission preserves coherence as it amplifies. It's true that 
each atom emits light waves in all directions. However, these sideways 
waves cancel each other out, and only the waves that travel in the same 
direction as the incoming light will be preserved. It's as if the atoms 
"know" which direction to send out a beam. But in reality, the atoms 
don't know this. Instead, they just emit a light wave which is in phase 
with the incoming light, and for this reason the wave from the atom will 
cancel out everywhere except in a line with the incoming light. If the 
light in a laser were ALREADY coherent, then the atoms will amplify it but 
won't make it more coherent. The coherence comes from the great distance 
that the light has traveled as it bounced between the mirrors. 

A similar thing happens with starlight: starlight is coherent! Starlight 
travels far from its
original source and all the waves add up to form a wave with a single
wavefront. Light from distant stars is spatially coherent, even 
though sunlight is not, yet the sun is a star. The farther the light 
travels from its source, the more it approaches the shape of a perfect 
plane wave. And a perfect plane wave is perfectly coherent. Laser light 
is spatially coherent because, among other things, the
bouncing light has traveled millions of miles between mirrors, and all the
various competing waves have melded together to form a single pure
plane-wave or sphere-wave. 

P.S. The pure color (monochrome) laser light is ALSO 
created by the
mirrors. Huh? Yes, but the reason for this is not totally
straightforward (and it's quite a bit beyond the K-6 level of these 
webpages!) 

The two mirrors of a laser can trap a standing wave of light. The space
between the mirrors is like the string of a guitar: there can be a
fundamental wave, or overtone waves, or complicated waves which are a
mixture of these. But waves of non-overtone frequencies cannot exist 
between the mirrors. Since the distance between the crests of a light wave 
is
very small, LOTS of different overtones can fit between the mirrors, and
each overtone is a slightly-different pure color of light. Light from a 
neon 
sign is reddish, but it doesn't have the extreme purity of laser light. 
Now for the weird
part: when a Helium-Neon laser first operates, many different overtones of 
red
light are amplified and the beam contains many slightly-different colors
of red at the same time. It's not yet monochromatic. As time goes on, 
some of these colors are
amplified a bit more than others, and this uses up the available energy
coming from the power supply. In other words, the different waves start
competing for limited resources! Just one wave "wins" in the end, and all 
of the
other overtones drop out of the running. The laser light is not just red
light. Instead it is a SINGLE PURE OVERTONE-WAVE, a pure 
frequency where the
string of waves just perfectly fits in the space between the two mirrors.
Change the spacing of the laser's mirrors, and you change the frequency of 
the light.

 CORRECTED: IRON AND STEEL ARE NOT THE ONLY STRONGLY
MAGNETIC MATERIALS 

There are numerous others. Nickel and
Cobalt
metals are very magnetic. (U.S. "nickel" coins contain copper which
spoils the effect, so try Canadian nickels made before 1985.) Most other
materials are "diamagnetic," and are repelled visibly by very strong
magnets, although some materials are "paramagnetic" and are attracted.
Supercold liquid oxygen is attracted by magnets. Some but not all types
of stainless steel are nonmagnetic. There are even some metals which are
individually nonmagnetic, but which become strongly magnetic when mixed
together, chromium and platinum for example, and compounds of manganese
and bismuth. 

 CORRECTED: RE-ENTERING SPACE CAPSULES ARE 
 NOT 
HEATED BY AIR
FRICTION They are heated as they plow into the atmosphere and
compress the air ahead of them. Ever pump up a bicycle tire and discover
that the pump and the tire have become hot? The same effect causes
spacecraft and supersonic aircraft to heat up as they compress the air at
their leading edges. The heat doesn't come from *rubbing* upon the air,
it comes from *squeezing* the air. This applies mostly to blunt objects
such as Apollo reentry vehicles. It does not apply as much to the Space
Shuttle: with wings oriented mostly edge-on to the moving air, the
surfaces of the Shuttle ARE heated by friction. But when the Shuttle 
first reenters the atmosphere, the bottom of the craft faces forwards, 
and in that case the Shuttle is heated by air compression, NOT by 
friction. 

 CORRECTED: CARS AND AIRPLANES ARE NOT SLOWED DOWN BY 
AIR FRICTION 

 They are slowed because it takes energy to stir the air. While
direct
friction between the air and the car's surface does play a part, the work
done in stirring the air far exceeds the work done in direct frictional
heating. If vehicles did not send air swirls and vortices spinning off as
they moved, they would barely be slowed by the air at all. Eventually the
swirling air is slowed by friction and ends up warmer, but this occurs
long after the vehicle has passed. 

 CORRECTED: THE NORTH MAGNETIC POLE OF THE EARTH IS
 NOT IN THE NORTH 

 Opposite poles attract. If we hold two bar magnets near each
other,
the "N" pole of one magnet is attracted by the "S" pole of another. If we
suspend a bar magnet by a thread, the "N" pole of that magnet will
point... toward the Earth's north! 

Something is wrong here. 
Shouldn't the 
"N" pole of a magnet point towards the "S" of the Earth? Alike poles
should repel, not attract. Either the "N" and "S" printed on all bar 
magnets is
reversed, or the "N" and "S" on the Earth is backwards. Which is
it? 

This problem has a simple solution. Physicists define "N-type" magnetic
poles as being the north-pointing ends of compasses and magnets. This
definition is built into all of modern science and engineering and is part
of Maxwell's equations. Wind an electromagnet coil, see which end points
towards the Earth's north pole, and that end is the "N pole" of the 
electromagnet. And this means that the magnetic pole found deep inside 
the northern hemisphere of the Earth
is a south-type magnetic pole. The Earth's northern magnetic pole is an
S! It has to be this way, otherwise it would not attract the N-pole of a
compass. 

This is a long-standing but arbitrary physical standard, much the same as
defining electrons as being negative. Like it or not, we are stuck with
negative electrons, with seconds which last about 1/100,000 of a day, with
backwards Earth poles, with centimeters which are about as wide as a small
finger, etc. 

 Interesting email 
 msgs on magnetic polarity 
See Dexter Magnetics for more on this.

Also try this Google 
search 

 CORRECTED: ACTUALLY THERE ARE NO SODIUM CHLORIDE MOLECULES IN SALT WATER 

Salt is not made of NaCl molecules. Salt is made of a three-dimensional
checkerboard of oppositely charged atoms of sodium and chlorine. A salt
crystal is like a single gigantic molecule of ClNaClNaClNaClNaClNaClNa. 
When salt dissolves, it turns into independent atoms. Salt water is not
full of "sodium chloride." Instead it is full of sodium and chlorine! 
The atoms are not poisonous and reactive like sodium metal and chlorine
gas because they are electrically charged atoms called "ions." The sodium
atoms are missing their outer electron. Because of this, the remaining
electrons behave as a filled electron shell, so they cannot easily react
and form chemical bonds with other atoms except by electrical attraction. 
The chlorine has one extra electron and its outer electron shell is
complete, so like sodium it too cannot bond with other atoms. These 
oppositely charged
atoms can attract each other and form a salt crystal, but when that
crystal dissolves in water, the electrified atoms are pulled away from
each other as the water molecules surround them, and they float through
the water separately. 

 CORRECTED: LIGHT AND RADIO WAVES DO NOT ALWAYS TRAVEL AT "THE
SPEED OF LIGHT" 

They only travel at the "speed of light" (186,000 miles per second) while
moving through a perfect vacuum. Light waves travel a bit slower in the
air, and they travel LOTS slower when moving through glass. Why does
light bend when it enters glass at an angle? Because the waves SLOW DOWN. 
Why can a prism split white light into a spectrum? Because within the
glass THE SPEED OF LIGHT WAVES IS DIFFERENT FOR DIFFERENT WAVELENGTHS. 
And while the numerical value for the speed of light in a vacuum, "c," is
very important in all facets of physics, as far as light waves are
concerned there is no single unique speed called "The Speed Of Light."
[note for advanced students: ok ok, I'll add this: light *waves* within a
transparent medium are slow, even though the wave's photons are thought to
jump from atom to atom always at a speed of c. But such ideas are not
very honest, since whenever we only pay attention to the vacuum between
particles in a solid, we stop treating the solid as a "uniform transparent
medium." ] 

 Want books? Try searching

amazon.com : 

 (try "science fair project" keywords too)

See: Science Projects & Experiment books 

Help Support AMASCI.COM / Science Club 
Inc. , use the above form to order books. 
(We make a few $$ on any books ordered via these links.) 

 /miscon/miscon4.html 
Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: .