AM I JUST A PEDANTIC SCIENCE-NITPICKER?             W. Beaty 1998


Let me first tell a little about myself. I'm not a teacher. I have a great
respect for the teaching profession, and I don't know if I would be a very
good fulltime teacher if I tried it myself.  Also, I'm not a professional
author, and I'm aware of the huge amount of skilled work needed to produce
a good book (as opposed to throwing together a website like I've done.) 
What I am is a professional electronics designer. I'm also still a science
student, and hope always to be one.

Where did my Textbook Misconceptions List come from?  No, I'm not just a
professional nitpicker who can't stand tiny flaws.  I was one of those
students who developed a deep love of physical science.  Over the years I
slowly learned to "dance" with the subject, to find massive intercon-
nections between separate parts, until physics eventually became for me
like a vast ballet, or like a gigantic puzzle where most pieces connect
together in a deeply satisfying way.  It all made SENSE, and it had the
depths of esthetics like good food or profound art. 

As part of my science museum exhibit designs in 1988, I acquired a stack
of elementary school textbooks. I wanted to see how to explain electricity
to 6th-graders.  In reading the books I was totally stunned.  The
electricity chapters were wrong.  Terribly terribly wrong.  It wasn't just
simple factual errors.  Also, they weren't wrong in the way that a
physicist might regard "electrons orbiting atoms" as being wrong.  This
was different.  The books' electricity chapters were teaching bizarre
things.  If "electricity" is like a gas, then the books were doing the
equivalent of teaching that wind moves at the speed of light, that sound
and air are the same thing, and that nitrogen is a form of energy. 
The authors of those books clearly had many typical student misconceptions
regarding electricity.  Unfortunately, the authors were not students
anymore, they were science experts, and they were teaching their
misconceptions to huge numbers of students and teachers.  What K-6 student
could avoid acquiring a misconception, if that misconception has the stamp
of approval of the ultimate authority: their science textbook?  What
teacher would dare to REALLY understand a subject, if in order to
understand the subject they must distrust the info in their science
textbooks?

After my encounter with those books, I slowly realized that my own
understanding of basic electricity was flawed and incomplete.  I sat down
and started re-teaching myself the subject. I became aware of the source
of my problem: I myself had learned a bunch of electricity misconceptions
as a child.  Those misconceptions had given me a faulty foundation on
which to build further knowledge.  As a result, any accurate information
learned later became distorted in my mind even as I learned it.  It was
like trying to build a brick wall on top of a garbage pile: the incoming
bricks are perfectly good, but they simply did not fit upon earlier
concepts, and any structures that I managed to build kept collapsing.  My
earlier solution was typical: dive into mathematics, understand
electricity in the form of interconnected equations, but without having
any real, visual, gut-level "feel" for the concepts.  But this didn't help
me explain electricity to the public.  What, should I just say "first
learn algebra and calculus, THEN come back and ask me about Electricity"?
No way.

As an experienced adult who was re-examining his childhood misconceptions,
I found that it was fairly easy to root out the bad stuff and to construct
a sensible view of the world of "electricity."  Slowly I came to see
electrical physics and circuitry not as abstractions and not just as math,
but to understand them in a visual, gut-level way.  I had never been able
to do this before.  I'd been blind for decades.  Until I finally learned
to "see" again, I didn't realize how poorly I understood this aspect of
physics. 

These experiences made me realize that most people are in the same
predicament, but without having the benefit of a physics education to
teach them the math.  Why couldn't I understand electricity?  Because I
had misconceptions about it.  Why was this?  In part because of the
normal, expected misconceptions that most students pick up.  But the
majority of my misconceptions had been specifically taught to me.  The
misconceptions had been in my science textbooks long ago, and they were
still in most modern textbooks.  My books had given me a set of serious,
nearly undefeatable learning barriers.  Similar books were still out there
at present, giving everyone else the same barriers. 

Clearly Something Must Be Done!  :) 

At first I tried writing letters to textbook and encyclopedia publishers,
but that was an uphill battle.  Who was I, that I could tell them that
their books were wrong, especially when ALL OTHER BOOKS also say the same
thing as theirs?  I did some consulting work for a more tolerant
publisher, but the company moved to Texas and the whole project was
suddenly cancelled after much unpaid work.  I gave up in frustration. 

Along comes internet.  FINALLY!  A way to get this information out into
the world!  I wrote up my "misconceptions" page and I've been adding to it
ever since.  Then A. B. Frazer linked my page to "BAD SCIENCE" and the
hitcount really soared.

Am I just a pedantic science-nitpicker?  No.  I'm a student who has
discovered great personal flaws, who has gone through a recent traumatic
learning experience, has stumbled on some important keys to understanding,
and who now wants to benefit the other students by telling everyone what I
learned.  My experience occurred after I had become an adult, so it is
still fresh in my mind, and I can explain how I achieved understanding.  I
originally didn't understand electrical physics at all, but didn't realize
this fact (this after getting a BS in Electrical Engineering!)  Later I
finally figured out what was wrong, fixed my problems, and now I
understand it pretty well.  In an attempt to aid other people I examined
myself, assumed that others might have problems like mine, and so I put my
old "learning barriers" in a list so that others can eliminate theirs as
well.

Of course my list isn't 100% perfect, so I hope that it will form a basis
for improvement and conceptual change, rather than becoming another source
of 'Ultimate Truth.'  I certainly don't want to set myself up as another
ultimate content expert!  After all, that's one reason the misconceptions
got into textbooks in the first place: over-reliance on the expertise of
others, and too little critical thought given to presumably-authoritative
published words.  "Whoever undertakes to set himself up as a judge of
Truth and Knowledge is shipwrecked by the laughter of the gods." -Einstein

Back to the purpose of this message.  I receive two main classes of
response about my miscon page.  One group says "These aren't really
errors, what's the big deal?!"  The other group says "After thirty years
of being confused about this stuff, I FINALLY understand it!  Thank you!" 
The second type of response gives me grave doubts about accepting the
accuracy of the first.  So, be warned.  If someone reads my lists and
thinks "THESE AREN'T ERRORS, THEY'RE JUST TRIVIAL NITPICKING", that person
might have reasons to be threatened by this information, or at the very
least they are belittling something that they don't understand.  
Nitpicking of science trivia certainly doesn't attract numerous emotional
"thank you" letters! 

Obviously these misconceptions recorded in my lists don't give serious
learning barriers to everyone, but they surely did for me.  From the email
I receive and from talking to fellow engineers and electronics techs, I
find these misconceptions give learning barriers to a majority of
technical people.  Since most of the misconceptions come from science
textbooks, it makes sense that many different people would end up with the
same misconceptions that I did.  If I show others how I cured my
particular misconceptions, then in many cases this could cure theirs as
well. 

Yes, my lists are criticism, constructive criticism I hope.  As with all
criticism, there is a danger that other authors and educators will ignore
them because it seems to be a sort of namecalling, possibly motivated by
anger.  I admit there is a bit of this aspect to my writing, but just a
bit.  I feel ripped off by my K-12 classes, and I see the same thing
happening to students even now.  But I don't blame the teachers for this,
any more than I blame myself for becoming 'infected' by the same
misconceptions.  The disease affects teachers too, not just students.  We
should not think in terms of blame.  We should think in terms of breaking
the cycle of 'infection', of ridding ourselves of flawed knowledge, and so
becoming better educators (or better electronics designers!)  Please don't
get turned off by the things my lists imply!  If you would, see them as
constructive criticism, as suggestions for change, not as a hostile attack
on the science teaching profession.

There is another lesson here: if textbooks contain errors, and if these
errors can never be entirely eliminated, then there is only one cure: 
students and teachers must practice CRITICAL THINKING.  People and books
are imperfect.  If we have a good, solid, well-written textbook, maybe we
can put 99% of our trust in it, but we should never trust anything 100%.
When something seems complicated and very hard to understand, most of the
time it REALLY IS a tough subject.  But sometimes the problem is with poor
explanations or wrong explanations.


Thanks for listening to my rants!

- Bill Beaty      http://www.eskimo.com/~billb/miscon/miscon.html

  "Lest you think that I am quibbling over minor points of language, I
  note that in my experience many of the misconceptions people harbor have
  their origins in imprecise language... Precise language is needed in
  science, not to please pedants but to avoid absorbing nonsense that
  will take years, if ever, to purge from our minds."
            - Dr. Craig F. Bohren, from his "Clouds in a Glass of Beer: 
              Simple experiments in atmospheric physics"

  "(language) becomes ugly and inaccurate because our thoughts are
  foolish, but the slovenliness of our language makes it easier for us to
  have foolish thoughts."  - George Orwell

 "The search for the MOT JUSTE is not a pedantic fad but a vital
  necessity. Words are our precision tools.  Imprecision engenders
  ambiguity and hours are wasted in removing verbal misunderstandings
  before the argument of substance can begin."  - ANONYMOUS CIVIL SERVANT
    (from Roget's Thesaurus Webpage)

  "Many errors, of a truth, consist merely in the application of the
   wrong names of things."  -Spinoza
