What is Electricity? 

 MISCON 

 ELECTRICITY ARTICLES 

 NEW STUFF 

 GOOD STUFF 

 What Is "Electricity"? 
 &copy;1996 William J. Beaty 
 Electrical Engineer 

SEE ALSO:

 Scientific definition of Electricity 
 Famous scientists' quotations 
 Electricity is not Energy 
 What is electricity, REALLY?! 
 All articles here 

What is electricity? This question is impossible to answer because the
word " Electricity " has several contradictory meanings. These
different meanings are incompatible, and the contradictions confuse
everyone. If you don't understand electricity, you're not alone. Even
teachers, engineers, and scientists have a 
 hard time 
grasping the concept. 

Obviously "electricity" cannot be several different things at the same
time. Unfortunately we've defined the word Electricity in a
crazy way. Because the word lacks one distinct meaning, we
can never pin down the nature of electricity. In the end we're forced to
declare that there's no such stuff as "electricity" at all! Here's a
quick example to illustrate the problem. 

 Do generators make electricity? To answer this 
question, consider the household light bulb. Inside a lamp cord the 
charges (the electrons) sit in one place and wiggle back and forth. 
That's AC or alternating current. At the same time, the waves of 
electromagnetic field move rapidly forward. This wave-energy does not 
wiggle, instead it races along the wires as it flows from the distant 
generators and into the light bulb. OK, now ask yourself this: when 
"electricity" is flowing, is it called an Electric Current? Yes? If so, 
then "electricity" is simply the charges already inside the wires, where 
a flow of 
electricity is a flow of charge. And therefore we must say that 
the "electricity" sits inside the wires and vibrates back and forth. 
Generators do not create any, and electricity does not flow forward 
through the wires. 
Next, ask 
yourself if electricity is a form of energy. If it's energy, then 
electricity is not the movable charges. Instead, electricity is 
made of invisible electromagnetic fields, and it 
 doesn't wiggle back and forth within the AC cables. Instead it can 
only exist in the space outside the wires, and not within the metal. 
Generators do create electricity, and it races along the wires at high 
speed. Yet please note that Electricity cannot do 
both , it cannot be both the charges and the fields, the electrons and 
the energy. So which one is really 
"the electricity?" Is it the wiggling electrons within the wires? Or is 
it the high-speed EM field energy? The experts unfortunately cannot agree 
on a narrow 
definition. The reference books give conflicting answers, so there *is* 
no answer. 

If someone asks whether generators make electricity, it exposes a great flaw 
in the way we talk about "electricity". If we can repair this flaw, 
perhaps our explanations will finally make sense. 

Below are the five most common meanings of the word Electricity . 
Which one do you think is right? Think about this carefully, because if 
one of 
these meanings is correct, all the others must be wrong! After all, no 
"science term" must ever possess several conflicting definitions. 
Unfortunately our dictionaries and encyclopedias contain all of these 
contradictions. (Click the links to find out more about each.) 

 1. The scientist's 
definition : "Electricity" means only one 
thing: 
quantities of electricity are measured in Coulombs, so 
"electricity" is the electrons and protons themselves; it is the 
 electric 
charge inside metals. All wires contain electricity all the 
time, that's why they're conductors. 
 Examples: CURRENT OF ELECTRICITY. QUANTITY OF ELECTRICITY. COULOMBS 
OF ELECTRICITY.

 2. The everyday definition: "Electricity" means only one thing: the 
 electromagnetic field energy 
sent out by batteries and generators.

 Examples: PRICE OF ELECTRICITY. KILOWATT-HOURS OF ELECTRICITY. 

 3. The grade-school definition: "Electricity" means only one thing: it 
refers to the flow of 
electrons , the flowing motion of electric charge. When they stop 
flowing, the electricity disappears. 
 Examples: "CURRENT" ELECTRICITY. AMPERES OF ELECTRICITY. 

 4. "Electricity" means only one thing: it refers to the 
 amount of imbalance 
between quantities of electrons and protons. 

 Example: "STATIC" ELECTRICITY. DISCHARGE OF ELECTRICITY. 

 5. "Electricity" is nothing other than the classes of phenomena 
involving electric charges.

 Examples: BIOELECTRICITY, PIEZOELECTRICITY, TRIBOELECTRICITY,
 THERMOELECTRICITY, ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY ...ETC.

 6. Other 
less common definitions:

 "Electricity" refers to the 
flowing motion of electrical energy (electric power, Watts of electricity) 
 "Electricity" really means the 
electric potential or e-field (Volts of electricity) 
 "Electricity" only means the 
glowing nitrogen/oxygen plasma (sparks of electricity) 
 "Electricity" is nothing but a 
field of science (Basic Electricity, Advanced Electricity)

 ELECTRICITY, n. 
 The power that causes all natural phenomena not known to be caused by 
something else. 
<grin!> (Ambrose Bierce, The Devil's Dictionary , 1911)

If we wish to agree on a single correct definition of "electricity," which 
definition should we choose? The Scientific version, number one above? 
But that would mean that all of our books are wrong, since books insist 
that electricity is the energy, or that electricity is the motion 
of charges: the current. 
Except for the CRC Handbook and the NIST SI 
physics standards, 
the few textbooks which do use the scientific definition are all seventy 
years old, or older. 

 Well, maybe we don't need to choose just one definition. Could we mix 
them? Could we let Electricity be an "elastic term?" Suppose we ignore 
all these contradictions and instead pretend that all of the above 
definitions are true. Below is the "clear" and "simple" description of 
electricity which results:

Electricity is quite simple: "electricity" is just the flowing motion 
of electricity! Electricity is a mysterious incomprehensible entity 
which is invisible and visible, both at the same time. Also, 
electricity is both a form of energy and a type of matter. Both. 
Electricity is a kind of low-frequency radio wave which is made of 
protons. It's a mysterious force which cannot be seen, and yet it looks 
like blue-white fire that arcs across the clouds. It moves forward at the 
speed of light... yet it sits and vibrates inside your AC cord without 
flowing forwards at all. It's totally weightless, yet it has a small 
weight. When electricity flows through a light bulb's filament, it gets 
changed entirely into light. Yet not one bit of electricity is ever used 
up by the light bulb, and all the electricity flows out of the filament 
and back down the other wire. College textbooks are full of electricity, 
yet they have no electric charge! Electricity is like sound waves, no no, 
it's just like wind, no, the electricity is like the air molecules. 
Electricity is like cars on a highway, no, the electricity is the speed of 
the cars, no, electricity is just like "traffic waves." Electricity is a 
class of phenomena ...a class of phenomena which can be stored in 
batteries! If you want to measure a quantity of electricity, what units 
should you use? Why Volts of electricity, of course. And also Coulombs of 
electricity. And Amperes of electricity. Watts of electricity and 
Joules, all at the same time. Yet "electricity" is definitely a class of 
phenomena; merely a type of event. Since we can't have an amount of 
an event, we can't really measure the quantity of electricity at all... 
right? Right? 

Heh heh. 

Does my description above sound stupid and impossible? You're right. It
is. The word "electricity" has contradictory meanings, and I'm trying to 
show
what happens when we accept more than one meaning. Electricity
 is not both slow and fast at the same time. It 
 is not both visible and invisible. And electricity 
isn't the flowing motion ...of electricity. 

Instead, approximately ten separate things have the name
"electricity." There's no single stuff called "electricity." 
 electricity does not exist. Franklin, Edison, Thompson, and 
millions of
science teachers should've had a long talk with Mrs. McCave before they
decided to give one single name to a large variety of independent 
science concepts.

 Mrs. McCave was invented by Dr. Seuss. She had twenty three sons. 
She named them all "Dave."

Whenever we ask " What Is Electricity, " that's just like asking Mrs. McCave
" who is dave? " How can she describe her son? There can be no answer
since the question itself is wrong. It's wrong to ask "who is Dave?"
because we're silently assuming that there's only one Dave, when actually 
there 
are many different people. They all just happen to be named Dave. Who 
is Dave? Mrs. McCave cannot answer us until she first corrects our 
misunderstanding. Dave doesn't exist. She wishes she'd given them all 
separate names. 

For the same reason, we'll never find a simple answer to the question 
"what is electricity?" because the question itself is wrong. First we 
must realize that "electricity" does not exist. There is no single 
thing named "electricity." We must accept the fact that, while several 
different 
things do exist inside wires, people wrongly call all of them by a 
single name. 

So never ask " what is electricity ". Instead, discard the word
"electricity" and begin using the correct names for all the separate 
phenomena. Here are a few of them: 

 What is electric charge ?
 What is electrical energy? 
 What are electrons? 
 What is electric current? 
 What is an imbalance of charge? 
 What is an electric field? 
 What is voltage ?
 What is electric power? 
 What is a spark ?
 What is electromagnetism ?
 What is electrical science? 
 What is electrodynamics? 
 What is electrostatics? 
 What are electrical phenomena? 

The above questions all have sensible answers. But if you ask 
 what is electricity? , then all of the answers you'll find will just confuse you, 
and you'll never stop asking that question.

 "I am reminded of the professor, who when asked the question 
'What is electricity?' replied 'It all depends what you mean by 'is.'"

 - A. Gilchrist, ASLIB 1972

OTHER PAGES HERE: 

 SCIENTISTS' DEFINTION OF ELECTRICITY 

 ELECTRICITY IS NOT ENERGY 

 HOW SHOULD WE 
TEACH ELECTRICITY? 

 WHAT IS ELECTRICITY, REALLY ? 

 MORE ABOUT "ELECTRICITY" 30 misconceptions that screwed *me* up.

 ELECTRICITY DOES NOT EXIST 

 ELECTRICITY IS NOT ENERGY 

 ELECTRICITY Q & A 

 ISN'T THIS JUST NITPICKING?! 

 MORE ELECTRICAL ARTICLES HERE 

 LINKS 

 Electricity miscon. refs 
 GOOGLE SEARCH: Define 'Electricity' 
 GOOGLE SEARCH: "What is electricity?" 

(Note the many contradictory definitions found on other sites. 
They all give answers, but they don't agree among themselves!)

This is part of Bill B's SCIENCE HOBBYIST website.

 /miscon/whatis.html 

 Electrica Technology Inc. 
and Linkedin 

Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . 
Mail me at: 
 .

 View My Stats