What is Electricity? 

 SCIENCE HOBBYIST | up to ELECTRICITY ARTICLES 

 What Is "Electricity"? 
 (c)1996 William J. Beaty

What is electricity? This is my favorite science question, and it's
impossible to answer. The word "electricity" has a number of different
meanings, and the different meanings contradict each other. As a result,
the word "electricity" is meaningless. Or, to put it another way, there's
no such stuff as "Electricity". Below are the most common definitions. 
Which do you think is right? If only one is right, all the others must be
wrong, no?

 - "Electricity" means electric charge .
 Examples: CHARGES OF ELECTRICITY. COULOMBS OF ELECTRICITY. 

 - "Electricity" is electrical energy .
 Examples: PRICE OF ELECTRICITY. KILOWATT-HOURS OF ELECTRICITY. 

 - "Electricity" is flowing motion of electric charge.
 Examples: CURRENT ELECTRICITY. AMPERES OF ELECTRICITY. 

 - "Electricity" is the amount of imbalance between quantities of electrons and protons.
 Example: STATIC ELECTRICITY. 

 - "Electricity" is a class of phenomena involving electric charges.
 Examples: BIOELECTRICITY, PIEZOELECTRICITY, TRIBOELECTRICITY,
 THERMOELECTRICITY, ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY ...ETC.

 - Other less common definitions:
 "Electricity" is electric power (Watts of electricity)
 "Electricity" is electric field (Volts of electricity)
 "Electricity" is nitrogen/oxygen plasma (sparks of electricity)
 "Electricity" is a field of science (electricity is a type of physics)

So, if a stuff called "electricity" exists, what is it? Simple. It is a
mysterious incomprehensible entity which is invisible and visible at the
same time. It is both matter and energy, and is a type of low frequency
radio wave which is made of protons! It's a mysterious force which looks
like blue-white fire and yet cannot be seen. It moves forward at the
speed of light... whenever it flows at a velocity of centimeters per hour.
When it flows through a light bulb filament it is changed entirely into
light. Yet no Electricity is used up, and it all flows out of the
filament and back down the other wire. It is a class of phenomena which
can be stored in batteries! If you want to measure a quantity of
electricity, what unit of measurement should you use? Why Amperes of
course. No, that's wrong. You should use Coulombs. No, Volts! Watts! 
Joules! But isn't "electricity" a class of phenomena? You really can't
measure a quantity of a phenomena, so you can't measure Electricity. 

Think my above description sounds stupid and impossible? You're right.
There are approximately ten different, separate things which we silly
humans have given one single name. It is true that electric charges
exist. So do energy, voltage, current, and all the rest. But there is no
single stuff called "electricity." ELECTRICITY DOES NOT EXIST. 

Franklin, Edison, Thompson, and millions of physics teachers should have
had a long talk with Mrs. McCave before they decided to allow several
different things to be named "electricity."

 Mrs. McCave was invented by Dr. Seuss. She had twenty three sons. 
She named them all "Dave."

Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com .

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email.