Guitar Columns | On Gifts and Giving (An Interlude for the Holidays) 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar Columns , On Gifts and Giving 

 On Gifts and Giving (An Interlude 
 for the Holidays) 

 Guitar Column # 6 

 Published December 16, 1999 
 By David 
 Hodge 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 I get in these moods sometimes. Nothing serious. Well, nothing 
 too serious (my friends will tell you that I'm always serious)(especially 
 when I'm joking). Sometimes I just have to drop everything 
 that I'm doing and play my guitar. Just a quick song. Maybe 
 even one chord or one phrase. It's just something needs to 
 be voiced right now at this moment and I'm not going to have 
 any peace until I hear the notes aloud. 
 I'm lucky in this way. Unless I'm traveling without an instrument, 
 I almost always have an outlet close by. Since I often teach 
 after work (my "real" job), I usually have a guitar 
 at the office. While the weather holds, I can play outside 
 during my lunches. 
 I've also been fortunate this past year in having more opportunities 
 to play and to teach. One of my old band mates got married 
 over Labor Day, so we had reunion of sorts. In August, I hosted 
 a "last Friday the 13th of the century" jam at my 
 home. Some old friends and new students got to sit in together. 
 But to me the best part was having some of my friends' kids 
 getting in on the act - playing bongos or triangles or maracas 
 while the "adults" jammed away on the "big 
 person's instruments." Nothing is as thrilling 
 as being part of the band, no matter what age you are. 
 It's funny that I'm always being reminded of the fact that 
 music is a medium that really works when it is shared. You'd 
 think that it would be second nature to me by now, but it's 
 not. Because music gives me such a high, even just practicing 
 on my own, I often forget (to the point of actual surprise) 
 how that thrill is multiplied when I'm playing for other people. 
 And even more so when I'm playing with other people. 
 I've been on the receiving end of music's gift more times 
 than I could ever hope to begin to remember. And in places 
 where I least expected it. The first two nights a friend and 
 I spent on Crete, we dined at restaurants where live bouzouki 
 music was performed. At the second spot, it seemed like all 
 the patrons knew the lyrics to every single song. It was wild 
 to sit and listen to everyone singing joyfully in Greek. 
 On the island of Santorini, the night clerk at our hotel introduced 
 us to the work of Goran Bregovic, a contemporary classical 
 composer of "Balkan" music. We would drink in his 
 haunting orchestrations with our wine while watching the incredible 
 sunsets from a terrace on the caldera. 
 In 
 Marrakech, I sat raptly in the Djemaa el-Fna, taking in the 
 Berber stories accompanied by the almost blues-like playing 
 of the amzhad and rbab. Children in the medina would form 
 impromptu parades, banging on various drums and cymbals or 
 playing flutes as they wound their way through the narrow 
 cobbled streets. And even though I rarely recognized a word, 
 I knew if it was a happy song or a sad one, a refrain of religious 
 awe or a reverent tribute to heroes long gone to the gods. 
 Here at home, I am fortunate to live in a city where there 
 is always something going on musically. Summer in Chicago 
 is virtually three-and-a-half months of free music in venues 
 framed by the majestic skylines and the lakeshore. Every weekend 
 boasts a different neighborhood festival of one sort or another 
 and there's bound to be good local bands vying for their shot 
 at fame. Even the Starbuck's Coffee shops get into the act 
 and showcase area talents one or two nights a week. The only 
 way to avoid being exposed to all the music is to shut yourself 
 inside your house from Memorial Day to Labor Day. 
 Over 
 the holidays I tend to take stock of things, especially what 
 I've been able to accomplish and what I'd like to do in the 
 upcoming year. Until this year, I never fully realized how 
 much music played a part in the goals I have in life. No, 
 nothing like "I'm going to record a top forty record" 
 or "I'm going to be the headliner at Taste of Chicago" 
 or anything like that. "I'd like to take on two more 
 guitar students," "I could learn one new song a 
 week" or "I plan to finish the four songs I started 
 writing last summer" might be more my style. You make 
 think it laughable, but it's important to set goals and it's 
 important that they are realistic expectations. Just as you 
 shouldn't go aimlessly through life, you should be setting 
 yourself up for self-imposed letdowns either. 
 Regardless of your level of playing ability, the fact that 
 you do play is a gift. A precious gift. And this is a good 
 time to think about how you can use your gift to enrich not 
 only your life, but also the lives of those around you. If 
 you don't have the time or patience to teach, you can still 
 be an inspiration. If you have an old instrument you're really 
 not playing, loan it to a friend who's been keen to take it 
 up. Go to see a local group - support the people trying to 
 live their dream. Share your passion for music with the world. 
 Especially with the children. 
 I keep having this recurring dream - the setting and the 
 characters change constantly but essentially the event is 
 the same. I'm with a large group of people, some are old friends 
 I haven't seen in years and some are complete strangers. We 
 exchange stories and techniques and laughs and fears and hopes 
 and dreams and whatever. And we play. We teach each other 
 our favorite songs; we learn to play songs the other has written. 
 Someone figures out a great lead line. Someone else chimes 
 in with an otherworldly harmony. And all the people who "can't 
 play" are playing percussion toys and singing along. 
 It's all gloriously exhilarating - slightly out of tempo and 
 just enough out of tune to be able to notice (if you were 
 looking for it) and close enough that nobody really does. 
 Every now and then, though, it all comes together in such 
 a way that takes our breath away. And I know why it works, 
 why all these people who might not give each other the time 
 of day in real life are now blissfully enjoying themselves: 
 Everybody's in the band. 

 David Hodge 1999-12-16 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Open Tuning Part 2" 

 Next article 
 in this series "Happy New Ear" 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.