Chief Seattle Council - 2005 National Scout Jamboree 

 Chief Seattle Council 2005 Jamboree
 -- Leadership information 

 This page contains information about the committe that is 
 handling all arrangements for the Chief Seattle Council, as well as
 information about the Scoutmasters and 
 Assistants who will accompany the Scouts on all pre-Jamboree
 activities and throughout the entire Jamboree experience.

 [ Committee | 
 Adult Leader Requirements | 
 Adult Leaders | Staff Information ] 

 Chief Seattle Council's 2001 Jamboree Committee 

 Name 
 Position 
 Email 

 Brian Harron 
 Committee Chair 

 John Rosenlund 
 Recruiting 

 Cecil Stellyes 
 Promotion 

 TBD 
 Kickoff Event 

 Kevin Baker 
 Training 

 TBD 
 Equipment 

 James Prekeges (temp) 
 Budget/Finances 

 TBD 
 Tour 

 TBD 
 Health & Safety 

 TBD 
 P.R. 

 James Prekeges 
 Memorabilia 

 jamespr@u.washington.edu 

 Alishia LiFrac 
 Professional Advisor 

 Return to Top of Page 

 Adult Leader Requirements 

 The requirements come directly from the National Office. As such,
 we do not have the authority to waive or modify them in any way. The
 requirements for all adult leaders are:

 participate in the required prejamboree training outing,

 file a personal health and medical record prior to the 
 prejamboree training, 

 participate in the Youth Protection Guidelines for Volunteer Leaders 
 and Parents for Basic Training, 

 be approved by the local council,

 meet the service requirement specific to the position:

 Scoutmaster: Have served as Scoutmaster for at least one
 full year during the three year period prior to July 1, 2005, and
 have completed Boy Scout Leader Fast Start and Scoutmastership
 Fundamentals, No. 34550. (Although not required, Wood Badge
 and/or Scoutmaster's Key is a desirable qualification.)

 First Assistant Scoutmaster: Same qualifications as
 Scoutmaster.

 Second Assistant Scoutmaster: At least 21 years of age
 by July 1, 2005.

 Third Assistant Scoutmaster: At least 18 years of age
 (but not have reached 21) by July 1, 2005.

 The Adult Leader Application is a Microsoft Word document. To open and print it, 

 click here .

 NOTE : if the online application does 
 not download correctly, contact Eleanor Pawley at the Scout Office e
 (206-725-5200) and ask for an Adult Leader Application Packet. 

 Go to top of page 

 Adult Troop Leaders 

 Troop Leaders selection is nearly completed. Most of the
 positions have now been filled, but there are still two spots open. 
 If you are interested, you need to apply immediately. Once the spots
 are full, we will accept applications for Alternates to fill in in case
 someone drops out. 

 National Staff 

 The National Jamboree always has a lot of openings for youth 
 and adult 
 staff members. Staff members pay their own transportation costs and
 the full Jamboree fee, but those who have worked on a Jamboree staff
 invariably find it a fun and rewarding experience. Many adults return
 to work on staff for Jamboree after Jamboree. Jamboree Staff Applications 
 are available now at the 

 National Jamboree website . 

 Return to Top of Page