Chief Seattle Council - 2005 National Scout Jamboree 

 Chief Seattle Council 2005 Jamboree
 -- Financial Issues 

 This page covers finance-related issues.

 Costs

 The final touches on budget details are still being worked out,
 but the full, final fee for 2005 will be no more than 
 $2,300 per attendee. Scouts and adults all pay the same price.
 This fee will cover everything
 except
 strictly personal equipment and pocket money. 

 The fee includes 
 the National Jamboree fee, all troop and patrol equipment,
 certain contingent gear such as customized t-shirts, patches,
 and so on, and all aspects of an 5-day East Coast tour, 
 including round-trip airfare, all meals, lodging in hotels,
 transportation in air-conditioned
 buses, entry fees to all events and activities, professional 
 tour guides, and laundry service. 

 Fund-Raising

 Each troop may have its own fund-raising activities, but the main
 way we are encouraging Jamboree Scouts to raise money is 
 through popcorn sales.

 Can you make money this way? YOU BET! You can make a LOT of money.
 In 2001, one of our 
 Scouts sold $4,000 worth of popcorn in only 3 weekends outside
 a major grocery store. Since 35% of the money went to the
 Scout, he earned 
 $1,400.00 
 towards his fee! That's right! $1,400!!! 

 All he did was get advance permission from the store manager,
 then set up outside one of the doors with a large supply of
 popcorn and a sign saying
 that he was working to pay his way to the National BSA Jamboree.
 A friendly smile, a polite attitude, and the popcorn pretty
 much just sells itself! It is NOT HARD! 

 Spending Money

 The question always comes up about how much spending money to bring. 
 This is a difficult question to answer. All meals and other costs
 are included in the fee. You should pre-order all of your
 Jamboree souvenirs from the catalog before you go, so you don't 
 need money for that (nor will you need to carry all that stuff home).

 All you really would need money
 for is souvenirs purchased during the tour,
 snacks or sodas or other unhealthy junk during the tour or 
 at the Jamboree, and incidentals, like if you forget to bring
 your toothpaste or lose your soap. Feedback from 2001 seems
 to indicate that the average Scout will be bringing $200-$300.

 Of course, we very strongly urge you to use Traveller's Checks
 or some other secure and easily-replaced method. Prepaid Visa 
 cards are a popular option, as they are readily accepted and
 fairly easy to replace if lost.

 Regardless of 
 what you do, an official I.D. card will make it easier to use.
 You can get a State of Washington I.D. card the same place
 get get a Driver's License. It's easy to do, and the $4 cost
 is well worth it.

 [ Back to top ]