Chief Seattle Council - 2005 National Scout Jamboree 

 The Scout motto, "Be Prepared," is critical to the success of
 the Jamboree effort. In order to maximize the time Scouts spend on
 activities that are fun, educational, and aid advancement, we spend
 a significant amount of time in preparation and training.

 After the Kickoff Event in October
 of 2004, each Jamboree troop will have monthly meetings from
 January of 2005 until we leave. These meetings will help keep 
 you updated
 on developments, information, and opportunities. Each troop
 will also have one or two troop campouts, and all Scouts and
 Adults MUST attend the full-contingent pre-Jamboree
 Training Campout in mid-May, 2005.

 Chief Seattle Council 2005 Jamboree
 - Kickoff Meeting Information 

 The Jamboree Kickoff Meeting will be held October 23, 2004. The location 
 is not yet determined. This is a required event. 
 Every Scout must attend, along with at least one parent or guardian.
 Scouts should be in full uniform. This means the official Scout shirt, 
 Scout pants, Scout socks, and Scout hat.

 Check-in is between 9:00 a.m. and 9:20, with the program beginning at 
 9:30 a.m. sharp! Plan to be there early! There will be a break with light 
 refreshments between the main meeting and the troop break-out sessions.
 The event will be over by 1:00 p.m. at the latest.

 At the Kickoff Event you will be provided with a LOT of information on
 what to expect leading up and during the tour and the Jamboree. You'll 
 learn about Health and Safety issues, equipment, details about the tour, 
 scheduled training, and council-wide, pre-Jamboree activities. 

 You will also
 have your first chance to meet as a troop, conduct some initial troop
 business, and receive schedules and information about where and when 
 your troop will have pre-Jamboree meetings. 

 Even though the adult leaders will have been working on the Jamboree 
 for over a year already, this event marks the start of the ramp-up to
 the Jamboree experience for everyone. It will be an
 interesting, informative, fun, exciting day!

 Return to top of page 

 Chief Seattle Council 2005 Jamboree
 - Required Pre-Jamboree Campout Information 

 The National Office requires every Scout and Adult attending
 the National Jamboree to attend a pre-Jamboree training event.
 Ours will be held Saturday and Sunday, May 21-22, 2005. 
 It is a national requirement that you 
 MUST attend this campout in order to 
 be eligible to go to the Jamboree, so makr it down now.

 Note that neither weekend creates a conflict with other major holidays.
 Mother's Day weekend is May 8th, 2005, and Memorial Day weekend falls on May
 28-30, 2005. In addition, we have condensed
 the training in order to finish in two days instead of the
 recommended three full days.

 There are a number of things that need to be done before the 
 Jamboree that are accomplished at the "shakedown" campout:

 All Scouts and Adults will be trained on, and allowed to use and 
 practice with, the equipment we will be using at the Jamboree site.
 This includes how to set up the tents we will be using, safe
 handling of the propane stoves, etc. etc.

 All Scouts and Adults will be given additional Health and Safety
 training and information, including issues specific to the
 East coast and the Jamboree site, such as how to deal with the
 high temperatures and humidity.

 Allows a final opportunity for each troop to make sure it
 has its leadership and organization in place, as well as
 allow the entire contingent to gather together before the trip.

 A map, directions, and further details will be provided within each
 Jamboree troop by the adult leaderhsip.

 Return to top of page