Chief Seattle Council - 2005 National Scout Jamboree 

 Chief Seattle Council 2005 Jamboree
 - Pre-Jamboree Tour Information 

 For many Scouts, this will be their first and maybe only 
 trip to the East Coast, so we are working very hard to
 make sure that the tour includes the most important East Coast
 highlights. The exact details of the 2005 tour are being ironed out,
 and we expect to have the itinerary posted here before the end of the year.

 Tour Company 

 For 2005, the decision on which tour company to use will be reviewed.
 We used Harmon Tours in 1993, Lakeland in 1997, and Worldstrides in 2001.
 There were pros and cons for each company. The choice of tour companies
 will be based on their ability to provide quality, service, and price.

 The Pre-Jamboree Tour 

 Here is what we will do and see on the tour:

 Philadelphia Tour historic Philadelphia, including a visit
 to the Liberty Bell and Independence Hall.

 Gettysburg See the Electric Map, the Museum, and do an 
 extensive battlefield tour. 

 Washington D.C. and area We'll spend several days in 
 Washington D.C. visiting all the major sites, including the 
 Smithsonians, the Capital, the White House, all of
 the major presidential and war monuments, Arlington Cemetery, the 
 Holocaust Museum, 
 Mount Vernon (Washington's Home), and other sites and activities. 

 Also in Washington D.C., we'll participate in a wreath-laying ceremony at
 the Tomb of the Unknown Soldiers, and we'll attend a special performance 
 of the Marine
 Corps Barracks Silent Drill Team and Parade. This is an absolutely
 stunning display that always appears on everyone's "must see" list.

 Fun Day! We'll spend an afternoon and evening burning up energy
 at King's Dominion amusement park. This was an extremely popular activity 
 in 2001. It has incredible rides and lots of other activities.

 Laundry Service During the tour we'll also arrange 
 at least one laundry service 
 so everyone keeps looking and smelling clean and fresh.