Thank You!

If you have submitted your email address, then the astrological chart has
now been emailed to you. Expect it soon. If you have any problems or
comments about using this feature, contact the Astrolabe webmaster Ray
White.



Back to alabe.com

See our Chart Service pages for information on many full length reports that
you can order.



                   Here is the Astro Chart you requested:

                                   [Image]

     Hi there, here is the interpretation of the astrological chart
that you asked for. Also attached is a .GIF graphic file which
depicts your chart wheel. Thank you for visiting the Astrolabe WEB
site at http://alabe.com
     This report has been created especially for you. It represents
your Unique picture at the time you were born and at the place you
were born. If you are unsure of the exact time of day of your birth
(or the date or the place), the reading will probably not seem as
accurate as it could be in certain places, but other parts will seem
to be very appropriate. You will notice at certain places in the
reading that contradictory information seems to be given. This is to
be expected, because the personality of most people is extremely
complex. For example, at times we are quite shy and at other times we
are very aggressive, and so forth. You will also notice that, at
certain points in the reading, certain patterns may be repeated over
and over, especially in a longer more detailed report than this one.
This is also to be expected. This simply means that your horoscope
has an extremely strong focus on this particular pattern and that you
should pay extra close attention to what is said about it. Now, on
with your Report!

Name: David K
6/24/1949
11:22 AM  Time Zone is 4 Hrs.
Sharon, PA

Ascendant       is in   08 Degrees      Virgo
You tend to be very shy and not very self-assertive. You are
supercritical about how you appear to others. Even though you may
think you are uninteresting and dull, you are actually quite soft-
spoken, orderly, neat and very likable. You are a perfectionist with
high standards, and at times you can be quite tactless in pointing
out the faults of others. Very practical, efficient and purposeful,
your appearance and bearing reflect your need to appear graceful,
sensible and reserved. You have a crisp, no-nonsense approach to
dealing with others. Never lazy or self-indulgent, you tend to be
dedicated to the work ethic.

Sun             is in   02 Degrees      Cancer
Very emotional and sensitive, you have an intuitive understanding of
the "vibes" around you. You tend to be quite generous, giving,
loving and caring, but only when your own needs for emotional
support, love and security have been met. If they are not met, you
tend to withdraw into yourself and become very insecure and selfish.
Your home and family (especially your mother or the person who
played that role for you early on) represent security for you and
thus assume a larger-than-life importance. Very sentimental, you
have vivid and long- enduring memories of the past. No matter how
well adjusted you are, you will always need a secret quiet place of
your own in order to feel at peace. Feeding others can give you
great pleasure you would enjoy being part of a large family.

Moon            is in   11 Degrees      Gemini
Restless in the extreme, you are easily bored because of your short
attention span. Your emotions change rapidly and you love to talk
about your feelings. Generally, you have good judgment -- your
intellect controls your emotions and you do not overreact
emotionally to things. A good jack-of-all-trades, you have many-
sided interests and enjoy reasoning things through. With your mental
agility and need for physical mobility, you are attracted to
traveling and learning about other peoples and cultures. You have
vivid powers of emotional self-expression - - you can be a nonstop
talker. You love to share your ideas with anyone who will listen.

Mercury         is in   11 Degrees      Gemini
Your mind is active, quick and agile. You are very restless and you
get bored easily. Unless you receive constant mental stimulation,
you become extremely nervous and begin to act in an unstable manner.
You are probably a good student because of your natural
inquisitiveness. You also love to travel. Your learning tends to be
superficial, though, because you have a relatively short attention
span. Try to develop the mental discipline to finish what you start.
Also, you tend to talk on at times seemingly just to fill space --
make sure that your conversation has some substance to it or others
will start avoiding you.

Venus           is in   21 Degrees      Cancer
You like to be very close to other people. You need emotional
support yourself and are willing to give it to others. When you feel
unloved and insecure, you can be very jealous and possessive. You
are not interested in casual or superficial relationships -- only
deep emotional involvements interest you. Your faithful devotion is
one of your greatest gifts, but be careful not to become too
dependent on others. Learn to stand on your own two feet and demand
your own rights once in a while.

Mars            is in   10 Degrees      Gemini
Your energies get turned on quickly whenever anything interests you.
But you have a very short attention span and it is difficult for you
to complete tasks because something else more interesting always
seems to be beckoning. You love to debate and argue, usually in a
spirit of friendly disagreement. But watch out that you do not get
too overly aggressive or antagonistic or others will be quick to
take offense where none may have really been intended. You need to
be in constant physical motion -- sports or daily exercise is a must
for you if you are to feel fit and healthy.

Jupiter         is in   00 Degrees      Aquarius
Your personal growth occurs when you have the freedom to do things
in new and interesting ways -- this brings out your natural
inventiveness. You are an individualist, but you are also attracted
to mass movements that emphasize social betterment and you will
devote much time and energy to their efforts. Very fair- minded and
objective, you have extraordinary skills at organization and
administration.

Saturn          is in   01 Degrees      Virgo
Your life must be orderly and practical and full of known and
familiar routines in order for you to feel comfortable with
yourself. Be careful, however, not to let "order" become the be-all
and end-all of your life, or you may become cold, crass and
unfeeling. Doing useful, practical things boosts your self- esteem.
Abstract concepts and reasoning seem frivolous and a waste of time
to you. You are very critical of yourself (and others), indeed at
times quite self-deprecating. Try to relax a bit and allow yourself
the freedom to fail once in a while. However, you probably won't
fail very often because you are such a perfectionist.

Uranus          is in   00 Degrees      Cancer
For you, and for your peers as well, the demand to be free from
entangling emotional bonds is of paramount importance. You have a
unique and unfettered view of family life and will be attracted to
experimenting with freeform styles of relationship commitments. This
may lead to a rootless, unsettled lifestyle.

Neptune         is in   12 Degrees      Libra
You, and your entire generation, idealize all of the various
experimental approaches to relationships -- including "living
together", the formation of communes and collectives and the whole
concept of "open" marriages. There is a stress on weakened
commitments on an emotional and contractual level, but there are
heightened expectations of the level of commitment and mutual
support on the spiritual and metaphysical level.

Pluto           is in   14 Degrees      Leo
For your entire generation, this is a time when the relationship of
the individual to society as a whole is being thoroughly
re-examined. Major attempts will be made to find a balance between
the need to be self-sufficient and the need to honor debts of social
commitment.

If you would like a detailed (approx 30 page) interpretation of your
astrological profile which includes your houses, aspects, and major
trends in your chart - or if you would like other reports or
readings that depict your life and the influences that you are under
for any specific dates - See our chart service offerings at
http://alabe.com/chartservice or contact us at
1-800-THE-NOVA for prices and information.
