jessamyn.com: Ballard Community Analysis 

 Ballard 
a Community Analysis 

 View of Ballard looking north across the bay. 
Courtesy of Willard and Edna Kopper. 

 Table of Contents 

 History & Geography & Description 
 Resources & Organizations 
 Economic Life & Well-Being 
 Problems & Trends 
 Community Needs 
 Appendices & Bibliography 

 History/Geography/Description 

Ballard is a neighborhood in Seattle, Washington. It began as its own city, founded in 1889 and 
was incorporated into bordering greater Seattle in 1907. Its geographical outline is bordered on 
the South by the Lake Washington ship canal, on the West by the Puget Sound and on the East 
by 8th Avenue NW and on the North by NW 85th Street [see map]. These outlines conform to the 
census tracts, though many people place the north border a bit lower and the east border a bit 
more easterly. 

Ballard has a very distinctive neighborhood identity, both within and outside of the community. 
Ballard was originally incorporated as a ship-building community and had large influxes of 
Scandinavian immigrants at the turn of the century. It has always had a strong industry in 
commercial fishing, boat building and other marine industries. The North Pacific Fishing Fleet is 
based in greater Ballard (technically outside Ballard's boundaries but not claimed to be in any 
other neighborhood). 

Ballard is well-known to Seattle residents as the neighborhood "filled with elderly Scandinavians". 
Though it is positioned close to downtown and other popular North Seattle neighborhoods it is 
perceived as being physically distant, ideologically remote and "lost in time" by outsiders. It is 
frequently the butt of jokes on local comedy television shows yet also has a very strong active 
community, many of whom perceive of themselves as Ballard residents, not Seattle residents. 
For more on the history of Ballard, please see Appendix II. 

 Demographics 

 Population 

The Greater Ballard Area is the home to approximately 50,000 people, roughly ten percent of the 
population of the Seattle Metro area. Ballard as defined by the Zip Code [corresponding to its 
geographical outline] has approximately 20,000 residents. The population of Ballard is increasing 
at roughly 250-750 persons per census tract per decade. Since Ballard is comprised of five 
census tracts [30,31,32,33 and 47] this leads to an overall population increase of 125-375 
persons per year. 

Agewise, the Ballard population is considerably grayer than that of greater Seattle [see chart]. The 
more compelling trend, though, is that the population of Ballard is decreasing in children and 
adults and increasing [though to a lesser degree than Seattle as a whole] in elderly residents. 

 Population ages 1990 census 
 Ballard 
 Seattle 

 population 
 percent 
 population 
 percent 

 Children 
 4,535 
 16 
 86,761 
 17 

adults 
 16,744 
 63 
 330,980 
 68 

 65 + 
 5,819 
 25 
 76,040 
 15 

Ballard is also home to 9.64 percent of the city's elderly residents while only housing 7.6% and 
7.3% of children and adults respectively. 

Of Ballard's population, 92% are white, 1.3% are Black, 3% are Asian and 1.76% are American 
Indian, with roughly 1% being "other". The Hispanic population of Ballard is approximately 3%. 
The nonwhite population of Ballard is increasing at a faster rate than the white population, though 
no more than in Seattle as a whole. For those persons reporting single ancestry, the three largest 
countries of origin are Germany, Norway and Ireland. For those reporting multiple ancestry, the 
most common countries of origin [by first reported country of origin] are Germany, England and 
Ireland with Norway a close fourth. Forty percent of the foreign born Ballardians came to the 
United States before 1959 

 Housing 

Ballard is composed of 323 acres with 4,279 households, yielding a household density of 13.2 
households per acre. The City of Seattle Comprehensive Plan anticipates that number increasing 
to 17.9 households per acre by the year 2010. The median age of a house in Ballard is 45 years. 

 Housing units by type 

 single 
 duplex 
 3-4 plex 
 5-9 
units 
 10-19 
units 
 20-49 
units 
 50+ 
units 
 Total 

 Ballard 
 12,990 
 1,433 
 1,346 
 1,939 
 1,461 
 1,080 
 310 
 20,559 

 % of total 
 63 
 6.9 
 6.5 
 9.4 
 7 
 5 
 1.5 
 *** 

 Seattle 
 132,300 
 10,491 
 12,150 
 16,636 
 24,470 
 30,229 
 19,220 
 245,496 
 % of total 
 54 
 4.2 
 5 
 6.7 
 10% 
 12.3 
 7.8 
 *** 

Ballard is much more made up of single-family dwellings than greater Seattle. In fact, Seattle's 
second largest housing unit type, 20-49 unit buildings, are sixth in prevalence in Ballard. Similarly, 
Seattle in general has 7.8% buildings with 50 or more apartments, but only 310 [or 1.5%] are in 
Ballard. Ballard has a median amount of assisted housing, with a ratio varying from 10-100 per 
1000 residents. The overall ratio for Seattle is 62/1000. However, Ballard's concentration of 
assisted housing units is high for the North Seattle and canal neighborhood areas. It can be 
speculated that many of the assisted housing units in Ballard are nursing and rest homes for 
Ballard's many elderly residents, but this is more speculation based on observation than verifiable 
fact. 

Seventy-five percent of Ballard's housing is zoned for single-family dwellings with the remainder 
apartments, condominiums, and low-income and senior citizen housing. Approximately 58% of 
Ballard's acreage is in residential use. This is somewhat lower that Seattle's overall usage. 

 Household Estimates 1994 

 vacancy rate 
 household size
 change in units 
 Ballard 
 5% 
 2.02 
 49.2 
 Seattle 
 6.47% 
 2.42 
 not reported 

The vacancy rate of Ballard households is also lower than Seattle's. In addition the household 
size of Ballard is significantly lower, perhaps owing to the large number of single-occupant 
households in Ballard. 

In terms of households, Ballard's predominant household type is single family [almost half] 
followed in descending order by larger households. Of these households, almost 2/3 are non-
family households, followed by 1/4 married couple families [2/3 of these w/o children living in the 
house] and single parent households with twice as many female headed households as male. Of 
these households, 8/9 are English speaking with approximately 200 linguistically isolated 
households evenly split between Spanish speaking and Asian language speaking. 

 Rent for a 2 bedroom/1 bath apartment 

 1991 
 1992 
 1993 

 Ballard 
 $613 
 $588 
 $615 
 % change 

 -4.1
 +4.5 
 Seattle 
 $627 
 $658 
 $680 
 % change 

 +5.0 
 +3.3 

Ballard was on the low end of the Seattle neighborhoods' median increase for rents in the 1991-
1993 period. Rents actually dropped in 1992 but surged at levels higher that Seattle's in 1993. 

 Sale Prices for Single Family Homes 

 1991 
 1992
 1993 

 Ballard 
 $140,319 
 $146,347 
 $148,329 

 % change 

 +3.6 
 +1.4 

 Seattle 
 $173,065 
 $174,125 
 $175,269 

 % change 

 +.9 
 +.7 

Ballard's single family homes are on the low scale for housing in Seattle making them affordable 
to first time home buyers and young families. 

 Resources/Organizations 

 Community Resources 

Ballard is home to more than 25 civic and community organizations including the Central Ballard 
Community Council, Ballard Historical Society, Ballard Avenue Landmark District Board and the 
Ballard Centennial Committee. Ballard residents are served by a Citizen's Service Center, two 
Community Centers [one to the Southwest and one to the Northeast] five public elementary 
schools and one high school. There is a government social services center operating a food 
stamps, welfare and Medicare office. 

Ballard is also home to one major hospital -also Ballard's largest employer - a "self-sufficient" 
retail community and a disproportionately large number of churches. Ballard has been said to 
remain economically strong by "maintaining a balance between residential, commercial and 
industrial development." It has a diversified small business core, a few major chain stores, with 
more coming in and many active maritime industry businesses. 

Ballard is home to the longest continually operating movie theater in the US and also home to a 
library, theater, many clubs and bars [in historic Old Ballard] and many fine restaurants and fast 
food places. There is a senior citizen center and many fraternal organizations have their lodges in 
Ballard [Eagles, Elks, Masons, Odd Fellows]. Ballard has a world renowned Nordic Heritage 
Museum and also takes advantage of its seaside with Golden Gardens, a beachside park. 

Ballard has a historic district, known as Old Ballard where many of the original brick buildings are 
still in place. This is the center of the Ballard arts community with much of the space devoted to 
artists' studios and music clubs, as well as many of Ballard's finest restaurants. 

 Transportation 

Ballard maintains its "out of the way" status by being fairly distant from both I-5 and Rt. 99. 
Though there are major arterials running through Ballard [8th, 15th and 24th N/S and Market, 
65th and 85th E/W] there is no easy access to highways in and out of the city. Ballard is served 
quite well by Metro transit with service from the 15, 17, 18 , 44, 46, 28, 62 and 48 busses. 
Geographically Ballard is fairly level with a slight pitch to the roads after Market street continuing 
up to 85th. Ballard is actually flatter than many Seattle neighborhoods. 

Ballard has lots of on-street parking, though there are no Park n' Rides owing to the lack of 
nearby major thoroughfares. Parking rates in Ballard are less than in downtown Seattle and there 
are no areas with zoned parking. Ballard's main commerce and business center, Ballard Street 
and Market Street, is a very pedestrian friendly area with many walkways and benches. Much of 
Ballard is also served by bike paths that extend outward to downtown and the University district 
and on to Lake Washington. 

Ballard was a trial area for Metro's shorter-trip bus routes - the LINCS Project -- which traveled in 
continuous circuits in Ballard and would stop when flagged by pedestrians. The pilot program had 
three busses covering the major streets in Ballard but once the trial period was over, the service 
was not continued due to "lack of interest." 

 Economic Life/Well-Being 

 Employment 

The median household income in Ballard is almost $27,000. The median family income is 
$36,286. The per capita Ballard income is $18,139. See the chart below for a breakdown of type 
of earnings by household. 

 Earnings by Type 
[number of households] 

 earnings
 wage/salary 
 SS income 
 public asst. 
 retirement 
 received 
 7422 
 7005 
 2725 
 540 
 1536 
 did not receive 
 2213 
 2630 
 6910 
 9095 
 8099 

Ballard is often described as a thriving neighborhood with a continued positive economic outlook. 
It has primarily single/multi-family zoning as well as industrial and neighborhood and commercial. 
There are 1,300 businesses which offer goods and services to the Ballard community and over 
135,000 people support the Ballard business district. 

 Space Allocation by Type of Use [in acres] 

 utilities
 transport.
 parks
 single 
family
 multi 
family
 commercial 
 industrial 
 Ballard
 38.6
 117.3 
 1544.8 
 249.3 
 259.6 
 177.1 
 Seattle 
 1440.8 
 4811.1 
 18465 
 3173.4 
 2829 
 2611 
 percent
 2.6
 2.4
 8.3
 7.8 
 9.1
 6.7 

The three largest Industries that employ Ballard residents are retail trade, "other professional and 
related services" and health services. The three most common occupations are professional 
specialty occupations, administrative support occupations and executive, administrative, and 
managerial occupations. Employment growth is projected to continue in the service industry, 
closely followed by retail trades. 

The job density in Ballard is currently 11 jobs to the acre and that is projected to increase to 22 
jobs/acre by the year 2010. 

 Business & Industry 

Ballard has one of the largest industrial zones within the city of Seattle and certainly the largest in 
proximity to a large residential population. There is a large transitory population that is employed in 
the fishing boats that come in and out of the Sound as well as the tourist travel around the 
Shilshole Bay Marina. The large percentage of Ballard's business are independently and locally 
owned offering a "small town shopping experience" 

Ballard has been selected by the City of Seattle to be a Hub Urban Village as part of the City's 
comprehensive plan. Only one of two in North Seattle [with the other one near 125th Street] it is 
projected to house both a high density residential area as well as a low density general 
commercial area. There will also be some moderate density neighborhood commercial areas 
between NW 65th and NW 80th. Ballard will also have a manufacturing and industrial center and, 
according to the Future Land Use Map, will be one of the most diverse neighborhoods with the 
largest amount of offerings. 

Since Ballard currently has below-market prices for office and manufacturing space, it could be 
poised to take advantage of the city growth incentives and potential transportation improvements. 
The City's plan includes a pedestrian friendly Ballard center with ample parking and transportation 
opportunities and is supposed to simulate a small downtown area of a smaller city. Since Seattle's 
downtown area has become so congested and expensive to park in recently, the urban Hub idea 
is one way of siphoning off visitors and creating more regional downtown simulacrums. 

Ballard has a Chamber of Commerce, but it is not very active in the community, at least as far as 
providing information to the general public. When information for this analysis was sought, their 
response was "Go check the library." The most recent publication about Ballard businesses 
"Seattle Investment Guide to Ballard" appears to have been published prior to 1990. 

Ballrd has its own weekely newspaper - The Ballard News Tribune - that was recently bought out 
by a West Seattle company and underwent a fairly radical format change. The newspaper has 
always aggresively promoted issues that it felt were of interest to Ballardians as well as providing 
a lot of information on upcoming community events as well as Senior Center information. 

 Problems and Trends 

Since Ballard has a large fishing boat population, it is occasionally deluged with people on shore leave of sorts who have no fixed residence and come into town to drink before setting off 
again. While Ballard does not seem to have a large homeless population per se, these people can 
cause some of the same problems, sleeping in alleys, urinating on buildings and hassling 
passers-by. 

Ballard has a reputation for being old-fashioned and out of the way. While this reputation has 
been challenged in recent months by the influx of chain food service industries [most notably 
SBC, Tully's and Bernie's Bagels] many people do not consider Ballard as a primary recreation, shopping 
or arts destination area. This can be further compounded by residents' preference to keep Ballard slightly 
isolationist. This is also mitigated by Ballard's own strong internal sense of community and 
regional pride that makes Ballard a better community to live in than it is to visit. 

 Community Needs 

As part of a neighborhood planning project, Ballard and Crown Hill [the neighborhood directly 
north of Ballard] residents got together with the Neighborhood Planning Association and created a 
Neighborhood Planning Document which outlines their concerns and develops "vision elements" 
for various topics such as housing, transportation and arts and culture [see attached sheets]. 
These were then condensed into a Crown Hill/Ballard Vision. The major points of this vision are 
as follows: 

 Enhance access to recreation and open space within a greener, more pedestrian friendly Ballard.
 Establish design guidelines for compatible new and readapted housing that is environmentally sound and affordable for a diverse, larger population.
 Promote collaboration, communication and citizen participation in community institutions and human services, while expanding funding and nurturing youth and other vulnerable populations.
 Create a balanced and well-integrated transportation system that includes bus and rail transit, autos, freight, 
bicycles and pedestrians.
 Develop a comprehensive and creative business revitalization strategy that enhances balance and vitality in all business sectors.
 Treasure our historic buildings and our excellent cultural institutions while supporting our lively arts community. 

 Analysis 

Ballard is a community at odds with much of Seattle. It has an older, less mobile population and it 
has major industry that is practically unique. It is primarily populated by one person, single home 
households and has a lot of locally owned and small businesses. 

While Ballard has a lot to interest the average Ballardian, it does not hold much allure for people 
outside of Ballard. Since many people who live in Ballrd also work and shop in Ballard, it can be 
argued that this is not a problem. However, since Ballard does appear to be expanding, attracting 
outside businesses and receiveing attentions as a future Urban Hub, it is pretty certain that things 
will not be able to remain the same for much longer. The question then becomes how quickly to 
embrace this change and proactively affect it, or whether to simply become overrun by change 
and have it change you. 

Ballard has always been aggresively pro "green space" [despite its lack of large park areas], pro 
community centers and pro arts. Visitors are always suprised during visits to Ballard by how much 
public art and community activity there appears to be. 

 Appendix I: Bibliography & Map 

 web sources 

 U.S. Census 
 lookup of census data by zip code/tracts 

 BallardNet 
 Web site w/ info on the history of Ballard as well as local links. 

 National InterAd 
 Page with history of Ballard, real estate agency location information 

 Ballard High School 
 Ballard High School on the web 

 Crime Maps 
 Maps outlining Seattle crime by census tract 

 Ballard Links Aplenty 
 other Ballard links not used in this project

 printed sources - from Ballard and Central branch libraries 

"Phase 1: Neighborhood Planning Document" Crown Hill/Ballard area 
by the Neighborhood Planning Association, July 1996. 

"Population and Housing Estimates 1993 and 1994"
Puget Sound Regional Council, December 1994. 

Seattle Comprehensive Plan & Future Land Use Map
City of Seattle, March 1994 

Seattle's Comprehensive Plan: Plan for Managing Growth 1994-2014"
City of Seattle, November 1995. 

"Detailed Population and Housing Estimates 1992"
Puget Sound Trends, October 1993. 

"Population Change 1980-1990"
Puget Sound Trends, March 1991. 

"King County 1990 Census, Percentage of Population Under Age 5"
Puget Sound Trends, June 1991. 

"Population, Households and Housing Trends"
Puget Sound Trends, October 1995. 

Monitoring Bulletin - Housing Affordability in King County
Planning and Community Development Division, April 1994. 

Seattle Investment Guide to Ballard
Seattle Department of Community Development 

 personal sources - people spoken to 

 Jerry - owner, Dutch Treat, a locally owned caf currently competing with larger coffee chains that have 
moved in to the area. 
" The problem with Ballard small businesses is that they lack business acumen. They think 
they can just keep on doing what they're doing and continue to stay in business. This is not going to be 
the case much longer " 

 Jack - caretaker, Odd Fellows Hall, a locally owned fraternal organization that rents space to other small 
and local groups 
" Ballard is a much more interesting place to live than it is to visit " 

 student librarian , Ballard Branch Library 
" This place is always a mob scene. People just can't get enough of the library. It's the only 
resource for people to get information " 

 Map of Ballard 

 Map of Ballard showing census tracts 
source: http://www.accessone.com/~kwirth 

 street map of central Ballard 
source: Ballardnet 
 Appendix II: Ballard History 

from BallardNet , for more information please see The History and Culture of Ballard h

Located in the northwest section of Seattle, Ballard is by many regarded as a city within a city. It is 
dominated by its proximity to the water which touches not only the many miles of shoreline but also its 
economy, culture and recreation. Fishing and fishing ships, lumber and sawmills were for many years the 
trademarks of Ballard but recent years have seen more of a diversification in industry. 

The community was named for Captain William Ballard who acquired land along the northern shore of 
Salmon Bay in 1887. The Salmon Bay area was originally platted as Gillman Park in 1888 but when the 
municipality was incorporated in 1890, the city council changed the name to Ballard. 

The newly platted land quickly attracted settlers and industries needing ready access to Puget Sound. 
Within a short time the area was dotted with sawmills. The rapid growth was accelerated in 1890, when a 
rail link was completed with Seattle. By the end of the 90s an established town had been created housing 
the world's largest shingle industry with fishing and boat building as other major sources of revenue. By 
the turn of the century, Ballard was the largest area of employment north of San Francisco. 

The rapid growth brought problems and the lack of a fresh water supply proved a major obstacle. To 
alleviate some of the problems Ballard was annexed to Seattle in 1907. At that time it was said that the 
town had eighteen churches, seventeen shingle mills, three banks, three saw mills, three iron foundries, 
three shipyards and about 300 wholesale and retail merchants. In addition there were several houses of ill 
repute and innumerable bars, many of which were located on Ballard Avenue in a four block area. 

At that time a strong Scandinavian community became established in Ballard and the 1910 census 
showed that three out of five (62%) of the foreign born residents were Scandinavians. When combining 
first and second generation Scandinavian-Americans they ac counted for 34 percent of Ballard's 
population. Ever since that time Ballard has had the reputation of being the home for a large Scandinavian 
ethnic community although the most recent census reveal that less than 12 percent of the population is of 
Scandinavian descent. Yet, many parts of the community retains a distinct Scandinavian flavor with 
Scandinavian shops, restaurants and businesses. 

Today Ballard's commercial strength still is flavored by the water. Maritime industries line the shore of 
Salmon Bay and the ship canal. Fishermen's Terminal holds the world's largest fishing fleet. Each year 
large number of tourists visit waterfront attractions from the Hiram M Chittenden Locks to Golden Gardens 
Park. 

On the whole, Ballard has managed to retain the feeling of a small town and the community has an 
special identity that is quite unique. In the Old Ballard section the Historic District has preserved the old 
buildings and the pioneer spirit of the turn of the century. Furthermore, Ballard is the home of the Nordic 
Heritage Museum which is located in a former 1907 school building. Here the history of Ballard as well as 
that of the Scandinavians in Washington is documented through large and exciting recreations 

Document created by Jessamyn West 
for a class in community analysis at the UW Library School 
 11/10/96