One Night On Hellmouth - A BTVS/Chess Song Parody 

 One Night On Hellmouth 

 LE FastCounter 
 Sign My Guestbook 
 Join My Lists For Anthony Head & Buffy Fanfic 
 Title: One Night On Hellmouth - A Buffy the Vampire Slayer Parody of "One Night In Bangkok" From the Musical "Chess" 
Author: Main One: Sonja Marie, Helpers: Jennifer Ottesen and Lisa Vedeckis 
Email: gaspers@eskimo.com 
Feedback: If you have something to say, I'd love to hear it, bad or good. Flames will be ignored. 
Distribution: Hey if you want to put this on your site, way cool, I'm thrilled and honoured, just let me know what site! 
Summary/Background: The Song is a parody of "One Night In Bangkok" From the Musical "Chess" in which The American played orignally by Murray Head (Anthony Head's Older Brother) sings about playing chess in Bangkok. Anthony also played the same role after Murray left the cast (LEFT). It's the perfect parody in a way since Tony played The American at one time and now plays Giles, or as in this case - The Watcher (RIGHT). 
Copyrights/Credits: The original song does not belong to me, but to Tim Rice and those guys from ABBA, Bjorn Ulvaeus and Benny Andersson. The Watcher and Buffy and Co. don't belong to me either, they belong to Joss Whedon and Fox. No copyright infringements in both cases meant. Now on to the song!: 

 The Watcher: 
Sunnydale, Ordinary setting 
And the city don't know that the city is getting 
The creme de la creme of the horror world in a 
Show with everything but a happy ending 

Time flies -- doesn't seem a minute 
Since the Science lab had the praying mantis in it 
All Change -- don't you know that when you 
Slay at this level there's no ordinary venue 

It's the cemetary -- or the Bronze -- or the library -- or -- or this place! 

Buffy and Co: 
One night on Hellmouth and the world's your nightmare 
The Bronze is kickin' but the drinks ain't free 
You'll find a blood sucker in every darkened corner 
And if you're lucky it's met a Romani 
Buffy: I can feel an Angel sliding up to me 

The Watcher: 
One curse's is very like another 
When your head's down over your journals, brother 

Buffy and Co: 
It's a drag, it's a bore, it's really such a pity 
To be slaying in the grave yard, not playing in the city 

The Watcher: 
Whaddya mean? Ya seen one ugly, undead, stinking vamp -- 

Vampires: 
Good blood, warm and sweet 
Set them up, we'll have good eats 

The Watcher: 
Get real! You're talking about my slayer 
Whose every move's among the purest 
She aims her kicks above the waistline, sunshine 

Buffy and Co: 
One night on Hellmouth makes a slayer humble 
Not much between you and your destiny 
One night on Hellmouth and the vampires tumble 
Can't be to careful with a prophecy 
Buffy: I can feel the evil all around me 

The Watcher: 
Bronze's gonna be the witness 
To the ultimate test of physical fitness 
This grips me more than would a 
Mouldy old volume or ancient scroll 

And thank god I'm only watching the slay -- directing it 

I don't see you vamps rating 
The kind of moves I'm comtemplating 
I'd let you in, I would invite you 
But the stakes we use would not delight you 

So you better go back to your tombs, your graveyeards, your catacombs 

Buffy & Co: 
One night in Hellmouth and the world's your nightmare 
The Bronze is kickin' but the drinks ain't free 
You'll find a vamp in every darkned corner 
A little blood and your soul's history 
Buffy: I can feel an Angel sliding up to me 

One night on Hellmouth makes a slayer humble 
Not much between you and your destiny 
One night on Hellmouth and the vampires tumble 
Can't be to careful with a prophecy 
Buffy: I can feel the evil all around me 

Finis 
 THE GASP! GUESTBOOK - PLEASE SIGN 
 Sign the GASP! Guestbook 

 View the GASP! Guestbook

 Join the ASH-GASP or Buffy-BETA Fanfic Lists 
 The Anthony Stewart Head List Join Form 

Your Name? 
Enter your email address (Example: janedoe@whoami.com): 
Please put YOUR FULL ADDY if you leave out the stuff behind the @ I can't sub you to the list. 
 Please Check the Box of the Version You Would Like To Join, Or Both for Well Both. ASH-GASP (Individual Messages)? ASH-GASP Digest (One Email With A Bunch of Individual Ones In It)? 
 Unsubscribe From The Anthony Stewart Head List 
ASH-GASP Unsubscribe (Individual Messages) 
ASH-GASP Digest Unsubscribe (One Email With A Bunch of Individual Ones In It) 
You need only hit "Send Email" ONCE! If you don't think it worked email me at 
 gaspers@eskimo.com . You will not be added right away as I do all subs and unsubs by hand, it may take anywhere from a day or a week before you get added. But be patient and don't keep trying to sub.

 The Anthony Stewart Head Mailing List Archive 
 The Buffy-Beta Fanfic List Join Form 

Your Name? 
Enter your email address (Example: janedoe@whoami.com): 
Please put YOUR FULL ADDY if you leave out the stuff behind the @ I can't sub you to the list. 
 Please Check the Box of the Version You Would Like To Join, Or Both for Well Both. BBETA (Individual Messages)? BBETA Digest (One Email With A Bunch of Individual Ones In It)? 
 Unsubscribe From The Buffy-Beta List 
BBETA Unsubscribe (Individual Messages) 
BBETA Digest Unsubscribe (One Email With A Bunch of Individual Ones In It) 
You need only hit "Send Email" ONCE! If you don't think it worked email me at 
 gaspers@eskimo.com . You will not be added right away as I do all subs and unsubs by hand, it may take anywhere from a day or a week before you get added. But be patient and don't keep trying to sub.

 Buffy-Beta Fanfiction Mailing List Archive 
 For more information on the Buffy-BETA Mailing List, visit: 

 Created by The White Rose Inc. (a.k.a Sonja Marie) 1997