Dragonfly Fighter Kite 

 [ NFKA ]
 [ Plans Index ]

 Updated Dragonfly Fighter Plan - Aug 24, 1999 
Provided by Tom Humphrey 

 http://www.olympus.net/personal/katzen/dragonfly/ 

 Kite specifications: 20" wingspan, 17.75" spine length. Line of wingtips 
bisects the spine 7" from the nose of the kite. Trailing edge should be 
cut out 5/8" on a smooth curve from wingtip to tail of kite. Bridle 
attachments are on the bow 1" on either side of the spine, and 9" down 
the spine from where the bow and spine cross.

 Tools and Materials Needed: 

 Rulers, preferably metal 
 Curve stick or flexible curve for trailing edge of sail 
 Wire cutters to trim carbon fiber bow 
 X-acto knife for cutting Mylar 
 Needle for threading bridle lines 
 Clear packaging tape, 2" width 
 Contact cement 
 Super glue 
 Mylar for sail 
 .050 Carbon fiber rod for bow, 24" long 

 Bow setter - a bow setter is nothing more than two vinyl end caps joined 
by a length of line with a line tensioning slider in the middle. This 
allows you to insert the tips of your rod into the vinyl caps and adjust 
the curve of the bow to fit your kite.

 Bamboo stick for spine - (dowel can be substituted, but if you do, sand 
or plane the dowel until you have a flat side to it, or to save weight 
and make shaping easier, sand down two opposing sides of the dowel. If 
you use a dowel, mark where the wingtip line will be, and put a slight 
bend in the dowel just in front of it. )

 Line for bridle -(I like to use LaserPro 20lb dacron line for bridles; 
it is strong and waxed along it's entire length)

 Poster board for sail pattern template

 Create a template out of cardboard or poster board according to the 
dimensions in the illustration (Half Pattern Detail)

 Fold a sheet of Mylar in half and tape it down to your working surface. 
Place the spine line of your template on the fold, and trace out the sail 
on the Mylar. Carefully cut the sail out of the Mylar, using a ruler to 
keep the lines straight. The curve will be tricky, so cut out the curve 
first. Unfold. This gives you a symmetrical sail. The pattern leaves 
extra Mylar tabs to fold over the bow. Make a mark along the line of the 
leading edges to the wingtip and crease the extra Mylar so that there is 
a straight leading edge from nose to wingtip.

 Put a bead of contact cement down the center fold. Put another bead of 
contact cement on the face of the spine. Stick the spine down onto the 
fold. Remember, you only get one try, so be as careful as possible.

 Put your bow into the bow setter and adjust the tension so that the bow 
can fit from wingtip to wingtip, without any part of the bow falling 
outside of the sail area. Place the bow onto the sail (over the spine) 
and fit into the creases at the wingtips. Note where the bow fits into 
the creases at the wingtips. This is the area of the bow that you will 
coat with contact cement. Coat the bow ends with contact cement and 
carefully put it aside.

 Put a bead of contact cement on the sail on the tab crease, and also 
lightly coat the tabs. Place your bow onto the kite so that the cemented 
edges of the bow and tabs meet, and fold the tabs over the bow. Smooth 
the Mylar down over the bow and let the cement dry. There will be a 
small end of the tab that does not meet the sail; this will be cut away 
later.

 Prepare 4 pieces of packing tape. Two will be 1/2" x 1", and two will be 
11" x 1". 

 When the cement is dry, remove the bow setter. The sail should now be 
under tension. Clip off the exposed ends of the bow with the wire cutter 
and cut away the extra Mylar left over from the tab. Use the 1/2" x 1" 
pieces of tape and fold them around the ends of the bow as extra protection 
from the bow poking through. This is unlikely; but the tape helps to 
reinforce. Place the 11" x 1" tape onto your work surface sticky side up. 
Carefully place the leading edge of the kite halfway onto the tape from 
wingtip towards the nose. The tape will not reach all the way to the 
nose of the kite. This is intended to enclose the leading edge and bow 
at the wingtips. Burnish the back of the leading edge so that the tape 
is smooth on the front edge of the kite. Fold the tape over the leading 
edge and the bow ends and smooth it down to the back of the kite.

 Prepare a 2" x 4" piece of packing tape. Place the tape sticky side up 
on your work surface and place the nose of the kite over the tape so that 
the ends of the 4" side just meet the leading edges of the sail. Smooth 
the tape down over the front of the sail. This should cover the ends of 
the tape used to stiffen and reinforce the leading edge. There will be 
a section of tape exposed. Cut the tape down to the sail edge on either 
side of the spine and fold this strip over the top of the spine stick. 
Then carefully fold the tape over the leading edges and smooth it down 
over the back of the sail, wrapping it over the spine and the strip of 
tape folded over it. Repeat this process at the tail of the kite. 
This will be harder to follow with the curved edge of the Mylar, but get 
as close as you can. The sail is now finished and reinforced.

 Measure 1" from the center of the spine where the bow crosses it, and 
mark the back of the sail where the yoke lines will go through. I place 
a loose-leaf binder reinforcement over the mark to limit how far the 
Mylar can tear. For extra reinforcement, place a small square of tape 
over the binder reinforcement. Cut a 1" x 1" piece of packing tape and 
wrap it over the spine between the yoke line marks. This will reinforce 
the point where the bow is tied to the sail. 

 Measure 9" down from where the bow crosses the spine and make a mark. 
Place a 1" x 1" piece of tape over the spine with the mark at the center 
and wrap it over the spine. This will be the lower bridle point. 

 Push a needle through the tape at the back of the sail on either side of 
the spine next to the lower bridle point, and on either side of the spine 
where the bow crosses it (One hole below the bow on one side, and the 
other above the bow on the other). Then push a needle through the sail 
at the yoke line points. Care has to be taken to get beneath the bow. 

 See the sail hole detail. 

 Thread a line through the cover where the bow crosses the spine, and tie 
the bow to the spine, leaving the knot at the back above the bow.

 Thread the yoke line through one of the holes made 1" from the spine. 
Tie the line to the bow. Thread the other end of the yoke line through 
the other hole. Pull the line through until the center of the yoke line 
is 4" above the front of the sail and tie off the other side. The yoke 
line is now ready.

 Tie a small overhand loop in a longer length of line, and put the end of 
the line through the loop twice in a double larkshead knot around the 
yoke line. Tighten the knot to the center of the yoke line, and thread 
the other end through the holes at the lower bridle point. Pull this 
tight. Pull the line back through the cover to the yoke point, and then 
pull the line past this point about the width of two to three fingers. 
Tie the lower bridle knot at the base of the kite. This gives you the 
proper bridle lengths. Tie a tow loop out of the excess bridle line and 
attach it to the bridle with a double larkshead knot. Turn the kite over 
and coat the line with super glue where it attaches to the bow and spine. 
This keeps the knots from slipping and possibly tearing the sail.

 Carefully put a slight bend in the bamboo spine from about the wingtip 
line forward.

 Congratulations! You are ready to tune and fly your new Dragonfly!

 [ NFKA ]
 [ Plans Index ]