WE THE PEOPLE, April 25, 1939 

.
 WE THE PEOPLE 

 The Gabriel Heatter broadcast of April 25, 1939. 

 The first national exposure for Alcoholics Anonymous came with the April 25, 1939 "We The People" broadcast. Gabriel Heatter's radio program was a tremendously popular program that was tuned in by millions of people. Morgan R., the AA member who spoke on the program, was expected to launch sales of the newly published book, Alcoholics Anonymous . How Morgan was prepared for his three-minute talk, and the resulting book sales are described in the A.A.W.S. publication Alcoholics Anonymous Comes of Age on pages 174-175. 

 WE THE PEOPLE 
 April 1939 

 HEATTER: 
 The man beside me now has had one of the most gripping and dramatic experiences I've ever heard. I'm not going to tell 
you his name. And when you hear what he has to say I think 
you'll understand why. But after checking the facts the 
Listeners Committee of We The People decided to grant him 
time because they feel that if one person is helped by 
hearing his story, then WE THE PEOPLE will have done a real 
service. All right, sir. 

 ANONYMOUS: 
 Six months ago I got out of an insane asylum. I'd been sent 
there because I was drinking myself to death. But the doctors 
said they could do nothing for me. And only four years ago I 
was making 20,000 dollars a year. I was married to a swell 
girl and had a young son. But I worked hard and like lots of 
my friends - I used to drink to relax. Only they knew when to 
stop. I didn't. And pretty soon - I drank myself out of my 
job. I promised my wife I'd straighten out. But I couldn't. 
Finally she took the baby and left me. 
 The next year was like a nightmare. I was penniless. I went 
out on the streets - panhandled money for liquor. Every time 
I sobered up - I swore not to touch another drop. But if I 
went a few hours without a drink - I'd begin to cry like a 
baby, and tremble all over. One day after I left the asylum I 
met a friend of mine. He took me to the home of one of his 
friends. A bunch of men were sitting around, smoking cigars, 
telling jokes - having a great time. But I noticed they 
weren't drinking. When Tom told me they'd all been in the 
same boat as I was - I couldn't believe him. But he said, 
"See that fellow? He's a doctor. Drank himself out of his 
practice. Then he straightened out. Now he's head of a big 
hospital." Another big strapping fellow was a grocery clerk. 
Another the vice president of a big corporation. They got 
together five years ago. Called themselves Alcoholics 
Anonymous. And they'd worked out a method of recovery. One of 
their most important secrets was - helping the other fellow. 
Once they began to follow it the method proved successful and 
helped others get on their feet - they found they could stay 
away from liquor. 
 Gradually - those men helped me back to life. I stopped 
drinking. Found courage to face life once again. Today I've
got a job - and I'm going to climb back to success. Recently
we wrote a book called " Alcoholics Anonymous ". It tells
precisely how we all came back from a living death. Working 
on that book made me realize how much other people had 
suffered - how they'd gone through the same thing I did. 
That's why I wanted to come on this program. I wanted to tell
people who are going through that torment - if they sincerely
want to they can come back. Take their place in society once
again! 
(APPLAUSE)
 (MUSIC) 

 [ To Top ] 

 [ Back to Home ]