SCWS Rescue 

 Adopting a Samoyed 

 The process starts when you fill out and return a rescue 
 application , available here on our web site. Then 
 we can schedule a home visit from one of our volunteers. We want to meet you, and our volunteer 
 can answer questions and explain the things you 
 need to know about Samoyeds. We need to know that your home is suited for a large, active dog, 
 and we want you all to be comfortable 
 together. 
 Y ou 
 need a secure fenced yard (or at least a fenced area) 
 and lots of human companionship. Sammies are social dogs and need time 
 indoors with their people. They won't be happy dogs if they are left 
 outdoors. Some breeds will stay close to home, but very few Samoyeds can 
 be trusted completely without a fence. 
 When a Samoyed enters our rescue program, we do a careful 
 assessment so we know his/her personality and can match the dog best to a 
 new home. At this point in the dog's life we are their only 
 advocates, so we take this job very seriously. We look at our approved 
 homes and make a list of those who match the dog best. Sometimes people 
 want only a female, a male, or an older or younger dog, so the home 
 waiting the longest will not always be on the list for the next dog. After 
 we make the list, we call the people in the order they applied. Sometimes 
 it's a matter of a few days and sometimes it takes several months. We 
 really appreciate your patience. 
 If you have other 
 pets, we'd like to schedule a visit with your prospective new sammy on neutral ground, 
 which gives all the animals an opportunity to meet where none of them 
 will be territorial. Then comes the hard part, if we all think the match 
 is good, where we ask you to go home and think about the adoption. Sammies 
 are beautiful, friendly dogs, and it's easy to fall in love in an instant 
 -- only to discover later that a different dog might have been a better 
 fit. 
 After 
 you adopt your Samoyed, your new friend gets to move in with you. 
 You can expect follow-up visits occasionally to monitor things, and we 
 encourage you to write or call us whenever you have a question. Our rescue 
 families are all a part of one big family, and we're all anxious to help. 
 All dogs from SCWS Rescue are 
 neutered or spayed and up-to-date with shots. We ask for an adoption donation 
 of $150, which is actually less than the costs of an average rescue dog. We also require 
 a signed adoption agreement. 

 SCWS is registered with the State of Washington as a non-profit 
 corporation . 

 Click here for an 
 application form