SCWS - Available Rescue Samoyeds 

Available Samoyeds 
 The following Samoyeds are
available for adoption. If you are interested in a Samoyed on this
page, please contact 

Rescue@SamoyedClubWa.org 

 SCWS Rescue places dogs in new homes in Washington State. 
We also accept applications from Northern Oregon, Northern Idaho, and British 
Columbia. 

 No dogs are available in our rescue program at this time. 
This could change at any minute, so please check back again. 
 Thank you! 

 -->

 No dogs are available in our rescue program at this time. 
This could change at any minute, so please check back again. 
 Thank you! 

 -->

 No dogs are available in our rescue program at this time. 
This could change at any minute, so please check back again. 
 Thank you! 

 -->

 We expect several dogs to 
enter rescue during the month of December. If you're interested in 
adopting a rescue sammy, please check back soon. 

 If you write and ask, we 
 will be more than happy to notify you whenever we add a dog to this page. 
 Thank you! 

-->

 Abby 
 Abby is about eight years old and her life 
lately has been a little rough. When some people saw a car parked by a 
neighbor's driveway they went to check, and the people in the car dropped Abby 
out the window and took off. A kind person cleaned her up, took care of her, and 
contacted rescue. 
 She is in good health except for stiffness. 
We recently had Abby x-rayed to find the source of the problem, and found she is 
afflicted with spondylosis, a type of osteoarthritis of the spine. She is on a 
program of glucosamine and vitamins and we expect her to improve and live a good 
long life. She is spayed and up to date on shots. 
 Abby is a love sponge who wants only to be 
your friend. She gets along with other dogs (there are five others in the foster 
home) but we think she would be happier as an only dog or with only one other 
dog. She leaves the resident cat alone. Because of her stiffness we 
would like to place her in a home without very young children who might hurt her 
accidentally. 
 If Abby sounds like she would be right for 
your home, she would love to hear from you. 
 Click Here to see more 
pictures of Abby. 

 Update : Abby is playing more with 
the other dogs in her foster home, and although she is stiff she is unfailingly 
cheerful and loves attention. We still think part of the stiffness is because 
she was injured when dropped from the car. 

 Click 
here to apply for Abby 

 We expect several dogs to 
enter rescue during the month of December. If you're interested in 
adopting a rescue sammy, please check back soon. 

 If you write and ask, we 
 will be more than happy to notify you whenever we add a dog to this page. 
 Thank you! 

-->

 No dogs are available in our rescue program at this time. 
This could change at any minute, so please check back again. 
 Thank you! 

 -->

 Mandy 
 ADOPTED! 

 Mandy is a 9 year old female that came 
to rescue when a family was divorced and no could/would make provisions for 
her. Unfortunately for Mandy, her life prior to the divorce was not a very good 
one either. 
 Mandy had spent most or all of her life 
chained up outside. The most important event in her life was dinner, and the 
result was that Mandy was about 30 pounds overweight when she came into rescue. 
She has been on a diet and exercise program and has lost 10 pounds so far. When 
Mandy first went to her foster home, she had a great difficulty walking around 
the yard. We believe a lot of that was caused by the fact that she was chained 
up and never allowed to move around much. Since being in foster, she has become 
much more mobile and lively and can actually run around the yard. She is a very 
sweet dog, and gets along well with other dogs and cats. She is spayed and up 
to date on all her shots. 
 Mandy is a special needs dog and is 
going to need a very special and loving family. When Mandy came to us, she 
appeared to be incontinent. Extensive tests were done and it was determined 
there was no physical cause for this and we believe that Mandy has 
obsessive/compulsive behavior that manifests itself in excessive drinking of 
water. Because of the excessive drinking, she has excessive urinating, and due 
to Mandys weight and age and lack of prior house training, she sometimes 
leaks. Update: Mandy's water intake and incontinence is just about 
cleared up. Now that she knows she will always have water, she only drinks when 
thirsty! 
 Mandy is going to need a family that 
will be committed to keeping her on her diet and exercise program and to 
monitoring her water intake and occasionally cleaning up after her. After 9 
years on a chain, we are hoping there is a special family that will want to make 
Mandys last years ever so much happier than her earlier ones. 
 Update: Mandy went to a wonderful new 
home on June 29th! 

 Click Here for more pictures 
of Mandy. 

 Our adoption fee is $150, slightly 
less than our average cost of rescuing a sammy. 
The remainder is made up from fundraising. Click here 
to see what we're up to. 

 For more information, please contact
 Rescue .