SCWS Code of Ethics 

 CODE OF ETHICS 

 This Code of Ethics is presented as an informative guide for 
breeders, potential breeders, owners and exhibitors of Samoyeds, whose aims 
should be the welfare and improvement of the breed. The constitution of the 
Samoyed Club of Washington State, Inc., states that the club "Shall do all in 
its power to protect and advance the interest of the breed". In applying for 
membership, applicants agree to further the Clubs objectives and conduct all 
their activities in connection with the breed in accordance with this Code of 
Ethics. A member of the SCWS conducts their activities as follows: 

 BREEDING 

 Each litter is the result of conscientious planning including 
consideration of the parents freedom from hereditary defects, type, soundness, 
temperament and general conformance to the official standard of the breed. SCWS 
members must be particularly concerned with proper placement of puppies, both 
pet and show potential. 

 SCWS members only breed healthy, mature Samoyed adults, 
preferably 24 months of age, but at least 18 months of age. Prior to breeding 
any Samoyed, SCWS members obtain certification that its hips are normal from the 
Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA), an equivalent foreign registry, or from 
a board approved radiologist and has its eyes certified free from genetically 
transmitted defects by a certified Veterinary Ophthalmologist. SCWS members 
knowingly breed Samoyeds only to other registered Samoyeds. They urge purchasers 
to spay or neuter those Samoyeds which, for any reason, will not be used for 
breeding and try themselves to properly safeguard unspayed bitches and 
unneutered dogs from unplanned matings. 

 HEALTH 

 SCWS members follow the guidelines of good kennel practice and 
provide all Samoyeds with maximum protection against communicable disease, 
consulting as necessary with a licensed veterinarian. SCWS members will not 
exhibit, release, or otherwise expose any Samoyed which is known to have been 
exposed to a communicable disease until the end of the incubation period for 
that disease. 

 Members conscientiously attempt to maintain each Samoyed in the 
best condition practicable, allowing proper healthful spacing between litters 
and stud services. 

 SALES 

 SCWS members do not sell, consign, or transfer puppies or adults 
to pet shops, wholesale dealers, contest sponsors, or anyone who is know to 
degrade the Samoyed breed or purebred dogs, or to individuals contemplating 
breeding/raising Samoyeds merely as a money-making 
scheme. Members do not sell Samoyeds in litter lots or in groups. SCWS members 
provide and require written agreements signed by all parties prior to all 
transactions, sales, leases, services and accordingly, deliver all forms 
required for registration. SCWS members urge purchasers to spay or neuter any 
Samoyed who will not be shown in conformation, utilizing limited registration as 
appropriate. SCWS members do not actually transfer puppies at new homes until 
they are at least 7 weeks of age. 

 REGISTRATION 

 SCWS members accurately register their Samoyeds with the 
American Kennel Club and abide by the rules and regulations of AKC. They keep 
accurate records of matings, pedigrees and sales (or transfers) and pass on only 
accurate records to purchasers of stock or services. They will not under any 
circumstances, knowingly be a part of or contribute to false registration. They 
also inform all purchasers of their stock and all other Samoyed owners of the 
existence and benefits of Samoyed Club of America (SCA) membership. 

 EXHIBITION 

 SCWS members, in all activities, exhibit their Samoyeds in a 
manner that reflects a high regard for good sportsmanship, integrity of the 
breed and respect for other exhibitors. They avidly support conformation judging 
according to the breed standard as the only standard for conformation judging. 
In all activities related to exhibition or competition of any kind, they will 
not show or exhibit Samoyeds which are not clean and groomed for public 
exhibition. They handle themselves and their Samoyeds in a manner reflecting 
credit to the breed and its fancy. 

 When traveling with Samoyeds, the SCWS members takes reasonable 
precautions to maintain hotels, exhibition show grounds, and all public areas of 
involvement in a clean and respectable condition. 

 When confronted by a situation not covered by this Code of 
Ethics, SCWS members conduct themselves in the best interest of the breed and as 
they would like to be treated in similar circumstances. 

 Failure to conduct oneself in compliance with the Code of Ethics 
shall be considered prejudicial to the best interests of the Samoyed breed. 

 I have read, understand and agree to conduct myself in 
accordance with the Samoyed Club of Washington States Code of Ethics. 

 Passed by the SAMOYED CLUB OF WASHINGTON STATE, INC.,
 BOARD OF GOVERNORS 09-25-92