The Samoyed Club of Washington State 

 The Samoyed Club of
 Washington State 

 May/June 2003 Web Edition 
 In This Issue: 
 President's Message 
 Progressive Retinal Atrophy 
 Delta Society 
 The Alpha Factor -->

 President's Message 

 SCWS Championship Awards 

 The following are the Rules for Championship Awards given by the SCWS to 
 members who have dogs earning their CKC, AKC, SCA or Agility titles during 
 the past year. Please read carefully if you have a dog that has earned an 
 award and follow directions in the rules. The awards are given at the 
 SCWS Annual Meeting and Banquet after the State Specialty show in August. 

 1. The dog must be owned or co-owned by a member of the Samoyed Club of 
 Washington State at the time of confirmation of championship or title. 

 2. Awards are given to dogs whose confirmation of championship or title is 
 received between July 1, 2002 through June 30, 2003. Awards will be based 
 on the date of the confirmation, not on the date of the show where the dog 
 finished. 

 3. The owner of the dog must send notification by August 1, 2003. This 
 notification consists of the following information: 

 a. Full name of the dog and title(s) earned during the past year. 

 b. Call name of the dog 

 c. Name of the kennel club or organization where the dog finished 

 d. Date of confirmation (send copy of certificate) 

 e. Owner(s) of the dog 

 4. The awards are to be presented by the President at the SCWS Annual 
 Meeting and Banquet on August 15, 2003. 

 Darlene 

 Progressive Retinal Atrophy 

 PROGRESSIVE RETINAL DEGENERATION / PROGRESSIVE RETINAL 
 ATROPHY 

 Progressive retinal degeneration (PRD) is also known as progressive retinal 
 atrophy (PRA) and refers to retinal diseases that cause blindness. Some breeds 
 have blindness by abnormal development of the retina and this is called 
 dysplasia. Other breeds have a slowly progressive degeneration or death of the 
 retinal tissue and this is degeneration. These two types of diseases affect 
 many breeds. In general these diseases are thought to be inherited but 
 inherited differently in each breed. 
 In all animals with PRD the outcome, age of the patient and what the 
 veterinary ophthalmologist sees are the basis for the classification of 
 exactly what type of condition the patient has. Different breeds of dogs have 
 variations in the age the problem starts and speed with which the blindness 
 develops. The condition of PRD has been seen in almost every registered breed 
 and in mixed breed dogs as well. This same condition occurs in humans and is 
 known as retinitis pigmentosa. 
 As the name PRD implies, a slow death of retinal tissue occurs. It is a 
 slowly progressive disease and the earliest signs may be overlooked. As stated 
 above, these diseases are known to be passed from parents to offspring even 
 though the parents may have normal eyes. Therefore, identification of breeding 
 animals with PRD is essential to prevent spread of this condition. 
 To better understand PRD, a basic understanding of the function of the 
 retina is needed. The retina is a highly complicated tissue located in the 
 back of the eye. Light strikes the retina and starts a series of chemical 
 reactions that causes a nerve impulse. The impulse passes through the layers 
 of the retina to the optic nerve and from there to the brain where vision 
 takes place. In the retina, cells called rods are involved with black and 
 white or night vision and cells called cones are involved with color or day 
 vision. Progressive retinal degeneration may effect either the rods alone, the 
 cones alone or both the rods and cones together. 
 Progressive retinal degeneration is not a painful condition so your pet 
 will not have a reddened eye or have increased blinking or squinting. For this 
 reason most clients will not notice the early stages of the condition. Some 
 clients will notice an abnormal shine coming from their pet's eyes. This 
 abnormal shine is because the pupils are dilated and don't respond as quickly 
 to light as pupils of normal dogs. The earliest signs of PRD include night 
 vision difficulties that in most cases will progress to day blindness. Clients 
 will often remember that their pets seemed disoriented when going out to the 
 yard at night and they had to leave a light on for them. Night blindness may 
 be manifested by a pet that is afraid to go into a dark room. Occasionally 
 these pets will get lost in their own home after the lights have been turned 
 off. 
 The veterinary ophthalmologist examines the retina with an instrument 
 called an indirect ophthalmoscope. Changes in the retinal blood vessel 
 pattern, the optic nerve head, and the reflective substance within the dog's 
 eye called the tapetum can be seen which are classic for PRD. However in some 
 breeds PRD characteristics have little or no early changes. The eyes of these 
 dogs may appear normal until they are in the later stages of the disease. 
 Progressive retinal degeneration will progress at different rates in different 
 breeds. This variation causes difficulty in determining just how long any 
 particular dog will continue seeing. 
 There is no possible treatment for PRD although a number of vitamin 
 therapies have been suggested by various people. One such vitamin "Ocuvite" 
 manufactured by Stortz has been recommended for people with retinitis 
 pigmentosa and some patients claim that their vision is improved somewhat. At 
 this time, none of the vitamin treatments have been proven to be effective 
 scientifically, so use of Ocuvite must be deemed a naturopathic remedy rather 
 than a medical treatment. Use of any other megavitamin treatment is 
 discouraged. 
 Cataracts may occur in some patients with PRD and generally occur later in 
 the disease. Formation of cataracts may interfere with the ophthalmologist's 
 direct examination of the retina and make other tests such as an 
 electroretinogram (ERG) essential for diagnosis. 
 Diagnosis is made and confirmed by the ERG. This test involves 
 sophisticated instrumentation used to measure the response of the retina to 
 flashes of light. Your pet would be anesthetized for this test. The pet is 
 then placed into a darkened area, a special contact lens with a gold ribbon is 
 placed on the cornea and two tiny needles are placed under the skin around the 
 eye. A light flash that has been dimmed with filters stimulates the retina and 
 this procedure is repeated intermittently for 20 minutes. Finally, a bright 
 red, blue and white flash are used for final analysis. A healthy retina will 
 produce a characteristic wave form that builds from the time the lights are 
 turned out. The ERG is sensitive enough to diagnose dogs with PRD before they 
 begin to demonstrate signs of the disease. 
 In summary, PRD refers to a broad group of inherited retinal disease which 
 result in the blindness of dogs. Because of the nature of the disease and 
 sometimes the late onset, repeated examinations may be required to detect 
 individuals with the condition. Patients affected should not be used for 
 breeding. Pedigree studies are used to help eliminate other carriers of this 
 condition such as the pet's brothers, sisters, mother, father and any 
 offspring. How to adjust to having a pet that is blind is important and is 
 discussed on the web page entitled
 How to Deal with a 
 Blind Pet . 

 For more information on PRA in dogs, Dr. Gregory Acland has produced some 
 excellent reference material located at
 The Dog Genome Project Homepage . 
 Written by Dr. Dennis Hacker, Edited by Dr. Michael Zigler 

 Copyright 2001, Eyevet Consulting Services. 

 "How's it 
 going Mr. Peterson?" - Woody "It's a dog eat dog world, Woody, and I'm wearing 
 milk bone underwear." - Norm from Cheers 

 "Recipe: a series of 
 step-by-step instructions for preparing ingredients you forgot to buy, in 
 utensils you don't own, to make a dish the dog won't eat." - Unknown 

 "He's got his dog trained 
 so that it only does it on newspapers. The trouble is it does it when he's 
 reading the blasted things." - Honore de Balzac 

 "The dog is the god of 
 frolic." - Henry Ward Beecher 

 by Michelle Edmondson 

 Zephyr was a 6 year old male Sam with a past full of blind 
alleys. First he was to be a show dog, but refused to raise the 2nd 
ear. Next he was neutered due to an optic nerve coloboma. While excelling at 
doing very precisely anything asked of him, he had to bow out of agility after 
completing all the pre-trial classes due to a torn ligament in his right 
pastern. This made the jumping potentially injurious for him. He passed the 
Canine Good Citizen test with flying colors (the second time, after the Old 
English in heat was removed from the area!). But what to do with that? He passed 
his Herding Instinct Testing but didnt live anywhere near any sheep. Another 
show dog came into the home, was finished, had a litter and they finished 
too.Meanwhile, Zephyr sang woo-woos, delighted to do tricks for folks when 
asked, and wondered what was his special purpose. He withdrew and waited, 
sometimes a bit grumpily, for his turn to shine. 
 Willow was a cute-ti-ful 3 year old Sammie girl who didnt 
quite make it as breeding stock. Possessed of a playful spirit, she proved to be 
a good auntie to her house-mates pups. She learned quickly and just as quickly 
became bored with obedience (except for the food). Always interested in people 
and other critters, she perfected her cuddling skills, practiced kisses on the 
home crew, and distinguished herself in agility for creative acts like combining 
the jump and tunnel commands into a jump-on-tunnel exercise which was quickly 
taken up by all the other dogs in the class. Nonetheless, it just wasnt people 
oriented enough for her, so she wondered when she would find her niche and 
waited, sighing dramatically. 
 With a growing number of Sams in the household, mom was 
always working hard to figure out how to do a special one-on-one activity with 
Zeph and Willow. One day she read the Woo-Woo Review and discovered the Delta 
Society Pet Partners Program. By either a video plus correspondence course, or 
by attending a short series of weekly classes over a couple of months, she 
learned that a short stint of effort could qualify both of them as a team of 
Certified Pet Partners. Could this be the solution? 
 A Delta Society Pet Partner must pass an evaluation based 
upon the Canine Good Citizen test, but modified for work in institutional 
settings. (I could be very good at that, said Zeph.) The work is mostly 
visiting with people who are staying in some sort of institution, temporarily or 
permanently. They could be in a nursing home or a hospital for rehab or 
treatment, in a long term care setting due to age or loss of spouse, in a 
prison, or simply at a school assembly.(Think of all the people who could pet 
me there!, said Willow.) 
 Mom contacted the Delta Society via their website (www.deltasociety.org), 
but you can call at 425-226-7357, and locate a training/evaluation series 
nearby. A call or an email, a check in the mail, a few brush-up obedience 
classes, and Viola! We were groomed, outfitted in smart therapy-dog-in-training 
vests, and helping mom learn what to do and not to do in visiting folks with 
us.(Do bring lots of treats for them to give us, dont let us too close to their 
stuffy collections! And dont forget to wear your badge and sign in and out.) 
 Mom chose a course to gain experience prior to taking on 
an independent visitation schedule at an institution. The classes were in a 
Health Care Center once a week, and we went visiting together one other day a 
week for half an hour or an hour, followed by writing up notes on the visits and 
who was visited and how we did. It was worth it, as everyone who took the course 
passed their evaluations, while many who just studied at home and showed up to 
take the test found it too strange and didnt pass the first time. 
 The skills of dog and handler are tested as a team in a 
series of exercise lasting collectively no longer than half an hour. An 
evaluator is assisted by role playing patients and a neutral dog, who may try 
to distract, overwhelm or startle the dog while they are being tested. A dog who 
is steady and a handler who can anticipate their dogs reactions and manage them 
through it all will pass. 
 The classes cover health issues and manners, accident 
procedures, handling skills, situations that may arise, and how to contact, 
evaluate, set up and maintain your own visiting program. The test also 
determines aptitude, which helps for choosing the latter. 
 How did we do? Willow proved to be better at quick visits 
in large groups, tender kisses and patience during long conversations with 
lonely or reminiscing residents. She had as a special visit pal a lady with 
Alzheimers who never remembered her from week to week, but was always delighted 
to meet her and warmed to telling her about her own past pets. Willow passed 
just one point short of a complex rating, so she can take mom into Predictable 
settings, such as adult wards, care homes and public demonstration booths. 
Zephyr passed with the higher rating of Complex. He had excelled at doing tricks 
for folks visiting in the home, making residents laugh, encouraging a depressed 
lady to get dressed and out of bed and walking her to her hair appointment with 
her walker, and in helping folks to be as good a trooper as he is taking his 
heart meds. He proved to be steady no matter what crowds, clumsy petting, 
arguing folks, noises or distractions came his way. He is qualified to visit in 
Complex settings such as mental hospitals, childrens wards or schools, and 
prisons. 
 After passing the test, Willow and Zeph had to surrender 
their training vests, and mom had to send off a photo for a badge for each team, 
a set of completed forms, a small fee, a health check from the vet, and an order 
for a Real Vest! In the fall, once our badges (good for two years) and vests 
arrive, we will be insured for up to a million dollars liability in any 
institution mom arranges for us to visit. 
 Hey, its fun training, its great to be the star of a 
different kind of show, were making a real contribution to the well-being of 
others as true working dogs, we can work toward a Therapy Dog Certificate if we 
want, and we are great ambassadors for the Great Samoyed Breed! 
 Sign us - No longer waiting for our special purpose - 
Willow and Zephyr at Luminous 

 Past Newsletters 

 April, 2003 

 March, 2003 

 February, 2003 

 January, 2003 

 November/December, 2002 

 October, 2002 

 September, 2002 

 August, 2002 

 July, 2002 

 June, 2002 

 May, 2002 

 April, 2002 

 February, 2002 

January, 2002 

December, 2001 

November, 2001 

October, 2001 

September, 2001 

July-August, 2001 

June, 2001 

May, 2001 

April, 2001 

March, 2001 

February, 2001 

January, 2001 

December, 2000 

 Current Newsletter 

 SCWS Home Page 

 FastCounter by bCentral