The Samoyed Club of Washington State 

 The Samoyed Club of
 Washington State 

 August-September 2003 Web Edition 
 In This Issue: 
 President's Message 
 Brushing Your Dog's Teeth 
 A Dog's Prayer 
 The Alpha Factor -->

 President's Message 

 Here we sit in mid September, coming off of one of 
 the most successful specialties our club has ever hosted. Those of us who 
 reconcile our checkbooks recently revisited drafts for dues, entries, 
 banquet tickets, perhaps a rescue shirt or two, auction items and, if you 
 were fortunate, photographs (any resemblance to my personal check book are 
 purely coincidental.) 
 Just when you're shaking your head at the extremes 
 youve gone to in support of the club, I'm coming begging. What's worse is 
 I'm not asking for money. Rather, what I'm asking for is much more precious 
 - and that is your time. 
 We've got a tremendous group of people working for 
 club, but too often we see the same faces in worker bee positions. Its 
 understood that people are busy with a multitude of life demands, but we run 
 the risk of burning out some of our members and not having the depth in the 
 membership to back them up. I believe this could put the clubs very 
 survival at risk. 
 This year I am issuing a challenge to every single 
 club member to devote one day -- eight hours -- to " working" for the club. 
 This represents 0.09% of your year - not a bad tithe for this fellowship of 
 Dog! There is a multitude of ways you can serve the club. These activities 
 can be a simple as helping Liz prepare a mailing to as complex is organizing 
 an educational event. You can burn up that entire eight hours and then some 
 organizing a fun match or weight pull. Or you can contribute 15 minutes at a 
 time word-processing articles for the newsletter. How about a doggy 
 oriented garage sale at Pawsability? Clean out your garage and make some 
 money for the club all in one day! How about that activity you enjoy sharing 
 with your Sammy? Why not build a club meeting around that activity? Then 
 theres that genetic question thats been bugging you - why not research it 
 and write it up for the newsletter? You can then add the fact that youve 
 been published to your resume! 
 One of the things that helped our 1996 National 
 event be so successful was having a bit of a war chest built up for the 
 initial outlay of money for the event. We need to be working on that now, so 
 ideas that can help contribute to that end would be especially appropriate. 
 The choice is yours but our need is great. The promise for you is that 
 youll gain much more value for your time in experience, knowledge, or 
 bonhomie with your fellow Samoyed Fanciers. Next month, you can look forward 
 to a sign-up list of things we could use assistance with. If you have ideas 
 of your own, please send them to me for inclusion. If theres something you 
 have a burning desire to get your name on, let me know that too. 
 Please give all your Sammies a hug from me and well 
 see you next month! 

 Cheri 

 Dr. Jan Bellows 

 What would happen if you stopped brushing your own teeth? Even if you 
 only ate hard food as most dogs do, there still would be problems. You 
 should be brushing your dog's teeth at least twice weekly, daily if you can 
 manage it. It's not as difficult as you might imagine. 
 What are the benefits? Brushing removes the daily accumulation of plaque 
 from the teeth. Even though dogs do not commonly get cavities, they do 
 suffer from periodontal disease. If untreated the gum disease can lead to 
 pain and loss of teeth. 
 How to brush teeth? Step one is to pick an appropriate pet toothbrush. 
 Save yourself time by not buying a child's toothbrush which is usually too 
 hard for dogs. The ideal dog toothbrush will have a long handle, an angled 
 head to better fit the mouth and extra soft bristles. Another option is the 
 finger toothbrush that fits over the tip of your finger. 
 Step two is to select an appropriate toothpaste. The best pet toothpastes 
 contain enzymes that help control plaque. Try to avoid toothpastes with 
 baking soda, detergents, or salt sometimes found in human pastes. Fluoride 
 may be incorporated to help control bacteria. Rather than placing the paste 
 on top of the brush try to place it between the bristles. This allows the 
 paste to spend the most time next to the teeth. 
 Step three is to get the brush with paste into your dog's mouth and all 
 the teeth brushed. Most dogs accept brushing if they are approached in a 
 gentle manner. If you can start when they are young, it's quite easy, but 
 even older pets will accept the process. Start slowly, you can use a 
 washcloth or piece of gauze to wipe the teeth, front and back in the same 
 manner you will eventually be using the toothbrush. Do this twice daily for 
 about two weeks and your dog should be familiar with the approach. Then take 
 the pet toothbrush, soak it in warm water and start brushing daily for 
 several days. When your dog accepts this brushing, add the pet toothpaste. 

 The toothbrush bristles should be placed at the gum margin where the 
 teeth and gums meet at a 45 degree angle. The movement should be in an oval 
 pattern. Be sure to gently force the bristle ends into the area around the 
 base of the tooth as well as into the space between the teeth. Ten short 
 back-and-forth motions should be completed, then the brush should be moved 
 to a new location. Cover three to four teeth at a time. Most attention 
 should be given to the outside of the upper teeth. 
 In summary, dog home care should include daily (or at least every other 
 day) brushing, using an enzymatic pet toothpaste. Taking an active role in 
 the care of your dog's dental care will help reduce dental disease, bad 
 breath and potential life threatening heart and kidney disease. Everyone 
 wins.

 A Dog's Prayer 

 Treat me kindly, my beloved master, for no heart in all the world is more 
 grateful for kindness than the loving heart of me. 
 Do not break my spirit with a stick, for though I should lick your hand 
 between the blows, your patience and understanding will more quickly teach 
 me the things you would have me do. 
 Speak to me often, for your voice is the world's sweetest music, as you 
 must know by the fierce wagging of my tail when your footstep falls upon my 
 waiting ear. 
 When it is cold and wet, please take me inside... for I am now a 
 domesticated animal, no longer used to bitter elements... and I ask no 
 greater glory than the privilege of sitting at your feet beside the 
 hearth... though had you no home, I would rather follow you through ice and 
 snow than rest upon the softest pillow in the warmest home in all the 
 land... for you are my god... and I am your devoted worshiper. 

 Past Newsletters 

 July, 2003 

 May/June, 2003 

 April, 2003 

 March, 2003 

 February, 2003 

 January, 2003 

 November/December, 2002 

 October, 2002 

 September, 2002 

 August, 2002 

 July, 2002 

 June, 2002 

 May, 2002 

 April, 2002 

 February, 2002 

January, 2002 

December, 2001 

November, 2001 

October, 2001 

September, 2001 

July-August, 2001 

June, 2001 

May, 2001 

April, 2001 

March, 2001 

February, 2001 

January, 2001 

December, 2000 

 Current Newsletter 

 SCWS Home Page 

 FastCounter by bCentral