The Samoyed Club of Washington State 

 The Samoyed Club of
 Washington State 

 October 2003 Web Edition 
 In This Issue: 
 President's Message 
 Antifreeze Poisoning 

 The Alpha Factor -->

 President's Message 

 Is anyone else having a hard time reconciling the fact 
 that we are in November already? In this part of the northwest, it didnt 
 seem like we had a Fall - straight from the 70s here, 90-100s in Riverside 
 and then single digits within a week of returning home. Now Thanksgiving is 
 quickly approaching with the Christmas holiday fast on its heels. Given the 
 retail merchants seem to move the onslaught of the holiday shopping season 
 earlier and earlier, I want to take the opportunity provided by this column 
 to focus on giving thanks. 
 I am thankful for the safe travels we all had to and from 
 the national, and the wonderful show we enjoyed in Riverside. What a delight 
 it was to come upon other SCWS members on the longest, most boring stretch 
 of I-5. Even better when one vehicle passed with an invitation to meet at 
 Starbucks pressed against the passengers window! 
 I am thankful for those in our Sammy Village that 
 contribute to the efforts of rescue. While many of us were enjoying the 
 National, our rescue coordinators and volunteers kept their respective noses 
 to the grindstone moving the rescue efforts forward, one dog at a time. And 
 what efforts they are! Everything from coordinating multiple interstate 
 rescues to holiday shirt design and production - theyre a busy crew. 
 Sometimes those efforts are joyous with placement matches made in heaven, 
 but this past month has brought some heartbreaks, so special thanks to our 
 coordinators and foster families. We hold you close in our hearts. 
 Thank you to all the others in our community who keep the 
 club together. Liz, for keeping us in touch with one another; Joy, for 
 watching our pennies and coordinating our brags; Jason, for keeping in touch 
 with the rest of the doggy world; Bo, for filling in for me when I cant get 
 to the meetings; Darlene, for organizing the paperwork and filing for next 
 years specialty; Louise and George, for offering to coordinate the next 
 snow outing; and the list goes on. When counting my blessings, I consider 
 our wonderful Northwest Samoyed community to be one most cherished. Thank 
 you all. 

 Cheri 

 Every year, by some estimates, about 10,000 dogs and cats are victims 
 of accidental poisoning by automobile antifreeze. A pet does not have to 
 drink a lot of antifreeze to be poisoned. Most brands of commercial 
 antifreeze consist of 95 percent ethylene glycol, an extremely toxic 
 chemical. Even a few licks of this sweet-tasting liquid can be fatal to a 
 cat or dog. (Ethylene- glycol-based antifreeze is also extremely hazardous 
 to children. A few ounces are lethal.) For a medium sized dog, ingestion 
 of about 2 ounces (3-4 tablespoons ) is toxic. For cats, as little as 1/4 
 of an ounce (1-2 teaspoons) can be lethal. Antifreeze poisoning commonly 
 occurs in spring and fall when car owners replace the old antifreeze with 
 fresh antifreeze in their car radiators. However, poisoning can happen 
 anytime, particularly when a car boils over or when a hose leaks, 
 releasing the antifreeze. As mentioned above, this poisoning happens often 
 to animals who are allowed to roam freely in their neighborhoods, but 
 another high risk group are those dogs who are confined in garages and who 
 may not always be provided with adequate fresh drinking water. These dogs 
 may gain access to improperly or inadequately stored antifreeze or lick 
 spilled or leaked antifreeze off the garage floor. If it is necessary to 
 confine your pet(s) to your garage, make sure antifreeze containers are 
 well secured and your animal has plenty of fresh water. 
 Another source of antifreeze are the decorative "snow globes" 
 glassware. The liquid in the these displays contain2% antifreeze and are 
 very toxic..I recently received of call of a young cat poisoned when 
 ingesting some of the liquid froma shattered "snow globe". 
 Both cats and dog are attracted to the smell and taste of ethylene 
 glycol. Therefore, when you or a member of your household changes 
 antifreeze in the driveway, be sure to collect all of the waste coolant 
 and properly dispose of it. And never leave a bucket of ethylene-glycol 
 coolant unattended - even for a moment. Also remember that your car can 
 leak coolant at any time. If you see a puddle of greenish-colored liquid 
 in your driveway, flush the area with plenty of water and dont delay 
 locating and fixing the leak. Another method of quick clean-up is to 
 spread cat litter on the spill, clean up with rags (which are bagged 
 immediately) and then rinse. Antifreeze will biodegrade in the 
 environment, but it takes weeks or months to do so, so removing the spill 
 is absolutely essential. 
 Antifreeze poisoning occurs in two stages: In the first stage, the 
 ethylene glycol in the antifreeze causes a drunken appearance in the 
 animal within about 30 minutes which may continue for several hours. After 
 passing through stage 1, the animal appears to recover. Stage 2 begins 
 when the dogs liver begins metabolizing the ethylene glycol, changing it 
 into more toxic substances. Within 12 to 36 hours of ingestion, these 
 metabolites have reached such a level that the dogs kidneys stop 
 functioning, and the animal slips into a coma. 
 Getting the dog to a veterinarian is critical within the first 9-12 
 hours following ingestion. After that length of time, the liver will have 
 already begun metabolizing the ethylene glycol into substances that cause 
 kidney failure and ultimately death.I have been asked the question by 
 several people-What should be done immediately care for my pet.Should I 
 induce vomiting or give activated charcoal to my pet?These are very short 
 term fixes and not a cure.The faster your pet is treated by a veterinarian 
 the better the chances of recovery.Again, this poison is extremely toxic. 
 Another source of help is the National Poison Control Center, 
 800-548-2423. This call will cost $30. 
 Symptoms of antifreeze poisoning include a drunken appearance including 
 staggering, lack of coordination, and apparent disorientation and 
 vomiting. The animal may appear listless and depressed. Because early 
 signs of antifreeze poisoning often mimic signs of other illness, neither 
 you or your veterinarian may suspect antifreeze poisoning until it is too 
 late. Fortunately, in house lab tests performed by your veterinarian by 
 assist in the diagnosis of antifreeze toxicity. 
 In our practice we had a tragic incident involving two pets. One dog 
 ingested antifreeze and then vomited the product. The other dog then 
 licked up the vomit and also developed the toxicity. By the time the owner 
 recognized the seriousness of the situation, it was too late and both pets 
 died. We also had a situation involving a household of three cats. The 
 same situation occurred. But, fortunately, the owner recognized the 
 problem and we were able to save two of the three pets. As, you can see, 
 this is truly a horrible and tragic poison. 

 Past Newsletters 

 December, 2003 

 November, 2003 

 October, 2003 

 August-September, 2003 

 July, 2003 

 May/June, 2003 

 April, 2003 

 March, 2003 

 February, 2003 

 January, 2003 

 November/December, 2002 

 October, 2002 

 September, 2002 

 August, 2002 

 July, 2002 

 June, 2002 

 May, 2002 

 April, 2002 

 February, 2002 

January, 2002 

December, 2001 

November, 2001 

October, 2001 

September, 2001 

July-August, 2001 

June, 2001 

May, 2001 

April, 2001 

March, 2001 

February, 2001 

January, 2001 

December, 2000 

 Current Newsletter 

 SCWS Home Page 

 FastCounter by bCentral