The Samoyed Club of Washington State 

 The Samoyed Club of
 Washington State 

 Nov/Dec 2002 Web Edition 
 In This Issue: 
 Vice-President's Message 
 Editor's Message 
 A Christmas Beginning 
 Items Toxic to Pets 

 Vice President's Message 
 by Cheri Hollenback 

 Given recent experiences in Darlene's life, I asked if I 
 could give a vice president's message this month. As the Holiday Season 
 approaches I've been reminded how many wonderful things I have to be 
 thankful for--even amidst heartbreak. 
 In a time of crisis, friends stepped forward and did what 
 needed to be done, even though their heart was aching too. In a time of 
 suffering, friends reached out across the miles with support and broad 
 shoulders to carry the burden. To ease the loss and fill a void, a friend 
 offered a new bundle of love. To lessen the guilt, friends reminded what joy 
 would have never existed, nor friendships forged, nor clubs benefited if 
 Darlene and Chance would not have had their dance together. 

 The Dance 
 (Garth Brooks) Looking back on the memory of

 The dance we shared 'neath the stars 
 For a moment all the world was right 
 How could I have known that you'd ever say goodbye 
 And now I'm glad I didn't know 
 The way it all would end the way it all would go 
 Our lives are better left to chance I could have missed the pain 
 But I'd of had to miss the dance 
 Yes my life is better left to chance 
 I could have missed the pain but I'd of had to miss the dance 

 We are so blessed in the Northwest to have such a 
 community of Samoyed people. May you all have a wonderful Christmas and the 
 warmth of a Samoyed's heart through the holiday season. 

 Cheri 

 Editor's Message 

 by Liz Swearingen 

 As I approach the holiday season each year, I find 
 myself remembering those who are no longer with me to share this season. 
 As the years go by, I find that this list is growing longer. But, as the 
 list grows longer so do my memories of the wonderful times I have had with 
 various human and canine friends. 
 With Thanksgiving so close I find myself being thankful 
 for the gift of all the memories and times. Even though the pain of loss 
 never completely disappears, the joy of the memories becomes stronger and 
 stronger. For nothing on this earth would I have given up the gift of time 
 I had with these very special beings in my life. I will always treasure 
 their influence and know that they continue to watch over me from the 
 Rainbow Bridge. My only hope is that I can live the remainder of my life 
 in such a way that it makes them proud that they have memories of me and 
 my love for them. 
 My wish for each of you during the upcoming holidays is 
 that you can be thankful for what you have had and what you will have in 
 the future. That you will treasure your memories and continue to build new 
 ones with those around you. That you will live your life with kindness and 
 gentleness, as we have been taught by our beautiful Samoyeds, and continue 
 to make both those who are still with you and have gone before you to the 
 Rainbow Bridge, proud of you. 

 Liz 

 By: Liz Swearingen 

 My name is Samantha and as I looked around I wonder how this had 
 happened to me. Only a couple of months ago I had a wonderful family, lots 
 of toys and love. Then one day my Mom and Dad fought and Dad moved out of 
 the house. Mom started packing everything up and talked with me about how 
 she had to move to someplace called an apartment that didnt allow pets. I 
 had never thought of myself as a pet, but as part of the family. What did 
 this mean? 
 Too soon, I found out what it meant. One morning, not long after that, 
 Mom removed my collar and hugged me tight telling me she loved me. Then she 
 took me for a ride in the car, my favorite thing. Only this time when Mom 
 stopped the car, she opened the door and let me out but didnt get out with 
 her. I decided that I was supposed to go potty before we went on, and then 
 get back in the car. I happily ran out in the grass and pottied, but as I 
 turned around to return to the car I saw it driving away. I ran and ran as 
 hard as I could but could not catch it. I tried to shout for Mom to come 
 back but it did no good, the car just got further and further away. 

 Now it is December and it is getting cold and uncomfortable in this field 
 that I now call home. There is a farmhouse and barn not to far away and 
 since food is getting scarce I have decided it is time to get a little 
 closer and see if maybe I can stay in the barn. I have not met the people, 
 but I dont trust them. I trusted Mom and Dad and it turned out badly. I am 
 afraid to trust again. As I move closer to the barn I see a truck drive up 
 and in the back is a tree. I remember a tree like that, Mom and Dad called 
 it a Christmas tree. 

 The family from the farmhouse all pile out of the truck. There is a Mom 
 and Dad, but there is also a little boy and girl. I am close enough to watch 
 but they cannot see me. As I watch they take the tree out of the truck and 
 the Dad puts it in a stand while the rest of the family laughingly calls 
 directions out to him. When they are all satisfied, the Dad picks up the 
 tree and they all go into the house. I remember the days when we had a tree 
 in our house. Everyone was happy and singing to the pretty music on the 
 radio. I got lots of pets and love, and one day I got a bunch of new toys. 
 The house was all pretty and there were lots of people coming to visit me. I 
 always did my best to entertain them, and Mom and Dad laughed a lot. 

 Remembering those days, I got up my nerve and went up to look in the 
 window. With a tear in my eye, I saw the beautiful home and could feel the 
 love and happiness of the four people who lived there. I turned away because 
 it hurt too much not to be a part of it, and because I was afraid one of 
 them would see me watching them. I went over to the barn and found a nice 
 warm pile of straw that I could curl up on for a while. It felt so good and 
 soft compared to the beds I had been using up until then. I must have fallen 
 asleep because when I woke up, it was dark outside. As I wandered out of the 
 barn I glanced over at the house and saw the tree in the window with all the 
 pretty lights on it and lights all around the outside of the house also. 
 Most of the house appeared to be dark so I decided to take a closer look. As 
 I gazed in the window, the family was around the fire talking. As the Mom 
 glanced up, she looked directly into my eyes. I was so scared, but I 
 couldnt look away. I heard the Mom exclaim Oh no as she rose and dashed 
 to the door. 

 I knew I had to hide, but there was nowhere I could go quick enough that 
 she wouldnt see me. As she came out the door, I heard her calling Puppy, 
 puppy, puppy. Please dont be frightened I wanted so badly to turn and run 
 to her but I couldnt do it. I couldnt trust her. She turned and went back 
 into the house and I knew I had missed my chance. I slowly began to walk 
 away and then I heard her come back outside. She had simply gone into the 
 house to get a coat, because it was cold. As I watched her she sat down on 
 the porch steps and began to talk to me. 

 Here 
 puppy. I wont hurt you. We had a dog until this fall. She was a wonderful 
 and loving girl, but she got sick and is now at the Rainbow Bridge. She was 
 a Samoyed, just like you. We miss her very much and I know that she sent you 
 to us to love. That is the kind of thing she would do. She 
 always put us before herself and would not hesitate to send us the best 
 Christmas present she could. Her name was Zanadu and we called her Zan. She 
 loved this place and would romp and play all day long with my children. They 
 have been very sad since she died. I am sure Zan has seen that and wants us 
 to be happy again and to let us know that she is happy and watching over us. 
 Please come meet me, I think you will like me. 
 As I watched and listened, I felt the love that this lady was sending my 
 way. I didnt know why and I didnt understand how, but I truly wanted to 
 meet her. It sounded as if she were calling me every time she said Zan, it 
 sounded so much like Sam. I slowly began to approach her and she sat very 
 still and held her hand out. As I got close enough to sniff her hand she 
 still held very still and waited for me to put my head under her hand before 
 she began to pet me. As she told me what a beautiful girl I was she laughed 
 a little and said well, I know you will be once we can clean you up! After 
 we got to know each other a little, she asked if I would like to meet the 
 rest of the family. She had in no way tried to restrain me, but was leaving 
 it all up to me. She invited the rest of the family out to the porch and 
 they all sat very quietly and waited for me to come introduce myself. 
 After a while they invited me into the house and by this time I went 
 gladly. They took me to the kitchen and put down a pan of water for me and 
 asked if I was hungry. They put down some food and like the polite dog I am, 
 I sampled it very delicately before I dug in. I wanted very much, to make a 
 good impression on this family now. I wanted them to like me and eventually 
 love me. I wanted them to be my forever home. If they would have me I would 
 do whatever they wanted. They all sat on the floor with me and let me come 
 to each one of them for a pet and snuggle. They put a bed down for me in the 
 kitchen but when they all went up to bed the Mom asked where I was used to 
 sleeping and asked if I wanted to come upstairs. I went with her and woke up 
 in the morning on the bed between Mom and Dad. Yes, that quickly, they are 
 my Mom and Dad. They were still my Mom and Dad that day as they bathed me. 
 As the days went on, I became a real part of the family and on Christmas 
 day, I got a new collar and lots of toys. 
 As I look back on that Christmas one year ago, I realize how lucky I am. 
 I am one of the ones that got a second chance with a loving family. I will 
 always be grateful to Zan because she trained this family for me and I am 
 now sure, guided me here. I feel like I was specially picked by her to be 
 with her family and look forward to meeting her someday at the Rainbow 
 Bridge where we will play and talk about our family. Of course my family 
 never learned my first name but came up with a name I think is the best 
 every. My name is Santy Claws. 

 With the holidays upon us, it is always a good time to remind ourselves 
 of the plants that are toxic to animals. Here is a listing of some of the 
 more common ones you may find around your house, particularly over the 
 holidays. 

 Aladium Amarylillis 
 Angels Trumpets 
 Apple Leaf Croton 
 Asparagus Fern 
 Autumn Crocus 
 Avacado (fruit & pit) 
 Azalea 
 Babys Breath 
 Begonia 
 Bird of Paradise 
 Bittersweet 
 Branching Ivy 
 Buckey Buddis 
 Pine 
 Caladium 
 Calla Lily 
 Castor Bean 
 Ceriman 
 Charming Dieffenbachia 
 Chinese Evergreen 
 Chocolate 
 Christmas Rose 
 Cineraria 
 Clematis 
 Cordatum 
 Corn Plant 
 Cornstalk Plant 
 Croton 
 Cuban Laurel 
 Cutleaf Philadendron 
 Cycads 
 Cyclamen 
 Daffodil 
 Devils Ivy 
 Dianthus 
 Dieffenbachia 
 Dracaena Palm 
 Dragon Tree 
 Dumb Cane 
 Easter Lily (in cats!!!) 
 Elaine 
 Elephant Ears 
 Emerald Feather 
 English Ivy 
 Fiddle-leaf 
 Fig 
 Fig, Creeping 
 Fig, Weeping 
 Florida Beauty 
 Foxglove 
 Fruit Salad Plant 
 Geranium 
 German Ivy 
 Giant Dumb Cane 
 Glacier Ivy 
 Gold Dieffenbachia 
 Gold Dust Dracaena 
 Golden Pothos 
 Grapes 
 Hahns Self-Branching Ivy 
 Heartland Philodendron 
 Hemlock, Water 
 Hens & Chicks 
 Hops 
 Hurricane Plant 
 Hyacinth 
 Hydrangea leaves 
 Impatiens 
 Indian Rubber Plant 

 Ivy, Boston 
 Ivy, English 
 Ivy, Pathos 
 Janet Craig Dracaena 
 Japanese Show Lily (cats!!!) 
 Jasmine 
 Jerusalem Cherry 
 Jonquil 
 Kalanchoe 
 Lacy Tree Philodendron 
 Lantana 
 Lily of the Valley 
 Madagascar Dragon Tree 
 Marble Queen 
 Marijuana 
 Mexican Breadfruit 
 Miniature Croton 
 Mistletoe 
 Mistletoe berries 
 Morning Glory 
 Mother-in-law's Tongue 
 Narcissus 
 Needlepoint Ivy 
 Nephytis 
 Nightshade 
 Oleander 
 Onion 
 Oriental Lily (cats!!!) 
 Pathos 
 Peace Lily 
 Pencil Cactus 
 Philodendron 
 Plumosa Fern 
 Poinsettia (low toxicity) 
 Poison Ivy 
 Poison Oak 
 Potato Plant (green fruit, stem and leaves) 
 Pothos 
 Precatory Bean 
 Primrose 
 Red Emerald 
 Red Margined Dracaena 
 Red Princess 
 Rhododendron 
 Ribbon Plant 
 Saddle Leaf Philodendron 
 Sago Palm 
 Satin Pothos 
 Scheffelera 
 Silver Pothos 
 Spider Plant 
 Spotted Dumb Cane 
 Stargazer Lilly (cats!!!) 
 String of Pearls 
 Striped Dracaena 
 Sweetheart Ivy 
 Swiss Cheese Plant 
 Taro Vine 
 Tiger Lily (cats!!!) 
 Tobacco 
 Tomato Plant (green fruit, stem and leaves) 
 Tree Philodendron 
 Tropic Snow Dieffenbachia 
 Tulip bulbs 
 Weeping Fig 
 Wisteria 
 Yew (American/English/Western) 

 Additional information is available through the ASPCA Animal Poison Control 
 Center. They may be contacted at 888-4ANI-HELP OR 888-426-4435, or you can 
 obtain additional information through their web site at: http://www.aspca.org/site/PageServer?pagename=apcc). 
 They offer a unique, emergency hotline providing 24-hour-a-day, 7-day-a-week 
 telephone assistance to veterinarians and animal owners. The Center's 
 hotline veterinarians can quickly answer questions about toxic substances 
 found in our everyday surroundings that can be dangerous to animals. The one 
 caution for this is that there is a $45 consultation fee paid by the animal 
 owner, veterinarian or product manufacturer. 
 If you have a question regarding a possible poison and your pet, you may 
 also contact the Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222 for no fee. They 
 are very receptive to telephone calls about pets and they even follow up 
 with you later to see how things turned out. 
 If you suspect that your pet has been exposed to a poison, it is 
 important not to panic. While rapid response is important, panicking 
 generally interferes with the process of helping your pet. Take 30 to 60 
 seconds to safely collect and have at hand the material involved. This may 
 be of great benefit to the Center professionals as they determine exactly 
 what poison or poisons are involved. 
 In the event that you need to take your pet to your local veterinarian, 
 be sure to take with you any product container. Also take any material your 
 pet may have vomited or chewed, collected in a zip-lock bag. If your pet is 
 seizing, losing consciousness, unconscious or having difficulty breathing, 
 you should contact your veterinarian immediately. Most veterinarians are 
 familiar with the consulting services of the Center. Depending on your 
 particular situation, your local veterinarian may want to contact the Center 
 personally while you bring your pet to the pet hospital. 
 When you call the either Center, be ready to provide: 

 Your name, address and telephone number 
 Information concerning the exposure (the amount of agent, the time 
 since exposure, etc.). For various reasons, it is important to know 
 exactly what poison the pet was exposed to. [If the agent is part of the 
 Pet Product Safety Service, the consultation is at no cost to the 
 caller.] 
 The species, breed, age, sex, weight and number of pets involved 
 The agent your pet(s) has been exposed to, if known 
 The problems your pet(s) is experiencing. 

 Your pet may become poisoned in spite of your best efforts to prevent it. 
 Because of this, you should be prepared. 
 Your pet companions regularly should be seen by a local veterinarian to 
 maintain overall health. You should know the veterinarian's procedures for 
 emergency situations, especially ones that occur after usual business hours. 
 You should keep the telephone numbers for the veterinarian, the Poison 
 Control Centers, and a local emergency veterinary service in a convenient 
 location. 
 You may benefit by keeping a pet safety kit on hand for emergencies. Such 
 a kit should contain: 

 A fresh bottle of hydrogen peroxide 3% (USP) 
 Can of soft dog or cat food, as appropriate 
 Turkey baster, bulb syringe or large medicine syringe 
 Saline eye solution to flush out eye contaminants 
 Artificial tear gel to lubricate eyes after flushing 
 Mild grease-cutting dishwashing liquid in order to bathe an pet 
 after skin contamination 
 Rubber gloves to prevent you from being exposed while you bathe 
 the pet 
 Forceps to remove stingers 
 Muzzle to keep the pet from hurting you while it is excited or in 
 pain 

 Pet carrier to help carry the pet to you local veterinarian. 

 Past Newsletters 

 October, 2002 

 September, 2002 

 August, 2002 

 July, 2002 

 June, 2002 

 May, 2002 

 April, 2002 

 February, 2002 

January, 2002 

December, 2001 

November, 2001 

October, 2001 

September, 2001 

July-August, 2001 

June, 2001 

May, 2001 

April, 2001 

March, 2001 

February, 2001 

January, 2001 

December, 2000 

 Current Newsletter 

 SCWS Home Page 

 FastCounter by bCentral