The Samoyed Club of Washington State 

 The Samoyed Club of Washington State 

 March-April 2005 Web Edition 
 In This Issue: 
 President's Messages 
 What's It All About? 
 A Good Dog Story 

 President's Message 
 - March 2005 
 I want to publicly thank the 
 members of SCWS for the tremendous support you offered upon the death of 
 my father. It is greatly appreciated by my family and myself. 

 On a happier note, four of the members of SCWS had the opportunity to go 
 to Anchorage for the start of the 2005 Iditarod. It was an incredible experience 
 and one I'd encourage others to consider if dogs, dog sledding, or the outdoors 
 are an interest. We even encountered a number of east coast SCA members 
 attending the event! I'll bring photos to our next meeting for those 
 who would like to take a look. 

 I hope our nominating committee is hard at work. We're going to have an 
 intense couple of years for 2005/6 and we need to have our club ready to 
 meet the commitments we've made. If you are approached, please consider 
 serving. 

 Cheri 

 President's 
 Message - April 2005 

 Is that a light at the 
 end of the tunnel or an oncoming train -- or both? 

 Recently, we've had a number of our members and friends with the Willamette 
 Valley club started picking up the pace in terms of the 2006 SCA National 
 Specialty. Late January, Liz and Van Swearingen "test drove" the host 
 hotel. Joy Ritter chaired the WVSF Eye and Microchip clinic in April 
 with WVSF donating the ENTIRE proceeds to SCA 2006. Darlene Rautio 
 has our SCA 2006 bank account set up and has deposited the loan from SCA. 
 She is also collecting goods for the rummage sale. Ann Brown, in consultation 
 with Jill Wilson, is heading out on a scouting trip in North Idaho 
 for hiking trails for the pack hike. Tina Grant, Barb Campbell and 
 Darlene Rautio are collecting toner and ink cartridges for recycling. 
 Barb Campbell has been talking with the Inland Northwest Malamute folks 
 about both assisting with the weight pull and loaning us their equipment 
 for the pulls at the National. Celinda and Christie are busily planning 
 the hospitality events. Judy Carrick is crafting gorgeous teal blue 
 Christmas ornaments complete with "working" Samoyeds for a fund raiser. 
 Liz & Van have requested proposals from various superintendents for their 
 fees and services. The list goes on and I'm sure there's other committee 
 work going on of which I am unaware. All in all, it's a pretty wonderful 
 light that's starting to shine! 

 There's lots more to be done, though (the oncoming train part...). 
 Many of us have been living the John Lennon's line of "Life is what 
 happens to you while youre busy making other plans", but have still been 
 "dogging" our commitment to the club. On behalf of all of us, I wish 
 to express our thanks to the following: 

 Ann Brown 
 Tina Grant 
 Joe Ritter 

 Barb Campbell 

 Melissa Hopper 
 Joy Ritter 

 Celinda Cheskawich 
 Kim Leslie 
 Christie Smith 

 Jim Cheskawich 
 Kathy Manor 
 Van Swearingen 

 Miranda Connor 
 Ron Manor 
 Liz Swearingen 

 Debbie Dassie 
 Darlene Rautio 
 Jill Wilson 

 Joee Dauer 
 Terry Woods 

 The Willamette 
 Valley Samoyed Fanciers 

 (If I missed someone, 
 please accept my apologies and let me know. I'll add you next time, 
 because there will be more of these!!) 

 Cheri

 Whats It All About? 

 By: Ron Havener 

 I get lots of letters from people asking about dog shows and why they 
 matter in the overall scheme of things. 

 Let's take a closer look at that question. Dog shows, like most shows for 
 purebred livestock, started out as a chance for breeders to compare their 
 kennels and evaluate the progress of their breeding, nutritional and training 
 programs. We still have that chance today, in an age when shows have been 
 elevated into glamorous events of national stature. Has just about everybody 
 who loves dogs seen the recent Westminster Kennel Club show from Madison 
 Square Garden in New York City? Of course they have. Nobody who has ever 
 been to Crufts in England, the Salon du Cheval in Paris or the national 
 Arabian horse show in Scottsdale can walk away without being impressed by 
 how far the world of purebred animals has come. So, how does that fit with 
 other kinds of dog training, you ask? Other disciplines like Obedience, 
 Agility, Lure Coursing or Racing? 
 A recent conversation with Greyhound breeder/trainer (and former Quarter 
 Horse jockey) Kevin Gresham, from his farm in Kansas brought an answer to 
 that and it goes something like this: "Years ago," he says, "Back when I 
 was ridin', you'd have horses that did all kinds of crazy stuff. Some of 
 them horses could really get to carryin' on and a guy could get hurt Well, 
 there was this one trainer who did a lot of winning. And I mean a lot. I 
 always liked ridin' his horses 'cause they would just, you know, be real 
 calm and keep their mind on business. Well, what this guy said was, the 
 best racehorses are the ones who are trained the most." 

 Now, that's a very interesting statement and a rather broad one But, Kevin 
 has a broad base of experience. Besides having a few show dogs, he raises 
 and trains some of the most expensive, successful Greyhounds in the sport. 
 Kevin Gresham counts among his clients some of the most well known owners 
 in the game and he knows what he's talking about. 

 Hearing that statement is one thing. But, understanding it and putting it 
 into practice is a whole different matter. What it boils down to is this: 
 the dog with more experience is less likely to be surprised, distracted 
 or worried about anything that happens. What Kevin is talking about is cross - training. 
 And that can be the difference that makes a champion. 

 Some of the most successful people in other disciplines have come from the 
 show world. What secrets do they know? To find that out, you'd have to ask 
 the many Arabian horse trainers succeeding on the track. From there, you'd 
 have to ask people like Neal and Ginny Ehrhart of Keystone Driving Force, 
 who show horses and are also among the top winners in Harness racing After 
 Neal and Ginny, you'd have to go on and ask people like Jack and Mary Butler, 
 who were busy showing Siberian Huskies in New England about fifteen or so 
 years ago and today own one of the most respected Greyhound kennels in the 
 world. Or ask Jan Troxell who to this day still raises and shows German 
 Shepherds from her Greyhound racing farm in Oklahoma. The list goes on. 
 Maybe what these successful breeders and trainers discovered is that all 
 training disciplines - 
 no matter how different from each other they may seem to be 
 - go 
 hand in hand. Maybe they see the world of champions from a wider scope and 
 in a brighter light than their competitors do. Maybe it gives them an advantage.

 We are in the show world because we believe in our dogs becoming the best 
 they can be. Whether we are fans, owners or somewhere in between, all of 
 us play a role in the making of champions and champions can be found in 
 many different arenas. Racehorses have proven themselves in dressage, driving, 
 hunter/jumper classes, western pleasure and halter. Obedience and Herding 
 winners have become conformation champions and retired racing Greyhounds 
 have gone on to win ribbons in the show ring as well. 

 In the dog sports of our choice, we see time - honored 
 rituals that touch a chord in all of us. We see dogs from across the country 
 competing to prove which is smartest, which is fastest, which more beautiful. 
 We see kennels competing against each other like Esmeralda and Blanche do 
 in my dog show novel "The Blue Ribbon" to prove which kennel is the best, 
 which trainer the wisest and which owner the most savvy. 

 In a society growing ever more soft, where schools and companies and towns 
 seem to be falling into a political correctness that makes our lives more 
 boring at every turn, we in dog sports have something to look forward to. 
 We live our dreams every day. We see their promise played out with every 
 sporting event we attend - 
 the promise that if you look straight ahead and give your all, you will 
 get from where you are right now to where you want to be. You will cross 
 the finish line, fast or slow. Dog sports are about the individual, not 
 about hiding behind a team that you're part of, but about you, alone, against 
 all odds. They don't teach you that kind of self - confidence 
 in high school, but the dog world does. When you are a winner in the dog 
 world, you will always know on some level 
 - no 
 matter how long you live or what you do 
 - that 
 you "made it." 
 There, for all to see, you stood before the crowd. You reached the winner's 
 circle and somewhere in the archives of your Breed, the world will always 
 know it. 

 A Good Dog Story 

 This photograph shows a red Doberman licking an exhausted fireman. He had 
 just saved her from a fire in her house rescuing her by carrying her out of 
 the house into her front yard, while he continued to fight the fire. She is 
 pregnant. The firefighter was afraid of her at first, because he had never 
 been around a Doberman before. When he finally got done putting the fire out, 
 he sat down to catch his breath and rest. A photographer from the Charlotte, 
 North Carolina newspaper, The Observer, noticed this red Doberman in the 
 distance looking at the fireman. He saw her walking straight toward the fireman 
 and wondered what she was going to do. As he raised his camera, she came up 
 to the tired man who had saved her life and the lives of her babies, and kissed 
 him, when the photographer snapped this photograph. 

 March-April, 2005 

 January-February, 2 005 

 October-December, 2004 

 June-August, 2004 

 May, 2004 

 April, 2004 

 March, 2004 

 January-February, 2004 

 December, 2003 

 November, 2003 

 October, 2003 

 August-September, 2003 

 July, 2003 

 May/June, 2003 

 April, 2003 

 March, 2003 

 February, 2003 

 January, 2003 

 November/December, 2002 

 October, 2002 

 September, 
 2002 

 August, 
 2002 

 July, 
 2002 

 June, 
 2002 

 May, 2002 

 April, 
 2002 

 February, 
 2002 

 January, 
 2002 

 December, 
 2001 

 November, 
 2001 

 October, 
 2001 

 September, 
 2001 

 July-August, 
 2001 

 June, 
 2001 

 May, 2001 

 April, 
 2001 

 March, 
 2001 

 February, 
 2001 

 January, 
 2001 

 December, 
 2000 

 Current Newsletter 

 SCWS Home Page 

 FastCounter 
 by bCentral