The Samoyed Club of Washington State 

 The Samoyed Club of

 Washington State 

 June-August 2004 Web Edition 

 In This Issue: 

 President's Messages - June-August 
 Where's The Cheese? 
 Central Nervous System Disease -->

 President's Message - June 2004 

 I Wish You Could Have Been There!! 
 As reported in the minutes, after the Spokane Shows a number of us were 
 able to get together to have dinner at Templins the host hotel for the 
 2006 SCA National. When I say that I wish you had been there, Im meaning it 
 on a number of different levels. Yes, we would have loved your company one 
 of the most delightful aspects of the Northwest Samoyed Fanciers is that 
 they are a grand group of people but more importantly, I would have liked 
 you to have all felt the synergy amongst the folks when planning and 
 discussing the event. Did everyone agree at all points? NO! But the ensuing 
 discussion and dialogue is what makes us stronger and will help us 
 ultimately have a better event. The other thing that is marvelous to behold 
 is the way in which the various strengths people have in their non -doggy 
 lives come to the fore for the benefit of the club. Whether it be Vans 
 experience with facilities management, Darlenes with running a business, 
 Joys leadership at Boeing, Lizs with computers or the many other talents 
 made evident that night, it has the makings of an awesome group. For those 
 of you not already signed up, please think what talents you have that might 
 help move this project forward and let us know. One of the things I am most 
 proud of in my work with SCWS was the National we hosted in 1996 -- 
 still regarded by many as the best. Lets create another event to be proud 
 of! 

 Cheri 

 President's Message - July 2004 
 As this club year draws to a close, I want to thank the membership for 
 allowing me to serve in this office another year. I also want to publicly 
 thank the members for their specific contributions to the club (this is a 
 scary undertaking, given Ill inevitably miss someones wonderful 
 contribution, but please know its a consequence of a tired mind not a 
 lack of appreciation!): 

 Ren Brimhall 
 specialty show chair and judges hospitality 

 Bo Gloster 
 Vice President 

 Doug Haldeman 
 for his new celebrity as our outstandingly 
 entertaining auctioneer 

 Jason Loper 
 Corresponding Secretary (despite not often being 
 able to make it to the meetings, Jason has done a marvelous job of 
 summarizing information that has come in and provided timely reports) 

 Ron & Kathy Manor, Kristina , and any family member they can tap 
 for all the work in Rescue 

 Ron Manor 
 for designing and maintaining our website and the 
 wonderful photos we all enjoy 

 Darlene Rautio 
 Board, Specialty organizer, filofax, rescue 
 supporter, auction and raffle chair, seminar chair and 2006 ways and means 

 Joy Ritter 
 Treasurer and a great one!! 

 Liz Swearingen 
 Recording Secretary, Newsletter editor (and the 
 best nag for getting the presidents message in a timely manner!!), Trophy 
 chair, rescue supporter, designer for our specialty logos for the past few 
 years 

 Van Swearingen 
 Chair of 2006, rescue transportation, our best 
 BBQ cook and Lizs (heck, all of ours!) Go - to 
 guy 

 Lon and Mary White 
 fostering countless dogs 
 And all the members who pay dues and members and friends who support 
 various club events by participation, donation of money or time. 
 In this newsletter, youll find the slate of officers and board for 2004 - 2005. 
 We will be accepting nominations from the floor and voting at the annual 
 meeting, since we didnt have a July meeting. 
 See you soon to celebrate our Sams for all Seasons! 

 Cheri 

 President's Message - August 2004 
 Success! 

 What a rousing success we shared with our 2004 State Specialty! From the 
 Obedience opener with a number of qualifiers and a High in Trial score of 
 195, to our Sweepstakes judging by a long- time 
 backbone of the club, followed by breed judging with a well respected 
 breeder judge, and capped with a delightful banquet and very successful 
 silent and live auction, Im sure the day will be remembered as one of the 
 best SCWS specialties ever! Many thanks to all of you who worked to 
 contributed to make the event such a success. Many thanks to others who 
 contributed to the success by participating and sharing in the warm 
 hospitality! 
 The reputation of our specialty is evident in the number of folks who 
 return over significant distances year after year. It is also evident in the 
 reports from other clubs that their planning is influenced by their members 
 experiences when attending our specialty. Special thanks to Liz and Van 
 Swearingen, our Saturday barbeque hosts that help keep the hospitality 
 flowing. 
 The other exciting success to the weekend was the number of members who 
 stepped forward to volunteer for projects over the next year. We have 
 volunteers for show chair, banquet coordination, trophies and trophy 
 assistance, and the Sammy Olympics! As were going into a new club year, 
 this is a very exciting development. 
 I will be working over the next couple of months with the SCWS officers 
 and board to set the meeting schedule for 2004 - 2005. 
 Given we will not have a September newsletter, please check the SCWS website 
 for meeting announcements for the remainder of this year. 
 Heartfelt thanks again for all of you in our Pacific Northwest Samoyed 
 community. The gift of your presence at our annual reunion provides me with 
 an incredible sense of revitalization and enthusiasm for the upcoming year.

 Cheri 

 Where's The Cheese? 

 Roxanne, my rescue Samoyed whom I have had for just over 2 years, and I 
 live in a large apartment in a dog friendly complex. She gets to run in the 
 woods in back and join the other dogs chasing tennis balls on the tennis 
 court, so she is not "housebound." She also attends a doggie daycare and has 
 a wonderful sitter that takes her out when I go to work. Roxanne has been to 
 obedience and is actually well trained. We have so many dogs in the complex, 
 that we have the rule that the dogs have to be on leash and not causing a 
 nuisance. 
 Roxanne was recently reported for causing a nuisance by barking all day 
 and it was said that she was a vicious dog. Roxanne does not bark, but she 
 does howl occasionally at the sirens from a nearby fire station, but 
 otherwise, just an occasional "woo woo." 
 I had some concern about Roxanne from the beginning because every dog 
 that she met from the day I met her was growled at. I decided that after my 
 previous "Puppy the Terrible" I could handle anything in the way of dominant 
 behavior. Roxanne was 99% wonderful, cuddly, cute and smart. She is 
 submissive to people and just loves everyone. I can handle a bit of 
 grouchiness, dominance, protectiveness or whatever-it-isother dogs. 
 I did try to keep her at a distance from other dogs, but people in the 
 complex want to let their dogs run free. Whendogsin her face, she objected. 
 The off leash people ganged up on me and kept reporting her to the manager. 
 One night, one woman, completely hysterical, started yelling at me at 
 11:00PM about Roxanne being mean. Of course, I yelled back because I was so 
 insulted at her slandering Roxanne. Roxanne is sweet , not mean. The 
 off leash people had responsibility to control their animals too. 
 The manager had been called at one point and said that she had come over 
 and heard Roxanne barking. Not true. The barker belongs to a man who 
 lives downstairs. Because of the complaints and the managers observation, I 
 was sent a 10 day notice to vacate. As you can imagine, I was so upset, I 
 called anyone I thought might be of help. Through these calls I found out 
 that with a vicious dog, King County gives a warning, a letter and then can 
 put the dog down. Roxanne was in danger. 
 I called my vet who referred me to Suzi Moore, Positive Approach Dog 
 training. (253)627-4275. She came up from Tacoma to evaluate Roxanne. 
 Suzi was amazing. She is certified to testify in court in dog cases. She 
 brought a "test dog," analyzed Roxanne's behavior step by step, and we set 
 up different situations outside to see how Roxanne would behave. It was 
 incredible. Suzi would say "we will do this" and the "dogs will do that." It 
 was like they were following a script. Roxanne passed with flying colors. 
 The behaviors that others were seeing as aggressive were appropriate dog 
 displays. Suzi wrote a 5 page "dog psychiatric evaluation" complete with 
 objectives, treatment and follow ups. Basically it said that Roxanne was 
 insecure when approached by another dog. 
 Cheese is the answer. Suzi recommended that Roxanne needed to be 
 distracted from her fear of the approaching dog. She recommended that we use 
 cheese for this distraction. The minute another dog approaches and Roxanne's 
 ears point towards it, we start stuffing her mouth with shredded cheese bits 
 to interrupt the chain of behavior that results in the "growly" display. I 
 feel like the village idiot going around exclaiming "It's a dog, it's a dog, 
 Roxanne, how wonderful," but it is a whole lot easier than staring her down 
 or doing a rollover. The goal is to make every dog experience a wonderful 
 thing for Roxanne . It works wonders. Roxanne is making little doggy 
 friends all over the place. 
 The end result of all this is that several other neighbors stood up for 
 Roxanne and we got our new lease and our pet agreement. Roxanne does not 
 have to move and her reputation is restored. 
 What I learned from this is that we have to stand up for our dog and use 
 resources that are available resources. We usually know our dog better than 
 anyone else and can usually analyze their temperament, although we might not 
 be able to determine what might be affecting their behavior. We sometimes 
 need help and should not hesitate to ask for it. This is just one of the 
 responsibilities we take on with these dogs, whether it be a rescue dog or a 
 dog we have raised from a puppy. Contact your mentor, your breeder, your 
 veterinarian, and any other source you think might help. Do your best to 
 calmly explain the problem so that they can make some recommendations. 

 Submitted by: Karen Sue Braddock and Roxanne the 
 Magnificent 

 May, 2004 

 April, 2004 

 March, 2004 

 January-February, 2004 

 December, 2003 

 November, 2003 

 October, 2003 

 August-September, 2003 

 July, 2003 

 May/June, 2003 

 April, 2003 

 March, 2003 

 February, 2003 

 January, 2003 

 November/December, 2002 

 October, 2002 

 September, 2002 

 August, 2002 

 July, 2002 

 June, 2002 

 May, 2002 

 April, 2002 

 February, 2002 

January, 2002 

December, 2001 

November, 2001 

October, 2001 

September, 2001 

July-August, 2001 

June, 2001 

May, 2001 

April, 2001 

March, 2001 

February, 2001 

January, 2001 

December, 2000 

 Current Newsletter 

 SCWS Home Page 

 FastCounter by bCentral