The Samoyed Club of Washington State 

 The Samoyed Club of

 Washington State 

 October-December 2004 Web Edition 

 In This Issue: 

 President's Message 

 Editor's Message 
 A Christmas Story 

 President's Message - October 2004 

 Happy Fall! If the beautiful changing colors were not enough to let you 
 know which season were in, the change in our dogs is a pretty good clue! My 
 boys just about vibrated their way to the van for the first cart run of the 
 season. Its what theyve been waiting for all summer! 

 Our Northwesteners had a 
 pretty impressive showing at the National this year, complete with Linda and 
 Lightning winning both the National Specialty BISS and, along with Nimbus, 
 the top sled team award. Our region has a rich heritage for working Samoyeds 
 (ask Jim and Celinda to share some of their research on Rex of Whiteway, for 
 example) and its wonderful to have been there to witness this win! 
 Congratulations! 
 T he 
 national specialty in Kansas set all sorts of records for entries. As we 
 work to plan for our national in 2006, it will be important to keep in mind 
 that the nationals held on the coasts do not have as large a draw, and ours 
 in the far northwest are typically considerably smaller. Nonetheless, we 
 will have lots of folks to host for this event and we need all the help we 
 can gather. There are a few key positions were still seeking chair - people 
 for, including performance and working event trophies, agility, herding, 
 silent auction, judges hospitality, art show and transportation. All of the 
 committees would welcome some helpers. Even if you can only offer an hour or 
 two of computer time, assembling goodie bags, putting labels on bottles, 
 etc., please let the appropriate chairperson know of your interest, 
 availability and any limitations you may have in terms of time. Im sure 
 theres a spot for everyone to contribute to the success of this event! 

 Committee Chair 
 Show Chair Van Swearingen 
 Local Show Coordinator Cheri Hollenback 
 Treasurer Darlene Rautio 
 Communications Sakura Moses 
 Web Page Sheri Dalton 
 Registration Liz Swearingen 
 Grounds Doug Haldeman 
 RV Parking Van Swearingen 
 Reserved Grooming Joy Ritter 
 Trophies Liz Swearingen 
 Ways & Means Darlene Rautio 
 Auction Bo Gloster 
 Hospitality/Banquet Christie Smith & Celinda 
 Cheskawich 
 Conformation Chair Van Swearingen 
 Chief Ring Steward Shirley Matthews 
 Obedience Chair Lorraine Durbiano 
 Working Chair Jill Wilson 
 Seminars Pat Cummins & Sheila Kenny 
 Costume Contest Gayle Wood 
 Rescue Parade Ron & Kathy Manor 
 Vendors Joy Ritter 
 Environment & Ambiance Hollie Eller 

 Cheri 

 Editor's Message - December, 2004 
 All year long I wish I could be more like my dogs, 
 but no other time do I wish it more than I do this time of year. I want to 
 be the one who stays at home and enjoys the tree all day. 
 But wait, I am the one that each time I come in the 
 door, comes in to unconditional love and trust. I am the one that can do no 
 wrong. I am the one that is cherished as the most important person in the 
 world. What more could anyone ask for. I have the absolute best thing in the 
 world. What else could I possible ask for? 
 Well, if I really think about it, I could ask for 
 one thing. 
 SNOW! I want the white stuff. I want to get 
 up Christmas morning and look at the window to a pristine, white world. I 
 want to take my dogs out and mess the stuff up and make snow angels and 
 snowmen. I want to throw snowballs and see the dogs chase them just to 
 wonder how they disappeared and how they are supposed to find them when 
 everything in the world looks the same. 
 That is what would make my Christmas perfect. For 
 each of you, my friends, I wish you your perfect Christmas. 

 Liz 

 A Christmas Story 

 Hi, my name is Dallas and I have a very special 
 family of humans. Last Christmas Mom did something really special with me 
 and she said that she thought you might like to hear about it. First though 
 (since this is the first time they have actually LET me use the puter) I 
 want to tell you something about me. Im 5 now and have always been much 
 smarter than my humans. They think they have trained me, but I just like to 
 make them happy so sometimes I do what they want. The thing that makes me 
 happiest is when I can make them laugh. When they first brought me to live 
 here, they laughed a lot at me but sometimes I have to work harder at it 
 now. 
 Over the past five years my Mom and Dad have done a 
 lot of things with me. The first place they took me was to a place where 
 there were a bunch of other puppies. I thought it was play time but they 
 started to try to teach me stuff too. I tried some of the tricks that my Mom 
 told me about, but they didnt work on my humans. They made me behave and if 
 I did behave they gave me these tasty treats. Then at the end of trying to 
 teach me things, me and the rest of the puppies got to play together. That 
 is when I found out about this breed thing. I thought all puppies were white 
 but they arent. Besides that, they come in all sizesdid you already know 
 that? 

 Anyway 
 that was my introduction to the training and what my new Mom and Dad had in 
 mind for me. Even though I learned all the things they wanted me to, I knew 
 how to fool them to. Sometimes, I would do everything they told me to do for 
 a couple of times, but then I got bored and decided it would be more fun to 
 do something else. They would tell me to sit still, well, did they really 
 think I was going to do that repeatedly? It was much more fun to play with 
 the other dogs, and to see the folks that were there watching. They took me 
 to what they called classes in, I think they were called, confirmation and 
 bedience. Me and my friends got to see each other about once a week and some 
 of them stayed small and others got really big. 
 Anyway, after a few months, the decided to take me 
 to what they called a dog show. This was the first of many and I learned to 
 really like them. Im a champion, whatever that means and I still go to 
 shows sometimes, but not as often. Mom say bedience isnt nearly as much fun 
 as confirmation, cause I make fun of her. She says everyone laughs at us but 
 I thought that was good. I guess Mom doesnt think its good. 
 So, that is who I am and what I have done so far. 
 Last year, my human Grandma lived with us for a little while. I love Grandma 
 cause she will sit and pet me and play with me forever. She also sneaks me 
 snacks when she can. One day Grandma left with Mom and she didnt come back. 
 I was really sad. Mom and Dad tried to splain but I just couldnt figure out 
 what they meant. Then last at Christmas last year, Mom took me for a ride 
 and we stopped at this place and Mom let me go in with her. I was real 
 surprised because it wasnt the Vet or Pet Smart. Before we went in Mom told 
 me that I had to be specially gentle with the humans I was about to meet. 
 The were all older and some of them rode around in moving chairs or had 
 rolling carts. She said they could fall over easy so I couldnt push or 
 jump. We went in and there were lots of people there and they all wanted to 
 see me and pet me. Some of them had little treats (I think Mom sneaked them 
 to them). One lady in this weird chair that rolled, called out Oh, look at 
 the Christmas Dog. I immediately looked around to see the other dog, but it 
 seems it was me she was talking about. Then all the other folks decided 
 that, yes, I was truly a Christmas dog. 
 I tried to visit with all of them (for their good of 
 course) but then Mom said we could come back but there was someone special 
 we had to see. We walked down one hall and went in a door, and I knew 
 Grandma was there, I could smell her. I ran over and jumped up on the bed 
 and snuggled in with my Grandma. She felt so good and as I licked her face, 
 she opened her eyes. Then she threw her arms around me and hugged me and 
 loved me just like she had before. After I snuggled for a while Mom asked if 
 we wanted to go down to the lounge with the other folks. So Grandma got up 
 and we all went to see the others. As we got down there everyone was by the 
 Christmas tree and someone was playing a piano while everyone else sang. I 
 stopped and the door and sang with them and they all turned and gave me a 
 funny look, then most of them laughed. I love it when humans laugh, it makes 
 me feel so good and special. They invited us over to sing with them and I 
 chimed right in. It didnt matter that I didnt know the words because they 
 all seemed to be singing different words anyway. The whole time Mom and I 
 were there Grandma kept me right by her side and the others spent lots of 
 time petting me to. Mom soon said that all the people were getting tired and 
 it was time to leave. She promised everyone that I would come back to see 
 them and as we left I looked back and they were all smiling. 
 I have never been sure what Christmas is, but I do 
 know that I get presents. That year I got the most special present of all, I 
 got to see my Grandma and I made her and lots of people laugh and smile. 
 What better present could there be? 
 After we left Mom said that these were all very 
 special people. They all had some disease called Alzheimers Disease. It 
 doesnt matter to me. All I know is that I can make them laugh and smile and 
 that makes me feel good. We have been back lots of times since last 
 Christmas and it makes me sad that I dont always get to see some of my 
 friends, but I always make new friends. I would go every day if I could and 
 make it Christmas every day for them. 
 Anyway, what I really want to say to all of you if I 
 could, is 

 October-December, 2004 

 June-August, 2004 

 May, 2004 

 April, 2004 

 March, 2004 

 January-February, 2004 

 December, 2003 

 November, 2003 

 October, 2003 

 August-September, 2003 

 July, 2003 

 May/June, 2003 

 April, 2003 

 March, 2003 

 February, 2003 

 January, 2003 

 November/December, 2002 

 October, 2002 

 September, 2002 

 August, 2002 

 July, 2002 

 June, 2002 

 May, 2002 

 April, 2002 

 February, 2002 

January, 2002 

December, 2001 

November, 2001 

October, 2001 

September, 2001 

July-August, 2001 

June, 2001 

May, 2001 

April, 2001 

March, 2001 

February, 2001 

January, 2001 

December, 2000 

 Current Newsletter 

 SCWS Home Page 

 FastCounter by bCentral