The Samoyed Club of Washington State 

 The Samoyed Club of
 Washington State 

 December 2003 Web Edition 
 In This Issue: 
 President's Message 
 Music - My Heart Song 
 'Twas the Night Before Christmas 
 A Christmas Fantasy 

 The Alpha Factor -->

 President's Message 

 Monsters in the Closet 

 The title of this months presidents message may 
 have been better suited for Halloween rather than the Holiday season, but 
 events since the National have provoked considerable reflection and 
 discussion on this topic. 
 The Samoyed breed carries the potential of 60 
 genetically transmitted diseases or disorders 1. .
 Some of these we can estimate the percentage of 
 penetration in the breed (i.e.: Hip dysplasia - 11.4% dysplastic based on 
 12,250 evaluations between 1974 and 2000 2. ; 9.8% affected with autoimmune 
 thyroid disease 3. ), while other problems have not been 
 documented with adequate frequency to determine the risks. 
 Relative to some other breeds, we are very 
 fortunate. The Beagle, Cocker, Dachshund, Dobie, GSD, Golden, Lab, & Poodle 
 carry 100 or more 4. . Over 2.7% of OFA evaluated Bullmastiffs are affected 
 with heart disease 5. . The Bulldog has demonstrated the rate of hip dysplasia 
 75.4% 6. . The dog most frequently documented as suffering with autoimmune 
 thyroid disease is the English Setter, with 32% affected 7. . 
 Through being involved with the Samoyed breed since 
 1981, Ive come to know quite a few breeders. I cannot name a single one who 
 has not experienced at least one of these problems in their line. Some have 
 shared this information with me openly, some privately, some Ive become 
 aware of in more circuitous ways. I have also experienced some of these 
 problems with my own breeding program. I know I did everything possible to 
 control for these problems, with hip, eye, thyroid, heart and now PRA 
 genetic clearances on the animals I used for breeding, as I believe most 
 other conscientious breeders do. Obviously, if these problems were within 
 our control, they would have been eliminated long ago! Until the canine 
 genome is completely mapped and we understand the mode of inheritance for 
 all of these disorders, to some extent, each breeding will continue to be a 
 roll of the dice. 
 Why then, do many in the breed treat genetic 
 disorders as skeletons in the closet? A dirty little secret to be 
 whispered between confidants, something to be embarrassed about, glossed 
 over, minimized, or otherwise hidden? Or as a gotcha, a I know something 
 you dont know like 4 year olds on the playground? The vast majority of 
 breeders do the best job of breeding healthy, long-lived animals they can 
 with the information and resources they have available to them. Why do some 
 critics persist in acting like other breeders are unethical or lacking in 
 moral character because they have acknowledged a problem? 
 We have limited tools at our disposal to try to 
 eliminate these problems and the strongest and most powerful is 
 KNOWLEDGE!!!! If individuals choose to suppress the information about their 
 bloodlines rather than see it treated as a piece of salacious gossip, we 
 will never be able to come together as a breeding community to eradicate 
 these genes from our bloodlines. 
 As an example of what can be done, I refer you back 
 to the 11.4% hip dysplasia rate. If those statistics are analyzed by the 
 years from 1974-1985, the rate is 12.7%, while from 1996 to 2000, it dropped 
 to 7.6%. During these same two time periods, the rate of excellent hips 
 increased from 7.4% to 13.1% 8. . I personally dont think this was a 
 statistical accident, nor do I think that fewer people knowingly submitted 
 dysplastic X-Rays. Rather, I believe that it reflects the conscious 
 commitment of the Samoyed breeding community to address this problem. 
 We have so many marvelous attributes in the Pacific 
 Northwest Samoyed Community. I encourage you all to join me in adding one 
 more - let us bring light to those closets and quit treating genetic 
 disorders in our own and others bloodlines as monsters in the closet. As 
 when we were children, they will go away if we eliminate the darkness. 
 Best to you and yours during this season. May you 
 all have a wonderful warm and white-fuzzy holiday! 

 Cheri 

 1) Padgett, G.A. (1998) Control of Canine Genetic Disease . Howell; 
 New York. 
 2) OFA. (2003a) Hip Database . Orthopedic Foundation for Animals; 
 Columbia, MO. 
 3)Keller, G. (2003) The Use of Health Databases and Selective Breeding . 
 Orthopedic Foundation for Animals; Columbia, MO. 
 4) Padgett, G.A. (1998), op cit. 
 5) OFA. (2003b) Congenital Cardiac Database . Orthopedic Foundation 
 for Animals; Columbia, MO. 
 6) OFA. (2003a), op cit. 
 7) Keller, G. (2003), op cit. 
 8) OFA. (2003a), op cit. 

 Music - My Heart 
 Song 

 One day a beautiful 
 baby boy Samoyed was born. As he came out I noticed that his coloring did 
 not look right and that his mother did not try to get to him. He was the 
 last of seven puppies and his Mama was tired. As I took him, and stated to 
 massage him, he was not breathing. I continued to massage and to work with 
 him for some time. He finally began breathing and let out a little 
 whimper. As he whimpered, his Mama became interested and began to demand 
 her child from me. I did not give him up right away, but continued to 
 massage until his sound was a little stronger, but as I watched this boy 
 begin his new life, I felt a tug at my heart. 
 With the special sense that a breeder had I knew 
 that this was to be a very special boy. I couldnt have told you how he 
 would be special, just that he would be a boy who would make his mark on 
 the world in some way. As the litter matured over the weeks, I continued 
 my special bond with little Green Boy, and knew that there was definitely 
 something special about him. He was always the first one to me as I came 
 into the room; he seemed to know instinctively if I wanted to snuggle or 
 to play; he even knew when it was time for me to pay attention to the 
 others and would back off. 
 The bond I had formed with this boy made me 
 question my own evaluation of him. My little green boy would stay with me, 
 I had to know what that special quality was. I could not let him go, and 
 let someone else find it, I had to watch it develop and see who this boy 
 would become. 
 The six other puppies went to their new homes when 
 they were approximately twelve weeks of age. As the last little girl left, 
 I was still trying to come up with a name for my green boy. I finally 
 decided on Heart Song with a call name of Music. Each time I saw him my 
 heart would sing, so what else could it be. 
 We soon began working on conformation skills for 
 him. Music loved going to the classes and getting attention from all the 
 folks there. After a few weeks of classes, we entered a couple of fun 
 matches and he seemed to love it as he pranced around the ring and showed 
 off for everyone watching. We continued working and when he turned six 
 months, Music and I entered our first AKC show together. 
 We wandered around the show site and Music 
 accepted pets and attention from all those that he could con into it. We 
 groomed and he lavished on all the attention. Then we went to the ring. He 
 was the only six to nine month puppy dog entered. We went into the ring 
 and I attempted to stack him but he would not stand still. He kept turning 
 and looking at the entrance to the ring to see where everyone else was. We 
 ran around the ring once and he wanted to go out. The judge came to go 
 over him and he immediately play bowed and began running to the end of his 
 lead. We went down and back he nipped at my pocket untied my shoe laces, 
 and tried to jump in the lap of the lady sitting at the corner diagonal. 
 As the judge handed us our blue ribbon, he suggested that we might want to 
 try some conformation classes before our next show. All I could do was 
 look at Music and laugh. 
 Music and I had a long talk before we went back 
 into the ring for Winners Dog. I guess what he heard and what I said were 
 two different things because not only did he try the same tricks, he 
 actually managed to trip me on the way around the ring. 
 We continued to show for several months with no 
 better results. He completely humiliated me each time we went into the 
 ring, but was a perfect angel outside the ring. One day as we went into 
 the ring Music looked up at me, dropped his tail and ears, and walked all 
 the way around. His tail never came up nor did his ears, he showed no 
 animation just kept giving a sideways look. As we left the ring and he 
 became his normal happy, excited self, it dawned on me. He had been trying 
 all along to tell me that he hated showing and was not going to do this 
 the proper way. No matter how much I worked with him, he would continue to 
 make a fool out of us in the ring. I decided that I should listen to him 
 and that maybe we should try it again after he got a little older. We 
 would try a couple of shows when he was three years old and see how it 
 went. 
 As it turned out, this was really a blessing. It 
 was the holiday season and my life was hectic. I had so much to do to get 
 the house ready for Christmas and had a large group coming for Christmas 
 dinner. I devoted my time to getting ready for Christmas and Music had a 
 wonderful time romping and playing with his Mama and the other dogs. He no 
 longer had to have frequent baths or worry about staying clean for several 
 days at a time. He was having the time of his life. 
 As Christmas Day dawned, the dogs woke us and got 
 to open their gifts first. Music got a new collar and lead. He looked at 
 it a little strangely because it was not like his others. I told him that 
 we were going to try a new fun class called obedience. Someone must have 
 told him about this because I got this look like, Oh yeah, over my dead 
 body. The look disappeared quickly and I decided that I had imagined it. 
 You know how we all are with these dogs, we figure they cant possible 
 know what we are talking about until they prove it to us. I still wonder 
 to this day what happened to that lead and collar because I have never 
 seen it again. It is secreted away in that special dog hiding place that 
 no human has ever found. 
 I decided to take Music with me to pick up Mom at 
 the Retirement Village to bring her to the house for Christmas Dinner. 
 This was Musics first trip to Moms apartment so I explained to him that 
 we might see others as we were on our way to Moms and that if they wanted 
 to pet him, he would have to be very gentle and stand very still. As we 
 went in the door to the apartment building, a group of the residents were 
 in the lobby singing Christmas carols. They all stopped singing and one of 
 the ladies in her wheelchair exclaimed Oh look, a Christmas dog. I had 
 one when I was growing up. She put her hand down, and called Music over 
 by saying come here, baby. Music went over and sat down beside her chair 
 and waited for her to pet him. 
 Several others gathered around him and he sat 
 there and let them all pet him and exclaim over him. He did not flinch 
 over hands coming at him from behind or the noise of the electric chairs, 
 or the walkers. He welcomed all and never attempted to paw at them or jump 
 up on them. I became concerned when one of the residents with severe palsy 
 came up to pet him. I was afraid that the tremors would frighten him and 
 did not know how he would react. I shortened his lead and as the resident 
 got closer, Music turned to look at me as if to say Mom, let me go, I 
 need to get closer, she cant reach me. Music never even flinched when 
 this lady reached out to him. Although her touch was fairly rough because 
 of her lack of control, he seemed to know that it was okay. We spent much 
 more time in the lobby than I expected and Mom finally came looking for 
 us. As we left to go home, many of the folks asked if I would bring him 
 back to see them. With tears in my eyes I assured them that we would be 
 back. 
 As I put Music in the car, I realized that I had 
 found his special gift. I will always wonder what made me decide to take 
 Music with me on that Christmas day so long ago but will be forever 
 thankful that I did. After the first of the year, we began work to earn 
 Music his Therapy Dog title. He long ago earned that and never had any 
 problem with any of the classes. He was a typical Samoyed and stubborn and 
 playful at times, but overall took the classes seriously. He knew that 
 this was important for him and for his world. Since that Christmas day, we 
 have visited many retirement homes, nursing homes, and even a couple of 
 hospitals. Music has never made a false move with any of his patients. 
 It was hard on him when one of his patients was no longer there. He 
 would look around and hesitate when we left as if saying, wait mom, we 
 missed someone. I explained to him that they had gone home and were very 
 happy. This seemed to satisfy him. 
 Over the years, Music has given many elderly and 
 disabled individuals something to look forward to, as well as bringing 
 happiness and Music back into their lives. I have learned that he is not 
 only my Heart Song but the Heart Song of many elderly and sick individuals 
 who look forward to his visits. I have also learned to listen to my dogs. 
 Some of them have special missions and needs to fulfill. Music and I never 
 did go back into the show ring together, but he has something I would not 
 trade any conformation title, he has a Therapy Title and uses it. 

 Twas 
 the night before Christmas, and on the settee, Not a creature was 
 stirring, not even a flea; 
 Delta was nestled all snug in her bed, 
 While visions of dog biscuits danced in her head; 
 And Ruth in her kerchief, and Larry in his cap, 
 Had just settled down for a long winters nap, 
 When BARK 
 in the front room arose such 
 a clatter, 
 That Ruth turned to Larry Please see whats the matter. 
 He stepped towards the door but the barking did cease, 
 And he heard a strange voice in the room saying Please, 
 My reindeer are tired and Rudolph is old, 
 I need you two sled dogs to lighten the load. 
 Woo woo howled the sled dogs and harnessed they were, 
 And then with a whoosh the three left in a blur. 
 Though the tinkle of sleight bells rose in the air, 
 Larry could not believe that St. Nick had been there. 
 The following morning he thought it a dream. 
 It must have been, just so unreal did it seem; 
 Yet the dogs were exhausted, and slept all the day, 
 Paws twitched as they dreamed of St. Nick and his sleigh. 

 Submitted by Joy Ritter: With permission from Ruth Jones, who 'adapted' 
 this poem to her Samoyeds.The dogs names are Delta and Dora.Dora is a 
 Hannah and Maverick daughter.They live in San Diego. 

 A Christmas Fantasy 

 by Mavis Newbury 

 It was the most enchanting of Midnights...Christmas Eve..our first on 
 the farm. The presents were arranged under the tree in preparation for the 
 children's morning descent. We were quiet with contentment and thanks. Our 
 last and most pleasant chore yet to be done, we donned our boots and 
 parkas to go outside to bed the horses and kennel the dogs. 
 Inside the barn we were greeted by the sweet scent of horses and hay, 
 the sounds of an occasional foot-fall and of thoughtful munching. I 
 couldn't help thinking that it was no wonder Christ was born in a stable , 
 there is no more peaceful place on earth! 

 As I reached for the light switch I stopped...hand mid-air. I was 
 astounded by the sudden and total silence. The horses were frozen in their 
 places, the dogs like porcelain statues, eyes fixed on the end of the 
 stable. My hair prickled and my heart pounded with the realization of a 
 presence in the barn. Unable to move or speak, we watched as a scene 
 unfolded through a blue, misty light. 
 It was a nativity scene, a rough manger, a robed woman resting on the 
 straw before it and a blanketed child within. We heard a voice speaking , 
 with the gentleness and wisdom of the ages. "My gentle animal friends", it 
 said, "I bring you a gift on this Christmas Eve. I will show you how the 
 first Christmas was celebrated." 
 "The shepherds and the wise men did not reach the child for many days 
 after his birth," the voice continued. "The first to bring praise to Him 
 were of the dog kingdom..the most beloved of all his animal creations. 
 They came one by one and gave Him their only possessions and in thanks, 
 they were immortalized in the heavens as stars. The Labrador gave Him 
 faithfulness, the Siberian Husky gave Him stamina, the Welsh Corgi, 
 intelligence, the German Shepherd, the need to protect. The Irish 
 Wolfhound gave him strength; the Greyhound, swiftness and the Sheltie, 
 agility. There were many more, each with a unique gift, but the last to 
 come to the Child was the Samoyed. 

 "I give you my smile," the Samoyed said. "It is my most prized 
 possession because it is the very essence of my being. It is my joy, my 
 love and devotion, and my gaiety." 

 "The Child was so touched," the voice continued, "that He took in His 
 hand a thousand stars and threw them gently over the Samoyed's beautiful 
 white coat." 

 Past Newsletters 

 December, 2003 

 November, 2003 

 October, 2003 

 August-September, 2003 

 July, 2003 

 May/June, 2003 

 April, 2003 

 March, 2003 

 February, 2003 

 January, 2003 

 November/December, 2002 

 October, 2002 

 September, 2002 

 August, 2002 

 July, 2002 

 June, 2002 

 May, 2002 

 April, 2002 

 February, 2002 

January, 2002 

December, 2001 

November, 2001 

October, 2001 

September, 2001 

July-August, 2001 

June, 2001 

May, 2001 

April, 2001 

March, 2001 

February, 2001 

January, 2001 

December, 2000 

 Current Newsletter 

 SCWS Home Page 

 FastCounter by bCentral