The Samoyed Club of Washington State 

 The Samoyed Club of

 Washington State 

 May 2004 Web Edition 

 In This Issue: 

 Editor's Message 
 Lawn Chemicals Linked to Cancer 
 Central
 Nervous System Disease 

 Editor's Message 

 Summer is almost here and even though the days are longer it seems 
 there is less time to get things done. Here is my list: 

 Groom the dogs (why am I entering that show?) 
 Weed the garden 
 Groom the dogs (whos coming to visit?) 
 Weed the garden 
 Paint the bedroom 
 Groom the dogs (Oops, is that show this weekend?) 
 Weed the garden 
 Buy the trophies for the specialty 
 Groom the dogs (Is it already specialty time?) 
 Weed the garden 
 Groom the dogs (What do you mean its time to leave for Nationals?) 

 Then at the end of summer I will look back and sayWow, did that summer 
 go quickly and I didnt get any of my special projects anywhere close to 
 my list. Oh well, Im retired and I will get them done this winter. I 
 really did mean to paint the bedroom, but after all, its only beenoh no, 
 I cant believe it has been that many years since it was painted. 
 My wish for all of you is to have a wonderful summer and not to forget 
 your Samoyed Club of Washington State. This is also our busy time of year. 
 We have the specialty coming up, we need volunteers for many things but 
 most of all for the Sammy Olympics. We cant skip this 2 years in a row. 
 Please make sure you put some work for the club on your summer to do list. 

 Happy Summer to all. 
 Liz 

 Lawn Chemicals Linked to Dog Cancer - U.S. Study 

 WASHINGTON (Reuters) - 
 A study that links lawn chemicals to bladder cancer in Scottish terriers 
 could help shed light on whether they cause cancer in some people, U.S. 
 researchers said on Tuesday. Purdue University researchers surveyed 83 
 owners of Scottish terriers whose pets had recently been diagnosed with 
 bladder cancer for their report, published in the Journal of the American 
 Veterinary Medicine Association. "The risk ... was found to be between four 
 and seven times more likely in exposed animals," said Larry Glickman, 
 professor of epidemiology and environmental medicine in Purdue's School of 
 Veterinary Medicine. "While we hope to determine which of the many chemicals 
 in lawn treatments are responsible, we also hope the similarity between 
 human and dog genomes will allow us to find the genetic predisposition 
 toward this form of cancer found in both Scotties and certain people." 
 Glickman and his colleagues earlier found that Scotties are about 20 times 
 more likely to develop bladder cancer than other breeds. "These dogs are 
 more sensitive to some factors in their environment," Glickman said in a 
 statement. "As pets tend to spend a fair amount of time in contact with 
 plants treated with herbicides and insecticides, we decided to find out 
 whether lawn chemicals were having any effect on cancer frequency." 
 The National Cancer Institute 38,000 men and 15,000 
 women are diagnosed with bladder cancer each year. Humans and animals often 
 share genes that can predispose them to cancer. "If such a gene exists in 
 dogs, it's likely that it exists in a similar location in the human genome," 
 Glickman said. "Finding the dog gene could save years in the search for it 
 in humans and could also help us determine which kids need to stay away from 
 lawn chemicals." Glickman's team plans to survey children, as well as dogs, 
 in households that have treated lawns and compare the chemicals in their 
 urine samples with those from households with untreated lawns. "It's 
 important to find out which lawn chemicals are being taken up by both 
 children and animals," he said. End of Report 
 Why would one use these lethal toxic chemicals 
 particularly when there is a safer, better way to make ones lawn 
 "beautiful". Does it make sense to use a product that ends in "ide"? The 
 suffix "ide" derives from the Greek word meaning death. Obviously it is 
 supposed to mean death to bugs and weeds, but death is death to all living 
 things eventually even bigger living beings such as dogs, cats, rabbits, 
 birds and yes, people. 
 Does it make sense to study genes of dogs and people 
 to see if they are "predisposed to cancer". With 1 out of every 2 people in 
 the 21st century becoming a cancer statistic while in 1901 only 1 out of 
 8,000 people came down with cancer. What are they going to do, study all of 
 us and our DNA and genes? Come on! It is clear to those who have eyes to 
 see, and brains to think, that the lethal chemicals are the root cause of 
 cancer. That the chemicals need to go before there will be any semblance of 
 health in this country and this world. 
 Think about it--who needs a lawn free of all weeds 
 at all times? 
 Granted there is such a thing as pride in ones home 
 and its appearance, but the chemicals don't have to be a part of it. Why 
 don't these so called scientists provide people with alternatives that are 
 good for our pets and for us people? Something that is safe and does NOT 
 cause cancer? Is there money involved in the chemicals? The cancer? Think 
 about it. 
 Yes, there is a safer alternative so we can have a 
 nice lawn that is safe for our pets and our children and us to play on. One 
 that you don't have to worry about tracking chemicals into your homes 
 causing even further toxicity complications for our indoor pets. One that is 
 not an "overnight" answer, but that is an answer in two to three years of 
 applications. Go to this page on our website for the details: 
 http://www.petmedicinechest.com/Lawns/lawnsnaturallytext2.asp 

 www.petmedicinechest.com 
 pethelp@petmedicinechest.com 
 (402) 571-4466 
 Copyright 2004 

 Central Nervous System Disease in Samoyeds 

 The Department of Medical Sciences, School of Veterinary Medicine, 
 University of Wisconsin are trying to determine whether a nervous system 
 disorder that was described 14 years ago in the east coast has been seen in 
 other Samoyeds. Affected pups developed a severe tremor at 10-12 days of age 
 involving the head, body, and limbs that was so severe that the pups were 
 unable to walk. While not recorded, it is likely that the affected pups were 
 males, although it is possible that females also may have had a milder 
 tremor. 
 We are interested in finding out whether other dogs with this disease 
 have been seen and whether any are known of at present. As it is likely that 
 the disease is X-linked, the female is the carrier and will produce affected 
 male pups with any sire. We would like to follow up on the earlier report

 (Cummings et al, Acta Neuropathologica, 
 1986:71;267-277) 
 and determine the molecular basis of the disease. If this can be achieved, 
 it may be possible to develop a blood test that could be used to identify 
 carriers and help in future breeding plans. 

 Should you have any information, please contact either Dr. Ian Duncan or 
 his assistant, Deborah Philippi, at the Department of Medical Sciences, 
 School of Veterinary Medicine, University of Wisconsin, 2015 Linden Drive 
 West, Madison, WI 53706. They may also be reached by email philippi@svm.vetmed.wisc.edu, 
 phone (608-265-1129), or fax (608-265-8008). 
 Permission given to cross-post to other lists, print in Club newsletters, 
 or otherwise disseminate to Samoyed fanciers. 

 (Cummings et al, Acta 
 Neuropathologica, 1986:71;267-277) 
 and determine the molecular basis of the disease.If this can be achieved, it 
 may be possible to develop a blood test that could be used to identify 
 carriers and help in future breeding plans. 

 Should you have any information, please contact either Dr. Ian Duncan or 
 his assistant, Deborah Philippi, at the Department of Medical Sciences, 
 School of Veterinary Medicine, University of Wisconsin, 2015 Linden Drive 
 West, Madison, WI 53706. They may also be reached by email philippi@svm.vetmed.wisc.edu, 
 phone (608-265-1129), or fax (608-265-8008). 
 Permission given to cross-post to other lists, print in Club newsletters, 
 or otherwise disseminate to Samoyed fanciers. 

 April, 2004 

 March, 2004 

 January-February, 2004 

 December, 2003 

 November, 2003 

 October, 2003 

 August-September, 2003 

 July, 2003 

 May/June, 2003 

 April, 2003 

 March, 2003 

 February, 2003 

 January, 2003 

 November/December, 2002 

 October, 2002 

 September, 2002 

 August, 2002 

 July, 2002 

 June, 2002 

 May, 2002 

 April, 2002 

 February, 2002 

January, 2002 

December, 2001 

November, 2001 

October, 2001 

September, 2001 

July-August, 2001 

June, 2001 

May, 2001 

April, 2001 

March, 2001 

February, 2001 

January, 2001 

December, 2000 

 Current Newsletter 

 SCWS Home Page 

 FastCounter by bCentral