The Samoyed Club of Washington State 

 The Samoyed Club of
 Washington State 

 October 2002 Web Edition 
 In This Issue: 
 President's Message 
 Nail Clipping Can Be Easier 
 Cassie Samoyed, R.N. 

 President's Message 

 by Darlene Rautio 

 Our small contingent of SCWS members has returned from the Samoyed Club 
 of America Specialty in Pennsylvania, and I can definitely say, for me, 
 it's very strange attending a National without your dogs! I kept seeing 
 these beautiful Sams all around, but it just wasn't the same without your 
 own to snuggle! The only advantage was it did allow much more freedom to 
 watch and learn without worrying about feeding, exercising, bathing and 
 grooming dogs! 
 While at the National, I attended both of the excellent workshops 
 ....."Canine Reproduction" presented by Dr. Robert Hutchinson and 
 "Practical Genetics for the Samoyed Breeder" presented by Dr. Jerold Bell. 
 The SCA Research and Education Foundation had both of these workshops 
 videotaped and the tapes will be provided to the Regional clubs so members 
 who were unable to attend the National would still have access to these 
 seminars. I made sure SCWS was first on the list to receive copies of 
 these tapes <vbg> and will let everyone know when they arrive. 

 Darlene 

 Nail clipping can be easier 
 Proper training can reduce the stress 

 By: Vicki DeGruy 

 Since individual dogs vary a great deal in their 
 reactions to tranquilizers, I'm not in favor of their use at home without 
 the direct supervision of a veterinarian. Few dogs enjoy nail cutting but 
 most, with training, will learn to allow their nails to be cut without a 
 major struggle. 
 Start out with a sharp nail clipper and a helper 
 whose pockets have been filled with extra-special treats. Bits of hot dog 
 or shredded cheese work well! Most people use the single-bladed 
 guillotine type clipper. I prefer the kind that looks like a little 
 pliers and has two blades, top and bottom. It cuts faster with less 
 effort. I replace mine every year (they're inexpensive) to make sure 
 they're always sharp. The sharper they are, the less they pinch the nail 
 during the cut. 
 Dogs feel most confident and in control when 
 they're on the ground because that's their primary domain. I like to put a 
 reluctant or uncooperative dog up on a grooming table or other raised 
 surface with my helper supervising the dog's head. Your assistant doesn't 
 have to hold his head still (this often causes dogs to struggle more), 
 just keep him occupied by tempting him with treats and prevent him from 
 turning around or jumping off the table. I start with the rear feet - dogs 
 seem to be better about these, perhaps because they can't see what you're 
 doing. 
 We'll do the right rear foot first. I stand at the 
 dog's side, next to his rump, with my back to his head. I grasp the dog's 
 ankle (just above the paw) from the front with my left hand (I'm 
 righthanded), lift the foot and turn the paw backward so that the pads are 
 facing up. The bend of the dog's ankle is cradled in my palm. Your grip 
 should be firm: the dog shouldn't be able to pull his foot out of your 
 hand. They seem to try harder to get away if your grip is tentative or 
 delicate. 
 The dog is going to try to pull away, at least at 
 the early stages of this training, and I'm very clear that I expect him to 
 stand there nicely. He's corrected in a stern voice NO! BEHAVE! but 
 don't let go of his foot while you correct. The person at the dog's head 
 should be reinforcing you by repeating the same thing, making eye contact 
 with the dog and keeping his head from turning around. (Growling or trying 
 to bite shouldn't be tolerated. If you let him frighten you with this 
 behavior, he'll only get worse.) It may take a minute or two just to get 
 the dog to tolerate your holding his foot but be very firm about keep 
 your voice low, deep and calm and use a tone that shows him you do not 
 intend to compromise. Do not ask him to cooperate tell him! As with so 
 many other things with dogs, it comes down to a battle of wills. If your 
 will is stronger, almost all of them give in eventually. Reward with 
 treats and praise for good behavior. 
 Some of the more resourceful dogs will try to make 
 you think you're killing them and will even scream to convince you. Don't 
 believe him you're not hurting him at all. You're just holding his foot, 
 for criminy's sake! 
 With the dog's ankle cradled in your palm and pads 
 facing up as described above, use your fingers to spread his toes and push 
 the nail you want to clip upward into view. For these first few sessions 
 this is important just nip the very tip of the nail with the clipper so 
 that there's no way you're going to cut too far and hurt him. It means 
 that you're going to have to live with longer nails for awhile, but it's 
 critical for the dog to learn that nailcutting might be uncomfortable but 
 it doesn't hurt. After you've nipped the first nail, praise him and give a 
 treat (but don't let go of his foot!) and move on to the next toe. 

 When you've finished the entire foot (it might take 
 a little while during these first sessions), put it down and make a big 
 fuss over him, lots of praise and treats. Depending on how the dog is 
 handling this so far, you can either start on the next foot or take him 
 off the table for now and work on him some more later in the day. I 
 usually cut nails as part of routine grooming. With a reluctant dog, I'll 
 do one foot, brush awhile, do another foot, brush some more and continue 
 in this way until all four feet are done. 
 Front feet are done similarly to the rear ones: 
 standing at the dog's shoulder and looking toward his tail, pick up the 
 forefoot at the ankle and turn the foot so the pads are facing up. Most 
 people stand in front of the dog, pull the leg forward and try to hang on 
 to the paw. This just doesn't work with a reluctant dog and seems to make 
 them want to pull their foot away all the more. 
 Many dogs object to nailcutting because someone has 
 clipped their nails too short in the past and hurt them. Unlike our 
 toenails, dogs' toenails have a nerve and a blood vein inside them. When 
 cut too short, it causes pain and bleeding. The entire nail isn't 
 sensitive, though; there's an easily seen distinction between the live 
 part of the nail (the part that can bleed) and the dead section, the 
 part which has no nerve or vein. If you only cut the dead section of the 
 nail, you will not hurt the dog or make it bleed. 
 The live area in toenails that are white or very 
 light colored is easy to determine. The section with the nerve and vein is 
 pink while the dead part is white. Most dogs, though, have black toenails 
 making it impossible to see where one area ends and the other begins. By 
 holding the foot with the pads facing up, as described in the paragraphs 
 above, it's easy to see this distinction no matter what color your dog's 
 nails are. Along the bottomside of the nail, you'll see a groove. It 
 begins at the tip of the toenail, where its outline is very sharp, deep 
 and distinct. The groove continues toward the toe, becoming wider and 
 shallower until its outline blends in with the rest of the nail and seems 
 to disappear. The part of the toenail with a deep, distinct groove is the 
 dead area. There is no nerve or blood vein in that section and you may 
 safely cut it off without harming the dog. 
 Worrying about where and how much to cut makes many 
 people nervous and this nervousness is easily felt by the dog, making him 
 jittery and more inclined to struggle. Until you feel confident in your 
 work, cut just the very tips of the nails. You'll get better with practice 
 and by cutting them often (weekly), you'll become more comfortable doing 
 it and you'll be able to keep the nails at a reasonable length. As you 
 become more skillful and your dog more cooperative, you'll be better able 
 to estimate the amount you can safely cut and decrease the sessions to 
 twice-monthly. 
 Accidents happen once in a while and even the best 
 groomers occasionally draw blood. Nails can bleed heavily and it's wise to 
 have something on hand to stop it. A pinch of flour applied to the end of 
 the nail will work but more effective is a product like Kwik Stop that is 
 designed especially for that purpose. You can find it at your local pet 
 supply store and a tiny container will last a long time. It does sting a 
 little when applied to the nail but stops bleeding almost immediately. 
 It's normal for the dog to be a little offended when you've hurt him and 
 while I don't baby them, I offer apologies and treats. See, that wasn't 
 so bad! Since some dogs will be reluctant to allow you to cut another 
 nail near the wounded one, I usually leave that foot for a moment and work 
 on another, going back to the first when I'm through. 

 These methods work well on dogs of 
 all sizes. For extremely small dogs, I like to lay them on their backs 
 in my lap. If the dog isn't cooperative, I ask a helper to steady 
 their heads, rub their tummies and talk to them while I cut. As with 
 the larger dogs, lots of praise and treats will help them understand 
 that while nail cutting is a fact of life, it's not a torture session 
 and can even be enjoyable! 

 Copyright 2002
 by Canis Major Publications. All rights reserved. Used by 
 permission." 

 These methods work well on dogs of all sizes. For 
 extremely small dogs, I like to lay them on their backs in my lap. If the 
 dog isn't cooperative, I ask a helper to steady their heads, rub their 
 tummies and talk to them while I cut. As with the larger dogs, lots of 
 praise and treats will help them understand that while nail cutting is a 
 fact of life, it's not a torture session and can even be enjoyable! 

 CASSIE SAMOYED, 
 R.N. 
 October 
 1989October 8, 2002 
 by Karren 
 Braddock 

 I almost adopted Cassie Samoyed thirteen years ago and she was the 
 inspiration for me to adopt Roxanne this last year. Cassie was an unusual 
 Samoyed. 
 Cassie came to Tiger Mountain Veterinary Clinic in 1994. She had been 
 purchased from a pet store when she was five months old. Her papers say 
 she came from a breeding barm in the Midwest. 
 Cassie had been hit by a car and had multiple real leg and chest 
 injuries. The owners decided to have her put to sleep and brought her to 
 the clinic. The owners were pursuaded to sign her over to the clinic to 
 fix up and find her a new home. I first met Cassie as she limped around 
 the clinic recovering from her injuries. I did not adopt her because I 
 wanted a dog that liked to hike. 
 Cassie had many jobs as the clinic dog. She greeted clients and their 
 pets and made them relax and feel comfortable. She was the nurse dog 
 choosing to lie next to dogs recovering from surgery, sometimes licking 
 their faces or ears. She was a blood donor dog back in the days before 
 artificial blood was used. She was ambassador dog visiting pre-schools 
 and elementary schools teaching young children about dogs. She was 
 comforting dog resting her head or paw on you when you were sad. 
 The job she liked best was mama dog. She never had puppies of her own, 
 but she adopted every puppy that came through the clinic doors. She loved 
 to lick them, clean their ears, play with them and teach them respect. My 
 highly dominant puppy, Granger, who had no respect for man or beast, slid 
 through the door on his back in submission to Cassie. Cassie loved 
 C-sections since she would get to be the surrogate mom cleaning up the 
 babies until their real mom was awake enough. 
 She developed diabetes. Cataracts limited her vision. Her hearing 
 became very selective in her final months. She still came to the front of 
 the clinic to greet her friends; but spent more and more time sleeping. 
 Tuesday, October 8, 2002, Cassie peacefully, on her own, passed on to her 
 new home. She was a special dog who was loved and will be missed by all 
 her friends. 

 Past Newsletters 

 September, 2002 

 August, 2002 

 July, 2002 

 June, 2002 

 May, 2002 

 April, 2002 

 February, 2002 

January, 2002 

December, 2001 

November, 2001 

October, 2001 

September, 2001 

July-August, 2001 

June, 2001 

May, 2001 

April, 2001 

March, 2001 

February, 2001 

January, 2001 

December, 2000 

 Current Newsletter 

 SCWS Home Page 

 FastCounter by bCentral