SCWS Rescue 

 Finding a new home for your Samoyed 
 To those 
 of us who love the breed, our sammies are our families. We understand 
 that events in our lives can bring unexpected results, and that sometimes 
 dogs need new homes. 
 This is 
 who we are: 

 We are all volunteers. 
 Each of us donates our time because we love the breed. We hope you 
 understand that rescue work is done around the rest of our lives and we 
 may not be able to respond immediately -- but we will try to answer as 
 soon as possible. We love the breed and will do everything we can for 
 the good of your dog. 
 Many times we don't 
 have homes ready and waiting. We need you to take care of your dog 
 while we search for a new home. It takes time to match your dog to the 
 right new family, and our foster homes are limited (we have only two). 
 If we fill those with owner surrenders we won't have room for shelter 
 dogs in danger of being euthanized. 
 If your dog 
 barks too much, digs, or has behavior problems, it's probably bored 
 or unhappy. There are trainers in every area who can help you. For the 
 sake of your family friend, please try that first. If you 
 want our ideas and suggestions, we're happy to give you our time. 
 If you have 
 a child in the house who has allergies, please make sure it's the dog. 
 Samoyeds have almost no dander and are rarely the cause of 
 allergies. 
 If you truly 
 love your dog and you have to move, please look for a place that allows 
 dogs. 
 Finally, if 
 you have already made the decision to part with your samoyed and you 
 know you won't change your mind, tell us. It saves a lot of time and 
 it's easier on all of us. 

 What we 
 need from you: 

 Your Samoyed 
 must be neutered or spayed and up to date on shots. We need your veterinary 
 records. If we end up taking your dog before it is altered, we have 
 to ask for you to pay for it at the time of surrender. 
 You need to 
 sign a surrender form releasing the dog to rescue, and provide proof 
 that the dog is yours. 
 Until a home 
 is found, we need you to keep your dog with you. Again, it's a matter 
 of foster homes. It's also less stress for your dog. 
 There is a $25 
 fee to help cover our expenses. Since we are a non-profit organization, 
 it is in the form of a tax-deductible donation. In case of hardship 
 we can waive the fee. 

 What we 
 will do: 

 One of our volunteers 
 will come to visit and assess your dog so we can best match it to a 
 new home. 
 We get 
 applications from people who love Samoyeds and want one in their home. 
 We promise your dog will go to the most suitable home we can find. 
 Your dog will 
 be added to our state web site and to a national listing 
 service. We're going to do everything possible to unite your dog and 
 his/her perfect new home. 
 To 
 begin the process, please contact us: 
 rescue@SamoyedClubWa.org