"inverse varargs problem", takes 2 and 3 

[This article was originally posted on July 14, 1992.
I have edited the text slightly for this web page.]

Newsgroups: comp.lang.c

From: scs@adam.mit.edu (Steve Summit)

Subject: Re: varargs fn calling varargs fn?

Message-ID: <1992Jul14.214625.15684@athena.mit.edu>

References: <1992Jul9.171606.24625@shearson.com> <1992Jul10.015616.12264@infodev.cam.ac.uk>

Date: Tue, 14 Jul 1992 21:46:25 GMT

In article <1992Jul9.171606.24625@shearson.com>, Frank Greco (fgreco@shearson.com) writes:

> Does anyone have any examples of a C function that uses varargs

> that calls another C function that uses the same args?

> ...

> The man page for varargs(3) sez:

> 

> The argument list (or its remainder) can be passed to

> another function using a pointer to a variable of type

> va_list()...

> 

> What do they mean "pointer to a variable of type va_list()? I've tried

> several combinations and bus-erroring away...

And in article <1992Jul10.015616.12264@infodev.cam.ac.uk>, Colin Bell (crb11@cus.cam.ac.uk) writes:

> I've solved this one, but have a related one of my own. I have a function which handles

> message handling for a system: ie takes a list of arguments as one would send to

> fprintf prefixed by two or three telling the function what to do with the resulting 

> string. What I would like to do is strip these arguments off the front and then pass

> the entire remainder to sprintf, and deal with the resulting string.

Preliminary answers to both of these questions can be found in
the comp.lang.c frequently-asked questions (FAQ) list :

 6.2: 

How can I write a function that takes a format string and a
variable number of arguments, like printf , and passes them to
 printf to do most of the work?

 A: 

Use vprintf , vfprintf , or vsprintf .

Here is an " error " routine which prints an error message,
preceded by the string "error: " and terminated with a newline:

[sample code deleted]

References: K&R II Sec. 8.3 p. 174, Sec. B1.2 p. 245; H&S
Sec. 17.12 p. 337; ANSI Secs. 4.9.6.7, 4.9.6.8, 4.9.6.9 .

 [current version of this question, now numbered 15.5] 

 6.4: 

How can I write a function which takes a variable number of
arguments and passes them to some other function (which takes a
variable number of arguments)?

 A: 

In general, you cannot. You must provide a version of that
other function which accepts a va_list pointer, as does vfprintf 
in the example above. If the arguments must be passed directly
as actual arguments (not indirectly through a va_list pointer)
to another function which is itself variadic (for which you do
not have the option of creating an alternate, va_list -accepting
version) no portable solution is possible. (The problem can be
solved by resorting to machine-specific assembly language.)

 [current version of this question, now numbered 15.12] 

Now, more could of course be said about these issues. In the
case of accepting a format string and some variable arguments and
some other arguments, passing the format string and the variable
arguments to vsprintf , and then doing something with the string
produced by vsprintf and the other arguments, there is a real
problem in that an appropriate or guaranteed-adequate size for
 vsprintf 's return buffer cannot readily be determined. (How to
attempt to do so is itself a frequently-asked question which the
FAQ list should probably address
 [and now does] .
I'll say no more about it
today, except to lament the fact that there is unfortunately no
good, portable solution.)

Frank Greco asked, "What do they mean `pointer to a variable of
type va_list() '?". There's apparently a typo in his manual, but
the issue of variable-length argument lists versus "pointers" to
same is a potentially confusing one. Here is how I think about
them, extracted from an e-mail discussion I had last Spring with
someone about question 6.4 in the FAQ list:

 * * * 

...one often speaks of "the variable-length part of a
variable-length argument list," which is kind of a silly
mouthful, but it is often important to distinguish the
variable-length part from the fixed part, which in ANSI C must
always exist. (For example, printf always takes one char * 
argument -- the "fixed" part -- followed by 0 or more arguments
of arbitrary types.)

 * * * 

[Passing a va_list pointer along to another routine] is the
preferred way of doing things, but note that a function that
accepts a single va_list pointer is not at all variadic.
(As far as C is concerned, it accepts exactly one argument.)

This is the solution alluded to by the (admittedly rather opaque)
FAQ list wording

You must provide a version of that other function which
accepts a va_list pointer, as does vfprintf in the
example above.

That is, the answer to the question "Can I write a debug_printf() 
in terms of printf() ?" is "No." printf() is variadic, but
 vprintf et al take va_list pointers, so you can write a
 debug_printf() in terms of one of them.

 * * * 

"Variadic" means (at least as I use it) very specifically that a
subroutine, as the C compiler sees it, accepts a variable number
of formal parameters. (Sometimes the term "formal parameter" is
used when we must distinguish very carefully between the generic
things a subroutine is set up to receive and the "actual
arguments" which are passed to it by a specific subroutine call.)

It is fairly easy to prove that one cannot call a variadic
function with an argument list which varies at run time (which is
what you need to do if you're going to use the variable-length
argument list that another variadic function has just received).
The only way that a C compiler will generate a subroutine call is
when you write an expression of the form

 function ( argument-list ) 

where function is an expression which evaluates to a function
(either the name of a function, or the "contents" of a pointer-
to-function), and argument-list is a list of 0 or more comma-
separated expressions. Obviously, since they appear in the
source code, there must be a fixed number of arguments (in any
one call).

 * * * 

[When a variadic function tries to pass the variable arguments
along to another, it] doesn't matter whether or not the first
function does any additional "processing" or not, and it doesn't
matter whether the second function uses stdarg.h or not (there
are other, less portable methods of accessing variable-length
argument lists, and the second function might not even be written
in C). The essential question is whether a variadic function can
call another variadic function (with the strict interpretation of
"variadic" which I use), passing to the second function the
(indeterminate number of) arguments which it receives (at
run-time) in a particular call. [Once again, the answer is that
it cannot.]

If and when I fix up this question, I'm going to introduce the
following explanation, which should help to clarify things in
your mind if they're not clear already.

Just as we can use both integers and pointers-to-integers
in C, there are also two ways of manipulating variable-
length argument lists. A function such as printf accepts
a variable-length argument list -- we cannot see exactly
how many arguments printf will be called with. However,
we can also conceive of a "pointer to a variable-length
argument list," and this is exactly what a va_list is.

When one is dealing with pointers, one has to be very
careful to distinguish between the pointer and the thing
pointed to. It is invariably incorrect to attempt to use
a pointer value when one intends to use the value
pointed to. Explicit syntax, e.g. the unary * operator,
is used to dereference a pointer, i.e. to access the
value pointed to.

It is similarly meaningless and/or impossible to use a
pointer to a variable-length argument list in place of an
actual variable-length argument list, or vice versa.
[For example, you cannot pass a va_list to printf , nor
can you call vprintf with a variable number of arguments.]

Now, it happens that in C we as programmers do not have
as much control over, and freedom with respect to,
variable-length argument lists (or fixed-length argument
lists, for that matter). In particular, we cannot create
a variable-length argument list, nor can we pick an
argument out of a variable-length argument list.

(We can do only a little bit more with fixed-length
argument lists. We can "create" a fixed-length argument
list only by writing a subroutine-call expression in a
piece of source code, and we can pick an argument out of
a fixed-length argument list only by naming it, in the
context of a subroutine definition, and referring to it
by name.)

The only thing we, as programmers, can do with
variable-length argument lists are:

Given a variable-length argument list, generate a
pointer to it, using the va_start macro. (Under
this analysis, va_start is analogous to the unary
 & operator.)

Given a pointer to a variable-length argument
list, (i.e. a va_list ), pick an argument (of a
particular type) out of it.

However, we can manipulate a va_list (a pointer to a
variable-length argument list) with almost as much
freedom as we manipulate other objects in C. In
particular, we can pass a va_list to another subroutine.

There is, however, neither a syntax by which we could
declare an "object" of "type" "variable-length argument
list," nor a mechanism by which we could initialize one
with a particular value (i.e. with a particular variable-
length argument list). Therefore, we cannot accept a
variable-length argument list in one variadic function
and pass it (as a variable-length argument list) to
another variadic function. What we can do is to take a
pointer (a va_list ) to the variable-length argument list
(using va_start ), and pass that pointer (as a single
argument) to another function; however, that other,
 va_list -accepting function is typically not variadic.

Examples of variadic functions, which accept variable-
length argument lists, are printf , fprintf , and sprintf .
Examples of non-variadic functions, which accept pointers
to variable-length argument lists as single va_list s, are
 vprintf , vfprintf , and vsprintf .

As a point of general advice, whenever one writes a
function which accepts a variable number of arguments, it
is a good idea to write a companion routine which accepts
a single va_list . Writing these two routines is no more
work than writing just the one, because the first,
variadic function can be implemented very simply in terms
of the second -- it just has to call va_start , then pass
the resultant va_list to the second function.

By implementing a pair of functions, you leave the door
open for someone (you or anyone else) later to build
additional functionality "on top" of the function(s), by
writing another variadic function (or, better, a variadic
and non-variadic pair) which calls the second,
 va_list -accepting, lower-level function as well as doing some
additional processing.

If you were to write only a single, variadic function,
later programmers who tried to implement additional
functionality on top of it would find themselves in the
same situation as did people trying to write things like
 debug_printf() in the days before the v*printf family
had been invented: they had no portable way to "hook up"
to the core functionality provided by the *printf family;
they had to use nonportable kludges to call printf with
(at least some of) the (variable) arguments which the
higher-level functions received, or they had to abandon
 printf entirely and reimplement some or all of its
functionality.

Obviously, that's far too long-winded and repetetetive for the
FAQ list, but it's a good first draft for me to try to whittle
down and distill the essence out of. (There's also a slight
imperfection in its conceptual model -- although it alludes to
"objects of type `variable-length argument list,'" there are
really no values of type "variable-length argument list." All
actual argument lists obviously have a certain number of
arguments, so an "object of type `variable-length argument list'"
is just one that can hold arbitrary fixed-length argument lists,
regardless of how long they are.)

 Steve Summit 

 scs@eskimo.com