How to Use this Site. 

 How to Use this Site 

 What's here? This site contains the full text of the Book of Common Prayer of the Church of England. I have used a copy printed in 1987 as my standard text (see a note about my sources for more information). In addition to the standard text, this site includes some
 supplementary materials including texts removed from the Book of Common Prayer since 1662. 

 So how do I find what I want? That depends . . . 
 Are you solely interested in the current text? Then you'll want to use the Table of Contents (taken from my standard 1987 Book of Common Prayer ) and follow its links. 

 Are you interested in participating in a Morning Prayer, Evening Prayer, or Holy Communion service but get confused when the service starts jumping around? Then you'll like the how to follow the service charts, similar to those found in
 pew editions for the use of worshippers. These charts only cover the three most common services, so you'll need to use one of the other methods to access any other services. 

 Are you interested in how the Prayer Book has changed since 1662? Try the Alterations and Amendments page. This chart lists the differences I found. For small changes, the table lists the original text and provides a link to the page containing the
 modern version. Some of the large changes and omissions -- such as the original Julian Table to Finde Easter for Ever -- are available as separate pages, just follow the links. 

 Are you interested in how the modern Prayer Book compares to its earlier (pre-1662) versions? Try the Development of the Book of Common Prayer page. This contains links to charts (similar to the How to Follow the Service charts above) outlining the changes made to Morning and Evening Prayer from 1549 to 1604. 

 All of the above? Then you'll want to use the Site Directory , whose links provide access to all pages, including the supplementary materials. Or you can go to the Title Page and browse the site like a book, using the navigation buttons at the bottom of each page. 

 Why don't you . . .? If there's anything I can do to make this site more useful or easier to use, please let me know , and I'll see what I can do.