IWPA - International Weight Pull Association 

 About IWPA 
 Overview of a pull - a walk through of what happens at a
 pull. 
 How to enter events and/or join - How to get started 
 You want to
 pull and nothing is in your area. See I
 Wanna Pull & Pull
 Location Migration 
 How
 to organize a pull 
 Upcoming events - Find a pull near you. 
 Maximum
 Weights Pulled - An often asked question. 
 Map
 of previous pull locations 
 This Seasons Pull Results 
 Past season pull results and standings 
 Equipment sources 
 Rules 
 Points - How you earn points and a standing within the
 association 
 Working Dog Certificates coming attraction 
 Down-Under Pulling. See what the Australians are
 doing; or some Alaskans (non-IWPA) 
 Related information, activities, sources 
 Contacts: Board, Officers and Committee chairpersons 
 Obituaries 

 About IWPA 

 The International Weight Pull association is a non-profit association that promotes the
sport of dog pulling through well organized, sanctioned events. The purpose of IWPA
 is to promote the working heritage of all dogs. The IWPA also
promotes a program to keep your dog in good physical condition with a constructive outlet
for canine competition. 

 Dog Pulling is akin to a tractor pull. Dogs compete to see who can pull the most
weight 16 feet. They pull a wheeled cart on an earthen surface, or a sled on snow. The
handler has no contact with the dog during the pull, so it is up to the dogs willingness
to pull. Safety of the dog is of paramount concern. Since IWPA 's
organization in 1984, no dogs have been hurt in competition. 

 wheels and snow 

 L: Sam pulling at Puyallup --- R: Sam pulling at Trout
Lake 
 see overview of an event for blow-ups and talk-through. 

 IWPA was organized in November 1984 when a group of dog pulling
enthusiasts saw a need for an organization to promote this specialized sport. Our season
for sanctioned pulls runs from September through March. We currently sanction around one
hundred pulls a season throughout the contiguous United States and Canada. Membership
currently runs around 200 with around 400 dogs in competition. We are open to all dogs,
mixed breed or purebred. 

 The objective of a competition is to see which dogs (within their weight class) can
pull the most weight 16 feet within one minute. A tie is broken by the dog that pulled in
the least amount of time on the preceding weight. Dogs compete within their own weight
class, of which there are six: 0-35#, 36-60#, 61-80#, 81-100#, 101-120#, 121# and over. 

 Who can pull more - big or little dogs some
busy boring graphs 

 Member dogs earn points based on their completion position and the number of dogs they
beat. Their five best pulls are used in the total points for the season. They compete only
within their weight class, and only within their region. Snow and wheeled competition are
kept separate. At the end of the season, there is a pull-off and all first, second and
third place dogs are invited. 

 We also have three levels of "Working Dog" certificates that a dog can earn
for pulling certain percentages of their weight. 

 We have ten regions across the country, some with no activity (1,8, 10 last year, 7
except for NC). We have yet to see any involvement outside of North America; but Sweden is
planning a pull in the 1999/2000 season, and we are talking with Australia. A region can
cover a large area. Following is a list of regions accompanied with a map. 

 Alaska, Yukon Territory Canada 
 Washington, Oregon, Idaho, British Columbia 
 Montana, Wyoming, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Northwest Territories 
 Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota,
 Missouri, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin, Manitoba 
 Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania,
 Rhode Island, Vermont, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Quebec,
 Newfoundland, Prince Edward Island 
 Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio 
 Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina,
 Tennessee 
 Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas 
 Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, New Mexico 
 Arizona, California, Nevada, Utah 
 Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia 

 No region for Hawaii & no activity yet 

 You may travel goodly distances to enter an event. There are some around the Seattle
area (where I live) but I also go to pulls in Portland, Vancouver Island and Idaho.
Members will typically travel a few thousand miles a season. And, you are not restricted
to pulling in your region. 

 Pulls are usually organized by members that have built or acquired the necessary
equipment and arranged for a site; frequently donated by some pet supply industry. You can
become an organizer if you are willing to put together the necessary equipment, arrange a
location (and maybe sponsors) and do the paperwork. We would love to see more events, and
we would love to see some activity start in other countries. 

 Come to one of our events and see what it is all about. Some organizers will conduct a
novice pull after the sanctioned event where they will loan you a harness and give you and
your dog some training. 

 Equipment Sources 

 All you need to pull is a freight harness for your dog: 

 One supplier is Nordkyn Outfitters 
in the Pacific Northwest (they ship). They also sell sledding equipment
and many other fittings for working dogs. 

 Around Virginia, check-out http://communities.msn.com/HarnessesByCarol 
. 

 http://www.itsmysite.com/cdpits 
mail orders Weight Pull Harnesses, Walking Harnesses, and Treadmill Harnesses. 

For training, a cart or scooter is useful. Check-out http://www.dogscooter.com/dogs/home.htm 

 . 

 Equipment to put on a weight pull is usually homemade. 

 Steve Harvey at: 
 Harvey's Portable Welding 
 (970) 356-7901 
 Greeley, CO 
 Built the cart for the 96/97 Championships. Does good work
 and is very meticulous. Referral was from Terry Reed (970) 339-9264 

 Pull Results and Standing 

 The following links (except Future Pulls) are all tables; so you may have a problem if
you have a "table challenged" browser. 

 2001 / 2002 Season 

 Future Pulls -- find a pull near you. 

 Pulls -- Index of pulls this season with links to the pulls
 and standings. 

 Entry Status -- Status of pulls in the chain of
 receipt, entry and posting. 

 Snow Standings 

 Wheel Standings 

 2000 / 2001 Season 

 Pulls -- Index of pulls this season with links to the pulls
 and standings. 

 Entry Status -- Status of pulls in the chain of
 receipt, entry and posting. 

 Snow Standings 

 Wheel Standings 

 1999 / 2000 Season 

 Pulls -- Index of pulls this season with links to the pulls
 and standings. 
 Entry Status -- Status of pulls in the chain of
 receipt, entry and posting. 
 Snow Standings 
 Wheel Standings 

 1998 / 1999 Season 

 Pulls -- Index of pulls this season with links to the pulls
 and standings. 
 Entry Status -- Status of pulls in the chain of
 receipt, entry and posting. 
 Snow Standings 
 Wheel Standings 

 1997 / 1998
Season 

 Pulls -- Index of pulls this season with links to the
 pulls and standings. 
 Entry Status -- Status of pulls in the chain of
 receipt, entry and posting. 
 Snow Standings 
 Wheel Standings 

 1996 / 1997
Season 

 Pull Index of recorded pulls with links to the pulls
 and standings 
 Pull 1 in case your browser cannot see references in a
 table 
 Snow Standings 
 Wheel Standings 
 Entry Status -- Status of pulls in the chain of
 receipt, entry and posting. 
 Monthly Pull Counts -- 1996 / 1997 Pull counts by
 region, and total pull counts by seasons. 

 1995 / 1996 Season 

 Pull Index of recorded pulls with links to the pulls and
 standings 
 Pull 1 in case your browser cannot see references in a
 table 
 Snow Standings 
 Wheel Standings 
 Pull Calendar and my working records 
 Monthly Pull Counts -- 1995 / 1996 Pull counts by
 region. 

 Related Information - Activities - Sources 

 Dog Play - Fun with your dog : This set of pages
 detail many types of activities you can enjoy with your dog; such as agility, obedience,
 herding, sledding, hiking, flyball, etc. Take a look. There are many more pastimes to do
 with one's dog than most people realize. 
 Northern Breed Home Page: 
 Besides the northern breeds, they talk about sledding and training. 
 South Plains Obedience Training
 Club of Lubbock Texas promoting obedience and responsible dog ownership. 
 Mushing Magazine 
 Wolf Packs - Dog packs and related equipment :
 This is a husband and wife team that specialize in backpacks, collars, leashes and boots
 for dog; everything to outfit the hiking dog. 
 MapQuest | Vicinity 
 | lookupusa (American Business Information Presents) :
 will help you locate a pull. I use their maps in the Upcoming Events. Lookupusa is a
 directory which will also give a map via Vicinity. MapQuest will also build routes. 
 Alaskan Weight Pull -- Saint Bernard
Club of Alaska -- http://www.alaska.net/~sbcak 

 Address further questions to: info@iwpa.net 
(Debbie Lee & Toni Yoakam) 
or Membership questions to: membership@iwpa.net 
(Dixie Smith) 
or Web site questions/comments to webmaster@iwpa.net 
(Ron Bowser) 

 03 June, 2001 

 This Web Site Hosted by Eskimo North 
 via Apache Server 

 All Unix ISP with competitive rates and
 accessible from much of the US