IWPA Obituaries 

 Obituaries 
 Last Update:
 Sunday, 13 January 2002 

 Fly -- 06 Oct 1996 to 25 
Dec 2001 
Border Collie -- owned by Donna Libby, region 6, MI 

 Kodi-Bear -- Sep 1986 
to Oct 2000 
Alaskan Malamute -- owned by John Berntsen, region 2, WA 

 Fly 
 Submitted by
 Donna Libbey , 09 
 January 2002 

 Fly 10-6-96 to 12-25-0 1 

 Fly came into my life when 
 it was taking yet another upheaval. We were packing to move and Nellie, 
 my 7 year old purebred Border collie was pregnant to my registered Male 
 Oscar for her last litter I had vowed. She decided to deliver on moving 
 day of course. Fly was the 7 th pup and for once Nellie had 
 more than one female in a litter. No, 2 this time and when it came time 
 to sell the litter I couldnt part with them. Fly got her name because 
 of her attitude. Like a fly on manure pile was the way this pup acted, 
 constantly wanting attention while her sister is very stand-offish. We 
 joked often about how the sisters would double team another dog, cat or 
 anything that they wanted to herd. 

 A year after the move, my 
 friend Shirley Webber talked me into training Fly to pull as I had done 
 with my Aussie Bull Dozer. That year and every year after Fly qualified 
 for the Nationals either as a Bronze or Silver medal regional winner 
 only in the year that we went to Washington State did I take her because 
 she was always the crowd pleasing clown. Fly use to love to ride around 
 on my shoulders and would jump and climb up my front and if I wouldnt 
 let her, she wont pull. She was a little dog with unending energy and 
 more than once shed make a pull when I thought she was all done, she 
 was a little dog with a heart and soul as big as a mountain. On 
 Christmas day I put her out and when I came back she was hurt but still 
 alive, Shirley came to help and rushed us to the vet. Fly died in my 
 arms but as someone has since said God wanted a special dog for his son 
 and since my son Patrick is there and it was his birthday too I think 
 they just wanted s little dog that got her name and sure lived up to it. 

 About a week later, 
 Donna lost her bull dog, Spooky, to liver cancer 

 top 
 IWPA home page 

 Kodi-Bear 
 Submitted by
 John Berntsen , 12
 October 2000 
 Kodi-Bear 
 1986-2000 
 A litter of 10 male Malamutes was born September 26th, 1986 under the
 burned out shell of a home in Rochester, WA that was once the home of my
 son and daughter-inlaw. They, fortunately, were at work at the time but
 lost everything and moved into another house next door owned by
 Briarwood Farms, their employer. They had bought a female purebred Mal
 ("Baby") in Olympia two years earlier for a watchdog
 :-)...yeah right. Their neighbor had a beautiful 130 lb. male
 "Yukon" who was born in Alaska and after a series of foster
 homes, ended up in Rochester..........well you guessed it, lust at first
 sight and I received a phone call from my excited daughter in law that
 morning announcing the birth. My grandson, flash light in hand, had
 crawled under the house and and passed the pups out one at a
 time.........all black & white except the last......BROWN???,
 thoughts of a retriever in the wood pile flooded our minds. I asked her
 how many males and females, with the air of a professional breeder, she
 informed me it was too early to tell, they all looked alike ;-) 
 Well seven weeks later they sold all the pups in a week and got
 a whopping $75.00 each. They were rich. As luck would have it my
 daughter and son in law bought the "brown one".......the
 novelty wore off for them and Maria and I thought our white lab
 "Tyrone" needed a playmate........a move which would change
 and enrich our lives for many years. Well Kodi and Tyrone hit it off
 real well and were best buds forever. About this time we decided we
 would get rich too. I bought a 6 year old intact female "Lady Nakia
 Malichi" from a guy in Lacey and you guessed it lust at first
 sight. Around the same time I opened the Sunday paper and saw
 "Misty" and Bill Lumbattis pulling on a weight pull in Lacy
 WA..........little did I know. 
 Well Kodi's first year of pulling was less than spectacular,
 300lbs was the top weight he pulled, but hey, he pulled it sideways. He
 was really spooked at first, traffic, lots a people, dogs and noise was
 overwhelming to this farm dog. He mellowed out in a few years to become
 a laid back journeyman. He finally won a Gold on wheels in 1991-92
 season and was the top pointed (along with Suzy Malcom's 80 lb.class
 winner Pepper?) dog in all weight classes and regions. As luck would
 have it we had switched to regional medals that year so he only received
 the gold for region 2. Ah yes......timing is everything, huh Suzy? His
 last pull was my favorite, it was local, he was around 8 or nine years
 an we just went for a lark, there were 5 dogs in the 100 lb. class. He
 came in third, beaten by 2 of his great grandchildren......a fitting
 finish. 
 Well the vet came to the house last night with his needle, Kodi
 wanted me to say good-bye to you all Moose, Jobe, Conan, Apple Jack,
 Glacier, Luke, Zarkov, Baloo, Zahari, Star, Max, Anorak, O'rion, Tahoe
 and any other hall of famers I may have forgotten.........it's getting
 light now and I have a hole to dig. 
 John & Kodi-bear 
 PS I have a litter of week olds in the house....2 greys, 5 black and
 white, and you guessed it.....one "brown". 
 John Berntsen organized an annual pull in Olympia,
 WA in the early 90's. He was last active in IWPA the 97/98 season
 handling Boomer. We are sorry for his loss. 
 top 
 IWPA home page