SECTION 1 - Physical Area 

 Preferred Customer 
 Ronald E Bowser 
 3 
 8 
 2002-10-03T00:58:00Z 
 2002-10-03T01:03:00Z 
 4 
 2716 
 15482 
 Dell Computer Corporation 
 129 
 30 
 19012 
 9.4402 

 6 pt 
 6 pt 
 0 
 3 

 International
Weight Pull Association 

 Rules 

 Revised
5/2001 

 To
download a Word format version that will print a bi-fold double sided pamphlet
on legal size, click here 

 SECTION 1 - Physical Area 

 A. SNOW 

 The weight pulling chute shall be in an area not less than ten
(10) feet nor more than twenty (20)
feet wide, and not less than thirty-five (35) feet long. The chute will open on
the end toward which the pull is made. The chute shall be as level as hard
packed snow permits. If there is any perceptible slope to the chute, the
direction of the pull shall be toward the higher end. There shall be at least
one (1) physical barrier separating the crowd from the chute. Dogs shall
achieve traction on the same surface as that on which the sled rides. 

 B. WHEELED 

 The dimensions and the description of the weight pull chute shall
be the same for wheeled pulls as for snow pulls. The chute shall be as level
and firm as conditions permit. Acceptable surfaces shall be grass, hard packed
dirt, gravel or carpet. Dogs shall achieve traction on the same surface as that
on which the cart rides. 

 C. HOLDING AREA 

 A safe and adequate holding area shall be provided for both snow
or wheeled pulls. All competing dogs shall remain in a marked or designated
holding area. The holding area shall adequately and safely hold the number of
dogs in competition. 

 SECTION 2 - Equipment 

 A. SNOW 

 The sled must be capable of safely carrying a load of 4000 lbs.
The two runners must be two (2) to four (4) inches wide and at least seven (7)
feet long on the contact surface and curved at the front end in a reasonable
manner for a sled. The runners shall consist of a p-tex material or a steel
runner. The sled must be a minimum of thirty (30) inches in width and no more
than forty-eight (48) inches in width. The sled shall be provided with an
adequate bridle and tug line of total length so that the point of attachment to
the dog's harness will not exceed six (6) feet from the sled. The bridle shall
be made of rope or nylon. Chains or cable will not be allowed. The sled bridle
shall be tied together at a point 2' - 3' in front of the sled. The bridle will
look like a Y. For the twenty (20) and forty (40) pound class, a smaller and
lighter sled may be substituted as approved by the Chief Judge. 

 B. WHEELED 

 If the pull is held on a surface other than snow, a wheeled cart
shall be used. It must be capable of safely carrying a load that can exceed 4000
 lbs. The cart must have four (4) pneumatic tires which must all have the
same air pressure prior to the event. The tires shall not be less than eight
(8) inches in height and no more than eighteen (18) inches in height. A spare
tire for the cart or adequate repair kit should be available at the pull site.
The bridle shall be made of rope or nylon and be a minimum of 5' and maximum of
6' from the start line to point of attachment to the dogs harness. Chains or
cable will not be allowed. The cart
bridle shall not be tied. The snap
should be able to slide freely from side to side. This bridle will look like a long V For the twenty (20) and forty
(40) pound class, a smaller and lighter sled may be substituted as approved by
the Chief Judge provided it has pneumatic tires. If using a lightweight
cart/sled, when the weight is equal to that of the larger cart/sled, the competition may continue with the larger
cart/sled. 

 C. WEIGHT 

 An adequate supply of pre-weighed, inert material suitable for
safe, stable stacking shall be provided. This is applicable for both snow and
wheeled pulls. 

 D. BARRIERS 

 The chute barrier
shall be a minimum of three (3) feet high and long enough so that dogs being
driven from the rear will complete their pull within the barrier. The chute barrier
shall be located at the very edge of the pulling pad, within the chute area.
The best possible barriers shall be encouraged, but any one material shall not
be mandatory. The following would be considered appropriate chute barriers:
plywood, snow fence, wood planks, hog panels and other materials that possess a
bouncing-off or glancing ability when
struck by the sled. (If the sled or cart becomes stuck or lodged on a barrier,
it would then be considered a tangle (see Tangle Rule Sec. 5 C13). A crowd barrier is required to
separate the spectators a minimum distance of three (3) feet from the pulling
chute. A rope barrier is considered adequate for this purpose. 

 SECTION 3 - Officials 

 A. SNOW & WHEELED 

 The event will be governed by the Chief Judge. To insure that the I.W.P.A .
has qualified officials at its events, all Chief Judges shall be selected from
a list approved by the I.W.P.A. Board of Directors. (A list of approved
judges comes in the sanctioning kits, or is also available from the sanctioning
director.) 

 1. The Chief Judge shall
supervise the overall event. He/She
shall make all final decisions in any protest or dispute, before, during and
after the event. The Chief Judge has
the right to disqualify any dog or handler for any violation of the rules or
unsportsmanlike conduct before, during and after the event. 

 2. The organizer of the event shall be responsible for the
completion of all forms, handler reports and information required by the IWPA 
and a statement verifying that all IWPA rules were adhered to. Failure to comply with IWPA rules,
especially rules that deal with the safety and the welfare of the dog, or put
the IWPA in a liable situation , shall be grounds for loss of
sanctioning, including insurance coverage. 

 3. The Sled Course Marshal shall
be responsible for the safe and proper stacking of weight on the sled/ cart,
proper positioning of the sled/cart, hooking up of the dogs to the sled/cart,
breaking the sled when pulling on snow, and maintenance of the pulling course.
The sled/cart officials may not block the dog. The track is only to be groomed
between classes. 

 4. A qualified timer equipped
with a stop watch capable of timing to a 100th of a second shall time each pull
and report that time directly to the official recorder. The recorder shall post
the weight pulled and the time required to the official score sheet. (The timer
and recorder shall be supervised by the Chief Judge.) 

 SECTION 4 - Contestants 

 A. ELIGIBILITY 

 1. All contestants must be either a regular member of the 
I.W.P.A. or a provisional member to enter a dog in competition in any 
I.W.P.A. sanctioned weight pull. Dogs pulled by provisional members count
for points but receive no points. Dogs participating in I.W.P.A. 
sanctioned events for points need to be owned and pulled by members (not
necessarily the same member). The dog assumes the address of it's current
owner. 

 2. All dogs must be at least
one (1) year of age and not more than 12 years of age to compete in any I.WP.A. 
event. The physical condition of the dog should always be taken into
consideration and the Chief Judge may disqualify any dog they feel will be in
danger of injury. 

 3. For the safety and
welfare the animal, all dogs must be currently immunized against any
contagious canine diseases (hepatitis, distemper, leptospirosis, parvovirus,
kennel cough, rabies etc.). These vaccinations must be recognized by the state/
province in which the dog is pulling. The use of performance altering drugs including but
not limited to controlled substances (i.e. illegal), stimulants, depressants,
anabolic steroids or their precursors shall be strictly prohibited. If an organization intends to
test for illegal drug medications, it shall be declared so on the entry
form. It is the handlers
responsibility to submit documentation to declare use of any medication. 

 4. All contestants shall fill
out an official I.W.P.A. entry form or its approved equivalent and sign
it. Approval of a non-official entry form shall be up to the Chief Judge. 

 5.
No bitch in season shall be allowed to compete or allowed to be on the
premises. 

 6. No pregnant or nursing
bitch shall be allowed to compete in an I.W.P.A . event. 

 7. For the safety and
protection of the dog, all dogs shall be fitted properly with a freight or weight pull type harness which extends no
more than 2 feet from the base of the dogs tail. 

 8. Any person found to be participating in a dog fighting
competition shall be suspended to the maximum amount, pending possible
expulsion, due to abusive or inhumane treatment of dogs. 

 B. HANDLER CONDUCT &
CONTROL OF DOGS 

 All entrants shall be responsible for the
conduct of their dogs, family and
handlers before, during and after the event. 
 Vicious or unmanageable dogs shall be barred from competition. Disruptive, rude or unsportsmanlike conduct
toward animals , officials, handlers or spectators will be cause for
disciplinary action and/or disqualification. 
 All dogs shall be under physical control, while in the pull area, except when hooked to the sled or cart.
All handlers shall be responsible for cleaning up after their own dogs. Abusive
or inhumane treatment of a dog shall be strictly prohibited and shall be cause
for disqualification. 

 C. WEIGHT CLASSES 

 20 pounds - dogs
weighing 20 lbs. or less 

 40 pounds - dogs
weighing 21-40 lbs. 

 60 pounds - dogs
weighing 41-60 lbs. 

 80 pounds - dogs
weighing 61-80 lbs. 

 100 pounds - dogs
weighing 81-100 lbs. 

 125 pounds - dogs
weighing 101-125 lbs. 

 150 pounds - dogs
weighing 126-150 lbs. 

 Unlimited - dogs weighing more than 151 lbs. 

 All weights shall be rounded
down to the lowest whole pound. EXAMPLE: A dog weighing 60 3/4 lbs would be
recorded as 60 lbs. 

 D. WEIGH-INS 

 All dogs shall be weighed
prior to each I.W.P.A. sanctioned weight pull (multiple or consecutive
day pulls by the same organization require only one weigh-in). The weigh-in
shall be no more than 24 hours prior the start of the competition. All recorded dog weights shall be rounded to the
lowest whole pound. Dogs shall wear only a standard collar during weigh in. All weigh-ins will be
overseen by an I.W.P.A. certified judge and all dogs will be weight in on the
same scales provided for the pull. In the event that the dogs weight
exceeds the scale's capacity, but it is obvious the dog is in the Unlimited
Class it will be eligible to compete for points, but not Working Dog
Certificates or best percentage. 

 SECTION 5 - The Contest 

 A. ORGANIZING CLUB
OPTION 

 The organizing club has
the option to run the weight pull event class by class or in conjunction with
another class or to run the event concurrently (all classes together). 

 B. COMPETING IN HEAVIER WEIGHT
CLASS 

 The dog that wins its weight class shall not be allowed to
compete in the next weight class. However the winning dog shall be allowed to
pull as many times as it wants to establish a top percentage pull. These
percentage pulls shall be at the established load increment. 

 C. PROCEDURE OF THE WEIGHT
PULL EVENT 

 1. Each dog shall be required to pull a loaded sled/ cart a
measured sixteen (16) feet within 60 seconds. If the sled/cart is in motion the
dog shall be allowed to complete the pull and the actual time required to make
the pull shall be recorded. 

 2. During the pull the handler may not be in contact with the
pulling surface any further 
 forward than the front of the sled/cart when driving the dog, or their
feet shall be behind the designated line 16 feet from the starting line when
calling the dog. The handler shall not touch the dog, equipment or pulling
surface between the start and finish line until the sled/cart crosses the 16
foot line. 

 3. Once the dog is in position
in front of the sled/ cart no physical
handling of the dog will be allowed. 
 The judge will direct the handler 
 to physically reposition the dog if there is a tangle, false start or
equipment failure. The dog is
considered to be in position when the handler moves more than arms length away
from the dog. 

 4. Only one handler is allowed to communicate with the dog,
either with hand signals and/or voice commands from the course area. 

 5. The handler shall be
allowed to position his/her dog 

 anywhere between the wheels/runners in front of the sled/cart at
the end of the extended tug line. The dog shall be positioned with enough slack
in the tug line to prevent the dog from inadvertently moving the sled or cart.
There shall not be so much slack as to allow a sling shot start. 

 6. The handler may pass one or two turns but must pull on the
third turn. Once the dog is hooked up to the sled/ cart the handler may not
pass in that round except as stated in Section 5 #14. (Dogs are no longer
required to pull the starting weight.) 

 7. Starting weights to be
pulled shall not exceed: 

 Class Max, Wt. Class Max Wt. 

 20 lb. 100
lbs 100 lb 500 lbs. 

 40 lb. 200
lbs 125 lb. 550 lbs. 

 60 lb. 400
lbs. 150 lb 600 lbs. 

 80 lb. 450
lbs. UNL 650
lbs. 

 These weights are maximum
starting weights. If poor pulling conditions exist, the Chief Judge may adjust
the starting weights lower to match the conditions. 

 8. Load increments shall be determined by the Chief Judge and a simple
majority of the handlers and shall be set prior to the beginning of the class.
(A load increment usually considered appropriate for the 35 pound class is 40
to 50 lbs. For the larger classes it may be as much as 100 to 200 lbs. or
more.) The Chief Judge shall recommend the load increments to the handlers,
considering the pulling conditions and the welfare of the dogs. The selected
increment for each class shall remain consistent throughout the class. 

 9. The handler has the option
of having the cart placed anywhere on the starting line as long as the wheels
are perpendicular to the start line. The handler has the option to reposition
the cart one time. No test rolling of the cart shall be allowed. 

 10. The time will start once
the handler is in the proper position and instructs the dog to pull or 
 the dog starts to pull. 

 11. When on snow the sled
shall be broken in the following manner: There shall be a break line 2 feet BEHIND 
the designated start line. The front of the sled shall be positioned at the
break line. The Chief Judge shall then direct the following sequence: (1) The
sled to be positioned at the start line with the sled runners perpendicular to
the start line. (2) The pulling pad to be cleared of all sled marshals (unless
the handler requests assistance in hooking up the dog). (3) The handler to
leave the on deck circle, hook up the dog and the pull to commence. 

 12. Two false starts on any
one round by the dog shall 

 constitute the dog's removal from the competition. A false start
is defined as any time the dog makes a forward progress with the sled/cart
before the handlers feet are either across the 16 foot finish line if calling
or behind the start line if driving the dog. 

 13.Tangles are called at the
Chief Judge's discretion. A tangle shall be called by the judge only if the dog
or any of the equipment in use becomes entangled. 

 A. In the event of a
tangle, at the judges discretion the timer will stop the clock and the handler
must realign the dog and harness before
the pull is resumed. Two tangles on the same round will constitute the dogs
removal from the competition. 

 B. If the sled/cart
becomes stuck on a barrier of the pulling pad it shall be considered a tangle.
The clock would be stopped and the sled/cart would then be freed of the barrier
at the point of which it was stuck. The dog would be allowed to continue the
pull with the remaining time left on the clock. Two tangles on the barrier on
the same round shall constitute the dog's removal from the competition. 

 14. If any part of the harness
or other equipment breaks, the handler shall have 60 seconds to repeat the pull
after repairs. He/She may choose to accept this interrupted pull as a pass. 

 15. Whips, noisemakers,
muzzles, pinch collars, or related 

 aids shall not be permitted at
any time during an IWPA event. No food, treats or bait shall be used
from the time the dogs class begins until the dog is eliminated from
competition and removed from the pull area. Handlers shall not have food or
bait on their person during the competition 

 16. No dogs, including those
not entered in competition shall be allowed in the area ahead of the starting
line, except the dog that is pulling
. 

 17. There shall be a marked "on deck" area
behind, but near the starting end of the pull chute. This marked area shall
house only the next dog to pull. 

 18. The dog pulling the most
weight in its class is declared the winner. Each successive dog pulling a lower
weight is placed second, third, etc. If two or more dogs pull the same weight
the required distance and can pull no more weight the full distance, the winner
is determined by the fastest time in the previous pull. 

 19. The maximum number of dogs
handled in a given weight class by one handler shall be limited to no more than
two (2) dogs per weight class. 

 SECTION 6 - Points 

 THE BASIS ON WHICH POINTS WILL
BE AWARDED 

 In order for a weight pull to
be recognized and points recorded, it shall be the responsibility of the weight
pull organization to properly report the weight pull results to the I.W.P.A .
as outlined in the sanctioning package, by the sanctioning director. 

 In order for the dog to be
eligible and counted for points he must be entered and eligible as described
in SECTION 4 - Contestants, A. ELIGIBILITY.
Each dog will receive one (1) point for each dog defeated in his class. The
last place dog in each class will earn 1/2 point, providing they have made at
least one successful pull and place 4th or below. Dogs failing to make a
successful pull shall be counted for
points but will receive no points. 

 In addition: 

 * 5 points will be awarded
for first place 

 * 3 points will be awarded
for second place 

 * 1 point will be awarded
for third place 

 The dog's five best pulls will
be counted in the final standing. Two pulls from out of region (two for snow
and two for wheels) can be counted. Wheeled events will be kept separate from
the snow events. 

 With an approved I.W.P.A. Chief Judge, dogs competing in
non-sanctioned events or fun pulls shall be eligible to earn legs toward
working dog titles. 

 SECTION 7 - Reporting Results 

 All forms must be completed
with appropriate signatures and statistics and postmarked no later than 5 days
following the event. 

 SECTION 8 - Protest 

 Any entrant protesting a
violation of the rules shall do so 

 immediately following the
round. The protest may be verbal but shall be followed by a written statement
directed to the Chief Judge within one (1) hour after the end of the contest. A
hearing shall be scheduled and a decision rendered. The decisions of the Chief
Judge are final. 

 SECTION 9 - Weight Pull Season 

 The weight pull season shall
run from September 1 through March 31. 

 IWPA 

 INTERNATIONAL WEIGHT PULL ASSOCIATION 

 RULE BOOKLET 

 Revised 5/2001 

 PG