From t89djo@student.tdb.uu.se  Wed May 25 00:40:45 1994
Received: from vesicle.ibg.uu.se by receptor.ibg.uu.se via SMTP (931110.SGI/930416.SGI.AUTO)
	for david id AA26905; Wed, 25 May 94 00:40:45 +0200
Received: from albireo.tdb.uu.se by vesicle.ibg.uu.se via SMTP (931110.SGI/930416.SGI.AUTO)
	for david@receptor.ibg.uu.se id AA21233; Wed, 25 May 94 00:40:43 +0200
Received: (from t89djo@localhost) by albireo.tdb.uu.se (8.6.8/8.6.6) id AAA25632 for david@vesicle.ibg.uu.se; Wed, 25 May 1994 00:37:31 +0200
Date: Wed, 25 May 1994 00:37:31 +0200
From: David Jonsson <t89djo@student.tdb.uu.se>
Message-Id: <199405242237.AAA25632@albireo.tdb.uu.se>
To: david@vesicle
Subject: (fwd) The FAQ for superconductivity 21/05/1994
Newsgroups: sci.physics.electromag,sci.physics.fusion
Reply-To: t89djo@student.tdb.uu.se
Content-Type: text
Content-Length: 12683
Status: RO

Path: columba.udac.uu.se!sunic!pipex!howland.reston.ans.net!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!sdd.hp.com!think.com!hsdndev!dartvax.dartmouth.edu!Ludwig.Plutonium
From: Ludwig.Plutonium@dartmouth.edu (Ludwig Plutonium)
Newsgroups: sci.physics.electromag,sci.physics.fusion
Subject: The FAQ for superconductivity 21/05/1994
Date: 21 May 1994 16:20:20 GMT
Organization: Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH
Lines: 215
Message-ID: <2rlcc4$sn4@dartvax.dartmouth.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: at-sn-96.dartmouth.edu
X-Posted-From: InterNews 1.0@dartmouth.edu
Xref: columba.udac.uu.se sci.physics.electromag:926 sci.physics.fusion:1696

  Ever notice that new superconductive material is discovered at a hot
pace. Yet the correct theory of understanding is lagging, is in the
dark ages, is in the back of the cave. No wonder. The reason is because
noone has taken the most logical steps forward from here. Noone has
checked-out whether superconductivity is really 0 electrical
resistance. Or if they have, they are being very silent about it. No
wonder, for superconductivity is a technology worth billions, not
millions of the US microscopic dollars (welfare parasite economies). 
  Noone has taken the logical steps of setting-up the experimental
apparatus of checking the known different superconducting materials as
to electrical resistance. According to my theory of superconductivity,
all of those different superconducting materials will all, each, have
different electrical resistances. Very small electrical resistance, to
be sure, because it is the flow of neutrinos in superconductivity. And
whereas silver is the highest element conductor of electricity PLUS THE
HIGHEST REFLECTOR OF PHOTONS. So also, the highest superconductor will
be the highest reflector of neutrinos.
  The physics of superconductivity will not progress by much until the
statement of 0 resistivity is checked and seen for the incorrectness,
the error that it is. And the theory will not progress until different
materials have checked and verified different resistivities at the
superconducting state. 
  Once different superconducting materials are checked and found to
have different resistivities. Then the physics of superconductivity can
progress by using those different numbers to verify and math model the
superconducting state.
  The following below is what I believe is the correct theory of
superconductivity. This material is copyrighted and patent pending to
the Plutonium Atom Foundation. The reason I can not be more explicit is
because I am hindered by not having a huge research lab of
superconducting materials to produce the numbers myself. The purpose of
this broadcast is to inform and make the science community aware of the
correct path to take.

   Many to most working scientists now see the BCS theory as not much
more than a heuristic device. Although one salvageable feature of the
BCS is the notion of *many atoms behaving as though it were one atom*. 
    I believe I am on to the correct theory of superconductivity. I
anticipate changes but for the most part I believe what follows below
will be the correct theory of superconductivity, once refined and
turned into math equations. I will need the math data in order to
figure-out the equations. Since I do not have a superconductor in my
backyard, and the liquid helium et al ready and available at my
disposal. I cannot anticipate delivering those equations unless I have
the number data for various superconducting materials. No
superconductor has 0 resistivity according to my theory. All
superconductors have different resistivities as per different chemical
composition. The correct theory of superconductivity, will hence, be
got from analysis of those different numbers. Those different numbers
will eventually lead to a generalized Ohm's law which will include the
superconductive state.
So I ask for any data from those privileged person of such data.
  This is the description of the correct theory of superconductivity
(broadscale patents pending to Plutonium Atom Foundation (which will
subsume, or
supercede the Nobel Foundation.))

  The 4 quantum interactions of physics are quantum duals. These are
the 4 interactions (1) strong nuclear, (2) gravitation, (3)
radioactivities, (4) electromagnetism.
  Just as in QM, where particle is dual to wave and written as such.

             particle-wave. 

The 4 interactions are pairwise duals as follows.

            strongnuclear-gravitation

            radioactivities-electromagnetism

  Note to physics readers that radioactivities comprises much more than
the simple-minded electro-weak. The electro-weak interaction, before
these teachings, was merely the tip of the iceberg, where the majority
of the iceberg is underwater. 
  Radioactivities comprises the electro-weak but also spontaneous-
neutron-materialization-from-out-of-nowhere. Radioactivities, after
these teachings, is almost equal to the strong nuclear interaction. And
in fact the two pairwise duals above are equal in interaction strengh. 
  In my theory, radioactivities interaction comprises these three (1)
radioactive decay (2) radioactive growth (3) spontaneous neutron
materialization.

  The 4 interactions are quantum duals. And so strong nuclear is dual
to gravity, but I am not concerned with that.    
   And Radioactivities is dual to Electromagnetism. Since
RADIOACTIVITIES is dual to ELECTROMAGNETISM,
then one can explain superconductivities in two ways. One in terms of
electron flow and photon carriers. But one can explain
superconductivity just in terms of radioactivities with neutrinos. And
in fact, with the recent reifenschweiler radiation supports this model
that in cold temperature conditions, a material switches from
electromagnetism to radioactivities.
  In my model, for electromagnetism, I see electrons associated with
the Faraday Lines of Force by photon carriers. The Faraday lines of
Force are what I call the carrier of the signal. And it is the carrier
which determines the resistivity of the material. In my theory,
electrons moving involves associated photons.
  So then in my theory, I must take into account the numerous Collapses
of
the Wavefuntion. It is the many Collapses of the Wavefunction that has
made the quest for the correct theory of superconductivity such a
monster. To give an example, one collapse of the wavefunction is the
"putting of a specific electric current, amperes, into the
superconductor." Another collapse of the wavefunction is the registered
and observed temperature, such as mercury at 4K. Another collapse of
the wavefunction is the known chemistry of the superconducting
material. And another is the observation of how many amperes current
flows out of the superconducting material. One must list all collapses
of the wavefunction in order to arrive at and understand a correct
theory and  hope to figure-out the math equations for
superconductivity.
  
   According to my theory, *at very low temperatures all
superconducting
substances act or behave as if it were one atom*. For example, the many
atoms of mercury at 4k are no longer many atoms of mercury, but
instead, just *ONE Superconducting Atom*. Hence this frozen mercury is
one atom which has many electrons in a filled quantum state.  The low
temperature causes this quantum state. Now one must think of all of the
electrons of this ONE Atom and the quantum mechanics of this "filled
state." One can picture that a strip of superconducting mercury at 4k
is ONE Atom which has perhaps 10^22 electrons and the same number of
protons.

   When more electrons are attempted to be added to this frozen one
atom of superconducting mercury and since it is in a "filled state"
those new
electrons are switched into the radioactivities interaction as a stream
of beta (electrons) particles and the carrier for the stream of beta
electrons is no longer photons of the Faraday Lines of Force, but
instead the carriers are switched to  neutrinos. 
  Thus, at the initial end where electric current is put into the
superconductor of ONE Atom, the ONE Atom electron states are full, and
trying to put more electrons into this one huge superconducting atom of
frozen mercury, what happens is that the ONE Atom radioactively emits a
Beta
electron stream of current out the other end in the form of beta
electron decay which had been carried through the ONE Atom mercury
strip with only the resistance of neutrinos. 
   One must picture various Collapses of the Wavefunction as I have
described above. If the current was kept flowing in the superconducting
material without escape, that is, stored within the superconductor such
as a SUPERCONDUCTOR RING STORAGE, then the resistance of the
superconducting
material, the ONE Atom, is not what is generally stated in every
textbook that I have seen, as 0 resistance. The resistance of the
superconductor is not 0, (not zero.) But rather there is a very small
positive resistance which correlates with the carrier of the current,
the neutrinos.
Different superconductors have different resistivity.   Silver
resistivity Ohm x m is 1.62 x 10^-8 at 293K and for copper at 293K  is
1.69 x10^-8. The various new ceramic superconductors and the old known
ones, and the buckyball superconductors, I hypothesize, when
experimentally checked will all show different positive number
resistivities which are close to zero, but not equal to zero. It is the
math data for these various small positive number resistivities for
different superconducting materials which will derive the equation of
superconductivity.
  As to whether a room temperature superconductor is possible and what
material would it be made of? These questions can be answered because
once it is known that neutrinos are in fact the carriers of
superconductive currents then chemical materials will be manufactured
for that purpose.
  The equation for superconductivity will be a generalized Ohm's Law,
and
derive Ohm's Law as a particular case. The equation (very ugly, and far
worse than the Schroedinger equation), will have a fall-out that silver
is the
highest quantum reflector of photons, the carrier of electric current
for conductors at room temperature and silver is the highest conductor.
Likewise, this generalized Ohm's Law will show what material has the
highest quantum reflection for neutrinos, and hence the highest
superconductor material.

  What I need now are the math data to show that this is the correct
theory of superconductivity. I need the superconductivity data of loss
of current because my theory predicts that it is not 0 resistivity but
a very small positive number. And those experimental small positive
number resistivities, I intuit will match the resistivity of neutrinos
flowing in said material.  And neutrino resistivities will be different
for the new higher transition temperature ceramic materials. That the
resistivity of flow of current in a superconducting material will match
the resistivity of neutrinos within the material. Such a match *by
math* will imply that electrons flowing in a current, upon reaching a
superconductor material will switch into neutrino carriers and flow out
the other end of the superconductor as a stream of beta decay electrons
of almost but not quite equal amperes as what went initially into the
superconductor.
At the other end the current flow is back to usual with photon
carriers.
  One support for this theory is that neutrinos have both the
characteristics of electrons, spin 1/2, and photons, by traveling at
the speed of light. In other words, neutrinos are anyon particles.
  Another support for this theory is that of all particles, only
neutrinos have the characteristics for being able to travel through
matter with the resistivity found in superconductors. No other particle
travels in
materials the way neutrinos do, which matches the superconductivity
condition. So by process of elimination, the neutrino is the best
candidate particle to yield superconductive results. 

LP                         94th ELECTRON OF 231PU
               Very crude dot picture of 5f6, 94TH ELECTRON

                  \ ::| :./.
                  .\::|::/.:
                     _ _
                    (:Y:)
                     - - 
                  ::/.|.\.:
                :: /.:| :\.:
                  /   |   \.
        One of those dots is the Sun with 9 smaller dots around it.
Look in a chemistry textbook or quantum physics textbook of the
electron cloud dot picture. 

--
David Jonsson        Voice&Fax +46-18-24 51 52
P.O Box 353          Postal giro 499 40 54-7
S-751 06  UPPSALA    Internet E-mail t89djo@student.tdb.uu.se
SWEDEN               ++++++Cold EMISSION before the end of the century++++++


