United States Patent Office
3,187,206
Patented June 1, 1965
______________________________

	    1

       3,187,206
   ELECTROKINETIC APPARATUS
Thomas Townsend Brown, Walkertown, N.C., assigner,
by mesne assignments, to Electrokinetics, Inc., a
corporation of Pennsylvania
Filed May 9, 1958, Ser. No. 734,342
23 Claims (Cl. 310-5)

  This invention relates to an electrical device for produc-
ing a thrust by the direct operation of electrical fields.

  I have discovered that a shaped electrical field may be
employed to propel a device relative to its surroundings in
a manner which is both novel and useful.  Mechanical
forces are created which move the device continuously in
one direction while the masses making up the environment
move in the opposite direction.

  When the device is operated in a dielectric fluid me-
dium, such as air, the forces of reaction appear to be
present in that medium as well as on all solid material
bodies making up the physical environment.

  In a vacuum, the reaction forces appear on the solid
environmental bodies, such as the walls of the vacuum
chamber.  The propelling force however is not reduced
to zero when all environmental bodies are removed be-
yond the apparent effective range of the electrical field.

  By attaching a pair of electrodes to opposite end of a
dielectric member and connecting a source of high elec-
trostatic potential to these electrodes, a force is produced
in the direction of one electrode provided that electrode
is of such configuration to causethe lines-of-force to con-
verge steeply upon the other electrode.  The force, there-
fore, is in a direction from the region of high flux density
toward the region of low flux density, generally in the di-
rection through the axis of the electrodes.  The thrust
produced by such a device is present if the electrostatic
field gradient between the two electrodes is non-linear.
This non-linearity of gradient may result from a differ-
ence in the configuration of the electrodes, from the elec-
trical potential and/or polarity of adjacent bodies, from
the shape of the dielectric member, from a gradient in the
density, electric conductivity, electric permittivity and
manetic <sic.> permeability of the dielectric member or a com-
bination of these factors.

  A basic device for producing force by means of elec-
trodes attached to a dielectric member is disclosed in my
Patent 1,974,483.  In one embodiment disclosed in my
patent, an electrostatic motor comprises devices having a
number of radially directed fins extended from one end
of the dielectric body and a point electrode on the oppo-
site end of the dielectric body.  When this device is sup-
ported in a fluid medium, such as air, and a high electro-
static potential is applied between the two electrodes, a
thrust is produced in the direction of the end to which
the fins are attached.

  Other electrostatic devices for producing thrust are dis-
closed and described in detail in my British Patent 300,-
311, issued August 15, 1927.

  Recent investigations in electrostatic propulsion have
led to the discovery of improved devices for producing
thrust by the use of electrical vectorial forces.

  Accordingly, it is the primary object of this invention
to provide an improved electrical device for producing
thrust.

  It is another object of this invention to provide a device
for producing modulated thrust in response to varying
electrical signals, which device produces a greater effect
than the prior type devices mentioned above.

  It is another object of this invention to provide a device
which shapes or concentrates electrostatic flux to produce
an improved thrust.

  Broadly, the invention relates to shaping an electrical
field to produce a force upon the device that shapes the
field.  The electrical field is shaped by the use of an elec-


	       2

trode of special configuation whereby the electric lines-
of-force are made to converge at a distance from the
electrode.  One illustrative embodiment of this invention
which satisfies the above requirement is an arcuate sur-
face, or alternatively, a system of wires, tubes or plates
embedded in a dielectric surface and forming a directive
array.  One such highly-charged electrode electrode acting within
and upon an ambient of differential electrical potential will
move in response to the forces created by shaping of
the electrostatic field.  If a smaller electrode is added at
or near the focus of the field-shaping electrode, and mech-
chanically attached to that electrode, both electrodes as a
system will move in a direction of the larger or field-shaping
electrode.  As is mentioned above, the field-shaping
electrode alone, when charged with respect to its electric
ambient, will move or possess a force in the direction of
its apex.  If another electrode carrying a different charge
is added at or near the focal point of the field-shaping
electrode, then the field becomes more concentrated, i.e.
shaped to a greater degree and the resulting thrust is
greater that that which exists when the field-shaping elec-
trode alone is employed.

  Briefly in accordance with aspects of this invention,
an electrode is connected on each end of a dielectric mem-
ber and one of the electrodes defines a large area flat or
preferably arcuate surface which is curved in such a direc-
tion to produce, usually in co-operation with the other
electrode, a shaped electrostatic field.

  Advantageously, if the arcuate electrode is in the form
of a parabola or hyperbola, the length of the dielectric
member may be such that the other electrode is located in
the region of the focus of the parabola or hyperbola, as
the case may be.  If the arcuate electrode is hemispherical,
the other electrode is located near the center of the hemi-
sphere.

  In accordance with other aspects of this invention the
dielectric member supporting the two electrodes may have
electrical conductivity and/or dielectric constant which
varies progressively between its ends so that the dielectric
member contributes to the non linearity of the fiel gradi-
ent and causes a greater thrust to be developed.

  In accordance with still other aspects of this invention,
an annular electrode member is secured to an electrode
mounted in the region of the axis of the annular electrode.
If the second electrode is located at the center of the an-
nular electrode and the two electrodes are energized,
such force is not detected.  However, if the second or
innermost electrode is displaced from the center of the
annular electrode in the region of the axis of the annular
electrode and the electrodes are energized, then thrust
will be produced by the two electrodes.  The annular
electrode may either be a flat ring, a toroid, or a section
of a cylinder.

  In accordance with still other aspects of this invention,
tapered dielectric members having electrodes secured to
opposite edges thereof may be employed to produce a
thrust in response to the application of potentials to
these electrodes.  The thrust produced by these tapered
dielectric members maybe further augmented by em-
bedding massive particles, such as lead oxide, in the
wedges, which particles are usually more concentrated
near the points of the wedges.

  Accordingly, it is a feature of this invention to provide
an electrical device for producing thrust which includes
a dielectric member and electrodes supported at each end
of the dielectric member, one of which electrodes is
located in the region of the focal point of the arc of the
arcuate surface electrode.

  It is another feature of this invention to provide a
device for producing thrust having a dielectric member
and a pair of electrodes secured to opposite ends of the
dielectric rod or member, one of which electrodes de-


		 3

fines a parabolic or hyperbolic surface, the other elec-
trode being located in the region of the focus of said
surface.

  It is another feature of this invention to employ an
insulating rod or member between the two electrodes, which
rod or member has a varying dielectric constant, said
dielectric constant progressively increasing or decreasing
along the length of the dielectric member.

  It is still another feature of this invention to employ
a rod or member connected between the two electrodes across
which an electrostatic potential is applied, which rod or
member has a varying electrical conductivity, said con-
ductivity progressively increasing or decreasing along the
length of the dielectric member.

  It is another feature of this invention to employ a
single electrode having an arcuate surface and to connect
a source of potential to the arcuate surface which is op-
posite in polarity to the potential of the masses compris-
ing the environment of the arcuate surface.

  It is still a further feature of this invention to employ an
arcuate electrode as a device for producing thrust and
to apply a varying electrical signal to the arcuate elec-
trode.

  It is still another feature of this invention to employ
a wedge of dielectric material having electrodes on op-
posite ends thereof to produce a thrust in response to
the application of electrical potentials.

  It is still a further feature of this invention to employ
a tapered dielectric material having massive particles em-
bedded therein to produce a thrust in response to the
application of potentials to the electrodes secured to the
dielectric member.

  It is still a further feature of this invention to employ
an annular ring electrode and a second electrode secured
to the annular electrode in the region of the axis of the
annular electrode in the region of the axis of the
ennular electrode to produce a thrust in responnse to the
application of electrical potentials thereto.

  These and other various objects and features of this
invention will be apparent from consideration of the
following description when read in connection with the
accompanying drawing wherein:

  FIGURE 1 is a view in elevation of one illustrative
embodiment of this invention;

  FIGURE 2 is a view in elevation, partly in section, of
another illustrative embodiment of this invention;

  FIGURE 3 is a graphical representiation of the field
gradient between the electrodes of one illustrative example
of this invention in which distance from one electrode
is plotted as the abscissa whereas flux density is plotted
as the ordinate;

  FIGURE 4 is a perspective view of another illustrative
embodiment of this invention;

  FIGURE 5 and 6 are perspective views of still another
illustrative embodiment of this invention;

  FIGURE 7 is an end view of another illustrative em-
bodiment of this invention employing a pair of devices
of the type disclosed in FIGURE 6, which devices are
mounted and serially connected in a single array;

  FIGURES 8A, 8B and 8C are views in elevation,
partly in section, of still other illustrative embodiments
of this invention.

  Referring to FIGURE 1, there is depicted an
insulating member 10 having an arcuate electrode 12
mounted on one end thereof and a second electrode 14
mounted on the opposite end thereof.  A source of direct
current voltage 13 is connected to electrodes 12 and 14
through conductors 15 and 17, respectively.  I have dis-
covered that if two electrodes are mounted on opposite
end of a dielectric member, and a field emanates from
these electrodes which produces a linear gradient through
the dielectric member as shown by the dotted line 30 of
FIGURE 3, then no thrust is produced by the dielectric
member.  However, if the field is distorted to produce a
non-linear gradient such as graphically represented by

	      4

line 32 in FIGURE 3, then a thrust will be produced,
which thrust will be related to the degree of non-linearity
of the field gradient.  One way to produce a gradient
which varies non linearly is to shape one of the electrodes
in a form of an arcuate surface such as 12.  However,
numerous other ways to influence the field gradient will
be disclosed below.  Electrode 14 represents a substantial
mass and it has been found that best results are obtained
if the surface area of electrode 14 is greater than the
surface area of the end of rod 10.  In one particular ex-
ample, a spherical electrode having a diameter greater
than the diameter of rod 10, produced very satisfactory
results.  Advantageously, the dielectric member 10, may
be employed to increase the non-linearity of the field
gradient.  For example, the dielectric member may be
of material having a uniform relative dielectric constant
and be tapered in the direction of electrode 14 such that
the member 10 in the region of electrode 12 has a much
greater cross-sectional area than the end of member 10
which is connected to electrode 14.  An equivalent re-
sult may be obtained if the member 10 is of uniform
diameter but has a dielectric of graduated density or
which comprises a material having a progressively dif-
ferent electrical conductivity or dielectric constant, or
alternatively the electrical conductivity, varies from a low
value in the region of electrode 14 to a high value in
the region of electrode 12.

  The arcuate electrode 12 may be either a stitched wire
surface or a solid conducting surface.  In the case of
stitched wire surface, the wires are very close together
so that when an electrical potential is applied to these
wires, they act substantially in the same manner as a
conductive surface.  Arcuate electrode 12 will produce
a thrust when a potential is applied to the electrode 12
which is opposite in polarity to the potential of the bodies
in the region of electrode 12.  Such a thrust will be pro-
duced even though the dielectric member 10 and the
electrode 14 are eliminated from the structure.  How-
ever, the thrust produced bye the charged arcuate elec-
trode 12 when actuating alone is less than the thrust
produced by the combined device, that is, employing the
dielectric member 10 and the oppositely charged elec-
trode 14.

  Referring now to FIGURE 2, there is depicted another
illustrative embodiment of this invention in which field-
shaping is accomplished.  In the embodiment of FIGURE
2, the planar electrode 18 is connected to a hemispherical
electrode 14 by means of a dielectric rod 10.  When a
source of electrical potential (not shown) is connected
through wires 15 and 17 to electrodes 18 and 14, respec-
tively, a field gradient will be produced between elec-
trodes 18 and 14, which field gradient varies in accord-
ance with the graph represented by the solid line 32 of FIG-
URE 3.  In this particular embodiment, as well as in
the embodiment of FIGURE 1, the non-linearity of the
field gradient is further augmented by the use of a con-
necting rod 10 which is a dielectric with progressively
different dielectric constant between electrodes 18 and 14.
A similar result may be produced by the use of a rod
10 having electrical conductivity which varies progres-
sively between electrodes 18 and 14.

  Referring now to FIGURE 4 there is depicted still
another illustrative embodiment of this invention in which
a thrust is produced in response to the application of
electrical potentials.

  A frusto-conical surface 25 comprising a metal or hav-
ing a metal surface to be used on an electrode is con-
nected to a tapered member 27.  The tapered member 27
is frusto-conical and is primarily of non-conductive ma-
terial but contains granules of semi-conducting material,
which granules are concentrated neat the tip 28.
Mounted on tip 28 is a half-wave radiator 29 which may
be in the form of a disk.  It is noted that the axis

	      5

of member 27 coincides with the axis of member 25.
When a source of potential is connected to electrodes 25
and 29, a thrust is produced in the direction of the arrow
31 regardless of the polarity of the applied voltage. How-
ever, a greater thrust is produced if the electrode 25 is
positive with respect to electrode 29.  Alternating current
voltages may also be applied to electrodes 25 and 29 and
the potential may be either superimposed upon or substi-
tuted for the direct current voltages.  Preferably, the
frequency of the applied A.C. voltage is such that the di-
ameter of the disk 29 constitutes a half-wave  length of
the applied voltage.

  Referring now to FIGURE 5 there is disclosed a tapered
member 32 which is non-conductive material and may
contain particles of semi-conducting material in a manner
similar to member 27.  The semi-conducting material
contained in member 32 and in member 27 may be any
convenient form of massive particles such as lead oxide.
Along one surface of member 32 is an electrode 34 while
along the opposite surface is another electrode 36.  When
a potential is applied to these electrodes, preferably of a
polarity such that electrode 36 is positive with respect to
electrode 34, a thrust is produced in the direction of the
arrow 37.  In the devices disclosed in both of FIGURES
4 and 5, the thrust produced by the electrodes is aug-
mented by the varying cross-sectional area of the non-
conductive member connecting the electrodes and is fur-
ther augmented by the voltage gradient produced by the
embedded particles, which voltage gradient is greater than
that which would be introduced by a tapered non-conduc-
tive member without embedded particles.

  Referring now to FIGURE 6 there is depicted a bank
of members 32 such as disclosed in FIGURE 5 in which
like electrodes 36A through 36E are secured together by
a connector in any convenient form, such as plate 38.
Each of these members 32A through 32E produces a
thrust in the direction of the arrow 37A and the resultant
force is equal to the sum of the thrust produced by the
individual members 32 in response to the application of
potentials to the electrodes 34A-34E and 36.

  In FIGURE 7 there is depicted a pair of banks of mem-
bers, such as depicted in FIGURE 6, in which the elec-
trodes are serially connected.  In this particular instance,
a plate or other member 40 comprises an electrode on
which are mounted an array of members 32F through
32J.  A second electrode 42 is secured between electrodes
32F through 32J and electrodes 32K through 32P.  A
third electrode 44 is connected to the electrode 34 on
each of members 32K through 32P.  It is to be noted that
electrodes 40 and 44 are connected to a source of one
potential while electrode 42 is connected to a source of
the opposite potential.  The thrust produced by this array
is in the direction of arrow 37B and the manner in which
this thrust is produced is similar to that explained in con-
nection with FIGURES 5 and 6, although it would appear
that electrode 42 will experience a natural attraction for
electrodes 40 and 44.  A non-linear field gradient is pro-
duced between these electrodes by the varying cross-
sectional area of members 32 and by the presence of
semi-conducting particles in members 32.  This non-linear
field gradient gives rise to the thrust, as mentioned above.

  Referring now to FIGURES 8A, 8B and 8C there is
depicted other illustrative embodiments of this invention.
In FIGURE 8A a toroid member 43 has an electrode 50
supported at its center by means of insulating rod 52.  If
the electrode 50 and the toroid member 43 are both con-
ducting surfaces defining electrodes and these electrodes
are connected to sources of opposite potential, no thrust
will be developed by the device.  If, however, as depicted
in FIGURE 8B electrode 50 is translated along the axis
of generation of toroid or annular member 48 and again
supported by non-conductive members 52, this device will
experience a downward thrust, as indicated by arrow 53,
in response to the application of potentials of either

		   6

polarity.  It is believed that this force is produced by
the annular configuration of electrode 48 and the off
central location of electrode 50.  In the instance of FIG-
GURE 8C, electrode 50 is positioned beneath the center
of electrode 48 and positioned on the axis of generation
of electrode 48.  When potentials are applied to electrodes
48 and 50 in FIGURE 8C, a thrust is produced in an up-
ward direction, as indicated by arrow 54.  Here again the
field gradient is produced by the configuration of electrode
48 and the location of electrode 50 with respect to elec-
trode 48.

  From the foregoing discussion, it is also apparent that a
combination of a curved electrode, a supporting member
of varying cross-sectional area, and a second electrode
supported bye the connecting member will produce a thrust
along the axis of the curved electrode when potentials are
applied to the electrodes.  Similarly, a thrust may be de-
veloped between plane electrodes of unequal areas which
are connected by a member of varying cross-sectional
area.  The thrust developed by this last mentioned device
is further increased by the introduction of semi-conduc-
tive particles in the non-conducting member, which par-
ticles are more concentrated in the region of the smaller
electrode than in the region of the larger electrode. Fur-
ther, these tapered members having planar electrodes con-
nected to opposite surfaces may be stacked in vertical ar-
rays and connected in parallel, or they may be stacked in
vertical arrays connected in series with similar vertical
arrays.

  In applying potentials to these various embodiments,
it has been found that the rate at which the potential is
applied often influences the thrust.  This is especially true
where the dielectric members of high dielectric constant are
used and the charging time is a factor.  In such cases,
the field gradient changes as the charge is built up.  In
such cases where initial charging currents are high,
dielectric materials of high magnetic permeability like-
wise exhibit thrust with time.

  One advantageous manner of applying potential is that
of employing potentials which vary cyclically.

  It is thus apparent that one embodiment of this inven-
tion embodies a pair of electrodes mounted on an insulat-
ting member, one of which electrodes defines an arcuate
surface to produce an improved thrust in response to the
application of direct current potentials.  It is also apparent
that this thrust is augmented by increasing the non-
linearity of the field gradient by a progressively-changing
characteristic of the dielectric member connecting these
electrodes.  This non-linearity of field may be produced
by a gradient in electric conductivity, electric permittivity
and/or magnetic permeability along the length of the \
member, or it may result from a change in the cross-
sectional area of the rod which rod ahs otherwise uniform
characteristics.

  While I have shown and described various embodiments
of my invention, it is understood that the principles there-
of my be extended to many and varied types of machines
and apparatus.  The invention therefore is not to be
limited to the details illustrated and described herein.

  I claim:

  1. A device for producing thrust comprising a field
shaping surface formed of stitched, closely spaced con-
ductors and having a dielectric material therebetween to
define a smooth surface, a dielectric member connected
to said field shaping surface and an electrode on the end
of said dielectric member remote from said field shaping
surface and means for applying electrical potential be-
tween said electrode and said closely spaced conductors.

  2. A device for producing thrust in accordance with
claim 1 wherein said dielectric member has a dielectric
constant which varies progressively between said electrode
and said surface means.

  3. A device for producing thrust comprising an elec-
trode having a relatively large surface area, an electrode

	      7

positioned in the region of the axis of generation of said
surface and having a relatively small surface area, di-
electric means connecting said electrodes and means for
applying a varying electrical potential to said electrodes.

  4. A device in accordance with claim 3 wherein said
dielectric means exhibits a dielectric constant which varies
progressively from a relatively high value in the region
of the large electrode to a relatively low value in the region
of said small electrode.

  5. A device in accordance with claim 3 wherein said
dielectric means has an electrical conductivity which varies
progressively between said electrodes.

  6. A device for producing thrust comprising a planar
electrode, a second electrode positioned in the region of
the axis of generation of said planar electrode and having
a surface area smaller that the surface area of said planar
electrode, a dielectric member connecting said electrodes
and means for applying a high electrostatic potential to
said electrodes.

  7. A device in accordance with claim 6 wherein said
dielectric member is tapered from the planar electrode
towards the smaller electrode.

  8. A device in accordance with claim 6 wherein said
dielectric member has a conductivity which varies pro-
gressively from a relatively high value near the planar
electrode to a relatively low value near the smaller elec-
trode.

  9. A device for producing thrust in response to the ap-
plication of electrical potentials to the electrodes thereof
comprising a first electrode, a second electrode having a
relatively large planar surface area with respect to said
first electrode and means including a connecting member
supporting said electrodes in spaced relationship for pro-
ducing a varying field gradient between said electrodes.

  10. A device in accordance with claim 9 wherein said
connecting member has a varying cross-section.

  11. A device in accordance with claim 9 wherein said
connecting member tapers between said electrodes.

  12. A device in accordance with claim 9 wherein said
first and second electrodes are flat electrodes of unequal
area.

  13. A device according to claim 9 including means for
applying a varying electrical potential to said electrodes.

  14. A device in accordance with claim 9 wherein said
connecting member has a dielectric constant which varies
between electrodes.

  15. A device in accordance with claim 14 wherein said
first electrode is a frusto-conical surface and wherein said

		     8

connecting member extends along the axis of generation
of said first electrode.

  16. A device in accordance with claim 14 wherein said
first electrode defines a frusto-conical surface.

  17. A device in accordance with claim 9 wherein said
connecting member comprises semi-conducting particles
whereby said connecting member is given a conductivity
gradient.

  18. A device in accordance with claim 15 wherein said
second electrode is a disk-shaped radiator and wherein
the potentials applied to said electrodes are alternating
current potentials, the diameter of said disk-shaped elec-
trode being equal to a half-wave length of the alternating
current potential.

  19. A device in accordance with claim 15 wherein said
connecting member contains semi-conducting particles
which are more concentrated in the region of the disk
radiator than in the region adjacent said first electrode.

  20. A device for producing thrust in response to the
application of electrical potentials to the electrodes there-
of comprising an annular electrode, a second electrode,
and insulating means connecting said electrodes whereby
thrust is produced along the axis of generation of said
annular electrode in response to the application of electri-
cal potentials thereto.

  21. A device in accordance with claim 20 wherein said
annular electrode comprises a toroidal surface.

  22. A device in accordance with claim 20 wherein said
second electrode is mounted on the axis of generation of
said annular electrode.

  23. A device in accordance with claim 22 wherein said
second electrode is displaced from the center of said an-
nular electrode whereby a thrust is developed along said
axis in a direction from said second electrode towards that
annular electrode in response to the application of elec-
trical potentials thereto.

	  References Cited by the Examiner
	   UNITED STATES PATENTS
1,974,483       9/34  Brown _____________________ 310-5

	  FOREIGN PATENTS

1,003,484   11/51 France

MILTON O. HIRSHFIELD, Primary Examiner.

ORIS L. RADER, DAVID X. SLINEY, Examiners.

<patent office logo>

