Four Winds Kite Shop - Prism Kites 

 Prism has an extraordinary web site containing images and specifications

 on all of their products - Including the feather banners shown in the image

 below! Please stop by our shop and experience fist-hand the technology and

 craftsmanship that is required to produce these kites. We are an authorized

 dealer of Prism kites. If you have any questions, or have already decided

 that a Prism kite is right for you, please contact us. For more information

 on Prism Products, you can visit their web site by clicking on their logo above.

Here are a few of the kites in Prism's Collection 

 Write-ups are from their web site. 

 Prophecy 

The Prophecy's dramatic size and rock-solid stability make it ideal for pairs,

 team, and individual ballet competition. 

 Designed and tuned specifically to

 be flown on longer lines, it is also a must-have for serious recreational pilots

 who like to fly in a huge wind window. Unlike most larger kites, the Prophecy

 tricks easily and gracefully, floating around perfectly flat axels as if in slow

 motion. 

 In precision maneuvers it exits square cuts on rails, giving you a

 feeling of utter control and confidence. The "Proph" features an Active Bridle,

 a tapered carbon SkyShark frameset, and comes with a deluxe padded and zippered

 bag that holds 3 linesets, accessories, and spare parts.

 Elixir 

Smooth and accurate with a huge repertoire of tricks, the Elixir will help you

 make that next big leap in your freestyle skills. It'll do every trick in the

 book and then some, but unlike so many freestyle kites it also makes them easy

 to do consistently, over and over again. 

 Upside down, on it's back, inside out,

 the Elixir has been tuned and tweaked to be balanced and controllable in every

 position in the sky so you can explore outrageous new moves and combinations you

 never thought possible. 

 Compared to the Illusion, the Elixir is better suited

 for fast and furious tricking. Flic-flacs, Fade maneuvers and multiple axels

 are a breeze. With it's tough and resilient frame you'll be able to confidently

 try radical groundwork that will make your friends wince, without having to carry

 around a bag of extra sticks. Comes with three-position adjustable standoffs and

 an Active Bridle inspired by European trick guru Andy Wardley.

 Alien 

If, like us, you've come to enjoy flying in light winds the most, the Alien will

 bring back that urge to drop everything and head for the field when the trees

 start to sway. Mark's newest creation is a moderate to high-wind trick kite

 for all-out freestyle fun. Strange looking? Absolutely. Lots of fun? You

 bet. Just yank a line and it will trick like crazy and recover from almost

 anything. As one test pilot put it, "If you can start a lawnmower, you can

 double-axel this kite." It's design, giving you a stable, predictable feel

 with outrageous acrobatic capabilities. 

 An angled, heat-treated aluminum fitting inside the leading edge reduces load

 on the wing spars in abusive groundwork and radical maneuvers. In strong winds,

 adjustable standoffs let you dial speed and pull so you can fly all day.

 Strategically placed solid carbon reinforcements make this frame almost

 impossible to break, even in extreme conditions. 

 So when your Illusion starts to pull too hard and you're worried about those

 fancy sticks, loosen your tie, pull out your Alien, and rediscover the fun of

 flying in real wind. It's aggro look will turn more than a few heads as you

 really start to jam.

 Vapor 

The Vapor is one of the most exotic and specialized pieces of kiting equipment

 you can buy. Its extreme lightweight design is for the growing number of pilots

 whose imaginations have been captured by the seemingly impossible phenomenon of

 indoor kite flying. 

With short lines and an indoor space the size of a basketball court, just the

 motion of slowly walking backwards creates enough "wind" to fly this incredible

 machine in a full hemisphere over and around you. As a whole new repertoire of

 slack-line maneuvers becomes possible, we see more and more festivals and

 competitions around the world organized specifically for indoor flying. The

 Vapor is meticulously constructed in limited numbers from ultra-lightweight

 film laminates, monofilm, and .6 oz. polyester. The sail materials are chosen

 to reinforce and control sail shape with the least possible weight. 

The Vapor is framed with G-force "Skinnies", ultralight hand-made graphite tubes

 that weigh just 7 1/2 grams each. These spars can be flown outdoors in winds up

 to 5 mph, but be warned that this is a kite designed primarily for indoor flying.

 Rocks, branches and kite eating dogs will not be kind to your investment. 

Simply put, the Vapor's performance is phenomenal. Perfectly balanced floats,

 glides, flat spins and axels happen as if the kite is reading your mind. Upside

 down, it will sit in a fade seemingly forever. For '98 we've tweaked the upper

 spreader position slightly to allow more nose-away control, and we've equipped

 it with the new miniature version of our famous APA leading edge connector fitting,

 designed specially for indoor kites. 

 Eclipse 

Still one of our best sellers after five years, the Eclipse has seen more air

 time than any kite we make. The kite from which much of trick flying was born,

 the Eclipse is capable of the most advanced freestyle acrobatics you can perform. 

Its balance and agility make it a great choice for anyone looking for a full-sized,

 all-around kite that will fly smoothly and gracefully yet trick with the best of them.

 The pultruded .2200 frame lets you tip stab with a wild abandon and work on your

 groundwork without breaking your bank. 

Since the Eclipse is still one of the favorites in the company bag, we can't stop

 tinkering with it every year as we demand more and more from our kites. This year

 we've replaced the old bridle with a Turbo Bridle that dramatically increases

 precision and cornering and allows independent turning of pitch and outhaul

 position. It's a great addition to a kite you'll never outgrow.