Statisticians Notes 

 Statisticians Notes 
 Corrections 
To Previous Report 
 Pull 24, Latham NY 
 Tundra, owned by Dan Plosila, had been left off of the Organizers Finish Report. He placed 7 th in the 60# class. 
 Pull 14, Newboro, ON 
 Montana was omitted on the pull sheet for 120# class. I have temporarily included him with the next days statistics (last place, which is correct ) until I can get the correct values from the organizer. 

 I still havent followed up on this. 
 (Pulls 28 thru 38) 
 24 January, 1999 
 Newport News was scheduled for two days. The Sanctioning director only received results for Saturday, all I have. 

 Assumptions 
 Kayla Region 6, handled by Bob Valentine at the Corapeake Christmas Pull. I am assuming this is the Pedersons Kayla of region 7. 
 Gunner Region 7, handled by Mary Jane St. Lawrence at the Corapeake Christmas Pull. I am assuming this is the Pedersons Gunner. 

 E R R O R S 
 Pull 38, Newport News VA 
 In the 60# class, the Starsky and Chevy line-up was reversed. 
 Also, Steve Jackson is region 5, not 6; and Debbie Lee is 7, not 6. 

 MEMBERSHIP ISSUES 

 Instead of just assuming memberships, I am carrying this as a reminder that we have some issues to resolve. If you are on this as a "membership not assumed", besides not acquiring pull points, you are probably not getting the newsletter either 

 New Issues 

 Memberships Assumed 
 The following individuals apparently joined at a pull (shows in the organizers financial report). Their membership was assumed with the date of the pull, but is still being watched until the membership chair has received the paperwork. 

 Kelly & Reggie Heiser Joined family at the Missoula pull on 9 Jan 99 

 Still Outstanding 
 Memberships Assumed 

 Pam Swanson Assumed the Pam on the Larry Brillhart family membership. She handled Star which looked like the Star Larry owns and Larry was at the pull. 

 Dropped 
 Membership Not Confirmed 

 Brad Ratcliff (a member last year) was listed as a member at the Phillipi pull; but we have no record of membership, nor did he join at the pull. Scout will be marked provisional.