Gay Masons in Seattle, Daylight Lodge-Seattle's Masonic Lodge Of The Arts 

 Gay Masons in Seattle 

 What is the Masonic policy on gay members? 

There is nothing in the so-called Ancient Landmarks of Masonry that would forbid a gay man from joining. Of course there are gay men in Masonry. It is a simple thing, sexual orientation is not a determinate for admission, it is not even asked and that is a Masonic standard. The Washington Mason Code does not address the issue because each petitioner is judged by the lodge and its members. 

Since membership is voted on by the members of the lodge, a situation of exclusivity could exist, as with any organization. For instance a lodge could be made up entirely of Spanish speaking people, at which a non-Spanish speaking person may not feel comfortable. Similarly, when a gay man is selecting a lodge to petition for membership, the make-up of that lodge should be considered. It is conceivable that the majority of members of a lodge could have a problem with someone being gay and thus prevent membership from being attained. That is certainly not the case at Daylight Lodge #232. 

Because Daylight Lodge has since its inception been involved with the arts, it is a logical assumption that there have been and are gay members, but for the same reason it is not an issue that is even considered important. All that Daylight Lodge asks of a member is that be loyal to the lodge and Masonry. Also that he obey the laws of his city, state and country and there is no law against being gay. Masonry does not discuss religion and that is the source of most of the objections to the gay life style. 

So, yes! Gay men can join Masonry and be accepted as a brother, just be conscientious of the lodge you are petitioning. The members of the lodge do vote in secret on petitions for membership and it is possible that a member may cast a negative vote. At Daylight Lodge #232, however, being gay will never prevent you from being accepted and loved like a brother. 

If you want to talk to someone call Daylight Lodge Secretary Coe Morgan, 206-632-2970 or the Senior Warden Anthony Monaco 206-228-9025 (cell fone) and of course see the entire Daylight Lodge website: www.daylightmasons.org 

 Lodge meetings are conducted on the 3rd Saturday of each month at Seattle's Green Lake Masonic Hall. Meetings start at 10:00 a.m. and lunch is served at noon. No one ever goes hungry! The Green Lake Masonic Hall is located in the Green Lake business district at 307 NE Maple Leaf Place. Daylight Lodge is one with fresh ideas, younger officers, innovative programs and community involvement. We welcome new members! 

Map of 
307 NE Maple Leaf PL Seattle, WA 98115-5315

 Home Page About Lodge Join Lodge Lodge Events Lodge Officers Newsletters Masonic Art