A GRAVITY-WARP CAPACITOR     http://www.amasci.com/caps/capworks.txt

 -------------------------------------------------------------------
|  Overall specs (written by bill b.):
|
|  18 cm long, 0.96KG
|
|  390 tin foil layers, 781 wax paper layers
|
|  .025mm tin (0.001"), 97.8% purity
|
|  wax paper est. thickness:  180mm/781 - .025mm = .2mm (VERY thick!)
|
|  Powered by VandeGraaff electrostatic generator
|
|  5.48KG measured lift above weight-cancel point (54 Netwons),
|  calculated thrust 6.44KG (63 Nt)   (it lifts ~ 7grams per foil plate??
|  Can two plates lift themselves?!!)
|
|  Divided into 13 groups of 30 foils (each w/15 foil-wax-foil-wax 
|  layers) alternating positive and negative plates.  Pos. plates
|  connected together, negative plates connected together.  Each group
|  individually switched to high voltage in order to vary the thrust.
|
|  Waxpaper dielectric disks, radius 8cm, hole radius 2.7cm
|
|  Tin foil circular plates, radius 6.30cm, hole radius 3.3cm, with
|  nine radial gaps in foil each 0.6cm wide, gaps ending on a circle
|  of 5.55cm radius circle (outer edge of foil disk is continuous.)
|  See GIF diagrams linked on http://www.amasci.com/caps/capwarp.html
|
|  Metal layers carefully adjusted so the gaps line up.
|
 --------------------------------------------------------------------

From: S
Date: Thu, 16 Mar 2000 14:22:31 EET
To: billb@eskimo.com
Subject: it works!!

I am a regular reader of your site, I am an electronic engineer and I am 
working on antigravity projects secretly in my home in my country.

I just want to tell you that the gravity capacitor works as the writer
says. I complete and test it.  The voltage it depends from dielectric
material. 

I didn't roll all the positives and negatives strips, I made groups of 30
layers for better control and testing.

Weighs only 0.962 Kg, and in full charge its negative weight is 5.481 Kg.

VDG "energy" is the best and safest for dielectric.






From: S
Date: Sun, 19 Mar 2000 23:39:20 EET
To: billb@eskimo.com
Subject: Re: it works!!

I want to tell you what I did exactly so you can or any other person can 
duplicate the capacitor.

Forget the capacitors you know. That thing is NOT a capacitor. Is only
similar in the construction. But that device USE the capacitance to keep
the charge in large quantities. Nothing more to do with the regular
capacitors. Now I think that the geometrical shape of the plates and the
position of them is the key, But I can not explain to you how.?? 

The capacitor is a real powerful thing, I mean that if I let it free after
I charge it I will have accident for sure. It keeps thrusting to its
positive side. I cannot measure the voltage that it builds because I don't
have instruments.  I use a big glass box like the one you put fish inside
but bigger, with the capacitor inside with the positive up, and a weight
measure machine on top of the capacitor. Closing the box I had all those
stable, and the weight machine set to 0. Instant ~5,4 Kg on the scale when
I hit it with working van de graf I made for testing it.  Don't use
electronic weight machine, it will show instant funny characters and it
will stop!!??.  In fact, any electrical device above the hole and 10cm
higher will not function properly, and under the hole, (and the affected
area getting bigger as you go away from it, as if the force going
something like a "conical thrust" of the capacitor, will not function at
all. Which means that the electrons in circuits stop running.

Now if I do not use the glass box and I lock the device with four short,
equal strings to the negative end with the table or floor ( I use a table)
and I charge it, then the capacitor kicks itself up, now when I pressed
with the stick on one of the four strings, the capacitor was turning from
the side I pressed. So all I want to say to you is that the force is
directional (thrust is appearing always on the negative side).  In few
words, it acts as it was a rocket without the fire.  No noise.  Careful,
do not touch the glass if is not grounded after the discharge and do not
touch or be near the charged capacitor.  It is not a game. If you were
seeing how it reacts, you could say that for your self.  I am afraid to be
near it when it is charged.  Also, I use a barrel full of oil for
discharging. And all that, I do with extreme caution, using long sticks
etc. My opinion is to not use it inside the same room.  Probably is emits
something bad.  I don't know.  I am not psychotic person I am always cool
(at least I try). 

I have used the device 4 times. Is not easy if you do not have the correct 
instruments and equipments.

I use continuous charge from VDG, no special circuits. The capacitor
reacts instant and constant. 

The discharge is very dangerous and I have never left it to discharge by
itself yet to learn the time.  But if you use my plate ring as it is shown
in the scanned image ( in scale) you will finish much faster.  Also the
electrostatic leakage is very limited because of the curved angles.  Also
the capacitance will be increased because there will be no air trapped
between the small segments, using the ring I suggest.



About the construction

I followed all instructions except that I had the waxed paper printed as
the plates to be on top so I can place the plates exactly where they
should be, (I think that is important) and the tin was not in small pieces
vbut rings.  There are many reasons why I made this changes. I have
include
a drawing how I did the rings look like. 







From: S
Date: Tue, 21 Mar 2000 14:19:45 EET
To: billb@eskimo.com
Subject: Re: it works!!

billb wrote:
>I wonder, are the small slots necessary?  Or will the capacitor still
>produce gravity thrust if the foil ring is made solid, with no slots?
>Or, if fewer slots are used, is the gravity thrust very small?

I think that is very important. I think the shape of the ring is the heart
of the module. 

I can't tell for sure for all these combinations, I have to try them
first.


>Is the glass box filled with oil?  Or is the capacitor dry, in air?

No, no oil inside the glass box (I haven't try that). It is dry.  I only
used the glass box for some kind of protection.  And I do not know yet if
is really protecting me or my mind just think that its protecting me..?? 

>Does this "field" prevent a flashlight from operating?  Or a 100-watt AC
>light bulb?  Perhaps it only harms transistors, but not heated wires, not
>batteries?


I think you are correct, electronics have problem around 10 cm away from
cap, and not live wires ( with 220 volts ) (light in the room is not
affected but is 4-5 meters away), I don't know about batteries but I guess
you are correct. I have to experiment. I will do that.


>If you turn off the VDG, does the thrust slowly decrease?  Or does the
>thrust vanish instantly when the VDG stops?  (Is the thrust caused by the
>CHARGE, or by the electric current (microamperes of leakage current in the
>paper dielectric?)
>
>Also, how many metal layers in your capacitor?


781 waxpaper layers and 390 metal layers,  I made 13 groups of 15 positive 
and 15 negatives, using a primitive switching circuit having 13 switches for 
trust control ( Those 13 switches add trust and cannot reduce of course).

Look how I do operate the module:

I switch the VDG on and after 10 sec I connect the + of VDG wire to the +
(up as was) of the capacitor.(- is connected to vdg)  With 13 switches on
It takes less than 1 sec for the instant thrust to its maximum ( maximum
for my VDG )  Now (capacitor uncharged) If I switch on 1 by 1 the 13
switches the thrust do the same. Gets greater and greater.  I disconnect
the vdg and still the thrust is there.  When you have to discharge, better
discharge step step ( even step step is dangerous )  Well I think and I
feel that thrust is caused by the charge. My VDG and any vdg I think can
only give a very very small amount of current. 


   NOTES FROM BILL B:
   Maximum voltage will be determined by leakage, and if the VDG
   only outputs 10uA or so (my estimate of a typical VDG), and
   if the capacitance is about .01uF (my very crude estimate),
   then a 1-second charging time gives about 1000V on the cap.
   Very low!  [Better estimate of capacitance: 0.5uF]  And, if turning
   on the switched segments one by one gives easily observed thrust
   increases, then even a few layers (such as one of the 30-foil segments
   used above) should give an easily-measured thrust.  I wonder if the
   thrust is exactly proportional to the number of layers?  If so, then
   even a single layer-pair should be able to lift its own weight.
   But if the thrust is not proportional to the number of layers, then
   many layers would be needed before the thrust becomes (dispropor-
   tionally) strong and can levitate the layers.  How many foil
   layers are needed before they can lift their own weight?  And
   is tin really necessary, or will other metals work too?

A GRAVITY-WARP CAPACITOR     http://www.amasci.com/caps/capworks.txt

