Guitar Picks | Michelle Young 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 Guitar Picks , Michelle Young 

 Michelle Young 

 Guitar Pick # 11 
 Published December 11, 2001 
 By A-J Charron 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Read our review of Marked 
 for Madness. 

 A rare thing in the world of Progressive Rock, a woman. And 
 not just any woman. Michelle Young has a voice which stands 
 out. It's reminiscent of Kate Bush's voice, but with an overall 
 sound quite her own. 
 And, she's a very talented songwriter. Michelle's new album, 
 "Marked for Madness" has just been released. For 
 this occasion, Michelle has answered some questions for us. 
 Her answers are honest and come from the heart. Probably 
 the most personal interview I've ever had the pleasure to 
 conduct. Enter her world. 

 Guitarnoise: Could you tell us a little of your background? 
 Michelle Young: I was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
 and at age 5 moved to Dunlap Tennessee, which was a very small 
 town. I've been singing since before age five, and when I 
 was nine years old I took a few piano lessons - that's where 
 I learned to read music. I quit practicing (got tired of the 
 same old primary songs) but picked up the piano again when 
 I was 15, being inspired by some singer/songwriters in school. 
 I started writing my own music, playing in bands, and competing 
 in talent shows, and when I was 17 I moved to Chattanooga, 
 Tennessee to attend college. I continued playing in bands, 
 and took voice lessons for a couple of years, but my life 
 was really changed when I joined the band "Glass Hammer", 
 and I entered the world of progressive music. I released my 
 first solo album, "Song of the Siren", in 1996 on 
 Naosha Records, a label I created specifically for releasing 
 my own material, and have recorded on over 14 albums so far 
 in my career. Finally, my second album, "Marked For Madness", 
 is poised for release on September 24, 2001. 
 GN: Marked for Madness is an interesting title (as much 
 for the album as for the song). Could you tell us a little 
 more about it? 
 MY: This image was the original cover for "MFM", 
 and I believe it speaks volumes. It's always reminded me of 
 a Clive Barker book cover, and sometimes I feel like I could 
 be living in one of his stories too. My life can be very fantastical 
 in both good and bad ways. Of course, I'm not the only one 
 who has lived a very crazy life - that's why I believe that 
 many people will relate to this album. We all have dramatic 
 things happen to us that can help shape our personalities, 
 whether we understand that or not. This album is as much of 
 a social statement as it is autobiographical - especially 
 if you consider the song "Melissa's Demise", which 
 is based on an article I read in the newspaper about a girl 
 who was killed by a classmate. He told the police the reason 
 he killed her was "Nobody liked her..." And living 
 in that kind of society, as we all do, who cannot be prone 
 to madness? We're all judged every day by the people around 
 us, sometimes before they've even met us, and most of the 
 time before they've really gotten to know us. The song itself 
 contains dream images, some of which are re-occurring themes 
 in my dreams ..."men in coats with guns in tote"...I 
 can't tell how many times I've been hunted down in my dreams...I 
 don't try to over-analyze my dreams though, because then I 
 WOULD go crazy. In general, "MFM" is much darker 
 than my first album, but I was careful to place a thread of 
 hope throughout the album, because we have to keep hope in 
 our lives if we are going to continue to exist. 
 GN: You have quite an impressive list of personnel on 
 this album (Clive Nolan (Pendragon, Arena), Peter 
 Gee (Pendragon), Peter Banks (Yes), Karl Groom, Doane 
 Perry (Jethro Tull)). How did you come up with such a lineup? 
 MY: I first met Clive in 1997 at ProgFest in California. 
 I had met Paul Wrightson there also, who at the time was singing 
 for Arena, and he heard my album and said "Clive has 
 got to hear this! He'll want to work with you." Well, 
 Paul introduced us at the festival, but it wasn't until Clive 
 returned home to England and actually listened to "Song 
 of the Siren" that he called, and we had our first conversation. 
 It seems he'd been looking several years for a voice like 
 mine to work with, and we were finally brought together. The 
 funny thing is, I had no idea of Clive's status in the progressive 
 community when we first started working together. I did, however, 
 really like what I heard of his work, and just knew that our 
 talents would compliment each other very well. 
 During my subsequent visits to England I met Peter Gee, who 
 lives in the same house as Clive, and Karl Groom, who works 
 with Clive at Thin Ice. I have nothing but high praise for 
 these gentlemen, both personally and professionally, and I'm 
 very happy to have them involved with 
 "MFM". 
 During one of the visits to England, I met Pete Banks at 
 the studio. Clive was compiling some material for an album 
 Pete has since released, and we hit it off very well. He's 
 a great guy, and during our conversations he said something 
 like "Well, if you ever need me to do some guitar 
 parts for you, just let me know". How could I turn that 
 down? He brought his beautiful new bride to the recording 
 session, and we had a great day in the studio. 
 I first met Doane when I drove to Baltimore, Maryland to 
 see my first Jethro Tull show. Ian had seen an article on 
 me in Progression Magazine and had Kenny, his production manager, 
 to call me and get a copy of "Song of the Siren". 
 Ian really liked it, and during our brief correspondence I 
 decided to catch them on the road. I was backstage after the 
 show when I met Doane. We talked for a while, and I realized 
 that he also liked to do other projects, so I gave him a "Song 
 of the Siren", and eventually got my nerve up to write 
 and ask him if he'd be interested in working with me. I didn't 
 hear from him, and didn't even see him until the next Tull 
 concert I caught - but my fears of getting the brush off were 
 totally unfounded. When he saw me he smiled and gave me a 
 big hug, and said that he loved the album, and would definitely 
 be interested in working with me. We immediately started talking 
 equipment compatibility, because we knew the chances of us 
 being in the studio at the same time were very slim. In fact, 
 he did his drum parts in California, then sent them to me. 
 I am so grateful to have had his input on this album. 
 GN: How was it working with such an ensemble? 
 MY: It was exciting to have such talented players 
 working with me...but, it was a long, drawn out process. It 
 took four or five years to get everything recorded because 
 I had to coordinate my schedule with Clive's (one of the busiest 
 people on the planet), and between the two of us we had to 
 coordinate the rest of the recording. I have to say that I've 
 learned a lot from working with these people - I consider 
 them to be absolutely some of the best in their fields! 
 GN: "Toujours ensemble" features you singing 
 in French, where did that idea come from? 
 MY: I've always loved studying foreign languages, 
 particularly French. (While in college I sang in several different 
 languages, and I found it very alluring.) As fate would have 
 it, during a trip to Paris I met a young musician/singer/songwriter 
 from Quebec, and we eventually recorded 
 music together on his first solo album. When I wrote "Toujours 
 Ensemble" I wanted to express that even being on the 
 other side of the world, speaking two different languages, 
 we could say the same thing, and always be together in the 
 music. Music has a very strong bonding power, and has brought 
 millions of people together all over the world. That's the 
 reason I wanted to end the album with this song - I want to 
 touch people's lives in a positive way, and always be there 
 with them in the music. By the way, I did have some help from 
 a very nice Frenchman in making sure my French was correct 
 in the song. Thanks Denis! 
 GN: Was the end result similar to your expectations? 
 MY: Wow.....that's a hard question, because I wasn't 
 sure what to expect. I tried to go into this experience with 
 an open mind. By handing the producer's hat over to Clive, 
 and just being co- producer, I had to stand back and just 
 watch things happen. I could put my input in at any time, 
 and of course I surely did, but I tried to let Clive do his 
 job without much hindrance. Many of the sounds are very different 
 than the demos that I brought in, but some of them are still 
 very similar. Overall I can say that I'm thrilled with the 
 results - they were just as I expected in that they are much 
 better than I would have done alone. 
 Making MFM has been an exciting, long and trying process 
 - not for the feint of heart. But, it's also been very rewarding, 
 like another dream come true. I always liken making an album 
 to childbirth (I don't have any children of my own, so my 
 songs and my instruments become my 
 children). There is the conception of the idea, the gestation 
 period of producing the album (usually with complications), 
 and at the end there is the birth of a beautiful child that 
 you will have to live with for the rest of your life - even 
 if it's not perfect. And that is what I have to pass 
 on to the world, that will hopefully exist long after I'm 
 gone. 
 GN: You have obviously been influenced by Kate Bush. Could 
 you expand on that? 
 MY: I first started listening to Kate Bush in 1986, 
 and kept listening all the way up to "Hounds of Love". 
 I used to love to sing along with the first album - it was 
 great for warming up my voice for my voice lessons - plus, 
 it was nice because I could sound so much like her. But, there 
 was a deeper appeal - the expressiveness of her vocal techniques 
 was something I deeply craved and was in tune with. I love 
 to use the same exaggerations in the voice, and the same sense 
 of extremities (low to high pitches, deep rumbles to soft 
 sighs ... variation is the key). I guess in a way, that style 
 of singing is very theatrical - deeply sensitive but hard 
 hitting at the same time...and that's me - full of extremes! 
 I don't actually try to sound like Kate, but the comparisons 
 are inevitable (and that's a high class voice to be compared 
 to). Hopefully people will see a much broader range of my 
 voice on "MFM", and will start classifying my voice 
 in a place of it's own. Who knows...maybe someday 
 someone will say "that girl sounds a lot like Michelle 
 Young" - then I'll know my individuality has been recognized. 
 GN: Do you find it more difficult as a woman in a male-dominated 
 art, to make it or does this, instead, play in your favour? 
 MY: Whew, this can be for or against you, depending 
 on the situation. There was a time where I wouldn't pick up 
 a tambourine in public because I didn't want to be classified 
 as the stereo- typical singer. I wanted people to know that 
 there is much more to me, and to give me the 
 respect I deserve. I guess at that time I felt I had to prove 
 myself...but now, as people see that there is more to me, 
 I'm not as sensitive to that. But, if you were to see me just 
 singing on stage, how would you know that I play several instruments, 
 write, engineer, produce, etc...? Of course, I have always 
 been fortunate to gain respect as an entertainer/vocalist 
 by people that have seen me perform live - I just don't want 
 to be thought of as "just a singer". God has given 
 me more talent than that, and I do my best to use it. Would 
 it surprise you to know that I have been called the "fluff 
 factor" for one band I was with (by one of the band members) 
 - they didn't care if I picked up an instrument or not, they 
 just wanted me to sing in the band because I was female and 
 would draw males in to listen. And that's not an isolated 
 case. 
 I've found that it is also very difficult sometimes to be 
 female and the label owner too. I know certain men that have 
 not taken me seriously because I was female...but, in the 
 end, the victory is mine because I am succeeding. I work very, 
 very hard - most people I know and work with see that, and 
 respect it. 
 I guess being female can initially open some doors or draw 
 attention that wouldn't normally be given if you were "just 
 another guy" in this business. But people, especially 
 of the caliber that I've been working with, don't work with 
 you just because you're "pretty". If they don't 
 see a talent there that they appreciate, it's not going to 
 happen. Sometimes I have to remind myself of that (or my friends 
 will remind me), because I tend to underestimate or downplay 
 what I've done...in fact, sometimes when I listen to my music, 
 I almost feel like a stranger listening - like that was someone 
 else...how could that be me? Oh, and I guess that's part of 
 the madness too. 
 One thing I would like to see improve in the future is more 
 artists, both male and female (especially in the progressive 
 field) reaching out to each other for work and/or friendships. 
 I have been very fortunate to have made some wonderful friends 
 in the music industry, but sometimes we get lost in our own 
 careers and we forget to reach out. Of course, there is the 
 fact that you have to have a pretty strong personality to 
 survive in this business, and sometimes people with strong 
 personalities tend to be loners - and extremely busy (not 
 much time for a social life in general). But, I still dream 
 of "peace, love and happiness" - I mean, we're all 
 in this together. I don't believe we're necessarily in direct 
 competition with each other. If everyone in the world only 
 had enough money to buy one CD a year, then yes - that'd be 
 competition.....but, as it is, we're just making available 
 to the public a vast treasure of music for their listening 
 enjoyment. 
 GN: Do you find that some people take you less seriously 
 because you're a woman? 
 MY: Again, sometimes that is the case, but usually 
 when people see my determination and my "where there's 
 a will there's a way" attitude, they start to realize 
 I'm serious, and therefore will take me more seriously - especially 
 when they can see that I don't just talk, I "do". 

 GN: Progressive Rock is a style of music which generally 
 tends to attract men. How is it you found your way to the 
 genre? 
 MY: I had started a photography and recording studio 
 around 1990/1991, and I was asked to do the photography for 
 the first Glass Hammer album, "Journey of the Dunadan". 
 They heard my voice and realized I could sing, and decided 
 to bring me in on the project, even though it was mostly finished. 
 I did many backing vocals, and a few more prominent parts 
 (Piper Kirk was already involved in the project). When I first 
 heard the music, and realized I was going to be involved with 
 the album, I was on cloud nine solid for two weeks! I was 
 so impressed by the 
 quality of the music these guys were doing - and I was allowed 
 to do many strange and experimental things in the studio, 
 aside from the regular backing parts. I was hooked! I wound 
 up joining Glass Hammer for a total of three albums, and performed 
 with them live. But, in 
 1996, I released my first solo album, and that was pretty 
 much where our paths diverged. I have to say that one reason 
 I love the "progressive genre" is that you can be 
 as creative as you want, and there are no real restrictions. 
 Also, there's a standard of quality that is usually higher 
 than in other formats you'll find. That doesn't mean I don't 
 like or appreciate other styles of music - quite the contrary! 
 But, I believe I have found a home for my music, where people 
 are more willing to embrace the unusual, and my voice can 
 be used to it's fullest capacity. 

 A-J Charron 2001-12-11 
 Back to top 

 Previous interview 
 in this series "Bj&oslash;rn Lynne" 

 Next interview 
 in this series "James Byrd" 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.