Guitar Picks | James Byrd 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 Guitar Picks , James Byrd 

 James Byrd 

 Guitar Pick # 12 
 Published January 12, 2002 
 By A-J Charron 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Read our review of Flying 
 Beyond the 9 

 "I suppose that there does come a point in one's 
 musical development when they're comfortable with who they 
 are musically, and I felt that: What is there to "prove" 
 really?" 

 After listening to Byrd's "Flying Beyond the 9" 
 album, I felt I had to talk to this guy. The quality of the 
 songs and this guy's guitar skills made him an excellent candidate 
 for an interview at GuitarNoise. 
 The Album 
 Guitarnoise: Flying Beyond the 9 is an original title, 
 but what is the actual significance of the title? (Why the 
 "9"?) 
 James Byrd: I had the album mostly finished except 
 for final mixing and mastering in the fall of 1999. The title 
 is reference to all of the Y2K hysteria and a play on my name. 
 It was just a way of saying that I'm still Flying Beyond the 
 9 in 1999. 
 GN: You describe your sound as Symphonic Metal for 
 the New Age. Do you actually mean a blend of Symphony, Metal 
 and New Age music? 
 JB: No, I wouldn't say new age music. Although I've 
 heard some so called new age music that I thought was quite 
 nice to listen to, I don't actually listen to much music at 
 all. The album's lyrical content is loosely centered around 
 millennial events, and the sub title is a general descriptive. 
 Obviously there is a heavy symphonic element in the 70 + tracks 
 of backing orchestration, and I needed to convey that unlike 
 all my previous works, there was a shift in approach to the 
 album. All my previous albums had made use of layers of guitars 
 as a groundwork, and "Flying Beyond the 9" was a 
 turn of direction to putting my guitar into a more concise 
 context where it was not "competing" with itself. 
 GN: One of the nice things about it is that although 
 you are quite a talented guitarist, the album is not overwhelmingly 
 guitar. You leave a lot of place for the other instruments 
 (contrary to other guitarists who would tend to bury everything 
 with their guitar prowess). Are you searching for a balance 
 between instruments? 
 JB: Absolutely. My previous album (James Byrd's Atlantis 
 Rising Crimes of Virtuosity) was both a water mark, and a 
 turning point for me musically. I felt I had taken over the 
 top guitar about as far as it interested me in a traditional 
 heavy metal context. A lot of it was frustration at not having 
 a wider voice harmonically in terms of instrumentation I'm 
 not a keyboard player, so it was an album where intensity 
 alone was the focal point in terms of production. But again, 
 I began to see my guitar as competing with itself, and I began 
 to hear in my mind the vision of a sound where the guitar 
 was contextual, and as a result of that, it actually had more 
 impact, not less. It was hearing some original Van Halen songs 
 from their first album on my car radio in 1998 that made me 
 re think my approach. It just hit me that one guitar could 
 sound bigger than half a dozen, and I decided to par back 
 my tracks to just a single rhythm guitar, and my solos. I 
 leave space because space should only be filled when it's 
 called for and makes the music better. 
 I suppose that there does come a point in one's musical development 
 when they're comfortable with who they are musically, and 
 I felt that. "What is there to "prove" really?" 
 That you can play a gazillion notes for an extended time? 
 I've never had an interest in the "gun slinger" 
 mentality of shred. I just want to communicate with music, 
 and the guitar is my instrument, but so are many other instruments 
 when I compose and my keyboardist creates the scores I present. 
 So I feel free to express myself through all of the music 
 and words, and this too tends to keep the focus musical as 
 opposed to gymnastic. 
 GN: Avianti Suite. As this piece is Opus 1, No. 63, 
 how many of these classical pieces have you composed? 
 JB: Six actually. In 1996 I recorded a concerto for 
 guitar and symphony orchestra. It had the traditional 3 movements. 
 This was actually a couple of years before Yngwie did it. 
 At that point in time, I did not have a record company behind 
 me and I managed to finish only the first movement before 
 running out of money. I was not able to find funding to finish 
 the work to the standard I wanted, so the tapes just sat for 
 four years gathering dust. In 2000, I joined MP3.com and at 
 the end of the summer, I found the master of No. 46 Mvt 1 
 (Byrd's Bolero) on the shelf and thought "why not?", 
 and I uploaded it onto MP3.com. The track can be heard here: 
 http://artists.mp3s.com/artists/139/james_byrd.html 
 The other two movements were never finished, but I haven't 
 forgotten about them. I may dig them up and finish some day. 
 The other pieces are also unreleased and also not finished 
 recordings, but the music is complete in my head and always 
 there. 
 GN: (as a follow up to the previous question) Do you 
 intend to release an album of classical pieces like this? 
 JB: I would love to do this from a purely artistic 
 perspective. But the economics make it very difficult to do. 
 Yngwie (Malmsteen) got according to what he told me, nearly 
 half a million dollars to produce his concerto in 1998. I'm 
 nowhere close to having that kind of support to make albums, 
 and even if I were to spend a tiny fraction of that amount 
 to produce an entirely classical work, apart from some obsessed 
 guitar fanatics, there really isn't enough of a commercial 
 demand to facilitate it. 
 GN: Do you feel the response to the album has been 
 up to your expectations? 
 JB: Well, I was naturally hoping it would be well 
 received. My expectations have been exceeded in terms of critical 
 acclaim by reviewers. Out of 40 or 50 reviews, I only found 
 3 or 4 that were actually negative, and the majority were 
 absolutely stellar. I definitely don't ignore what is said 
 about my work by fans and reviewers when it's criticized. 
 If I read twenty reviews, and 15 of them said something negative 
 about the same aspect of the music or production, I would 
 take it to heart and try to be honest with myself. So when 
 I release an album, I do my best to meet my own expectations, 
 but I am pretty reserved about any conclusions until I see 
 a bigger picture from the response. It's very easy to develop 
 tunnel vision when putting your heart into an album. It's 
 inevitable really. So the positive response to "Flying 
 Beyond the 9" has been very gratifying. 

 Playing Skills 
 GN: When did you start playing the guitar? 
 JB: I can't remember not having a guitar of some kind 
 around. But September 18th 1970 the day Hendrix died was the 
 day I got serious and devoted myself to really learning to 
 play theinstrument. Yngwie also cites the same day as I'm 
 sure tens of thousands of kids who saw Hendrix on the evening 
 news for the first time also do. 
 GN: Did you take lessons or teach yourself? 
 JB: I have a cousin who was a very accomplished musician 
 and band leader during the 70's who taught me how to tune 
 the guitar, and he gave me about half a dozen lessons where 
 he showed me bar chords. I had the old Mel Bay self instruction 
 books with chord diagrams too. Other than that, I was self 
 disciplined and self taught. I used to play along with records 
 and learn the solos note for note. I was extremely meticulous 
 opinionated about who I listened to and learned from, and 
 very dedicated to not only leaning the notes, but duplicating 
 every nuance of phrasing and vibrato. I played along with 
 albums by Hendrix, Deep Purple, Frank Marino and Mahogany 
 Rush, UFO, Al DiMiola, Django Reinhardt, B.B. King, even Peter 
 Frampton. 
 GN: As you were learning the instrument, what were 
 the difficulties that arose? What did you find was easiest 
 to learn and what was more difficult? 
 JB: I was always intent on developing the hand strength 
 and string control to make one note sound expressive. From 
 the time I was 13 years old, having an even, controlled vibrato 
 was an obsession. I would spend hours on end developing this 
 alone. My first models for what I considered the single most 
 important aspect of expression, were Paul Kossof of Free, 
 and Jimi Hendrix. I didn't really care about any other aspect 
 of playing if I couldn't master the string itself as a single 
 expressive vehicle. And my efforts finally satisfied me by 
 the time I was 14. I had a fully matured vibrato by this time, 
 and then I moved on to learning more about scales and music. 
 GN: What were the difficulties in adapting Classical 
 techniques to the electric guitar? 
 JB: Well, if by classical techniques you mean classical 
 guitar technique, I don't play with a classical guitar technique 
 because I use a pick. The most difficult aspect of translating 
 classical music however, depends on the source you're deriving 
 from or studying. I listened to a lot of violin concertos. 
 The two difficulties with translating solos played on the 
 violin to the guitar, are that of scale length and tuning. 
 Violinists generally or often play four notes per string in 
 solos and cadenzas. The guitar's scale length being longer, 
 and the intervalic off set between the G and B strings, tend 
 to make playing fluid sounding 4 note groups difficult. The 
 geography of theguitar itself, encourages triplets. The longer 
 scale length also means that three note arpeggios on a single 
 string which is natural on the violin become very difficult 
 on the guitar unless one uses finger tapping which I don't 
 care for. So for me, the challenge of playing lines which 
 are classically derivative, is to overcome the limitations 
 imposed by the geography of the guitar. I've developed a lot 
 of unorthodox fingerings and approaches to scales as a result. 
 Hearing Paganini's 24 caprices when I was 18 and reading about 
 his focus on single string playing was very helpful. I eliminated 
 many of the guitar's hostility to four note phrasing by adapting 
 scalar ascents and descents to only one string, and then learned 
 that I could eliminate the "over the string" jumps 
 with the pick, and also tie into scale string changes at many 
 more points on the fingerboard if I stopped looking at the 
 neck from a guitarists point of view. This freed me up to 
 also begin listening to many other instruments like piano 
 and clarinet for phrases which became possible when the pattern 
 "box" was not the center of my thinking. 
 GN: There isn't much Classical music which has been 
 written especially for the guitar (as compared to piano, violin 
 or other more "traditional" instruments). What are 
 your feelings on thesubject? 
 JB: Well, if I was a classical guitarist who depended 
 upon existing repertoire to make music, it would bother me. 
 But I'm not, so it doesn't have much impact to be honest. 
 GN: What sort of gear do you use? 
 JB: I have a 1966 Marshall 50 watt plexi head and 
 8X10 speaker cabinet. It's all stock except for having a safety 
 fuse added across the mains, and having some of the pre wires 
 physically re routed to reduce noise. I use a DOD overdrive 
 250 pedal and a Jim Dunlop Cry Baby. That's the extent of 
 my rig. 
 GN: Do you have any particular techniques that you 
 would wish to share with our readers? 
 JB: It's probably impossible to translate something 
 as subtle as technique into words. I would just say that to 
 listen and learn music from instruments other than the guitar 
 is invaluable to developing an ability to find productive 
 technique. 
 GN: If you were teaching the guitar to a beginner, 
 where would you start and why? 
 JB: I would probably be inclined to begin with listening 
 to music and developing an ability to hear the finer points 
 of what constitutes both good, and amateurish playing. I think 
 an ability to recognize correct pitch and time is a prerequisite 
 to being able to play well. Assuming one has a gift for music 
 in the first place, it's critical to be capable of self evaluation, 
 so I think that's the first order of business. As far as actual 
 physical technique, I don't think it matters as long as it's 
 working for you. Technique should be the result of listening 
 critically, and making adjustments that facilitate a good 
 musical result. I can't think of his name at the moment, but 
 there is a blind blues rock guitarist (Editor: Jeff Healey) 
 who plays the guitar on his lap with his right hand fingering 
 the notes from above. He has wonderful sound and musicality, 
 yet his "technique" is literally backwards from 
 the rest of the world. What it shows it that he developed 
 his technique with his ears, not a book or a teacher, and 
 whatever you want to call it, it's good technique because 
 it allows him to convey his music as he feels it. So I have 
 to say, I'm not really much of a believer in the idea that 
 you can actually teach anyone anything. What I believe, is 
 that if someone has the right mindset, there is nothing that 
 they can't teach themselves. Even if one has a "teacher", 
 they are still responsible for teaching themselves aren't 
 they? 
 GN: What would be your recommendations to another 
 guitarist wishing to improve his/her skills? 
 JB: Listen to yourself. Record your own playing at 
 every opportunity and listen critically. Be willing to make 
 difficult changes to your physical approach to the instrument 
 when you run up against problems that need work. Once you 
 know how to play something perfectly, forget it and move on. 
 Challenge yourself by concentrating on what needs improvement, 
 not what does not. 

 Byrd guitars 
 GN: 
 With the variety of different models of guitars with so much 
 difference in hardware, why would someone want to make his 
 own guitars? 
 JB: It's all a part of thinking outside the box. Why 
 should I be satisfied playing a guitar designed 50 years ago 
 by a radio repairman who wasn't a guitar player? Because it's 
 popular or some rock star plays one? I'm not bagging on Fender, 
 there was a lot that was very right with the Stratocaster, 
 and I chose to incorporate those positives into the design 
 of my patented Byrd&#153; Super Avianti Guitars&reg;. But 
 in 27 years of playing the things, one can't avoid finding 
 the inherent design faults if they think about it. It was 
 a bloody lot of work to design and patent an instrument from 
 a brand new beginning, and it's certainly not worth it for 
 most people to invest that much time, energy, and money to 
 do it. But I was in the position of a unique set of personal 
 skills for a musician who wanted to do this. I worked in the 
 automotive field for many years with metal fabrication and 
 shaping skills, and prototype development and pattern making 
 as well as many other abilities needed to design and build 
 parts and assemblies were a second profession I depended on 
 as an independent recording artist not making sums playing 
 music. So for me, I just got it in my head that I really didn't 
 have to subject myself to the whims of others in the guitar 
 industry about what I was playing, and I took it on to have 
 a better guitar than I could buy. 
 GN: What distinguishes a Byrd&#153; guitar from another 
 guitar? 
 JB: Apart from the 25.5 inch scale length and 3 single 
 coil pickups derived from the Stratocaster, everything. It 
 doesn't look like any other guitar out there, and it's actual 
 shape is derived from ergonomics and physics. The body shape 
 is a general "V" shape, but it is asymmetrical, 
 and the asymmetry is backwards from other asymmetrical "V" 
 shaped guitars like the Randy Roads models by Charvel for 
 example . There is reason behind every element of the instrument's 
 shape, and in this case, it was a question of addressing two 
 issues: First, by putting the longer of the two wings as the 
 lower wing as opposed to the upper wing, the physical balance 
 of the guitar is maintained by compensating for the routing 
 out of the control cavities. I was granted a nation registered 
 trade mark on the phrase "balance compensated wing&reg;" 
 for this design. Now the guitar does not "flop" 
 towards the floor as other "V" shaped guitars will 
 do on the strap. It balances perfectly. The shorter upper 
 wing of the body also results in greater player comfort because 
 the upper wing is no longer forcing the players arm forward 
 unnaturally. So this shape, was arrived at by experience and 
 logic. The body design allows complete access to the very 
 last fret, and this was also very important in a guitar designed 
 not to hinder the player. 
 The Byrd&#153; Super Avianti&reg; guitars also feature a 
 precision inlayed electronics assembly as opposed to the old 
 "just screw the pick guard on top of the guitar and call 
 it good" designs that have graced every other guitar 
 on the market. I wanted a playing surface devoid of unnecessary 
 sharp edges and protrusions, and this was again, "outside 
 the box" thinking to actually sink the entire assembly 
 into a precision carved recess in the face of the instrument. 
 Sure a guitar doesn't have to be made this way, but if you 
 want to design something that's a bit better, I thought it 
 should be. The fit is so close, it almost looks painted on. 

 The neck joint of my guitars are also completely unique. 
 I prefer bolt on necks. Personal experience convinced me that 
 all arguments about "quality" aside, bolt on neck 
 guitars definitely sound better than their set neck counterparts. 
 I could go into the physics of glue barriers as they pertain 
 to acoustical resonance's, but I won't. But what the set neck 
 guitars did have going for them, was player comfort. So I 
 designed a 5 bolt neck joint that was off set to fit the players 
 hand as it's shaped, and was contoured more like a glued in 
 neck by blending it's shape into the neck. I got rid of the 
 cold metal neck plate, and counter sunk the neck's bolts sothe 
 player never feels them. The patented headstock design on 
 my guitars is also rooted entirely in function. It combines 
 the advantages of a left handed tuner array on the D thru 
 E strings, andeliminates the requirement for string trees 
 to keep the strings in the nut slots. During my Fender years, 
 I had had my guitars made by them for me with left handed 
 necks. A left handed tunerarray creates less disparity in 
 string tension between the strings. It decreases the disparity 
 in tremolo range between the highest and lowest strings. But 
 when you've got all six on the sameside, it requires either 
 string trees, or non traditional tuning machines to keep enough 
 pressure on the nut. The 2 on the bass side, and four on the 
 treble side placement of my design is the best all around 
 layout for balancing the various considerations of string 
 tension and tuning stability. This element of my design enabled 
 me to stop using Floyd Rose tremolos on my guitars becausethey 
 stay in tune without them. The tone is markedly better without 
 the Floyd. 
 There are many other unique design developments in my guitars 
 like U.D.C. fingerboard scalloping. If someone wants to know 
 about all the features, they can go to http://www.JamesByrd.com 
 and scroll down to the Byrd Guitars logo on the front page. 
 I'm not actively taking orders for instruments right now due 
 to a severe back injury I suffered in May, but I am interested 
 in hearing from any manufacturers who would be interested 
 in attaining a license to produce these multi patented guitars 
 for wider distribution. 
 Byrd "Flying Beyond the 9" soundclips and album 
 can be found at Guitar9 
 music and Lion Music . 
 Thank you very much for your interest in my music and my 
 guitars A.J. 

 A-J Charron 2002-01-12 
 Back to top 

 Previous interview 
 in this series "Michelle Young" 

 Next interview in 
 this series 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.