Four Winds Kite Shop - New Creative Enterprises 

New Creative Enterprises [NCE] is our main and most prolific supplier of
 banners, flags, windsculpts, windsocks, door flags, giftware and decorative
 accessories including chimes, signs, bird houses and feeders. Please give us
 a call or come and visit our shop!

 Windsocks - NEW ITEMS 
 Birdhouses - NEW ITEMS 
 Chimes - NEW ITEMS 
 Banners - ALL NEW 

 50" Breezies Windsocks - $19. 95 

There's one simple reason that NCE is one of our biggest supplier of windsocks, banners
 and flags... Their products are the most popular for quality and value.

 55" Windsocks - $17. 95 

Windsocks are such a wonderful way to brigthen up the outside OR inside of your
 home. But don't limit yourself to your house, they easily add a beautiful
 splash of color to anyplace you can think of... Office, Workshop, Sewing room, etc...

 Character Windsocks 
NCE makes 55-inch tufted windsocks of all of your favorite characters --
 The Tasmanian Devil, Tweety Bird, Daffy Duck, Bugs Bunny, Winnie the Pooh,
 Snoopy, Charlie Brown, and Mickey & Minnie Mouse. The images below represent
 a very small portion of NCE's entire collection... There are many, many
 more available! 

 Seasonal Windsocks 
Again, NCE has created a seemingly infinite line of seasonal windsocks --
 Valentine's Day, St.Patrick's Day, Easter, Mardi Gras, Summer, Fourth
 of July, Fall, Thanksgiving, Halloween, Winter, Christmas... If you were to
 take it to the extreme, you'd be able to put a different windsock up
 every day of the year! 

 Fall 

 Christmas 

There are many more houses and feeders created by Kathy Hatch and also
 by Coppertown -- adorable, hand painted items crafted with real
 copper roof lines for a rich, warm, weather-resistant look.

 Bird Houses 
You've seen bird houses before of course, but not like these! These bird houses
 are the cutest we've ever seen. Quality construction ensures these adorable
 bird houses will last for years bringing you pleasure every time you glimpse
 at them. If only the birds appreciated the style of these houses as much as 
 you will!

 Butterfly Houses 

 Gazebos & Feeders 
Draw birds to your porch, or place small plants in these Gazebos and feeders and
hang in your porch. They add a bit of sunshine to any area.

 Kathy Hatch Collections 
There are several Kathy Hatch theme collections. Choose a theme such as Herb or Berries and
 tie in several items around your house. Available items are as follows: Paper Towel Holder,
 Tissue Holder, Basket, Caddy, Candle Box, Gazebo, Butterfly House, Birdhouse, Mini Chime,
 and Birdhouse Chime.

 Chimes - Prices from $5. 95 to $34. 95 
There's nothing as peaceful as hearing a gentle summer breeze dancing through
 a quality set of chimes. We offer several different varieties of chimes,
 from the large Windsong chimes to the delightful Mini chimes.

 Windsong Chimes - $14. 95 to $34. 95 
The Windsong Collection. These bell-tuned chimes feature rich walnut
 finished solid wood accents and anodized aluminum tubes.
 They're the best sounding chimes we've heard!
 They come in a variety of sizes and shapes from 16" to 34" long, and with
 different shaped wind catchers.

 Mini Chimes - $9. 95 and less! 
Choose from over 200 styles. Each one is carefully hand painted and
 made with solid aluminum bars. Each mini chime comes equipped with a hook
 and suction cup for easy display on windows. 9" long x 3" wide.

 Kathy Hatch Chimes 
Our Kathy Hatch chimes are some of our most popular ones. They make excellent
 gifts... after you've picked up a few for yourself first!

 The American Flag - $25. 95 
This 29x49 inch appliqued American Flag will be the crowning piece on your home this
 summer. Fly it with pride! 

 Windsculpts - $17. 95 to $29. 95 
Windsculpts are simply 3-D banners or flags. They have a tremendous amount of color
 and can be utilized to decorate any place you can think of... The Office,
 Workshop, Deck, Dock, House, Porch...

 Mini Windsculpts - 11x15 Inches 
A smaller version of the Windsculpts, they surely don't lack for color and brightness.
 This sample set of mini-windsculpts should give you an idea of the variety available.
 There are dozens more to choose from!

 Applique Flags - 44 Inches 
When blowing in either a gently breeze or a stiff wind, these flags come alive
 with energy. There are many to choose from. Come and visit our store to see
 them for yourself.

 Halloween 

 Fall 

 Winter 

 Flag and Banner Poles 

 5', 2-piece wooden pole - $10. 95 

 Multi-Purpose Bracket - $7. 95 

 Mini Poles 
Welcome - $9. 95 
14" Window Hanger - $. 95 
13" Adjustable Display - $1. 95 

 Mini Flags - 11x15 Inches - $7. 95 
If you don't have the room or just the right place for the larger flags, perhaps
 a mini-flag will do the trick for you. Many of the same patterns, and many
 different ones. We're sure you'll be able to find what you're looking for!

 $. 95