Four Winds Kite Shop - Windsocks Etc. 

 We have HUNDREDS of items in stock and can order THOUSANDS more! 
There are many manufacturers of Windsocks, Banners, Flags and other wind
 devices. Each company has a tremendously huge collection, not even
 mentioning the seasonal items! 
 There is no way we can describe, let alone show, all of the wonderful
 products that are available. Please give us a call or come and visit our
 store.

 NCE Page - LOTS OF NEW ITEMS 
 Windsport Page 

 Wind Fairies - NEW PRODUCT 
 Catch the Wind 
 Laser Lite 

 Wind Fairies - Call for more information! 
These are very unique products. They catch the wind and produce incredible
 visual shows of light and color. Please call us for information and pricing!

 Wind Zephyrs 

 Wind Daisies 

 Wind Runners 

 Wind Fish 

 Other Wind Things 

 Catch the Wind 
Catch the Wind offers a complete line of windsocks, spinsets and poles. There
 is no better way to add a beautiful splash of color your world!

 Spinsocks , the hybrid of windsocks and spinsets, bring motion to the
 color spectrum in the most pleasant way.

 12" Antenna Spinsock $4. 00 
 24" Spinsock $8. 50 
 36" Spinsock $12. 50 
 48" Spinsock $18. 50 
 60" Spinsock $22. 50 
 78" Spinsock $29. 50 

 Rainbow - Blue, Red, Yellow
 Circus - Raspberry, Turquoise, Yellow
 Patriot - Red, White, Blue
 Sunset - Raspberry, Orchid, Turquoise
 Cascade - Teal, Orchid, Blue

Spinsocks are also available in the following sizes: 
 8, 10, 12, 18, 22, 45' and 90-foot lengths!

 Spinsets are the dynamic relative to the Spinsocks. With three
 contra-rotating baskets, the motion is dazzling.

 Small 9", 7", 5" baskets w/ 24" tail $15. 50 
 Large 11", 9", 7" baskets w/ 24" tail $18. 50 

 Windsock Poles are exceptional for getting these wind turbines INTO the
 wind where they can do what they do best... SPIN!

 4' Pole $8. 50 
 6' Pole $10. 50 

Other poles available also!

 50" Laser Windsocks not only effectively catch the wind, but they catch
 the Sun too! These sparkling windsocks sprinkle sunlight everywhere. These
 wonderfully beautiful and reflective windsocks can be used as kite tails or
 kite laundry also. Available colors: Gold, Silver, Purple, Teal, Blue, Red
 Green. $10. 95 

 Laser Lite 

 Laser Lite offers you the sun... the moon... and the stars this year with
 their new magic windsocks, streamers and wands from which beautiful colors
 cascade. Laser Lite also offers irresistible butterflies and hummingbirds
 which flutter through the air hands of happy, young-at-heart people.
 The shimmering colors dance with the sun and the wind and will become a
 whimsical addition to your collections.

 Windsocks are no longer just for the
 outdoors. Decorative tinsel and string socks are as beautiful in the home as
 outside.

 Wind swirls -- Nylon corkscrews spin in the ligthest breeze.

 Decoy windsocks are so realistic that they attract real birds -- remarkably
 lifelike, they waggle like strolling waterfowl when inflated by the wind
 (not shown are the Flamingo and Seagull).