VortexScience.com 

 home 

 How does David Blaine levitate? 

 What is the Matrix? 

 Where you find 'free energy' 

 A Being Called Water 

 Anatomy Of A Vortex 

 AUL Process 

 Bubble, Bubble, Toil And Trouble 

 Forests 

 How Much Can A Forest Handle? 

 Ocean Architects 

 Questions For Science 

 SOS 

 The Tesla Car 

 The Vortex In Action 

 The X Energy 

 Thermal Pollution 

 Tibetian Levitation 

 Why Tech From Nature 

 Will You Benefit From The New Energy Technologies? 

 The Vortex: A Universal Machine 
 Some parts of our universe can be observed directly through our senses or indirectly through instruments that improve our sensing ability, such as those that measure the flow of electricity. These observable parts, sometimes aused by the other parts of the universe, which, although not observable, can be inferred through their effects. It is these causes that are responsible for the physical forms, which we observe such as growth of an organism. The unobservable causes form an inter-related system that can be thought of as the mechanics of the universe. 

 In order to imitate this system of causes one has to be aware of how it works. Understanding the whole system is a considerable task. Here, we shall describe how one part of this wonderful system, the vortex, can be used in a new technology to create machines so far advanced as to challenge the imagination. This technology is based on the mechanics of vortices. 

 Vortices are three dimensional forms by which all media, such as water, air, solids, electricity, magnetism, sound, and light, are generated, maintained and dissipated. They give birth to and disperse our planet and all other "particles" of matter. A vortex contains motion that spirals inward towards a central axis while also moving along that axis as in a whirlpool or a tornado. 

 A vortex drives our planet in such a way that it fits into the universe; moving in its proper orbit around the sun, receiving energy from the sun, compressing that energy through a centripetal vortex (spiraling inward) vortex. That energy is released through a centrifugal vortex (spiraling outward) vortex back into space, thus helping to recycle the energy of the solar system. 

 The sun compresses energy with its several vortices and distributes it from its equator by means of a spiral path to feed all the planets. The planetary space mechanism was discovered by Walter Russell. It operates throughout all its creations, macrocosmos and microcosmos alike; there are no exceptions. 
 As can be seen, there are two major vertices with two smaller side vortices dispelling the idea that a planet has a giant magnet within with its magnetic field coming through the poles. Nature's magnet exists as double magnets as discovered by Walter Russell. Gravity could not exist with only one magnet. Technology based on this principle will assure our survival on this planet. Read more under, "The Cause of Gravity" and &ldquo;Implementation of Natural Principles in Technology&rdquo;. 

 Every single atom operates the same way in order to define its solidity and determine its relationship with every other atom of matter. The atomic elements do not vary in substance; they vary only in their states of motion. The same is true for the galaxies; motion is the same throughout the universe. Therefore, while there are many effects (atoms, planets, stars, and galaxies) they all result from one cause; the motion mechanics of the vortex. The many effects which motion creates have led to much confusion in science for there are those who infer different causes for each effect. However, for each of the effects mentioned there is only the one cause: vortex mechanics. 

 Understanding vortex mechanics is the key to using centripetal and centrifugal motion to accomplish what may seem to be miracles. Can you think of anything more important, basic or exciting than to know about the cause which produced you in the first place, supplies you with constant energy input and does the same for all things in this universe? The mechanics of vortex motion creates, permeates, molds and controls all substance. 

 Vortices form whenever two or more different, flowing media come together. At the surfaces of contact (the boundary layer) there is always a tendency for one layer to fold in upon the other. This is the formative process. Every living creature; moreover, every physical form, in the act of bringing forth its visible form out of its archetypal idea, passes through such a swirling vortex action for manifestation. How could we have missed this Universal Machine? Why have we ignored this vortex mechanism, which performs the work of the universe? 

 Vortex Effects: Everywhere 
 The effects of vortex mechanics can be observed all around us in nature. The vortex motion of swirling and curling in the uterus provides for the development of the human embryo as it forms bodily transportation systems, limbs, our paired organs, sense organs and the most sensitive details of the brain and consciousness. The spiraling vortex motion encircles, defines, feeds and forms all embryos with a liquid medium, whether in the mammalian egg-shaped uterus or the eggs of insects, birds or reptiles. 
 The effects of vortex movement can be seen in the fiber structure of our bones, muscles, joints and in the organization and function of our heart and auricle canals. 

 Our nerve fibers are vortex shaped. 
 The very thought process is a rhythmical, electric wave formation formed by the conjunction of polarized, mated pairs of vortices. 

 The "pipe" which represents your digestive system is, in principle, the same as a pipe which produces levitation and/or mechanical power by running water or air through it. The difference being only speed and a slight alteration of the pipe's cross section. 
 A very beneficial imitation of the vortical movement of water has produced a triumph in vortex engineering with an apparatus for making "Vortexya Health Water". In this device the "life force" is restored to water in the form of an electrical charge, catalytic mineral content and increased molecularly-linked oxygen, all made available for the body. 

 It is a known and demonstrable fact that water exits from a faucet in a vortical flow that will "levitate" an egg or egg-shaped form upwards against the flow of gravity. In a stream, the water flows with a centripetally preponderant twisting action, which builds up energy that flows in the opposite direction to the water flow. It is this energy flow that is used by trout and salmon to dart effortlessly upstream and even climb waterfalls. Fish regulate the intensity of this "upward" pulling force on their bodies by using their gills to enhance the vortex formed around their bodies. 

 The Vortex Harnessed 
 The regulation of vortical water flow by fish can be copied to achieve very efficient propulsion mechanisms in boats and submarines. The prototype "Fish Motor" will provide a silent, non-fuel consuming and non-polluting means for water transportation in the future. 
 Water draining from a bathtub forms a vortex referred to as a bathtub twister. It is an archetypal form of motion that is observed in all water actions such as the flow of creeks and rivers, the curling of waves in oceans, and the body forms of water creatures, as well as the methods they use for propulsion. 

 Experimentation has shown that a pipe, specially designed to enhance the centripetal motion of a liquid around a common axis (the bathtub twister) can be used to extract mechanical energy by driving the shaft of power generators, prime movers and propulsion devices. 

 Vortical motion also occurs in air. Meteorologists map the spiraling air masses of high and low pressures to predict weather conditions. Birds, bumblebees and common house-flies, form and manipulate vortices around their bodies to perform that mysterious phenomenon called flight. The awesome power of tornados and hurricanes come from centripetal, vortical action that gathers energy around a central axis. 

 Vortical processes also control molecular and atomic synthesis and analysis. The vortex machine is at work in the chemical processes of plant growth, in animal forms and in animal behavior. Although vortex motion is more difficult to observe in solids the chemical combinations of photosynthesis, the transportation of saps, the unfurling of new growth in plants are all vertical processes. They can be copied to create chemical substances, emulsions, fluids, or to breakdown pollutants, toxins or just plain water into their constituent parts. Probably one of the most useful applications of vortical processes will be to purify water and air and to desalinate sea water for domestic, agricultural, and industrial use. 

 An agricultural device that came from copying vortical motion is a specially designed plow and a tiller, which operates in the same beneficial way as earthworms and soil creatures such as the mole. 

 The simplified sketch shows an electro gravity space drive having two vortices with their magnetic fields just as in the sketch of our planet above. The two vortices (north and south) provide a magnetic field which pulses at 7 to 8 Hertz a second (Schumann resonance). 

 In the case of the craft the magnetic field is rotated by means of a three phase system similar to electric motors and some spherical capacitors pulsing at close to 111 kHz (Kilohertz). This accelerates and decelerates the magnetic field in the form of a disc reaching 10-13 to 10-14 volt (10 to 100 Billion volt). Researchers have found that when Magnetic fields are accelerated and decelerated another type of energy becomes prominent which ADDS to the energy producing system, thus making over unity devices a possibility. The space drive is mentioned here, because it follows in its design one of nature&rsquo;s basic principles. Read more under the Magnetic Phenomena Menu. 

 Vortex mechanics makes possible a levitating vehicle consisting of two cones (vortices) arranged in such a way as to imitate one of nature&rsquo;s great propulsion systems, which keeps planets, solar systems and galaxies in motion forever. More on this is presented under menus such as Time Machines, Teleporting, Sky Cars and Space Vehicles. 

 Rotating Magnetic Fields, in a four pole arrangement, can produce effects such as unlocking the MAGNETIC MOLECULAR LOCK that holds everything together (the glue of the universe). This can lead to transmutation of the elements and thereby to producing raw materials and new combinations of elements. This is an easy task once the principles of magnetic space energy are understood. Our survival depends on new and safe technology. Every moment in &ldquo;time&rdquo; has a unique magnetic signature - a magnetic structure if you like - which is locked into its own matrix like pattern. 
 The technology, as shown in the upper half of the sketch, consists of a magnetic north pole, in the upper disk, and a magnetic south pole, in the lower disk, which are kept apart. The energy of the two magnetic disks are shown in the lower half of the sketch: The field actions of the discs unite into one central sphere or quasi sphere (at the center of the reddish circle). The sphere is located at the tips of the two magnetic vortices, which, when rotated, cause living matter to become unseen The purpose of this experimental unit is to show that magnetism is the bonding agent that holds molecules together and that magnetism is the property that unlocks the molecular lock. 

 All the natural processes of our planet that occur in air, water, soil, electricity, etc. involve vortical processes and so benefit from the action of this Universal Machine. The imitation of a vortex is the imitation of the invisible mechanics of all the physical systems existing in nature including minerals, plants and other highly organized biological organisms. The mysterious force hidden from the senses is the vortex, which permeates all aspects of the universe. All bodily functions are performed through vortex movement. Your blood would not move one inch in your veins and could not rejuvenate itself one little bit, save for its spiraling vortical movement. No physical effect could be manifested in the form of growth, energy, or any other expression of nature, if it were not for this background movement. 

 Vortical movement occurs not just in your bathtub drain, tornado, and around a black hole over in the next galaxy; no, it is right here, it always has been and always will be. It is the very thing science and technology has over looked. If you leave this generating, manifesting force out of your lab and technology you get only destructive, degenerating consequences as have been witnessed in our few years of technological impact upon this planet. The New Technology should be based on vortical, centripetal movement, the inward, cycloidal, oscillating pulse that activates life. 

 Discover Implosion Technology 

 The devices described above are explored in more depth elsewhere on this website. The environmental and economical advantages of these devices and methods, for both you and the planet, are described as are the principles of "Implosion Technology" upon which these devices operate. Each topic is categorized as either primarily principles or primarily applications and also as introductory or more advanced. These designations appear at the start of each web page. Please give us your feedback. What interests you the most? Where would you suggest improvements in the presentation? How can we make this website more useful for you? 

 Home 
 | Purpose | About 
 | The Vortex | Magnetism 
 | Articles | Feedback 
 | Vortex Store 
 | Login 

 Copyright &copy; 2006 VortexScience.com, all rights reserved.