VortexScience.com 

 home 

 How does David Blaine levitate? 

 What is the Matrix? 

 Where you find 'free energy' 

 What is Vortex Mechanics? 

 The Transparent Universe 

 Gravity. 

 Magnetism 

 Transmutation 

 Observe Nature's Toolbox 

 Motion is all there is 

 Designing machines via natural principles 

 Fuel-less air and water propulsion 

 Harness Tornado Power 

 Vortex Water Systems 

 Vortex Mechanics and Your Health 

 Teachers & Artists 

 Engineers & Designers 

 HARNESSING TORNADO POWER. 
 This new and nondestructive technology is applicable throughout all fields of life. Present technology is both dangerous, destructive, and wasteful. Examples include nuclear waste, pollution of air, water and soils, fossil fuel depletion, chemical contamination of food throughout production and water chlorination. These are all harmful to nature and biological systems and we are suffering the consequences at alarming rates. 
 We propose solutions which focus on the following aspects: A new energy source for fuel, power generations and prime movers and new transportation systems by air, water and land as outlined in other menus and links in this website. No matter what mediums are used, said systems are possible only by employing centripetal motion or implosion exactly like it is happening in a Tornado. Since many animals in nature use parts of these propulsion system, we shall make comparisons. Viktor Schauberger&rsquo;s Water and air Turbines based on the Tornado &ndash; Vortex principle will be discussed in details together with graphics, research done with a number of models including construction details with plans for your own investigations. We show past and current stages of research. Bird and insect flight, marine life propulsion and many other effects in nature will be sited to point out that the VORTEX movement is the ONLY movement nature uses to produce its many effects. 

 Home | Purpose | About | The Vortex | Magnetism | Articles | Feedback | Vortex Store | Login 

 Copyright &copy; 2006 VortexScience.com, all rights reserved.