Magnetism from VortexScience.com 

 home 

 How does David Blaine levitate? 

 What is the Matrix? 

 Where you find 'free energy' 

 What is Vortex Mechanics? 

 The Transparent Universe 

 Gravity. 

 Magnetism 

 Transmutation 

 Observe Nature's Toolbox 

 Motion is all there is 

 Designing machines via natural principles 

 Fuel-less air and water propulsion 

 Harness Tornado Power 

 Vortex Water Systems 

 Vortex Mechanics and Your Health 

 Teachers & Artists 

 Engineers & Designers 

 Magnetism: Build up, Structure and Utilization of Magnetic Fields in Nature and Technology 

 Magnetism is an expression of space fabric which by means of its mechanics and mirror projection demonstrates the almost unlimited possibilities for man to advance his understanding of the universe he lives in and apply this new knowledge to imitate that, which exists already in Nature in his technology.

 So far, we have only managed to discover the generating effect of electricity when according to Faraday, Maxwell and others a conductor is moved through a magnetic field. This is done with great effort; as a matter of fact it is so inefficient that we have to expend more energy on the input side than is available at the output. This of course is the same with the rest of our technology including combustion.

 Fig. 1 - click to enlarge 

 All objects in all of this universe are the mirror projection of their counter part which reside in the Counter World or invisible universe where with the help of space mirrors mass is holographically projected into this physical dimension. This process of projection happens along the so called space geometry, a system of nature for the first time discovered and used by Walter Russell in his transmutation experiments (see wave cycle Fig. 1 )

 Since all mass is manifested through this holographic mirror projection mechanism we will assume, at least for the moment that this same manifesting process happens with magnetism, electrostatics, hydraulics and other pressure building systems which exist with every polarized particle in this universe.

 The magnetic field of a permanent bar magnet is an EXPANDING field. It is important to see it that way, because whatever expands needs to contract first. Needless to say, contraction and expansion is a simultaneous process, but to illustrate this graphically we have to consider contraction (centripetal motion) first (see Fig. 1 and Fig. 2 ).

 It is the office of contraction by means of two vortices to bundle up space fabric into two forces by means of polarization and then disperse or rather expand it into the well known magnetic field lines which are clearly photographed and thereby made visible as shown in Fig. 3 .

 Fig. 2 - click to enlarge 

 Fig. 2 is a painting of the author which shows at the center of the bar magnet a space mirror which projects the two vortices in opposite directions. Besides giving the two vortices direction it also serves as the matrix containing the information to continuously project magnetic energy along the vortices.

 Consider this for a moment, Ether mass is drawn into the matrix (the idea or soul of an object) in order to manifest itself, in our case as a magnetic field, and since we have no control over this contraction process (most of us don&rsquo;t even know how it works) it is obvious that we have to come from the expansion end which is the magnetic field.

 Coming back to the vortex compression process one more time we note that this mechanics can not be sensed or made visible in any way. The only way to determine the outcome or effect in any way is by way of deduction. Start looking at those many compression mechanisms nature is using such as hurricanes, tornados, water hoses over the ocean, solar systems, and Galaxies right down to the atom, all is Vortex. There can&rsquo;t be no other system throughout this universe, because ALL IS ONE and why do we always think there might be an exception? Fortunately we have Walter Russell&rsquo;s space geometry to consider, which gives clues on how to approach technology in ways much further advanced than what is around today.

 A new definition of the magnetic field 

 Fig. 3 - click to enlarge 

 The magnetic field around a bar magnet is a dynamic system of warping or modifying space fabric. The flux line or cable of force (please look at photograph Fig. 3 ) is a vortex whose outer surface is occupied by ionized charges (in white) and the inner by magnetism which appears on the picture as a red dot. The change from magnetism to electricity takes place in this flux line&rsquo;s wall; therefore, it really has no dimension. Immediately we can recognize the potential between the outer and the inner, like an anode - cathode situation. The inner surface of the flux line is an isolated reality of its own. The wall of the flux line (as in a tube) is no &ndash; mans land. Effectively the thickness of the flux line wall has no fixed value and becomes greater as the energy content of the flux line increases. It exists neither in our &ldquo;space &ndash; time&rdquo; nor in any other for it is the crossing point between two realities. It appears like a moebius paper strip which has only one side seen from inside and out.

 These pressure lines are vortices, which spin rapidly with a centrifugal force keeping the outer reality away from itself. It is this spinning of outside reality away from itself, isolating itself to external reality and effectively eliminating inertia.

 Fig. 4 - click to enlarge 

 The red dot of the pressure line is something like the WAVESHAFT of the vortex. It exhibits a different TIME RATE FLOW than the outer reality. Possible the inside of the flux line has the qualities of a no place and every place. Perhaps a chart of Walter Russell will make it more clearly on how magnetic fields interact (see Fig. 4 ). We have two bar magnets, interacting with each other forming a magnetic sphere or quasi sphere ( as long as they are kept apart ) indicating that when pressure lines (lines of force) of a north and south pole come together, combine in an unification process. Dr. Russell would call this a &ldquo;uniting equator&rdquo; in opposition to a&rdquo;dividing equator&rdquo; which is present in the center of every magnet. This joining of two magnetic fields, coming from a north and a south pole of two separate magnets creates a magnetic sphere which is not the case with a dividing equator. THE FIELDS in case of the unification process have changed to a centripetal movement. They are now CONTRACTING LONGITUDENAL FIELDS and not EXPANDING TRANSVERSE FIELDS as found on a single magnet. This shift from transverse to longitudinal is inherent already in the field lines themselves and being vortices as they are, they can easily shift from one to the other expression when required in case of technological arrangements.

 A static charge is an electron oscillation on a smaller scale and higher frequency than that of an atom. It is an oscillation of electron dimension. While a static charge exists, it remains uncoupled to any other charge so it has no inertia. It is a scalar point having magnitude only. When coupled to another charge it becomes a vector, having both magnitude and direction exhibiting inertia. Once a static charge is coupled to another charge it immediately creates motion between the two charges. They are either drawn together or pushed apart. This motion is limited by inertia and becomes finite in magnitude.

 Both the magnetic field and electricity are dynamic systems. But the electrostatic charge is a static system. When a dynamic system is saturated with a static system, extraordinary things happen (see Fig.5, 6, and 7 of experimental machinery in the next section ). Both organized and unorganized systems break down in chaos.

 If the static charges within a magnetic field are intense enough, the difference in potential between the magnetic poles that allow a magnetic field to form are neutralized. The magnetic field breaks down, causing unstable eddies to form. These eddies allow the uncoupled static charges to couple, creating random magnetic flows, and motion is created. As the motion builds up the static charges couple to other charges in a chain reaction. This depletes the magnetic field of static charges and the magnetic field is re &ndash; instated. Once the magnetic field begins to reform, it adds a directional push to the static charges which creates motion. In effect, this interaction creates the pusher and the pushee. It creates something that pushes and the something to push against.

 Undoing the magnetic lock. 

 Fig. 5 - click to enlarge 

 We will now consider the PYRAMID MOLECULAR VIBRATORY EXCHANGER UNIT (for short, PMVE) illustrated in Fig.5 , Fig.6 , and Fig.7 , a piece of hardware to demonstrate that magnetism is the property that unlocks the molecular lock. This unit is shown as a research project on a web site called " Magnetic Energy to heal the planet ". We shall use it here to explain the action between two ROTATING magnetic fields and an electrostatic charge.

 1. Unit includes an acrylic pyramid located between two large spinning magnets of specific composition. 2. Purpose is to show that magnetism holds molecules together and that magnetism is the property that unlocks the molecular lock. 3. Causes living matter to be unseen. 4. Suggested use is to explore the uses and properties of magnetic energy. 5. Requires an electrostatic generator, or what is called, the " Romag Generator " for which plans will be available soon under a different Menu to supply power.

 Fig. 6 - click to enlarge 

 The purpose of this unit is to show that magnetism is the property that unlocks the molecular lock, providing evidence that altering the vibrations of molecules can exchange matter into a pure energy form that the human eye can not see. The word &ldquo;exchange&rdquo; is used here because all matter has a template, a record, or a Matrix that is free of environmentally caused changes. Molecules are held together by magnetic force; this force can be alleviated, allowing the molecules to separate, leaving the molecules that are naturally attracted to each other remaining in tact. For example, injury and disease caused by environmental influences are not part of an organism&rsquo;s matrix; therefore, after an organism is subjected to the energy field of this unit, injury and disease are no longer part of this organism.

 Referring back to Fig. 1 we can see the actual projection mechanism of the invisible universe in its wave mechanics where energy comes into existence by means of contracting and expanding vortices, we can recognize for an example the pyramid shape within the cube on the far right side of Fig. 1 and it is not hard to see the similarities in the structure of the PMVE device.

 Fig. 7 - click to enlarge 

 This unit (see Fig.5, 6 and 7) has an arrangement of pyramids which when magnetically activated, serve as test chambers where matter is exchanged. The magnets that rotate above and below the pyramids produce vortexing MAGNETIC fields that encapsulate the pyramids. Two walls of wires on opposite sides of the pyramids are charges with flowing magnetic current from another unit to produce a magnified SOUND OF VIBRATION that aids in creating the proper fields for matter exchanging.

 The wires that line the pyramids aid in producing REFRACTORY LIGHT which becomes part of the process that makes the object under test APPEAR as though it is not there. The arrangement of hardware causes sound waves to influence the magnetic energy to manifest as PULSES. Magnetic pulses produce powerful VIBRATORY CHANGES to the molecular structure of molecules that change the object into energy that human eyes cannot see. What changes is the VISIBLE MATTER.

 Let&rsquo;s look at illustration Fig.5 of the unit and try to understand its function.

 The test object, in our case, a live hamster is placed inside the small pyramid with an acrylic door, hinged on one side is closed. One panel of the large pyramid is not used, but the flat wire remains in place. This open side allows a direct viewing of the small pyramid.

 After the magnetic current is circuited into the walls of wire parts #20 and #24 (see picture of PMVU), the top magnet is rotated using part # 7. When the speed is 2000 to 2400 rpm during the 1 &frac14; minutes of charge time, several magnetic charging actions happen.

 1. The wire part # 12 gets charged. 2. The wires Part #17 get charged. This charging of the wires causes the top magnet to follow these charges in ROUTE TO ATTRACTING THE BOTTOM MAGNET WHICH NOW GETS PULLED AROUND in the same direction. 3. This rotating of the bottom magnet completes another magnetic circuit between the bottom location of the wire walls Parts #20 and #24 and the 1 &frac12;&rdquo; side section of this magnet.

 After the 1 &frac14; minute charge time the bottom magnet, being influenced by the magnetic circuit to the walls of wire, continues to rotate serving as a rotating stabilizer that now pulls the Top magnet around, at a somewhat slower speed. All of this magnetic activity creates SOUND that is turning into waves that then cause magnetism to come out at pulses.

 The center point of this massive magnetic action is the small pyramid that starts a vibration likened to a salt shaker on a shaking table. The hamster has now been changed into a form of energy that the human eye cannot see. The human eye is only able to perceive 24 pictures per second, below and beyond that it cannot sense. What has changed is the VISIBLE matter.

 All of the magnetic activity was caused to happen as this newly formed energy was being setup in the wires AROUND the pyramids. This is why the small pyramid is held from above with the length of the same wire (part #17), a wire that also contacts the wires around the large pyramid.

 When it is stated that the hamster is subjected to VIBRATION, we are referring to an enhanced molecular vibration. All matter vibrates at the molecular level and enhancing this vibration is a natural process. This molecular shaking does not cause harm to the hamster.

 This unit demonstrates that Atoms can be changed without heat. Atoms are molecular structures that have unique RYTHMIC VIBRATIONS and are in a constant state of change. The bottom line for understanding ALL universal action and events is that there is NOTHING BUT energy, which is in a constant state of change. All energy is ALWAYS forming and reforming until what we call MATTER results.

 All matter is made of various combinations of magnetic molecular structures which maintain a unified field of cohesion through a synchronistic vibration. The energy we call matter is constantly changing. Some energy is changing systematically faster than other energy. The molecules of an energy system, a rock for example, are held together by an attract force that is unique, harmonious, and synchronistic. Objects attract to each other to the degree they are similar. For every structure that is known (whatever name we have given it) there equal structures being made, off shoots, if you will. Every component of energy (or matter) generates energy that is constant and producing the pattern of its structure. All matter sings a unique song that can be slowed down and formulated into additional matter under the right conditions (see menu under transmutation of the elements ). For every energy structure combination that we perceive there are a structure combination outside of our perception (the counter world, see transmutation &ndash; gravitation and these structures (matrixes) blend into an unending variety of combinations.

 A change in substance NEED NOT NECESSARILY BE a change in molecular structure. Molecular structures can (and do) maintain their OWN integrity while simply incorporating themselves into DIFFERENT structural formations.

 If the PMVE unit is used as a tool to expand what just has been stated, it will be a great advance for science. The advancement will be in finding that an intertwining of magnetic circuitry with electrostatic fields produces the ability to MONITOR what is called a magnetic pulse- rate. For example, when the hamster is under test inside the small pyramid the very STRUCTURE of this animal becomes the focal point for the conductive activity from within the total generating force. The hamster is made of elements with every single element emitting TESTABLE magnetic responses that are exclusive to each element.

 1. Each element has a given magnetic pulse-rate. 2. Each element has a given magnetic intensity. 3. Each element will respond with a GIVEN polarity depending on the conditions surrounding it. Thus, while the hamster is in this new PURE ENERGY state we might find that to exist as this particular animal, the creature must have certain essential properties uniquely specifiable for each part of each element. We might say the properties are essential in the sense that as the PMVE unit is shut down all of the elements must be conserved. Naturally, the prove of conservation is the fact that the hamster is unharmed.

 The applications of this unit are nearly endless. This basic model can be extrapolated from to produce a vast array of devices incorporating this unit&rsquo;s principles. One day GROUPS of this unit just might be arranged to REPLICATE all kinds of elements from other elements. People will use these principles to explore other dimensions, to travel by teleportation, to create unimaginable works of art, to explore micro-cosmos and macro-cosmos and perform countless other endeavors.

 The universal mind is offering this unit to us to expand our understanding of the universe and to heal the ailments we have brought upon ourselves through environmental pollution. The human body is designed to live for countless years if it is free of disease and impurity. Some people who have mastered the ability to raise their vibrations are naturally performing a function very similar to this unit. This is done through what the writer would call &ldquo;organic telekinesis&rdquo; where the pineal gland together with the head cavity resonates at a certain level of vibration producing similar effects as the unit just described, but the telekinetic effects can be produced strictly technologically also. The technological approach is the preferred method, because it is for everybody to live a long, healthy, and happy life.

 Please be aware that this Pyramid Molecular Vibratory Exchanger Unit is strictly a research project at the present which has been initiated by William Baumgartner. More info is available on this PMVE from " Magnetic Energy to Heal the Planet " under "Pyramid Unit". As can be seen we have added some more drawings (Fig.5, 6, and 7) to make this new magnetic technology more understandable and more of these energy patterns will be shown in the near future. 

 Home | Purpose | About | The Vortex | Magnetism | Articles | Feedback | Vortex Store | Login 

 Copyright &copy; 2006 VortexScience.com, all rights reserved.