LLL! Legends of Lost Legionnaires (and Supporting Cast) 

 of Lost Legionnaires 
 (and supporting cast) 
 [4-21-02]

A couple links updated 

 These pages are for information on the version(s) of the Legion of Super-Heroes prior to 1994's Zero Hour mini-series.

 Legion of Super-Heroes Volume Four 

I started reading the Legion at Volume 3 #37 (the death of Superboy), but was really hooked by LSH v.4 #1-61. I really enjoyed the intricate plots, gritty art, mix of adult themes and innocent teen heroism, and the characters (when they were recognizable).

 Miscellaneous Vol. 4 Links 

 Will The Real Legion Of Super-Heroes Please Stand Up? , an examination of SW6 and the "clones" question.

 Bierbaums Q&A , a discussion with the Volume 4 co-plotters/scripters.

 An Essay on LSH v4 

 Five Years Into the Future , a V4 preview published in Amazing Heroes #172, October 1989.

 Keith Giffen-style Legionnaires , fan-made action figures of Kent Shakespeare, Devlin O'Ryan, and Laurel Gand.

 Legion of Super-Heroes V4 Chat #1, 1989 (6th item), a "chat report" with the creators, prior to V4 #1.

 The Knights of the Thirty #1 , a follow-up
story based on Vol. 4 #5 (the Mordruverse story), written by many and
compiled by Tony Pi. The "cover" of that issue: (26k JPG)

 The Origin of Volume Four? , an old Usenet post

 Elseworlds, Hypertime, and other Timelines 

With the invention of "Hypertime," DC Comics now has a way to explain away every continuity retcon or imaginary story. In short, everything happened -- somewhere. Here's some postings around the time of Zero Hour as we tried to come to grips with a new timeline:

 What if the DC 30th century characters lived
in the 20th century? 

 Whatever Happened to Earth-One? 

 Time Goes Rond and Rond 
 Another Trapper Theory 

 Preboot Roll Call 

The Legion had, well, a legion of members over the years leading up to Zero Hour . A few dedicated fans still have pages proving information about these now-gone character incarnations. 

 Kent Shakespeare, the original Impulse 

 Mon-El/Valor 

 Princess Projectra/Sensor Girl/Queen Projectra 

 Karate Kid 

 Phantom Lass/Apparition 

 Dawnstar 

 Blok 

 Devlin O'Ryan 
 Tenzil
Kem/Matter-Eater Lad 
-->
 Tasmia
Mallor/Shadow Lass 

 Chuck
Taine/Bouncing Boy 

 Luornu
Durgo/Triplicate Girl/Duo Damsel/Mono Maid 

 Complete
Pre- ZH LSH Roster 

 Legion of Sim-Heroes 

 For a while, I was addicted to the Maxis game The Sims . I made a few Skins so I could make some Legion characters interact. So far, I've only done skins for the founding members of the LSH and Kent Shakespeare.
 (Seen here, Saturn Girl has just fallen in love with Cosmic Boy -- with Live Wire looking on!) 

 Lots of Legion Links 

 Legion of
Super-Resources 

The mother of all LSH link lists

 The LSH: Online Companion Volume 5 

Despite its name, this site boasts Volume 4-era character bios, cover images, synopses, and other cool stuff.

 Mr. Reaus' Pre-Boot LSH Tribute Page 

Someone else who can't let go.

 The Legion Questionnaire 

Fifty questions on pre- ZH continuity - if you rate high enough, you're admitted to the LSH! (Requires Java)

 A Pocket Universe Primer 

An examination of Legion-related time paradoxes.

 Vol. 4
explained 

Vol. 4 #1-15, Annual 1 annotated

-->

 LSH
Postcards 

Scanned art and text from the rare Legion postcards, sold during the Vol.
4 era 

 Omnicom
Archives 

An email APA maintained during Vol. 4

 Filling the "Five-Year Gap" 

Bridging Vol. 3 and 4 with comics that never were. Summaries and covers.

 LegionMUSH Nostalgia
Page 

My homage to the Vol. 4 online RPG

 LSH Creators 

 Al Gordon's booth 

The COMICON.com home for former LSH writer and inker Al Gordon

 Bite Me Fan Boy 

Information about former LSH co-plotter and penciller Keith Giffen 

 Keith Giffen Resource Page 

Similar subject matter as above

 Legion of Super-Heroes Copyright &copy; 2002 D.C. Comics, Inc. 

 ABODE - go home! | Address any comments and suggestions to mohundro@eskimo.com