The "origin" of Legion Volume 4 

 From a Usenet post, date and author unknown 

 The Origin of Legion of
Super-Heroes Volume Four 

Information recorded by Agent Erin from tapes in the chambers under 666
Fifth Avenue:

 Darkness. 

"The, ahhhhh, rrretcons have been successful. Ahhhhhh, the Legion has been
errrased."

"But damn that Carrrlson for attracting so much attention! You, ahhh, you
said he would be discrrreet!"

"It worrrked, didn't it? The Legion is no more and their fans have, ahhh,
abandoned them with angerrr and disgust..."

 Planet Blackball. 

A lone figure wanders the scarred wasteland, arriving at a miserable
hovel. He pulls aside the grimy curtain and steps inside.

"Hey, Fleming!" he says, greeting the one-armed hobo within.

"Can't talk now Giff. Gotta go. Seeya later."

Fleming hustled out of the hovel, leaving Giff wide-eyed. "But you called
me here..."

"No he didn't," said a voice from the shadows, "I did."

"Wha -- Tom! You old Beerbommian sonovagun! What are you doing here?"

"I want to start it up again Giff. Remember the dream? Remember how it felt...

 Space Cruiser bound for Earth. 

"I can't wait to see Earth. Maybe I can get a job..."

"Hey, Giff, gotta sit closer to her! Little wiggle in that--"

"That's P.J. Levitz! Maybe he has a job..."

"What? That chick, Mary, she says someone's going to kill Levitz--"

"Got him! OK, got him!"

"Look, it's VOLUME FORCE!"

"We're really going to make a difference..."

Giff shrugged inside his overcoat. "Okay, Tom. I'll do it. But you realize
my drawing has gone to hell."

"If I wanted an artist, there are some Image boys as good as you ever
were... I need a plotter. "

"Say, Tom, what would you have done if I'd said no?"

"Why, it never occurred to me."

Giff smiled. "You sonova -- so who else is in? Mary?"

Tom nodded. "Of course." He paused, and kicked a pebble. "There's just
one problem. McCraw is working with Dced..."

 NOT THE END. 

 Return to Legends of Lost Legionnaires 

 ABODE

 WHO

 about steve, family, folks, writing 

 roleplaying, comic books 

 PLAY

 LLL!

 legion of super-heroes