LLL! Time Goes Rond and Rond 

 USENET posting from 1993

From: Tony Pi 
Subject: LSH #53 (Spoilers and Speculations) 

 THIRD TRAPPER THEORY: The following is a theory about LSH #53, and the identity of the narrator in the bottom bit. If it isn't the original Time Trapper (First Trapper), the who's talking to Glorith (Second Trapper)? Here's a hypothesis I'd like to call

 TIME GOES ROND AND ROND 

 1994. Lar Gand falls victim to Glorith, the Time Trapper's scheme. Her arrogance was responsible for the death of Valor, a catastrophic event which fractured the time stream. Without the source of legendary inspiration, the Legion of Super-Heroes would never be, and the rise of Mordru would be inevitable. The sudden paradox shook the very fabric of the future.

 FADE TO WHITE 

 2995. The Glorithverse was unraveling, the specter of Andrew Nolan, bearing the dying body of Glorith, heralded the return of the Mordruverse. With Glorith's disastrous plot shifting the cosmic balance to Mordru, the two timelines were merging (LSH #44).

 Mordruverse. Rond Vidar realizes with horror that Glorith has failed in her role as the new Puppet Master. Replacing the pieces of the old timeline were not enough; Glorith was unable to strike a cosmic balance with Mordru. He inevitably triumphs. But... there was an alternative. Instead of the two-way struggle between Mordru and Glorith, someone MUST be there to ensure that neither wins. Someone MUST secretly manipulate the timestream as well, behind Glorith's back. That someone must defeat both Mordru and Glorith, and shape the universe to his own will.

Rond Vidar rushes to the site of Glorith's ritual. Glorith lay dying there. Behind him, he sees Andrew and Mysa approaching, fleeing Mano and his guards. Rond Vidar quickly informs Mysa that she must assist him in completing a second ritual immediately. The fate of the universe was dependent upon this. Together, they wove a spell in the bloodstained snow, one which would permit Rond Vidar to retain this body and mind, including the knowledge gleaned from Mordru, in the Glorithverse. Also, the ritual also grants him access to Glorith's power over time, allowing him to use Glorith's power covertly. As the ritual nears completion, with Andrew carrying the body of Glorith to the center of the circle, the critical crossing point of the timelines is reached. Andrew appears to Jacques and Rokk, and appeals for them to give Mysa their love ... and the second ritual is completed, and the Glorithverse Mysa is able to break free of Mordru's enchantment momentarily, and the Mordruverse is staved off momentarily.

At the same time, the Mordruverse Rond (henceforth RVidar) is able to remain in the new timeline. Yes, the timeline is still falling apart, so he had to act fast. Appearing in Brainy's lab, he finds the Time Cube as a focus for his newfound power, and retreats into the past to begin his attempt to catch the timeline. He retraces the time cube back to the moment the Glorithverse Rond had invented it, and negligently leaves the controls on, which caused the later Jamm incident (LSH annual #4).

Now that RVidar was able to examine Glorith's failures, he begins his plot to cause Mordru and Glorith's downfalls. What better way to eliminate the two threats than by using their own powers? Using power stolen from Glorith, he steals temporal copies of his 'contemporary' Legionnaires, and places them in stasis below the Time Institute. For Luornu, Tenzil and Dirk, it was a simple task to freeze their memories, while regressing their physical growth without encountering the same debilitating factors.

His chose tool of conquest, Reflecto, was killed however. Glorith has sensed that Stig Ah would have been her downfall, and sent the Molecule Master to murder him. He had to create a new Reflecto. He chose Devlin O'Ryan, a boy who was originally destined to die of null radiation poisoning after Triple Strike. To trigger O'Ryan's latent power, a strong electrical shock was necessary. But RVidar's Lightning Boy copy was strangely pacifist ... RVidar's intent for O'Ryan to join his created heroes would necessitate the warping of Garth's mind so that he is much more aggressive and hot-headed. Using hypnotic abilities learned from his father, RVidar changed Garth's personality to an unacceptable extreme. Now, through his tampering with the timeline, RVidar provided the means for Lightning Boy to trigger Devlin's reflection power (LSH #25) in the year 2995. Now, Devlin was granted second life in the modified Glorithverse, and goes on to defeat Mordru, then Glorith. RVidar was able to drain Glorith of her power completely during that battle. He was now the new Puppet master, lord over time.

With Glorith defeated, and Mordru as well, he had intended to reshape the universe to his new order. How fortunate for him that in this universe, his counterpart has the love of a Daxamite Legionnaires. He could use this link to aid him in his reshaping of the universe. Only one thing remained to be fixed ... the Legendary Source of Inspiration, Valor.

RVidar, in a flash of purple, abducts the SW6 Valor. By this time, the other SW6 Legionnaires were beginning to feel the unraveling of the Glorithverse, and spin through time towards the 20th century to solve this paradox. Meanwhile, the Glorithverse Rond Vidar fixes the Time Beacon viewer and sees himself, with a Guy Gardner haircut, influencing the SW6 Time Bubble, causing the Bubble to collide with a time barrier. Rond Vidar of Glorithverse leaps into a Time Bubble, and speeds into the past...

 1994. Lar Gand dies at Glorith's hand.

 Does RVidar prevent the total collapse of the 30th century timeline? What will become of RVidar and the Glorithverse Rond Vidar? Will it become the Vidarverse? 

I guess we have to wait until Zero Hour.

Tony Pi 
Invisible Kid @ LegionMUSH 

 Return to Legends of Lost Legionnaires 

ABODE

WHO

 about steve, family, folks, writing 

 roleplaying, comic books 

PLAY

LLL!

legion of super-heroes