15-DAY REVISED YANGTZE RIVER TOUR 

 15 DAY YANGTZE RIVER CRUISE & TOUR 

DAY 1 Depart your country. 

2 Arrive Beijing. Met by local guide and transferred to your
hotel in the 
central district. Balance of day free. 

3 Beijing - Guide will take you to Tiananmen Square, the
Forbidden City and 
a Walking tour of the Hutongs (old neighborhoods). Balance of day
free. 
Ask your guide about Xiushu Market on Changon Ave. for great
bargains. 
BL Dinner on your own tonight. 

4 Beijing - Guide will take you through the countryside to the
GREAT WALL 
at Mutianyu to include the cable car both ways onto the Wall and
back. 
On the way back you will stop at a village to see village life
before going 
back to your hotel. BLD Dinner at a Daijiacun Restaurant with
floor show. 

5 Beijing - Guide will take you to the Summer Palace of the
Empress Dowager 
during the Qing Dynasty and visit the very beautiful Lama Temple
and Great 
Bell Museum. Special Performance of the Peking Opera this
evening. BLD 

6 Beijing/Xian by afternoon air. In the morning you will visit
the Temple of 
Heaven before lunch. After lunch you will transfer to the airport
for your 
flight to Xian. In Xian you will be met by the local guide and
transferred to 
your hotel. Special Traditional Dumpling Dinner this evening. BLD 

7 Xian. Your guide will take you to the famous Terra Cotta
Warriors site and 
to the HuaQing Pools once the Summer Palace of the Tang Dynasty.
Stop 
at the Jade Carving workshop to see craftsmen carving Jade. Early
dinner 
tonight as you will be attending the beautiful Tang Dynasty Show.
BLD 

8 Xian/Chongqing by air. Guide will take you to the Provincial
Museum in 
Xian in the morning and a stop at the old Muslim Quarters after
lunch before 
going to the airport. In Chongqing you will be met by the local
guide and 
taken to dinner before transferring to the cruise boat for early
boarding. BLD 

9 Yangtze River Cruise - Details in the brochure. Welcoming
Dinner tonight 
by the Victoria Cruise staff. BLD 

10 Yangtze River Cruise - Sail through the Qutang Gorge. Pass
through the 
Wu Gorge. Evening show tonight. BLD 

11 Yangtze River Cruise - Sail through the Xiling Gorge and then
an off boat 
excursion to see the new Three Gorges Dam being built. Farewell
Banquet 
tonight with floor show. BLD 

12 Arrive Wuhan after lunch. A local guide will come on board to
meet you and 
transfer you to the airport for your flight to Shanghai. Some
sightseeing in 
Wuhan if there is a time lag. Met in Shanghai by the local guide
and transferred 
to your hotel. BLD 

13 Shanghai - Guide will take you to the Yu Garden in the old
district known as the 
#1 garden in China. After lunch you will go to the new National
Museum which 
is not to be missed. After an early dinner you will attend the
famous Shanghai 
Acrobats performance. BLD 

14 Shanghai/Suzhou/Shanghai - Your local guide will transfer you
to the train 
station for a short one hour ride to Suzhou known as the Venice
of the East and 
for its formal gardens. Guide will meet you on the platform and
take you to the 
Humble Administrator's Garden 2nd best in China. You will visit
Tiger Hill 
Park, a Silk Factory, Double Sided Embroidery Institute and take
a short ride 
on one of the canals winding through the city. After dinner in
Suzhou you will 
take an evening train back to Shanghai. BLD 

15 Shanghai/Home - Your guide will transfer you to the airport
for your flight home. 

Included: 1st Class Hotels, most meals, transportation and
transfers, English 
speaking guides, airport taxes if 6 or more people, sightseeing
as listed, 
entertainment as listed, cruise with off boat excursions
included, and pre tour 
information booklet written by Dave Bruels and updated each year.

Not included: Tips to guides and drivers, visa application (we
furnish forms 
and instructions) airport taxes if less than 6 people, and any
expenses of a 
personal nature or not specifically listed as included. 

PRICES: 

2-4 Persons $2395 pp dbl. occ. Airport taxes extra
+ International Air quoted on booking. 
6-8 Persons $2195 pp dbl. occ. Domestic Airport
Taxes included + International Air. 
10 Persons + $1995 pp dlb. occ. Domestic Airport
Taxes included and a National Guide 
will accompany the group. + International Air quoted at booking .