About Interlake China Tours 

 INTERLAKE CHINA TOURS, INC. 

 We are a tour operator with an office in Seattle, Washington
since 1992. We specialize in China Only to people who are looking
to see more than just the sights of China but to experience the
culture of China as well. Special interests can always be worked
into your tour with the abundance of diversity that China as well
as Tibet has to offer to all that come to visit and tour. 

 We do custom group tours for organizations, universities and
clubs with special interests or needs. Our specialty is doing
customized tours for two to four people and individuals who have
special interests or just want a tour that doesn&#146;t fit a
standard mold tour. Limited Group tours are available also
including the magnificent Yangtze River Cruises or Li River
Cruise that can be added on or included. 

 Our tour planner and owner, Dave Bruels, has traveled China
for the past 11 years and over 35 trips to some of the far
corners of the country. Dave has lectured in China under the
United Nations "Star Program" and worked with
government agencies, companies and travel services during his
tenure in China. Working with guides, travel services, inspecting
hotels, seeing some of the various entertainment shows and new
sights are just part of his job in providing great tours for our
customers. 

 As new parts of China are opening up to tourism, Dave travels
to each new area to check out the facilities first hand so that
our customers are assured of the accommodations and sightseeing
meeting their level of comfort and interest. Whether it is some
of the remote spots such as the Three Sister Mountain areas,
forest areas of beautiful JiuZhaiGou Valley with its water falls
and beautiful natural colored water lakes, Huangshan Mountains
accessible only by cable car, or the recently opened up areas of
Yunnan province such as LiJiang, Dali, Shangri-La and
Xishuangbanna with over 27 minority peoples each with their own
colorful clothing and culture, you will have the experience of a
lifetime. You might even want to visit the only pure matriarchal
society left in the world in the Muso people of Lugo Lake at 6000
feet deep in the mountains of Yunnan province. They never marry,
have no jails, no police, no city but live around a fantasy like
lake surrounded by mountains and yes there is a guest house
available to stay with modern facilities. 

 Dave writes most of his own materials that are updated each
year giving his customers the latest in travel information within
China. China is changing so rapidly with many modern conveniences
that 10 years ago were not even available. China is still a great
contrast of the very old and the very new which can be seen all
over China. Houses still built without nails or modern equipment
and yet beautiful modern hotels and buildings being built in the
larger cities. 

 Most people only go to China once in their life time or maybe
a second trip because they were amazed at what a fantastic
experience they had the first time. If you are looking for that
kind of trip whether you have one week or four weeks time
available, call or email Dave and see what he can plan for you.
He can plan a tour to fit most budgets or to your special
requirements. Photography and people are his hobbies and you will
find him a wealth of information about touring China. 

 We are looking forward to serving you. 

 Back to main page!