Culture 

 JING'S
CHINA TOURS 

 NORTH CHINA & MONGOLIA - 17 Days 
 (click on the tour for
details) 

 Includes: Beijing,
Datong, Baotou, Hohhot, Xian 
Shanghai and Suzhou 

 Price: From $1695 pp
dlb. occ. and up. 

 Jing will be your guide in
Beijing taking you to all the great sights including the
Forbidden City, Tiananmen Square, The Great Wall, Temple of
Heaven and many more. Then on to Datong to see the Yun Gang
Grottoes, Huayan Monastery and the 700 year old "Hanging
Temple". On to Baotou to see the Wu Dang Zhao Temple known
as the "Little Potala Palace" of Tibet. See the edge of
the desert and the "Singing Sands". You can even take a
camel ride out onto the desert sands. Visit the Grasslands and
stay in a modern Mongolian Yurt and visit a Mongolian family in
their home. In Xian you will see the famous Terra Cotta Warriors,
Summer Palace of the Tang Dynasty and other great sights. In
Shanghai you will see the famous Yu Garden and National Museum
plus seeing the World famous Shanghai Acrobats. A side trip to
Suzhou well known as the Venice of the East and traditional
Chinese gardens. For details click on the tour title above. 

 You may extend
your tour to other cities too! 

 ANCIENT YELLOW RIVER AREA TOUR 
 Including Beijing, Xian, Shanghai &
Suzhou 

 Includes: Beijing, Xian, LuoYang,
Zhengzhou, Shanghai 
Suzhou, ZhouZhang, and Tongli 

 PRICE: From $1495 pp. dbl. occ. and up. 

 The Yellow River area is the birth place of
Chinese history. Visit Beijing and let "Jing" show you
the wonders of Beijing. Then to Xian the Old World Capital seeing
the Terra Cotta Warriors and HuaQing Pools of the Tang Dynasty.
Take a train to LuoYang the ancient capital of China and see the
famous Longmen Grottoes and Urban Cave people. Before leaving the
city you will visit the Cave People still living in caves today
as well as White Horse Temple the first Buddhist Temple in China.
On the way to Zhengzhou you will visit the famous Shaolin Temple
and mingle with the Monks of Kungfu fame. See the largest
wholesale market of Guan Lin before going on to Shanghai. You
will feast your eyes on the #1 garden in China, the Yu Garden,
and the National Museum which houses so many articles discovered
in ancient tombs. A side trip to the water cities of Suzhou,
Tongli and ZhouZhang will give you some insights to the Ming and
Qing Dynasty as here is where important officials once lived. 

 Click on the tour name
above to view details of this ancient tour. 

 HOME - PACKAGE TOURS - CUSTOM
TOURS - YANGTZE RIVER - ON YOUR OWN - CONTACT
US