Dave's group tour 

 DAVE'S ANCIENT CHINA TOUR AND 
YANGTZE RIVER CRUISE 

 LIMITED TO 18 PEOPLE 

Oct. 10 Depart Los Angeles 

11 Arrive Beijing - Met by your National Tour Director and Local
Beijing 
Guide. Transferred to your hotel. Special welcoming Dinner
tonight! D 

12 Beijing - Visit Tiananmen Square, the Forbidden City and the
Summer 
Palace. BLD 

13 Beijing - See the Great Wall at Mutianyu with cable car
included in each 
direction. This is the most beautiful section of the Great Wall
and less 
crowded. Stop at the Lama Temple on the way back to the city
known for 
its 4 story tall Buddha carved from one tree trunk. BL Free this
evening 
to enjoy dinner on your own at any of the fine restaurants near
your hotel. 

14 Beijing - Free Day today. B only. Free to go shopping or visit
any one 
of the sights not included in the tour. Your National Tour
Director will 
offer suggestions and maps of the city. 

15 Beijing/Xian by afternoon air. In the morning you will visit
the Temple 
of Heaven before lunch and going to the airport. Arriving in Xian
we will 
met by the local guide and transferred to the hotel. This evening
features 
a Traditional Dumpling Dinner at a special restaurant. BLD 

16 Xian - Visit the famous Terra Cotta Warriors site in the
morning before 
lunch. Afternoon visit to the HuaQing Pools once the Summer
Palace of 
the Tang Dynasty. (Xian was the capital before Beijing) Visit the
Jade 
Carving workshop before dinner. After dinner you will enjoy the
special 
Tang Dynasty Show one of the best culture shows in China. BLD 

17 Xian/Guilin by mid morning air. Arrive in Guilin in time for
lunch. 
Tour of Guilin in the afternoon including a visit to the famous
Reed Flute 
Cave. Transfer to your hotel. BL Evening free to enjoy the
beautiful 
central park around the lake and dinner on your own at any one of
the 
very good restaurants near by your hotel. 

18 Guilin/Li River Cruise/Yangshuo - You will be bussed through
the 
beautiful countryside to the Li River Cruise dock where you will
board 
your river cruiser. This day cruise is through some of the most
beautiful 
countryside in China to the wonderful river village of Yangshuo.
Transfer 
to the hotel. (Great shopping here) BLD 

19 Yangshuo/Guilin/Chongqing During the day you will be free to
shop, 
take a bike ride into the countryside or just enjoy the everyday
life of this 
small village. Gather for an early dinner before going to the
airport. In 
Chongqing you will be met by the local agent and transferred to
your 
hotel. BD lunch on your own today at any one of the sidewalk
cafes 
or restaurants. (many western food restaurants here) 

20 Yangtze River Cruise - You will be transferred to your
Victoria Cruise 
boat dock here in Chongqing to start your cruise down the Yangtze
River. 
BLD (Brochure will give you the daily schedule with off boat
excursions 
and entertainment) 

21 Yangtze River Cruise - BLD Enter the Gorges today. 

22 Yangtze River Cruise with stop at the new Dam site which will
be in full 
operation now that it is completed. BLD 

23 Yangtze River Cruise- arrive in Wuhan and met by the local
guide on 
board the boat as you disembark after lunch. Visit the famous
Rock 
Museum before transferring to the airport for your flight to
Shanghai. 
Met in Shanghai by the local guide and transferred to your
central area 
hotel. BLD 

24 Shanghai - You will visit the famous Yu Garden in the old
section of the 
city which is listed as the #1 garden in China, and take a walk
on the 
Bund river park before lunch. After lunch you will be taken to
the 
Shanghai National Museum to view the many artifacts taken from
ancient 
Tombs. This evening you will attend the famous Shanghai Acrobats 
Show known throughout the world for their unique abilities. BLD 

25 Shanghai/Home. Morning free for last minute packing or
shopping 
before transferring to the airport for your mid afternoon flight
home. 
B only. 

INCLUDED: * Deluxe centrally located hotels, meals as indicated
with full 
western buffet breakfasts, National Tour Director who travels
with the Group, 
local guides in each area, all transportation, sightseeing as
listed with listed 
entertainment. Airport taxes and luggage transfers.
(international air form 
Los Angeles is included) * 

NOT INCLUDED: Tips to guides and drivers (suggestions will be
given in 
your tour packet) visa application (we have the form and
directions to apply) 
Any expenses of a personal nature or not specifically listed as
included. 

* Air from your city to Los Angeles and return will be quoted to
you when 
booking. If you use your own air or frequent flyer miles you may
deduct $595 
group fair from the tour cost. 

Price: $2995 pp dbl. occ. Single Supplement $995 
Tour Maximum of 18 people - Minimum of 10 people.