sample1 

 CUSTOM TOUR SAMPLE 

 Oct. 4 Depart
Seattle 

 5 Arrive Beijing on
Air China #CA991 at 17:20 Met by Guide and transferred 
to the Wangfujing Hotel in the central district. 

 6 Beijing &#150;
Guide will take you to Tiananmen Square, Forbidden City, Hutongs 
tour and Madam Soong&#146;s last home (example of pre
revolutionary mansions) 
BL dinner on your own tonight. (I will give you some suggestions) 

 7 Beijing &#150;
Guide will take you to the Great Wall at MuTianYu with cable car 
up and back to the Great Wall. Ming Tombs and Lama Temple on the
way 
back to Beijing. BL Dinner on your own tonight. (will give
suggestions) 

 8 Beijing/Xian by
late afternoon air. Guide will take you to the Temple of Heaven 
and Summer Palace before departing to the airport. Guide will
meet you in 
Xian and transfer you to the Garden Hotel. BL 

 9 Xian &#150; Guide
will take you to the fantastic Terra Cotta Warriors site in the 
morning and the Huaqing Pools in the afternoon. Visit the City
Wall one of the 
few left in China. Tang Dynasty Show in the Evening. BLD 

 10 Xian/Kunming by
evening air. Before leaving Xian the Guide will take you to 
The Big Goose Pagoda, Steles Museum the Great Mosque and if time 
to the Ancient Culture street. In Kunming you will be met by an
Agent and 
transferred to the Kunming Hotel. BL 

 11 Kunming/LiJiang
by early morning air. Guide will meet you in LiJiang and transfer 
you to the Grand LiJiang Hotel. Guide will take you to the Dragon
Spruce Meadow 
in the afternoon after visiting Yufeng Temple and the Baisha
Murals. BLD 

 12 LiJiang &#150;
Guide will take you to the morning markets in the old section and
give 
you a complete tour of the old section of the city known as the
City of Waters. In 
the afternoon you will visit Black Dragon Pool Park.. Visit Dr.
He known for 
traditional Chinese medicine. Visit a Naxi family in their home.
Evening you will 
attend a performance of traditional Naxi music. BLD 

 13 LiJiang/Kunming/Chongqing
by air. You will receive your air tickets for both 
Kunming and Chongqing. Be sure to pick up your luggage in Kunming
and transfer 
it to your next flight to Chongqing. Met in Chongqing by an Agent
and transferred 
to the Gangtian Hotel. B only 

 14 Yangtze River
Cruise &#150; Agent will take you to the dock for boarding. 

 15 Yangtze River
Cruise 

 16 Yangtze River
Cruise 

 17 Yangtze River
Cruise arriving in Wuhan. Agent to meet you and transfer you 
to the airport for flight to Shanghai. Agent will meet you in
Shanghai and transfer 
you to the Galaxy Hotel for overnight. BL 

 18 Shanghai/Guilin
by morning air. Transfer to the airport for your flight to
Guilin. 
Met in Guilin by your guide and transferred to the FuBo Hotel.
Afternoon you 
will visit Yao Hill, Wang Town and Teacher&#146;s College. BLD 

 19 Guilin/Yangshuo
via the Li River Day Cruise &#150; Guide will take you through
the 
countryside to the boat dock. Stop at Crown Cave on the way to
Yangshuo. 
Transfer to the Paradise Hotel. BL dinner on your own. 

 20 Yangshuo village
&#150; on your own here B 

 21 Yangshuo/Guilin
Guide will take you by car and transfer to the airport for flight 
to Shanghai. Met in Shanghai by an Agent and transferred to the
Peace Hotel 
located on the Bund. BL Dinner and Evening on your own. (this is
the heart of 
Shanghai) 

 22 Shanghai/U.S.
via Vancouver. Your flight leaves in the mid afternoon. Guide
will 
take you to People&#146;s Square and the new National Museum
before going to lunch 
and the airport for your international departure. 

 Included: All
transportation, 3 & 4 star hotels, meals as indicated with
full western 
breakfasts in the hotel each morning, English speaking guides
with car and driver, 
sightseeing as listed above, and some evening entertainment as
listed. 

 Not included are: tips
to guides and drivers, airport taxes of $6 domestic pp 
and $11 pp for international departures (guides will help you
with this) Visas (we 
have the forms and instructions) and any expense not mentioned
above.