Yangtze 

 15 DAY YANGTZE RIVER 
CRUISE & TOUR 

 DAY 1 Depart
your country 

 2 Arrive Beijing.
Met by local guide and transferred to your hotel in the 
central district. Balance of day free. 

 3 Beijing &#150;
Guide will take you to Tiananmen Square, the Forbidden City and 
a Walking tour of the Hutongs (old neighborhoods). Balance of day
free. 
Ask your guide about Xiushu Market on Changon Ave. for great
bargains. 
BL Dinner on your own tonight. 

 4 Beijing &#150;
Guide will take you through the countryside to the GREAT WALL 
at Mutianyu to include the cable car both ways onto the Wall and
back. On 
the way back you will stop at a village to see village life
before goingback to 
your hotel. BL dinner on your own this evening. 

 5 Beijing &#150;
Guide will take you to the Summer Palace of the Empress Dowager 
during the Qing Dynasty and visit the very beautiful Lama Temple
and Great 
Bell Museum. Special Performance of the Peking Opera this
evening. BLD 
Peking Duck Dinner tonight. 

 6 Beijing/Xian by
afternoon air. In the morning you will visit the Temple of 
Heaven before lunch. After lunch you will transfer to the airport
for your flight 
to Xian. In Xian you will be met by the local guide and
transferred to your 
hotel. Special Traditional Dumpling Dinner this evening. BLD 

 7 Xian. Your guide
will take you to the famous Terra Cotta Warriors site and 
to the HuaQing Pools once the Summer Palace of the Tang Dyansty.
Stop at 
the Jade Carving workshop to see craftsmen carving Jade. Early
dinner 
tonight as you will be attending the beautiful Tang Dynasty Show.
BLD 

 8 Xian/Chongqing by
air. Guide will take you to the Provincial Museum in 
Xian in the morning and a stop at the old Muslim Quarters after
lunch before 
going to the airport. In Chongqing you will be met by the local
guide and 
taken to dinner before transferring to the Wanyou Conifer Hotel.
BLD 

 9 Yangtze River
Cruise &#150; Guide will transfer you to the Victoria Cruise dock 
for boarding. Departure is at 09:00. First stop is Fengdu, the
&#147;Ghost City&#148;. 
Captains Cocktail Party this evening to welcome you on board. BLD 

 10 Yangtze River
Cruise &#150; Sail through the Qutang Gorge. Dock at Wushan 
for an off boat excursion through the Small Three Gorges in
Sampans. Pass 
through the Wu Gorge. Evening show at Zigui. BLD 

 11 Yangtze River
Cruise &#150; Sail through the Xiling Gorge and then an off boat 
excursion to see the new Three Gorges Dam being built. Farewell
Banquet 
tonight with floor show. BLD 

 12 Arrive Wuhan
after lunch. A local guide will come on board to meet you 
transfer you to the airport for your flight to Shanghai. Some
sightseeing in 
Wuhan if there is a time lag. Met in Shanghai by the local guide
and transferred 
to your hotel. BLD 

 13 Shanghai &#150;
Guide will take you to the Yu Garden in the old district known 
as the #1 garden in China. After lunch you will go to the new
National Museum 
which is not to be missed. After an early dinner you will attend
the famous 
Shanghai Acrobats performance. BLD 

 14 Shanghai/Suzhou/Shanghai
&#150; Your local guide will transfer you to the train 
station for a short one hour ride to Suzhou known as the Venice
of the East and 
for its formal gardens. Guide will meet you on the platform and
take you to the 
Humble Administrator&#146;s Garden 2 nd best in China.
You will visit Tiger Hill 
Park, a Silk Factory, Double Sided Embroidery Institute and take
a short ride 
on one of the canals winding through the city. After dinner in
Suzhou you will 
take an evening train back to Shanghai. (take a card from your
hotel as it is much 
easier to take an inexpensive taxi back to your hotel this
evening than it is to be 
transferred by a guide back to your hotel) BLD 

 15 Shanghai/Home
&#150; Your guide will transfer you to the airport for your
flight 
home. 

 Included: 4 or 5
star hotels, most meals, transportation and transfers, English
speaking 
guides, airport taxes if 6 or more people, sightseeing as listed,
entertainment as listed, 
cruise with off boat excursions included, and pre tour
information booklet written by 
Dave Bruels and updated each year. 

 Not included: Tips
to guides and drivers, visa application (we furnish forms and 
instructions) airport taxes if less than 6 people, and any
expenses of a personal nature 
or not specifically listed as included. 

 PRICES: 

 2-5 persons. $3595 pp.
dlb. occ. Airport taxes extra. 

 6-9 persons $3295 pp.
dlb. occ. Airport taxes are included. 

 10 + persons $2995 pp.
dlb. occ. Airport taxes and a National Guide are included. 

 Single Supplement:
2-9 persons $1175. - 10 + persons $1075. 

 International air is
included from most West Coast U.S. Cities. Please add 
$250 per person for most other U.S. cities. 

 IF YOU HAVE YOUR OWN 
INTERNATIONAL AIR, YOU MAYDEDUCT 
$595 FROM YOUR TOUR. 

 FORM YOUR OWN GROUPS
WITH 
FRIENDS AND ASSOCIATES FOR THE 
BEST PRICES! * 

 * No scheduled group tours
available.