GENELUX: U.S. Communities 

 CONTENTS 

 Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 
 Geography 
 Royal Family 
 Museums & Cultural
Organizations 
 Travel & Country Information 
 Language & Culture 
 Genealogy Resources 
 Luxembourg Genealogy Sites 
 General Genealogy Sites 
 Favorite Gadgets 
 Research Tools 
 Archives, Historical Societies and Special Collections 
 Dictionaries 
 French Republican Calendar 
 Germans to America 
 Immigration 
 Luxembourgers in the New World 
 Luxemburger Gazette 
 Religion 
 Luxembourgers in the United States 
 Family Histories & Surnames 
 Illinois 
 Iowa 
 Kansas 
 Minnesota 
 Wisconsin 

 About Gene Lux 

 Developed by Lisa Oberg 
 Email me your Feedback 
 Return to the Front Page 

 Luxembourgers in the United
States 

 Illinois || Iowa || Kansas || Minnesota || Wisconsin 

 Illinois 

 Archives, Historical Societies & Special
Collections 

 United States
Resources: Illinois 
 RootsWeb state page, includes links for genealogy and historical
societies, Family History Center Research Outline, Everton's county map
and federal census information. 

 Illinois
Vital Records Information 
 State entry from Elizabeth Orsay's comprehensive vital records web site.

 Illinois 
Public Domain Land Tract Sales 
 Land sales from the public domain were recorded by field employees of
the U.S. General Land Office, state and local officials, and clerks of the
Illinois Central Railroad.

 Cook
County, Illinois Genealogy 
 site for Cook County, maintainted by
Megan Zurawicz and Sharon Dickson. Many Luxembourgers lived in Chicago,
particularly the first and second generation Americans, as they began to
move off the farms their parents settled.

 Digital City Chicago 
 Chicago is famous for its culturally distinct neighborhoods. Although
there are not any uniquely Luxembourg neighboods, many Luxembourgers
integrated into Chicago's many German communities. The Rogers 
Park/West Ridge Historical Society features "doughty" Luxembourgers
among its exhibits, many of whom operated successful greenhouses in the
area.

 SkokieNet 
 Located near Chicago, Skokie (originally called Niles Center) was
settled by Luxembourgers. A brief history of Skokie is also available from the SkokieNet
Local History Center .

 Kane County, Illinois
Genealogy 
 site for Kane County, maintained by
Bob and Jane Fey. Aurora, an important ethnic Luxembourger community, is
located in Kane County. 

 Iowa 

 Archives, Historical Societies & Special
Collections 

 United States
Resources: Iowa 
 RootsWeb state page, includes links for genealogy and historical
societies, Family History Center Research Outline, Everton's county map
and federal census information. 

 Iowa Vital
Records Information 
 State entry from Elizabeth Orsay's comprehensive vital records web site.

 Jackson County, Iowa
Genealogy 
 page for Jackson County, maintainted
by Charlotte Meyer. St. Donatus is one of the best preserved Luxembourg
communities and on the National Historic Register. 

 Dubuque County, Iowa
Genealogy 
 site for Dubuque County, maintained by
Julia Krapfl. The city of Dubuque is an important Luxembourg community and
was home to Nicholas Gonner, newspaper publisher and author. 

 Shelby County, Iowa
Genealogy 
 site for Shelby County, maintained by
Dennis Walsh, with a special page highlighting the Luxembourg heritage 
of the county.

 Kansas 

 Ellis
County, Kansas Genealogy 
 site for Ellis County, maintained by
Mike Ward. Early settlers in Pleasant Hill
Township came from Luxembourg.

 Minnesota 

 Archives, Historical Societies & Special
Collections 

 United States
Resources: Minnesota 
 RootsWeb state page, includes links for genealogy and historical
societies, Family History Center Research Outline, Everton's county map
and federal census information. 

 Minnesota
Vital Records Information 
 State entry from Elizabeth Orsay's comprehensive vital records web site.

 Stearns County, Minnesota
Genealogy 
 page for Stearns County, maintained by
Darrell Schulte. Luxemburg and St. Cloud are both important Luxembourg
communities. 

 Stearns History Museum 
 The Research Center and Archives contains over 400,000 photographs,
maps, newspapers, genealogical files and oral history tapes and
specializes in genealogical information for Luxembourg.

 Minnesota
Look-Ups 
 Richard Kyle, a Luxembourg researcher for over fifteen years, will
search the materials he has collected for Luxembourg immigrants. He notes
that there are many Luxembourg descendents in Stearns, Dakota and Scott
counties. Connect to this site to get complete information for how to
contact him with your Minnesota-Luxembourg questions.

 Winona County, Minnesota
Genealogy 
 site for Winona County, maintained by
Rich Pershell. Rollingstone is one of the best-known Luxembourg
communities in the United States.

 The
Luxembourgers of Rollingstone 
 Brief history of the Luxembourg community, as part of an overview to
the ethnic demographics of Winona County. 

 Wisconsin's Sesquicentennial Celebrating 150 Years of
Statehood, 1848-1998 

 Wisconsin 

 Archives, Historical Societies & Special
Collections 

 United States
Resources: Wisconsin 
 RootsWeb state page, includes links for genealogy and historical
societies, Family History Center Research Outline, Everton's county map
and federal census information. 

 Wisconsin
Vital Records 
 State entry from Elizabeth Orsay's comprehensive vital records web site.

 Wisconsin Land Records 
 Pre-1908 Homestead and Cash Entry Patents from the Bureau of Land Management's General Land Office (GLO) Automated Records Project. 

 Wisconsin Ethnic Settlement Trail 
 Wisconsin has developed a series of 19 walking and driving tours in
honor of its ethnic settlers, including Luxembourgers . Mark Van
Ells' review 
of the program. 

 Life in
Wisconsin 
 From Brian Wiegand's Root Celler, a short overview to the
Luxembourg experience in Wisconsin, written by Loretta Spies. 

 Ozaukee County,
Wisconsin Genealogy 
 site for Ozaukee County, maintained by
John Robins-Wells. Ozaukee county has several major Luxembourg communities
including Belgium, Dacada, Holy Cross and Lake Church. 

 Early
History of Ozaukee County 
 Herbert Peters' interesting highlights of the early history of Ozaukee
County, home to many Luxembourg immigrants. 

 Port Washington
Draft Riots 
 In 1862, Luxembourg immigrants staged a riot in Port Washington, the
Ozaukee County seat, protesting the Civil War draft. Brian Wiegand's page
gives a brief accounting of the event and lists those Luxembourgers
arrested for civil disobedience. The 28th Regiment of the
Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry was one unit called to respond to the
situation, and further information about the riot is available from Kent
Peterson's regimental history page. 

 Village of Belgium 
 One of the largest Luxembourg settlements in the United States,
Belgium celebrates its ethnic heritage each August with the annual
Luxembourg Fest.

History of Washington and Ozaukee Counties, Wisconsin Biographical
sketches for the towns of Belgium, Cedarburg, Fredonia, Grafton, Mequon
and Port Washington from this county history published by the Wisconsin
Western Historical Co. in 1881. A list is also available of biographies
that specifically identify the subjects as Luxembourgers . 

 St. Rose of Lima Cemetery, Fredonia Index of headstones in this
cemetery. 

 Last Updated: 19 May 2001