GENELUX: Religion 

 CONTENTS 

 Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 
 Geography 
 Royal Family 
 Museums & Cultural
Organizations 
 Travel & Country Information 
 Language & Culture 
 Genealogy Resources 
 Luxembourg Genealogy Sites 
 General Genealogy Sites 
 Favorite Gadgets 
 Research Tools 
 Archives, Libraries & Societies 
 Dictionaries 
 French Republican Calendar 
 Germans to America 
 Immigration 
 Luxembourgers in the New World 
 Luxemburger Gazette 
 Religion 
 Luxembourgers in the United States 
 Family Histories & Surnames 
 Illinois 
 Iowa 
 Kansas 
 Minnesota 
 Wisconsin 

 About Gene Lux 

 Developed by Lisa Oberg 
 Email me your Feedback 
 Return to the Front Page 

 Luxembourgers and Catholicism 

 Luxembourg was largely untouched by the Protestant Reformation of
Europe - which began with Martin Luther in 1520 - and native-born
Luxembourgers are predominantly Roman Catholic to this day. Catholicism
plays an important part in the culture of Luxembourg and the festivals and
traditions celebrated. Emigrant Luxembourgers brought their Catholic faith
to America. Establishing churches in their new communities was a priority
and served as one way of preserving their cultural identity. 

 Religious Beliefs and
Practices 

 Sign of the Cross in L&euml;tzebuergesch 
 Am Numm vum Papp, am Sohn, am Hellege Geescht. Amen.

 Religious
Life 
 The Institut Grand-Ducal's Section de Linguistique, de folklore et de 
toponymie site contains a lot of wonderful information about the role
religion played in the lives of emigrant Luxembourgers. 

 Priests and
Bishops 
 Many Luxembourgers became priests in America. Nicholas Gonner's 1889
book Luxembourgers in the New World also includes
a list of American priests of Luxembourg descent. From the Institut
Grand-Ducal. 

 Women Religious 
 Many women with Luxembourg heritage also became nuns, primarily
joining teaching orders. Because women took vocational names when they
entered into religious life, researching nuns can be difficult if you do
not know the order they belonged to. Women often had their photograph
taken when they took their finals vows, for the families they were
essentially leaving behind.

 Possible clues for identifying the order a nun belonged to can come
from these photographs and the habits they are wearing or from the abbreviations 
they may have used after their name, for example Sister Mary Salome
Ney, O.P. (Order of Preachers - Dominican Sisters). A very complete
list of orders and their corresponding abbreviations can be found in the
indispensable Official Catholic Directory published by P.J. Kenedy
& Sons, available in many public libraries. 

 Research Tip: In the
U.S. Federal Census for the years of 1880-1920, nuns were indexed
according to the Soundex code S236 . Or
in other words, as if their last name was "Sister". Because most, if not
all, nuns had Mary as part of their religious name is it important to look
for both Sister Mary Salome and Sister Salome. By 1920, many nuns were
also soundexed to their surnames. 

 Kiirmes 
 Originally a celebration for the feast day of a parish's patron saint.
From the Institut Grand-Ducal. 

 Bretzelsonndeg 
Pretzel Sunday 
 On the third Sunday of Lent, called Pretzel Sunday in Luxembourg, a
boy gives a girl he likes an ornately decorated cake shaped like a
pretzel. If his feelings are returned, the girl gives him a chocolate egg
on Easter. In leap years, the custom is reversed.
 Interesting
Pretzel Trivia || Interesting
Egg Trivia 

 Patron Saints 
 From a
Luxembourg postcard, postmarked 1932. 

 Our
Lady of Luxembourg 
 Image of Our Lady of Luxembourg, Consoler of the Afflicted and patron
saint of Luxembourg City, from a 1945 Luxembourg stamp. 

 Cult of Our 
Lady 
 Octave, a pilgrimage to honor Our Lady of Luxembourg, is an important
religious ceremony in Luxembourg, held each year from the third to the
fifth Sunday after Easter. 

 Patron
Saints of Luxembourg-American Communities 
 The patron saints of churches established by emigrants in America
reflect their Luxembourg heritage.

 St.
Willibrord Entry from the Catholic Encyclopedia for St.
Willibrord, the patron saint of Luxembourg. A 
dancing procession is held each year at Echternach in his honor. St. 
Patrick's Parish in Washington, DC, also has a biography of St.
Willibrord . 

 Other Catholic Resources 

 Latin Links 
 Latin dictionaries and language guides.

 Saints & Angels || Saints Index || 
 Patron
Saint Index 
 Everything you could ever want to know about patron saints.

 The Catholic
Encyclopedia 
 This volunteer project is transcribing the invaluable 32 volume
encyclopedia set published in 1917. There are entries for many saints,
church doctrine and histories of many religious orders, the Dominicans , for
example. 

 Catholic Information Center on
Internet 

 Catholic Online 

 Last Updated: 18 May 2001