GENELUX: Family Histories 

 Luxembourg Family Histories and Surname Sites 

 Do you have Luxembourg ancestry? Is your
genealogy on the Web? 
 Email me if you would like
to have your your site listed here. 

 Family-History.com 
 Family history information including the following Luxembourg surnames: 
 Beck, Boesen, Clasen, Cloos, Dondelinger/Dondlinger,
Esper, Even, Farmer, Hertel, Krick, Lanser, Lecher, Martin, Mayer, Miller,
Peiffer, Roller, Stoffel, Thul, Uselding, Wellenstein, Weyker 

 Alff's
Melmacian Page 
 Claude Alff's web site focusing on the Alff surname, as well as
allied Schmitz and Hieff families. 

 Therese Becker's 
Genealogy 
 Bierchen's Web
Page 
 Nick Bierchen's web page for Bierchen, Schoos and Schwieg
families.--->

 Bormann
Family Genealogy 

 The Colling
Family 

 Lost Denter
Tribes 
 Marc Denter's site is dedicated to all Luxembourgers in the New
World and specially to find out about lost connections of the Denter
family. 
 --->
 The Diederich Family 

 Richard Duprel's Genealogy
Page 
 Luxembourg surnames include: Steichen, Gilson, Mathey, Duprel, Dickes,
Mamer, Delles, Beyser, Gresser, Seyler, Rach and Wirtz.

 du Prel d'Erpeldange
Family 
 This site is in French, but the genealogical information it contains
is easy to understand.

 Elens and
Binsfeld Family 

 Erpelding
Family History & Genealogy 
 Researching Erpeldings in the following locations and time
periods: Mankato, Blue Earth County, Minnesota; Rollingstone, Winona
County, Minnesota; villages of Biwer and Betzdorf in the canton of
Grevenmacher, Luxembourg before 1860.

 Don Gentner's
Genealogy Page 

 The Gilles Family 

 John
HIRTZ and Margaret GOEBEL 
 Val Hvidston's story about her great-grandparents.

 The Hubing Family 

 The Klein Family 

 Liesch-Leisch-Lesch
Genealogy by June M. Liesch Ristow
 --->
 The Lieffrig 
Family 
 Richard Liffrig's ancestors emigrated from the Luxembourg province of
Belgium to central Minnesota.

 Michaelis Online Home
Page 

 Nemmers-Ley
Genealogy 

 Ney Family History Final paper for a year-long
genealogy certificate program at the University of Washington about my 
Luxembourg ancestors, John Peter Ney (1851-1920) and Margaret
Mans (1854-1926), who settled in the town of Holy Cross in Ozaukee
County, Wisconsin.

 The
Ottel&eacute; Genealogy 

 The Penning 
Family 
 Descendents of Johannes Peter Penning born in Schoenfels in 1771.
Click on "Links" for genealogy information.

 Pletschette Family Tree 

 The Possley/Poncelet Family 

 The
Thomas Prost, Jr. Family Tom Prost's great grandparents, Henry
Prost and Helen Obladen, settled in Chicago, Illinois. Ancestral
Luxembourg villages include Niederdonven, Oberdonven and Gostingen, as
well as Nittel, Germany. Allied surnames include: Beckius, Bertrang,
Boltz, Courte, Courth, Courthe, Demuth, Godar, Grosch, Hanzler, Hienkes,
Kafs, Kass, Klein, Lentz, Medernach, Mesenburg, Molitor, Peters, Rech,
Roob, Roos, Schartz, Schritz, Scholtes, Steil, Ulveling, Wagner, Waldgen,
Wathier, Wattger, Weber, Weyer.

 The 
Poull (Pull) Home Page 
 William Pull's descendants of Peter Poull (Pull) page.

 Dave Schmit's
Genealogy Home Page 
 Researching Luxembourg surnames: Schmit, Marson, Schons, Goergen,
DeVillet and Thill.

 The Schuetter
& Schafer Family Home Page 
 Names include: Biever/Biewer, Turpel, Grasser and Conzemius. Emigrated
from Erpeldange and Ettelbruck in Luxembourg to Chicago, IL. 

 Shumacher
Family Home Page 
 Beginning in Senningen, Luxembourg about 1651.

 Speltz Family Home
Page --->

 All
Things Thilges 

 The Thoma Family History Home Page 
 Also Youngblut family history.

 Verver and Bays
Genealogy Page --->

 Uselding Genealogy 
 Genealogy and local history references to the Uselding surname.

 Our Family Tree:
Imrie-Wampach Genealogy 
 Linda and Doug Wampach's web site.

 Wenner -
Pommes 
 Joe Miller's web site documents the experience of the S.S. England
which was devasted by a cholera outbreak onboard in the spring of 1866 and
was subsequently quarantined in Nova Scotia and New York. Among the
passengers was his great-great grandmother Margaret Wenner and her brother
Henry. Margaret later married Nicholas Pommes - a Luxembourg immigrant
himself - in Worthington, Iowa. Margaret was orginally from Trintingen,
Luxembourg, and other surnames include Simminger and Mousel. 

 The Wester Family 

 Susanna Simmerl Youngblut 
 Suzanne L. Bunkers' 
book In
Search of Susanna details her search for an elusive
great-great-grandmother and her own self-discoveries along the way.

 Susanna Simmerl was born on April 2, 1831, in
Oberfeulen, Luxembourg. Her first child, a daughter, Barbara Simmerl, was
born there on December 30, 1856. Susanna immigrated to the U.S. in the
spring of 1857, along with her brother Peter Simmerl. In December 1857,
Susanna married Frank Youngblut. 

 General Surname Sites 

 SurnameWeb 
 The Surname Genealogy Web Project, whose aim is to centrally locate all 
the information available on a surname.

 Frequency
of Surnames in the U.S. 
 From the U.S. Census Bureau. The frequency of surnames in the United
States based on data compiled from the 1990 census. Most frequent? Not
surprising - Smith. 

 U.S. Surname
Distribution 
 This site creates a map showing you the geographic distribution of the
50,000 most common surnames in the United States.

 The 
Soundex Machine 
 Converts surnames into the correct Soundex code.

 Last Update: 17 January 2004 
 Lisa Oberg ||
 lisanne@eskimo.com ||
 www.eskimo.com/~lisanne