GENELUX: Gazette 

 CONTENTS 

 Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 
 Geography 
 Royal Family 
 Museums & Cultural
Organizations 
 Travel & Country Information 
 Language & Culture 
 Genealogy Resources 
 Luxembourg Genealogy Sites 
 General Genealogy Sites 
 Favorite Gadgets 
 Research Tools 
 Archives, Libraries & Societies 
 Dictionaries 
 French Republican Calendar 
 Germans to America 
 Immigration 
 Luxembourgers in the New World 
 Luxemburger Gazette 
 Religion 
 Luxembourgers in the United States 
 Family Histories & Surnames 
 Illinois 
 Iowa 
 Kansas 
 Minnesota 
 Wisconsin 

 About Gene Lux 

 Developed by Lisa Oberg 
 Email me your Feedback 
 Return to the Front Page 

 Luxemburger Gazette 

 The Luxemburger Gazette was published by Nicholas
Gonner, and later his son, in Dubuque, Iowa from 1871-1918. In addition to
news of Luxembourg, it featured news of Luxembourgers and Luxembourg
communities throughout the United States. The pro-German sympathies of the
paper, just prior to World War I, contributed to the paper's demise during
an era of anti-German sentiment in the United States. 

 Because of its broad scope in reporting personal news of
Luxembourger-Americans, the Gazette is an excellent source for determining
marriage and death dates. The newspaper's coverage of a time when civil
registration was not required in many states, makes the Gazette a possible
source of information not available from the state or county records. More
importantly, obituaries often identify the town in Luxembourg where an
ancestor was born or emigrated from.

 Volume II of Luxembourgers in the New World 
contains an index to personal and place names in the Gazette. The index
contains the name as it appeared in the newspaper so there can be
variation. For example, Nicholas Ney might be listed as Ney, N.; Ney,
Nic.; Ney, Nick; or Ney, Nicolas. There are fewer surname spelling
variations than in the U.S. census, presumably because the newspaper's
editors and contributers were Luxembourgers themselves, but it is still
something to take into consideration. 

 Sample Entry: 
 NEY, Nicholas 22.02.1910, 5 

 Each entry consists of the date of newspaper and the page the name
appeared on. Note the European dating: Day - Month - Year, so this entry
appeared in the February 22, 1910 issue. 

 This is the corresponding article for the above example: 

 Translated this article reads: "Village Grafton (WI): Married last
Tuesday by Rev. W. P. Peil at St. Joseph's Church: Nicholas Ney and
Maggie Uselding. In the presence of their many guests, the joyous wedding
was celebrated at the home of the bride. The young couple will live in
Chicago." 

 The Gazette was printed in a typeface known as German Gothic, Fraktur
or Black Letter. If you aren't familiar with this script it can be a
little challenging to read. This guide to
reading black letter script may help readers find the names they are
looking for more easily. It is useful to put together the letters of the
surname to help recognize the name. It is also important to keep in mind
that nouns are also capitalized in German.

 Luxemburger Gazette Holdings 
 Copies of the Luxemburger Gazette are available at the
following organizations. Most of the libraries, archives and societies
listed below have a microfilm copy of the Gazette. This table illustrates the microfilm reel numbers and
corresponding dates.

 Family History
Library 
 The Family History Library has a microfilm copy of the Gazette
available for loan to any Family History Center. The Family History
Library Catalog entry for the Luxemburger
Gazette lists the film numbers (1844424-1844444) and corresponding
dates and provides information for finding the Family History Center
nearest you.

 Loras College 
 The Loras College Wahlert Library, in Dubuque, Iowa, has the only
known extant print copy of the Gazette. The Library has
microfilm copies of the Gazette available through interlibrary loan. Due
to limited staffing, individual requests for printed copies of specific
citations cannot be fulfilled. 

 Balch
Library and Archives 
 The Balch Institute for Ethnic Studies, a museum and library located
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, has a microfilm copy.

 Milwaukee County Federated Library
System 
 Milwaukee Public Library located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin has a
microfilm set of the Gazette available through interlibrary loan.

 State Historical Society
of Iowa 
 The Society has microfilm copies of the Gazette available through
interlibrary loan.

 Stearns
History Museum 
 Located in St. Cloud, Minnesota, a microfilm copy is available from
the Museum's Resource Center and Archives. Photocopy services are
available from the Center for a fee.

 University of St. Thomas
Libraries 
 Located in St. Paul, Minnesota, the University has a microfilm copy.
Photocopy services are available from the Library for a fee.

 Last Updated: 18 May 2001