GENELUX: Genealogy Resources 

 CONTENTS 

 Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 
 Geography 
 Royal Family 
 Museums & Cultural
Organizations 
 Travel & Country Information 
 Language & Culture 
 Genealogy Resources 
 Luxembourg Genealogy Sites 
 General Genealogy Sites 
 Favorite Gadgets 
 Research Tools 
 Archives, Libraries & Societies 
 Dictionaries 
 French Republican Calendar 
 Germans to America 
 Immigration 
 Luxembourgers in the New World 
 Luxemburger Gazette 
 Religion 
 Luxembourgers in the United States 
 Family Histories & Surnames 
 Illinois 
 Iowa 
 Kansas 
 Minnesota 
 Wisconsin 

 About Gene Lux 

 Developed by Lisa Oberg 
 Email me your Feedback 
 Return to the Front Page 

 Genealogy Resources 

 Luxembourg Genealogy Sites 

 Luxembourg
Civil Registration Tables Decennales, 1853-1863 
 The "Tables Decennales" consist of ten-year compilations of civil 
birth, marriage and death records. The have been collected since 1807,
when they were instituted during Luxembourg's occupation by France. This
searchable database from the University of St. Thomas, in Minnesota, is
invaluable for those trying to determine where in Luxembourg their
ancestors emigrated from. The ten-year period of 1853-1863 was chosen
because it is the most likely to have included individuals who migrated to
North America in the nineteenth century. 

 WorldGenWeb: Luxembourg 
Home Page 
 Coordinated by W. David Samuelsen.

 Luxembourg
Genealogy Forum 
 Message board for posting questions about Luxembourg genealogy, family
names, immigration, etc.

 Research in Luxembourg 
 Therese Becker's overview to research in Luxembourg, including a
discussion of civil registration, the French Republican Calendar and lists
for German and French terms that frequently appear on civil documents.
From the Luxembourg WorldGenWeb site. 

 On the Trail
of Germanic Ancestors RootsWeb's Guide to Tracing Family Trees,
Lesson 26.

 Chronology
of
Luxembourg History 
 From the Luxembourg WorldGenWeb site.

 Luxembourg
Genealogy 
 A general introduction to Luxembourg genealogy resources from the
Luxembourg London Tourist office. 

 Luxembourg on My
Mind 
 Great site from Fausto Gardini, a Luxembourger living in Atlanta,
Georgia. This site is aimed at descendants of Luxembourg emigrants and is
thorough and concise, arranging links in a questions and answer format. 

 R&eacute;seau
international de recherches sur la g&eacute;n&eacute;alogie 
 List of Luxembourg-related and general genealogy sites from the Human
Migration Documentation Center in Luxembourg.

 Genealogy
Benelux Home Page 
 Johan Berteloot's Genealogy and Family History in Benelux
site. Comprehensive Benelux genealogy site. 

 Benelux Newsgroup 
 Usenet newsgroup for those doing genealogical research in Belgium, The
Netherlands and Luxembourg. Many of the postings center around Dutch
research (and are often in Dutch) but this is an excellent resource for
making European contacts. Your browser must be configured to read Usenet
newsgroups to use this link.

 Luxembourg Listserv 
 A mailing list for anyone with a genealogical or historical interest
in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The mailing address for postings is luxembourg@rmgate.pop.indiana.edu . 
To subscribe, send a message to maiser@rmgate.pop.indiana.edu .
In the body of the message type: SUB LUXEMBOURG 
 --->
 Luxembourg
Genealogical & Historical Societies 404, 23 Apr
1997>>http://www.memphismemphis.com/genealogy/main.htm--->

 Selected General Genealogy Sites 

 Cyndi's List of
Genealogy Sites on the Internet 
 Cyndi Howell's widely acclaimed list of genealogy sites arranged into
over 60 subject categories. 

 The Genealogy Home Page 
 Comprehensive web site with thirteen main categories including
libraries, maps, newsgroups and a calendar of upcoming events. 

 Genealogy
Resources on the Internet 
 Guide to genealogy resources arranged by type of Internet service;
telnet, web, ftp, etc. , and by an integrated alphabetical list of
web resources.

 Helm's Genealogy
Toolbox 
 Well-organized site with specific categories for surnames,
geographical regions, specific subjects and beginner resources. This site
also has an internal search engine to help you locate information. 

 National Genealogical
Society 
 The largest genealogical organization in the United States. They hold
an annual conference, sponsor introductory courses and family history
writing contests. 

 Favorite Internet Gadgets 

 Birthdate
Calculator 
 In the 19th century it was common for headstones to include the date
of death and the age at death, but not the actual birthdate. This site
from Ben Brucker converts the age and date of death into a birthdate. 

 MapQuest 
 Did your ancestors live in an urban area such as Chicago? This site
maps addresses to their current location within major cities. 

 USGS Mapping
Information Query Form 
 If you ancestors didn't live in a urban area, use the United States
Geographical Survey site to locate rural towns and topographic features. 

 Frequency
of Surnames in the U.S. 
 From the U.S. Census Bureau. The frequency of surnames in the United
States based on data compiled from the 1990 census. Most frequent? Not
surprising - Smith. 

 U.S. Surname
Distribution 
 This site creates a map showing you the geographic distribution of the
50,000 most common surnames in the United States.

 The Soundex Machine 
 Converts surnames into the correct Soundex code.

 First Name Basis || Behind
the Name 
 Information about unusual first names, diminutives, nicknames and meanings.

 Last Updated: 18 May 2001