GENELUX: Luxembourgers in the New World 

 Luxembourgers in the New World 

 Luxembourgers in the New World : a reedition based on the work of
Nicholas Gonner "Die Luxemburger in der Neuen Welt", Dubuque, Iowa, 1889.
Esch-sur-Alzette, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg : Editions-Reliures Schortgen,
1987. 

 Luxembourgers in the New World (LNW) contains valuable
information about Luxembourg communities in the United States and their
way of life. LNW was originally written and published in German by
Nicholas Gonner, a Luxembourg immigrant, in 1889. In 1987, a reedition,
and English translation, of LNW was published. 

 Volume I of the reedition contains several important indexes including
priests with Luxembourg ancestry and some passenger manifests. Volume II
is an index of Gonner's Luxemburger Gazette 
newspaper (1871-1918). 

 There is also a very useful essay about genealogy research in
Luxembourg, with several case studies, including an explanation of the
types of civil records collected in Luxembourg and the information
generally contained in birth, marriage and death records, and their
translations. 

 Table of Contents 

 Volume One 
 Part I. "The Luxembourger migration between 1840 and 1890"
 Includes a discussion of the circumstances in Luxembourg that lead to
immigration, the effects emigration had on Luxembourg and an overview to
immigration patterns by decade. 
 Part II. "Luxembourgers and Their Settlements in Various States of the
Union" 
 Includes chapters for most of the midwestern United States, up to
1889. 
 Part III. "Aspects of the Luxembourger Presence in the United States"

 Volume Two 

 An invaluable personal name and locality index to entries from the Luxemburger Gazette newspaper (1871-1918).

 Luxembourgers in the New World
Holdings 

 Can I purchase a
copy of LNW? 

 LNW is the definitive reference work for Luxembourg Americans. It can
be difficult to find in the United States but a limited number of copies
are available from Fausto Gardini, VailCorp@aol.com , for US$ 60.00
(shipping & handling included). This is a not-to-be
missed opportunity!

 Your Local Library 
 A number of libraries throughout the United States have copies of LNW.
If your library doesn't have a copy, request to borrow a copy using your
library's interlibrary loan service.

 Books We Own
List
- Luxembourg 
 I will search the indexes of both volumes of LNW for individuals as
part of the "Books We Own" project. A complete set of instructions 
for submitting requests is available at this site.

 Last Update: 17 January 2004 
 Lisa Oberg ||
 lisanne@eskimo.com ||
 www.eskimo.com/~lisanne