GENELUX: Immigration 

 Luxembourg Immigration to America 

 The
Luxembourgers in America 
 From the U.S. Library of Congress' European Division. Provides
information about immigration from Luxembourg to the United States, and
about the activities of Luxembourger immigrants in the United States from
the 17th to the 20th centuries. An immigration chronology, bibliography,
maps, photographs and other pictorial resources are included, as well as 
links to other Internet sites in the United States and Luxembourg.

 The
Emigrant's Itinerary to the United States 
 "The Luxembourgers in America" is part of the pilot phase of a larger
project to create, in cooperation with partners in Europe and the United
States, a Transatlantic Digital Library dealing with themes of common
European-American interest and significance. 

 Luxembourg
Emigration in the Nineteenth Century 
 Emigration information from the Institut Grand-Ducal, Section de
linguistique, de folklore et de toponymie , in Luxembourg, focusing on
specific aspects of Luxembourg immigration including traditions, food,
language, architecture and religion. 

 Nineteenth
Century Luxembourg Settlements in the United States 
 More information from the Institut Grand-Ducal, Section de
linguistique, de folklore et de toponymie , in Luxembourg, about emigration
waves to the United States and the specific areas where Luxembourgers
settled in the United States.

Emigrants et R&eacute;migrants Luxembourgeois de 1876 &agrave; 1900 
 Published by the Luxembourg National Archives Centre d'Etudes et de
Documentation Historique , this book contains a lists names of people and
localities who have either emigrated from Luxembourg or returned to
Luxembourg during the period of 1876 to 1900. Although the book is written
in French, it is primarily a list of names and locations.
 The book is available by sending 20 international postal reply coupons ($1.05 each) to the following address:
 Archives Nationales 
P.O. Box 6 
Plateau du St. Esprit 
L-2010 Luxembourg 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 

 R&eacute;seau
international de recherches sur les migrations 
 Emigration links from the Centre de Documentation sur les Migrations
Humaines in Luxembourg.

 S.S.
England 
 In the spring of 1866, the S.S. England was bound for New York via
Queenstown, Ireland from Liverpool, England with over 1300 passengers.
(Numbers vary) Hundreds died from an outbreak of cholera. The ship was
quarantined off McNab's Island near Halifax, Nova Scotia before arriving
at New York, where it remained in quarantine. Joe Miller's web site
documents the experience in wonderful detail. Among the passengers was his
great-great grandmother Margaret Wenner and her brother Henry.

 Other Immigration Resources 

 Ellis Island 

 Ellis Island didn't open until 1892, long after the first waves of
Luxembourgers arrived in America, but together with the Statue of Liberty, it is
the embodiment of the immigrant spirit. Additional pictures of Ellis
Island from the California Museum of Photography at the University of
California at Riverside.

 Now you can also pay tribute to your ancestors by having their names
inscribed on the American Immigrant
Wall of Honor . Fausto Gardini maintains a list of Luxembourg names 
that appear on the Wall of Honor. 

 American
Immigration 
 The American Immigration Home Page was started as a part of a school
project for a 10th grade American History Class. The project was meant to
give information as to how immigrants not only were treated, but also why
they decided to come to America. 

 Immigration History Research
Center 
 Located at the University of Minnesota in St. Paul, the Center is an
international resource on American immigration and ethnic history.

 Last Update: 6 April 2004 
 Lisa Oberg ||
 lisanne@eskimo.com ||
 www.eskimo.com/~lisanne