GENELUX: Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 

 CONTENTS 

 Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 
 Geography 
 Royal Family 
 Museums & Cultural
Organizations 
 Travel & Country Information 
 Language & Culture 
 Genealogy Resources 
 Luxembourg Genealogy Sites 
 General Genealogy Sites 
 Favorite Gadgets 
 Research Tools 
 Archives, Libraries & Societies 
 Dictionaries 
 French Republican Calendar 
 Germans to America 
 Immigration 
 Luxembourgers in the New World 
 Luxemburger Gazette 
 Religion 
 Luxembourgers in the United States 
 Family Histories & Surnames 
 Illinois 
 Iowa 
 Kansas 
 Minnesota 
 Wisconsin 

 About Gene Lux 

 Developed by Lisa Oberg 
 Email me your Feedback 
 Return to the Front Page 

 Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 

 Geographical
Information 

 A map 
of Luxembourg from the University of Texas at Austin Perry-Castaneda 
Library. 

 A gazetteer 
of villages and towns in Luxembourg or a briefer list of place
names . 

 Global
Gazeteer: Luxembourg 
 A worldwide directory of cities and towns.

 Luxembourg Villages and Cities with web sites: 
 Beaufort || 
 Bettembourg || 
 Differdange || 
 Dudelange || 
 Echternach 
 Esch-sur-Alzette ||
 Grosbous || 
 Hesperange || 
 Luxembourg || 
 Medernach 

 Royal
Family 

 Luxembourg has a hereditary constitutional monarchy. HRH Grand Duke
Henri ascended to the throne 7 October 2000. He succeeded his father,
Grand Duke Jean, who abdicated in his favor. Grand Duke Jean had ruled
since 1964, when his mother Grand Duchess Charlotte abdicated in his favor
after ruling for 45 years. Grand Duke Henri is married to the former Maria
Teresa Mestre y Batista, and they are the parents of five children, Crown
Prince Guillaume (1981), F&eacute;lix (1984), Louis (1986), Alexandra
(1991) and S&eacute;bastien (1992). June 23rd is Luxembourg's National Day
and the Official Birthday of the Grand Duke. Grand
Ducal Family : Official publication from the Luxembourg
Government Luxembourg Sovereigns 
|| Grand-Ducal
Family Tree || Grand-Ducal Family
Tree Genealogy of
the Grand-Ducal Family of Luxembourg || Luxembourg
Royalty News The
Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to view and print Portable Document
Format (PDF) documents. Click the icon to get a free copy . 
 Maulwurf
Reporters: People B.J. Maulwurf's site includes pictures of HRH
Grand Duke Henri and his wife Maria Teresa, as well as an overview to the
House of Nassau. Luxembourg Museums & Cultural Organizations Luxembourg National Library Biblioth&egrave;que Nationale de Luxembourg 37 bd.
Roosevelt 2450 Luxembourg-Ville Phone: (352) 2297551, Fax: (352)
47 56 72 National
Archives Archives Nationales Plateau du
Saint-Esprit 2010 Luxembourg Phone: (352) 478 6661, Fax: (352) 47
46 92 Institut
Grand-Ducal Institut Grand-Ducal 2a, rue
Kalchesbruck L-1852 Luxembourg Phone: (352) 478 2790, Fax: (352)
478 2792 

 National Museum of History and Art

 Mus&eacute;e national d'histoire et d'art de Luxembourg
 March&eacute;-aux-Poissons 
 L-2345 Luxembourg
 Phone: (352) 479 3301 

 National Museum of Natural
History 

 Mus&eacute;e national d'histoire naturelle de Luxembourg
 25, rue M&uuml;nster
 L-2160 Luxembourg
 Phone: (352) 462 2331, Fax: (352) 47 51 52 

 Luxembourg Travel
& Country Information 

 Luxembourg National Tourism Office 

 Luxembourg National Tourist Offices: London || New York 

 Luxembourg Central 
 Gary Little's site which has history, geography, travel information,
and a nice bibliography, in addition to information you won't find
anywhere else; images of Luxembourg stamps and turn-of-the-century
postcards.

 Luxembourg Tourist Office -
London 
 Great site, with a little bit of everything - genealogy, history,
culture - in addition to important travel information.

 A
Survey of Luxembourg (English version) 
 This official site, from RESTENA (National Network for Education and
Research), contains information about Luxembourg's geography, history,
culture and relationship to Europe, as well as images of national symbols
such as the flag and rampant lion crest.--->

 Luxembourg in a
Nutshell 
 General information about Luxembourg from IST (Institut
Sup&eacute;rieur de Technologie) which includes an overview of
Luxembourg's geography, history, economy, population and languages. 

 The
Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg 
 Comprehensive site with information about museums, Christmas
traditions, folk tales, a calendar of local events and brief genealogy
information. 

 Luxembourg 
 From the World InfoZone in the UK.

 Luxembourg:
A Travel Guide 
 Pierre Flener's site is a comprehensive guide to travel in Luxembourg,
including currency exchange and travel advisory information (good news,
there aren't many!).

 The
Lonely Planet Guide to Luxembourg.

 Luxembourg Phone Directory 
 Both yellow and white pages are included. 

 Luxembourg Language & Culture 

 Language and
History 
 Luxembourg books in the U.S. Library of Congress.

 Our Small
Country: Language and Identity in Luxembourg 
 Stephen Osmond's essay for the The World & I home
page about Luxembourg's culture and the role multilingualism has played
in the country's history and current situation in Europe.--->

 Luxembourg: 
A Linguistic Puzzle 
 The site contains an explanation of the languages of Luxembourg, how
French, German, L&euml;tzebuergesch and English are used, and a
bibliography of L&euml;tzebuergesch resources. 

 Languages
of Luxembourg 
 Entry from: Ethnologue - Languages of the World, 13th edition.

 Mir
l&eacute;iere l&euml;tzebuergesch schreiwen 
 RESTENA site promoting learning to read and write L&euml;tzebuergesch.

 Luxembourg's
Linguistic Usages 
 Dominique Rufini gives a brief overview to when and where
L&euml;tzebuergesch is used in Luxembourg today.

 Last Updated: 18 May 2001