Seattle Anarchism and Revolution Page 

 Seattle
 Anarchism 

and 
 Revolution Page 

( last updated: December 6, 1999 )

In case you missed it, tens of thousands of people succeeded in shutting
down the WTO in Seattle. Check out the NO2WTO news page for more info.

There has been much finger-pointing by Seattle officials (who will 
soon be looking for new jobs) and the mainstream media. 
Whether you were an eyewitness to the protests downtown, a
resident of Capital Hill, or just watched the news between Tuesday and Thursday
(Nov. 30 - Dec. 2), it should be clear that one group of black-clad thugs were
responsible for all but a couple isolated acts of violence. Their weapons of
choice were clubs, rubber bullets, teargas grenades, concussion grenades,
fists, steel-tipped boots, vehicles, and pepper spray, among others. They
were, of course, the Seattle police and others brought in to "keep the peace"
by any means necessary.

In contrast, the " violence " the media kept talking about and using to
demonize anarchists was a relatively small amount of grafitti and broken 
windows (the estimated cost of the property damage was a small fraction of
the cost due to losing a couple of shopping days). 

Read two different anarchist perspectives on the property damage:

 N30 Black Bloc 
Communique -- A communique from one section of the black bloc of N30 in Seattle 

 Reply to the ACME Collective 
-- A response by Michael Albert, co-editor of Z
Magazine 

Read further discussion on
this issue.

Of course, the real issue isn't the property damage or the police violence,
but the fact that We Won . After decades of protests with
victories few and far between, the lefty scene had largely resigned 
itself to symbolic protests with little hope for victory. But Seattle was
different. Tens of thousands of people used direct action to achieve their
goal of shutting down the WTO meeting in Seattle. It was a modest goal, but
we've shown that by collectively standing up for ourselves, and using 
direct action, we are not powerless victims that must beg for handouts from
the powers-that-be. Instead, we can stand up and take back what is rightfully
ours. Just a few weeks away from the new millenium, the
Battle in Seattle will set the stage for things to come.

 Seattle Resources 

 The Tenants Union -- "Committed to affordable, decent housing for all" 
 IWW (Industrial Workers of the World) Puget Sound General Membership Branch
 Real Change -- Seattle's 
homeless newspaper
 Left Bank Books -- A great source for anti-authoritarian books
 Washington Free Press 
 Seattle Food Not Bombs -- Free food for the people, like it should be!
 Eat the State -- "a forum for anti-authoritarian political opinion, research and humor"
 Peace and Justice events in the Seattle area
 Books to Prisoners 
 Daily Bleed -- find out what really happened on this day in history

 Seattle Area History 

 The Centralia Massacre, 1919:

 A short piece from the IWW
 A large collection of documents 
 from the Tacoma Public Library's 
 "Unsettling Events" database 

 The Everett Massacre, 1916:

 A large collection 
 from the "Unsettling Events" database.

 The Seattle General Strike, 1919:

 A short piece from the IWW
 A large collection 
 from the "Unsettling Events" database.

 The Industrial Workers of the World:

 A large collection 
 from the "Unsettling Events" database.
 1909 - The Spokane Free-Speech Fight
 Other IWW activities in 
 1912 ,
 1916 ,
 1917 ,
 1918 ,
 1919 , and
 1920 .

 Join the Movement 

 Anarchist Yellow Pages by Anarchist Groups Of New York --
a collection of world-wide contacts
 Getting Organised 
-- More contacts around the world plus advice on starting your own group.
 Join the IWW 

 Worldwide Anarchist WWW Resources 

 Mid-Atlantic InfoShop News Kiosk -- Worldwide anarchist, activist, and alternative news
 The links page 
 for the Anarchist FAQ -- contains links to over 200 anarchist web pages.

 Anarchist History and Theory 
If you would like to know more about the history of the anarchist movement
or about anarchist political and economic theory, these resources are a good
start:

 The Anarchist FAQ 
 (Frequently Asked Questions - and answers)
 Anarchy Archives -- A large collection of electronic books as well as historical and biographical information.

 Other Recommended Anarchist and Anti-authoritarian Pages 

 AnarchaFeminism -- History, theory, links, etc. about anarchist feminism
 &#161;YA BASTA! -- Read about the Zapatistas in Mexico

 Join the Anarchist Black Ribbon Anti-Censorship Campaign! 

This page is best viewed by Anarchists. Get 

Anarchy Now! 

Maintained by Greg Alt [ e-mail: 
 galt@eskimo.com ]