news 

 ~~~------NEWS -----~~~ 

 Thursday, 9-23-04: Well a week or 2 has passed since the last time I 
updated my page, things have definitely taken a turn for the better, 
because I was advanced to e-4 ( Dental Technician 3RD class ) on the 17th. that 
was a major step in the right direction considering the fact that now I can 
leave base when ever I want. 

 Sunday, 9-12-04: Added a message board to the site, so feel free to post 
messages for me, or just use it or your own personal BS. also i updated the 
Picture of the week. 

 Wednesday, 9-1-04: Added photo's to the friends photo's page, the Family 
photo page, and also added a lot to the ness photos page, hope you enjoy them as 
much as I did :) 

 Tuesday, 8-31-04: Added some photo's and different 
 stuff to the photo's page, started a Family Photo album, a 
 Friends Photo Album, and one full of pictures of my fianc & 
 her family. enjoy the updates and email me if you like what 
 you see. 

 Monday, 8-30-04: Fixed some more issues with the navigation, hope you all 
enjoy it. also added a search bar, makes the sight suitable for any home page, 
quite nice if you ask me. 

 Sunday, 8-29-04: Well, I had a flash of brilliance, instead of having the 
navigation all on one side, I decided to have it in a frames style page, that 
way the same stuff will be on the top but the sides of the page will change, 
that way its allot easier to see, and understand, plus I added some funny 
dancing hamsters for fun, hope you enjoy! ( oh yea did I forget to mention that 
as soon as I get some pictures, I will update that page, and as soon as I finish 
my bio ill update that also ) 

 Monday, 8-23-04: Well, folks its now 
 time to take care of this website, after much neglect and 
 feeling quite horrible about myself I decided to fix it, 
 some interesting things to come will be, a Photo's page, a 
 journal page ( to be hopefully updated at least semi-weekly 
 ) a revised games page, and pretty much everything else will 
 go out the window. ill keep you all posted as things come 
 along. 

 Friday, 
 2-15-02 : lots of stuff going on in my life now a days 
 got into blacksmithing, small engine repair, motorcycles, go 
 karts so if any of you have any good tips on ether of theses 
 things please send me an e mail I am looking for real good 
 deals on all that stuff ) 

 Sunday, 12-2-01 : Found a job type 
 thing made $204 real American dollars this weekend. and I am 
 getting an X box baby! well that's just me news for the last 
 few weeks any ideas on what games I should get send me an E 
 mail at fuzzysword@hotmail.com 

 Tuesday, 11-14-01 : added a downloads 
 page check this shit out! 

 Tuesday, 11-13-01 : I haven't got a job 
 yet... bad luck I guess and now I have been playing a lot of 
 UO. I will make a UO web page and I will promote the site 
 for Crystal Gate. a free player ran shard that kicks a lot 
 of ass... it has new ore types and mining additions and 
 blacksmithing... their server login is LoginServer=206.176.154.4,5003
 BE WARNED to see the cool ore you must 
 download there Hues.mul file FROM there website. its not 
 big but its REALLY cool. there site is 

 http://www.crystalgate.net anywho... 
 expect a UO page soon. 

 Tuesday, 9-18-01 : I haven't done much 
 on this page for a long time... trying to get a job and some 
 money together so I can get some stuff for my car and some 
 other projects i whana so...no new updates just keeping you 
 all posted. 

 Thursday, 8-2-01 : 
 I did the ghoul bane quest today it was a snap ill have full 
 details on the everquest page check it out! 

 Saterday,6-16-01 : 
 Me and my friend are going to make some star craft maps and 
 stuff next week so be sure and check in again ;') 

 Sunday, 6-10-01: 
 Even more changes added some stuff to the interface. I have 
 also done dome major revamping of the everquest page. 

 Saturday, 6-9-01: 
 Im making some minor changes. 

 Friday,6-8-01: 
 so it starts this is the first entry in my web page i will 
 be finishing things out tomorrow I hope.