Publicizing Your International No Diet Day Event 

 GOALS 

 FACTS & FIGURES 
 INDD's ORIGIN 
 TOP TEN REASONS 
 TO GIVE UP DIETING 
 TAKE THE PLEDGE! 
 IDEAS FOR EVENTS 
 & ACTIVITIES 
 SLOGANS 
 INDD PROCLAMATION 

 LINK TO INDD 
 SIZE-POSITIVE

 BOOK LIST 

 SIZE-POSITIVE
 GROUPS 
 & ORGANIZATIONS 

 SIZE-POSITIVE
 PRINT PUBLICATIONS 

 SIZE-POSITIVE
 VIDEOS 

 LINKS 

 INDD
 HOMEPAGE 

 LARGESSE HOMEPAGE 

 Publicizing 
 Your Event 

 Sample Press Release 
 (Note: This press release can be customized to your specifics and used to
 publicize your event through your local media. Send your releases out at least two weeks in advance of your event,
 be sure to double-space when typing the release, and include a local daytime phone number for the best response.) 
 --For immediate release-- 
 [ Name of your city or town, state
 or province goes here ]-- 
 Are you putting your life on hold until you lose weight? On May 6, ____ [ year ], in celebration of International No Diet Day,
 people in cities and towns around the globe will join a one-day moratorium on weight-loss dieting sponsored by
 an international coalition of health professionals, activists and community groups. 
 Originated in 1992 by Mary Evans Young, the director of a British activist group
 called Diet breakers, International No Diet Day was established to challenge the cultural attitudes and values
 that contribute to chronic dieting, weight preoccupation, eating disorders, and size discrimination. Participants
 will wear light blue ribbons symbolizing the day's goals. These include: 

 1. increasing public awareness of the dangers and futility of dieting, weight loss
 surgery, and obsession with thinness; 

 2. affirming that beauty, health and fitness come in ALL sizes, and everybody's right to eat normally, enjoy physical
 activity and emotional well-being; 

 3. helping change the way people of size are perceived and treated by society. 

 INDD is celebrated worldwide. In past years, events have been held in the U.S., Canada, Australia, New Zealand,
 England, Norway, South Africa and Russia. These events have included scale smashing and recycling, a diet relics
 museum, picnics and eat-ins, street theatre, protests at weight-loss surgery and diet centers, official government
 proclamations naming May 6 No Diet Day in cities and states, educational forums, petititions and demonstrations
 in support of size rights legislation, exhibits of size-positive art and photography, size-friendly fashion shows
 and diet-free dances. 
 For more information, contact: 

 [ your information, or that of a regional contact,
 goes here--be sure to include phone, fax, and e-mail if available ] 
 Official INDD web site: http://www.largesse.net/INDD/ 

 [ Describe your event here. Be sure to include
 the date, time, place, cost (if any), purpose, and contact person with local phone number. Give a brief description
 of your group or organization, your goals and activities, credentials, etc. ] 

 --End-- 

 Click here for
 more helpful hints for publicizing your event. 

 This information is a public service of Largesse, the Network
 for Size Esteem [ http://www.largesse.net/ ] and may be freely copied and distributed in its entirety for non-commercial
 use in promoting size diversity empowerment, provided this statement is included.