Quorthon's Year in Review 

 As if by magic, when you point your finger and click,
 things happen 

 Hi my name's Eric and I hope
 you enjoy my web page. Find the Secret hidden x-files page if you can. See if you
 can guess which pages I did when I was just learning HTML as I have a tendency to just
 leave them up, you know reminiscing and stuff. Kick the habit of Conformity, except
 in the field of cloning! Recently someone emailed me saying that my site was hard to
 navigate, well if you can't navigate it with how user friendly I've made it, get the hell
 off. I would prefer to keep the really stupid people off of here. Go back to
 watching party of five and listening to N-Sink. Don't try and be cute and eamil me
 about typos or grammatical errors. I don't care, except for the few pages I really
 put a lot of effort into they are not spell checked or edited. 
 is this all
 there is? 

 Here's links to some cool webpages I am affiliated with 
 Sites about serious
 issues everyone should be informed about. 
 The Gallery, also has
 a cool disclaimer, for no reason now 
 Check out Some Items
 for Sale 
 Follow this to view my
 stats, resume , and business 
 Here's the Web pages
 of people I know (cool by association) 

 My Brother ,
 dad , brother , and Me-
 I'm 6'1" so you can get a baseline. 

 Check out who else has been here
 in the guestbook 

 I've won 5 awards! 
 I have a insanely elite site! 
 :-() 
 I also
 received this letter 
 Check out the awards and perhaps enter your own page for them
 here 
 Quickly
 let me know what you think, take this quiz 

 Cyberthrill 

 Anyone who would like to
 exchange links let me know. See some comments sent to me by the cool
 people , feel free to make some of your own, and you will be instantly transformed into
 a cool person. 

 Here's some other 
 QUALITY SITES that are not affiliated with me for your enjoyment 
 You are visitor # 

 Join
 the mailing list, click to sign up. It
 will contain lot's 'o' goodies. 

 For those of you that doesn't work for, enter your email
 address and click subscribe. 

 Come visit Western Washington Universities Home Page,
 I'm an alum! 
 This page Copyright 1999 
 Check
 out the enhanced stats, added as of 01-27-98 

 send me
 email 
 "It hits you like a firestorm." 
 Watch out Amazon leeches have
 been spotted locally! . :-) 

 'Now
 brought to you by EL GRINGO Peach Schnaps'