ethan is dog 

 ETHAN RULZ THE FUCKING WORLD HOMEPAGE!!!!!! 

 i dont know nothing about nothing 

 your mind is what you make of it 

This is a picture of my favorite game Master of Orion, i can play this shit for hours if
eric lets me use his computer, otherwise i have to kick his ass and try to make him drink
beer 

 If i let someone into my life do i not cut off part of my own personal
freedoms, caring for someone elses's thoughts,fears,desires and wants does it not cut back
from the personal satifactions that one gets from simply existing. so shouldn't it be said
that one should live for one's self and know one else, therefore by ones's self in life. 

This is a picture of me on the inside. 

 "no throw beer." from a mildly intoxicated me. "beer make
brain bad." laughing about the other moment. Quotes naturally taken out of context. 

 1.i am crazy,but everyone is crazier than me. 
2.eric has bad breathe. 
c.i dont give a fuck. 
4.here is a tip for ya. 
g.i dont know. 
just remember these five things and you will be fine 

 "I really really really really want to put hair spray in your
hair." 

 -Lady from Supercuts 

 if you like what you saw here try some of my other web pages 

 check under www.poetrysucks.com 
 and www.nooneiswatching.com and www.nooneislistening.com 

 I wuz walikng through the woods yesterday. When I slipped and hit
the back of my head. That didn't feel too good. kinda made me wonder what
would happen, if I was lying there asleep, not of my freewill but of that blow. How
the hell would i get home, would my brother(eric)get me home. 

 so I decided to ask him,"Eric if i was lying there unconscience,
would you carry me home." 

 'No Pause' "Uh, I don't think i'd be able too." 

 "I don't know how i feel about that."-ethan 

 I wuz looking at my butt in the mirror one day, and i said dammit i need
to draw it. I started thinking about the president, the prez of the US that is.

 This page Copyright Ethan 1999 

 This page Copyright 1999 

 Check
out the enhanced stats, added as of 01-27-98 

 Send ETHAN mail, please put WAZZU in subject. 

 Back to My Generous brothers Homepage