Here is all the news you need to know 

 Here's all the news you need to know, when you need to know it. 

 Last Weeks top stories 

 News from two weeks ago 
 News from three weeks ago 

 TOP STORY: 

 G'KAR Voted time man of the year, narrowly
beats out Sheridan, Ivanova, Garibaldi and ICP. 

 Says G'Kar ,"It is a great honor and I accept it with my
humblest gratitudes." Both Lando Molari and Matt Perry claim that the contest was
rigged and that they should have won. "I should have won, the contest was rigged, i
demand a recount for all that is fair." -Lando Molari "Uh this sucks!"
-Matt Perry. Also considered but non winning, K Miller, Chai Kao, NavBoot, Quest <aol> 2846, Tony "wrestling dude who added me to his
listserv for no reason" Herbers, Tia Kutschia, Nicole Winn, Mitzi Marie Emrich , Mark Acheson, ICP,
Heathen, benilda de andrade, Hulk Hogan, George Muresan, Jerry Sinefeld, Kramer, and many
others. 

 Chris Farley Resurrected in a bizarre vodoo ritual, People in
Louisiana suspected 

 "Since I'm back from the dead, I'm going to eat every thing i can." Says a
strangely emaciated Farley. It is rumored that Farley lost over 300 lbs.while dead. The
ceremony to bring him back involved 2 gallons of strawberry yougart, 1 slaughtered lamb, 6
tubs filled with chili, 200 mexican peasants singing, "eins, swei, drei, thats
how we make the tacos." , and of course Chris Farleys disentombed corpse.
Says fellow comic Adam Sandler,"Man this is Ragin', and speakin' of ragin', lets get
this kegger going." Farley imediately proceeded to put the 300 lbs. back on. 

 Dinosuars all die in a fiery storm of meteors 

 millions of years ago."Grarrararrarrarararararararraaaaaa." - T-Rex.
"Arrarararargaraararaaggaarrarara." - Ceratopsionoid. "That story was lame
and completely irrelavent. It might..... have.... been news... millions.... of years
ago.....when I was a ......kid" - Walter Conkite. "Eat My Shorts." -Bart
Simpson " I didn't end the reign of the dinosaurs, but i will be tireless in my
search for the real killers." O.J. simpson. 

 This photo was taken using a kodak camera, gold film, a telephoto lense, special
goggles, a tripod, a bottle of sunscreen, special fingerless gloves, a profeesional
photographer, and a TIME MACHINE. (editors note: the time machine was by far the toughest
item of the bunch to obtain, seeing as how they haven't been invented yet.) 

 Microsoft today anounces another in a series of patches for the workaround for the
version for fix for the correction for the bug for the lamerz for the update to WIN95 . 

 "Ha Ha, screw you justice systeme and the American public." -Quothe Bill
Gates 

 In a Related Story: 

 Win 98 delayed again, BTW nobody cares 

 "Ha Ha, screw you justice systeme and the American public." -Quothe Bill
Gates 

 "I don't care."- ICP 

 13 once again voted top number, just sqeaks by the numbers 42 and 1066 in a really close race. 

 And here's one from the I caught a fish this big, but I'm still a
dork dept. 

 Senator Sheckles Kennedy of Massechuessetts today caught this rather sizable catfish.
But he's still a dork. The camera doesn't lie. Say's Sheckle,"I farted on my hook and
the smell attracted this monterific catfish. I am not a dork." Say's Mattew Perry in
Voldavlostak Russia,"He's a dork." Say's Saq,"He's a dork, but he used to
work for the postal service before he became a senator, so i wouldn't mess with him."
Say's Kennedy of MTV,"Thank god I'm not related to that dork." You'd think being
a senator and being related to the prestigious Kennedy family would have some cache but it
doesn't. Rumor has it fellow dork Bill Gates bought the election for him. 

 Henson down yet again! 

 sys admin baffled!?! Says Habib,"I am without figuring out on the subject."
Says Matt Perry,"I don't really give a shit, since I graduated and I already have my
own crappy provider." He continues,"Why are you asking me, are you threatning
me, are you afraid of my bungjolio, i am the great cornholio, i need tp for my bunghole,
did you bring me tp." at this point the news crew takes away his sugar and subdues
him. 

 In a related story: 

 MTV signs Shaq and Matt Perry of friends to do a talk show about sex a la
roadrules/rodmanrules/a-team. 

 The premise of the show is the 2 of them driving around in a tricked out 82 Van painted
black with red stripes with 6 strangers driving around talking about sex, having
adventures, and of course solving fictional crimes. Says a surprised shaq,"I know I
got skillz."flashing a million dollar grin. Matt Perry could not be reached for
comment. 

 This page Copyright 1999 

 Check
out the enhanced stats, added as of 01-27-98 

 Back to my Homepage 

 send me email