Here is all the news you need to know 

 Here is all the news you need to know 

 Last weeks top stories 

 News from two weeks ago 

 Microsoft today anounces first in a series of patches for the update to WIN95 

 Bill Gates was giddy to announce today in a small ceremony the unveiling of Microsoft's
unheralded patches to WIN666. 
The only two problems were the new patch was first in a series, and David Hasselhoff was
one of the programmers. 
This caused the progamming to be particularilarilly faulty as Mr. Hasselhoff doesn't know
any programming languauges other then basic. Mr. Hasselhoff promised to learn higher level
progamming languages for the next patch. Bill Gates promised the next patch,"just as
soon as David Hasselhoff learns J+++." Says Mr. Hasselhoff,"I've been working
really hard on Bay Watch and I really don't have time to learn programming, so don't
expect the next patch any time soon." Mr. Hasselhoff did the patch while on hiatus. 

 Michael Jackson accused of trying to trade his baby for the really cute one. 

 Rumors were started when a member of Whacko Jacko's entorage was bought by the national
enquirerer. 
Rumors that could very well be true. 

 No One retired 

 When asked for a comment, No One Replied. 

 13 once again voted top number 

 13 and 69 on the rocks. Story page a5. 

 Henson down yet again! 

 sys admin baffled!?! see page g7 

 MTV brings back Head Banger's Ball 

 says an MTV spokesperson, "The kidnapping victim was freed by a Group made up of
members of Pantera, Kyuss, and Overkill. We had our fingers crossed when we said that we
would bring back the Ball if they released the hostage." The victim identified as one
Tabitha Soren did not seem to visibly shaken, but she did mention a ringing in the ears
and she had a big smile. The group was released from police custody when it was found they
were completely justified. 

 In a related story 

 Shaq show deep sixed 

 Says a surprised shaq,"I know I got skillz."flashing a million dollar grin. 

 This page Copyright 1999 

 Check
out the enhanced stats, added as of 01-27-98 

 Back to my Homepage 

 send me email