Quorthon, Quorthon, and more Quorthon, plus a little Bathory 

 Quorthon 

 Janet Reno Loves Quorthon! 

 I'd like to start off with a little something, something of a quote I
found on the newsgroups-------------- 

 "Some time later I picked up Bathory's Blood Fire Death, and, not
to put too fine a point on it, I thought the music ^cut due to content^. Might that have
had something to do with the picture of Quorthon & co. in leather pants wielding huge
swords and looking, well, really silly?" when i read this i thought it sounded really
funny, and my friends and i all love the name quorthon, he continues....... "While I
love that picture (it's provided me with a ton of amusement) ^cut due to content^the
pinacle of existence Bathory someone could point me to (it, the album)? " 

 -maximilian a huge bathory and quorthon fan 1997. 

 HERE'S A PICTURE INSPIRED BY QUORTHON'S MUSIC: 

 This is Quorthon as he would've looked if he was an ancient viking. 

 Skramasax sent me a picture that fit that
description, many thanks, and here's hoping she wins in her sibling rivaly with her
brother Soulfrost 

 It has just been brought to my attention that this picture is in fact Marduk and not
Bathory, oh well. Here's the new picture from SCHALLER RENE (apperently the new
picture which is in .art format only shows up on ie 3, not netscape 4 or strangely enuff
frontpage, anyone know how to convert it to .jpg?) 

 I liked everything I've heard by Bathory, and look forward to hearning the side
project QUORTHON. This guy (maximilian) is obviously a fan and i liked the imagery of his
description of the picture. Picturing it in my head I could just see them all looking way
80's metal freaks, someday I hope to see the actual picture. :-) 
(update June '97 as the picture is right above, i've obviously seen it, it kicks ass(july
98 except now since i wrote this i know it's not the right picture)), almost as much as my
 brothers web page , he did it while drunk so you know. BTW he goes
to WAZZU. He's not as cool as Quorthon though! 

I have one of bathory's old albums and it's really cool, it makes you feel like you're in
old viking norway. I like to listen to it when i'm running up a mountainside to the crisp
clear cool fresh air at the top. I also put Quorthon in my NBAlive 97 playing for
Milwakee. He makes the team one of the best in the game since he stands 7'7" 303, and
has perfect stats, he usually is second in the league to Christian Laettner in rebounding,
since I edited Laettner's stats too. I got the promo for the new Bathory album and it's
hella cool, I recomend going out and getting it if you like cool non-MTV type music. It's
good for listening tooo in certain moods, such as when you want to feel like a Viking. :-)

 strangely enuff, this has actually turned out to be one of the most popular sections of
my web site, i guess everyone out there loves QUORTHON as much as I do. 

 I now have a web page award, called of course the QUORTHON award, to enter your
page to win it check out here 

 Here's some comments and feelings made by others: 

 here's someone who loved the page 

 even gave his snail mail address, and he really loves QUORTHON! 

 HI !!! 
you are a best music maker of black metal and every world!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
I want mail from You...very very very much....!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

my adress: 
ROBERT JAKUBEC 
ODBORARSKE NAMESTIE 4 
BRATISLAVA 
SLOVAKIA---EUROPE 

THANK YOU VERY MUCH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! hi!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 ROBERT JAKUBEC 

 Here's another Quorthon Fan: 

 hi !! Im Jenny, from Sweden...and i love Bathory !! Just thought i should say hi !! c
ya !! if ya feel like writing back...write to 
 HERE 
byeee !! 
Jen !! 

 Here's a letter from the owner of a huge Quorthon page, check it out: 

 Stumbled accross your web page :- check out my Bathory page for lyrics and links to
most bathory pages on the net... 
 THE BATHORY PAGES 
Cheers, 
Gavin. 

 here's someone who liked QUORTHON'S NEW ALBUM and gave a mini-review 

 Hello, 
I am a big Bathory/Quorthon fan and yesterday I've bought another great Quorthon's solo
"Purity of Essence". Very good although I've listened to it just once (it's 2CD
about 100min)! Actually I haven't heard anything about it so it was a big surprise for me
to see it in stores. 
Regards 
 Serge 

 Here's the letter by Scramasax when she sent me "the picture" 

 The attatched file is a picture similar to the one describing "Quorthon and co. in
leather pants weilding swords, etc. . ." Its not the exact picture, but you might
find it amusing. Another comment: Your sight made me lauph, you idiot! Now my throat might
not get better by Wednesday! You see, I am not supposed to strain my vocal chords for a
while, if I want to be able to talk normally by the party on Wednesday. I got some stupid
strecht throat type thing. Well, that's about all I have to say. If you want to send me
anything, send it to Skramasax . 
From, 
Skramasax 

Here's another cool page done by a huge bathory fan HEATHEN, it's pretty cool, lots o'
pictures Check it out here 

 keep going the best part is at the bottom. :-) 

Isn't it funny how it just says QUORTHON ALBUM, cool huh? 

 Back to my cool home page, also check out my other band pages,
especially Kyuss 

 Send me mail, bout anything, or a cool
QUORTHON, or Bathory expirience, if it's cool enuff I'll post it along with a link to you! 

 Standard Disclaimer: I am not QUORTHON, although strangely enuff, I have gotten
email from people who thought I was. I am in no way affiliated with Bathory or any record
label, although let's say i was the owner of Sony or some other large record label, I
would of course offer Bathory a huge recording contract, and hype them, and get them on
MTV, and get every mindless 14 year old Spice Girls Fanatic, humming some decent music for
a change. I wonder how the masses would react to good music, my guess is a rise in the
suicide rate as whole groups of people find out their musical believe system has been
based on crap, genericism, false hype, commercialism, givinhg the masses what is most
palatable rather then what's best. I also predict the murders of certain "stars"
like Bush, the entire genre of country music, and top 40. To be replaced by the Top 40
groups that have talent, few if any pop "stars" will survive the massacre, as
the masses react like formally caged rats that have finally clawed their way to freedom.
Many will be torn apart. But I digress. I'm not Shaq either. And I'd give Kyuss the hugest
contract in history to re-unite. It'd be bigger then tha Beattle's. 

 This page Copyright 1999 

 Check
out the enhanced stats, added as of 01-27-98 

 Back to my Homepage 

 send me email