Adventure Sailing with SeaScape, Greece and Turkey; our booking conditions 

 Cancellation policy 

 Booking changes 

 Personal responsibility 

 Update, Feb 12th 2003 . In response to current

 uncertainties in the world political situation,

 we are offering amended booking and cancellation

 conditions. Please see here 
for details. 

-->

 &#160; 
 Booking procedure: 

 We will hold an option for one week whilst you decide if you would like to confirm a booking. After a week, it will cancel automatically unless otherwise agreed. 

 To confirm your place, a 25% deposit is required. This can be paid with visa, mastercard or personal cheque. Cheques should made payable to SeaScape Sailing Pty Ltd. Balance is required 90 days before departure. We reserve the right to cancel bookings not fully paid at this time. 

 Please note that on our shareboat program, we cannot always guarantee in advance which of our yachts you will be on. We do our best to accommodate personal preferences, and normally are able to do so; but private group bookings may sometimes affect which yachts are available for our shareboat schedule. 

 Cancellation policy: 

 1) Cancellations 6 months before departure are refunded in full. 

 2) Cancellations between 3-6 months before start of trip are refunded in full, less a $100 per person administration fee. 

 3) 90 &ndash; 45 days before departure, 50% of total cost is refunded. 

 4) 45 days before departure, no refunds. 

 SeaScape will always attempt to rebook any last minute cancellations, and according to our discretion, may offer a future trip credit or refund up to the amount we have recovered. We always do our very best to help out if factors arise out of your control, and given enough notice, frequently are able to do so. However, please understand that if you cancel at short notice for whatever reason and we cannot rebook your space, then we must adhere to our cancellation policy as above. We strongly recommend you take out travel insurance . 

 Booking changes 

 We will always do our best to accommodate requests for date changes, given suitable availability. There is no charge for this.

 Personal responsibility 

 A sailboat offers limited personal space; an easy-going, cooperative team spirit and respect for others on board are essential to the enjoyment of all. We reserve the right to terminate the vacation of any client who refuses to comply with instructions from SeaScape staff; or whose behaviour is deemed to be causing distress, damage, danger or annoyance to other clients. Upon such termination, our responsibility for your vacation ceases and we shall not be liable for any extra costs incurred.