Bass For Beginners - Buying Your Second Bass Amp 

 Buying Your 2nd 
 Bass Amp 

 Dan Lasley 

 Just about everyone who picks up the bass as a beginner has a marginal 
 practice amp to start with. Which is why I&#146;m going to talk 
 about what to look for when you buy your second amp &#150; your 
 first real &#147;play it loud and proud&#148; bass amp. 
 Combo vs Separate Head and Cabinet 
 Every speaker needs an amplifier to drive it. You can not plug 
 your guitar cable into the back of a speaker cabinet and expect 
 any sound to come out. So every guitar amp (or PA!) must have a 
 pre-amp with signal processing, a power amplifier, and one or more 
 speakers. 
 The truth is that there is very little difference between a combo 
 amp and a separate head and speaker cabinet. The &#147;head&#148; 
 is the electronic part that has the pre-amp, signal processing (effects 
 and EQ), and the power amp (Watts!). A combo amp is just the two 
 pieces bolted together in a common box. Combos tend to be a little 
 bit cheaper than buying the items separately, and some combo units 
 have fewer ins and outs, but it has very little to do with the sound 
 quality. 
 Speaker Cabinets 
 The main attribute of a bass speaker cabinet is that it needs to 
 move a lot of air. This means that the speaker diameter needs to 
 be very large, and it needs to move in and out a long way. One 
 problem when you do this with a standard guitar speaker is that 
 it builds up enough momentum that it actually wants to jump out 
 of itself. This is one of the reasons behind why a bass cabinet 
 must be sealed or ported. At the lowest frequencies, the speaker 
 needs to have the air inside the box push back a little to keep 
 it under control. The size and length of the port tube helps the 
 speaker stay under control at even lower frequencies. 
 This is why you do not want to play your bass loudly through a 
 guitar amp. Most guitar cabinets are open in the back &#150; part 
 of their tone comes from allowing the speaker to move freely. 
 Big Speakers vs Little Speakers 
 Since we need to move a lot of air, you would think that bigger 
 is better. But there is a problem: even the bass guitar creates 
 higher frequencies. All those good harmonics from a warm J-bass, 
 or from slapping and picking, need to go through the speaker as 
 well. And for a large speaker to create high frequencies, it needs 
 to be flexible. It&#146;s just not mechanically possible to move 
 the entire 15&#148; speaker at 1KHz, only the central few inches 
 can move that fast. This is OK, but it creates a dilemma for the 
 designers. For good tight low frequencies, you want a stiff speaker, 
 but to get higher frequencies, you need a flexible speaker cone. 
 In addition, in order to make a big speaker rigid, it becomes heavier, 
 which makes it harder to move quickly. They are more expensive 
 to build too, because it takes more power to move those huge cones, 
 requiring bigger coils, frames, and magnets. 
 One solution is to use several speakers. Two 10&#148; speakers 
 have about the same area as one 15&#148; cone. By designing the 
 speaker to be able to move in and out more (a longer throw), it 
 is possible to use these 10&#148; speakers for the bass. But because 
 the area and radius is smaller, it is easier to make it both light 
 and rigid, and thus able to produce the higher frequencies as well. 
 Here is a table of areas for different types of speaker cabinets: 

 Speaker Size 

 Area (sq in) 

 Number 

 Total Area 

 10" 

 75 sq-in 

 2 

 150 sq-in 

 10" 

 75 sq-in 

 4 

 300 sq-in 

 12" 

 108 sq-in 

 2 

 216 sq-in 

 15" 

 169 sq-in 

 1 

 169 sq-in 

 18" 

 243 sq-in 

 1 

 243 sq-in 

 In most cases, you will find that a 2X12 or 4X10 is more than 
 enough, and it will sound much better than a 1X15 or 1X18. Note 
 that the different manufacturers have become very adept at getting 
 the most from their speakers. SWR is very good at getting a very 
 clean low sound from a single 12&#148; speaker. 
 Amplifiers 
 For most practice or rehearsal rigs, you can get by with 100W or 
 less, but for your new amp, you should be thinking about 200-400W. 
 Low frequencies suck up a lot of power, moving those big heavy speakers 
 back and forth. In this power range, you should be able to get 
 a good range of features including dual-channels and several patch 
 points. 
 Dual channels are nice because you can set up two different EQ 
 and effects chains &#150; say one for ballads and the other for 
 hard rock &#150; and easily switch between them. Having two gain 
 controls are helpful if the internal overdrive is desired, so you 
 can turn up the distortion and turn down the volume with these two 
 controls. Usually the EQ will be either a simple 3 knob version, 
 or a more sophisticated parametric or graphic EQ may be available. 
 As noted above, this applies the same whether your amp in part 
 of a combo, or it&#146;s a separate head. 
 Monster Rigs 
 If you have determined that you need the biggest and loudest setup 
 available, you can get a 4X10 with a 1X15 under it, or even a 8X10, 
 but these are huge, and heavy, and expensive. And you can drive 
 this with 600-1200W. If you go with the split 4X10 and 1X15, I 
 recommend using a crossover and two amps (300W each), because you 
 don&#146;t want to send the high frequencies to the 15&#148;. Many 
 people drive both speakers with the same amp, but I think the mid-highs 
 will not be as clear as you&#146;d like. This is the type of rig 
 you might consider if you&#146;re playing on a large stage and you 
 have to compete with several guitarists and a manic drummer. As 
 noted in my Sound Engineering 
 columns, I am not a fan of extremely loud stage levels, but if you 
 want it, you can get it. 
 Brands 
 Oh my, there are so many different brands of bass amps, and they 
 all look exactly the same, and yet they sound different. And the 
 cost range is incredible. A Carvin 4X10 cabinet is $399, and the 
 same thing from SWR is $799. Most people agree that the SWR sounds 
 better, but TWICE as good? And there are many 1X12 and 1X15 combos 
 made by Fender and Ashdown that sound pretty good. So it&#146;s 
 really a personal choice. 
 There are only two things I will warn you away from. First, don&#146;t 
 get a folded horn cabinet. The sound doesn&#146;t properly form 
 until about 10 feet in front of the cabinet, so you can&#146;t hear 
 yourself on stage. And second, be very careful with Hartke speakers. 
 The cones are made from aluminum, and while some people like them, 
 I have heard several reliability concerns about that brand. 
 Recommendation 
 My personal preference would be for a 4X10 with a 300W head, made 
 by Carvin or Peavey or Ampeg. This is going to be loud enough to 
 cut through when I need to, have a wide range of features, and still 
 be cost effective. If size in a problem, I think that SWR gets 
 the most sound out of a small package. 
 And as always, I&#146;d buy it used! 
 Let me know what kind of bass amp you own, and what you like about 
 it. I look forward to hearing from you. 

 List of Brands: 

 Ampeg 

 Ashdown 

 Carvin 

 Bag End 

 Crate 

 Eden 

 Fender 

 Gallien-Krueger 

 Hartke 

 Marshall 

 Mesa-Boogie 

 Peavey 

 Sunn 

 SWR 

 Trace Elliot 

 Yorkville 

 And several other smaller brands&#133; 

 &copy; Copyright 2001 
 by Dan Lasley . All Rights 
 Reserved. 
 URL: http://www.guitarnoise.com/bass/20011103.html