Review of The Big Sleep 

 Review of The Big Sleep (1946) 

 With its two different stories artificially stitched into one,
confusing plot threads, various semi-solved murders and numerous speaking
parts, The Big Sleep could have been one big soupy mess. But thanks
to the witty script and sizzling chemistry between the two leads Bogart
and Bacall, this film is a cracklin' good time. 

 Private detective Philip Marlowe, played by Humphrey Bogart, has never
faced as formidable a foe as divorcee Vivian Routledge, played with feline
grace by Lauren Bacall. Protective of her sickly father and just plain
sick-and-twisted sister Carmen, Vivian is cool as she tries to lead
Marlowe astray. She's also unflinching in the face of murder, which occurs
quite a few times and isn't always convincingly solved by the script. 

 Naturally, Marlowe doesn't fall for Vivian's bluff, even as they fall
for each other despite (because of?) their tough personalities. Although
Marlowe has been played by a variety of actors, Bogart's Marlowe is the
toughest of all, the one whom you truly believe has touched the bottom and
survived. But this Marlowe hasn't survived unscathed--he'll do whatever it
takes. It's not for nothing that when the second body is retrieved that
Marlowe's cop friend asks if Marlowe did the deed. 

 While Bogart is convincing as a tough guy, he's less so as the chick
magnet the filmmakers want him to be. He's propositioned by several women,
not counting Vivian's nymphomaniac sister Carmen. And yet his strongest
relationships, other than with Vivian, are with the Sternwood patriarch
and Harry Jones. Although Marlowe's encounter with Harry is very brief, he
later coldly kills two men to avenge Harry's death. And while Marlowe's
and Vivian's relationship is on the surface a heterosexual one, Vivian's
toughness and coolness are hallmarks of the masculine archetype that
Marlowe is identified with, identifies with, is attracted to. 

 The film also stumbles with its artificially conjoined script.
Originally based on two different Raymond Chandler stories, the dizzying,
breathless pace of the film attempts to hide the disjuncture between these
two stories. It almost succeeds. 

 Completed in 1945, The Big Sleep was shelved for over a year
while being retooled to give Bacall a more prominent role. Her agent
believed he was in a desperate fight for her career after her second movie
flopped. He asked for her to be given more "insolent" lines in her scenes
with Bogart. Who is more insolent is a matter for debate. But what isn't
debatable is that building on their natural chemistry (Bogart and Bacall
had gotten married in the meantime) makes the film sparkle. 

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2003)