Complete summary of The Big Sleep 

 Complete summary of The Big Sleep (1946) 

 General Sternwood is being blackmailed again over his wild daughter
Carmen, this time by rare book dealer Arthur Geiger. Private detective
Sean Regan handled the previous blackmail demand by Joe Brody, but now
Regan has disappeared. The general asks private detective Philip Marlowe
to handle Geiger. The general's older daughter Vivian Routledge assumes
that Marlowe has been hired to find Regan. 

 Marlowe quickly establishes that Geiger's rare bookstore is a front. 
Marlowe follows Geiger home and stakes him out. Carmen visits Geiger. 
Later, she screams and there are two gun shots. Drivers in two cars leave. 
Inside, Marlowe finds Geiger dead, Carmen high, and a hidden camera
missing its film, presumably of Carmen. 

 Marlowe takes Carmen home, then returns to Geiger's, but the body is
missing. Homicide detective Bernie Ohls informs Marlowe that a Sternwood
car has been fished out of the bay, with the general's murdered chauffeur,
Owen Taylor, in it. Ohls tells Marlowe that Taylor was involved with
Carmen. 

 Vivian tells Marlowe she received a blackmail note and telephone call
asking $5,000 for photos of Carmen. She aims to borrow the money from
gambling kingpin Eddie Mars, whose wife apparently ran off with Regan.
Later, Marlowe finds Geiger's chauffeur Carol and Joe Brody packing up
Geiger's bookstore. At Geiger's house, Carmen tells Marlowe she's
searching for her photos and that Brody killed Geiger. Marlowe is menaced
by Geiger's landlord Eddie Mars. 

 Vivian lies to Marlowe that there has been no contact from the
blackmailer, but Marlow finds her at Brody's to pay him and Geiger's
assistant Agnes. He gets Carmen's blackmail photos from Brody. Just as
Marlowe is accusing Brody of killing Taylor, there is a knock at the door.
Answering it, Brody is shot dead by Carol. Marlowe pursues and catches
Carol. Marlowe tells Carol that Brody didn't kill Geiger--Taylor did. 

 Vivian tries to pay Marlowe off but he resists, even when Vivian gets
the DA to pressure him. When Marlowe visits Mars' gambling joint, Mars and
Vivian stage her big win which leads Marlow to think that Mars is
blackmailing Vivian. Marlowe is beaten up by two of Mars' men, but is
rescued by Harry Jones, Agnes's new accomplice. Agnes has Mrs. Mars'
location. Subsequently, Harry is killed by Mars' men and Marlowe is unable
to save him. 

 Searching for Mrs. Mars, Marlowe is found out and tied up by Mars'
men. Mrs. Mars tells him she didn't run away with Regan, but pretended to
so that her husband wouldn't be arrested for Regan's murder. She believes
Eddie innocent, but Marlowe thinks otherwise. Vivian helps Marlowe escape
and he kills Harry's murderer Canino. Returning home alone, Marlowe
finds Carmen there, who says she disliked Regan because he paid her no 
attention. 

 Marlowe and Vivian ambush Mars at Geiger's house. Marlowe claims that
Regan disappeared because Carmen shot him after he rejected her, and that
Mars blackmailed Vivian over the murder. He forces Mars to be shot by
Mars' own men, then calls Ohls claiming that Mars killed Regan. As the 
sirens sound, Marlowe and Vivian lean in. 

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2002)