Cascading Style Sheets, Level 3 and Beyond 

 CSS, Level 3 and Beyond 
 = Index DOT Html/Css by Brian Wilson = 

 Index DOT Html: 
 Main Index | Element Tree |
 Element Index | HTML Support
 History 
 Index DOT Css: Main Index |
 Property Index |
 CSS Support History |
 Browser History 

 Statistics 

 Authors: Bert Bos, various others on each module
 Specifications 
 Original list of ideas - http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-CSS-potential 
 Current work on CSS3 and timelines: http://www.w3.org/Style/CSS/current-work 
 Timeline: 
 - W3C Note released regarding items suggested for inclusion in
 CSS3 (includes feedback form) - December 1998
 - [too numerous to mention the work ongoing on the separate modules - see the
 "current work" timeline above]

 Where is CSS headed? 

Currently no browser supports CSS1 entirely, although many are pretty close now.
The additions and changes in CSS2 went untouched for a LONG time by the
browser-makers, but the market is FINALLY seeing wide-scale adoption of
that standard. Of course, while browser-makers were taking their time in
producing real implementations of CSS2, the folks at the W3C and its mailing
lists were thinking about the future.

In December 1998 a W3C note was published (see above) containing a large
laundry-list of items that have been suggested for inclusion in CSS3. It
is likely that many of these features will be cut (in fact, the Note
included a "voting" utility to help build feedback on public wishes
for these features.)

Since this original "Note" was published, CSS has been broken down into
sub-modules. Work on these documents, which integrate all of the CSS1 and CSS2
work, as well as enhancements above and beyond them is under way. The W3C has
posted a planned timeline for the work on these CSS3 modules. When we might see
wide-scale compliance of CSS3 in browsers? Well, that's another matter. (Frankly, 
the number of proposed new CSS properties in the various modules is nothing 
short of frightening - both for the page author and the simple human that 
creates this particular site. )

 Boring Copyright Stuff....