HTML 3.2 

 HTML 3.2 
 = Index DOT Html/Css by Brian Wilson = 

 Index DOT Html: 
 Main Index | Element Tree |
 Element Index | HTML Support
 History 
 Index DOT Css: Main Index |
 Property Index |
 CSS Support History |
 Browser History 

 Statistics 

 Author: Dave Raggett
 Specifications: 
 DTD - http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/Wilbur/HTML32.dtd 
 Documentation - http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html32.html 
 Timeline: 
 - Draft specification published - May 5, 1996
 - Becomes W3C recommendation - January 14, 1997

 About HTML 3.2 

Several months had passed since HTML 2.0 had been ratified and HTML 3.0
expired. Both before and after the demise of the HTML 3.0 draft the creation of new
elements and attributes had been proliferating in several browsers. The
 W3C decided to form an
 Editorial Review Board to consider
the many extensions being made to HTML for official inclusion into a new
specification. This board committed itself to creating a comprehensive
set of HTML specifications that integrated this new work into the official
body of the HTML language.

At the beginning of May, 1996 at the World Wide Web conference in Paris,
France, the review board announced
 HTML 3.2 
(code named "Wilbur") which was an amalgamation of HTML 2.0 features,
a set of features from HTML 3.0 that survived the experimental deployment
period, plus select extensions created and implemented by browser vendors.
It also had as its goal, like HTML 2.0, to capture the common HTML capabilities
in current browsers at the time of its creation (circa May, 1996.)

There are some common browser extensions and important features that are
noticeable by their absence in HTML 3.2. They include Style Sheets, Frames,
Scripting, Math and Internationalization. It has been stated that these
features WILL appear in future HTML proposals in some form.

 Why it is important 

With the demise of HTML 3.0, Many users and browser creators alike have wanted
some standard to replace HTML 2.0 as the content on the web has grown
increasingly more complex. Since its introduction in May 1996, HTML 3.2
quickly became THE de-facto replacement to HTML 2.0 - both for HTML authors
 and browser creators - even before it was a recommendation.

 Boring Copyright Stuff...