HTML Overview 

 HTML Overview 
 = Index DOT Html/Css by Brian Wilson = 

 Index DOT Html: 
 Main Index | Element Tree |
 Element Index | HTML Support
 History 
 Index DOT Css: Main Index |
 Property Index |
 CSS Support History |
 Browser History 

 Statistics 

 Original Author: Tim Berners-Lee
 Specifications: 
 - HTML 2.0 
 - HTML 3.0 
 - HTML 3.2 
 - HTML 4.0 
 - XHTML 1.0 
 - XHTML 1.1 
 - Cascading Style Sheets 
 Timelines: 
 - Creation of language in conjunction with Berners-Lee's WWW
 program - Oct.->Dec. 1990
 - Specification for HTML released on the Internet - Summer, 1991
 - Draft defining HTML released (Internet draft later expired) - June, 1993
 - Initial document for 'HTML 2.0' released - April, 1994
 - Draft for HTML 2.0 cleaned up and released - July, 1994
 - HTML 2.0 draft further refined with plans to release as an RFC - February, 1995
 - HTML 2.0 (RFC 1866) approved as a proposed standard - September, 1995
 - HTML 3.0 draft released (later expired) - March, 1995
 - HTML 3.2 draft released - May, 1996
 - HTML experimental DTD 'Cougar' released - July, 1996
 - W3C recommendation for HTML 3.2 (Wilbur) - January, 1997
 - HTML 4.0 draft (evolved from Cougar) released - July, 1997
 - HTML 4.0 becomes W3C proposed recommendation - November, 1997
 - HTML 4.0 becomes W3C recommendation - December, 1997
 - HTML 4.0 revised and certified W3C recommendation - April, 1998
 - Draft released for 'Reformulating HTML in XML' (codename Voyager) - December, 1998
 - XHTML 1.0 first working draft released - January, 1999
 - XHTML 1.0 becomes W3C Proposed Recommendation - August, December 1999
 - XHTML 1.1 first working draft released - September, 1999
 - XHTML 1.0 becomes W3C Recommendation - January, 2000
 - XHTML 1.1 becomes W3C Proposed Recommendation - April, 2001
 - XHTML 1.1 becomes W3C Recommendation - May, 2001

 In The Beginning: SGML 

 In 1986, a new ISO standard (ISO 8879) was released which aimed to make
 platform and display differences irrelevant to the delivery and rendering
 of documents. This standard detailed the language called the Standard
 Generalized Markup Language (SGML.)

 Tim Berners-Lee and The Genesis of the WWW 

 In 1989, Tim Berners-Lee created a proposal for a hypertext document system to
 be used within the CERN community.
 Although based in Switzerland, CERN members
 were scattered throughout the globe and project turnover was often high.
 Collaboration over long distances, getting new project members quickly up to
 speed and preservation of information in the face of frequent member turnover
 were the driving factors in the development of the proposed system. This
 system, which Berners-Lee later named "The World-Wide Web"
 in October of 1990, outlined several important components necessary to
 realize the vision and which, in a nutshell, defines the nature of the
 WWW today:

 It must be cross-platform
 Must be able to use many existing informational resource systems while
 also allowing new information to be easily added
 A transport mechanism was necessary to move documents across networks 
 [evolved into HTTP]
 An identification scheme for addressing both local and remote hypertext
 documents [evolved into URL addressing]
 A formatting language for the hypertext documents. This was not
 explicitly mentioned, but was part and parcel of presenting the
 information received [evolved into HTML]

 The Development of HTML 

 Berners-Lee developed and defined the HTML language, which was created and
 defined using SGML, during the development cycle for the first Web
 browser/editor from October to December 1990. The first version of the
 browser initially ran only on the NeXT platform and was only processing
 text files, but it was a start. Berners-Lee later put the code and
 specifications for the project (including HTML) on the Internet in the
 summer of 1991. During the next few years the system introduced by
 Berners-Lee caught on in the Internet community - and the 'web' of
 documents available was steadily growing. A common library of code was
 available to programmers to easily create the needed capabilities to access
 web documents. Browsers quickly became available for a wide variety of platforms.
 As the number of implementations grew, the variety did also. The HTML
 language originally specified by Berners-Lee had developed and extended
 far beyond its initial form and no real standard had yet been developed.
 For a further discussion of how the first HTML standard finally developed,
 please see the HTML 2.0 history page.

 What HTML is today 

 The standards for HTML are currently being developed by a worldwide
 industry consortium known as the W3C .
 This work was carried out previously by the
 IETF . The W3C places several
 requirements on HTML:

 "The document format should be, as
 far as practical, backwards compatible with existing HTML documents. It
 should support both paged and scrolling layout models...A simple,
 scaleable document format that can be used for information exchange on
 virtually any platform." 

 The W3C goes on to list the proposed range of these platforms, which include:

 Graphical User Interfaces, such as Windows, Macs and X11/Unix
 Text only systems, such as VT-100 terminals
 Text to Speech devices
 Rendering to Braille

 The Success of HTML 

 In hindsight, the following quote by Berners-Lee from the original CERN
 proposal shows how far things have progressed in less than a decade:

 "In 10 years, there may be many
 commercial solutions to the problems above, while today we need
 something to allow us to continue." 

 The WWW and HTML solutions that Berners-Lee created have evolved into that
 solution. HTML is now becoming the primary document format of choice not
 only on the Web, but also elsewhere in both personal and commercial uses.
 Despite its current limitations, HTML has become the most popular and widely
 used rich text format ever.

 Relevant Sites 

 http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/PubHistory.html 
 HTML Spec publication history 
 http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/Bibliography 
 A historical list of HTML and HTML-related proposals and standards 
 http://cern.web.cern.ch/CERN/WorldWideWeb/RCTalk/history.html 
 CERN's WWW timeline page 
 http://www.w3.org/Mail/Archives.html 
 W3C's mailing list archives for www-talk and www-html -
 makes interesting reading, but some parts have VERY long download times. 
 http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/HTML-WG/940726-minutes.html 
 The IETF HTML 'Birds of a Feather' group meeting
 minutes: 7/26/94. Very interesting details in this document. 

 Boring Copyright Stuff...