XHTML 

 XHTML 
 = Index DOT Html/Css by Brian Wilson = 

 Index DOT Html: 
 Main Index | Element Tree |
 Element Index | HTML Support
 History 
 Index DOT Css: Main Index |
 Property Index |
 CSS Support History |
 Browser History 

 Statistics 

 Authors: Steven Pemberton (HTML WG chair),
 et al (too many to mention)
 Standards: 
 - XHTML 1.0 
 - XHTML 1.1 
 Specifications: 
 HTML 4.0 Recommendation - http://www.w3.org/TR/html401 
 XML 1.0 Recommendation - http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml 
 XHTML 1.0 Recommendation - http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/ 
 XHTML 1.1 Recommendation - http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/ 
 Timeline: 
 - Industry organizations and companies gather to decide the future of HTML - May, 1998
 - Draft document "Reformulating HTML in XML" (Voyager) released - December, 1998
 - First working draft of "XHTML 1.0" released by the W3C - February, 1999
 - Second working draft of "XHTML 1.0" released by the W3C - March, 1999
 - Third working draft of "XHTML 1.0" released by the W3C - May, 1999
 - XHTML 1.0 becomes W3C Proposed Recommendation twice - August, December 1999
 - XHTML 1.0 becomes W3C Recommendation - January, 2000
 - "XHTML Basic" becomes W3C Recommendation - December 2000
 - "Modularization of XHTML" becomes W3C Recommendation - April 2001
 - XHTML 1.1 becomes W3C Recommendation - May, 2001

 Where did HTML come from? 

 HTML 4.0 and its predecessors are defined using SGML, a stable and
 well-defined meta language that allows other markup languages to be
 created. SGML is very powerful and flexible, but it is these very
 features that have prevented the widespread adoption of the language.
 SGML's flexibility and power result in a level of complexity that
 prohibit a compliant parser from being lightweight.

 Enter XML 

XML is a new meta-language that aims to solve many of the problems of
SGML, meanwhile retaining the power and flexibility which make SGML
such a compelling solution. Like SGML, XML has the power to define markup
languages. The HTML language consists of a static, restrictive set of
elements and attributes. It is inflexible and is not able to adapt to the
many needs that are foreseen in just the next few years. HTML's tag set is
not even very good at satisfying the needs of adequately marking content
with semantic meaning. Yet, HTML is currently the ubiquitous document format
on the World Wide Web, used in millions...billions of documents. Obviously,
HTML needs to grow up...to have something like the expressive power of SGML,
without adding a lot of baggage to the deal. XML is the decided successor
in this equation.

XML has many things going for it. When added up, the move to XML makes
perfect sense. Part of the reason current browsers are so big is that
the parsers need to accommodate bad syntax; many pages on the web today
are coded using bad html syntax and authoring practices. The market
for lightweight browsers is expected to grow considerably in the future,
and lean & mean browsers will allow these new devices to tackle the
contents of the web with less problems. XML is extensible too, which
will allow even more powerful abilities for the full-featured browsers
of the future.

 XHTML 

A gathering in May, 1998 of industry organizations and companies decided
that HTML needed to be re-created as an XML application to meet the
current and future needs of an ever-diversifying application and presentation
market. To that end, the W3C has published a draft, "XHTML 1.0", which
re-casts HTML 4.0 in XML syntax and componentizes its capabilities.

The transformation of HTML to XHTML will not be without a few growing pains,
as some fundamental simplifications in the XML language are just different
enough from current popular HTML authoring practice to create some
incompatibilities. XHTML defines distinct namespaces for the three separate
HTML 4.0 DTDs - strict, transitional and frameset. The extensibility and
flexibility of XML will allow for HTML to be broken down even further if
need be, or easily extended - possibly for uses and applications that can
not even be foreseen at this point. The "X" in XML stands for "eXtensible",
after all.

 The HTML to XHTML headache: What needs to change 

Converting a document from HTML 4.0 to XHTML 1.0 will not be a totally
painless affair - some changes WILL need to be made.

 An XHTML document MUST be well-formed XML 
 It must conform to basic XML syntax. If it does not, the XML parser does
 not have an obligation to continue processing the document. Unlike today's
 HTML parsers, an XML parser will not try to recover and "guess" what you
 meant if the syntax is incorrect.
 <html> MUST be the top-level element. 
 Not a change from HTML, but there are quite a few documents out there
 that neglect this important point.
 Element and attribute names MUST be in lower case 
 HTML is not case-sensitive; XML is.
 Attribute values MUST be quoted 
 End tags are required for non-empty elements 
 They are no longer optional. 
 Affected Elements: basefont, body, colgroup, dd,
 dt, head, html, li, p, rt, spacer, tbody/thead/tfoot, th/td, tr
 All empty elements must use the XML "empty tag" syntax 
 XML empty elements are explicitly closed with a trailing forward slash ("/")
 before the end bracket (eg: <br> becomes <br />) 
 Affected Elements: area, base, bgsound, br,
 col, frame, hr, img, input, isindex, keygen, link, meta, option, param, wbr
 XML does not allow attribute minimization. 
 Stand-alone attributes must be expanded
 (eg: <td nowrap>cell</td> becomes
 <td nowrap="nowrap">cell</td>)
 Whitespace handling in attribute values is different in XML. 
 Leading/trailing spaces are truncated, and multiple spacing characters
 within the attribute value are collapsed to single spaces.
 Script sections should be wrapped in XML CDATA sections 
 SGML DTD exclusions are not possible in XML, but they should
 still be observed as "good practice". 
 Not allowed to nest within themselves: 
 a, button, form, label 
 Pre exclusions: big, img, object, small, sub, sup 
 Button exclusions: fieldset, form, iframe, input, label, select, textarea

Several of the above changes are to require certain features that were
optional in the SGML world, or are optional in current usage because of
historical leniency in implemented HTML parsers. When something becomes
optional, people tend to abuse it. XML parsers will be very strict
regarding these changes. In theory, any of these changes should NOT make
documents unreadable by current browsers.

 HTML Tidy 

Dave Raggett (the co-author or primary author of the HTML 3.0, 3.2 and 4.0 specs)
has created a free little program that converts an HTML page to XHTML for you,
along with correcting many common authoring mistakes. See
 http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett/tidy/ 
for more details. 
[This is not intended to be a product plug, merely a pointer toward a helpful tool.]

 Why XHTML is important 

The world of the web is changing, as are the browsers that access it.
HTML has needed to change for quite some time in order to keep up, but it
didn't have the power to do so. Changing HTML 4.0 into XHTML 1.0 will
give it the power it needs to adapt today and to flourish in the future.

 Boring Copyright Stuff...