Alone in the Dark 

 Charles W. Johnson 
 Alone in the Dark 

 Original: 3 July 1998, San Antonio, TX 
Current: 8 July 1998, Auburn, AL 

 Compost 
 Prose 
 Poetry 
 Translations 
 Why I Write 

 Homepage 
 Feedback 

This poem was written the night before we left San Antonio after
my grandmother's funeral. Everyone else had gone to bed and I, feeling
lonely and depressed, just needed to escape the house that seemed so
empty now that she was gone. I sat outside the house and pondered. I
couldn't cry, even though I desperately wanted some, any emotional
release. The lighting from the metropolitan night of San Antonio
struck me bizarrely, and somehow with the light falling on the trees,
making them look like ceramic models, it all clicked and phrases of
the poem began cascading through my mind one after another. I began to
head inside, and as I did I saw a solitary star in a dark patch of the
sky. Feeling more certain of myself, I walked inside and got myself a
bowl of vanilla ice cream as I sat down and wrote out the poem. I
haven't revised it much and don't intend to do so; it's one of the few
poems I've written that really doesn't need it.

- CWJ, 19 November 1998

 Alone in the Dark 

I stepped outside and found myself 
Alone in the dark 
With nothing left to protect me from feeling. 

Something unholy lit the sky-- 
Millions of us trying to ward off the night. 
And seeing tree skeletons cloaked in shadow, 
I realized that this is all a set, and the trees are props 
For this tragicomedy, which some call life.

Clouds ran overhead, darker than the backlit sky. 
Tears would not quite come, 
But sent words as substitute. 
And I knew that I was much smaller than I thought.

As I slunk back to the house, 
A shred of black space tore between clouds and lights. 
A solitary star glimmered overhead 
I watched my star for a moment and returned 
Knowing that the solace I sought was not out here 
But that it was somewhere, waiting for me.

Written and maintained by Charles W. Johnson ( cwj2@eskimo.com ) 
Copyright 1998 by Charles W. Johnson. 
All rights reserved.