Boats Against the Current - Charles W. Johnson 

 Charles W. Johnson 
 Boats Against the Current 

 Current version: 6 April 1998, Auburn, AL 
Original version: 27 February 1998, Auburn, AL 

 Compost 
 Prose 
 Poetry 
 Translations 
 Why I Write 

 Homepage 
 Feedback 

When I wrote this I was near the breaking-point of a then
three-year-old secret obsession with a very dear friend of mine. I
originally wrote the whole thing in my notebook in two long parts as a
way of sublimating the intensifying pressure that my feelings were
causing. It is one of my most emotionally raw pieces, and with a great
deal of editorial help, it also one of my most poetically polished works.
A friend told me that it was the best work she'd seen out of me yet, and
apparently some judges like it too; the humble little story won top honors
in the 1998 Alabama Penman contest.

As a matter of historical note, I told the girl portrayed in the story
how I felt a scant eight days after finishing the final draft of the piece.
After everything we still managed to remain near and
dear friends, but the details of what happened afterward would fill
another story entirely; perhaps that's why I wrote " Complications ," which is, well, a story
about what happened afterward.

- CWJ, 27 June 1999

"Gatsby believed in the green light, in the orgastic future that year
by year recedes before us. It eluded us then, but that's no
matter--tomorrow we will run faster, stretch out our arms farther...
And then one fine morning----

So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into
the past."

-- F. Scott Fitzgerald, The Great Gatsby 

 Boats Against the Current 

I was very bored and very nervous, sitting alone at the borders of a
crowd of dancing and chatting revelers. Some of them I
remembered. Some of them I didn't want to remember. I looked down at
the floor and mumbled something about how my class's taste in music
hadn't improved in the last five years. Suddenly, something in the
crowd caught my eye, which had been staring at the floor for the past
two minutes. A wisp of black hair, or maybe a favorite dress--in any
case, my face turned up and scanned the rows of bodies, and suddenly
locked on just whom I had wildly hoped it might have been. I felt a
smile spread across my face and I rose from my seat. She saw me too,
and that long black hair, those warm brown eyes, that short figure,
all erupted into one huge smile that cast light and warmth throughout
the room. She pushed her way through the sea of bodies to reach me.

We hugged warmly for a second, then drew apart. When we stood next to
each other, though, I felt that same old fear and dangling awkwardness
drape itself over us. My face dropped out of its smile and back into a
flat quietness. Hers too returned to its usual state, tranquil, eyes
seeming like they were always looking down, lips drawn into a pursed
thoughtfulness. After a long and dreadful battle with my nerves, I
finally goaded myself into some courage and opened my mouth.

"Hi."

"Hey." She said it softly, like she always had.

I shifted nervously and scratched at an itch that didn't exist.

"So, how have things been?"

"Okay. I'm up at the art college."

"Yeah." I nodded.

We walked through the crowd together, pressed into an awkward
silence. As often as I thought I could without getting caught, I stole
a glance at her sedate face. She seemed to be looking down.

"So, um..." I started. She looked up at me. I didn't finish.

"Well?" she asked, a little annoyed.

I chuckled nervously. "Hm, I didn't expect to see you here. I didn't
even expect to come myself."

"Me either. I just came because ... I don't know. I actually miss the
place, but I don't know why."

I nodded.

"I don't know why I came either. It was just ... I felt like I should
... like there was something here I wanted to get back."

"Have you found it?"

I shrugged.

We found a pair of empty chairs and sat down. I pressed my arms
tightly into my sides to suppress the impulse to wrap one around her.

We sat there for about five minutes before she spoke. "So, have you
met anyone at college?"

"Uh, yeah. A few good guys. There's Mike; he's in Comp Sci too--"

"No, no ... I meant like ... girls."

I coughed, then spoke softly. "Uh ... not really. Well, I met a few
friendly girls ... but no, um, girlfriends. I guess I haven't really
been looking."

She reached over and took my hand. "Oh, I'm sorry."

"Don't be. It's my own choice."

The conversation was getting uncomfortably close to real feelings, so
I deflected it.

"Have you? Met any guys, I mean." I realized that it was the wrong
question to ask as soon as it got past my lips.

She stared straight at the floor. "Yeah ... sort of."

I twisted my urge to grimace into a clenched, neutral face. I kept my
eyes from wincing and instead forced my eyebrows up. A hand went from
my side to hold my forehead for a second, then brushed backward
through my hair. I let it fall back haphazardly without bothering to
adjust it.

"Sort of?"

"Well ... you see ... it's like, I met him ... and we're friends, good
friends, and I really like him ... I mean, *like* like him ... but
it's like, I'm just too afraid to tell him."

I swallowed and did my best to hide the fact that I was brushing away
the tear now forming in my eye.

"I don't know ..." She paused. "I'd love to be with him, you know? But
I guess there's something romantic about a crush ... and you kind of
lose it if you, you know ... make it real."

I wanted to get up and yell at her, to scream how a "crush" had been
the most painful, clenching, draining experience I had ever been
through--how much emotion it had drawn, how much time it had
wasted. Romantic? It was tragic! Even pathetic. But I just shrugged
and looked away, carefully studying the patterns on the opposite wall.

After a few more minutes of silence, she spoke up: "Do you want to dance?"

Yes. God yes. "I don't dance. You know that."

She sighed. "Yeah ..."

We got up and left the building together. The cold winter night
wrapped around us in mutual solitude. We walked out into the parking
lot.

I hugged her briefly, stiffly. "I was glad I could see you."

"Me too."

"Hey, do you want to go to a movie or something?"

"Huh? It's nine p.m.! How about tomorrow?"

"I can't. I'm driving back tomorrow."

"Oh."

I sighed. "Well, it was great seeing you."

"Yeah."

"Bye."

"Bye."

Against my every desire, I walked away from her, toward my car,
keeping my eyes straight ahead so that I wouldn't have to watch her
leave. I felt a wild impulse sweep over me to call to her across the
parking lot, to turn around, run back to her, and demand that we go
see a movie, be it nine p.m. or three in the morning. I stood in my
tracks for a few seconds, stayed silent, and then moved toward the car
again.

I climbed into the car, and slammed the door. I sat looking out the
window for a long time, just staring out into the darkness. Finally, I
started the car and slowly drove off. I had to focus on my absolute
oath to myself that I wouldn't cry over her to keep myself from doing
just that.

"I meant you." I heard her voice appear out of the air. I glanced over
at the passenger side and found her riding there.

"What?"

"The boy I met, that I liked but couldn't tell ... that was
 you , not some college boy."

My mouth opened without saying anything.

After a while, I gathered every ounce of my courage and croaked, "I
... I love you too." I paused and let my head throb for a
while. "... When I saw you here, I wanted to tell you but, but even
... after all these years, I still just couldn't ... just couldn't
... get over the fear ."

"I know," she whispered.

"I've ... wanted to tell you for so long ... for seven years 
now. And I, um ... I just couldn't get past the raw ... anxiety. It's
like I'm trying to run uphill and it keeps getting steeper and
steeper, and it just builds up, and the closer I get to actually doing
it, the more it overwhelms me, until I just ... I just can't do
anything and I give up again. But ... I loved you so much ... and it
hurt me so much that I couldn't tell you. Even when we first met, when
we were juniors ... even tonight, when I knew I might never see you
again. And all this time we've loved each other, but been too
terrified to say it! Too scared it would ruin our friendship, too
scared we'd be rejected, just too bloody scared of letting out
anything that might make us vulnerable--that might make us human 
... and I--I--"

By this time I had long since forgotten my promise not to cry. At
first it had been tiny drops, rolling down my cheeks. But with the
floodgates cracking, more and more leaked through. Finally, I
couldn't speak, couldn't think, couldn't see. I pulled over on the
shoulder, and as I let the sobs overtake me, it felt as though the
entire universe were pouring through my eyes, the tears rolling off my
cheek coalescing into the trembling, watery car, street, trees. And
her ...

I wondered why she didn't embrace me, why she didn't take me in her
arms like she would a weeping five-year-old and stroke my hair until I
felt better. I reached over to clasp her hand, but found myself
clutching air. I looked over, and the hallucination had
vanished. Knowing that I had been talking to my own desires the whole
time, I started the car again, and drove out into the dark road.

I remembered all the times that I had loved her the most. The blissful
times we'd spent, just wandering the town at night. The times we'd
held each other through sorrow--or as much as we could have known of
it back then. The simple joy of just picking her out of a crowd, of
gazing at her sparkling eyes, her pouting mouth, the way her hair
spilled over her shoulders. The quiet pleasure of just walking next to
her. I held every memory as close to my chest as if I were holding her
herself, knowing they might be all that I could ever have.

So I found myself driving into the darkness ... straight ahead, back
into the past.

 - end - 

Written and maintained by Charles W. Johnson ( cwj2@eskimo.com ). 
Copyright 1998 by Charles W. Johnson. 
All rights reserved.