Compost 

 Charles W. Johnson 
 Compost - Experiments - Fragments 

 Most recent entry: 2 September 1999 
Earliest entry: 29 August 1998 

 Compost 
 Prose 
 Poetry 
 Translations 
 Why I Write 

 Homepage 
 Feedback 

Natalie Goldberg says - and I agree - that you should help your writing
by building up a collection of old scraps of writing, which can be let
to compost until they develop into new (and perhaps more complete) pieces.
In that spirit, I've tried to keep up records of the writing fragments
that I think about during the day. Although I've gotten rather lax of late,
I have tried from time to time, and I think some of it is worth showing
off (if these are accepted for what they are -- fragments and works in
progress). I hope that they will help you get a better idea of the flavor
of my writing and writing process.

- CWJ, 5 September 1999

 29 August 1998 

I guess I fell in love 
Because she didn't treat me like everyone else 
but it seems like when I told her, 
she did.

 4 November 1998 

Weather one more night waiting for her 
And she'll come to you with traveler's tales 
With ale and song until twilight falls 
And she reluctantly departs with a kiss.

Wait one more night for her and she'll come 
With her gypsy caravan and whispered tales 
Saving the bitter dregs of the day for you 
(The last drops left after he drinks his fill).

Cry one more night for her, maybe she'll come; 
the muddy tracks left in the morning's grey mist 
and crumpled notes in the dirt 
tell you she passed wildly by in the night 
with the bitter dregs she lovingly saved for your lips.

 1 January 1999 

The house was empty, stripped. The bedroom where I once lived was
empty. We hovered around like buzzards, picking away the scraps of
memories from the carcass.

 1 January 1999 

She said she wrote some poems 
And I asked to read the poems 
But she said no so I shrugged. 

She was probably afraid 
that I'd pick over them and mark them up 
all red and blue and green -- 
Little knowing that (when it comes to poetry) 
I prefer to shove it aside and say it's great 
Or subtly choose the least bad 
And nudge towards lessons 
Not writing them in red marker.

And I'd say all hers were great 
Just because she wrote them.

I could show her all my worst 
I said 
But she shrugged.

 27 January 1999 

So he said he loves me, right? Like I'm supposed to do something
about it. Like I can just feel that way because he told me. As if
he even knew what love is.

 29 January 1999 

Cuando te amo,
Creo que el sol
 llore
sobre los &aacute;rboles
Creo que
 las gotas de luz
en las hojas en crep&uacute;sculo
me mojen las mejillas
Cuando te quiero,
todo el mundo se calla
T&uacute; existes solamente.
S&oacute;lo t&uacute; eres.

 10 January 1999 

She sat down across from him. "Hi!"

He looked up. She was smiling.

He smiled back.

. . .

She laughed.

He looked away and exhaled slowly.

He turned back to her, trying to grin. He knew he wasn't doing it very
well.

. . .

He rolled over again. Finally he sat up and turned on the light. It was
still only 9:30.

He reached for the phone and dialed each digit of her number carefully.

After he had pushed six numbers, he hurriedly hung up the phone.

. . .

"I mean ... I know I couldn't go out with any of you guys. I ... I
wouldn't want to risk what we have."

They nodded. He shrugged and looked down.

. . .

Her voice over the receiver seemed impossibly distant.

"No, I can't ... I'm going out with Joe tonight."

"Oh."

. . .

He inhaled slowly and released, desperately trying to break down the wall
of nerves.

"Okay, look. I ... I guess ..."

She looked out the window.

"Don't say it. I know."

He sat there with his mouth open.

. . .

"Do you love him?"

She shrugged. "What does it matter?"

. . .

"How do you grow up ... without growing apart?"

She shrugged again. He began to cry.

She looked down, not knowing quite what to do.

All around, caps littered the floor. They reminded him of flowers on a
grave.

 2 July 1999 

It seemed as though the Earth was bleeding -- reddened, angry
lights welled up from ragged slashes, forming stars and lattices
sprawling over the wounded ground.

 9 July 1999 

My girl's mouth has beautiful corners
 Which I often think about
Kissing
 When I see her smiling
(wide & free as an eternal yes)

 28 July 1999 

"Quit worrying about me, okay? It's not like I've never
had my heart broken before."

 28 August 1999 

I wrote her a letter back -- for the first time in four years, I finally
knew what to say -- sometimes screaming, sometimes biting, telling her what I
finally grasped in my confusion: it was over. It was all finally over. I
didn't need her anymore ...

That, too, is a reconstruction. At first I wrote furiously, spilling
out nonsensical responses to things she had said half a year ago, that
I'd never gotten to answer the way I'd wanted to, because I couldn't
think of anything to say until I'd fumed about it alone. And before
I'd finished the letter, I was giving her my new address and phone
number. I was saying we should get together over Thanksgiving. I
signed it -- "Love, Charlie."

And that's the way it's been. No ending. No lessons learned. I never
even mailed the letter. The only resolution I got was to write a story
about her; it's called "Complications" and it's all lies. I told the story
my way, which meant I omitted, burned, and altered until it became
an inexorable and just collision, full of meaning, and finally growing
up. It's sitting right in front of me; I think I should burn it and be
done with pretending.

That, too, is a reconstruction.

 29 August 1999 

I can't tell you any of this without lying. Everything I tell you is
pulled out of the past, and it drags with it so much fuming and
analysis and rereading that it's almost never anything like it was
when it happened. Meaning is always forced onto events that can't
really carry it, and eventually collapse, leaving only the
interpretation behind. I don't like telling this story, but I have to
-- no, that too is a lie. I like writing about my own life and
especially about her, because it gives me a control I never felt like I
had. At least when things crash, it's because I crashed them
-- not my stupid mistakes. Not hers. Not blind, stupid chance.

 29 August 1999 

I'm not a nihilist. I don't have anything against projecting meaning
onto things. I just need to be careful -- it's too easy to become
self-righteous and forget the cracks where it doesn't quite fit.

 30 August 1999 

"Look, I know what our relationship is, okay? I'm painfully 
aware of what it is."

 31 August 1999 
 "I don't really know what to do." 
 "Just imagine ... making love. You have to move together. It's in
the rhythm." 
 My ears flushed bright red. "We ... uh ... we haven't ... I mean,
she has, but I haven't ... and not, uh, together ... I mean, we're not
together." 
 "Oh, I knew you weren't together ... I could see it in your dance." 
 "What?" 
 "It's in the way you two move. You have a very interesting
dance. The way you come together, and then very carefully
distance. The way you move just a little off-step from one
another. The tension and the boundaries. Couples all dance the
same. But you two ... you dance like ..." 
 "Like what?" 
 "Well, maybe I shouldn't say. Half the fun is letting the dance
unfold for itself." She gave an enigmatic wink and walked off to
talk to other dance partners. 
 I wondered what she was about to say. Siblings? Friends?
Lovers-to-be? I chuckled at myself, cautious before the sudden
eagerness. Jen glanced at me, and when I caught her eyes she smiled
nervously and blushed. I knew she was mulling over the same
possibilities. Feeling the same caution. And the same eagerness. 
 I smiled back at her. Such an interesting dance. 

 1 September 1999 

I want to write about something more than love 
And stars and flowers and bitterness 
I want to sing and unravel 
Tapestries of heroes and timeless themes, 
Or anything besides these silly adolescent troubles. 
I want to be beyond this 
place where I create pathetic domains 
to tweak every response and every glance 
in ways I never could, 
where I set blocks up to knock them down, 
just so for once the collision will seem to be inexorable Fate 
and not my own stupid mistakes, and hers 
and blind dumb chance. 
But I tell myself I have more to say. 
More permutations for the same old crap to unfold into. 
So I convince myself to wait back here, 
Scribbling sickly-sweet fragments of a murdered fantasy 
and bitter remembrances of the fallen blocks. 

 2 September 1999 

He hadn't thought that three words could contain all the pain and
horror of the Universe.

"I was raped."

His mouth opened, then shut. His tired eyes widened. They sat without
saying anything for a long time. Finally, he stammered, "Jen ... Jesus
... I didn't --"

"Yeah, well, I know, okay?" She was biting her lower lip. Absently she
tugged on her black shirtsleeve.

He felt suddenly the presence of his arms, how they hung stupid and limp
by his sides, his thumb toying with his index finger, his fingers randomly
clenching and unclenching. He haltingly reached a hand across the table.

She took it, smiling tightly, and squeezed it once before looking down
and letting it go. He realized that his clumsy attempt to comfort her
had turned a somersault: she had squeezed his hand to let him know
that she was surviving, that the darkness had passed, that she
wouldn't be blown away by the next wind. He had tried to offer his
presence as an anchor and an aid, but she took his hand briefly not
because she needed or wanted his support, but to comfort him.

He felt lost and confused. It had happened two years ago, but to him
it was immediate and demanding. He knew it would be hell dealing with
it, but he felt guilty even for his pain; how could he so
self-indulgently suffer, with what she had been through?

 2 September 1999 

"I've, um, got some news." She looked down and tugged at her black
shirtsleeve.

"Well, that sounds ominous." I tried to sound flippant. I didn't.

She sighed, and I knew what she was about to tell me. I wondered if
I would always be condemned to be the other person in her life: always
the closest friend, always looked to with a certain affection, even
attraction. Always the one she told, never the one she'd tell about when
she said:

"I'm in love with Kerry."

I nodded grimly and looked away into the distance. "Well, that's what I
expected to hear."

"I thought you should know," she said, softly taking my arm and squeezing
it for a second. We awkwardly moved apart and walked to opposite sides
of the campus. As I sat against a streetlamp in the deepening darkness of
the evening, tears traced soft tracks down my face. I hardly ever questioned
the role I played, but times like these always made me wonder if it wouldn't
be better to just step back and stop setting my heart up to be broken. I
thought about the idea that Sisyphus is the emblem of modern life, and knew
that Tantalus was a better symbol for mine.

 2 September 1999 

It was a fantasy, a stupid fantasy, and he should have known it. They
couldn't be the boy and girl next door. They couldn't be defiant,
star-crossed lovers. They couldn't be anyone but themselves. The
sooner he accepted that, the sooner he could once again breathe
freely. No--that, too, was a fantasy. No matter how much he pretended
to expect nothing, to accept the imbalance in their relationship, they
would still always be there: misread glances, innocuous touches,
pretended intimacies -- those tiny, fragmented delusions laying in the
place of his shattered, grandiose fantasy. Crawling up against their
"understanding" like ivy on a wall. That , more than any past
heartbreak or present awareness, was the pain and the burden that he
would have to bear every time he saw her.

Written and maintained by Charles W. Johnson ( cwj2@eskimo.com ). 
Copyright 1998-9 by Charles W. Johnson. 
All rights reserved.