Translation: "In my twilight sky" by Pablo Neruda 

 Charles W. Johnson 
 Veinte poemas de amor y una canci&oacute;n
desesperada 
 XVI: In my twilight sky 

Current version: 16 November 1998, Auburn, AL 
Original version: 29 June 1998, San Antonio, TX 

 Compost 
 Prose 
 Poetry 
 Translations 
 Homepage 
 Feedback 

 XVI 
 por Pablo Neruda 

 Ese poema es una par&aacute;frasis del poema 30 de El jardinero
 de Rabindranath Tagore 

En mi cielo a crep&uacute;sculo eres como una nube 
y tu color y forma son como yo los quiero. 
Eres m&iacute;a, eres m&iacute;a, mujer de labios dulces 
y viven en tu vida mis infinitos sue&ntilde;os.

La l&aacute;mpara de mi alma te sonrosa los pies, 
el agrio vino m&iacute;o es m&aacute;s dulce en tus labios: 
oh segadora de mi canci&oacute;n de atardecer, 
c&oacute;mo te sienten m&iacute;a mis sue&ntilde;os solitarios!

Eres m&iacute;a, eres m&iacute;a, voy gritando en la brisa 
de la tarde, y el viento arrastra mi voz viuda. 
Cazadora del fondo de mis ojos, tu robo 
estanca como el agua tu mirada nocturna.

En la red de mi m&uacute;sica est&aacute;s presa, amor m&iacute;o, 
y mis redes de m&uacute;sica son anchas como el cielo. 
Mi alma nace a la orilla de tus ojos de luto. 
En tus ojos de luto comienza el pa&iacute;s del sue&ntilde;o.

 XVI 
 Translated by Charles W. Johnson 

 This poem is a paraphrase of the 30th poem of The Gardiner
 by Rabindranath Tagore .

In my twilight sky, you are like a cloud 
And your shape and your color are just as I love them. 
Oh sweet-lipped woman, you are mine, you are mine, 
and my endless dreams live on in your life. 

The lamp of my soul casts a blush on your feet, 
My sour wine tastes sweeter on your lips: 
Oh harvester of my evening song, 
How my solitary dreams believe that you are mine!

You are mine, you are mine, I go shouting to the evening 
breeze, and the wind sweeps away my widowed voice. 
You plunder the depths of my eyes, and they 
stem your night-time glance as if it were water.

You are caught in the net of my music, my love, 
And the nets of my music are as wide as heaven. 
My soul is born on the shore of your mournful eyes. 
In your mournful eyes begins the land of dreams.

Written and maintained by Charles W. Johnson
( cwj2@eskimo.com ) 
English translation copyright 1998 by Charles W. Johnson. 
All rights reserved.