C Programming 

 C Programming 

 The notes on these pages
are for the courses in C Programming 
I
used to
teach
in the
 Experimental College 
at the University of Washington
in Seattle, WA.
Normally these notes accompany
fairly traditional classroom lecture presentations,
but they are intended to be reasonably complete
(more so, for that matter, than the lectures!)
and should be usable as standalone tutorials.
 I originally designed the first, Introductory course
around The C Programming Language (2nd 
Edition) by Kernighan and Ritchie, and the notes were designed to 
complement that text, highlighting important points and explaining 
subtleties which might be lost on the general reader.
Later, I rewrote
the notes to stand on their own
(in part because, in spite of the first set of notes,
too many of my students found K&R a bit too technical for an 
informal, introductory course).
Finally,
I occasionally teach
an Intermediate course,
which covers the topics which tend to be skipped or glossed over in introductory courses
(bitwise operators, structures, file I/O, etc.).
The Intermediate course
has its own set of notes.
 All three
sets of notes are available here.
If you have a copy of K&R2
and would like a thorough
treatment of the language,
read K&R and the ``Notes to Accompany K&R'' side by side.
If you're just getting your feet wet
and would like a somewhat simpler introduction,
read the ``Introductory Class Notes.''
If you have had an introduction to C
(either here or elsewhere)
and are now looking to fill in some of the missing pieces,
read the ``Intermediate Class Notes.''
 Of course, just reading a book or these notes
won't really teach you C;
you will also want to write and run your own programs,
for practice and so that
the language concepts

will make some kind of practical sense.
Most of my
 programming assignments 
(including review questions)
are
here as well,
along with their solution sets.
(No peeking at the answers
until you've given the problems your best shot!)
 These notes are arranged for the web in the usual hierarchy by section and subsection.
If you want to read through all of them,
without keeping track of your own stack to implement a depth-first tree traversal,
just follow the ``read sequentially'' links at the bottom of each page.
 Depending on your backgrouund,
you might want to read one or both of the two preliminary handouts:
one on programming in general,
and one which reviews some math which is relevant to programming.
 One note about the HTML:
these pages were produced automatically from the base manuscripts for my class notes,
using a program of my own devising which is,
all too typically,
not (yet?) perfect.
I apologize in advance for any formatting glitches.
In particular, when you see
 <sup> ... </sup> or <sub> ... </sub> 
in the text,
these do not represent bugs in your browser
or accidental bugs in my markup;
instead, these are my interim compromise way
of representing superscripts and subscripts to you,
since there's no way to do so in portable HTML.

 Finally, I realize that
reading these notes on the net is not always as convenient as it might be,
particularly when the net is slow.
Please realize, though, that the net is what it is,
and that I have gone to a certain amount of effort
to place these notes here at all.
Please do not ask me to send you a set of these notes
for browsing on your own machine,
as I am currently unable to do so.

 Handout:
 A Short Introduction to Programming
 Handout:
 A Brief Refresher on Some Math Often Used in Computing
 Readings:
 Notes to Accompany
 The C Programming Language ,
by Kernighan and Ritchie (``K&R'')
 Readings:
 Introductory C Programming Class Notes
 (standalone) 
 Readings:
 Intermediate C Programming Class Notes

Assignments:

(questions, exercises, and solutions)

 introductory class 

 intermediate class 

 Other Handouts 

This page by Steve Summit 
// Copyright 1996-9
// mail feedback