Seed Starting Mix 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Natural Beginnings TM 

 Seed-Starting Mix 

 Helps seeds germinate faster; 

 promotes stronger, healthier seedlings 

 Plants on the right 

 were grown in Natural Beginnings; those on the left 

 were grown in a popular commercial seed-starting mix. 

 Only from gardens alive! 

 Through extensive research and testing, Gardens Alive! 

 has developed a coir-based seed-starting medium that 

 outperforms popular peat-based mixes. Our tests show 

 that seeds started in this medium sprout much faster 

 and at a much higher germination rate than seeds started 

 in the leading commercial mixtures. What's more, seedlings 

 grow stronger and healthier when started in Natural 

 Beginnings. 

 Buy Now ... 

 What's 

 Coir, and Why is it Better? 

 Coir is 

 the short fiber that remains after the meat, shell, 

 and long fibers have been extracted from coconuts. Coir 

 promotes excellent root development (up to 50% more 

 root growth for many plants, according to our tests). 

 And because coir is porous, it allows air to circulate, 

 reducing the incidence of root diseases. 

 Compared 

 to peat moss, coir retains more moisture and nutrients, 

 is much easier to wet initially and is easier to re-wet 

 if it dries out. Coir lasts up to four times as long 

 as peat and can be reused several times for successive 

 sowings. In addition to coir, Natural Beginnings also 

 contains worm castings and mealworm guano as a source 

 of natural nutrients; the castings also enhance aeration 

 and water retention. 

 Jump-start 

 Your Seedlings 

 Use this 

 outstanding soil-less growing medium for all indoor 

 seed-starting and when repotting large, fast-growing 

 plants like tomatoes. 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]