Septic Systems Cleaner 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Flow! TM Bio-Maintenance 

 for Drains and Septic Systems 

 Cleans drains and maintains 

 septic systems without potentially dangerous chemicals 

 If you could take 

 a peek inside your kitchen sink drainpipe, you might 

 see something like the picture on the left--a disaster 

 waiting to happen. Use Flow! to clear slow-running drains. 

 Flow! makes fast work of drain-clogging matter. It also 

 keeps your septic system odor-free. 

 Only from gardens alive! 

 Why use harsh chemical solutions to clear slow-running 

 sink, tub and shower drains? Why put up with nasty odors 

 from your drains and septic systems? Use Flow! and let 

 naturally-occurring bacteria do the work. You won't 

 have the annoyance of clogged drains or malfunctioning 

 septic systems again. 

 Buy 

 Now ......More.. . 

 Flow! is a biodegradable, 

 biologically-active formula of bacteria species specially 

 selected for optimum enzyme production. It provides 

 the most efficient breakdown of proteins, carbohydrates, 

 cellulose and fats found in organic waste. The bacteria 

 rapidly digest drain-clogging and odor-causing matter. 

 Odors are not just masked--they're eliminated 

 at the source! 

 Extensively tested in laboratories 

 and in homes, Flow! has been found safe and effective 

 for all drains and septic systems. The bacterial components 

 are in spore form for product stability. It has a shelf 

 life of up to one year. And Flow! is easy to use! To 

 keep a drain open and running freely, we recommend treating 

 with 2 ozs. every 2-4 weeks. For slow-running drains, 

 use 2-4 ozs. every day for 3 days. For septic system 

 maintenance, use 10 ozs. per 500 gallons once a month 

 (average tank is 1,500 gallons). 

 More about Flow! 

 Flow! is a stabilized bacterial 

 spore liquid concentrate, designed to biologically digest 

 and deodorize organic waste naturally and effectively. 

 Proprietary cultures of non-engineered, naturally-occurring 

 aerobic and anaerobic bacteria are selected for optimum 

 extracellular enzyme production, assuring efficient 

 breakdown of proteins, carbohydrates, cellulose and 

 fats. The unique cultures rapidly digest odor-causing 

 organic wastes, eliminating odors at their source. This 

 product is used extensively by professional plumbers 

 and municipal treatment plant managers. Multi-level 

 quality-assurance programs have been established so 

 that customers can use this product with complete confidence. 

 Purity and microbial concentration are guaranteed. 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]