Slug & Snail Control 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Escar-Go!&#153; Slug & Snail 
 Control 
 Now, nature's secret slug control is available to home 
 gardeners 

 Escar-Go! 
 lures slugs with a naturally-occurring substance, then 
 kills them within days. 
 Signature Product. Escar-Go! is a unique 
 blend of iron phosphate (it occurs naturally in soil) 
 and a bait that lures slugs and snails away from their 
 hiding places. 
 Repeated studies have shown that these 
 slimy mollusks will eat Escar-Go! before they will eat 
 nearby plants. As soon as slugs and snails ingest even 
 a small amount of Escar-Go!, they stop feeding and begin 
 to die within 3 to 6 days. You may not see the dead 
 slugs and snails in your garden because they often crawl 
 away to secluded places to die. But you will notice 
 that your plants are no longer being eaten! 
 Buy Now....More... 

 Because Escar-Go! actually lures snails and slugs from 
 their hiding places, it provides control in any area 
 that slugs frequent--even in mulched beds. 

 Slugs Work Under Cover 
 Slugs and snails normally feed at night, and young garden 
 seedlings and transplants are among their favorite meals. 
 Healthy, promising seedlings can vanish overnight, and 
 by the time you figure out what happened, the culprits 
 are gone. (Only 5% of the slug population is aboveground 
 at any one time. The other 95% is underground, digesting 
 your seedlings, laying eggs and feeding on roots and 
 seed sprouts.) As a result, slugs get away with "plant 
 murder"...and cutworms often get the blame. 

 Better than Diatomaceous Earth 
 Diatomaceous earth (D.E.) has been widely used for organic 
 slug control, but it's far from ideal. You have to reapply 
 it after every rain. And even so, the results are spotty. 
 We've seen slugs actually "slime" their way 
 right over a pile of D.E. to get to the plants they 
 covet! 
 But Escar-Go! controls slugs as well as, 
 or better than, D.E. and other slug and snail remedies, 
 including the standard chemical controls. Test after 
 test, here and in Europe, has proven it. 

 Can be Used Around Pets and Wildlife 
 Scatter Escar-Go! granules on the soil around or near 
 the plants to be protected. Apply particularly in damp 
 places around beans, tomatoes, lettuce, cabbage, celery 
 and squash and other areas favored by snails and slugs: 
 rockeries, hedges, dichondra lawns, home citrus groves, 
 ivy and other ground covers, where they obtain shelter 
 by day. 
 Evening is the best time to apply Escar-Go! 
 because slugs and snails travel and feed mostly at night 
 or in the early morning. If the soil is dry, wet it 
 before applying. Apply evenly at about 1 lb. per 1,000 
 sq. ft. (That's about 1 level teaspoonful per square 
 yard.) Reapply when you see that the bait has been consumed, 
 or at least every two weeks. Apply more heavily if the 
 infestation is severe, if the area is heavily watered 
 or after long periods of heavy rain. Any Escar-Go! that 
 isn't eaten will degrade and become part of your garden 
 soil. Naturally, you don't have to worry about secondary 
 poisoning of pets or wildlife. 
 Use Escar-Go! to protect lettuce, 
 tomatoes, chard, cabbage, squash, corn and other vegetables 
 from slug and snail damage. May also be used in the 
 home orchard, in the berry patch, around hostas and 
 other ornamentals and on lawns. In home greenhouses, 
 may be applied to the soil in plant pots or around greenhouse 
 benches. 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]