Grub-Away parasitic nematodes 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Grub-AwayT Nematodes 

 Quickly controls a wide range of destructive garden and lawn 

 pests 

 Grub-Away 

 is easy to use on lawns and gardens. Just mix with water 

 and fill your usual garden sprayer. 

 Only from gardens alive! 

 Grub-Away parasitic nematodes are the effective, 

 non-chemical answer to a wide range of lawn and garden 

 problems! We think they're one of the best all-purpose, 

 natural pest controls available. 

 Buy Now..... More... 

 Attack 

 nearly every type of soil-dwelling garden pest. Use 

 them to control cutworms, borers (including squash 

 vine, peach tree and iris borers), corn earworms, 

 cabbage root maggots, weevils (including strawberry, 

 carrot and black vine weevils), wireworms, armyworms 

 and even flea larvae. 

 Eliminate 

 both types of common lawn grubs. Grub-Away controls 

 grubs of both Japanese beetles and masked chafer beetles. 

 Milky Spore disease, the standard control for lawn 

 grubs, works against Japanese Beetle grubs but not 

 masked chafer grubs, which cause more than 50% of 

 all lawn-grub damage. 

 More 

 effective than other commercially-available nematodes. 

 While other beneficial nematodes wait passively for 

 their prey, ours move up to 10 times farther and much 

 deeper into the soil. Grub-Away Nematodes also have 

 a special "tooth" that burrows into their prey, allowing 

 faster control of pests. Grub-Away also works within 

 days of application. With Milky Spore disease, you 

 might not see results for a year or more! 

 Grub-Away 

 Nematodes are easy to use. Just mix with water and spray 

 along garden rows, around larger plants (such as tomatoes) 

 or on damaged lawn areas. To control squash vine borers, 

 use our Garden Syringe to inject Grub-Away into squash 

 stems. For corn earworms, inject Grub-Away into corn 

 ears. Package of 10 million treats about 200-300 sq. 

 ft. of garden, or 600 sq. ft. in lawns. 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]