Soap-Shield Fungicidal Soap 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Soap-Shield Fungicidal Soap 

 An important breakthrough in natural disease control! 

 With Soap-Shield, you'll 

 pick fresh tomatoes much later in the season than ever 

 before! Use Soap-Shield against septoria leaf spot, 

 blights and other tough fungal diseases. 

 Signature Product. We're 

 excited to offer this patented garden fungicide to our 

 customers. Soap-Shield is more effective than its competition 

 and environmentally superior. Here's why: 

 Buy 

 Now .....More... 

 Less 

 copper! Soap-Shield is more effective against 

 fungal diseases than other copper products, even while 

 using less copper in its formula. 

 Easier 

 to use! Other copper fungicides work only on wet 

 leaf surfaces, but Soap-Shield works on both wet or 

 dry surfaces. It won't clog your sprayer, either. 

 Decomposes! 

 Soap-Shield eventually decomposes to form soluble 

 copper and fatty acid, both necessary to the growth 

 of plants and soil microorganisms. 

 Controls 

 powdery mildew! Soap-Shield does an excellent 

 job of controlling powdery mildew, a widespread problem 

 on vegetables and ornamentals. (Other fungicides can't 

 control it without adding sulfur.) 

 More 

 rain resistant! Soap-Shield is a "fixed copper" 

 fungicide, so it resists rain better than standard 

 copper sulfate fungicides. 

 Leaves 

 no ugly residue! Unlike other fixed copper fungicides, 

 which leave a heavy blue coating on leaf surfaces, 

 Soap-Shield leaves virtually no residue. 

 Protects 

 Against Dozens of Destructive Fungal Diseases 

 With Soap-Shield, 

 you now can grow vegetables, fruits and flowers that 

 you may have given up on because of their susceptibility 

 to disease! Soap-Shield combines copper with a naturally-occurring 

 fatty acid. Together they form a "true soap" with disease-fighting 

 power never before seen in an all-natural fungicide. 

 Less 

 Copper, Less Disease 

 In our own 

 field and lab tests, Soap-Shield was effective at much 

 lower concentrations of copper than other copper-based 

 products. As Soap-Shield biodegrades, its components 

 are taken up and used by growing plants and soil microorganisms. 

 We used 

 to think tomato plants just died naturally after ripening 

 their fruits. But now we know that if septoria leaf 

 spot is controlled, the tomato plants keep producing 

 many more, large, juicy tomatoes, greatly extending 

 the season. We'll use Soap-Shield to stop septoria leaf 

 spot (as well as anthracnose) because it is environmentally 

 superior to the standard copper fungicides on the market. 

 Soap-Shield even controls botrytis neck rot disease 

 on onions, so our onions last longer in storage, too. 

 Soap-Shield 

 controls so many plant diseases that we think of it 

 as an "all-in-one" fungicide. Even if you're not sure 

 which disease is attacking your plants, Soap-Shield 

 is worth a try. 

 Odorless 

 and Easy to Use 

 Just mix 

 Soap-Shield with water and spray on foliage. For best 

 results, start applying early in the season on plants 

 that are susceptible to disease in your area. Continue 

 spraying to harvest time! 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]