The Backyard Gardener, Your Prime Garden Source 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Pyola&reg; Insecticidal Spray 

 Canola oil with pyrethrins -- an insecticide from plants 

 for plants 

 Destroys all stages of an insect's life cycle -- from 

 eggs to adults! 

 Has a residual repellent effect on mites and other insects 

 Uses only vegetable derivatives, not strong-smelling 

 petroleum distillates 

 Does not persist for long periods in the environment 

 Contains no piperonyl butoxide 

 Pyola is a boon to rose growers. It controls aphids, leafhoppers, 

 leafrollers, sawflies, Japanese beetles and other rose 

 pests. 

 Signature Product. Pyola is a broad-spectrum spray 

 that combines pyrethrin, a long-popular insecticide 

 derived from pyrethrum flowers, with canola oil extracted 

 from rapeseed. Unlike most pesticides, it controls all 

 stages of the insect's life cycle, including eggs. 

 Buy 

 Now...More... 

 Destroys Adult Insects, Larvae AND Eggs! 

 So many times, we hear gardeners complain, "The 

 insecticide label says it'll kill beetles. Well, I sprayed 

 my crops, but I seem to have more beetles than ever. 

 What's going on?" 

 With most insecticides, the problem usually is timing. 

 The fact is, some sprays control adult insects, while 

 others kill larvae. Many oil-based sprays suffocate 

 the eggs but are ineffective if they've already hatched. 

 Unless you can match the spray to the pest's life cyce, 

 you may be wasting your effort. And you give the pests 

 more time to proliferate and damage your crops! 

 That's the beauty of Pyola, tested and proven in the 

 field. Because Pyola simultaneously attacks adults insects, 

 larvae and eggs, you don't have to spray as often! Plus, 

 Pyola's repellent effect lasts for days, discouraging 

 certain insects from feeding and laying eggs on sprayed 

 plants. 

 For Vegetables, Fruits, Flowers--Even Houseplants 

 Use Pyola all season on vegetable crops such as corn, 

 tomatoes, soybeans, melons, cucumbers, squash, cabbage, 

 peas and potatoes. Pyola also controls pests on fruit, 

 including apples, cherries, citrus, figs, pears, nuts, 

 grapes, strawberries and raspberries. Use it also on 

 shrubs and trees, as well as on houseplants. 

 Use Pyola Right Up to Harvest Day 

 For soft-bodied insects like aphids and mites, use 2 

 teaspoons per quart of water. For use as a dormant spray, 

 mix 4 teaspoons of Pyola with 1 quart of water. Apply 

 when daytime temperatures are above 35 degrees F but 

 below 90 degrees F. Spray plants thoroughly until they 

 are completely wet. Repeat in 1 to 2 weeks if needed. 

 Pyola contains no piperonyl butoxide. 

 Controls many stubborn insects , including 

 adelgids, ants, aphids, armored scale, beetle larvae, 

 cankerworms, fungus gnats, lace bugs, leafhoppers, leafminers, 

 mealybugs, mites, phylloxera, plant bugs, psyllids, 

 scale insects, spider mites, thrips, sawfly larvae, 

 spittle bugs, webworms and whiteflies. 

 Controls caterpillars, including gypsy 

 moth caterpillars, tent caterpillars, leafrollers and 

 diamondback moth larvae. 

 Controls beetles, including Colorado 

 potato beetles, flea beetles, Japanese beetles and Mexican 

 bean beetles. 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]