All-Natural Fertilizer Vegetables 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Alive! All-Natural Fertilizer 

 Vegetables Alive! 

 Dramatically increases yields of lettuce, peas, broccoli, 

 cabbage, beans, cucumbers, melons and more! 

 For 

 superior crops and blooms this summer, mix all-natural 

 Alive! fertilizers into soil after seeds have germinated, 

 or when setting out transplants, then side-dress several 

 weeks later. 

 It's a fact: Garden plants 

 grow better in good, rich, organic soil than in soil 

 laced with chemicals. If you're not yet convinced, try 

 our popular, full-spectrum, all-natural fertilizers 

 this spring. 

 Buy Now....More... 

 Alive! plant foods, using only plant and animal by-products: 

 supply 

 all the basic nutrients and trace elements needed 

 for healthy growth. Some ingredients release nutrients 

 quickly to get plants off to a strong start, while 

 others feed lants gradually. Each plant food is formulated 

 to meet the specific needs of the plant. 

 enrich 

 your soil with all-natural humus. The humus acts 

 as a sponge, holding nutrients and moisture at the 

 ready until plants need them. 

 have 

 been thoroughly researched and tested. We developed 

 our fertlizers during many years of experimentation 

 and field trials, and we've heard from thousands of 

 customers all over the country who have told us of 

 their success. Try them yourself! 

 Only 

 from gardens alive! Just one delicious, fresh-from-the-garden 

 taste of peas or lettuce, and you'll be glad you used 

 Vegetables Alive! This all-natural plant food promotes 

 vigor and stress-resistance for salad greens, beans, 

 melons, squash, and all your garden vegetables. Use 

 it twice each season for healthy, unstressed plants 

 that yield bushels of wholesome, delicious crops. Work 

 3 lbs. per 100 sq. ft. into the soil about two weeks 

 before planting, or side-dress after seedlings emerge. 

 Side-dress again when plants start active growth. 

 . 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]