Biofungicide for the Home and Garden 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Serenade Solutions TM 

 Biofungicide for the Home and Garden 

 Activates plants' own defense systems against tough disease 

 What a difference Serenade 

 Solutions makes! The perfectly healthy grapes left received 

 Serenade Solutions. The small blemished bunch at right 

 did not. 

 Only from gardens alive! 

 Only from gardens alive! Imagine haresting blemish-free 

 grapes, tomatoes and cucumbers without a trace of devastating 

 fungal diseases - and without the use of toxic sprays 

 to prevent or control them. With Serenade Solutions 

 Biofungicide, healthy, chemical-free fruit and vegetables 

 are well within your reach! 

 This amazing product: 

 Fights challenging 

 plants diseases from both the outside and inside of 

 plants. Serenade Solutions Biofungicide attacks 

 the spores of fungal disease so they never have a 

 chance to grow and spread. In addition, Serenade Solutions 

 actually induces the plant's own defense system to 

 prevent these tough diseases. 

 Works when other 

 products don't. Serenade Solutions is highly effective 

 against pathogens that are resistant to other fungicides. 

 Buy Now....More... 

 Easy on beneficial 

 insects, including lady beetles, lacewings and honeybees. 

 Serenade Solutions also poses little to no risk 

 to birds, fish and other wildlife. 

 Can be applied up 

 to and including the day of harvest. You can spray 

 Serenade Solutions on plant foliage in the morning 

 and harvest fruit from the plant the same afternoon. 

 A Unique Product 

 Serenade Solutions Biofungicide harnesses the disease-fighting 

 powers of the bacterium Bacillus subtilis , which 

 occurs naturally in soils worldwide. In nature, B. 

 subtilis uses several different methods to keep 

 its competitors (fungal plant pathogens) from becoming 

 established on a given plant. At the same time, it also 

 stimulates the plant's natural resistance against a 

 wide range of fungal diseases. 

 Fights Disease on Multiple 

 Fronts 

 Serenade Solutions utilizes 

 the bacterium's multiple modes of action to prevent 

 and control fungal disease in your garden and orchard. 

 On the plant's surface, Serenade Solutions fights pathogens: 

 1)before infection, 

 2)at the time of infection, and 

 3)during an established pathogen's active growth. 

 Serenade's fourth line 

 of defense is inside the plant--when applied to the 

 leaves of susceptible fruits and vegetables, Serenade 

 Solutions actually makes the entire plant more resistant 

 to certain fungal diseases. Think of it as a sort of 

 vaccination for your plants! 

 Use as a Preventive 

 Foliar Spray 

 Serenade Solutions Biofungicide is a wettable powder. 

 Apply as a preventive foliar spray, at a rate of 1/4 

 to 3/4 cups per gallon of water depending on the crop. 

 For most crops, begin applying when conditions favor 

 development of fungal disease; repeat at 7-day intervals, 

 as needed. Use any type of sprayer--handheld or backpack. 

 (Sorry, Serenade cannot be used on some vegetables in 

 CA.) 

 Broad-Spectrum Disease 

 Control 

 Serenade Solutions Biofungicide for the Home and Garden 

 prevents or controls a wide range of stubborn fruit 

 and vegetable diseases, such as: 

 Powdery Mildew 

 Gray Mold 

 Early blight 

 Bacterial leaf blight 

 Botrytis neck rot 

 Walnut blight 

 In addition, Serenade Solutions suppresses other diseases, 

 including: 

 Downy mildew 

 Scab 

 Fire blight 

 Bacterial spot 

 Pin rot 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]