Tent caterpillars Bioinsecticide 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Bulls-Eye TM Bioinsecticide 

 Targets garden troublemakers 

 but leaves their natural enemies alone 

 Only from gardens alive! 

 Once in a great while, a new product comes along that 

 truly breaks the mold. Bulls-Eye Bioinsecticide is one 

 of those rare break-through products. A member of a 

 totally new class of pest control, naturally-derived 

 Bulls-Eye achieves results like nothing else now available 

 to organic gardeners: 

 Buy Now.....More... 

 Controls 

 a broad spectrum of insect pests. Bulls-Eye is 

 highly effective against many types of leaf-eating 

 caterpillars, as well as leafminers, thrips, Colorado 

 potato beetles and even fire ants. Use it on garden 

 crops, fruits, lawn grass and ornamentals. 

 Stops 

 damage almost immediately. Bulls-Eye works faster 

 than most other natural products, stopping damage 

 of targeted insects in little more than an hour. 

 Allows 

 beneficial insects to defend your garden. Bulls-Eye 

 zeroes in on specific insect pests without affecting 

 lady beetles, lacewings and other helpful garden bugs. 

 A 

 little goes a long way. Because Bulls-Eye is so 

 effective, just a small amount of the concentrate 

 controls pests over a large area. Keeps at least two 

 years on the shelf, too. 

 Potent 

 New Biological Control 

 Like Bacillus 

 thuringiensis (Bt), Bulls-Eye is a biological control 

 product--in other words, it's derived from a living 

 organism. But while Bt is a killed or dormant bacterium, 

 Bulls-Eye is made by fermenting bacteria (in this case, 

 Saccharopolyspora spinosa ). Scientists have found 

 that fermentation of this bacterium produces two metabolites 

 that are highly toxic to a wide range of insect pests. 

 Bulls-Eye contains both of these metabolites, making 

 it a particularly potent bioinsecticide--one that controls 

 many more pests that Bt does. 

 Fast-Acting, 

 Long-Lasting 

 Bulls-Eye 

 has a unique mode of action, too. When insect pests 

 eat, or simply come in contact with, plants sprayed 

 with Bulls-Eye, they stop feeding almost immediately. 

 Bulls-Eye attacks the insects' nervous systems, causing 

 paralysis in about one hour. (Although pests may hang 

 around the plant for a day or so, they cause no more 

 damage.) Any new pests that arrive on the scene over 

 the next week or two will suffer the same fate! Meanwhile, 

 natural enemies--such as lady beetles, lacewings, minute 

 pirate bugs and big-eyed bugs--all remain to defend 

 your garden against pests not targeted by Bulls-Eye. 

 Easy 

 to Use 

 To use Bulls-Eye 

 Bioinsecticide, simply mix the liquid concentrate with 

 water at a rate of 2 ounces (or 4 tablespoons) per gallon 

 of water. Spray leaf surfaces uniformly, using a handheld 

 or backpack sprayer. Most crops can be harvested the 

 day after using Bulls-Eye. If insect problems reoccur, 

 reapply in 1-2 weeks. Bulls-Eye breaks down in sunlight 

 and does not persist in the soil. 

 Bulls-Eye 

 will keep on the shelf for at least two years. If separation 

 occurs during long-term storage, mix the product thoroughly 

 before applying. 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]