Turf Alive! III Brand Grass Seed 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Turf Alive! III Brand Grass Seed 

 Grows slower, stays shorter! 

 Turf Alive III Brand grass 

 seed mixture needs less mowing because it grows slower 

 and stays shorter than other tall fescues. It needs much 

 less watering and weeding than bluegrass lawns! And it's 

 tough! 

 Our two Turf Alive! Brand 

 lawn seed mixtures have so many advantages, we don't 

 know why anyone would want to use any other kind! 

 Buy Now.... More... 

 Resists 

 drought! Roots each down 2-4 feet, drawing moisture 

 from the subsoil long after shallow-rooted bluegrass 

 has dried up and gone dormant. Stays lush green with 

 little watering, even in summer heat. 

 Resists 

 common lawn bugs! Microorganisms called endophytes 

 live in certain varieties of grass seed, including 

 Turf Alive! Brand. Scientists believe these endophytes 

 produce alkaloids that are toxic to grass-eating insects, 

 such as sod webworms, cutworms, aphis and even chinch 

 bugs! 

 Eliminates 

 thatch! The deep roots of Turf Alive! Brand grass 

 resist the development of thatch, which fosters disease 

 and harbors insects. 

 Chokes 

 out weeds! The deep roots of Turf Alive! Brand 

 grass support thicker and more vigorous top growth 

 than bluegrass and crowd out weeds. 

 Stays 

 out of flower beds! It doesn't spread by root 

 runners as bluegrass does, so it won't invade gardens 

 and flower beds. 

 Needs 

 less nitrogen, saves money! With only 50% to 66% 

 of the nitrogen needed by bluegrass, Turf Alive! Brand 

 produces an attractive, lush green lawn. Your fertilizer 

 goes further, and that saves you money! 

 Only from gardens alive! 

 Turf Alive! III Brand grass sprouts and establishes 

 itself fast. But once established, it grows slowly--so 

 you may need to mow it only half as often as our original 

 Turf Alive! Compared to our original mix, Turf Alive! 

 III stays nice and green much longer in summer than 

 bluegrass does. 

 The seed carries 

 beneficial endophytes, which are toxic to chinch bugs, 

 cutworms and other lawn pests. Turf Alive! III also 

 has superior resistance to leaf spot and brown patch. 

 It's also highly tolerant of frost, winter freezes, 

 heat and drought. Grows very well in sun to medium shade 

 in temperate areas of the U.S. Seed new lawns and bare 

 spot at 6lbs. per 1,000 sq. ft. 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]