Lawns All-Natural Lawn Fertilizers 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Lawns Alive! All-Natural Lawn Fertilizers 

 Enjoy beautiful lawns with 

 less watering, weeding and worrying! 

 Use Lawns Alive! spring 

 and fall to keep your lawn green and healthy, without 

 the risk of harsh chemicals. 

 Developed, tested and produced 

 by Gardens Alive!, Lawns Alive! fertilizers are all-natural 

 and environmentally benign. The formula includes quick-release 

 nutrients to provide a greener lawn within 10-14 days 

 of the the first rain or watering after application. 

 Other ingredients in Spring and Fall Lawns Alive! release 

 their nutrients gradually throughout the growing season. 

 Buy now.....More.. . 

 After application, beneficial 

 microorganisms in the soil are stimulated to break down 

 the organic materials and re-establish a natural growing 

 environment for your grass. Nutrient "reservoirs" are 

 created so roots begin to grow down into the soil again, 

 forming a natural, deep root system Thatch accumulations 

 decompose, soil loosens and water soaks deeply instead 

 of running off. As your lawn's natural growth becomes 

 healthier and much more resistant to diseases. 

 Feed Just Twice a Year 

 Many manufacturers of chemical-based 

 lawn fertilizers recommend four or five applications 

 every year for good results. With Lawns Alive!, you 

 feed your lawn just twice a year--spring and early fall. 

 If weeds are not a big problem in your lawn, then Lawns 

 Alive! is the ideal fertilizer for your lawn. 

 Signature Product. Whether 

 you're revitalizing your present lawn or feeding a brand 

 new one, Improved Spring Lawns Alive! is just what the 

 lawn doctor ordered. This all-natural formula accelerates 

 grass growth, improves soil structure, hastens lawn-seed 

 germination, increases resistance to disease and insect 

 pests and makes more vital nutrients available to grass. 

 Its slow-release nutrients and Total Minerals TM 

 yield results all season long. And granulated Improved 

 Spring Lawns Alive! is easy to apply; simply use a drop 

 or broadcast spreader. 

 Unlike commonly-used organic 

 fertilizers like dried cow manure and dried sheep manure, 

 Lawns Alive! provides the long-term balance of nutrients 

 needed in an intensive monoculture like an American 

 lawn. Spring Lawns Alive! promotes rapid springtime 

 growth of stems and blades and good healthy green color. 

 Contains no urea. 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]