Weed control balanced natural lawn fertilizer 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 WOW! Plus 

 Pre-emergence weed control 

 and balanced natural lawn fertilizer all in one handy 

 application! 

 With all-natural WOW! 

 Plus you can weed-and-feed naturally in one operation. 

 Then kick back and relax! 

 Signature Product. 

 WOW! Plus lets you control crabgrass, dandelions and 

 other pesky weeds while feeding your lawn with a complete, 

 balanced, all-natural fertilizer! It's easy to apply 

 and saves you time and effort -- you can weed and feed 

 your lawn naturally with just one application! 

 Buy now....More... 

 A by-product 

 of corn syrup production, our pre-emergence weed control: 

 reduces 

 germination of dandelions and other broadleaf weeds 

 by as much as 90% 

 allows 

 kids and pets to play on the lawn right after application 

 (no need to post "Keep Off: Herbicide Warning" signs!) 

 provides 

 nitrogen and other nutrients grass needs for strong 

 root growth, stress resistance and a beautiful green 

 appearance 

 releases 

 nutrients gradually, as nature intended. 

 How 

 WOW! Plus Works 

 Soon after 

 sprouting, young weeds send out secondary "feeder" roots 

 that draw nutrients from the soil. But WOW! Plus stops 

 these roots from developing, so seedlings quickly die--usually 

 before you see any green growth! Dandelions, crabgrass, 

 creeping bentgrass, foxtail, lamb's quarters, purslane, 

 redroot pigweed and many others can't survive. 

 Don't worry 

 about overapplying WOW! Plus. You can use eight times 

 the recommended rate without harming your grass, and 

 you'll find that high doses are even more effective 

 in controlling weeds. 

 And don't 

 worry about lingering synthetic chemicals! There aren't 

 any! Unlike traditional chemical treatments, WOW! Plus 

 lets your family and friends and pets enjoy your lawn 

 right after application. 

 Start 

 Using it This Spring! 

 Apply 10-20 

 lbs. per 1,000 sq. ft. when forsythia bloom--a good 

 indiction that weather is warm enough for weed seeds 

 to germinate. Yearly spring and fall applications at 

 10lbs. per 1,000 sq. ft. provide adequate weed control 

 and fertilization. Applications at 20lbs. per 1,000 

 sq. ft. provide even better control, because the percentage 

 of weed control increases with higher application rates. 

 Water deeply 

 after application. (Do not use WOW! Plus on recently 

 sown grass, because it will affect lawn seed germination, 

 too. Wait until after the first mowing to apply.) WOW! 

 Plus is granulated for use in either drop or broadcast 

 spreaders. All-natural WOW! Plus is not toxic to humans 

 and pets. 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]