Cupboard Moth TrapT 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Cupboard Moth TrapT 

 Our easy-to-use traps stop 

 Indian meal moths from ruining food in your pantry. 

 Our Cupboard Moth Traps 

 draw pantry moths with a patented striped pattern plus 

 powerful pheromones, then trap them on the sticky surface. 

 Signature Product. 

 Has this ever happened to you? You open a box of cereal 

 and find the contents clinging to the sides of the box 

 in a mass of fine webs...or perhaps you've seen small 

 brownish moths flitting around a cupboard...or tiny 

 cocoons and larvae in your dry pasta. 

 Chances are, Indian meal moths (a.k.a. "pantry moths" 

 or "flour moths") are at work in your pantry. These 

 moths and their larvae attack flour, cereal, grains, 

 seeds, chocolate, cake mixes, rice, nuts, dried fruit, 

 dog food, bird seed - even tea, herbs and spices. Small 

 larvae hatch in stored food; the little brown moths 

 infest cupboards and circulate around your house. 

 Buy Now....More.. . 

 Use 

 wherever food products are stored 

 Unlike other 

 traps, these use both visual and pheromone technology 

 to lure, capture and reduce infestations of Indian meal 

 moths. The traps attract the moths with powerful pheromones 

 as well as a patented black and white printed pattern, 

 and catch moths on the large sticky surface. In extensive 

 tests we found that these innovative traps caught more 

 Indian meal moths than similar traps. Place the cardboard 

 traps in cabinets and pantries with food; they're non-toxic 

 and free of pesticides. The traps also catch Mediterranean 

 flour moths, almond moths and tobacco moths. Lures last 

 for 6 weeks, after which you can replace the lure or 

 hang a fresh trap. Trap measures 8-1/2 inches x 5-1/8 

 inches. 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]