Soil-borne fungus diseases 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 SoilGardT Microbial Fungicide 

 Provides long-lasting, broad-spectrum control of soil-borne 

 fungus diseases. 

 SoilGard enlists nature's 

 beneficial fungi to protect plants from soil-borne fungi! 

 Mix it with soil before transplanting tomatoes and other 

 crops. 

 Only from gardens alive! 

 At our Indiana research farm, root rots are among 

 the most frustrating challenges we face. When adverse 

 conditions prevail (such as prolonged cool, rainy weather), 

 our spring crops of peas is severely reduced, or worse. 

 In recent years, green beans, onions, garlic and melons 

 have also suffered from root rot more often than not. 

 But now, with sensational results, we use Soil-Gard 

 in our indoor seed-starting mixes and in the garden 

 soil where crops are direct-seeded. 

 Yes, we finally have an effective natural control for 

 damping-off and root rots! 

 An Ounce of Prevention 

 A naturally-occurring biological control, Soil-Gard 

 prevents many fungus diseases that can destroy seedlings 

 and growing plants. You can use SoilGard with any plants 

 susceptible to damping off and root rot. These include 

 vegetable crops like tomatoes, beans, peas, lettuce, 

 cabbage, cucumbers, melons, onions and garlic. Use it 

 also on flowering annuals and perennials, and even houseplants. 

 (It is important to understand that SoilGard provides 

 preventive control of disease. It is not a cure where 

 disease is established. Preventive measures are more 

 economical and more beneficial to plants than trying 

 to cure diseases once they take hold.) 

 Buy Now....More... 

 Once established in your 

 garden, SoilGard provides months of protection against 

 some of the most stubborn, destructive and widespread 

 disease that gardeners encounter, including fusarium 

 and pythium root rots, crown rot and basal rot. 

 Environmentally Beneficial 

 Gliocladium virens already exists naturally in 

 your soil and, unlike some fungicides, will not leach 

 chemicals into the groundwater. SoilGard works by concentrating 

 large quantities of Gliocladium virens to overwhelm 

 disease pathogens. 

 Mix SoilGard with soil-less planting mediums when starting 

 seeds indoors. When sowing seed outdoors, mix SoilGard 

 with the soil, preferably the day before sowing. Mix 

 with garden soil before transplanting young plants. 

 A quarter-pound is enough to protect 200 ft. of garden 

 row. Also useful when planting bulbs or rooting cuttings. 

 SoilGard Works 4 Ways! 

 SoilGard is a beneficial fungus that fights destructive 

 soil-borne fungi! It's easy to use and requires only 

 one application for season-long control. When mixed 

 with soil, SoilGard control diseases four ways: 

 1) Parasitism. SoilGard wraps itself around a 

 disease pathogen and releases enzymes that weaken the 

 pathogen and leave it susceptible to attack. 

 2) Antibiosis. SoilGard produces antibiotics that 

 kill many soil pathogens. This process has been occurring 

 naturally in soils for eons. Application of SoilGard 

 simply concentrates the beneficial fungus around the 

 roots of garden crops and flowers, overwhelming and 

 killing disease pathogens. 

 3) Competition. SoilGard out-competes disease 

 pathogens for the nutrients these microbes need. 

 4) Exclusion. By concentrating above-normal levels 

 of this beneficial fungus around seeds, disease pathogens 

 are crowded out and can't attack the roots of your plants. 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]