The Backyard Gardener, Your Prime Garden Source 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Why Lawns Alive! is the best thing for your lawn! 

 Rest assured that all the products we offer 

 are natural - which means no harsh chemicals 

 that leave residues in your soil and ground 

 water. No need to post warning signs on your 

 lawn, no fears about having your children and 

 pets play in the grass. 

 Lawns 

 Alive! All-Natural Lawn Fertilizers 

 Enjoy beautiful lawns with less watering, 

 weeding and worrying! 

 Our improved all-natural organic formula for 

 application in late summer and fall encourages 

 strong root development on fall-sown turf as 

 well as established lawns. 

 As low 

 as $23.95 Each 

 Grub-AwayT Nematodes 

 Quickly controls a wide range of destructive 

 garden and lawn pests 

 Only from gardens alive! Grub-Away parasitic 

 nematodes are the effective, non-chemical answer 

 to a wide range of lawn and garden problems! 

 As low 

 as $16.75 Each 

 Building a Healthy Lawn 

 The best book about natural lawn care! 

 As low as $14.95 Each 

 WOW! 

 Plus 

 Pre-emergence weed control and balanced natural 

 lawn fertilizer all in one handy application! 

 Signature Product. 

 As low as $27.95 Each 

 Turf Alive! III Brand Grass 

 Seed 

 Grows slower, stays shorter! 

 Only from gardens alive! Turf Alive! 

 III Brand grass sprouts and establishes itself 

 fast. 

 As low 

 as $21.99 Each 

 Lawns Alive! All-Natural Lawn 

 Fertilizers 

 Enjoy beautiful lawns with less watering, 

 weeding and worrying! 

 Signature Product. Whether you're revitalizing 

 your present lawn or feeding a brand new one, 

 Improved Spring Lawns Alive! is just what the 

 lawn doctor ordered. 

 As low 

 as $23.95 Each 

 Why Lawns Alive! is the best thing for your 

 lawn! Rest assured that all the products we offer are natural 

 - which means no harsh chemicals that leave residues in your soil 

 and ground water. No need to post warning signs on your lawn, no 

 fears about having your children and pets play in the grass. 

 Turf Alive! Brand Grass 

 Seed For slopes and high-traffic areas Only from gardens alive! Our 

 first mixture is still the standard that we measure others 

 against. As low as 

 $19.99 Each 

 Original WOW! (Without 

 Weeds) All-natural pre-emergence weed control adds 

 nitrogen to your beautiful organic lawn! Like WOW! Plus, original WOW! 

 controls crabgrass, creeping bentgrass, foxtail, lamb's-quarters, 

 purslane and other weeds just after they germinate As low as $7.99 

 Each 

 White Dutch 

 Clover Thrives even on barren soil! Sow anytime, anywhere, survives 

 drought, grows well everywhere, even on barren soil. As low as $14.99 

 Each 

 Granulated 

 WOW! For broadcast or drop spreaders Only from gardens alive! The 

 same formula as original WOW!, but can be applied with either type 

 of spreader. As low as 

 $22.99 Each 

 N-Lite!T Special Lawn 

 Food Used with WOW!, it provides complete 

 nutrients for healthy, thick turf! Only from gardens alive! This 

 all-natural lawn food is designed only for use with WOW! N-Lite! is 

 low in nitrogen but provides the complementary balance of nutrients 

 your lawn needs for strong root growth, stress resistance and a 

 beautiful green appearance. As low as $21.95 Each 

 Northern TurfT Brand Grass 

 Seed Hardy, beautiful grass for the North 

 Only from gardens alive! 

 Beautiful, fine-bladed lawn seed varieties are especially 

 blended to thrive in tough northern winters! As low as $23.95 

 Each 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]