Ruggles Partch Xenakis soft machine Moondog Machito
Stockhausen 

 | home 

 | music 

 | writing 

 | projects 

 | resources 

 | strange 

 |

 Groovy Composers on the Web 

 Carl Ruggles Harry
Partch Iannis Xenakis soft
machine Moondog Machito 
 Karlheinz Stockhausen 

Sound clips, links and squibs. 

 These Real
Audio excerpts

won't sound scratchy and dim 

if you accept these 

transmissions 

from another galaxy. 

Copyright law? Hah! 

 Carl Ruggles (1876-1971) spent 5 years honing Sun-treader , (Real Audio) his orchestral
masterpiece. A roiling eruptive jagged sea of sound, Sun-treader sings
with noble clarity. Ruggles forsook composing in the 1950s to devote more
time to painting. For more, start with a short biography and
then visit Thomas Herlin's Ruggles page which is
packed with links and an excellent bibliography. This excerpt, from
Deutsche Gramophone's outstanding CD release DG 429 860-2, was performed
by the Boston Symphony conducted by Michael Tilson-Thomas. Now why won't
Sony/CBS release Tilson-Thomas' complete Ruggles on CD? 

 Harry Partch (1901-1974), fed up with Western
music, incinerated his compositions in a pot-bellied stove in 1930.
Creating, adapting and constructing many beautiful 
instruments tuned to a 43-tone octave, his compositions feature
shimmering glissandi, ritualistic rhythms, hobo sayings and much that
remains beyond my feeble powers of prose. Try an excerpt from Partch's The Bewitched (Real Audio) recently remastered and
reissued on CRI. I also heartily recommend 
INNOVA's magnificent 4 CD set, Enclosure Two . To hear what the
instruments sound like visit the invaluable Corporeal Meadows , a site dedicated to the
life and works of Harry Partch. You can also visit the Harry Partch
Special Collection Archive which has some good pictures, John 
Loffink's admirable Partch
site , and PARTCH , 
which presents material from Genesis of a Music . CBS
should be compelled to release The World of Harry Partch and
 Delusion of the Fury (with the accompanying instrumental record!)
on CD. 

 Iannis Xenakis has probed the frontiers of
acoustic and electronic music for decades. He was the first to explore the
musical possibilities of granular synthesis. Listen to the gloaming
granular textures of La Legende d'Eer (Real
Audio) from the cd La Legende D'Eer MO 782058. Recently, I
unearthed few Xenakis resources on the WWW: you can read an intriguing conversation with
Xenakis, peruse an incomplete
 list of
his works, wade through some citations or read a
brief bio . Tell me about any Xenakis links I may
have missed. Also, don't miss Electro-Acoustic Music now on CD . Hurray! 

 Only the Miles Davis groups of 1968 - 1975 surpassed the 
 soft machine in jazz-rock. 

This glorious excerpt of Slightly All The Time 
(Real Audio) is from Third - CBS CGK 30339. The "softs" 
reached their apogee in 1972, and afterwards succumbed to the trends of
the times: cop-show jazz, synth-fusion, etc. Here's a photo of the band circa 1968-9. Their early albums
through Fourth are all worth investigating, along with the Peel
Sessions and the Live At the BBC discs. Find out more in this informative
 band
history or start with a detailed 
account of their early days. You can also read about them in Facelift , an on-line 'zine
devoted to the Canterbury scene. Fans of soft machine's peak years may
also want to check out these intriguing reissues . If
you're a Robert Wyatt fan, visit this tasty
site .
While I am pleased that CBS saw fit to reissue Third on cd, why
didn't they do a digital remix? Such a seminal album deserves better sonic
treatment! 

 The visionary
 Moondog blends canons, street poetry and
elegant off-kilter rhythms into his compositions. A popular denizen of New
York City's street life, he recited his poetry on the corner of 54th
Street and 6th Avenue in Manhattan. His magnificent Theme (Real Audio) from his eponymous two-fer CD -
CBS MK 44994 offers a good introduction to his style. I don't have the
strength to post his most incredible work, Symphonique #3, which leaves me
exhausted after each listen. 

 Arnold Schoenberg (1874-1951) remains
misunderstood more than 40 years after his death. Aside from his legacy of
beautiful compositions, he taught many of this century's most influential
composers: Anton Webern, Alban Berg and others: even John Cage took a
lesson or two! I'm currently deciding which clip to feature, so please be
content with visiting the official
Schoenberg web site , which is packed with photos, documents, a list of
works and other items or settle for a quickie bio . 

Tito Puente may be the King of Latin jazz, but Machito (1908-1984) reigns as Eternal Emperor -
Lord of Screaming Brass and Thundering Percussion. Machito's Afro-Cuban
Jazz Orchestra dazzled audiences for decades with the dextrous arrangments
of Mario Bauza, Rene Hernandez and others. Their hair-splitting ensemble
work fused steely precision with incorrigible bop-styled swing. Wild Jungle , (Real Audio) from Kenya or
 Latin
Soul Plus Jazz is available on Palladium PCD-104 or preferably the
grittier Caliente CD CHARLY 149, respectively. I demand a boxed set!!!!

 Karlheinz Stockhausen's official Web page is packed with
nifty articles, features, and some sound clips, so get thee thither! 
You can also visit the Licht page 
for information on the opera Licht, read reviews of some recent
Stockhausen cds and more! You can also get a clip of one of his electronic
masterpieces, 
Gesang der Junglinge . A leader of the post-war avant-garde, he
pioneered serial techniques in electronic music, the combination of live
instruments with electronics and multimedia performance. Stockhausen is
unduly neglected here in America, so I urge you to unearth his records at
your local library and write for his free catalog: 
 Stockhausen-Verlag Kettenberg 15 51515 Kurten
 GERMANY 

 | home 

 | music 

 | writing 

 | projects 

 | resources 

 | strange 

 |

Also you may wish to visit my inspiration for this page 

 The
Unknown Composers Page !

 Please note that these clips are featured for review
purposes only and offered as an encouragement to purchase the cd, if
available: if you're a lawyer, tell your record company poobahs to get
up off their asses and release more of this stuff on CD!! 

 Back to the top, punk. 

Thanks to for telling me you're visitor number
 !