Guitar Lessons | Easy Riffs of the 90s 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 Guitar Lessons , Easy Riffs 
 of the 90s 

 Easy Riffs of the 90s 

 Published January 12, 2002 
 By Matt 
 Heger 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 The music of the 90s, particularly the first half, has always 
 struck me the hardest. I'd sing it loud in the car, the shower, 
 at work, wherever I was and these were naturally the first 
 songs I learned on guitar. And just as Paul couldn't go without 
 posting 80s riffs , I must do the 
 90s. 
 While many guitarists complain about the lack of solos in 
 90s alternative rock, they contain many intense and memorable 
 riffs. These songs have become essential to any guitarist's 
 playing library. 
 NOTE: Many of these songs are actually played with the guitar 
 tuned a half step down. To sound like the recorded version, 
 you may want to try this. 
 Nirvana is the band for all beginning guitarists. Kurt Cobain 
 put high doses of emotion into his playing, and kept everything 
 simple and straightforward. The first riff I ever learned 
 to play was the intro bass riff in "Come As You Are." 
 Only slightly more difficult is the band's first smash hit. 

 Weezer found themselves the spotlight early in 90s with their 
 first self-titled album, now known as "the Blue Album." 
 Their songs were sincere and humorous glimpses into their 
 average lives. Their second album, "Pinkerton," 
 didn't do as well on the charts, but gave Weezer an almost 
 cult following. This is probably Weezer's first hit. 

 Punk rock's own illegitimate children, Blink 182, have been 
 shunned by their punk fathers, though their style obviously 
 came from that genre. Blink 182 made punk popular (much to 
 the dismay of punk) without ever playing all six strings at 
 the same time. Their best album, in my opinion, is "Dude 
 Ranch." It is filled with quirky lines about girls, getting 
 drunk, and masturbating. "Dammit" is from that album. 

 The rapper Everlast stopped jumping around and did some solo 
 work. Formerly in the House of Pain, he picked up a guitar. 
 He played rhythm under rock legend Santana for one excellent 
 song, but not before releasing his own album. 

 Originally known for hard and fast metal with plenty of social 
 outrage, Incubus started to, as David Hodge puts it, " genre 
 dance ." While the band switched from their metal 
 style on "S.C.I.E.N.C.E." to their much softer and 
 slightly hip hop style on "Make Yourself" they threw 
 in this little number. It's chock full of fun bends. You'll 
 need to listen closely to the original to get it right. 

 What guitarist can get away without knowing a little bit 
 of Dave Matthews? My roommate in college learned to play "Crash" 
 flawlessly in about 2 hours... without ever picking up a guitar 
 before in his life. It took me a little bit longer. (Another 
 fun thing about this song: If you only play the bass notes 
 it's the same melody as a clock chimes before each hour.) 

 This Smashing Pumpkins riff is quick, easy and beautiful. 
 I also have spotted many errors in guitars I would have bought 
 with this song. That's always appreciated. 

 Throughout the 90s, Live has stayed fairly low and yet always 
 has been a presence. With mild success in the album "Mental 
 Jewelry," they hit the mainstream with "Throwing 
 Copper" and the hit song "Lightning Crashes." 

 Lastly, the Chili Peppers. At the peak of their long (and 
 at this moment, on going) career in the music industry, the 
 Red Hot Chili Peppers brought us "Under the Bridge." 
 This song is right on the coattails of "Stairway to Heaven" 
 to become the intro most often played by novices in music 
 stores. And what a great intro it is! 
 Put a capo on the second fret to play it, and once you have 
 enough practice you can try it without the capo. Enjoy! 

 Matt Heger 2002-01-12 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Easy Guitar Riffs of the Eighties" 

 Next to a list 
 of lessons like this one 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.