SeattleOtaku: Review - Neon Genesis Evangelion 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Misato's worried 

 Rei's ready for battle 

 Eva-01 goes berserk 

 B ridging the gap between man and God didn't
work so well for Victor Frankenstein, but that won't stop the folks at
NERV in GAINAX's Shinseiki Evangelion (or here in the
US, Neon Genesis Evangelion ) from trying their hand at
it. 

 Story Intro 

 Commander Ikari and his defense-department corporation NERV lead a
battle against invading aliens with large robots controlled by teens. Rei
(quiet and unemotional), Shinji (Ikari's shy son), and Asuka (spoiled
rotten) pilot these huge "Eva" bio-mechanical robots, at the command and
care of Misato and Ritsuko, among others. While the show has plenty of
action in each episode, the relationships between the various characters
and the feelings brought out by battle and unknown forces really takes the
center stage. 

 The show follows Shinji Ikari as he
arrives in Tokyo-3, the third incarnation of Tokyo since the "Angel"
aliens had started their attacks and destroyed the previous two. Misato
narrowly saves him during an attack and rushes him to NERV, where his
father has suddenly called him to pilot an "Eva" after years of having no
contact. 

 Rather than let an obviously-wounded Rei take control of a new Eva,
Shinji reluctantly agrees to pilot it against an Angel, even though he
hasn't any training yet. When the Angel appears to win the battle, Shinji
blacks out while the Eva takes control of itself and finishes off the
alien. 

 And that's just the first of twenty-six episodes. 

 Other Notes 

 Two movies, Death and Rebirth and End of
Evangelion , theatrical replacements for the final two episodes were
released as well. 

 During a bit of a trial-run when anime DVD's were first becoming
popular, ADV ran the first disk through a different authoring house
than the latter disks in the series; when the box set was released
for the full collection, the first disk was re-printed with the same
authoring house as the others. Then tack on a couple volumes of
"Director's Cut" versions, and a full re-release as "Platinum". 

 Neon Genesis Evangelion (26-episode TV) 
 Evangelion: Death and Rebirth (Movie) 
 End of Evangelion (Movie) 

 Neon Genesis Evangelion images Copyright (C) GAINAX, Project Eva, TX, NAS 
 All rights reserved. Distributed by A.D. Vision 

 Permission to use these images on this site provided by: 

 USED WITH PERMISSION: Images of anime programs
on this page are used with permission of the copyright holder or the legal
distributor of the represtented work. Copying from this page for your own
use is prohibited -- please contact the copyright holder or distibutor
cited to gain permission from the proper people. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.