Complete summary of Murder, My Sweet 

 Complete summary of Murder, My Sweet (1944) 

 Blindfolded, temporarily blinded private detective Philip Marlowe is
interrogated by the police about murders he did not commit. Marlowe
flashes back to his second most recent case... 

 Hulking and not-too-bright ex-convict Moose Malloy hired Marlowe to
find his old girlfriend Velma, formerly a dancer at Florian's bar.
Florian's widow told Marlowe that Velma was dead, but Marlowe found out
that Mrs. Florian had been pretending to be drunk. 

 Marlowe got a new case when Lindsay Marriott hired him for protection.
Marriott was to pay the ransom for a stolen necklace belonging to his lady
friend. At the rendezvous, Marlowe was knocked unconscious and Marriott
murdered. Marlowe was woken by a concerned woman, but she ran away. 

 Marlowe met elderly, wealthy Mr. Grayle and the young and beautiful
Mrs. Grayle. Mrs. Grayle hired Marlowe to retrieve the stolen necklace.
She and Marriott were patients of a quack therapist, Jules Amthor. Later,
Moose forces Marlowe to go to Amthor. Marlowe accuses Amthor and Marriott
of blackmailing wealthy married women. Amthor believes that Marlowe has
the necklace and dopes Marlowe up for three days. Marlowe escapes and goes
to Ann, whom he now remembers is the concerned woman who woke him up. 

 At the Grayle mansion, Mr. Grayle tells Marlowe that Marriott had
rented the Grayle beach house and that Mrs. Grayle is missing. Mr. Grayle
asks Marlowe to drop the case, but Marlowe has Ann take him to the beach
house. At the beach houose, Mrs. Grayle tells Marlowe that Amthor had
blackmailed her over her martial infidelity. She was to give Amthor the
necklace as hush money, but it was stolen. Mrs. Grayle tries to seduce
Marlowe, but he goes to Amthor's residence, where he finds Amthor beaten
to death. Meanwhile, Moose asks Marlowe to take him to Velma. Marlowe
takes Moose near the beach house. Inside, Mrs. Grayle presents Marlowe
with the necklace that was never stolen. Marlowe accuses her of killing
Marriott and being Velma. Mrs. Grayle puts a gun to Marlowe, who is saved
by Mr. Grayle, who shoots her, and Ann. Moose enters and seeing Velma/Mrs.
Grayle dead, fights with Mr. Grayle, who shoots and blinds Marlowe with
the flash. 

 At the police station, Marlowe finds out that Moose and Mr. Grayle
died in their fight. Marlowe is cleared of all charges and leaves with
Ann. 

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2003)