The Loadlin+Win95 mini-HOWTO: Introduction 

 1. Introduction 

 This document describes how to easily use a combination of 
Windows 95's Boot Menu and Loadlin.exe to autoboot Linux using 
the F4 Function Key. This procedure should work with Windows 95 
versions 4.00.950, 4.00.950a, and 4.00.95b with FAT16, and all versions
of Linux that support Loadlin. If you prefer to use the LILO boot
manager, please consult the 
 Linux+Win95 Mini-HOWTO .
 There are also two alternate methods for dual booting between Linux
and Windows 95 using Loadlin for users using FAT32 with Windows 95
version 4.00.950b.

 1.1 Copyright 

 The Loadlin+Win95 mini-HOWTO is copyright (C) 1997- 1998 by Protek
Computer Solutions. This document may be reproduced and distributed 
in whole or in part, in any medium physical or electronic, as long as
this copyright notice is retained on all copies. Commercial 
redistribution is allowed and encouraged; however, the author would 
 like to be notified of any such distributions. 

 1.2 New Versions Of This Document and Windows 98 

 This mini-HOWTO is posted first at 
 The Linux+Windows 95 Reference Page , so check there to make sure you have the most recent
revision of this mini-HOWTO. You will also find a link there for dual
booting with Windows 98. The next revision of this mini-HOWTO will be a
major revision and will include information on dual booting with Windows
98.

 1.3 Feedback 

 Questions, comments, and suggestions are welcome. I am always looking
for ways to improve and expand this mini-HOWTO. I rely heavily on
feedback to make improvements, and will do my best to be prompt
with a helpful response. I can be reached at 
 protek@brigadoon.com .

 1.4 Disclaimer 

 Every attempt has been made to ensure that the information presented
in this mini-HOWTO is safe and accurate. However, this information
is given without any warranty, either expressed or implied, as to its
suitability for a particular use. It is generally considered a
GoodThing(TM) to make backups of your system files before changing
system configurations and/or files. I suggest you take this precaution
"just in case".