The Loadlin+Win95/98/ME mini-HOWTO: Introduction 

 1. Introduction 

 This document describes a simple three step procedure for using Loadlin
to dual boot between Linux and Windows 95/98/ME. If you prefer to use
the LILO boot manager, please consult the 
 Linux+Win95 Mini-HOWTO .

 This version of this mini-HOWTO has been completely rewritten with
major differences from the previous version (1.4.6). The following
highlight the major differences:

 Name change. The Loadlin+Win95/98/ME mini-HOWTO was formerly known as "The
Loadlin+Win95 mini-HOWTO. The change was made to more accurately
reflect the topic covered herein. 

 The focus has changed from Win95 to Win98, and as a result this
mini-HOWTO is simpler and easier to follow. Microsoft made some changes
in the way Windows boots in Win98, which has made most of the dual boot
methods for Win95 incompatable with Win98. If you still wish to see the
Win95 specific mini-HOWTO you can view it 
 here. 

 Change in copyright status from version 1.4.6 

 1.1 Copyright 

 Copyright (c) 1997-2001 Protek Computer Solutions. Permission is
granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms
of the 
 GNU Free Documentation License , Version 1.1 or any later
version published by the Free Software Foundation; with with the
Invariant Sections being only "The Loadlin+Win95/98/ME mini-HOWTO".

 1.2 New Versions Of This Document 

 This mini-HOWTO is posted first at 
 The Linux+Windows 95 Reference Page , so check there to make sure you have the most recent
revision of this mini-HOWTO.

 1.3 Feedback 

 Questions, comments, and suggestions are welcome. I am always looking
for ways to improve and expand this mini-HOWTO. I rely heavily on
feedback to make improvements, and will do my best to be prompt
with a helpful response. I can be reached at 
 protek@firstlinux.net .

 1.4 Disclaimer 

 Every attempt has been made to ensure that the information presented
in this mini-HOWTO is safe and accurate. However, this information
is given without any warranty, either expressed or implied, as to its
suitability for a particular use. It is generally considered a
GoodThing(TM) to make backups of your system files before changing
system configurations and/or files. I suggest you take this precaution
"just in case".