1977c 

 1977c 

 The following is a paper by H. Aspden published in Catastrophist Geology, v. 2/2, pp. 42-47 (1977).

 GALACTIC DOMAINS, G FLUCTUATIONS AND GEOMAGNETIC REVERSALS 

 Abstract : The degree of constancy of the universal constant of gravitation G is discussed. The hypothesis is presented that a constant G is subjected to occasional short-duration fluctuations at times of reversal of the geomagnetic field. Evidence suggests a correlation between field reversals and deformations of the Earth's crust, and the hypothesis is further supported by the one to four frequency correlation between the Galactic cycle and related
sedimentation sequences. 
 Commentary : This paper is very important to those who are interested in how cosmology evolves in a way which promotes change of the fundamental constants. Dirac argued that G changes over cosmic time, whereas analysis in 1975 by Landsberg and Bishop required that e, h, c and H/G are time invariant. This author's theory requires all these constants and both G and Hubble's constant H to retain their individual constancy. However, as this paper shows at length, after discussing these opinions on the constants, there is reason to believe that G experiences transient upsets at regular intervals in the evolution cycle. This is something that can be predicted from the author's aether theory as being the sequence of events corresponding to the Earth's traversal of the domain boundaries separating regions of 'space' and 'antispace', meaning aether with the polarities of virtual lattice particles and background continuum reversed. 
 The paper should also interest those having a morbid outlook who might see in the author's theory the prophesy of doom. Some charted data are provided from which readers might extrapolate to estimate when such an event is to be expected, but this author
wishes to assure the less morbid that he sees enough of a future ahead to make it worthwhile to resolve our energy problems and develop the 'free energy' source. If that day of doom is to come, it means that there is an 'aether' through which we journey at our peril and, if there is an 'aether' then at least we have the prospect of
enjoying the nourishment of the 'aether' energy source before the next catastrophic event overtakes us! 
 The key question is whether there was what the author terms the 'Stockholm reversal', some 12,400 years ago, an event which might have shifted the positions of those heavenly bodies which Plato mentions and which may have some connection with the story of Atlantis. If there was such an event then the data indicate that we have the prospect of a peaceful future for more than 100,000 years. 
 It will be seen, therefore, that 'aether' theory offers some excitement to compete with Einstein's suggestion that by moving at different speeds we can age at different rates!