1978b 

 1978b 

 The following is a paper by H. Aspden published in Speculations in Science and Technology, v. 1, pp. 59-63 (1978).

 ENERGY CORRELATION FORMULA APPLIED TO PSI PARTICLES Abstract : The 2.587 Gev graviton of a unified field theory presented in 1966 is here shown to control the existence of two energy quanta of 3.095 Gev and 3.683 Gev, identifiable as the
psi particles. the energy correlation formula by which the proton-electron mass ratio was deduced in 1975 provides the necessary link. 
 Commentary : The author had, in his 1966 book 'The Theory of Gravitation' , reported the discovery that the mediating quantum involved in the gravitational force depended upon a 2.587 Gev particle. This had nearly three times the mass of the proton. The quite remarkable discovery of the psi particles aroused the author's interest, in wondering whether the energy correlation formula, used to explain how the proton is created from muons, could have extended application to the origin of the psi particles. 

 This paper shows how the author's theory so easily provides that link and this advance gave very firm foundation for the onward development of the theory into the broader spectrum of fundamental particle physics. This work was later reported in the series
of papers listed later as published in the Hadronic Journal. 

There are three sections of this paper which are particularly important in a more general sense. One section is headed 'Charge Pair Interaction', an other 'Charge Interaction Stability', and the third 'Pair Creation Stability'. The essence of fundamental particle creation as charges pair up and absorb energy to create families of particles, as offspring, is embraced by the very simple physical concepts applied in the theoretical analysis. Conservation principles, concerned with both energy and space feature in this activity. 

 It may be noted that this paper was published in the first volume of a new periodical. The author had been invited to be a founder member of its editorial board. Initially that journal was edited and published from a university in Australia.