1982a 

 1982a 

 The following is a paper by H. Aspden published in Wireless World, v. 88, pp. 37-39 (1982).

 THE ETHER - AN ASSESSMENT 

 Commentary : This article is a very important component in the author's efforts to convince physicists that they need to accept the existence of the aether. The article deals with the major problem confronting aether theory, namely the issue of its non-dispersion property. It is vital to keep in mind that any dynamic system has to have inertial balance. One simply cannot have waves as electric charge suffering lateral displacement as oscillations propagate through space and not have something that oscillates in counterbalance. Maxwell's theory prescribes electric wave displacement but offers no inertial balance.

In this article, the author reminds those who understand the physics of propagating signals along a long distance telegraph cable and Heaviside distortionless line solution. The counterpart in the aether is the response of the muon energy sea in providing the dynamic counterbalance. It is the same response that accounts for its adaptation to the Earth's motion in a way that precludes sensing of linear motion by optical techniques.

If the aether could distort electromagnetic waves that are being propagated through it then it must absorb energy and so retard the wave. On the other hand, there is a way in which what we see as empty space can obstruct an electromagnetic wave. This is by
attempting to create matter in the form of protons. Matter, even if of transient existence, can affect the passage of a wave. Here, however, our dual wave response, which involves the aether lattice oscillations being kept in dynamic balance by a muon field, is affected because one wave is attenuated in amplitude more than the other. This means that there is a frequency distortion that corresponds with the loss of frequency with distance that is
formulated as the Hubble constant. See [1984e]. The subject article was founded on this interpretation of the aether and it is therefore quite important in promulgating knowledge concerning the author's theory.