1985i 

 1985i 

 The following is a paper by H. Aspden published in Lettere al Nuovo Cimento, v. 44, pp. 705-709 (1985).

 THE PARADOX OF CONSTANT PLANETARY MASS AS EVIDENCE OF A LEPTONIC LATTICE-STRUCTURED VACUUM STATE 

 Abstract : The constancy of velocity moment h in the equations of planetary motion has been well verified by their accuracy in accounting for perihelion advance. There is, however, an implicit paradox, because the conservation of angular momentum requires constancy of planetary mass, even though speed in orbit varies. One way of resolving this paradox appears in the conformable properties of a lattice-structured vacuum state of recent record, which provides also a quantum connection, in having given account for Planck's radiation law and a theoretical evaluation of the fine-structure constant in precise accord with its measured value. 
 Commentary : This paper aims to highlight a conflict between Einstein's special theory of relativity and his general theory of relativity, whilst drawing attention to the author's derivation of the law of gravitation.

At this stage, the author feels it appropriate to quote a paragraph from a book 'The Einstein Decade (1905-1915)' written by Cornelius Lanczos, Professor Emeritus at the Dublin Institute of Advanced Studies:

"The last 32 years of Einstein's life were spent in Princeton, in relative isolation. He continued his studies, which were by that time almost exclusively devoted to a possible extension of his earlier gravitational theory. He aimed at a 'unified field theory', which would allow the concepts of gravitation, electricity and the quantum phenomena, as emanations of a unique logical structure. After many unsuccessful attempts he arrived at a scheme which
was a formal generalization of his gravitational equations, under the assumption of a non-symmetrical metrical tensor. His contemporaries, however, lost interest in speculative schemes and continued to work in the well established manner of inventing mathematical models which fitted a certain group of phenomena, no matter how rational or irrational such models might turn out to be. The gulf between Einstein and the younger generation of theoretical physicists widened and in the end they spoke two entirely different languages, which prevented communication, in marked contrast to his years in Berlin, when he was the acknowledged master of physical thinking."

Einstein died in 1955. In 1958. This author published his very first
contribution trespassing onto Einstein's territory [1958a]. This concerned the true meaning of E=Mc 2 and was the first hint of record in the scientific literature to show that this author would
one day build a theory that would take us ever forward in the understanding of the physics of the universe, including the conquest of the unified field.