1987n 

 1987n 

 The following is an Abstract of a paper by H. Aspden and D. H. Gieskieng published in Speculations in Science and Technlogy , v. 10, p. 8 (1987).

 AN ANTENNA WITH ANOMALOUS RADIATION PROPERTIES 

 Abstract : Antennas designed to radiate electric and magnetic fields in quadrature timephase are found to have anomalous radiation properties relative to the in-phase propagation properties of the conventional dipole. It is shown that there is a marked advantage in wave survival efficiency over the dipole, increasingly evident beyond a mile range. This is attributed to the excitation of a natural wave propagation mode by the new antenna, rather than the dipole's forced wave propagation and the degeneration of the latter over the short range into a natural wave with some energy dissipation. 
 These effects occur principally over the first few hundred metres of propagation and are distinguished from ground reflection factors by being performed at special canyon-type sites in Colorado. 

 The phenomenon is discussed in relation to other anomalous evidence in conventional coaxial signal propagation at 5 MHz reported from the Center for Atmospheric and Space Sciences at Utah State University. Propagation between two atomic clocks along a 500-metre coaxial cable indicates that signal speed can fluctuate by up to 1% above or below the speed of light. It is suggested that this is really a fluctuating phase shift of up to a quarter wavelength attributable to the spurious excitation of the natural resonance of the field in relation to the forced wave propagation at the signal source. 

Principal references: 

Gieskieng, D.H., The Mines Magazine, p. 29 (January 1981). 
Aspden, H., Wireless Wid, 88, 37 (October, 1982). 
Aspden, H., Lett. Nuovo Cimento, 41, 252 (1984). 



 The above Abstract was published with a notice which stated: 'For copies of the complete paper, which has 28 pages, 6 figures and 14 references, please contact Dr. Aspden.' this offer has now been withdrawn. The full paper is now published in these Web pages as: APPENDIX TO LECTURE No. 10 .