1997a 

 1997a 

 The following is an abstract of Energy Science Report No. 2 by H. Aspden published by Sabberton Publications (1997).

 POWER FROM ICE: THERMOELECTRICS 

This is a 70 pp. report. It is a documentary account relating to the Strachan-Aspden invention. This is a thermoelectric device of very unorthodox construction, mainly comprising a parallel plate capacitor assembled from a polymer dielectric film coated with very thin bimetallic layers of nickel and aluminium. Heat is applied so as to flow through those thin metal coatings in a direction transverse to the electrical oscillations set up in the capacitor. Without any input of electrical power the application of a temperature differential of only 20 degrees can promote oscillations which generate electricity which runs a small motor. A small cube of ice melting on one heat surface is sufficient to power the motor. The device operates in reverse, with input of electricity producing oscillations which can rapidly freeze water. The efficiency is so high that extensive research is warranted to understand fully the physics involved. However, although each device built functioned well for many successive demonstrations to potential sponsors, there was eventually a mysterious deterioration in performance with repeated testing. Strachan could not resolve this problem and the initial sponsorship support was withdrawn. In the event, this author (Aspden) has persevered and now believes that the deterioration is easily remedied. This Part I report is a full account of the research, including test data, to the time when the project was abandoned in 1994. Energy Science Report No. 3 is the Part II document which now (1997) discloses the cause of the deterioration and provides an update on the patent position. The remedy, however, is very simple and revival of the development activity is now justified in view of the potential importance of the subject invention to the refrigeration field as well as the efficient generation of electricity from low grade sources of heat. By this disclosure it is sought to encourage research on this project and the patents (there are three granted U.S. patents) are available for outright acquisition. This Report No. 2 was published on March 31st 1997.