SeattleOtaku: Review - Patlabor Mobile Police 

 Patlabor Mobile Police 

 The story of a girl who loved her
 robot. . . . 

 A classic, yet realistic, giant-robot anime,
 Patlabor Mobile Police (or simply the titular robot model, 
 Patlabor ), uses no special powers to tell it's story.
This is good-old "cops and robbers", with both sides using large robots as
their vehicles of choice. 

 Story Intro 

 Labors are large robots that have been created to do heavy construction
tasks in the wake of overpopulation; however, human nature what it is, a
criminal element had started to use Labors for crime as well. The police
stepped up their equipment and created what are called Patrol Labors, or
Patlabors. 

 Different versions of the storyline (OVA vs TV) introduce characters in
different manners, but in general it follows the life and duties of the
"Special Vehicles, 2nd Unit" division, and in particular a new recruit, the
red-haired and energetic Noa Izumi, who has dreamed of piloting a Labor since
childhood. 

 "This is a work of fiction, 
 but in ten years, maybe not." 

 Single-handedly rescuing the latest Patlabor "Ingram" model from thieves
(her TV introduction), she quickly realizes her dream and becomes a pilot of
the new Patlabor, which she names "Alphonse". Woe be to anyone who stands
between Noa and Alphonse, however, as she's quick to lose her temper if
Alphonse is in danger of being "hurt". 

 Other Notes 

 Patlabor serves the giant-robot genre a heavy dose of reality
in each incarnation, focusing on the day-to-day tedium of being an officer as
much as the action itself. Instead of physic powers and super-heroes, the
Patlabors are piloted by normal people who are just doing their jobs. Of
course, heavy doses of humor are included as well, from the guns-and-justice
obsessed Ohta and hen-pecked Shinshi, to the cerebral humor of laid-back
Captain Gotoh. 

 Many episodes of the OVA and TV series, as well as both movies, were
directed by Oshii Mamouru, from Ghost in the Shell ,
 Jin-Roh , and others. The movies are sometimes played on "Action"
cable channels with strange results; both are mostly mysteries apart from the
opening and final scenes. 

 The third movie, WXIII , primarily follows two police
investigators on a case of Labor attacks and murders; the 2nd Unit is not the
primary focus this time around (although they certainly appear for action
sequences). 

 Images can be seen at a fan site: Babylon Project (currently down, as tomobiki.com moves to another host). 

 Patlabor Mobile Police (6-episode OVA) 
 Patlabor Mobile Police (47-episode TV) 
 Patlabor: The New Files (16-episode OVA) 
 Patlabor I (Movie) 
 Patlabor II (Movie) 
 WXIII (Wasted Thirteen): Patlabor III (Movie) 
 Mini-Pato (3-episode shorts, shown with WXIII) 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.