Welcome to Ekron 

 G ET POSSESSED BY THE 
 E MERALD 
 E YE TODAY 

Now available for download: the all-new version 2.0 of the Emerald Eye of
Ekron, which includes the Eyecaster and Ekron Emulator software to help
you take full advantage of the power of the Eye. The Emerald Eye continues
to be the premier all-powerful artifact, boasting many user non-configurable
features. These include: 

 Near-total loss of control: With the Emerald Eye you will no longer
make your own decisions, though you may wield just enough control of
yourself to create conflict. Still, you will do evil. In addition, the Eye
may quite possibly want to alter your physical appearance in terms of body
type, slimming you up or increasing muscles or cup size. 

 Wish fulfillment: With the Emerald Eye's help you can grant your
friends and co-workers their fondest desires. Version 2.0 now contains an
option to have this run in the background while you work. 

 Loss of morals: With the help of the Emerald Eye you will become a
villainous character with the capacity to kill, maim and other heinous
acts. 

 Modified speech patterns: Depending on your platform or era--plus
your degree of control over your actions--the Emerald Eye will make you
interchange the words "Eye," "I" and "Aye." This will not be audible, but
will affect the text of your word balloons. 

 Abysmal fashion sense: You will, upon being possessed by the Eye,
gain a new appearance and wardrobe--highlighted by the color green, of
course. For females, this will include a substantial increase in the amount
of exposed flesh, though it will remain within Comics Code standards. 

 Specifications: 
In order to download the Eye you must first find it, which is extremely
frustrating. Often times it will find you. 

 If you are in the 20th century: Two Emerald Eyes have been shown
to exist, but their whereabouts are as of yet unknown. Inquire first at
L.E.G.I.O.N. Headquarters on Planet Cairn. Marij'n Bek may be able to
assist you. 

 If you are in the 30th century: The Emerald Eye recently
possessed Shrinking Violet (Salu Digby) of the Legion of Super-Heroes.
After a pitched battle with one of its former owners, Mordru, the Eye fled
to parts unknown. It is now on reorder.

For more information, check out one of the many Legion of Super-Heroes Web
pages on the Net.

 ABODE

 WHO

 about steve, family, folks, writing 

 roleplaying, comic books 

 PLAY

 LLL!

 legion of super-heroes