WHO'S WHO - Kid Kid 

 Kid Kid of Grath 
 Vital Statistics: 

 Full Name: Ol Gardan 
 Occupation: Planetary champion, temp 
 Known Relatives: Mory Gardan (father, code-named 
"Gentleman Goat"), 
 Tam Gardan (mother), Unnamed younger brother 
 Base of Operations: Formerly planet Grath, Earth 
 First Appearance: 2:30 a.m. June 3, 2980 in Goatam 
City General Hospital, Grath. 
 Height: 5'7" (humanoid); 3' 5" (goat, not counting 
horns) | Weight: 140 lbs (humanoid); 112 lbs (goat) 
 Eyes: Green | Hair: Curly blond 
(humanoid), light yellow wool (goat) 

 History: 
Ol was born into a long line of planetary champions on the planet Grath, 
an agricultural planet on a few trading routes but generally out of touch 
with the rest of the galaxy. Grathites are a humanoid species, with 
faces and fur similar to that of terran goats.

Due to a genetic mutation centuries earlier, each member of the Gardan 
family has had the additional ability to change from humanoid form to the 
form of a goat. In goat form, they have the strengths of a goat (running, 
jumping, and eating).

These powers were once used to battle crime on Grath, but as crime is a 
relatively minor concern on the planet, Gardans have turned to using 
their powers for profit. Product endorsements became an expected part of 
being a part of the "planetary protector" job.

The eldest Gardan sibling gains the appelation "Kid Kid" upon their 8th 
birthday. When he or she turns 21, they take the mantle of "Gentleman 
Goat" from the father before them, breed, and the cycle begins again. 

Not content with the easy life of celebrity, Ol decided on his 13th 
birthday that he could make a bigger difference elsewhere. He began 
planning to leave Grath to somewhere where his powers did not negate 
making a difference in society.

Ol found a sympathetic trade ship porter who allowed him to hitch a ride 
off Grath. Ol tranferred to an economy shuttle to Earth. Although Earth 
is normally a short trip from Grath via Stargate (tm)-powered shuttle, 
the economy trip made a roundabout route to Earth. Before stopping at 
Grath, it had picked up a young youth named Robl Tripp from Braal. 
Passengers together, the pair quickly became friends.

When shuttle passengers arrived at Metropolis Spaceport, a curious event 
occurred. A meteor apparently diverted in its path and headed straight 
toward the spaceport. Robl, in a strange move, ran out into the empty 
landing fields and apparently attracted the meteor away from civilians. 
Ol assisted by knocking Robl clear right before the meteor hit. 
Surprisingly, this event was paralleled by a similar event occurring 
on the other end of the spaceport, where three youths - Imra Ardeen of 
Titan, Rokk Krinn of Braal and Garth Ranzz of Winath - rescued one of the 
richest men of the galaxy, R.J. Brande, from assassins.

Meanwhile, Robl is being sought by the Science Police for questioning in the 
meteorite matter and he and Ol are at the moment looking for an apartment 
in Metropolis and some sort of employment. On Grath, Ol's brother has 
taken over the Kid Kid mantle in his brother's place and business is back 
to normal on Grath.

 Powers and Abilities: 
As a native of Grath, in his humanoid form Ol has little in the way of 
skills besides general hand-to-hand combat skills. He has a pair of horns 
on his forehead that can serve as meager weapons in battle. Unlike other 
Grathites, however, Ol has the power to change into the form of a goat. 
In goat form, Ol can run about as fast as a terran cheetah, and combined 
with the aforementioned horns this can be a fair power in its own right. 
Also, he can jump over small fences and such (around 2 meters high) in a 
single bound. Ol has the power to eat nearly anything, although his 
digestive juices aren't quite as strong as the average Bismollian and 
therefore cannot eat some denser sunstances such as Intertron or thick 
steel. 

 ABODE

 WHO

 about steve, family, folks, writing 

 roleplaying, comic books 

 PLAY

 LLL!

 legion of super-heroes