ART By KOOKAMONGUS 

 ARTWORK
BY LYNN NORRIS 

 KUKAMONGUS 

 "Imagination is more important than
knowledge. 
Knowledge is limited.
Imagination encircles the world." 

- Albert Einstein - (So there.phfffft) 

 Uncle Albert was (and still is) considered one of the
 most intelligent men in history.
For him to place "Imagination" ABOVE knowledge must mean Something.
But this page isn't about Uncle Albert.It's about expanding your
imagination. 
Here's an example of using your imagination. Did you ever look at the
clouds and see images? Or gaze at a stucco or wood wall and see faces
in the patterns? In school, did you continualy get caught "day
dreaming"? Or maybe get caught drawing instead of doing the assignment?
It used to happen to me all the time. I would always get caught drawing
instead of doing the assignment, the teacher would grab my "artwork",
then (s)he'd rip it up,then send me to the principles office. Depending
on 
the context of the illistration, I'd get a slap or two on the butt from
the "Board of Education". Then get sent back to class.This would go on
three or four times a day, every day. It seemed to me that they were
trying to knock the "Imagination" out of me on the wrong end.But it
didn"t work ...then or now. I've tried a lot of different media. Some
I was exceptional at, a few not so hot at. But when I got into computer
graphics,THEN my imagination really went into 
"FULL TILT BOOGIE". 

 The Images here are "Screenshots" from behind my eyes.
Here's an example of what I mean by a screenshot.
Take you fingers and lighty press on you closed eyelids.
ok....
(Aw go on and try it.... no, really... REALLY try it.

 WARNING...WARNING.... 
 (Enforced Reader Participation) 

 Do you "see" little exploding ziggers and colorful
 sqiggles?
Good. Real cool huh? 
Cheaper than Lazerium, just put on a cd and start rubbin...
(...all in all, we're all just bricks in the....)
anyways, now take a screenshot of what you "See".
(HUH?.....how do I do that?) You can't (....YET!) but you can have a
look at my images 
and get an impression of what's behind my eyes (too many hits of the
"Right Stuff") 
you can even maybe use one or three for buttons or backgrounds on your
page.

But what if your a poet, writer or musician? I'm available to do cd
covers, book covers,T-shirt designs or ? "HEY! Wait a minute! I thought
you were writing about expanding MY imagination? GOTCHA! heheheh.
Actually this is just an excercise in web page design. I wrote earlier
that I try different media, this is just a different media. AWWWW
don't go and get yer panties in a bunch.While your here you might as
well check out the art, and it just Might expand your imagination.The
Images may even tweek your curiosity a little."How'd He do that?" Well,
if you E-mail me, I just might tell you the techniques I used and give
you an example on how to do it yourself.( But you have to be nice and
tell me how bitchin it is) However, most of the tricks I use are very
time consuming and sometimes unpredictable. But their great for
"giggles and grins". Anyway, if you see an image you like,"Grab it" but
let me know through the Email cause the ones that are "signed" are low
rez and the web doesn't do them much justice. 
 Here's a tip: Try staring at the image a couple few minutes,
then close your eyes
(....LOOK MA, no fingers!!) 
Also keep in mind the title of the piece. It may enhance the
"Trip". 
 ENJOY! 

 IMAGES