
                        IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                              DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO

CREATIVE GIFTS, INC.,
FASCINATIONS TOYS & GIFTS, INC.,
and WILLIAM HONES

                Plaintiffs,                                CIV.97 1266 LH/WWD
v.                                                                      

UFO,
MICHAEL SHERLOCK,
KAREN SHERLOCK

                Defendants.

                         EXPERT REPORT OF DR. PETER CAMPBELL
                            Pursuant to Rule 26(a)(1)(B)

        1.  I am Dr. Peter Campbell, President of Princeton
Electro-Technology, Inc., whose offices are at 5874 NW 32nd Way, Boca Raton,
Florida 33496.  I received a B.Sc. degree in 1970 and a Ph.D. degree in
1975, both in electrical engineering and from the University of Warwick in
England, and a M.A. degree in 1974 from the University of Cambridge in
England.  From 1973 to 1977, I was an Assistant Lecturer in electrical
engineering at the University of Cambridge, England, and concurrently was a
Fellow of Downing College, Cambridge.  From 1977 to 1981, I was an Assistant
Professor of Electrical and Mechanical Engineering at the University of
Southern California, in Los Angeles.  I was then employed by PA Technology,
a consulting firm in Princeton, New Jersey, as Vice President of Electrical
Engineering from 1981 to 1983, and as President from 1983 to 1985.  Since
1985, I have been President of my own consulting firm, Princeton
Electro-Technology, Inc.
        2.  I have considerable experience in the field of magnetics.  This
experience has included the design and development of many commercial
electromagnetic and electromechanical devices, most particularly those
incorporating permanent magnet materials.  I consult widely throughout
industry on the design and application of permanent magnets.
        3.  Attached as Exhibit 1 is my curriculum vitae, which includes a
list of publications which I have authored.  There are three prior cases in
which I have testified as an expert witness: for Fonar Corporation vs.
Hitachi, Ltd., for Tridus International, Inc. vs. Duonetics, Inc., and in
the early '80s on behalf of Chloride, Inc.  My standard consulting fee which
I am receiving for my work in this matter is $1,200 per day.  No part of my
compensation depends upon the outcome of this matter.
        4.  In my testimony, I expect to offer an explanation as to why the
levitation device disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,404,062 is different and of
greater commercial value than the levitation device disclosed in U.S. Patent
No. 4,382,245.  Additionally, it will include an explanation of why Mr.
Harrigan did not contribute to the new features disclosed and patented in
U.S. Patent No. 5,404,062.
        5.  I have reviewed the following materials:
                a.  U.S. Patent No. 5,404,062, to Hones et al. ("Hones Patent");
                b.  U.S. Patent No. 4,382,245, to Harrigan ("Harrigan Patent");
                c.  Excerpts of what is purported to be a transcription of a
recorded portion of a meeting Mr. William Hones had with Mr. Roy Harrigan
during September 1993, and the letter from Mr. Harrigan's attorney to which
the excerpts were attached.
                d.  An article written by defendants on their levitron.com
website entitled "The Hidden History of the Levitron";
                e.  Affidavits of Dr. Edward Hones, Mr. William Hones and
Mr. Harry Manbeck prepared for submission in support of Plaintiffs'
Opposition to Defendants' Motion for Summary Judgment.
                f.  Page 412 from a publication entitled "Electrostatics and
Magnetostatics" which I understand Dr. Hones came across in October 1993;
                g.  An audio tape (approximately 30 minutes in duration)
which purportedly has recorded thereon a telephone conversation between the
Sherlocks and Mr. Roy Harrigan conducted on June 20, 1997; and
                h.  A video tape which purportedly has recorded thereon a
clip showing Mr. Harrigan's prototype from about 1993 (of approximately two
minutes duration) and an interview of Mr. Harrigan conducted by the
Sherlocks in June 1997 (of approximately thirty minutes duration).
        6.  Based on my review of those items and my extensive experience in
the field of magnetics, I have the conclusions set forth in the following
paragraphs.
        7.  The Harrigan Patent discloses a levitation device having a
dish-shaped lower magnet which has a concave surface uppermost, such that
the directions of magnetization throughout this magnet converge at a point.
>From the disclosure of the Harrigan Patent and the statements of Harrigan
purportedly memorialized on the video tape, audio tape and typed excerpts,
it is clear that Harrigan's theory of operation of his levitation device was
that, however the lower magnet was formed, it was required to have the
magnetization vectors angled inwards in this way, as if defining a cone.
That is, a dish-shaped lower magnet would have to be magnetized exactly
normal to its concave upper surface at e every point across this surface; a
rigid flat lower magnet would have to be magnetized at a different angle at
every point across its upper surface, never normal to the surface except at
its geometric center.  
        8.  The Hones Patent discloses a levitation device having a lower
magnet which has a substantially planar surface uppermost, such that the
magnetization vectors throughout this magnet are directed normal to this
upper surface.  This most important feature, namely, a magnetic field
magnetized normal to that planar upper surface, is absent from the Harrigan
Patent and the other statements of Harrigan which I have reviewed.
Specifically, Harrigan has always taught a device wherein the magnetization
vectors in the lower magnet are angled inwards as if defining a cone,
regardless of the construction of the lower magnet; the Hones Patent dispels
that theory, disclosing that magnetization normal to the surface of a planar
lower magnet may be used.
        9.  Hones' findings are important from a commercialization aspect,
as they allow for the use of a less expensive flat magnet.  It is my opinion
that, to produce a dish-shaped lower magnet as taught by the Harrigan patent
that is magnetized normal to its concave upper surface at every point across
this surface would require complex and costly tooling; to produce a rigid
flat lower magnet as suggested by Harrigan that is magnetized at a different
angle at every point across its upper surface would also require complex and
costly tooling.  It is my opinion that, to produce a rigid flat lower magnet
as taught by the Hones Patent that is magnetized normal to its planar upper
surface is both simple and cheap.  The costs of producing a dish-shaped
magnet magnetized normal to its concave surface according to the teachings
of Harrigan would be substantially greater than the costs of producing a
flat magnet magnetized normal to its flat surface as taught by the Hones
Patent.  Thus, it is my opinion that the device disclosed in the Hones
Patent is a much more commercially viable product than the device disclosed
and described by Harrigan.
        10.  In my opinion, the Harrigan Patent and Harrigan's recorded
statements have always taught a levitation device wherein the magnetization
vectors in the lower magnet are angled inwards as if defining a cone,
regardless of the shape of the lower magnet; this is an empirical finding,
for which Harrigan has provided no theoretical basis.  On the other hand, it
is my opinion that the Hones' Patent and Affidavits demonstrate that they
have developed a good theoretical understanding of magnetic levitation,
which has led them to devise a more practical and commercially viable
levitation device that is not constrained by Harrigan's requirement for the
magnetization to be angled inwards.
        11.  In my opinion, the device disclosed in the Hones Patent is
distinct from, and in a commercial sense superior to, the device disclosed
in the Harrigan Patent.
        12.  To the extent additional information is brought to my attention
during the course of this proceeding, I reserve the right to supplement this
report.

        Date: 3/18/98                   [signature] Dr. Peter Campbell
