IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO

CREATIVE GIFTS, INC.,
FASCINATIONS TOYS & GIFTS, INC.,
and WILLIAM HONES

                Plaintiffs,                           CIV.97 1266 LH/WWD
v.                                                                      

UFO,
MICHAEL SHERLOCK,
KAREN SHERLOCK

                Defendants.

AFFIDAVIT OF HARRY F. MANBECK JR.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA            )               
                                )ss
WASHINGTON                      )

        I, Harry F. Manbeck, Jr., being duly sworn, hereby depose and say as
follows:
        1. I am an attorney-at-law and a former Commissioner of Patents and
Trademarks for the United States.  My offices are located at 555 13th
Street, N.W., Suite 701-E, Washington, D.C.  Prior to becoming Commissioner,
I practiced patent law as an attorney for approximately 35 years, and for
the last twenty of those years I was General Patent Counsel of the General
Electric Company.  Since leaving government service I have continued in the
practice of patent law specializing in litigation consulting and counseling.
        2. I have considerable experience in patent practice and procedures.
This experience has included the analysis of many patents involving a wide
range of technologies.  I am particularly experienced in the analysis of
patent inventorship, validity, unenforceability and infringement issues.
        3. Attached as Exhibit 1 is my curriculum vitae.  My standard
consulting fee which I am receiving for my work in this matter is $415 per
hour.  No part of my compensation depends upon the outcome of this matter.
        4. I am familiar with the summary judgment motion filed by
Defendants in the above captioned action and am submitting this affidavit in
support of Plaintiffs? opposition to that motion.
        5. I have reviewed U.S. Patent No. 4,382,245, to Harrigan ("Harrigan
Patent") and U.S. Patent No. 5,404,062 to Hones et al. ("Hones Patent") and,
based on all I have seen, have reached the following conclusions.
        6. The Harrigan Patent discloses and claims a levitation device
having a dish-shaped lower magnet, with the lower magnet having a concave
upper surface.  Harrigan Patent, col. 1, lines 29-30; col. 4, lines 50-51.
The concave surface is disclosed as creating a magnetic field in the shape
of a cone.  Harrigan Patent, col. 2, lines 5-15, col. 3, line 67 - col. 4,
line 3.  The Harrigan Patent describes other ways in which the conical field
may be produced (Harrigan Patent, col. 4, lines 30-38), but the claims of
the Harrigan Patent are limited to a dish-shaped magnet.  At one point
during the prosecution of the Harrigan Patent, claims were presented to the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office which might be read as covering something
broader than a levitating device having a dish-shaped magnet.  Those claims
were canceled.  Therefore, the Harrigan Patent is limited to a levitating
device having a dish-shaped magnet with a concave upper surface.
        7. The Hones Patent, on the other hand, is directed to a levitation
device in which the lower magnet has a substantially planar upper surface in
which the magnetic field is magnetized normal to the upper surface.  (Hones
Patent, col. 7, Lines 26-29).  This clearly differentiates the claimed
invention in the Hones Patent from that disclosed and claimed in the
Harrigan Patent.  There is no overlap between the claimed subject matter of
the Hones Patent and the Harrigan Patent.  The Harrigan Patent is clearly
limited to a levitating device having a dish-shaped magnet with a concave
upper surface, while the Hones Patent is limited to a levitating device
having a magnet with a planar (flat) upper surface and a magnetic field
extending normal to the upper surface.
        8. I have read the affidavits of Dr. Edward Hones and Mr. William G.
Hones which explain how the top disclosed and claimed in the Hones Patent
was conceived and reduced to practice by them.  These affidavits clearly
establish that Dr. and Mr. Hones were the sole inventors of the claimed
subject matter of the Hones Patent and that Mr. Harrigan did not contribute
to the invention.  It is noteworthy that the Hones Patent acknowledges the
Harrigan Patent as prior art and describes accurately what is described in
the Harrigan Patent.  Hones Patent, col. 1, line 61 - col. 2, line 12.
Thus, the patent examiner had before him in his deliberations the Harrigan
prior art and determined that the Hones invention was patentable over it.
        9. It is my opinion, which I believe would be concurred in by any
experienced patent attorney, that the claims of the Harrigan patent do not
cover the device disclosed and claimed in the Hones Patent, and that the
claims of the Hones patent do not cover the device disclosed and claimed in
the Harrigan Patent.  In other words, although the Harrigan device was a
precursor to the Hones device, and was acknowledged as such in the Hones
Patent, there is no conflict between the patents.
        10. There is a procedure provided for in the U. S. Patent Laws
whereby an interference can be declared if two patents have overlapping
subject matter.  See 35 U.S.C. §135.  There is no basis here for having an
interference declared pursuant to U.S. Patent Law.
        11. I have examined a Levitron® Anti-Gravity Top marketed by
Fascinations Toys & Gifts, Inc., a Plaintiff in the above captioned action,
which I have been informed is representative of their product offering.  My
opinion is that the Levitron® Anti-Gravity Top is covered by the Hones
Patent but not by the Harrigan Patent.  This is because the Levitron®
Anti-Gravity Top has a flat lower magnet with a planar surface that cannot
be considered to be dish-shaped so as to present a concave upper surface.
        12. I am aware that an attorney representing Mr. Harrigan has
presented an argument that Mr. Harrigan contributed to the Hones invention.
In that regard, I have been shown a letter from Mr. Harrigan's attorney to
counsel for Creative Gifts, Inc., a plaintiff in the above captioned action,
to which is attached a dialog that is alleged to be an excerpt from a
transcript of a videotape made by Mr. Harrigan.  The videotape purportedly
recorded a meeting between Mr. Harrigan and Mr. William Hones in September
1993.  I am informed that Mr. Hones has  no recollection of such videotape
being made, and therefore it is possible that the excerpt cannot be
authenticated.  But even if it could be authenticated, I do not believe it
would support a claim that Dr. Edward Hones and Mr. William Hones were not
sole inventors of the device claimed in the Hones Patent.  A scope of a
patent is determined by its claims.  The videotape excerpts do not evidence
any contribution by Mr. Harrigan to the claimed subject matter of the Hones
Patent.  Fairly read, the excerpts confirm that Mr. Harrigan?s concept was
that, however the lower magnet was formed, it was required that a
cone-shaped field must be produced.  This is consistent with the Harrigan
Patent which, in column 4, lines 30-34, points out that the lower magnet
need not be dish-shaped to produce a field having an equal potential concave
upper surface and/or lines of magnetization defining a cone.  The videotape
excerpts are consistent with this statement from the Harrigan patent and, to
me, confirms Mr. William Hones? affidavit that Mr. Harrigan always
emphasized the need for a cone-shaped field.  As pointed out above, neither
the Hones Patent nor the Levitron® Anti-Gravity Top uses a cone-shaped field.
        13. I have studied the following materials in preparing this affidavit:
        a.  U.S. Patent No. 5,404,062, to Hones et al, and its prosecution
file history, specification and claims;
        b.   U.S. Patent No. 4,382,245, to Harrigan, its prosecution file
history, specification and claims, as well as U.S. Patent No. 2,323,837, to
Neal;
        c.  Excerpts of what is purported to be a transcription of a
recorded portion of a meeting Mr. William Hones had with Mr. Harrigan during
September 1993, and the letter from Mr. Harrigan?s attorney to which the
excerpts were attached;
        d.  Article from Magnets In Your Future magazine by Les Adam
entitled "UFO";
        e.  An article written by defendants on their levitron.com website
entitled "The Hidden History of the Levitron";
        f.  An abstract written by Martin Simon and Leo Heflinger entitled
"Spin Stabilized Magnetic Levitation";
        g.  An article written by J. M. McBride entitled "A Toy Story: The
Chemical Relevance of Earnshaw?s Theorem, and How the Levitron ® Circumvents
It";
        h.  Affidavits of Dr. Edward Hones and Mr. William Hones prepared
for submission in support of Plaintiffs? Opposition to Defendants? Motion
for Summary Judgment; and
        i.  Commercial embodiment of the Levitron® Anti-Gravity Top marketed
and sold by plaintiff Fascinations Toys and Gifts, Inc.
        
Further affiant sayeth not.
Date: February 25, 1998         [signature] Harry F. Manbeck, Jr.

Sworn and subscribed to before me this 25th day of February, 1998

                                        [signature illegible]
                                        Notary Public
                                        My Commission Expires on January 1, 2000


                                ********************    

Biography
Harry F. Manbeck, Jr.

Harry F. Manbeck, Jr. is an attorney-at-law with offices in Washington, D.C.
>From March 1990 to May 1992, he was Assistant Secretary of Commerce and
Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks of the United States.  He was
nominated to these offices by President Bush on October 11, 1989 and
confirmed by the Senate on March 9, 1990.

Prior to his government service, Mr. Manbeck practiced patent law for over
thirty-five years and at the time of his appointment he was General Patent
Counsel of the General Electric Company.  He joined General Electric in 1949
and advanced to become General Patent Counsel in 1970, which position he
held until becoming Commissioner.  Prior to joining the General Electric
Company, he served in the U.S. Army Signal Corps.  

A native of Honesdale, Pennsylvania, Mr. Manbeck graduated with Highest
Honors from Lehigh University in 1949 with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering.
He received his L.L.B. with Honors from the University of Louisville in
1954.  Mr. Manbeck is a member of the District of Columbia, Connecticut,
Indiana, Kentucky and Massachusetts bars and is admitted to practice before
the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  He is also registered to
practice in front of the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

Mr. Manbeck has served as Chairman of the Patent, Trademark and Copyright
Section of the American Bar association; President of the Association of
Corporate Patent Counsel; a Director of the Intellectual Property Owners,
Inc.; and a Director of the Bar Association of the Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit.  He is also a member of the American Intellectual Property
Law Association and the Connecticut Patent Law Association.  In 1984 Mr.
Manbeck was awarded the Whitney North Seymour Medal of the American
Arbitration Association for contributions made to the process of arbitration
in the United States.

Mr. Manbeck is married to the former Julia P. McCarthy and they reside in
McLean, Virginia.





