                        
                         A LEGAL OPINION OF THE HONES PATENT 
                        IN LIGHT OF TWO PRIOR ART REFERENCES

I. ISSUE POSED

The validity of the invention disclosed in US Patent No. 5,404,062, issued
on April 4, 1995 - commonly referred to as the "Hones Patent" and on which
the commercial "Levitron" device is based - ("subject invention") over the
following two prior art references:

Ref. 1:  Roy M. Harrigan's "Levitation Device" disclosed in US Patent No.
4,382,245 issued on May 3, 1983
and
Ref. 2:  "The Levitator" device disclosed in plans allegedly sold through an
ad in Popular Science Magazine sometime prior to September 29, 1992

II. REQUIREMENT FOR PATENTABILITY

Under the United States Patent Law, an invention must satisfy the following
three requirements to be patented:

(i) Utility;
(ii) Novelty; and
(iii) Non-obviousness.

III. SUBJECT INVENTION
As shown in the claims of the subject invention, the subject invention may
be classified into the following two categories: 

(i) A levitation device comprising a first magnet having a first axis, a
polygonal periphery and a substantially planer first surface; a second
magnet having a second axis and a second surface; and means for rotating
said second magnet about the second axis (see claims 1 to 14); and

(ii) A method of levitating a magnet comprising the steps of supporting on a
horizontal surface a first magnet having a first axis and an upper surface;
placing a non-magnetic lifter plate over the upper surface of the first
magnet; placing a second magnet having a second axis and a lower surface on
said lifter plate; spinning the second magnet about the second axis;
substantially aligning the second axis of the second magnet with the first
axis of the first magnet; raising the lifter plate vertically upwardly from
the first magnet; and removing the lifter plate from between the first and
second magnets (see claims 15 to 20).

IV. VALIDITY OF THE SUBJECT INVENTION
 
1. Claim 1 of the subject invention

A levitation device in accordance with claim 1 of the subject invention
comprises: 

(a) a first magnet having a first axis, a polygonal periphery and
substantially planar first surface, said first magnet being magnetized
normal to said first surface and parallel to said first axis such that said
first surface has a first polar orientation;

(b) a second magnet having a second axis and a second surface, said second
magnet being magnetized normal to said second surface and parallel to said
second axis such that said second surface has the same orientation as the
first surface of the first magnet; and

(c) means for rotating said second magnet about the second axis whereby when
said second magnet is rotated and disposed vertically above said first
magnet with the first and second surfaces in confronting relation, said
second magnet levitates over said first magnet.

However, Ref. 1 discloses a levitation device in accordance with claim 1
comprising a first magnet, a second magnet and means for stabilizing said
second magnet over said first magnet.  It is self-evident that a first
magnet of Ref. 1 has a first axis and a first surface, said first magnet
being magnetized normal to said first surface and parallel to said first
axis such that said first surface has a first polar orientation.  It is
further clear that the second magnet has a second axis and a second surface,
said second magnet being magnetized normal to said second surface and
parallel to said second axis such that said second surface has the same
orientation as the first surface of the first magnet.  The means for
stabilizing said second magnet over said first magnet in Ref. 1 is
considered as means for rotating the second magnet as shown in lines 25-29,
column 2.  The only difference between the subject invention and Ref. 1 is
the shape of the first magnet.  That is, a shape of the subject invention
has a polygonal periphery and a substantially planar surface, whereas Ref. 1
has a dish-shaped first magnet with concave surface.

Furthermore, Ref. 2 clearly describes a levitation device with a composite
of ceramic rectangular magnets whose function is to repel and constrain the
vehicle - and there is no difference between the shape of the first magnet
in both the subject invention and Ref. 2.  Also, Ref. 2 shows a ring magnet
and a vehicle spinner which are equivalent to the second magnet and means
for rotating the second magnet of the subject invention, respectively.

Accordingly, we tend to believe that claim 1 of the subject invention is
invalid as being anticipated by the disclosures contained in Ref. 2.

2. Claim 2 

The levitation device of claim 2 of the subject invention further limits the
periphery of the first magnet to be a square.  In view of the rectangular
shape of the magnetic levitation support plate of Ref. 2, the above
limitation is meaningless; and, therefore, we are of the opinion that claim
2 still lacks novelty.

3. Claim 3

Although the levitation device of claim 3 of the subject invention further
limits the first and the second magnets to be ceramic magnets, Ref. 2
indicates ceramic rectangular magnet and pivoted ceramic ring magnet.
Accordingly, claim 3 does not add any novel element to claim 1; and,
therefore, claim 3 also lacks novelty.

4. Claim 4

Claim 4 of the subject invention describes that the second magnet comprises
a ring magnet having a central hole, the second surface being substantially
planar, said rotating means comprising a spindle affixed in said central
hole.  However, since the second magnet system is identical to the magnetic
levitation vehicle with vehicle spinner of Ref. 2, the limitation of claim 4
does not constitute any patentable subject matter.  In this regard, claim 4
undoubtedly lacks novelty.

5. Claim 5

Claim 5 of the subject invention includes means for varying the weight of
said second magnet to change the height above said first magnet at which
said second magnet levitates.  However, Ref. 1, in lines 46-55, column 2,
clearly teaches that weights can be added or removed to control the weight
of the second magnet. The same weight control means is also illustrated in
Ref. 2.  Therefore, claim 5 does not add any novel matter to claim 1.

6. Claim 6

Claim 6 of the subject invention shows that said weight varying means
comprises at least one washer having a central opening adapted to fit over
said spindle.  As can be seen in Fig 1 of Ref. 1, washer 11 is illustrated
to have a central opening adapted to fit over the spindle 12.  Thus, the
limitation of claim 6 cannot make the subject invention patentable.

7. Claim 7

As claim 7 of the subject invention mentions that said washer and said
spindle are made of a nonmagnetic material, Ref. 2 describes that the
vehicle spinner is made of round head brass machine screw with nut and
rubber washer.  Such material as brass or rubber is a nonmagnetic material;
and, therefore, claim 7 also lacks novelty.

8. Claim 8

Although claim 8 of the subject invention includes a lifter plate made of a
nonmagnetic material, Ref. 1 indicates that the top assembly may be spun
manually on a piece of aluminum or other non-magnetic material as shown in
lines 29-31, column 2.  Accordingly, the limitation cannot make the claim 8
invention patentable.

9. Claim 9

It is no doubt that the first magnet and the second magnet of both Ref. 1
and Ref. 2 can be permanent magnets.  So, the same technical limitation of
claim 9 of the subject invention does not add any patentable element to
claim 1.  Claim 9 lacks novelty.

10. Claim 10

Claim 10 of the subject invention includes a bore disposed through the
geometric center of said first magnet.  It is noted that an alternate
construction of the magnet having a central bore is shown in lines 9-11,
column 3, in accordance with Ref. 1.  In this connection, the limitation of
claim 10 is also known by Ref. 1, and thus claim 10 is still in an
unpatentable position.

11. Claim 11

Claim 11 of the subject invention includes a third magnet having a third
surface and being positioned adjacent the geometric center of the first
magnet, said third magnet being magnetized normal to said third surface such
that said third surface has a polar orientation opposite the polar
orientation of the first surface of the first magnet.  As mentioned above,
Ref. 1 describes the base magnet to have a central bore.  Theoretically and
experimentally, the area of the bore has a polar orientation opposite the
polar orientation of the first surface of the base magnet.  This means that
forming a bore in the base magnet is almost similar to place a magnet having
an opposite magnetic orientation and provides a same magnetic effect with
the second top magnet.  Accordingly, positioning the third magnet at the
center of the first magnet can be easily invented by an ordinary person
skilled in the art.  Thus, Claim 11 is obvious to a person skilled in the
art, thereby causing the claim to lack the non-obviousness requirement.

12. Claims 12 and 13

Claim 12 and 13 limit that the third magnet is an electromagnet or a
permanent magnet.  However, it is noted that the use of an electromagnet
forms substantially the same function in substantially the same way to
obtain the same result as with the use of a permanent magnet.  In light of
claim 12 and 13 describing the third magnet as an electromagnet or a
permanent magnet, it is presumed that  the subject inventors admit that both
of the magnets have the same function and result.  Accordingly, claims 12
and 13 are obvious to a person skilled in the art, in line with the reasons
for claim 11 of the subject invention.

13. Claim 14

As claim 14 of the subject invention limits the first magnet as an
electromagnet, it is also described, in lines 46-48, column 3 in Ref. 1 that
the lower magnetic field may be created by suitably shaped electromagnet.
In this regard, claim 14 is unpatentable in which every element is known and
has no characteristic features.

14. Claim 15

Claim 15 of the subject invention relates to a method of levitating a magnet
comprising the steps of:

(a) supporting on a horizontal surface a first magnet having a first axis
and an upper surface, said first magnet being magnetized normal to said
upper surface and parallel to said first axis such that said upper has a
polar orientation;

(b) placing a non-magnet lifter plate over the upper surface of the first
magnet; 

(c) placing a second magnet having a second axis and a lower surface on said
lifter plate, said second magnet being magnetized normal to said lower
surface and parallel to said second axis such that said lower surface has
the same polar orientation as the upper surface of the first magnet;

(d) spinning the second magnet about the second axis while it is on the
lifter plate; 

(e) substantially aligning the second axis of the spinning second magnet
with the first axis of the first magnet;

(f) raising the lifter plate vertically upwardly from the first magnet from
the first magnet until said spinning second magnet levitates above the
lifter plate and the upper surface of the first magnet; and 

(g) removing the lifter plate from between the first and second magnets. 

Ref. 1 shows, in line 67, column 3 to line 3, column 4, "a suitable base is
provided which will position the magnet 14 so that the cone defined by the
arrows 16 is coincident with the gravitational force imposed on the
assembly10."  Therefore, this method is substantially the same as the above
step (a) of the subject invention.

Ref. 1 teaches, in lines 25-28, column 2, "the top assembly 10 is given
rotational movement about the axis thereof and positioned above the lower
repelling magnet 14" and further describes, in lines 29-31, column 2, "the
top assembly may be spun on a piece of aluminum or other non-magnetic
material."  This is the same expression as step (b) of the subject invention.

Ref. 1 discloses, in lines 29-31, column 2, "the top assembly may be spun
manually on a piece of aluminum or other non-magnetic material."  This is
the exact same procedure as step (c) of the subject invention.

Ref. 1 explains, lines 29-31 in column 2, "the top assembly may be spun
manually on a piece of aluminum or other non-magnetic material."
Accordingly, it is readily considered that step (d) of the subject invention
is a known method based on this description.

Ref. 1 illustrates, in lines 60-62 in column 4, "when said first axis and
said axis are coaxial."  It is acknowledged that, in technical terms, when
the top assembly is levitated over the base magnet, the axes of the two
magnets become naturally coaxial by the centering force to the top assembly.
This means that the step (e) of the subject invention is also described or
suggested by Ref. 1.

Ref. 1 describes, in lines 32-34 in column 2, "the top moved by means of a
conventional mechanism until the top reaches a height where the magnet field
is strong enough to support it." This expression implies that the top
assembly on the piece of non-magnetic material is raised until the top
assembly levitates.  Accordingly, it is acknowledged that there are no
substantial differences between the description of Ref. 1 and the step (f)
of the subject invention.
Ref. 1 shows, in lines 37-39 in column 2, "the non-magnetic material may
then be removed and the top assembly 10 will be suspended with no visible
means of support."  This explanation is just the same as step (g) of the
subject invention.

As discussed above, all of the elements of claim 15 are described by the
Ref. 1; and, therefore, we are of the opinion that claim 15 of the subject
invention is invalid, as it is fully anticipated by the disclosures
contained in Ref. 1.

15. Claim 16

Claim 16 of the subject invention limits claim 15 on the point that said
spinning step comprises manually spinning said second magnet.  However, in
light of the indication in Ref. 1, in lines 29 and 30, column 2, that the
top assembly may be spun manually, the limitation of claim 16 does not add
any novel matter to claim 15 of the subject invention.  As long as claim 15
lacks novelty, claim 16 is also invalid as all of the elements are described
in Ref. 1.

16. Claim 17
 
Claim 17 of the subject invention limits claim 15 on the point that said
raising step comprises manually raising said lifter plate and said removing
step comprises manually removing said lifter plate.  Ref. 1 teaches, in
lines 32-34, column 2, that the top is moved by means of a conventional
mechanism.  Since the top assembly is spun manually on the non-magnetic
material, said conventional raising mechanism undoubtedly includes manually
raising the top assembly on the non-magnetic material and manually removing
the non-magnetic material.  In this regard, it is considered that claim 17
is invalid, as being obvious to a person skilled in the art.

17. Claims 18 and 19
  
Claims 18 and 19 of the subject invention limit the shape of the first
magnet as a polygonal periphery or a square form.  However, the polygonal or
rectangular shape of the first magnet is described in Ref. 2, as discussed
in claim 1.  Therefore, claims 18 and 19 are invalid.

18. Claim 20

Claim 20 of the subject invention includes the step of placing a third
magnet adjacent to the geometric center of the first magnet, said third
magnet having a polar orientation opposite the polar orientation of said
first magnet.  As far as the third magnet is concerned, it is obvious as
discussed in claim 11.  Accordingly, elements of claim 20 are known or
obvious; and, therefore, it also lacks the non-obviousness requirement.

V. CONCLUSION

In view of the foregoing, it is concluded that claims 1-20 of the subject
invention are invalid as they lack both the novelty and non-obviousness
required over Ref. 1 and Ref. 2.



