IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO

CREATIVE GIFTS, INC.,
FASCINATIONS TOYS & GIFTS, INC.,
and WILLIAM HONES

                Plaintiffs,                            CIV.97 1266 LH/WWD
v.                                                                      

UFO,
MICHAEL SHERLOCK,
KAREN SHERLOCK

                Defendants.

AFFIDAVIT OF SAUL LEITNER

STATE OF NEW MARYLAND   )               
                        )ss.
COUNTY OF MONTGOMERY    )

        I, Saul Leitner, being duly sworn, hereby depose and say as follows:
        1. I am a patent attorney registered to practice before the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.  I represent Creative Gifts, Inc., Fascinations
Toys & Gifts, Inc., William G. Hones (Bill), and Dr. Edward W. Hones in
patent, trademark and other intellectual property matters.
        2. The facts stated herein are of my own personal knowledge.  I am
competent and willing to testify to their truth.
        3. In about October 1996, Bill Hones sent me a copy of a letter he
had received from Mr. Martin Simon in which Mr. Simon raised questions about
Bill Hones? dealings with Roy Harrigan.
        4. I responded to Mr. Simon by a letter dated October 14, 1996 a
true and accurate copy of which is attached hereto as Leitner Ex. 1.
        5. In that letter I explained to Mr. Simon (1) that I had given Bill
Hones my opinion that the claims of the Harrigan patent were not infringed
by the new device that Bill Hones and his father Dr. Edward Hones had
developed, (2) that there was no reason for Bill Hones to obtain a patent
license from Roy Harrigan or pay him a royalty, and (3) that even though
Bill and Dr. Edward Hones did not set out to intentionally circumvent Roy
Harrigan?s patent, had they done so, that would have been a legally proper,
legitimate and responsible plan for any business.
        6. In about July 1997, I received a letter from Mike and Karen
Sherlock a copy of which I understand has been submitted with the Sherlocks?
Motion for Summary Judgment as Defendants' Exhibit 5.  From that letter it
is clear that the Sherlocks obtained a copy of my letter to Mr. Martin Simon
and were questioning my factual and legal analysis of the circumstances and
the legal opinions I had given to Bill Hones.
        7. After receiving their letter, I telephoned the Sherlocks and
attempted to explain to them how the patent system works with respect to
patenting improvements on prior inventions, patent infringement issues and
the legitimacy of designing around prior patents like Harrigan?s.  I told
them that Bill and Ed Hones had developed an improvement of the Harrigan
device, namely, Fascinations? Levitron® device, that did not infringe
Harrigan?s patent and that under the U.S. Patent Laws there is no obligation
to pay anything to a prior inventor unless his patent is infringed.  I also
tried to explain to them why designing around a patent is not only a "fair
and honest" endeavor, but also is a responsible objective of any business.
The Sherlocks were not the least bit interested in my explanations of any of
those issues, but were only interested in whether Roy Harrigan?s device was
more or less stable than Fascinations? Levitron® device and whether Roy
Harrigan?s device was commercially viable.

Further affiant sayeth not.
Date:   2/25/98 [signed] Saul Leitner

Sworn and subscribed to before me this 25th day of February, 1998.
[signed] Noreen Kaminski
Notary Public
Commission Expires 8/17/98     



