Largesse, the Network for Size Esteem 

 size esteem, n. [phrase originated by Richard K. Stimson] 
--feeling acceptance of, respect for, and pride in one's body, whatever its size or shape 

 Largesse, the Network for Size Esteem is an international
 clearinghouse for information on size diversity empowerment. Our mission is to create personal awareness and social
 change which promotes a positive image, health and equal rights for people of size. Since 1986 we have been helping
 to link individuals, groups, businesses and professionals in the size rights community with information, support
 and each other. 

 Click the logo to visit our online store, 
with T-shirts, totes, buttons, magnets and MORE for the whole family! 

 SIZE-POSITIVE

 EDUCATION & 
 SUPPORT 

 INTERNATIONAL

 NO DIET DAY 
 (MAY 6) 

 FAT
 LIBERATION ARCHIVES 

 WEIGHT 
 DISCRIMINATION 
 & LEGAL 
 RESOURCES 

 DECONSTRUCTING 
 MEDIA 
 MISINFORMATION 

 SIZE-POSITIVE 
 BOOKS 

 SIZE-POSITIVE

 ORGANIZATIONS 

 SIZE-POSITIVE 
 LINKS 

 Your contribution of any amount will support our work--thank you! 

 Karen W. Stimson 
 and Richard K. Stimson, 
 Co-Directors 

 Email us at 

 Click on the button to visit our free 
Button Adoptions! 

 Susan L. Mason 
 1955 - 2002 

 Our beloved friend and Largesse Media Liaison, Susan Mason, died on Monday, December 2, 2002 from long-term complications
 of weight-loss surgery. From the early 1980's Susan was a passionate and articulate advocate for size diversity
 empowerment and an equally passionate foe of fat oppression and discrimination. Through her frequent media appearances,
 her comedy, art, writing, and websites, Susan brought the concept of size acceptance to an audience of millions
 around the globe. Her passing is a huge loss to our community. 
 She will be sorely missed. 
 Our tribute to her may be viewed here . 

 Invocation for the 
 Size Rights Movement 

 Let the voices for size rights be heard 
 From the highest mountain to the deepest valley 
 In cities, towns, and villages 
 Wherever humankind may dwell 
 Let them plant in the hearts and minds 
 Of every child, woman, and man 
 The seeds of size diversity empowerment 
 In fertile, fallow fields 
 Let them grow 
 In the sunlight of reason 
 With the driving rains of change 
 To abundant harvests 
 Of food for thought 
 Let these voices sing their songs 
 Of disappointment and of hope 
 Of anger and of joy 
 Of frustration and of accomplishment 
 Through all the vicissitudes 
 Of human condition and experience 
 Let them bring 
 To the struggles of people of size 
 Dignity, pride, and unity 

 Let this be our vision and our quest.... 

 --Richard K. Stimson 

 &copy; copyright 2001 rks 

 This information is a public service of Largesse, the Network for Size
 Esteem [ http://www.largesse.net/ ] and may be freely copied and distributed in its entirety for non-commercial
 use in promoting size diversity empowerment, provided this statement is included. 

 This site is hosted by 

 This Health
 at Any Size site is owned by Karen
 w Stimson, Co-Director . 

 Previous 5 Sites 
 | Previous | Next | Next
 5 Sites | Random Site | List Sites 

 This RingSurf Fat & Proud Net Ring 
 is owned by Largesse, the Network
 for Size Esteem . 

 [ Previous 5 Sites | Skip Previous | Previous | Next ] 
 [ Skip
 Next | Next 5 Sites | Random Site | List Sites ] 

 Our Awards Page