jessamyn.com: Donald Barthelme : departures

 Departures 

by Donald Barthelme

ARMY PLANS TO FREEZE 
3 MILLION BIRDS TO DEATH 
 MILAN, Tenn., Feb. 14 (AP)--The Army is planning to freeze to death three
million or so blackbirds that took up residence two years ago at the Milan
Arsenal. 

Paul Lefebvre of the U.S. Department of the Interior, which is also working
on the plan, said yesterday that the birds would be sprayed with two
chemicals, resulting in a rapid loss of body heat. This will be done on a
night with sub-freezing temperatures, he said. 

There is an elementary school, P.S. 421, across the street from my
building. The board of education is busing children from the bad areas of
the city to P.S. 421 (our area is thought to be a good area) and busing
children from P.S. 421 to schools in the bad
areas, in order to achieve racial balance in the schools. The parents of
the P.S. 421 children do not like this very much, but they are all good
citizens and feel it must be done. The parents of the children in the bad
areas may not like it much, either, having their children so far from home,
but they too probably feel that the process makes somehow for a better
education. Every morning the green buses arrive in front of the school,
some bringing black and Puerto Rican children to P.S. 421 and others taking
the local, mostly white, children away. Presiding over all this is the
loadmaster. 

The loadmaster is a heavy, middle-aged white woman, not fat but heavy, who
wears a blue cloth coat and a scarf around her head and carries a
clipboard. She gets the children into and out of the buses, briskly,
briskly, shouting, "Let's go, let's go, let's go! " She has a voice
that is louder than the voices of forty children. She gets a bus filled up,
gives her clipboard a fast once-over, and sends the driver on his way:
"O.K., Jose." The bus has been parked in the middle of the street, and
there is a long line of hungup cars behind it, unable to pass, their
drivers blowing their horns impatiently. When the drivers of these cars
honk their horns too vigorously, the loadmaster steps away from the bus and
yells at them in a voice louder than fourteen stacked-up drivers blowing
their horns all at once: "Keep your pants on!" Then to the bus
driver: "O.K., Jose." As the bus starts off, she stands back and gives it
an authoritative smack on its rump (much like a coach sending a fresh
player into the game) as it passes. Then she waves the stacked-up drivers
on their way, one authoritative wave for each driver. She is making
authoritative motions long after there is any necessity for it. 

My grandfather once fell in love with a dryad -- a wood nymph who lives in
trees and to whom trees are sacred and who dances around trees clad in fine
leaf-green tutu and who carries a great silver-shining ax to whack anybody
who does any kind of thing inimical to the well-being and mental health of
trees. My grandfather was at that time in the lumber business. 

It was during the Great War. He'd got an order for a million board feet of
one-by-ten of the very poorest quality, to make barracks out of for the
soldiers. The specifications called for the dark red sap to be running off
it in buckets and for the warp on it to be like the tops of waves in a
distressed sea and for the knotholes in it to be the size of an intelligent
man's head for the cold wind to whistle through and toughen up the (as they
were then called) doughboys. 

My grandfather headed for East Texas. He had the timber rights to ten
thousand acres there, Southern yellow pine of the loblolly family. It was
third-growth scrub and slash and shoddy--just the thing for soldiers.
Couldn't be beat. So he and his men set up operations and first crack out
of the box they were surrounded by threescore of lovely dryads and
hamadryads all clad in fine leaf-green tutus and waving great
silver-shining axes. 

"Well now," my grandfather said to the head dryad, "wait a while, wait a
while, somebody could get hurt." 

"That is for sure," says the girl, and she shifts her ax from her left hand
to her right hand. 

"I thought you dryads were indigenous to oak," says my grandfather, "this
here is pine." 

"Some like the ancient tall-standing many-branched oak," says the girl,
"and some the white-slim birch, and some take what they can get, and you
will look mighty funny without any legs on you." 

"Can we negotiate," says my grandfather, "it's for the War, and you are the
loveliest thing I ever did see, and what is your name?" 

"Megwind," says the girl, "and also Sophie. I am Sophie in the night and
Megwind in the day and I make fine whistling ax-music night or day and
without legs for walking your life's journey will be a pitiable one." 

"Well Sophie," says my grandfather, "let us sit down under this tree here
and open a bottle of this fine rotgut here and talk the thing over like
reasonable human beings." 

"Do not use my night-name in the light of day," says the girl, "and I am
not a human being and there is nothing to talk over and what type of rotgut
is it you have there?" 

"It is Teamster's Early Grave," says my grandfather, "and you'll cover many
a mile before you find the beat of it." 

"I will have one cupful," says the girl, "and my sisters will each have one
cupful, and then we will dance around this tree while you still have legs
for dancing and they you will go away and your men also." 

"Drink up," says my grandfather, "and know that of all the women I have
interfered with in my time you are the absolute top woman." 

"I am not a woman," says Megwind, "I am a spirit, although the form of the
thing is misleading I will admit." 

"Wait a while," says my grandfather, "you mean that no type of mutual
interference between us of a physical nature is possible?" 

"That is a thing I could do," says the girl, "if I chose." 

"Do you choose?" asks my grandfather, "and have another wallop." 

"That is a thing I will do," says the girl, and she has another wallop. 

"And a kiss," says my grandfather, "would that be possible do you think?" 

"That is a thing I could do," says the dryad, "you are not the least
prepossessing of men and men have been scarce in these parts in these
years, the trees being as you see mostly scrub, slash, and shoddy." 

"Megwind," says my grandfather, "you are beautiful." 

"You are taken with my form which I admit is beautiful," says the girl,
"but know that this form you see is not necessary but contingent, sometimes
I am a fine brown-speckled egg and sometimes I am an escape of steam from a
hole in the ground and sometimes I am an armadillo." 

"That is amazing," says my grandfather, "a shape-shifter are you." 

"That is a thing I could do," says Megwind, "if I choose." 

"Tell me," says my grandfather, "could you change yourself into one million
board feet of one-by-ten of the very poorest quality neatly stacked in
railroad cars on a siding outside of Fort Riley, Kansas?" 

"That is a thing I could do," says the girl, "but I do not see the beauty
of it." 

"The beauty of it," says my grandfather, "is two cents a board foot." 

"What is the quid pro quo? ", asks the girl. 

"You mean spirits engage in haggle?" asks my grandfather. 

"Nothing from nothing, nothing for nothing, that is a law of life," says
the girl. 

"The quid pro quo, " says my grandfather, "is that me and my men will
leave this here scrub, slash, and shoddy standing. All you have to do is to
be made into barracks for the soldiers and after the War you will be torn
down and can fly away home." 

"Agreed," says the dryad, "but what about this interference of a physical
nature you mentioned earlier? For the sun is falling down and soon I will
be Sophie and human men have been scarce in these parts for ever so damn
long." 

"Sophie," says my grandfather, "you are as lovely as light and let me just
fetch another bottle from the truck and I will be at your service." 

This is not really how it went. I am fantasizing. Actually, he just plain
cut down the trees. 

I was on an operating table. My feet were in sterile bags. My hands and
arms were wrapped in sterile towels. A sterile bib covered my beard. A
giant six-eyed light was shining in my eyes. I closed my eyes. There was a
doctor on the right side of my head and a doctor on the left side of my
head. The doctor on the right was my doctor. The doctor on the left was
studying the art. He was Chinese, the doctor on the left. My doctor spoke
to the nurse who was handing him tools. "Rebecca! You're not supposed to
be holding conversations with the circulating nurse, Rebecca. You're
supposed to be watching me, Rebecca!" We had all gathered here in this
room to cut out part of my upper lip, into which a basal-cell malignancy
had crept. 

In my mind, the basal-cell malignancy resembled a tiny truffle. 

"Most often occurs in sailors and farmers," the doctor had told me. "The
sun." But I, I sit under General Electric light, mostly. "We figure you can
lose up to a third of it, the lip, without a bad result," the doctor had
told me. "There's a lot of stretch." He had demonstrated upon his own upper
lip, stretching it with his two forefingers. The doctor a large handsome
man with silver spectacles. In my hospital room, I listened to my Toshiba
transistor, Randy Newman singing "Let's Burn Down the Cornfield." I was
waiting for the morning, for the operation. A friendly Franciscan entered
in his brown robes. "Why is it that in the space under 'Religion' on your
form you entered 'None'?" he asked in a friendly way. I considered the
question. I rehearsed for him my religious history. We discussed the
distinguishing characteristics of the various religious orders--the
Basilians, the Capuchins. Recent outbreaks of Enthusiasm among the Dutch
Catholics were touched upon. "Rebecca!" the doctor said, in the operating
room. "Watch me, Rebecca!" 

I had been given a morphine shot along with various locals in the lip. I
was feeling very good! The Franciscan had lived in the Far East for a long
time. I too had been in the Far East. The Army band had played, as we
climbed the ramp into the hold of the troopship, "Bye Bye Baby, Don't
Forget That You're My Baby." "We want a good result," my original doctor
had said, "because of the prominence of the--" He pointed to my upper lip.
"So I'm sending you to a good man." This seemed sensible. I opened my eyes.
The bright light. "Give me a No. 10 blade," the doctor said. "Give me a No.
15 blade." Something was certainly going on there, above my teeth. "Gently,
gently," my doctor said to his colleague. The next morning a tiny Thai
nurse came in bringing me orange juice, orange Jell-O, and an orange broth.
"Is there any pain?" she asked. 

My truffle was taken to the pathologist for examination. I felt the
morphine making me happy. I thought: What a beautiful hospital. 

A handsome nurse from Jamaica came in. "Now you put this on," she said,
handing me a wrinkled white garment without much back to it. "No socks. No
shorts." 

No shorts! 

I climbed onto a large moving bed and was wheeled to the operating table,
where the doctors were preparing themselves for the improvement of my face.
My doctor invited the Chinese doctor to join him in a scrub. I was eating
my orange Jell-O, my orange broth. My wife called and said that she had
eaten a superb Beef Wellington for diner, along with a good bottle. Every
time I smiled the stitches jerked tight. 

I was standing outside the cashier's window. I had my pants on and was
feeling very dancy. "Udbye!" I said. "Hank you!" 

 * * * 

I went to a party. I saw a lady I knew. "Hello!" I said. "Are you
pregnant?" She was wearing what appeared to be maternity clothes. 

"No," she said, "I am not." 

"Cab!" 

But where are you today? 

Probably out with your husband for a walk. He has written another beautiful
poem, and needs the refreshment of the air. I admire him. Everything he
does is successful. He is wanted for lectures in East St. Louis, at immense
fees. I admire him, but my admiration for you is... Do you think he has
noticed? What foolishness! It is as obvious as a bumper sticker, as obvious
as an
abdication. 

Your Royal Canadian Mounted Police hat set squarely across the wide white
brow... 

Your white legs touching each other, under the banquet table... 

Probably you are walking with your husband in SoHo, seeing what the new
artists are refusing to do there, in their quest for a scratch to start
from. 

The artists regard your brown campaign hat, your white legs. "Holy God!"
they say, and return to their lofts. 

I have spent many message units seeking your voice, but I always get
Frederick instead. 

"Well, Frederick," I ask cordially, "what amazing triumphs have you
accomplished today?" 

He has been offered a sinecure at Stanford and a cenotaph at CCNY. Bidding
for world rights to his breath has begun at $500,000. 

But I am wondering-- 

When you placed your hand on my napkin, at the banquet, did that mean
anything? 

When you smashed in the top of my soft-boiled egg for me, at the banquet,
did that indicate that I might continue to hope? 

I will name certain children after you. (People often ask my advice about
naming things.) It will be suspicious, so many small Philippas popping up
in our city, but the pattern will become visible only with the passage of
time, and in the interval, what satisfaction! 

I cannot imagine the future. You have not made your intentions clear, if
indeed you have any. Now you are climbing aboard a great ship, and the
hawsers are being loosed, and the flowers in the cabins arranged, and the
dinner gong sounded.... 

"Departures" is from 40 Stories 
 Copyright (c) 1996-2004 The Estate of Donald Barthelme, reprinted with 
permission