jessamyn.com: Donald Barthelme reviewed

 Select Reviews of Donald Barthelme 

 40 Stories 
Library Journal 
Oct 15, 1987 

Aficionados of the short story already know Barthelme for his prolific work and
experimentation in this genre. Barthelme's earlier Sixty Stories ( LJ 10/1/81) 
is now joined by
this collection of seven stories since published in The New Yorker and others 
left out of the
earlier collection. Subjects range from Bluebeard the pirate to a fanciful 
porcupine roundup
and the effects of genius to a couple's agony over losing their two-year-old 
son. As
elsewhere, this is really a showcase for stylistic tinkering, e.g., "Concerning 
the Bodyguard''
is told by repeated questioning. Not a necessary companion to Sixty Stories , 
but
recommended for larger collections. Paul E. Hutchison, Pennsylvania State 
Univ., University
Park 

 40 Stories 
Publishers Weekly 
 Aug 14, 1987 

This collection of pithy, brilliantly acerbic pieces is a companion to Sixty 
Stories, Barthelme's
earlier retrospective volume. Barthelme spotlights the idiosyncratic, haughty, 
sometimes
downright ludicrous behavior of human beings, but it is style rather than 
content which takes
precedence. He plunges into each situation without preamble, then utilizes 
sinewy, staccato
prose to snare our attention. In "The Genius,'' a man of extraordinary intellect 
receives
endless accolades and homage, but privately, he is just an eccentric inebriate 
who loathes
children and totes important papers in a green Sears, Roebuck tool box. 
"Concerning the
Bodyguard'' is a fusillade of typically gossipy questions about those who shield 
the famous
and mighty: "How much does pleasing matter?'' "Is the bodyguard sufficiently 
well-paid?''
"Is there a pension?'' In "Conversations with Goethe,'' Barthelme dethrones the 
renowned
German author, who here spouts comical aphorisms such as "Art is the four 
percent interest
on the municipal bond of life,'' and "Actors are the Scotch weevils in the salt 
port of honest
effort.'' As demonstrated throughout this volume, Barthelme's manner of 
expression is
strikingly unique, and his insights are consistently on target. (September 30) 

 Paradise 
 Publishers Weekly 
Oct 3, 1986

What is paradise? Not Adam's who had only one Eve, but Simon's who has three. 
Simon, a

53-year-old architect "with a tragic sense of brick,'' gives himself a year's 
sabbatical from
his firm in Philadelphia and his ruinous marriage, takes an apartment in New 
York and by
one of those everyday coincidences that makes urban life so zingy is moved in on 
by not
one, not two, but three beautiful fashion models so impossibly young they don't 
know the
name Benny Goodman or the century of World War II. They do know all manner of 
games
to add interest to rainy mornings, however. A "male fantasy'' is what the 
implausibly
articulate and well-read ladies call the arrangement, and they tell Simon he's 
living in "hog
heaven.'' The slight novel, which includes random meditations on a variety of 
matters,
unfolds mainly in dialogue and one-liners, many of them actually in Q & A form. 
At times,
Barthelme strains for his gags and comic effects, and jokes fall flat or topple 
into whimsy;
but it is amazing how often and well the wit comes off. What is even more 
amazing is that
this odd foursome, this "loving quartet,'' constitutes a kind of family. When 
the women leave
to pick up the frayed threads of their lives, Simon is forlorn, inconsolable, a 
desolate
"uncle-figure,'' as one of them calls him. By the end of the book, we too miss 
them. Best
known for his short stories (nine books of them so far), Barthelme has written 
two earlier
novelsThe Dead Father in 1975 and Snow White in 1967. First serial to Esquire.

 Paradise 
 Library Journal 
 Nov 15, 1986 

A middle-aged architect on sabbatical brings home three lovely young lingerie 
models with
no place to stay. Self-mocking, estranged from his wife and daughter, haunted by 
dreams
and memories, Simon begins to live a male fantasy of domestic bliss the women 
call "hog
heaven.'' They share him sexually and use his apartment as a way station for 
their inevitable
departure. Their snappy, contrapuntal dialogue and coltish ways create for Simon 
a lively
and sensual vision of paradise. The images are pure Barthelme: a wrinkled red 
bra hangs
"like a cut throat'' in the shower; a policeman enters "the felon-thick night''; 
the furniture of
paradise is "knoll, basically.'' A curiously innocent, freewheeling erotic romp, 
tinged with
sadness as much as celebration. Mary Soete, San Diego P.L., Cal . 

 Paradise 
 Choice 
Mar 1987 

Barthelme has written many short stories and two novels. The Dead Father (1975) 
is an
indispensable novel for students of avant-garde American fiction. Paradise is a 
lesser book
that (like much of Barthelme's work) challenges traditional expectations of 
narrative form. It
consists of episodes out of which a dogged reader can reconstruct characters and 
a
semblance of plot: Simon is a discontented, middle-aged architect on furlough 
from job and
family: he shares his New York apartment with an "anti-family'' of three young
models-hence the wry "Paradise'' of the title. In scenes that are often too 
precious and
sometimes bitingly satirical, Barthelme sketches a contemporary urban culture in 
which
neither narratives of transcendence nor autobiographical fictions seem capable 
of redeeming
the fragmentary and inconclusive nature of lives dominated by the discourses of 
a consumer
culture and its pop versions of art and history. The prose is studded with 
wonderful
sentences: an architect "has a tragic sense of brick,'' a policeman walks out 
into "the
felon-thick night.'' The best episodes capture epiphanies in the banal language 
of therapeutic
self-awareness. As a whole-and Barthelme is basically a writer who seeks to 
subvert the
notion of a whole-this novel is interesting but ultimately disappointing. 
Recommended for
academic libraries with large collections of American literature and for large 
libraries serving
the general reader. 
 K. Tolyan, Wesleyan University 

 On Not Knowing 
 Choice 
January 1998
 Barthelme, who died in 1989 at the age of 58, was one of the most original 
and influential of
the postmoderns. The density and variety of his work is reflected in his 
statement that "the
principle of collage is one of the central principles of art in this century and 
it seems also to
be one of the central principles of literature." With 16 books published (two 
posthumously)
and approximately 50 stories yet to be published, the Barthelme canon has not 
been set.
Thus, Herzinger's collection of Barthelme's essays and interviews can only be 
hailed as a
wonderful collage--a collection of insights and observations that shed light on 
Barthelme
personally and that present his views of the works of others such as Gertrude 
Stein and his
good friend Grace Paley. The contents range from an essay on Joyce to his 
acceptance
speech on winning the National Book Award for Children's Literature, to six 
movie reviews
and 12 "Notes and Comment" sections from The New Yorker, to six interviews 
(e.g., of
Jerome Klinkowitz and Bobbie Roe). The book is marvelously insightful and 
entertaining and
will be of value to all--from general readers to scholars--who are interested in 
contemporary
literature and its many forms. 
 W. B. Warde Jr.; University of North Texas 

 On Not Knowing 
 Publishers Weekly 
Jul 7, 1997 

"Barthelmismo" was Thomas Pynchon's term for the disparate writings of Barthelme
(1931-89), whose self-reflexive, fragmentary style in such books as The Dead 
Father and
Snow White defined literary postmodernism for a generation of writers born after 
WWII.
This second posthumous anthology of previously uncollected work edited by 
Herzinger,
yields slimmer pickings than The Teachings of Don B., its predecessor. Herzinger 
opens
with two dazzling essays on aesthetics: 1964's "After Joyce," a defense of the 
artwork as an
"object in the world rather than a text or commentary on the world," and 1982's 
"Not
Knowing," which holds that art is a meditation upon the world propelled by 
questions and
riddles. The rest of the book is an uneven hodgepodge, featuring brief, lambent 
portraits of
Barthelme's Greenwich Village that originally appeared in The New Yorker; 
reviews of
books, art exhibits and films; a spirited symposium on fiction with Grace Paley, 
Walker
Percy and William Gass; short essays, speeches and seven lengthy interviews. 
These
sometimes ponderous Q&As, conducted by Barthelme exegetes like Jerome Klinkowitz 
and
Larry McCaffery, Charles Ruas and Judith Sherman, are dead weight compared to
Barthelme's essays and fiction. What holds this collection together is 
Barthelme's rapturous
fascination with the visual arts and with language and its adepts (Joyce, Stein, 
Beckett, Gass,
Pynchon, Barth); his cheeky, exuberant voice and "[t]he combinatorial agility of 
words, the
exponential generation of meaning once they're allowed to go to bed together," 
he says in his
title essay, that "makes art possible." (Aug.) 

 On Not Knowing 
 Library Journal 
 Jun 15, 1997 

In his early essay "After Joyce" (1964), the first title in this nonfiction 
omnibus, Barthelme,
America's preeminent postmodern practitioner, made a strong argument for the 
literary work
"as an object in the world rather than a commentary upon the world." The writer, 
"betrayed
by outmoded forms," may find in play "one of the great possibilities of art." A 
whole
generation of writers obliged, among them Gass, Elkin, Hawkes, Coover, Gaddis, 
and
Pynchon. In one of his last essays, "Not-Knowing" (published not long before his 
death in
1989, at age 58), Barthelme, having shaken off that "rhetoric of the time," 
admits that much
of contemporary criticism robs the work of its mystery, which indeed "exists." 
These two
essays, offered back to back, buoy this collection, which includes later 
interviews that
demonstrate for writing students his methods, influences, etc. Much of 
Barthelme's New
Yorker commentary (on art, politics, living in Greenwich Village) seems dated 
now.
Important for literature collections and writing programs.
 Amy Boaz, "Library Journal" 

On Not Knowing 
 Kirkus Reviews 
 Jun 1, 1997 

What Thomas Pynchon called "Barthelmismo'' is somewhat lacking in the second
posthumous collection edited by Herzinger of Barthelme's miscellaneous writings, 
which
here includes film and book reviews, art catalog essays, and New Yorker pieces.
"Barthelme Takes On Task of Almost Deciphering His Fiction'' ran the New York 
Times
headline when Barthelme delivered a lecture for New York University's Writer at 
Work
series. That headline could equally well describe many of these abbreviated 
critical pieces
and not wholly forthcoming interviews. The often-reprinted "Not-Knowing'' (1982) 
is a
spirited, idiosyncratic analysis of creativity--the search for an adequate 
rendering of the
world's "messiness''--as well as a playful, sometimes self-parodying literary 
performance
piece. The essay contains a short "letter to a literary critic'' expressing 
condolences on the
demise of Postmodernism, which Barthelme recycled into an unsigned piece for his 
favorite
publication, the New Yorker. Barthelme's many other pieces for the magazine 
waver lamely
between its characteristic wryness and his own fabulist flair, though there is 
one happy,
humorous piece that purports to answer a Writer's Digest questionnaire about his 
drinking
habits. Barthelme also tried his hand at film criticism for the New Yorker in 
1979, but his
reviews of Truffaut, Herzog, and Bertolucci are surprisingly heavy going, as are 
his writings
on abstract expressionists and contemporary architecture. Editor Herzinger 
(English/Univ. of
Southern Mississippi) has also included a number of interviews with Barthelme, 
of widely
varying quality. The longest interview, a radio serial chat from 197576, seems 
dated and
pretentious (e.g.: "I would not say that Snow White predicts the Manson case''); 
the most
stimulating is actually the transcript of a 1975 symposium with his peers 
William Gass, Grace
Paley, and Walker Percy. Though John Barth calls this a "booksworth of encores'' 
in his
introduction, many of the pieces seem to be merely magazine outtakes and 
literary b-sides.