Links for no Reason 

 Links for no Reason 

This page contains links of things that I am interested in, involved in,
sites I worked on, or just sites I like. However, I won't tell you which
is which. I will also try to only put links to sites you probably don't
know about.

 Aps#! Technology - These guys know their stuff, are Linux-heads (although they are willing to work with anything), and do a great job at a great price. Check out their case studies! Very good work. 
 Bartlett Publishing - a new publisher which focuses on open information. Publishes both religious and technical books, and makes them all available under open licenses. Has a slogan "If you can't copy your books, you bought them from the wrong publisher". Has some cool T-Shirts, too. 
 Textual Criticism site - a great site on textual criticism 
 New Media Worx - Parent company of the above. Their designers are geniuses. 
 Direct Drop - This site appeared out of nowhere and does a great thing - delivers coupons to your inbox for Tulsans. It's a sign-up only service, so there's no spam involved. 
 ChristDot - Geeks and Christians, working together, mass hysteria :) 
 Leene@Home - If you want exercise products, this is the place. I currently use their exercise balls as a chair at work, and it's really helped my lower-back strength. 
 tgMinistries - this is a ministry I'm working on, hopefully with a real launch in November 2003 
 A Page about Call/CC - an excellent summary of continuations for you CS people. Unfortunately, he left out a lot of application-oriented material 
 Bartlett Homes and Remodelling - My brother's web site. He's great at what he does! Fences, bathrooms, furniture - he does the whole bit, and usually gives me a discount :) 
 New Media Mail - Email marketing without the spam. They help businesses keep away from spam, and only engage in legitamate communication. In fact, it's probably used as much for tracking internal communication in companies as external communication. 
 The Metric System - this is an article on the metric system, and why it doesn't necessarily live up to the hype surrounding it. 

 Go back