Comments 

Comments

 We'd like to know what you think about the book Out of the Shadows . Please leave your
comments in this guest book so we can share your thoughts with other
visitors. The guest book is regulated, and so updates will not be
immediate, but will happen as soon as possible. 

 Name 

 Email 

 New discoveries raise more questions than they answer, so do
 comment on these questions, or perhaps you have thoughts of your own about the
 place of humankind in the universe. 

 Through the medium of light we are part of the universe,
 and part of the universe is always within us - what does that discovery
 mean for you? 

 There is new evidence of a link between the growing
 dependence on electricity and the environment 
 - do you have any thoughts or
 evidence to back this up? 

 Would you like a scientific team to investigate the link
 between the growing dependence on electricity and global warming? Yes
 No Don't
 know 

 Comments: 

 Comments 

 Posted by Chris Doyle on 20th Jan 2004 

 Your book certainly covers a lot of ground and raises many questions. I
intend to do some reading on the more conventional ideas of light and darkness
so I can compare them with yours. I look forward to discussing your
hypothesis with you. I'll be raising a few points i.e. can all instances
of attraction between entities be described as magnetism? How is it that
only the side facing the sun is affected when we sunbathe? 

 Posted by Sean O'Maoldhomnaigh on 4th September 2003 

 There are more things in Heaven and on Earth than men have dreamed of. 

 Posted by Alan B on 21st July 2003 

 1. Thomas Kuhn noted that when a Scientific Revolution took place old
terminology takes on a completely new meaning. Hence in trying to
understand a past paradigm - projecting modern meanings into the words of an old
writer might often seem to make sense - but occasionally seems to make absurd
statements - once these riddles of absurdity have been solved - then even the
things that seemed to make sense take on a new meaning. 

2. I once asked Raymond Baxter (when he was working for the BBC Tomorrow's
World program) how he discovered whether a new invention was real or a spoof -
his simple rule was that really great minds can and do explain their findings
understandably - while charlatans hide behind a mystic of rhetoric and
terminology. 

3. Reading what you have written in your out-line on your website leaves
me in a quandary - have you discovered something or is this a spoof. Some
of what you say seems to make no sense whatsoever - but then if you are using
existing terminology in a radically different way - then perhaps this is what I
would expect. 

4. I am certainly aware of the shortcomings of modern Physics to explain
everything - and I am interested in what you may have discovered - however your
model may be as wrong as anyone else's and while the kernel of your discovery
may be sound and profound - your extrapolations may be unwarranted - and may
actually do you a disservice by clouding the issue and bringing your important
discovery into disrepute. 

5. One of the clearly problematic problems of modern physics is the fact
that light travels in quanta but also reacts as a wave. The idea of two
quanta of light causing diffraction problems is fine until you reduce the emissions
to separate quanta which must go through one or the other slit and
ought not to interfere with themselves or long-gone previous photons - Yet even
under these conditions we get an interference pattern. 

6. When Heavyside first explained the Heavyside layer - his model was
quite crude - based on a system of cogwheels. This is the classic example
how a theory may give the right answers without being any explanation as to
what is going on. Hence we must separate your experimental findings from
your model. 

7. Could you (a) clarify exactly what facts you have discovered and
disclose your experimental findings for testing by other experimenters. 
(b) Explain your model in rigorous terms and clarify how you are using
present modern scientific terminology in an innovative sense - as some of your
statements taken at face value seem to be simply nonsense - which if you are
genuine implies a paradigm shift. 

8. Having said all this - I find your method of publishing problematic. 
I can fully appreciate your desire to protect your intellectual property rights
and your right as the discoverer of whatever you have discovered. However,
none of those would have been endangered by a cheap mass publication paperback
launched simultaneously with your expensive leather bound volume. Any
genuine discoverer would be anxious to get his ideas to the widest audience -
and so I will expect a cheap paperback edition to soon follow. 

9. I know how cheaply computer typeset monographs can now be printed by
short run publishers. So please do not send me details of an expensive
hard back or paper back version of your book with a high profit margin. 

10. If you want people like me to spend the time and effort to make the
paradigm shift needed to understand your work - before it is accepted by the
wider Scientific community - you must provide your book as a "at cost"
review copy. 

 Reply by Vincent Moloney, posted on 5th August 2003 

 My apologies for not getting back sooner. Science is very simple when
the clouds have cleared - hence my motto, 'keep science simple'. You are
correct, my book is deliberately expensive to establish copyright and ownership
of my interlaced discoveries. A paperback version will follow soon. 
My website is evolving in response to comments and a new sitemap page will
hopefully assist in understanding my main discovery. A team of experts,
with knowledge of atmospheric electricity, are more than welcome to test my work
both electronically and by observation - I will show them two every day events
(linked to acceleration) that will leave them speechless. Also, during one
experiment, I stumbled on to a vibrating magnet without direct electrical
contact - you feel the magnet vibrating on your hand. To the best of my
knowledge this is unknown in science and has a huge potential once developed. 

 My approach to The Royal Society for evaluation of my work has fallen on deaf
ears, so much for British science - I hope Tony Blair reads this. Do you
have any suggestions on forming a team? It will take a month, probably
two, to be sure of my lunar findings. Regards, and thank you very much for
your comments. 

 Vincent Moloney 

 Copyright 2003 belongs to John Vincent Moloney (DOB 16th
July 1940 Dublin, Eire). Author, discoverer, private scientific
researcher. All rights reserved.