Discoveries 

 The Discoveries 
 Discover the reasons why earth and some planets spin positively on their
axis.

 Discover how magnets create new north
and south poles when cut in half, and the reason why spinning magnets produce
electricity. There are two currents
in all magnets, including magnetic earth - find out what they are.

 The light particle, a long held mystery, is
accidentally discovered in the middle of the night. 
 Revealed - the main underlying force in 
magnetism and gravity proving they are one and the same. 

 Despite years of research the secret
of flight is still not fully understood. Discover what the scientists overlooked.

 Mirrors have been a mystery for 2500
years. Find out why they work and
discover the second link between mirrors, shop windows, water and light
reflections and why a mirror rejects your electric light shadow when you
stand in front of it.

 Thomas Edison invented the light bulb
in the 1880s and now 120 years later the mysterious link between electricity 
and light is finally solved.

 The moon and sun are important for all
life here on earth and this connection can be seen, even when we move. Discover
how we are all energetically linked to the sun, stars and the galaxies. In
addition it was this orbiting trio, coupled to electricity and light, that
created the oceans.

 Shadows are all around us even on the
dull days, during the night and when we are underground. They are constantly
lurking under cars and do not disappear when the vehicle passes under a bridge,
or parks in the shade. Even on the
dullest of dull days there is always a shadow beneath trees and shrubs. Grey
shadows grow darker when the sun comes out despite the extra light bouncing
about. Footballers have numerous shadows when in the centre of the pitch despite
the floodlights all around the stadium.

 All these scientific mysterious are
resolved in OUT OF THE SHADOWS.

 Copyright 2003 belongs to John Vincent Moloney (DOB 16th
July 1940 Dublin, Eire). Author, discoverer, private scientific
researcher. All rights reserved.