The Author 

 The Author

 Vincent Moloney was born in Dublin in July 1940. Son of
a pharmaceutical student and a farmer's daughter. They remained in Dublin
until 1949, surviving the bombing in May 1941. The family moved to
the country where his father, now qualified, managed a chemist shop. This
new environment not only improved Vincent's health but also began to awaken an
interest in nature.

 With only a basic education he enlisted in the British Army at
the age of 18 as a radio operator on tanks and was posted to Germany. 
During those army years Vincent's interest in nature and the surrounding environment
continued to grow. New fascinations were also noticed, especially
electro-magnetic induction and black body radiation, when the machine gun barrel
inside the tank turned white-hot casting shadows around the turret. 
 Reading scientific books as a form of relaxation his
independence of thought began harbouring new revolutionary ideas that went
against the mainstream; that life arrived on a meteorite. 
 Throughout the 1960s everything from Astronomy to Zoology was absorbed
and it soon began to register that electricity, despite some evidence to the
contrary, was one of the fundamental keys to all life. 
 Married, with a young family to support, he joined Lloyds Bank
in 1970 as a cashier and went back to (night) school to prepare for the banking
exams. Leaving the bank after 29 years he began to look around for
equipment to test out a theory, developed in the 1980s, concerning
electro-magnetic induction coming in from near space. 
 Retirement gave him
the opportunity to become a full-time author, discoverer, and private
researcher. 
 His theory was right, that the moon could some how produce
a current of electricity on the planet below when it passed through the earths magnetic field. The basis for this theory was a comprehensive
understanding of Michael Faradays magnetic induction discovered in 1831.
Vincent Moloney confirmed lunar induction by electronic detection in March 2000. 
 Over the coming months, whenever the moon was in
the correct position, the electric readings were entered in a log. 
 It soon became apparent that his initial theory of the moon producing the
electric currents for all life was wrong. The
moon had a far greater role to play; the linking of the earth electrically with
the sun and this was critical in the manufacture of water. 
 Research continued alone and then one night a mistake revealed a new
oscillating energy, from deep space, that had an irregular frequency. The readings from the two projects were combined and soon a
whole new horizon began to emerge. Revolutionary
new insights of the universe and how it holds together soon rewarded this
independent character and research. 
 He publishes his ideas here and in print form for the
advancement of humankind. 

 Vincent, pictured next to a statue of Sir Isaac Newton 
 Vincent Moloney is a member of the Royal Institution of Great
Britain, The British Association for the Advancement of Science and the Save
British Science Society. He has conducted all his own experiments, from
his home. Some of the equipment which has led to his discoveries and
theories is
pictured below. 

 Old Victorian and Edwardian measuring machines 

 A variety of modern instruments for measuring natural electricity 
 To find out how this equipment helped Vincent Moloney develop
his discoveries and theories, follow the links to the OUT OF THE SHADOWS book. 

 Copyright 2003 belongs to John Vincent Moloney (DOB 16th
July 1940 Dublin, Eire). Author, discoverer, private scientific
researcher. All rights reserved.