The Aquaman Website 

 This site is in NO WAY affliated with 
 DC Comics . This is a fan site. 
 Full Disclaimer 

 Quick Links... (Requires Javascript)
 --Full Index For This Website
 Reviews of Aquaman Appearances
 --Aquaman Previews
 --Aquaman Cover Gallery
 --Aquaman Sightings List
 --Aquaman Sales Chart
 --Detailed Sales Chart (text)
 The Aquaman FAQ
 Biography Index
 --Who's Who in Aquaman
 Aquaman in Other Media
 Links To Other Pages
 --DC Comics Official Site
 --Elseworlds Checklist
 Full Disclaimer

 Jump to Index (for people who hate Javascript) 

 AQUAMAN SALES ARE UP 

 Adjusted sales figures for May 2003 are up at Comic Book Resources. These are the new figures that include advance re-orders. This chart includes both Aquaman #4 and the Secret Files. A text version of all the sales charts for Aquaman is here .
 23 April 2003 

 PREVIEWS FOR AQUAMAN #8 ARE UP 

 Aquaman #8 is in the May/July Previews , and the cover is quite interesting. I'd rather not give spoilers for the story here on the main page, but it looks like a fun one.

 22 April 2003 

 AQUAMAN #5 IS OUT 

 Aquaman #5 hit comic book stores on April 9th, and features the first appearance of a new Aquaman villian.

 9 April 2003 

 NEW PREVIEW IMAGES FOR THE AQUAMAN GAME 

 Lucky Chicken Games has provided this website with nine new images of the upcoming Aquaman video game, including a couple of images that may come as a surprise to some fans.

 9 April 2003 

 HELP GET 
 THE ATLANTIS CHRONICLES 
 COLLECTED! 

 Hey you! Write to DC! 
 Support the New Aquaman Series 

 Aquaman #4 was shipped 12 Mar 2003
 Aquaman Secret Files 2003 was shipped 26 Mar 2003
 Aquaman #5 was shipped 9 Apr 2003

 Aquaman Sightings: 

 Bob Rozakis' column at Silver Bullet had an Aquaman theme, as researcher John Wells delved into the mysteries of Untold Aquaman Tales . To see the information on Shaun McLaughlin's run of Aquaman as mentioned in the article, Click Here .
 The Aquaman Chronicles is a fanzine published by John Schwirian. Issue #9, featuring all Elseworlds, is now available. Check it out!

 Aquaman Shipping List: 

 Aquaman #6 is due out 14 May 2003
 Aquaman #7 is due out 11 Jun 2003
 Super Friends Aquaman and Black Manta Action Figure Set is due out in 21 May 2003
 Aquaman #8 is due out 16 Jul 2003
 Super Friends Aquaman Maquette is due out 8 Oct 2003
 Justice League Aquaman Action Figure is due out 15 Oct 2003

 May Calendar - A list of events in May 2003
 Aquaman Previews - Updated Feb 2003 
 Shipping This Week - Diamond's Official List

 In Other News: 

 Haven't had time to write a proper review yet, but the new Secret Files is out, and the first story is probably the best thing that I, as a Vulko fan, have read in years. I consider this a must have.
 26 March 2003 

 If you missed the first issue of the current Aquaman series, you can now read it at DC Comics website . That's right, DC has released the first issue of Rick Veitch's Aquaman in PDF format on their website. The file is available at the Aquaman Mini-Site , just click on the link.
 24 March 2003 

 I wrote an essay called Why Aquaman? on my Blog . Feel free to check it out and learn why I'm such an Aquaman nut. -Laura 
 30 Nov 2002 

 AQUAMAN NEWS ARCHIVE 

 Other Projects: 

 New Aquaman writer Rick Veitch has his own website. Check out his booth at Comicon.com.
 If you feel like keeping up with former Aquaman writer Peter David, visit his website at http://www.peterdavid.net .
 Take a visit to Sunny Lee's main page and his comicbook art page . Sunny did the Aquaboy/Lagoon Man one-shot.
 Writer Ben Raab now has a website. Raab did the Aquaboy/Lagoon Man one shot.
 Former Aquaman inker Howard Shum is selling Aquaman pages from issues #3-30 of the Peter David run. Check out his page at http://www.howardshum.com/original.html or e-mail him at howard_shum@yahoo for prices and availablity.
 Former Aquaman inker and Eisner winner Eric Shanower has a book coming out from Image Comics. Age of Bronze is a fantastic retelling of the story of Troy. Ask your local shops to order it, or check out the Age of Bronze website . Also check out the Oz Story anthologies for more of Shanower's work .
 Nick Cardy Artwork is available at the Artist's Choice.
 Joe Rubinstein Artwork is available at the Artist's Choice. Rubinstein inked Aquaman in quite a few JLA issues.

 Aquaman Message Board 
 - A very nice fan run forum for Aquaman fans 
 Official DC Aquaman Message Board 
 - Let your opinion be counted by DC! 
 Aquaman Club at Yahoo 
 - Join the folks at Yahoo talking about your favorite superhero 
 Collector's Corner 
 - The spot for all that Aquaman merchandise that doesn't fit elsewhere 

 Suspended Due To Ballot Stuffing

 I have had this survey up for a few years now, and this is the first time I've had a serious problem with someone voting repeatedly. You see, the survey program I was using was an extremely simple one, designed to take votes through e-mail on a feedback form. Because it was so simple, it was possible to vote more than once in a day. Indeed, possible to vote more than once in an hour. Luckily, I can catch it if someone does that, because I have an archive of the votes through my e-mail program. Unfortunately, I have to reset the votes manually. And I hate doing it. But it had only happened once or twice in the entire time I had the poll up, so it wasn't that big a deal. Until now. Someone, the same person even, stuffed the ballot THREE times. Even after I reset it, this idiot didn't get a clue and stop stuffing the vote. Thus, until I find a polling program that checks for idiots trying to vote repeatedly and stops them without me having to reset the thing, this poll isn't going to be working. I don't care how much you hate the new costume, vote ONCE A DAY you brainless doofus!!! Ahem. Or maybe I'll just wait until I regain my patience...

 Adventure Comics #150 (March 1950)

 Talk about bad luck, Jerry Higgins wants to go to sea, but ends up in the crew of the horrible Captain Black Jack, Modern Pirate! Jerry's basically a good guy at heart, so Black Jack uses him as a hostage against Aquaman...

Here's what's available on this site:

 Main Page

 Current Aquaman News 
 Latest Aquaman Appearances 
 Recent Aquaman Sightings 
 Aquaman Shipping List 
 Other Aquaman News 
 Other Projects by Former Aquaman creators 
 Featured Links 
 Reader Survey 
 Feature Review 
 Memberships, Awards, and Rings 
 Completely Pointless Countdown Page 

 Reviews of Aquaman Appearances 

 Aquaman Previews 

 April 2003 Calendar 
 May 2003 Calendar 
 June 2003 Calendar 

 Aquaman Cover Gallery 
 Dave's Aquaman Rants 
 - Reviews of Aquaman 9-46, the annuals, and Tempest 
 Michael E. Grost's Critique Page 
 - featuring classic Golden and Silver Age Aquaman stories 
 John Wells' Untold Aquaman Tales Article 
 Aquaman Sightings List 
 Aquaman Sales Chart 
 Detailed Chart (text only) 
 Else-Aquamen 

 Biography Index 

 Who's Who in Aquaman 
 Aquaman Bio 
 Aqualad/Garth/Tempest Bio 
 Mera Bio 
 Tula Bio 
 Dolphin Bio 
 Ocean Master Bio 
 Black Manta Bio 
 Forgotten Aquaman Villains 

 Aquaman in Other Media 

 Collector's Corner 
 - The spot for all that Aquaman merchandise that doesn't fit elsewhere 
 Aquaman Action Figures 
 Aquaman Trading Cards 
 Aquaman in Popular Music 
 Aquaman: The Animated GIF Series 
 Overview of the Aquaman TV Show 
 Aquaman Games 

 Aquaman Discussion on the 'Net

 The Aquaman Mailing List Page 
 Aquaman Message Board 
 Aquaman Club at Yahoo 
 Official DC Aquaman Message Board 
 Titans Message Board 

 The Aquaman FAQ 
 - Version 3.0 - In Progress 

 Creative Team List (Pre 1986) 
 Creative Team List (1986-1993) 
 Creative Team List (1994-1998) 
 Creative Team List (1998-1999) 
 Creative Team List (2000-2001) 
 Creative Team List (2003) 
 Dan Jurgens Interview 

 Links into the Land of Comics.on.the.net 

 Elseworlds Checklist 
 - Checklist of DC's Elseworlds 
 Bloggity-Blog-Blog-Blog 
 - Laura's Blogging Page 
 The Opinion Page 
 - Laura rants on various topics! 
 Perpetual Calendar 
 - A useful little tool 

 For more links, see my Links Page . 

 My Wantlist 

 Awards: 

 Comics2000 Web Site of the Day Award for Feb 6, 1997
 Wraith Wreck-o-Mended
 Speed Force Headlines Comic Site of the Month for October 1997
 The Emerald Boxing Glove Arrow Award for the Month of January 1998
 Suite101.com Best of the Web Award for the Aquaman FAQ

 Webrings: 

 Next Site | 

 List Next 5 sites 

 Previous Site | 

 Random Site 
 List Sites 

 Join The DC Comics Ring! 

 This Asgard's Heroes 
 site is owned by Laura Gjovaag .

 Click here to join 
 Previous 
 | Previous 5 Sites 
 | Skip Previous 
 | Next 
 | Skip Next 
 | Next 5 Sites 
 | Random Site 
 | List Sites 

 This is an unofficial and unauthorized fan-created website.
 All characters, related names and indicia are trademarks of 
 DC Comics &copy; 2002
 This site is in NO WAY affiliated with DC Comics.
 Full Disclaimer 
 The text and layout of this site is &copy; 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 by Laura Gjovaag.
 This site is Javascript enhanced. This site is optimized for any browser, but the author prefers Mozilla . 

Bringing Aquaman to the Web since January 1996

 Be a hero. Donate Blood.

 A note on donating blood: I am scared of it. I faint. But I donate anyway. Every pint I give can save lives. It's the least I can do.
 I can't call fish to aid wounded mariners, I can't fly and rescue airplanes. But I can donate blood.