5.3 Function Philosophy 

 5.3 Function Philosophy 

 What makes a good
function?
The most important aspect of a good ``building block''
is that have a single, well-defined task to perform.

When you find that a program is hard to manage,
it's often because it has not been designed
and broken up into functions cleanly.
Two obvious reasons for moving code down into a function are
because:
 1.
It appeared in the main program several times,
such that by making it a function,
it can be written just once,
and the several places where it used to appear
can be
replaced with calls to the new function.
 2.
The main program was getting too big,
so it could be made (presumably) smaller and more manageable by
lopping part of it off and making it a function.
 These two reasons are important,
and they represent significant benefits of well-chosen functions,
but they are not sufficient to automatically identify
a good function.
As we've been suggesting,
a
good function has at least these two additional attributes:
 3.
It does just one well-defined task, and does it well.
 4.
Its interface to the rest of the program is clean and narrow.
 Attribute 3 is just a restatement of
two things
we said above.
Attribute 4 says that you shouldn't have to keep track of too many things
when calling a function.
If you know what a function is supposed to do,
and if its task is simple and well-defined,
there should be just a few pieces of information
you have to give it to act upon,
and one or just a few pieces of information
which
it returns to you when it's done.
If you find yourself having to pass lots and lots of
information to a function,
or remember details of its internal implementation to make sure
that it will work properly this time,
it's often a sign that the function is not sufficiently well-defined.
(A poorly-defined function
may be an arbitrary chunk of code that was ripped out of a
main program
that was getting too big,
such that it essentially has to have access to
all of that main function's local variables.)
 The whole point of breaking a program up into functions
is so that you don't have to think about the entire program at once;
ideally, you can think about just one function at a time.
We say that a good function is a ``black box,''
which is supposed to suggest
that the ``container'' it's in is
opaque--callers can't see inside it
(and the function inside
can't see out).
When you call a function,
you only have to know what it does,
not how it does it.
When you're writing a function,
you only have to know what it's supposed to do,
and you don't have to know why or under what circumstances
its caller will be calling it.
(When designing a function,
we should perhaps think about the callers just enough to
ensure that the function we're designing will be easy to call,
and that
we aren't accidentally setting things up
so that callers will have to think about any internal details.)
 Some functions may be hard to write
(if they have a hard job to do,
or if it's hard to make them do it truly well),
but that difficulty should be compartmentalized along with the
function itself.
Once you've written a ``hard'' function,
you should be able to sit back and relax
and watch it do that hard work on call from the rest of your program.
It should be pleasant to notice
(in the ideal case)
how much easier the rest of the program is to write,
now that the hard work can be deferred to this
workhorse

function.
 (In fact,
if a difficult-to-write function's interface is well-defined,
you may be able to get away with writing a quick-and-dirty
version of the function first,
so that you can begin testing the rest of the program,
and then go back later and rewrite the function to do the hard parts.
As long as the function's original interface anticipated the hard parts,
you won't have to rewrite the rest of the program when you fix the function.)
 What I've been trying to say in the preceding few paragraphs
is that functions are important
for
far
more important reasons
than just saving typing.
Sometimes,
we'll write a function which we only call once,
just because breaking it out into a function
makes things clearer and easier.
 If you find that difficulties pervade a program,
that the hard parts can't be buried inside black-box functions
and then forgotten about;
if you find that there are hard parts which involve complicated
interactions among multiple functions,
then the program probably needs redesigning.
 For the purposes of explanation,
we've been seeming to talk so far only about ``main programs''
and the functions they call and the rationale behind moving
some piece of code down out of a ``main program'' into a function.
But in reality,
there's obviously no need to restrict ourselves to a two-tier
scheme.
Any function we find ourself writing
will often be appropriately written
in terms of sub-functions, sub-sub-functions, etc.
(Furthermore,
the ``main program,'' main() ,
is itself just a function.)

Read sequentially:
 prev 
 next 
 up 
 top 

This page by Steve Summit 
// Copyright 1995, 1996
// mail feedback