Cute little Baby Alpaca 

 Baby Alpaca 

 This photograph was supplied by Pine Ridge
 Alpacas, their baby Alpaca is in a Kush position. When they are in a kush
 position...there legs fold under like a card table and they look like they are
 FLAT against the ground. In the Winter time when the weather is cold, this
 position keeps them warm. There is very little wool on the underside of Llamas
 or Alpacas, the long fiber from the back drapes down over them as if they were
 wrapped in a nice warm blanket, and hold the body heat in. Remember these
 animals originally lived in the Andies with snow and subzero temperatures. They
 are designed to handle the cold temperatures. In this country the bigger
 concern is not how to keep them warm in cold temperatures but how to keep them
 cool in warm temperatures. Heat stress is a real problem for these animals,
 many ranchers now shear them in the Spring to prevent heat stress related
 illness. 

 What are some of the differences in Alpacas and Llamas 

 ALPACA 
 LLAMA 

 Weight on the Average is 100-180 lbs. about 1/3 to 1/2
 the size of a llama 
 Weight of the average newborn is 15 - 19 pounds 
 The fiber, for clothing has been the traditional use of
 these 
 Do not require a lot of acerage, 5 to 8 animals per acre

 Alpacas have single births, twins are very unusual 
 They can start breeding as early as 12 months of age 

 Weight on the Average is 250-450 pounds, nearly twice the
 size of the Alpaca 
 Weight of the average newborn is 20 -35 pounds 
 Llamas were originaly used as packing animals 
 Because of the larger size, 4 to 5 animals per acre 
 Llamas also have single births, twins are very
 unusual 
 Usually a female isn't breed until the age of 2
 years 

 For more information on the Alpaca Industry in the United
 States feel free to contact: John Pinkowski,
 Pine Ridge
 Alpacas Or visit his Web Site,
 Alpacas 

 Back |
 Home | About Us | Cria to Teen | Llama FAQ's | Different kind of Ranch 

 PR Llamas | Snow in the Pasture | Reference
 Index | Link Index | E-mail 

 PNW Web Design Business
 Site 

 Web Pages & Graphics Created by:
 PNW Web Design For Web Page
 Development contact Sandy Stillwell 

 Copyright &copy; 1996-1999, by Sandy
 Stillwell. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or
 in part, in any form. This document can not be reproduced without the written
 consent of the owner.