Sandy & Jerry Stillwell 

 Tip: Llamas are like potato chips...you can't have
 just one! 

 We moved here after living the "city" life in California, to
 "country" life with acreage, 8 years ago. Never could we have imagined how much
 our life was about to change. Neither one of us had any experience with
 livestock, we spent the first year trying to figure out what we wanted. This is
 what we looked like as City dwellers before we became Llama addicts. This
 picture was taken on New Years Eve one year before we got our first llamas.

 When we first arrive our neighbor had 3 cows so the first year
 we left the adjoining pasture gates open and let the cows graze in both
 pastures. By the end of fall the cows were gone and replaced with 3 sheep and 1
 ram. Again they shared our pasture. When the sheep left we then decided to
 figure out what other kind of animal we could get that would graze and keep the
 pasture down. Between the two of us we have more than 10 acres of pasture. 

 We really didn't like having the cows here because they were so
 messy and it didn't smell very good when out walking around in the pasture. The
 sheep were awful, once the babies arrived they learned how to escape to my yard
 and eat my begonias. Worse yet, every time I wanted to go into the pasture the
 ram would chase me. 

 Llamas and: Dogs Goats Therapy Eating Trees Filming for TV Shearing Day
 Packing Guarding Sun Bath Water Body Language Obstacles
 Fun Photos Our
 Boys Playful In the
 house Cria to Adult Funny
 FAQ's About Us Our
 Ranch Links Email Home 

 I started reading the want adds and saw llamas
 advertised, and I was surprised to find that they were affordable. Because I
 had never been around llamas, I had thought because they were "exotic" animals
 they would be quite expensive. Being curious I called to get more information
 and the conversation ended with us being invited to visit the llama ranch. Ann
 was wonderful in telling us all about the Llamas and the advantages. Some of
 the positive advantages were: 

 Llamas
 had a soft pad on the bottom of their foot, not a hoof, so they were gentle on
 the ground 
 Llamas
 had a communal dung pile with very little odor, unlike other animals that go
 all over the pasture and smell terrible. 
 Llamas
 were cheaper to feed than my dog! 
 Llamas
 had such efficient digestive systems that no seeds were passed in the
 manure 
 Llamas
 are very clean and you have very little work to do cleaning barns because they
 seldom go in the barn. 
 Those
 were some of the practical reason that started us moving in the direction of
 becoming llama owners. 

 We purchased our first two Llama's in January of 1995,
 that was Paco and Pedro. They were both almost a year old and had never been
 handled. We didn't think to much about this at the time because we had no idea
 what the process was in getting a halter on them, worse yet we didn't know that
 we would ever need to put a halter on either of them. I realize that doesn't
 sound to bright, but you have to remember that we had no background with farm
 animals. 
 After the second month of following Paco and Pedro
 around the pasture, talking to them and offering them food, we still couldn't
 make any physical contact with them. Finally, in complete frustration I called
 a Llama person and asked for help. She came over expecting to see two wild
 llamas, but within minutes of her getting them in the barn she was touching
 them, as I stood there with my mouth open in total shock. 
 In May I spotted my third llama but first baby, Beau
 Bridges. It was love at first sight, and I knew that I had to have him. He came
 home with us in the beginning of July 1995, and was 4 months old. I didn't know
 until later, that it was very difficult for him to be weaned, removed from his
 home and carted off with strangers all in the same day. I would never do that
 again, but he adjusted and is just fine now. 
 By the end of 1995, we had 18 Llama's here. Three were
 ours and the rest belonged to a friend. We had 10 females from cria to older
 girls and 5 boys (plus our own 3). The purpose for this was to help us make a
 decision as to the direction we wanted to go with our herd. We thought maybe we
 wanted to bred but after spending the winter with this group we quickly decided
 we were to "old" to start having babies. We sent the 10 girls home and kept the
 5 boys for a few more months. Out of those 5 boys two more became ours. As of
 1998 and through 2001, we have a total of 7 males of which 2 are geldings and 5
 are intact. We made the decision that this is a comfortable number for us to
 handle and be able to enjoy and are happy with our decision. So, you see when
 they say that you can't buy just two llamas and stop, they are not
 kidding. 

 Dogs | Goats |
 Therapy | Eating Trees |
 Filming for TV | Shearing | Day Packing |
 Guarding | Sun Bath |
 Water | Body Language |
 Obstacles | Fun Photos Our Boys | Playful |
 In the house | Cria to Adult |
 Funny FAQ's About Us |
 Our Ranch | Links |
 Email | Home 

 Web Design By Sandy Stillwell, PNW Web Design