Charismatic Llamas Boys 

 Tip: When first exposing your llama to a pack on
 his back, add a small amount of weight ...using equal weight on both sides of
 the back. This will give the llama the feeling of something being on his back
 and as he becomes used to the feeling you can start adding additional
 weight. 

 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Our first two llamas were Paco & Pedro, this Pedro, he
 is now a 7 year old gelding and that look on his face expresses his ATTITUDE!
 He is not mean nor threatening to us but he is the only one that I can not
 halter. He was a year old when we first got him and was desentisized or trained
 in any way shape or form. He has been sick only once and that was one of the
 few times he willingly accepted human contact. He was so ill that he layed on
 the ground with his head in my lap. Once he recovered that was the end of
 that!!! 
 Pedro is also a strong communicator letting you know what he
 wants. When we have treats he will come running up to us like the rest of the
 boys but he will stop a few feet away and refuse anything you offer out of your
 hand. Instead he looks at you, looks at the treat in your hand and then points
 his nose towards the ground. You lay it on the ground and he immediately eats.

 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Paco is a few months younger than Pedro, he is
 also a gelding approaching 7 years old. This photo was taken when he was a
 teen. I was lucky with him and was able to teach him to accept a halter and to
 walk with a lead rope. He is not as friendly as my other 5 but so much easier
 than Pedro. Also Paco will eat pellets from my hand and Pedro never got that
 far. 

 Llamas and: Dogs Goats Therapy Eating Trees Filming for TV Shearing Day
 Packing Guarding Sun Bath Water Body Language Obstacles
 Fun Photos Our
 Boys Playful In the
 house Cria to Adult Funny
 FAQ's About Us Our
 Ranch Links Email Home 

 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Beau Bridges was my third addition, he was only four months
 old when he arrived at our farm. Because he was my first cria I always called
 him Baby...still do:^) Baby is now an intact male 6 years old. He is my wise
 old owl and nobody pushes him around. He is very calm and seldom fights but he
 makes his presence and wishes known to the other llamas. 
 When he first arrived it was Pedro that decided to
 become his serogate mother. Baby was the only llama that we got as a single
 llama, out of the other 6 boys all came with a buddy. I think it made their
 adjustment earsier having another llama that they already know.

 Also what was interesting about Pedro is that every
 llama that came after baby he wanted to beat the crap out of...go figure? 
 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Our 4th and 5th boys were Charlie (left) and Drake (right).
 They came together with two other little boys, all were about 6 months old.
 They original came from Aryel Llamas and I was supposed to train them so they
 could go to new homes. Charlie and Drake never left; they are 6 years old now.
 It was also great for baby because they were all in the same age group and he
 had other llamas his size to play with. 
 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Our last two are Sparky (left) and Andrew (right). Andrew
 was a gift from Aryel llamas. Their owner was out of town when Andrew was born,
 and I was watching the farm. Andrew is the first llama I had the pleasure to
 help deliver. I was a basket case but everything turned out ok. All the boys
 are wonderful and we decided that 7 was just the right size for us. 

 Dogs | Goats |
 Therapy | Eating Trees |
 Filming for TV | Shearing | Day Packing |
 Guarding | Sun Bath |
 Water | Body Language |
 Obstacles | Fun Photos Our Boys | Playful |
 In the house | Cria to Adult |
 Funny FAQ's About Us |
 Our Ranch | Links |
 Email | Home 

 Web Design By Sandy Stillwell, PNW Web Design