Charismatic Llamas - The online source for discovering the joy of
 llamas. 

 I am glad you have found our web site and have
 stopped by, and yes that is a Llama, Charlie, in my house along with his
 friends Max & Jake. This might give you a little idea about what you will
 find on my pages. You will not find any Llamas that are for sale or service,
 what you will find are some personal experiences, humor, photographs of llamas
 doing interesting things, over 100 other Llama and Alpaca sites, products and
 other sites related to Llamas. I hope you find this to be a friendly site,
 learn new things about llamas, and enjoy your experience with us. 

 8/14/2000 News
 Flash: Charlie in "Llama Loves" airs for the 2nd
 time on September 1, 4PM EST, on the Animal Planet Channel. The new
 television program is called "Pet Story". You can also visit Charlie's web site
 for more information. http://www.CharlieTheLlama.com

 Stop in and be charmed by a Llama or
 two... 

 Learning How To Day Pack 
 Llamas Take A Sun
 Bath Llama
 Power Trips Obstacle Training Funny Llama Photos 
 Our Boys 
 Llamas and Dogs 
 Playful Yearling
 Boys Llamas In
 The House Llama From Cria to Adult 
 Funny Llama FAQ 

 A Little About Us 
 Jerry
 Sandy A Different Kind of Ranch 
 Contact
 Us 

 Oh dear - no
 Java!!!! 

 The
 LlamaCrossing Award Page Llost Llama Lloves WA Storm of Dec. 1996 
 PNW Web Design 

 Ranches & Llama
 Related Links to Other Animal
 Sites Llama Reference Index 
 WA Llamas and Seattle
 Sites Fun
 Web Sites 
 Women on the WWW Web Sites by HoTMetaL Pro users 
 Web Site Development
 Links 

 Thank you for stopping by our web site, I hope you enjoyed your
 time looking around. Maybe you learned something new or just laughed a little.
 Our pages will be constantly changing like now with a completely new design in
 progress so, please stop by often to see what is new. If you would like to be
 informed when changes are made, send me e-mail and I will gladly add your name
 to my growing list. wallama@eskimo.com Drop us a
 note... 

 You are person number
 to have
 visited my page. Thank you for stopping by. 

 The SAFE Rated Search
 System 

 Welcome to the Rail, you are
 on the Animal Car,
 jump aboard the train to visit other sites.

 Last Updated: 08/14/2000 
 Web Pages & Graphics
 by: PNW Web Design 

 Copyright &copy; 1996-2000 by
 Sandy Stillwell. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in
 whole or in part, in any form. This document can not be reproduced without the
 written consent of the owner.