Having fun packing with Llamas 

 Backpacking with Llamas 

 By Jen Barker 

 I often find myself embarrassed to tell people what is
 living in my backyard. Being a 17 year old girl I dread that someone will think
 that my families weird and different. When I do tell people my age that my
 family raises llamas, I am many times mocked and become the brunt of all jokes
 for weeks to come. But deep down I know how lucky and special I am to have such
 wonderful, majestic creatures living with me. Having them has enabled me to
 view the most beautiful things I have ever seen. They have provoked my most
 exciting adventures and created some of my most wonderful memories.

 Almost every summer my family of 5 load up our light blue
 horse trailer with 6 willing llamas and head out to the wilderness to spend a
 glorious, relaxing vacation away from the everyday stress and commotion our
 lives. Quite a few years ago my mother came to the brilliant solution that if
 we took llamas on our wilderness adventures than we would not have to carry
 anything and could hike for a more extended period of time, and as my parents
 got older and more brittle and we the children became older and a lot lazier
 our llamas became a great incentive to keep returning to nature. 

 Llamas are a member of the camelide family. They originate
 form South America in such countries as Peru and Chile. They play a vital role
 in the South American culture ,providing food, wool for clothing, and a means
 of moving goods for the people. This is where the idea of backpacking with
 llamas came from. Llamas are good to backpack with because they are able to
 hike for long periods of time and don't require a large amount of food. On our
 trips we bring along small portions of alfalfa and Bermuda grass for the llamas
 to eat when we come across places where grazing is not allowed or not
 sufficient . 

 My most vivid and exciting memory from backpacking with
 llamas comes from when I was about 13 and we decided to climb New Army Pass. We
 were traveling through the West side of the Sierras and had been out for 4 days
 ,fatigue was beginning to set in and the dramatic change of altitude was not
 quite agreeing with my sensitive stomach. We woke that morning not really
 knowing the great task that was lying ahead of us. We carried out of normal
 morning routine of eating a mediocre breakfast and packing up camp. As usual I
 convinced my sister to stuff my sleeping bag( a frustrating task I have yet to
 finish) and I in turn cleaned her plates and silver wear. While my mother and
 father readied the llamas, my brother, sister and I explored the surrounding
 rocks and crevices, constantly stopping to simply absorb the beauty and
 pureness that surrounded us. 

 Back at camp my parents began to equip the llamas with
 packs and saddles that my mother specifically designed for people who want to
 backpack with their llamas. She calls them Llama Luggage and has made quite a
 successful business selling them. Depending on their size and strength each
 llamas carries from 50 to 100 pounds. The packs were customer designed to fit a
 llamas unique body shape and are quite comfortable for the llamas to wear. As
 soon as we had all 6 llamas, (Henry, Johnny, Timber Willy, Picacho, and Rocky)
 all ready to go we headed out to what turned out to be our most challenging and
 rewarding day together. 

 Through most of our journeys I and my llama, Timber, have
 been the leaders. This is due to the fact that I walk faster than anyone else
 in the family and that Timber has something against walking behind the others
 llamas (perhaps having something to do with his ego or sense of leadership that
 Timber loves to have). Each llama has a different personality and preference
 when it comes to backpacking, trying to comply to all of these is often our
 most difficult tasks. Conflicts between the llamas was not unusual ,but could
 be avoided with some strategic placing of order by my parents and myself. This
 particular day Timber and I had set quite a fast pace for ourselves and ended
 up about a half mile ahead of everyone else. As I rounded the final switch back
 I saw something that filled my little body with such intimidation and
 excitement I began to shake. It was called New Army Pass. This was a 13,000
 foot pass that, from where I was standing went straight up a rock. I couldn't
 in my wildest imagination think of how I was supposed to hike up this,
 especially since I had a llama with me. 

 After a 3 hour trek up this gigantic barren mountain we,
 and the llamas made it to the top. There we were able to enjoy the breath
 taking views of the surrounding mountains and joke about the incredible
 obstacle we had just over come. Backpacking with the llamas has taught me a
 great deal. I have learned to better understand the importance of teamwork and
 how to be patient and compassionate towards another species. It is true that
 people make fun of the creatures I share my home with, and yes, I am often
 embarrassed because of them ,but my llamas have given so much .I now know what
 extra ordinary things can be found in nature, and I know why its so important
 to keep them there. I respect what the earth has to offer and I can hopefully
 share that with others. I hope everyone has a chance to see all that I have,
 with or without a llama. 

 I'm Sure Jen would enjoy hearing your questions or comments on
 her article, You can drop her a note at this address:
 ECllamas@aol.com 

 Back |
 Home | What do Llamas Do | Cria to Teen | Llama FAQ's | Different kind of
 Ranch | 

 PR Llamas | Snow in the Pasture | Link Index | E-mail 

 PNW Web Design Business
 Site 

 Web Pages & Graphics Created by:
 PNW Web Design For Web Page
 Development contact Sandy Stillwell 

 Copyright &copy; 1996, 1997, 1998, by Sandy
 Stillwell. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or
 in part, in any form. This document can not be reproduced without the written
 consent of the owner.