My Charming Husband, and how he changed. 

 As I saw him when we were first married 

 This is how Jerry looked when we got married 4 years
ago. He was so charming and good looking he just swept me off my feet. Everyday
he got up, put on his suit and tie and was off to the office. Love a man in a
suit... 

 Senator or Maybe Governor?? 

 Can't you just see him running for a political office, or maybe a
Senator in a TV series? Maybe even a preacher ? 

 Jerry the California Party Animal 

 This was Jerry's retirement lunch/party, and I hired the belly
dancer. He was so embarrassed but enjoyed every moment. This was 4 days and 2
more parties before we left CA to start our new life in WA. Never at that time
did we think our lives would change so much, we didn't even know what a Llama
was. 

 Honey is Lunch Ready? 

 Well, so much for the suit and tie. Besides he has out grown his
suit and now wears suspenders. This was when he was still shy and wore them
under his shirt. Now he wears them over his shirt. No more polished shoes,
rubber knee boots replaced them. 

 Stranger in the Night? 

 NEWS FLASH!!!! "Earth's gravity has
suddenly increased! Hundreds of people have called to report being stuck to the
floor! We'll have exclusive film at eleven." Well,
it was a long day...Jerry and Jake are just worn out from building fences,
planting the garden, raking up the poop pile, chopping wood...oh, and then
there was the trip to the feed store to pick up more Hay. I guess we are really
married now and have both been making our subtitle changes. Isn't life
grand. 

 Back | Home | What do Llamas Do | Cria to Teen | Llama FAQ's | Different kind of Ranch | 

 PR Llamas | Snow
in the Pasture | Reference Index | Link Index | E-mail 

 PNW Web
Design Business Site 

 Web Pages Created by: PNW Web Design

 For Web Page Development contact
 Sandy Stillwell 

 Copyright &copy; 1996-1999 by Sandy Stillwell. All
rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or in part, in
any form. This document can not be reproduced without the written consent of
the owner.