A Baby llama is called a Cria 

 Tip: Don't ever look a baby cria in the face
 unless you want to fall in love! The moment I saw the above baby at 3 months
 old, I was a gonner:^) 

 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Beau was my first Cria, my other two were almost a year old
 when we got them. I took one look at his face and just knew I couldn't live
 with out him. This is how the addiction begins. This page is being written for
 those of you that haven't seen baby cria's and don't know what they look like
 as they mature. 

 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Beau at 7 Months, now with ears. This is Beau with a
 friends daughter, we tried to expose him to different people and allow them to
 take him for short walks. He was easy to train and well behaved. Notice that he
 now has ears, in the first picture he was holding his ears back...but he really
 was born with them, they don't just suddenly appear. 
 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Beau at 14 months. I felt like Beau was in jail, this
 was his first & last adventure of going to a show. I was the one that was
 tramatized, he seemed to do just fine. I didn't realize when I signed up to
 show him that he had to SPEND THE NIGHT THERE!!! I was back there at 5:30 AM to
 rescue him and to my amazement no one else was at the fair grounds except for
 the security people. All the lights in the llama barn were off, not a sound
 inside and all the llama's sleeping. I didn't know what to do because I didn't
 want to wake up all the llamas and I couldn't sneak in to get just mine. 

 Llamas and: Dogs Goats Therapy Eating Trees Filming for TV Shearing Day
 Packing Guarding Sun Bath Water Body Language Obstacles
 Fun Photos Our
 Boys Playful In the
 house Cria to Adult Funny
 FAQ's About Us Our
 Ranch Links Email Home 

 I waited until another llama owner showed up around 7:00
 and then there were two of us. He went in the barn and I was able to go rescue
 my boy. Had a nice long talk and I kept apologizing for sticking him in this
 mess. Many people love doing shows, guess I am not cut out for this. 
 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Beau at 18 months - Charlie is the llama
 with the white chest facing you, Beau has the fanny shot with his head turned
 around looking back at me. At this point I was starting to see some real
 change. Today his fanny shot would take up much more of the screen.

 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Beau at 2 years - At two Beau is becoming my
 young adult male. He has such a gentle nature and always reminds me of a wise
 old owl. There is still another one to two years of growth for him. This photo
 was taken just a month short of being two. It's funny though, when I look at
 him now I still see MY Baby. 
 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Beau at 3 1/2 years - At this point he
 should be pretty much full grown, but he still could grow a bit over the next
 few months. He is still an intact male but has never (like all the other boys)
 been used at stud. I love his disposition and didn't want to mess up his life
 with women:^)) He does however have a very studly presence. 
 That little bitty baby sure turned into one big boy.
 Funny though because even when I look at him now I still see my baby, guess I
 always will. His wonderful mellow disposition has never changed but he is very
 dominate in the herd. 

 Dogs | Goats |
 Therapy | Eating Trees |
 Filming for TV | Shearing | Day Packing |
 Guarding | Sun Bath |
 Water | Body Language |
 Obstacles | Fun Photos Our Boys | Playful |
 In the house | Cria to Adult |
 Funny FAQ's About Us |
 Our Ranch | Links |
 Email | Home 

 Web Design By Sandy Stillwell, PNW Web Design