Obstacles when packing 

 Tip: When first exposing your llama to a pack on
 his back, add a small amount of weight ...using equal weight on both sides of
 the back. This will give the llama the feeling of something being on his back
 and as he becomes used to the feeling you can start adding additional
 weight. 

 (Click on Photo to enlarge) 
 People that pack with their llamas must
 spend a great deal of time preparing them for what they may encounter once out
 on the terrain. Llama's need to be able to step over unfamiliar obstacles like
 logs, branches, rocks. They may also need to cross a stream, and if they have
 never been around running water they may be hesitant to walk across the stream.
 Notice in the above pictures that two of my llamas are resting on our bridge in
 the middle of the stream, there was a time I couldn't even get them to walk
 across the bridge let alone kush on it. 
 (Click on Photo to enlarge) When we only had our original three llamas here none of
 them would walk in the stream let along cross the bridge. We brought another 4
 new young males into their pasture, and with a little bribery, we were able to
 get two of them over the bridge. The other two remaining on the other side of
 the stream went wild running back and forth on the bank trying to figure out
 what to do. Lots of crying and anxiety from the two left behind, but the two
 that had crossed were already exploring their new territory. It was pretty
 funny to watch because out of sheer desperation the other two took off running
 towards the bridge at top speed. I swear at the last minute before hitting the
 bridge, those boys closed their eyes and just went for it!!! Their first time
 coming back over the bridge they were a little unsure, but after that it was
 old hat. 

 Llamas and: Dogs Goats Therapy Eating Trees Filming for TV Shearing Day
 Packing Guarding Sun Bath Water Body Language Obstacles
 Fun Photos Our
 Boys Playful In the
 house Cria to Adult Funny
 FAQ's About Us Our
 Ranch Links Email Home 

 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Because we have so many natural
 obstacles on our property our llamas learn a lot of these things on their own
 or from each other. Many people have to take their llamas off their property to
 find places where they can find obstacles to practice. We also have a large
 Cedar grove where our llamas like to go at night, there are lots of old stumps,
 big roots above ground, branches. Another portion of our property has steep
 hills and small rock borders to jump over. 

 Dogs | Goats |
 Therapy | Eating Trees |
 Filming for TV | Shearing | Day Packing |
 Guarding | Sun Bath |
 Water | Body Language |
 Obstacles | Fun Photos Our Boys | Playful |
 In the house | Cria to Adult |
 Funny FAQ's About Us |
 Our Ranch | Links |
 Email | Home 

 Web Design By Sandy Stillwell, PNW Web Design