OnLine Llama/Alpaca Information 

 ONLINE LLAMA/ALPACA INFORMATION 

 The Alpaca Chronicles A weekly update of
Internet information that will introduce you to information about alpaca
ownership on a small ranch. For a Free Subscription to the Alpaca Chronicles go
to: http://www.alpacanet.com/request1.html
 OR snd e-mail to : mcintosh@alpacanet.com 
to be added to the list. Owner: Sharon Mcintosh 
 mcintosh@alpacanet.com 
 http://www.alpacanet.com Teaching the
global community about the wonders of alpacas Use this information at your own
risk. For more information and disclaimer send E-mail to
 LISTSERV@LISTSERV.NODAK.EDU 
with the command INFO NEW-LIST in the body. 

 The Alpaca Discussion List. This list is for
alpaca owners and those interested in alpaca information. The mailing
list moderated and supported by John L. Pinkowski, of Pine Ridge Alpacas, 
 jlpinkowski@earthlink.net ;
subscribe by sending a request to: 
 majordomo@ultimate.org with the
following in the body of the message: " subscribe
alpaca@ultimate.org (your mailing address here)" The moderator
will process all requests, since this is a private mailing list. It is
requested that you fill out a questionnaire, after which your subscription
application will be processed. 

 AlpacaNet . http://www.alpacanet.com/ 
 This Web site includes files about alpacas, their fiber, investment potential,
directories of products and ranches, etc. 

 ALSA Web Page. http://www.llama.org/alsa This site
includes information about upcoming Alpaca & Llama Show Association
sanctioned shows, how to have a show sanctioned, a list of ALSA Regional
Championship shows, list of award winning llamas, a history of ALSA, a schedule
of judging clinics and an ALSA membership application form. 

 Camelid Listserv . This forum provides general
discussion of all aspects of lama ownership. To subscribe to the
Listserv, send mail to LISTSERV@HOME.EASE.LSOFT.COM 
(no subject line). In the body of the message, type: SUB CAMELID 
your real name (example: SUB CAMELID John Doe) We are running in a
basic modE , with a few minor enhancements. All mail addressed to the
LIST should be sent to:
 CAMELID@HOME.EASE.LSOFT.COM 
 (caps not necessary) Mail messages are limited to 500 lines. There are a
couple of generic help files available. Send an email message to 
 listserv@home.ease.lsoft.com 
with the following commands in the body of the message: INFO GENINTRO 
 (general information about the listserv) INFO REFCARD to get these files
mailed back to you. The annual subscription price is $3.50. Please mail to: 
Lledge Rock Llamas, Mail list, 4946 Consaul Road, Amsterdam NY 12010. 
This list is administered by Jay S. Curtis ( JSCurtis@curtislumber.com ). 

 LlamaLedge 
 http://members.aol.com/LamaLedge1/LLF1/llf.999.html
 Sharon DaDalt, owner of Llama L'edge Farm in Auburn, NH has established
this Web site that has a unique Medical Index of citations to articles from
popular lama publications such as Llamas Magazine, Llama Banner, Llama Life,
the GALA Newsletter, etc. Over 100 topics of interest on lama health and
medicine, as well as herd management, are included. These journals are not
indexed by any other database. This site is updated regularly. 

 LlamaWeb . http://www.llamaweb.com/
 This Web site contains many llama information files (llama related
services, books in print, veterinary bibliography, events and conferences,
etc.) ads for llama farms with color photos, and links to related Web sites. 

 The Camelid Connection. Knute Johnson, P.O.
Box 1432, Lebec, CA 93243. Dial 805-248-2419 (no connect fees or special
software required). Settings: Up to 14.4 baud, 8 bits, no parity, ANSI protocol.
 This is a bulletin board system designed to serve the needs and interests of 
alpaca and llama owners, breeders, and enthusiasts. The Camelid Connection
topics covered include Personal E-Mail, General Public Messages, Care
and Feeding, New Owners Corner, In My Opinion, Fiber and Commercial
Advertisements (sales lists and photos, etc.). 

 ILA 2755 S Locust St., Suite 114; Denver, CO
80222 E- mail intillama@aol.com You do
not need to be a member of ILA to purchase educational prochurees. A copy of
the ILA LLama Catalogue is free (1st copy) and the brochures are $.50 each -
there are 9 currently available with the one on Heat Stress Prevention due out
soon 

 LANA 1800 S. Obenchain Rd. Eagle Point, Or
97524-9437 541-830-5262 E-mail llamainfo@aol.com

 BACK 
 HOME 
 E-MAIL 

 Last Updated: 9/07/97 

 Web Pages Created by: PNW Web Design 

 For Web Page Development contact 
 Sandy Stillwell 

 Copyright &copy; 1996, 1997 by Rosana Hart ,
Karen Conyngham and ILA. All rights reserved, including the right of
reproduction in whole or in part in any form. This document can not be
reproduced without the written consent of the owner.