Having fun packing with Llamas 

 Jerry is just learning about packing, this was Charlies first try
at wearing a day pack. This isn't going to be a pack llama that treks out into
the wilderness, but one that goes on short day walks along a stream or park. All
he will ever pack will be maybe lunch, bottle of wine, and a few odds and ends.
We decided that we just didn't have the spunk to go climbing mountains, but it
would be fun to get together with a few of our friends they like to do day
packing. We have not yet gone on our first pack but will let you know how it
goes when we do (two years later we haven't gone off our own property yet) but
don't hold your breath. 
 Traditionally only the males
are used for packing, the females are usually home having babies. Not all males
are suitable for packing and many breeders are not that knowledgable about what
it takes to be a pack llama. It's very important when looking for your first
pack animal to try and find a breeder that has experience in packing. There are
a lot of references available to help you find the right person that will guide
you in your new adventure. Below, you will find some points to consider in a
pack llama. If you are looking for a pack llama drop me a note, tell me your
location and I will try to refer you to somebody close by. 

 Some Points to Consider for a Pack Llama 
 Age, If you want to start packing right away you need to find a
llama no younger than two years old. Llamas are not considered to be mature
until after 4 years old. A younger llama can have physical damage done to him if
you start packing when he is to young. 
 Physical Appearance, You need to look for things like strong legs,
flat back, heavy bones but not fat. Think of it in terms as to the human
companion you would want as a hiking partner. Would you want somebody that was
physically fit, or an over weight heavy smoker? 
 Personality, Llamas like people, come with a variety of
personalities and "attitudes". You want a llama that is well trained
wearing a halter and walking with lead rope. Will he walk willingly with your or
do you have to drag him...does he have a personality like a mule and will only
move when he darn well feels like it? Is he timid? You want a llama that isn't
going to panic if you want to cross a stream or bridge. You encounter a lot of
obstacles and they must be trusting to handle new situations 
 Type of Wool, Llamas come in short, medium and long wool. Depending
on the climate, terrain, etc. the type of wool is important. Long wool can get
tangled in bushes, and accumulate debris which will require more grooming. You
have to make sure the wool is fairly clean before placing a packing saddle on
his back. I'm sure you wouldn't want to wear a sweater full of burrs. 
 Learn, read, talk and don't rush into a purchase. Don't talk to
just one person, there are some people out there with real ODD opinions. Until
you have talked to several people you will have nothing to judge what is the
norm. 

 Now here is a real pack llama, Sandy with her owner
Lance. This photo was taken this past summer (98) when I had the pleasure of
going on a real llama trek for a wonderful gormet lunch in the Smoky mountains
of North Carolina. To learn more about llama treking visit Alvin & Lance at
 East Fork Llamas .
I can't begin to tell you how beautiful it was there and what great company
Alvin & Lance plus the llamas were for my family. The lunch was truly a
gourmet treat for us humans. 

 Home |
 About Us | Cria To Teen |
 Funny Llama FAQ | Different
Kind Of Ranch Llamas In The House |
 Snow In The Pasture | Llamas
Take A Sun bath | Llama Power Trips Obstacle Training |
 Playful Yearling Boys |
 Llamas and Dogs | Our
Boys Learning How To Day pack |
 Obstacle Training |
 Funny Llama Photos |
 E-mail 
 PNW
Web Design Business Site Copyright &copy; 1996, 1997, 1998, by Sandy
Stillwell. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or
in part, in any form. This document can not be reproduced without the written
consent of the owner.