Index of links to interesting Web Sites 

 Fun and Educational Llama Photos 

 Here you will find a collection of pictures
 that show certain behaviors of our Llama's. Some are fun but also educational.
 I will be adding pictures and removing others on an ongoing basis. This is my
 starting point with these few pictures. I hope you enjoy them. 

 Learning how to day
 pack 
 Jerry's experience with day packing, and
 some tips on what to look for in a pack llama 

 A new kind of Sun
 bather 
 Some llamas actually like to sunbathe, this is a
 picture of Pedro laying on his back in the sun. 

 Playful yearling
 boys 
 When Llamas become yearlings and their hormones start
 to rage, they play games for dominance. 

 Power trips 
 Llamas have a pecking order, they have behavior
 traits and strong body language to convey their position in the
 herd. 

 Obstacle
 Training 
 If you are going to do PR with your llama or packing,
 they need how to walk over all types of obstacles. 

 Baby Alpaca 
 Some information about Alpacas and the difference
 between the two 

 Llamas and Dogs 
 What we have observed in how our dogs and llamas
 relate to each other, and how to prevent potential problems. 

 I will be adding more photo's and extending
 the information on each page, as time permits. If there is a topic you would
 like to see displayed here in a visual format, drop me a note. 

 Home |
 About Us | Cria To Teen |
 Funny Llama FAQ | Different Kind Of Ranch Llamas In The House | Snow In The Pasture | Llamas
 Take A Sun bath | Llama Power
 Trips Obstacle
 Training | Playful Yearling
 Boys | Llamas and Dogs |
 Our Boys Learning How
 To Day pack | Obstacle
 Training | Funny Llama Photos |
 E-mail 

 PNW Web Design Business
 Site 

 Web Pages Created by: PNW Web Design
 For Web Page Development contact
 Sandy Stillwell 

 Copyright &copy; 1996-2000, by Sandy
 Stillwell. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or
 in part, in any form. This document can not be reproduced without the written
 consent of the owner.