Power Trips 

 Pedro, the dark male in the kush position (that is their lying
down position with all four legs folded under, like a card table) in the center
of the picture, is our oldest gelding, almost 5. Drake is trying to approach
Pedro, and Pedro is letting him know to get away. Notice that Pedro has his ears
back, head elevated and turned to an angle...that means "If
you come any closer I am going to Spit on you!" Drake has his neck
lowered, his tail raised over his back, and is looking away...his body language
means "ok, ok, please don't spit on me, it's
humiliating and smells bad". 

 There are several people walking towards
the fence and these boys know they are about to get a treat. They are prepairing
to try to intimidate each other to see who gets the food first. Notice how they
all have their ears back. As they become more threatening to each other they
will raise their nose in the air and treaten to spit. It the threat doesn't get
them the position they want then they are very likely to spit at the other
llama. Charlie is about two in this picture and believe me he will be the "first"
to get his treat!!! 

 These boys are alert and curious...notice
the ears straigh up, tail down and necks tall. They are standing in a pathway
that runs along the side of our house and between the two pastures. They can see
Jerry through the dinning room window and curious about what he is doing. It
isn't uncommon for all of them to come stand in this area to look for us
especially if they want some food. Talk about making you feel guilty!!! 

 Home |
 About Us | Cria To Teen |
 Funny Llama FAQ | Different
Kind Of Ranch Llamas In The House |
 Snow In The Pasture | Llamas
Take A Sun bath | Llama Power Trips Obstacle Training |
 Playful Yearling Boys |
 Llamas and Dogs | Our
Boys Learning How To Day pack |
 Obstacle Training |
 Funny Llama Photos |
 E-mail 

 Web Pages & Graphics by:
 PNW Web Design 
 Copyright &copy; 1996, 1997, 1998, by Sandy
Stillwell. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or
in part, in any form. This document can not be reproduced without the written
consent of the owner.