Having fun packing with Llamas 

 Charlie 

 Not all llamas are cut out for PR work,
 Charlie has a very calm and curious disposition. He likes new people, new
 places and new experiences. We have been working with him the last year, and he
 has only had one real outting as a PR llama. We hope by this summer he will be
 able to start visiting some Rest Homes and some community events.

 Our approach was having Charlie first become comfortable
 inside our own home. That meant being able to walk on cement, climb stairs,
 walk on linoleum, carpet or wooden floors. Next we started walking down narrow
 halls, around corners, through different doorways. Even visited the bathroom
 where he had to learn how to back out with out feeling any panic. In addition
 he has been exposed to many friends inside our house, which has helped him feel
 comfortable with different situations. Charlie is now so comfortable with being
 in any part of the house that if he finds a door accidently left open...he just
 walks right in and snoops around. 

 Fred is our Brother-In-Law who has gone through an
 amputation of one leg this past year. This was the first time Fred had been to
 our house since he had started using his wheel chair. As you can see , Charlie
 doesn't seem to be the least bit concerned about the wheel chair. He is happily
 eating grain out of Freds hand, and Fred is delighted to have Charlie be so
 accepting of his new disability. 

 This was the first time these children had seen a
 llama, as you can see Charlie is very clam and giving the little boy a sniff on
 the cheek. For what ever reason, he seems to love doing this with anybody that
 is new. The kids were delighted and enjoyed it even more because Charlie was in
 the house. Lots of pictures were taken and they could hardly wait to share
 their experience at school. 

 This is a delightful friend of Jerry's who had also
 never seen a llama. As you can see he needs a cane for support, and is still a
 little shaky. He had no fear of holding Charlies lead rope because of the
 calmness he felt from Charlie. He looks forward to returning often to visit us
 and Charlie. He is retired and pretty much alone in this community, with family
 and friends being far away. Charlie made him feel very happy and gave him
 something new to look forward to. 

 Home | What do Llamas Do |
 About Us | Cria to Teen | Llama FAQ's | Different kind of
 Ranch 

 PR Llamas | Snow in the Pasture | Reference
 Index | Link Index | E-mail 

 PNW Web Design Business
 Site 

 Web Pages & Graphics Created by: PNW
 Web Design For Web Page Development
 contact Sandy Stillwell 

 Copyright &copy; 1996, 1997, 1998, by Sandy
 Stillwell. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or
 in part, in any form. This document can not be reproduced without the written
 consent of the owner.