Having fun packing with Llamas 

 Books, Videotapes, Magazines & Online Resources about Llamas
 and Alpacas 

 This information is provided by
 Karen Conyngham who maintains
 the Recource List for the ILA Publications Committee 

 Because the North American llama and alpaca
 industry is relatively new, there is still much to learn. Many people have
 shared their ideas and observations, often through self-publishing. Bear in
 mind that some of the information in the publications listed below may have
 already become outdated, and that some things presented as fact may be
 vigorously disputed by other llama fanciers. Inclusion in this list is not an
 endorsement, nor is exclusion a critique. This list may not be complete or
 completely up to date. To find out about new publications, watch for ads
 (particularly classifieds) and reviews in the magazines. Publications for
 children, humor books, software, and out-of-print items are not included, for
 reasons of space. Phone numbers are included when the vendors are known to
 accept phone orders, usually with a credit card. Please add sales tax if you
 order within the state where you live. Prices for orders from outside North
 America may be higher. 

 About the Compilers 

 Rosana Hart is a former reference librarian, the author of
 "Living with Llamas" and "Llamas for Love and Money, and co-owner of Juniper
 Ridge Press, which publishes books and videotapes about llamas. 

 Karen Conyngham is a corporate librarian and llama
 owner. 

 Books and
 Booklets Videotapes Magazines & Newsletters OnLine Llama/Alpaca Info. 

 Home | About Us |
 Cria To Teen | Funny Llama FAQ
 | Different Kind Of
 Ranch Llamas In
 The House | Snow In The Pasture |
 Llamas Take A Sun bath |
 Llama Power Trips Obstacle Training | Playful Yearling Boys | Llamas and Dogs | Our
 Boys Learning How To Day pack 
 | Obstacle Training |
 Funny Llama Photos |
 E-mail 

 PNW Web Design Business
 Site 

 Web Pages & Graphics Created by:
 PNW Web Design For Web Page
 Development contact Sandy Stillwell 

 Copyright &copy; 1996-2000, by Sandy
 Stillwell. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or
 in part, in any form. This document can not be reproduced without the written
 consent of the owner.