Our Ranch, Our Home 

 Tip: Llamas are very peaceful creatures and can
 add so much tranquility to your life. 

 Our home offers us the best of both worlds, we are only 25
 minutes outside of Seattle and nestled into a little valley that is like
 another world. Our ranch is about loving our dogs and llamas, being happy and
 feeling peace. We have enough llamas to enjoy them as pets yet without the work
 involved in having a large herd. Work is fun and healthy, making our life very
 comfortable to not only ourselves but to our many visitors. 
 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Between our house and street we have a
 large Cedar grove, this area makes for excellent protection on rainy days. At
 the end of each day the llamas return to this area to spend the night. You can
 depend on seeing them all moving towards the grove where they enjoy spending
 the early evening watching passing traffic. Many people stop and visit with the
 boys, some are regular visitors. 
 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Next is the area where we have our
 barn and lawn just above the house. The llamas have a walkway between our house
 and 2 pastures. You can see the side of the barn on the left and the corner of
 the garage in the lower right side of the photo. 
 The barn is only used for feeding and when it is necessary to
 contain a llama health care. The llamas choose never to sleep in the barn
 because the prefer the openness of the cedar grove. We also have never had to
 clean anything out of the barn except for occasional old hay. The boys have
 several communal dung piles around the pasture and don't want to leave messes
 in the barn:^) 

 Llamas and: Dogs Goats Therapy Eating Trees Filming for TV Shearing Day
 Packing Guarding Sun Bath Water Body Language Obstacles
 Fun Photos Our
 Boys Playful In the
 house Cria to Adult Funny
 FAQ's About Us Our
 Ranch Links Email Home 

 (Click on Photo to enlarge) From the barn you down past the garage and along the side of the
 main house. This is our patio which we share with the llamas on special
 occasions or when we just want to enjoy their company for a few hours. They
 love being in the back yard, kushing on the patio and taking a nap in the early
 afternoon. It's fun to have dinner on the patio on a nice warm evening
 surrounded by humming llamas. 
 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Sitting on our patio we can look down to our favorite portion
 of the pasture. We have many barbecues and picnics under that big willow tree
 with a clean stream running through the pasture right behind the tree. Every
 year we have our 4th of July picnic in this area ... people love the setting
 and having the llamas walk up to them for snacks. Then there are the other
 llamas that are constant searching guests for hidden treats. 
 (Click on Photo to enlarge) Here is the far side of the pasture, the creek runs the
 entire distance of the pasture and the salmon run the creek year to spawn. The
 llamas always have fresh water to drink and a place to cool off when its to
 warm. Our llamas share their pasture with a wealth of wildlife. The Canadian
 Geese come in the spring and we usually have 2 or 3 family of baby geese each
 year. We also have the wild ducks, bald eagles, blue herron and the red tail
 hawks. Each year we get an occasional glimpse of the new baby beavers and when
 we are really lucky we get to see the mama beaver. 

 Dogs | Goats |
 Therapy | Eating Trees |
 Filming for TV | Shearing | Day Packing |
 Guarding | Sun Bath |
 Water | Body Language |
 Obstacles | Fun Photos Our Boys | Playful |
 In the house | Cria to Adult |
 Funny FAQ's About Us |
 Our Ranch | Links |
 Email | Home 

 Web Design By Sandy Stillwell, PNW Web Design