Index of links to interesting Web Sites 

 Reference Links Index 

 Llama
 Llineage Betsy Ruble creates color picture genealogies for
 your llamas. Betsy has been collecting old pictures of llamas for years and has
 a hugh data base of living/deceased llamas. There is a sample of what the pages
 look like, and she goes back 4 generations of ancestors. 

 Stop in and visit 
 Llama Silhouette Flags , being offered by
 Adam & Jamie Higgins. They are beautiful flags with the silhouette of a
 llama, a must have for llama owners. 

 Boo and the
 Llama A great true story written by Nancy J. Hewes, about
 her horse Boo, and his encounter with Llamas. 

 Jen Barker's article on
 "Backpacking with Llamas" A wonderful article written by
 a 17 year old girl sharing her experiences with family and their Llamas.

 Suggested Criteria for Llamas & Other
 Stock in the Wilderness Provided by Kit Niemann, tips and
 pointers on making the best of a trip into the wilderness 

 Llama Resources on-line, books, video,
 news letters, magazines Provided by Karen Conyngham and
 Rosana Hart, here is the most recent edition of the Resources List that they
 maintain for the ILA Publications Committee. 

 State Phone Numbers for
 Import Requirements Provided by Carolyn S. Sorrels, Permits
 Coordinator, Animal Health & Identification Division, Oregon Department of
 Agriculture 

 Home | About Us |
 Cria To Teen | Funny Llama FAQ
 | Different Kind Of
 Ranch Llamas In
 The House | Snow In The Pasture |
 Llamas Take A Sun bath |
 Llama Power Trips Obstacle Training | Playful Yearling Boys | Llamas and Dogs | Our
 Boys Learning How To Day pack 
 | Obstacle Training |
 Funny Llama Photos |
 E-mail 

 PNW Web Design Business
 Site 

 Web Pages Created by: PNW Web Design
 For Web Page Development contact
 Sandy Stillwell 

 Copyright &copy; 1996-2000, by Sandy
 Stillwell. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or
 in part, in any form. This document can not be reproduced without the written
 consent of the owner.