Meet other women with Women's Links On the WWW 

 Women on the WWW 

 Business
 Women Connect Superb Services, Products, Contests & More! Our mission
 is to provide unique shopping opportunities from minority, women-owned and
 small emerging businesses, and provide an affordable way for merchants
 everywhere to showcase their products On The Internet! 

 Fox's Secretarial
 Service Fox's Secretarial Service is committed to providing
 top-notch word processing services at affordable prices. We boast over 10 years
 of legal secretarial and word processing experience. We accept small or large
 projects. Special introductory rates to new customers. 

 Handmade
 Paradise! Here you can find something for your home or
 business! Are we finished making the site? No! This site will never be
 finished. We are constantly on the search for new resources for YOU! So stay
 tuned! If you would like to be added to a list to be notified about updates or
 new additions to the site then click the button at the bottom of the
 page. 

 Sierra Roundup of
 Books to Wedding Gowns Bookstore has over 1,000,000 books,
 Wedding gowns from antique to current styles, which of course means we also buy
 wedding gowns. We are getting very low on sizes 12 Discount prices every day.
 The sale is not final until our customer is happy. An excellent site for Web
 Resources, Contests/Free/Fun Stuff, Business Opportunities, Where to Advertise
 Something for you, your business and the entire family Alzheimer help and
 information for the family of the patient, genealogy links. 

 Fire Designs Hand
 Blown Glass We specialize in hand blown glass, beads,
 Christmas Orniments. We also do custom work to meet your needs. 

 PNW Web
 Design We offer a wide range of services, including
 software for promotion of your web site or business. 

 Your
 Way to Healthy Skin The current trend towards natural,
 environmentally friendly products, good looks and youth preservation has led to
 the phenomenal acceptance of Beauty Mineral cosmetic products 

 Treasured
 Memories Thread Crochet Give a gift they will remember
 you for! Beautiful Victorian and country style gifts for Mother's Day,
 weddings, anniversaries, Christmas, or any occasion. These thread crochet lace
 treasures are hand made individually, custom to your specifications. Now
 available: very special wedding /anniversary cloths, custom made with the
 bride/groom's names and date of wedding on them -- a gift that will not be
 forgotten, but passed down as an heirloom for generations to
 come! 

 Llost
 Llama Lloves There are many web sites to memorialize the
 loss of pets, this is the first site to provide the same service to Llama
 owners. Llamas are extremely intilligent animals, and are much like having a
 pet dog or cat. 

 Tax Smart, Your Home
 Office Tax Advantage THE MORE YOU KNOW THE LESS YOU OWE! I
 feel that what I have to offer is unique and is needed by everyone especially
 women who have never had to handle there own finances or are not very
 organized. Plus as a small or Home Based Business owner my system will give
 everyone thousands of dollars in tax breaks 

 The Women's Resource
 Directory A shopping gallery and classified directory of women-owned
 businesses, entrepreneurial resources, and a webzine for
 businesswomen. 

 Asilkad Web
 Design Asilkad Web Design offers affordable webpages and creative marketing
 on The Women's Resource Directory (WoRD) website. 

 Home |
 About Us | Cria To Teen |
 Funny Llama FAQ | Different Kind Of Ranch Llamas In The House | Snow In The Pasture | Llamas
 Take A Sun bath | Llama Power
 Trips Obstacle
 Training | Playful Yearling
 Boys | Llamas and Dogs |
 Our Boys Learning How
 To Day pack | Obstacle
 Training | Funny Llama Photos |
 E-mail 

 PNW Web Design Business
 Site 

 Web Pages & Graphics Created by:
 PNW Web Design For Web Page
 Development contact Sandy Stillwell 

 Copyright &copy; 1996-2000 by Sandy
 Stillwell. All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or
 in part, in any form. This document can not be reproduced without the written
 consent of the owner.