The SeaScape Team 

 Here's what makes us really different - our SeaScape team! 

 &#160; 

 &#160; 

 &#160; 
 Variously English, American, Australian or Canadian&mdash;we're quite the international potpourri! For each of us, sailing is a central part of our lives, a deliberately chosen path away from the mainstream. We love it and we love to share it with others too. (And perhaps we can entice a few more folks away from the "rat-race" and add more notches to our mast...:>) 

 Coconuts in Thailand... sure beats Seattle in Feb !

 Skipper Di &mdash; also affectionately known by those who sail in her Aegean realm as "The Goddess Diana," or "Mother Hen"!
After completing a degree in Psychology at Sussex University (UK), she spent her early years
vascillating between boat-bumming and the software industry. An increasing gathering of potential
sailors wanting to join her trips to Greece inspired her to take the plunge and buy our first boat
"Vassilis" - and so SeaScape was born!

Her long-held belief in a down-to-earth, "no-glossy-brochure-speak" approach came into it's own even more with the advent of the internet and mobile communications. With the dubious honour of being amongst the first to purchase a cellphone modem in Greece (getting it working was another matter!) - she finally realised her vision of being able to communicate directly and personally with potential sailors - straight from the boat(s) to your home/office.

 Whenever she's not actually at the helm of her first "baby", Vassilis - she can usually be found attached at the hip to her laptop, still eternally online!

Greece and Turkey are now well-established, but Diane's itchy-feet syndrome hasn't abated&mdash;
she continues to head up new sailing explorations, including recent adventures in
 Thailand and
 Tonga . Who knows where in the world she'll go next? 

 Our technical manager demonstrates his finely-honed engineering skills on a bottle of champagne

 Cap'n Ray , one of our engineers-run-away-to-sea; or perhaps he is regressing, as he started his teenage years as a marine engineer trainee. From the age of 12, he was sailing on clinker built cutters and whalers in the UK; shortly afterwards, heading across the oceans as an engineer on super-tankers. A varied career has followed, including skippering flotillas for a certain well-known competitor, leading teams of young people on volunteer missions overseas... and his latest endeavors in heading up a team developing new technology lasers for eye surgery in Australia.

 As our technical manager, Ray is responsible for all our little fleet; ie, if it doesn't work, it's his problem! When asked to write some of his own bio, he claims that he is a "quiet and insular character who likes to get to bed early; not keen on socialising but will do so when necessary". If you sail on his boat, you'll soon learn not to take a single word he says seriously... 

 Pirate Matt and First Mate Jill - Matthew grew up in Plymouth (UK) with salt water already in his veins, graduating from university with degrees in Oceanography, Marine Biology and Marine Environmental Protection. However, a few years as a research scientist made him realise that a life ON the ocean waves was infinitely preferable to just studying them - and sailed off over the blue horizon ! 

 Several years and countries later, Matthew is the person to talk to if you're dreaming of cruising the world - he can tell you tall tales of the high seas from all over the world's oceans! On shore, there's also his grand reportoire of salty sea-dog yarns... (why is it no-one ever believes a word of what our skippers tell them ?? :>) 

However, the real "boss lady" on AnnaMaria of course, is Jill - who nabbed our pirate Matt on one of his expeditions to New Zealand. If we think we have a grand mixture of nationalities between the crew, Jill beats us all with Dutch, Indonesian, English and a whole melay of other exotic, explorer blood lines! No wonder she is such a traveller herself; and such a great, easy-going, fun-loving first mate and hostess on AnnaMaria!
 &#160; 
 &#160; 
 Our team on AnnaMaria - Matthew & Jill

Our skipper Phil, hard at work entertaining 

 Skipper Phil &mdash; one of the more mature members of our team (it's ok to call a guy "mature", right??) - though at heart, as much a Peter Pan as the rest of us! Someone has to keep an eye on the kids, and Phil does a great job! 
 "Retired" early, Phil now trades time between his house rental/renovation business in England and sailing the oceans. His "real" sailing jobs are delivering boats across oceans; then he comes to play with us in Greece for a couple of months every summer!

So if you're a super-keen (or wannabe) sailor, "get 'em up Phil" (the sails !!) is the man to sail with; given the company of other yachts in the immediate proximity, he'll have a racing crew trained out of total landlubbers in minutes ! 

 M'sieur le Chef David wears many hats...but we sure do love this one !

 Cap'n David &mdash;the Welsh ingredient in our multi-national pot-pourri ! David originally sailed his way into our Dodecanese realm, having just delivered a yacht all the way from Thailand. As a civil engineer, David was taking time out from building airports. But when we discovered that his galley skills were just as good as his engineering & sailing skills, there was no way we could let him go home! He brings to our fleet a calm, easy-going confidence borne of expertise, a natural inclination to share his knowledge and love of the sea with others - and a very wicked Welsh sense of humour! 

 If you're lucky enough to end up on his boat, bring him exotic spices and a Welsh dragon to remind him of the homeland we dragged him away from, and you'll never get bilge-cleaning duty ! 

 Carole, usually at the helm of our Seattle base, takes her turn at some Greek sunshine. 

 Carole &mdash; here's the face to the very-English accent often at the end of the phone when you call us in Seattle! A former ER nurse turned executive assistant from the lovely island of Guernsey (UK), she had already sailed in Greece and Turkey and had fallen in love with the area several years before she joined a SeaScape trip. Carole has been running our admin base in Seattle with traditional medical-like efficiency for six years now! 

Whenever possible, she still escapes the grey skies of Seattle to come sailing with us in Greece and Turkey - always hoping one day to trade the indoor office for the sailing one!

 Judy explores the ruins in her favourite cruising grounds, Turkey. 

 Judy &mdash; another of our team who had enough of the 9-to-5, she retired from her life as a telecommunications manager a few years ago, and now has much more time to spend on one of her main passions in life - travel !

 It was the travel bug which brought her out to Greece 7yrs ago, to join one of our shareboat trips; since then, she and her husband have enticed several boatloads of other friends to return and sail with us!

As she was doing such a great job for us anyway! - we also enticed Judy to help out "officially" at times. So now part of the SeaScape Team also, you may well speak to Judy if you call or email us... she will talk you into doing her own favourite spots in Turkey, whilst Carole loves Greece best; and Diane will have you sailing who-knows-where-next in the world ! :)

 Robert, our Accountant Afloat

 Robert &mdash;our Australian accountant and business manager, keeps us afloat
 financially. Not your ordinary accountant, Robert sold out of his high-pressure city
 partnership some years ago, preferring a more balanced life of private practice and
 spending as much time as possible afloat - whether on his own yacht in Sydney, the
 SeaScape yachts in Greece/Turkey, or sometimes running our winter expeditions to the
 Whitsundays, New Zealand, the Seychelles, and recently Thailand too !

 His other passion in life is the piano; Mr Cool Entertainer has been known to amaze
 our sailboat neighbours many a time by setting up a mobile "Piano Bar" actually on board!
 Have Piano, Will Travel - not a bad motto! Teaching non-aussies how to say "G'day Mate!" properly
 is another of his hobbies...

 Besides running the SeaScape finances, Robert also looks after our Sydney base;
 so if you are also DownUnder, you can call up and talk to him directly about our trips!

 &#160; 
 &#160; 
 &#160; 

 Care to join us, and run away to sea too??