The Airfoil Misconception in K-6 Textbooks 

 TOP | 

 MISCONS | 

 GOOD STUFF | 

 SEARCH 

 Airfoil Lifting Force Misconception 
Widespread in K-6 Textbooks 
 William Beaty 1996 

&ordm; Misconceptions 
&ordm; Articles Here 
&ordm; GIF Diagrams 
&ordm; Links 
&ordm; Refs 

Beat around in the underbrush of aerodynamics and you'll encounter an
interesting question: 

 HOW DO AIRPLANE WINGS * REALLY * WORK? 

Amazingly enough, this question is still argued in many places, from
elementary school classrooms all the way up to major pilot schools, and
even in the engineering departments of major aircraft companies. This is
unexpected, since we would assume that aircraft physics was completely
explored early this century. Obviously the answers must be spelled out 
in detail in numerous old dusty aerodynamics texts. However, this is not 
quite the
case. Those old texts contain the details of the math, but it's the
* interpretation * of the math that causes the controversy. There is
an ongoing Religious War over both the way we should understand the
functioning of wings, and over the way we should explain them in
children's textbooks. The two sides of the controversy are: 

 The physics explanation , NEWTONIAN or 
ATTACK
ANGLE: wings are forced upwards because they are tilted and they deflect
air. A wing's trailing edge must be sharp, and it must be aimed 
diagonally downward if it's to create lift.
 Both the upper and lower surfaces of the wing act to
deflect the air. The upper surface deflects air downwards because the
airflow "sticks" to the wing surface and follows the tilted wing (this
phenomena is called "Coanda effect" or "Flow Attachment.") After the wing 
has passed by, air remains flowing downwards. Airplanes
fly because of Newton's 3rd law (action/reaction forces,) the law of
Conservation of Momentum, and the Coanda effect. 

 The popular explanation , PATH-LENGTH or AIRFOIL-SHAPE: 
wings do
not deflect air,
instead they are sucked upwards because the "airfoil" shape has a longer
surface on top. Airfoils are curved on top and flat below, and therefore
the air follows a longer path above than below. Air that is
divided at the leading edge of a wing must rejoin at the trailing edge. 
Since the upper surface of the wing is longer, it causes the air to flow
faster over the upper surface, which (by Bernoulli's principle) creates
lower pressure above. Because lift is caused by the shape of the wing,
wings can create lift at zero attack angle. They can create lift simply
from path length difference which leads to pressure difference, and no air
needs to be deflected. After a wing has passed by, the air does not 
remain moving downwards. (THIS EXPLANATION IS SERIOUSLY FLAWED.) 

This webpage is biased towards the ATTACK ANGLE view. See just about any
K-6 science book for the PATH LENGTH argument. (Note that the controversy 
extends far beyond grade school, and even some 
pilot training manuals contain the discredited "path length" explanation.)

Also three other explanations of lift exist: the circulation
explanation, the flow-turning or streamline-curvature explanation, and the
vortex-based explanation. These three appear in advanced textbooks, where
they form the basis of the mathematics used by aircraft designers. The
misleading "popular" or "airfoil-shape" explanation commonly appears in
children's science books, magazine articles, and in pilot's textbooks. 
On the other hand, the public rarely or never encounters explanations
based upon circulation, upon curvature of streamlines, or upon Newton's
Laws. 

A possible solution to the controversy:

Billb's Airplane Flight Analogy 

/wing/rotbal.html 

Note well: Newton and Bernoulli do not contradict each other. Explanations
which are based on Newton's and on Bernoulli's principles are completely
compatible. Each explanation describes 100% of the lifting force. For
the most part they're just two different ways of simplifying a single
complicated subject. Much of the controversy arises because one side or
the other insists that only *THEIR* view is correct. They insist that
only a *SINGLE* explanation is possible, and the opposing view is
therefore wrong. In other words, which is the single best way to crack an
egg? This is a war between the Big-endians and Little-endians from
"Gulliver's Travels." They simply refuse to acknowledge that there are
several valid yet independant approaches to solving the problem, and they
insist that their version must be the single right answer. 

However, there are also several serious mistakes usually associated with
the "popular" explanation described above. People who believe the
"popular" explanation wrongly insist that any parcels of air divided by 
the wing's leading edge must meet again at the trailing edge. This is 
incorrect. They also believe
that wings don't deflect the oncoming air downwards. Also incorrect. 
These and several
other mistakes commonly appear in elementary science texts, as well as in
popular articles on aircraft physics. These mistakes change the popular
"airfoil-shape" explanation into a system of misconceptions. I explore
these below . 

Also, those who firmly adhere to the popular explanation have been
successful in convincing many
authors that there can only be a single best method for explaining
aerodynamic lift, and that the "Airfoil-shape" method is far better
than the "Attack-angle" method. I strongly disagree with this, and
believe that the correct versions of both explanations should be in
constant use. Since the Newton method gives a better intuitive grasp of
the issues, that method is more appropriate for elementary explanations
aimed at the public and for introductory material for science students and
pilots. On the other hand, the "Airfoil Shape" explanation is less 
intuitive,
yet it dovetails very well with lifting force calculations, so it is very
useful in mathematical modeling, for physics students, for aircraft
design, fluid flow simulation software, etc. 

 The Truth shall set your free... But first it will piss you off! 
 -Anon 

 Disk Balloons 
 Why Airfoils Are So Hard 
to Understand 
 GIF Diagrams 
 Articles 
 Discussions 
 Other websites 
 References 
 Components of the misconception 
 Analysis of the two explanations 
 ADD YOUR COMMENTS about misconceptions

 Bill B.'s "Newtonian" Articles & Misc.Controversy 

 Disk balloons explain flight. 
 J. Denker's review 
 My Response 
 Why Airfoils Are So Hard to Understand 
 Airfoil Explanations 
 Airfoil GIFs show controversial effects 
 The two explanations 
 Parts of the misconception 
 References 
 C. Swartz editorial from The Physics Teacher 
 GIF of misleading "Bernoulli" diagram 
 GIF of tilted airfoil confusion 
 SEARCH GOOGLE for newton/bernoulli/wing/lift

 The "Airfoil Mistake" in the news 

 NY Times: What does keep them up there? 
 Discover magazine Apr 2001: an old lofty theory loses altitude 
 Imperfect explanations of lift (How Stuff Works)
 Lift Doesn't Suck AVWEB aviation magazine (w/excellent animation!)
 about.com: physics: How Airplanes Don't Fly 

 Discussions, message threads 

 Misc. received messages 
 PHYS-L EMAIL DEBATE (Recent)
 PHYS-L EMAIL DEBATE (Older)
 Physics discussion on Hang Gliding List 
 Newton/Bernoulli thread from rec.models.rc.air 

 Relevant forums 

 Newsgroup: rec.aviation.piloting 
 Newsgroup: rec.aviation.student 
 Newsgroup: rec.aviation 
 Newsgroup: rec.models.rc.air 
 Newsgroup: sci.aeronautics 
 Newsgroup: sci.physics.computational.fluid-dynamics 

 BOOKS 

 Other websites 

 Radial Momentum theory of lift
 How do wings work? Phys. Educ. 38 (Nov 2003) 497-503
 Why Aircraft Fly, Eur. J. Phys. 21 (July 2000) 289-296
 Airfoil design 
 NEW BOOK: Understanding Flight 

 How Airplanes Fly: A Physical Description of Lift (c) (Anderson & Eberhardt)
 Newtonian description of lift 
 Author's site 

 Coanda Effect Article from QUANTUM magazine (Jeff Raskin)
 Two from K. Weltner 

 Misinterpretations of Bernoulli's Law 
 Physics of Flight - reviewed 

 Airfoils chapter of SEE HOW IT FLIES, online pilot instruction manual (EXCELLENT!)
 Irrotational Flow (mini-lecture with animations!)
 Attack angle, Bernoulli, wing-shape "NASA Quest" gets it right!
 Animations disprove the "wing shape" explanation
 NASA Glenn Research Center: Beginner's Aerodynamics (correct!)

 nasa/grc: the incorrect ""Half Venturi" theory debunked 
 nasa/grc: the incorrect "Longer Path" theory debunked 
 nasa/grc: Bernoulli vs. Newton 

 about H. M. Coanda 
 Ground Effect vehicle photo archive
 Bumblebees cannot fly! 

 Gale Craig, "How Airplanes Really Fly" 
 Irrotational Flow (mini-lecture with animations!)
 Ground Effect regarding helicopters
 Secret Russian "Coanda" aircraft 
 Downwash photos:

 Irro. Photo Gallery 
 Gallery of fluid mech.: lift-generated vortices 
 Fluid Dyn. Picture of the Week 

 Downwash doesn't exist? Riiiight. 
Great GIF of visible downwash at Princeton's Fluid Dyn. picture of the week 
 Physics of fluids: gallery 

How Things Work: Wings (Newton *AND* Bernoulli)
 GIF 
of downwash , red smoke is pushed down and outwards, edge curls up.
 Ground Effect 
, and G. E. craft 
 Corrections at the Nat. Air and Space Mus. (Yay!)
 Online aerodynamics textbook 
 Lift caused by curvature of streamlines 
 Newton AND Bernoulli , from Cislunar Aerospace K-8 Textbook !
 J. Johnson article from rec.aviation.student
 D. Straub article , from Physics discussion on Hang Gliding List 
 Gell article from rec.models.rc.air

 "Newtonian" Lifting Force References 

Cliff Swartz, " Numbers Count ", editorial in THE PHYSICS TEACHER, p536,
Vol34, Dec 1996 

Gale Craig, NEWTONIAN AERODYNAMICS FUNDAMENTALS, 1995, Regenerative Press,
Anderson Indiana 46011, ISBN: 0964680602 

Prof. Klaus Weltner, AERODYNAMIC LIFTING FORCE, The Physics Teacher (magazine), Feb 1990, pp78-82 

K. Weltner, BERNOULLI'S LAW AND AERODYNAMIC LIFTING FORCE, The Physics Teacher, Feb 1990, pp84-86 

K. Weltner, A COMPARISON OF EXPLANATIONS OF THE AERODYNAMIC LIFTING FORCE, Am. J. of Physics, 55 (1) Jan. 1987 pp50-54 

Langewiesche, Wolfgang, STICK AND RUDDER, 1975 Tab Books, ISBN: 0070362408 

N.H. Fletcher, MECHANICS OF FLIGHT, Physics Education, Wiley, NY 11975, pp385-389 

HOW AIRPLANES FLY 

 THE TWO COMPETING EXPLANATIONS FOUND IN K-6 BOOKS: 

Here is the typical "Airfoil shape" or "Popular" explanation of
airfoil lift which commonly appears in childrens' science books:

As air approaches a wing, it is divided into two parts, the part which
flows above the wing, and the part which flows below. In order to create
a lifting force, the upper surface of the wing must be longer and more
curved than the lower surface. Because the air flowing above and below
the wing must recombine at the trailing edge of the wing, and because the
path along the upper surface is longer, the air on the upper surface must
flow faster than the air below if both parts are to reach the trailing
edge at the same time. The "Bernoulli Principle" says that the total
energy contained in each part of the air is constant, and when air gains
kinetic energy (speed) it must lose potential energy (pressure,) and so
high-speed air has a lower pressure than low-speed air. Therefore, 
because the air flows faster on the top of the wing than below, the 
pressure above
is lower than the pressure below the wing, and the wing driven upwards by
the higher pressure below. In modern wings the low pressure above the
wing creates most of the lifting force, so it isn't far from wrong to say
that the wing is essentially 'sucked' upwards. (Note however that
"suction" doesn't exist, because air molecules can only push upon a
surface, and they never can pull.)

 MY NOTES: 

(1996) 

 Uh oh, wind tunnel photographs of lift-generating wings reveal a
 serious problem with the above description! They show that the
 divided parcels DO NOT RECOMBINE AT THE TRAILING EDGE. Whenever
 an airfoil is adjusted to give lift, then the parcels of air above
 the wing move FAR faster than those below, and the lower parcels 
lag
 far behind. After the wing has passed by, the parcels remain 
forever divided. This has nothing to do with the wing's path lengths. 
This even applies to thin flat wings such as a "flying
 barn door." The wind
 tunnel experiments show that the "wing-shape" argument regarding 
 difference in path-length is simply wrong.

 Also, real-world aircraft demonstrate another fallacy. In order to
 create lift, must a wing have greater path length on the
 upper surface than on the lower? No. Thin cambered (curved) wings
 such as those on hang gliders and on rubberband-powered balsa
 gliders, have equal path length above and below, yet they generate
 lift. Still the air does flow faster above these wings than below.
 However, since there is no difference in path length, we cannot
 refer to path length to explain the difference in air speed above
 and below the thin wing. The typical "airfoil shape" explanation
 cannot tell us why a paper airplane can fly, because it does not
 tell us why the air above the paper wing moves faster.

 It is also a fallacy that in order to create lift, a wing *must* be
 more curved on top. In fact, wings which are designed for high
 speed and aerobatics are symmetrical streamlined shapes, with equal
 curvature above and below. Some exotic airfoil shapes are even
 flat on top and more curved on the bottom! (NASA's "supercritical"
 wing designs, for example.)

 If the typical "popular" or "airfoil-shape" explanation is
 correct, then how can symmetrical wings and thin cambered wings
 work at all? How can rubberband balsa gliders work? Those who
 support the "path length" explanation will sometimes suggest that
 some other method must be used to explain these particular wings. 
 But if so, why then do so many books put forth only the above
 "popular" explanation as the single explanation of aerodynamic 
 lift? Why do they avoid detailing or even mentioning any other
 important explanations of lifting force?

 The cloth aircraft of old had single-layer wings having 
 identical path length above and below. If the "Wing-shape" or
 "popular" explanation is correct and path-length is very
 important, how can the Wrights' flyer have worked at all?
 Conversely, we do find that thin airfoils such as the Wrights'
 have faster flow on the upper surface than the lower surface.
 Since the path lengths are identical, how can we explain this?

 The above "path length" viewpoint would predict that the
 addition of a lump to the top of a wing should always increase the
 lift (since it increases the upper surface path length.) In fact,
 the addition of a lump does not increase lift. This suggests that 
 there is a problem with the "airfoil shape" explanation of lift.

 Forces on sailboat sails are explained using the typical
 "pathlength/wingshape" explanation above. But sailboat sails are
 thin cloth membranes with identical path-lengths on either side.
 Why should air on either side of a sail have different velocities
 if the path length is the same?

 Children have experience with rubberband-powered balsa wood
 aircraft having wings composed of a single flat layer of very 
 thin wood. Paper airplanes usually have flat thin wings. These 
 aircraft cannot fly? How can the "path length" version explain 
 their successful operation?

 Regardless of the angle of attack, if a wing does not deflect
 air downwards, it creates no lift at all. To say otherwise would
 go against the law of Conservation of Momentum. Yet those who
 believe in the "airfoil-shape" explanation commonly state that
 wings operate only by pressure, and Newton's laws are unimportant.
 This is a direct violation of basic physics principles. 
 Bernoulli's equation incorporates basic physics, and anyone who
 depart from Newton must automatically depart from Bernoulli as
 well. Besides buoyancy and helium balloons, the only way to remain
 aloft is to take some matter and accelerate it downwards. The
 downward force applied to the matter is equal to the upward force
 applied by the matter against the craft. Rockets work like this,
 as do ship propellers, jet engines, helicopters, ...and wings! 

 Some people argue that the "path length" explanation must be
 right, since some wings generate lift even at zero angle of
 attack. However, Attack-angle is determined geometrically, by
 drawing a line between the tip of the leading and trailing edge.
 This geometrically-determined attack angle can be misleading:

 Small bumps on the leading edge of a blunt-nosed wing have a large
 effect on where the line is drawn. These bumps strongly affect
 the determination of "attack angle, yet these bumps may have
 little if any effect on the lifting forces being generated. Also,
 inertial effects will cause a thin, curved airfoil to deflect air
 downwards from its trailing edge more than it deflects air
 upwards at its leading edge, and the unequal deflection generates
 lift even at zero angle of attack. This type of wing may APPEAR
 to have zero attack angle, but the inertia of air causes the air
 to flow straight from the trailing edge of the airfoil. Because
 of inertia, the trailing edge of a cambered airfoil itself behaves
 as a tilted plane, and therefore the airfoil effectively has a
 positive angle which causes air to be deflected. Other cambered
 wings are similar; they still have a positive "effective" attack
 angle even when their geometrical attack angle of zero. 

 Some people argue that flat wings, symmetrical aerobatic wings,
 Supercritical wings, and thin cloth wings do not employ the
 Bernoulli Effect, and these wings must instead be explained by
 Newton and attack angle. But as I said before, if jet fighters
 and the Wright Flyer use Attack Angle rather than Bernoulli
 Effect, why do the books teach only Bernoulli Effect? At the very
 least, these books are ignoring an entire class of aircraft by
 never mentioning Attack Angle. However, even these thin wings and
 symmetrical wings exhibit the full-blown Bernoulli principle!
 There is a difference in speed between the upper and lower air
 streams along flat wings. If a flat sheet of plywood is tilted 
 into the air stream, the air flows faster above the sheet than 
 below, and lift is generated by the pressure difference. But the 
 flat sheet also deflects the air, and just as much lift is 
 generated by deflection of air. In fact, 100% of aerodynamic lift 
 can be explained by the Bernoulli principle. And 100% of lift can 
 be explained by Newton's third law. They are two different ways 
 of explaining a single event. However, any appeals to differences 
 in path length are simply wrong, and any book which uses that 
 explanation is acting to spread science misconceptions.

An alternate explanation of lift: "ATTACK ANGLE"

As air flows over a wing, the flow adheres to the surfaces of the wing. 
This is called the "Coanda effect." Because the wing is tilted, the air
is deflected downwards as it moves over the wing's surfaces. Air which
flows below the wing is pushed downwards by the wing surface, and because
the wing pushes down on the air, the air must push upwards on the wing,
creating a lifting force. Air which flows over the upper surface of the
wing is adhering to the surface also. The wing "pulls downwards" on the
air as it flows over the tilted wing, and so the air pulls upwards on the
wing, creating more lifting force. (Actually the air follows the wing
because of reduced pressure, the "pull" is not really an attraction.) The
lifting force is created by Newton's Third Law and by conservation of
momentum, as the flowing air which has mass is deflected downward as the
wing moves forward. Because of Coanda Effect, the upper surface of the
wing actually deflects more air than does the lower surface.

 My notes on "attack angle":

 If you understand the "attack angle" explanation, then the causes
 of other aircraft phenomena such as wingtip vortex will suddenly
 become clear. The air at the trailing edge of the wing is 
 streaming downwards into the surrounding still air. The edge 
 of this mass of air curls up as the air moves downwards, creating 
 the "wingtip vortex." A similar effect can be seen when a drop
 of dye falls into clear water: the edge of the mass of dye curls
 up as the dye forces itself downwards into the water, resulting
 in a ring vortex which moves downwards.

 There is one major error associated with the "attack angle"
 explanation. This is the idea that only the LOWER surface of
 the wing can generate a lifting force. Some people imagine that
 air bounces off the bottom of the tilted wing, and they come to
 the mistaken belief that this is the main source of the lifting
 force. Even Newton himself apparantly made this mistake, and so
 overestimated the necessary size of man-lifting craft. In reality,
 air is deflected by both the upper and the lower surfaces of the
 wing, with the major part being deflected by the upper surface.

 Because a large, heavy aircraft must deflect an enormous amount of 
 air downwards, people standing under a low-flying aircraft are 
 subjected to a huge downblast of air. They are essentially feeling 
 a portion of the pressure which supports the plane.

 The downwash can be useful: when a cropduster flies low over a 
 field, the spray is injected into the airflow coming 
 from the wings. Rather than trailing straight back behind the 
 craft, the spray is sent downwards by the downwash from the wings.
 Also, during takeoff the downwash interacts with the ground and
 causes lift to greatly increase. Pilots use this effect to gain a
 large airspeed just after takeoff. Because of downwash "ground
 effect," their engine needs to do much less work in keeping their
 aircraft aloft, therefore the extra power available can be used to
 speed up the plane.

 To create adequate lift at extremely low speeds, an airfoil 
 must be operated at a large angle of attack, and this leads to 
 airflow detachment from wing's the upper surface (stall.) To
 prevent this, the airfoil must be carefully shaped. A good low-
 speed airfoil is much more curved on the top, since lift can be
 created only if the wing surface carefully deflects air downwards
 by adhesion. Thus one origin of the misconception involving "more
 curved upper surface." The surface must be curved to prevent 
 stall, not to create lift. The situation with the lower surface is 
 different, since the lower surface can deflect the air by collision.
 Even so, it makes sense to have the lower surface be somewhat 
 concave, so that the air is slowly deflected as it proceeds along, 
 and so the upwards pressure is distributed uniformly over the
 lower surface.

 Why does flowing air adhere to the upper surface of the wing? This
 is called the Coanda effect. Apparently Dr. Bernoulli has a better
 PR department than Dr. Coanda, (grin!) since everyone has heard of
 Bernoulli, while Coanda is rarely mentioned in textbooks.

 The only correct part of the "wingshape/pathlength" explanation of
 lift is the description of the Bernoulli effect itself. But the 
 "Bernoulli Effect" can also be interpreted thus: because the 
 wing is tilted, it creates a pocket of reduced pressure behind its
 upper surface. Air must rush into this pocket. And at the tilted
 lower surface, air collides with the surface and creates a region
 of increased pressure. Any air which approaches the high pressure
 region is slowed down. Therefore, the pressure is the cause of
 the air velocity, not vice-versa as in the "airfoil-shape"
 explanation above. Also, it is wrong to imagine that the low
 pressure above the wing is caused by the "Bernoulli effect" while
 the high pressure below the wings is not. Both pressure
 variations have similar origin, but opposite values.

 The "airfoil shape" explanation could be very useful in 
 calculating the lifting force of an airfoil. Knowing the fluid 
 velocity at all points on the airfoil surface, the pressure may be 
 calculated via Bernoulli's equation at all points, and if the
 pressure at each point is vector summed, the total lifting force
 upon the wing will be obtained. The trick then is knowing how to
 obtain the fluid velocities. Appeals to differences in pathlength
 do not work, so other methods (circulation and Kutta condition)
 must be used.

 Parts of the Airfoil Misconception 

Wings create lift because they are curved on top and flat on the
 bottom. Incorrect.

Part of the lifting force is due to Bernoulli effect, and part is due 
 to Newton's 2nd law. Incorrect.

To produce lift, the shape of the wing is critical. Incorrect.

The Bernoulli effect pertains to the shape of the wing, while 
 Newton's laws pertain to the angle of attack. Incorrect.

Air which is divided by the leading edge must recombine at the 
trailing edge. Incorrect.

The upper surface of an airfoil must be longer than the lower surface. Incorrect.

The tilt of the wing produces part of the lift. The shape of the wing 
produces the rest. Incorrect.

A wing is really just the lower half of a venturi tube. Incorrect.

The upper surface of a wing will deflect air, but the lower surface is 
horizontal, so it has little effect. Incorrect.

Airfoils need not deflect any air; pressure differences
alone can produce lift. Incorrect.

Ship propellors, rudders, rowboat oars, and helicopter blades all deflect water or 
air. But airplane wings are entirely different. NOPE.

The "Coanda effect" only applies to thin liquid jets, not to airfoils 
and flow attachment. Incorrect.

An airfoil can create lift even at zero attack angle. Misleading.

Cambered airfoils create lift at zero AOA, which proves that the 
"Newtonian" theory of lift is wrong. Incorrect.

The "Newtonian" theory of lift is wrong because downwash happens 
far behind the wing where it can have no effect. Incorrect.

1. Wings create lift because they are curved on top and flat on the
 bottom. INCORRECT. 

 Incorrect because only some wings look like that, while other wings are
 symmetrical (they're the same on top and bottom,) while still others 
 are flat on top ...and curved on the bottom! And don't forget the 
 hang-gliders and the Wright Brothers' flyer, both of which used thin 
 fabric wings.

2. Part of the lifting force is due to Bernoulli effect, and part is due 
 to Newton. INCORRECT 

 Incorrect because ALL wings, regardless of shape or degree of tilt,
 must create ALL of their lift because of Newton. To say otherwise 
 would mean that a wing could violate Newton's Laws! Yet at the same 
 time, ALL wings create ALL of their lift because of the Bernoulli 
 Equation. This is true because all of the lifting force comes from
 pressure differences on the wings' surfaces.

 In fact, one hundred percent of the lifting force can be explained
 by "Newton," by ignoring the pressure differences and instead 
 measuring the deflected air and calculating the change in momentum.

 And of course 100% of the lifting force can also be explained by
 "Bernoulli", by looking at air speeds and then calculating the air 
 pressure on every part of the wing surface. See the NASA site. 

3. To produce lift, the shape of the wing is critical. INCORRECT. 

 Incorrect because aerodynamic scientists have found that there are
 two critical features of all airfoils: the trailing edge of the wing
 must be fairly sharp, and the trailing edge of the wing must be 
 angled downwards. This is discussed in advanced textbooks in the
 chapters on circulatory flow, in the section on "Kutta Condition."

 Wings are allowed to have all sorts of crazy airfoil, but if they 
 don't have a downwards-tilted trailing edge which is sharp, they 
 won't produce much lift.

 Other featues of the wing are important but not critical. For
 example, in order to prevent "stall" the leading edge of the wing
 must be fairly bulbous and the wing's upper surface must lack
 sharp curves as well as being fairly smooth (no bumpy screws or
 rivets allowed.) If the wing's leading edge is too sharp, or if
 its upper surface is made wrong, then the flow of air above the wing 
 will break loose or "detach," and it will no longer be guided 
 downwards by the upper surface. This problem is called a "stall," 
 and during a stall the amount of lifting force contributed by the 
 upper wing surface becomes very small.

4. The Bernoulli effect pertains to the shape of the wing, while 
 Newton's laws pertain to the angle of attack. INCORRECT. 

 Incorrect because Newton's laws pertain to all features of the wing; 
 both to wing shape and attack angle. Exactly the same thing is true 
 of Bernoulli's equation. Wings don't violate Newton's laws, and
 wings in conventional flight (slower than the speed of sound) don't
 violate Bernoulli's equation. See #2 above.

 Incorrect because aerodynamic scientists have found that there are

 There are even some wings which

3. Flat thin wings generate lift entirely because of Newton; because they
 are tilted, while thick curved wings generate lift exclusively because 
 of "Bernoulli Effect?" INCORRECT. 

Think a moment: if a wing
 when a flat thin wing is given a positive angle of attack,
 the air above the wing speeds up, and the air below the wing slows
 down. 100 percent of the lifting force can be explained using 
 either the "Bernoulli effect" or the Newton/Coanda principles.
 These two simply are a pair of alternate viewpoints on the same
 situation, and it's wrong to try to break the lifting force 
 into a separate percentage of "Bernoulli" force and an "attack angle" 
 force.

longer path
http://www.grc.nasa.gov/WWW/K-12/airplane/wrong1.html

- In order to generate lift, the upper surface of an airfoil must be more
 strongly curved than the lower surface? INCORRECT

 Incorrect, since lift can be generated by symmetrical airfoil such as 
 those used on acrobatic aircraft. Lift can also be generated by
 thin fabric airfoils, by sheets of paper (paper airplanes), by tilted
 pieces of flat plywood, or by "supercritical" airfoils which are more
 curved on the BOTTOM than the top.

5. Air which is divided by the leading edge must recombine at the 
trailing edge. INCORRECT.

 Incorrect, since mathematical models and wind tunnel experiments both
 show that the upper and lower air flows do not recombine. See these 
 wind-tunnel photos which illustrate this 
 lack of recombining.

- Asymmetrical airfoils produce lift because of their special shape, while 
 symmetrical airfoils produce lift because they are tilted? INCORRECT.

- A symmetrical airfoil cannot create lift? INCORRECT

- Aircraft cannot fly upside down? INCORRECT

- The decreased pressure above an airfoil creates much more lifting force
 than the increased pressure below the airfoil. Since the decreased
 pressure above is supposedly caused by the Bernoulli effect, while the
 increased pressure below is supposedly caused by collision of air with
 the tilted wing, the "Bernoulli effect" supplies the lift. Therefore 
 the "angle of attack" effects are of less importance and can be ignored 
 in order to simplify the explanation? INCORRECT.

 Incorrect, because both the increased pressure below the airfoil and
 the decreased pressure above are created entirely by the Bernoulli
 effect. ALSO, both are caused by the angle of attack and the forces
 resulting from the deflection of massive air. 100% of the lifting
 force can be explained by appeals to the Bernoulli effect. But also
 100% of the lifting force can be explain by the process of deflection
 of air by the wing. However, explaining the difference in air speed
 above and below the wing is not straightforward.

- The low pressure above an airfoil produces suction. The lifting force
 is an upwards suction force. INCORRECT.

 Incorrect. Air molecules produce pressure upon a surface by colliding
 with that surface. They do not attract that surface. In other words,
 SUCTION DOES NOT EXIST. When you suck air through a straw,
 you are lowering the pressure within the straw. There is no suction.
 Instead, the outside atmosphere PUSHES the air into the straw.
 So, while it is true that the pressure above the wing is low, it is
 not true that the lifting force is caused by suction. Instead, the
 lifting force is caused by the pressure-difference. If the pressure
 above the wing should fall, then the ambient pressure below the wing
 will force the airplane to move upwards.

- The air in front of the leading edge of an airfoil and the air behind
 the trailing edge are moving at zero degrees deflection? INCORRECT.

 Incorrect, since with a real aircraft, the air moves slightly upwards
 to meet the leading edge of the wing, but then it is projected greatly
 downwards from the trailing edge, creating a "downwash" flow.
 Although the "upwash" equals the "downwash" in a 2-dimensional wind 
 tunnel experiment, this is not true in practice with real airplanes. 
 (2D wind tunnels depict ground-effect flight, not normal flight.)
 With a real airplane flying high above the earth, if the "upwash" and
 the "downwash" flows were equal, yet the lifting force was non-
 zero, then this would totally violate the law of conservation of
 momentum. Unfortunately for the "airfoil-shape" camp, fundamental
 physics principles must be satisfied, and Newton's laws are not
 selectively violated by airfoils. In order to create an upwards
 lifting force, there must be a net downward acceleration of parcels of
 air. Planes fly by pushing air downwards, which creates a pressure
 difference across a wing. Air-deflection and pressure are linked. 
 You cannot have one without the other.

- Airplane propellors, rudders, jet turbine blades, and helicopters all 
 function by deflecting air to create force. They throw the air one way,
 and the air pushes them the other way. But airplane wings are 
 different? Wings operate by a separate kind of physics, and are "sucked 
 upwards" by the Bernoulli effect? INCORRECT.

 Incorrect, because the real world cannot tell the difference between 
 an airplane wing and a helicopter blade. It does not know that a
 ship's rudder and an airplane wing are different. Wings, rudders, 
 propellors, oars; all these devices work by identical principles: 
 they throw massive fluid one way, and are thrown the other way by 
 action/reaction forces. Bernoulli's equation does have bearing, since 
 the action/reaction forces express themselves as a pressure difference 
 across the surfaces of the object which deflects the fluid.

- An airfoil can generate lift without deflecting air downward? INCORRECT.

 Incorrect. If it did so, it would be staying in the air without
 ejecting mass downwards, and this would violate the Conservation
 of Momentum law. Yes, balloons remain aloft without ejecting mass,
 but balloons function via bouyancy forces, and an airplane wing
 obviously does not. Think about it: a helicopter hovers because it
 throws air downwards. Yet a 'copter blade is simply a moving wing!
 If wings did not fling air downwards, if wings remained aloft only
 through pressure differences, then helicopter blades would do the
 same, and there would be no downblast below a helicopter.

- An airfoil can generate a lifting force without causing a reaction 
 force against the air? INCORRECT.

 Incorrect. If it did so, it would violate Newton's Third Law of
 Motion, the law of equal action and reaction forces.

- The majority of textbooks use the popular 'path length' or 'airfoil
 shape' explanation of lift, and it is inconceivable that this many books
 could be wrong. Therefore, the "path length" explanation is the 
 correct one? INCORRECT.

 Incorrect, this argument from authority is simply wrong. It is also
 dangerous, since it convinces us to never question authority and to 
 close our eyes to authors' errors. If we trust the concensus 
 agreements of others, then we become sheep which follow a leaderless 
 herd. Beware of this habit! As the NASA space shuttle managers who 
 closed their eyes to the Challanger booster seal problem found out, 
 the real world is all too real. Nature ignores politics, and 
 scientific facts are determined by evidence, not by majority votes.

?. The upper surface of a wing will deflect air, but the lower surface is 
 horizontal, so it has little effect. INCORRECT.

 Incorrect, but for an interesting reason. If a thin flat wing
 deflects air downwards, diagrams show that the air above the wing and 
 the air below the wing are equally deflected. If we then make this 
 wing thicker and streamlined, the total amount of deflected air and 
 the lifting force remain the same... but the air below the wing
 appears less deflected, and the air above the wing appears more
 deflected. This happens because a thick wing must push air out
 of its way, and as the flowing air curves away from the oncoming
 wing, it takes a straighter path in the region below the wing.
 This has no effect on the lifting force, since the air above the
 wing takes a more curved path, so the pressure difference remains
 the same. The thick wing SEEMS to get more lift from the curved
 streamlines above than from the straight streamlines below, but 
 this is an illusion. The lift comes from the DIFFERENCE between
 the two flows, and changing the thickness of the wing will alter
 the appearance of the air flows without changing the difference or
 changing the lifthing force.

- The 'Coanda effect' only involves narrow jets of air, and has little to
 do with airfoil operation, so its exclusion from explanations of lift is
 understandable and justified? INCORRECT.

 Incorrect, the Coanda effect involves the adhesion of a flow to a
 surface. It applies to ANY flowing fluid, not just to narrow jets. 
 If the airflow across a wing did not adhere to the wing, the wing
 would be permanently in the 'stall' regiem of operation. During
 "stall", it would not deflect air across its upper surface, and it
 would produce a greatly diminished lifting force.

- There are two explanations of airfoil lifting force: angle of attack, and
 pressure differential. The 'pressure differential' explanation is correct,
 and the 'angle of attack' is misleading and can be ignored? INCORRECT.

 Incorrect. Both explanations are useful once the incorrect parts of
 the "path length" explanation have been removed. They are two
 different "mental models," they are two different ways of looking at
 one complicated situation. Paraphrasing the physicist R. Feynman:
 "Unless you have several different ways of looking at something, you
 don't really understand it." A complete understanding requires that
 we easily shift between alternate viewpoints. Wings really do
 produce lift when velocity differences create a vertically-
 directed pressure differential across their surface area. But also,
 they really do produce lift by reacting against air and driving it
 downwards. Unfortunately the airfoil-shape-based explanation has 
 become connected with several incorrect add-on explanations; the
 "path-length" fallacy for example.

- An airfoil can generate lift at zero angle of attack? MISLEADING

 Not entirely wrong: depending on how we define 'angle of 
 attack', a wing may be at zero angle of attack even though it 
 obviously *acts* tilted and deflects the oncoming air downwards.
 This is a fight between semantics and reality. If the rear portion of
 a wing is tilted downwards and deflects the air downwards, shouldn't
 it by definition have a positive angle of attack?
 No, not if 'angle of attack' is measured by drawing a line between the
 tips of the leading and trailing edges of the wing crossection. If
 the leading edge is bulbous, then small details on the leading edge
 can radically change the location of the drawn line without radically
 changing the interaction of the wing with the air. If such a wing is
 then rotated to force it to take a "zero" angle, that rotation in
 reality tilts the wing to a positive attack angle and generates lift.

- Cambered airfoils produce lift at zero AOA, which proves that the
 "Newton" explanation is wrong? INCORRECT

 Incorrect. Air has mass, and this means that it has inertia. Because
 of inertia, an exhaust port can produce a narrow jet of air, yet an
 intake port cannot pull a narrow jet inwards from a distance. This
 concept applies to wings. When a cambered airfoil moves forwards at
 zero AOA (Angle of Attack,) air moves up towards the leading edge, and
 air also flows downwards off of the trailing edge. The air which
 flows downwards behind the wing keeps moving downwards, and so the
 rear half of the wing controls the angle of the downwash, while the
 leading edge has little effect. (In aerodynamics, this is called the 
 "Kutta Condition.") In a cambered wing at zero AOA, the rear half of 
 the wing behaves as an airfoil with positive AOA. On the whole, the 
 cambered airfoil BEHAVES as if it has a positive AOA, even though the 
 geometrical angle of attack is zero.

- A properly shaped airfoil gives increased lift because the air on the 
 upper surface moves faster than the air on the lower? MISLEADING

 Not entirely wrong. This is only half the story. A properly
 shaped airfoil gives increased lift because the airflow does not
 easily "detach" from the upper surface, so the upper airflow can 
 generate lift even at large angles of attack and at low aircraft 
 speeds. A sheet of plywood makes a poor wing because the airflow will 
 "detach" from the upper surface of the wood when the sheet is tilted 
 more than a tiny bit. This is called "stall", and it causes the upper 
 surface of the wing to stop contributing a lifting force. A properly 
 designed wing must spread the net deflection of air widely across its 
 upper leading surface rather than concentrating all the deflection at 
 its leading edge. Hence, the upper surfaces of most wings are 
 designed with the curvature which avoids immediate flow-detachment and 
 stall. The shape of wings does not create lift, instead it only
 avoids stall.

- The "Newton" explanation is wrong because downwash occurs BEHIND the 
 wing, where it can have no effects? Downwash can't generate a lifting
 force? INCORRECT.

 Wrong, and silly as well! The above statement caught fire on the
 sci.physics newsgroup. Think for a moment: the exhaust from a rocket
 or a jet engine occurs BEHIND the engine. Does this mean that
 action/reaction does not apply to jets and rockets? Of course not.
 It's true that the exhaust stream doesn't directly push on the inner
 surface of a rocket engine. The lifting force in rockets is caused
 by acceleration of mass, and within the exhaust plume the mass
 is no longer accelerating. In rocket engines, the lifting force 
 appears in the same place that the exhaust is given high velocity:
 where gases interact inside the engine.

 And with aircraft, the lifting force appears in the same place that
 the exhaust (the downwash) is given high downwards velocity. If a 
 wing encounters some unmoving air, and the wing then throws the air 
 downwards, the velocity of the air has been changed, and the wing will 
 experience an upwards reaction force. At the same time, a downwash- 
 flow is created. To calculate the lifting force of a rocket engine, 
 we can look exclusively at the exhaust velocity and mass, but this 
 doesn't mean that the rocket exhaust creates lift. It just means that
 the rocket exhaust is directly proportional to lift (since the exhaust
 velocity and the lifting force have a common origin.) The same is 
 true with airplane wings and downwash. To have lift at high 
 altitudes, we MUST have downwash, and if we double the downwash, we 
 double the lifting force. But downwash doesn't cause lift, instead 
 the wing's interaction with the air both creates a lifting force and 
 gives the air a downwards velocity (by F=MA, don't you know!)

 /wing/airfoil.html 
Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com .

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email.