Subject:      Re: Newton
From:         "John R. Johnson" <john@siu.edu>
Date:         1996/08/26
Message-Id:   <Pine.SOL.3.91.960826093932.1496E-100000@reliant>
References:   <321CEA59.58F8@calmvs.ercb.gov.ab.ca>, <4vkh2k$22g@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
X-Sender:     john@reliant
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Organization: Southern Illinois University - Carbondale
Mime-Version: 1.0
Newsgroups:   rec.aviation.student


There is a great deal of confusion about how lift is generated.  There
is an particularly significant confusion about what "Newton" means when
contrasted with "Bernoulli."

Let me first give you a little background about me.  I am 58 years old.
I started flying when I was a teenager in the early fifties.  I got my
first real pilots license in 1956 while I was a student in Aeronautical
Engineering at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
I have designed several airplanes, at least one of which has been built
in fairly large numbers.  I did the aerodynamic work for LaMar Steen on
the Skybolt.  LaMar did the structures work.

Now, definitions first:

Newton Explanation:  This is an explanation of lift using the basic
action/reaction principles of Newtonian Physics.  These explanations are
quite correct and do explain the lift produced by a wing or the thrust
produced by a propellor.  Both of these problems are similar in all
their essentials, differing only is the more esoteric elements like
interference from previous passages, and local velocities through the
air.

Bernoulli Explanation:  This is an explanation of lift using the energy
transer concepts of Bernoulli.  He stated that the energy content of a
packet of gas is constant unless energy is either added or removed from
the packet.  The energy can be either dynamic or potential ( due to
static pressure ) and the sum is constant.  This says then, that if we
speed the packet up, the static pressure must decrease accordingly.
This effect can be observed and does indeed happen.

The lift produced by a wing is a product of differences in pressure
created between the upper surface and the lower surface of the wing. The
higher pressure below the surface tends to force the wing in the
direction of the lower pressure above the surface creating "lift." In
doing so, some air is forced downward creating the "reaction" to the
"action" of lift.  The quantity of air forced downward and its resulting
velocity is such that the product of the mass and accelleration of the
air forced down exactly equals the product of the mass and accelleration
of the aircraft upwards.  In level flight, this accelleration of the
airplane exactly balances the accelleration downward usually called
"gravity."  We will defer for elsewhere the highly esoteric argument
about the existence of a "force of gravity" and such other topics that
would only add to the extant confusion.

The real confusion comes about when we try to explain WHY the pressure
is lower on the upper surface.  There is no question but that it is
lower. For low angles of attack the pressure difference is approximately
linear with changes in angle of attack.  The energy required to create
this difference in pressure is considerable and increases as the angle
of attack and the resulting pressure difference increases.  This energy
required to produce the lift we desire appears to the airplane as a
source of "drag." We call this "drag" due to the production of "lift" by
the term "induced drag.'  This is to distinguish it from the "profile or
parasite drag" which is the "drag" that results from what is essentially
the "friction" of the air with the surfaces of the aircraft.

Since "induced drag" depends on the pressure difference between the
surfaces and total "lift" is a function of this local pressure
difference and the area of the lifting surface and the "velocity"
through the air,  "induced drag" gets smaller as we go faster.  This
happens because, when we go faster we accellerate more air downward in
the same time.  Since the mass times the accelleration of the air is a
constant equal to the mass of the aircraft time gravity, moving more air
means the mass increases so the accelleration can decrease to give the
same lift!  Whew ... When the accelleration of the air downward
decreases, we can reduce the pressure difference for the same lift.  We
do this by decreasing the "angle of attack."  This is controlled by the
fore and aft movement of the control.  That is the reason we say "pitch
determines speed." Every "angle of attack" has a unique "velocity" where
the resulting "lift" is correct.

The "Bernoulli Effect" is usually utilized to explain the lower pressure
on the upper surface.  This explanation serves for some people and does
not serve so well for others.  The explanation does NOT change what is
going on around the wing.  It is merely an attempt to describe it in a
way you can visualize.  We are describing basic physical principles that
obey natural laws.  These laws do NOT depend on our understanding of
them. All explanations are equally valid, although some may come closer
to the actual underlying reality!  The basic "bernoulli" explanation says
that the upper surface of the airfoil is longer than the lower.  Packets
that were adjacent in front of the wing want to be adjacent behind the wing
also, so the ones going over the top of the wing have to hurry to catch
up with their friends passing below the wing.  This increases the
dynamic pressure and caused the static pressure to decrease, making the
pressure lower above the wing and generating "lift." I have never been
able to understand why these packets of air have such an affinity for
each other that they speed up on their own to lower the pressure, so I
personally favor the "Newton" explanation for lift.

In the "Newton" explanation you can visualize the wing as a surface
moving through the air.  If you incline the surface ( give it an angle
of attack ) it will push some air out of the way as it goes along.
The air beneath the surface is pushed together as the surface moves
downward in its passage.  This increases the pressure beneath the
surface.  Above the surface something very different is happening. The
surface is moving away from the air that was there making an empty area.
With no air in the area the static pressure is extremely low.
Immediately air molecules start to be pushed toward the top of the wing
because of the low pressure in the hole, and the relatively high
pressure of the undisturbed air above the wing.  The pressure never gets
all the way back to ambient because of the pressure difference that must
exist to cause air particles to accellerate toward the void left by the
surface moving downward.  Of course, this accelleration toward the hole
left by the wing applies in ALL directions so the wing is also
accellerated upward by this resulting pressure difference.  This says
that the pressure observed depends on how much the air molecules have to
be accellerated to reach the vicinity of the top of the surface.  This
would indicate that the pressure would be lowest where the curvature of
the upper surface is the greatest.  This is indeed observed when the
pressure distribution is measured around a surface in the wind tunnel.
All of the air accellerated downward to fill the hole left behind when
the wing moves forward continues downward after it has passed and makes
its contribution to the total mass and accelleration of the air that is
the reaction that matches and balances our "action" of lift.

The greater the angle of attack, the more accelleration has to be
imparted to the air molecules to stay close to the surface, to the
greater the difference in pressure required to provide this accelleration,
and the greater the lift for any given surface area.  Also, the greater
the induced drag produced by the forces required to create the hole in the
air in the first place.

This explanation is somewhat simplified and much less quantitive and
technical than the explanation from the courses I used to teach.  I hope
it is simple and NOT simplistic.

John
