Why does Steve go by the nickname Kent? 

 Why the heck do I go by the nickname of 'Kent' on the net? 
An explanation by Steven Lincoln "Kent" O. Mohundro

 (See, no resemblance) 

 For much of my life, I've been a fan of Superman. You know - 
 The Last Son of Krypton, The Man of Steel, The Metropolis Marvel, The Man 
 of Tomorrow, Kal-El, Clark Kent. In recent years, I've felt an 
 affinity for the Clark Kent aspect of Superman's character. 
 Clark Kent is a crusading journalist, wanting to right wrongs and help 
 the average person. Same goes for me, though the career in journalism 
 has barely begun. Even without his powers, Clark Kent is a writer that 
 can move people, cause people to change their ways. 
 Clark Kent is also concerned with winning the woman of his dreams - in 
 this case Lois Lane - as himself. The human, Clark Kent. Complete with 
 his failings and successes. Someone mortal and realistic. This is how I 
 try to make friends. If they are unable to accept me the way I am, with 
 my minuses (talking too much) and plusses (puns) then I'm not going to put 
 up a front as someone I'm not.

 In March of 1993, I began playing on a MUSH (Multi-User Shared 
 Hallucination - an online roleplaying environment) that had the 
 long-running DC Comics series Legion of Super-Heroes as a theme. This 
 place was called LegionMUSH . 
 (It is now no longer in existance) On the game, I decided to play the 
 character Kent 
 Shakespeare , a member of the older Legion team. Playing the same 
 character through December of the same year, I became known by many of 
 the friends I made on LegionMUSH as Kent. Of course now I've switched to 
 Brin Londo and eventually Loomis, but some old nicknames stick. 
 On TooMUSH ][, TooMUSH ]I[, Werewolves of London MUSH, TooMUSH 
 IV, Too V ("Just TooMUSH"), Too VI and Too VII, I picked 'Kent' 
 (or more recently 'Richard Kent') as my @name, as most people I know on 
 the net continue to know me as the character. And it'll probably stick 
 for some time in the future.

 And of course there's the DC Comics character Kent Nelson, aka Doctor 
 Fate, but he has little influence over my life. I try not to trust in 
 fate of any kind too much, though I am a closet romantic. Too many 
 romantic comedies or something...

 ABODE |
 who? | by... | folks |
 mush! | LSH vol. 4