Dream 

Dec 16, 2018  

Geniuses gathered in underground complex

I'm walking with a group, far out on a logging road in maple forest.  (For 
me, a group usually represents my collection of personalities.)  My 
daughter Lillian is about four, and runs far ahead.  (Lillian in most 
dreams seems to represent myself as child, or also my unleashed 
creativity.)  She disappears.

We find that she's gone into a concealed cave in the side of a steep hill 
covered with trees, leaf mulch.  A tiny cleft hidden behind leaf-piles 
leads to a large dry cave with a flat floor, wooden shelves, a ladder 
leading up to a ceiling hatch.  

The cave is familiar, I've been there ?long ago? (in other dreams?), but 
earlier it had been wide open, not concealed as a hidden cleft in the 
hillside, only findable by little kids.  (Hmmm, DEC-10 colossal cave?  
Everyone on the 1977 system discovered "Advent," but this time it's hidden 
away from the users? )

I'm confused in the dream, and ask, why did Lillian go here?  An answer 
appears: SHE WAS FOLLOWING THE KITTEN!  The small cat is now high up in 
the empty-bookshelf-wall of the cave.  Everyone now has to pet the kitty.  
But behind the cat, the shelf has no rear wall.  There's light back there, 
and voices.  I find a way behind the shelf to that "separate world," (by 
climbing the ladder?  A gap between shelves?  Unclear.)

Back there is a very wide room with low ceiling, low half-walls, knots of 
people working on various projects.  Fluorescent lights and tile floors 
like a tech company (resembles interior of Paul Allen computer museum.)  
I'm shown one of the projects, and they're using ancient 1979 computers, 
VT100 monitors, even messing with core memory.  This is a billionaire's 
project.  He's been collecting geniuses, somehow attracting them all to 
come work in this secret underground complex (it stretches far out into 
the distance, a tunnel-warren beneath the forest.)

The "owner" who runs the complex is there: a stereotype software nerd, 
huge fat guy with long hair and stained tee-shirt, with billionaire 
resources.  A giant body, sitting on a ridiculously tiny swivel-chair, 
intensely working on something, typing furiously and won't look up.  He's 
there in the room, but doesn't participate, won't communicate.

I realize that these are all "software people."

In the dream I think the phrase: why, THEY DON'T EVEN KNOW MY STUFF!  The 
whole project has no physics at all, not even recent electronics.  
Nothing from the "weird world," no work on the R-device, no Converter 
slab, no linesplitting picotech or suppressor-electrostatics.  Compared to 
this large crowd of genius-level tech people, I'm some sort of 
hyper-genius.  More like: not even a human being, among this group I'm 
like an alien super-brain who grew up in a tech culture with entirely 
different knowledge-base.  Or, like a time traveler from centuries hence.  
(Or, just a 2018 person, talking to 1970s-era TTL-based mainframe 
experts.)  Just to tell them a piece of what I know, would require months, 
and then totally fry their minds, maybe even damage them.

I cannot talk freely here, the mismatch is too great.

Yet this "tribe of geniuses" has far higher individual IQs than I do; 
instead I only have a completely alternate toolkit, access to unusual 
resources, plus several physics breakthroughs which they have no hope of 
encountering.  They're not piped into the Great Library.  Instead they all 
believe that breakthroughs come about from randomly rearranging old puzzle 
pieces.  (They're all 'puzzle-solvers.'  No intuitive creativity or 
visionaries at all.  Their funding will only support 1970s-think and 
completely-known science.)

The dream fades off.  Will I work on their projects?  Why is the "owner" 
intent on collecting geniuses?  

I'm not aware of any goal here, other than "crowd of geniuses, all in one 
place, all concealed underground" while they're hoping for results to 
somehow emerge spontaneously.

Later when awake, I see that, it's again the "Wikipedia Fallacy," the idea 
that individuals are inferior to large groups (espeically inferior to 
large group of experts,) or the distorted belief that committees can ever 
produce breakthroughs, when really it's always individuals with 
superpowers who accomplish the miracles.

---

Awake, I don't see any connection with anything I'm working on.  

Our physics company has no other mega-minds, nobody's 'collecting 
geniuses' in the waking world.  There's no billionaire software person. 
Perhaps the dream is all symbolic, but wo/any obvious meaning I can see.

It does smack of precognitive dreams I've had before.  

So, perhaps expect a "fat gamer-dude billionaire," tech-nerd collector-of- 
geniuses who might appear in my future, trying to recruit me to work on 
"comtemporary" (meaning '1975-scented') technology, when all my own 
unreleased inventions are actually more like Star Trek devices?  So, it's 
a warning dream, to avoid any "genius collective" who've unwittingly 
limited themselves to utterly conventional science while trapped in 
breakthrough-avoidance thinking.  Nope; Me I just need funding, plus no 
imposed limits on conceptual barriers I'm allowed to breach.  Give me a 
budget and then get out of the way. (Heh no symbolic "VT-100s & core 
memory!")

