Articles on "Electricity" . . . . WJ Beaty 

 SCIENCE HOBBYIST 

 GOOD STUFF 

 NEW STUFF 

 SEARCH 

 ARTICLES ABOUT "ELECTRICITY" 
 New Explanations, Alternate Mental Toolkit 
 William J. Beaty 
 Electrical Engineer, U. of Washington 

 Tweet this 

Jump down to Highly Recommended 
Books 
or Build-it Projects . 

What's the relation between Watts, Ohms, Amps, and Volts? 
 Memorizing facts? That's not learning. Tie it all together instead. 
Ohm's law and electrical energy.

 What Is "Electricity?" 
 There is a simple answer to this question. Really. Not the one you
expect, though.

What is Voltage? 
 What the heck is VOLTAGE? What the *HECK* is voltage? Charles Fort 
said that when investigating a circle you can start at any point.

 Electricity: Frequently-asked Questions (FAQ) 
Browse these Electricity Answers, or submit a new question. 

 Capacitor complaints 
 Why I never really understood capacitors... 

 How transistors REALLY work 
 Problems with traditional transistor explanations... 

 Explaining "electricity" visually 
 A simple classroom activity using red and green plastic sheets.
Here's a way to visualize Electric Current, "Static", and the electric
charge which creates both.

 Why three prongs? 
 Why do wall outlets have three holes? "Grounding" and safety. 

 Right Angle Circuitry 
 Do Lenz' Law and the Right Hand rule still work... after you've been 
turned INSIDE OUT by that greasy black Fog? 

 "Static Electric"
misconceptions 
 A list of things which gave me a warped view of Electrostatics. Once
I recognized their existence, I was able to fight free of them. 

 Speed of "Electricity"? 
Everyone is sure that charges flow in wires at nearly the speed of light. 
All the K12 books say so, and that many books can't be wrong,
can they? Ah, but science is not settled by voting. 

 Triboelectric
Series 
If a cat gets trapped in a clothes dryer full of nylon pantyhose, which
way do the electrons flow?

 Where does EM energy flow in a circuit?

 The schematic of a flashlight looks simple, but only because the
electromagnetic energy flow is invisible.

 How Scientists Define 
the word "Electricity" 
Quotes from J.C. Maxwell's "Treatise" and others. Maxwell says that 
electricity is not energy. So does Faraday.
Also Millikan, Einstein, and JJ. Thompson. The CRC Handbook agrees!

 Barriers to
Understanding Electricity 
 Twenty misconceptions which prevented me from understanding simple
electrical science as a student. Maybe they cause trouble for you as
well? 

 "Static" Electricity 
is really just high voltage. 
 Scuff on the rug, then measure your body voltage. Three Thousand 
Volts?!! 

 Electricity mistakes and 'nitpicking' 
also
 How SHOULD we teach Electricity? 
 My encounters with elementary-school electricity, and how I
started my "electricity debunking" articles.

 "Static" sparks 
Doorknob sparks and zapping yourself on the car door... and people who
suffer from an "electric shock" disease.

 The Electricity Map 
 How are batteries different than static cling? Perhaps this diagram
will "generate" some insights.

 If Voltage is 
Pressure 
 ...then how many pounds-square-inch is one volt?

 Which way does
'electricity' flow? 
 The direction of the current. 
Charge really flows from negative to positive, right? RIGHT???

 Electricity is not a form of energy 
 How can so many K12 texts and encyclopedias make a major mistake?

 What Is Charge? 
Even if we stop asking about "electricity," we still must ask about 
Charge.

 What Is Energy? 
Even if "electricity" isn't a form of energy, WHAT IS ENERGY? Is it like 
a substance, or is it just an abstract concept?

 Sparks and Lighting 
What would lightning look like if we could slow it down?

 How is "static"
different from "current?" 
 Not the usual answer found in most K12 textbooks!

 How is "current"
different from "net charge?" 
 This one goes with the article above.

 Sticky Electrostatics 
 Use sticky tape to demonstrate electric charge. 

Can current stay constant, yet voltage reverses? 
 Doesn't voltage always cause current? Not if we're talking about 
spinning flywheels made out of "electricity."

Tesla's Big Mistake 
 Why did physicists deride Nikola Tesla? What was really going on
in Tesla's mind? Some insights...

"Acoustimagnetoelectricism" 
A long rant about sound, work and electrical energy

 When currents DON'T shock 
 High current versus low current. The oomph of the zappth.

 LED explanation 
 How are Light Emitting Diodes like thermocouples and solar
cells? 

 Are Amperes"Fundamental?" 
Everyone learns about "Amps" but never remembers what a "Coulomb" is.
This is totally backwards.

 Flowing "static
electricity." 
If "static electricity" could flow along, would the world end? Maybe
not...

 Discussing Electrical
Energy 

I'm always getting into flamewars about this stuff...

 How should we
teach "electricity?" 
Doing something, rather than just whining. ;)

 Why "Electricity" is
Impossible to Understand 
Gigantic collection of thoughts on learning-barriers in electrical
education.

Electricity educational links collection 
Part of my Electronics Hobbyist page.

 ELECTRONICS HOBBYIST 
A whole large pageful of links for the electronics freak. Online 
discussion groups, schematic and project archives, etc.

 REFERENCES 
Don't trust what random strangers on the internet stay about electricity!
Instead read professional papers by PUBLISHED random strangers.

LOOKING FOR BOOKS? Try searching

amazon.com : 

 (try "science fair" too) 

 Build These Electrical Devices 

 Static Electricity Projects , all the High Voltage, low-current stuff in one place.

 Ultra-simple Electric
Generator 
Spin the magnet, light a bulb. The complement to the "Beakman Motor". 
Challenge: make the one run the other.

 Plasma Globes , make an "eye of the storm" using a tiny 
Tesla coil and a plastic bag of Argon gas. 

 3D E-field 
viewing bottle 
Actually SEE invisible electrostatic fields and magnetic fields by
harnessing the amazing powers of Baby Oil.

 Faraday Machine 
, a generator with no coils 
Spin some copper pipe-caps in mercury pools. Create huge electric 
currents.

 Plasma Globe with no vacuum
pump The Radio Shack "Eye of the Storm" device would be REALLY
impressive if it didn't need that glass globe... 

 Electrostatic
Loudspeakers 
by Mark Rehorst. No magnets, no magnetism, this speaker uses voltage-force.
 Almost like wiggling the air itself.

 VandeGraaff Generators 
Instructions for having fun with 500,000 volts, including 
 finding a cheap one ,
 plans sources , FAQ , 
 debug ...

 MAGLEV CRADLE 
Lifts a bar magnet from below. Use this to perpetrate a Room Temperature
Superconductor hoax?

Your own picoammeter . 
If you already have a digital voltmeter, use it in heretical fashion:
as a nano-amp meter, even measure picoamps. 

 Ball Lightning plasma in your microwave oven 
Demonstrate the 'Maser Theory' of Ball Lightning formation

 Ridiculously
sensitive charge detector 
 Build this simple circuit and detect miniscule levels of electric
charge at large distances. Befuddle onlookers with the the "mysterious
voice commands" trick by holding it and scuffing your shoes on a rug.

 The Duluc Drypile 

A "battery" with so many cells that Electrostatic effects appear.

 Dangerous experiments
with a big capacitor bank 
Nobody died from simply reading this. But stay away from actually 
performing any of these demos.

 Acid/Base Goldenrod
secret 
Use a battery to draw red lines on wet yellow paper

 High Powered Ultrasound 
Shatters water into a fine mist. Collect some in a bowl. Probe it with 
high voltage, see what happens.

 ELECTROSTATIC
GENERATOR , Kelvin's Thunderstorm" An electrostatic generator based
on dribbling water. Also see the INLINE VERSION 

 ELECTROSTATIC MOTOR
made from plastic pop bottles. 
Who says "static electricity" must remain static, or that it's useless and
feeble?

 ELECTROSTATIC
GENERATOR , a simple one 
A simple device which can be used to power the pop-bottle motor.

 Hints for
electrostatic device construction 
Building 500,000 volt devices in your basement? Avoid these pitfalls.

 Solving Humidity
Problems 
Egor! Activate the Dehumidifier Array!

 ARRAY
ELECTROMETER 
Build this and SEE electrostatic fields! 

 VISIBLE CURRENT 
Build this moving-LEDs device which makes the flowing charges visible in 
wires. Wouldn't "electricity" be easier to understand if you could SEE it 
moving? 

 Incredibly easy way to
make a 100-amp cable .
 Around the world, the physics teachers look at this and say
"Doh!" 

 Threadlike streams 
of electrostatic wind 
Play with these strange "threads" of high-speed, high-voltage air.

 Rotating disk
device makes e-fields visible 

Idea for dangerous whirling mechanisms which reveal invisible field
patterns.

 HIGHLY RECOMMENDED BOOKS 

Books, but also one website. Paul F's circuit simulator does what I've 
always dreamed about: uses the "charge flow" concept to animate a complex 
circuit without needing any 
 hardware. The slow
charges move along, and the wires' surface charge appears as changing 
red and green!

Paul Falstad's Java circuit simulator 
 http://www.falstad.com/circuit/ 

 Since the 1980s, K12 textbook offerings have been improving. When I 
first started these articles in 1986 I could find no text that wasn't 
choked with mistakes and misleading concepts. But during the time I 
lectured on the problem to teachers in MA, the late Dr. Mel 
Steinberg at Smith College (also in MA) was working on a solution: Genecon 
generators and supercapacitors. His C.A.S.T.L.E. highschool curriculum, 
Capacitor-aided System for Teaching and Learning Electricity, is designed 
to directly attack typical student misconceptions in electricity.

A curriculum: 
 C.A.S.T.L.E Project 
 (also kit of parts ) 
Steinberg/Wainwright/Nelson 
For student guide zipfile, see Pasco FTP site 

A textbook: 
 Electricity and Magnetism 
 ( also teacher's ed ) 
Camille L. Wainwright 
Prentice-Hall Science Explorer

A textbook: 

 Electrical Energy and Circuit Design 
Science and Technology Concepts for Middle Schools 
STC/MS Project, Smithsonian / The National Academies

 MORE TECH 
BOOKS 

 ARTICLES LISTED BY POPULARITY 

 ALL ARTICLES ON WEBSITE 

 SITE MAP 

 /ele-edu.html 
Created and maintained by Bill
Beaty . Mail me at: .