Bill Beaty's "Weird Science" Update...

VOTE: FAR TOO MUCH TO COVER, so VOTE on where the thread should wander...

DO YOU HAVE QUESTIONS? save them up for Q&A at the end.

I still haven't written a book... but now I see I have no need, because
when reading my website, each user CREATES their own book. The darned
thing has grown so huge now, that people can spend hours wandering around
inside it. Every time they do, they stumble across a different variety of
stuff. This sure beats normal books, where the reader is lead by the nose
down a single pathway. I sure wish I knew how to make a living doing
this...

LISTENER VOTE: if I put my website on a CDROM, would you buy it, even
though the whole thing is already right there on the Internet for free? 
A local CDROM would be quite a bit faster to browse! (maybe do this
vote at the end of the show? If there is actual interest, I might even make a
press run of CDROMS.)

Current status of the "Hum"
 Not saying anything new, if you're already familiar.
 TWO suicides now.
 LF sounds recorded by Anders H and Lennart B. in Sweden (not always a mystery)

 If you are listening, please use the "report form" found at
 http://www.scienceclub.org/cgi-pvt/hum/humrpt.html, and the 0-9 range described
 /freenrg/humlev.txt

 Charlotte King hears FOGHORNS, they change before earthquakes, and
 a hyperbaric chamber did not shield them. (not sound)

 If you are in Seattle area, and hear the hum as being very loud, I'd like
 to invite you to a "weird science" meeting. If we get more than one person,
 perhaps we can see if the waves that you both hear are the same (which would
 PROVE that they come from an external source, and not from your own brain.)

 It still continues, unshieldable and unstoppable. One
 "hum-sufferer" reports an interruption in February. Perhaps the
 following topic holds a solution (..is the "Hum" caused by
 Einstein/Tesla spinwave military transmitters? Is it louder indoors
 because of "pyramid power" phenomena? Not MAGNETIC fields, but
 SPIGNETIC fields!) /hum/hum.html 

VOTE: do you hear the hum on camping trips? in your house at night?
Everywhere? See the hum rating list. /freenrg/humlev.txt

Russian scientists publicizing their spin-physics research.
 Alex Frolov and ????
 Einstein and Elie Cartan explored Torsion, or General Relativity, with a
 spacetime that not only bends and waves, but also spins.
 These so-called "Torsion Fields" might offer a scientific explanation
 of such things as telepathy, auras, 'pyramid power', earth-energy,
 astrology, levitation etc. But they are FTL, and so ignored by mainstream.

 Torsion is an organizing concept, a rallying-point 

 Currently there's a minor revival of amateur research into "Shape Effect" 
 and "power spots" going on. Use of old detectors, building new ones. Storm glass.
 Russians are translating their papers into english, and we 
 might soon see some VERY interesting books become available.
 (I talk about the "vortex detector" I've built, w/photos)
 /freenrg/tors/ 
[We're looking for volunteers to translate Russian papers to English!!]

An old build-it project: /freenrg/bindet.html binding-force anomaly detector 
Other /weird/const.html projects...

Report your Unusual Phenomena
 This archive is growing large. Ball-Lightning reports, electrified
 humans, waking up in the wrong universe, disappearing objects, 
 timewarps in your kitchen, etc. (Any "electric people" in seattle?
 Wanna come get your voltage measured?)
 http://www.halcyon.com/sciclub/cgi-pvt/unusual/unusual.html 
 /emotor/zapped.html 

Free energy devices
 Still no devices that everyone can build. Any experimenter who is
 successful will always hide it and try to drive up the selling price.
 If "space energy" is a living thing, then this is like enslaving your
 talented children. Since much comes from the "Muse", its like forcing your
 spouse into prostitution! Bad for one's health! :)
 Ego, greed, and self-aggrandizement have stopped nearly all progress
 towards successful harnessing of space-energy. They never learn. See
 /freenrg/prometh.txt 
 Also /freenrg/rules1.html 

 However, FINALLY one inventor is breaking all the paranoid
 secrecy rules by posting detailed experiments on his website!
 http://members.aol.com/JNaudin509/ 

 http://www.eskimo.com/~bilb/freenrgl/flist.html Free energy discussion,
also /freenrg/fnrg.html devices, and
 //weird/wener.html links

I'm just an effing SKEPTIC! /weird/wskept.html 
 (Some "skeptics" webpages are openminded. The magazine THE SKEPTIC (http://www.skeptic.com) is
 actually not bad at all (especially when compared to the intellectual
 bigotry that fills the other big Skeptical publication.)

Closed-mindedness of contemporary science, science heresies, lots of new
articles added.:
 /weird/wclose.html 

 New page: collected quotes: "Against Excessive Skepticism", use it as
 ammunition when dealing with those darned "Pathological Skeptics."
 /weird/skepquot.htm 

 The "Whistleblower Protection" groups have discovered Maverick Science!
 Any "dissident" researcher who dares to study a "taboo" subject will
 have their career destroyed. But this is the same as when a scientist
 speaks out against abuses committed by powerful organizations. It
 makes no difference whether the vengeful response is comitted by
 corporate flunkies on the one hand, or "Proper Skeptics" on the
 other. No conspiracy is required (just like sexism and racism, the
 people who are hateful and intolerant of unconventional thinkers don't
 need to "conspire".) The actions of Skeptics are revealed to be
 "Suppression of intellectual Dissent" and the "WHistleblower"
 organizations are offering guidance to any scientists who are attacked for
 breaching the Taboos. See Brian Martin's articles, sites, LETTER TO A
 DISSIDENT SCIENTIST, and STRATEGIES FOR DISSENTING SCIENTIST. (If they
 really are out to get you, and if you accuse them of this, they will
 loudly proclaim that you are a paranoid lunatic! Twisted, eh?)

 Marcello Truzzi, one of the founders of Committee for the Scientific
 Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal (CSICOP & Skeptical
 Inquirer) is writing excellent articles AGAINST the "pseudoskeptics"
 who disparage and belittle ideas without ever testing them. "Skepticism"
 originally meant openmindedness, but those who are bigoted against
 unusual ideas have now usurped the name "Skeptic". See his articles
 "Reception of Unconventional Claims in Science" and "Pseudoskeptics"

 Humans are just evolved animals? The only way to succeed is Darwin's
 way, to COMPETE and be a WINNER, not a LOSER? But the tit-for-tat
 algorithm from Artifical Life researchers, and "Iterated Prisoner's 
 Dillema" from the science of Game Theory are wiping the floor with
 competition-based Darwinism! A Major heresy! Darwinism is WRONG.
 Computer simulations demonstrate that evolution is NOT competition,
 it is collaboration. Symbiosis and Self-interested altruism wins in
 the long run, and self-aggrandizing "winners" do not. The rat race is
 a human invention, and Life is NOT a Zero Sum Game. Life is not a
 boxing match, where the strong defeat the weak. Life is a
 mountaineering expedition, where competitive behavior between the team
 members is stupid and dangerous.
 /weird/hevolv.html 

COLD FUSION 
Les Case, the Wired article, I.E. magazine, LENR low energy ,
CANR chemically assisted CETI not getting large heat anymore, one
particular good batch of beads. Japan funding gone.
Blacklight Power and shrunken hydrogen. Los Alamos got Tritium detected.
 /weird/wcf.html 

ANTIGRAVITY

 NASA researchers now have money to attempt replication of Podkletnov's
 superconducting antigravity disk. Their 6" disk failed. Somebody
 should hire Dr. Podkletnov, since the University of Tampere kicked him
 out when he publicized his "taboo" physics research. Like
 parapsychology and cryptozoology (nessie, bigfoot), Antigravity
 research is a big Taboo in the physical sciences, and reputable
 scientists dare not touch it. (NASA is on thin ice in dealing with it
 at all!) Yet Dr. R.Goddard got his start by pursuing antigrav devices!
 ESJ has a new website. Hal Fox started a journal called:
 /freenrg/antigrav.html 

TESLA: BALL LIGHTNING

 No earthshaking discoveries, but there are a number of "microwave oven
 recipes" for producing something akin to "BL." 
 /tesla/ballgtn.html 

UPCOMING CONFERENCES.

 EXOTIC RESEARCH in Seattle in march. I'll be speaking on how to 
 REALLY understand electricity.
 EXOTIC RESEARCH in Seattle March 25-28

 THe Society for Scientific Exploration has their 18th annual meeting
 in Albuquerque NM June 3-5. I'm thinking of going. The SSE is what
 CSICOP should have been: a group which actually performs scientific
 investigations. The pseudoskeptics hate the SSE, since the SSE 
 doesn't pre-judge the validity of claimed phenomena, and they publish
 papers that sometimes debunk, but also often SUPPORT the existence of
 unusual phenomena. The SSE is a small organization, and they could
 sure use a lot more members. Go to www.jse.com and sign up!
 SSE 18th Annual Meeting , June 3-5 Albuquerque NM

((((((((((((((((((((( ( ( ( ( (O) ) ) ) ) )))))))))))))))))))))
William J. Beaty SCIENCE HOBBYIST website
billb@eskimo.com http://www.amasci.com
EE/programmer/sci-exhibits science projects, tesla, weird science
Seattle, WA 206-789-0775 freenrg-L taoshum-L vortex-L webhead-L