SCIENCE HOBBYIST: Ideas, additions 

-->

 UP TO MAIN | 

 AWARDS | 

 GOOD STUFF | 

 SEARCH 

 SCIENCE HOBBYIST: 
new articles & updates 

New stuff, scroll down .
Also try: 

 Files listed by 
popularity &nbsp
 Site Map 

RECOMMENDED CDROM: " The
Amateur Scientist ," from Scientific American magazine. 
All 810 columns by C.L.Stong, Jearle Walker, Shawn Carlson. ~1000 amateur 
projects, pp2100. $24.99 

 Web 

 amasci.com 

The History Channel show "A Machine to Die For: Quest for Free Energy" got 
 posted 
on Youtube . See Joe Newman in action, see what Keelynet's Jerry 
Decker actually looks like. Me, I'm in there in a couple of places, with 
Square Wheels toy 
and with the high-volt Jefimenko Sky-antenna simulation. And the film's 
youtube 
thumbnail photo shows me in my garage during my Massive Beard period! 

Also 
see some Eric Kreig comments 

 9/24/2012 

Just a few days left in the Let's Build A Goddamn Tesla 
Museum funding drive. Help get the word out .
The perk at the $200 donor level is a micro tesla coil !

Recurring (recursiving!) late night self-referential philosophical 
musings: anyone who has been caught using the fallacy of 
 Poisoning the Well is no longer trustworthy, all their 
further arguments are suspect, and anything they say is merely a 
dishonest attempt to delude us! :)

 8/21/2012 Added What Is A Tesla Coil? 

 8/7/2012 Famous once again. Randall linked to my Cavitation 
Bottle Smash video from his XKCD WHAT IF: 
Glass Half Empty . 75K extra views, lots of comments.

 06/27/2012 
Updated the 
UNUSUAL PHENOMENA REPORTS section, hundreds of new stories, vanishing 
toilet paper, people teleporting out of lethal accidents, many electric 
humans and Ball Lightnings. Even some twice-arriving dopplegangers

 Pressure of unopened cola 

A coke bottle. When you shake it, 
does 
the pressure rise? Well, there's an easy way to detect pressure changes. 
Hold a plastic bottle by the cap, then whack it by whipping your knuckles 
across the side in a glancing blow. It rings like a bell. The pitch is 
determined by fluid mass and tautness of the plastic: by gas pressure. 
If the pressure rises, the pitch will rise. I go and get a sealed warm 
soda. Whack it a few times to remember the pitch of the bell-tone. Now 
shake it a bit, let the bubbles clear, then whack it again. The tone 
doesn't change. Shaking it didn't alter the pressure. Next, if I put it 
in the fridge for 15min, then whack/shake/whack, I hear the pitch go 
down. Shaking it DECREASED the pressure. As expected! After all, 
opening a warm soda releases a big burst of pressure, but not with cold 
soda ...so a soda bottle cooling in the fridge is in the process of 
dissolving its high-pressure CO2 pocket. Shaking it up will provide a 
large surface area, so the gas can suddenly go into solution. Pressure 
falls, bell-tone goes lower. (And if you test an hour-chilled bottle 
that's been warming on the counter for a few minutes, you should find the 
opposite result.)

 Plasma w/injected carbon 
When the multiple Tesla coils were set up at Hackerbot, I brought my argon 
tank and filled roundbottom flasks. Placed on a topload, arcs 
went capacitively through the flask and through the argon. Amazingly 
we got some ball-lightning effects as arcs passed through the "stopper" 
made of paper towel 
in the neck of the flask, extended out into the air, and set the 
paper on fire. Plasma w/carbon doping, doncha know. The streamers in the 
air had all sorts of glowing 
beads moving along them (a bit hard to see in this photo.) Aha, 
here's some video showing the

mixture of flames and plasma streamers .
Argon flasks are a convenient way to position some stable fire+carbon 
in the center of 
a tesla coil streamer. 

PS, OT, if I use yellow-green fluorescent highlighter to draw some anatomically 
correct bones on my hand , they're almost invisible in normal 
lightning. Then a high-power ultraviolet LED flashlight freaks people out 
even under bright room lighting. (safety note: a small percentage of 
people are allergic to fluorescein dye in these markers, so test first 
before you cover your entire body with fluorescent ink!)

 09/01/2007 
Old news, me at Burning Man '07, where I sat daily in Center House trying 
to put tiny flakes of TERRIFYING LETHALLY DANGEROUS DRY ICE in drinks of 
passersby. Also handling it wo/gloves while chewing up chunks and spewing 
CO2 plumes out my nostrils. (Sideshow fire-eaters think I'm insane.)
A couple of
 photos. 

 TURN AIRPLANE VIDEOS INTO 3D HYPERSTEREO: II 

While flying down to a conference I was wondering if cosmic ray 
bombardment of brain tissue will again stimulate hypercreativity like it 
has in the past. Nope. Nope, no weird ideas spontaneously appearing. As 
soon as I thought this, immediately a simple and astounding idea 
flashed into my head. You know hyperstereo trick mentioned below? A 
stereo screen playing two delayed versions of footage shot from a moving 
vehicle? Well, why not just open two browser windows and play the same 
video of slowly crawling landscape, but play/pause them to give just the 
right delay. Then view them with crossed eyes for 3D. DOH!!!! Try it 
right now, NO CUSTOM SOFTWARE NEEDED! I'd been looking right at this idea 
for months, but the simple trick didn't occur to me until my head was 
being penetrated by naturally-occurring ionizing radiation. Pretty cool, 
eh? 

PS 
I wonder how many of us invented "Portal" back when we were kids? I doubt 
I'm the only one.
Imagining bracelets where you stick your hand in, and your hand comes out 
through a different bracelet? Put a pair around your neck, then 
take your head off and place it on the table. Two big ones on the floor 
would create a "zero-G bed," and one on the ceiling would make an infinte 
hole. Would you die of thirst while falling, or would you tend to wander 
to the side and get beat to death by hitting the edges? Throw a small one 
in mile-deep ocean, use 
the other as an energy source, or a weapon, ...or a reaction engine to 
propel 
a bunch of similar bracelets to the moon. Make a vacuum chamber with 
really clean 'high orbit vacuum.' Don't drop one in the sun, or 
soon the sun will be half its size, with a second sun orbiting 93M miles 
away.

 10/10/2011 
 MOTOR CHALLENGE: making fake O/U motors 
All these " Mylow Motor "-style hoax videos. But never an 
 interesting fake. 

Last year on SED I was thinking about this and 
wondered, could I build a magnet-powered spinner? A real one, where the 
magnets got weaker, but the "motor" ran for a couple of minutes?
I don't think anyone has tried doing this. 
Two possible methods come to mind: 

Method 1:

 Let two or more magnets N and S poles attract together.
 While the gap between is smallest, slightly demagnetize one or both poles.
 Let them coast apart by inertia, then repeat

Method 2:

 Let the alike-poles of two or more magnets push progressively apart.
 While the gap is largest, slightly demagnetize one or both poles.
 Let them coast together by inertia, then repeat

Set up a rotating carrier to repeat the process. Probably the 
larger gap of the repulsion version of #2 is easier. 

In other words, weaken the magnets at the bottom of the PE energy hill. 
Such a wheel should spin faster and faster. On each cycle the magnets 
interact first to give the wheel a strong kick. But during the trip 
back out, their force is weaker, so the opposite kick doesn't cancel out 
and stop the wheel. The wheel spins against friction. Magnets are 
the fuel! :) Of course they can only supply a few joules total.

 11/08/2011 Got picked up by 

Phil Plait's Bad Astronomy , then by 
 APOD Astronomy Picture of the 
Day on my idea that Leaping Sundogs might 
be caused by thunderstorm electrostatics.

 TURN AIRPLANE VIDEOS INTO 3D HYPERSTEREO 
 People on Make blog talking about 

XKCD hyperstereo video system. Hmmmm... just do it with software. I shoot L-R stereo pairs out 
the plane windows during trips, and I've wished for a piece of sw to 
convert my videos of slowly-passing landscape into realtime 3D. Think: 
if your cross-country plane 
trip is at 500MPH, that's 730fps, so if you play two copies of your video 
with a 1-sec delay, that creates a hyperstereo pair where your eyeballs 
are 730ft apart. Basically YOUR HEAD IS 1000 FEET WIDE. No problems with 
camera alignment, just hold the camera still while shooting. Position the 
two video playback frames adjacent on your monitor. If the footage was 
shot from the other side of the plane, then view it in crosseye instead of 
straight. Or do a red/blue anaglyph process, then prevent inside-out 
images by having a checkbox for L-R swap. Add a slidepot to move 
fast-forward or reverse in the video. That slides your giant head from 
side to side over the tiny landscape. Add another slidepot to vary the 
time delay between the two images (to vary the size of your Big Giant Head.)

 07/04/2011 Got picked up by FORGETOMORI.COM on my idea that Leaping Sundogs might 
be caused by thunderstorm electrostatics. Certain types of UFOs are 
explained. Foster & Hallett found that suspended ice micro crystals 
respond to .5V/mm electrostatic fields, and become totally aligned at only 
10V/cm field strength. Ice crystals coming near a 9V battery cannot help 
but line up like iron filings! Also picked up by The Anomalist 

 06/25/2011 
 Updated UNUSUAL PHENOMENA REPORTS .
Lots of vanishing objects, Ball Lightning, hypnagogic paralysis, and funny 
weather. And the usual huge population of "Electric People."

06/09/2011 

Video: Turn DigiKey catalogs into mushrooms! 

 more vids 

 future vids 

(A proposal only, not a complete project.) 
As the project becomes more real, I'll put the instructions
on this mushroom webpage .

 03/18/2011 
A new section here: 
Indie Animation Archive . As with physvids , basically
I imported my YT playlist into html.

 02/20/2011 Usta be you'd get slashdotted
 or MeFi 'd. Nowdays you get 
 Cracked.com ded! Trafficwaves 
 vid 
just saw 145K hits 
in a couple of days because of one extremely brief mention buried on the 
 second page of this one on Cracked below. It also spread to 
reddit, i-am-bored, facebook. Wow, what would that have traffic number 
been if it was an obvious link at 
the top of the Cracked article? Cockbite! 

 6 things that daily annoy you explained by science (p2) 

 01/25/2011 Another video collection: Flir thermal IR cameras In 
particular see the " GasFindIR " stuff 
about halfway down the page. These cameras see gasoline as black ink with 
smoke pouring off! Finally, a thermal camera which actually detects 
...human methane. 

CNN: Online Science Competition! 
Google announces Global Science Fair . 
Grand prize is a $50,000 scholarship, 10 days 
in Galapagos with NatGeo, several others. You do need to be a fulltime 
student 13y to 18y.

 12/15/2010 
The coilgen science project now 
has a 
 FAQ : building hamster generators, wind power, or just 
vastly increasing the feeble half-volt AC output.

 Braaaaaaaaainstorm: 
ant-trail engineering. I once interfered with an ant trail by placing 
a couple feet of masking tape right along the trail location (after 
blowing the ants off to the side.) Hours later the trail had reconnected, 
and ants were flowing along the tape strip. DOH! That's a portable 
ant trail! What would have happened if I thought to peel it off and 
put it back reversed? The "direction to food" and "direction home" scent 
codes would be all screwy. Or I could form a square of the tape, pour 
some captured ants onto it, and they'd rush in circles as they look for 
food that's always just ahead. Make more of the "trail tape" and write my 
name in ant patterns.

 11/16/2010 
Added lots more to Odd Physics videos ,
including successful replication of anti-chirp time reversed water 
fountain.

 CRAZY EYES 
Scott Adams is talking about "crazy eyes" over on 
 Dilbert blog. 
I've done that! 
Often when I'm working for long periods under polyphasic sleep schedule, 
and getting 
into that hypomanic idea-spewing region, I'll scare myself by looking in 
the mirror: my eyes are WIDE. Eyelids not touching iris, I can see the 
scelera above and below. Crap, is that how everyone sees me?!
Yep. But my eyes feel normal at the 
time, if a bit cold. Crazy Eyes is automatic. wtf. 

 If I next watch the mirror and squint my eyes on purpose; forcing them 
to look 
like a normal person's eyes, then they feel warm and half-closed as if I'm 
sleepy. But in the mirror, the crazy eyes are now gone. HEY that's 
it! 
While I'm in high creativity "flow mode," I'm really really awake, 
and my perceptual world is embedded in my entire peripheral visual field, 
and not just staring narrowly with central vision. Perhaps it's akin to 
looking frightened. Fear does the same. (In order to detect approaching 
dangers, fear makes us pull our eyelids back so they don't block 
peripheral vision as much.) When terrifed you don't necessarily roll your 
eyes, but when 
your eyelids are that wide open, any glancing to the side will expose the 
whites of your eyes. VERY noticeable to onlookers. (So when I then go out 
in public, I have to make sure to intentionally squint and pretend to look 
sleepy!) 

 Also, I've noticed that if I can manage to adopt "crazy eyes" for a 
considerable period, sometimes it kicks in and pushes me into the 
high-creativity mental state. This seems to be akin to the "frowning makes 
you angry" phenomenon. Even better than simply widening your eyes, is to 
walk outdoors with fixed gaze at the horizon, while "staring" at objects 
all throughout your peripheral vision. You put yourself into the Omnimax 
Steady-cam visual world. Then you don't have to attempt to think outside 
the box, since you *are* outside the box. So just start jabbering ideas 
into your mp3 recorder while walking down the sidewalk ...and watch all 
the oncoming pedestrians crossing the 
street to avoid you. crazy eyes! 

Sheer speculation: ancient tribes might survive better if their members 
had evolved to display certain unconscious instinctual facial expressions. 

 For example, the look of feverish sickness says "stay away, infection 
danger." If instead all the sick tribal members looked perfectly normal, 
your whole tribe might get infected. They couldn't avoid the sick one. So 
also the wide-eyed crazed/fearful expression warns your community to all 
back off and avoid any unexpected behavior from Crazy Eyes person. The 
automatic facial sign would evolve, but also our visual sensitivity to 
those signs would increase. Rolling eye-whites look "scary," but at the 
same time, the genuine scary people become instinctually programmed to 
automatically display the wide-eyes look.

Imagine what might happen if ancient heavily-armed and mentally unstable 
humans didn't display any outward sign that they'd 
consumed large quantities of alkaloid plants or mushrooms or alcohol? 
...or they'd just gone 
without any sleep for two weeks?! Could be bad.
When I've put myself into an extreme creative state, I'll notice that my 
eyes feel cold. Wide open lids are exposing more eye surface. Nowdays I 
always notice this, and I think to myself "Yep, automatic tribe member 
craziness-warning system been activated again." 

 Polyphasic 
Sleep : it's the Ayahuasca version of "getting demented from staying up
all night working." Known users: Edison, Picasso, Tesla. 

10/29/2010 
Added months of messages to the Main Guestbook 

 I WATCH YOU LOOKING 
 Early last century William James noted that whenever two people meet, 
there are really six 
people present. 

There is each as he sees himself, each as the 
other 
person 
sees him, and each as he really is. Times two. 

James stopped too early though! :) 
There is also the false facade-self we each try to present to the other 
person (rather than the ones we really are, or the ones we believe we 
are.) So eight people total. RD Laing then discovered: since there is 
the version of 
you that the other person sees when they look at you, therefore if 
you can predict accurately how their perceptions of you differ from your 
desired facade, this knowledge lets you take appropriate small actions to 
tweak their viewpoint into perceiving the facade-self you wish to 
project. The actual facade is an imperfect version of the desired facade. 
So... ten people! 

 Then we have the 
 RD Laing spiral : you imagine that 
the other 
person is noticing you perceive a warped version of themselves, but the 
other person is smart enough to realize that you're trying to 
predict what you're seeing them 
see you see, so next they try to predict what you think they think you 
think they think you think that they're seeing. That way they can use this 
prediction and try to fool you into thinking that you've successfully 
fooled them into seeing you in the way that you wish, when in reality the 
fooler is being led on a merry chase by a devious opponent who correctly 
guessed their thinking. But also you suspect that this is 
happening! So you let them go on thinking that they've fooled you into 
imagining that you've fooled them. 

 HUH?!

In other words ...once the human brain has evolved mirror-neurons, you 
can point them at each other 
to form an infinite tunnel of repeated reflections. 

 8/25/2010 Just received my 
DIY electroluminescent lamp kit with conductive ITO glass and various 
Dupont EL inks. Now we'll see if Zinc Sulfide glow-paint works better 
than Zinc Sulfide t-shirt ink. And also make some EL wire 

 8/24/2010 
Added lots more to Odd Physics videos 
Someone successfully fired a propane smoke ring at a distant flame!
Also: DON'T SWALLOW (drinking liquid nitrogen.)

08/24/2010 
On frequent questions in the "traffic waves" sections, I added:

 Making empty spaces 
will slow everyone down! 
 Slowpokes should just 
get out of the fast lane. 

07/22/2010 
Does 'Amateur Science' pay? Well, I just checked, and see that I've made 
$110,000 from the website since 2004. Not enough to "quit your day job," 
but it pays for kids education and takes a big bite out of the rent.

 INVISIBILITY CLOAK 
When negative-index materials first were announced, I realized that I 
could make a cool optics exhibit for a science museum ...without using 
any (non-existent) negative-refraction materials. The key idea is to 
embed a 
low-refraction material within a sea of high-refraction material. Don't 
use 
exotic photonic crystals ...instead just do it under water, using 
bubbles. Or use water blobs placed witin heavy 
syrup, or in jello. A blob of water in some thick gelatine will have a 
lower I.R. than its surroundings. So try this:

Coat a small model of "stealth" aircraft with a layer of weak gelatine.
Immerse it in a small tank of very dense gelatine, and allow it to harden.
Now when viewed against a white background the aircraft should appear much 
smaller than it really is. That's the "cloaking" effect: where the axial 
rays still strike the hidden object, but off-axis rays are bent away, 
causing the object to optically shrink in size. If the effect is strong 
enough, a fairly huge object can appear as a tiny dust speck. 

01/08/2010 
 BLOG: I'm moving this page to 
Wordpress. By hand. Gah. But finally people can post comments, 
subscribe to feed, etc.

12/12/2009 
 VIDEOS: Odd Physics , a large
collection of vid embeds. Very cool and strange stuff I found on youtube 
over the years.

11/12/2009 
Yes, our hosting ISP 
eskimo.com just had major troubles. amasci.com was 
down for more than 24 hours.

 RUSSIAN WOODPECKER I always wondered what the transmitter 
antenna 
looked like for OTH megawatt broadband shortwave radar. It's HAARP, but 
built on a gigantic vertical wall! See photos of the defunct rusting 
 'Steelyard' Duga3 transmitter in Russia

11/07/2009 
 LIGHTNING AFFECTS 
SUNDOGS 

 Years ago I was explaining rainbow optics ...and also explaining 
thunderstorm dynamics. I stumbled across a strange idea: shouldn't the 
electrostatic fields in thunderstorms have a visible effect on rainbows? 
E-fields should slightly distort falling raindrops, causing the light 
distribution of a rainbow to change slightly. We should notice that a 
rainbow suddenly "flicks" during a lightning bolt, then slowly changes to 
its initial pattern as the e-fields build before another strike.

I just heard from LH 
and JB
 on youtube about three videos
apparently showing this in
action! But it's not rainbows. Instead it's suspended ice crystals or 
mist droplets 
condensing just above a rising thunderhead, brightly back-lit by
the sun. Take a look:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1IAGE9f0K1Q large leap

 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Z_-uK5Btik small 'object' 

 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sc9Ks6H3coY Malaysia 

 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cUcH3VClzUI 

 Rather than distortions of droplets, perhaps these are "
 sundogs" or 
parhelia light patterns caused by aligned ice crystals. A changing 
e-field could rotate all the ice plates or columns, causing the sundog to 
suddenly change shape and position. Or less likely,
perhaps some condensing droplets are changing size under e-field
influence (condensation rate of small droplets is known to be altered by 
strong electrostatic fields.) 

I just heard that relatively tiny e-field of 10V/mm will totally align 
suspended ice crystals. Storm fields are far stronger, so "leaping 
sundogs" should be quite common. See foster/hallett paper 
via Google Scholar search.

11/02/2009 
Brainstorm! The year 2012 ...it's the Mayan Y2K disaster! 
We think it's something special when our car odometer goes from 99,999 to 
100,000. But the 
Mayans 
weren't using base ten. 
"Just one 30-ton calender stone should be all anyone ever needs?" Yeah, 
right. They forgot that we gotta carve a new one every 5125 years. And all 
of the small local governments need copies of heiroglyphic codex notices 
and 
string-knot memos to make it official. What a pain. Worst case, the 
whole civilization comes to a stop because nobody can figure out how to 
write dates on new legal documents! Better buy a lot of beef jerky and 
 obsidian , 
then move way up into the hills until the disaster is over.

09/01/2009 
 TESLA'S RAY 
You've heard of Nikola Tesla's "Death Ray?" Well actually that was one 
of his later, more unimportant inventions.
There was another very different Ray which came first. It was 
birthed before 1892, and it formed the basis of many of his fantastic 
claims. It was an invention on par with the transistor, or the laser, but 
Tesla decided that it might destroy society, like giving knives to 
infants. The secret is now mostly lost, but fortunately he left many clues 
behind. Look at the art accompanying his 1899-era articles. 
Those may not be searchlights. 

12/03/2008 

Video: Evil Santa's Workshop '08 

 more vids 

 future vids 

Dorkbot's mutant toys workshop, making give-aways for Santarchy's Santacon 
2009. Barbies need octopus heads. 

08/06/2008 

Video: Dry ice music 

 more vids 

 future vids 

Dry ice CO2 gas pushes it instantly away from warm metal. Place it 
against a metal plate, and it howls. But the metal cools down and it stops. Here's a 
mechanical solution.

I KICK MYSELF!!! You know the physics-demo where you cause a thin mylar 
ring to 
fly by electrostatic repulsion? Rub a balloon on your head, then 
the mylar strip hovers high in the air? Well someone figured it out:
build a wand-shaped VandeGraaff generator. Probably the charged rubber 
band is enough. I was looking right at it, but didn't see it. That 
thing's now toy of the year, sold at 

Educational Innovations , Thinkgeek and 
elsewhere. Arrrrg.

09/06/2008 
TESLA-EXPERIMENTAL 
I was tired of seeing interesting Tesla science topics be thrown off the 
coilers' forums. I've finally got ambitious and started a new email 
forum: tesla-experimental 

EXAMPLE: 

How did Wardenclyffe broadcast a 100Hz Schumann frequency using a tens-KHz 
resonant transmitter? A 100Hz resonant coil would be far,far larger than 
the Wardenclyffe tower. Brainstorm: use a Tesla Coil as if the entire 
device were a HVDC power supply! "Discharge" your TC through a spark-gap 
to excite an external low-freq tank circuit. IT WORKS! 
 I used a spark 
gap to step an 800KHz coil down by 20x to give 40KHz output. The 
output 
is a slow spike of alternating polarity which produces a square-wave 
output, while the output resonator changes the spike into a sine wave. 
The two coils locked together coherently; a Victorian Phase-Locked-Loop. 
So if the Earth is our output resonator, and we place a spark-gap in 
series with the output of the huge Extra coil, we've created a 100Hz 
square wave transmitter which automatically locks on to a Schumann 
absorption line. Or change the spark gap's width to select most any other 
Schumann line. 

09/04/2008 
ZINC NEGATIVE-RESISTANCE OSCILLATORS 
I haven't heard of others succeeding with Nyle Steiner's discovery 
of home-built 
semiconductor devices. I tried it myself last year and 
it worked the first time. Maybe I was lucky to grab the right parts?
Also, I inspected the V/I graph using a curve-tracer, so I could see which 
resistor values might work. For my version I hooked these parts in 
series:

 9V battery
 Resistor, try 680ohm to 2K
 25mH toroid coil, 5 ohms
 0.1uF capacitor
 cheap stereo headphone (one side)

The LC resonance is around 2KHz. I hooked the "burned zinc" device 
between the 680ohm resistor and the far end of the loudspeaker. When I 
probed it with a wire, I heard "tinks" at 2KHz as expected (shorting the 
current-limited supply causes the LC to briefly ring.) But when I poked 
certain spots in the burned crust, VERY LOUD oscillation. Too loud for 
headphones. Very cool:
a sinewave generator with no transistors. I'll take it to the 
 Weird Science Salon tomorrow 
night. 

09/04/2008 

SECRET OF WARDENCLYFFE? 

No one seems to know just how N. Tesla was going to use his high freq
Magnifying Transmitter to broadcast at VLF/ELF frequencies. 100KHz or 
50KHz won't excite any Schumann global resonances. But if we can
manage to see through Tesla's eyes, the answer is fairly obvious. 

 It's my daughter Lillian's birthday. Hey, take a look at a 
 "dress up" 
she made, also lots more of her stuff 
on Deviantart. Pretty good for a 
high school kid! (Heh, she'll probably make me delete this.)

 ANOTHER "LIFTER" EQUATION 

I realized I could calculate the maximum thrust for an electrostatic
Lifter. I just assume that the ion receiver is flat, and it's getting a
maximum e-field of 30KV/cm. Also, the energy stored in a capacitor at a
certain voltage is the same as the work done in pulling the plates apart. 
So, the max lifting force in LBS is: 

 Newtons/M^2 = 0.5 * (3e6)^2 * 8.9e-12
 = 40.1 Nt/M^2
 = 10-3/4 lbs per square yard

So it looks like the Electrostatic Lifters are less like helicopters and 
more like helium
balloons... except their thrust is proportional to area, not volume. 
Very bad. For example, a 10ft flying disk could *ideally* produce 65lbs
max lift. If we want to build a Hugo Gernsback flying futuristic city in
the sky, it would be better off with giant propellors or hydrogen chambers.

08/03/2008 

Video: Make your own liquid nitrogen 

 more vids 

 future vids 

Dry ice and 99% rubbing alcohol form "poor man's liquid nitrogen," a 
cryo-liquid which instantly freezes 
flowers. Perform many LN2 demonstrations: quick-freeze 
fruit, rubber balls, etc. 

I wonder if Quantum Mechanics stops existing if nobody is watching?

07/28/2008 

Video: Traffic Jam 

 more vids 

 future vids 

It's fairly easy to erase part of the left-lane traffic jam on I-5 just
south of Seattle. Sometimes a single driver can wipe out the whole thing.

YOUR PLACE IN LINE IS MEANINGLESS 
In the above
video, the jam forms when people in the left lane pack together and try to
block all merging drivers. Next, cars coming in from I-90 then force 
their way 
in at the downstream exit ramp, which halts the flow. Who's at fault? 
The close-packed 
drivers in the left lane are probably trying to "block cheaters." The
I-90 cars are not cheating; they had no chance to get into the clogged
lane, so they probably feel justified in bulling their way in. But if
just one driver lets in five or ten cars, often the whole jam unplugs and
flows freely. Whenever early merging is possible, 
then nobody forces their way in and halts the flow, so 
the jam evaporates. 
And whenever the jam is gone, then early merging becomes easy, so 
traffic keeps flowing. [ Note: dense
traffic moves at about one car per second, so if you let ten cars in ahead
of you, your commute will become TEN SECONDS LONGER, OH THE HUMANITY! To
shorten your commute by only a few percent, you'd have to pass at least
fifty other cars. Highway traffic is not like a line at the cash register
where every single person ahead of you represents many minutes of 
delay. Yet most drivers won't even let a single car in ahead of them, 
and they get angry if someone else does it. ]

07/14/2008 

Video: Abrasion holograms 

 more 
vids 

 future vids 

I've made a few more videos: scratch holograms, magnet beads, Asian seed 
drink wind tunnel, soda/ultrasound fountain. 

 INTERNET SCIENCE MEMES: HOW DOES YOUR GARDEN GROW? 
In 1993 early internet days I decided to become "Johnny Apple-meme" and 
try to trigger some infectious ideas. Some were my own invention, while 
others were just cool things I'd found in obscure articles. Let's see how 
they're doing:

 Forming some new science nerds 1993 

Since the Scientific American ended "The Amateur Scientist" column, and 
Popular Electronics magazine died off again, the kids of the 1990s have no 
chances to encounter any wicked-cool DIY science hacks. Our whole culture 
is going to be taken over again by sports and TV shows. What can be done? 
(Actually I just want to turn lots of kids into loner weirdo physics 
nerds.) Hey, this "internet" thing might be big. Since I'm here early 
before everyone else discovers it, and since the entire www is boring and 
empty, I can post articles on the best science projects I've encountered. 
My site will end up as some of the only interesting "content" on the 
entire internet. Porn isn't available yet, so they'll have to come to me 
for twisted online entertainment! With luck, maybe HUNDREDS of kids will 
find these physics DIY 
projects and become infected with science geekery. Neo magnets! 
Leaf blower hovercraft! Electrostatic pop bottle motor! Scratch 
holograms! Maybe more than just hundreds. 

Scientists don't use "The Scientific Method." 1999 
Because of my textbook consulting work, I'm very familar with the 
bogus "Scientifc Method" being promoted by those publishers. That stuff 
about hypothesis-experiment-conclusion? It doesn't exist. Real 
scientists don't work that way. There's lots of articles about this, 
but nobody gathers them together in one place online. They're too 
dilute, and have no impact. If I add a small "scientific method" 
section, maybe I can light a few fires and get some changes 
happening. Aha, it begins. A small war erupts on Wikipedia 
definition of The Scientific Method. William McComas encounters wild 
success from his 1996 "Ten Myths of Science." How far will it go? 

 Leaf-blower hovercrafts 1989 I saw an article on 
" human
air hockey pucks " in Physics Teacher magazine. Rather than letting
physics teachers have all the fun, I started pushing it via Jim B's 
science outreach company. I was hoping to post the plans via Gopher 
hypertext on
something called "The Internet," but fortunately the WWW appeared, so I
didn't have to figure out how Gopher works. The science fair
community became infected by those plans, and now leaf-blower
hovercrafts are competing with volcanos and solar-system models to be
the most common science fair project. In 2004 the Mythbusters tried to 
"bust" it, see episode 17 "Levitation machine." 

 Flowing "Electricity" as motions of copper's electrons 1988 
Back in my days at Museum of Science in Boston, I was working on K6 
science textbooks for Holt/Rinehart/Winston, and also designing devices 
for our inhouse Electricity/Electronics exhibit. Based on my vast 
collection of student misconceptions taken from those K6 textbooks, I 
worked out a 
cure: a brain-hurting alternate 
vision of electricity. Well, not really "alternate," since it was 
taken right out of basic undergrad physics and E&M texts, with their math 
models translated into simple verbal descriptions. Compared to the 
distorted stuff in K12 textbooks, mine certainly was alternate. Unlike 
the gradeschool stuff, my version is like university physics: it 
actually hangs together and makes sense. Now that the internet suddenly 
has appeared,
how many other minds will pick up my infection. After we all finally 
"see" electricity, CANNOT UN-SEE! 

 Neodymium Supermagnets 1994 While working on science 
exhibits in 1992 we had some large, dangerous "neodymium" magnets. I'd 
worked with tiny SmCo supermagnets, and these Neos were the same. But 
they were cheap! There were all sorts of weird new physics demonstrations 
you could perform. But the magnets were only available from China imports 
Tridus International. When Gopher changed into Web in 1993, I started 
pushing this as science fair projects. I posted a big list of suggested 
demos and flogged my URL all over the newsgroups. Arbor Scientific then 
started selling cm-sized magnets for only five bucks, so soon the public 
could start messing with these. The word started spreading. Then 
Wondermagnet started selling them. Then Eng-concepts. Wow, this one took 
off like wildfire. Would it still have happened if nobody intentionally 
contaminated the online amateur science community with neodymium? 

 Ball Lightning 5/1996 
"BL" is an infamous physics phenomenon: denied and scoffed at by the 
entire science community until the mid-1980s, then treated as 
real-but-irreproducable mystery. I posted an entire page of links, 
articles, and a pro literature search printout. Hey, maybe if I can get 
the garage science crowd to mess with it, then some hobbyist will make the 
breakthrough and create it on demand. Then guys on vortex-L figured out 
how to make microwave oven Plasmoids on demand. That did it; interest 
soared (although microwave Plasmoids probably aren't thunderstorm BLs.)

 Lifting-Force 
Misconception 1996 At MOS Boston we had a small pushbutton 
windtunnel w/movable airfoil ...with the wrong explanation of lifting 
force. I'd been vaguely aware of some sort of problem with these 
explanations, and argued about it with Larry Bell, the exhibits director. 
Then in 1990 I saw Weltner's correct explanation in AJP American Journal 
of Physics and in "The Physics Teacher." In 1996 I decided to force this 
issue: introducing it on PHYS-L and spreading the debate to all the Usenet 
newsgroups. Jan-Olov Newborg was a fellow troublemaker. We pushed and 
pushed the issue of misconceptions, got it into everyones faces, triggered 
repeated flamewars on RC-modelers and pilot forums. My airfoil 
misconception page attracted much traffic. I found Jeff Raskin's 
treatment of the issue, and Gail Craig's book. Then Anderson/Eberhardt 
took it up with their paper, then an entire textbook. Pilots started 
photographing the 
vortex-downwash penetrating cloud layers. Online I met the author of 
the NASA GRC education site and, during a big nasty (private) fight 
between three physicists, apparently convinced him to deeply research the 
issue and to post misconception-fighting articles on the NASA site. Soon 
major news services picked it up! New York Times, NPR Discover Magazine, 
several piloting magazines. It went exponential. Note again that this 
one was not my invention. I was just "Weltner's bulldog." 

 Simple DIY 
electric generator 1988 
Back at MOS Boston I saw several articles about the ultra-simple electric 
motor (today known as Beakman's motor.) Well, what about an equivalent 
 generator ? Robert Oppenheimer at Exploratorium had built one using 
magnetron magnets and a pancake coil. I messed around and found that a 
pile of 3" loudspeaker 
magnets shoved into a one-lb coil of #24 magnet wire could easily light a 
one-volt #48 bulb. Internet later came along and still nobody had spread 
the word on DIY 
ultra-simple electric generators. Looks like it's up to me. In 1996 I 
sat down and figured out a design using cardboad, tape, and common parts 
from Radio Shack. Wooeee, did that one ever take off. Right now (2010) 
it's the most popular page on my site, and the youtube
 generator vid 
is well past a million views.

Neodymium sphere-magnet beads toy 2001 

As part of Seattle Weird Sci. Salon 
we make bulk purchases for the group. One popular item has been 
supermagnets. In this case, our bulk purchase had an interesting result. 
In the late 1990s, Dan and Dan at Wondermag 
invented the supermagnet sphere, and started selling 1/4" version. Round 
supermagnets had no use ...but since I was buying them in bulk, I quickly 
discovered that supermagnet balls were amazing in large quantities. The 
0.25" magents cost over a dollar each, so nobody but me was able to play 
with hundreds of them at once. I was making Bucky-spheres, nanotubes, and 
finding cool patterns possible using long chains. These would be a 
hot-selling toy item, and I showed them to one toy company but they 
weren't interested. Way too expensive, and far too dangerous as a toy for 
little kids. Eventually the price came down enough that a hundred magnets 
didn't cost $100, so everyone at Weird 
Science Salon bought globs of them (mostly as adult xmas gifts!) 

I realized that I didn't have ambition to start a company selling them. 
Way too much work: mainly a fulltime job of packaging and mailing. So I 
finally decided not to patent the magnet-beads puzzle toy, but instead to 
break secrecy and put the idea in the PD (public domain.) I could use 
them as an "internet meme." How far would they spread? I decided to test 
the waters by describing them on my Neodemo page around 2001. 
Nope, nobody noticed. Years later in 2004 I split off a webpage just for 
 neo spheres. Nope, 
nuthin'. I started selling them at the yearly Mike and Key ham radio fleamarket , and 
later at my table at Freemont Sunday Market (see 2:23 in the vid). No matter how cool 
they are, they just don't attract attention. 

Finally towards the end of 2006 I posted some youtube videos. 
Still nothing. Nobody notices. Apparently some "seeds" are too small, 
and just won't sprout! You can't light a forest fire with matches that go 
out. 

Then in March 2008 I posted the coolest secret: making a 
 Buckminster Fullerene 
sphere. Apparently that triggered it! The "neocube" video was posted 
on youtube, and suddenly the idea caught fire all over the 
place. A few months later there were Neocubes and Cybercubes and QQmag 
and Magcube and Magbead and Buckyballs and Cubercube and Nanodots, and 
many un-trademarked magnet blobs on eBay (none patentable you see! Already 
in the PD, anyone can pick a new product name and start selling them.)
FINALLY at long last there's a valid purpose for spherical supermagnets. 
They even might end up outselling all other shapes. Probably the sales 
volume in spheres is supporting entire towns in China. But still 
...they're lethally dangerous for little kids, and unless the price comes 
down, they're still too expensive for giant toy companies to show 
interest. The indie toy companies can go wild, with no Mattels or Hasbros 
coming in to take over everything.

 Electric Circuit Mechanical Analogy 1986 

While consulting for Holt/Rinehart I considered the typical hydraulic
analogy to explain electric ciruits. I found a better one: electricity
is like the molecules in a loop of rope wrapped around pulleys. It's like
the rubber of a conveyor belt: when the drive roller turns, all the other
rollers turn as well. When internet came along, I started pushing this
analogy all over Usenet forums. It slowly caught on. Then I came up with
another version: electricity is like a rubber bicycle tire: push it in one 
place, and all the rubber must turn as one. Look around the www today, 
and see how far these ideas have spread.

 Bare-hand bottle smash: IT'S CAVITATION! (1989) 

At MOS Boston I worked out a water-cavitation demo for classrooms: if you 
whack a can of beans on top, it goes "snap!" But if you whack it gently 
...no snap. In the near-vacuum contents there are bubbles of hard vacuum 
opening up and then slamming shut. The same works with glass jars of 
spagetti sauce. Also with vacuum-packed bottles of orange juice. 
Finally I found that if you're demonstrating the onset of cavitation to 
everyone at work, and you're hitting a glass bottle of juice over and over 
with increasing violence, first you get the "snap." Then you get a 
missing bottom! Orange juice splashes all over the office! A perfect 
glass disk is left behind. 

Years later I heard about the beer-bottle smash trick. Whack a beer 
bottle hard enough, and the bottom pops out. Ah, but I knew the secret. 
With beer you need a weak bottle and it barely works, since CO2 
efevervescence fills the cavitation spaces almost instantly, which 
provides a cushion. Do it with water. Do it with "de-gassed" water that's 
been sitting around for hours (or that you've previously boiled.) Works 
like a charm. Even very thick glass bottles can be smashed. 

While showing someone the "Ragu Sauce snap effect" I noticed a silver 
flash. Hey. CAVITATION IS VISIBLE. Ooo, I gotta make a vacuum bottle to 
capture this effect. Found an easy way to do this. Works great. The 
cavitation is slowed, so you can see it by eye, no high-speed camera 
needed. So I made a youtube video to introduce the beer-bottle 
phenomenon, then to show closeups of silver pockets 
of cavitation which cause it. 

Lol, right away it ends up on the show "Time Warp." They 
didn't contact me. Did they by coincidence figure out that bare-hand 
bottle-smash contains well-hidden high-speed phenomena ...and then work 
out the correct explanation? Or are they working under the commands of a 
Meme infection? PS you can remove a cork from wine using this same 
phenomenon. Aim cork down, hit top of wine bottle repeatedly with shoe or 
other solid object. Cork slowly is hammered outwards! NOTE TO TRY: 
OIL-BOTTLE CAVITATION ABOVE TESLA COIL, DO CAVITIES FLASH BRIGHTLY IN A 
DARK ROOM?

 Congo Blue as cheap IR filter 2001 
 Infrared Goggles for under 
$10 . While working for Eaton Optosensors in 1998 I wanted to spread 
this 
idea, but it had to wait until I discovered Congo Blue filters. A truely 
mad-scientist toy: it lets humans see genuine infrared light ...but it 
also will fry your eyeballs if you use it to stare into the sun. As with 
Tesla Coils and Gauss Guns, these remain somewhat "safe" because most 
little kids don't have the ambition to order the supplies and build one 
themselves. 

 Diamagnetic Water 1998 Neo magnets were starting to 
spread online. Someone emailed me and pointed out that a neo magnet could 
slightly deflect a stream of water from the kitchen faucet. COOOOL. I 
informed the physics teaching forums and physics newsgroups, and my local 
hobby group had great fun with this. We found that a submerged neo magnet 
would distort water surface just above it. We found that you could 
deflect a horizontal popscicle hanging from a hair. 

 Traffic Waves 
1998 Once you finally "PERCEIVE", your inner Commuter will be sent to 
stand in the corner, and your brain is now occupied by a 
suddenly-enlightened Zen Traffic Practitioner. 
 But "With great power comes great responsibility 
-Spiderman." If the Ice-Nine concept ever gets loose, will one person 
manage to solidify the entire traffic network around Washington DC? It's 
like flipping one wall switch on-off in a special pattern and causing 
a blackout of the entire East coast. Will such a solidification-wave 
reach out and engulf Baltimore, NYC, and Boston? Fortunately it all melts 
again by 4AM each morning, so we're probably safe. 

 Bipolar Transistors are Voltage-controlled 1995 . It 
always 
bugged me that technicians as well as the public are taught that 
transistors "amplify current," but then we learn as EE undergrads that 
transistors are actually controlled by voltage: Ic is directly determined 
by e^(Vbe*k), not by Ib. For YEARS I'd been unable to really understand 
transistors; not until I took semiconductor physics and learned the 
dreaded secret. I decided to stir up trouble with an accurate non-math transistor 
explanation aimed at school kids. I'd never seen any similar article 
anywhere, so I personally get a chance to introduce millions of hobbyists 
to an important fundamental idea which had been concealed inside the math 
models used in college-level electronics classes. 

 Long High-volt streamers in flows of Argon 
harmless lightning bolts shoot from your fingers. This one hasn't 
taken off yet. "Mike's Electric Stuff" did pick it up. 

 Static 
Electrical Sorcery 1994 I had lots of 
cool 
demonstrations built up from the science museum. If I post the best 
ones online as Science Fair projects, can I turn thousands of innocent 
little children into practitioners of the dark High Voltage arts?
The soda-bottle 
voltage-motor caught fire and spread widely. Once I even saw 
some school science-fair rules which banned three projects: baking 
soda volcanoes, papier-mache solar system models, ...and tinfoil 
electrostatic pop-bottle motors! 

 Aware of your Skull . Skull Awareness! 
In a very old 
Peanuts cartoon, Lucy causes Linus to become aware of his tongue. Then he 
can't turn it off again. When making faces in the mirror one day I 
accidentally made myself aware of my own skull. It took quite a while 
before I was back to normal. But I could also talk 
with an echo, cross one eye, and make smoke come out of my mouth. I 
started collecting these "little kid mental techniques." The list became 
very long. When the 
internet came along, I realized that the same good things that happened to my own 
brain... could be put inside YOUR brain too! 

 Microwave 
oven plasma 1997 
In 1987 I'd written an entry for Lincoln Homework Encyclopedia containing 
a science classroom activity for microwave ovens. It was never used, so 
I posted it online for others to play with. This triggered much 
experimentation by members of various online forums, and eventually a 
couple of people worked out a way to produce stable plasmoids.

"Hey, you're the Traffic Waves guy?!!!"
"Hey, you're the congo blue goggles guy?!!"

"Hey, you're the Childhood brain guy?!!"
"Hey, you're that microwave ovens guy?!!!"
"YOU'RE the amasci dot com guy?!! I spent my whole childhood on your site!"

all together now...

"WE SENT YOU EMAIL, BUT YOU NEVER ANSWERED!!!"

12/26/2007 

Video: Melting glass in your microwave 

 more vids 

 future vids 

Here's an alternate version of a classic physics demo. Rather than 
heating up a 
glass rod and then plugging it in to 120VAC, we heat up a glass bottle and 
plug it in to a few hundred watts of 2.1GHz RF. 

11/07/2007 

Video: Ultra-simple Electric Generator 

 more vids 

 future vids 

A great idea for school science fair. Don't make a motor; everyone makes 
motors. MAKE A GENERATOR! Light a bulb. 

ACCIDENTALLY PRODUCING X-RAYS 
A note about x-rays and " plasma globes ." When attaching light bulbs to a
tabletop Tesla coil, some small bulbs fail to produce purple plasma
streamers. The space inside remains dark, but the glass flickers blue, or
white, or sometimes green. This shows that the bulb contains a fairly hard
vacuum. If run at high voltages (above 10KV,) such a bulb will produce 
soft
x-rays. USUALLY the x-ray intensity is insignificant. It's way too little
to light up a fluorescent screen. Maybe you could take x-ray photos by 
exposing film for minutes or hours. It will certainly make a geiger 
counter click like mad, but only if your GM probe has
a thin window (for alpha particles.). So, to avoid
even the slightest x-ray hazard, use only those large 4-inch spherical 
bulbs for your "plasma globe." Stay away from small 
green-fluorescing aquarium bulbs! Here's some radiation info ,
you can compare canoe trips and peanut-butter toxins to x-ray risk. 

08/22/2007 

Video: Bare-hand Bottle Smash 

 more vids 

"Bring forth what is true; Write it so it it's clear. Defend it to your 
last breath." 
- Ludwik Boltzmann, quoting Faust

08/25/2007 

Video: Dry Ice: LEEEEETHALLY DAAAANGEROUS?!!! 

 more vids 

08/11/2007 

Video: Kitten Attaaaack! 
 &nbsp

 more vids 

04/06/2007 

Video: Stupid Steady Cam Tricks #4: Outdoors, and "Star Wars" 
 &nbsp

 more vids 

07/01/2007 

Video: Air Threads . I couldn't resist
 &nbsp

 more vids 

 CREATIVITY 

- All children are artists. The problem is how to remain an artist once 
you grow up. - Picasso 

- Panic of error is the death of progress. - Whitehead 

- Avoiding mistakes will end 
your creativity. (TED prize, video)

 ENOUGH OF VIDEOS! 
How about some electrostatics? Try this:

- Connect a metal needle to a high 
voltage power supply. Connect a small metal 
plate 
to ground. Put a microamp meter in series with the plate's ground wire.
(Ground the other power supply lead, of course.)

- Power up the HV and aim the needle at the metal plate from many inches 
distance. The microamp meter should indicate a large reading. "Electric 
Ion Wind" is flowing from the needle, to the plate, and through the meter 
to ground. 

- Now blow some crosswind through the gap between the needle and the metal 
plate. This should deflect the "electric wind" and make the meter reading 
fall to zero, right? Instead, NOTHING HAPPENS. The microamperes reading 
remains the same.

- Uhhhh... OK now, maybe the ion flow is bending around to hit the 
grounded plate from the side. Following the e-field lines? 
So lets put a wide metal ring around the plate and connect it directly to 
ground (no meter.) If the electric wind gets deflected, it should miss 
the meter and flow directly into ground. Power up the needle, get some 
microamps on the meter, 
now blow some wind. AGAIN NOTHING HAPPENS! The microamp reading stays 
high. The ion path doesn't deflect!

- Really blast some wind across the path. Use a plastic straw, and hit 
the needle tip with some series crosswind. Nope, still the same. Maybe 
the microamps fluctuates just a bit, but essentially remains large. The 
ion paths won't move. They blast right through any crosswind I can throw 
at it.

- RATS! This means that I can't easily build an air-blast VandeGraaff 
generator 
using a HV supply, needles, and a small battery-powered fan. It 
also means I can't make a wind-speed sensor with no moving parts which 
measures the 
microamps difference 
between electric wind being received by two adjacent collector 
plates facing a single needle. A high-volt wind-direction indicator won't 
work; it just ignores the wind.

- SPECULATION: if the electric wind was made up of many slow ions, then 
even
a gentle breeze would push it away from the receiving plate. Therefore, 
it must
be composed of few/fast ions. It makes no sense! Ions should collide 
with neutral air molecules and experience large drag. Maybe the ion flow 
pattern self-organizes 
into very thin 
"filaments;" jets having narrow cores made of fast-moving ions. Thin
filaments have a high RE (Reynolds Number), which allows them to move very
fast but without turbulent breakdown. It's like the fast thin laminar
stream of smoke above a cigarette. I wanted to make a hailstorm of ions, 
but instead I get a "death ray" beam far narrower than a human hair. Just 
like Tesla said. 

- I lied about making too many videos. I couldn't resist doing this one about 
gas-filled capacitors that magically pump themselves down to vacuum.

 WHO ACTUALLY SAID THIS? 

 Nothing sends them scurrying back to that black pit 
like 
 BAD SMELLS, 
 BROKEN RULES, 
 and 
 BAGPIPES 

How can I "R Burns-ify" this t-shirt slogan? Nothin' sends 
'em scurry'n?

04/21/2007 
Videos: 
Having ideas, 
 thermal cam rubber band, 
 Bumbershoot '05, 
 science job. 

 CURES YOUR ATHSMA TOO 
Hey. IR GOGGLES FORCE YOUR LENSES TO FOCUS DIFFERENTLY! This means that 
the IR goggles (or simply some deep red goggles) would exercise your 
lens/muscles/brain system and force your lenses to excessivly stretch. 
(Or do they excessively contract?) Either way, this would be a form of 
"eye excercise" which might end your need for glasses. Sort of like 
wearing prism-glasses to correct the lazy-eye problem. For 
nearsightedness you'd want the deep colored (red? violet?) goggles. For 
farsightedness you'd want deep (violet? red?) goggles. Of course use 
polycarbonate 
or glass lenses to avoid any problems with UV damage.

04/08/2007 
I think I've made a breakthrough. It's scaring the pants off me. Who 
will be the 
first to build this huge device? (Note: it's no beginner project.) Go 
and see 
Runaway breakdown , and the idea which inspired it, 
 Tesla's accident with the Colorado Springs utility plant .
If those links go bad, I'll put up a mirror copy 
restoring the disabled images. 

03/24/2007 
Videos: 
Artist party, physics devices , also stupid camera tricks.

02/27/2007 
Video: The Disgustoscope 

02/10/2007 
More videos: Dangerous 
maglev, pants methane, $0-cost Steadicam 

01/16/2007 
Link to Videos: 
Possible Ball Lightning 
on the BL Page ,
 also try Weird Physics vid collection

01/01/2007 
Updating 
 Unusual ! Three years worth.
So far: 
Vanishing Objects , and Ball Lightning 

12/24/2006 
Added a new page: BILL B. VIDEOS 

 INNER LIFE OF THE CELL 

Years ago one of my early morning visions involved weird EM resonance 
forces between biomolecules at hundreds of nanometers distances. If my 
delusions were true, then there must be a huge hole in modern biology, a 
hole almost as large as the one which would remain if the physics of 
chemical bonding had never been discovered. Without the long-range 
frequency-keyed electromagnetic bonding force, all sorts of nanomechanical 
phenomena in cell machinery would remain entirely unexplained. 

 Now Harvard U. Media has a long animated movie of subcellular
nanomachinery within leukocytes responding to tissue inflammation. Just
as in my dream, all sorts of bizarre effects are unexplained: they're
glossed over, or more frequently they're fudged by playing a motion
sequence backwards (against the laws of thermo!) Specifically: HOW DO
THE FRICKIN' ACTIN MOLECULES SELF-ASSEMBLE? The movie doesn't say. 
Instead they give us a picture of actin subunits magically pouring in from
all directions and somehow finding the growing end. Uhhh... isn't that
just an animation of depolymerisation and diffusion... but PLAYED
BACKWARDS? Same with polymerization of tubulin: the subunits magically
come running from great distances just so they can link up to the growing
tubulin end. And these are just the most egregious examples. All through
the movie there are molecules which somehow "know" where they're supposed
to go, how they're supposed to rotate themselves, and they move with
apparent intention over major distances. mRNA tips and ribosomes
magically find the few rare membrane pores. Actin-snipping proteins both
fly in from distances and also magically orient themselves through many
degrees of freedom in order to bond to the fiber. Apparently the
researchers are asking us to believe that all this happens by diffusion,
by random tries and re-tries performed at high speeds. I got news for
them: if you stick a padlock in a bag with a bunch of keys, you'll be
shaking the bag a long time before one of the keys inserts itself. And in
living systems, the bag should be filled mostly with quarters, with just a
few keys, most of them not fitting that lock. And I thought *I* had
delusions! But all this strange dishonesty will pop like a bubble if we
admit the (possible) existence of a fairly simple thing: mechanical forces
caused by AC electromagnetic fields in the nearfield regions between atoms
and molecules having resonance lines at common frequencies. It's just
attraction between electromagnets. But AC electromagnets. If their
frequencies are different, they essentially don't recognize each other,
and the net attraction becomes zero (well, it changes from attraction to
AC vibration.) But if their frequencies are right ...or more likely a
combination of different atomic frequencies in distant molecules are right
...then not only would the molecules pull together over relatively vast
distances, but they would experience torques which twist them into proper
positions. In other words, the unexplained "magically intelligent" 
motions of the macromolecules depicted in the above video might not be an
exaggeration at all. They might be moved by electromechanical forces
which act like simple computers communicating over hundreds of nanometers
by coded radio signals.

 KEELY SONIC SUPERHEATING WATER EXPLOSION CANNON!

One of the old postings on the "weird science" page involved a report
where a column of water in an ultrasonic resonator flew upwards and
punched a hole in the ceiling an in the roof above. See Keely ultrasonic
explosion . While waiting at the opening of the "Steamboy" movie, 
several
things suddenly fell into place for me. First, guess what happens if we
leave some water for hours under high powered ultrasonic treatment? This
degasses the water, removing all the dissolved air. Heating the water
increases the effect. Second, what happens if we strongly heat some
thoroughly-degassed water? If microbubbles are lacking, then the water
temperature will rise far above 100C, and the water will be massively
superheated. It may even superheat to such an extent that, once it starts 
boiling, the entire volume of water may convert to vapor. Finally, what 
happens if we place water in a resonant
ultrasonic chamber where the transducer is located at the bottom? In that
case the pressure excursions will be maximum at the surface of the
transducer and at the surface of the water. But the upper water surface 
will cool by radiation, so if cavitation were to commence, it would be at 
the bottom of the water column against the transducer. All together, this 
is a recipe for a cannon, but a cannon 
where the bullet is a slug of water propelled by its own steam output. A 
tiny 
bubble will break out at the
bottom of the water column, and the bubble will instantly fill with live 
steam. 
The water column will be smoothly accelerated upwards as the superheated
water emits a downwards "exhaust" of hot water vapor. As the steam leaves 
the water, the water cools, but if the superheated temperature was high 
enough, the water would not stop cooling. As the water 
slug leaves the pipe, the vertical water surface will emit vapor in all 
directions with little propulsive effect, while the bottom surface will 
act like a rocket engine. But would this 
be enough to punch a hole in a ceiling? Well, we know that if a kilojoule
capacitor discharge propels a water colunmn upwards, the water can punch a
hole through a thick aluminum plate (tested by Richard 
Hull and Dr. 
Peter Graneau ). Yet in this capacitor experiment, turbulent 
disruption 
converted their water column into a water spray after a few feet of travel 
through the air. But what happens when a superheated water slug sends 
steam outwards in all directions at high velocity? Maybe this would help 
preserve the shape of the water column on its journey towards the ceiling.

10/10/2006 
More billb videos:

all Youtube videos 

Big supercon magnet dewars at work 
 (Sept 6, 2006) 

I get to run an entire cruise ship 
 (May 8, 2006) 
Supermagnet beads: membranes and Amoebas 
 (Oct 10, 2006) 

Maglev: magnet floats between graphite disks (Oct 3, 2006) 

Raytheon thermal camera: the camera itself, & demos on couch 

Thermal camera: cold can of juice 
 (Sep 20, 2006) 

Thermal camera: little warm kitten footprints 
 (Aug 16, 2006) 

Thermal camera: cold black popsicle 
 (Jul 21, 2006) 

Truck lug nuts optics 
 (Aug 18, 2006) 

VASTLY IMPROVED lug nuts optics 
 (Aug 23, 2006) 
 eskimo dot com, NOT in Alaska. (google) 
 still not in Alaska (google) 

What color is water? 
 (Jul 23, 2006) 

 Wagon-wheel reverse rotation effect 
During morning commute on I-90 I glanced at a truck wheel and noticed it 
had a 
pattern of light... which was 
rotating slowly backwards! It was the lug nuts. Obviously some garage 
mechanic had tightened the nuts to give a special pattern. As the six 
sides of the hex nuts flashed in the sunlight, the angle of each flash 
was slightly different as each of ten nuts moved past. It looked like a 
circular dotted line which moved opposite to the wheel's motion. I wonder 
how many mechanics know 
this trick? I wonder if the original inventor just had a weird mind, or 
do truck-repair depots tend to hire PhD physics types?

 To start, tighten all the lug nuts, then turn them so they all point 
at the hub. Now pick a nut as number zero and leave it as is. Go to 
nut number one, and if you have 10 nuts with 6 sides, tighten that nut by 
an extra 1/60th turn (ten times six to get a 60th.) Go to nut number two 
and tighten it by an extra 2/60ths. Repeat. When you get back to nut 
number zero, you still leave it alone (since you could also tighten it by 
10/60ths or 1/6th turn, which would leave the hex facets still in the 
same relative position.) Now when the wheel rotates, the pattern of 
flashes will advance by 1/10th rotation when the wheel rotates once. But 
will the pattern turn backwards? Figure it out. It depends on 
which side of the vehicle you're adjusting. Maybe you were supposed 
to loosen each lug nut by 1/60th turn. Watch: 
 video, 1.3 min ,
 also newer video, 0.6 min 

 Added note: these are somewhat common on the highway; more common 
than explained by over-educated garage mechanics. So, what happens if 
we align all the nuts parallel to a single line? This would happen if 
the nuts were tightened with a tire iron, and the angle of the handle 
was the same each time. This pattern gives annoying flashes, but it 
also gives a backwards-drifting pattern which is 6x slower than the 
wheel RPM. So it seems that these patterns are probably accidental. 

07/23/2006 
Testing: I uploaded a couple of videos: 
 eskimo dot com, NOT in Alaska. (google) 
 still not in Alaska (google) 
 What color is water? (youtube) 
 all videos 

07/14/2006 
I finally added an IR 
photo gallery to the DIY IR GOGGLES page.

07/21/2006 
Added lots of "cool science" site links to 
blog at Stumbleupon.com 

06/01/2006 
They took away our overhead projectors and replaced them with Powerpoint!
(That's not fair. Powerpoint is a slide projector, not an overhead.) Now 
I'll finally get my vengence by infecting the web with... 
 filmstrips! . Please advance to 
the next image when you hear the beep. BEEEEEEP.

(WARNING: embedded MP3 audio)

03/12/2006 
Updated the guestbook 

The WEIRD SCIENCE SALON is going to 
Alaska in May. The 2006 
UFO/Paranormal conference from Seattle's Museum of 
Mysteries will be held on shipboard this year, the week of May 7th - 
14th. If interested, sign up by Feb ?? for low prices.

01/19/2006 
I made it into the University Week , the local UW newspaper

Hey, if you search Google for the word 
" unwise ," the 
second hit is 
 Unwise Microwave 
Experiments ! And if you search for the word " oven ," then it's the top Google hit.
" Tesla coil " 
still leads right here, but 
" Science " has moved 
way down (once long ago this site was #13 on Google for "science," above 
Scientific American and the AAAS!)

01/15/2006 
Added What Is Static Electricity? 

12/27/2005 
Continuing the biological insanity with hot incandescent
bacteria on the 
 Bio page.

12/25/2005 
Added a bit more 
stuff to the 
 IR Goggles article.

 Energy-sucking atoms and molecules 

Remember energy-sucking 
antennas, where a longwave resonant
coil can intercept radio waves even if they pass within hundreds of feet? 
And 
recall the speculations about odd forces hidden under the catch-all name 
"Van der Waal's", and what this 
might imply for biochemistry? 
Well, I finally encountered a mainstream physics article about just this 
topic. But it's 
not what I expected. Suppose you have an atom, a single highly-resonant 
atomic oscillator, on then end of a STM scanning probe. Suppose you bring 
it near another identical atom. Will there be some long-range forces 
which become strong when the two atoms are separated at less than a 
quarter wavelength? (E.g. if the atoms had a resonance line in the 
optical band at 500nM, then if placed within 125nM of each other would 
they strongly attract or repel?) The answer might be: NO. But 
INSTEAD, 
the atoms link together and refuse to change their separation! WEIRD! 
Resonant atoms trapped on adjacent surfaces create strong 
friction between those two surfaces, EVEN IF THE SURFACES AREN'T TOUCHING.
In subcellular molecular machinery this could produce a "force" counter to 
diffusion, one which slowed any molecule which approached another with the 
same coded frequency. As with cockroaches and sowbugs who crawl more 
quickly when in a lighted region, the right kind of molecules would end up 
in the "slowed-down" regions under the fridge.
You can find a bunch of articles about this AFM discovery via a Google 
search 
on " non-contact 
friction ", also Google Scholar:

noncontact friction and 
non-contact friction 

 THOSE GOOGLE ADS 

I strongly resisted putting banner ads on AMASCI. They're all just ads
for spammer products: diet pills and ringtones. They support unethical
popup-ad companies. They insult our intelligence with "click the jumping 
monkey" animations. And as I found out with Network54, many banner ads
are controlled by advertizers themselves, and they contain really nasty
spyware and browser-hijackers. But Simon at
scitoys suggested Google ads, and they avoid these problems. 
They're text-only and controlled by Google, not by shady advertizers. 
The company is non-evil (at least so far.) And more important, the ads
"know" the page topic, so they usually put science-education ads on
my site. You get ads for science fair products rather than for casinos. 
So, Quitcher Job, Live Off The Website Revenues? It actually looks 
possible. Would YOU become a big flaming sellout ...if it let you escape 
the nine to five world? :)

09/28/2005 
Added entries to 
Electricity FAQ , doorknob sparks, other stuff.

 A moon that fell? 
As a kid in the 1960s I remember staring at the world map in
the classroom and *knowing* that the Americas fit with Europe and Africa
like a jigsaw puzzle. In 1965 this was geological heresy, but the grade
school kids like me were seeing something real, something that
professional geologists denied. So now I'm looking at the map of Mars
over my desk, and I know enough to take my first impressions seriously. 
The Valles 
Marineris is too straight. WAY too straight. 
Well, actually it's curved in a sine wave on the map which extends as 
a discoloration across more than half the planet. (World maps with sine 
waves drawn on them are plots of orbiting spacecraft, where the angled 
circular orbit is "unrolled" to form a wave.) Also, Valles Marineris is 
aligned with the
Martian equator, so it's also aligned with the plane of the ecliptic
where moon orbits lie. Also, Valles Marineris has many widely separate 
parallel features
which are also perfectly straight. Also there are all kinds of crater chains 
parallel to the valley
all around the same region. Yet explanations of this valley talk about a
cracking crust. I don't believe it. There are linear gouges and 
discoloration way downstream from the main valley. I predict that within 
a few decades
the expert opinion will shift: Valles Marineris is an astrobleme, it was 
carved out by a moon
that fell from orbit. The Valles region doesn't extend all the way around
the planet, so it probably wasn't caused by a planetary ring. Imagine the
event! It's even more impressive than those craters left by direct 
asteroid strikes. 
An entire moon gradually hits the top of the atmosphere and starts heating 
up from gas compression. If it survives for several orbits, its heat 
output will bake everything below, perhaps turning continent-wide deserts 
into glass and leaving a scar so large that the professionals will miss 
it when looking right at it. Then it breaks up into two or three huge 
chunks plus lots of rubble, into
a hundred asteroids, which then descend and roll across the land at 
orbital velocity from horizon to horizon like incandescent bowling balls 
the size of Manhattan. Downrange of the main strike the air is full of
big dirt: flying boulders the size of large buildings which rain down 
and ...disturb the surface. 

09/11/2005 
Added four MPEG videos to 
The Secret to Plasma Globes Without Vacuum Pumps .

09/07/2005 
Added a new 
electricity misconception 
to the Electricity 
section.

 Speed
freak In his book "Surely You're Joking...", R. Feynman
experimented with personal time sense, and he wondered what determines
it. I think it might be social, not physiology. My first summer job was
raking leaves on Elmira College campus, and it quickly became apparent
that my normal rate of work was wrong. I did things much faster
than the seasoned workers, and I attracted funny looks, so I adjusted my
performance. I thought it was sort of stupid; why didn't everyone rake
leaves normally instead of in slow motion? But slow raking was the "way
you're supposed to do it," and anyone who strayed from the norm would
encounter group pressure to slow down. But... that's how infants become
people!!! We change behavior as we encounter immense nonverbal pressure
from parents, friends, outsiders, etc., otherwise we'd all behave as
one-year-olds even when adult. In different societies the standards are
different; I've heard that tourists south of the border complain that
everyone does everything slowly... and islanders complain about crazy
Americans who are always rushing about. WHAT IF HUMAN TIME SENSE IS
SOCIETALLY DETERMINED? I've experimented with this and find that it is. 
If I'm alone I can push myself to perform tasks much faster until until
"faster" becomes habitual and unnoticed, but I get huge amounts of work
done, and it takes forever for the clock to get to lunchtime. It feels
like really waking up, at least until it starts being normal. Also, my
usual body movements become tiring, and I find it's much easier to move
in curves rather than starting/stopping the considerable mass of limbs. 
(Like switching to 'racewalk' rather than just speeding up my normal
walk.) And when I tried it for days at a time, I started losing weight
and had to eat extra meals. If I asked someone a question or tried
conversing, their slow responses and slow thinking was quite irritating. 
But whenever I kept all this up in public, people responded badly. They
seemed to be thinking "what's WRONG with that guy? What drug is HE on? 
Is he insane or something?" Bingo! That's the societal pressure which
usually keeps its members living at the "proper" speed. It's the same as
if I started acting like a 2-yr-old, or if I moved to a country where
things happened at different speed: I'd encounter the same type of
pressure to adapt. So... I wonder how far this can be pushed. Can we
live at 5x normal? Will we get huge amounts of work done, then have a
crash from "exhaustion of manic energy" or perhaps die prematurely of old
age? Or go the other route and let the outer world speed up to 5x faster
while we stay "the same."

08/15/2005 
More about nanobacteria in the biology section.
(This is a fairly exciting controversy!) Suppose that when a bacterium 
splits in half, each half takes half the genome.
If the two bacteria remained together, they could trade metabolic 
molecules and survive. Suppose they split into two, four, eight, etc. 
If this slowly happened over millenia, we could end up with 
species of bacteria 
smaller than viruses, where each cell isn't viable 
alone since they act as specialized organs of a colony. Wouldn't 
just such an evolutionary trick be the result of a deep underground 
nano-crevice environment and evolution pressure favoring smallness?

AMPERES VARIES MAGNET? 
Random thoughts: if you pass a current through a bar magnet, it should 
create extremely instense circular fields inside. After all, the 
path surrounding the current is a closed loop of iron, and a low current 
should saturate the material. But wouldn't this 
path be disrupted if the current fell? The axial field of the permanent 
magnet would take over. Apply a weak AC to the bar magnet and create 
immense pulses of internal b-field. Are these detectable? Instead 
perhaps pass a cable through a narrow iron pipe to give the pipe internal 
circular flux patterns. Apply AC to the axial cable and look for pulses. 
Perhaps wrap a coil around the pipe to apply a bias. 

More randomness. In the Vasserfadden demo below, how thin could the 
water thread become? I should think that e-field forces would cause it 
to resist evaporation, as with electric ice needles . The water filament would be like an electret. 
But if the thread broke, would it contract to form a droplet, or would 
the e-field preserve its threadlike form? If it stayed threadlike, this 
means we could build a network, an aerogel, from nothing but water. The 
threads would be maintained by the strong e-field (unless closed loops of 
electrified water filaments are also stable, so the external field 
could be removed.) An electrically-stablized aerogel made from water 
vapor would possibly explain the observation of invisible wall phenomena.

07/25/2005 
More old stuff:
 The Wasserfadden 
experiment 
 and Giant natural 
water-thread? 

Check out this 
discussion thread on tesla coils forum about x-ray tubes and powering 
entire homes and cars with wireless. And here's another one about

Bob Golka, arc welders and ball lightning. 

07/16/2005 
An old article never listed here: 

Mother and daughter detect plasma-spheres through walls 

Don't miss 
SEATTLE WEIRD GENIUS REAL SCIENCE 2005 , the 'science 
fair' in bldg #30 at Sand Point, Saturday July 16. I'll have a 
demo table there with microwave oven, Tesla coil, and bowl of 
argon gas. 

Remember Plasma Globes 
without vacuum ?
Getting ready for the above event; I executed some microwave oven mayhem 
at 
Wednesday's Seattle Outsider
Artist Project: Dorkbot Mad Science night . New high voltage effects 
discovered! A microwave oven with nothing inside is a 2.5GHz high 
voltage source.
A bag or balloon of pure Argon usually does nothing... unless you include 
a tiny fragment of carbon fiber. After the plasma outbreak, the glowing 
violet-white cloud will grow and grow, melting the bag, then crawling 
all around looking for every last scrap of argon left in the wilting glob 
of plastic. Argon inside a glass bowl was similar: when triggered by a speck 
of carbon fiber, it exploded into a radial burst of wiggling lightning. 
This was a first: it was normal-looking mini-lightning, but at 2.5GHz 
frequency! As 
soon as the argon heated up, the spark-brush turned into a bright fuzzy 
cloud which rose to the top of the bowl and melted holes in the plastic 
plate 
laying across the opening. With a bigger bowl we actually saw 
some spherical lightning: a small spark at the bottom of the bowl 
became a 2" glowing hemisphere which rapidly rose, becoming more 
and more spherical before being distrupted by the plastic plate. 

06/26/2005 
Many new entries can be found on the Brain Modification Page 

 When you drop a dish, usually it bounces once. Then it shatters on the 
second bounce. After noticing this effect I started listening for it. 
Sure enough, in restaurants (etc.), when you hear a plate go "DONGGGGG" 
when it hits, it usually goes "smash/tinkle" during the second bounce. I 
FIGURED IT OUT!
When the dish hits the first time, it bounces upwards, but it also starts 
wobbling fiercely. It rings like a bell, and the vibrating edges of the 
dish are probably moving at several hundred miles per hour. [NO THEY'RE 
NOT! It's like a spring, and the edge can only move as fast as the 
plate was moving when it struck. When it comes back down, the wobbling 
edge could hit at twice the plate's velocity at most.] Now "view 
the movie in slow motion." The edge of the dish is going in-out-in-out 
as the dish slowly falls towards the floor. When it arrives, the 
wobbling edge whacks the floor again and again and again... and it hits 
at such high speed that it seems like the dish fell from 100ft 
altitude [wrong, it will seem as if the plate fell from *twice* 
the altitude of the bounce], not the two feet it fell after the bounce. 
My conclusion: if 
you grab for a falling dish but you're not fast enough, don't give up.
You have a good chance of either catching it after the first 
bounce ...or even just *touching* it briefly which will damp out the 
intense vibrations that usually make the dish explode on contact with 
the floor.

06/21/2005 
" Spirit Orb Photographs " made with water mist, dry ice frost clouds, 
fumed silica, etc. I find that a parallel grid of human hair w/separation 
around 0.5mm on camera lens will cast shadows, essentially drawing lines 
on each false ghost-orb. If your camera had a hexagonal iris, the "orbs" 
would all be little hexagons.

 SHOOT PLASMA BOLTS FROM FINGERTIPS! 
This one was a brainstorm during 
Dorkbot Tesla Night at COCA gallery in Seattle. Get a tank of argon 
plus regulator, a glass vase or bowl, some hose, and an aquarium airstone.
In a draft-free room, slowly fill the vase with cool dense argon.
Argon is different than air or CO2: it supports immensely long electric 
sparks. Poke the end of your Violet Wand or Tesla coil into the argon 
pool and watch the huge flaming white streamers spew forth. Now for the 
next part. 
Ready? Place the HV electrode against the outside of the glass, then 
stick your hand inside. Blazing white plasma streamers spew from your 
fingertips! Feels like being poked by needles. Make a fist (it stings 
less!) Next trick: a larger 
bowl, one which my head fits within. Yes, I wanna become the central 
electrode in a "plasma globe" device. Shouldn't be too painful unless the 
arcs shoot from my eyeballs...

06/15/2005 
 Supermagnet bead 
tricks . 
Buy a big wad of 1/4" supermagnet spheres (~$.50 each.) Make buckyballs, 
mysterious spinners, DNA chains, etc. (I really need to add photos to 
these!) 

05/27/2005 
Added spam buster to Main amasci guestbook .
Now you can see your entries instantly, not weeks later.

 WAVE-MOTION COLA 
Put some crushed ice in a translucent or transparent cup. Fill it half 
way with dark cola (the kind with sugar.) Then fill it the rest of the 
way with diet 7-up or diet lemonade (or even water.) 

The ice will distrupt the stream, keeping the two layers from mixing very 
much. You end up with dark cola at the bottom, and clear stuff at the 
top. (Sugar is denser.) If you tilt the cup back and forth, 
you can make slow-motion waves in the cola! 

 Even if the pizza place doesn't have see-thru cups, you can still 
use the trick. First add ice, then fill half way with full-sugar 
drink, then fill it up with diet drink. This creates two layers. You 
can drink the diet Coke first, leaving the layer of non-diet Sprite for 
later. Just remember to add the diet drink second, and use a thick 
layer of ice to disrupt the stream. 

Idea for future hoaxes: leave messages on the cardboard tube inside toilet 
paper rolls. It's not so difficult to remove the tube if you bend it. 
Write a message, or even apply a professional looking sticker. Or 
perhaps carry around a rubber stamp made for just this purpose. "HELP, I 
AM BEING HELD PRISONER IN THIS SCOTT FACTORY." Or "HERE IS THE SECRET 
PHONE NUMBER, DO YOU DARE TO DIAL IT?" Put several copies on the same 
tube so it's hard to miss. Or even cause total amazement by 
wrapping a dollar bill around the thing. Reinstall the tube and put the 
roll back on the holder. 

05/01/2005 
Added better 3D diagrams to In electric circuits, 
WHERE does the energy flow? 

04/21/2005 
Is this thing a blog? I'm not constantly adding interesting links 
to other sites as bloggers are supposed to (those kinds of links are 
mostly on coolsci 
, wpage , and weird art , also stumble .) 

OK, how about this. Here's the Skeptic versus Woo-woo fight reduced 
to it's essentials: 
 mung cartoon A , and 
 mung cartoon B 
. Also hundreds of others. 

04/16/2005 
Added months of messages to the Main Guestbook 

04/10/2005 
Added: When I die, I wanna be... 

03/25/2005 
I built a 
Large art device . Eighty four tesla coils driving 84 fluorescent 
tubes.
It was up at COCA 
gallery this March (Seattle,) and is going to be at 
 Bumbershoot , Sept 2-5.

03/24/2005 
Added The $1 Tesla Coil 

 The DC electric motor was invented by accident! Huh. I totally 
missed
this fact in my schooling. Michael Faraday demonstrated the "motor" 
effect in the early years, but 
like Ben Franklin's electrostatic motors, it was only a lab curiousity. 
Volta's "pile" caused power supplies to become all the rage in science 
labs, and by 
the mid 1800s, several types of DC electric generators or "dynamos" were 
already in use as power supplies. So people were generating voltage with 
rotating coils and commutators. Then during an inventors' exhibition at 
Vienna in 1873, inventor Z. Gramme accidentally connected a steam-driven 
dynamo to a second similar unit, and to everyone's surprise the second one 
started spinning as a motor. Thus the modern multi-HP electric 
motor was "invented." We add the DC motor to the list of other 
accidental discoveries: Becquerel's radioactivity, Roentgen's x-rays, the 
Leyden capacitor, Oersted's electromagnets, etc. 

02/21/2005 
Added Determining Charge Polarity to Static Electric page

02/09/2005 
Wow! I had a " Vanishing Object " experience while stirring my coffee.
 Scary.

Ant trails at work. A narrow stream of black ants is flowing across my 
lab bench, up the side of a water bottle, into the squirt-tube and down 
inside. They're harvesting distilled water?!! The trail is coming from 
the floor, up the side of a box, across the top edge of some papers 
standing on edge, then up the voltmeter wires which happen to dangle over 
the edge of the tabletop. Following the trail backwards, I find that it 
goes about a HUNDRED AND TWENTY FEET back to the Mass Spectrometry lab at 
the end of the hall! It disappears under a fume hood. There must be 
several thousand ants in the trail.
I guess the Chem. building ant nest must be hard up for water. I brush 
away ants and create a 3ft gap by cleaning away their scent trail with 
alcohol. But an hour later the gap has closed again. Ants trapped on the 
far side of the gap apparently find their way across.
 Playing with ant trails! I move the water bottle, but then the
arriving ants start spreading all over the desk. So I give the ant colony
a wet cookie (placed 120ft away near the origin of the trail.) If the
ants are a signal in an optical fiber, then the cookie should act like an
impedance mismatch; reflecting the outbound ants back to the nest. Sure
enough, after an hour the ant stream decreases greatly. I brush the
remaining ants onto the floor and disrupt their scent trail. But in the
morning it has re-formed, this time traveling up to an old bottle of Moxie
Cola with a tiny bit of dried syrup in the bottom. They're still using
the edge of the papers in the box on the floor, this time crawling up
another test lead, transferring to the power cable of the oscilloscope,
then up to the shelf with the bottle. OK, this time I convert the entire
"ant-flow optical fiber" into a Bragg mirror: I drip some sugar water at
many places along the 120ft trail. Quickly the stream of ants at my end
of the trail has dropped to zero. Hmmm: pranking possibilites. 
If I put a tiny bit of sugar water on a victim's desk, and also deposit a
blob of ants, won't a few ants find their way back to the nest and create
a new 120ft stream? 

12/29/2004 
Update (large) to Science Misconceptions Comment Book 

12/28/2004 
Small addition to " Time-flow Distortion Sensor "

Another brainstorm! It's crackpot physics time. Remember Pyramid Power ?
The original claim was that a cardboard pyramid could sharpen a disposable
double-edge razor blade. While reading an " 
Uncle Al " physics note 
about 
laser ultra-black beam-dumps composed of stacks of hundreds of standard 
razors, 
suddenly several concepts aligned in my brain. First concept: Uncle Al 
notes that the 
blackness of the razor-stack can be compromised by knocking the arrayed 
razor edges against even a soft object.
Second concept: by stropping an 
old-fashioned straight-razor, we do not sharpen it, instead we straighten 
the bent-over micro-edge of the hard steel. The very tip of the sharp 
edge becomes folded over with use, and abrading it on a soft surface will 
grab the edge and bent it straight. Third concept: What if Pyramid Power 
was genuine after all, but it was actually triggering some sort of 
memory-metal effect? Not sharpening the blade, but essentially it 
would spontaneously "strop" a razor blade? Fourth concept: shine a bright 
LED at a slightly damaged razor-stack beam-dump and use a photodiode to 
measure any slow changes in the return 
reflection. Spontaneous blade-straightening would now be measurable.
Stick the thing in a pyramid overnight (perhaps with power turned off, if 
that has any effect.) See if you can detect any auto-stropping effects!

12/20/2004

Have you met The Krampus? 
Santa Claus has an evil assistant who punishes bad children. He's a demon 
from ancient pagan solstice celebrations.

 A great mystery within microwave ovens: WHY DOES THE TURNTABLE
SOMETIMES ROTATE BACKWARDS? I always wondered about this. The obvious
explanation is that the turntable motor is a 60Hz synchronous induction
motor. But why? Synchronous motors aren't as good as the normal kind. 
One thing might make sense: it forces your turntable to end up in the same
position as it started. That way your coffee mug will be at the front, or
the handles on the cassarole dish will be positioned correctly. But my
microwave oven doesn't do this. Most of the time the mug ends up in a
crazy position. Testing is required. I heated a mug of tea at 
work for
a minute, and for the first time I actually watched the clock as the
turntable rotated. AHA! IT ROTATES ONCE EVERY TEN SECONDS!!!! I verified 
the effect and it does work: as long as you punch in multiples of 10 seconds,
your food will come back to its original position. But something's
screwy. My oven at home doesn't do this, yet its turntable randomly
starts off clockwise or CCW, so it must contain a synchro motor. So I
timed the oven at home. Bingo: it rotates every 20 seconds. That
explains everything. At home, if I punch in 30 seconds, or 10 seconds,
then the turntable rotates an extra half turn, putting the soup bowl on
the opposite side. Not to smart. How many people cook things for 20 
seconds, or 40 seconds? A 3RPM turntable speed only works if you 
cook something for one minute. But now that I know about the problem, I 
can start only using multiples of 20 seconds.

12/15/2004

Added more to Science 
Toys , and 
 Weird Links 

I'm playing with a UV keychain LED light. It's not very deep UV (400nM). 
More 
like violet. But it will make your teeth glow green, and your fillings 
are easy to see (I mean the white non-metal ones.) Fluorescing aqueous 
humor gives you some green pupils! I see little flecks of green all over
my arm: fungus? 
Yep. The thick edges of my heel fluoresce green as well. Huh, what 
else are these 
things good for? They will light up the plastic strip inside $5 US dollar 
bills. They will charge up some ZnS "Glow In The Dark" plastic to very 
high phosphorescence. Ah, if you draw all over yourself with yellow-green 
Hi-lighter markers, the UV keychain flashlight makes the invisible lines light up 
brightly. Draw some finger bones. 

12/3/2004

The toolbar from the
 Stumbleupon service is
addictive. TOO addictive.

I'm having fun with a perl command: global search/replace all files in a 
unix directory. Throughout the whole amasci.com site I've changed 
all the www.amasci.com addresses into amasci.com,
changed all my email addresses into GIF images (harder 
for spam spiders to read 'em,) and other such things. Here's the 
single-line unix command syntax below. 

 perl -pi -e 's/www.amasci.com/amasci.com/i' *.html 

It's easy to cause trouble if you mess with such things. You'd be lucky
not to destroy all your files with a single command. Better first 
download your whole site to
offline storage!

12/2/2004

Added real Site Statistics 
Try clicking on some referring URLs 

 I stumbled across
a new food. I feel like the discoverer of yogurt must have felt: 
disgusted, but not adverse to putting weird things in their mouth. 

I'd 
purchased some eggplants, and 
they were in the fridge for a couple of weeks along with some button 
mushrooms. When I finally got around to inspecting them, one was still 
OK, but the other one had a large brown spot several inches across. 
Strange, 
there was a mushroom stuck to the eggplant in the middle of the brown 
region. It was merged. The mushroom mycelia were still alive, and they 
were 
trying to absorb the eggplant! The brown region was somewhat soft, and 
when I tore the eggplant skin, the hole smelled like mushrooms. I 
returned the eggplantmushroom organism back to the fridge. A few days 
later I checked again and found that the entire eggplant had been 
assimilated. It was soft and mushroom-smelly within. Resistance was 
futile. 

Now I have to try sticking mushrooms against all sorts of different 
vegetables and see what results. Can mushrooms take over cold salmon? 
Since the storebought mushrooms are Agaricus Bisporus, we 
could call the process "Bis-porizing." I also need to try actually 
cooking one of these mutant 
beasts. Hmmm. What would happen if you fell into a coma while lying on a 
mushroom? You'd wake up all brown and mushroomy? With an unstoppable 
desire to hide inside a compost pile?

11/28/2004

Ideas for a gallery installation:
 Demented Pushbuttons 

11/26/2004

I learned a new word: 
 Pyrrhonian skepticism 

10/18/2004

Added The width of a coulomb to "Speed of Electricity"

 Sometimes my
subconscious delivers fully-formed visions in answer to questions from
years ago. Today's vision: AC Kelvin water-drop generator. Half of a
Kelvin electrostatic generator could be placed in the exhaust of a jet
engine and produce megavolts at milliamps! There's more. I have a La
Violette idea of military aircraft covered with Barium Titanate or perhaps
PZT ceramic. How weird. Why PZT sheath? Ah, it's Jean Louis Naudin's
"plasma sheet" idea where sonic booms can be eliminated by covering the
airplane wings with a glow-discharge. But why use insulating
ferroelectric? Well, I know that long dielectric filaments can act as
"wires" for high frequency AC (the "right angle circuitry" idea.) If JL
Naudin replaced his plastic covered hi-volt wires with PZT-encased wires,
he'd still get purple plasma even if his operating frequency was greatly
reduced. (Barium titanate acts almost like a metal conductor, as long as
you use AC.) BINGO! Drive the Kelvin water-drop "inductor" electrode
with slowly changing polarity, and your megavolts output will slowly
change polarity also. With a jet engine driving it, how fast could this
polarity change be made? Maybe raise it to a few hundred Hz? Without the
PZT your metal aircraft would spew lightning bolts. But with the PZT
layer, the whole thing would develop a sheet of plasma. It might even
absorb radar pulses at the same time it modifies the transonic shock wave
fluidics. Whew. It all hangs together and makes some kind of sense. I
couldn't assemble the ideas piece-by-piece intentionally. They just pop 
up when I'm half
dazed. 

10/10/2004

Added Seeing Sound , an untested idea involving mirrors, strobes, and razor blades

A new traffic-wave phenomenon: the infinitely large traffic jam! I need 
to add this to Traffic Waves. 

The "infinite jam" occurs whenever a 
traffic wave stops moving backwards and instead becomes pinned to a 
certain point on the highway. It happens 
when each driver in the jam must sloooooowly crawl past the "pinning 
point" before 
accelerating freely again. A cop car by the roadside can cause this. So 
can 
a bridge crest or blind curve. 
In other words, the trailing edge of a traffic wave stops 
evaporating normally... yet its leading edge still grows as before, since 
more cars 
are piling on from behind. The region of solidly-packed traffic grows 
larger and larger with 
nothing to halt its growth. HOWEVER... if a single driver can pull the 
edge of the wave back away from the pinning point, then the wave begins 
moving again. The edge of the jam begins evaporating normally, and 
cars which pass the former pinning point have no reason to 
slow down (i.e. the "pinning" effect only occurs if a slow dense 
traffic-wave goes past.) 
Once un-pinned, the huge jam stops growing. It doesn't dissipate, but if 
it had yet to grow enormous, one driver can nip the gigantic traffic jam 
in the bud. It only takes one car to unplug one lane.
In Seattle we have at least three of these continously-growing jams: the 
bridge crest on I-5 at the 
ship-canal bridge, and on 520 at the bridge crest just before the Lake 
Washington floating brige, and on I-5 North near the Senaca St. exit 
where cars exit into the express lanes. I've also seen these on 520 many 
times, where 
a cop has pulled someone over, causing a two-mile traffic jam to form 
(people won't roar off into the empty roadway if a cop is right there, so 
they drive many yards past before peeling out... so the wave remains 
pinned, and the backup grows enormous.) 

10/11/2004

Finding some old files never linked here: 
 2D "gravity" sensor , also detects e-fields and strong magnets

Plasma/aerogel life forms in our atmosphere

Fringe Science and breakthroughs 

I was imagining crowds of people walking on city sidewalks, versus crowds
driving on highways. The atmosphere is totally different. Our cars act
as our masks, making us anonymous. (Well, some of us make tatoos with
spraycans and stickers.) But while commuting, we're silenced and cannot
talk (or even communicate) with everyone around us. Hmmm. Maybe I could
build myself a voice? How about an ultra-powerful broadband
comb-frequency FM transmitter which could override nearby car radios
regardless of which station they're tuned to? Too much work. 
Brainstorm! Cellphones. An experiment for the daring: print out a large
bumper-sticker on adhesive paper and stick it on the rear of your car. 
(Cover it with clear tape to waterproof the paper.) The sticker
reads: DRIVER'S CELLPHONE 425-222-4321 (use
your real cell number.) What will happen? Death threats from road-ragers? 
Random members of the opposite sex hitting on you? Do you dare to
find out? It might actually be interesting, since all those thousands of
drivers on the highway near you have absolutely no way to send messages to
anyone around them... except to you.

09/12/2004

Added "Reality Detector Goggles" to Misc Screwy Ideas 

09/12/2004 

I've been volunteering at Seattle's new UFO/Bigfoot museum.

09/12/2004 

Added more to Childhood Brain Modification , and Toys 

 Idea for "Orbs" believers. "Orbs" are bright sphere- or disk-objects
 that show up when photographing cemetaries, haunted houses, etc. But
 many of these are simply the photoflash-illuminated dust motes or mist
 droplets hanging a few inches in front of the camera. The circular
 "orb shape" is a blurred image of a bright dot, and the shape is 
 determined by the camera iris edge. If your camera iris is circular,
 the "orb" will appear as a disk, but if the iris is octagonal, the orb
 will look like an octagon. Ooo, idea! To settle the matter, place an 
 opaque object on your camera lens! E.g. stick a thin slice of black 
 electric tape across the lens. Or even make an "X shape" from thin 
 tape slices. Now whenever you photograph a bright, small, blurred 
 object such as a dust 
 mote, the dark strips of tape will show up in the bright circular "orb 
 image." On the other
 hand, if the "orb" is real, and is large and distant from the camera, 
 you'll see no
 shadow-image of the opaque tape cutting across the "orb." Presto: any
 possible "orbs" can be instantly separated from the dust-mote images;
 the real orbs won't have a big fuzzy "X" across them. Also see some
 more ghost hunting suggestions.

08/27/2004 

Adding more to Why Airfoils Are Hard To Understand 

08/26/2004 

 Hey, should I start using some blog software, so passerbys can comment on 
 these entries and turn this into an entire forum? The " slashdot of science?"

08/20/2004 

Oops, forgot to add this here: 
 Pykcrete : making the ice which does not melt.

07/22/2004 

Working on: What is laser "coherence? (VERY under construction)

 I never really understood laser "coherence." While working on science
 museum exhibits, I found that books were full of mistaken explanations.
 Over the years I've noticed that even the advanced textbooks get it 
 wrong. They talk as if laser coherence is caused by stimulated emission. 
 Nope. The laser-medium amplifies light. But if you give it some 
 incoherent 
 light, it will only amplify it while preserving the incoherence. 
 But then why do lasers emit coherent light? I finally figured 
it out. It's because the laser mirrors cause the laser to behave as 
a near-perfect "point source." As light bounces between the 
mirrors, any light which doesn't seem to come from a single tiny point 
will eventually wander away and be lost off the edge of the mirrors, 
while any light which DOES come from one tiny point will keep bouncing and 
be amplified. Get two parallel mirrors and look into the "infinite 
tunnel." Only light that comes from the distant "infinite" point will 
avoid crashing into the walls of the tunnel. (How many physicists or even 
laser researchers know that
laser coherence is caused by the laser cavity? Textbooks teach 
that it's caused by individual atoms, by "in-phase 
emission!) 

07/17/2004 

Added Complaints of suppression are not Conspiracy Theories 

07/13/2004 

Massive ISP server crash, things being restored from backups

07/12/2004 

Added Bigger Better Balls, M. Crowley's paper on easy ball-lightning
, also Easiest Ball Lightning Yet 

07/12/2004 

Added lots more "things" to Childhood Brain Modification tricks page

07/09/2004 

Added a GIF anim, a Fake Live Webcam 

 WSCI: Demented idea, INBOX POETRY: send a string of blank 
 WSCI: messages where the subject lines form a poem to be 
 WSCI: read directly from their inbox without opening any 
 WSCI: email. Send them slowly, otherwise the vagarities 
 WSCI: of web traffic will jumble the order... but not TOO 
 WSCI: slowly, or every other line will be the subject line 
 WSCI: from some spam message. OOOoooo! Design the lines 
 WSCI: of the poem to be read in ANY order, then send 'em all 
 WSCI: in one glob and let the net have it's way with 'em. 
 WSCI: Internet Haiku is born! 

07/05/2004 

 Animated background-GIFs are possible? Oh the humanity.

 We live in a free country? Well, I personally know two science people
 who've been raided in the last five years. One was invaded by the local
 cops because they decided that his home lab was a "crack lab." Another
 was raided by the FBI after they decided he was a child pornographer. They
 of course found nothing at all in either case. And in past years the state 
 of California tried to make it illegal for individuals to own chemistry 
 glassware. And now the guy below is hassled for having biology lab 
 equipment at home. This crap is DANGEROUS. I'm not very political, but I 
 know exactly who is the poster-child for the highly ignorant "dark forces" 
 pouring fecal matter on the US constitution. I advise any science-hobby
 people in the USA to think very carefully about this trend before casting 
 votes in the upcoming election. Consider writing your elected official .
 So few people do this, that if you decide to write, your voice will have
 an unusually large impact.

 BAD NEWS: FBI GOES AFTER A SCIENCE-ARTIST | Cops tackle, cuff scientist for being in woods 
 Forum | WIRED story | CSM Article | TV coverage 
 Defense fund | More news | "Free Range Grain" 

-----------------

 I just bought my own overhead projector. Apparently Boeing engineers 
 are ditching all of theirs, so they're only $25 at Boeing Surplus 
 warehouse in Seattle; (more for the fancy collapsible portable versions.)
 In the past at very small conferences I've had problems because they'll set
 up video for laptops, yet balk at tracking down an overhead. I've always 
 wanted one of my own. 
 Some evolution: 
 Dirt and a pointy stick (isn't it all we could ever want?)
 Clay tablet (well, it does have "save." Lacks instant-erase)
 Napkin (for restaurants lacking dirt floors)
 Chalkboard (good for audiences above 5 members)
 Dry-erase whiteboard (less messy than chalk)
 Overhead projector (for huge audiences)
 Powerpoint (huh! wtf! CANNOT DRAW ANYTHING?!!! ) 
 Powerpoint: twenty thousand years of technical advancement has given us 
 a "chalkboard" where nobody can draw sketches or schematics while thinking 
 out loud, or while answering audience questions. Yet NOBODY NOTICED?!!! 
 GAH!!!!! Powerpoint is a computer-based slide projector, and cannot 
 replace overhead viewgraphs or even chalkboards.
 I shudder to think what the next stage could be. And I'm even more
 convinced that guys like "The Iceman" with their woven grass backpacks and
 wickedly sharp flint weaponry were the peak of advancement, while everything
 afterwards has been slow creeping unnoticed degradation. :)

05/15/2004 

More shameless self promotion: here's my only invention for sale: 
 Visible Electricity , sold by Arbor Scientific 

05/09/2004 

Slapped together a tiny site for Seattle Outsider Artist Project S.O.A.P.

05/04/2004 

I'm making a Seattle Links page. Abnormal resources.

05/08/2004 

Moved microwave pyrex lava to Unwise Experiments

 Friday, time for another Weird Science Salon , the monthly meetings at
 my place in Seattle. But after all these years they've finally grown too
 large for this small livingroom. Tonight's meeting will be at Seattle's
 new UFO museum, the Museum of the Mysteries, on Broadway in the
 the Capitol Hill region. 730PM to midnight. The usual bulk-purchase stuff
 will be for sale: supermagnets, levitation graphite, ferrofluid samples,
 scihobb bumper stickers, copper Lenz-law tubes, 7,500Vdc power supplies, etc.

05/07/2004 

Added a bit to Physics Sermon #49 

04/26/2004 

Old article, never linked here: The Research Game 

03/22/2004 

Added On defeating shyness 

03/22/2004 

Added Nipple Cola 

03/16/2004 

The Network54 free web-forum service has unethical features : 
 some of their popup ads take over your IE browser and install a 
 new default homepage; an advertisement.

03/15/2004 

Heh. Traffic in the year 2050, another traffic animation :)

03/03/2004 

Holy creeping Capitalism Batman! It's the end of an era. Sci. Hobbyist 
now has BANNER ADS . But wait, there's more! The ads
are run by Google , there's no graphics, and the products are
somewhat chosen via the website keywords: science toys, kits,
high voltage devices, etc. I'm putting most of them along the
site edge like ads in a magazine. Comments? Is google an evil 
giant corporation? Not just yet. We'll see...

03/01/2004 

Our group got some publicity in Seattle Times (back in Sept)
Here's the photo that went with the above.

02/17/2004 

A talking creepy billb head made by Sandra P. RATS!!! the 
Hanes veepers site is now dead. Try this one instead.
Or this Al Jarry head talking in his infamous monosyllables.

 Huh. If you search Google for keyword " microwave oven ," guess which
 site is right at the top of the list?

 NEWS FLASH: Molten lava in your microwave oven! I had a piece of 
 volcanic glass from a science store, so I perched it on the end of a 
 vertical metal cylinder placed in my microwave, heated it to a dull red 
 glow with a propane torch, then turned on the oven for several minutes. 
 A hotspot appeared on the obsidian, grew bright, then moved to the
 interior. After awhile the obsidian fragment glowed red again and the
 surface softened and cracked open, revealing a brightly glowing yellow
 interior which started flowing outwards. Mini lava flow! When cooled, 
 I found that the hottest part of the melted obsidian had foamed up and
 turned white. Pumice! Creating pumice in your kitchen from home-made 
 molten lava. Apparently this obsidian is full of dissolved gasses, so
 it must have originally cooled while still underground (under pressure) 
 where it couldn't turn into pumice or into an ash cloud. Note that I 
 only succeeded after removing the glass platter from the oven. With no 
 other big absorbers in the oven, the platter was eating all the watts.

 OLDER: trying to melt pumice in a microwave oven. It does glow
 orange when nuked (pre-heat with propane to trigger the effect.) But 
 only the sharp edges soften. Next to try: changing ash from Mt. St. 
 Helens back into lava again.

 EVEN OLDER: microwave ovens can melt glass, but only if the glass is 
 first pre-heated to dull red heat. I melted a hole in the side of a 
 bottle by nuking it, after first heating up a small spot with a 
 plumber's torch. I had to stop it after 60 seconds or the stream of 
 liquid glass might touch and shatter the rotating glass platter.
 The bottle shattered during cooling, so wear goggles!

11/12/2003

Added more to Unwise Microwave Oven Experiments: FAQ 

10/27/2003

SCIAM SCIENCE PROJECTS ARE BACK! I fixed the links on sciam1.html 
so they now point to backup copies at archive.org

 Igor says repeat this loudly over and over until your IQ drops significantly:
 LITTLE TINY HEAD. NO ROOM FOR BRAIN! Little TINY head. NO room for BRANE...

10/24/2003

Found some more interesting toys 

 Sometimes at a boring party you'll find some helium balloons used as 
 decorations. You task is to release them from bondage. Fly! Be free! 
 But sitting against the ceiling is not freedom. So, collect carrot 
 sticks and celery from the food trays, tie a hunk to each balloon, trim 
 down their strings to a minimum, then carefully nibble down the hanging
 vegetable until the balloon neither falls nor rises. Leave it hanging 
 in air, and it will float annoyingly around on the air currents, or 
 perhaps be attracted to the back of various hair-dos by electrostatic 
 forces (especially if you've thoroughly rubbed the entire surfaces of 
 each balloon against your arm-hair before letting it loose.) OK, Dr. 
 Von Fronk-en-steen, now combine several mylar balloons to make a single
 monster duct-tape zero-gee asteroid! (See link below)

10/22/2003

Added Antigrav Boulder . Your pet asteroid drifts around the house.

 The " Rijke tube " is a very strange device. Jam some metal screen 
 into one end of a metal pipe, hold it vertically with the screen end
 downwards, and heat the screen with a flame. The thing starts loudly 
 howling. The gentle convection-breeze with the hot screen acts as an 
 audio amplifier. The howl is feedback (a longer tube makes a lower 
 tone.) Brainstorm: inject helium or CO2 into the lower end to change 
 the tone. Send it a sequence of gasses and it will change your gas-data 
 stream into music. Or be boring, and just add a telescoping pipe to 
 create a Thermal Trombone.

09/30/2003

Added an Excel numerical toy , a pulse-wave crawling along a power line.

 Poor man's liquid nitrogen: chunks of dry ice in an insulated
 container of rubbing alcohol. Amazingly enough, many of the things you
 can do with liquid nitrogen are associated with its great thermal
 coupling power. It's a liquid, so it touches the entire surface of any 
 object dipped within. Dry ice is cold, and SEEMS to work poorly, so most
 people assume that this is because it's only -110F, not -320F. Wrong. 
 It's because dry ice is not a liquid, and any object stuck into a dry 
 ice container is insulated by the layer of gas. It cools down, but only 
 very slowly. So, use dry ice chunks to chill some alcohol! Then try 
 freezing and shattering a rose or a rubber band. Make springs and chimes 
 out of solder or lead sheets. Dip an operating LED into the stuff and 
 watch it grow intensely bright. Some supermarkets carry dry ice (such
 as QFC in Seattle.) Or check your yellow pages. A buck a pound.

09/22/2003

Added a separate Comment Book to Electricity Questions page

 As a kid I tried to grow crystals using table salt. But first I made
 a big jar of salt solution so the white stuff would settle out
 (salt is normally full of anti-caking agent.) But then, my salt 
 solution ESCAPED! It crawled out and made a run for freedom. You
 see, salt grows crust, but the crust is wet with concentrated salt
 solution. So then the crust grows crust. And more crust grows on
 that. Within a matter of hours your jar of salt solution can grow
 crust on the glass which extends up the side and over the lip, and 
 then the wet crust becomes a siphon. If the humidity is low, the
 salt water crawls out and forms a large pool on the floor, leaving a 
 mysteriously empty jar. Hey, maybe this explains how battery acid
 can escape from your car battery and form those big white crusty 
 things on the battery terminals.

08/01/2003

Always adding more to Weird Links, non-science 

 People spend years learning to sound just like Jimmy Stewart or Elvis. 
 Why not do something far more useful: do impressions of YOURSELF, but
 a version of yourself who has a trachea full of Helium. Make tapes of 
 yourself on helium, then learn to speak the same way but without any 
 helium. Get several others together and go on the road... "Barbershop 
 Faux Helium Singers." Maybe do some Mitch Miller numbers.

07/22/2003

Added PFI , a local Seattle legend, gourmet food warehouse store.

07/18/2003

Added Fingernails on blackboard, explained! 

 Hey, that " threadlike electric wind " phenomenon from 1998 won the 
 Nobel prize last year. Dr. J. Fenn uses it to make a row of micro droplets 
 each with protein molecules inside, then evaporates the water, leaving a 
 "beam" of charged proteins which can be accelerated in a vacuum chamber and 
 their mass determined. "Electrospray ion-trap mass spectrometry." The
 tiny droplets can travel at tens of MPH through the air apparently because 
 they behave like a moving column, not like individual droplets. Nikola 
 Tesla wanted to use liquid mercury electrospray micro-droplets accelerated
 by a 100 Megavolt VandeGraaff machine. He claimed that it was an effective
 weapon over many kilometers. Like a water-jet cutter, but with a much 
 smaller and denser "blade."

06/10/2003

Adding more to How Transistors REALLY work. Also a short version. 

 If escalators are driven by standard AC motors, then as more and more
 people pile onto the descending escalator, finally the current phase 
 will reverse and energy will be dumped into the power grid. The
 esclator's induction motor becomes a generator! The escalator lowers 
 all those heavy flesh hunks, and the energy has to go somewhere. If you 
 want to make a small donation to a company whose building has 
 escalators, then walk up the stairs, but ride the escalator down.

06/05/2003

Experimenting with cyborg text brain implants: the RSVP 
speed-reading
protocol. It's like text-to-speech software, but aimed at your
retinas rather than ears. Disable your eyes' muscles and pour the 
text directly into your brain at high speed. Here are three examples 
done in GIF animation: slow , fast , faster .
See Speeder reader museum exhibit.

06/04/2003

Making The Ice which does not Melt 

05/24/2003

At long last added an actual biology section.

05/24/2003

 Added Human IR sense detects hail? to the 'weird sci.'
section. It's subjective and might not be real, so I didn't put
it under 'amateur sci.'

Sheep mowing your lawn? Forget it! You'd have to build a barn for 'em
and clean up the sheep poop. BRAINSTORM: plant your whole yard with
catnip, and let the neighborhood cats keep it trimmed. Actually 
this might even work. I noticed that at the end of winter my flowerpot 
of catnip on the front porch wasn't regrowing, yet the stump had many
tiny leaves. I put a cage over it and within a day there were large
green shoots taking off. Neighborhood cats had kept it trimmed way back. 

05/20/2003

Added to misconception list: a Lemon Battery can't light a bulb. 
This classic school science experiment actually doesn't work. It never 
did. Fortunately there are other things you can do with a lemon 
battery. Also, if you have a supercapacitor, then you can cheat.

04/18/2003

Found old article: making square wheels 
 Anyone with some machine shop skills should try making a set of
 these things. They look really cool when made in gleaming polished
 acrylic. Stick them on a little axel and they'll roll smooth 
 and silently across a glass tabletop... yet they're CUBES. The 
 tetrahedron version looks almost as odd.

 Where's the dividing line between "site update news" and "Blog"? 
 Have I injected sufficient humorous comments to qualify?

03/30/2003

Added OK, how do wings REALLY work to the Airfoil mistake section

02/11/2003

Updated hoaxes page with "Radioactive Nightmare"
 Also "megavolt body charger." Make yourself into a human 
 VandeGraaff generator. Use laying-on-of-hands to perform anti-
 healing ceremonies on cellphones and laptops.

 The word of the day is "Serrodyne." I've heard of Heterodyne and 
 even Superheterodyne, but "Serrodyne" is a new one on me. How could
 I have missed it? Simple: it's very recent. Also it's very 
 weird: change an incoming high-freq signal's frequency by using 
 Doppler shift! Then just add your frequency-shifted signal to 
 the original, and then a nonlinear detector will give you a nice 
 low-freq signal at the difference frequency. Hobbyists take note:
 it lets you treat a light signal as if it were a radio channel.
 Split any laser into several different frequencies, then put 
 separate data streams on each!

 For a microwave signal, just pipe it through a TWT (Travelling 
 Wave Tube) while constantly increasing the drive voltage on the 
 electron beam. For a light signal, just constantly move one end 
 of an optical fiber (or instead wrap the fiber around a cylinder 
 of piezo material and then constantly increase the cylinder 
 diameter.) This shifts the frequency by a constant value. Mix 
 it with the original, shine it on a photodiode, and you've 
 moved a piece of the optical spectrum down into the radio 
 spectrum! Pretty cool, eh? Serrodyne lets you treat light
 as if it were radio frequency.

 Of course you can't keep up the constant change forever, and that's
 where the "Serro" part comes in. Just move things in a sawtooth wave.
 Give your optical fiber constant drift in order to create doppler 
 shift, but every so often jump it back to the start. Except for 
 those brief jumps, the signal frequency will end up shifted. In 
 other words, you've created "Serrated heterodyne."

02/07/2003 
Updated misconceptions list with why do clouds float? 
 Clouds DON'T stay up there because the droplets are small, or
 because they're so light that existing updrafts can lift them. 
 They stay up there because the air inside the cloud is warm.
 Oh, and why is the sky blue? Simple answer, but not one I've
 ever seen in any book.

12/28/2002 
Added Drawing Holograms By Hand (2003) , presented at SPIE Imaging conference.
 I actually submitted a paper to a science journal. It's just
 a conference proceedings, but still. Last thing I "published"
 was around 1980 as a coauthor on an instrumentation design for
 vision studies.

09/03/02 Added IR filter-goggles, $10 
 These really do work. Greenery in the landscape looks very weird.
 They let you see right through certain types of black IR filter.
 Be careful though, it might not be wise to use them without good 
 solid UV protection.

06/12/02 Added Dishonest Argument section to Closedminded Science 
 During the next flamewar you can point out all your opponents'
 illegal ploys. Or not. "Never argue with an idiot. They just
 drag you down to their level, then beat you with experience."

06/07/02 Added more to Electricity Misconceptions 

06/06/02 Added Humans can sense THERMAL infrared? 

05/07/02 Added Local Seattle Tech Jobs 
 During job-search I couldn't find a good Seattle jobs portal with
 all these company pages. So I made a primitive one.

05/07/02 Writing Ridiculed Discoverers, a list 
 Aimed at those people who are certain that scientific concensus
 never makes mistakes, certain that crazy claims in science are 
 never proved valid in later decades.

04/??/02 Added Twenty Scientific Attitudes from 1/1990 Rational Enq.

04/28/02 Added more to Skeptic Fallacies: They Laughed at the Wright Brothers 
 Three very common arguments I constantly encounter in online 
 Skeptic forums.

04/28/02 Found an old article of mine: Watts, Ohms, Volts, and Amps 
 Two things flow in wires: charge and energy... but they are 
 deeply interconnected via voltage and Ohm's law.

04/23/02 Updated the High-voltage diodes and coil-winding page

02/23/02 Sorted the UNUSUAL PHENOMENA archive

02/08/02 Added some ebay sections to Electronics Hobbyist

11/17/01 Merged the english text into Grebennikov insect-antigrav book chapter
 Best crackpot article I've ever seen! It has all the earmarks of 
 a genuine discovery. That, or the guy spins a very believable 
 tale. Biological nanostructures which harness undiscovered 
 elements of gravitational physics! Since he kept the "antigrav" 
 insect species name secret, we'll never know if it was real.

10/30/01 Fixed up weird newsgroups 

08/20/01 Added Brief testing of the Morton Effect 
 I couldn't reproduce his claims. But then later I realized that 
 my VDG machine has the wrong polarity. I'll have to take it 
 apart someday and reverse the rollers.

08/16/01 Update to carbon-to-iron experiment 
 Alchemy! heresy! Striking an arc between big carbon blocks
 apparently creates a form of stainless steel, but without the
 usual problem of "radioactive grad students" or even 
 incandescent chickens.

08/11/01 Added How do Transistors Work? 
 No, how do they REALLY work. What if we don't trust textbooks, 
 but instead figure out the physics from first principles? This 
 is the "Babylonian" method espoused by Feynman (as opposed to 
 the Euclidian math-worshipping method used by contemporary 
 science.)

08/09/01 Old article: " Bions, leukocytes, and floaters "
 Wilhelm Reich's "orgone energy" is partly based on a misperception;
 strange wigglers in the environment are actually inside your eye.

07/05/01 Added GIF diagrams to Tesla's Greatest Mistake 
 He used the Earth as a giant waveguide for 5KHz power transmission.

05/30/01 Got Adobe Atmosphere? (free!) Try FREUDIAN 
 Ever wanted to try building 3D objects? Or wondered whether the www 
 of the future will be holographic? Get in on the ground floor! The 
 free beta software lets you make complicated 3D objects and then 
 publish them on the web as 3D 'worlds.' Make your own online science 
 museum or sculpture gallery. Best of all, there's a realtime chat 
 server, and your users can see each other!

04/07/01 Playing with Adobe's Virtual Reality beta plugin & worlds

04/04/01 Added entries to Electricity Misconceptions 

03/20/01 Added a CUPPA BURNING PLASMA to microwave demos 
 Your microwave oven can create a pool of fluorescent gas. Poke at it 
 quantum mechanically with salt grains. It gets fiercely hot though, 
 and can shatter your Pyrex glassware.

03/18/01 Added a graph of leakage for a small gravcap test (no thrust!)

03/04/01 Added a couple of GIF drawings to INLINE KELVIN'S THUNDERSTORM 
 Make high voltage with no moving parts except dribbling water.

01/30/01 Added Ultra-simple hovercraft plans.
 These blower-driven plates can lift immense weights. We piled on as 
 many kids as would fit, yet the darned things still glided along.

01/28/01 Added photos to BEHAVIOR INSTRUCTIONS Skull awareness!
 Slowly, ever slowly my text-only prejudice is eroding...

01/25/01 Added more answers to My Answers at Madsci 

01/05/01 Tesla's Shade whispers: "Coupled Oscillators." OoooooOOoo.
 The last wisps of summertime visionary experience still stun.

02/17/00 More Energy Suction [LINK WAS BAD]
 What can yuh do with a drunken photon?

12/25/00 Added Energy: a property? Or a substance? 

12/22/00 Added FPD: Newsgroup flaming as mental illness 

12/18/00 Added crude diagrams to Capacitor Complaints 

12/10/00 Added WHERE in the circuit does energy flow? (lots o' pictures!)

11/20/00 Added Right Angle Circuitry 

11/14/00 Added animation to Flight Analogy 

11/11/00 Added more to Interesting Toys 

07/22/00 Added Airfoil Explanations 

07/22/00 Added an exerpt from TEXTBOOKS FLUNK OUT 

06/30/00 Added 'Squealing wall' laser demonstration

06/27/00 Added Subtle Energy as structured white-noise 

06/01/00 Sorted the UNUSUAL PHENOMENA archive

05/13/00 Added Smoke Ring Animation 

03/31/00 FOOD FOR THOUGHT: How can long EM waves be sent through a tiny hole? 

03/25/00 New report of a success with " gravity capacitor ". To follow 
 the discussion, see escribe . To see how to subscribe to this 
 forum, see the FREENRG-L page.

03/25/00 Added Pure Horganism to Closeminded Science section

03/16/00 Major "energy-sucking antenna" debate on the SCI.PHYSICS.ELECTROMAG 
 and the SCI.ELECTRONICS.DESIGN newsgroups caused me to add
 this simplified analysis of the "small resonant antenna"
 phenomenon.

03/07/00 Added a new page: INTERESTING TOYS 

02/20/00 A freeware "traffic waves" screensaver sent to me. (.SCR for MS-WIN)

02/17/00 More Energy Suction 

12/30/99 Added more stuff to What Is Electricity? and FAQ 

11/16/99 Added an animation to traffic experiments 

10/26/99 Added High-speed blimp-vortex , a silly idea.

 9/25/99 Added WHO REALLY INVENTED "LEVITRON?"&amp 

 9/25/99 Added Levitron&amp and dishonesty 

 09/20/99 Added Nerd/Misfit Resources and Don't blow up your school 

 09/18/99 Added Cognitive Processes and Science-suppression 

 09/17/99 Added Crackpot Theory the 3rd: "Invisible Wall" acoustic effect 

 09/08/99 Added Crackpot Theory the 2nd: Energy-sucking Quantum Electrodynamics 

 09/08/99 Added VDG WEIRDNESS: The Morton Effect 

 09/01/99 Added WEIRD STUFF: anti-chirp scalar wave for Star Trek 'force field' 

 09/01/99 Added Publicize inventions via "infection" 

 09/01/99 Added UPDATE: Vector-potential free-energy device idea! 

 08/29/99 Added My first crackpot theory: vector-potential energy source 

 07/30/99 Added Energy-sucking radio antennas 

 06/27/99 Added Tesla's Big Mistake 

 06/15/99 Added Benveniste's "water memory" send over wires 

 05/28/99 Started a new discussion group for Amateur Science: SCICLUB-LIST 

 05/17/99 Boston Globe article: TEXTBOOKS FLUNK OUT 

 05/13/99 Added Exploding Coffee Water to Microwave oven page

 05/13/99 Old file that I never put on miscons page: Capacitor Complaint 

 04/14/99 Started an Electricity FAQ [UNDER CONST.]

 04/12/99 More about What is Voltage [STILL UNDER CONST.]

 03/30/99 Added Electricity is not a form of energy! 

 03/25/99 Added The difference between "current" and "static" 

 02/25/99 Added Evolution Heresy 

 02/15/99 Updated Ion Experiments (untried, suggested experiments.)

 02/05/99 Added "Static Electric" means "HIGH VOLTAGE" 

 02/05/99 Worked on FAQ: Why I'm involved in Fringe Science. 

 02/04/00 Added Weird science IS perception. 

 02/02/99 Added LINKS: The Amateur Scientist column at SciAm magazine

 01/31/99 Added Physics Sermon 

 01/30/99 Added more "abhorrence" to Abhorrent ideas in Science 

 01/22/99 Added What a Shocking career! 

 01/21/99 Added Fringe-sci and Crackpots and Breakthroughs, Oh My! 

 01/18/99 Added a couple of Torsion-waves papers to Spin Waves page.

 12/26/98 Added hardware diagram to "Electrostatic Air Threads" page.

 12/20/98 New DOMAIN NAME : http:// amasci.com = http:/www. amasci. com/

 Just remember "AMASCI". No more of that "eskimo ,dot, com, slash,
 tilde... you know, *tilde*, the spanish "enya," that little squiggle
 thing, the one over the backwards apostrophe key? OK? ..then billb, with
 two L's, NO, NOT billD, billB, with a "B" as in "boy," ...etc.

 12/14/98 Added Commercial sources links page for electrostatic generators

 12/07/98 Fixed up THE END OF SCIENCE 

 12/06/98 Added 'Gotchas' , antigravity experimental artifacts

 12/03/98 Late notice: added FREE STUFF for teachers links

 11/28/98 Added PARASCIENCE VS. PSEUDOSCIENCE 

 11/27/98 Broke my Quotes Collection loose from Closeminded 

 11/26/98 Added Feynman book links to Feynman Page 

 11/26/98 Addition to Audio Illusion 

 11/25/98 Added WEIRD NEWSGROUPS 

 11/08/98 Added ALT.SCI.AMATEUR 

 10/28/98 Sorted the UNUSUAL PHENOMENA archive

 10/25/98 Weeded dead links & organized Electronics Hobbyist page

 10/8/98 Added newsgroup links to sci. ed. groups , sci. amateur groups , 
 and homeschooling page

 9/24/98 Added Skeptics Links page to WEIRD SCIENCE

 9/13/98 Added AIP Misconceptions List to the Miscon Page 

 7/13/98 Added TRAFFIC EXPERIMENTS 

 7/8/98 Added TRAFFIC JAM CURE 

 6/27/98 Added You'll go Blind !

 6/18/98 Added a Site Map (this is a big site, eh? Large, even.)

 6/5/98 Bookstore: Buy books, help out THE SCIENCE CLUB 

 6/6/98 Added Mysterious Electrostatic Air-threads 

 6/2/98 Added Science Museum Exhibits addable database

 6/2/98 Made The Instructions into an addable database

 5/25/98 Added What is Voltage [UNDER CONST.]

 5/22/98 Added Ion Experiments (untried, suggested experiments.)

 5/1/98 Added Anti-spam resources 

 5/8/98 Added VandeGraaff Generator Debugging 

 5/4/98 Added Edu Newsgroups collected links to Dejanews service

 5/1/98 Added The DISGUSTO-SCOPE , a reprehensible use of innocent optical physics

 4/25/98 Added Mark Rehorst's Building Electrostatic Loudspeakers 

 4/25/98 Added SCIENCE DISCUSSIONS to AMATEUR SCI. 

 4/1/98 Added The Instructions 

 4/3/98 Added a Comment Book to Miscon page

 3/14/98 Figured out Dejanews archive access, added 
 one to Closeminded (see Philosophizin')

 3/11/98 Started MADSCI ANSWERS page, answers I submitted to the 
 " Ask a Scientist " project.

 3/8/98 Started Spin Waves , about a little-known backwater in physics 
 which might explain Psi, also 'free energy' and antigrav reports.

 3/5/98 Started Who's Who in Frontier Physics 

 2/25/98 Added more stuff to site FAQ 

 2/23/98 Response about "abundance" chain-letters 

 2/22/98 Added "Am I just a pedantic science-nitpicker?" to Misconceptions page

 2/21/98 Added Todd Knudtson "Brown's Gas" article

 2/21/98 Added Abhorrant Ideas in Science to Closeminded. 

 2/19/98 Added a SEARCH page, w/sorted list of most popular pages here

 2/14/98 Added PHYSL's Textbook Misconceptions List

 1/31/98 Added NEGATIVE ION GENERATOR to ELECTROSTATIC MOTOR 

 1/30/98 Added some explanation to Mechanical Maglev 

 1/27/98 Added TRAFFIC WAVES 

 1/08/98 Added more to Vandegraaff Explanations (w/GIFs), and a VDG FAQ 

 1/04/98 Added Science/Spiritual section to Weird Science

12/01/97 Added Balloon Analogy to Wings Misconception Page 

11/30/97 Updated edu.html with Science Lesson Plans links

11/16/97 Added THAT WHICH IS NOT SO... YET 

10/25/97 Added HOW *SHOULD* WE TEACH ELECTRICITY? 

10/12/97 Added KEEPING YOUR BEAD ON THE WIRE to Closeminded Science 

10/4/97 Accidental rm of dir. /weird, mostly restored now
 ( any new URL additions to Weird Sci. page were lost)
 I need to build a kicking machine like in coyote/roadrunner,
 to gently remind myself not to use rm *.*

9/15/97 Working on Dry Ice Demos 

8/31/97 Started a Free Energy FAQ 

8/31/97 Redid Science Misconceptions , added an index.

8/23/97 Added Vortex Cannons 

8/21/97 Added Antibubbles! 

8/16/97 Added Prometheus Game 

8/11/97 Remembered to add here: Crackpot Inventor's Rules 

8/11/97 Added Screwy Ideas Archive 

7/31/97 Digests at eskimo.com are malfunctioning, including freenrg-digest

7/24/97 Added "Acoustimagnetoelectricism" to Misconceptions page

7/16/97 Added Pseudoscience to Closeminded Sci.

7/14/97 Added Ridiculously sensitive charge detector 

7/9/97 Added The Electricity Map 

6/28/97 Added Lens vs. Pinhole to Miscons page.

6/16/97 Created Chemistry and magnetism page.

6/8/97 Created ELECTRICITY ARTICLES page

5/22/97 Added They Laughed at the Wright Brothers to Closeminded Science 

4/9/97 Added Flowing "static electricity" , Enlarged Site FAQ 

4/7/97 Added Hum Notes , Hum References , and
 Bristol Hum to the Taos Hum Page 

4/5/97 Bill B. on the Laura Lee radio show on alternative science.
 Topic: the "Taos Hum". Go to TSTRADIO for realaudio archive
 (warning: after free demo time, costs $$)

3/28/97 Added A germ theory of education 

3/25/97 Added Heretic's booklist to Closeminded Science 

3/15/97 Added Hints for building electrostatic devices 

3/15/97 Added a site FAQ. 

3/14/97 Enlarged the Seattle Weird Sci. Hobbyists page

3/9/97 Enlarged Sticky Electrostatics 

3/5/97 Enlarged the LED explanation article 

3/4/97 Enlarged the Hologram Hints page

2/23/97 Added What is a VDG 

2/23/97 Added Tornado Chamber 

1/17/97 Added Tampere Replication and Test Ideas to Antigravity Page 

1/15/97 Added Gravity distortion viewer to Not your average const. project 

1/8/97 Added Audio Absorber to Not your average const. project 

12/25/96 Merry X-mass! Added UFO Binoculars to Not your average const. project 

12/15/96 Added Swartz editorial on lift calc. to Bernoulli Misconception page

12/14/96 Added "ice skate" misconception to K-6 Misconceptions page

12/7/96 Created Webpage Flaws page

12/7/96 Created a separate Plasma Sphere page

12/7/96 Extended Sparks & Lightning article

11/30/96 Extended my Homopolar Generator article

11/17/96 Added SPEED OF ELECTRICITY article to misconceptions page

11/17/96 Started Science Fair Ideas Exchange 

10/27/96 Started Airfoil Misconception page

10/26/96 Started small Richard Feynman page for bookmarks

10/18/96 Started SCIENCE EXHIBITS bulletin board (unused, now deleted.)

10/18/96 Started science exhibits discussion WEBHEAD-L 

10/16/96 eskimo.com off the net. Any mail lost?

 9/26/96 Added Maverick versus Conventional Science (to Closeminded Sci .)

 9/25/96 Bill B. on the Laura Lee radio show on alternative science.
 Topic: Science ridicule of new ideas, infectious textbook errors,
 drawing holograms by hand. Go to TSTRADIO for realaudio
 archive (warning: after free demo time, costs $$)

 9/18/96 Created REPORT YOUR UNUSUAL PHENOMENA subpage

 9/18/96 Created guestbooks for main page, Taos Hum, and kids expt's.

 9/14/96 Created ANTIGRAVITY subpage

 9/13/96 eskimo.com router crash, WWW and mail no work. Incoming and
 outgoing email vanishes.

 8/31/96 Added SCIENTIFIC CENSORSHIP AND EVOLUTION to 'Closeminded Sci'

 8/31/96 Added THE RESEARCH GAME: RULES to 'Closeminded Sci'

 8/6/96 eskimo.com Listproc is hung up. No list messages since Sun nite,
 staff fixed it late tuesday nite. Looks like those messages may
 be lost.

 8/4/96 Connected a Pop Bottle Motor to a bundt-pan Waterdrop Generator
 for the first time. Igor, IT LIVES! The motor turns a couple of
 revs and discharges the generator, silently charges up for about
 20 seconds, then repeats. Things to try: it might be persuaded
 to run continuously by installing 20KV diodes in series with the
 wires to the inducer rings, so that shorting the generator output
 doesn't discharge the rings instantly.

 8/3/96 Added lots of links to the "Asking Science questions" site.

 5/27/96 Created " Ball Lightning " subpage.

 2/17/96 Drew more diagrams, gave the Wing Lift Misconception its own page.

 2/7/96 Created Vandegraaf and Static Electricity subpage.

 8/95 Added New Theories, Scorn, and Derision 

 7/23/95 Uploaded some 1993 PCBs and schematics for my "flowing electricity" 
 museum exhibit device " Visible Electricity "

 5/8/95 Putting another invention into public domain: my old Hall-effect, 
 Lift-from-below, maglev device , also rotary-tubes motor maglev

 3/19/95 Drew some msPaint diagrams and uploaded " K6 Science Misconceptions "
 article I'd written for Boston Museum of Science back in 88-89.

__________________________ LONG AGO _______________________________
3/95 Met Mike Huffman, mad inventor. Started a temporary majordomo
 list for discussing his device, calling it Vortex-L.

01/95 There aren't any good Tesla Coil pages. Only fan pages for that
 rock band. Guess I'll have to make one myself. 

12/94 Uploaded some keelynet files called "MRA DEVICE," and spread
 some announcements on various newsgroups. The resulting flamewar
 on alt.sci.fusion and sci.physics continued for weeks!

11/94 Uploaded some old MOS Boston science museum exhibit notes : 
 weird devices I conceived but never actually built, other than
 some crude prototypes.

10/94 Moved over to netcom.com, then put up a crude "science club" 
 website on halcyon.com. Figured out how to use NCSA MOSAIC 
 freeware. Downloaded Winsock shareware from that guy in Australia 
 (but didn't pay for it until like 2009! Created a webpage on 
 eskimo.com called Amateur Science, typed in some old science 
 museum ideas, schematics, etc. Uploaded 10meg of Keelynet 
 files and started "Weird Science." Convinced Yanoff, Virttual 
 Library, and some guys on Stanford "akebono" to list my page. 
 Those were the days, huh?

??/93 Heard about a service in Seattle called "Connected dot com" which 
 gave real internet access for only $30 per month (at 2400baud!!!!) 
 I think my addr was billb@connected.com . Then I noticed that I 
 wasn't getting billed. And when I missed payments, nothing
 happened! I contacted other users on the Connected Newsgroups and 
 found that nobody else was receiving bills either. I later heard 
 that the whole userbase at connected.com simply stopped paying. 
 Then the Sheriff's department raided the ISP and shut it 
 down, confiscating all the hardware (which apparently was stolen 
 property.) Ah, the internet. It was already the internet, back
 before it even really had become the internet.

??/92 Discovered a secret "hole" that gave free internet access!!!
 This was a big deal back in 1992. On the BBS card catalog for the 
 Seattle Public Library dialup service there was a search for
 periodicals, but the search window was something called "Gopher" 
 which then led off into a vast network of other sites. After 
 discovering this thing called "Archie", I could find sites that 
 accessed something called "Usenet Newsgroups." I wasted months 
 searching around in all that stuff. I REALLY wanted to learn how
 to write my own Gopher "hypertext" pages with links to other sites.
 Too bad Gopher didn't have pictures. Now THAT would have been 
 a good idea: image hypertext like Gopher was, but with graphic 
 images! Why, that would let people publish their own free 
 textbooks. People could display anything they wanted, and the 
 whole world could come and look at it! What if billions of people 
 could poke around in your filing cabinet? What would you put in 
 it for them to find?

??/89 On Compuserve, remember the SCIENCE FORUM? I was [71241,3623], 
 hanging out and arguing about Pons Fleischman "CF," the airfoil
 fallacy, and other such terribly important topics.

 Ping Blogwise 

 weblogs.com ping site form 

 Daypop top 100 blogs

 Search Popdex : 

 Ping technorati 

 Technorati science 

 /news.html 

Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: .