Ramblins from daMongolian 

 Ramblins from daMongolian 

 dunno, just playing around so far... 

 Drop me an e-mail and tell me what you think! blog@uniboy.org 
 Latest Joy of Tech! 

 Archives 

 Friday, March 15, 2002 

 Friday Five 1. What's your favorite animal? Cats, though I have a definite affinity for Dogs (see #3) 2. What pets have you had in your lifetime? As a kid, there was supposedly a puppy when I was Bobbie the cutest kitty ever who died mysteriously last month =( . And currently Steffi, (note, she was present when both Katie and Bobbie died, the KBI (Kitty Bureau of Investications) is currently investigating.)) and Bobbie's littermate Bagheera. 3. Is there any specific pet that you've wanted but never had? Why? I've been thinking for awhile about getting a dog, I haven't yet because I'd want to get a puppy so that it would be able to grow up around cats and learn not to eat them =) and I haven't had the time to commit to training a puppy properly. Also any puppy would probably freak the heck out of Bagheera (he's a real fraidy cat) and Steffi (she's just a brat =) Bobbie on the other hand would probably have liked an extra personality to play with =) 4. Are you allergic to any animals? Nope, at least not that I'm aware of. 5. Do you have any 'pet' pet peeves (your pets or others')? I don't like to let anyone lick my face. This really hasn't been a problem though with any of the dogs that I've known =) When she was a kitten Bobbie did have a habit of licking my face when I was in bed, which was particularly bothersome because her tongue was like sandpaper fortunately I managed to break her of that habit while I still had some skin on my face. Instead she took up licking my hands and my toes (that tickled!) Oh and once she licked my now former girlfriend's eyeball at 3 in the morning. 6. I guess I'm so used to answering this as the last question I'm going to go ahead and make it #6. (oh, and I've been looking for an excuse to plug Utilikilts here too) Lesee, supposed to help my friend Jon move early Saturday morning, It'll probably rain. Saturday afternoon, Utilikilts is in town for a Kilt Party. Sunday I have no plans....what?!? no plans, I'll probably be in the yard pulling the REST of the weeds. -sigh- Whoa, this just in, My friends Frank & Marilyn have invited me over for St. Patrick's day dinner Sunday afternoon, so I guess I'll be there =) the weeds'll have to get pulled in the morning =). 
 da Mongolian rambled on 3:45 PM 

 Tuesday, March 12, 2002 

 Wow apparently if you do a google search for the words sarah , vinnie, alice, and suspend I'm the second link....I've really hit the big time now =) Well ok I suppose it's still better than some of the other wacked out websearches some of my fellow bloggers come up on. 
 da Mongolian rambled on 9:33 PM 

 HOME