Ramblins from daMongolian 

 Ramblins from daMongolian 

 dunno, just playing around so far... 
 Drop me an e-mail and tell me what you think! blog@uniboy.org 
 Latest Joy of Tech! 

 Archives 

 Saturday, January 26, 2002 

 Now where the heck did my archives go? they made it over in the switch but now they've disappeared again....grrrr silly me, looks like it was a pathname thing again. 
 posted by da Mongolian at 7:27 PM 

 Yippee!! I'm trying out a new hosting service. They offer shell access with a 2 week free trial, if I like em I think I'll probably register my own domain. Check em out! www.eskimo.com 
 posted by da Mongolian at 6:37 PM 

 Bunny Hop- wanna help break a world record? It started out as a bet between Sarah & Vinnie and the morning crew. You know how that goes! Everyone made their Superbowl predictions and tied it into an outrageous payoff ... the losers would have to bunny hop across the Golden Gate Bridge. Then the 'Bridge Lady' called and said "Not on my Bridge" Then the Alice legal department called and said "Not on this radio station"! Undaunted, Sarah upped the anti and turned the bet into a world record stunt. NOW, Sarah & Vinnie and at least 1500 listeners (yeah that's you) are attempting the Guinness World Record for the World's largest Bunny Hop. Did we mention we NEED YOU? The record Sarah & Vinnie need to break is record is 1434 adults and children 'bunny-hopping' for 9 min. We get be the record. No problem...IF YOU SHOW UP. Here's when and where its happening: Friday, February 8th @ Bay Meadows Race Track, San Mateo 7:00am - 8:30am 
 posted by da Mongolian at 4:57 AM 

 Friday, January 25, 2002 

 The Joy of Tech! Hehe, "News of Amazon's profit was particularily annoying, coming as it did during the Devil's Enron Celebrations." Congratulations Amazon!!! 
 posted by da Mongolian at 4:35 AM 

 Friday Five 1. What cologne or perfume do you wear? None. I used to wear Lagerfeld but I haven't worn any in ages....still have a bottle of it in the bathroom though. 2. What cologne or perfume do you like best on the opposite sex? Beautiful by Este Lauder, that one'll get me going EVERY time =) 3. What one smell can you not stomach? Chlorine Bleach 4. What smell do you like that others might consider weird? Hmm, I guess I don't mind the smell of paint either, though not so much that I'd consider sniffing it. 5. How do you plan to spend your weekend? No solid plans. Probably going to stick around the house continuing to take care of some long overdue chores. 
 posted by da Mongolian at 3:19 AM 

 Hmmm...I'm thinking I might almost be ready to switch this to a public page. Dunno if I'm ready for people that I actually _know_ to read it yet though =) I guess if you're reading this you'll know that it went public. And if you know me in the real world then you'll know that I decided that I was ready for that too eh? 
 posted by da Mongolian at 3:04 AM 

 Wednesday, January 23, 2002 

 Ok, my first rant =) Jury services in Contra Costa...heh...sorry about that...got busy at work and then side tracked. Ok Jury Services in CCC, getting the summons sucks for me. The way it works out here is you get your notice and fill out a little questionnaire and then you're supposed to call after 5pm the day before your summons. A little recording then tells you to A) report for Jury Duty at 8am the next morning or B) call between 11:30 am and 12 noon the next day. If you're in the group that calls the next day then when you call you're told A) Please report at 1 pm or B) told that you've completed your obligation and don't need to call again unless you receive another written notice. Ok fine, I suppose this is supposed to be more convenient. Well not if you work an odd shift like I do. I usually leave the house for work right around 5pm and get home between 2:30 - 3am (don't feel bad for me, I'm a night owl so I actually enjoy it =) So the way it works (worked actually since this is now being written after the fact) for me is that I was supposed to report for Jury Duty today, that means that yesterday I had to call in just before I left for work to see if I had to show up at 8 in the morning. If I did, then I'd have called work and told them that I wouldn't be in. A pain in the butt for me, and a pain for them since it's pretty much last minute notice. As it turns out, I didn't have to go in at 8, I got to call in again today. That means that I go to work, work through the night, head home and go to sleep so that I can wake up at 11:30 to find out if I have to appear at 1pm. Actually instead of going straight to bed I ended up watching The West Wing (I didn't know it was going to be a repeat!, but I watched it anyway cause I needed my fix =) and then watched part (well most of) the Inside the Bush West Wing. As it turned out, I called at 11:30 and didn't have to report. Guess I dodged the Jury Duty bullet once again, I've been summoned three times in the last five years and each time it's been exactly the same deal, same pain in the ass cause of my odd work schedule. grrrrrr.... ok, 
 posted by da Mongolian at 7:30 PM 

 Tuesday, January 22, 2002 

 ok, sorta got it working, something to do with my pathnames....the links don't quite work right. I'm thinking it's something in my template pages. But it's going to have to wait, it's off to bed for me =) 
 posted by da Mongolian at 6:22 AM 

 sigh...still having troubles getting the archive work... 
 posted by da Mongolian at 6:16 AM 

 Monday, January 21, 2002 

 very very strange....ok, it looks like it was a version problem with Netscape, the 4.75 that was loaded here at work didn't like something about the page, Netscape 6.21 seems to fix it. 
 posted by da Mongolian at 6:34 PM 

 yikes my my pages aren't loading....though I think it might be something to do with an archive setting, bear with me as I play around to try and get it straightened out..... 
 posted by da Mongolian at 6:19 PM 

 Sunday, January 20, 2002 

 hmm...so now this should work and be posted with the name daMongolian instead eh? 
 posted by da Mongolian at 3:51 PM 

 Decided to change the name of this Blog to Ramblins from daMongolian. If ya ask nicely maybe I'll tell you the story of where I got the nickname daMongolian =) 
 posted by Greg Tse at 3:39 PM 

 HOME