Ramblins from daMongolian 

 Ramblins from daMongolian 

 dunno, just playing around so far... 

 Drop me an e-mail and tell me what you think! blog@uniboy.org 
 Latest Joy of Tech! 

 Archives 

 Saturday, March 23, 2002 

 ooooh, comments...I hope....but really shouldn't I be asleep? 
 da Mongolian rambled on 5:40 AM 

 Add a comment 

 Charity Cases.... Ok, I've been meaning to add a couple of buttons to my sidebar over there for a while now, but I haven't cause every time I try to, it messes with my template and all the spacing for the rest of the page gets messed up. (anyone have any insight into what I'm doing wrong?/what's happening?) But I really need to mention/include these buttons NOW cause there's another cause I want to plug and I don't feel right doing that, and not giving these other two a fair shake at the same time. =) First Erin's Breast Cancer walk. This is a cause I support and I'm also participating in the San Francisco event again this year as a member of the Crew. If you love the women in your life, please go and sponsor Erin! Second Hoopty's Shave Hoopty fundraiser. He's taking donations/raffling the opportunity to shave his head, both the proceeds and the hair will go to support kids who're undergoing Chemotherapy (they'll take the hair, assuming it's long enough) and make a wig out of it for someone who's lost their due to their treatments. As an aside when I finally decide to cut my hair off (currently down to my butt) it'll all get shaved and donated as well, I'm just not there yet =) Anyway his link can be found here..... Lastly, the KGO Radio Cure-A-Thon for the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society. This is an annual event that runs 24 hours...until 7pm Saturday. ALL proceeds to go to research, NOTHING to overhead, office space NOTHING. EVERYTHING goes to research. This is actually the cause that got me started on the Breast Cancer 3-day last year, in past years I'd donated to the Cure-a-thon and last year I knew that financially I wouldn't be able to, so I decided to volunteer (crew) the 3Day instead. KGO is a San Francisco Bay Area radio station, that, in the evenings can be heard up and down the west cost. It can also be heard on the internet. If you didn't realize it, it's also a cause directly related to Hoopty's =) If you can't listen in, but want to donate, the number to call is 1-800-810-CURE (2873) Anyway, give give give. Of course don't give more than you can afford =) and if you can help me with my sidebar thing, drop me an e-mail. oh and I almost forgot...Hoopty's nephew....cute kid, but more importantly....mmmmmm sushi!! =) 
 da Mongolian rambled on 1:09 AM 

 Add a comment 

 Thursday, March 21, 2002 

 Friday Five 1. What is your favorite time of year? hmmm...well I don't have a favorite, so this is going to be a boring week =+Q 2. What is it about your favorite season that, well, makes it your favorite season? See Above. 3. What is your least favorite time of year? Why? See Above. 4. Do you do anything to celebrate or recognize the changing of seasons? No. 5. What's your favorite thing to do outside? I love to hike, and camp....I haven't been hiking enough lately though. I'm also formulating a plan whereby I start riding my bike on the weekends again. 
 da Mongolian rambled on 9:06 PM 

 Add a comment 

 HOME