Ramblins from daMongolian 

 Ramblins from daMongolian 

 dunno, just playing around so far... 

 Drop me an e-mail and tell me what you think! blog@uniboy.org 
 Latest Joy of Tech! 

 Archives 

 Thursday, April 18, 2002 

 Friday Five 1. What's your favorite TV show and why? Currently I guess The West Wing, ER's getting a little old. I do like Third Watch a lot though. 2. Who is your favorite television star? I guess I really don't have one currently I'd have to say Alyson Hannigan is extremely cute, but I don't watch Buffy so go figure... 3. What was your favorite TV show as a child? hmmm Nothing really stands out as a FAVORITE so I'm going to say "Gilligan's Lion" if for no other reason than there's an amusing incident when I was about 3 wandering around upstairs at the grocery store that my Mom's family used to own saying that I wanted to watch Gilligan's Lion when of course I really meant Gilligan's Island lol...don't ask me where I came up with that one, I've know idea =) Oh I did rather like the campy reruns of Batman though. 4. What show do you think should have been cancelled by now? Law & Order-Criminal Intent, I like the other two L&O incarnations, but something bout Vincent D'Onofrio pouty performance bugs me. 5. What new show do you hope escapes the axe this season? None of em, I'm watching too much TV this year, so if they dump one of the ones that I sort of like, I won't cry too much. I'm thinking Leap of Faith, I do miss Inside Schwartz but not enough to lose any sleep over it. Oooh wait, now that I think about it, if they cancel UC but keep Criminal Intent, I shall be very put out especially with X-Files going away this year. 
 da Mongolian rambled on 9:51 PM 

 Add a comment 

 Can't Sleep Con Will Eat me An interesting little 'manga' (authors word not mine, I'm guessing it's something to do with the Anime world since the characters are drawn in that style) I'll call it an online comic if that's ok with you. Anyway it's pretty cool, 3 issues so far, basically following the staff of a Convention (Anime, one would assume =) and the trials and tribulations associated with working such an undertaking. Oh, and as an added bonus, one of the characters Beecher, wears a Utilikilt! go check it out! 
 da Mongolian rambled on 3:29 AM 

 Add a comment 

 HOME