All About AbFab in the beginning 

 All About AbFab 

 Dateline: January 10, 2000 

 Absolutely Fabulous , Jennifer Saunder's 
wicked satire of "trendy" PR people and their
hangers-on, established in a very few episodes a completely
believable, if outrageous, lifestyle. Its genesis and success is
equally fascinating, particularly how it has caught on around the
world. Here's all you need to know about the series. 

 Dawn
French and Jennifer Saunders started out in stand-up comedy,
playing at the Comic Strip club in London in the early 1980s.
They admit now they had no idea what they were doing, and unlike
the guys who did the same material every night (including
Jennifer's future husband Adrian
Edmondson ), Dawn and Jennifer thought they had to come up
with a new act for every show. On television, they appeared in
many Comic Strip Presents productions on Channel 4 and
BBC-2, and guest-starred in the seminal alternative comedy The
Young Ones . 

 In 1985, Dawn, Jennifer, American Ruby Wax, and future
big-time star Tracey Ullman starred in Girls On Top on
ITV about four flatmates. Everyone contributed to the scripts,
but Jennifer ironically enough was often too shy to speak up in
rehearsals, and was stuck in the role of the quiet, slightly dim
girl. Ruby Wax added a certain shrillness to the series, although
her contributions would later be invaluable as Absolutely
Fabulous evolved. 

 French and Saunders went on to a hugely successful series of
double-act sketch series for the BBC, and continue to be two of
the Beeb's highest paid performers. It was in a sketch called
"Mother Modern and Daughter" during one show that
audiences got their first glimpses of the Edina Monsoon
character. Dawn, rather improbably, played Saffron, in her
familiar character as straight-laced foil to her frantic mother,
though in the series the part would be performed by Julia
Sawalha . 

 Next page 
> The
Ruby Wax Connection 
 > Page 1 , 2 ,
 3 

 Previous Features