No Laughing Matter - British TV 

No Laughing Matter 
Let me just say up front that I hate fake laugh tracks on sitcoms. I don't
mean shows that have been obviously recorded in front of a live studio
audience, but shows where in post-production a laugh track was added to
a program. While this used to be chronic in America, particularly the filmed
sitcoms of the 60s and 70s, in Britain particularly on the BBC 
this continues to be a nagging problem.
 Comedy in both countries had its origin on radio, with shows staged
in front of live audiences. When TV came in in the 1950s, this same production
technique was continued. But when Hollywood got into the act and sold more
and more shows to networks that were produced in their traditional filmed-on-a-soundstage
method, canned laughter was brought in to "sweeten" sitcoms. The mold was
broken in the US in the 1980s with daring shows like Hooperman 
with no laugh track. But it was The
Simpsons which really drew a line in the sand and insisted on going
out without giggling taped idiots to tell the audience where the jokes
were. Revolution! Now the landscape is filled with successful series like
 Malcolm
In The Middle which don't rely on fake laughter interrupting the
show.
 But Britain clings to its traditions, and nothing is more traditional
than the BBC where laugh tracks still reign. (Though ironically, when they
imported M*A*S*H in the
1970s they insisted that Fox strip the laugh track off the show for British
consumption. It must be a shock when Britons visiting the US watch a M*A*S*H 
rerun and hear gales of laughter permeating the show all of a sudden.)
 ITV , which isn't exactly synonymous
with comedy, now is the pioneer in this matter with several series with
no laughter including The Grimleys and At Home With The Braithwaites .
But it's business as usual in the Light Entertainment division of the BBC
with groundbreaking shows like The League of
Gentlemen still belabored with a post-production laugh track. In
one fit of insanity, 1981's Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy nearly
had a laugh track added to it, with an audience brought in to add giggles
and chortles to the finished show, but thankfully saner heads prevailed
and dropped it (you can see the results briefly on the Making Of The
Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy video). A few productions still manage
to escape the laugher's curse at the BBC, particularly deadpan shows like
Carolyn Aherne's Royle Family , or the
self-parodies of Steve Coogan like I'm Alan Partridge .
 Here is what I'm proposing: shows that are taped in front of a live
audience should continue to use the actual laughter that is recorded at
the time. But comedy shows that are filmed on location should be spared
this indignity. Give the audience some credit. If we aren't laughing, it's
probably because it's not funny to begin with!
 Previous Features