Father Ted 

 Father Ted 

 Father
Ted is one of the best comedies to come out of Britain in the 1990s. This award-winning series has been running on BBC America and now is appearing on various PBS stations.

 What It's About 

 Father Ted is a comedy about three nearly-defrocked
Irish Catholic priests living on remote Craggy Island. The late
Dermot Morgan is the title character, who has been sent to the
parish because of certain questionable activities with church
funds (which he maintains were "just resting" in his
account whenever the unfortunate matter comes up). Joining him is
junior priest Father Dougal (Ardal O'Hanlon), a very dim lad who
doesn't quite seem to understand what Catholicism is really
about. And finally, Father Jack, a cranky old priest who sits in
his chair shouting out "Girls! Drink! Arse! Feck!"
Their housekeeper Mrs. Doyle (Pauline McLynn) has a tea fetish
and a weakness for young men in jumpers. The four of them get
into bizarre and hilarious situations each episode as they
interact with the other strange residents of Craggy Island. 

 Who Will Enjoy It 

 Most likely, fans of shows like Keeping Up Appearances 
or As Time Goes By (both mainstream BBC shows) won't be
very impressed with Father Ted . It was aimed at a
younger audience, one who could appreciate its irreverence, and
have a sense of humor about religion. Fans of Red Dwarf and Absolutely Fabulous should
give Father Ted a chance, with its quirky characters and
off-beat situations. 

 What's So Unique About This Series? 

 Father Ted , in addition to winning many comedy awards
during its three seasons (and a 1996 Christmas special), was the
first series ever purchased by BBC America that was not made by the
BBC. It was a Channel Four 
series in the UK, a commercial arts-oriented channel, where it
was a huge success. The CBC in
Canada showed the series in 1999 (and it's available on home
video in Canada), and now it is coming to various PBS stations around the U.S. So check it out!

 Previous Features