Victoria Wood 

 Victoria Wood 

 Dateline: February 6, 2000 

 One of the best-loved and famous comediennes in Britain is Victoria
Wood , a stand-up comic, musician, and writer and star of the
recent dinnerladies on the BBC. Though incredibly
talented and blessed with many early breaks, success was not
immediate for her. 

 Born in 1953 in Lancashire, the woman who would be Britain's
first female stand-up comic and the biggest live draw in the
country, began life as the daughter of a failed entertainer
living in isolation near Ramsbottom. In a 1996 Southbank Show 
documentary she described her childhood: "We all lived in
separate rooms in this big house on a windswept hill on the
moors. And I had a room with a piano and television in it. And I
either watched the television or played the piano or read or ate
sweets, and I just did those four things, usually all at the same
time. And I've based my career on at least three of them." 

 At 15 she joined a Youth Theatre Group in Rochdale which
encouraged her talent, particularly her affinity for the piano.
In 1971 she studied drama at Birmingham University, but
intimidated and shy, she preferred to stick with music rather
than straight acting. In 1974 she competed on the popular TV
talent show New Faces , singing songs at the piano, and
made it to the finals only to lose to up-and-coming Lenny Henry.
But even national exposure didn't help her career as nobody knew
how to employ her talents, saying she did "sophisticated
cabaret" which there was no market for at the time. She did
sing songs on That's Life in 1976, at the time one of
the most popular shows in Britain, but again, it didn't lead to
any offers, and Wood couldn't even get an agent. 

 She met her husband, Geoffrey Durham, a comic and magician,
and they made the career-dampening move of settling in Morecambe,
a small resort town in the North. Appearing in a West End revue,
she wrote a short play, Sex , that she got to perform
with Julie Walters, her most frequent collaborator. Good notices
got her commissioned for a full play, Talent , again with
Walters, which toured in 1978 and filmed for Granada television the
following year. Granada, knowing they had a good thing, signed
her up for a sketch series, Wood & Walters , but poor
regional studio audiences couldn't understand her humor and the
show failed. 

 Next page 
> Success
On The Comedy Circuit 
 > Page 1 , 2 

 Previous Features