The Best British Science Fiction Shows You Haven't Seen In the US - British TV 

 The Best Science Fiction Shows You Haven't Seen 

 Dateline: March 21, 2001 

 This look at some of the best recent British
science fiction series is a complement to the Top 10 Series Not Seen In The U.S. Last
year I was telling people about Ultraviolet 
and Dennis Potter's Karaoke/Cold
Lazarus .Thanks the Sci-Fi
Channel and some PBS 
stations, these programs are now available to US viewers. Here
are some shows to keep an eye out for in 2001: 

 Gormenghast :
 BBC America viewers have
gotten a chance to see this epic BBC mini-series based on
Mervyn's Peake's fantasy trilogy, and PBS will be running it as
part of next season's Masterpiece
Theatre . An all-star cast and incredible production
values bring the story to life about an ambitious usurper to an
ancient throne. 

 Randall and Hopkirk: Deceased : You might
recall the 1960s original (also known as My Partner, The
Ghost in the US) about a private detective who is assisted
by his dead partner. In 2000, comics Vic
Reeves and Bob Mortimer ( Shooting Stars ), abetted by
writer Charlie Higson ( The Fast Show ), remade the show
for the BBC using the latest in digital effects. Former Doctor
Who Tom Baker also appeared as spiritual guide to the
afterlife. Despite Vic 'n Bob's trademark wacky style, they
played it fairly straight (or no less so than the original), with
plenty of cameo guest stars including Martin Clunes ( Men Behaving Badly ) and Hugh
Laurie. 

 My Hero : Ardal O'Hanlon ( Father Ted ) stars in this BBC
sitcom as an alien superhero, Thermoman, who in his secret
identity is an Irishman in love with a nurse. It's Mork and
Mindy for the 21st Century with O'Hanlon playing a character
just slightly smarter than Ted 's Father Dougal as a
fish-out-of-water whose failure to understand traditional earth
customs provides the laughs. 

 Vanishing Man : Neil Morrissey ( Men Behaving Badly ) stars in
this 1998 ITV series that updates The Invisible Man in a
format not unlike that of the recent remake on the
Sci-Fi Channel. 

 Bugs : The BBC produced this glossy high
tech thriller series about a company that uses the latest gadgets
to fight the bad guys in somewhat improbably adventures.
Satellite channel Trio ran
this show. 

 Crime Traveller : Former EastEnder 
Michael French and Red Dwarf actress Chloe Annett
starred in this short-lived 1997 BBC series about two police
department employees who use a time machine to solve crimes. The
mysteries weren't very complex, but the arcane rules of time
travel (as posited by the series) were mind-boggling. 

 Previous Features