Live From London with Lee & Herring 

 Live From London 

 Dateline: March 29, 1999 

 The second season premiere of Lee & Herring's This
Morning With Richard, Not Judy went out live on BBC-2 on
March 21st. Your About.com guide was sitting in the audience of
London's Riverside Studios to watch and has this report. 

 Comedy double-act Richard Herring and Stewart Lee first
appeared on BBC Radio with Fist Of Fun , which then
transferred to BBC-2 for two years. After a brief lull, they were
commissioned by the BBC to fill the "post-hangover"
slot noon on Sundays last year with a youth-oriented live chat
show parody of This Morning With Richard and Judy (the
UK's answer to Regis and Kathy Lee). Even with an edited repeat
each Friday, TMWRNJ (which Rich would insist on
pronouncing "temuwerenjer") didn't set the world on
fire in terms of ratings but was nevertheless picked up for a
second season this year. 

 Though the credits and "homey" set would seem to
resemble an ordinary talk show, Rich and Stu rely less on guests
and more on banter, studio gags, and pre-taped sketches.
Performed and broadcast live in front of an audience each Sunday,
the show has surprisingly quick pace with each segment lasting
only a few minutes at most. Rather than being made at the august
BBC Television Center in White City, TMWRNJ comes from
the relatively small and intimate Riverside Studios in
Hammersmith which even features a working cinema in addition to
providing studio resources. Chris Evan's T.F.I.Friday is
also broadcast from the same studio on Fridays for Channel 4. 

 The theme for the first episode was the idiocy of 70s
nostalgia, symbolized by the swift (and topical) cancellation of Days
Like These (the failed UK remake of That 70s Show ).
Even for a live show, much of the material is prepared a few
weeks in advance, and it was just a coincidence that ITV
announced Days Like These's demise a few days earlier -
although Rich later admitted they had heard whispers as early as
a week before. Unfortunately, this timeliness cuts both ways, as
a series of sketches featuring the "fake Rod Hull"
(Kevin Eldon) had to be scrapped at the last minute when the real
Rod Hull died 
in a tragic accident on March 17th (the sketches - three of which
had already been filmed - involved "Rod Hull" dying
each time after attempting a series of tasks due to his false
arm. They will never shown). 

 Each week a "King of the Show" is chosen from the
audience, and lavished with attention and appropriate garments.
Unfortunately, due to running late (and live TV has no mercy),
Rich and Stu weren't able to interact as much with this week's
King. A pre-taped parody of Titanic with Rich as Kate
Winslet went over well, and looked good enough to be used as
trailers for the series that have run on BBC-2. 

 Other returning jokes included the "Curious Orange,"
a head shaped like an orange who was "pulped" in the
last episode last year. His reappearance was explained with a
taped segment of a mad scientist who brought the orange back to
life, although he now has tendencies to make Dr Who's 
Davros-like rants to rule supreme over humanity. Another segment,
"When Things Fall Over," continues their skewering the
career of American actor Greg
Evigan (who they nearly convinced to appear for real this
year - though in the end he turned them down and was impersonated
instead by The League of Gentlemen's Mark Gatiss). 

 For the audience, watching a live show means it's over fairly
quickly (in comparison, one episode of Whose Line Is It
Anyway? takes three hours to record!). Rich and Stu are keen
to meet their fans (and maintain their own excellent website ), and made
themselves available afterwards for a quick chat. 

 Unfortunately, Americans will have next to no chance to ever
see This Morning With Richard, Not Judy , as the BBC
seems to consider it "disposable" TV just to fill a
slot. It's a shame, as Rich and Stu are certainly as talented as
anything else that is imported (and haven't we seen enough of
Benny Hill now?). 

 Previous Features