Hornblower star Ioan Gruffudd 

Ioan Gruffudd 
In the past few years, hunky Welsh actor Ioan Gruffudd (pronounced YO-an
Griffith) has made a big impact on viewers as the star of such vehicles
as Hornblower and Great
Expectations . Here's a look at his career so far.
 His television work began at age 14 on the popular BBC Welsh-language
soap opera Pobol
Y Cwn ("People Of The Valley"). But his first couple of years after
attending the prestigious Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts school were disappointing
and left him "skint." However, Ioan's good looks won him a nude scene opposite
Stephen Fry in Wilde , which he described as, "liberating, although
I was a bit worried what my granny might think."
 After a small but pivotal role in box-office champ Titanic 
(as the officer who plucks Kate Winslet out of the freezing ocean), producer
Andrew Benson chose him to play the title character in the expensive (more
than $5 million per episode) Hornblower series for ITV/ A&E .
Benson decided to test the appeal of his young star by doing some unofficial
market research at work. The "G.I.T.O.T." - or Girls In The Office Test
- produced a positive swoon at the sight of his baroquely curving lips
and slender legs as he passed through.
 The BBC came calling next, casting him as Pip in their remake of Great
Expectations opposite Charlotte Rampling. He appeared in an episode
of the 1999 Channel 4 anthology series Love
In The 21st Century as a husband whose wife catches him masturbating.
 Recently he starred in Warriors for the BBC, as Lt. John Feeley,
part of a British peacekeeping unit sent to form the UN Protection Force
assigned to war-torn Bosnia. He said about the part, "I didn't think they'd
cast me, because basically I'm known for period drama; people don't associate
me with hard-hitting contemporary stuff. But I wanted to do this not just
for professional reasons, to extend my resume, but also for personal reasons."
Shot on location in the Czech Republic, the drama provoked a debate in
the House of Commons about the UN after it was broadcast in Britain in
1999.
 He also starred in the Welsh-language movie Solomon and Gaenor ,
which was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.
 Ioan recently appeared in 102 Dalmations with Glenn Close and
Gerard Depardieu, and another series of Hornblower movies which
run in April 2001 on A&E .
 Links: 
 The Ioan Gruffudd Home
Page .
 Ilona's Ioan Gruffudd
Page .
 Ioan
Gruffudd: An Electrifying Actor .
 Sally's Ioan
Gruffudd Picture Page .
 Previous Features