The British "Phantom Menace" Actors 

 The British Phantom Menace Actors 

 Dateline: May 17, 1999 

 The Phantom Menace , the highly-anticipated
"prequel" to the Star
Wars trilogy, offers a chance to give wide exposure to a
number of fine British actors. But where have you seen them
before on TV? Here's a quick guide to British TV appearances the
various actors have made over the years. 

 Liam Neeson ("Qui-Gon Jinn" in The
Phantom Menace ) technically is Irish, but has made a career
in England for many years. He appeared in the 1983 mini-series A
Woman Of Substance based on the Barbara Taylor Bradford
novel. In 1987 he was in the TV movie Sweet As You Are .
And it's worth noting (even though it's not British) that in 1984
he guest-starred in the Miami Vice episode, "When
Irish Eyes Are Crying." 

 Ewan McGregor's ("Obi-Wan Kenobi") television
credits are closely linked to writer Dennis Potter. In Potter's
1993 series about the 1956 Suez crisis, Lipstick On Your
Collar , McGregor played Mick Hopper. He made a return
appearance in another Potter series, 1996's Karaoke .
Prior to this, he appeared in the 1993 mini-series Scarlet
& Black . 

 Ian McDiarmid ("Senator Palpatine") is no stranger
to the Star Wars universe, having first played the evil
Emperor in Return of the Jedi . On television he was in
Trevor Nunn's 1979 version of Macbeth (with Judi Dench
and Ian McKellen) in the multiple roles of the Porter, Caithness,
and Ross. Like Ewan McGregor, he appeared in Dennis Potter's Karaoke ,
playing "Oliver Morse." In 1998 he played a murder
suspect in the Helen Baxendale mystery series An Unsuitable
Job For a Woman . And just recently he appeared in the BBC/ Masterpiece
Theatre version of Great Expectations . 

 Oliver Ford Davis ("Sio Bibble") first appeared as a
priest in the women's P.O.W. series Tenko . In 1987 he
guest-starred in the Inspector Morse episode
"Second Time Around." In 1988 he appeared in the
classic A Very British Coup where he played
"Tweed." He was a prosecutor in 1994's Kavanagh QC 
series, and guest-starred in Steve Coogan's anthology comedy
series Coogan's Run playing "Dr. Phillips" in
the episode "Natural Born Quizzers." In 1996 he
appeared in A Royal Scandal , a dramatization of the 18th
Century feud between the Prince and Princess of Wales. 

 Hugh Quarshie ("Captain Panaka") has a Shakespearean
background having appeared in two 1980s BBC productions of the
Bard, Titus Andronicus and A Midsummer Night's Dream .
In 1988 he was a computer in the Red Dwarf IV episode
"Polymorph II: Emohawk." Other comedy appearances
include the 1993 Comic Strip Presents episode
"Gregory: Diary of a Nutcase," and the 1995 episode of Glam
Metal Detectives , "Give Me Your Money." He
appeared in 1997's Melissa , and last year in A
Respectable Trade with Warren Clarke . 

 Brian Blesssed (voice of "Boss Nass") is literally
the man who has been in everything. He first starred on TV in Z
Cars (pronounced "zed cars"), a landmark 1960s
police series that was the Hill Street Blues of its
time. In the great 1976 mini-series I, Claudius he was
memorable as Augustus. And his larger-than-life persona was well
put to use as Rowan Atkinson's father, Richard IV, in the
original series of The Black Adder . His many, many
guest-star appearances include two episodes of The Avengers ,
"The Superlative Seven" and "The Morning
After;" two Space:1999 episodes, "Death's
Other Dominion" and "The Metamorph;" a 1977
episode of Survivors , "Law Of The Jungle;" an
early Blake's 7 episode, "Cynus Alpha;" a 1986
 Doctor Who story, "Mindwarp;" a 1988 episode
of Boon , "Banbury Blue;" and the 1991 Lovejoy 
episode, "Black Virgin of Vladimir." 

 Previous Features