Paul Mendelson Interview 

 Paul Mendelson Interview 

 Introduction To Paul 

 More of This Feature 

&#149; Page 2 Creating May To December 
&#149; Page 3 My Hero 
&#149; Page 4 Future Projects 

 Related Articles 

&#149; Best science fiction shows you haven't seen More about My Hero and Bugs 
&#149; Father Ted Ardal O'Hanlon's first series. 

Dateline: May 18, 2001 
 Paul
 Mendelson is a TV writer working in Britain. He is best
 known for the comedies May To December and My
 Hero, which is currently running on the BBC. In this
 exclusive interview, he discusses his writing career. 
 Ryan: First of all,
 what's your background? 
 Paul:
 I'm Scottish by upbringing and a lawyer by training. So
 you can already see how autobiographical my work is. ( May
 To December ). I graduated from Cambridge in 1972 and
 then ran a family law department in a small legal
 practice. Actually, I was the family law department. 
 Because
 of one particularly traumatic case - which is now, almost
 thirty years on, the basis of a film I am writing - I
 left law and went into advertising. For eighteen years I
 wrote TV commercials, first for Ogilvy & Mather and
 then for other major agencies. I ended up - after the
 obligatory redundancy - ( So Haunt Me ), as the
 creative director of a medium size agency. But as I was
 approaching forty and everyone else was twelve, I thought
 it might be time to move on. 
 Having
 written the first two series of May To December 
 at nights, on the tube and in the agency loo (my
 incontinence was legendary), I became a full-time writer
 in 1990. 
 To
 complete the autobiography, I am married with two
 grown-up children. I am also Jewish, which seems to be
 almost compulsory for American comedy writers, but is
 still a novelty here. 
 But
 here is where the life/work connection ends. I am not,
 sadly, endowed with super powers - ( My Hero ), as
 my family would willingly substantiate. 
 Ryan: How did you break
 into television writing? 
 Paul:
 Massive good fortune. I wrote a series of commercials for
 Heinz Spaghetti (about a little girl who has an imaginary
 friend called Eric, who will only 'appear' if the
 spaghetti is Heinz). The director was Nic Roeg, whose
 credits extend a tad beyond Heinz Spaghetti - Don't
 Look Now , The Man Who Fell To Earth, The
 Witches , etc. He's a delightful man, so I plucked up
 courage and showed him a short, unpublished novel I had
 written, concerning a WASP family who move into a house
 haunted by a Jewish mother. He passed it on to the
 producer Verity Lambert ( Doctor Who , The
 Naked Civil Servant , Cry In The Dark ) who
 asked me to turn it into a pilot episode. 
 Now
 here's living proof that the essence of comedy is timing.
 We sent the script to the BBC Head of Comedy, who
 rejected it outright. "Paul" he said,
 "you've done everything wrong. Children, dogs,
 ethnic humour, special effects, suspension of disbelief.
 Go away and try again." Which I did, and he bought
 the ethnically sound, non-spectral May To December 
 straight off. We didn't even do a pilot. So after two
 series, and great ratings, I went back to the same man
 with the same impossible Jewish ghost script. He
 commissioned six episodes immediately! It was as if he
 had never seen the thing before. Ethnic humour? Dogs??
 Timing. (So comedy writers reading this - never throw
 anything away. My Hero was rejected by at least
 three comedy supremos.) 

 Next page > Creating May To December > Page 1, 2 , 3 , 4 
 Previous
 Features