Where The Actors Are 

 At The Movies: Where The Actors Are 

 Dateline: June 15, 2000 

 Here's a look at a number of recent films I saw at the Seattle International Film
Festival featuring your favorite British TV actors. 

 Love's
Labours Lost : Mike
Leigh veteran Timothy Spall ( Outside Edge ) has a
supporting part in Kenneth Branagh's musical adaptation of the
Shakespeare play as the Spanish Don Armado. 

 Janice Beard 45 WPM : Charming British film about an
unconventional Scottish girl (Eileen Walsh) working in a London
secretarial pool. She meets a clerk ( Rhys
Ifans , the roommate from Notting
Hill ) who plans to use her as a dupe in industrial
espionage, but it all ends on a fairly happy note. Patsy Kensit
plays her shrill boss. 

 The
Wisdom of Crocodiles : British thriller with Jude Law who
plays a serial killer with a bizarre pathology that only Fox Mulder could love (or
explain!). But in this case he's pursued by the slightly less
clever duo of detectives Timothy Spall and Jack Davenport ( Ultraviolet ) who completely
fail to get their man. 

 One More Kiss : British film about a terminally ill
woman (Valerie Edmond, The Crow Road ) who leaves
Manhattan to return to the small village she grew up in England.
She looks up her old boyfriend, hoping to spend her last days
with him, but unfortunately he's now married and runs a
restaurant. The resulting reunion puts a strain on his family, as
well as the woman's attempt to reconcile with her father. 

 Passion : Entertaining Australian bio-pic about
composer Percy Grainger (Richard Roxburgh) in Britain just before
World War I and his relationship with his ultra-clingy mother
(Barbara Hershey). Grainger's a pretty screwed up guy, which he's
the first to admit, and that includes a fondness for S&M and
whippings. He meets what he thinks is the girl of his dreams
(Emily Woof, Daylight Robbery ) but his inability to
separate from his mother dooms his relationship. 

 Saving Grace : A light-weight British comedy with
Brenda Blethyn ( Outside Edge ), Martin Clunes ( Men
Behaving Badly ), and Valerie Edmond about a widow (Blethyn)
who turns to growing pot in order to pay her off bills left by
her philandering dead husband. It's all quite quaint and aimed
clearly at the American market that enjoyed The Full Monty ,
but it tries way too hard to please, and has an over-the-top
ending that is just too much. 

 Solomon and Gaenor : Hunky star Ioan Gruffudd ( Hornblower )
stars as the son of a Russian Jewish immigrant in pre-WWI Wales
who falls in love with a gentile daughter (Nia Roberts) of gruff
anti-Semitic Welsh miners. Nominated for an Academy Award, the
poignant tale is pretty grim, but Gruffudd confirms his leading
man credentials. 

 A Rumor of Angels : American movie (shot in Nova
Scotia) about a young boy who forms a relationship with a crusty
widow (Vanessa Redgrave). His mother died in a traffic accident,
his absentee dad (Ray Liotta) can't talk to him about it, and he
wants nothing to do with his step-mom (Catherine McCormack). But
Redgrave confides that her own son died in Vietnam but could
communicate with him using Morse code, leading to a climax about
the power of faith and coming to grips with the past. 

 Chicken
Run : This Nick Parks' (the "Wallace and
Gromit" series) animated movie is going into wide release
and features a cornucopia of British voice talent including Julia
Sawalha and Jane Horrucks ( Absolutely
Fabulous ), the ubiquitous Timothy Spall (as a rat),
Miranda Richardson ( Blackadder II ), Phil Daniels ( Sunnyside
Farm ), and Imelda Staunton ( Is It Legal? ). 

 Previous Features