Spotlight on Mollie Sugden 

 Spotlight on Mollie Sugden 

 Dateline: June 1, 2000 

 Actress and comedienne Mollie Sugden is most famous for
playing purple-haired Mrs. Slocombe on the PBS perennial Are You Being Served? but she
has had a long and varied career on British TV screens. Born in
1922 in Yorkshire, she first made an impact in the comedy series Hugh
and I in 1962. She began the 1970s in the Carla Lane series The
Liver Birds , a comedy about young women in Liverpool. In it
she played Nerys Hughes mum, Mrs. Hutchinson. With her
domineering style, talk show host Vanessa Feltz once described
Mrs. Hutchinson as: "Hyacinth Bucket (Patricia Routledge's
famous role in Keeping Up
Appearances ) before her time." From 1973-74 Sugden
had a bit, but pivotal, part as Nellie Harvey in the long-running
soap Coronation
Street . 

 But all this was to pale to the legend she would create in the
long-running sitcom Are You Being Served? beginning in
1972. As Mrs. Slocombe (Mrs. Mary Elizabeth 'Betty' Jennifer
Rachel Yiddell Abergavenny Slocombe, to give her full name),
Sugden is forever memorable for her double-entendres involving
"my pussy," which of course just innocently referred to
her cat. The series ran for six years on the BBC (and will
forever in reruns on PBS in America), and was brought back in the
1992 sequel series as Grace
and Favour (which was called Are You Being Served?
Again in the US). 

 In 1978 she was also in the short-lived science fiction spoof Come
Back, Mrs. Noah as a middle-aged housewife accidently sent
into orbit. Written by Jeremy Lloyd and David Croft, the role of
Mrs. Noah was written especially for Sugden. Despite only running
for six episodes, it still turns up occasionally on PBS prompting
Sugden to receive letters from America wondering when they'll
make more! 

 Comedy isn't her only craft, and her drama credits are solid
and include Maggie in 1964, the 1970 production of The
Six Wives of Henry VIII , and Mrs. Goddard in 1972
mini-series Emma . 

 In 1983 she appeared in That's My Boy , My Husband
and I in 1987, and in 1996 reprised her role as Mrs.
Hutchinson in the revival of The Liver Birds . Ill health
at the time somewhat diminished her on-screen impact, but Mollie
Sugden is a trooper and her tremendous contributions and
memorable characters guarantee her a place in the hearts of
British comedy fans forever. 

 Previous Features