Review: Doctor Who 

 Review: Doctor Who 

 Related Articles 

&#149; BBC's Doctor Who Night 
&#149; 36 Years of Doctor Who 

 Elsewhere on the Web 

&#149; Sci-Fi Channel 
&#149; BBC Official Doctor Who Site 
&#149; Peter Davison Fan Site 

 The US Sci-Fi
Channel will rerun the Doctor Who TV movie
on Sunday, July 15th, the first American screening since its
premiere on the Fox Network five years ago. 

 In 1996, after seven long years of waiting, Doctor Who 
fans were finally given a new chapter in the Doctor's life with a
big-budget TV movie only to find it full of continuity gaffs,
lame attempts at humor, and smoke and explosions masquerading as
a climax instead of drama. In other words everything they'd known
and loved about Doctor Who for the previous 33 years.
And for the most part, I thought the movie was pretty good. 

 And barring another attempt on the big screen any time soon
(the BBC keeps
hinting it might), this certainly was as good as Doctor Who 
was ever going to look on television, with $6 million spent for
90 minutes of story. As a weekly TV series a more realistic
budget would necessarily result in more down-to-earth (perhaps
literally) stories, but that limitation never bothered the old
series either. Here we had massive set pieces, crowd scenes that
were truly crowded, durable sets that looked like they had been
in use for ages, and special effects to match. All this would
have been for naught though if there had been no story. Perhaps
producer Philip Segal indulged the fans a bit too much in the
first half hour of the movie with continuity references aplenty
(80s producer John Nathan-Turner must be proud), but I saw this
as the Doctor Who equivalent of Star Trek: The
Motion Picture with all those shots going around the
"Enterprise" as a paean to loyal fans who waited all
those years for a comeback. 

 Once things truly got underway in the movie we had a dashing
new Doctor (Paul McGann, virtually unknown in the U.S. but in the
UK best known for the cult movie Withnail & I ),
plucky companion (Daphne Ashbrook), and the latest version of the
Master (Eric Roberts) ready to wreck havoc. McGann's Doctor
established himself as someone who didn't hold a grudge (after
all, it was Grace who accidentally killed him) and quickly
demonstrated his ties to Earth. This was my one bone to pick with
the movie, the whole "I'm half human" business. Not
because it grievously violated continuity (heck, I think the
whole concept of the Valeyard -- "an amalgam of the Doctor's
evil bits squeezed between his 12th and 13th regeneration"
-- to be much more of a wheeze) but because it seemed so
unnecessary. Here, the concept of the Doctor being a half-breed
only served to annoy long-time fans while reminding new viewers
that they'd seen this same concept before and better (on numerous
 Star Trek episodes). What it in fact pointed out was the
plot device of the Eye of Harmony was not very well thought-out.
The Doctor hadn't been able to open it in 700 years, yet the
Master figured it out in two minutes -- all he needed was a
convenient human being. Who made this stuff up? The Eye of
Harmony seemed to stand in for every bit of
"technobabble" Doctor Who had ever indulged
in, being able to not only destroy the Earth (and the Doctor),
but bring people back to life. But the Doctor didn't even know
how it worked! The "half human" gimmick seemed like an
afterthought to cover up a bad plot device. 

 Other nitpicks would be the ability of the Master (or any Time
Lord) to be able to concentrate their life force into a gooey
snake in order to possess someone. But I'll allow for the fact
the Master might have picked up that trick somewhere on his
travels (or there's something about the Doctor we don't yet know
about). 

 But show me a perfect episode of Doctor Who and I'll
show you something that hasn't been filmed yet. The pluses more
than outweighed the minuses, and the biggest has to have been the
casting of Paul McGann. While all three of J.N.T.'s choices of
1980s Doctors (Peter
Davison, Colin Baker, and Sylvester McCoy) had their moments,
they didn't have that magical ability to at least make bad
stories watchable that, for example, Patrick Troughton or Tom
Baker did. Based on what I'd seen in the movie, I would have
gladly followed McGann (if he'd been given a chance) to the end
of the universe or even the dreaded sequel to "The Horns of
Nimon" knowing at the core of each story there would be a
Doctor who was passionate, energetic, and most of all, fun. Much
as I liked most of Sylvester McCoy's era, his Doctor was starting
to get me down. He was too dark and knew far more than he should
have. I prefer the Doctor to discover things at the same time as
the audience does. Best of all, McGann seemed to really embrace
life, and if that meant smooching a few girls along the way (hey,
in his position I would have too), then so much the better. 

 As I said at the beginning, Doctor Who has nearly
always relied on the last-minute escape-from-peril finale as a
lot of smoke and explosions, and the TV Movie didn't divert from
that formula. For me though the highlight of the movie was the
whole escape from the Institute, from the descent down the
firehose, to the motorcycle ride back to the TARDIS. Those few
minutes to me crystallized what I'd loved so much about Doctor
Who all those years: the adventures of this clever alien
whose witty style of execution was unique on television. 

 And overall this is what I saw in the FOX TV movie pilot.
Other nice touches included good casting of the "small"
parts (the Nurse at the hospital, and Professor Wagg were
particular stand-outs), the Doctor's inability to stop meddling
even though he knows he shouldn't (the basis for the entire
series, no?), and the "Visit London" sign the TARDIS
materializes in front of. These, plus strong performances by all
the leads, had fans hopeful that a new series of adventures were
on their way. Alas, poor ratings on FOX killed any plans for
another comeback (though the screening in Britain on the BBC
achieved respectable viewing figures). Curiously, ever since its
initial broadcast on FOX in 1996, it has never been shown in the
U.S. since, or even released on home video. At least this showing
on the Sci-Fi Channel will rectify that situation for those
Americans who missed it originally. 

 Previous Features