Radio 4 Export Discussion About British Television Abroad 

 Radio 4 Export Discussion 

 Dateline: June 21, 1999 

 Following on a British government report earlier this year
that said British TV exports suffered because they were
"dreary," a meeting of TV executives to discuss this
dilemma in June was covered on the BBC Radio 4 Show The
Message on June 4th. I was asked to contribute some comments
about the state of British TV in the U.S. My comments were
recorded a day earlier over the phone... nearly 20 minutes worth,
which were then edited down to 60 seconds - the net effect making
me sound reasonably coherent. Here's what was said: 

 Host : "First a word from an American who
loves British TV and bemoans the failure to get the best stuff on
over there. He's Ryan K. Johnson and he has a website and
British TV media club ." 

 Ryan : "The one thing I hear over and
over again is that the most popular British comedy here is Are
You Being Served? . Benny
Hill of course has been shown a million times here.
Those are two programs, and perhaps Keeping Up Appearances ,
that your typical American probably will have seen if they've
seen any British television.... I want to see Father
Ted in America, it's been shown in Canada but not here,
and everybody I know who's seen it, loves it.... A good comedy is
universal, regardless of the language, or the accents, or
anything.... Goodness
Gracious Me went over very well, that's something that I
think should be imported in this country even though we don't
have a very large Indian population here - it's funny.... I don't
watch Keeping Up Appearances although I did quite enjoy
Patricia Routledge in Hetty Wainthropp Investigates , I
thought it was very well done.... American shows tend to lay
things out very carefully at the beginning, so nobody's confused.
British shows might take the first half hour or so to just
slooowly introduce you to this world. You're not quite sure who
these characters are, what's going on, and how the plot's going
to develop. And that's probably the hardest thing for an average
American to get into is: how the drama is set up." 

 There then followed in the studio a 10 minute discussion with
a program distributor, and a research director from a University
media unit about what possibly British producers are doing wrong
(and Americans doing right - it was pointed out the US has a 90%
market share abroad on television). The distributor said one wave
of the future wasn't to sell programs abroad per se, but their
formats, adapting them for local consumption. "Taking
chances" with new series was often cited as a necessary
element, although the British tendency to only produce a small
number of episodes a year is a constant liability. 

 Previous Features