Shining A Light On "Ultraviolet" 

 Shining A Light On Ultraviolet 

 Dateline: July 26, 2000 
Revised: February 9, 2001 

 The number one program on my list of Top
10 Series Not Seen In The U.S. , Ultraviolet ,
the Channel 4 mini-series about modern-day vampires, will be
rerun on the Sci-Fi
Channel in a marathon screening Sunday, February 18th. 

 In the world of Ultraviolet , ordinary policeman
Michael Colefield ( This
Life 's Jack Davenport) has his life turned upside down
when a friend disappears and Michael is recruited to a secret
organization dedicated to stopping the "Code Vs." But
what are the Code Vs? Highly organized, intelligent,
technologically savvy, with an intense interest in blood, they
cannot be detected by any sense other than the human eye (in a
clever twist on the old "invisible in mirrors" legend,
the Code Vs cannot be seen on film or video, or even heard over
phones). The word "vampire" is never uttered, but they
only come out at night, and carbon bullets to the heart produce
an explosive reaction. 

 The Code Vs are planning carefully, with all the time in the
world that their immortality grants, to enslave humanity for
their purposes. They can subtly influence humans and their mark
can only be detected under ultraviolet light (hence the title).
The Catholic Church knows about them and joined with the British
government to form a covert group to stop them before it's too
late. 

 What makes Ultraviolet so interesting and exciting
is, unlike the rather stupid vampires seen in shows like Buffy The
Vampire Slayer and Angel , the Code Vs use their
brains and are a cunning match for the human race. They know our
secrets and toy with us, taunting and tempting many victims with
the promise of eternal, disease-free life. 

 Special effects are kept to a minimum during the series,
except for the burst of energy as a vampire is shot. But even
then they are not truly dead, only inert, with their powdery
remains locked safe in a vault and the secret of their
resurrection hidden until the final episode. Instead, the drama
focuses on Michael's life, as he first tracks down his missing
friend, then must lie to the man's fiancee. Her curiosity leads
her closer and closer to the truth until her life becomes
threatened by the forces building around her. 

 In Britain, the series was shown as six weekly one-hour parts
titled: "Habeas Corpus," "In Nomine Patris,"
"Sub Judice," "Mea Culpa," "Terra
Incognita," and "Persona Non Grata." For the US
screening, Sci-Fi will run it as three two-hour movies over three
consecutive days. No second season has been announced, which will
leave fans wanting more, however the Fox network has taken an
interest in Ultraviolet and announced an American remake
as a mid-season replacement starring Madchen Amick ( Twin
Peaks ), Eric Thal, Joanna Going, and Idris Elba (who is also
in the British version). If you like intelligent, dramatic
series, be sure and check out Ultraviolet , a definite
cult show in the making. 

 Previous Features