Reeves and Mortimer 

 Reeves and Mortimer 

 More of This Feature 

&#149; Page 2 Moving To BBC-1 

 Elsewhere on the Web 

&#149; Reeves and Mortimer: The Ultimate Website 
&#149; Unofficial Reeves and Mortimer Fan Site 
&#149; Shooting Stars 
&#149; Randall and Hopkirk: Deceased . The Anorak's Guide. 

 The comedy double act of Vic Reeves and Bob Mortimer has been
part of British TV for the past decade, taking them from cult
status on Channel 4 to prime time success on the BBC. They aren't
very well known in America, but their own unique brand of humor
and a number of popular series make them worthy of attention. 

 Vic 'n Bob, as most of their fans (and Britain) call them,
both started out in the North of England in the year 1959,
growing up a mere 12 miles apart but never meeting. As soon as he
came of age, Vic (real name James Moir) moved south with a group
of friends interested in music and entertaining. Bob headed for
Brighton in pursuit of a university degree, with no thoughts of
getting into show business. Vic began doing stand-up comedy and
chose "Vic Reeves" as just one of many different stage
aliases he would use each night and for some reason it stuck. He
quickly gained popularity on the South London pub circuit for his
zany performances which were unique among of the fashionably
trendy "political" comics at the time in the late 80s.
Meanwhile, Bob became a solicitor. 

 Bob attended one of Vic's marathon three hour performances,
which was part music, part satire of variety shows, some physical
comedy; in other words, anything for a laugh, which he now admits
was mostly "performance art" most of the time. They
met, hit it off immediately and Vic and Bob began collaborating.
Vic also made an early TV appearance on The Tube in
1986, doing the first of his send-ups of game show hosts. 

 Television came calling, namely Channel 4 which was making a
name for itself with the sort of edgy, you've-never-seen- this -before
type of entertainment which Vic and Bob were becoming known for. Vic
Reeves Big Night Out premiered in 1990, with Bob taking 10
weeks off from his solicitor job to film the series. He never
went back to work afterwards, confessing about his legal career,
"I wasn't any good at it." Though an instant cult
sensation, Vic Reeves Big Night Out was still too weird
for mainstream audiences to get. It appeared to some people that
two madmen had been let loose on TV to do whatever amused them
whether the audience got it or not. Afterwards, they did a live
stage show tour based on the show but knew they wanted to move
on. 

 BBC-2 came calling, and with Charlie Higson ( The Fast Show )
as a producer, they created The Smell of Reeves &
Mortimer in 1993 combining sketches with their "sitting
behind a desk" host interaction. I said at the time,
"Another series of BBC-2 double-act comedy, with songs,
hi-jinx, and other non-sequiturs. Not every bit works, but the
energy of the show is undeniable." Their partnership was now
equal, both in the title and in realizing the various characters and
situations. 

 In 1995 (after doing a second season of The Smell of
Reeves and Mortimer ) they debuted their most popular program
to date, the comedy quiz show Shooting Stars . It was
created so they could have an on-air "gang" of
co-conspirators, in this case celebrities who would be willing
participants in this extended game show parody. It made household
names of former weathergirl and Gladiator host Ulrika
Jonsson and comic Mark Lamarr as the weekly team captains, as
well as willing accomplices in pre-taped sketches. Each episode
ended with a celebrity guest "winner" to have to
perform some bizarre stunt, using involving very odd props. The
nonsense words that Vic used like "eranu" became
national catchphrases. They did three years of Shooting Stars 
and then a live stage show version (teamed up with The Fast
Show crew) before again deciding it was time again for
something new before the joke became stale. 

 Next page > Moving To BBC-1 > Page 1, 2 

 Previous Features