Two Great New Shows To Watch For In The United States: Jonathan Creek and Father Ted 

 Two Great Shows To Watch For 

 Jonathan Creek 

 The BBC 's
 Jonathan
Creek has been run on some PBS stations
(see " Does Your PBS Station Show...? ")
in the US and is now showing on BBC America . Starring
comedian Alan Davies and Caroline Quentin (late of the
British version of Men
Behaving Badly ), this comedy/mystery series features
familiar guest stars including Rik Mayall ( The Young Ones ),
Anthony Stewart Head ( Buffy The Vampire Slayer ),
and Colin Baker and Peter Davison (both Doctor Who veterans).
Exquisitely written by David Renwick,
the writer/creator of One
Foot In The Grave , Davies plays the title character, a
brilliant, witty, eccentric inventor who devises illusions for
his magician boss. Quentin plays Maddy Magellan, a novelist who
gets involved with solving crimes and finds herself first
competing with, but then being attracted to, Creek who manages to
work out whodunit and howtheydunnit every time. A clever, funny
series with great chemistry from the leads. Some first season
episodes were edited for broadcast on PBS. Read
why . 

 Next page 
> Jonathan
Creek Episode Guide 
 > Page 1 , 2 

 Father Ted 

 The Award-winning Father Ted 
 ( official Channel 4 site ; The Craggy Island Examiner is another
excellent fan site) ran for three seasons on Britain's Channel 4 ,
was shown on the CBC 
in Canada, and is now also on BBC America. This comedy about
three nearly-defrocked Catholic priests living on a remote island
off of Ireland was one of the best and freshest comedies in
the 1990s. Father Ted (Dermot Morgan) is the most
"normal," though prone to temptation through
opportunism; Father Jack is a cranky drunk and spends most of his
time asleep in a chair; and young Father Dougal brings a new
definition to the word "dim." An early episode opens
with a visiting Cuban priest who speaks Spanish but is overdubbed
like a BBC newscast. It only gets stranger. Ordered by the Bishop
to protest a "sacrilegious" movie opening in town
results in it becoming a huge hit (after the priests check out
the movie for themselves, of course). Everyone else on the island
is just as weird, including a married couple on the verge of
mutual homicide who, in the presence of the Fathers, give off the
impression of martial bliss. Very funny, but prone to occasional
crudeness and like the best of Monty Python , certain to
offend anyone who takes religion too seriously. 

 Previous Features