A Bit of Hugh Laurie 

A Bit Of Hugh Laurie 
Dateline: July 16, 2000
 Lanky comedy actor Hugh
Laurie has been a familiar presence on British TV in everything from
 Blackadder to Jeeves
and Wooster , and now is carving out a career in motion pictures.
For your pleasure, a bit of Hugh Laurie.
 He was born in 1959, attended the prestigious Eton school as a boy,
and then matriculated to Cambridge University. Among his classmates were
Emma Thompson and Stephen
Fry , where all three of them participated in Footlights Dramatic Club
doing comedy and shows. This "old school tie" wasn't lost on writer Ben
Elton when he had Laurie, Thompson and Fry hilariously parody themselves
as upperclass twits participating in University Challenge on a memorable
episode of The
Young Ones in 1984.
 He frequently teamed up Fry, and soon became a regular member of the
 Blackadder troupe after two guest appearances in the second season
playing a drunk at Blackadder's booze up, and Evil Prince Ludwig. In Blackadder
The Third he was the thick Prince Regent who was constantly outsmarted
by Rowan Atkinson's cunning butler. For Blackadder Goes Forth , he
was Lieutenant George, still upperclass and a bit dim, but generally a
nice person.
 He and Fry continued their partnership, bringing P.G. Wodehouse's Jeeves
and Wooster to television for ITV in 1990, with Laurie as clueless
Bertie Wooster, and Fry as his ever-knowing butler Jeeves. These charming
period adaptations captured the spirit and comedy of the material, and
also afforded Laurie a chance to show off his piano playing talent on occasion.
 The BBC came calling and the aptly named A Bit of Fry and Laurie 
gave the duo the opportunity for their own sketch comedy series. On the
big screen, Kenneth Branagh cast them both (along with his then-wife Emma
Thompson, their old schoolchum) in 1992's Peter's Friends .
 The following year, Laurie took a serious turn in the drama mini-series
 All Or Nothing At All about a married man living beyond his means
who everyone thinks is a financial wizard. They all give him huge sums
of money to invest, not realizing he is merely blowing it at the track
- and running up a huge debt. Laurie held his own and it was riveting stuff
watching him be a one-man self-destruction unit.
 Bit parts in movies like Spice World and
 The Man In The Iron
Mask helped Laurie increase his visibility in Hollywood and he was
rewarded a leading part in the 1999 hit Stuart
Little . And old friend Ben Elton cast Laurie as the lead in his
 Maybe Baby , as a man trying to conceive a baby with his wife, played
by Joely Richardson. Laurie will also appear in the sequel to Stuart
Little in 2001. Early in 2000 he also guest starred in an episode of
Reeves and Mortimer's remake of Randall and
Hopkirk: Deceased on the BBC.
 Besides acting and comedy, Laurie has written the best-selling thriller
 The Gun Seller , is working on a screenplay for the film version,
and has a second novel being published in 2000.
 Previous Features