Jonathan Creek Edited For US Broadcast 

 Jonathan Creek Edited For US Broadcast 

 Jonathan Creek can be seen on many PBS Stations (see
" Does Your PBS Station Show...? ")
and now on BBC America . 

 Initial euphoria about the wonderfully entertaining BBC
comedy/mystery series Jonathan
Creek , starring Alan Davies and Caroline Quentin, here
in the US has been dampened when it was discovered several
minutes have been cut from the first season episodes (the
90-minute pilot, "The Wrestler's Tomb," appears
untouched, but "Jack In The Box," "The
Reconstituted Corpse," "No Trace of Tracy," and
"The House of Monkeys" all suffered edits). How and why
this happened provides an interesting look at the inner workings
of the BBC. 

 The story begins with a friend of mine watching "The
Reconstituted Corpse" on our local PBS station in Seattle and
noticing several of her favorite scenes were missing from the
original broadcast (which she had seen at a Society of The Rusting
TARDIS video meeting). We compared the running times and
discovered the BBC version was a hair under 59 minutes, while the
version on PBS was 50 minutes 30 seconds. What happened to the
eight and half minutes? Had KCTS cut it? This would seem odd,
particularly as the station had had to run unrelated filler in
the leftover 10 minutes anyway. A quick inquiry to the station
resulted in the following response: 

 "...we are given permission to broadcast it, but
 nothing else. We are not allowed to edit or alter the program
 in any way. Any differences you see between the version on
 Channel 9 and the version in Britain are put there by the
 producer or distributor." 

 So the next line of inquiry was to ring BBC Worldwide in New York
and find out if they knew anything. I have to say here that the
folks at BBC Worldwide were extremely helpful and pleasant. And
although they didn't believe me at first when I kept insisting
that over eight minutes had somehow gone astray, they promised me
to look into it and get back to me with an answer. 

 A few days later the phone rang and I got the complete story.
Eight and half minutes had indeed been cut out of each of the
first season episodes because BBC Worldwide had specifically
invested in five 50-minute episodes, regardless of how long they
had run in Britain. So why did the producer make a 59 minute
program then? This is where it got interesting. 

 The BBC is a giant
bureaucracy, with different divisions and hierarchies. A
television show might come from any of these completely separate
departments: Drama, Series and Serials, Light Entertainment, or
Childrens. And then there are the regional BBC studios such as BBC North in
Manchester, or BBC
Northern Ireland , which operate as entities on their own. In Jonathan
Creek 's case, it was done by the Light Entertainment
department. ("Light Entertainment" being the BBC
euphemism for comedy.) The Light Entertainment department had
never made an hour long series before, their normal output being
30 minute comedies. So when the brief came in for an "hour
long series," they took it literally, essentially making a
normal comedy but at twice the length. But alas, when BBC
Worldwide got into the picture, the episodes had to be trimmed to
fit the contracted 50 minute timeslot for foreign distribution. 

 However, for the second season of Jonathan Creek , the
producers have changed and the episodes from now on will be
exactly the same both in Britain and abroad. So what about ever
seeing those missing moments from the first season episodes? All
may not be lost. The very nice woman at BBC Worldwide (who is
also a big fan of the series) said that if it becomes popular
enough in the States to warrant putting the episodes out on home
video, then it's possible they would be the full 59 minute
versions. 

 So it's unfortunate for the time being we won't get a chance
to see all of the first season, nevertheless Jonathan Creek 
is a terrific series that is well worth catching if it turns up
on your local PBS station. 

 Jonathan Creek 
Episode Guide 

 Previous Features