Top 10 British Series Not Seen In The US 

 Top 10 Series Not Seen In The US 

 Updated : August 24, 2001. 

 Attention American TV executives: forget importing cheap game
shows from England like Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? 
Here are the British shows we need to see in the United States!
Everyone else: keep your eyes peeled and maybe one of these
series will turn up soon. Meanwhile, be sure to check out Does Your PBS Station Show...? 

 Note that many of these ran on Channel 4 which has a
terrible track record (unlike the BBC) of getting programs shown
in the US. C'mon, Channel 4, let's see these shows! 

 As more shows on this list turn up on the US, I will take them
off and add some new ones. Recent shows that used to be here
include So Graham Norton 
which began running on BBC America in July 2001. 

 1. Spaced .
Winner of our reader's poll, this often surreal comedy on Channel
4 focuses on the lives and adventures of two mismatched
flatmates, written and starring Simon Pegg and Jessica
Stevenson. A lightning-fast pace and a number of in-jokes
for science fiction fans skew this toward younger viewers but it
definitely hits the mark. The Canadian Bravo channel is currently
running it. 

 2. G.B.H. Alan Bleasdale wrote this sophisticated
1989 dramatic mini-series on Channel 4 starring Michael Palin and
Robert Lindsay that revealed a lot of what was going on behind
the scenes of an unnamed midlands city. 

 3. Nightingales . A comedy that did for night watchmen
what Red
Dwarf does for science fiction. Three night watchmen
(including David Threlfeld and Robert Lindsay) have bizarre
adventures while on duty on this Channel 4 sitcom that ran for 12
episodes early in the 1990s. 

 4. Have
I Got News For You . BBC-1 current events quiz show
hosted by Angus Deayton with regular panelists Paul Merton and
Ian Hislop skewers public figures and news events with great wit.
ABC is supposedly interested in doing an American remake with
Norm MacDonald hosting. 

 5. Victoria Wood . This talented
comedienne, actress, and musician has headlined a number of
specials on television, had her own sketch comedy shows, and now
is writing and starring in dinnerladies for the BBC
which BBC America picked up for broadcast in December. 

 6. Coronation
Street . The most popular and longest-running series in
Britain can't be seen in the US! (though Canadian viewers get a
weekly fix via the CBC). 

 7. Sapphire and Steel . This very odd and stylized
fantasy series starred Joanna Lumley ( Absolutely
Fabulous ) and the always-in-fashion David McCallum as
two otherworldly investigators battling their enemy Time. ITV
showed a number of serialized adventures during the 1980s, and a
very few PBS stations have run it, but wide distribution still
eludes this haunting, memorable show. 

 8. Game
On . This brilliant twentysomething comedy series seems
ripe for remaking on NBC (though let's hope not!) about three sad
flatmates (Ben Chaplin - replaced by Neil Studke in the second
year, Matthew Cottle, and Samantha Janus) living together in this
Andrew Davies ( A Very Peculiar Practice ) written BBC-2
sitcom. 

 9. My Wonderful Life . This ironically titled comedy
on ITV was created by Simon Nye ( Men
Behaving Badly ) about the life and times of Donna (Emma
Wray), a harried nurse with two girls. Tony Robinson plays her
politically correct (and irritating) neighbor, in this cynical
but realistic series. 

 10. Time Team . For three days a group of
archeologists descend on a site with a mission, all recorded by
the cameras and enthusiastically hosted by Tony Robinson ( Blackadder's 
Baldrick). An educational program was never this interesting or
popular (the live digs each August generate millions of hits to
Channel 4's website ).
 Updated: The new History Channel
International has begun running this recently but cable
systems may be slow to pick it up. 

 Other programs we need to see the US: 

 Chelmsford 123 : Channel 4 comedy
about the Roman occupation of Britain. A bit lowbrow but some
funny scenes. 

 Dressing For Breakfast : Channel 4
comedy about an insecure single girl and her married best friend. 

 Further Abroad : Presenter Jonathan
Meades looks at aspects of the world in a whole new light, and
isn't afraid to make a fool of himself in the process. 

 Fist Of Fun : BBC sketch comedy show
(originally on radio, then BBC-2) by Stewart Lee and Richard Herring 
(now on This Morning With Richard Not Judy ). 

 If I Ruled The World . A political
game show hosted by Clive Anderson with Graeme Garden ( The
Goodies ) and Jeremy Hardy as leaders of two fictitious
parties who attempt to curry audience favor by making the most
outrageous policy statements. It's obviously intended to
demonstrate that politicians can say anything at anytime without
really saying anything. 

 Previous Features