Warren Clarke is my acting hero 

Warren Clarke Is My Acting Hero 
If you watch enough British TV as I do you begin to wonder if there are
only a handful of the same actors who appear in nearly every show (anyone
care to name a series Brian Blessed hasn't appeared in?). Part of
this of course is because an actor is so talented and perfect for a part
that nobody else would be suitable. And if you have a part for a middle-aged,
slightly over-the-hill working-class man who thinks with his wits but may
not be the smartest man on the planet, who are you gonna call but Warren
Clarke?
 Warren Clarke is one of that breed of character actors who has graduated
to starring parts but still often raises the question, Where have I seen
him before? His career goes back, way back, to 1971 when he appeared as
one of Alex's "droogs" in Stanley Kubrick's A
Clockwork Orange . Even then his large body was put to comic effect,
but always with that edge of menace maintained. His early TV appearances
include S.O.S. Titanic , Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy , Masada ,
and The Jewel in the Crown . Frequently cast as a Russian or German,
bit parts in movies like Hitler's S.S.: Portrait in Evil and Top
Secret soon followed. In 1988 he appeared in a special Comic Relief
episode of Blackadder 
as Oliver Cromwell.
 Finally in 1989 he had his first starring role in Nice
Work , a four-part drama as Vic Wilcox, a mid-lands business executive
who as part of a training scheme is "shadowed" in his job by a young woman.
Despite their being complete opposites in just about everything, she ends
up sleeping with him during a convention. For her it's just an opportune
one night stand, but Vic of course thinks they now have a relationship.
 Two years later Clarke starred in the hilarious Sleepers 
along with Nigel Havers, both playing deep-cover Soviet operatives planted
in Britain in the mid-sixties and then completely forgotten about until
the Iron Curtain falls. But their training was so good and they've been
playing their roles for so long, that they are now more British than the
British. But everyone is afraid what might happen if the proper signal
is activated and they attempt to complete their mission. Produced by Verity
Lambert, this mini-series soon appeared on Masterpiece Theatre here
in America.
 He then did two series for Tony Grounds, 1991's Gone
To The Dogs , where he played a vulgar but rich greyhound owner,
and 1992's Gone To Seed , where he, Alison Steadman, and Jim Broadbent
played triplets trying to save their deceased mother's property from developers.
 In 1994 he took over a part originated by another Warren, Warren Mitchell
(most famous for playing Alf Garnett on Til Death Us Do Part , the
precursor to Archie Bunker), in Moving Story 
which ran for two seasons on ITV. The series focused on the dramatic misadventures
of a team of movers who each week got embroiled in some drama usually involving
their clients. Wearing round, tiny glasses, a goofy mustache, white gloves,
and a bowler hat, Clarke served as the father figure to the young men working
with him, all the while honing his Trivial Pursuit skills in hopes of appearing
on the quiz show Mastermind someday.
 In that same year he appeared in the ITV comedy series The
House of Windsor , as the scheming power-behind-the-throne who knows
all the secrets in the royal household. Though still loyal to his working
class roots, Clarke here perfected his all-knowing "man of the people"
part that he is most famous for. In a similar vein, in the drama Giving
Tongue he played a small but pivotal part as a clerk in the House
of Lords who explains to a young apprentice (and to the audience) just
how the Lords works (or doesn't) with the House of Commons in drafting
laws.
 In 1996 he finally played a title role, as Andy Dalziel in adaptations
of Reginald Hill's series of books about Northern detectives, Dalziel
and Pascoe . Constantly mocking and showing up his college-educated
partner Pascoe, Clarke is perfectly cast as "the fat controller" (as Pascoe's
wife refers to him, almost jealous with the amount of time and attention
her husband gives him). Clarke, as he always does, exudes character with
every look and line, delivering each one with perfection.
 In the 1997 mini-series The Locksmith ,
he played a tormented man whose ex-wife is nearly killed in a robbery and
who goes over-the-top to catch the man responsible, while at the same time
trying to resume relations with his estranged hippy daughter. The amount
of anguish Clarke conveys is genuine, and you really feel his anger, sense
of retribution, and finally remorse, as he goes through his inevitable
actions. A superb series where Clarke really delivered in the pivotal starring
role.
 In 1998, in addition to returning in more Dalziel
and Pascoe stories, Clarke appeared in A
Respectable Trade as a Bristol-based slave trader who marries a
woman above his station but who ultimately leads to his downfall, not comprehending
how society is so rigidly constructed to keep people like him from crossing
class lines. Clarke brought a necessary compassion to the part of Josiah
Cole, whose affinity for the sea is genuine, but whose hands are ultimately
tainted by blood. And in a change of pace, with In
The Red , a comedy about politics and the BBC, Clarke played a drunken
radio journalist who gets the story of a lifetime when a serial killer
is on the loose, but manages to survive both the killer and BBC politics
on his instincts and street sense.
 In the 2000 movie Greenfingers , Clarke plays the no-nonsense
but sympathetic warden of an alternative prison, in a fact-based movie
about prisoners who become prize-winning gardeners. And he appeared on
TV with Pauline Quirk in Down To Earth .
 Warren Clarke continues to create a tremendous stable of memorable characters,
each unique, but each endowed with his dynamic personality. His name in
the credits is always a sign of quality entertainment and time well spent.
With his working-class ethos and sense of decency in all his parts, he
is my acting hero.
 Previous Features