Is PBS Letting Anglophiles Down? 

 Is PBS Letting Anglophiles Down? 

 Related Articles 

&#149; Americanizing PBS's Mystery! 

 Elsewhere on the Web 

&#149; PBS Online 
&#149; A&E Online 

 Public television in the United States in the 21st Century is
not going to resemble the PBS of the 20th Century. The television
landscape is changing continually, and like most economic systems
it's "adapt or die." PBS has decided on a course of
action that will steer it away from its traditional emphasis on
British imports and more towards creating home-grown original
productions. So where does that leave your average American
Anglophile? And should PBS just abandon its loyal viewers who
have supported it all these years? 

 Since its formation, and for several decades afterwards, PBS
could afford to pick and choose the very best of British
television and pay rock-bottom prices. Television companies in
England had no choice because there were no other markets in the
United States willing to buy their productions (gone were the
heydays of the 1960s when American networks paid top license fees
to British producers for shows like The Avengers and Secret
Agent ). If a British show wanted access to the American
market in the 1970s and most of the 1980s, it was PBS or nothing. 

 Public television took full advantage of this, although unlike
their commercial counterparts who had money to burn, PBS had to
rely on pledge drives and largess from Congress. This meant
having to stretch programming dollars to their limits, and thus
cheap imports from Britain filled a real need for many years. And
though PBS's ratings were a mere blip on the old Nielsen ratings
meter, millions of people were exposed to Upstairs Downstairs ,
 Monty Python's
Flying Circus and Are
You Being Served? > who otherwise wouldn't have. (The only
lone "escapee" from the PBS ghetto that comes to my
mind during this era was Benny Hill , whose compilation
programs from Thames TV ran successfully on commercial stations
in the U.S. for years.) 

 Even though British producers were getting ten cents on the
dollar for their productions, Americans reaped the benefit of a
steady diet of what Britain had to offer, all of it presented in
a gloriously commercial-free environment. Things did not change
until the advent and expansion of cable TV and
"narrowcast" speciality channels like A&E which
popped up who were also willing to carry imported programs in the
United States. Suddenly PBS had competition, but in those early
days of cable these new upstarts didn't have a lot of viewers -
or access to great heaps of capital - to affect the going rate
for programs. 

 However, as cable penetration increased in the United States
and the speciality stations proved to advertisers that they could
deliver the kind of upscale consumers that are their prime
targets, cable channels were able to flex their economic muscle
and began co-producing series in association with the BBC and
ITV, exchanging production money for first-run rights. Suddenly,
PBS was no longer the exclusive gatekeeper for British television
and found itself with competition for the very first time. 

 Americans in theory have more choices now, instead of just one
or two PBS stations (which were - and are - run as mini-fiefdoms
by whomever is their local program manager), there is a galaxy of
cable channels featuring British imports including BBC America , A&E , and Bravo , while British producers
finally get reasonable compensation for the American rights to
their programs, as well as much-needed financing in some cases.
Everyone is a winner. Or are they? PBS now says they want to get
away from British programming and concentrate more on American
productions. Are they just sulking because other kids want to
play with their ball? Are economic forces such that they can't
compete in a commercial environment? Do they feel their tradition
of relying on British imports is now a relic from the past? What
do they owe loyal viewers who have directly supported them for
years via their hard-earned pledge dollars? Must Americans be
cursed with having to sit through commercials in order to watch
British productions from now on? 

 As I announced in January , PBS has
already decided to cut British productions out of Mystery! 
altogether beginning with the 2002 season. And this fall's Masterpiece
Theatre season has only one British production, The
Cazalets , scheduled. Looking at this from a pure business
model, does it make sense to alienate your traditional customer
base in the hopes of attracting a new one? Economic history would
suggest not, but can PBS, as a quasi-government funded entity,
even fail? 

 Previous Features