Invasion of the Reality Shows 

 Invasion of the Reality Shows 

 Dateline: September 13, 2000 

 The "reality" TV show craze is
currently sweeping both sides of the Atlantic with everything
from Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? to Survivor 
conquering the airwaves. What's next? 

 Celador Productions in the UK probably had no
idea what they were unleashing when they created the quiz show
sensation Who
Wants To Be A Millionaire? for ITV in 1998. It became an
immediate hit, and it wasn't too long before ABC television in the US bought the
format, installed Regis Philbin as host, and laughed all the way
to the bank. Suddenly every network wanted a reality show, which
unfortunately deluged viewers with many forgettable quiz show
knockoffs. 

 But something new was waiting in the wings.
European TV companies, sometimes very small and thus apt to try
something radical and different, pioneered the concept of taking
ordinary folks and making them the stars of the shows by putting
them in unusual situations. Holland's Big Brother locked
a group of people in a house with cameras monitoring them 24
hours a day while viewers could vote out whomever they chose. Two
American producers had an idea about stranding people on a desert
island for a series, but before selling it to skeptical US
networks, they test-drove the format first in Sweden. It was a
huge success, and CBS grabbed the series (originally Expedition
Robinson but now retitled Survivor ) and conquered
America during the summer of 2000. Big Brother also came
to the US and Britain, though while a smash hit in Britain,
didn't quite achieve the heights in the US achieved earlier by Survivor .
The BBC made its own version
of Survivor , Castaway 2000 ,
with entire families spending a year living on a remote Scottish
island. Being the BBC, it's less a game show (nobody gets voted
off, though several participants have left for personal reasons)
and more a documentary about their exploits. 

 Channel 5 
has jumped on the bandwagon with Jailbreak ,
hosted by Red Dwarf's Craig Charles, with contestants
attempting to break out of a "prison," with cash prizes
for the winners. Survivor creator Mark Burnett's next
series for NBC will be Destination Mir , with contestants
training at Russia's Star City for a chance to go aboard the
orbiting Mir satellite. Future gimmicky series include another
European import where a group of men are chained to a woman who
eliminates them before deciding which one to go on a date with. 

 Obviously these shows are cheap to make, popular
with audiences, and for the time being, impossible to stop.
Eventually this trend will burn itself out and TV will return to
shows with professional actors performing from scripts.
Meanwhile, don't be surprised by what turns up next. 

 Previous Features