Remakes - Dear John to The Lucy Arnaz Show 

Remakes - Dear John to The Lucy Arnaz Show 
 Back To Index 
 MASTERCHEF 
TO PAYNE > Page 1 ,
 2 ,
3, 4 , 5 ,
 6 
 Dear John 
 Original UK Series: Dear John (1986-88). Written by John Sullivan
( Only Fools And Horses ), Ralph Bates starred as a newly divorced
man who joins a singles club.
 American Remake: Judd Hirsch ( Taxi ) took over in the US version
that ran for four seasons, 1988-92.
 Comments: It must be some level of success that the American version
ran many more episodes than the British original.
 Don't Forget Your Toothbrush 
 Original UK Series: 1995 game show where contestants must be prepared
to travel anywhere to perform outrageous stunts.
 American Remake: Transferred the format to Comedy
Central in 2000, hosted by Mark Curry.
 First Years 
 Original UK Series: This
Life (1996-97) was a cult drama series about twentysomething lawyers
on the BBC for two years before it was unceremoniously canceled. However
it made household names for its stars, most of whom appeared naked at one
point or another during the show.
 American Remake: NBC adapted it in March 2001 with help from producer
Jill Gordon ( My So Called Life ) and set it in San Francisco.
 Comments: NBC's poor track record with remakes ( Cold
Feet , Coupling ) continued
unabated, and they canceled it after only three episodes.
 Foot In The Door 
 Original UK Series: Tom, Dick and Harriet (1982). Ian Ogilvy
( Return of the Saint ) starred in this comedy about a recent widower
who moves in with his son's family.
 American Remake: Harold Gould starred in this short-lived adaptation
in the spring of 1983.
 Comments: The idea of a wild 'n crazy dad living with his uptight son
didn't really set the world on fire on either side of the Atlantic.
 Holding The Baby 
 Original UK Series: Rather dire 1997 ITV comedy starring Nick Hancock
who has to care for an infant.
 American Remake: Appeared briefly on Fox in 1998.
 Comments: Canceled after only seven episodes on US TV.
 Hope Island 
 Original UK Series: Ballykissangel (1996 - present). A sort
of Irish Northern Exposure , that originally focused on the relationship
between an English priest and a skeptical publican in small town in Ireland.
The cast has changed over the years but the series continues to be popular
both on the BBC and in the U.S.
 American Remake: Hope Island ran for one season on the PAX network
in 1999, changing the setting to a small island off the coast, starring
hunky Australian Cameron Daddo ( F/X: The Series ).
 Comments: While the PAX series only lasted one season, the British original
just keeps running and running.
 Lotsa Luck 
 Original UK Series: On The Busses (1969-73). This long-running
situation comedy about bus conductors ran for seven seasons and spawned
three feature movies.
 American Remake: Lotsa Luck , a vehicle for Dom DeLuise, ran for
one season in 1973.
 Comments: Old-time veterans of PBS can still recall On The Busses 
reruns (which still turn up from time to time).
 Love Thy Neighbor 
 Original UK Series: Love Thy Neighbour (1972-76), a comedy featuring
a white bigot whose new neighbors are West Indians much to his horror,
ran for 55 episodes.
 American Remake: This 1973 summer replacement series on ABC had a black
family moving into an all-white neighborhood.
 Comments: Despite 70s relevance, American audiences obviously preferred
the similar All In The Family .
 The Lucy Arnaz Show 
 Original UK Series: Agony (1979-81). Maureen Lipman starred
in this ITV comedy as an "Agony Aunt" (an advice columnist, like Dear Abby)
whose personal life is a mess.
 American Remake: A vehicle for the daughter of Lucille Ball, The
Lucy Arnaz Show ran briefly in 1984.
 Comments: Agony is fondly remember, and in fact a sequel series,
 Agony
Again , ran in 1995 on ITV updating the characters. Lucy Arnaz was never
heard from again.
 Next page > Masterchef
 To 
Payne > Page 1 , 2 ,
3, 4 , 5 , 6 
 Previous Features