Remakes - All In The Family To Cracker 

Remakes - All In The Family to Cracker 
 Back To Index 
 DEAR
JOHN TO THE LUCY ARNEZ SHOW > Page 1 ,
 2,
 3 ,
 4 ,
 5 ,
 6 
 All In The Family 
 Original UK Series: Till Death Us Do Part (1966-1975). A landmark
BBC comedy series in the UK, with racist working class man Alf Garnett
(Warren Mitchell) railing against liberals, his "silly old moo" wife, and
lefty son-in-law. Written by Johnny Speight, the character was so memorable
that Mitchell continued to make appearances as Alf into the 1990s in The
Thoughts Of Chairman Alf .
 American Remake: All In The Family was adapted by Norman Lear
and premiered in 1971 on CBS and was the number one series in the country
for most of its nine seasons. Carroll O'Connor played Archie Bunker, with
none of the bile lost from his British counterpart.
 Comments: The standard by which all other remakes must be judged. Both
series had a lasting impact on the popular culture of their respective
countries and made huge stars out of all the actors. Everything that was
brilliant about the British original was expertly transferred to the American
remake.
 Amanda's 
 Original UK Series: Fawlty
Towers (12 episodes, 1975 & 1979). Continually ranked as the
funniest comedy every made in Britain, John Cleese and Connie Booth wrote
every episode, supposedly spending months working on every line. As Basil
Fawlty, the rudest, most inept hotelier ever, Cleese created a classic
comic monster that stands the test of time.
 American Remake: The first remake of Fawlty Towers (see also
 Payne )
ran for only 12 episodes in 1983, starring Bea Arthur in the John Cleese
role.
 Comments: A failure in every aspect, the final four episodes were never
even broadcast.
 American Idol 
 Original UK Series: Pop Idol was and is a huge hit on Channel
4 in the UK where popular music is much more on the consciousness of the
public (the annual Christmas Number One song is something most people in
Britain could tell you, does anyone in the US with its fragmented music
scene even know what is number one at any time?).
 American Remake: Simon Cowell was wisely imported from the UK version
and the rest is history, single-handedly making Fox the top rated network
in 2003.
 Comments: Another in a long line of successful game show formats ( Who
Wants To Be A Millionaire? , The Weakest Link ) to enjoy success
in the US.
 As If 
 Original UK Series: Youth-oriented 2001 drama series about six teenagers
and all their personal problems. Fancy MTV-like editing and camera
tricks try to disguise the fact this is just an Afterschool Special 
with more sex and drinking.
 American Remake: UPN premiered it in March 2002.
 Comments: Canceled in less than a month.
 Beanes of Boston 
 Original UK Series: Are You Being Served? A staple of PBS stations
for decades, this low-brow comedy by David Croft and Jeremy Lloyd set in
a department store ran from 1972 to 1983.
 American Remake: Ran in 1979 and is so obscure that Brooks and Marsh
don't even have a listing for it! But it starred Alan Sues, John Hillerman
( Magnum, P.I. ), Charlotte Rae ( The Facts of Life ), and Lorna
Patterson.
 Comments: Most Americans if they are familiar with any UK comedy, probably
have seen Are You Being Served? at some point or another (much to
the perplexity of the British). The remake evidently is being kept in a
sealed vault, never to be seen again!
 Cold Feet 
 Original UK Series: A well-written, nicely shot, comedy/drama about
three couples premiered on ITV in 1997 and is still running. Starring Helen
Baxendale ( An Unsuitable Job For A Woman ) and James Nesbitt ( Playing
The Field ) as the couple that still has commitment issues.
 American Remake: Only lasted four episodes as part of NBC's fall lineup
in 1999.
 Comments: NBC was probably attracted by the "yuppies in love" aspect
of the series, but clearly Americans weren't.
 Coupling 
 Original UK Series: Brilliantly funny Steven Moffat ( Chalk )
sitcom about six single Londoners and their ever-evolving relationships.
Flashbacks and the fast pace have made it a huge success.
 American Remake: Much ballyhooed addition to NBC's "Must See TV" Thursday
night lineup in Fall 2003. Despite 20 million viewers, considered a horrific
failure and canceled after a mere four episodes.
 Comments: Scripts were a direct remake of the British originals (so
much so that BBC America actually counterprogrammed the original episodes
opposite it for direct comparison) but a lackluster cast and sky-high expectations
by NBC doomed it.
 Cosby 
 Original UK Series: One
Foot In The Grave (1990 to 2000). A classic BBC comedy written
by David Renwick ( Jonathan Creek ) with
Richard Wilson in his signature role as Victor "I don't believe 
it!" Meldrew. Retired and grumpy old man Victor suffers through life's
indignities, trapped in a world he never made.
 American Remake: Bill Cosby took the format for his 1996 CBS series
but substantial changes were made from the original pilot that shifted
the show away from the grimness of the original.
 Comments: Though it ran for four years, Cosby's version bears little
similarity to the British series. What CBS (and Cosby) seemingly wanted
was just a continuation of his successful NBC series.
 Cracker 
 Original UK Series: Cracker 
was a serialized drama that ran from 1993 to 1996, starring Robbie Coltrane
as a brilliant psychologist with many, many problems of his own.
 American Remake: Ran for only one season in 1997 with Robert Pastorelli
(Murphy Brown) as Gerry "Fitz" Fitzgerald.
 Comments: The series was canceled so quickly, that the remaining five
episodes didn't run until 1999 on A&E. Incredibly, Robbie Coltrane
guest starred in one of the U.S. episodes!
 Next page > Dear
John to The Lucy Arnaz Show > Page 1 ,
 2,
 3 ,
 4 ,
 5 ,
 6 
 Previous Features