Remakes - Too Close For Comfort to Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? 

Remakes - Too Close For Comfort to Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? 
 Back To Index 
 > Page 1 , 2 ,
 3 ,
 4 ,
 5 , 6 
 Too Close For Comfort 
 Original UK Series: Keep It in the Family (1980-83) . 
An ITV comedy about a high-stressed father who rents out his downstairs
apartment to his two daughters.
 American Remake: Too Close For Comfort (1980-85). A vehicle for
Ted Knight (best known as Mary Tyler Moore's Ted Baxter) as the
flustered father dealing with his daughters.
 Comments: Fans of Knight were generally pleased by this series that
got to showcase his talents.
 Touching Evil 
 Original UK Series: Frequent British TV star Robson Green was the lead
for several seasons in this detective series which ran in the US on PBS's
 Mystery .
 American Remake: Jeffrey Donovan takes the lead in this series for the
USA Network.
 Comments: Green's star power was enough to attract viewers to the original,
but given sufficient promotion by USA, this could be their next Monk .
 The Weakest Link 
 Original UK Series: BBC quiz show hosted by Anne Robinson whose catchphrase,
"You are the weakest link. Good-bye," became a national catchphrase in
Britain.
 American Remake: NBC bought the format lock, stock and barrel (including
Robinson) in order to jump onto the "reality TV" bandwagon in 2001.
 Comments: A short-lived hit on network TV with Robinson, the series
then moved to the PAX network with a different host.
 What a Country 
 Original UK Series: Mind Your Language (1977-79, 1986) . 
ITV comedy about a man who takes a job in a night school teaching English
to a motley crew of assorted foreigners.
 American Remake: What a Country ran for one year in 1986 as a
vehicle for comic Yakov Smirnoff (the title was changed to take advantage
of his catchphrase).
 Comments: The US show was made directly for the syndication market.
 Whose Line Is It Anyway? 
 Original UK Series: Whose
Line Is It Anyway? has run on Channel 4 since 1988, with a revolving
cast doing improvs suggested by host Clive Anderson.
 American Remake: Drew Carey is now the host on ABC, beginning in 1998,
with many of the UK cast turning up.
 Comments: Unlike Anderson, Carey gets involved in the show sometimes,
but otherwise the US show is unchanged from the original.
 Who Wants To Be A
Millionaire? 
 Original UK Series: A phenomenon on ITV 
since its debut in 1998, with host DJ Chris Tarrant asking ever-escalating
trivia questions.
 American Remake: Only Regis Philbin is the difference between this and
the original (which has also been exported to countries all over the world).
The music, set, graphics and rules are exactly the same.
 Comments: Regis is a puppy dog compared to the sometimes sadistic Tarrant
who gleefully twists the knife with contestants before revealing the correct
answer.
 > > Page 1 , 2 ,
 3 ,
 4 ,
 5 , 6 
 Previous Features