Does Your PBS Station Show...? 

 Does Your PBS Station Show...? 

 Dateline: November 18, 1999 
Updated: December 4, 2000 

 You've read my Top 10 Series Not Shown
In U.S. , but let's look at British shows which are readily
available to individual Public Television stations but may not be
running in your area because neither you nor they have heard of
them...yet. 

 First, it's necessary to distinguish between series which are
networked by the national PBS 
feed (such as Masterpiece
Theatre , Mystery ,
and Nova) , and shows which are purchased by each station
to fill up odd hours. Are
You Being Served? and Keeping
Up Appearances seem ubiquitous in this category on most
stations, and for purposes of this article I'm not going to
mention either Doctor
Who or EastEnders ,
both long-running cult series which require a large commitment
both in time and money for a station to purchase. 

 Father Ted : Hilarious
Channel 4comedy about three misfit Irish Catholic priests stuck
on remote Craggy Island. Slightly surreal and possibly a bit
offensive to those with no sense of humor, it ran for three
seasons. 

 Jonathan Creek : Three
seasons (and a Christmas special) of this BBC comedy/mystery
series have been broadcast so far by the BBC. Very much in the
vein of Moonlighting , a brilliant but eccentric inventor
of magic tricks (Alan Davies as the title character), reluctantly
investigates cases of "impossible" crimes with a
novelist ( Men
Behaving Badly's Caroline Quentin), and the romantic
sparks fly even though both claim to loath the other. Cleverly
written by David Renwick ( One
Foot In The Grave ), this charming series has turned up
on a few PBS stations so far, and is well worth trying to see. 

 Ballykissangel :
The popular Irish drama is already a staple on BBC America , but PBS
stations are also able to get episodes for those without the
cable channel (or a distaste for commercials). Not unlike Northern
Exposure , with its "fish out of water" premise set
in a small town of eccentrics (and remade for American TV as
PAX's Hope Island ), early episodes with Stephen
Tompkinson and Dervla Kirwan quickly won viewers on both sides of
the Atlantic. 

 Goodnight
Sweetheart : For five years Gary Sparrow (Nicholas
Lyndhurst of Butterflies and Only Fools And Horses )
lived two lives: as a contemporary husband in a dead-end job, and
a dashing would-be spy in 1940s wartorn London romancing a pretty
young barmaid. This time traveling BBC sitcom appealed to both
nostalgia buffs and lovers of situation comedy when Gary would
inevitably have to simultaneously keep two women in two eras
happy. 

 Class Act : Joanna Lumley ( Absolutely
Fabulous ) stars in this 1995 ITV comedy/drama series as
Kate, an ex-con former socialite now advancing on middle-age
trying to maintain her lifestyle (and house) in fashionable
Chelsea. Lumley gets the best lines, but is also the butt of most
of the jokes about her somewhat sad character who dreams of being
on top again. 

 Karaoke/Cold Lazarus : The
final two works of writer Dennis Potter (The Singing Detective)
that chronicle the demise and resurrection centuries later of a
screenwriter (Albert Finney). 

 Star
Cops : This short-lived 1987 BBC attempt at
"serious" science fiction (as opposed to Doctor Who )
is mainly a mystery series about (what else?) cops in space, as
they sometimes encounter brand new forms of crime. Though
somewhat racist (a different nationality took turns each episode
being the villains of the week), probably not too far off from
how life in space will be actually be in the early 21st Century.
Because there are only nine episodes, this is a fairly cheap
investment for a PBS station, particularly one that might be
normally allergic to science fiction shows. 

 Chef! :
Black comedian Lenny Henry stars in this BBC comedy about a
highly strung head chef and owner of a small 3-star French
restaurant. He hurls abuse at all his employees (and any
customers who don't appreciate his genius), but his
long-suffering wife keeps him in check. Things got a bit dull
during the third season, but the amazing thing about Henry is his
charisma shines through even playing a rather unpleasant
character. 

 One
Foot In The Grave : Believe it or not, this is the
"inspiration" for the latest Bill Cosby series, about a
recently unemployed old crank (Richard Wilson in his signature
role as Victor Meldrew) generally making life miserable for
everyone around him as well as himself. His trademark catchphrase
"I don't believe it!" is known all over Britain, and to
Americans who have sampled this amusing BBC comedy series. 

 Red Dwarf :
Despite being over 10 years old, many parts of the United States
have yet to screen the hilarious, if sometimes juvenile,
adventures of Dave Lister (Craig Charles) as the last survivor of
humanity stuck out in deep space in this BBC comedy. My advice if
you want to persuade your local PBS station to run it: first,
tell them it pledges like crazy (our local PBS station has
literally made millions just from Red Dwarf over the
years), but more importantly, it attracts people in their 20s and
30s who probably have never bothered to watch Public Television
before. If PBS is going to survive into the 21st Century, they
need to appeal to a broader range of viewers, and Red Dwarf 
is an excellent way to do that in ways Barney and Keeping
Up Appearances won't. 

 The
Brittas Empire : Chris Barrie ( Red Dwarf ) stars
as Gordon Brittas, the anal-retentive but well-intending manager
of a sports complex in this BBC comedy series. His misfit staff
tries to contain the chaos that reigns in Gordon's wake, but
usually a brilliantly conceived disaster builds and builds each
episode for a spectacular payoff. 

 Chalk :
David Bamber stars as Vice Principle Eric Slatt in this BBC
comedy set at a high school where everything goes wrong on a
daily basis. Everyone else at the school are just as nuts
including the ditzy music teacher who has imaginary students
playing in an imaginary band, a PE coach into S&M, and the
befuddled old headmaster with the unfortunate name of Richard
Nixon. Slatt is a great comic monster, always allowing situations
to deteriorate way past the point of salvage, and then completely
overreacting. 

 Faith
In The Future : Probably the best attempt at a sitcom ITV
has produced in the past decade. Lynda Bellingham and Julia
Sawalha ( Absolutely Fabulous )
star as a mother and daughter slowly driving each other crazy,
and their respective love lives. Simon Pegg provides good comedy
support as Julia's best friend, who secretly loves her but never
has the nerve to say so. 

 Outside
Edge : Originally a stage play, this ITV series about a
weekend cricket club focuses on two couples, the uptight middle
class Dervishes (Robert Daws and Brenda Blethyn) and more laid
back couple (Josie Lawrence and Timothy Spall). You don't have to
be a fan of cricket to appreciate the subtle comedy here, which
(much like the game) rewards handsomely those who pay attention. 

 The Grand : ITV period
drama series set in Manchester 1920, where the Grand hotel has
just reopened after a major remodeling as the country tries to
recover from The Great War. Starring Mark McGann (Paul's
brother), Susan Hampshire, Tim Healy, and Julia St. John, it's
very much a serial in the Upstairs Downstairs vein. 

 Grafters :
Robson Green ( Touching Evil ) and Stephen Tompkinson ( Ballykissangel )
play two brothers from Newcastle who work as builders down South.
Robson is the smooth one with experience, while Stephen is
clueless when it comes to both life and construction. This ITV
drama series has run two seasons so far. 

 Now read about how to talk with your
local PBS station to see some of these series . 

 Previous Features