Working With Your PBS Station To Get British TV Shows On Locally 

 Working With Your PBS Station 

 Dateline: December 1, 1999 

 After reading Does Your PBS Station
Show...? you might be wondering how exactly to approach your
local PBS station with specific programming suggestions. I
interviewed the Program Directors at two different stations (one
large, the other tiny) for a look at how Public Television thinks
and operates. 

 First, contacting the PBS station in your area can be as easy
as being online. Most stations maintain a website now (find your
station at the national PBS website )
and provide a place to give them suggestions or feedback
electronically. Alternatively, a well-written "snail
mail" letter c/o the Program Director of a station has
traditionally been an excellent way to share your views. Many
stations also have a viewer phone-in "hotline." 

 Given that most stations only have a limited amount of money
to spend on syndicated British shows (and timeslots to run them
in), I asked each programming director what their philosophy was
when it came to programming priorities: continuing to run popular
(i.e. well pledged) series over and over, or trying out new,
untried series? Both stressed that viewer feedback played a
significant part in their decision to keep shows on. The smaller
PBS station even said the groups they could rely on to come in to
work pledge drives year after year carried a lot of weight, not
only for their support, but their knowledge of British shows,
calling them "the junior program executives." Perhaps
not every PBS station would rely so much on their volunteers for
programming suggestions, but both were always on the lookout for
new shows to try, and often only first hear about them from
viewers. For example, I casually mentioned Goodnight
Sweetheart to a program director, who immediately showed
a lot of interest in it once I described its premise of being a
time-traveling comedy starring Nicholas Lyndhurst. But this was
the first time she'd ever heard of it! 

 Next page 
> Competing
For PBS Dollars > Page 1 ,
 2 

 Previous Features