Arguments Against Monorail 

 Arguments Against Monorail 
(and my responses)

People have come with a number of arguments against monorail. I will take 
on some of these arguments here and show why they are wrong. 

 The Fleming Family home page 

 Monorail home page 

 Mass transit home page 

 The Seattle Monorail Project 

 Green Line travel times and distances 

 Jump Start Blue Line (Get to Shoreline Faster) 

 A table comparing light rail and monorail 

 Link Monorail (not light rail) 

 My opinions regarding priorities 

 My ideas for monorail system design 

 My ideas for routes 

 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 

 Vocabulary 

 Frequently asked questions 

 Links to other monorail sites 

 Contact me 

 Monorail is just an expensive amusement ride. It is true that 
the Disney resort parks such as Disneyland have monorails. However most of 
these are scaled-down versions made for the park and are obviously designed 
primarily for amusement purposes. However the proposed system for the 
Seattle region is a full-size version designed for the purpose of rapid mass 
transit. No doubt some people will ride them for fun, but most of the 
riders will be using the monorail for the usual transit purposes, such as going 
to work, going to school, going shopping, or visiting friends. So the 
monorail will be no more of an amusement ride than busses, light rail, 
commuter rail, and subway trains. 

 Light rail trains can be switched to different tracks, but monorail 
trains can only go back and forth on one guideway. There really are 
such a thing as switches for monorails! There are methods for moving 
beams in a way to line up with different beamways, so monorail trains can 
be switched. The Monorail Society has 

a good explanation, with animated photos of switches in operation . 

 I don't want a monorail on my street because it will be too noisy! 
Are there trucks and diesel busses on your street? How much do they bother 
you? Monorail trains will be quieter! 

 The monorail structure will be ugly and block views. 
This statement mostly reflects a fear of the unknown. Modern design results 
in a smaller, sleeker structure. We have many skilled architects and 
designers that are quite creative and can make the structure more 
attractive. Features can be added to the basic structure to make it more 
attractive. Trees planted under the guideway help hide it. People in 
each neighborhood can work with designers to come up with attractive 
designs. For example, one architects' drawing for a proposed monorail in San Antonio, 
Texas, resembles a Roman aquaduct, with fake stone columns and arches. 

 The Monorail Society's web site has a page 
 debunking 
arguments against monorail , 
with photos comparing subways, 
light rail, and monorail. 

 Return to my Monorail home page 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

 &COPY;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 7 May 2003.