Monorail Alignment 

 Monorail Alignment 
 by Bob Fleming 
 My opinions regarding alignment of the 
monorail in the street. 

 The Fleming Family home page 
 Monorail home page 
 Mass transit home page 
 My opinions regarding priorities 
 My ideas for routes 
 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 
 Vocabulary 
 Links to other monorail sites 

 The Controversy 

There is some controversy over the alignment of the monorail, i.e. 
whether it should go down the middle of the street or on one side or the 
other. The arguments vary, depending on which part of which street, because 
the circumstances are different in different places.

 My Opinions 

 I THINK THAT IN MOST PLACES THE MIDDLE OF THE STREET IS BEST. 
Most of the streets along the route now being designed, the Green line, are 
two way streets with two or more lanes in each direction and with a two-way 
left-turn lane in the middle of the street. Near some intersections the 
two-way left turn lane is replaced by a left turn storage lane for one 
direction only. There are also some streets that have a median strip of 
concrete, grass, plantings, a barrier, or a combination of these.

 WHERE THERE IS A MEDIAN I THINK THERE IS NO CONTROVERSY. The median 
strip is the ideal place to locate the pylons (columns) supporting the 
monorail guideway. Nobody can make left turns across the median anyway, so 
the pylons can not interfere with left turns. As long as the median is wide 
enough, this is the place to put the pylons.

 WHERE THERE IS A TWO-WAY LEFT-TURN LANE, I STILL THINK THIS IS THE PLACE. 
I see several advantages to using the two-way left-turn lane for locating the 
monorail pylons:

 The pylons will not interfere with through lanes of traffic.
 The pylons will not take away curbside parking space.
 The pylons will not interfere with left turns except right by a pylon.
 The monorail trains will not pass so close to the buildings alongside 
the street.
 The monorail structure will not interfere with trees planted alongside 
the street.

 THERE COULD BE A PROBLEM IF THERE IS A LEFT-TURN STORAGE LANE. 
A left-turn storage lane is a one-way lane for cars that will be making left 
turns into an intersecting street. You can not block the left-turn lane 
with a pylon.

I know of two solutions: If the left-turn lanes are short enough, and if the 
intersection is narrow enough, you could 
span the entire intersection including the left-turn lanes with a long 
guideway beam. Otherwise, you could use straddle bents to support the 
guideway. Straddle-bents are beams like wide upside-down &ldquo;U&rdquo;s.
They would span the same street the monorail is on in order to support the 
monorail guideway instead of a pylon. Straddle-bents are used to support 
part of the guideway of the existing Seattle Center Monorail where it makes 
the curve at Denny Way. They could be used in any location where it is not 
practical to put a pylon in the street. They are not attractive and cost 
much more than a pylon, but sometimes they are what is needed to do the job.

 THERE COULD BE A PROBLEM NEAR STATIONS. In most cases the stations 
will be located on one side or the other of the street. Designers want to 
avoid locating a station over the street because it would block the sun and 
make the street too dark.

So if the station is to the side and the monorail is going down the middle, 
it would be necessary to curve the guideway over to the side for the station 
and then back to the middle the other side of the station. These extra 
curves limit the speed of the train. However I don't think this is a 
significant problem because the trains have to slow down near the station 
anyway in order to stop at the station.

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2003 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 4 May 2003.