Monorail Fire! 

 Monorail Fire! 
 by Bob Fleming 
 A brief report about a fire on the blue train of the Seattle Center Monorail. 

 The Fleming Family home page 
 Monorail home page 
 Mass transit home page 
 My opinions regarding priorities 
 My ideas for routes 
 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 
 Vocabulary 
 Links to other monorail sites 

On May 31, 2004, there was a very frightening fire on the blue train of the Seattle Center Monorail. Everybody was rescued, with no deaths or injuries, although a few people were treated for smoke inhalation and then released.

The train was over Fifth Avenue North, near the Experience Music Project, when there was a loud &ldquo;POP!&rdquo;, followed by first smoke entering the passenger area, and then flame creeping up the wall of one car and reaching the roof.

This was a very frightening experience for the roughly 100 passengers on board, some of whom thought they were going to die. Some of the people pried open the doors to let in fresh air, and one woman looked as if she were about to jump to the street about twenty feet below.

The other train, the red train, which runs on the other beam, was brought into position alongside the burning train, and the Seattle Fire Department arrived on the scene with ladder trucks. Some passengers were evacuated into the adjacent red train, and the others were brought down ladders by fire fighters.

The fire was extinguished and the damaged train was moved to the terminal at the Seattle Center, where it is being examined by engineers and others. Initial reports are that there was a short circuit in the electrical system for the traction motors. The operators of the line stopped all service indefinitely with both trains until they can determine the cause of the fire and determine what steps to take to avoid another fire. The red train will also be examined for any evidence of potential fire hazard. 

There is no word yet if the blue train can be repaired.

The fire has raised questions about fire safety in the design of the new Green Line monorail. 
For my own opinions on this matter, click here .

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2004 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 3 June 2004.