Ship Canal Monorail Bridge 

 Ship Canal Monorail Bridge 
 by Bob Fleming 
 My opinions regarding the monorail bridge 
across Salmon Bay. 

 The Fleming Family home page 

 Monorail home page 

 Mass transit home page 

 The Seattle Monorail Project 

 Green Line travel times and distances 

 Jump Start Blue Line (Get to Shoreline Faster) 

 A table comparing light rail and monorail 

 Link Monorail (not light rail) 

 Arguments against monorail and my responses 

 My opinions regarding priorities 

 My ideas for monorail system design 

 My ideas for routes 

 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 

 Vocabulary 

 Frequently asked questions 

 Links to other monorail sites 

 Contact me 

 History 

 The Controversy 

An important part of the Seattle Monorail Project is a bridge to carry the 
Green Line of the monorail across Salmon Bay from 
Interbay to Ballard. A design for the bridge has not been selected yet, nor 
has the location of the bridge. There seems to be some support for a cable 
stayed bridge, and the location would probably be a short distance west of the 
Ballard Bridge.

 My Opinions 

 I AM OPPOSED TO A CABLE STAYED BRIDGE. 

A cable stayed bridge consists of tall towers from which a number of cables 
fan out from the tower to various positions along the bridge deck. (This is 
different from a suspension bridge, in which there are tall towers, but 
with large cables going from tower to tower with smaller cables hanging 
down from the large cables to support the bridge deck.)

 Sunshine Bridge in Tampa, Florida 
A typical modern cable stayed bridge

The photo above shows a cable stayed bridge in 
Florida, and I think the design is beautiful. But notice how high the towers 
extend above the bridge deck. I think that the tall towers would be out of 
place in the low-lying terrain around the Ballard Bridge. The same argument 
is true for a suspension bridge. 

Looking again at the picture, imagine what 
the bridge deck would look like without the towers &mdash; a long graceful 
rise from ground level to a height that permits ships to pass underneath, 
then dropping gradually back to ground level. We need a different design to 
support the monorail guideway but without the high towers.

 I LIKE THE BOX GIRDER ALTERNATIVE. 

 Recently the Seattle Monorail Project has presented artist&rsquo;s 
conceptions of three basic bridge designs &mdash; cable stayed bridge, 
arch bridge, and box girder bridge. Their arch bridge has the central arch 
rising above the bridge deck. I would like an arch bridge if the top of the 
arch would meet the bottom of the bridge deck. The box girder design (shown 
at right) is 
simpler and has a cleaner, less obtrusive look, and is low profile. 
I feel the box girder alternative is the best choice and I am going to 
support this alternative.

 Courtesy of Seattle Monorail Project 

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

 &COPY;2003 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 4 September 2003.