Route for Phase 2 

 Route for Green Line Monorail Extension 
 Phase 2: Northgate to Lake City 
 by Bob Fleming 
 Details about my ideas regarding the 
route for a proposed extension of the Green 
Line northeastward through Lake City. 

 Back to Extension 
 The Fleming Family home page 
 Monorail home page 
 Mass transit home page 
 My opinions regarding priorities 
 My ideas for routes 
 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 
 Vocabulary 
 Links to other monorail sites 

 My Proposed Route, in Detail 

Click here for Phase 1 route from Crown Hill to Northgate . 

 FROM NORTHGATE TO LAKE CITY WAY N.E.: 
From the Northgate Way Station, at 5th Ave. N.E. and N.E. Northgate Way, 
the line would more-or-less follow 
Northgate Way N.E. easterly to Lake City Way N.E. I say 
&ldquo;more-or-less&rdquo; because east of 15th Ave. N.E. Northgate Way 
narrows, and then there is a steep bluff down to Lake City Way N.E. I am 
not an engineer and don't have any suggestions on how to route the monorail 
in this area. 

Once the monorail is aligned with Lake City Way N.E. there should be a 
station. This would be somewhere around N.E. 115th St. or N.E. 120th St.
Not only would this be a transfer point for buses traveling on Lake City 
Way, but this is also the place where a future monorail line (Gold Line) 
going north on Lake City Way would intersect the Green Line. 

 N.E. 115th ST. TO N.E. 145th ST.: 
I propose that the Green Line continue north on Lake City Way N.E. to 
N.E. 145th St., with stations at N.E. 125th St. and N.E. 145th St. When 
the Gold Line is built, the Lake City portion of the Green Line would 
become part of the Gold Line. 

The area around Lake City Way N.E. and N.E. 145th St. consists mostly of 
parking lots and small structures, including several used car lots. There 
is opportunity in this area to acquire land for development into large 
park-and-ride lots. This is important because the monorail station here 
would be the new terminus of the Green Line and there should be parking for 
people driving from the north, such as from Lake Forest Park, Kenmore, 
Bothell, and Woodinville. 

The Green Line and Gold Line are projects of the City of Seattle, so by 
necessity the Seattle Monorail Project must terminate the line at the city 
limits, which in this case is N.E. 145th St. However it is likely that 
in the future another agency would extend this line up Bothell Way to 
Lake Forest Park, Kenmore, Bothell, and Woodinville. Currently a group 
known as Citizens for King 
County Monorail is proposing a route along the Bothell Way corridor, 
but eventually such a line would probably be operated by Sound Transit. 

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2003 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 2 October 2004.