About the Green Line 

About the Green Line

by Bob Fleming

 The Fleming Family home page 

 Mass transit home page 

 The Seattle Monorail Project 

 The Great $4,000,000,000 Experiment 

 Green Line travel times and distances 

 A Proposed Regional Monorail System 

 Jump Start Blue Line (Get to Shoreline Faster) 

 A table comparing light rail and monorail 

 Link Monorail (not light rail) 

 Arguments against monorail and my responses 

 My opinions regarding priorities 

 My ideas for monorail system design 

 My ideas for routes 

 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 

 Vocabulary 

 Frequently asked questions 

 Links to other monorail sites 

 Contact me 

What is the Green Line?

The Green Line is the first of six monorail lines planned for a monorail rapid-transit system in Seattle.

 Click here for more information about the proposed 6-line monorail system 

 Click here for a map of the proposed 6-line monorail system 

Where will the Green Line Go?

The Green Line will connect Downtown Seattle with the Ballard and Crown Hill districts of northwest Seattle and the West Seattle district of southwest Seattle. The route will pass near or through several important destinations, including Safeco Field (home of the Seattle Mariners baseball team), Seahawks Stadium (home of the Seattle Seahawks football team), King Street railroad station, the Seattle Center (amusement, entertainment, cultural, and educational center), and Key Arena (home of the Seattle Supersonics basketball team).

 Click here for map of Green Line 

What Is the Project Schedule?

The only team of companies that bid on the Green Line is now in negotiations with the Seattle Monorail Project to work out details of the project and to see if it can be built within the limits established by law. An anouncement of the results of the negotiations is expected in the next month or two. If the project goes ahead, work should begin late this year and be completed in Summer of 2009. 

Who Will Build the Green Line?

Two teams of businesses were competing for building the monorail line:

 Cascadia Monorail Company, LLC is a team including Hitachi as the train manufacturer.

The interior of a Hitachi monorail train

 Team Monorail is a team including Bombardier as the train manufacturer.

Team Monorail announced in August that they will not bid, leaving Cascadia Monorail as the only bidder. SMP is now negotiating with Cascadia Monorail on details before a contract can be approved.

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

&copy;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 

This page was last updated 4 October 2004.