Green Line Monorail Extension 

 Green Line Monorail Extension 
 by Bob Fleming 
 My ideas regarding extending the Green 
Line eastward to Northgate and Lake City. 

 The Fleming Family home page 
 Monorail home page 
 Mass transit home page 
 My opinions regarding priorities 
 My ideas for routes 
 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 
 Vocabulary 
 Links to other monorail sites 

History

In November 2002 the citizens of Seattle voted in favor of a ballot measure 
authorizing a new monorail line, to be known as the Green Line, that will 
be about 14 miles long and will go from West Seattle to Downtown Seattle and 
then north through Ballard to terminate at 15th Ave. N.W. and N.W. 85th St. 
in the Crown Hill district.

The Green Line is intended to be the first of five monorail lines that would 
form a network throughout Seattle. The long-range plan also includes an 
extension of the Green Line southwesterly to the Fauntleroy Ferry Dock and 
easterly from Crown Hill to Northgate and Lake City.

News

There is no news about the Green Line extensions. At this point it is still 
just part of the long-range planning.

My Opinions

I think that the next project for the Seattle Monorail Project should be an 
extension of the Green Line from Crown Hill at least to Northgate, and if 
possible, the extension should continue to Lake City. There should also be 
an option for a switch at Greenwood in the event that my 
 Jump Start Blue Line Proposal is approved.

I think that this extension is very important because:

 Northgate Mall and the surrounding area of stores, offices, and 
apartments will create high ridership. Similarly Lake City has many 
businesses and apartments and would supply many riders.
 The Crown Hill area has a relatively low density of businesses and the 
housing is primarily single-family houses. The line from Downtown to 
Crown Hill will have Downtown as a major source of passengers at one end 
only. As the train proceeds north from Downtown, many passengers will get 
off at each station and few will board, until by the time the train reaches 
the Crown Hill station, only a few passengers will be left aboard. With the 
extension, Northgate and Lake City will provide large sources of passengers 
at the northeast end of the line. As a result, more passengers will leave 
Downtown to start with, many will ride beyond Crown Hill, and more will 
board at intervening stations to go to Northgate or Lake City.
 There are fears in the Crown Hill neighborhood that, since Crown Hill is 
the northern terminus, many people will park in the neighborhood to ride the 
monorail. There is a lot of controversy about how to control parking, and 
how and where to provide sufficient parking space to accomodate monorail 
riders. If the line is extended to Northgate, especially if there is a 
station at the Northgate Transit Center, and with adequate expansion of the 
existing park-and-ride lot, there will be a large amount of parking available
there for monorail riders. This will remove most of the parking load from 
the Crown Hill area. If the line is extended further to Lake City Way and 
N.E. 145th St., large parking lots can be provided in this area.
 Simon Properties is considering major improvements to Northgate Mall. 
The monorail would complement that project.

 THE ROUTE: From the proposed terminus of the Green Line at N.W. 85th 
St., I propose extending the route northeast along Holman Road and then east 
to a point near the north side of North Seattle Community College, then 
across the freeway to the Northgate Transit Center, then north along the 
east side of Northgate Mall to Northgate Way N.E., then east to Lake City 
Way N.E. and north on Lake City Way to the city limits at N.E. 145th St.

 I SUGGEST BUILDING THE EXTENSION IN TWO PHASES: 

PHASE 1: CROWN HILL TO NORTHGATE &mdash; 
This would meet most of the advantages 
given above, and would be about three miles long.

PHASE 2: NORTHGATE TO LAKE CITY &mdash; 
This would extend the line about two or three miles beyond Northgate into 
the Lake City business district.

Map of My Ideas for Green Line Extension

The darker green line is the Green Line to be completed to N.W. 85th St. 
in 2009. The lighter green extending from the 85th Street Station to the 
northeast then east is the proposed extension to Northgate and Lake City.

I have indicated a specific route and stations on the above map, however 
it is only a suggestion. As with the Green Line, the actual route and 
station locations would be determined by the Seattle Monorail Project, 
largely influenced by input from the public.

The Meridian Station is near Meridian Ave. N. and N. 100th St. and would serve North Seattle Community College and the many offices and apartment houses in this area. However the station is close to the Northgate Transit Center Station and there is good bus service between this section of Meridian and the Northgate Transit Center, so it may be better to eliminate this station.

I believe that it is very important to have a monorail station at the Northgate Transit Center because this is a main hub of transit connections. I have indicated the route deviating south from Northgate way east of Aurora Ave. N. because there is a steep hill east of Northgate Way where it curves to the north. In order to reduce the grade of the monorail, I am proposing that it angle down the face of the hill in a southeasterly direction, and this would also bring it into alignment to pass just north of North Seattle Community College and cross the Interstate 5 freeway to the Northgate Transit Center.

I think that it is likely that a deal can be made with Simon Properties, owners of Northgate Mall, to route the monorail along the east edge of their property, along the west side of 5th Ave. N.E., and to build the Northgate Station on the edge of their property south of Northgate Way. It may also be possible to build the guideway down the middle of 5th Ave. N.E. because there are only a few left turns along this part of the street.

 THE SCHEDULE: Because of the importance of the extension to the 
overall success of the Green Line north of Downtown, I think planning on 
the extension should begin very soon. There will need to be the planning, 
hearings, revisions, and a public election to approve this as a new project. 
And then, of course, detailed design and construction.

The currently-approved 14-mile Green Line is scheduled to begin operations 
in late 2007, however this would only be on part of the line. Due to the 
construction of the bridge over Salmon Bay (between Interbay and Ballard), 
the portion of the line north of the bridge probably won't operate until 2009. 

It is about three miles from Crown Hill to the Northgate Transit Center, and 
about three miles more to Lake City. There are no significant bridges 
so the construction time will be less than for the initial Green Line to Crown Hill. I would say that 
there is an excellent chance that the extension could be completed at the 
same time that the current project is completed, so that when the Salmon Bay 
bridge is completed, trains could start running all the way to Lake City!

 COST? The current Green Line project is 14 miles long and the cost is 
estimated at $1.7 billion. That line includes a large high-level bridge 
across Salmon Bay, a restructuring of the West Seattle high bridge, 
expensive construction in Downtown Seattle, and costs of modifying or 
demolishing the existing Seattle Center Monorail. None of these unusual 
costs will apply to the extension. I am not a professional, nor an 
engineer, nor in the construction business. So my layman&rsquo;s guess is 
that the three-mile extension from Crown Hill to Northgate would cost less 
than $300 million and from Northgate to Lake City it would cost less than 
$250 million.

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2003 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 4 October 2004.