Seattle Area Monorail 

Seattle Area Monorail

by Bob Fleming

Image courtesy of the Seattle Monorail Project

Is there still hope for a monorail? 
 Click here for my ideas.

 The Fleming Family home page 
 My mobility web site 
 My transportation web site 
 My pedestrian web site 
 My monorail web site 
 My mass transit web site 
 My opinions about Seattle area monorail 
 Seattle Monorail Project 
 A Proposed Regional Monorail System 
 A table comparing light rail and monorail 
 Arguments against monorail and my responses 
 My opinions regarding priorities 
 My ideas for monorail system design 
 My ideas for routes 
 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 
 Vocabulary 
 Frequently asked questions 
 Links to other monorail sites 
 Contact me 

History

SEATTLE IS FAMOUS FOR ITS MONORAIL. 

Seattle has one of the World&rsquo;s
first modern monorails. It was built for the 1962 Seattle World&rsquo;s
Fair, and still operates today as the The Seattle Center Monorail. It runs only a little over a mile from downtown Seattle to the Seattle Center, on the site of the former World&rsquo;s Fair, but it is a very popular attraction and is a working example of a modern monorail. It demonstrates how monorail can be an alternative to subways or commuter railways for urban rapid transit.

THE PEOPLE OF SEATTLE VOTED FOR A NEW, EXPANDED MONORAIL SYSTEM. 

In the 6 November 2002 election the citizens of Seattle approved a new 14-mile long monorail to be built in Seattle. This line has been named the Green Line , and will be the first of several lines in a city-wide system of monorails . However, in another election on 8 November 2005, the people voted to cancel the project to build the Green Line.

The Current Situation

The Seattle Center Monorail is currently not operating following a collision on 26 November 2005. The Green Line , which was scheduled to open in 2010, has been killed by a vote in the election of 8 November 2005. There are various groups proposing other monorail lines and systems in the Seattle area. See my summary of Seattle area monorails &mdash; old, new, and proposed .

News

 For my opinions regarding the recent Seattle Monorail Project demise and future possibilities, please click here . 

 SEATTLE CENTER MONORAIL REOPENS (AGAIN!) (8 November 2006) &mdash; 
The Seattle Center Monorail resumed operations today, again, after shutting down a few days after the 11 August reopening.

After resuming operations on 11 August there were two occasions when a train stalled on a curve near Fifth Avenue and Denny Way. The system was then shut down until the cause of the stalling could be determined and repaired.

Testing disclosed that sometimes when the train reached a certain area in the banked curve, the train would tip far enough to permit the contacts that pick up power from electrified rails to move away from the rails, breaking electrical contact. Adjustments were made to the electrical contacts so that they would remain in contact with the rails, and after several weeks of testing to prove reliability, the trains are running again in public service.

 SEATTLE CENTER MONORAIL REOPENS (11 August 2006) &mdash; 
The Seattle Center Monorail resumed operations today after being shut down for several months after the two trains sideswiped each other.

 DETAILS ABOUT SEATTLE CENTER MONORAIL DELAY (19 July 2006) &mdash; 
Officials for the Seattle Center Monorail have revealed that the problems encountered during yesterday&rsquo;s test run included failure of the brakes to release after being applied and problems with some doors not opening. The new opening date still has not been set because the operators of the line want to make sure that all mechanical problems are functioning properly before beginning normal operations.

 SEATTLE CENTER MONORAIL REOPENS. OOPS! NO IT DID NOT! (18 July 2006) &mdash; 
Today the Seattle Center Monorail was scheduled to reopen after being shut down following an accident that damaged both trains last year. City officials and the public were gathering for the reopening ceremony. Meanwhile monorail employees conducted one final test, and problems were found in the pneumatic system, so the reopening was cancelled until the problems can be corrected. It is too early to determine when the monorail will reopen.

 SMP APPROVES PROPERTY SALE PLAN (17 January 2006) &mdash; 
Tonight the board of the Seattle Monorail Project (SMP) approved a contract with GVA Kidder Mathews (GVAKM) to dispose of real estate purchased by the SMP for construction of the now-cancelled Green Line.

 FINAL OFFICIAL ELECTION RESULTS (1 December 2005) &mdash; 
The official final vote for Proposition 1, the ballot measure to authorize the construction of a shortened part of the Green Line, is Yes 65,691 (35%) and No 119,381 (65%).

 DRIVER BLAMED FOR MONORAIL CRASH (30 November 2005) &mdash; 
Results of an investigation by the Seattle Monorail System, which operates the Seattle Center Monorail, reveal that the driver of the southbound Blue Train was at fault for last Saturday&rsquo;s sideswiping collision with the Red Train. The details are not yet released, but the driver of the Blue Train failed to wait until the Red Train had left the narrow section of track.

 SEATTLE CENTER MONORAIL TRAINS COLLIDE (26 November 2005) &mdash; 
Tonight both trains of the Seattle Center Monorail sideswiped each other and jammed together, side by side. There were two minor injuries and extensive damage to the sides of the trains. The accident occurred over 5th Ave. and Olive Way, where the two beams come closer together near the Westlake Station. Safety procedures permit only one train at a time to occupy this area, but obviously something went wrong with that procedure tonight. Preliminary estimates are that the trains will be out of service at least until the end of the year. Investigations by several agencies are underway.

 PUBLIC VOTE KILLS MONORAIL (9 November 2005) &mdash; 
In the general election of 8 November 2005, the people of Seattle soundly defeated Propostion 1, which would have given the go-ahead for contstruction of a truncated Green Line. The no vote means that the monorail can not be built and that the Seattle Popular Monorail Authority (SPMA), better known as the Seattle Monorail Project (SMP) must be dismantled. Click here for information about the defeated Seattle Monorail Project.

 Click here to read my opinions about the Seattle Monorail Project and other Seattle-Area monorail plans. 

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

&copy;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 

This page was last updated 4 March 2007. 

 Our internet service provider and web host is