Opinion About Monorail Capacity 

 My Opinion About Monorail Capacity 

 The Fleming Family home page 

 My monorail home page 

 Mass transit home page 

 The Seattle Monorail Project 

 Green Line travel times and distances 

 Jump Start Blue Line (Get to Shoreline Faster) 

 A table comparing light rail and monorail 

 Link Monorail (not light rail) 

 Arguments against monorail and my responses 

 My opinions regarding priorities 

 My ideas for monorail system design 

 My ideas for routes 

 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 

 Vocabulary 

 Frequently asked questions 

 Links to other monorail sites 

 Contact me 

My conception of a monorail system is that it serves the purpose of subways 
and light rail systems in other cities. Those systems are generally 
designed to carry a large number of people, with trains of fairly high 
capacity running at frequent intervals. 

 FREQUENTLY RUNNING TRAINS: 
I think that the monorail trains should also run at frequent intervals, and 
indeed the Seattle Monorail Project plans to run trains at intervals (headways) 
of about four minutes during rush hours and about eight minutes at other 
times. I feel this is an excellent plan. 

 ROOMY, HIGH CAPACITY TRAINS: 
I think that the monorail trains should be of similar size to light rail 
trains, with similar width and headroom. The trains in use for the 
existing Seattle Center Monorail are spacious and comfortable. I think 
the trains for the new monorail should be similar. 

 SUFFICIENT HEADROOM: 
I think that the trains should have a high headroom, that is to say the 
height on the inside of the cars, so that there is enough height for the 
majority of people to walk around without bumping their heads on the ceiling. 
Trains designed for Japan or amusement parks may have insufficient 
headroom. 

 WALK-THROUGH-TRAINS: 
It should be possible for passengers to walk from one car into the next. 
This permits passengers entering one car to move into less crowded cars. 
Walk-through-trains also mean that trains can be longer than station 
loading areas, and passengers can move into cars that are beyond the 
loading area. In case of an emergency, people can move into cars further 
from the threatening situation. 

 ADEQUATE SEATING: 
The monorail is intended to be a comfortable and pleasant way to ride. 
Standing up during the ride is neither comfortable nor pleasant, at least 
for most people. I feel strongly that there should be sufficient seating 
that everybody can sit down except during rush hours, special events, or 
unusual conditions. I would personally prefer a seating arrangement 
similar to that on most buses, with most seats lateral to a central aisle 
and facing forward. However, monorail trains will run in both directions, 
reversing direction at each end of the line. Therefore any seat facing 
forward in one direction will face backward on the return trip. So in the 
case of the train it would make more sense to have pairs of seats, back to 
back. 

Of course there should be some accomodations for wheelchairs. 

 WE SHOULD PLAN NOW FOR THE FUTURE: 
I view the Green Line not only as the first line of five planned for Seattle, 
but also the beginning of a network of monorails extending out from Seattle 
to nearby cities. These lines should all use the same standards so that 
trains can be used on any line. With this in mind, the Green Line will be 
establishing a standard for the region, so the specifications should be 
chosen very carefully to allow for future expansion. The following points 
need to be considered:

 Seating and comfort will become more important on longer trips.
 Higher speed may be more important on longer routes, so trains 
purchased now should allow for future retrofitting of higher-speed motors 
and drive systems.
 Routes built now within the City should be designed for high-speed 
service, because if a route is later extended far beyond the city limits, an 
overly circuitous route within the city would be a hindrance to high-speed 
service from the suburbs.
 (Note my objections to the Fifth Avenue routing!) 
 Trains purchased now should be roomy because ridership in the future 
will probably be much higher, and as routes are extended beyond the city 
limits, ridership will increase even more.
 Trains should allow for modification to add cars in case future 
demands warrant it.
 If a train is extended in length by adding cars, it becomes very 
important that passengers can walk from car to car to reach cars that are 
beyond the station loading platform. With this in mind, I think it is 
imperative that we buy trains that permit movement between cars.
 As routes are added, some of the routes may converge onto one 
guideway. This is almost certain in Downtown Seattle. There are limits of 
minimum headway (time between trains). In order to avoid congestion of 
trains, the trains need to have a high capacity so they don't have to run 
as often to accommodate high passenger loads.

 I AM AFRAID THE NEW TRAINS WILL BE TOO SMALL: 
I now have concerns that the new trains will be smaller and have 
insufficient capacity. The two companies currently competing for the new 
project are Hitachi and Bombardier. Both companies are experienced in 
monorail manufacture, but the largest Hitachi trains are of a somewhat 
smaller size than the Seattle Center trains, and the Bombardier trains are 
even smaller. 

 WILL THE NEW TRAINS BE WALK-THROUGH? I also have concerns about the 
Bombardier trains &mdash; they are not of the walk-through design. Instead 
of the drive mechanism being mounted below the floor, Bombardier&rsquo;s 
design has the drive mechanism above the floor-line at the ends of the cars. 
This design lowers the floor in the passenger area and makes the entire car 
lower and sleeker, but blocks off the passenger area at each end. I 
consider a walk-through feature to be much more important than the exterior 
height of the car, so I personally find the Bombardier design unacceptable.

 HOW ABOUT HEADROOM? Hitachi is a Japanese company and most of their 
monorail systems are in Japan and other Asian countries, where the average 
height of the riders is less than in Seattle. I think we need to be sure 
that cars have sufficient headroom for Seattle riders. 

Most Bombardier monorails are in amusement parks, such as Disneyland, and 
in short systems such as at airports. I think we need to check out their 
headroom also. 

 SO WHAT DO I THINK WE SHOULD DO? I think that the SPMA (Seattle 
Popular Monorail Authority) should consider the specifications I have 
explained here, and that there should be public hearings to get public 
opinion on these specifications, and then to prepare a set of specifications 
that the manufacturers must meet. I think that between Hitachi and 
Bombardier, Hitachi comes closest to my concept of what the new trains 
should be like. I think Hitachi should be able to modify their design 
sufficiently to provide larger and roomier trains. 

The existing Seattle Center Monorail, built by Alweg of Germany, from my 
point of view, has the best design. I think that the Alweg design should 
be used with some changes to incorporate new technology. It is my 
understanding (uncomfirmed!) that the Alweg patents have expired, which 
would mean that anybody can use them. I would like to see Hitachi or 
another company design the new system to the same basic specification as 
the existing Seattle Center Monorail, with the same width of guideway and
similar train size. 

Newer monorail designs use narrower beams in the guideways. This makes 
them more attractive and they block less light, but the narrower beams also 
mean that the stabilizing wheels running along the side of the guideway are 
closer together. Wheels closer together (laterally) provide less stability, 
so there is more of a tendency for the train to rock from side to side. 
The Alweg train is quite steady and comfortable because the side wheels are 
spaced further apart. A rider on the Las Vegas monorail (built by 
Bombardier) reported that it rocked more and was less comfortable than the 
Seattle train. 

 MY SPECIFICATIONS: If I were in charge of designing the new monorail 
(of course I am very definitely NOT in charge of anything!), these are the 
specification I would present to potential builders: 

 GUIDEWAY: Same width, and same critical dimensions, as Alweg 
Seattle Center Monorail, so that the two are interchangeable. Non-critical 
dimensions can vary to provide a more pleasing appearance.
 TRAIN DRIVE SYSTEM: Wheel locations and spacing must be 
compatible with Seattle Center Monorail train so they can operate on the 
same guideway.
 TRAIN LENGTH: Similar to Seattle Center Monorail trains.
 PROVISION FOR ADDING CARS: Allow for possible addition of cars to 
trains if future conditions warrant it. Addition of cars should be possible 
without extensive modification, although I don't expect it to be as simple 
as the coupling system of railway cars.
 INTERIOR HEADROOM OF TRAIN CARS: Sufficient for American 
population. 
 TRAIN WIDTH: About ten feet.
 TRAIN SPEED: Should be able to reach a maximum speed of about 
50 miles per hour at moderate acceleration. A top speed of 60mph would be 
better, especially when the line is extended.
 PROVISION FOR HIGHER SPEEDS: The drive systems should be so 
designed, that if future conditions demand higher-speed trains, the drive 
motors and systems can be retrofitted for higher speeds without major 
modifications.
 WALK-THROUGH-TRAINS: The trains should be designed so that 
passengers can readily walk from one car to another for the length of the 
train.
 SEATING: Seating should be comfortable and there should be 
sufficient seating to accomodate all passengers except during rush hours or 
unusual conditions. Most of the seats should be arranged like on a bus, 
laterally installed with one end against the sidewall and with a central 
aisle. However, unlike a bus, the trains are bidirectional (they reverse 
direction when they get to the end of the line), so seats can be arranged in 
pairs, back to back. This also gives a group of friends or a family to sit 
together facing each other. Bench seats with their backs against the sidewall 
and facing the central aisle may be necessary in some loctions, but they 
deny passengers a good view out the window.
 AVAILABILITY OF REPLACEMENT PARTS: The Alweg train was built using 
parts in use in Subway trains and other easily obtained parts. The new 
trains should also use parts easily obtained from multiple sources, rather 
than special parts only obtainable from the train manufacturer.

 Return to my Mass Transit home page 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

 &COPY;2003 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 4 October 2004.