Transit Links 

 Monorail and Other Transit Links.

 Seattle Area Monorail 
 The Seattle Center 
 Monorail The monorail that has been operating in Seattle 
 since 1962.

 The Seattle Popular Monorail 
 Authority (SPMA), operating as the Seattle Monorail Project (SMP)
 Established by a November 5, 2002 ballot measure 
 to build a monorail system in Seattle.

 Cascadia Monorail Company, LLC 
 The team of companies that has submitted a proposal to design, build, operate, and maintain the Green Line.

 Friends of the Monorail 
 This private non-profit organization promotes an expanded monorail 
 system in Seattle.

 buildthemonorail.com , A group that wants to see the monorail built.

 Citizens for King 
 County Monorail A group promoting three monorail lines 
 to connect suburbs of Seattle.

 Freeway|monorail 
 Freeway|monorail is a grassroots organization advocating a common-sense alternative to Sound Transit's light rail plan. 

 Monorail Recall Committee A group that has, through petition I-83, approved for the November general election, seeks to stop construction of the monorail by prohibiting construction on city streets.

 No Recall, Go Monorail A group fighting against the Monorail Recall group, and to win a vote in favor of building the monorail.

 OnTrack A group seeking greater accountability for the Seattle Monorail Project and that wants the SMP to proceed as 
 promised initially. 

 Monorail Now A group pushing 
for completion of the monorail on schedule, and is fighting opponents seeking 
delay or cancellation of the project. 

 James Robert Deal A 1999 paper promoting 
 monorail and maglev as superior to light rail.

 &ldquo;Robert&rdquo; in the Slow Lane 
 An individual&rsquo;s 
 opinion about Link light rail and monorail.

 Light Rail Opponents 
 CETA (Coalition for 
Effective Transportation Alternatives) Fighting to stop the light 
rail project and put the money to better use for alternative forms of transportation.

 Other Seattle Area Transit 

 Community Transit Serves 
Snohomish County, Washington (the next county north of Seattle) with extensive bus service.

 Everett Transit Serves the city of 
Everett, Washington, about 30 miles (about 50 km.) north of Seattle.

 Metro Transit Serves 
King County, Washington (the county Seattle is in) with extensive bus 
service and the Waterfront Streetcar.

 Pierce Transit Serves 
Pierce County, Washington (the next county south of Seattle), including the City of Tacoma, with extensive bus service.

 Sound Transit Serves 
Snohomish, King and Pierce counties with high-speed rapid transit 
utilizing express busses, commuter trains, and now working on a light rail 
project called Link. 

 Monorail in Other Areas 
 The Monorail Society 
 An international society of monorail boosters. This site tells about 
virtually all the world's monorails with links to most of them.

 Las Vegas Monorail 
Las Vegas, Nevada, has a new operating monorail, and is building an 
extension of the existing line.

 Monorail Malaysia 
Currently building a monorail system in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 
 New Moscow, Russia, Monorail 
 Note: This site is in Russian.

 Return to Monorail home page 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
This page last updated 4 October 2004.