Proposed Seattle Monorail Museum 

Seattle Monorail Museum

A Proposal for a Monorail Museum at Seattle Center 

 by Bob Fleming 

 The Fleming Family home page 
 Monorail home page 
 Mass transit home page 
 My opinions regarding priorities 
 My ideas for routes 
 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 
 Vocabulary 
 Links to other monorail sites 

History

In 1962 a new, modern monorail line was built a distance of a little over a mile to connect downtown Seattle with the site of the 1962 Seattle World&rsquo;s Fair. That monorail line still survives as the Seattle Center Monorail.

Construction will begin soon on a new 14-mile monorail (The Green Line). The Green Line will connect West Seattle to Ballard via Downtown Seattle.
The existing Seattle Center Monorail will be demolished to permit construction of the new monorail along much of the same route.

A number of people want to preserve at least part of the existing monorail columns and tracks, and the trains for historical reasons.

My Proposal for a Museum

I propose that the existing Seattle Center monorail station be preserved and converted into a monorail museum.

This would preserve a station and a short section of guideway, and one or both of the existing trains could be permanently located in the station as part of the museum exhibit.

The museum could preserve and display artifacts of the current Seattle Center Monorail built by Alweg in 1962, including photos showing the original monorail, such as the original station at Westlake and Pine (an intersection that no longer exists). Other photos would show other changes during the life of the line. Some of the original plans could be on display, and the rest of the Alweg plans could be stored in a safe place for posterity. 

Other items that could be displayed would include tickets, posters, advertising materials, uniforms, etc.

There would also be displays about the Seattle Monorail Project, the Green Line, and proposed new routes. This Green Line display would include materials showing the history of concepts prior to Dick Falkenbury&rsquo;s proposal, his ideas, and subsequent plans, votes, controversies, legal battles, award of contract to Cascadia Monorail Company, and progress during construction. Of course Cascadia Monorail could have their own exhibit also. 

There should also be exhibits showing other regional monorail plans, information about monorails around the world, and the history of monorails. 

I believe that the museum should be designed and funded by a private non-profit organization. Potential participants and contributors could include the Seattle Monorail Project, the Monorail Society, Paul Allen, The Seattle Center Monorail, other pro-monorail organizations, and lots of private individuals. 

News

 MUSEUM CONCEPT FIRST APPEARS ON-LINE: November 13, 2004 &mdash; Robert Fleming published the proposal on his web site. It is what you are reading right now.

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2004 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 14 November 2004.