My Ideas for Monorail System Design 

 My Ideas for Monorail System Design 

Here I put forward some of my ideas for good design of the new Seattle 
monorail system.

 The Fleming Family home page 

 Mass transit home page 

 The Seattle Monorail Project 

 Green Line travel times and distances 

 Jump Start Blue Line (Get to Shoreline Faster) 

 A table comparing light rail and monorail 

 Link Monorail (not light rail) 

 Arguments against monorail and my responses 

 My opinions regarding priorities 

 My ideas for routes 

 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 

 Vocabulary 

 Frequently asked questions 

 Links to other monorail sites 

 Contact me 

 ROUTING: I strongly believe that the primary purpose of 
the monorail system should be to provide high-speed transportation over 
fairly long distances. With that in mind, the routes should be as short and 
direct as possible. But, in order to serve as many people as possible, the 
routes should be planned so that the locations of the stations will attract 
as many riders as possible. Such locations include:

 Large schools, including high schools, colleges, and universities
 Major shopping areas
 Venues of major events
 Major tourist attractions
 High-density residential areas in which many of the people don't 
 drive or prefer not to drive
 Business and commercial areas with serious parking problems
 Major transfer points to connect with other transportation

So, on one hand, there should be an effort to plan the routes to serve as 
many people as possible, and on the other hand to have the route as straight 
and direct as possible. The goal is to strike a balance between the two 
objectives. The more the route is twisted one way or another to connect 
areas to serve, the less direct it becomes and defeats the major objective 
of high-speed service over a longer distance. It will be necessary to 
reject some promising service areas in order to provide the high-speed 
service. There is also the possibility of using 
 PRT (Personal Rapid Transit) to interconnect the 
monorail with destinations near the monorail stations.

 ALIGNMENT: I believe that as much as possible the monorail should 
be routed along streets that have two-way left-turn lanes, with the 
 pylons 
placed in the left-turn lanes. Many of the main streets in the Seattle 
area have two-way left-turn lanes down the middle, designated for use 
(carefully) by drivers travelling either direction to move into the two-way 
left-turn lane to make left turns into driveways and parking lots. The main 
advantages of using two-way left-turn lanes for placing the monorail 
 pylons 
are that it does not require loss of any adjacent homes or businesses 
because the street does not have to be widened, and 
it eliminates the cost of purchasing real estate, greatly reducing the cost 
per mile and permitting a longer line for the same cost.

The two-way left-turn lanes already provide a more-or-less continuous strip 
down the middle of the street that separates the traffic moving in opposite 
directions. The pylons that support the 
monorail can be placed in the two-way left-turn lanes without interfering 
with through traffic. The pylons would 
tend to interfere with some vehicles turning left. However, by careful 
planning, the pylons can be placed in 
positions that do not interfere with vehicles turning left into driveways 
and parking lots, except perhaps in a few cases where there are too many 
driveways or parking lot entrances too close together. 

Usually at intersecting streets the two-way left-turn lanes give way to 
regular one-way left turn lanes dedicated to traffic turning left onto the 
intersecting street. At these locations the 
 pylons should not be placed in the left turn 
lanes. If the left turn lanes are short and the intersecting street is 
narrow, it may be possible to place the 
 pylons just beyond the ends of the 
left-turn lanes and still have a short enough spacing between the 
 pylons to support the monorail beams. 
If the left-turn lanes are too long and/or the intersection too wide, so 
that the pylons would be too far apart to 
support the monorail beams, then we have a situation the same as the 
condition where there is no two-way left-turn lane, covered below.

 STREETS WITH NO TWO-WAY LEFT-TURN LANE: If the monorail uses a 
street that has no two-way left-turn lane, then the options include widening 
the street about two feet (about 70 cm) on each side (or four feet on one 
side) in order to create a strip down the center to accomodate the monorail 
 pylons , use straddle bents , beams 
that straddle the street to support the monorail beams. It may also be 
possible to create a 4- or 5-foot wide median between opposing directions of 
traffic to permit placement of pylons alongside the left turn lane.

 ROUTING NOT FOLLOWING STREETS: In some cases the routing of the 
monorail may require it to deviate from public roadways. I think that in 
these cases an effort should be made to utilize, as much as possible, public 
land such as parks, school property, etc. Use of such lands poses the risk 
of interfering with use of the property, but I think that in most cases the 
interference can be minimized by careful placement of the monorail along the 
periphery of the property or through areas where the monorail would not have 
a significant impact. Keep in mind that only the pylons would take up space 
on the ground. The guideway would be up in the air and there would still be 
space underneath for activities.

 DESIGN OF THE PYLONS AND BEAMS: I 
am in favor of using a design that is physically and electrically compatible 
with the existing Seattle Center Monorail, so that the existing monorail 
beamway and trains can be incorporated into the new system. By 
&ldquo;physically compatible&rdquo; I mean that the parts of the beam 
contacted by the monorail tires be the same as the existing beam so that the 
existing train will fit on the new beams, and the new trains will fit on the 
existing beams. Also the electrical contact wires would have to be the same 
relative position on the beam. Otherwise the design of the 
 pylons and beams could be different in 
order to take advantage of new technologies and design criteria, such as 
appearance. Likewise the new trains could also be designed to use newer 
technology and appearance criteria so long as the relative position of the 
wheels and electrical contacts are the same as on the existing trains.

By &ldquo;electrical compatibility&rdquo; I mean that the electrical voltage, 
and whether it is alternating or direct current, be the same as that used 
by the existing system.

 THE TRAINS: I think that the trains for the new monorail should be 
about the same size as the Alweg trains on the Seattle Center Monorail. 
To me the monorail takes the place of subway or light rail trains in other 
cities, and should have similar capacity. I also think that the trains 
should have good seating for good views out the windows and avoid the need 
for passengers to stand except during rush hours or for major events such 
as ball games or concerts.
 Click here for details about my ideas on trains .

 Return to my Monorail home page 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

 &COPY;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 4 October 2004.