My Ideas for Monorail Train Design 

 My Ideas for Monorail Train Design 

Here I put forward some of my ideas of what I think the new Seattle Monorail 
trains should be like.

 The Fleming Family home page 

 Mass transit home page 

 The Seattle Monorail Project 

 Green Line travel times and distances 

 Jump Start Blue Line (Get to Shoreline Faster) 

 A table comparing light rail and monorail 

 Link Monorail (not light rail) 

 Arguments against monorail and my responses 

 My opinions regarding priorities 

 My ideas for routes 

 My ideas for system design 

 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 

 My ideas for routes 

Vocabulary 

 Frequently asked questions 

 Links to other monorail sites 

 Contact me 

 BASICALLY, I THINK THE TRAINS SHOULD BE SIMILAR TO THOSE CURRENTLY IN 
USE FOR THE ALWEG SEATTLE CENTER MONORAIL . Those trains are made up of 
four cars each, and the cars approach light rail cars in roominess. They 
are wide, have good interior height, have good seating, and permit riders to 
walk from one car to the next, the whole length of the train.

My opinions on train design are based on comfort, capacity, and consideration 
for future expansion.

These are my specific opinions:

 CAPACITY: I think the new trains should be roomy to hold many 
passengers. I think the cars should be at least ten feet wide and long 
enough that a four-car train can be a good substitute for a subway train.

 SEATING: I think that the seating should be similar to bus seating, 
so that a large number of passengers can sit down. I anticipate that there 
will be many people standing during rush hours; also before and after major 
events such as ball games and concerts. However I think that at other times 
there should be sufficient seating so that passengers can really enjoy the 
ride.

Seats should be perpendicular to the side wall with a central aisle, 
similar to a bus, so that passengers can easily look out the window. 
However, since the monorail train will reverse directions at each end of the 
line, there is no real front or back of the train, so seats should probably 
be installed in pairs, back to back and facing the next seat, so that groups 
of four to six people can face each other as a group.

 WALK-THROUGH TRAINS: On the Alweg trains the motors and other drive 
equipment are mounted below the floor. This permits the cars to be coupled 
together with a virtually continuous floor from one end of the train to the 
other, so that passengers are free to walk from car to car.

At least one other manufacturer has designed their trains with the driving 
equipment mounted above the floor at the ends of the cars, so that the ends 
of each car is closed off. This design permits a lower and sleeker design 
for the trains, but riders can not move from car to car.

I strongly believe that the new Seattle Monorail trains should be designed 
so that passengers can walk through the train from car to car. One 
advantage of this is so that if too many passengers board one car and not 
enough are in another car, passengers can move about to even up the 
distribution of passengers in a train. Or, if in the rush to board a train, 
some people in a family or other group enter one car and others enter the 
adjacent car, they can rejoin each other once inside the train.

I am also thinking of the future. What if, several years from now, ridership 
has grown to the point where trains are frequently overloaded. One option 
would be to add cars to the trains, but then the trains would be too long 
for station platforms designed for four-car trains. With a walk-through 
train, passengers could enter four cars and then spread out into the other 
cars.

 WHAT ABOUT THE FUTURE? I am hoping that the Seattle Monorail Project 
will be the first step of a much larger system serving not only the City of 
Seattle, but also other parts of the region, extending to Marysville, 
Redmond, Issaquah, Tacoma, and other places. So, to me, it is not enough 
just to think of what is good for the Green Line, but also what happens when 
the system is extended many miles. Perhaps somebody won't mind so much if 
they have to stand during a ten-minute trip from Downtown to Ballard, but 
this could become a bit of an ordeal on a thirty-minute trip to the suburbs. 
This same reasoning applies to much else in the design. We shouldn't just 
plan for the Green Line, but always keep in mind that the Green Line will 
be setting standards that will apply to future longer lines.

 Return to my Monorail home page 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

 &COPY;2003 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 3 October 2003.