Seattle Area Monorail 

My Opinions

About a Seattle-Area Monorail System

by Bob Fleming

 The Fleming Family home page 

 Mass transit home page 

 The Seattle Monorail Project 

 The Great $4,000,000,000 Experiment 

 Green Line travel times and distances 

 A Proposed Regional Monorail System 

 Jump Start Blue Line (Get to Shoreline Faster) 

 A table comparing light rail and monorail 

 Link Monorail (not light rail) 

 Arguments against monorail and my responses 

 My opinions regarding priorities 

 My ideas for monorail system design 

 My ideas for routes 

 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 

 Vocabulary 

 Frequently asked questions 

 Links to other monorail sites 

 Contact me 

 I WANT TO SEE THE NEW GREEN LINE MONORAIL IN SEATTLE BUILT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE, BUT THERE ARE SOME THINGS I HOPE CAN BE CHANGED: 

 I oppose single-tracking 
Recent plans put forward by the Seattle Monorail Project include using a single guideway (single-tracking) along portions of the line in order to cut costs and improve aesthetics. Switches and computer controls would permit trains travelling in opposite directions to alternately use the single guideway, but never at the same time. I feel this is poor planning for the future and adds a very slight risk of a catastrophic head-on collision. 

Click here for details about why I oppose single-tracking .

 I favor a station near W. Garfield St. and 15th Ave. W. This station would serve a developing industrial area, a proposed retail and commercial development, and bus riders from Magnolia. 
 Click here for more about a Garfield station .

 I favor a variety of taxes paid by a broader spectrum of people . The tax approved in the election is a motor vehicle excise tax (MVET), up to 1.4% of the value of each vehicle registered to Seattle residents. I feel this puts an unfair burden on car owners and that a more equitable system would include a lower MVET combined with other taxes such as a fuel tax, sales tax, and other taxes that would be put some of the burden on other people, including those that commute into Seattle from the suburbs. Click here for more about taxes . 

 Alignment should be the middle of the street whenever practical. The guideway can also be along either side of the street, leaving the center of the street clear, however I think the mid-street position has more advantages. Click here for more about alignment .

 Parking will be less of a problem than many people fear. There has been a lot of discussion about too many people parking around monorail stations, leaving a shortage of parking for residents and customers of neighborhood businesses.

I think that in most cases the problems will be less than expected and there are ways to mitigate the problem, except I anticipate problems at the northern terminus which would be solved by extending the line to Northgate as soon as possible. More about parking . More about extending the line to Northgate .

 It should be an integrated part of the overall mass transit network: I think that the monorail system should be smoothly intergrated into the rest of the mass transit network. This means that the fare structure should be the same and that when a passenger pays a fare when boarding the monorail, bus, commuter train, streetcar, or light rail train, transfers will be issued that will be valid for transfer to other routes regardless of the mode of transportation used on that route.

A new development in mid-April 2003 is an agreement between several local transit systems to adopt a smart card fare system to be put into service in about two years. The card would permit seamless transfer throughout the combined systems. The Seattle Popular Monorail Authority is not one of the parties to the agreement. It seems to me that this is a solution to my &ldquo;seamless transfer&rdquo; goal, and that the SPMA should join the other agencies in using the smart card system.

Details about the smart card fare collection system are available in the vendor&rsquo;s news release . 

 I think the Green Line should be extended to Northgate and Lake City as soon as possible. Find out more . 

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

&copy;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 

This page was last updated 23 November 2004.