My Opinions Regarding Priorities 

 My Opinions Regarding Priorities 

 Green Line Extension 

 The Fleming Family home page 

 Monorail home page 

 Mass transit home page 

 My ideas for routes 

 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 

 Vocabulary 

 Links to other monorail sites 

 Contact me 

 My opinions regarding the sequence of operations in 
building a regional monorail system are as follows: 

 1. Stop light rail: Sound Transit needs to 
stop wasting money on an exorbitantly expensive, unsafe, slow, noisy, 
destructive, and inadequate light rail system.

 2. Build the Green Line: 
Voters have now approved this line from West Seattle to Ballard and 
Crown Hill by way of Downtown Seattle. However, I think the route should 
be altered to eliminate the loop around or through the Seattle Center, 
instead going south from Key Arena and following 2nd Ave. through Belltown. 
This would eliminate extra curves and longer track, decreasing travel time 
from the north and also eliminating the conflict over the future of the 
existing Seattle Center Monorail.

 3. Get Sound Transit to build a monorail instead of the Link
 light rail project: This route 
will connect with the Green Line near the International District and follow 
Dearborn Ave. S., Rainier Ave. S., Martin Luther King Way S., Boeing Access 
Road, East Marginal Way S., Interurban Ave. S., parallel Interstate 405 
from 68th Ave. S. to Southcenter Mall, continue west to Pacific Highway S., 
follow Pacific Highway S. to Seatac Airport, where there would be a station 
in the airport passenger terminal. If funds permit, the monorail would 
continue south on International Blvd. S./Pacific Highway S. as far as 
possible (eventually to Tacoma).

 4. 
Extend the Green Line from Crown Hill to Lake City : 
 The route would be via Holman Road, N. 105th St., and 
Northgate Way, but then deviate south to North Seattle Community College, 
the Northgate Transit Center, and then serve the Northgate Mall and go 
easterly to Lake City Way, and follow Lake City Way north to N.E. 145th St.

 5. Build a monorail line north along Aurora: 
This route would extend north from downtown Seattle along Aurora Ave. N. 
and would be the primary high-speed access to the city from the north. 
This route corresponds to the Blue Line proposed in the long-term plans by 
the Seattle Monorail Project. Initially it would serve north Seattle and 
Shoreline, but should be extended as quickly as possible to southeast Edmonds, 
Lynnwood, and Everett. A station near 105th and Aurora would provide a 
transfer point with the Green Line. Large park-and-ride lots further north 
would encourage many drivers to drive to a park-and-ride lot and take the 
monorail downtown instead of driving downtown.

If enough people in Seattle and Shoreline want this route, then it could be 
speeded up using my Jump Start Blue Line Proposal , 
which would build a branch line of the Green Line up Greenwood and Westminster 
Way to Aurora to permit operation of the northern part of the Blue Line before 
completion of the high-level bridge across the ship canal.

 6. Build a monorail from downtown Seattle to Lake City: 
 It would be via Capitol Hill, the University District, and 
Lake City Way. Near 110th and Lake City Way this route would interconnect 
with the extended Green Line. The Lake City route would later be extended 
to Lake Forest Park, Bothell, and Woodinville.

 Return to my Monorail home page 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

 &COPY;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 26 May 2003.