The Seattle Monorail Project 

The Seattle Monorail Project

by Bob Fleming

Summary information about the Seattle Monorail Project

 The Fleming Family home page 
 Mass transit home page 
 Green Line Progress Report 
 My opinions about Seattle area monorail 
 My opinions about Solving the current crisis 
 My idea to build the Green Line in stages 
 Seattle Monorail Project 
 The Great $4,000,000,000 Experiment 
 Green Line travel times and distances 
 A Proposed Regional Monorail System 
 Proposed Northgate Extension 
 A table comparing light rail and monorail 
 Arguments against monorail and my responses 
 My opinions regarding priorities 
 My ideas for monorail system design 
 My ideas for routes 
 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 
 Vocabulary 
 Frequently asked questions 
 Links to other monorail sites 
 Contact me 

In 1962 Seattle was the location for a big world&rsquo;s fair, officially 
called the Century 21 Exposition, but commonly known as the Seattle 
World&rsquo;s Fair. Two landmarks that built for the fair were the Space 
Needle and the monorail, both of which are still famous Seattle landmarks.

The monorail was designed and built by a German company, Alweg, now out of 
business. It is a little over one mile long and connects Downtown Seattle 
with the fair site, now known as Seattle Center, and the monorail is now 
called the Seattle Center Monorail.

Several years ago, a Seattle cab driver, Dick Falkenbury, thought it would 
be a great idea if the monorail could be extended to serve a much larger 
area. He successfully organized a campaign that resulted in the formation 
of the Elevated Transportation Company (ETC) to study the feasibility of a 
monorail system and to place a design on the ballot for voter approval.

The plan developed by ETC was for five monorail lines in Seattle, three 
running north and south and two running east and west. Patterned after the 
custom in many subway systems, each line was named after a color. The one 
selected to be the initial route was the Green Line, which would connect 
Downtown Seattle with West Seattle in the southwest part of the city and 
the Ballard and Crown Hill districts in the northwest part of the city.

In the November 2002 election the citizens of Seattle narrowly approved the 
ballot measure to build the Green Line and to begin initial design for a 
second line.

As a result of the November election, an agency was formed, known as 
the Seattle Popular Monorail Authority (SPMA), to administer the design 
and construction of the Green Line, and to begin planning for a second 
line. The SPMA is now operating under the simpler name, The Seattle 
Monorail Project, and that is the name now used on 
 their web site .

The Green Line will be about 14 miles long and will serve, among other 
places, the West Seattle business district (Alaska Junction), Seahawks 
Stadium, Safeco Field, King Street Station (Amtrak and Sound Transit 
&ldquo;Sounder&rdquo; commuter rail), Downtown Seattle, the Seattle Center, 
the Interbay district, the Ballard district, Ballard High School, and 
Crown Hill district. The Green Line design provides for the possibility of 
extending it in the future south to the Fauntleroy Ferry Dock and from 
Crown Hill it may be extended north and east to Northgate and/or Lake City.
For my opinions about the Northgate Extension, 
 click here .

The project includes two water crossings &mdash; the Duwamish Waterway on 
the way to West Seattle and Salmon Bay between Interbay and Ballard. 
Current plans are to strengthen the West Seattle Freeway Bridge and run the 
monorail guideway along the median of that bridge to cross the Duwamish 
Waterway. The Salmon Bay crossing would be accomplished by construction of 
a new monorail-only bridge parallel to the existing Ballard Bridge. The 
monorail bridge must be high enough over the navigational channel to permit 
ships to safely pass under the bridge.

On June 3, 2005, agreement was reached between the Seattle Monorail Project and Cascadia Monorail Company for a contract to design, buyild, maintain, and operate the Green Line. Later in the month details of the contract proposal were revealed, including a financing plan that would have cost about $9 billion in interest over fifty years. The financing plan resulted in fierce opposition and the financing plan was killed. Now many people and organizations are calling for killing the monorail project, but others are trying to find ways to solve the problems and move ahead with the project.

For later news on the project, click here . For the best coverage of news on the monorail, go to the Seattle Monorail Project&rsquo;s News links site .

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2003 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 15 September 2005.