Existing and Proposed Monorails 

 Existing and Proposed Monorails 

 The Fleming Family home page 

 Mass transit home page 

 The Seattle Monorail Project 

 Green Line travel times and distances 

 Jump Start Blue Line (Get to Shoreline Faster) 

 A table comparing light rail and monorail 

 Link Monorail (not light rail) 

 Arguments against monorail and my responses 

 My opinions regarding priorities 

 My ideas for monorail system design 

 My ideas for routes 

 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 

 Vocabulary 

 Frequently asked questions 

 Links to other monorail sites 

 Contact me 

Seattle has one operating monorail line and another will be built soon, and 
there are other lines proposed for the region. The effort on this page is 
to list the projects, give a brief description, and to provide a link 
whenever possible to the official site of the project.

The Seattle Center Monorail

In 1962 Seattle hosted a world&rsquo;s fair and one of the features of the 
fair was a monorail line that went for about a mile from Downtown Seattle 
to the World&rsquo;s Fair Site. The monorail was designed and built by the 
Alweg company of Germany.

Since that time, fair site has been converted into the Seattle Center, the 
Alweg company has gone out of business, but the monorail still operates at 
a profit.

It now appears that the Seattle Center Monorail will be torn down to make 
room for the new Green Line of the Seattle Monorail Project.

 Link to the Seattle Center 
Monorail web site . 
 Link to the Seattle Center 
web site .

The Seattle Monorail Project

In November 2002, the voters of Seattle narrowly passed a ballot issue 
authorizing construction of a new monorail line, to be called the 
&ldquo;Green Line&rdquo;. This will be the first of five monorail routes 
proposed for the City of Seattle.

The ballot issue also created a new governmental agency called the Seattle 
Popular Monorail Authority (SPMA), now operating under the name of The 
Seattle Monorail Project. This agency will oversee the design and 
construction of the Green Line and begin planning for a new line.

Current plans are to open part of the Green Line on 15 December 2007 with 
the entire line opening in 2009.

It is too early to decide yet what the next route would be.

 Link to the Seattle Monorail Project&rsquo;s 
web site . 
 Link to my summary of the Seattle Monorail Project 

The Freeway Monorail 

One group had proposed a monorail system that primarily follows existing 
freeways. Their argument is that the right-of-ways already exist and it 
would cost less than building monorails elsewhere.

 Link to the Freeway Monorail 
web site .

The King County Monorail

Citizens for King County Monorail propose a monorail system that would 
connect Seattle to cities on the east side of Lake Washington, south of 
Seattle, and to each other.

One route would go from Northgate in Seattle to Bothell, probably via 
Lake City and Bothell Way. A second route would go south from Bothell to 
Bellevue and Renton, then west past Southcenter to SeaTac Airport, then 
south to Federal Way. A third route would roughly follow highway 520 from 
Seattle to Redmond.

Future routes could go from north Seattle to Lynnwood via Shoreline and 
Edmonds, from Bothell to Lynnwood, and from Federal Way to Tacoma.

If the group is successful in collecting enough signatures on petitions, 
there will be an election asking voters to authorize a commission to study 
the possibility of building a monorail, and their proposal would be put 
before the voters in two more years. This follows the pattern that 
resulted in Seattle voters approving the Seattle Monorail Project.

 Link to the web site for 
Citizens for King County Monorail .

Link Monorail

This is my proposal for Sound Transit to cancel the Link light rail project 
and instead use the money to build a longer, faster, safer, and less 
expensive monorail line following a similar route.

 Details of my Link Monorail proposal .

 Return to my Mass Transit home page 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

 &COPY;2003 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 4 October 2004.