PRT (Personal Rapid Transit) 

 PRT (Personal Rapid Transit) 

PRT could be an option to use locally in conjunction with a monorail 
system. 

Personal Rapid Transit (PRT) is a concept in which small vehicles operate 
at moderate speed over a fixed guideway, and would probably be operated 
automatically by a computer system. 

My concept of a PRT system to be used in conjunction with the monorail system 
would be a scaled-down monorail operating within a high-traffic area locally 
around a station for the high-speed regional monorail sytem. It would be 
similar to an amusement ride, but would serve a very practical purpose. 

Imagine small cars that would hold six or eight people. These would run on 
a small monorail beam (guideway), and typically would interconnect a monorail 
station and points up to a mile away. 

Imagine arriving at 155th and Aurora by the regular full-size monorail 
train. You would step off the train onto the station platform. You could 
then step into one of the PRT cars and push a button for your destination, 
just as you step into an elevator and push the button for your floor. 

Continuing to use 155th and Aurora as an example, nearby destinations include 
Sears and two groups of smaller stores in Aurora Square, Shoreline Community 
College close to a mile away, and a strip mall on the east side of Aurora 
south of 155th St. One PRT guideway could serve Sears and one group of 
adjacent stores, another could serve the other group of stores in Aurora 
Sqaure, and third could serve the strip mall on the east side of Aurora, and 
a fourth PRT guideway could go to Shoreline Community College. 

After stepping into the PRT car and pushing the button for your destination, 
a computer system would switch the car onto the appropriate guideway and 
the car would transport you to your selected stop. At the destination the 
car would be switched onto a siding where it would wait for you to get out, 
and the car would remain there for somebody to board it and either go back 
to the monorail station or to another stop in the local PRT system. 

I have given an example of a local PRT system serving stores and a community 
college. Other potential locations for a local PRT system include large 
shopping centers and groups of high-density housing. 

An example of a 
shopping center is Northgate. I propose a monorail station at the Northgate 
Transit Center (my route number 2) . A local 
PRT system could link the monorail station with Northgate Mall (with several 
stops in the mall), the Best Buy/Target complex north of the mall, strip 
malls east of the mall along Northgate Way, and an office complex south of 
the Transit Center. If there is no monorail station at North Seattle 
Community College, a PRT guideway could cross the freeway to serve the 
college and offices and other businesses north of the college. In fact, 
it may be possible to eliminate a monorail station at the college if the 
local PRT system is built. 

A local PRT system could also serve the University District, the University 
of Washington campus, University Hospital, Greek Row, Husky Stadium, 
and University Village. 

Another local PRT system could serve Safeco Field, the Seahawks football 
stadium, the train station, and the International District. 

 Return to my Monorail home page 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 4 October 2004.