Why I Prefer Thomas Street Through Seattle Center 

 Why I Prefer Thomas Street Through Seattle Center 

 Monorail home page 
 Mass transit home page 
 A table comparing light rail and monorail 
 Arguments against monorail and my responses 
 My opinions regarding priorities 
 My ideas for monorail system design 
 My ideas for routes 
 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 
 Vocabulary 
 Frequently asked questions 
 Links to other monorail sites 

The current plan is to route the Green Line monorail through or around 
the Seattle Center, then south along Fifth Avenue through Belltown to 
Stewart Street, then west to Second Avenue, then south along Second Avenue 
the rest of the way through Downtown Seattle.

But I think that there are several important reasons why it would be better 
to have one station just south of Key Arena then route the line south along 
Second Avenue through Belltown and continue along Second through Downtown. 
For more about why I prefer a Second Avenue route through Belltown, 
 click here .

But it now looks very doubtful there will be any real effort to change the 
route to Second Avenue, which means the Green Line will go down Fifth 
Avenue through Belltown. It also means that most likely the old monorail 
will be demolished.

Under these circumstances, I feel the Green Line should use a Thomas Street 
routing across the Seattle Center. This route would permit the new 
monorail to closely follow the same route as the old one without as much 
impact on travel time as other suggested routes.

Under my plan, the Green Line would follow W. Harrison St. from Elliott Ave. 
W. to Queen Anne Ave. N., as in the current preferred alternative. But 
east of Queen Anne Ave. N., the guideway would curve somewhat to the south 
so as to pass over a parking lot on the southwest corner of Harrison St. 
and 1st Ave. N. and then cross over 1st Ave. N. to a point just south of 
Key Arena. Someplace around 1st Ave. N. there would be a station, probably 
either on the west side of the street where the parking lot is, or on the 
east side just southwest of Key Arena.

After passing the south side of Key Arena, the guideway would curve to the 
east to align roughly with Thomas St., passing just south of the Center 
House, and then curving to the north and then east enough to follow the 
old monorail route through the Experience Music Project and thence south 
along Fifth Avenue North and Fifth Avenue to the proposed curve onto 
Stewart Street.

It would be necessary to demolish the existing monorail station that is 
the Seattle Center terminus of the existing monorail. This would provide 
the space needed for the alignment of the new monorail, which would need to 
curve south a bit west of the Experience Music Project in order to clear the 
structure of the Center House. I have no suggestion regarding whether or 
not the old station should be replaced, or where a new station should be 
located.

I am very much in favor of building the Key Arena station oriented 
more-or-less northwest and southeast, and quite close to First Avenue North, 
to allow room for a switch in the guideway south of Key Arena. So now you 
ask, &ldquo;Why build a switch there?rdquo;

Why? Because I anticipate that after the Green Line has been up and running 
for a while, people are going to start realizing that the Fifth Avenue 
routing is wasting too much travel time, and I think it is only a matter of 
time before a decision is made to run a more direct route down Second 
Avenue through Belltown. With the proper orientation of the Key Arena 
station, a switch can be built southeast of the station so that express 
trains can use the new guideway south onto Second Avenue. Of course there 
would also be a switch at Second and Stewart. Most trains would use the 
Second Avenue route, but some trains would still use the Fifth Avenue 
route.

 Return to my Monorail home page 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 2 July 2004.