Why I Prefer Second Avenue Through Belltown 

 Why I Prefer Second Avenue Through Belltown 

 Monorail home page 
 Mass transit home page 
 A table comparing light rail and monorail 
 Arguments against monorail and my responses 
 My opinions regarding priorities 
 My ideas for monorail system design 
 My ideas for routes 
 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 
 Vocabulary 
 Frequently asked questions 
 Links to other monorail sites 

The current plan is to route the Green Line monorail through or around 
the Seattle Center, then south along Fifth Avenue through Belltown to 
Stewart Street, then west to Second Avenue, then south along Second Avenue 
the rest of the way through Downtown Seattle.

I think that there are several important reasons why it would be better 
to have one station just south of Key Arena then route the line south along 
Second Avenue through Belltown and continue along Second through Downtown. 
Unfortunately, the project is now too far along to change the route, but I 
am still offering my viewpoints here. Time will tell if I am right.

 THE MOST IMPORTANT REASON IS TO PROVIDE FASTER TRAVEL TIME TO AND FROM THE 
NORTH. To me, the most important function of the new monorail system is 
to provide high-speed mass transit for Seattle. This means that people will 
be able to use the monorail to get quickly from one part of town to another. 
The longer the distance involved, the more important it becomes to minimize 
travel time.

Longer guideway (track), curves, and additional stations all add to the 
length of time it takes for the train to travel over the route. The 
proposed route east through or around the Seattle Center, then following 
Fifth Avenue only to go west to Second Avenue adds several hundred feet of 
guideway, at least two sharp curves, and at least one station compared to a 
direct route south from Key Arena and along Second Avenue all the way 
through the Downtown area.

 A SECOND AVENUE ROUTE AVOIDS THE CONTROVERSY OVER WHAT ROUTE TO USE 
THROUGH, OR AROUND, THE SEATTLE CENTER. Many people fear the monorail 
passing through the Seattle Center would disturb the tranquility of some 
areas and would disrupt some views. There is considerable controversity 
over which route would cause the least harm yet avoid excessive delay in 
train schedules. Some people would want to route the monorail clear around 
the north periphery of the Seattle Center rather than pass through it, and 
such a route would add hundreds more feet to the route and cause further 
delay in the trains. 

In my proposal the line would only follow part of the western periphery of 
the Seattle Center south of Key Arena and outside the west side of the 
Pacific Science Center along Second Avenue North.

 A SECOND AVENUE ROUTE WOULD TOTALLY ELIMINATE THE CONFLICT WITH THE 
EXISTING SEATTLE CENTER MONORAIL. The currently proposed routing on 
Fifth Avenue means that the old 1962 monorail must be torn down, modified 
in some way to permit both monorails to exist along the same path, or do 
something weird like build the new monorail above the old one. No matter 
what they do, it is going to cost many tens of millions of dollars to deal 
with the problem, and most likely the old monorail will not be preserved 
in anything like its present form. 

A recent decision declaring the Seattle Center Monorail a historical site 
adds further incentive to preserve the existing structure as is.

Another problem is that the Experience Music Project museum (EMP) was designed so 
that the old monorail would go through it. Tearing down the old monorail 
would leave a hole in the museum where the monorail belongs, so there is 
strong objection to removing the monorail from the museum. Although there 
are some plans to route the new monorail through the EMP museum, there are 
a number of problems with these proposals.

Of course, if the new monorail stays away from Fifth Avenue, there will be 
no conflict with the old monorail &mdash; the old monorail will still exist, 
it will still operate, it will still go through the Experience Music Project, 
and all those tens of millions of dollars will be saved.

One possiblility resulting from the Second Avenue route and saving the old 
monorail is that the old monorail could be extended across the Seattle 
Center to the Key Arena station of the Green Line. This would provide an 
excellent transfer point between the two lines. Of course the extension 
again raises the controversy of crossing the Seattle Center, but the old 
monorail does not need to meet the rapid transit criteria of the new line. 
The trains would run less often, and a longer route around the north end of 
the Seattle Center, with the resulting longer travel time, would not be as 
significant on the old line as it would be on the new longer high-speed 
Green Line.

 THE SECOND AVENUE ROUTE WOULD SAVE MANY TENS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS. 
The longer route along Fifth Avenue would cost more than the Second Avenue 
route. The Fifth Avenue route would also 
include at least one more station, costing millions more. And then the cost 
of tearing down or modifying the existing monorail, or more expensive 
design of the new monorail to accomodate the old monorail, would cost tens of 
millions of dollars.

The money saved from building the monorail on Second Avenue would lower the 
overall cost of the project. This would reduce fears of cost overruns, 
make the Project managers look better, and would make it easier to raise 
support for future extensions and additional routes. Furthermore, the 
money saved by using Second Avenue could be applied toward extending the 
Green Line to Northgate.

 STATIONS: In my concept, there would be a station just south of Key 
Arena, another at Second and Denny, then at Second and about Bell, and at 
on the east side of Second between Stewart and Pine where there is 
currently a surface parking lot. I would imagine that a multi-story building 
could be built at this site, incorporating the monorail station into the 
structure.

 CONNECTION WITH DOWNTOWN RETAIL CORE: The station at Second and Pine 
would be a block west of the western edge of what is considered the 
retail core (along Pine and Pike from Third to Sixth).

I envision an architecturally attractive covered elevated walkway extending 
along the north side of Pine Street from Second Avenue to Sixth Avenue.
It would pass next to the Bon March&eacute;, Westlake Center, and Nortstrom. 
There would be easy access to other shops. At Fifth Avenue it would link 
to the existing station for the Seattle Center Monorail, which would still 
be operating. There would be easy access down to the Westlake Center Station 
of the bus tunnel.

The walkway would be covered in artistic transparent plastic or glass. There 
would be moving sidewalks. There could be small shops or booths along the 
walkway.

In addition to, or instead of, the elevated walkway, there could be an 
underground passageway that connect the monorail station at Second Avenue 
with the south end of the pedestrain level of the bus tunnel, near Third 
Avenue.

 CITY-WIDE ELECTION FOR APPROVAL: The Project approved by the voters 
of Seattle in November 2002 included a route along Fifth Avenue through 
Belltown. I think it would require a new public election to authorize a 
change in the originally-approved route. I am almost positive that if the 
advantages of the Second Avenue route are explained to the people of Seattle 
they will approve the change.

 I REALIZE MY IDEA PROBABLY WILL BE REJECTED, BUT THEN AT LEAST THE 
SEATTLE CENTER SHOULD BE CROSSED AT THOMAS STREET: The project planning 
is too far along now and it is really doubtful the route would be changed to 
Second Avenue at this point. In other words, it looks as if the old monorail 
will be demolished and the new one built in its place on Fifth Avenue.

But if the Green Line is going to use Fifth Avenue, then at least I think 
it should cross the Seattle Center along Thomas Street. From a station 
southwest of Key Arena, the guideway would pass just south of the Center 
House and then there would be a gentle &ldquo;S&rdquo; curve to align with 
the monorail passageway through the Experience Music Project. 
 Click here for more about my Seattle Center route ideas .

 Return to my Monorail home page 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 5 April 2004.