Monorail Taxes 

 Monorail Taxes 
 by Bob Fleming 
 My opinions regarding monorail taxation 

 The Fleming Family home page 
 Monorail home page 
 Mass transit home page 
 My opinions regarding priorities 
 My ideas for routes 
 (PRT) Personal Rapid Transit 
 Vocabulary 
 Links to other monorail sites 

 The Controversy 

The Seattle Monorail Project approved by voters in November 2003 provides 
that the Project will be funded by a Motor Vehicle Excise Tax (MVET) of up 
to 1.4% of the value of each vehicle registered in Seattle each year at the 
time of vehicle license tabs renewal.

This tax was opposed by many vehicle owners and may be a major factor as to 
why the Monorail Project passed by such a narrow margin in the election.

 My Opinions 

 I THINK THE MVET PLACES TOO MUCH BURDEN ON TOO FEW PEOPLE. 
The MVET means that only vehicle owners will pay the tax, and only those 
living in Seattle. Those without vehicles or that live outside the Seattle 
city limits do not pay the tax, even though many of these people benefit 
from the Monorail Project.

 THE MVET SHOULD BE LESS. 
I think that the MVET is a good idea, as one of the benefits of the monorail 
is to help relieve traffic congestion, and therefore will benefit drivers. 
However the MVET should be much less, perhaps 0.1% to 0.3%, with maybe a cap 
so that there is a maximum amount for any one vehicle.

 THERE SHOULD BE A SMALL INCREASE IN THE SALES TAX. 
A small increase in the sales tax, for example 0.1%, could go toward the 
Monorail Project. The sales tax will apply to virtually everybody making 
purchases in Seattle, including those without vehicles and those commuting 
from outside the city limits.

 THERE COULD BE A MODEST TAX ON EVENTS THAT WILL BENEFIT FROM THE MONORAIL. 
Such events would include games, concerts, and other events at Safeco Field, 
Seahawks Statium, Key Arena, other venues at the Seattle Center, and 
Downtown.

 THERE COULD BE A SMALL TAX ON CONVENTIONS AND TOURISM. 
Hotels, convention venues, restaurants, tourist attractions, local tours, 
and car rental companies will all benefit from improved rapid transit and 
less congestion Downtown.

 THERE SHOULD BE A TAX ON PARKING. Those who drive to the Downtown 
area or to the ball stadiums or Seattle Center, should help pay the cost of 
improved mass transit that will help relieve congestion and provide an 
alternative to many people that will find mass transit better than driving. 
I can think of three forms of taxes on parking &mdash; a percentage of parking 
fees for pay parking, a per stall tax on parking spaces, and an increase in 
parking meter fees.

The per stall tax would mean that free parking facilities would be taxed, 
the company owning the facility paying a small tax for each parking space 
it owns. An option would be a small tax per square foot of parking area. 
The tax would have the effect of organizations encouraging customers and 
employees to use mass transit.

 I THINK THAT ALL OF THE TAXES SHOULD BE SMALL. The intent is to 
collect small amounts in quantity from many sources. Small amounts will 
raise less opposition and isn't likely to create hardship for any class of 
people or organizations. For example, a large tax on car rentals could 
cause serious problems for that industry, but a tax around a dollar a day 
on a midsize rental would hardly be noticeable and should not discourage 
people from renting cars. And an MVET of $10.00 will raise much less 
opposition and cause far fewer hardships than $140.00 on the same car.

 THIS SAME SYSTEM OF TAXATION COULD BE THE BASIS FOR GENERAL TRANSIT 
FUNDING. 
The monorail is only part of a regional mass transit system. The whole 
integrated network of transit modes and systems needs funding. The system 
of taxes I am suggesting could be developed into a system of taxation to 
fund the various transit agencies and the overall expansion of mass transit 
in the region, for monorail, buses, ferries, bus rapid transit, commuter 
trains, and if the people really want light rail, then light rail too.

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2003 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 5 May 2003.