Guitar Columns - Absolute Beginner Part 1: Chords 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar 
 Columns , Absolute Beginner Part 1: Chords 

 Absolute Beginner Part 1: 
 Chords 

 Guitar Column # 59 
 Published September 12, 2002 
 By David 
 Hodge 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 So...you've just bought your first guitar, borrowed one from 
 a friend or received one as a gift (and if that's the case, 
 please introduce me to this person...). Now what do you do? 
 Well, if you haven't got a clue at all, perhaps we can help 
 you. GuitarNoise welcomes you to the first of our Absolute 
 Beginner articles. It is our hope to get you started playing 
 the guitar as quickly and as painlessly as possible. 
 First, though, one very important thing to know: the guitar 
 is not some magical device that somehow makes beautiful music 
 while you simply hold it. Like any other musical instrument 
 YOU HAVE TO LEARN HOW TO DO IT!! Fortunately, as with most 
 instruments, getting started is no trouble at all. But getting 
 good should take you the rest of your life. 
 I don't want to sound like the stereotypical parent telling 
 his child, "Yes, you can have a pet but it's your responsibility 
 to feed it, walk it, clean up after it, etc." But you 
 must understand that learning how to play is very much a negotiation 
 between you and your guitar. And you do have 
 to bring something to the table: a willingness to use your 
 brain, to experiment and to fall flat on your face. You cannot 
 expect the guitar to play itself and you cannot expect to 
 play it without putting in (a lot of) effort. 
 You will find yourself faced with all sorts of choices and 
 more information than you can possibly use at any given moment. 
 Let me suggest a few old articles of ours that you should 
 read at your leisure and reread once you know a little more 
 about the guitar: 
 A Question of Balance 
 If I Only Had... 
 Common Sensei 
 Finally, please realize that as great a tool as the Internet 
 can be for education, it is still only one source. Ideally, 
 you should equip yourself with as many means to learn as possible. 
 I'm one of those persons who stresses the use of books, and 
 nothing is more helpful than a human teacher when one begins 
 learning the guitar, even if your "teacher" is the 
 friend next door who's only been playing a year. You can look 
 at pictures and videos and listen to tapes and read a lot 
 of text, but I cannot begin to compare that to the value of 
 dealing with a person. Even if it's only to learn how to hold 
 the guitar and to put your fingers on the fretboard. 

 See 
 Larger Image 

 The first thing that you have to know about your guitar is 
 what exactly it does. Pluck a single string, any one string. 
 What you are hearing is called a note. This is a single note 
 and every note has a name, designated by a letter of the alphabet 
 (A through G only) and sometimes the notation "#," 
 which means "sharp" or "b," which means 
 "flat." When you see something written out as "F#," 
 this means "F sharp." "Bb" would be read 
 as "B flat." In western music, there are twelve 
 possible names for all the notes. To find them all and to 
 see how they relate to one another, please read my column 
 " The Musical Genome Project ." 

 Exactly which note you play depends on what string you struck 
 (not to mention whether or not that string was in tune). And 
 whether or not you are fingering the string on the neck of 
 the guitar. When you put your finger on a fret - which is 
 a space on the fretboard between any two metal strips (which 
 are also called frets, by the way) - you create a new note. 
 The guitar is an instrument that offers you the choice of 
 playing individual notes, one at a time (as in most lead guitar 
 parts) or several notes at once, which are called chords. 

 But before we can even think about chords, we have to make 
 certain our guitar is in tune. Tuning is assigning each of 
 the guitar's strings to a particular note. And before we can 
 look at that, we have to agree on what to call our strings. 
 Traditionally we either number the strings from 1 (thinnest 
 or closest to the floor as you are holding the guitar) to 
 6 (the thickest one). Later, when you learn to read guitar 
 tablature, you will see that the stings are lined up in this 
 way. But we will come back to this in a later Absolute Beginner 
 lesson. 
 Back to tuning - In what we call "standard tuning," 
 the strings are tuned to the following notes: 

 String 
 Note 

 1st string (thinnest) 
 E 

 2nd string 
 B 

 3rd string 
 G 

 4th string 
 D 

 5th string 
 A 

 6th string (thickest) 
 E 

 The first string, being the thinnest, will be highest in 
 pitch, while the sixth string will be lowest in pitch. And 
 please don't start asking about alternate tunings, low tunings 
 or anything like that just yet. You have to focus on one thing 
 at a time and if you can't get your guitar into standard tuning, 
 then all the other tunings aren't going to matter. 
 Fortunately for us, Paul Hackett has written a great article 
 on how to tune your 
 guitar . Not only does it discuss the use of tuners, but 
 it also includes a link to a site where you can get a note 
 to which you can tune your 6th (low E) string. 
 Now that our guitar is in tune, shall we get down to business? 
 We are going to be playing what are called "first position" 
 or "open chords." They are called this because they 
 are played close to the nut and utilize a number of open strings. 
 Let's start with the easiest chord to play, the E minor (usually 
 written as "Em"): 
 Chart of Em Chord 

 This is a chord chart. It is a picture or graph that represents 
 where you need to position your fingers on the fretboard to 
 form the chord. The heavy line across the top of the graph 
 is the nut of the guitar. 
 The vertical lines descending from the nut are the strings. 
 You will see six of them. From left to right, they are the 
 6th (low E, the thickest one), 5th (A), 4th (D), 3rd (G), 
 2nd (B) and 1st (high E, the thinnest) strings. This will 
 almost always be the case in any chord chart that you look 
 at. This is why, whether you play left handed or right handed, 
 you can read the same charts. The position of the strings 
 is not going to change relative to your perspective of them. 

 The horizontal lines that intersect the strings at regular 
 intervals are your frets. When you see a dot on a "string" 
 you are supposed to put your finger on that particular fret 
 and string. Here, in our Em chord, we want to place a finger 
 on the second fret of the A (5th) string and one on the second 
 fret of the D (4th) string. More on this in a moment... 
 If you see a "0" above a particular string, then 
 you play that string as an "open" string. This means 
 that you do not have to put a finger on it at all. An "X" 
 means that you do not play the string at all. An open circle 
 (which we will not be seeing today) means that particular 
 note is optional. You can play it or ignore it. 
 Let's get back to our Em chord. As I said, we want to place 
 a finger on the second fret of both the A and D strings. The 
 other strings we can play open. This seems easy enough. But 
 which fingers shall we use? And how should we go about placing 
 them on the strings? 
 I'll answer the second queston first: When we place a finger 
 on the string, we want to place the tip of the 
 finger, the rounded part just below the nail, on it. It's 
 the same part of the finger you'd use to dial a push-button 
 phone or use an adding machine or write me an email asking 
 me which specific part of the finger to use. 
 If you look at the fingertips of people who've played for 
 a long time, you'll see that their tips are actually closer 
 to flat than round! Using the tip also causes you to arch 
 your fingers so that they are arcing away from the neck of 
 the guitar. This should keep them out of the way of the open 
 strings so that they (the strings) can ring freely. 
 You ideally want to place your fingers as close to the metal 
 fret closest to the body of the guitar. But don't place your 
 fingers on the metal fret - your fingers should 
 be in the space between the metal frets. This space, as I 
 pointed out before, is also called the fret and when someone 
 says your fingers should be on the second fret, they mean 
 the in the space between the first and second 
 metal frets and not on the metal itself. 
 Okay, which fingers should you use? Believe it or not, this 
 is going to be your choice. Yes, there are standards, and 
 there is also a lot of debate over this. But the truth is 
 that everyone's fingers are different and what feels comfortable 
 for you may not be so for someone else and vice versa. Choice 
 of fingers will also eventually depend on other ever-changing 
 circumstances: which chord did you come from, which are you 
 going to, are you going to be doing any ornamentation or fills? 

 For now, though, let's use our middle finger on the second 
 fret of the A (5th) string and our ring finger on the second 
 fret of the D (4th) string. You will hopefully understand 
 why I chose these particular fingers as we move along. With 
 your fingers all set on their appropriate strings and frets, 
 strum all six strings of your guitar. Voila! You have just 
 played an Em chord. 
 Now let's move on to the E major chord. All major chords 
 are represented by a single letter, which might or might not 
 be followed by a flat or sharp symbol. So if you see the symbol 
 "E" or "F," for instance, you know that 
 it is an E major chord or F major chord. An "Ab" 
 means an "A flat major chord." Here is a chord chart 
 for E: 
 Chart of E Chord 

 Perhaps now you will see why I chose to play the Em with 
 those particular fingers. An E chord is essentially the same: 
 you start with your middle finger on the second fret of the 
 A (5th) string and your ring finger on the second fret of 
 the D (4th) string. To this we are going to add the index 
 finger on the first fret of the G (3rd) string. 
 Do yourself a favor and play both of these chords one after 
 the other. Listen to the tonal differences between the major 
 and minor chord. This will not mean much to you know, aside 
 from their noticeably different sounds. But as you learn more 
 about the guitar and about chord theory you will be glad you 
 took the time to train your ears in this manner. For more 
 info on this, just to keep in the back of your mind as you 
 learn, read my first column on ear training called " Happy 
 New Ear. " 
 Are you all set for another chord? Well, take your fingers 
 as they are positioned for the E chord and shift them up to 
 the next higher string: 
 Chart of Am Chord 

 You should have your index finger on the first fret of the 
 B (2nd) string, your ring finger on the second fret of the 
 G (3rd) string and your middle finger on the second fret of 
 the D (4th) string. This is an A minor chord, or Am for short. 
 On this chart you will see an "X" over the sixth 
 string. This means do not play it. Start your strum on the 
 open A string. 
 Later you will learn that it is indeed okay to use the open 
 E string as well (since the E note is part of an Am chord), 
 but for now I want you to be able to concentrate on not always 
 hitting all six strings. Not all chords can be played on all 
 six and you should get into the habit early of not flailing 
 away on your guitar. 
 Since the E and Am chords were relatively easy, shall we 
 take on a bit of a challenge? 
 Chart of A Chord 

 The A chord causes people no ends of problems because it's 
 not always easy to get three fingers into one fret! Here is 
 something I wrote in one of our " Easy 
 Songs For Beginners: " 
 "Now the A chord is another matter. Some guitarists 
 actually have a lot of trouble with this chord. It looks like 
 it should be easy enough, simply press the second fret of 
 the 2nd, 3rd and 4th strings. But that's exactly where the 
 problem lies. Most people (and a lot of teachers) will tell 
 you to use this fingering: 

 STRING: 
 1st (high E) 
 2nd (B) 
 3rd (G) 
 4th (D) 
 5th (A) 
 6th (low E) 

 FINGER: 
 open 
 ring 
 middle 
 index 
 open 
 open 

 Personally, I find this very uncomfortable. By some happy 
 accident, I learned the A chord after the E chord. At the 
 time, I was trying like crazy to make as few changes with 
 my fingers on the fretboard as possible and I managed to come 
 up with this: 

 STRING: 
 1st (high E) 
 2nd (B) 
 3rd (G) 
 4th (D) 
 5th (A) 
 6th (low E) 

 FINGER: 
 open 
 ring 
 index 
 middle 
 open 
 open 

 I just find it easier to get a better sounding A major chord 
 this way. Not only is it more comfortable for my fingers, 
 but I can switch quickly and easily back and forth between 
 the A, E and D chords (which are the three most common chords 
 when playing songs in the key of A major). I should mention, 
 though, that I know a number of people (mostly guys with big 
 fingers) who can't get all three fingers on the second fret 
 no matter what combination they try. Sometimes they resort 
 to playing the A chord by barring the second fret (to "barre" 
 means to lay a finger across all the strings of a fret). In 
 this case, you wouldn't barre the entire fret, just the first 
 four strings. But here you have to make certain NOT to play 
 the first string. 

 STRING: 
 1st (high E) 
 2nd (B) 
 3rd (G) 
 4th (D) 
 5th (A) 
 6th (low E) 

 FINGER: 
 index 
 (don't play) 
 index 
 index 
 index 
 open 
 open 

 The point of all this is to show you that there are different 
 ways to play chords. Ultimately, you should use whichever 
 fingering gives you the greatest comfort and ability to switch 
 from one to the next. You may often find yourself learning 
 to play the same chord with different fingerings depending 
 upon the context of the chord progression in which it is used." 
 It's worth noting here that my charts are decidedly backwards. 
 This is why it's always important to look at everything. 
 The next two chords I want you to initially learn as four 
 string chords, using only the first four strings. 
 Chart of D Chord and Chart of Bm Chord 

 Virtually everyone plays the D major chord in the same manner: 
 middle finger on the 1st (high E) string, ring finger on the 
 2nd (B) string and index finger on the 3rd (G) string. You 
 will find yourself using your pinky a lot when playing the 
 D in order to get a Dsus4. This will come in the future. Also, 
 you will find that the open A string not only can be played, 
 but is essential to working in an alternating bassline. If 
 you can't wait to find out more about these, check out the 
 lesson on " Margaritaville. " 
 For the B minor, use your index finger on the 1st string, 
 middle finger on the second and ring finger on the 3rd. There 
 are a lot of ways of playing this particular chord (and all 
 chords, for that matter); I have chosen this one because I 
 feel it is the simplest voicing. 
 There are just two more important first position chords. 
 I've saved them for last because they will, in all likelihood, 
 require the most attention and practice: 
 Chart of C Chord and Chart of G Chord 

 To initially form the C major chord, let's start out with 
 our Am fingering: your index finger on the first fret of the 
 B (2nd) string, your ring finger on the second fret of the 
 G (3rd) string and your middle finger on the second fret of 
 the D (4th) string. Now take your ring finger off of the G 
 string and place it on the 3rd fret of the A (5th) string. 

 Remember to keep your fingers arched so that each fingertip 
 touches only its respective string, and that the rest of your 
 fingers are out of the way. Picking each string individually, 
 from the A down to the high E, should produce clear, ringing 
 notes. If you get any "clunks," then you need to 
 work on having your fingers better positioned on their frets. 

 Once you have the C, take your ring and middle fingers and 
 place them on the same frets on the next lower strings. Your 
 ring finger will be on the third fret of the low E (6th) string 
 and your middle finger on the second fret of the A (5th) string. 
 Remove your index finger entirely from the fretboard and place 
 your pinky on the third fret of the high E (1st) string. Now 
 you have a G major chord. 
 Because so many, many, many songs have G to C or C to G chord 
 changes, this is the way most teachers will show you how to 
 play these chords. It is not what I do all the time. Often 
 I will play a G major like this: 

 STRING: 
 1st (high E) 
 2nd (B) 
 3rd (G) 
 4th (D) 
 5th (A) 
 6th (low E) 

 FINGER: 
 ring 
 open 
 open 
 open 
 index 
 middle 

 Without a formal teacher, this is the fingering I found most 
 comfortable for me. I will often use the first fingering when 
 switching from a G to a C, played with my pinky still on the 
 third fret of the 1st string. This is the same C chord, it 
 is simply a different voicing, which means that I've changed 
 the strings on which I play certain notes. Again, this is 
 something that you will pick up on as you learn more about 
 chords. 
 One last quick note - sometimes, particularly on TAB found 
 on the internet, chord charts will be replaced with something 
 that looks like a serial number. Again, this should be of 
 no surprise since most people do not have the software to 
 make chord charts. These numbers, more often than not, are 
 set in parentheses and read from left to right as chord charts 
 are, complete with "Xs" and "0s." Any 
 other number is the fret you want to finger for that particular 
 chord. On these "serial number" chord charts, the 
 chords we covered today look like this: 
 Em - (022000) 
 E - (022100) 
 Am - (X02210) 
 A - (X02220) 
 D - (XX0232) 
 Bm - (XX0432) 
 C - (X32010) 
 G - (320003) 
 This should be more than enough to get you going. Yes, there 
 are a lot more chords to learn and also different versions 
 of these particular chords. But knowing these eight first 
 position chords will allow you to play literally thousands 
 of songs. Knowing these chords, as well as being able to switch 
 between them fairly quickly and smoothly, should be any beginners 
 first task. If you are at all familiar with any of the songs 
 on our " Easy Songs For 
 Beginners " page, then I would recommend that this 
 be your next step in learning. 
 I hope this lesson helps you in getting started. Our next 
 installment will be on strumming, involving straight strumming 
 (with and wthout a pick) and fingerpicking. The final "Absolute 
 Beginner" articles will be on reading music and reading 
 TAB. Part one of Reading Notation 
 is already online.. And finally, there will also be a "Miscellaneous" 
 article as well to cover general things that shouldn't take 
 a great deal of time, such as posture and holding the guitar. 

 And then there will be all the things we missed, not to mention 
 all those that you will one day encounter as you learn more 
 and more about the guitar. "Miscellaneous" will 
 also cover symbols for (and explanations of) muted strings, 
 hammer-ons and various guitar techniques that, again, you 
 will want to know at some point. 
 As always, please feel free to write in with any questions, 
 comments, concerns or songs (and/or riffs and solos) you'd 
 like to see discussed in future pieces. You can either drop 
 off a note at the Guitar 
 Forum page or email me directly at Dhodge8888@cs.com. 

 Until next lesson&#133; 
 Peace 
 David Hodge 2002-09-12 
 Previous 
 article in this series "Double Your Pleasure" 
 Next to list of articles 
 in this series 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.