Competition 

 INTERNATIONAL COLLEGIATE BUSINESS STRATEGY COMPETITION 

 The 2003 International Collegiate Business Strategy Competition will culminate 
 with a conference in San Diego, California. University business students 
 have been competing each year since 1965 in the International Collegiate Business 
 Strategy Competition. Over the years the number of participating business-student 
 teams has grown from nine teams in the mid 60s to 30 to 35 teams in recent 
 years. The geographic scope of the competition has expanded from the Western 
 United States to include teams from Asia, Australia, Europe, and Latin America, 
 as well as from all parts of the USA. The competition has been hosted by the 
 University of Nevada, Reno; by the University of Nevada, Las Vegas; by San 
 Jose State University and by the University of San Diego. 

 The Business Policy Game has 
 been the official medium of the competition since its preliminary development 
 in 1967. This computerized simulation, now in its fifth edition, is an international 
 simulation designed to enable advanced business students to integrate and 
 apply the theories of their various business courses. The students become 
 strategic managers of simulated companies competing against other business 
 students acting as managers of their own companies. The simulated environment 
 incorporates the economies of two countries, and requires consideration of 
 global and domestic strategy. Over the years many students have exclaimed 
 that participating in the international competition has been the single most 
 beneficial educational experience of their college careers. 

 The international competition starts with student teams organized in "worlds," 
 with five or six teams in each "world" competing directly against 
 each other. Trophies are awarded to first place and to first and second-runners-up 
 in each "world." The competition extends over five years of simulated 
 competition, one calendar quarter at a time. 

 The early (remote) phase of the competition starts in early February each year and

 lasts about ten weeks. Students make decisions at their home campus, upload the decision

 sets via the Internet about once a week, and download the results of each quarter's

 competition after the game has been run. During the remote phase, each team prepares a

 comprehensive strategic business plan including a statement of their mission, objectives,

 strategies, and implementation plans. 

 Then, for the intensive phase, all teams gather for a three-day conference (this year

 in San Diego, California) where they continue to make about ten more sets of decisions,

 give oral presentations to the judges, sometimes react to situations of crisis

 proportions, submit annual reports on attainment of their strategic objectives, and even

 have a few minutes to play. The competition always closes with a gala awards banquet where

 the winners are presented trophies for their excellent performance. 

 This page is maintained by David Fritzsche ( Home 
 page ). Send comments to fritzsch@eskimo.com . 

 This page last updated 4 October 2002.