VandeGraff Generator Belts                       (c)1996 William J. Beaty
www.eskimo.com/~billb/emotor/vdg.html

Recommended belt materials:

  Grey neoprene rubber (hard to find!)

  Neoprene-covered cloth

  Balloon rubber (use big balloons from a party store)

  "Dynaband" exercize belt, rubber in various colors

  Spandex cloth

 "Dental Dam" latex from dental suppliers, see the yellow pages.
    Certain other stores have dental dam rubber or even large latex
    sheets. Try McMaster-Carr.  Try sporting goods stores for "Theraband"
    latex bandage.

  Cut up some disposable latex (thin brown rubber) gloves.  Use
    cyanoacrylate (crazy glue) to make your belt.

  Large rubber bands (or normal rubber bands, if your VDG is extremely
    small,) or other brown, gum-rubber sheets.

  Glue: use rubber cement, or the strong glue which is supplied
    with bicycle tire-patch kits.  Crazy glue is suppose to work too.

  Yellow sign-tape from hardware stores, the kind that says "wet
    paint."  The more impressive VDG will have yellow tape that reads
   "POLICE LINE" or "CRIME SCENE" ! (From Archie Mcphee, 
    http://www.mcphee.com)

  Polyethelene garbage bags, cut crosswise into strips

  Urethane industrial belts.  N. Simmons reports that these can be ordered
    in custom sizes from Pyramid, Inc., Newton, IA, phone 515-792-2405
    Make sure they understand that you want NO kind of antistatic coating
    or additives in the belt material.

    Another source is http://www.durabelt.com

  People on the PHYS-L discussion list recommend spandex cloth, with
    the ends of the belt bonded with crazy glue.


If you're building a VDG from scratch, take a look at my TRIBOELECTRIC
SERIES page.  This will give you hints about materials to try as the belt
and the roller.  A polyethelene roller used with a rubber belt is
traditional, but I doubt it is the ultimate combination. 

Rubber belts can be made from rubber strips glued end-to-end.  Rubber 
cement will work OK.  Much better is the glue used in innertube tire 
repair kits (bicycle shops have this.)  Note that this glue has toxic
fumes and probably shouldn't be used by kids except with adult
supervision.  I've heard that cyanoacrylate "crazy glue" works well, but
have not tried it myself yet.

If you use a thick material, it helps to "feather" the ends by filing or 
sanding the material into a taper.  If done perfectly, a glued tapered 
joint will have no lump at all.  Another hint: cut the ends of the strip 
diagonally, so the glue joint will be a diagonal stripe across your 
belt.  Then instead of going "thump-thump-thump" over the rollers, the 
glue joint will make a smooth quiet sweep.  I have it in my head to try
freezing the rubber in dry ice or liquid nitrogen and then grinding with a
belt sander, but I don't know if this will actually work.

Very thin belt material doesn't require feathering, but it is less sturdy. 
Belts made of thin balloon-rubber have a limited lifetime because the
ozone and nitrides being generated by the corona-combs will attack the
rubber chemically, making it brittle so it becomes full of holes.

If possible, avoid black rubber or brightly-colored rubber because
sometimes the coloring makes the rubber conductive.  To test for this, on
a low-humidity day try rubbing your belt material on hair, fur, etc. Hairy
arms do nicely.  If it becomes charged and will attract the hair, the
material is OK.  If it will not charge up, either the material is
conductive and the excess charge leaks away, or the air is too humid and
your test is spoiled because *everything* is slightly conductive from the
adsorbed surface water.  How to test the air humidity?  Try rubbing a
balloon on your arm hair and check for attraction.  If rubbing a balloon
doesn't electrify its surface and make hair rise, the weather is too
humid, so therefor you cannot easily test your belt material. 


There are a couple of companies which sell VDG replacement belts for
various classroom generators:

   SCIENCE FIRST
   95 Botsford Pl.
   Buffalo, NY
   800-875-3214
   716-874-0133 phone
   716-874-9853 fax
   info@sciencefirst.com

   WABASH INSTRUMENT CO. (WINSCO)  
    PO Box 707
    300 Olive St.
    Wabash, IN 46992
    phone: 219-563-8406

   CENCO  www.cenconet.com

   SARGENT-WELCH    800-727-4368
