UNDER CONSTRUCTION                         (c)1996 William J. Beaty
amasci.com/emotor/vdg.html

CHARGING CIRCUITRY

I recommend building the type of VDG machine which lacks a charger and
instead employs a plastic charging roller.  The other type of machine uses
A DC high-voltage power supply and all-metal rollers.  High voltage power
supplies present a shock hazard or even electrocution hazard, so safety
concerns make them inappropriate in a kid's science project.  They are
useful for professional lecture-demo VDGs, for VDGs with extremely high
output current, and for VDGs which must be operated in high humidity
conditions. If you insist on using a high-voltage power supply, here are
some guidelines:

Pick a supply which can put out several times more current than your belt
will be transporting.  A 1" motorized belt might give between 1 and 50?
microamps, so the power supply should be capable of several hundred uA,
otherwise the 50uA draw will reduce the supply voltage too much.  [OOPS!  
A. Richards points out that a 1" belt tops out at 8uA, and max belt charge
is always less than 26uC/M^2.] A very wide, very fast belt on a huge VDG
might require several hundred uA, so the high voltage supply should be
rated even higher.  For example, if your supply puts out 100uA when 
shorted, then if your VDG draw 50uA, it will drag the supply voltage down 
by 50%.  If you pick a supply that can put out 10X more current than you 
need, in that case you'll only drag down the output voltage by 10%.  But 
make sure that 10X the current isn't a value dangerous to humans.

If possible, use a power supply which can safely be touched without giving
a serious shock.  This means that you should definitely avoid supplies
which contain a significant internal capacitance across the output
terminals.  Even if a power supply puts out 10 microamps and *should* be
totally safe to touch, if the supply has a large output capacitor, you'll
get a bad or perhaps lethal shock if you do touch it.  The capacitor
discharges through your body first!  Only later does the supply start
putting out the feeble 10uA.

Here is a fairly safe power supply which puts out 7KV, and which operates 
on 120VAC house current.

   Electronics goldmine:  negative ion generator, 60uA max, 120VAC
   http://www.goldmine-elec-products.com/prodinfo.asp?number=G1783&variation=&aitem=1&mitem=1

Here is another which isn't as safe.  It runs on batteries (12VDC) but its 
DC output is monopolar 60Hz spikes of several milliamps each.  Painful!
However, it can be made safe by connecting a chain of 1meg resistors in 
series with its output.  (EMbed the resistors in RTV silicone caulk):


  Electronics goldmine:  negative ion generator, 60uA avg, 10mA pulses
  http://www.goldmine-elec-products.com/prodinfo.asp?number=G9695&variation=&aitem=1&mitem=1



  DANGER!  People have received shocks from the HV power supply when their
  rubber belts became dirty and conductive... then the charging supply
  jumped an arc to the conductive belt, created a carbonized path, lept
  along the belt to the upper comb, out to the sphere, and through the 
  body of anyone touching the sphere.

If your design requires a dangerous high-volt supply, install a large-
value resistor in series with each collector comb at the top and bottom of
your VDG.  The resistor should be designed for high voltage (use a
resistor that's several inches long.)  How large a resistor value?  I
don't know.  It's a safety issue, so you should take responsibility for
designing a proper unit.  Be sure to use a resistor rated for equal or
higher voltage than appears at the charging supply. Small, low voltage
resistors can suffer internal arc breakdown which lowers their resistance
tremendously.

THIS FILE: http://amasci.com/emotor/charger.txt
AUTHOR: http://amasci.com/billb.html

