Date: Sun, 25 May 97 19:11:43 +0100
From:
To: Mr Bill Beatty <billbeskimo.com>
Subject: Thank you note and report  of methods used

Dear Bill,

Thank you for your web page on building a van de graaff generator. My son,
age 11, and I used your info and the articles your page cited to
successfully build a small machine that was the hit of Fred's 6th grade
science fair.  At one point you answered a question for us on a 3 2 liter
bottle motor but we later decided to build the generator instead. 

We used 1/8 inch acrylic sheets to build a 6 inches on a side cube with an
open bottom and one open side as our base. We follwed the 1955 Scientic
American articles' diagram and used an acrylic tube but then cut 2 notches
for a top pulley shaft right in the top of the tube. We used a 110 volt
1/150 hp motor and a 7" by 5/8" by 1/8" rubber band as our belt.  The top
pulley was hard to locate but we finally found a perfect item in a
hardware store.  The item was sold as part of a 1/4 inch cable connecting
kit,it cost 2$ and change and we discarded the connectors and used both of
the "stops" each of which was a 3/4 by 3/4 inch clyinder with about a 9/32
hole for a shaft.  We used a 1/4 inch solid acrylic rod for the upper
pulley shaft. We built another acrlic box, 4 inches on a side and open on
the top and bottom, to support the sphere.  This method allowed for
maximun visibility of all parts except those within the sphere. We also
found that copper strips sold for gutter work did nicely for holding the
spray screens and connecting to the plus and minus terminals. For the
terminals we used another hardware store item, also made of copper,
designed to connect to 1/4" marine battery threaded post extensions which
included a treaded hole with a flat screw type device ideal for attaching
a wire connecting to a wand with round discharging ball and/or a ground
wire ect.

These were the high points of our design method.  We appreciate your
having so much info available on the WWW and thought we would try to make
a contribution by writing this report in the hope that some other amatuers
might be saved some time in finding materials ect. 

Thanks again,

Fred and Bruce (Dad)
