OBSOLETE FILE

For the updated version, see: http://amasci.com/emotor/stathint.html














HINTS AND OBSCURE FACTS USEFUL FOR ELECTROSTATIC SCIENCE PROJECTS

    Electrostatic design is something of a "black art" because
    there are numerous little-known rules which only become
    important at high voltage.  Below are a few of them.  Don't
    let these rules scare you off from building a device.  Many
    projects work fine the first time.  It's when they do not
    work that the following suggestions start becoming useful.


PROBLEMS WITH LOW-CURRENT GENERATORS

Some types of static electric generators can only supply an extremely tiny
current.  The lower their current-generating capability, the more
sensitive they are to stray leakage paths.  In the realm of
electrostatics, a millionth of an ampere (uA, or microamp) is a fairly
high current.  For example, if you power an electrostatic motor with a
plug-in DC high voltage supply having a 1000uA (1 milliampere) rating, you
probably can violate all the following rules and ignore all the leakage
issues.  Where electrostatics is involved, 1 mA is a huge current.  But if
you try to use a Kelvin Waterdropper as a power supply, you'll probably
have to follow all these rules in order prevent surface leakage from
shorting out your system.  Also, if you follow all these rules, your
device may tolerate much higher levels of humidity than otherwise.


AVOID WOOD

Avoid using wood, cloth, paper, masonite, or other fiberous materials as
insulating structures.  Their insulating properties will vary unexpectedly
because of humidity changes, so on some days they are insulating, other
days they become conducting.  Stick with plastics and rubber.  If
possible, avoid glass as well.  Glass surfaces tend to absorb a bit of
moisture, and become conducting on really humid days.  Plastic suffers
less from this effect, but even the best insulator is not immune. 


AVOID SHARP-EDGED CONDUCTORS

Sharp metal edges bad, big rounded edges good!  If a sharp-edged object is
raised to a high voltage, tiny corona discharges will appear on the sharp
parts and silently and invisibly leak charge away into the air.  The
higher the voltage, the worse the problem.  The closer the sharp edge is
to an oppositely-charged object, the worse the problem.  Also, generators
with very low current capabilities, such as Kelvin Thunderstorm devices,
are particularly sensitive to leakage, so sharp edges become a real issue
for these.  The problem can be partially relieved by keeping air away from
the sharp edges.  For example, split some tubing lengthwise with a razor,
and use it to cover the edges.  Even better, apply heavy beads of RTV
silicone caulk to cover the exposed sharp edges.  (RTV is the
vinegar-smelling type.  Avoid using water-based silicone.) 


PUT BIG SPACES BETWEEN CHARGED PARTS

Keep the metal parts far away from each other and away from "ground." 
Metal parts includes insulated wires.  If oppositely charged parts are
close together, or if charged parts are close to grounded parts, the
e-field between them becomes extremely intense.  This can cause sparks,
but even worse, it can cause silent, invisible corona discharges to appear
on the metal surfaces.  The air between the parts becomes conductive, and
the maximum voltage produced by your device will be drastically lowered. 
Support your connecting wires up off the table with insulating blocks.  In
general, the distance that causes through-air leakage will be large for
large, blunt metal parts, and smaller for small parts, sharp edges, wires,
etc.  The distance where problems occur also gets smaller as voltages get
higher.  If you're trying to get to 100,000 volts, you should only be
using large smooth spheres and cylinders, keeping them many inches apart,
and covering any small protuberances and sharp edges with gobs of silicone
caulk.


REDUCE THE CAPACITANCE

Keep the metal parts far away from each other.  This includes insulated
wires.  If oppositely charged parts are close together, or if charged
parts are close to grounded parts, they form a capacitor with significant
value.  This can slow the charge-up time of the device.  For any
particular current, the lower the capacitance, the faster the device
charges to maximum, so you want to reduce the capacitance.  The bigger the
metal parts, the farther away they should be from each other.


UNEXPECTED INSULATORS

I heard recently that ordinary vinyl record albums are poor insulators.  I
haven't check this out myself, but it does make sense.  Electrostatic
charging is a problem when cleaning records with a brush, and it causes
them to attract dust for hours or days after being cleaned.  Therefor,
manufacturers might put some conductive chemical in the plastic.  Perhaps
some records lack this, and only some have problems.  So, if you're
thinking of building a Wimshurst machine, maybe it's a good idea to use
some other type of plastic, and steer clear of old records for the
Wimshurst machine disks.

Recently I was playing with metal objects suspended by nylon fishing line.
Even in extremely humid conditions, the charge imbalance on the suspended
object would not leak away quickly.  It seems that the surface of thin
fishing line is very small, and since humidity-leakage is across the
surfaces of plastic, small surface leads to good insulation.  So, if you
are building some sort of static electric device, it might pay to suspend
the conductive elements by using short lengths of fishing line.


DON'T TRUST WIRE INSULATION

Leakage current can flow through thin plastic insulation, so don't trust a
wire's thin insulation to stop leakage.  Instead support wires away from
each other and away from conductive objects by using plastic supports and
glue.  You might consider using heavy solid wire, because once this wire
is fastened securely at its ends, it can be sculpted to form any desired
path directly through the air and away from all other conductive objects.


WIRE, IF BARE, MUST BE THICK

Avoid using extremely thin, bare wire.  The thin wire qualifies as a
"sharp edge", and corona discharges can appear.  These leak charge away to
the air.  For voltage up to 10,000 volts, bare wire needs to be #12 or
greater diameter, like coat-hanger wire.  At higher voltages, bare wire
must be replaced by copper tubing or pipe.  Or, don't use *bare* wire at
all, thin wire is OK if surrounded with very thick insulation.


SOURCES OF INSULATED WIRE

Heavily insulated wire is available from some mail-order companies.  Look
for "high voltage" wire with ratings like 20KV or 50KV.  If you cannot
find a source, the next best thing is to use the center conductor of
cable-TV cable, stripping off the black jacket and the copper braid.  The
center conductor will have a thick polyethelene or teflon insulation. 
Next best thing is "test lead wire," available in red and black colors
from Radio Shack.  Standard plastic-coated wire will usually work
temporarily, but support it away from conductive objects such as
tabletops.  Another trick:  give your wires a heavy insulation by sticking
them through vinyl aquarium tubing.


KEEP INSULATING PARTS CLEAN

If insulating parts become dirty or dusty, they can become slightly
conductive, especially when humidity is high.  Store your devices under a
cover so they don't collect dust.  And periodically clean any device which
is used frequently, since small amounts of corona can turn your device
into an "electrostatic air cleaner," and it will attract all the dust,
soot, and pollution out of the air and onto its insulating surfaces.


WHAT CONSTITUTES "INSULATING"?

In general, the division between "insulator" and "conductor" is determined
by the voltages and currents involved.  For example, a flashlight might be
3volts at 1amp.  3volts/1amp equals 3 ohms.  So for a flashlight, any an
object with lots less than 3 ohms is a conductor, and any object with lots
more than 3 ohms is an insulator.  A flashlight "thinks" that a 10K
resistor is a good insulator, and a 0.01 ohm wire is a good conductor.

For electrostatics the numbers are quite different.  A Kelvin waterdrop
generator might produce 20,000volts at 1/2 microamp.  Dividing this
voltage by this current gives 40,000,000,000 ohms.  So, if an object is to
act as an insulator, its resistance must be MUCH greater than forty
billion ohms!  For a Kelvin generator, a one-megohm object will act like a
good conductor.  Is it any wonder that a bit of surface moisture can
convert an insulating object into a conductor?  The highest value of
resistor commonly available in catalogs is 22 megohms, and most
electrostatic devices will see this device not as a resistor, but as a
dead short.


HEAR THE TINIEST SPARK

With a robust electrostatic generator, you can test for proper functioning
by lightly touching the metal parts and listening for a spark.  But for
barely-working devices, the sparks are far too small to hear or see.  To
cure this, place an AM radio within a few feet of your device and tune it
to a blank station.  The radio will pick up the electromagnetic pulses of
even the tiniest sparks.  Better yet, wear a "walkman" AM radio, and you
become a super-being with enhanced sensory apparatus and who can hear
electro-magnetism.  I've entertained myself by scuffing my feet on the
carpet even in high humidity conditions, then touching grounded objects to
make clicking sounds in the headphones.



SEEING THE VOLTAGE

Wouldn't it be a big help if you could *see* voltage while debugging your
device?  For example, you could adjust your VandeGraaff combs to produce
maximum voltage on your machine.  A simple trick: cut some short strips of
tissue, then stick them to the metal parts of your device with a bit of
tape at the top end of the strip, so that the strips hang down along the
metal.  When the metal becomes charged, the tissue strips will be repelled
outwards. The further they rise, the higher the voltage on the metal
object.  Motion of the tissue makes the voltage "visible."  (Note that
this might not work in very dry conditions, since charge must leak along
the tissue in order to give it an alike charge imbalance.  Try painting
your tissue with india ink and drying, in order to make it conductive.)


AVOID THE EXPENSE OF SHAPED METAL PARTS

I discovered that India Ink makes a dandy conductor when dry.  In cases
where metal is expensive, you might consider using ink-coated wood or ink
on papier-mache instead.  Fancy shapes can be created in wood much more
easily than in metal, then painted with India Ink to guarantee a high
conductivity.  However, the conductivity of ink may not be high enough for
use in spark-discharge electrodes.  Metal should be used in this case. 

