                                             - William Beaty, 1995

When various materials are rubbed together, which become positive
and which become negative?  Ah, you want the...

          TRIBOELECTRIC SERIES

Air *
Human Hands      <----        Most Positive
Asbestos
Rabbit Fur
Glass
Mica
Human Hair
Nylon
Wool
Fur
Lead
Silk
Aluminum
Paper
Cotton           ZERO
Steel
Wood
Amber
Sealing Wax
Hard Rubber
Nickel, Copper
Brass, Silver
Gold, Platinum
Sulfur
Acetate, Rayon
Polyester
Styrene (Styrofoam)
Orlon
Saran
Polyurethane
Polyethylene
Polypropylene
Vinyl (PVC)
Silicon
Teflon         <-----     Most Negative

The above list is from NATURE'S ELECTRICITY, p63
by Charles K Adams  (c)1987 Tab Books, #2769 


* I don't know if I believe that "air" really is in this position.  
  Electrification via airflow usually involves collisions with dust,
  snow, or condensed water suspended in the air. - Bill B.

WARNING: the order of the above list is different in different books.
Polarities are dependant upon atomically-thin surface layers, so don't be
suprised if your particular examples of a material are not in the right
place should you make your own list.  It is best to choose two materials
which are far apart on the list, then you can be fairly sure that their
polarity will not be backwards from what you expect.

Note: the term "frictional electrification" is misleading.  Separation of
charges is not accomplished by friction.  Surface charge imbalance comes
from the same place that friction does:  adhesion on the molecular level. 
Surfaces stick together because chemical bonds form. When surfaces in
contact are separated, the bonds rupture, and any asymmetrical bonds will
tend to leave imbalanced charges behind.  Other effects are important too. 
This subject is not very well studied in science.  Go search for info
about surface charge, contact electrification, and Atomic Force
Microscopes. 


Since most materials are not flat enough or flexible enough to attain
large-area contact, most materials don't become very strongly electrified
when simply touched together then separated.  For example, when fur is
used on plastic it helps greatly if you drag the filaments of hair across
the plastic surface.  Among other things, it acts to increase the total
contact area.  Some surfaces, such as adhesive tape or plastic sheets, CAN
attain intimate contact over a large area, and DO exhibit strong charging
when they are simply touched to another surface and pulled away. 

This phenomenon is called "contact charging" or "electrification by
contact,"  and it's better to use these terms and avoid giving the idea
that the mechanism for the electrification is CAUSED by friction.  I also
like to say that "surface charging is caused by peeling," since the
scotchtape demo works so well, and because "peeling" always implies a
preexisting intimate contact between surfaces.

  Caveat: contact electrification is not well understood.  Friction DOES
  play a part.  For example, the ordering of the triboelectric series is
  different when surfaces are rubbed rather than simply touched.  The
  order also changes when surfaces of differing roughness are rubbed
  together, and IDENTICAL substances can even generate a charge-imbalance
  if one surface is rough.  This is probably a major reason why different
  references give different ordering of the series: the experiment must
  guarantee that no rubbing occurs, otherwise results will vary from trial
  to trial. 

