OBSOLETE FILE

For the updated version, see http://amasci.com/emotor/vdgdemo.html















VANDEGRAAFF GENERATOR DEMONSTRATIONS              (c)1994 William J. Beaty


MOTOR MAGIC
Build the pop-bottle electrostatic motor from plans elsewhere on my web 
pages.  Use your VDG as a power supply for the motor.  If you ground one 
bottle of the motor, stand on a plastic insulator, touch the VDG sphere, 
and point at the other bottle of the motor, the motor will start to 
turn.  It is powered by the charged wind coming from your fingertip.  
Initially hold your finger a couple of inches from the bottle until you 
get the demo working.  I managed to slowly increase the distance to the 
motor, retuning the motor brushes each time for best operation, until I 
could point at a motor which was four feet away!  By instead using a 
paperclip taped to the VDG sphere and bent so it pointed at the motor, I 
managed to run the bottle motor from 10 feet away!  This was in dry 
weather, when the VDG was working very well.

GIANT VDG LIGHTNING 

If you have access to a second large VDG sphere, you can create immensely
long sparks.  (Remember, spark length is not proportional to voltage
except under specific circumstances) Connect the second sphere to ground,
and position it about 6in from the VDG sphere terminal.  Affix to the
grounded sphere a 1/4 in. ball bearing, or an "acorn" type 8-32 nut with a
spherical head.  Position the spheres so that the nut is in the gap
between terminals.  When the VDG is run, the nut will initiate the spark,
and the field between the terminals will provide energy to allow quick
growth. In a darkened room, increase the separation between the spheres
until you have long sparks. I've occasionally managed to produce 24 in.
sparks from a Morris & Lee 14"-sphere VDG in this way. 

DANCING BUBBLES

Blow soap bubbles at your VDG terminal.  They will initially be attracted,
but then will become charged by ion wind and will then be violently
repelled from the generator sphere.  They will also be attracted to any
other object.  With practice you can hold your hand above a charged bubble
and keep it aloft by attraction. 


ELECTROSTATIC LEVITATION

Place a large metal sheet or foil-covered cardboard on the ground.  It
should be at least 2 to 3 times the diameter of your VDG sphere.  Connect
this sheet to earth-ground.  Place some small crumpled pieces of foil on
the center of the sheet.  Pick up your entire VDG machine, turn it on, and
while holding it by its base, move the sphere down towards the crumpled
foil.  With practice you can get the foil to levitate and hang in the air
between the sphere and the ground plate.  The VDG attracts the grounded
foil, but then the corona discharge from the edges of the chunk will allow
the foil to acquire a like-charge from the sphere, which increases a
repulsion force.  As the foil drops away, it loses its charge via corona,
and is again attracted upwards.  At a particular distance you can get a
piece of foil to hang in space with balanced attraction/gravity forces and
continuous corona leakage.  (Note: there may be ion-wind filaments
associated with this phenomenon.  Someone should do the foil-lifting
experiment in front of a Schlieren sytem and look for grey lines in the
air.)

MAGIC BLINKING WAND

Put a small (.002uF, 250V) capacitor across a small (NE-2) neon pilot
light.  Hold one lead in your hand and bring the other lead towards the
sphere of an operating VDG.  The bulb will begin flashing.  DON'T touch
both leads at once, or you will get a shock from the capacitor.  For
safety, you can connect the two leads of your device in series with 1-meg
resistors, then cover everthing except the resistor leads with insulating
caulk.  For dramatic effect you can mount this assembly in the tip of a
conductive wand.

FAUX - DOO

Sometimes the humidity is too high and, even though your machine gives
sparks, the "hair raise" demo doesn't work.  There is just too much
leakage to ground.  All is not lost, you can cut up some strips of tissue
2cm x 15cm and tape them all over your VDG sphere.  When operated, the
tissue strips stand out just fine.  Sometimes the humidity is low, yet 
your audience will have no long-hair 'victims.'  In this case simply whip
out your garage-sale 60's "Cher" wig and stick it on the sphere-terminal.


CRACKLE'S HAILSTORM

Pour a small pile of Rice Crispies on top of your VDG and turn on the
power.  Be prepared for a mess!  If your machine is fairly powerful, you
can stand on an insulator, touch the VDG terminal, then extend a handfull
of cereal (flat palm, fingers spread hard) and they will levitate and fly
to the nearest uncharged surface (your audience!)  Note: a totally fresh
box of Rice Crispies will have such a low humidity that the cereal will be
insulating and won't acquire a charge from the terminal.  If you open a
new box of cereal before a demo, spray a bit of water into the box and
shake well to distribute the moisture well.


PLUS OR MINUS?

To determine VDG polarity, connect a sensitive current-meter between the
sphere and the base of your machine.  When running, the VDG will produce a
few tens of microamperes in the same direction as the high voltage
polarity.  If you lack a microamp meter, a tiny NE-2 neon pilot light will
serve.  If connected between sphere and base, one electrode will glow
orange when the machine is run.  The orange electrode is the negative one.


HUMIDITY EMERGENCY

Always carry an electric blow-dryer with you when doing VDG demos in
high-humidity locations.  When your machine fails, the usual cause is
adsorbed water on the rollers and belt.  Pop open the sphere or the base,
run the machine, then direct hot air upon each of the rollers.  Don't give
up, sometimes it takes 5 minutes or more to dry the felt rollers used in
the base of the WINSCO VDG.  Another common problem is fingerprints and
grime which make the belt and roller become conductive on humid days.
Remove the belt, clean both sides with rubbing alcohol, then pat it dry
with a clean paper towel.  If one of the rollers is plastic, wipe it off
with alcohol too.  Don't wet the felt roller, it takes too long to dry
again.  One last possibility: if the voltage on your machine seems to drop
suddenly during operation, try wiping down the sphere with a damp cloth.
Sometimes your machine will attract a sharp, conductive dust mote which
spews charged wind and shorts-down the sphere voltage.  Wiping it down
will dislodge it.

CONDUCTIVE "INSULATORS"

A suprising number of "insulators" behave as conductors when used with a
VDG machine.  Wood, cardboard, paper, twine, floors, and shoe soles can
all behave as conductors as far as a VDG machine is concerned.  Why?
Well, consider a 12-volt, 1-amp, 12-watt flash lantern.  In this device
the light bulb has a resistance of 12 ohms and the wires contribute nearly
zero ohms.  As far as the flash lantern is concerned, material which is
far more conductive than the 12-ohm lightbulb is behaving as a conductor,
while anything far less conductive is behaving as an insulator.  Now look
at a Vandegraaff machine.  A typical output is 30 microamps at 300,000
volts, giving a load resistance of V/I, or 10,000,000,000 ohms.  As far as
your VDG is concerned, "insulators" must have far more resistance than
this.  And "conductors" have far less.  If a piece of wood has a billion
ohms of resistance from end to end, your VDG machine will "think" that it
is a conductor!


IDEAS FOR MORE?  Write me at billbeskimo.com
