Native Garden 

 Native Garden 

 (under
construction) 

 Back
to Specialized
Gardens Back
to Introduction 

 The
Native Garden is currently (winter 2004) under construction. Check
back to see the progress. 

 Most of the
 area in this picture was lawn. The hills in the foreground and
 center, and the island in the simulated glacier river were built
 up from soil excavated for the gravel paths. The picture was
 taken in 1999. 

 By native, we mean native
to Washington and Oregon west of the Cascade Mountains. We will
not try to assemble a massive collection, but rather use a few
native plants that represent the region and are aesthetically
compatible. You can find more comprehensive information from the
many native plant societies. 

 Most of the garden is yet
to be planted. Kinnikinnick
covers part of the island, while sala and huckleberry grow in
a rotted log in front of the bench. Oregon grape and vine maple
grow through the openings at each end of the bench. A skinny garry
oak will hopefully fill out in the center. On the left is a stand
of rhododendron occidentale , the native azalea of the Oregon
Coast. Beyond them is a mass of evergreen huckleberry. On the
far right and out of the picture are specimens of douglas fir,
western red cedar, western hemlock, shore pine, grand fir, and
Pacific dogwood. Plants to be added soon include Pacific yew,
madrone, ferns, flowers, and rhododendron macrophyllum . 

 The simulated
glacier river will be filled with river rock and have a snag or
two. Another bench will probably sit atop the hill in the lower
portion of the picture, providing a view of the native garden
in the foreground and a backdrop of Mount Rainier and its glaciers,
which produce our local rivers. 

 The native garden began with
 a bench made from native woods (below) 
 from our previous homesite, and is gradually being complemented
 with various native plants. 

 The lawn is now gone, a rotting
 tree supporting salal and huckleberry lies across the front,
 and Oregon grape and vine maple grow out of the openings in each
 end. 

 When a tree
 is forced out of verticle after another tree falls on it, it
 struggles to return to upright, and often produces a curved trunk
 in the process. This bench was created from four such trees in
 the forests at our
 former house : douglas fir--top arch; Pacific dogwood--bottom
 back arch; western hemlock--center armrest support arch; and
 western red cedar--cantilevered front double arch. (The crossed dogwood
 and fir are pictured at right before they were cut.) An additional rear support of western
 maple is not shown. Seats, back, and armrests are 5/4 cedar decking.
 The 400 pound douglas fir arch is heavy enough so that the cedar
 double arch can be supported by a rock at each end and by one
 in the middle.