The Consecration of Bishops. 

 The Form of Ordaining or Consecrating of an 
 Archbishop or Bishop; 
 Which is always to be performed upon some Sunday or Holy-day unless for some weighty and urgent reasons some other day be appointed. 

 When all things are duly prepared in the Church, and set in order; after Morning Prayer is ended, the Archbishop (or some other Bishop appointed) shall begin the Communion Service; in which this shall be 

 The Collect. 
 LMIGHTY God, who by thy Son Jesus Christ didst give to thy holy Apostles many excellent gifts, and didst charge them to feed thy flock; Give grace, we beseech thee, to all Bishops, the Pastors of thy Church, that they may diligently preach thy Word, and duly administer the
 godly Discipline thereof; and grant to the people, that they may obediently follow the same; that all may receive the crown of everlasting glory; through the same thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen . 

 And another Bishop shall read the Epistle. 
 1 Tim. iii. 1. 
 HIS is a true saying, If a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behaviour, given to hospitality, apt to teach; not given to wine, no striker, not greedy of filthy lucre; but
 patient, not a brawler, not covetous; one that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity; (for if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God?) not a novice, lest being lifted up with pride he fall into the condemnation of the devil. Moreover he must have a good report of them which are
 without; lest he fall into rep roach and the snare of the devil. 

 Or this: 
 For the Epistle . Acts xx. 17. 
 ROM Miletus Paul sent to Ephesus, and called the elders of the church. And when they were come to him, he said unto them, Ye know, from the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons, serving the Lord with all humility of mind,
 and with many tears, and temptations, which befell me by the lying in wait of the Jews: and how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have shewed you, and have taught you publickly, and from house to house, testifying both to the Jews, and also to the Greeks, repentance toward God, and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. And now, behold, I go
 bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befall me there: save that the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions abide me. But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry, which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to testify
 the gospel of the grace of God. And now, behold, I know that ye all, among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more. Wherefore I take you to record this day, that I am pure from the blood of all men. For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God. Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over
 the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. For I know this, that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock. Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them. Therefore watch, and remember,
 that by the space of three years I ceased not to warn every one night and day with tears. And now, brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified. I have coveted no man's silver, or gold, or apparel. Yea, ye yourselves know, that these hands have
 ministered unto my necessities, and to them that were with me. I have shewed you all things, how that so labouring ye ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive. 

 Then another Bishop shall read the Gospel. 
 St. John xxi. 15. 
 ESUS saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him,
 Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep. He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep. 

 Or else this. 
 St. John xx. 19. 
 HE same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus, and stood in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. And when he had so said, he shewed unto them his hands
 and his side. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord. Then saith Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you: as my Father hath sent me, even so send I you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost: whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; and whose soever sins ye retain, they are
 retained. 

 Or this. 
 St. Matth. xxviii. 18. 
 ESUS came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have
 commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world. 

 After the Gospel, and the Nicene Creed, and the Sermon ended, the elected Bishop (vested with his Rochet) shall be presented by two Bishops unto the Archbishop of that province (or to some other Bishop appointed by lawful commission,) the Archbishop, sitting in his chair near the holy Table, and the Bishops who present him
 saying, 
 EVEREND Father in God, we present unto you this godly and well-learned man, to be Ordained and Consecrated Bishop. 

 Then shall the Archbishop demand the Queen's Mandate for the Consecration, and cause it to be read. And then shall be ministered unto them the Oath of due obedience to the Archbishop, as followeth, 
 The Oath of due obedience to the Archbishop 
 N the Name of God, Amen. I, N. , chosen Bishop of the Church and See of N. do profess and promise all due reverence and obedience to the Archbishop and to the Metropolitical Church of N. and to their Successors : So help me God,
 through Jesus Christ. 

 This Oath shall not be made at the Consecration of an Archbishop. 

 Then the Archbishop shall move the Congregation present to pray, saying thus to them: 
 RETHREN , it is written in the Gospel of Saint Luke, that our Saviour Christ continued the whole night in prayer, before he chose and sent forth his twelve Apostles. It is written also, that the holy Apostles prayed before they ordained Matthias to be of the number of the
 Twelve. Let us, therefore, following the example of our Saviour Christ, and his Apostles, offer up our prayers to Almighty God, before we admit and send forth this person presented unto us, to the work whereunto we trust the Holy Ghost hath called him. 

 And then shall be said the Litany, as before in the Form of Ordering Deacons, save only, that after this place That it may please thee to illuminate all Bishops, &c. , the proper Suffrage there following shall be omitted, and this inserted instead of it; 
 HAT it may please thee to bless this our Brother elected, and to send thy grace upon him, that he may duly execute the Office whereunto he is called, to the edifying of thy Church, and to the honour, praise, and glory of thy Name; 
 &#160; &#160; Answer . We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord. 

 Then shall be said this Prayer following. 
 LMIGHTY God, giver of all good things, who by thy Holy Spirit hast appointed divers Orders of Ministers in thy Church; Mercifully behold this thy servant, now called to the Work and Ministry of a Bishop; and so replenish him with the truth of thy Doctrine, and adorn
 him with innocency of life, that, both by word and deed, he may faithfully serve thee in this Office, to the glory of thy Name, and the edifying and well-governing of thy Church; through the merits of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the same Holy Spirit, world without end. Amen . 

 Then the Archbishop, sitting in his chair, shall say to him that is to be consecrated, 
 ROTHER , forasmuch as the Holy Scripture and the ancient Canons command, that we should not be hasty in laying on hands, and admitting any person to Government in the Church of Christ, which he hath purchased with no less price than the effusion of his own blood;
 before we admit you to this Administration, we will examine you in certain Articles, to the end that the Congregation present may have a trial, and bear witness, how you are minded to behave yourself in the Church of God. 

 RE you persuaded that you are truly called to this Ministration, according to the will of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the order of this Church? 
 &#160; &#160; Answer . I am so persuaded. 

 The Archbishop. 
 RE you persuaded that the Holy Scriptures contain all Doctrine required as necessary for eternal salvation through faith in Jesus Christ? And are you determined out of the same Holy Scriptures to instruct the people committed to your charge; and to teach or maintain
 nothing, as necessary to eternal salvation, but that which you shall be persuaded may be concluded and proved by the same? 
 &#160; &#160; Answer . I am so persuaded, and determined, by God's grace. 

 The Archbishop. 
 ILL you then faithfully exercise yourself in the Holy Scriptures, and call upon God by prayer for the true understanding of the same; so that you may be able by them to teach and exhort with wholesome Doctrine, and to withstand and convince the gainsayers? 
 &#160; &#160; Answer . I will so do, by the help of God. 

 The Archbishop. 
 RE you ready, with all faithful diligence, to banish and drive away from the Church all erroneous and strange doctrine contrary to God's Word; and both privately and openly to call upon and encourage others to the same? 
 &#160; &#160; Answer . I am ready, the Lord being my helper. 

 The Archbishop. 
 ILL you deny all ungodliness and worldly lusts, and live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world; that you may show yourself in all things an example of good works unto others, that the adversary may be ashamed, having nothing to say against you? 
 &#160; &#160; Answer . I will so do, the Lord being my helper. 

 The Archbishop. 
 ILL you maintain and set forward, as much as shall lie in you, quietness, love, and peace among all men; and such as be unquiet, disobedient, and criminous, within your Diocese, correct and punish, according to such authority as you have by God's Word, and as to you
 shall be committed by the Ordinance of this Realm? 
 &#160; &#160; Answer . I will so do, by the help of God. 

 The Archbishop. 
 ILL you be faithful in Ordaining, sending, or laying hands upon others? 
 &#160; &#160; Answer . I will so be, by the help of God. 

 The Archbishop. 
 ILL you shew yourself gentle, and be merciful for Christ's sake to poor and needy people, and to all strangers destitute of help? 
 &#160; &#160; Answer . I will so shew myself, by God's help. 

 Then the Archbishop standing up shall say, 
 LMIGHTY God, our heavenly Father, who hath given you a good will to do all these things; Grant also unto you strength and power to perform the same; that, he accomplishing in you the good work which he hath begun, you may be found perfect and irreprehensible at the
 latter day; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen . 

 Then shall the Bishop elect put on the rest of the Episcopal habit; and kneeling down, Veni, Creator Spiritus shall be sung or said over him; the Archbishop beginning, and the Bishops, with others that are present, answering by verses, as followeth. 

 OME , Holy Ghost, our souls inspire, 
 &#160; &#160; And lighten with celestial fire . 
 &#160; &#160; Thou the anointing Spirit art, 
 &#160; &#160; Who dost thy sevenfold gifts impart. 
 &#160; &#160; Thy blessed unction from above, 
 &#160; &#160; Is comfort, life, and fire of love . 
 &#160; &#160; Enable with perpetual light 
 &#160; &#160; The dulness of our blinded sight. 
 &#160; &#160; Anoint and cheer our soiled face 
 &#160; &#160; With the abundance of thy grace. 
 &#160; &#160; Keep far our foes, give peace at home; 
 &#160; &#160; Where thou art guide, no ill can come. 
 &#160; &#160; Teach us to know the Father, Son, 
 &#160; &#160; And thee, of both, to be but One; 
 &#160; &#160; That, through the ages all along, 
 &#160; &#160; This may be our endless song: 
 &#160; &#160; Praise to thy eternal merit, 
 &#160; &#160; Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. 

 &#160; &#160; Or this: 
 OME , Holy Ghost, eternal God, 
 &#160; &#160; &c. 
 &#160; &#160; As before in the Form for Ordering Priests. 

 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; That ended, the Archbishop shall say, 
 &#160; &#160; Lord, hear our prayer. 
 &#160; &#160; Answer . And let our cry come unto thee. 

 Let us pray. 
 LMIGHTY God, and most merciful Father, who, of thine infinite goodness, hast given thy only and dearly beloved Son Jesus Christ, to be our Redeemer, and the Author of everlasting life; who, after that he had made perfect our redemption by his death, and was ascended
 into heaven, poured down his gifts abundantly upon men, making some Apostles, some Prophets, some Evangelists, some Pastors and Doctors, to the edifying and making perfect his Church; Grant, we beseech thee, to this thy servant, such grace, that he may evermore be ready to spread abroad thy Gospel, the glad tidings of reconciliation with thee; and use the
 authority given him, not to destruction, but to salvation; not to hurt, but to help: so that, as a wise and faithful servant, giving to thy family their portion in due season, he may at last be received into everlasting joy; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, who, with thee and the Holy Ghost, liveth and reigneth, one God, world without end. Amen . 

 Then the Archbishop and Bishops present shall lay their hands upon the head of the elected Bishop kneeling before them upon his knees, the Archbishop saying, 
 ECEIVE the Holy Ghost for the Office and Work of a Bishop in the Church of God, now committed unto thee by the Imposition of our hands; In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. And remember that thou stir up the grace of God, which is
 given thee by this Imposition of our hands; for God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, and love, and soberness. 

 Then the Archbishop shall deliver him the Bible, saying, 
 IVE heed unto reading, exhortation, and doctrine. Think upon the things contained in this Book. Be diligent in them, that the increase coming thereby may be manifest unto all men; for by so doing thou shalt both save thyself and them that hear thee. Be to the flock of Christ
 a shepherd, not a wolf; feed them, devour them not. Hold up the weak, heal the sick, bind up the broken, bring again the outcasts, seek the lost. Be so merciful, that you be not too remiss; so minister discipline, that you forget not mercy; that when the Chief Shepherd shall appear, you may receive the never-fading crown of glory; through Jesus Christ our Lord.
 Amen . 

 Then the Archbishop shall proceed in the Communion Service; with whom the newly consecrated Bishop (with others) shall also communicate. 

 And for the last Collect, immediately before the Benediction, shall be said these Prayers. 
 OST merciful Father, send down, we beseech thee, upon this thy servant thy heavenly blessing; and so endue him with thy Holy Spirit, that he, preaching thy Word, may not only be earnest to reprove, beseech, and rebuke, with all patience and doctrine; but also may be, to
 such as believe, a wholesome example in word, in conversation, in love, in faith, in chastity, and in purity; that, faithfully fulfilling his course, at the latter day he may receive the crown of righteousness, laid up by the Lord Jesus, the righteous Judge, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the same Holy Spirit, one God, world without end. Amen . 

 REVENT us, O Lord, in all our doings with thy most gracious favour, and further us with thy continual help; that in all our works begun, continued, and ended in thee, we may glorify thy holy Name, and finally by thy mercy obtain everlasting life; through Jesus Christ our
 Lord. Amen . 

 HE Peace of God, which passeth all understanding, keep your hearts and minds in the knowledge and love of God, and of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord: And the Blessing of God Almighty, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, be amongst you, and remain with you
 always. Amen .