www.Magnetricity.com ... News 

I'm in the process of Debugging the Membership System. 
If you are having problems Logging In ... Please EMAIL me 

 HOME 

 TESLA 
 NEOGEN 
 Lightning 
 News Articles Links 

 Schematics 
 MAG101 
 Forum 

 Contact 

 DAY 
 TOTAL 

 107 214651 

 Welcome 
 : 
 Guest 
 ... Join Magnetricity Here 
 New Site Feature: Member CLICK for Member Content 

 Username: 

 Password: 

 HELP : 
 What are Member Clicks? 

 Simple foldout sections in a page that contain added Member Content. 
 This HELP section is an example.

 ... Click to Close 

 HELP : 
 Login Errors? 

 If you've forgotten or misplaced your Login,
 you can request a Reminder Email sent to the Email address in your account. 

 ... Click to Close 

 HELP : 
 Privacy 

 We respect your Right to Privacy. 
 All Membership Data is Secure and Private.
 We do not sell or share Member Data with anyone 

 ... Click to Close 

If you have a site or an article that you would like to see included here, 
Please contact me 

HEADLINES ... old and new 

&#149; 1,500 Homing Pigeons Get Lost During Race 
 "the birds might have been thrown off course by 
 subtle changes in the earth's magnetic field"

&#149; Earth's Weakening Magnetic Field - Signal of Pole Reversal? 
 ... by Linda Moulton Howe @ www.earthfiles.com 
 "A reversal could knock out power grids, hurt astronauts and satellites, widen atmospheric ozone holes, send polar auroras flashing to the equator and confuse birds, fish and migratory animals that rely on the steadiness of the magnetic field as a navigation aid." - The New York Times, July 13, 2004 

&#149; Several New Single-Molecule Magnets Discovered 
 ... Science Daily 2000-03-27

&#149; 'Rule-breaking' Molecule Could Lead To Non-metal Magnets 
 ... Science Daily 2004-02-05

&#149; Chemists Create Worlds First Plastic Magnet 
 ... Science Daily 2001-11-19 

 Interesting Articles 
 credit where known is given to the authors 

 &#149; Fascinating Facts and Figures 

 courtesy of Roger Darlington ... Topics include: 

 Bits & Bytes 
 Microelectronics 
 Telecommunications 
 Mobile Telecommunications 
 Books 
 Newspapers & Magazines 
 Music, Radio, Television 
 Cinema 
 Electronic Games 
 Computers 
 The Internet 
 Electronic Mail 
 World Wide Web 
 The Information Age 

 &#149; The DarkSucker Theory 

 Finally! the truth is revealed of this diabolical invention and the covert conspiracy afoot to confiscate all the darkness from our world. 

To be read with tongue planted firmly in cheek ... 

 &#149; The Halbach Array 

 Klaus Halbach , a retired physicist of Lawrence Berkely National Laboratory, created a unique magnetic array that has become fundamental in passive levitation 

Originally invented for use in particle accelerators, this device is the fundamental principle behind the Inductrack MAGLEV system, a levitating train that requires no power to levitate; power is only used to create forward motion. The Halbach arrays repel buried loops of wire after they have been accelerated to speed, lifting the train. 

 &#149; Thomas Henry Moray 

 This article was in Fate Magazine, in September of 1956. 
It is just one of the stories that was dug up from the Vangard Sciences archives. 
It entails some of the work that Mr. Thomas Henry Moray was doing in attempting to tap into cosmic energy. Mr. Moray was developing an electric motor which would be able to run off this cosmic energy. Some of the devices he developed apparently worked, using silver and copper bars. This is very similar to some of the work John Keely had done with his Compound Disintegrator. 

 This electromagnetic zero-point energy is also known as the Casimir effect, named after researcher Milonni. The Casimir effect refers to an attractive quantum force between closely-spaced metal plates. 

 &#149; Edward Leedskalnin 

 Creator of the enigmatic Coral Castle in Homestead, Florida 1945 shares his views on electricity, magnetism and the world in his 3 part discourse: 

 MAGNETIC CURRENT 
An Excerpt ... 
"Now about the sphere magnet. if you have a strong magnet you can change the poles in the sphere in any side you want or take the poles out so the sphere will not be a magnet any more. From this you can see that the magnet can be shifted and concentrated and also you can see that the metal is not the real magnet. The real magnet is the substance that is circulating in the metal. 

Each particle in the substance is an individual magnet by itself, and both North and South Pole individual magnets. They are so small that they can pass through anything.. In fact they can pass through metal easier than through the air. They are in constant motion, they are running one kind of magnets against the other kind, and if guided in the right channels they possess perpetual power." 

 &#149; John Keely 

 John Keely was an independent researcher specializing in the properties of sound during the mid to late 1800's. He was purported to have discovered techniques based on incredibly sensitive vibratory mechanisms which would allow the use of the Aether for practical purposes. 

 Friends, Colleagues and Community Links 
 Please contact me if links are broken 

 MullerPower.com 

Official Web Site dedicated to advancing the legacy of 
 BILL MULLER . 
A dedicated and diligent experimenter / designer in the over-unity field. 
Most noted for his high-efficiency Motor / Generators, 
his work survives and continues today thru the efforts
of his daughter 
Carmen (Muller) Miller ..... contact Carmen via Email 

 The Tesla Memorial Society of Switzerland 

 The Tesla Memorial Society of Switzerland 

Zilstrasse 56 
Postfach 1621 
9001 St. Gallen 
Switzerland 
info@teslasociety.ch 
www.teslasociety.ch 
Tel. ++41 (71) 288 66 93 
Fax ++41 (71) 288 69 93 

 Nikola Tesla Museum 

 Nikola Tesla Museum 

The site has been recently redressed and multi-language.
This is the official Tesla Museum in Belgrade, Serbia.

 TeslaScience.org 

The official website of the 
 Tesla Wardenclyffe Project, Inc. 

"Early in 1997 the Tesla Wardenclyffe Project purchased historian Leland Anderson's archive
of some 750 photos related to Tesla's life and work. It is believed to be the largest collection
of its type in the world outside of the holdings of the Nikola Tesla Museum in Belgrade.
The images concern Tesla's life and his career, laboratories, apparatus, celebrations, and 
commemorative events following his death."

 TeslaBooks.com 

The finest collection of Tesla related publications I've seen anywhere ... by Gary Peterson 

 SCENE By HIRD 
 An outstanding Nature and Lightning photographer in Australia with high-quality large-format prints available for purchase 
 Graeme's Excellent Lightning Gallery 
 Graeme's Free Lightning Screen Saver for Windows 

 Teslamania.com 

A truly excellent Tesla website by Bert Hickman. ... Thanks Bert! 

 TeslaTech.info 

Tesla Technology! Advanced Energy Concepts/Devices, Magnetic Motors, Health Supplements, Alternative Medicine, other previously SUPPRESSED information are our specialties 

 George Hosek 
 Outstanding Nature and Lightning photographer 

 The Very Last Page of the Internet 
 Don Adsitt's excellent examination of various "over-unity" designs. Very "hands-on" and well presented with great information 

 http://groups.yahoo.com/group/EVGRAY/ 
 Exchange of Information about E.V.Gray Motors and Designs and much more. An excellent Yahoo group with great guys 
 ... link unfortunately broken 

 ForceField 
 A great discussion forum at OtherPower.com for all things related to homemade power; wind, solar, hydro, etc 

 Doug Konzen's Pulse Motors 
 Doug ( aka: Konehead) is a very active experimenter in pulse motor design with many excellent ideas and working models to show. Kudos to you Doug! 

 Parallax Inc 
 Home of the BASIC Stamp line of microcontrollers and accessories 

 BasicX.com 
 Home of the BasicX line of microcontrollers and accessories 

 FindChips.com 
 An excellent web resource for finding vendors handling the chips you need 

 Magnet Man - Cool Experiments with Magnets 
 A fascinating site with lots of fun and useful information and experiments to try. Don't miss it - a great page by Rick Hoadley 

 Video Footage of Very High Voltage Power Station Arcs 
 these should be playable in Windows Media Player or Adobe Quicktime Player 

 &#149; 500 KV Switch Opening 
 courtesy of www.teslamania.com 

 This video clip shows a three-phase air disconnect switch opening line reactors 
 in a 500 KV transmission system at the Lugo substation near Los Angeles, California. 
 The utility was having a difficulty cleanly disconnecting these reactors and 
 had set up a test to help isolate the problem. 
 A set of SF6 gas puffer interrupters (to the right of the air break switch) open first. 
 However, at the start of the clip one phase flashes over the outer bushing of the interrupter. 
 This causes one phase of the air break switch to open "hot", and it begins arcing. 
 The resulting hot arc grows and rises until it easily exceeds 50 feet. 
 Finally, an upstream Oil Circuit Breaker (OCB) is commanded to open, 
 abruptly extinguishing the arc. As impressive as it is, 
 this switch is NOT breaking a real load. The arc is "only" carrying the relatively 
 low capacitive charging current associated with energizing an unloaded transmission 
 line (~20-25 amps). A break under full load would be MUCH hotter and extremely 
 destructive... imagine a fatter, blindingly bright 50 foot welding arc. 

 &#149; 230 KV Switch Opening 
 courtesy of www.teslamania.com 

 Air break gang disconnect switches are not normally intended to actively switch load current. 
 The above shows three phase 345 kV arcs that are likely due to relatively low reactive currents,
 such as from line charging or unloaded transformers, and not a full load break.
 At the very end of the video, a brief phase-to-phase power arc causes an upstream Oil Circuit Breaker (OCB) to blow,
 finally extinguishing the arcs! 

 Latest Technology Newsfeeds 

 Latest news (BBC - Technology): 

 Nintendo steals the show at E3 
 Nintendo makes a big splash with its Wii console at the games industry annual trade show, E3. 
 Wheels turn on Mars rover project 
 British engineers head to Tenerife to test systems they hope will keep a European rover trundling across Mars. 
 BBC starts to rock online world 
 The BBC has rented an island in an online world to host a virtual version of Radio 1s Big Weekend pop concert. 
 Warning on search engine safety 
 A research report reveals the riskiest phrases to use on net search sites. 
 Gloves come off in console fight 
 Sony and Microsoft have been trading verbal blows in their fight to dominate the video games business. 
 Google strives for more openness 
 Google's chief executive has given a rare interview to the BBC - part of the search engine's "opening up". 
 Site launches 'Chinese Wikipedia' 
 A Chinese search engine launches an online encyclopedia like Wikipedia, which is banned in Beijing. 
 BBC revamps site search system 
 Users should find it easier to seek out programmes as the BBC revamps its search system. 
 Sony defends PS3 models 
 Sony has said it is giving consumers a choice by offering two versions of its PlayStation 3 console. 
 Tiny tags trace dragonfly paths 
 The migratory behaviour of dragonflies is studied with the use of miniaturised radio transmitters. 
 Plan for .xxx domain dropped 
 Internet regulators reject plans to create a domain for pornography websites ending with the .xxx suffix. 
 McKinnon supporters to 'fight on' 
 Friends of Gary McKinnon vow to keep up the fight to make sure he is tried in the UK for his crimes. 
 Nintendo shows new console 
 Japanese games giant Nintendo shows off its new Wii games console, but does not set a launch price. 
 Microsoft ramps up Xbox 360 
 Microsoft says it will sell 10 million Xbox 360s by the time rivals Sony and Nintendo launch their new consoles. 
 Warner to start movie downloads 
 Warner Brothers is to sell downloads via the internet using the same technology blamed for illegal swapping. 
 BBC steps up high definition plan 
 The BBC will screen Planet Earth and Bleak House in high definition for satellite viewers at the end of May. 
 Sky sets date for HDTV start 
 Sky will launch its high-definition TV service on 22 May, the satellite broadcaster confirms. 
 Deal signed to make Warcraft film 
 Catch up with the latest news from the world of video gaming. 
 Top spin tennis courts success 
 Top Spin 2 for the Xbox 360 does a competent job of bringing the game to life in your hands. 

 Having a Wii good time news.bbc.co.uk - 12:48 am Nokia to Add Google Talk to Tablet Device chicagotribune.com - 1:45 am Major Cities Sue Online Travel Agents chicagotribune.com - 9:44 pm Virtual property market booming news.bbc.co.uk - 8:31 pm Chinese Version of Wikipedia Is Launched chicagotribune.com - 5:42 pm BBC used to entice cyber victims news.bbc.co.uk - 4:29 pm Game Distributor Sued Over Boy's Suicide chicagotribune.com - 9:38 am Yahoo tunes out on TV usatoday.com - 8:07 am Google Shareholders Praise Management chicagotribune.com - 1:34 am Yahoo Not Looking to Produce Shows chicagotribune.com - 9:32 pm Net firms 'bowed to Beijing' news.bbc.co.uk - 4:16 pm BBC revamps website search system news.bbc.co.uk - 10:13 am Consoles mount battle royal news.bbc.co.uk - 8:12 am Meteorite fields of dreams usatoday.com - 8:05 am Internet Agency Rejects xxx Domain Name chicagotribune.com - 1:26 am Toshiba Introduces First HD DVD Laptop chicagotribune.com - 9:25 pm 'Halo': Novel idea usatoday.com - 8:03 am Ask a question seattletimes.nwsource.com - 6:46 am Consoles mount battle royale news.bbc.co.uk - 5:51 am Net wiretap rules slammed usatoday.com - 11:55 am 
 News4Sites Content Service 
 Sun May 14, 12:50 am 

 Home 
 &#149; Tesla 
 &#149; NeoGen 
 &#149; Lightning 
 &#149; News | Articles | Links 
 &#149; Schematics 
 &#149; MAG101 
 &#149; Forum 
 &#149; Contact 

 -->

Sunday May 14 2006 @ 09:12:01 am US Central

 IP: 209.128.119.45
 14 Forum Messages 

Since: 12/19/2001 

Uptime: 1606 days 

Last Revision: 08/12/2005 
 Login: 
 Guest 

 DAY 
 TOTAL 

 107 214651 

I always invite Comments, Suggestions, Questions via ... 
 Email 
or
 Forum 
 Please forgive me if my response to emails is a bit slow ... so many irons in the fire ... 

"We the willing, led by the unknowing, are doing the impossible for the ungrateful. 
We've done so much for so long with so little, we're now qualified to do anything with nothing" 

 ... Anonymous 

 Magnetricity is a one man operation. Donations are welcome via PayPal . 
 All proceeds fund Magnetricity.com Your support is appreciated. 

 Click here to get the latest Macromedia FLASH plugin 

 Webmaster: Rex Hebert @ Silkworx Site Designs 

 Visit the Louisiana Schools Of Dance (LASOD) website 

This site was designed for MS IE on a broadband connection and may take a while to fully load - Please be Patient 
Except where otherwise noted, all Code and Graphics are Copyright &copy; 2006 REX HEBERT 
All Rights are Reserved and protected by International Law 

 Thanks for visiting