A Shot from the Past 

 A Shot from the Past 

 Ralph Conrad 

 From Chips

 Vol. 11, #4 Copyright 1999 

 Over the centuries, the prowess of
 wood selfbows and their users has been well documented. From England to
 the North American plains, styles of bows have varied but the results of
 their use have always been the same, effective . Only with
 the advent of modern firearms did the bow take a back seat and become a
 recreational form of entertainment. Following the Civil War, the
 Thompson brothers began what was to be the rebirth of hunting with a bow
 and arrow in this country. Native Americans also held to tradition and
 continued to make and hunt with bows, but on a limited basis. They had
 been suppressed to the point that it became more of an inter-tribal
 affair than something a whole nation could glean information from. 

 In the early 1900s, Dr. Saxton Pope
 met Ishi, the last of the Yahi Indians, and learned the art of making
 and shooting bows and arrows from him, before Ishi died in 1915. Using
 information learned from Ishi, Dr. Pope and Art Young carried the
 tradition forward and made many hunting trips together, taking game for
 museum specimens with homemade wood selfbows and arrows. It was never
 recorded that any of the early pioneers used stone hunting points. 
 Although Ishi made points of obsidian
 and glass bottles while being housed at Berkeley, Pope never tried using
 any of them. Use of wood bows continued to grow with new designs and
 changes being made right up until the time early laminating materials
 became available, and a whole new generation of bows appeared. A few
 die-hards continued to use wood selfbows, but for the most part they
 disappeared, except within Native American communities, until about
 twenty-five years ago. 
 When we were children, a lot of us
 used an old stick or board and a piece of string to make a bow. As
 adults, we got tired of the direction compound bows had led us, and
 decided to learn more about the bows which brought back childhood
 fantasies and allowed us to pursue the simplest of pleasures, shooting a
 wood selfbow. Skip forward a few years and today youll find abundant
 information, readily available in written and taped medium. About all
 you have to do to build and enjoy your first wood self-bow is to buy a
 book or tape, get a stave or billet, buy a few common tools, and spend
 some patient hours following instructions. No longer do you have to use
 trial and error, breaking a few bows at first draw, because you didnt
 know about tillering or staying in the same grain layer on the back of
 the bow. Anyone with minimum skills can build a bow which is capable of
 shooting straight and taking game. 
 Ive taken many deer and other game
 with wood selfbows, the last five deer with stone points. I dont
 consider myself an expert on the subject, but do have views based on
 experiences Ive had. When you build a selfbow, consideration must be
 given to the basic design that allows the bow to cast with enough speed
 to carry the projectile point to the animal and penetrate for the kill.
 Although Im not particularly interested in speed alone, I do like to
 build bows capable of casting an arrow of hunting weight at least 150fps
 (feet per second). Hunting weight arrows, on average, should weigh
 approximately 10 grains per pound of bow weight, at your draw length. As
 an example, a bow pulling 65 pounds at 28 inches of draw should shoot an
 arrow weighing 650 grains, including broad-head and fletching, at a
 speed of at least 150fps. Most well designed self-bows will shoot 150fps
 to 180fps, depending on the limb design, wood used, and the tillering of
 the bow. 
 Osage orange, bois d arc, hedge
 apple, or any other name you want to call it is my favorite bow wood,
 and in my opinion makes the most consistent bow with superior cast and
 durability, over a complete range of designs. Thats not to say there
 arent others out there such as yew, iron wood, mulberry, elm, pecan,
 mountain juniper, and hackberry that will make just as good a bow.
 Choose the wood you like and use the design best suited for that type of
 wood and you will find success. 
 Flatbows tend to cast an arrow with
 greater speed than a longbow design and with less speed that a recurved
 tip design. My personal preference is a modified English longbow design,
 which closely resembles the more flattened American longbow design of
 modern fiberglass bows. Instead of a true D shape, it has a thinner,
 more flattened belly. Cast is sufficient and durability is superb. Often
 times I back my bows with deer rawhide, snakeskin, or a layer or two of
 deer, elk, or moose sinew. I prefer bows in the 65 to 70 pound range for
 hunting deer and bigger game, with a nock to nock length of 64 to 66
 inches. Remember, the longer the bow, the smoother it will be to shoot.
 Find a length thats right for your style of shooting and you cant
 go wrong. 
 For arrows, I use everything from
 purchased Port Orford cedar to river cane and dogwood. All will work; I
 suggest you use what shoots the best from your bow. Remember,
 when hunting, the object is to take the game you pursue, not to look
 good. Where legal, I hunt with stone points I make and nothing else.
 Several states allow a bow hunter to use stone points, the number is
 growing annually. I live in Oklahoma and know of at least three other
 states, Missouri, Arkansas, and Texas where hunting with stone is legal.
 In OK, the only regulations concerning stone points are they must be no
 less than 7/8" wide at the base and a minimum of 1" long.
 For those of you concerned about weight, Ive found that if you make
 the points 4 to 1 width to thickness using the dimensions mentioned
 earlier, your point will weigh between 120 and 125 grains. On the other
 hand, a point made 6 or 7 to 1 width to thickness ratio, will only weigh
 100 to 112 grains, using those same dimensions. Therefore, if you wish
 to make the point thin, you must increase the width and length in order
 to approach 125 grains. For additional weight, vary the size and width
 to thickness ratio, as desired. 
 A variety of materials can be used but
 untreated rock makes the toughest point. Ive taken game with both
 treated and untreated rock, usually following the rule of making thicker
 points of treated rock and thinner ones of untreated rock. Although
 Ive shot deer with triangular side notched points such as the Cahokia
 style, I believe the side notches catch more hair and produces
 additional drag coefficients that hinder penetration and possibly an
 entry/exit wound. 
 Perhaps the best of stone point styles
 is the corner or basal notched point. Both give the greatest amount of
 cutting edge and possibly lend to better penetration. The key to taking
 game with stone points is mounting them centered on the shaft where the
 shaft will spin without vibration, and leaving a fine serrated edge.
 Just for the record, I can shoot a 100 grain stone point and a 125 grain
 stone point out of the same selfwood bow and hit within two inches of
 each other, both in the kill at 20 yards. 
 Comparing steel broadheads and stone
 broadheads is easy. Ive shot deer, rabbits, squirrels, beaver,
 javelina and hogs to date; I prefer the stone. Although the steel may be
 sharper, and notice I say MAY be, the stone with all its minute
 serrations cuts an unbelievable hole which wont seal itself like the
 steel does. I have shot and penetrated both ribs of deer with a complete
 pass through, using a 65 pound bow at twenty yards, cutting gapping
 holes in lung tissue and skin alike. Stone points suffer little or no
 damage going through deer unless major bones are hit, due to a poor
 shot. In fact, I shot one arrow tipped with a cooked Burlington point of
 common Woodland design through two deer without having to retouch the
 edge. 
 When hunting with a wood selfbow and
 stone tipped arrows, shots should be limited to the expertise of the
 archer. Just because I feel comfortable to shoot at game at a given
 distance, you may not. Each archer has limits and should live by them. I
 usually will pass on any shot beyond 25 yards. Out to that distance,
 wood selfbows and stone tipped arrows are very effective. Limit your
 shots to broadside, double lung shots, or quartering-away shots and you
 will be a successful hunter. By the way, all of the deer Ive shot
 with stone points have expired within fifty yards of the shot. Try
 connecting with your shot from the past, build a wood selfbow and use
 stone points. Good hunting. 

 Look for some of Ralph Conrad's knapped stone points 
 on our Gallery in upcoming days.