Fluting, Plain as Dirt 

 CLOVIS FLUTING 
 Plain as Dirt 

 By Dave Ediger 

 Chips Vol. 12,
 #4 Copyright 2000 

 I had just created a nasty overshot pressure flake on
 what was to be a very nice Scottsbluff. The resulting change in
 the outline was not fixable, but it still had a decent blade. In order
 to salvage something, I decided to practice my fluting. 
 Since the contours needed to flute were pretty much already
 present, it didnt take long to prepare a nipple. 
 I dont flute many points, but to be consistent at
 producing a nice Clovis has always one of my desires. 
 I have tried fluting by squeezing the sides of the blade on my
 leg, striking a direct percussion blow. I have also laid the blade
 almost flat on my leg, and again, delivered a direct blow. Both methods
 have at times produced good results. 
 The thought of using a jig with a lever to apply
 pressure to the nipple doesnt appeal to me. I have watched it done
 that way with incredible results, but the set-up time is painstakingly
 slow. When I have a nipple ready to be struck, I want to whack it.
 Ive watched Jim Spears doing a fantastic job using a cut-out deer
 antler, to which the preform was bound with buckskin. I have a pile of
 shed antlers, but it would probably take 10 minutes to come up with a
 set-up like Jim uses, and like I said, when that nipple is ready to be
 struck, I need to strike it. As I sat there recalling past articles in CHIPS ,
 I decided to try something different, but what? 
 I recalled
 that D.C. Waldorf experimented using clay to almost totally surround the
 preform, and then used indirect and direct percussion. The dampening
 effect of the clay seemed like a very workable system. Well, the only
 clay I had was mixed in with the sandy soil that I call my yard, so I
 guessed that was out of ---. The dim bulb of mine seemed to glow just a
 little brighter for a brief instant, then I came back to reality. What I
 was thinking --couldnt possibly work; it was so simple! No one was
 watching so I figured what the heck, lets give it a try. 

 Before I go on, I need to state that I have never heard of or
 seen in print, what I was about to try. If anyone has written about it,
 I sincerely apologize. 

 I stood up
 with the preform in hand and took 3 or 4 steps away from my chipping
 area, bent over and shoved the preform into the ground. I didnt
 wiggle it in; I just put steady pressure on it until only about 1-inch
 of the 5-inch preform was visible. It felt very solid, and it just
 seemed right. I tilted it slightly back towards me as I pressed it into
 the ground. Im not sure why, maybe because this is about the same
 angle that I hold a preform in an attempt at direct percussion fluting.
 So far this met my criteria for a fluting method: quick, good support,
 and simple! 

 I felt a little apprehensive as I approached the stub
 of a preform sticking out of the ground. Maybe thats why I totally
 missed on my first strike. I did learn something in defeat: theres no
 follow through. The ground stopped my swing shortly after missing the
 nipple. This felt unnatural, an d I tried to forget about it as I readied 

 myself for a second attempt. 

 This time I connected and noticed an inch long flake
 bouncing past me. Well, an inch aint much, but its a start. My
 next concern was for the preform itself. As I gently pulled it from the
 ground, another inch long flake came with it. It was the other half of
 the one that bounced by me. I was elated, to say the least! In fact, had
 the phrase I floated a Cluvis! not been coined last year at
 Greasy Creek, it would have been, at that instant. 

 It didnt take long to prepare another nipple and
 try the other side. This time however, I decided to try indirect
 percussion using an antler punch and a copper billet. This time the
 flake held together, but was shorter 
 -by 1/8 of an inch. 

 As I write this, 2 days after the first attempt, I
 have fluted six preforms with only one snapped preform. Im pretty
 sure it was because I held the punch too high on the nipple. I also
 tried a inch copper rod for a punch as my antler punch kept
 splintering at the tip as I struck it. 

 I have a lot of things yet to try as far as punches,
 billets, angle of punch on the nipple, etc. There are so many variables,
 and I have just begun to explore them. On the last one I tried, I pushed
 the preform straight down instead of at an angle, and I think its an
 advantage to do so. One thing that must be done is to prepare the
 preform as close to perfection as possible. Make sure the contours from
 side-to-side and tip-to-base have the right convexity. The nipple must
 be correct also, and I had the best results not being too high-up on the
 nipple with the punch. 

 Now you
 know as much as I do about this method. I cant wait to compare notes
 with those of you who give it a try. I feel it has great potential, and
 with refinement and practice, it could really open some eyes. If youre successful with your current fluting
 method, then this isnt going to shake your world. But I think
 youll be happy with this method if youre about 2 minutes from
 having a Wooly Mammoth re-arrange your keaster with his tusks and you
 left your fluting jig at home. 

 Catch me at Ft. Osage and if you have any questions or
 answers, look me up. If you care to call, my number is 316-543-6782. I
 have 2 teenage kids, so if the line is busy, be patient. 
 Look
 for some of Dave Ediger's work on 
 our GALLERY 
 . 
 or
 read a profile of this knapper. 

 Clovis point
 made of pink Novaculite. 
 Martin collection.