Knapper Profile, Dave Ediger 

 KNAPPER PROFILE 

 Dave Ediger 

 From Chips

 Vol. 12, #2 Copyright 2000 

 If you had to draw a picture of an

 old time cowboy, you would see him in cowboy boots, wearing a sweat

 stained, broad brimmed cowboy hat, a large curled mustache and a big

 smile. Add an arrowhead on the hat and you have just found Dave Ediger.

 He is one of the most easily recognized knappers and looking at him, you

 have to wonder if he sleeps with the hat on, as it never leaves the

 head. 

 Born and raised in central Kansas,

 Dave still lives in the country outside of Buhler, Kansas, along with

 his wife Helen, and two children. He works as an artificial insemination

 specialist for one of the large hog producers. 

 Dave

 has been knapping for about twenty years and the one thing that is a

 little unusual about his knapping style is that he uses a copper paddle

 type billet. Although he is proficient with other types of tools, his

 work clearly indicates the skilled Master that he is. He

 was first exposed to knapping at Fort Osage, where he met Bob Hunt, who

 has consistently answered his questions and helped him along the way.

 Another of Daves benefactors and friend is Jim Redfearn. 

 He likes to

 use a solid copper rod to rough out his favorite materials, Burlington

 and Kay County; he then uses his copper paddle to finish the pieces. He

 is noted for his very thin points. He prefers to make Archaic pieces

 such as Scottsbluffs, Daltons, etc. but he can easily make about any

 type or form of point that he desires. He is well known for his friendly

 advise and fervently supporting the craft; he often works with

 beginners. 

 An avid

 outdoorsman, he puts several of his knapping skills to good use. He has

 taken a good number of deer with stone tipped arrows and loves to fish. 

 He has

 specifically requested a big thank you to all the folks who have helped

 him over the years, especially Jim Redfearn and Bob Hunt. 

 Look

 for more of Dave Ediger's work on our GALLERY . 

 Read

 an article Dave wrote called 

 Fluting -Plain as Dirt 

 Dalton made of Novaculite