Flintknapping - Learn to Make Stone Tools with D.C. Waldorf, Master Flintknapper 

 The Knappers Corner 

Welcome to The Knappers Corner. The flintknapping information at this site is made 

available by D.C. and Val Waldorf of Mound Builder Books, and Dane and Mary Martin of 

The Flintknapper's Corner. Mound Builder Books and the Flintknapper's Corner are 

dedicated to the advancement of flint knapping. 

 Flintknapping is the ancient art form of making stone tools. Today

the modern flint knapper continues this ancient art form and is refining

the techniques to produce superior tools, knives and projectile points.

Please wander through our site to learn more about how this is all done

and how you can get started as a flint knapper. 

 It's here!! Gallery of Points 
for sale 
 Updated 08/13/01 

 Introduction to Flintknapping by D. C. Waldorf 

 Flintknapping Resources -- Where to Find What You Need 

 Flintknapping Events -- 2001 Knap-Ins Updated, NEW
EVENTS! 08/13/01 

 Flintknapping Classes and Workshops 

 Who's Doing What in Flintknapping 

 Messages for DC

and Val Waldorf 

 Jim Redfearn's Special
Knapping Materials 

 Flintknappers Corner Catalog , 

books, NEW VIDEOS, and lots more! 

 Coffee mugs NEW ITEMS. NOW
AVAILABLE 

 New Updates 

 CHIPS

MAGAZINE Reading Special 

 CHIPS Articles 

 Getting Started in Flintknapping 

 We

have several New Videos! 

 Jim Redfearn is a master knapper who specializes in types such as the Hardin.

This brand new release is directed at those who want to work with copper

billets. Here Jim will explain every move in detail. Watch as he turns a chunk of chert into the point shown on the cover!

1 hr. 14 minutes, $25. To order 

 New Release! 

 The Art Of Making Primitive Bows & Arrows 

 Just released after 2 years of refining. By D. C. Waldorf. With Illustrations By Val Waldorf. 64

pages of basic how-to information. This edition focuses not only on the use of

Osage Orange and Pacific yew, it covers a whole host of whitewoods. Learn how to

fast cure your bow wood and have a bow ready in a matter of weeks, not months!

Also includes many bow designs including the English longbow, flat-bows, sinew

backed bows, American Indian designs and more. $15. To

Order. 

 This site is under construction and will be continuously updated so please let me know your suggestions, thoughts and comments, email me at knapper@specent.com 

 This page's web counter states you are visitor 

 08/13/01