IRON MOUNTAIN KAOLIN 

 IRON MOUNTAIN KAOLIN 
 By Richard A. Lively 

 From Chips, Vol. 11, #3 

 Copyright 1999 

 Six miles east of my home as the crow flies is a six
 hundred-foot high ridge running north-south for about one mile. Due to the
 large deposits of iron ore known to exist there, the ridge is known as Iron
 Mountain. The iron ore is very porous sesqui-oxide of iron or red hematite.
 This easily fused ore is similar in content to the deposits found and mined in
 the 1800s north of Grand Tower, Illinois. The immense iron ridge known as
 Iron Mountain is thought by geologists to be a continuation of the Missouri
 Iron Belt. In fact, the geographic strata of Iron Mountain and its environs
 are quite similar to the Missouri Ozark plateau with more igneous rocks to be
 found. Ninety-five per cent of Iron Mountain is located within the Shawnee
 National Forest. 
 The U.S. Forest Service maintains a gravel access road to
 the top of the north end of Iron Mountain. This road snakes up from the Black
 Diamond Highway (Rt. 127) three miles south of Alto Pass, IL. As the forest
 service road ascends one can see the ancient Indian Kaolin pits on both sides
 of the road. These pits appear somewhat like large sinkholes. It is apparent
 the Indians went to great lengths to obtain the prized Kaolin. 
 The Kaolin deposits yield a lensatic form often encrusted
 with a rind of coarse rock. Tapping the rock gives a clear ringing when the
 Kaolin is of good knapping quality. To me the Kaolin appears almost like a
 form of obsidian. I have seen it in amber, lemon, honey and root beer colors.
 All are opaque or semi-translucent, some is very translucent. 
 It is known that Clovis people made points from kaolin
 obtained from the Iron Mountain deposits. The famous Olive Branch Dalton site
 has yielded some fine Kaolin made artifacts. I personally found a nice Paleo
 type rectangular knife in the Olive Branch railroad cut. This knife was made
 of root beer colored Kaolin. In the spring of 1998, I removed eight of the ten
 Dalton cache blades from the ground. Below the last blade I found a large,
 well made adze of honey colored Kaolin. For more about the Olive Branch
 site refer to CHIPS, Vol. 9, #1, 1997. 

 In 1971, prior to the completion of the Cedar Creek Dam,
 Southern Illinois University sent out a survey team to examine and test pit
 archaeological sites prior to impoundment. They discovered and tested
 seventy-five sites. They also did a study on lithic materials used to make
 tools and points at these sites. Most of these sites are located within five
 to eight miles of Iron Mountain. Both Kaolin and Cobden chert are found at
 Iron Mountain. Here is the breakdown of lithic materials used: 61% Cobden
 chert, 22% Kaolin, 8% Mill Creek, 8% unknown, and 1% Dover. The blue gray
 Cobden was easily obtained in nodular form in Clear Creek and it was mined by
 Indians one and one half miles southwest of Cobden . (Most every available
 chunk of this material has been picked up by knappers, today youre lucky to
 find a piece in the creek. Editors). 

 Hiking east from the parking lot atop Iron Mountain, the
 trail descends toward creek bottom fields along Clear Creek. There are more
 Indian pits on the descending slope just before you come out in the field.
 Unfortunately, the new owner of the creek bottom fields on both sides of the
 creek has posted his property. This property lies off of Mountain Glen Road
 east of Walnut Grove Church. Recalling a fine Dickson blade of lemon colored
 translucent Kaolin I found near the creek, I asked the new owner for
 permission to hunt his fields for artifacts. He told me there were none to be
 found and he didnt want people trespassing due to liability. ( Removal of
 rock from national or state forests is also prohibited and I understand that
 this is being enforced on Iron Mountain- Ed.) 
 Iron Mountain is still an interesting place to hike and
 observe Nature. There are landowners in the area with known deposits of Kaolin
 and Cobden chert. Good hunting!