Lets go to a Knap-in 

 Let's go to a Knap-in 
 By Chips Staff 

 From Chips , Vol. 13, #1 Copyright 2001 

 upcoming
 events 

 Each year various hardy souls take it upon themselves
 to host knap-ins. We see the number of such events and the crowds in
 attendance increasing year by year. Many attendees are regulars who
 make a knap-in circuit, but we also find lots of new people showing up.
 Even though they may be CHIPS readers, its obvious they dont
 know what to expect when they think about coming. We would like to cover
 some of the basics in hopes of encouraging attendance. 

 Sometimes knap-ins are held at private homes of the
 hosts, but most are in public parks where space is rented or reserved in
 advance. For the most part, you dont need to be a member of any club to
 be welcome. If the advertising says sponsored by a particular club,
 at a public place, you can assume its open. If the event is
 being held at a members home but has been advertised, it means they
 welcome new people but still must count heads carefully to be sure they
 have enough food, parking space, etc. 

 If you plan on setting up a commercial booth, it is
 wise to bring your own tables, shade, and chairs. In public, state or
 federal parks, especially those parks which are also archaeological areas,
 such as Flint Ridge or Moundville State Park, there is often a rule
 against selling artifacts. They may also make special requests for primitive craft related, 
 subject related items, or
 no flea market junk. Weve
 seen some pretty strict and strange interpretations of these rules as
 well, but for the most part, we dont think this is a problem if you
 read the rules ahead of time. The hosts have nothing to do with this one,
 but rules are rules. You have no choice but to remove objectionable
 materials immediately! 

 There may be a small dealer fee, from $5. to $25. for
 the event. At some events
 they charge per person or per car. 
 This may cover admission
 to the park with none of the money going to pay for the knap-in. Hosts
 have to find other ways to cover the costs of 
 tent rentals, tables, port-a-johns, parking and trash pickup fees,
 just to name a few things. Believe me, its very expensive to host such
 an event. Therefore, many knap-ins hold auctions or sell raffle tickets
 with donated items from the knappers, and anyone setting up to sell. This
 is part of the fun, and it helps cover the expenses. Just as an example,
 at the last Georgia Knap-in April 2000, vendors and knappers donated items
 that brought in over $1300., all of which will be used to provide
 facilities for the 2001 event. If
 no raffle or auction takes place, please be generous with a nice donation
 to your hosts. If you dont, next year you may have to head for the
 woods with a roll of toilet paper, and your experience will not be nearly
 as pleasant: port-a-potties dont come cheap. (Try asking your wife about
 this one.) 

 Camping is usually available but on a primitive basis
 (no electricity or water). Since many of the goings on happen in the
 late evening, you may get a lot more out of the event if you camp. Come
 prepared to fix your own meals as well. Otherwise, it is wise to secure
 motel rooms in advance. For some events, the few motels fill up fast, so
 dont assume you are going to get a room when you get there. But
 consider this when choosing your campsite, if you plan to hit the sack,
 that is. At almost any knap-in there will be a set-up for all-night
 knappers. You have to remember that guys like Ron Fuller and Jim
 Redfearn are just as skilled at knapping at four in the morning as they
 are at four in the afternoon. They usually group together in one spot and
 if you look for floodlights or simply ask, you can find out where the
 noisy spot is going to be. Just ask anyone where The Fern is
 knapping, and dont pitch your tent next door, unless the clink, clink,
 click puts you to sleep. Camp at the quiet end and save yourself some
 aggravation. 

 Children are welcome but cannot be allowed or expected to entertain
 themselves by running through the camps or playing in debitage piles.
 Also, be sure your kids WEAR SHOES! You cant believe how many
 barefooted children we have seen walking through c hip piles. 

 Just leave untrustworthy dogs AT HOME! On several occasions, dogs have
 created severe problems for hosts by indiscriminate biting, and have
 gotten into fights with other dogs, endangering bystanders. Victims would
 love to sue the hosts for this, especially when the dog owner takes off
 without providing proof of rabies shots! We have also seen pets cut their feet severely on sharp flakes,
 another reason to leave them at home. 

 Atl-atl contests are becoming commonplace as its a
 lot of fun to master this primitive skill. If you are unfamiliar with this devise, its a short stick with a
 hook on one end. This hook fits into the back end of a spear shaft and it
 acts like an extension of your arm. Tests have shown that the impact power
 of a spear thrown with an atl-atl is many times that of a spear thrown
 only with the arm. (Think about the crack-the-whip game and how much
 faster the guy on the end moves.) Man used these spear throwers for
 centuries to kill his food and they can certainly injure today. For those
 of you who plan to throw atl-atls, just keep in mind that bystanders may
 think they are some kind of toy! Dont
 assume onlookers are intelligent enough to stay clear. Like any
 competitive event, use common sense in throwing and 
 participating.

 If a knap-in is scheduled to cover Saturday and
 Sunday, many knappers will arrive by Thursday and leave by Sunday morning.
 If you only have one day to attend, forget Sunday, especially if your
 intent is to purchase materials for knapping. Attempts have been made at
 various events to hold the knappers through Sunday evening, so far with
 little success; those who have to work on Monday want to drive home
 Sunday. 
 The biggest incentive for attending such an event may
 be the availability of material. At any typical knap-in, you might see 25
 different materials for sale, in all forms. Its a competitive business,
 and so the prices you see are going to be the market rate or a little
 lower. You get to meet rock sellers in person, and its great to be able
 to put names to faces. In addition, many of these vendors dont do any
 mail order at all, due to the hassle of shipping. You can obtain some
 wonderful stone you cannot get by mail, you can pick what you want and not
 pay shipping. Arrive early if you want an opportunity to purchase the best
 materials and have the best selection available, as the good stuff will
 all be gone by Saturday afternoon. 
 Consider the value of all the free instruction
 available at these shows. For the most part, knappers are a pretty
 friendly bunch; you just grab your tools and sit down with a group. Even
 rank beginners can get free help by merely asking. The wise move however,
 is to ask a knapper who has just finished a piece or is just starting.
 Dont interrupt a knapper while he is super thinning a 10 blade. He
 might just end up with two blades instead of one, and one of them might be
 in you! 
 The last thing you do before you pack for your
 adventure: call the number listed to double check that the date has not
 been changed, or that the event has not been cancelled. Schedule conflicts
 or events of circumstance sometimes cause last minute changes, and you
 dont want to travel all that way for nothing, being the last to know.
 When you get there, stop by our booth, 
 give us a hello, and have a great time at a knap-in! 

 See
 a listing of coming knap-ins. 

 Craig Ratzat 

 Mark Bracken and 
 Don Strong

 How about some cave bear skulls? 

 Dan Theus 

 Frank Stevens 

 Jim Regan 

 Bob Hunt 

 Jim Spears 

 Dane Martin, Don Roberts & Carl Smith