Here is a memo I received from Johnny Maduzia 

 Here is a memo I received from Johnny Maduzia. It explains
about the Maxdale Knap In. 
 MEMO 
 Date: November 12, 2002 
 To: Flintknappers 
 From: Annette
Kylberg, 
 David and Royce Ann Crawford 
 Subject: Rocky Hollow Knap-In / Heart of Texas Knap-In
(Maxdale) 
 The Rocky
Hollow Knap-In was originated by Don and Annette Kylberg at their home in the
Spring of 1988. In 1990, Don and Annette, and David and Royce Ann Crawford
joined together and brought the Rocky Hollow Knap-In (held the third full
weekend of March) to Maxdale, Texas, where it has been held at the Retired
Sergeant Majors Chili Park ever since. The Heart of Texas Knap-In, at the same
location, began several years ago and has been held the first full weekend of
October. 
 The group that
made these knap-ins possible has been the Retired Sergeant Majors Association (RSMA)
of our area. They are the ones who maintain the Chili Park. They have been
gracious enough over the years to ready the Chili Park for countless numbers of
our flintknapping group and our friends. Over the years, they installed
bathrooms and outdoor plumbing to accommodate us, mowed and sprayed to prepare
for tents, teepees, campers, etc. They have provided onsite food so we could all
eat and visit with each other at the same time and not have to make the 20-mile
drive into Killeen for food. They have enjoyed, encouraged, and supported our
efforts to have a place to come together and learn from each other the art of
flintknapping. 
 The knappers
who attended the Chili Park knap-ins in the past enjoyed the opportunity to go
on rock runs to Fort Hood. This privilege was revoked several years ago
due to the new archeologist on base. Then 9-11-02 occurred and security on the
post became an even bigger issue. Rock runs into Fort Hood are no longer
sanctioned by the military authorities. 
 As many of you may know, the RSMA has had setbacks over the
past several years mostly medical challenges. For this reason, the RSMA has
decided to turn their efforts to only RSMA endeavors. Therefore, the Rocky
Hollow Knap-In and the Heart of Texas Knap-In will cease to exist as we have
known them. 
 We are very
grateful to the owners of the Chili Park property, the W.C. Walden family, and
the RSMA for the years they have allowed us the use of their property. 
 Even though we
are no longer able to continue the Rocky Hollow and Heart of Texas Knap-Ins at
Maxdale, it is our desire that a Central Texas knap-in will be continued by
other individuals or groups. We
will endeavor to notify you if the knap-ins are rescheduled. 
 As Don Kylberg said just prior to his death, Flintknapping is a great
way to draw friends together. This has been the best eight years of my life.
We sincerely hope that the tradition of these knap-ins will continue. Please
feel free to forward this memo to individuals who may have attended these
knap-ins in the past. 
 Sincerely, 
 Annette
Kylberg 
 David and Royce Ann Crawford 
 For more information, please call: 
 Annette Kylberg (512) 868-3926