Video Reviews, Scott Van Arsdale 

 Video Reviews 

 By Scott Van Arsdale 

 From Chips

 Vol. 12, #4 Copyright 2000 

 Two
 new instructional knapping videos have been added to The Masters
 Series , produced by D.C. Waldorf and distributed through The
 Flintknappers Corner. One
 is Flake Over Grinding, w ith Dale Cannon, and the other is D.C.
 Waldorfs Thebes Points and Their Variants . 
 A good knapping video is the next best thing to getting live
 lessons from an accomplished knapper. Both videos deliver. 

 I
 wish Dales video was around when I started in flake over grinding! 
 Even though Ive been grinding for several years now, I still
 learned some useful things from the video. 
 The viewer gets to watch Dale as he turns an agate slab into a
 beautifully flaked knife blade, using grinding techniques. 
 Next he creates a matched Piccasso Marble handle and completes
 the knife. Throughout the
 whole process, he explains the whys and hows of what he is doing. 
 The filming is excellent: the camera angles and the close-ups
 leave nothing to the imagination. As
 an added treat, we get a taste of Dales musical talents. While Dale is grinding the handle, we listen to a dubbed
 recording of Dale on his guitar. The
 video ends with an interview of Dale by Dane Martin. During this
 interview, Dale explains his views on flake over grindings place in
 the knapping world, which is insightful. This is followed by Dale
 playing a bluesy number he wrote, called Downtown Osage Ooga-Booga
 Tonight . Dont get the wrong impression though: this is a serious
 how-to video, in which the important material is delivered in a
 straightforward way. You
 definitely want to take a look at this video if you are interested in
 flake over grinding. Flake
 Over Grinding does not replace Craig Ratzats Lap Knapping 
 video, as Craigs tape covers the basics of lap knapping. 
 Dales video skips some of the basic stuff and jumps right in
 to flake-over details, and offers a good continuum. One last note: Dale hints that there will be another Dale
 Cannon video in the future. Save
 a copy for me, please! 

 D.C.
 Waldorfs Thebes Points and Their Variants is another easy to
 watch and follow video. As
 one might expect from a Masters Series video, it is not geared
 for the beginner, although beginners should be able to learn a good deal
 from it. D.C. starts by
 spalling a difficult Indiana Hornstone nodule, and then selects one of
 the spalls to turn into a Thebes point. 
 As he produces a preform from the spall, he discusses such things
 as continuous and isolated platforms, and the different results obtained
 by using copper and antler pressure flakers (all of the percussion work
 is done with antler billets). D.C.
 gives a detailed lesson in notching, which is outstanding. 
 He uses antler tines for direct pressure, antler, copper and
 steel nail punches for indirect percussion notching, as well as a copper
 tipped pressure flaker for direct pressure notching. The different
 approaches and results for each tool are noted. Then D.C. demonstrates
 how to make an e-notch and a dogleg notch. As with Dales
 video, the filming and editing are excellent. The camera angles and
 lighting ensure the viewer sees everything, and there are no dull
 periods. The video begins
 and ends with some interesting synthesizer music by... Dale Cannon! 

 Both videos have a
 gallery segment. In Thebes
 Points and Their Variants, we get a look at several of D.C.s fine
 Thebes points, made with various materials. 
 In Flake Over Grinding , we see several of Dales knives. 
 D.C. and Dale give little descriptions for each work shown, and
 some of them have histories, such as being featured on the cover of CHIPS . 
 A tip of the hat to the production crew of Val and D.C. Waldorf,
 and Dane and Mary Martin, of Mound Builder Video, for the quality of
 these tapes. Both videos will make
 worthy additions to your library. 

 Knife made by 
 Dale Cannon 

 Visit our Gallery to view
 more flaked pieces. 

 Both videos
 will prove worthy additions to your video library. 

 Other videos 
 by Mound Builder Video include: 

 Making
 the Hardin 
 Point 
 Making the Dalton 
 Novaculite 
 Making the Clovis 
 The Video Companion 
 Introduction
 to Flint 
 Knapping 
 Roasting Rocks 
 Working Obsidian