Knapper Profile, Dave Ediger 

 KNAPPER PROFILE 

 Dan Theus 

 From Chips

 Vol. 15, #1 Copyright 2003 

 Dan got started in the early 90s; he met 
 Virgil Tonn at an artifact show in Texas where he lives, and found he 
 couldnt live without his knapping. He called Val Waldorf, got himself a 
 copy of The Art of 
 Flint Knapping, subscribed to
 CHIPS and 
 headed out to a knap-in at Maxdale to meet Bill Metcalf. One of his 
 early teachers and a huge help to his knapping was Gene Stapleton of 
 Dallas, to whom Dan sends this thank you. 
 He has worked hard to learn his craft and 
 does the complete line of knapping. He can pressure flake an outstanding 
 point, and loves to do grind and flake-over work also. The points he 
 makes using this method are unmatched by anyone and are highly prized by 
 collectors. He also does wonderful percussion work and prides himself on 
 how thin he can drive a point down to. Throw in the off-the-tip fluting 
 he does, and its clear to see that he has earned the title of Master 
 Knapper! Take a peak at one of his staff heads or daggers and I think 
 you will agree with us! 
 Dan loves to attend the big knap-ins 
 around the country, Ft. Osage, Flint Ridge, New York, Maxdale and 
 several others. He flies to most of them but dreams of being able to 
 drive when the time restraints will allow. At this time he has the 
 largest and most successful dental and orthodontic practice in the San 
 Antonio, Texas area, one that he has built up over the years. He will be 
 retiring soon and looks forward to travel with his wife, and more time 
 to knap. 
 Many of his points have been featured in
 CHIPS and we 
 like to think of Dan as a friend and adviser in several fields. When you 
 attend a knap-in and get the chance, sit next to Dan. We would bet he 
 will share his information and skills with you in his own quiet way. Dr. 
 Theus has been a wonderful asset to the hobby and done much to promote 
 knapping around the country. Thanks for all the hard work Dan!