Mound Builder Books 

 Videos 

 The Art of Flintknapping Video

Companion 
 with D. C. Waldorf 

 Geared for beginner, but informative for the advanced knapper. 

 Covers raw material processing. 

 Bi-face reduction by percussion. 

 Holding positions. 

 Pressure flaking. 

 1 hour 43 minutes. Price $25.00. 

 To order 

 Working Obsidian 

 with D. C. Waldorf, Adventures in the Pacific Northwest 

 Collection of material at Glass Buttes, Oregon. 

 Demonstration of making a large point out of obsidian. 

 Discussion on rock saws and slabbing material. 

 Instructions on how to use small chips and irregular chunks

for making points. 

 2 hours. Price $25.00 

 To order 

 Thebes Points, and their Variants 

 with D. C. Waldorf 

 D.C. Waldorf demonstrates the production of a standard Thebes type
as well as its variants, the e-notch and Lost Lake types. 

 He uses traditional tools throughout. 

 Lots of close ups with the emphasis being on notching. 

 Full explanations of each step. 

 1 hr. 38 minutes. Price $25.00 

 To order 

 Novaculite, -from pit to point 
 with D. C. Waldorf 

 Novaculite is prized for making whetstones as well as knapping. 

 Visit an ancient Novaculite quarry as well as a modern one. See
the modern uses and quarrying of this stone 

 Discussion on heat treating it for knapping. 

 Instructions on how to make a large blade using traditional tools. 

 A full 2 hour tape. Price $25.00 

 To order 

 Flake over Grinding 
 with Dale Cannon 

 Flake over grinding is a form of "lapidary knapping." 

 Blanks are ground to a predetermined shape using lapidary
equipment, then flaked to produce spectacular ribbon patterns. 

 Dale demonstrates the entire production of knife including making
a stone handle. 

 Full Instructions on techniques and equipment needed. 

 1 hr. 48 minutes. Price $25.00 

 To order 

 Roasting Rocks 

 The Art and Science of Heat

Treating 

 Make

flint knapping easier! D.C. Waldorf shows you how to improve the

workability of flint and chert through the magic of heat treating. 

 First he demonstrates the ancient art

of heat treating in the ground. 

 The he takes us to his shop to load

and fire a modern electric kiln. 

 He demonstrates the use of "The Poor

Man's Kiln," the common roaster oven. 

 Methods are compared and results are

shown. 

 Comes with a 20 page "recipe book". 

 VHS, 50 minutes. Price
$20. 

 To order 

 Introduction to Flint Knapping, with
 Bill Metcalfe NEW
 EDITION! 

 This tape is directed at beginners. 
 Bill shows you how to get started in knapping with simple
 methods and using copper tools. 
 Includes spalling large nodules, edging a slab, finishing
 and notching. 
 Lots of terrific close ups. 
 1 hr. 18 minutes. Price is $25. 

 To
 order 

 Lap Knapping by

Craig Ratzat 

For all knappers interested in making lapped points. 

Step by step instruction from pressure flaking to notching rock slabs to

create authentic looking arrow points. 

2 hours, Price $22.00 

 To order 

 Caught Knapping 

 with Craig Ratzat 

For beginner to intermediate knapper. 

Deals strictly with knapping obsidian. 

Show quarrying to production of points and blades. 

details tools, hammer stones, antler billets and copper billets. 

2 hours. Price $23.00 

 To order 

 Water Creek Knap-in, 1999 

This tape was shot at the Watercreek Knap-in. 
Relive the excitement in

this excellent new tape.1 hr. 

 Price $20.00 

 To order 

 Flintknapping by

Bruce Bradley, Ph.D. 

 As a Prehistoric hunter, how would you go about providing

tools needed for daily survival? This film demonstrates the fundamentals

of the art of Flintknapping. Bruce Bradley explains and shows the process

of stone tool manufacture. Watch as each piece is skillfully produced duplication

this ancient skill as you reach a better understanding of our past. 

 An internationally renowned expert, Bruce Bradley is an

active professional archaeologist and educator. His lectures are in constant

demand in the United States and abroad. 

 45 minutes, Price $20.00 

 To order 

 Making the Hardin Point, with

 Jim Redfearn. 

 In this new video, Jim Redfearn demonstrates production

 techniques to make a Hardin Point. It includes lots of close-ups and

 shows the proper sequence for making this point type. Tape includes hilarious

 out-takes segment called, "So You Want to Make a Flint Knapping

 Video?" Jim uses copper billets, which are becoming a popular

substitute for antler. This tape is aimed at the beginner to intermediate

knapper. 1 Hr. 12 minutes. Price $25. To order 

 Making a Dalton Point, with

 Jim Redfearn. 

 In his second video, Jim Redfearn demonstrates production

 techniques to make a classic Sloan Dalton. However, he works a very

 difficult piece of stone in order to demonstrate the reduction of a

 "worst case scenario." It has square edges and is too narrow.

 But Jim shows how to handle something of this shape. It includes lots of close-ups and

 shows the proper sequence for making this point type. Tape includes a bonus, a

 "Behind the Scenes" special feature. Jim uses copper billets, which are becoming a popular

substitute for antler. This tape is aimed at the intermediate

knapper. 1 Hr. 40 minutes. Price $25. To order 

 Making the Clovis Point, 
 with Jim Redfearn 

 In his new video " Making the Clovis Point, "
 Jim Redfearn shares his technique for knapping large bifaces. Here
 he works a large slab of Fort Payne chert, showing you how to edge the slab
 and then flake it into a large Clovis point. Jim is one of the few knappers
 who can routinely flute Clovis points without the aid of any
 machines, jigs or mechanical devises. As with the other "Masters'
 Series" videos, everything is explained in detail and it's done with great
 photography. 1 hr. 18 minutes. 

 Price $25. To order. 

 Updated 06-06-2001