What's up with me? 

 What I'm reading 
 London by Edward Rutherfurd -- it's like 
 Michener's Centennial but about the London area.
 The Road Less Traveled by M. Scott Peck -- several 
 friends have recently recommended it as I grapple with some
 big questions about life ("... the universe and everything").
 ... and recently finished 
 Timeline by Michael Crichton -- I heard this is a 
 great time travel story. I was kinda disappointed. It was
 interesting in its view of France in the Middle Ages, but the explanation
 for the time travel was pretty lame.
 Case Closed by Gearld Posner -- finally getting 
 around to what is supposed to be the definitive volume
 on the JFK assassination. I've been coming to the conclusion
 that if there was a conspiracy someone would have cracked
 by now, but Posner blows holes in every conspiracy theory
 I've ever heard one by one. Sure, it's still an unlikely
 scenario for Oswald, but it's not nearly as unlikely as
 most of the conspiracies.
 The Brethren by John Grisham -- another intriguing story. 
 I really like Grisham's style.
 Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone by J. K. Rowling -- 
 I had to see what the fuss was all about.
 It's a good, fun read. It reminds me
 of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (I guess I mean
 that was my off-the-wall, fantasy book from when I was "the right age").
 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets by J. K. Rowling -- 
 my good friends
 Kathy and Bill gave me the complete CD set of the 2nd Harry
 Potter book so I can listen to it on my one hour commute
 to work! I was going to wait to read the rest, but since
 it's so easy, OK!
 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban by J. K. Rowling -- 
 So after reading two, I figured I may as well keep going.
 Listening to them in the car on my drive to and from work
 is a real deal. So I found the third one used at
 BooksOnTape.com 
 and enjoyed it just as much, maybe a little more. But
 people are right, they get darker as you go.
 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire by J. K. Rowling -- 
 The 4th, and by far the darkest, of the series. The guy who
 does the audio books, Jim Dale, is perfect. He has a different
 voice for every characters and he really brings them all to life.
 I understand why kids are going crazy over these books.
 Who Moved My Cheese by Spencer Johnson -- the author of 
 The Mythical Man-Month is back. I read this over dinner one
 night, and while I don't think it's quite as revolutionary as some
 seem to, it does crystalize some things that I think I knew
 subconsciously. The quick read (even for me) is definitely worth it,
 check it out!
 Eat Right For Your Type by Dr. Peter J. D'Adamo -- 
 puts forth an interesting idea that your blood type determines
 how your digestive and immune system is built and what types of
 foods fuel it best. I don't know that I buy into it, but after
 being on this diet for 3 months my cholesterol went down 30+ points,
 so something had an effect somewhere. Now I get to try to figure
 out which part!

 What I'm listening to 
 The Look Of Love / Diana Krall - Her newest and every bit as 
 good as all the rest.
 Tapestry / Carol King - Dug this out to listen to "Where You Lead" 
 which is the theme to the TV show Gilmore Girls (see below) and to 
 pick it out on the sax (it's pretty easy actually). But I was reminded
 what a great album this was and just kept listening.
 Presumed Innocent / Marcia Ball - This may be her best! 
 I saw her live in Fort Collins (see below) where
 she did nearly every song from this CD. It's a good thing
 this isn't an album, I would have worn it out by now!
 My Romance / An Evening with Jim Brickman - this guy is a fabulous 
 pianist, a dear friend gave me this CD and I had never heard of the guy.
 Highly recommended!
 Les Miserables / The Complete Symphonic Recording - I just had 
 the bug to hear this show again (and again and again).

 What I'm watching 
 Gilmore Girls (Tue WB) -- smartly written (and yeah, Lauren 
 Graham is a babe).
 Ed (Wed NBC) -- Northern Exposure in the lower 48 
 with a bowling alley.
 The West Wing (Wed NBC) -- Sorkin is still a genius (Sportsnight 
 was a great show, too, I don't understand why it never found an audience).
 Charmed (Thu WB) -- you probably think you know why I watch it, but 
 if you tried it, you might be surprised.

 Done anything fun lately? 
 September 1 - 
 Hiked Mt. Falcon 
and saw James Taylor at Red Rocks. We could see Red Rocks
from the Mt. Falcon trail the trail in the morning and were
there that evening seeing James Taylor. There's nothing
like seeing JT sing Fire and Rain 
under a full moon.
 August 18 - Rode in the 
 Moonlight Classic 
 midnight bike ride in Denver. It's 20 miles through downtown
 starting at midnight and finishing through Larimer Square to
 the state capital just as the bars are closing and the drunks
 are coming out (and boy are they confused!).
 August 17 - Saw 
 Marcia Ball 
 again (she's from Austin but I've seen her much more since I've
 lived in Colorado than I did in Austin!). She was playing in
 Old Town Fort Collins at New West Fest and I got her latest CD
 and got her to autograph it! A fabulous evening all around.
 June 23 - My sister got married in San Antonio and the party 
 went on most of the night. I was glad to find out I could still
 keep up with the young kids! ;-)
 June 2 - Saw "I Love You, You're Perfect, Now Change" at 
 the Denver Center For The Performing Arts -- a great show about
 relationships and the silly things men and women do to try to
 attract each other.
 April 25 - Saw the Rockies lose to the Cubs. :-( 
 April 9 - Saw Elton John and Billy Joel play together in Denver. 
I'd seen Billy before in Austin, but never seen Elton before and
together they're even better. Elton played the best almost-ragtime
instrumental in the middle of Rocket Man that I've ever heard, I wish
he'd record it. They didn't play together as much as I expected,
but that's part of why the show could go on for 4 hours!
 April 7 - Saw Rob Becker's Defending The Caveman in Denver. 
This looks like a stand-up comedy show but deep down there's a lot
of real wisdom about the nature of relationships between men and
women. There are a few nuggets of really useful ideas in this show,
just like in John Gray's Men Are From Mars, Women Are From Venus .
Check it out at:
 http://www.cavemania.com. 

Sunday, October 21, 2001