Aether Science Papers (Announcement) 

 Aether Science Papers: Part I: The Creative Vacuum 

 Copyright &copy; 1996 Harold Aspden 

 ANNOUNCEMENT 

 Very soon now the world at large will need to face up to the discovery of new ways in which we can generate energy that has no pollution risk. The source of that energy is so abundant that future generations will only need to fear the hangover risks inherited from the passing of the nuclear age and our era of hydrocarbon combustion. 

 The source of the energy that will power our future is not a new source. It is as old as Creation, because we will tap the energy that fills space. It was the shedding of some of that energy that gave birth to the particles of matter, protons and electrons, which combined to form the stellar universe. 

 The secret giving us access to this sea of energy is connected with the problem that Einstein could never solve, the link between gravitation and magnetism. He could not solve it because he took the wrong direction in 'time'. He obliterated 'universal time' by saying that the rate of time varies according to our own individual viewpoints and so deprived us of our direct vision of the common 'clock' which regulates everything, including gravitation. 

 In fact, in space, there is electricity which we perceive, in its overall picture, as neutral and electrically balanced, but which is charged with life and motion. All that electricity is moving in a rhythmic dance, in unison, as if it were part of an enormous all-pervading clock mechanism which keeps perfect time on a universal scale. Using a term familiar to scientists the electric charge in motion in what we see as the vacuum is 'phase-locked'. This is what gives basis to quantum theory and wave mechanics and what assures order, rather than chaos, order which involves a dynamic mass balancing act resulting in gravity and a regenerative process which can package energy spread throughout all space and deliver it to us on demand. 

 It is this regenerative property which allows spent energy, energy wasted as heat by radiation dissipated into space, to be put into an orderly state out there, whether in near or outer space, and this sets up the mechanisms by which protons and electrons can be created. Those 'mechanisms' are those that we describe in physics in terms of quantum electrodynamics, but the essential point I wish to make in this 'announcement' is that the 'phase-lock' property of space is something we can exploit. When we contrive to set up an electric field within, and radial from, the axis of a cylindrical or spherical form, we find that the energy we supply is matched by an equal contribution from the aether filling that vacuum in space. We can use that energy! 
 Part 1 of this work is a commentary and, when read by reference to Part 2, the collection of fourteen scientific papers appended, it introduces this story from the viewpoint of fundamental physics. Separately, by a series of 'Energy Science Reports', backed by a collection of patents, the story will be told from the practical viewpoint of the engineer and it will be the latter work which describes the technology which we now know can deliver power from that vacuum. 

 The author's E-Mail address is: 
 h.aspden@physics.org