Essays, conservation, environment, photography 

 &nbsp 
 Essays 

 Home 
 Bio 
 Services 
 Published Work 
 FAQ 
 Equipment Sale 
 Essays 

 SeaKayaking 
 Whitewater 
 Mammals 
 Birds 
 Wildflowers 
 Scenics 
 Tidepools 
 Pattern 
 In The Field 
 Contact Gary 

 You're given a bucket full of holes, and told to fill it. What do you do first? 8/1/01 

 For those of us who care about issues like energy and the environment, 
 these are appalling times. 
 The Bush energy proposal calls for a $278 million cut for renewables and effiency; 2 billion in additional
 spending for coal. The house energy legislation passed $33.5 billion in tax breaks, 80% of it going to big energy. Why
 further subsidize these industries? 

 These are not least cost choices. They are not the best choices
 for the economy. These are choices that line the pockets of big, rich, centralized energy - and fattens their tax
 write-offs - at the expense of you and me. Were in Reagan retro, 
 strength-through-exhaustion mode, times ten. 

 Combined with his tax cut, Bush has boxed himself in. Watch the economy tank. Inefficient 
 spending on destabilizing bondoggles like star wars aint gonna save it. Paying off Wall Street with his 
 Social Security boondoggle wont either. How about the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge 
 drilling scheme? Oil at an estimated $34/ barrel? There are billions of barrels worth of cheaper 
 investments: investments in conservation and efficiency that yield cheaper barrels of oil.
 Not to mention that drilling destroys one of the last intact ecosystems on the planet. The 
 industry arguments for drilling ANWR are weak, and sick. 

 There are alternatives. Lets invest in efficiency and conservation, raise the CAFE standards,
 and close the loop-holes on truck and SUV emissions. More jobs are created by investing in efficiency than
 in poking more holes in the planet. 

 Heres a group thats been on the forefront of energy issues since the 70s: the 
 Rocky Mountain Institute . The book, Natural Capitalism ,
 is a blueprint for a viable energy future. Make it required reading. is a penny earned.-->