Mothership kayaking, Home Shore, Southeast Alaska 

 &nbsp 
 Wild Capes, Great Crepes 

 Home 
 What's New 
 Bio 
 Services 
 Published Work 
 In The Field 

 SeaKayaking 
 SeaKayaking II 
 Surf/Whitewater 
 Mammals 
 Birds 
 Birds II 
 Wildflowers 
 Scenics 
 Tidepools 
 Pattern 

 FAQ 
 Equipment Sale 
 Essays 

 Contact Gary 

 May, 2003. "I wouldn't want to take a boat through here", I said, looking up from the chart
 to the rock-strewn entrance to Piehle Pass. "That's just why I wanted to", replied Jim Kyle,
 owner and captian of the kayak mothership Home Shore . 
 Kyle, 58, with 40+ years fishing in Southeast Alaska, fitted his seiner with two 
 staterooms - converting it to a full-time kayak mothership. I'm on
 board to photograph, and my wife Kate and I are lucky enough to stay in a 
 stateroom. We're thrilled. The first day out of Sitka we
 motor to a dream destination - the outside of 
 Chichagof - and inside the protection of barrier islands. It's a kayaker's
 paradise. 

 In ensuing days we paddle Chicagof and Yakobi, the head of Lisianski Inlet, and 
 then cruise 
 up the Gulf of Alaska to Lituya Bay. Kyle proves an uncanny navitator, playing the weather
 and designing the days so we always paddle (or fish or hike). 
 The kayaks and gear are supplied by the Home Shore. She takes just six guests, with a crew of 
 three (Captain Jim, kayak guide/first mate Ben Kyle, and chef Tara). 
 Most tours start in Sitka. 

 The kayak mothership is relatively new to Alaska, much more common in BC. The idea is to let a 
 ship take you paddling, and they supply the kayaks and gear, the 
 food, and sleeping quarters. The Home Shore, with two staterooms, plus space for two clients in the
 focle, typically accommodates six guests. it's
 you to kayak desitations to provide transport, 
 a kayak group to a remote area isit's a way to see remote places - explore the coasts and -->
 I stay on for a second tour - and a different route. The first evening we're 
 soaking in a thermal pool at Baranof Hot Springs, after paddling a waterfall coast at Kasnyku Bay. 
 Next stop is Tracy Arm, where we paddle as close as we dare
 toward calving
 tidewater glaciers (not as close as it looks). In Icy Strait, we paddle amid humpback whales as they
 devour schooling herring.
 Then we head outside, and paddle what Kyle calls an "inner sanctum" on Yakobi. On Chichagof, 
 we hike to White Sulfur Hot Springs for another soak. 
 All the while, sourdough pancakes or shrimp stir-fry or halibut crepes 
 keep rolling out of the galley. There's cold microbrews in the frige, books on the shelf,
 and conversation in the wheelhouse. Need private time? - we sit at the stateroom window to read
 or watch the shore slide on by. 
 I did a presentation on my kayak mothership experience at the Washington Kayak Club 
 in November. Afterward, one our older members came up and said,"You make
 this look real nice, but I grew up in the depression, and the thought of paying $400 a day 
 would make me choke on the crab." Kayakers pride themselves on self-sufficiency.
 A mothership is expensive. And I didn't pay for 
 this trip. I couldn't afford it. I still dream of self-contained paddling
 in SE.--> 

 It was Wild Side Easy, take II.

 More Wild Side Easy, take II images . . .