YaBB:: Forum Setup 

 Administration:: FAQ 

 Home 
 Introduction 
 Users 
 Registering 
 Logging In/Out 
 Profile 
 Posting 
 IM (Instant Message) 
 FAQ 

 Moderation 
 Moderator Actions 

 Administration 
 Introduction 
 Member Functions 
 Forum Functions 
 Forum Setup 
 FAQ 

 FAQ 

 Can There 
 Be Only One Admin? 
 How can I turn off some of those bloat-fish 
 features? 
 Ok, people are telling me the news screws up in 
 their browser!!! 
 Why are the colors funny in browsers that don't 
 support CSS? 

 Can There Be Only One Admin? 
 Well, that depends on what you are referring to. Ok, so you mean, "Is 
 there only one administrator?" Initially, when YaBB is first installed, 
 there is only ONE account by default, the "admin" account. This account 
 is the "main" admin. When you click on the link to modify a person's 
 profile, you have, as an Administrator, the ability to choose what membergroup 
 he/she is in at the bottom of the profile. One of the options is "YaBB 
 Administrator". YES, this means you can make someone else an administrator! 
 This does not remove your status as the administrator; it is rather 
 just a nice feature where you can give your best buddies the same privileges 
 as you have! We advise you to use GREAT caution when choosing other 
 administrators, as they have access to ALL of the settings of your board. 
 As the "original" or "main" admin, there is one option you have that 
 nobody else (even other admins have). In the membergroup dropdown box, 
 when modifying a profile, there should be a blank line option. This 
 allows you to take the membergroup completely off anyone, including 
 other people you set as an administrator! That's a handy feature. 
 How can I turn off some of those bloat-fish features? 

 Many of the features/add-ons in YaBB can be turned off via the "Admin 
 Center" or modified in Settings.pl. 
 Ok, people are telling me the news screws up in their 
 browser!!! 
 You have the option of turning the NewsFader off in Settings.pl... 
 some browsers don't like the java associated with this news ticker. 
 If you do this and still wish to have news, you'll need to put the tag 
 "<yabb news> " tag back into template.html. That tag 
 will put static news on every page of the forum, and YaBBC is not allowed 
 in your news in this case. 
 Why are the colors funny in browsers that don't support 
 CSS? 
 Because they don't support CSS, the color settings in Settings.pl will 
 control the colors in those browsers. Be sure that you set the colors 
 in template.html equivalent to those in Settings.pl. There will still 
 be a few quirks, but getting these settings to match your CSS tag in 
 template.html will resolve many issues. 

 YaBB : Copyright &copy; 2001-2003. Sponsored by XIMinc .
 All Rights Reserved.