Amps and EFX - Beginning The Quest For Tone 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Amps & EFX , Beginning The Quest For Tone 

 Beginning The Quest For Tone 

 How To Buy A Guitar Amp 
 Guitar Amps # 1 
 Published September 19, 2001 
 By Jeremy Ledford 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 You go into the store and buy it right? Yes, it could be 
 that simple. But, without proper information, one could end 
 up making a very costly mistake (trust me , I have). So, we 
 will delve into the world of tone and the steps to making 
 a more informed buying decision. 
 Because that's what you're looking to find &#150; the right 
 tone. Tone is the combination of your guitar, your amp, and 
 your fingers. The amp is crucial because it provides the 
 means for self expression. 
 This is the first installment of two articles that will try 
 to help you choose an amplifier. I will focus on beginning 
 players today and intermediate players in the next installment. 
 First, what style of music do you play? There aren't as many 
 amp choices as for guitars, but they are more or less designed 
 for specific groups of players and/or genres of music. This 
 doesn't mean one amp won't do most things in the world of 
 tone, but they usually shine in only a few areas. Last, but 
 definitely not least, PRICE!! Some of us can go out a buy 
 whatever our hearts desire, but for the majority of us, price 
 plays a major role in the search for tone. 
 Although I know you want to, as a beginning guitar player, 
 you don't need to go out and buy that massive Mesa or Marshall 
 stack or even a 2x12 combo amp. Start with something basic. 
 A small practice amp with an 8", 10", or 12" 
 speaker should be sufficient. Channel switching is very nice 
 to have. Channel switching allows you to go from dirty to 
 clean with push of a button on the front panel or with a switch 
 on the floor. Reverb, as well as chorus, is a nice option 
 to have. (Don't hold your breath for chorus, though.) These 
 features make playing much more fun. 
 I wouldn't spend more than $300 on an entry-level amp, and 
 that figure should probably end up somewhere between $100 
 and $200. I don't recommend buying below $100 dollars. 
 I don't think they sound all that good. At the sub-$300 price 
 level, pro tone hasn't entered the building, and tubes are 
 hard to find (there are a few, but we won't go into that here). 
 Decent noise can be had, though. For most tones, the entry 
 level amps of the major manufacturers are great buys. I would 
 stay away from tube amps, because they tend to show more mistakes. 
 This can be very frustrating when just starting out. All that 
 is needed is an amplifier that sounds relatively decent and 
 will keep you playing. 
 As a beginning guitar player, you don't have to play in the 
 store. Have the sales guy take a particular amplifier through 
 its paces. Listen closely to the amplifier. Is the sound clear? 
 If applicable, how does the reverb sound? Lush and warm or 
 "Boingy"? We want as close to lush and warm as possible. 
 Channel switching? Does it pop when changing the channels? 
 What kind of range do the knobs produce? A large margin of 
 frequency cutting is what we want here, for the purpose of 
 getting as many sounds as possible. (Cheaper amps only have 
 passive tone controls, i.e , they only cut frequencies. The 
 more expensive amplifiers can sometimes have active tone controls, 
 i.e., cutting and boosting of frequencies is possible. The 
 Peavey 5150 II is like this.) Remember that the sales dude 
 has most likely been playing with all these amps for 4 hours 
 a day for several years, and he may sound a lot better than 
 you do, but he also knows the amps. 
 If you do feel up to playing in the store, we need to define 
 some of the terms that you will find labeled on the amplifiers 
 and what some of the jacks on the front do. (Some of the amps 
 in the higher end of this category may have jacks/controls 
 on the back, too.) On the front the amplifier, you will find 
 one or two 1/4" input jacks labeled input. With two jacks, 
 they are either labeled high and low or 0db and -6db. The 
 high/0db input is for guitars with passive pickups, and the 
 low/-6db is for guitars with active pickups, which have a 
 higher output signal compared to passive pickups. The one, 
 lower input is padded to help control input distortion, which 
 can sound pretty bad. I have found that the only difference 
 is in volume with transistor amps, but your experiences may 
 differ. 
 Next are the controls. The number of controls can vary from 
 one to about twelve, and more have been seen. Generally, you 
 will find a volume control, a bass control, a middle control, 
 and a high control. These are pretty explanatory. Sometimes, 
 the volume control will be labeled post gain. On amps with 
 channel switching, a pre gain control is usually present. 
 This controls the amount of dirt or distortion. If you are 
 lucky enough to get an amplifier that has reverb, there will 
 be a control to adjust the amount of "echo" that 
 you hear, from none to full saturation. With amps that have 
 more than this minimum number of controls and channel switching, 
 a separate set of tone controls are usually added for the 
 clean channel, so that you don't have to use the same settings 
 on your clean channel that you use for your distortion channel. 
 With chorus, the controls are rate and depth. Rate is the 
 speed of the effect and depth is the amount of the effect 
 you hear. 
 For 
 power, ten to thirty watts is all that is really needed. Anything 
 more, and hearing loss (what? what did you say?), parents, 
 siblings, and neighbors become a problem. If the amp does 
 have channel switching, I strongly recommend purchasing the 
 footswitch that goes with it. You will thank me. Specific 
 manufacturers to look at are Peavey, Fender, Marshall, Randall, 
 and Waller (this is a new manufacturer that puts out some 
 great sounding amplifiers). If you do have the budget to get 
 an effects box along with the amp, I don't recommend getting 
 a distortion pedal. Let the amp do the work. Besides, noise 
 problems will usually pop up, especially with transistor amps. 
 In closing, choosing a starter amplifier is more about getting 
 a decent sound that will keep you playing than stroking your 
 ego or looking good in front of your friends with the latest 
 and greatest amplifier on the market. Imitating the tone of 
 your favorite guitar player isn't necessary, and can even 
 be foolish. If you spend alot of money and don't keep with 
 it, you have bought your self a very expensive door stop. 
 Remember, purchase what you want and listen to your ears!!! 
 Jeremy Ledford 2001-09-19 

 Jeremy 
 Ledford has been playing guitar for 14 years. After 
 just joining his first band recently he is also learning 
 how to build tube amplifiers. Jeremt intends to market 
 a line of boutique amplifiers that will hopefully compete 
 with the major manufacturers. Check out a link to his 
 music at http://briefcase.yahoo.com/lastwinj 

 Back to a 
 list of lessons in this series 
 Next lesson in this series 
 "Beginning the Quest for Tone 2" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.