Amps and EFX | Breaking The Law? 

 Buy 
 brand name guitar 
 strings for 60% less 
 Guitar 
 Secrets Revealed 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Amps & EFX , Breaking the Law? 

 Breaking The Law? 

 Amps & EFX # 2 

 Published September 18, 2001 
 By Stefan 
 Leonhardt 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Ok, you have a gig next weekend. 
 Your band has enough songs, you and your bandmates have your 
 parts down and rehearsals are sounding great. You're confident 
 that you'll pull it off without a sweat, nothing can stop 
 you. Nothing? Nothing except a phenomenon called Murphy's 
 Law. 
 In case you don't know your law: 
 Murphy's Law says that if something can go wrong, it will 
 go wrong and it will go wrong in a way that it has the worst 
 possible effects. The more electronics and gear are involved, 
 the greater the chance of something not functioning. Granted, 
 this is quite pessimistic, but nonetheless, chances are that 
 at any gig some minor things can and will go wrong: A string 
 can break (nice when it happens on a Floyd Rose equipped guitar 
 in mid-solo), a cable might stop working or a battery is 
 flat. The possibilities are endless. The audience won't mind 
 as long as the show can go on and it is entertained. And fortunately, 
 there's a lot you can do to prepare for Murphy's law to make 
 sure that you can keep going. Some preparation also can reduce 
 the stress potential of a gig tremendously and help you concentrate 
 on your music. 
 For a start, make sure all your 
 equipment is in good working condition. That means that you 
 check the batteries in the tuner and in the stomp boxes you 
 use and in doubt replace them before the gig. If necessary, 
 put on new strings - on all the guitars you're going to use. 
 Don't just replace one or two strings, put on a complete 
 new set . This will give a more balanced sound than four 
 old and two new strings. 
 It is a matter of taste when 
 to change strings. It depends how long and often you play, 
 how much you sweat and how clean your hands are before you 
 pick up the instrument. There are other factors, too. For 
 example, I don't like the feeling of completely new strings 
 so I put them on before the last rehearsal to "break 
 them in". Stretch new strings to make sure they stay 
 in tune and check the intonation . Don't forget to take 
 a look at your chords and amp, too. 
 Your band should agree on a set 
 list before the gig and stick to it - no discussions on stage 
 about which song to play now. Also choose a couple of encore 
 songs. If you're using a lot of different sounds and effects 
 (a programmable multi-effect unit for example), take a long 
 look at that list and program your sounds so that you have 
 only a minimal amount of switching to do on stage and there 
 is no unnecessary delay between songs. Furthermore, write 
 the program number(s) you use next to the song on the set 
 list - stage fright can make you even forget the name of your 
 mother-in-law. Searching for the right program number and 
 sound on stage will not amuse the audience. 
 I hope your guitar case or gig 
 bag has plenty of room for those things that might save you 
 when Murphy's Law puts its head through the door at your gig. 
 Here's my list: 

 spare strings, preferably two complete sets and maybe 
 one or two extra high e-strings 
 all the tools you need to change strings and set up your 
 guitar (adjust intonation): 
 screwdrivers, allen wrenches, a string winder, a string 
 cutter ... 
 a good tuner, preferably one with a needle and lighted 
 display 
 spare batteries: at least one for the tuner, if you use 
 stomp box effects with batteries a couple more - oh, and 
 make sure before the gig that the spare batteries still 
 have power left (Jeff Beck used nearly empty batteries in 
 his distortion boxes to get a certain sound, but I doubt 
 that the majority of your audience would like it today) 
 spare cables: if you plug straight into the amp, one is 
 enough, if you have more cables in your setup (for example 
 because you use the effect loop of your amp), two or three 
 if you have a tube amp, some replacement tubes 
 some extra fuses for your amp 
 a torchlight - ever tried to replace an amp fuse on a 
 dark stage? 
 duct tape: if you use a lot of effects or have a lot of 
 cables lying around the stage, tape them down so nobody 
 trips over them and pulls them out by accident 
 a knife: cutting duct tape without one is difficult at 
 best 
 pen and paper: there's always something to write down, 
 maybe even your phone number for the record company exec 
 who saw your gig 
 a multiple adaptor 

 Do I take all those things with me? To be honest, no I don't 
 and here's why: When I play a gig, I take at least two guitars 
 with me for sound variations. That means, I probably can get 
 by with less spare strings - changing guitars in mid-set is 
 also faster than replacing a string. Ever since the day my 
 tube amp stopped working in mid-gig, I've brought a solid 
 state replacement amp to every gig. Yes, it's more to carry, 
 but it also saves time (no need to replace tubes or a fuse 
 in the middle of your gig). Thus, I get by without replacement 
 tubes or extra fuses. 
 Remember: Even if you are fine 
 and have no problems, your second guitar player or the bassist 
 might be less well-prepared and then one of your extra instrument 
 cords might come in handy. 
 Preparing for a gig does not 
 start or end with the gear, nor with rehearsing your set list 
 until you can play it in your sleep. If you're interested, 
 there's a very interesting article on www.activebass.com 
 (under articles) called "Preparing for the gig" 
 that deals a bit with time-management before the gig. And 
 there's also the field of getting ready for the gig mentally, 
 but that's for maybe another time. 
 Stefan Leonhardt 2001-09-18 
 Back 
 to top 

 Previous lesson in 
 this series "GAS Powered" 

 Next lesson in 
 this series "Loop Garou" 

 Copyright 2001 Guitar Noise. All rights 
 reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.