Amps and EFX | GAS Powered 

 Buy 
 brand name guitar 
 strings for 60% less 
 Guitar 
 Secrets Revealed 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Amps & EFX , GAS Powered 

 GAS POWERED 

 Amps & EFX # 1 

 Published September 04, 2001 
 By Stefan 
 Leonhardt 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Most of us guitarists suffer 
 from an affliction called GAS - G ear A cquisition 
 S yndrome. That means we are buying gear nearly compulsively 
 - more and more often than we really need. I am definitely 
 no exception here. We often spend more time shopping and 
 searching for gear than playing guitar - it's like an addiction: 
 difficult to stop and expensive (though I have not yet discovered 
 negative effects on my health, but my wife tells me "one 
 more guitar and ..."). 
 What do we basically need to 
 play guitar? One guitar, one amp, a guitar cord, and a pick. 
 Now when I look around my house 
 - and I'm pretty sure I'm not the exception - I see a lot 
 more than that. Do I really need all the gear I have? How 
 do I justify buying even more? 
 I can think of a number of reasons 
 for this behavior. 

 I sound bad, I suck! Remedy? A new amp/guitar/effect 
 will help me get the sound I'm hearing in my head! 
 I want to sound like Santana, so I'll buy a PRS Santana, 
 a Mesa Boogie amp, a Fender amp and a couple of effects. 
 One year later, my Santana days are over and now Steve Vai 
 is my hero. That means, I'll get an Ibanez Universe guitar, 
 the Carvin Steve Vai amp and an Eventine harmonizer. 
 I want to be as versatile and flexible as I can, I want 
 a huge variety of different sounds because I play/enjoy 
 a lot of different styles, play in a Top 40 band, or I'm 
 a studio musician. Thus, I need a Telecaster and a Fender 
 Twin for playing country, a Les Paul and a Marshall for 
 rock and a Gibson ES335 and a Roland Jazz chorus for jazz. 
 I just like guitars and gear - I collect them. 

 I don't know about you, but #s 
 3 and 4 definitely apply to me and I had a time when # 1 was 
 also an important reason. Maybe there are some points above 
 where you nodded your head and said "Yes, I can relate 
 to that, I had the same experience" and maybe you shook 
 your head after some points and thought "This is stupid." 
 Here are some of my thoughts 
 concerning these points: 
 A good guitar player still sounds 
 good even with a crappy guitar and a cheap amp. A number of 
 years ago, I went to a guitar workshop and as I had to go 
 by train, I took a cheap Squier Strat with me. All the people 
 at the workshop plugged their guitars into Marshall combos. 
 The guy in charge of the workshop was a Canadian studio musician 
 - sorry I forgot his name. 
 To make the story short: he made 
 a point of playing every guitar that people brought to the 
 workshop and he sounded great with each one, even playing 
 my cheap Squier I always had thought unable to produce a great 
 sound (this was the last in a row of experiences that cured 
 me from thinking along the lines of #1). He did this to show 
 exactly that: the sound is first and foremost in your hands, 
 not in the gear. 
 So ... if you think you sound 
 bad, do some self-evaluation before you run out and buy new 
 gear. Get the opinion of other people, have a friend play 
 through your gear. Is it really a new amp you need or more 
 practice (no doubt, new gear can motivate one to practice 
 more ...)? 
 Of course, a good amp and guitar 
 supports the player, but the basics are in one's hands. 
 I'd go as far and say that 80 
 to 90 % of a player's sound comes basically from his hands 
 and not the gear he's using. Case in point, a couple of years 
 ago, Eddie Van Halen and Ted Nugent met backstage. Both were 
 interested in the other's gear and so they switched guitars 
 and amps. Eddie took Ted's Gibson semi-acoustic and Ted plugged 
 Eddie's Kramer Strat into Eddie's Marshall. Both were surprised 
 that Eddie still sounded like Eddie and Ted still like Ted 
 - of course there was a small difference to their usual sound 
 but everybody could tell who was who. 
 It boils down to the fact that 
 you can buy the same gear your hero uses and still not sound 
 like him or her. If you don't play similar licks and phrases, 
 the same gear won't help you. Furthermore, you might copy 
 the sound , but you can't copy tone . Tone is 
 the sum of the equipment, the licks and phrases and the playing 
 technique of the player (his vibrato, the way he bends, slides, 
 picks, where he picks, with how much strength and so on). 

 Another thought is - do you really 
 want to copy somebody else? Sound like somebody else? Or would 
 you rather be you? 
 So when somebody asks me, how 
 he can sound like Nirvana, I of course can ramble on about 
 the equipment Cobain used, but would it help? Could you afford 
 all the stuff Kurt had (or Steve Vai has)? Is your technique 
 the same as Kurt's? Chances are, you won't sound like him. 
 I can give you some advice on 
 what to buy to sound close to a famous guitarist, maybe even 
 without spending thousands, but keep the above in mind. 
 Ok, if the gear is only a small 
 part of the sound, why then do some players change guitars 
 so often? Why do studio musicians come to some jobs with a 
 whole van filled with gear? 
 Their basic tone is the same, 
 no matter the gear. But of course, different gear provides 
 some variations in the sound of an artist (the 10 to 20% missing 
 from above) - for obvious and not so obvious reasons. 
 Listen to Cream and Eric Clapton. 
 He plays Gibson guitars (sometimes an SG, sometimes an ES335). 
 Then listen to a 70s recording of Clapton or Derek and the 
 Dominos, a Fender Stratocaster is used here. You can still 
 tell it's Clapton, but the sound is (slightly) different. 
 The blues can be played with 
 a Stratocaster (SRV), a Telecaster (Albert Collins), a Gibson 
 Les Paul (Gary Moore), a Gibson semi-acoustic (BB King) or 
 any other guitar, but the sound will be different. 
 On the other hand, there is certain 
 gear that lends itself better to certain styles - a Marshall 
 amp has a lot of "bite" and is ideal for rock, but 
 because of this "bite", it's not very suitable for 
 jazz. 
 But don't forget to experiment. 
 The most unlikely combination of gear (people tell you "You 
 can't play country on a Les Paul, you won't sound country") 
 might be exactly YOUR sound, a sound that distinguishes you 
 from the masses. 
 Players also experiment and find 
 that they are more comfortable with a certain guitar when 
 playing a certain style. This brings us to another point. 
 Different gear might make you 
 feel different. You might feel more comfortable with a certain 
 amp/guitar, you might feel more "country" and unconsciously 
 use more typical country phrases when playing a Telecaster 
 as your subconscious associates this instrument with country. 
 It affects your playing and the way you sound. 
 Another aspect is the discussion 
 solid state amps vs tube amps. Solid state amps have come 
 a long way and there are some good enough that the listener 
 would be hard pressed to notice the difference to a tube 
 amp. But those amps feel different for the player , 
 they don't respond as well as tube amps (more on this in a 
 later column). 
 So, different guitars and amps 
 might mean more difference to the player in a certain situation 
 ("Guitar XY feels better when I play the blues, but guitar 
 Z feels better for rock" - or as Laura and Lee would 
 say: &#147;The Blue guitar sounds better for Blues, and the 
 Red guitar is better for Rock&#148;) than to the listener, 
 who might not even perceive a big change in your sound/playing. 

 Therefore, #3 might be a valid 
 point. Just ask yourself if you really need all the stuff 
 you have or plan to buy in order to get all the variety you 
 need. 
 What can I say concerning #4 
 - there's no hope for a cure. If one likes collecting gear, 
 how can you argue against that? He even admits that he doesn't 
 need it all. 
 Ok, that's it for this time - 
 I guess next time I'll ramble a bit about effects generally 
 before starting to write about the different effects and what 
 they do. And I plan to write about how to choose the right 
 amp for you ... hmm, don't know yet, maybe you will tell me. 
 I hope you give me some feedback, and if you want to comment 
 on what I wrote or argue some points, please feel free to 
 do so. 
 Stefan Leonhardt 2001-09-04 
 Back 
 to top 

 Back to a list of lessons 
 in this series 

 Next lesson in 
 this series "Breaking The Law" 

 Copyright 2001 Guitar Noise. All rights 
 reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.