Amps and EFX - Loop Garou 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Amps & EFX , Loop Garou 

 Loop Garou 

 Amps & EFX # 3 
 Published November 12, 2001 
 By Stefan 
 Leonhardt 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Most amps today have more sockets 
 than just "input". Chances are, your amp also has 
 two labeled "send" and "return" - the 
 Effects Loop. What's it good for other than a feature that 
 might give the salesman more to talk about? 
 Well ... 
 The signal that "travels" through your amplifier 
 normally takes the following route: 
 Input - Preamp with EQ section (generally responsible for 
 sound and - if you want - overdrive) - Power amp (generally 
 responsible for volume, although with tube power amps the 
 sound is also shaped). 

 All well and good, the problem is that some effects 
 (modulating effects like chorus or delay effects like delay 
 and reverb) work and sound better if they come after any 
 distortion or gain that is applied to your guitar signal. 
 For example, it would not sound too good if you put the 
 reverb before the overdrive. Why is that so? In short, you 
 want a reverb on your overdriven signal, not an overdriven 
 reverb. 
 There are some basic rules that "govern" 
 where to put effects in the signal chain (I'll add more specific 
 information in later articles when talking about the specific 
 effects): 

 If the effect modulates the signal, put it after any preamps 
 or overdrive/distortion boxes. 
 If the effect boosts the signal, put it before overdrive 
 (a compressor for example). 
 There are no rules! Break them, experiment! 

 Now without the effect loop, all you can do is put your effect 
 boxes between your guitar and the input of the amp. If you 
 use an overdrive/distortion box for your sound and not the 
 amp's "hot" channel, all is well as long as you 
 remember to have the overdrive/distortion among the first 
 effects your signal travels through, in most cases before 
 effects like chorus, delay, reverb, flanger etc (see text 
 above). 
 But if you use your amp's overdrive channel, you get the 
 problems described above (the effect box with the delay now 
 comes before the overdrive). This is where the effect loop 
 comes in. The guitar signal comes from your amp's preamp and 
 through "send" goes into those effects that should 
 be put behind any overdrive. The signal comes back into your 
 amp through the "return" socket. There are little 
 switches inside these sockets that make sure the signal goes 
 to the right place, depending on whether a cable is plugged 
 in or not. Therefore, you should have all the stomp boxes 
 that should come before overdrive between your guitar and 
 the amp's input and all the boxes that should come after overdrive 
 after your amp's preamp in the effect loop. 

 "Ok, but I've got a multi-efx 
 unit - what can I do now?" (Please note that in my eyes, 
 something like a POD is just a sort of multi-efx: different 
 effects - overdrive being an effect - and a way to save the 
 parameters and sounds)? 
 If you want to use your amp only to amplify the great sounds 
 you've programmed into your multi, you don't want the signal 
 to pass the amp's preamp because the preamp EQ section will 
 color that sound. You want the signal to go straight to the 
 power amp. So the signal path is: guitar - multi efx input 
 - multi efx output - amp "return". Remember to switch 
 off the multi-efx's "speaker simulation" - you don't 
 need it, your amp has a guitar speaker, so why emulate one 
 in addition? 
 If you want to use your amp's sound, things get more complicated. 

 a) easy way of doing it: Use your amp's clean and overdrive 
 sounds and the multi-efx only to provide the effects that 
 should come after overdrive/distortion. Put the multi into 
 the effect loop. 
 b) But I want the full monty: I want to use the overdrive 
 sounds of my amp and my multi and the effects of my multi-efx 
 that usually come before overdrive (compressor for example)! 
 Gulp ... just hope your multi-efx has an effect loop, too. 
 The signal path then is: guitar - multi - efx input - multi 
 efx "send" (the signal has now passed the effects 
 that should come before gain and the multi's overdrive section) 
 - amp input - amp "send" (the signal has now passed 
 the gain section of the amp) - multi-efx "return" 
 - multi-efx output (the signal has now passed the effects 
 that belong after the gain stage) - amp's "return" 
 - the signal now "reaches" the power amp. 

 Try it, but remember to turn the volume down before you 
 switch everything on - you might have to adjust quite 
 a bit of controls to make it work (the volume and gain controls 
 of your multi's effects, the input sensitivity of the multi 
 ...). 
 Some amps have a series others a parallel effect 
 loop. With a series effect loop, the guitar signal (=your 
 sound) comes from the preamp of your amp, "leaves" 
 your amp through the send jack, runs through the inserted 
 effect and comes back through the return jack. 100% of 
 your signal goes through the effect. Many people have 
 found that their sound suffers (great tube amps and - perhaps 
 cheaper - digital effects => maybe loss of sound). 
 The solution was the parallel loop: with the control, 
 you control how much of your original signal leaves the amp 
 and passes through the effect. The "remaining" signal 
 stays in your amp, preserving much of your sound, and is "joined" 
 again by the signal coming back from the effect, now with 
 effects on it. So you can mix the dry (without effect) and 
 the wet (with effects) signals, but keep in mind that you 
 won't hear much of the effects if you only put a tiny part 
 of your signal through the effect box. The effects in the 
 loop should be set so that they let out no original signal 
 but 100% effect signal. You decide with the parallel effect 
 knob how much effect you want. 
 Hope you're still with me next time when we start talking 
 about the individual effects. 
 Stefan Leonhardt 2001-11-12 
 Previous 
 lesson in this series "Breaking The Law?" 
 Next to a list of lessons 
 in this series 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.