THE FOLLOWING DOES NOT CONSTITUTE MEDICAL ADVICE. CONSULT YOUR PHYSICIAN
BEFORE STARTING ANY NON-SURGICAL FORESKIN RESTORATION TECHNIQUE. YOUR
PHYSICIAN MY HAVE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.

INFORMATION

The most comprehensive source of information about foreskin restoration
is "The Joy of Uncircumcising" by Jim Bigelow. The book is available in
many libraries and can be ordered from just about any bookstore. The
second edition was published in early 1995.

TAPE

Most of the materials needed for foreskin restoration are readily
available at retail stores. The most important is tape.

Medical tape can be found at just about any drug store. (Athletic tapes
should probably be avoided.) You'll probably have to try a number of
different types before you find the one that works best for you. Some
people like the paper tapes, others prefer the clear plastic tape, most
use a non-allergic cloth tape.

Besides standard tapes, some people use elastic tapes that allow a tape
ring to be retracted for urination. One tape in particular that has
been mentioned on the mailing list is available only at some medical
supply houses. It is made by Kendall and it is called Conform. Other
elastic tapes include Elastoplast and one made by Johnson & Johnson.

Some men have reported using "ouchless" bandaids instead of tape to
create tape straps. A hole for urination can be made in the middle of
the bandaid with a hole punch.

O-RINGS

An alternative to tape is the o-ring. Once the foreskin is inserted
into the o-ring, the o-ring sits in the same position as the tape of a
tape ring would. The o-ring should be small enough not to fall off
easily but large enough that it does not damage the skin. As always,
if it hurts, don't do it!

O-rings are available in the plumbing section of most hardware store
for well under one dollar.

BEYOND TAPE

At some point in a restoration program, even a tape ring no longer
promotes the growth of new skin. At that point, if the program is to be
continued, it is necessary to use other techniques. (These techniques
can also be used before the tape ring becomes ineffective.) There are
two basic techniques. The first is to place a cone, ballbearing, or
other device inside the tape ringed foreskin. The other, which can be
combined with the first technique, involves stretching the foreskin with
a weight or elastic cord.

Stainless steel ball bearings

 Most bearing suppliers have to special order stainless steel ball
 bearings and have minimum quantity requirements. However, marine
 bearing suppliers usually stock stainless steel bearings and can
 sell them in quantities of one or two.

Foam 

 Foam can be carved into cones.

Friendly Plastic

 This stuff can be molded into any shape when warm. When it cools
 off, it hardens. Thus it can be used to make a custom fitted cone.

 Available at many Art or Craft Supply retailers for about $2 a
 package.

COMMERCIAL HARDWARE

 A cottage industry has sprung up to create products to assist in
 foreskin restoration. These are mostly one-man companies that exist
 solely to sell a single foreskin restoration product.

The prices given below were accurate in 1994. Please contact the company
to verify the price before ordering.

FOREBALLS

 FOREBALLS are two stainless steel bearings welded with a 1/4" x 5/8"
 stainless rod between them. The standard FOREBALLS use one 1"
 bearing and one 1 1/4" bearing and weigh 7.5 oz. They are also
 available with two 1 1/4" bearings (10 oz) or one 1 1/4" bearing and
 one 1 1/2" bearing (12.5 oz).

 Price: $100

 For more information, contact:
 R. Wayne Griffiths
 3205 Northwood
 Drive Suite 209
 Concord, CA 94520-4506
 (925) 827-4077

The PUD ( Penile
Un-circumcising Device )

 The PUD is basically a 1 1/8" (or 1 3/8") stainless steel cylinder
 with a hole drilled through the center.

 Price: $130 plus $15.00 shipping and handling

 For information or to order call (800) 628-1852. Made by the P.U.D.
 Co. Makers of Body Jewelry

Second Skin (TM) Foreskin Restoration Cones

 The Second Skin cones come in a sets of three. The cones range in
 length from about 2 inches to about 5 inches in length. The are
 available in both weighted and non-weighted versions.

 Price: $48.95 plus $5.00 shipping and handling. Allow 3-4 weeks for
 delivery.

 For more information, contact:
 Second Skin Products Co. Inc.
 Dept 41
 1335 Kentucky Street
 New Orleans, LA 70117

Sensi-tip

 Sensi-tip was a replacement for tape. It consisted of two velcro
 rings attached by a stripe of material (forming an H pattern). The
 company that produced it seems to have gone out of business.