                NON-SURGICAL FORESKIN RESTORATION
                ---------------------------------
                    The Stretching Procedure
 
 
NOTE:     This information was originally published by the BUFF
          (Brothers United for Future Foreskins) organization,
          and should not be construed as medical advice.  The
          information is general and does not apply to any one
          person.
 
 
WHAT TO EXPECT FROM RESTORATION
-------------------------------
 
Regardless of your choice to stretch or go ahead with a surgical
procedure, EVERYONE who has gone through a restoration procedure
reports a substantial increase in the sensitivity of the glans
(head of the penis) after a few weeks of being recovered.
 
Surgery is not for everyone, and this information is an
alternative to the surgical procedure.  While the surgical
procedure offers instant results, it should be noted that the
taping method described herein requires a great deal of time and
patience and most importantly, EMOTIONAL FORTITUDE.
 
Stretching usually progresses in three stages:  Initial,
Equilibrium, and Extension.  The following are instructions for
the Initial stage.
 
First measure the penis limp, along the top from the base to the
tip.  Next measure how far you can pull the skin up over the head
during erection, both with light finger pressure and then with as
much force as you can WITHOUT CAUSING PAIN.  Record these
measurements, because they will be used as a guide to your
progress.  The measurements taken during erection are the most
accurate ones because the size of the flaccid penis can vary
greatly.
 
THE TAPE STRAP
--------------
 
After a hot bath, to make the skin soft and loose, pull it as far
forward over the head as possible, WITHOUT CAUSING PAIN.  Use a
piece of tape to strap it in place, running the tape side to side
instead or top to bottom .  Tapping side to side will make it
easier to urinate with the tape in place.  For some people, it
may be easier to sit down and urinate.
 
TAPING TECHNIQUE; "THE FINE POINTS"
-----------------------------------
 
To gain somewhat better adhesion from the tape you are using, you
can paint the skin with tincture of benzoin, which is also known
as friar's balsam.  It may be purchased at any pharmacy.  Coat
the skin with one layer to assist the skin in accepting the tape. 
It is essential to avoid pain, natures way of telling you that
you are hurting yourself.  Pain from taping too tightly suggests
that you are causing internal tears in the skin, which will scar
and contract as they heal, impeding your progress.  If an
erection causes pain, remove the tape IMMEDIATELY.  Some complain
that erections cause the tape to come off.  Others complain that
erections with the tape in place are painful.  All of this varies
with the individual and some people make no complaints
whatsoever.
 
For those circumcised very tightly, there will not be enough skin
to cover the glans at first.  In this case, it is important not
to let the tape touch and stick to the head, since removing the
tape will be painful.  A square of tape face to face with the
strap, where it contacts the glans, will prevent this.  Some men
prefer using BAND-AID strips.  Another way to prevent the tape
from sticking to the head is to apply a light coat of VASELINE,
being careful not to get any on the skin of the shaft.
 
It is also important that the skin of the penis be clean and free
from sweat and body oils, which will impede the adhesion of the
tape.  After the tape is in place, the head must be free inside
the skin so that it can move and exert forward pressure, which is
what will stretch the shaft skin.  Handling the penis may cause
an erection which makes taping difficult.  Wait until the
erection subsides before attempting to continue.  You will notice
with the tape in place the penis will be FORESHORTENED and the
gentle tension on the skin from the pressure of the glans will
cause stretching.  Erections also help stretching, if they are
not painful.
 
For full effect, it is best to wear boxer shorts that let the
penis hang free, rather than briefs which support the penis and
tend to limit the tension of the stretching. 
 
HOW LONG WILL IT TAKE?
----------------------
 
The size of the penis, the length of the head, and the amount of
skin which was circumcised will affect how quickly you get the
results you want.  Your goal is also important.  Some men want
just enough skin to cover the head.  Others want more.  The most
important factor is the effort and persistence used.  The time
required varies widely between individuals.  In stretching, some
men have attained full coverage in four months, while others have
taken longer.  The process can take as long as one to two years.
 
THE RESULTS
-----------
 
Usually, the first result notice is a change in the color and
texture of the glans, which becomes pink and moist from being
constantly covered, and regains sensitivity.  This happens within
a few weeks.  The skin will stretch noticeable for a week or so,
then it will "rest" for a few days.  This leads to initial
elation on your part when the results are visible, and
disappointment when the visible progress stops.  A similar "stop
and go" effect occurs with body builders and dieters. 
PERSISTENCE and AVOIDANCE OF DISCOURAGEMENT when the skin is
"resting" is vital to your long term success!
 
THE SCHEDULE
------------
 
It is important to keep the tape on CONSTANTLY!  Only constant
tension will stretch the skin permanently.  It is a mistake to
try to speed up the process by sudden sharp pulls.  This can
cause internal scars.  You can remove the tape for washing, and
obviously for sexual encounters, but if you do not remain taped
for almost 24 hours each day, progress will be much slower. 
Although it seems to be a waste of time to remain taped when
nothing actually appears to be happening, it is important to keep
the glans covered to regain and maintain sensitivity.
 
RECORD YOUR PROGRESS
--------------------
 
Keep a written record of your progress, and if you can, take
photographs each month.  It is a psychological boost to actually
see tangible proof of progress each month.
 
WARNINGS
--------
 
DO NOT use clamps, elastic, weights or any other material that
may cause injury, in an effort to speed up the process.  In
particular, do not risk cutting off the blood supply in the skin,
as this can lead to serious consequences.  There are three ways
to tell if the blood supply is being restricted:
 
     1.   If there is any pain, it means the tape is too tight.
 
     2.   If the skin turns blue and feels cool to the touch.
 
     3.   To test for constriction, press your finger on the skin
          hard for about 15 seconds.  Remove your finger.  The
          spot pressed will be lighter in color.  If it does not
          return to normal color within six to twelve seconds,
          the blood flow is impaired.  Loosen the tape.
 
THE TAPE RING
-------------
 
Once the skin has stretched somewhat you will be able to use a
tape ring.
 
If you were not cut tightly, and have enough skin, you can start
out with the tape ring.  Stretch the skin out beyond the glans
and wrap a half-inch wide piece of tape around it, tightly enough
to hold it in place, but not so tight as to interfere with
urination or stop blood circulation.  As a rule, if urine will
pass, so will the blood.  If the ring is too loose, it may slip
back behind the glans and cause constriction, which can be
painful and cut off blood circulation to the head.  If this
happens, remove the tape at once and reapply it forming a smaller
ring that will be less likely to slip back.
 
Some people with unusual problems should stretch under the
supervision of a sympathetic doctor.  However, most people can do
it alone.  In any event, it is recommended that you thoroughly
familiarize yourself with the procedures described before trying
it.  Most of the problems occur from not reading the material
completely.
 
PENILE HYGIENE
--------------
 
Contrary to the old wives tale, it is not necessary to wash the
penis every day.  Cleanliness of the penis has been
OVER-EMPHASIZED for many years and this is one or the main
reasons for routine circumcision being performed today.
 
After a week or so of being taped, you may notice a whitish
secretion collecting under the skin.  This is smegma, which is
simply cast off skin cells from the top layer.  It is not harmful
in any way.  The only reason to wash it off is to remove the
odor, if you find it offensive.
 
Do not forcibly remove the tape for washing.  Let it loosen from
naturale body oils and perspiration.  When it has worked loose
enough to enable you to remove the tape without pain, you can
wash.  Washing requires only warm water.  If you wish to use
soap, make certain that it is a mild soap.  You may find that
using a strong soap on the newly sensitized glans may cause
irritation.
 
RECOMMENDED PUBLICATIONS
------------------------
 
FORESKIN by Bud Berkeley (available from Bud Berkeley, P.O. Box
26011, San Francisco, CA 94126)
 
FORESKIN RESTORATION by Mark Waring (out of print)
 
THE JOY OF UNCIRCUMCISING (available from UNCIRC, P.O. Box 52138,
Pacific Grove, CA 93950)
 
DECIRCUMCISION (available from Added Dimensions Publishing, 4216
Beverly Blvd, Suite 262, Los Angeles, CA 90004
 
SAY NO TO CIRCUMCISION (available from NOCIRC, P.O. Box 2512, San
Anselmo, CA 94949)
