JBM - PM

 [Ballistics] 
 [Bibliography] 
 [Downloads] 
 [JBM] 
 [Links] 
 [MPM] 
 [PM] 
 [Personal] 
 [Software] 

 JBM - PM

 PM is a Windows DLL designed for writing point mass small arms ballistics
 programs. PM is written in the C language and compiled with Borland C++.

 NOTE: This version is really a beta version. All functionality is included,
 all have been tested (by me) and no more functionality will be added, but 
 there may be some bugs which I will fix as soon as I know about them (I don't
 currently know of any!) As I fix bugs, I'll note the
 changes .

 Some of the functionality includes:

 Automatic unit conversion
 Multiple ballistic coefficients (linear interpolation)
 ICAO atmosphere routines
 Multiple drag functions or user defined CD vs Mach Number
 Muzzle velocity correction for distance to chronograph
 Variable sight height and offset
 Wind profiles (3D wind as a function of range)
 Output includes range, drop, windage, velocity, mach number, energy,
 momentum and time, corrected muzzle velocity and point blank range
 Drop and windage unit calculations including inches, feet, cm, MOA,
 mils, etc.

 An example program is provided that 
 produces very simple output . All 
 the input values are "hard-wired" and this example is only designed to show some 
 of the function calls. Here is a 
 Delphi (Object Pascal) console application that produces the same output as 
 example1.c using the 
 pm.pas import unit.

 If you're using something other than a C compiler, you will probably need 
 to know that the DLL is compiled with all functions export with a prefixed 
 underscore. A .DEF shows the
 exported functions and ordinal numbers.

 The DLL is downloadable here . The Linux
 shared library is available here . 
 Documentation for the PM DLL is a group of HTML files, downloadable
 here . Documentation is also 
 online .

 The PM DLL is free for private and non-profit use. If you make money (in any
 way) from this DLL, you must purchase the source code. Please read the
 license .

 If you would like to purchase the source, or have questions about it, contact
 me . You will be required to sign a 
 license and non-disclosure agreement. An example of the source code is
 provided here . The file interp.c 
 includes the interpolation routines used for wind and drag interpolation.
 The file pm.h is the include file 
 providing prototypes for all exported functions. After you purchase the source
 code, you may modify it, use all of it, parts of it for anything you see fit.
 You may NOT redistribute the source code in source/printed form.

 Last update 29 June 2004, Copyright &copy; 1996-2004
 JBM 
 [V]