A Guide to The Thin Red Line 

 A Guide to The Thin Red Line 

 Do you find The Thin Red Line elliptical? Have you ever wondered
why there are so many loving shots of parrots? Do you want to learn more
about the multiple meanings of the film? If so, you've come to the right
place! 

 Do you have a film or other text that I should know about? Email me! 

 Film references 

In Film Comment reviewer Gavin Smith writes: "There has truly never
been a film about modern war quite like this one..." He's right that
 The Thin Red Line represents a new achievement in film. Director
Terrence Malick also combines the new with the old by building in
references to films that influenced him in the making of The Thin Red
Line . Since Malick doesn't give interviews, it's no small feat to
identify his film references, but the pay-off is deepened understanding of
the film. 

 Note Beforehand: In order to properly analyse The Thin Red Line 
in relation to the films referenced in it, I have to discuss the endings
of some of those films. If you're worried about having the ending of the
films SPOILED for you, please turn back now. 

 From Here to Eternity 

Perhaps one of the most obvious choices of films for Malick to refer to in
 The Thin Red Line is its cinematic predecessor From Here to
Eternity (1952) directed by Fred Zinneman, with Burt Lancaster as
gruff First Sergeant Warden, Deborah Kerr as Warden's married lover Karen
Holmes, Montgomery Clift as rebellious Private Prewitt, Donna Reed as
Prewitt's lover Lureen/Alma, and Frank Sinatra as Prewitt's friend. Like
 The Thin Red Line, From Here to Eternity is based on the
novel by James Jones. 

 More similarities 

 From Here to Eternity 
 The Thin Red Line 
 One of the protagonists is named Private Robert E. Lee Prewitt, a
Kentucky soldier who stopped boxing after injuring his friend in a match

 One of the protagonists is named Private Robert Witt, a Kentucky
soldier whose boxing an officer lands him in trouble (note: this happened
in Malick's second draft script, but not in the film) 
 Prewitt is transferred to a company whose corrupt commanding
officer abuses him in order to get Prewitt to join the company boxing team

 Witt is upset at being transferred to a stretcher-bearing outfit,
punishment for being AWOL 
 Orphaned at the age of 17, Prewitt loves the army even if it
mistreats him 
 His mother died and Witt loves the army even if it might kill him

 First Sergeant Warden is called "top," short for "topkick" 
 First Sergeant Welsh is called "top" 
 First Sergeant Warden hides his compassion for the ill-treated
Prewitt behind a gruff exterior 
 First Sergeant Welsh hides his compassion for his suffering men behind
a cynical exterior 
 Warden feels contempt for his corrupt, lazy, incompetent captain. 

 Welsh feels contempt for his captain and threatens to knock his teeth 
out. 
 WARDEN: You been in the army what now, Prewitt, five years, five
and a half? 
PREWITT: Yeah. 
WARDEN: Don't you think it's about time you got smart? 
 WELSH (to WITT): How many times you been AWOL? You been in the army
what, six years now? Ain't it time you smartened up? 
 WARDEN (to PREWITT): You know what you did just now when you
turned down Dynamite Holmes? You put your head in the noose. 
 WELSH (to WITT):You haven't changed at all, have you, Witt? You
haven't learned a thing. All a man has to do is leave it to you, you put
your head in the noose for him. 
 PREWITT (to the company boxers): I ain't fighting. I quit
fighting. You guys wanna put the screws on me, you go right ahead. I can
take anything you can dish out. 
 WITT (to WELSH): I can take anything you dish out. I am twice the man
you are. 
 PREWIT (to WARDEN): I ain't smart. 
 WITT (to WELSH): We can't all be smart. 
 Prewitt goes AWOL towards the end of the film, after killing the
man who beat his best friend Maggio to death 
 Witt goes AWOL at the beginning of the film 
 Prewitt sneaks back to his company to help after the Japanese
attack Pearl Harbour but he's shot and killed by a patrolling soldier
after refusing to identify himself 
 Witt lures the enemy away to help save the lives of his company
comrades but he's shot and killed by the Japanese soldiers after refusing
to put down his rifle 
 In one of the last shots, Warden stands over Prewitt's dead body
and rhetorically asks why Prewitt wasn't smart. 
 In one of the last shots, Welsh stands over Witt's grave and
rhetorically asks, "Where's your spark?" 

 Key differences 

Although both films draw on the writings of the same author, The Thin
Red Line's Witt is a nobler figure than Prewitt in From Here to
Eternity . Prewitt is defiant, rebellious, an artist at playing the
bugle and intensely loyal to the army. He abides by his own code of
honour, which causes him to refuse joining his company's boxing team after
he blinded a sparring partner. But that code also compels him to murder
the man who tortured his best friend to death. With his sulky affection
for his prostitute lover Lureen and slow-burning temper, he comes across
as a flawed if sympathetic human being.

Witt, on the other hand, is a divine figure. The viewer induces that Witt
must have been a rebellious figure to have gone AWOL, but there's barely a
hint of that when he's recaptured by the army. Prewitt would have glowered
at being scolded by his captor; Witt is sad at being sent away from his
company. Witt is marked as the Christ figure--he even says he's seen 
another world. There's no hint of Prewitt's slow-burning, violent temper
in this kind soldier whose gentle nature is sensed across a language
barrier by the Melanesian children and mothers who host him in their
Edenic paradise.

Prewitt's code of honour might seem contradictory but it's really at home
with the code of the old West: refrain from harming innocents, but punish
the guilty. Witt's ethic transgresses Prewitt's. Despite being a gentle
soul, he's a fierce and aggressive soldier. Witt violates the code of the
West by shooting a Japanese soldier in the back. Now Prewitt might not
have trouble with this, since honorable behaviour would be reserved for
(white) honorable opponents, and the "Japs" are depicted as a faceless
(they are never seen, only their planes are), cunning (the surprise attack
on Pearl Harbour) enemy. But Prewitt wouldn't have the capacity to
reach beyond his identity as an American soldier as Witt does. Witt's
mobile subjectivity enables him to cross from his identity over to the
Melanesian villagers and to that of a humane being who cares for a dying
Japanese soldier after the heat of the battle. Many different behaviours
arise in response to war, but Witt represents the very best.

For Prewitt, his first Sergeant Warden is the very best. Warden is kind to
Prewitt, trying and failing to lessen Prewitt's unjust punishment at the
hands of the corrupt captain. Prewitt admires his sergeant's integrity and
fairness. In turn Warden admires the soldier's stubborn courage, even as
he tries to get Prewitt to "be smart" and give in to the captain's wishes.
Their relationship mostly positions Warden as parent to Prewitt's stubborn
child, although there's a subtext to the scene where drunk Warden caresses
the back of drunk Prewitt's head (granted, Warden spends most of his time
in a risky affair with the captain's wife). 

In The Thin Red Line , Welsh tries to position himself as Witt's
parental figure, telling Witt that he's "just another mouth for [him] to
feed." Welsh doesn't just want to discipline Witt, he wants to influence
Witt to view the world the way he does. Conversely, Witt doesn't agree or
disagree with Welsh; he simply eludes him. As the film and relationship
progress, the tables are turned. Welsh turns to Witt for help, asking him,
"You still see the beautiful light. How do you do that?" Their
relationship evolves, unlike Warden's and Pruitt's. It's also almost
compressed. In the middle of a war, the Witt-Welsh relationship has a
quiet, intense quality that makes it seem like the only thing in the
world. In fact, it is the only genuine human relationship in the world of
The Thin Red Line. Bell imagines he has a relationship with his wife who
has in reality become estranged from him, Doll creates a mask of public
bravado to hide his intense fear from his comrades, and Dale isolates
himself through cruelty.

Human relationships--Warden's and Prewitt's doomed respective heterosexual
relationships, Prewitt's and Maggio's friendship, not to mention Warden's
and Prewitt's--are the core of From Here to Eternity . But the
film's cynical about those relationships. Warden pursues the captain's
wife after he hears how accessible she is--she's had affairs with other
army men. Prewitt's romanticised notion of his relationship is dissipated
when he realises that Lureen/Alma's prostitute job demands she be
accessible to many men. The corrupted traditional authority figures such
as the captain and other officers make the army an unjust brutal place.
There's no glory in this man's army.

Glory, however, lives in The Thin Red Line . This isn't to say that
the film champions war in an mindless, jingoistic way. There are 
extraordinary courage and loss in the war. The viewer's identification
with the Americans makes her feel their great courage, but she feels
equally the loss of the Japanese. There are no clear figures to despise.
Even the potentially least likable character of all, the colonel who
knowingly pushes for his men's slaughter, is humanised. We feel his
frustrations and his own silent fear at being surveilled in turn by his
commanding officers. We can't judge human behaviour here. We love both the
beauty and the banality of horror. 

 The Sand Pebbles 

Perhaps I've gone crazy watching The Thin Red Line so many times,
but I contend there are connections between it and this 1966 film directed
by Robert Wise. The Sand Pebbles stars the King of Cool Steve
McQueen, who looks quite fetching in tight white sailor pants, Candice
Bergen as his love interest, and Mako as Po Han, his Chinese assistant on
the American gunboat San Pablo. 

 Similarities 

 The Sand Pebbles 
 The Thin Red Line 
 Story is about American soldiers fighting a conflict against the
Chinese in China 
 Story is about American soldiers fighting a conflict with the Japanese
in the Solomon Islands 
 The Chinese men who do all the actual work of the Americans on a
gunboat seem to like the American soldiers; later, they hate the Americans

 The Melanesian villagers seem to like the two American soldiers Witt
and Hoke; later, they hate Witt 
 Shouting of the Chinese soldiers who fight the Americans in the
last sequence sounds similar to... 
 ... shouting of the Japanese soldiers who fight the Americans around
when Doll shoots his first Japanese soldier (shouting is difficult to
identify as Chinese or Japanese) 
 Steve McQueen stays behind to hold off the enemy soldiers so that
his beloved fellow soldiers and Candice Bergen can get away 
 Witt leads the enemy soldiers away so that his beloved fellow soldiers
can get away 
 Steve McQueen unlearns his anti-Chinese racism by identifying with
his steam room assistant Po Han has a boxing match with an American
soldier 
 Witt avoids racism by identifying with the Japanese soldiers... "the
Japanese suffer just like the Americans" 

 Patton 

There aren't any striking similarities between Patton and The
Thin Red Line --no similar lines, no similar sounds--but Patton seems
to have influenced the character of Tall. 

 Similarities 

 Patton 
 The The Thin Red Line 
 Spurious correlation alert: Patton was directed by Franklin J.
Schaeffner 
 Spurious correlation: The Thin Red Line director Malick was awarded
the Franklin J. Schaeffner Lifetime Achievement Award by the American
Film Institute 
 General Patton likes to talk about the ancient Greek tale The
Peloponnesian War

 Colonel Tall likes to talk about the ancient Greek tale The Odyssey 

 General Patton unflinchingly stands before an enemy plane on a
bombing run

 Colonel Tall unflinchingly stands as the enemy bomb the trenches 

 General Patton shouts a lot 
 Colonel Tall shouts a lot 

 Coming soon! Polly don't want no stinkin' cracker! Polly
wants to compare the parrots of Lady from Shanghai and The Burmese 
Harp! 

 Back to The Thin Red Line main page 

Copyright C. Lui