The Thin Red Line Image Gallery 

 The Thin Red Line Image Gallery 

 Images 
 All images are copyrighted by Twentieth Century Fox 

 Kid: "Trust me! You can wax your legs by rubbing gum all over 
them!" 
 "Free Beanie Babies? We're there!" 
 Contestants for the Tallest Hair Prize 

 Welsh dwarfed by tall grass 
 "The horror, the horror." From left to right--Keck, Band and
Staros survey the carnage at the half-yearly Nordstrom's sale 

 Welsh and company in another grassy field 

 Bell and Keck take a breather from combat 
 Doll tries to help Keck 
 Welsh tries to help Tella 

 Staros discusses strategy with his company 
 Tall to Dale, Bell and Gaff: "OK. Listen well. First I say 'duck, 
duck, duck,' and when I say 'goose,' get up and run around the circle as fast 
as you can."

 Bell numbed by war 

 Bell, Gaff and Witt are dumbstruck by the stunning beauty
offscreen--that's me offscreen, I tell you! 
 What causes Philip Morris employees everywhere pray to John
Cusack for saving their jobs 
 John Cusack reacts to the news he won't be filming love scenes
with Miranda Otto--instead, Ben "lucky bastard" Chaplin will do so 

 Adrien Brody's true feelings about the size of his role
in the finished version of the film 
 Lieutenant Colonel Tall ponders whether he should have
chicken tonight 
 Doll and Welsh confer in Welsh's office 

 Witt comforts Coombs as they hide from the enemy 
 C-for-Charlie Company evacuates Guadalcanal Island 
 Bell digs in 

 Welsh demonstrates the proper way to drive a four-wheel drive
vehicle 
 The real stars of The Thin Red Line ... a cast of thousands
and the Akela Crane camera. 
 Behind the scenes on Hill 210 

 Behind the scenes on Hill 210 again 
 Would you kiss this ashtray face? 
 Captain Bosche 

 The attack on the Japanese camp 
 Doll is about to realise that what goes up must come down

 Poor Adrien Brody! Doesn't he realise that he and an antique
rifle will not keep me from my second husband Jim's arms?!? 

 The Americans set fire to the Japanese camp 
 The Japanese set fire to the American camp--what's Japanese
for "nyah nyah"? 
 "A-wim-ma-way, a-wim-ma-way..." 

 The most horrible moment in a soldier's life caught on film

 Islander child 
 Another islander boy 

 Adrien Brody, Woody Harrelson and Sean Penn react to my movie
pitch 
 John Savage's reaction to my movie pitch was a little more,
uh, intense 
 General Quintard 

 Sailor: "So this is what they meant by great job
opportunity... must get along with people and like the great outdoors" 

 A sure sign that you're NOT on the luxury vacation to Maui 

 Sergeant Storm 

 Tall shares his plan for Hill 210 domination with Welsh and
Staros 
 Lieutenant Whyte 
 Witt clasps his hands 

 Go to Image Gallery 2 
 Back to The Thin Red Line Main Page