Dan Bern Homepage 

 12:00 
 Dan Bern!!! 

 Click on the above picture, and it will take you to a random page about Dan Bern!
 I ran across this card in my collection, too bad I didn't take better care of it, it would
probably be worth a lot more. For those graphically challenged, here's a link to
take you to a Random
Dan Bern Page , over 90 and counting! I'm currently playing with some RealAudio content, the
player's free, and it's a nice net toy, but it's CPU intensive and sucks up as much bandwidth as
you have, try not to do anything else, while you're using it, or it will get choppy and you might
have to wait as it rebuffers itself. Anyway, my unworthy effort can be found by clicking the 12:00
in the upper left corner of this page. A 30 min. or so set of Dan in Vancouver is also available for your
dining and dancing pleasure! I also put up a Dan Bern Bio of my own, but
unlike the ones you might find at Sony or Flemtam, this is straight from

Dan Bern HQ. Dan is
currently touring with occasional breaks from the road. Dan also has
a song featured on the soundtrack for the
new movie Zero Effect . There's a cheesy
.wav file that takes forever to download, but you get to hear almost 30 seconds of One Dance . If you
want reviews of the movie , you
can choose from a couple of dozen or so, as well as anything else you can think of about the
movie, at of course, The Internet Movie Database .
Feel free to add your rating to that or any other movie you can think of. 

 "Well, I think in a way Bob Dylan was sort of the Dan Bern of the '60's." 
 The above quote is from Dan Bern in response to the many
comparisons in the last few years of him to Bob Dylan. The full article can be found in The
Anchorage Press and is just one of the many things written about him in recent months. 
So much has been written about him that it almost rivals his own songwriting output, so if
you haven't heard of Dan Bern before this, be prepared for information overload! Case in
point is this link to ordering
information for the Diamond Cuts CD , a baseball compilition which
features my personal favorite Dan song, This Side Of the White Lines. 

 This site has gotten larger and larger, and attracted thousands and thousands of hits
along the way, so I'm in the process of breaking it up into smaller units for easier
reading and better access. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions for links I
might have missed, don't hesitate to write me at: wyiwndr@eskimo.com 

What you'll find at this site:

 Current Dan Bern Touring Info Well as current as possible, I'm not updating this page daily, so bear with me!

 Song lyrics that are available on the Web This section will just get bigger.

 Reviews and Articles about Dan Bern Most of these links, you wont find easily anywhere else.

 A listing of songs and disks that Dan has recorded This includes obscure compilation disks on which Dan is one of many featured artists.

 Links to other Dan Bern pages I'm hoping this will eventually require it's own separate page.

First off, some general information: 

 Dan Bern's E-mail address is kababa1011@aol.com if you'd care to write to him. The Dan
Bern Hotline # is 1-888-222-BERN, it's toll free and has info on current tour dates, and ordering
instructions for getting either the Dog, Boy, Van CD, ($8), or the Dan Bern Big Book of Songs and
Stories & Pictures, ($10 + $2 shipping), you can also order t-shirts as well! Finally the mailing address for the above and where you can write Dan a letter is: 
Dan Bern 
1158-26th St. #411 
Santa Monica, CA 
 90403 

The above picture was taken by Rodney Gitzel and can be found along with a very good interview by Gary
'pigboy' Swartz in Drop-D Magazine!

 I've set up The Dan Bern Mailing List It is usually low volume, (3-5 posts a day), but when
Dan is touring, the volume increases by a factor of 10 or so.
If you're interested, send an E-mail to 
dan-bern-list-request@eskimo.com with the word Subscribe in the subject line, and then interact! 
There is also a Digest form of the list, that way you only get one piece of mail with all the days
posts contained within it. Same instructions as above, only you send an E-mail to dan-bern-digest-request@eskimo.com 

Both the Dan Bern, and Boy Dog Van, as well as Smartie Mine and Fifty
Eggs should be available in your area, but if you can't find
them, you can order it online at CD Universe 

 Other Dan Bern Pages 

 The
Official Dan Bern Homepage has tour
 dates , 
a bulletin board , a 3.5MB
Quicktime Movie clip of a video shot for Marilyn although you might
want to hit shift when you click that link to save the file to disk, of
course that's the easy way out, if you would rather have your browser tell
you that the plug_in for Quicktime needs to be updated, it's up to you.
While I'm describing the site, I might as well say, (chest fully
expanded), that they've put up a link recognizing this site as The
Original Dan Bern Fan Site!!! 

 The Flemtam Dan Bern Site This one's put
together by Dan's booking company and features a bio , tour dates , and a RealAudio sample , along with info in case you want to
book him. 

 Genghis Cohen's Dan Bern Site is
run by the place where Dan used to do a regular Tuesday night gig in LA in the early '90's. It does
offer a couple of sound bytes from one of Dan's cassettes. 

 King of The World 

 DanBern INFO (or, at least
some lyrics) Lots of lyrics here, most of which are not available on the CD's!

 A Few Dan Bern Guitar Tabs! 

 Eric Prindle's Bern Page yet another worthy addition.

I ran across an excellent review of both the "Dog, Boy, Van" EP-CD and the new "Dan
Bern" CD entitled Dan Bern - The Wild
Stallion , very nicely written and comes complete with the standard promo photo. 

Here's a couple of reviews of the CD's, the first comes from the April edition of Wired The last review is on the 6 song promo disk which is still
available in rapidily diminishing quantities @ 1-888-222-BERN! I'm still working on the reviews and
interviews page, so this will have to do for now, be sure to bookmark and come back! 

 Dan Bern Dan Bern Work "Jerusalem," is a free-form,
free-verse rant driven by Bern's forceful acoustic guitar and
 expressive tenor, opens this d&eacute;but with a shotgun blast of ironic poetry. "Too Late
 To Die Young" addresses Elvis, James Dean, and other dead icons with rapier wit, while
 "Oklahoma" (note, actually on the Dog Boy Van disk), takes on the Oklahoma City 
 bombing with compassionate anger. Bern's folkie tunes have strong melodies, and every
 track is crammed with energy, compassion, and a dazzling display of surrealistic humor. 
 He's already been dubbed "the Dylan of the skateboard generation," and after his disk
 heelflips your brain, you'll know the hype is legit.

 j. poet 

Dan Bern 
 Dog Boy Van (WORK Group/CRG) 
 Ever see and hear a guy and his guitar, and in the
 middle of his first song, know you're experiencing the
 real deal? (So Dan, where are you living? "In my van,"
 he answered.) We were blown away by his
 authenticity after a dramatic conference room concert
 where he slew an unsuspecting Gavin audience. I
 don't know who was more stunned, the staff hearing
 upon these incredible songs or Dan, by the deafening
 applause of a small but mighty crowd. True, this is
 one of those informal introductory EPs, but let's hope
 that once he enters the studio for real, Dan Bern
 doesn't add much more production. His essence is his
 simplicity. 

 Additional information can
sometimes be found in the rec.music.folk or the rec.music.dylan newsgroups, or you can always catch up on old news at

DejaNews for a quick search on Dan Bern.

For booking info, contact: 
 Fleming Tamulevich and Associates 
 733-735 N.Main St. 
Ann Arbor, MI 48104 
Phone: 313-995-9066 
Fax: 313-662-6502 
E-Mail: fta@pobox.com 

 Back to Rich Davis' Homepage 

 Last updated on 2/16/99 although sometimes I forget to change
this 

 Tell Me 
 How My Site Blows or What You Like About It 
 or 

 View The
 Uncluttered Expanse That Is My Guestbook 

 Send E-mail to 
 wyiwndr@eskimo.com for questions and comments, and info about any links I might have missed. 

 This page was lovingly coded the old fashioned way, no WYSIWYG here, by hand, one line at a time in 
 Textpad 3.0 a very nice text editor.