Rich's Home Sweet Home Page 

 12:00 

 Rich Davis' Home Page 
 This Just In... 

Supreme Court Reminds the 
 Prez and that worthy body of orators,
that unlike them,
these jobs are for life and in the meantime, they've got a Constitution to uphold and they
might want to remember that the next time they decide to dump it in the old recycling bin. 
 Follow the link to read the decision. 

 Don't
even know why I'm updating anything here at all, nobody really seems to make it over 
to this part of the Web, they're all over at the Dan Bern Homepage which is a site that
I put more time into, not that it shows either, but it sure gets updated a little more
frequently than this particular turd ever did. 

 ESKIMO NORTH HOME PAGES This is the main Eskimo home page. Here is a
searchable directory of individual Eskimo North
Home Pages . There are also some Help files 
bulleted list of resources you may need to get started: STARTING
POINTS 
 Rich's Bookmark
Page I really must get more organized! I mean my bookmark page gets more hits than the page you're looking at, and I haven't put up a Fresher Bookmark Page For quite some time. the f
irst list is about 140K or so and the second is about 250K+, lots of broken links on both, one of these days I'll spend the time to cull all the broken links and update the ones that have changed. 

 Take a Trip To Practically Nowhere in the
World I can hear that collective sigh of relief as I finally took down that damn blink
thinghy off, that's been doing its thing advertising it's broken link with to Nowhere

 How to Build Your Own
Web Thanks to Rick Wojcik. 
 Quick
Reference to HTML 

 A
Beginner's Guide to HTML 

 Well the kind folks at InfoSeek sent me the following code for a 
direct link to their search engine! 

 InfoSeek Net Search 

InfoSeek Net Search is the most powerful and
popular way to search the Web. Just type your question in plain
English or enter words and phrases. Helpful Tips 

 Thanks for dropping by! 

 Another idiotic attempt to steer your eyeballs to the Dan
Bern Site 

 Page access since I put this thing up on 2-16-96 

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to send me a comment. 

 Updated 5/18/98 

 This site looks best with SLACK. 

 For the most complete listing of Dan Bern Lyrics 

 For Dan's discography of studio recordings along with links back to the individual lyrics on the recordings.

 Current Dan Bern Tour Dates 

Back to the Dan Bern Homepage 

 Send E-mail to 
 wyiwndr@eskimo.com for questions and comments, and info about any links I might have missed. 

 This page was lovingly coded the old fashioned way, no WYSIWYG here, by hand, one line at a time in 
 Textpad 3.0 a very nice text editor.