Dobe Doinat's Punny Name Archive 

 Dobe Doinat's 
 P 
 unny 
 N 
 ame 
 A 
 rchive 

 Site Map : Java applet navigation. ( Version 5.0+ Browsers Recommended)
 Index : this page (non-Java) . / 
 Archive : All Things Punny Name -related. Links to the (sorted) Archive .
 Page Lincoln : External Links .
 Den Queue : Thanks! .

 New Experimental Pages!

 *

 *

 (Experimental for Dobe)

Most updates to this site will be in the Java Site Map section.

 S ystems D evelopment L ife C ycle (SDLC) Glossary available:

 Online 
 Download 

 Download requires MSIE version 4.X+ 

 Mission Statement 

 The 

 P

 unny 

 N

 ame 

 A

 rchive

 is dedicated to the study , 
 collection (archival), 
 management (database interactions), 
 growth , usability , publishing (display), and 
 enjoyment , of only those common names , admittedly a relative term, which have some literal meaning implied by the sounds the name produces 
when spoken aloud . 

We think the " Punny " part of the name is located somewhere in the inner ear , although this is in great 
dispute among modern scientists. PNA will be a repository of slack rules of pronunciation , such as
 in my " Pun'O'Nyms " page. Nearly any 
 common phrase (literals) can be mapped to a Last Name in the 

 U.S. Census database 
 , which is known, however, alas , to be
 incomplete ! Yet how many more than 88,000 names do I want to deal with? 
Probably fewer if I had a choice! Anyway, each name will then have an _underscore and a number, like Jones_4,
 meaning that Jones is the 4 th most common name in the United States, you see?

 While awaiting Census 2000, the PNA recordsets will be made available in a
 variety of different formats and platforms as technology progresses. Input is requested, and regular updates are
 expected. Feedback is appreciated. As time and resources allow, the database will continue to grow in
 usability. Tools will soon be available for the "manufacture" of new Punny
 Names, using an application soon to be released through these pages, written by

 John Hartman

 using combo boxes and either VB or Java. Watch for a download page to appear in the coming months!

 The Archive has been accessed 

 times since January, 1997. 

Eskimo's counter is back to working! Over 120.000 hits in 3 years. 

Copyright 1997-2000 by Dobe Doinat, (dobe@eskimo.com).

Archive of Punny Names by Dobe Doinat 
, www.eskimo.com/~dobe/