Dobe Doinat's Systems Development Life Cycle Glossary 

 Dobe Doinat's Systems Development Life Cycle Glossary

 Introduction to Systems Analysis 

 Term 
 Definition 

 System 
 A group of related procedures 

 Data 
 Consists of basic facts, the raw material. 

 Information 
 Information is the finished product after data has been processed. 

 Processing 
 Transformation of data input into accurate, meaningful information that is required. 

 Input 
 Data is input by workers or machines to an Information System. 

 Output 
 Information is output by the Information System. 

 Information Systems Components 
 Software, hardware, data, people and procedures. 

 Application 
 An Information System can also be called an Application. Application software produces information needed by users. 

 Hardware 
 Computer platforms and peripherals used for input, processing and output. 

 Software 
 System and Application software, or programs control the IS environment, local or networked, OTS or legacy, includes the Operating System. 

 Legacy System 
 How the system worked before proposed or implemented changes through Systems Analysis. 

 Derived Information 
 All information is either produced directly, or derived, which would imply some function performed upon the data to produce a new synthesis. 

 End Users 
 Includes employees, customers, vendors or others who directly interact with the Information System. 

 Corporate Culture 
 A set of beliefs, rules, traditions, values, and attitudes that define a company's personality and influence its way of doing business. 

 BIS 
 A Business Information System could be production-oriented, service-oriented, or a combination of both. 

 Subsystems 
 A larger IS may be broken into a series of smaller subsystems. 

 EDI 
 Electronic Data Exchange is one standard interface between different Information Systems. 

 Interdependent IS 
 Output from one may be Input to another. 

 Boundary 
 A not always clear-cut interface between two systems or processes. This will effect the Scope of a project. 

 Vertical Market IS 
 Application software is said to be vertical when it is for a highly specialized need or requirement. 

 Transaction processing 
 Another term for operational systems. 

 MIS 
 Management Information Systems generate timely and accurate information for all management levels. 

 EDP 
 Electronic Data Processing were one form of early operational systems. 

 DSS 
 Decision Support Systems help make business decisions by analysing internal or external data. A typical example is a What-If Analysis. 

 What-If Analysis 
 Using a model, determine the best course of action based upon hypothetical data and presumptions. The better the model, the more precise the prediction, of course. 

 EIS 
 Executive Information Systems combines the features and capabilities of both MIS and DSS, but with more flexibility and support for unstructured decision-making. 

 ESS 
 Executive Support Systems support the information requirements of top-level managers and their need to make unstructured decisions. 

 Structured Decisions 
 Occur regularly, have predefined information requirements and result in predetermined actions. 

 Unstructured Decisions 
 Do not occur regularly, cannot be predicted, and whose information requirements cannot be predefined. 

 Semistructured Decisions 
 A combination of structured and unstructured decisions. A set of predefined inputs and outputs do not exist. 

 Expert System 
 Computers capable of simulating human reasoning and decision-making by combining a knowledge base with inference rules. Cannot actually use common sense or intuition. 

 Knowledge Base 
 A stored database of known and reliable information. 

 Inference Rules 
 Determine how the Knowledge Base is used to reach decisions, operating within preprogrammed limits 

 Fuzzy Logic 
 Not actually whatever drove me to think this was a good idea, but rather one which allows logical inferences to be drawn from imprecise relationships. 

 AI 
 Artificial Intelligence is beyond the scope of this page to define, but a Fuzzy Logic System may, depending on your definition, be an example. 

 OAS 
 Office Automation System is a now archaic term. 

 Empowerment 
 Enabling people to handle tasks and make decisions that were assigned previously to higher organizational levels. 

 Organizational Levels 
 Operational personnel, Lower Management, Middle Management and Top Management pyramid scheme. 

 Operational Personnel 
 Operational personnel perform repetitive functions with well-defined procedures. 

 Lower Management 
 Direct day-to-day operations, make appropriate decisions and take correction actions where applicable. Highly structured. 

 Middle Management 
 Focus on longer range tactical planning, usually at least a month to a year. 

 Top Management 
 Focus on even longer range strategic planning, hopefully ensuring the company will survive and grow in the future. 

 Tactical Planning 
 Plans to allocate company resources to achieve organizational objectives. 

 Strategic Planning 
 Establish the overall company mission, policies, goals and future product lines. 

 Exception Reports 
 Identify variances from set targets which might require action. 

 SDLC 
 Systems Development Life Cycle is a series of steps used to build an information system. These include Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Operation and Support. 

 Systems Request 
 Identifies the IS and describes the desired changes or improvements. 

 Preliminary Investigation 
 Critical step in the planning phase of SDLC, begun with a Feasibility Study which determines if it is appropriate to continue. 

 Preliminary Investigation Report 
 The final report to management on a Preliminary Investigation of a Systems Request, including recommendations. 

 Feasibility Study 
 The Feasibility Study is a part of the Preliminary Investigation. 

 End Product 
 The output or a deliverable. 

 Prototype 
 Early working version of an information system. This can speed up SDLC process objectives. 

 Systems Analyst 
 Investigates, analyzes, designs, develops, installs, evaluates and maintains a company's IS. May plans projects, develop schedules, or estimate costs. Must conduct meetings. deliver presentations, write memos, emails and documentation. 

 Systems Planning 

 Feasibility Study
 Preliminary Investigation
 Requirements Determination
 Analysing Requirements
 Evaluating Alternative Strategies

 Term 
 Definition 

 Mission Statement 
 Describes a company's overall purpose and direction. 

 Stakeholders 
 People who are affected by company's performance, including customers, employees, suppliers, stockholders and members of the community. 

 Goals 
 A set of goals are strategically planned which accomplish the Company Mission. Each major goal may require the completion of numerous essential objectives. 

 Objectives 
 Objectives must be accomplished to achieve goals, which must be accomplished to achieve the Company Mission. 

 Strategic Planning 
 Requires a company to make decisions about long-range goals and how to get there. 

 eCommerce 
 Web-based transactions. 

 Systems Request 
 A formal way of asking for assistance from the IS department. These may be for improved service to customers, better performance, more information for making decisions, stronger controls or reduced cost. These may be triaged by setting priorities and assessing the feasibility of successful completion and/or a cost benefit analysis. 

 Source (of System Projects) 
 Users Requests, Top-Management Directives, existing systems, IS Department or other external factors. 

 Systems Review Committee 
 Also known as a Steering Committee, a Computer Resources Committee, or a Computer Policy Committee, they are used to combine the judgement and experience of several managers to evaluate systems projects. 

 Feasibility 
 Evaluation by operational, technical and economic testing procedures to decide if any Service Request should proceed to Preliminary Investigation. 

 Feasibility Report 
 The final report to the Systems Review Committee on the merits of the Service Request. 

 Operational Feasibility 
 Is the request a practical approach that will solve a problem or take advantage of an opportunity to achieve company goals? 

 Technical Feasibility 
 Is the request technically achievable, including the necessary technical resources and people and expertise available? 

 Economic Feasibility 
 What are the tangible and intangible benefits and is the problem worth solving? Will it result in a sound business investment? 

 Tangible Benefits 
 Those benefits which will produce dollar savings or reduce existing expenses. 

 Intangible Benefits 
 Cannot be measured specifically, but are important. These may include enhancing the company image or improving customer service. 

 Determination of Feasibility 
 Feasibility analysis is an ongoing process that must be performed during all phases of the SDLC, and a determination of feasibility can change over time. 

 Criteria 
 Tangible vs. Intangible, Discretionary vs. Non-Discretionary, Cost vs. Benefit 

 Discretionary 
 A project which may or may not proceed because a choice exists. 

 Non-Discretionary 
 Projects where no choice exists, for instance by complying with Federal Law. 

 Cost Benefit Analysis 
 A determination of whether a given business makes sense economically. 

 Preliminary Investigation 
 Critical step in the planning phase of SDLC, begun with a Feasibility Study which determines if it is appropriate to continue. 

 Preliminary Investigation Report 
 The final report to management on a Preliminary Investigation of a Systems Request, including recommendations. 

 Objective of the Preliminary Investigation 
 1) Understand the true nature of the problem. 
 2) Define the Scope and Constraints of the proposed project. 
 3) Identify the benefits that are likely when the project is completed. 
 4) Specify time and money estimates for systems analysis and subsequent developmental phases. 
 5) Present a report to Management. 

 Scope 
 Defining the range or extent of the project to establish the boundaries of the Systems Request. " Not for oral use! " 

 Constraints 
 A condition, restriction or requirement that must be satisfied. 

 Evaluating Constraints 
 Present vs. future, Internal vs. External and Mandatory vs. Desirable 

 Systems Analysis 

 Determining Requirements 
 Analysing Requirements
 Evaluating Alternatives and Strategies

 Determining Requirements 

 Term 
 Definition 

 Requirements Determination 
 When what has to be done is known exactly , the algorithm built, the prototype completed, the Scope of the project known, only then can the analysis of those requirements and an evaluation of alternatives be understood in proper context for successful implementation. 

 Fact-finding 
 Who, what, why, where, when, how, how much and " Are we there yet ". 

 Systems Requirements 
 A characteristic which must be included in an IS to satisfy business requirements and be acceptable to Users. 

 Reverse Engineer 
 An attempt to find out how the original system functioned before it was modified. " This is not SPEEA retrospeak for career path ". 

 Algorithm 
 " Mr. Vice President singing the Blues ". 

 Retrospeak 
 " Talking about that last Millennium " Next year will be Y2K++ . 

 TBS 
 Tailored Business System. (Vertical market) 

 Outputs (Systems Requirements) 
 Defined requirements to serve as a benchmark to measure acceptability of finished system. 

 Inputs (Systems Requirements) 
 Defined requirements to serve as a benchmark to measure acceptability of finished system. 

 Processes (Systems Requirements) 
 Defined requirements to serve as a benchmark to measure acceptability of finished system. 

 Timing (Systems Requirements) 
 Defined requirements to serve as a benchmark to measure acceptability of finished system. 

 Control (Systems Requirements) 
 Defined requirements to serve as a benchmark to measure acceptability of finished system. 

 Volumes, Sizes and Frequencies 
 Required information about the current system examined for it's impact on proposed system. 

 Interview 
 Knowledge of a company's formal and informal structures will help determine who to interview. After establishing the objectives of and preparing for the interview, conduct, document and evaluate the interview. How very simple! 

 Informal Structures 
 In an informal structure, some people have more influence or knowledge than would appear on an Organizational Chart. 

 Formal Structures 
 A company's Organizational Chart. 

 Organizational Chart 
 A company's pyramid scheme of responsibilities, whereby those at the top receive more perquisites, gratuities, privileges, bonuses, benefits, advantages, opportunities, rights, concessions, dispensations, license and freedoms than those who actually produce the product. 

 Hawthorne Effect 
 From 1920, it was noticed that increasing short-term productivity improvements could be made merely by watching the workers, whether conditions were made better or worse!. One local boring hairspace company has pushed this envelope to new heights with it's policy of low morale equals low self-esteem equals lower pay! After the worker is used up, they're disposable! This simple little formula led to another discovery, that the more workers are laid off, the higher the stock price of the company goes up! This enables the top cells of the pyramid to retire a few days early, and the workers enjoy the retraining! The only problem was illogical STRATEGIC THINKING! With no workers, there were no consumers. Oh, except a few who retired early, quite wealthy. 

 Questionaire 
 Document containing a number of standard questions. 
 1) Brief, clear, user-friendly instructions (for all anticipated questions). 
 2) Keep in logical order, from easy to complex, simple words. 
 3) Test the questionaire before distributing. 
 4) Do not lead response (give clues to expected answers). 
 5) Limit use of open-ended questions. 
 6) Limit negative issue questions, like job security. 
 7) Include a General Comments section at the end. 

 Systematic Sample 
 For instance, selects every n th customer file for review. 

 Stratified Sample 
 For instance, selects x customer files in y categories for review. 

 Random Sample 
 For instance, selects any x number of customer files for review. 

 Site Visit 
 Observe a system in use at another location. 

 Documenting Research 
 1) Record or preserve the data! 
 2) Record it as soon as it is obtained. 
 3) Organize it to best be able to locate needed data quickly. 
 4) The database must be in a form generally understood. 
 5) Keep examples of DFDs, flowcharts, sample forms, and screen captures. 

 PIM 
 Personal Information Managers are software file cabinets, calandars, schedulers, to-do lists, phone dialers, secretaries, diaries, archives, etc., all rolled into one environment. 

 Application Suite 
 A software platform which is built to integrate the functions of word processing, spreadsheets, databases, presentation and others, which may use templates, scripts, macros, batch files or Agents to present a common interface to the worker, no matter which computer they happen to be using. 

 CAD-CAM 
 Computer-Aided-Design and Computer-Aided-Manufacturing 

 JAD 
 Joint Application Development is a popular systems development technique, which creates a task force of users, managers and IS together during SDLC phases. 

 Task Force 
 Committee empowered to accomplish a given objective. 

 RAD 
 Rapid Application Development reduces time required to design new IS, the all-new "lean" data system! 

 O-O 
 Object-Oriented systems development is built to a system model based on objects and their interaction, rather than on processes and data flows. 

 Object 
 Abstract entity which the system may interact with, which has attributes, or "properties", and "methods", or events. 

 Class 
 Group of objects with similar attributes. 

 Subclass 
 " Junior college ". 

 Systems Analysis 

 Determining Requirements
 Analysing Requirements 
 Evaluating Alternatives and Strategies

 Analysing Requirements 

 Term 
 Definition 

 Structured Analysis 
 Examines a system in terms of its inputs, outputs and processes. 

 Process-Centered 
 Technique using structured analysis using: 
 1) Data Flow Diagrams
 2) Data Dictionary
 3) Process Descriptions 

 DFD 
 Data Flow Diagrams do not show program logic or processing steps but rather show how data moves through an IS with symbols for identification of components. This is a logical model of the IS. 
 Symbols include: 
 1) Processes 
 2) Data Flows 
 3) Data Stores 
 4) External Entities 

 Process Descriptions 
 1) In naming, use a Verb Noun format. 
 2) Use standard symbol. 
 3) Example: "Create Invoice" or "Verify Order". 

 Data Flow Descriptions 
 1) In naming, use an optional Adjective with a singular Noun format. 
 2) Use standard symbol. 
 3) Example: "Daily Payment" or "Paycheck". 

 Data Store Descriptions 
 1) In naming, use a Plural Noun (optional Adjective) format. 
 2) Use standard symbol. 
 3) Example: "Patients" or "Accounts Receivable". 

 External Entity Descriptions 
 1) In naming, use a singular Noun. in ALL-CAPS format. 
 2) Use standard symbol. 
 3) Example: "EMPLOYEE" or "CUSTOMER". 

 Source Terminator 
 External Entity which supplies input. 

 Sink Terminator 
 External Entity which receives output. 

 Context Diagrams 
 A Top-Level Data Flow Diagram showing the Scope of the system. 

 Diagram 0 
 A Data Flow Diagram just below the level of the Context Diagram, showing more details of the system. 

 Conventions for DFD 
 1) Each Context Diagram must fit on a single page. 
 2) The Process name should be the same as the name of the IS. 
 3) Use unique names within each set of symbols. 
 4) Do not cross lines. 
 5) Use abbreviated identifications. 
 6) Use unique reference number for each process symbol. 

 Exploded Diagram 
 Also said to be "partitioned" or "decomposed", it shows the Process in greater detail. 

 Leveling 
 Process of drawing a series of increasingly detailed diagrams until the desired degree of detail is reached. 

 Balancing 
 Maintains consistancy among an entire set of diagrams, including I/O data flows, data definitions and process descriptions. In other words, all input and output data flows of the parent are preserved on the child DFD. 

 Data Dictionary 
 A central storehouse of information about the system's data used to collect, document and organize specific facts about the system, including: 
 1) Data Flows 
 2) Data Stores 
 3) External Entities 
 4) Processes 
 5) All Data Elements 
 6) Other meaningful combinations and relationships 

 Data Element 
 The smallest piece of data meaningful in an IS. 

 Record 
 A database data structure which includes all related data elements (fields) in a data flow or retained in a data store. 

 Data Structure 
 How the related data elements are combined and organized. 

 Primary Key 
 Data Element in a record which uniquely identifies that record. 

 Structured English 
 A subset of standard English describing logical processes clearly and accurately conforming to these rules: 
 1) Only use Sequence, Selection and Iteration. 
 2) Use indentation for readability 
 3) Use a limited vocabulary found in the Data Dictionary. 

 Decision Tables 
 Shows a logical structure with all possible combinations of conditions and resulting actions. 

 Decision Trees 
 Graphical representation of the conditions, actions and rules found in a decision table. 

 Physical Model 
 Shows how the system's requirements are implemented. 

 Logical Model 
 Shows what the system's requirements are, regardless of how it must be accomplished physically. May also be referred to as a Business Model. 

 Modular Design 
 Based on 3 logical building blocks, Sequence, Selection and Iteration. 

 Sequence 
 The completion of one process step in sequential order, one after another. 

 Selection 
 The completion of one of two or more process steps based on the results of a test or condition. 

 Iteration 
 The completion of a process step which is repeated until the results of a predefined condition end the repetition, also known as looping. 

 Gane and Sarson 
 Popular diagram symbol methodology. 

 Yourdon 
 Popular diagram symbol methodology. 

 Systems Analysis 

 Determining Requirements
 Analysing Requirements
 Evaluating Alternatives and Strategies 

 Evaluating Alternatives and Strategies 

 Term 
 Definition 

 Make or Buy Decision 
 Choice between in-house development or purchase of software. 

 In-house Software 
 Developed within the IS department of the Company. This might be done to: 

 Satisfy unique requirements
 Minimize changes in business procedures and policies
 Meet constraints of existing systems
 Meet constraints of existing technology
 Develop internal resources and capabilities

 Purchased Software (OTS) 
 Horizontal or vertical application commercially available. Some reasons for this are: 

 Lower costs
 Less time to implement
 Proven reliability and performance benchmarks
 Implemented by others for observation and research
 Requires less technical development staff
 Future upgrades provided by the vendor

 Some other alternatives:

 Purchase OTS software and customize it internally or by negotiation with vendor
 Outsourcing to other businesses
 Temporary or permanent contract personnel
 End-User systems

 Horizontal Application 
 Software utilized by a broad band of Companies and Users. 

 Vertical Application 
 Software utilized by a narrowly defined specific type of business. 

 Open Architecture 
 Nonproprietary design concept that allows many vender's software to run in the same Operating System. 

 Outsourcing 
 Use of outside companies to handle a portion of a company's workload by contract. 

 End-User systems 
 Applications which can be operated and managed by end users on their own using software suites. 

 Software Suites 
 Integrated applications which can easily exchange data. 

 Information Center (IC) 
 Responsible for supporting end-user computing with hotline assistance and training. 

 Enterprise Computing 
 Overall Information Management Strategy supporting group, departmental and total company information needs. 

 IS Requirements Evaluation 

 Identify Key Features
 Estimate volume and future growth
 Specify hardware constraints
 RFQ or RFP

 Requirements For Quotation (RFQ) 
 When specific product is known and price quotations or bids to deliver are solicited. 

 Requirements For Proposal (RFP) 
 Written list of specifications given to prospective vendors when a specific product has not been specified. 

 Systems Consultant 
 Specialize in helping companies select software packages. 

 User References 
 Asking existing users of the application their feedback on operation, reliability, performance and support issues. 

 Benchmark Test 
 Evaluating two similar systems fairly with a given set of problems and solutions and timing responses. 

 Transaction Processing Performance Council (TPC) 
 Non-profit organization publishing standards and reports for members and general public. 

 Software License 
 Right to use software under certain conditions and restrictions. 

 Lease Agreement 
 Paying for a system and / or support, for a fixed period of time with terms and payments described in a contract. 

 Maintenance Agreement 
 Technical support on demand throughout the life of a lease agreement. 

 Synching an Upgrade 
 The process of lessening the impact of upgrading and minimizing outage or downtime by enabling the upgrade and testing to be accomplished in the least-impacting way and time. 

 Outage 
 Downtime of an Information System. 

 Turnkey System 
 A complete solution for a business, which has been designed to work efficiently and reliably from first delivery. 

 Site Preparation 
 May include installation of additional facilities, hardware, cabling or other work required before installation of a new system. 

 Team Approach 
 Ensures that critical factors are not overlooked and that a sound business decision has been made. 

 Viable Alternatives 
 Workable or feasible solutions from which to evaluate. Must include a specific recommendation with reasons. 

 Systems Requirements Document 
 Also called a Software Requirements Specifications Report , it is used to:

 Delineates the new system's requirements
 Descriptions of alternative solutions considered
 Specific recommendations to Management

 Future Development Options (Presentation to Management) 
 After a Presentation to Management with a Systems Requirements Document , the five alternatives are:

 Develop in-house
 Modify current system
 Purchase or customize existing applications
 Perform additional analysis work
 Stop all further work

 Prototype 
 An early, rapidly constructed working version of a proposed IS to be used to verify user requirements. 

 Nonprocedural Prototyping 
 Specify the problem the prototype must solve but not HOW to solve it. 

 Procedural Prototyping 
 Specify detailed procedures to solve a specific problem. 

 Structured Query Language (SQL) 
 Non-procedural language for retrieving data from a database. 

 Report Generator 
 Report writer, from a database, a software suite or dedicated application. 

 Screen Generator 
 Designing custom form interfaces, data entry formats and procedures which interact with the data dictionary elements interactively in a visual application. 

 Program Generator 
 Code facilitator or Wizard reducing time and effort in development. 

 Fourth-Generation Language (4GL) 
 Visual interaction in an integrated development environment (IDE) application for high-level procedural and nonprocedural programming. 

 Wizard 
 Local Office Guru . 

 Computer-Aided Software Engineering (CASE) 
 Software tools which help to develop and maintain Information Systems.

 Data design tool
 Programming tool
 Program debugger
 Code generator
 Project management tool
 Maintenance tool
 Forward-engineering tool
 Reverse-engineering tool
 Re-Engineering toolkit
 Central repository
 Hypertext linking

Several CASE Toolkits are: Visual Analyst and Hyper Analysis Toolkit (HAT). 

 Hypertext 
 The linking of two documents or information sources by the click of a mouse, such that any unfamiliar term is instantly found in a glossary. HTML is one such tool which allows the linking of information sources for the benefit of the reader. Also a term for reading really fast . 

 Upper-CASE Tool 
 Front-end tool used during preliminary investigation. 

 Lower-CASE Tool 
 Back-end tool used during systems development, implementation and operation phases. 

 Forward Engineering 
 SDLC process. 

 Reverse Engineering 
 Converts program code into design specifications . 

 Flowcharting 
 Displays major processes, inputs and outputs of a system used primarily for the graphic design of a physical model. 

 Real-Time System 
 Processes data while simultaneously giving feedback to the operating system. 

 State-Transition Diagram 
 Shows the events, states and time-dependent behavior of a real-time system graphically. 

 Systems Design 

 Output Design 
 Input Design
 File and Database Design
 System Architecture

 Term 
 Definition 

 Logical Design 
 Also known as the Essential Model , it defines the logical functions and features of the system and relationships among its components. It defines WHAT must take place, not HOW to do it. It therefore does not address the actual methods of implementation. For instance:

 Data required to be entered
 Specificity of key formats and sort order
 Defined requirements and constraints

 Physical Design 
 Plan for the actual Implementation of a logical system. It is concerned with HOW the system will meet the requirements of implementation. For instance:

 Describes the actual process of entering, verifying and storing data
 Physical layout of data sources and sinks
 How the reports are generated given the requirements

 Purpose of System Design Phase 
 Create a Physical Design that satisfies the logical system requirements. Major activities:

 Review System Requirements Document - To become thoroughly familiar with it, not to redo the activity
 Design system components - Input, Output, Files, Databases and System Architecture
 Present completed design - Design Specification Document

 If an analyst has unforeseen design issues or problems emerge, they may have to return to requirements analysis, however this may indicate the earlier work was incomplete and is used only in very limited situations.

 Output Requirements 
 Drive the design process because they describe what the system must produce to meet business needs. 

 Effective System 
 One which satisfies the defined requirements and constraints, widely accepted by users who use it to support Company objectives. 

 Reliable System 
 Adequately handling errors, detecting them as early as possible, allowing for correction without damage to the system itself. 

 Maintainable System 
 Flexible, designed with future modification in mind. 

 Design Considerations 

 User needs
 Data entry
 Data flow and storage
 Use modular, structured processing design
 Use standard processing guidelines 
 Be aware of many design tradeoffs.

 Hard-Coded 
 Not easily manipulated through programming. 

 Design Tradeoffs 
 Conflicting design goals force the analyst to consider many alternatives constantly. 

 Code 
 Set of letters, numbers or symbols which represent an item of data used in input and output to a system. Types include:

 Sequence codes
 Block sequence codes
 Classification codes
 Alphabetic codes
 Mnemonic codes
 Significant digit codes
 Derivation codes
 Cipher codes
 Action codes
 Self-checking codes

 When developing a code:

 Keep codes concise
 Allow for expansion
 Keep codes stable
 Make codes unique
 Use sortable codes
 Avoid confusing codes
 Make codes meaningful
 Use one code for one purpose
 Keep codes consistent

 Checklist for Output Design 
 Before considering the output details of a report or screen form the analyst will ask:

 What is the purpose of the output?
 Who or what needs this output?
 Why is this output needed?
 How will it be used?
 What specific information is to be included?
 What format should be used?
 When will the information be provided and how often?
 How often must the data be updated?
 Will simultaneous user access be required for screen forms?
 Are security or confidentiality issues involved?

 Information Delivery 
 Types of Output

 Printed output
 Screen output
 Audio output
 Fax and Faxback systems
 Email
 Internet or Intranet hyperlinks
 Automated Teller Machines (ATM)
 Specialized or industry-specific

 Turnaround Documents 
 Output documents from a system later re-entered into the same or another IS 

 Point of Sale (POS) 
 Retail IS terminal. 

 Reports Classified by Content 

 Detail reports - One or more lines of output is produced for each record processed
 Control break reports - This breaks out important data onto it's own line in a report
 Mock-up reports - Used in a Design Phase to iterate toward greater usability and user acceptance.
 Exception reports - Shows records meeting specific criteria
 Summary reports - This one usually goes to Management

 Reports Classified by Distribution 

 Internal reports
 External reports

 Control Break 
 When the value of a control field changes, a control break usually causes specific actions. On a Control Break Report, for example, this may be a subtotal. 

 Screen Design Considerations 

 Character output
 Graphical 
 Special effects 

 Special video or audio effects are sometimes added to screen displays. Blinking, marquee movement, exploding, fading, reverse video, animation of text or graphics are all easily accomplished but should not be over-used. First, develop a design that is logical and user friendly, then use special effects sparingly. Use these to draw the User's attention to the most important data.

 Output Control 
 Ensuring information output is correct, complete and secure.

 Integrity
 Security

 Exception Report 
 Shows only those records that meet a specific condition or criteria, such as those requiring action. 

 Summary Report 
 Generally, reports used by individuals at higher levels in the organization include less detail than reports used by lower-level employees, thus a Summary Report leads to a Summary Execution. 

 Paper Report Considerations 

 Page heading lines
 Column heading lines
 Column heading alignment
 Spacing between columns
 Order of data items on detail lines
 Detail lines grouping
 Group headers and footers
 Report footers
 Improvement of report design
 Documenting a report design
 Design consistency
 Special form reports
 Volumes and Time Impacts
 Report approval

 Systems Design 

 Output Design
 Input Design 
 File and Database Design
 System Architecture

 Term 
 Definition 

 Main Objectives of Input Design 

 Select most suitable media and methods
 Efficient input procedures
 Reduce manual input volume
 Reduce errors

 GIGO 
 Garbage In, Garbage Out (An old computer mantra.) 

 Batch input 
 Batching data means to do a lot of processing simultaneously, often on off-peak-load hours to reduce impact on users and other computing efficiencies. 

 Data Capture 
 Identification and recording of source data. 

 Data Entry 
 Process of converting source data to computer-readable format. 

 Data Input 
 The process whereby the data actually enters the IS. 

 Batch Input 
 Data entry performed over a period of time with a resultant collection of objects. 

 Control Total 
 A hash total or some other scheme for data authentication. 

 Online data entry 
 Web or net data entry considered synonymous with direct data entry. 

 Direct data entry 
 Usually involves net data entry. 

 Source data automation 
 Input methods such as online data capture, swipe scanners, or magnetic data strips. 

 Swipe scanners 
 Using optic or magnetic data strips 

 Magnetic data strips 
 For rapid input of data 

 Efficient Input Procedures 

 Reduce Input Volume
 Input necessary data only
 Do not input data that can be retrieved from system files or calculated
 Do not input constant data
 Use codes 

 Single Source of Data 
 SSD is known by different names at different businesses. It means don't input the same data twice, which would be redundant and leads to errors. 

 Reduce Input Errors 

 Sequence checks
 Existence checks
 Data type checks
 Range and Limit checks
 Reasonableness checks
 Validity checks
 Combination checks
 Batch Control (volume vs time issues)

 Hash totals 
 Hash techniques involve the use of summing or other processes which, taken by themselves, might be meaningless information, but is rather used as a reliability check. 

 Key Tasks in Input Design 

 Design Data entry and input procedures
 Design Source documents for data capture (or other data capture)
 Design Input data records
 Design Data entry screens
 Design User interface screens
 Design Audit trails and system security measures

 Source Document 
 Effective Source Document Design implements Input Control, thereby ensuring that input data is correct, complete and secure, which promotes the accuracy and quality of data. 

 Form layout 

 Heading zone
 Control zone
 Instruction zone
 Body zone
 Totals zone
 Authorization zone
 Bottom line: Be Consistent!

 External source documents 
 Representing the business to the world, the interface must be attractive and professional. 

 Internal source documents 
 Form appearances are usually less critical than documents or screens seen by the world at large. 

 Input record design 
 Uses an input record layout chart to document input batch records design. 

 Input record layout chart 
 Documentation on how the input record design works. 

 Repeating fields 
 Instancing related data records for new input. 

 Constant or non-repeating fields 
 Data only input once per record 

 Screen displays 

 Attractive and uncluttered
 Meaningful, logical order
 Consistent
 Specific, understandable, professional
 Display error messages readably for a long enough time.
 Special effects
 Feedback
 Screen display layout documentation

 Screen Design 

 Presenting Information (Output)

 Attractive and uncluttered 
 Meaningful and logical
 Consistent with titles, messages and instructions
 Consistent with locations and terminology
 Specific, understandable and professional

 Gathering Information (Input)

 Restrict user access and require data validation 
 Provide descriptions of all fields
 Show sample formats required 
 Require an ending keystroke or click to save or delete data
 No requirements for special characters on data entry
 No leading or trailing zeros or other characters like "00" after a decimal
 Use dropdowns or option buttons where only a few choices are acceptable
 Provide a way to leave or return to a form to the same state
 Provide a way to confirm accuracy before saving vital data
 Provide a way to move among fields in a standard order with the TAB key
 Allow operator to Add, Change, Delete, Search and View specific records
 Should match the layout of the source document.

 Process-control screen 
 A Dialog box. 

 Menu-driven system 
 Uses one or more menus for navigation. 

 Ergonomics 
 Improving the work environment by studying how the users interact with it and making appropriate changes. 

 SQL 
 Structured Query Language is a popular command language processor to narrow the scope of returned information from a database. 

 Natural Language 
 Allows users to type commands or requests in normal English phrases. 

 GUI 
 Graphical User Interface is the modern Windows-type environment with mouse support, as opposed to the old DOS command line character-based screen design. Either could be used effectively, although ergonomically, the more modern support for multiprocessing and multiple open windows and letting the user click selections is preferable. 

 WYSIWYG 
 What You See Is What You Get. Design environment wherein the document you work on is the same as how the document will look when it is published or displayed. 

 Common Interface Objects 

 Command Buttons
 Dropdown Listboxes
 Dropdown Comboboxes
 Dropdown Menus
 Popup Menus
 Dialog Boxes
 Option Buttons (Radio Buttons)
 Check Boxes
 Spin Bars
 Tool Bars
 Misc. custom objects

 Context-Sensitive Help 
 Giving the user the ability to find out more about the application environment in the context of where they happen to ask for help. 

 Input Data Security 
 Protects from loss or damage and recovers data when it might be lost or damaged. Source documents should be stored in a safe location for some specified length of time according to a records retention policy which must meet all legal requirements and business needs. 

 Audit Trail 
 Every piece of information should be traceable back to the input data that produced it. Thus, an audit trail records the source of all data and the date it was input. 

 Encryption 
 Encoding data for security reasons. 

 Systems Design 

 Output Design
 Input Design
 File and Database Design 
 System Architecture

 Term 
 Definition 

 Basic Elements of Data Design 

 Entities
 Fields
 Records
 Files
 Keys

 Entity 
 A Person, Place, Thing, or Event for which data is collected and maintained. 

 Field 
 An Attribute, or Field of a Record is a single characteristic or fact about an Entity. 

 Record 
 A collection of Fields that describes on instance of an Entity. A Record is made up of (one or more) all the Fields, or Attributes of the Instance which is the Record. 

 File 
 A set of Records that contains data about a specific Entity. 

 Key Fields 
 Use Keys to organize, access and maintain data structures.

 Primary Keys
 Candidate Keys
 Foreign Keys
 Secondary Keys

 Attribute 
 Another term for Field in a Database, (or Property in a Class or Method). 

 Primary Key 
 Unique (because it has no two customers can have the same customer number) and Minimal (because it contains no information beyond what is needed to identify the entity) identification of a particular member of an entity. 

 Candidate Key 
 Any Field that COULD serve as a Primary Key. 

 Foreign Key 
 A Field in one File that must match a Primary Key value in another file in order to establish a relationship or link between the two Files. 

 Secondary Key 
 Any Field or combination of Fields that may be used to access or retrieve Records, even though they may not be unique, For instance: Sort by ZIP CODE. 

 Non-Key (Field) 
 Any field not a Primary Key or a Candidate Key, but still, is it a Foreign Key? 

 ERD 
 Entity-Relationship Diagram is a graphical model of the IS that show the relationships among system entities.

 1:1 One-to-One Relationship
 1:M One-to-Many Relationship
 M:N Many-to-Many Relationship 

 The relationship between two entities is referred to as Cardinality . Unlike DFDs and flowcharts, ERDs do not depict data or information flows, only their relationships dut does not imply a superior/inferior relationship.

 One-to-One Relationship (1:1) 
 Exists when exactly one of a second entity occurs for each instance of the first entity. 

 One-to-Many Relationship (1:M) 
 Exists when one occurrence of the first entity can be related to many occurrences of the second entity, but each occurrence of the second of the second entity can be associated with only one occurrence of the first entity. 
 Many may mean any number, including zero! (Also see ERD) 

 Many-to-Many Relationship (M:N) 
 Exists when one instance of the first entity can be related to many instances of the second entity, and one instance of the second entity can be related to many instances of the first entity. 
 Many may mean any number, including zero! (Also see ERD) 

 Cardinality 
 How Instances of one Entity relate to Instances of another Entity. For instance, they may be either Mandatory or Optional . (Also see ERD) 

 Cardinality Notation 
 A graphic shorthand representation of relationships among Entities. 

 Crow's Foot Notation 
 A specific and common method of Cardinality Notation. 

 Creating an ERD 

 Identify the entities
 Determine all significant events or activities for two or more entities
 Analyze the nature of the interaction
 Draw the ERD

 Record Design 
 Specifies the fields and identifies the Primary Key, if any, for all records in a particular file. 

 Normalization 
 Process by which inherent problems and complexities in a record design are identified and corrected. 

 First Normal Form (1NF) 
 A record is in the First Normal Form if it does not contain a repeating group. 

 Second Normal Form (2NF) 
 A record is in the Second Normal Form if it is in 1NF and if all fields that are not part of the Primary Key are dependent on the entire Primary Key. If any field in a 1NF record depends on only one of the fields in a combination Primary Key, then the record is not in 2NF. A 1NF record with a Primary Key that is a single field is automatically in 2NF. 

 Third Normal Form (3NF) 
 A record is in the Third Normal Form if it is in 2NF and if no Non-Key Field is dependent on another Non-Key Field. 

 Conversion of Normalization Forms 

 The three normalization forms constitute a progression in which a record in 1NF is better than one that is unnormalized. but a record in 2NF is better yet, and a record in 3NF represents the best design. 
 To convert from unnormalized to 1NF: 

 Expand the Primary Key to include the Key of the repeating group
 Therefore, the new Primary Key may quite likely be a combination of other key fields

 To convert from 1NF to 2NF: 

 Create a new record design for each field in the Primary Key
 Then, create new record designs for all combinations of Primary Key fields taken two at a time, three at a time and so on until there exists a record with the entire original Primary Key
 Next, for each new record, designate a field (or combination of fields, as a Primary Key
 Finally, place each of the remaining fields with its appropriate primary key, which is the minimal key upon which it depends, and remove any record that has had no additional field placed into it

 To convert from 2NF to 3NF: 

 Remove all fields from the 2NF record that depends on another nonkey field
 Place these into a new record that has the other field as a Primary Key

 Normal forms beyond 3NF exist, however are rarely used in most business-oriented systems. 
 Design to reduce redundancy. This is what normalization is all about.

 Steps in DataBase Design 

 Create initial ERD
 Assign all data elements to Entities
 Create 3NF designs for all records, taking care to identify all Primary, Secondary and Foreign Keys.
 Verify all Data Dictionary Entries

 DataBase Management vs File Processing 

 Potential problems in a File Processing Environment

 Data Redundancy
 Inconsistent Data (potential)
 Slow Data Retrieval across platforms and departments

 Elements of DataBase Management 

 A DBMS , or Database Management System is used to create, access, and control a database. It includes five main components:

 DML . or Data Definition Language is used to describe the structure of the database
 DML . or Data Manipulation Language provides the necessary commands for all DB operations, such as storing, sorting, retrieving, updating and deleting DB records
 Query Language (SQL, Structured Query Language or QBE, Query-By-Example both are "Natural Language" examples)
 Data Dictionary , or central repository for information, schemas and relationships
 Utility Programs , includes support for interactive processing, DB security, backup and recovery. audit trails, data integrity and shared updates, which means more than one user may use the DB simultaneously

 Characteristics of DataBase Management 

 Some Database strengths:

 Scalability
 Support for Client-Server systems
 Economy of Scale
 Sharing of Data
 Balancing conflicting requirements
 Enforcement of standards
 Controlled redundancy and Data Consistency
 Security
 Increased programmer productivity
 Data independence

 Some Database weaknesses and concerns:

 More expensive hardware requirements
 More complex, therefore more training and experience required
 Increased overall development costs
 More expensive software
 Proceedures for security, backup and recovery and more complicated and critical in a DB environment
 Failure of DB may result in seriouly disrupted business operations

 Scalability 
 A system which can be expanded, modified or downsized easily to meet the rapidly changing needs of a business enterprise. 

 Schema 
 The complete definition of a database, including all fields, records, relationships, defined queries, tables, etc, and may include one or more subschemas. 

 Subschema 
 A view of the database, used by one or more programs or users. 

 Client-Server Systems 
 A Server (many kinds exist and is beyond the scope of this document) can distribute processing control to Clients (users at networked PCs). 

 Economy of Scale 
 When it is less expensive to use a more powerful system than using several smaller processors. 

 Data Consistency and Controlled Redundancy Redundancy 
 The enforcements of standards with resultant Data Consistency depends on avoiding unnecessary redundancy. Way, by far, too much excessive redundancy. 

 Data Independence 
 The flexibility to improve data structures without modifying application programs that use the data. This is done by differentiating how data is stored and how other programs access that data. 

 Data Mining 
 This enables users to extract information from a variety of sources seamlessly, without having to know where the data is or what form it is in. 

 DataBase Models 

 Some Database types:

 Hierarchical
 Network
 Relational
 Object-Oriented

 Type Benefits:

 Hierarchical and Network DBs are generally used on mainframes
 Relational DBs can run on many platforms, including PCs
 Relational DBs are well-suited to Client / Server models
 Object-Oriented DBs are modular and cost-effective

 Hierarchical Database 
 Data organized like a family tree, like Explorer in Windows. The disadvantage might be that each Child may have one and only one Parent. Also, the changes to the structure of a record require reorganizing the database and modifying the application programs accessing it. In addition, they are complex and may be difficult to maintain. 

 Network Database 
 A relationship between two records is defined as a Set and are further defined as Owner and Member Records. It has much of the same disadvantages as the hierarchical model. 

 Relational Database 
 Data is organized in 2D tables or Relations . Each row is called a Tuple and each column is called an Attribute . Think of a relation as a file, tuples as records, and attibutes as fields.
 An important advantage would be simplicity. Modify or add new entities, attributes or tables at any time without restructuring the entire DB. Yet, because it is powerful and flexible, it is the predominant design approach in today's business world.

 Object-Oriented Database 
 An object is a unit of data along with the actions that can affect taht data. It uses an Object Library and is by it's very nature extensible. Methods are the actions defined, and messages execute a method. Each object may inherit methods and attrubutes or properties from other objects in the Object Library. It focuses on data rather than processes, and provides for a high degree of flexibility, ease of maintenance and reduced operating costs through reusability of code. 

 CODASYL 
 C onference O n Da ta Sy stems L anguages developed various stadards for data systems. 

 Logical Record 
 Contains field values that describe a single person, place, thing or event and do not depend on how or where the data is stored physically. 

 Physical Record 
 Also known as a Block, it is the smallest unit of data that is accessed by the Operating System, which reads one physical record at a time. A physical record contains one or more logical records. 

 Blocking Factor 
 The number of logical records in one physical record. 

 Types of Information System Files 

 Some are more permanent than others!

 Master Files are relatively permanent
 Table Files are usually permanent
 Transaction Files are input files to update a Master File so are temporary
 Work Files (scratch or temp files) are temporary and are deleted when their one task is accomplished
 Security Files are created and updated regularly
 History Files are created and saved for historical and archival reasons

 Julian Date 
 Five-digit number in which the first two digits represent the year and the next three represent the day of the year. January 1, 2000 would be denoted as 00001. The may be extended to seven digits for Century accuracy. (2000001). 

 Absolute Date 
 Total number of days from some specific base date. Many software applications, including Office, use Absolute Date methodology internally. Example: if 1-1-1900 is the base date, then your taxes are due on the absolute date of 36628 ! 

 Sequential File Organization 
 Records are stored in no special sequence except the chronological order in which they were entered. To access a given record, therefore, all records before it must be read, thereby slowing operations for larger databases. 

 Random-Access File Organization 
 Also called Direct Access, because records are accessed independently of each other based on a key. 

 File Organization Types 
 Sequential, Direct and either Indexed Random or Indexed Nonsequential. 

 VSAM 
 IBM's Virtual Stroage Access Method uses mapping and block splitting to allocate storage space dynamically. 

 Audit Fields 
 Special fields within data records to provide additional control or security information. Typically these include:

 Date record was created or modified
 Name of user who performed the action
 Number of times the file has been accessed

 Systems Design 

 Output Design
 Input Design
 File and Database Design
 System Architecture 

 Term 
 Definition 

 System Architecture 
 Logical design and physical structure of a system, including hardware, sofware, design, and processing methods. 

 Environment 
 A particular combination of hardware and systems software. See Platform. 

 Platform 
 A particular combination of hardware and systems software. See Environment. 

 Processing Methods 

 Online Processing
 Batch Processing
 Combined Online and Batch Processing
 Centralized Processing
 Distributed Processing

 Online Processing 
 Handles transactions when and where they occur and gives output directly to user.

 Interactive
 Avoids delays
 Allows dialog with user
 Increases productivity
 Available continuously
 More expensive than batch processing
 Effects of downtime far more disruptive

 Batch Processing 
 Data is collected and processed in groups, or batches, possibly in non-peak computing hours.

 Cost effective
 Less vulnerable to system disruption
 Less intrusive to normal operations

 Combined Online and Batch Processing 
 A Point Of Sale (POS) terminal is one example. Most IS will continue to use a combination of online and batch processing to maximize on the strengths of each. 

 Centralized Processing 
 Typically involves mainframe and terminals located at one central location to provide information for an entire enterprise. 

 Distributed Processing 
 Consists of data resources that are accessible at many locations , allowing tasks to be performed by decentralized computers instead of a central computer system. 

 Data Communication Network 
 A collection of terminals and other equipment that uses communication channels such as telephone lines or the Internet to share data. 

 Multi-User Environment 
 A networked system with many users. 

 Stand-alone Environment 
 A non-networked system with one (at a time) user. 

 DDBS 
 Distributed Database Management System is data stored in more than one location. 

 File Server 
 Computer delivering data across various local and wide area networks. 

 Client-Server Architecture 
 Data and processing can be shared throughout the organization. 

 LAN 
 Local Area Network connects a group of personal computers in a limited area to a server that connects them and allows them to communicate efficiently and securely. 

 WAN 
 Wide Area Network connects a group of LANs into a network that can span the globe. The Internet is a WAN. 

 Network 
 Allows hardware, software and other data resources to be shared to reduce expenses and provide more capability to users. 

 Hierarchical Network 
 One computer, typically a mainframe, controls the entire network. Individual satellite processors control lower levels of processors and devices. 

 Bus Network 
 A singel communication path connects the mainframe computer, minicomputers, workstations and peripherals. A failure in one workstation may not necessarily affect other workstations. 

 Star Network 
 One central processor, or hub with one or more workstations connected to it in a star-pattern. 

 Ring Network 
 Many computers connected in a ring pattern, with data flowing in only one direction. 

 EDI 
 Electronic Data Interchange is one protocol for communicating in business computing. 

 Network Topology 
 Refers to the type of networked system architecture, such as Bus, Star, Ring, etc. 

 Suspense File 
 A common method for handling corrections by creating an error transaction file, known as a Suspense File . 

 Logical Deletion 
 When a system cannot allow deletion of a record, for archival purposes, yet want to disallow it from live, current data, some administrators use a flag for one field which then marks that record as logically deleted. 

 Processing Functions 

 Data Input
 Data Validation
 Data Updating, or file maintainance
 Data Sorting and Filtering
 Data Reporting

 Log Files 
 A copy and/or documentation of modified master file records stored in special places for troubleshooting or recovery.

 Also known as a "Journal" file
 Contains a copy of each record as it appears before modification
 Contains a copy of each record as it appears after modification
 Used in recovery programs or procedures to ensure restoration of accurate data
 Data Reporting

 File Retention 
 The length of time a file needs to be archived.

 Master files and table files are permanent and should be retained for the life of the system
 Transaction files, backup files and others are determined by a combination of processing and legal requirements
 Many in IS use a generation cycle concept,such that at least 3 backups are available at all times - Grandfather, Parent and Child backup files

 Processing Support 

 Backup and Recovery 
 File Retention
 Restart (after correcting a problem)
 Start-up (transition to new system)

 Checkpoint and Program Status Indicators 
 A way to restart interrupted batch processing, without having to necessarily begin from the original starting point. 

 Software Design 

 Use a separate update program to maintain each Master File
 Provide a validation program for each update program that does not perform it's own validation
 Reduce the number of report programs if possible
 Identify any programs required to perform special processing

 Program Documentation 

 Program Identification, including Name, Version, Department, Author, dates, etc.
 Purpose of the program - brief description
 Files input, output, printed or updated
 Processing requirements and limitations

 Object-Oriented Design 
 Bottom-up approach which stresses data, not data flows. 

 System Design Specification 
 A detailed document which presents the complete design for a system along with detailed costs, staffing, scheduling, etc.

 Management Summary
 System Components Detail
 Environmental Requirements
 Implementation Requirements
 Time and Costs Estimates
 Appendices

 System Components Details 
 The complete design for the new system with all relevant source documents. 

 Systems Implementation 

 Application Development 
 Installation and Evaluation

 Term 
 Definition 

 Application Development 

 Quality Assurance
 Application Development
 Documentation
 Management Approval

 Steps in Code Development 

 Strategic Planning
 Design (pseudocode)
 Code (program)
 Test (and retest!)
 Documentation

 Tools Used in Code Development 

 Structure charts
 Hierarchy charts
 Program flowcharts
 Pseudocode
 Reuse of code (libraries)

 Testing An Application 

 Syntax errors
 Debugger warnings
 Desk checking
 Structured walkthrough
 Code review
 Unit testing
 Online debugging
 Code analyzers
 Stub testing
 Test plans
 Link testing
 System testing

 Documenting An Application 

 Program Documentation
 System Documentation
 Operations Documentation
 User Documentation
 Program Run Sheet
 A typical run sheet contains the following:

 Program, job, systems analyst, programmer and system identification
 Scheduling information, such as run frequency and deadlines
 Input files and where they originate and output files and destinations
 Report distributions
 Special forms required
 Error and informational messages to operators and restart procedures
 Special instructions, such as security requirements

 User Documentation 

 System overview which clearly describes all major system features, capabilities and limitations
 Source document content, preparation, processing and samples
 Menu and data entry screen options, contents, and processing instructions
 Reports that are produced regularly or available at the user's request with samples
 Security and audit trail information
 Responsibility for specific input, output, or processing requirements
 Procedures for requesting changes and reporting problems
 Examples of exceptions and error situations
 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
 Explanations of how to get Help and procedures for updating the manual

 Link Testing 
 Testing two or more programs that depend on each other. Also known as String Testing, Series Testing or Integration Testing. 

 System Testing Major Objectives 
 Since system testing is a series of tests which involve the entire IS, it must include all typical processing situations and personnel, which includes Users as well as the IS development team.
 Perform a final test of all programs
 Emsure that the IS staff has the documentation and instructions needed to operate the system properly and that the backup and restart capabilities of the system are adequate
 Demonstrate that users can interact with the system successfully
 Verify that all system compnents are integrated properly and that actual processing situations will be handled correctly
 Confirm that the IS can handle predicted volumes of data in a timely and efficient manner

 Systems Implementation 

 Application Development
 Installation and Evaluation 

 Term 
 Definition 

 Operational Training 
 No system can be successful without proper training

 User training
 Manager training
 IS staff training
 Vendor training
 In-house vs. Outside resource training

 Training Manual 
 A typical training manual would probably include the following:

 Table of Contents
 Introduction
 Who Should Read This Manual
 Getting Started Section
 Lessons
 Reference Manual
 Appendices
 (May include tutorials, which are self-paced interactive, learning modules)
 Error Messages
 Codes
 Index

 Operational vs Test Environments 
 In a test environment, the data is test data only, meaning the results are non-business oriented, but rather of a troubleshooting, and thus tempory nature. 
 In an operational, or production environment, access is limited to known and trusted users and is strictly controlled. 
 A copy, though not "live", of the operating system and programs and sample data can be a test platform to verify the effect of any enhancement or modification to the "live", or production system.

 File Conversion 
 Only after establishing the new system's operational environment and performing the necessary training, you can begin the conversion process of the old IS to the new IS. The old system will probably be able to "export" files to a format usable by the new IS. 

 System Changeover 
 The process of putting the new IS online and retiring the old system. There are four main changeover approaches: 
 Direct cutover
 Parallel operation
 Pilot operation
 Phased

 Direct Cutover 
 Changeover occurs immediately when the new system becomes operational. Usually the least expensive method, but involves more risk. 

 Parallel Operation 
 Both the old and the new systems operate fully for a specified period. The output from both systems, having identical input, should reveal any problems with the new system. 
 Parallel Changeover is not practical if the old and new systems are incompatible technically, or if the operating environment cannot support both systems. 
 It is also the most expensive but the least risky .

 Pilot Operation 
 Implement the complete new system at a selected location of the company as a test platform before implementing on a wider scale. 

 Phased Cutover 
 Implement the new system in stages or modules, not all at once 

 Post-Implementation Evaluation 
 Assesses the overall quality of the IS and verifies that the new system meets specified requirements, complies with user objectives and achieves the anticipated benefits. 
 A typical evaluation includes feedback for the following areas:

 Accuracy, completeness and timeliness of system output
 User satisfaction
 System relliability and maintainability
 Adequacy of system controls and security measures
 Hardware efficiency and platform performance
 Effectiveness of database implementation
 Performance of the IS team
 Completeness and quality of documentation
 Quality and effectiveness of training
 Accuracy of cost-benefit estimates and development schedules

 Evaluation of a System 
 These represent some of the investigative techniques employed when performing a Post-Implementation Evaluation.

 Interview members of managment and key users
 Observe users and operations personnel actually working with the new IS.
 Read all documentation and training materials
 Examine all source documents, output reports and screen displays
 Gather information and opinions from a large number of users
 Analyze maintenance and help desk logs

 Whenever possible, evaluation should be conducted by people not directly involved in developing the system. 

 Final Report To Management 
 Implementation phase of the SDLC Final Report should include:

 Final versions of all system documentation
 Planned modifications and enhancements to the system
 Recap of all systems development costs and schedules
 Comparison of actual costs and schedules to the original estimates
 Post-Implementation Evaluation

 Systems Operation and Support 

 Support Activities
 Maintenance Activities
 Managing Systems Operation and Support
 Configuration Management
 Managing System Performance

 Term 
 Definition 

 Support Activities 

 User Training and Assistance
 Information Centers and Help Desks

 Maintenance Activities 

 Operational costs are both fixed and as-needed (lease costs vs. supplies)
 Maintainance expenses includes spending to support Maintenance Activities
 Changing programs, procedures, or documentation to ensure correct system performance
 Adapting the system to changing requirements
 Making the system operate more efficiently

 Types of Maintenance Activities 

 Corrective - done to fix errors
 Adaptive - adds new capability and enhancements
 Perfective - improves efficiency

 Near the end of a system's useful life, maitenance expenses increase repidly due to adaptive maintenance and a higher level of perfective maintenance.

 Managing Systems Operation and Support 

 Maintenance Team
 Configuration Management
 Maintenance Releases

 Maintenance Team 
 Consisting of one or more systems analysts and programmers with effective interpersonal and communications skills, creative, energetic and eager for new knowledge. Some consider the maintenance projects to offer the best learning experience for newly hired and recently promoted IS staff members. It may be in fact more difficult work, however. 

 Configuration Management 

 Maintenance Request
 Initial Action on Request
 Final Disposition of Request

 Maintenance Releases 
 Methodology whereby all non-critical changes are held until they can be implemented at the same time. Each change is documented and installed as a new version of the the system which is then called a release . 

 Analysis 
 Examining the whole in order to learn about the individual elements . 

 Synthesis 
 Studying the parts in order to understand the entire system . 

 Managing System Performance 

 Performance and Workload Measurement

 Response Time
 Turnaround Time
 Throughput

 Capacity Planning
 What-If Analysis

 Performance 
 System performance directly affects users who rely on it to perform their job functions. Current system performance should be monitored by IS staff, anticipating future needs. 

 Response Time 
 Overall time between a request for system activity and the delivery of the response. Measured between the time a user clicks on a command button and the time the final output is available for use, the response time is affected by the system design, capabilities and processing methods such as data communication factors. 

 Turnaround Time 
 Measures the efficiency of central computer operations. 

 Throughput 
 Measures the efficiency of the computer itself, or a data communications network. 

 Capacity Planning 
 A process that monitors current activity and performance levels, anticipates future activity, and forecasts the resources needed to provide and sustain desired levels of service. 

 What-If Analysis 
 A process whereby one variable (or more) is changed to measure the effect on other elements. 

 System Obsolescence 
 A system is obsolete when its functions are no longer required by users or when the platform becomes outmoded or is no longer cost-effective to operate and maintain. 

 Top Six Signs of System Obsolescence 

 Maintenance history documentation shows steadily increasing adaptive and corrective maintenance
 Operational costs or execution times are rapidly increasing and routine perfective maintenance does not reverse or slow the trend
 A new off-the-shelf (OTS) application becomes available that provides the same or additional services more efficiently, faster, or less expensively than the current system
 Technology becomes available which offers the same or additional functions more efficiently
 Maintenance changes or additions are difficult and expensive to perform
 Users request significant new features to support business requirements
 Bill Gates needs a new space station! ( Just kidding, Bill! )

 Examples of Perfective Maintenance Projects 

 Additional high-speed memory
 Macros or Scripts to handle repetitive tasks
 Upgrade modems to latest technology
 Replace network cabling with fiber optics
 Create a code module that compresses data files before net transmission
 Rewrite a program in a new nonprocedural language
 Redesign a graphical interface to provide greater flexibility
 Reorganize program modules to interact more efficiently
 Develop a library of reusable code modules
 Create multiple desktop settings so several users can share the same PC
 Replace older stroage devices with high-speed disk technology
 Use OOP for application development
 Convert slower batch processing tasks to online procedures
 Replace older technology components with newer technology piecemeal throughout the system.

 Types of CASE Tools For Systems Maintenance 

 Performance monitor providing data on program execution times
 Program analyzer that scans source code, providing data element cross-reference information and helps evaluate the impact of a program change
 Interactive debugging analyzer that locates source of a programming error
 Restructuring tool or a reengineering tool (reverse engineering)
 Automated documentation tools
 Network activity monitors
 Workload forecasting software

 Cut-and-pasting of code permitted for non-commercial use. 
 Check out my source code: <Right-Click> | View Source 
 Thank you. 
 Back to the Beginning of this page