Levitating systems

 Ginger - 100 years ago it was something better. 

Latest example of people's naivity is that "Ginger".
The elite have found few people who invented and invested into
something that has no new technology but just uses some of 
already existing technology, combines it, names "Ginger".
And now they promote that vehicle as...read this carefully:
"Ginger will be to the car what the car was to the horse and buggy"
In other words, it will be as important to the humanity as
the gasoline car was some 100 years ago.

We already saw something similar, when real invention was
suppresed with something of less value, just in order to give
to the public, which is majority of people, some toy to use
and to think about, and forget about better and more important
invention which could really revolutionize the world.
What we already saw, is that almost 100 years ago,
the elite give big money to the Ford, in order to 
prevent Nikola Tesla, American-Serbian inventor, from making
popular his electric car which already then achieved speed
of over 100 km/hour, and was already then using overunity energy,
from ether.

So, instead of something really good like Tesla invented
they deciced to give us something of less value, but still
even being of less value, it brought humanity to the 
next level in technology usage.
And now, what is big concern, they are offering us some toy
with no advances in technology, and they dare to say in our face
that Ginger will have "impact as big as the PC and 
bigger than the Internet"!
The proof that 'elite' is behind it, is that the US Postal Service,
General Electric and National Parks Service are going to be 
the first customers to purchase "Ginger", buying heavy-duty models
for 8000 US$ apiece!

Why 'elite' is now, after almost 100 years of Tesla's invention,
not letting something better then gasoline car, some really new 
technology to be mass-produced for all the people, like they did
with gasoline cars, but now instead they promote something trivial
as "big, very important, which will be to the car what the car 
was to the horse"?

There are only two explanation for this, and both of them are bad: 
1) now the elite is even more arrogant and shameless,
then their ancestors some 100 years ago. 
2) the public is now more dumb and naive, with less ability
to think by themself, but rather would just stare at TV and
believe every word and picture that comes out of that box,
then their ancestors some 100 years ago, who were without TV.

Or combination of both reasons.

If people will accept that "Ginger" in their minds as something
really new, something bigger then PC or Internet, and they
believe that it has impact on our society of this planet as big 
as the gasoline car had almost one century ago, then this society
as a whole, and thier members, are in big problem because
they even not are capible of understanding of technolgy progress,
and thus, they are even less capible and less interested
in spiritual progress, because those two always have to go together.
The society who wants to develop only technology but loses interest
to develop spirituality, or opposite, is falling and will ruin 
sooner or later.

Only society whose members are smart, healthy, well balanced
spiritual, is happy society which is moving from one level up to
the next level until finally reaching the ultimate goal, 
or better known as God and Heaven.

Will 'elite' who worships diabolical and vengeful deities have succes
in ruining the society on this planet, it depends on us.
It also depends on us, will this society manage to get up,
to turn 180 degrees and to develop both technology and spirituality,
so it can be equal member of Cosmic brotherhood, it depends on us,
and no one from side has right to interfere. The directions can be
given from others, but we have to learn to drive and to get to
that place.

Vencislav Bujic 
03 December 2001 

Copyright 2001 by Vencislav Bujic. All rights reserved. 
This text can be reproduced in full or in part only ifcredit
is given to the author and location www.vacuum-energy.com
where it was originally posted.