Software Simulation of NASA's ACM 

 E-field gradient around the NASA's Two Dimensional, Asymmetrical Capacitor 
Module (Acamod) 

By Vencislav Bujic

All the data and information on this web site is for free and may be used only for private and/or educational purposes, but not for commercial purposes and/or applications.

 The antisymmetry of E-field gradient is very high, above 90% which gives high 
unidirectional thrust to the Acamod, which is excelent.(see data on right side of image 
bellow).
In other words, above 90% of energy input to Acamod will create unidirectional thrust,
in direction to aluminum plate. For more information, check the patent number 
 US6317310 

 Direct conversion of electrical energy into gravitational pulse
obtained with antisymmetrical shaped electrodes, whose E-field gradient change seems to
produce unidirectional gravitational pusle: 

 The mass, size and the shape of Acamod will have big effect on final E-field gradient.
The most important seems to be mass of the cylinder electrodes, the more mass - the more 
thrustis being developed. Also, it seems the copper is better material then aluminum,
for cylinder electrode. 

 The law can be formulated: 

Symmetry of the gravitational pulse is equal to the symmetry of electrical field gradient.

In other words, if E-filed gradient is symmetrical, we will get symmetrical gravitational 
pulse, which means body will accelerate equaly in all directions, and thus stay static, 
with zero velocity added by pusle.

If E-field gradient is antisymmetrical, we will get antisymmetrical gravitational pusle, 
or antistatic(unidirectional) velocity, and body will increase its velocity in that 
direction.

But, if there is not enough mass in the body to use that gravitational pulse,
then most of the gravitational pulse energy will be wasted, and thus, 
the thrust will be minimal.

For more information about importance of the mass, visit Jean Naudin's pages
dedicated to the experiments with Lifter and Acamod, the links are located
at the bottom of this page.

 Film simulation of what is going on with E-field gradient in big cup-shape antisymmetrical capacitor, 14 cm height and 10 cm width, with volgate of 30 KV on 
electrodes, +15 KV on upper, and -15 KV on lower, cylindrical electrode: 

Simulation with voltage level on electrodes is on the right side of the image:

Simple simulation:

 Acamod creates very strong antisymmerty of E-field gradient ( +12.901.000 vs -874.000 ) 
even above 90% of thrust created is unidirectional(antisymetrical):

 Proff of thrust/weight relation: 

Visit Jean Naudin's page with testing of two versions of the above mentioned
versions of the Acamod, small which creates unidirectional thrust is on page:

The Asymmetrical Capacitor Thruster v1.0 

 And big one, but very light, with minimum mass, which does not produce thrust 
is on page: 

The Asymmetrical Capacitor Thruster v2.0 

 And heavy one, with 5 times more mass then ACT 2.0, produces more thrust then
even ACT 1.0: 

The Asymmetrical Capacitor Thruster v3.0 

more to come...

23 november 2001 
last update 25 november 2001

E-mail: VenciB@yahoo.com