Bloggity-Blog-Blog-Blog Archive 05 Dec 2004 to 11 Dec 2004 

 Bloggity-Blog-Blog-Blog Archive
 Laura "Tegan" Gjovaag

 Saturday, December 11, 2004 

 Sketchbook - Rick Geary 
 This was another sketch I got at the amazing San Diego 2000 . Geary has done a whole lotta work, just go check out the samples on his website . I like this one a lot as it illustrates what I like most about getting Aquaman sketches from different artists: the way an artist's style can make even Aquaman look unique. AQUAMAN by Rick Geary 23 July 2000 (permission to post given 31 October 2004 via e-mail) www.rickgeary.com As a reminder: Almost every sketch in my sketchbook was non-commissioned and done on the floor of a con. These are not the best works of the artists. These are only representative of what the artist can do under pressure in a loud, crowded, and often stressed-out environment. Most of them were done as quickly as possible, to prevent huge lines from forming. Don't judge any of these artists negatively by the artwork you see, instead be as impressed as I am by what they accomplished in far-from-ideal conditions. To see all the sketches I have permission to post so far, check out my Sketchbook Page . If you have any contact information for any of the other artists I'm trying to contact , please e-mail me . Click for a random Aquaman sketch . The Saturday Sketch &#8482; is brought to you by the letters "R", "G" and the number "78", and also courtesy the fine artists who pour their lives into producing wonderful comic books, then come to conventions only to get asked by geeky fangirls for a sketch of Aquaman. Support an artist, buy a comic book. 
 by Tegan at 8:07 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Rapid Reviews - 8 December 2004 - Part II 
 Bloodhound #6 : "Run The Gears": This issue seems to be entirely about Cleve's problems with returning to prison. Not just prison, but the general population of the same prison that he busted heads in when he left for his first mission. Of course, a little mystery pops up. This book continues to fascinate me. JLA #109 : "Aftershocks": The story is quickly becoming complicated and slightly incomprehensible. However, I was able to understand Obsidian Age so this will be a piece of cake. I suspect I will need to reread to catch everything though. At least Aquaman is in this version of the Justice League, and seems to be a contributing member again. And it really is fun to see the Crime Syndicate running around loose, even if I'm not entirely sure about the Quardians. Samurai: Heaven & Earth #1 : "Chapter 1: Love and Death": A promising start to what looks to be a very interesting book. I like supporting books that are slightly different. The first paragraph of the author's comments at the end pretty much sum up this book: "What the world really needs, more than anything else, is a comic about a Japanese warrior traveling across Europe, written by an American and drawn by a Brazilian. And printed in Canada." Heh. In any case, it's beautiful. Recommended. Demo #12 : "Mon Dernier Jour Avec Toi" and "Marie & Mike": Wow. I never expected to read an illustrated poem in comic book form like this. I was chillingly sure of the ending fairly quickly into the book, and was disturbed to be right. Haunting. Marie & Mike jumps back to the first issues and reminds me why I picked up this series in the first place. While each issue certainly stood on its own, it would be interesting to go back and read them all in order. Powers v2 #7 : The powers are slowly returning, despite it being illegal. And it seems that most people like it. This one features Christian giving some advice, and Deena getting lied to. Pretty strong issue. Aquaman #25 : "Escape": Gleason and Alamy's art continues to grow on me, and whoever did the title of this issue really outdid himself. That's the good. The story? Well, I never once in my life expected to say this, but Eric Larsen did the drug angle better in his short-lived and much detested run on the book. And as much as I like Sub-Diego, this is not Aquaman's first time running a city. Some of his comments struck me as very odd. Overall, a mild disappointment in the writing department. I hope it improves. Still to review: Noble Causes, PS238, and a few more. Also coming are some TV reviews. 
 by Tegan at 3:02 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Friday, December 10, 2004 

 Flipping Through Previews... 
 Yes, it's that time again... time for "Things in Previews That Look Interesting But I Can't Afford To Get (with a list of things I am getting just for contrast)". I'm going to start with the bulk of the book, and then come back and cover the "big four" at the end. Please remember, I'm listing what looks interesting. My actual purchase list is going to be much smaller. The numbers after each title are usually the page number in Previews Magazine , so you can follow along at home. Let's start with the covers. The main cover is for Seven Soldiers of Victory, Grant Morrison's new "mega adventure". I admit I'm very interested in the books and the concept, but I'm not overly keen on the cover itself. It doesn't impress me much. The back cover is for G.I.Joe, and is far less exciting. On page 3 are some very amusing MiniMates, featuring Witchblade, Kabuki, Magdalena, and Dawn. I don't know which one I find the funniest, but they are terribly cute. And no, I don't intend to get them. Moving on, let's hit the Splash Page (8-9). A bit about Black Panther, and more on the WizKids game that I didn't get (the pirate one). New Overstreet Price Guide will be coming out in a few months. I've found that I'm not nearly so interested in the price of comics anymore, now that I've got most of the Silver Age stuff I was hunting for. None of the other articles do anything for me. This month's checklist is "Valentine's Day/Girl Friendly Merchandise". Guys, I absolutely guarantee that, while some women will appreciate a comic book, it had better be along with chocolate and not in place of chocolate. I notice that no DC books made their list. Going through the list, the books I'm familiar with look like decent choices. Skipping over the big four, I land in the middle of Wizard (186-192) (euwwww!). Something about an Identity Crisis Directors Cut... but that's about all the jumps out at me. So let's flip to the Featured Items pages for the main comic book section (194-197). The Steve Niles, Rob Zombie, & Richard Corben Bigfoot comic looks like something I might possibly be intrigued by, but I doubt we'll have enough extra this month to add it. I'd also love to get the first Scholastic reprint of Bone, in full color, but that too looks like it will be out of reach. Luckily, some of the money from hubby-Eric's Oz bookshop went to getting me the one volume edition of Bone, so at least I can enjoy the story. About Comics (198) has a book called Comics Prose Volume 1 that I would love to get. It includes a number of writers whose work I enjoy. It's on the short list, but again, money is really tight this month so I don't think it will happen. Adhouse Books (200) has something called Project: Superior which includes a number of reinterpretations of superheroes by "Indy" artists. The ad on page 200 lists the contributors. Although the cover doesn't do much for me, I would love to read this one. Again... money is tight, probably won't make the list. Adv Films (201-212) continues to annoy me with their solicit layout, and despite attempting to read closely, I found nothing that I would consider buying. Next up is AIT/Planet Lar (213) who are putting out a collection of Scurvy Dogs . As you may remember, I wasn't too impressed with it, but other folks loved it. Alternative Comics presents Strange Day , which looks more to my taste. (Sorry about the mistake, Larry). I'm not sure what to think of Amaze Ink/Slave Labor 's book Bag of Anteaters #1 (216). Won't make the list, but it does intrigue me. Antarctic Press (220-221) is collecting Heaven Sent , and I'm curious... has anyone in the blogosphere tried this book? Is it any good? I was sort of tempted by the first issue. A Different Pace (222) by Ape Entertainment looks like it could be a good book. I'd have to see some samples before I'd jump after it... and nothing extra is getting bought this month anyway. *sigh* I just want to point out that Stargate SG-1: Daniel's Song #1 (299) by Avatar Press has four different covers, including a glow in the dark cover. It's also only 16 pages long. Um. Ok. The Ballad of Sleeping Beauty #7 (236) from Beckett Comics will make the list again. It helps that it's full color and only $2. How is Beckett managing to keep the prices low? We are absolutely getting True Story Swear To God #13 (240) by Tom Beland and both Eric and I HIGHLY recommend it to anyone else. Guys, you want a valentine gift? Get Chances Are... for your gal. Just don't forget to add some chocolate. If that doesn't set the mood, nothing will. (It's true, I highly recommend it. -- Hubby-Eric) Hey, get off my keyboard! Moving on... ??!!?? I just found ANOTHER cover to Stargate SG-1: Daniel's Song #1 on page 242, from Comic Cavalcade. That makes five. Committed Comics (244) has Platypus Rex #2 . I'll buy it. I want to support the company (which is local), and the writer and artist both know my name thanks to all the local cons I've gone to and seen them at. Hey, I can bring both issues to get autographed the next time I go to the con... Dementian Comics (246) is offering Stylish Vittles: I Met A Girl and it's sequel. There are art and story samples available at the website, so check it out. Another book I wouldn't mind getting if only, if only. Penguin Bros (251). It just had to be penguins. I like penguins, you see. I sort of collect them (they congregate on top of the TV). I'd love to get this book, just to see what it's about. From Devil's Due Publishing , and no, it probably won't make the list. Dork Storm Press is soliciting Nodwick #27 (260). Considering how much I love PS238, I really should just add this book to my pull list today. I mean, it's Aaron Williams, it must be excellent. Graphix (287), an imprint of Scholastic , is reprinting Bone in color, starting with Volume 1: Out of Boneville . As I think I mentioned before, I'd love to get these. Maybe I'll save up and buy the hardcovers someday. Heroic Publishing (288) is offering a collection of the classic Alter Ego (the comic) by Roy Thomas and Ron Harris. These would certainly be fun to own. More penguins?!?? Penguins On Ice is being offered from ibooks (290). This one looks even more true to penguin-kind, as not one of the penguins on the cover is carrying a gun. IDW Publishing presents Bigfoot #1 (291) by the frightening team of Rob Zombie, Steve Niles, and Richard Corben. Looking at the solicit, it seems less likely that I'll get it. I'm not really into horror comics, and that seems to be the angle they are taking with it. Still, what should I expect from that team? Chickasaw Adventures #1 from Layne Morgan Media (300) appears to be just the kind of book I really like. Educational and yet fun. Can I resist a time-travel book featuring the Chickasaw Nation ? From the website: "The Chickasaws have chosen this exciting tool to educate both the Chickasaw youth and the greater American youth on its invaluable history, tradition, and culture." This'll make the list. NBM Publishing (304) is offering both the Hardy Boys and the Nancy Drew trades this month. I can't decide if I really want them. Well, I know I want them, I just don't know for sure if they will make the list. Panini is reoffering Doctor Who: Iron Legion (307). I'll be reviewing it soon. Let's just say, this is worth it. Dave Gibbons. Need I say more? Yes? Um... it's good. Fourth Doctor fun stuff. Worth a look. Amelia Rules (308) returns to Previews with the fifth issue in the Superheroes arc. Yes, we'll be getting this one, too. Rosen Publishing Group (310) is breaking my heart with some great-looking bios of a whole bunch of really cool comics creators, including Neil Gaiman, Art Spiegelman, Colleen Doran, Bryan Talbot, Joe Sacco, and Will Eisner. If I could afford them, I'd get them all. SAF Comics (312) is showing off their Western with art from Joe Kubert called Tex: The Lonesome Rider . Here's another series of books I'd get if I could afford them, the Modesty Blaise tales from Titan Publishing (317). I've read bits and pieces, and would love to read the whole lot. Top Shelf (340) has the second volume of Owly which looks cute, but I haven't seen close-up yet. Maybe someday. TwoMorrows Publishing has art books on George Tuska and Dick Giordano. Both would be good reads. Viz Comics is up to Vagabond Vol 20 (346). I may never catch up. But I liked the ones I got from the library, and would love to get the entire series. Yeeesss! I'm through the big comic book section. And I only found thirty-five more books that I want to buy. Ouch. In the magazine section, I've dropped Comic Book Digest (355) because there just isn't enough in it for me. I do recommend that other readers give it a try, as it's a good effort. The cover of Comics Buyer's Guide (355) (and Scrye (359)) has a Mr Freeze HeroClix that makes me want to start playing the game again. I love HeroClix. Little statues. I wonder if this means there will be another DC set soon? In books, the New Smithsonian Book of Comic Book Stories (369) looks like something I would like. I've enjoyed the Smithsonian books so far. Graphitti Designs (396-399) has some cool stuff. I'm still thinking of making a "New Venice Diving Squad" T-shirt for my Aquaman fans. Part of me doesn't care that nobody would get it. I like the new Green Lantern shirts. And I would love to get the Scary Godmother tumbler set. Aquaman is on page 420. Pages 428 and 429 have plush Aliens and Predators. Be afraid. Be very afraid. There is a "Revenge of the Jedi" movie poster on page 464... just look at the price. I mean LOOK at the price. Wow. Do you want to play Star Wars Risk? If you do, you can order it (page 476) for only $40. Nothing to comment on in the videos, so it's back to the big four. People who don't like mainstream books can stop reading now. The Gems of the Month aren't really that interesting to me, so let's move on to the first publisher. This month, let's start with Dark Horse . I'm slightly interested in Dragon Prince #1 (20-21) by Ron Marz and Jeff Johnson. I like Johnson's artwork, and the story sounds intriguing enough. I'm definitely getting Conan #13 (22), and I'd like to get the trade collection of the first few issues, too. I will be getting Samurai: Heaven & Earth #3 (28) and Usagi Yojimbo #82 (29). Next up is Image Comics . I'll be getting Battle Hymn #3 (133), Lions, Tigers and Bears (148), and Noble Causes #8, (151). I was stopped by Lullaby: Wisdom Seeker #1 (149), but I'm not sure it will make the list. As usual, I didn't get Marvel Previews, but I'm still getting a handful of Marvel Comics (178). Young Avengers doesn't interest me at all. I will get Amazing Spider-Man #517 and Spider-Man: India #4 . I'll note that Shanna, The She-Devil by Frank Cho is finally coming. I'm somewhat interested, but it doesn't look likely. Supreme Power #15 will also make the list. And, of course, Powers #9 . And finally, the last publisher on the list... DC Comics . As usual, section by section. Batman (57-63): Just like last month, nothing. Not a book. Superman (64-68): Nothing here, either. DC Universe (69-82): Aquaman #27 , I'm a little disappointed that we're getting Ocean Master... but then it's been a little while. Also on the list: Birds of Prey #79 , Bloodhound #8 , Green Arrow #47 , Green Lantern: Rebirth #5 , JLA #111 , JLA Classified #4 (which is set prior to Identity Crisis), JSA #70 , Outsiders #21 , and Solo #3 . I'll have to make some sort of decision on Seven Soldiers #0 , but I'm leaning ever so slightly towards getting it despite the money problems. Johnny DC (83-84): I have to get The Batman Strikes! #6 just because. And I'll get Justice League Unlimited #6 because of the possibility Aquaman will show up sometime. Beyond the Universe (85-95): Still nothing. Wildstorm (96-109): The Twilight Experiment #1 looks like I could enjoy it, but I'm not adding anything this month unless I'm pretty sure of it, so I probably won't get it. Vertigo (110-121): I wanted to get It's A Bird... , but couldn't afford it. I'm still thinking about it as something to get later on, since I still can't afford it. Vimanarama #1 looks different. I'll have to skip it, but it certainly is odd-looking. DC Direct (122-127): Neat Crisis on Infinite Earths figures. Don't want 'em, but they look cool. Whew. So that's it for this month's "Things in Previews That Look Interesting But I Can't Afford To Get (with a list of things I am getting just for contrast)". Comments? Questions? Did I miss any really cool books that you know about and would like to point out? Do you disagree with something I wrote, and want to correct me? There's the comments, right below. Post something. And, yes, I accept review copies. I'm willing to give almost anything a try. 
 by Tegan at 11:09 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Rapid Reviews - 8 December 2004 - Part I 
 Ah heck. As long as I'm in a groove, here's yet more reviews... Captain America & The Falcon #10 : "The Killers Club": I still can't quite figure out what's going on. So there are two "Captain America"s, and one falcon, and some Modok thing running around. Only Captain America isn't wearing his uniform, is he? Ah well. Maybe I'll catch up with it next issue. New Avengers #1 : "Breakout!" Part 1: Apparently this is the start of a new organization of the Avengers. I'm not overwhelmed. I'm not even particularly impressed. I'll have to see if it's good enough to keep getting. Noble Causes #4 : Oh! Nice triple-cliffhanger, Jay! I'm glad I ended up getting this the same day as the next issue, so I can read what happens next. The cliffhanger was in the right order, too, with the least intense one first. The entire book is three different plotlines progressing... and all progressing nicely. Recommended. Batman Strikes! #4 : "Without A Chance": Batman versus Bane in a story that attempts to present the idea that Batman doesn't need all his fancy gadgets to defeat the bad guys. I'm not sure it really succeeds, but it's not horrible. Just ok. JSA #68 : "Making History": Out of pure coincidence, I recently read a flashback story from 1979 that recounted the events that are central to the beginning of this tale. And the tale itself... well, I couldn't tell you how long threads from this story have been popping up in previous issues, but I have to admit I was thinking "It's about time!" (no pun intented) when this finally pulled together. Now I find myself actually interested in JSA for the first time in a long time. Rising Stars #23 : "Phoenix in Ascension" 2 of 3: I expected this to happen in the next issue! Now what will happen? Nothing left now but the explanations. This book is so much better with a great artist. Still to review: Bloodhound, JLA, Aquaman, Samurai: Heaven & Earth, Demo, Powers, Noble Causes, PS238, and a few more. Also coming are my TV reviews and Flipping Through Previews. 
 by Tegan at 5:33 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Rapid Reviews - 1 December 2004 
 Street Angel #4 : "Down in the Dumpster Blues": A really calm, tame story about an unexceptional homeless girl. Really. No ninjas, no killer octopi, just a girl and her skateboard looking for food. Like some other critics, I find it hard to believe that someone as resourceful as Jesse could remain homeless as long as she apparently has. Still, it's a good little story. Outsiders #18 : "Most Wanted" Part 2: Of all the possible cliffhangers ever written in a DC book, this is NOT one I would expect. I really don't have anything else to say. Kindergoth #4 : "Tiny Green Men": As one of the letters says, "This book is wrong on so many levels..." and yet it's still pretty funny. I'm thinking this one might merit a reread soon. Fallen Angel #18 : "Hurlyburly" Conclusion: Another nasty nasty. There really are a lot of nasty books in the last couple of weeks. Anyway, this one continues the development of Shadow Boxer, who becomes a sympathetic character quite nicely. The results of his choices are difficult... and the twists involved are equally nasty. Justice League Unlimited #4 : "Local Hero": I'm very familiar with the basic story of Adam Strange, but the little recap wasn't too bad. And it was important that the reader understand it to get the story. And it was a nice little story. Nothing special. It was nice to see a letter column again, though! Coming Soon: This week's books. There are a LOT. 
 by Tegan at 9:42 AM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Thursday, December 09, 2004 

 Rapid Reviews - 24 November 2004 
 Amazing Spider-Man #73/514 : "Sins Past Part Six": I still don't get why people hate this storyline so much. There is one mental hurdle to get over to believe it, and that's just that Osborne was scum enough to take advantage of Gwen when he got a chance. The way I read it, the liason wasn't entirely voluntary on Gwen's part. Anyway... in this issue, both the kids are apparently cured, and both of them finally decide what they want as their future. I still like this story, and I've enjoyed it from the beginning. But then, I didn't grow up thinking of Gwen as a paragon of virtue, either. Supreme Power #13 : "Natural Orders": Nasty nasty. A lot of connecting threads, a bunch of very powerful people, some working as a team for the first time. I like this one. Only a couple of threads are missing, but what is there is satisfying. Green Lantern: Rebirth #2 : "Enemies Within": Hey, Aquaman shows up! Ahem. Right. Members and former members of the Green Lantern corps are attacking people... except for Kyle, who refuses to use his ring. What the heck is going on in this book? I think this one will definitely require a re-read once the whole thing is out. Adam Strange #3 : "Planet Heist Part Three": Missed number two, and I may have to go back and get it. I'm not sure I'm interested enough in the cosmic DCU to justify it, though. I wasn't really aware how nasty Thanagar is in the DCU. Nice cliffhanger, at least. Usagi Yojimbo #80 : "When Rabbits Fly": A great done-in-one featuring a crazy inventor and, yes, Usagi himself! After a couple of issues without, it was nice to see the main character show up in the book again. As usual, this book is really good. Well worth getting. Powers v2 #6 : Wow. That two page spread of returning powers is just... cool. The effect of the brighter colors is also really effective in creating a serious impact. I didn't read the letter column, as usual. As usual, this is a brutal but fascinating book. Girl Genius: Agatha Heterodyne and the Beetleburg Clank and Girl Genius: Agatha Heterodyne and the Airship City : I bought the first hardcover some time ago, and I quite love it. It's a treasured treasury, like my Age of Bronze hardcovers. The quality is just wonderful, and the clear care put into the book makes it very worth reading. The first volume was entirely in sepia tone, except for the back-up story. The second volume is in glorious color and looks beautiful. Both are highly recommended, with the softcover volumes also wonderful to get. Snag them if you can find them, order them if you can't. Coming soon: Last week's reviews... 
 by Tegan at 7:39 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Random Thought-like Things 
 Blogs in comics . Sort of. Be sure to follow the link-trail back to the original post for more images. Mark Evanier makes some interesting points about DC, the Silver Age, and Bob Haney. Go visit Near Mint Heroes . He's been linkblogging again. Christmas lights take down DSL connections in England. Ooops. Can you place the state ? I got most of them easily, and when I was off, I wasn't off by much. Via MetaFilter . Sleep more, Lose weight? . Wonkette has an alternate version of reality from a recent appearance by Donald Rumsfeld in front of troops. Check out MSNBC to see how Rummy really answered the tough questions. On a more serious note, read this opinion column on the same topic. Here's an interesting tech guide for gift-giving and other things. I linked to the Boing Boing story because the file itself is a PDF. What is the Strange Streak ? Is it a meteor? An atmospheric effect? A trick of the camera? Is this a one-in-a-million shot, or just something normal that looks odd? A tiny group is using technology to censor your TV . Basically, the same handful of people are e-mailing the FCC over anything they find objectionable, and the FCC is ignoring the evidence that they come from only a few people and giving out record fines. So, hey, if you object to anything on TV, just get some of your buddies together and spam the FCC. Apparently that's all it takes. Christmas Mondegreens . How to deal with frozen pipes . Good advice for all you homeowners out there. Men should not use laptops on their... um... laps . Lemony Snicket likes his movie . And lastly, I broke three digits in my fund-raising for The Walk. Please feel free to contribute a bit if you can spare it. Breast Cancer doesn't discriminate. Anyone can get it. 
 by Tegan at 4:54 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 What Are They Teaching Your Kids? 
 So the hubby said that yesterday he got in a good natured (emphasis on "good natured") insult contest with one of his students. Hubby-Eric "won" when the kid went from "you're so stupid..." insults to "you're so fat..." insults and hubby had to say, no, no, that's not real good... and besides, you're so skinny you have to run around in the shower to get wet. So I now invite you all to come up with your own "you're so..." insults... just keep them as good natured as possible. Extra points for creativity. 
 by Tegan at 9:19 AM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Wednesday, December 08, 2004 

 Well, That's Annoying 
 Went into my comic shop today only to hear, "No books today, Laura... I got nothing." The comics never shipped from Portland to Seattle, so (according to UPS) nobody in the greater Seattle area got their comic books today. Bummer. 
 by Tegan at 4:19 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Tuesday, December 07, 2004 

 Sorry 
 I've been fighting off a bout of depression that, as usual, was more severe than I realized. I tend to be able to look back at these bouts and see them for what they are, but when I'm in the midst of them I can hardly understand what's happening to me. I sometimes wonder if this happens to everyone with depression or if this weird hindsight is just an effect of my current medication. I have wondered, more and more, how I survived without medication all those years. Anyway, the result of the bout is that I'm way behind on all my reading and reviews, and the blog has been extremely light in content for the past couple of weeks. For that I apologize. I also want to apologize to the folks who have sent me review copies that I haven't read yet, including Larry Young , who sent Tales from Fish Camp , Tom Mason , who sent Sidekicks: The Candy Man Cometh , and Hula Cat Comics , who sent Dope Fiends of the Zombie Cafe! and A Yearly Treat . I plan on reading them all soon, with reviews to follow. In addition to the free review copies, I've got the last two weeks' worth of comics that I've mostly not read. I haven't even started on my Previews order yet. Usually by this time of the month I've written my Flipping Through Previews post and finished up my own order. Heck, I haven't even watched the most recent Smallville yet. So, more content coming. I promise. And I'm sorry to have been posting so light recently. 
 by Tegan at 4:02 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Monday, December 06, 2004 

 Happy Birthday Grandpa Paul! 
 90 years and still going strong... 
 by Tegan at 8:08 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Sad News for Aquaman Fans 
 Bob Haney has died . It's difficult to explain Haney's impact on Aquaman, as he was a writer and not the artist. With the Silver Age tales, the writer wasn't as obvious. Haney wrote a huge number of Silver Age Aquaman stories, helped get Aqualad into the Teen Titans, and wrote for the Aquaman cartoon. It's a name that more Aquaman fans ought to know... as well as comic book fans in general. Maybe DC will finally see fit to publish the Bob Haney Teen Titans Elseworld that they shelved for no apparent reason. 
 by Tegan at 8:42 AM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Sunday, December 05, 2004 

 Couple of Links 
 Polite Dissent's Advent Calendar . Happy Blogiversary, Mike Sterling . 
 by Tegan at 8:35 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 current 

 Bloggity-Blog-Blog-Blog 

 archives 

 11/28/2004 - 12/04/2004 
 12/05/2004 - 12/11/2004
 12/12/2004 - 12/18/2004 

 2002 Archive 
 2003 Archive 
 2004 Archive 

 other 

 My Aquaman Website 
 Why Aquaman? 
 Aquaman Sketchbook 
 Bookshop 
 Support This Site 
 Rapid Reviews Index