Bloggity-Blog-Blog-Blog Archive 03 Oct 2004 to 09 Oct 2004 

 Bloggity-Blog-Blog-Blog Archive
 Laura "Tegan" Gjovaag

 Saturday, October 09, 2004 

 Sketchbook - Chad Du Lac 
 Not much to say about this one... just enjoy. It was made at the last ComiCard show . AQUAMAN by Chad Du Lac 12 September 2004 (permission to post given 12 September 2004 in person) As a reminder: Almost every sketch in my sketchbook was non-commissioned and done on the floor of a con. These are not the best works of the artists. These are only representative of what the artist can do under pressure in a loud, crowded, and often stressed-out environment. Most of them were done as quickly as possible, to prevent huge lines from forming. Don't judge any of these artists negatively by the artwork you see, instead be as impressed as I am by what they accomplished in far-from-ideal conditions. To see all the sketches I have permission to post so far, check out my Sketchbook Page . If you have any contact information for any of the other artists I'm trying to contact , please e-mail me . Click for a random Aquaman sketch . The Saturday Sketch &#8482; is brought to you by the letters "C", "D" and the number "69", and also courtesy the fine artists who pour their lives into producing wonderful comic books, then come to conventions only to get asked by geeky fangirls for a sketch of Aquaman. Support an artist, buy a comic book. 
 by Tegan at 10:27 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Rapid Reviews - 6 October 2004 - Part II 
 Phantom #4 : Strange little story that emphasizes the generational nature of The Phantom. There are some nice links to the past in this one, and indications of trouble for the future. All-in-all, pretty good. Conan and the Daughters of Midora : I prefer the "regular" artwork on the Conan book, but other than that this was a good, if extra long, issue of Conan. I'm not sure the special was needed at this point in the series, but it didn't detract from it at all. Worth a read. Demo #10 : Ha. Almost got me. If I hadn't read some of the writer's comments, it would have gotten me. I am a bit curious as to the girl's real motive there, if it wasn't money. But a strong story, particularly if no one spoils the ending inadvertantly. Still to review: Jax Epoch and the Quicken Forbidden Vol 2, Justice League Unlimited, Swamp Thing, The Ballad of Sleeping Beauty, and Marvel Age Fantastic Four. 
 by Tegan at 5:11 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Random Thoughts 
 I'm not nearly as good a linkblogger as some folks. I prefer to spout off, which often gets me into trouble. But there is absolutely nothing wrong with linkblogging. Neilalien notes that there is a perception of linkblogging as a sort of sideblogging, not as "good" as regular content. However, I think a good linkblog entry now and again is essential for any good blog. After all, what's the point of hyperlinks if you don't use them? I always feel like I'm letting my audience down if I don't post a nice "Random Thoughts" post every day or two. So here's one, slightly overdue. Via Thought Balloons , The Cornell Daily Sun examines books, films, and comics in the context of irate religious censors . Will Pfeifer finds a really odd Aquaman comic card that makes no sense to me, either. It appears that Aquaman uses his telepathy to get rid of an imaginary monster. Huh? Mike Sterling has had some good stuff lately, including reviews . Is it just me, or am I linking to him almost every day lately? Near Mint Heroes has a contest for everyone to enjoy. "Write, draw, somehow create a zombie story." and win a comic. Monitor Duty reports that forums for Shooting Star comics have been reopened. Phoebe Gloeckner of the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor is working on building up a comic book collection for the library. She wants advice on good books to include. Via Bookslut . The New York Times (annoying registration required) talks about comic books. In particular, Marvel 1602 , The Complete Peanuts , Hard Time , and Men of Tomorrow (which appears to be a book about comics). Panoramically Challenged wants to know if the personal beliefs of a writer or artist affect how you feel about their work. In other words, is it normal to be able to separate the work from the person or people producing it? Generally speaking, I can keep the work apart from the person behind it, but not always. I don't actually pay a lot of attention to what most comic book creators think outside of their books. Chris also mentions Comic Book Digest , which I ordered sight unseen based on the fact that it was only two dollars for an 80-page sampler. There's an amazing ghost video that was found by the Museum of Hoaxes . Yeah, definitely photoshopped. I think. Boing Boing reports on an effort to get people to vote . As is usual with these things, the idea is to vote, not to get you to vote for one side in particular. Man, what to do when people won't return their overdue books? How about sending a book repo man after them ? He looks like a nice enough guy . Unlikely to rearrange your face if you won't return the book. Maurice Wilkins helped discover DNA. "The success of Crick and Watson in elucidating the DNA structure is universally known and acknowledged. But its complete dependence on the results obtained first by Professor Wilkins and then, critically, by the brilliant experimentalist Rosalind Franklin, is still commonly overlooked." Jessica Crispin reports that the Education Department has destroyed pamphlets meant to help parents teach history to their children because Lynne Cheney didn't like the mention of the National Standards for History. More on Nancy Pearl , the librarian action figure woman! Washington States Archives are on-line . Unfortunately, they are very limited at the moment. A search for my last name only turned up one entry. Via /. There's a couple of cloned cats (NY Times Reg required) in the Madison Square Garden annual cat show. Definitely copycats. Who wants to live forever? Scientists have found a substance that at least makes you live longer... Via MetaFilter . The Register talks about Transylvania , and gets a nice response from Dracula's Descendant . Um, ok. And here's a picture for you. From the local library. 
 by Tegan at 8:54 AM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Friday, October 08, 2004 

 Rapid Reviews - 6 October 2004 - Part I 
 Smallville [4-03]: Facade : Back to "freak of the week" type stories? I sure hope not. This one was pretty weak. Watchable, but not spectacular. Very mildly recommended. Tomb of Dracula #1 : I didn't know what to expect, so getting a whole lotta Blade was a surprise. I liked the composition of this one, it built up nicely to the end. Not really my thing, but not too bad. Even More Fund Comics : A bargain at twice the price. A solid anthology that will have something for just about anyone. There were more stories that weren't self-contained - that said they were continued in another book - for my tastes, but for the most part it didn't detract too much. At only $10, and going for a good cause, it's something every comic book fan should have in her collection. Still to review: Demo, Jax Epoch and the Quicken Forbidden Vol 2, Justice League Unlimited, Swamp Thing, The Ballad of Sleeping Beauty, Phantom, Conan and the Daughters of Midora, and Marvel Age Fantastic Four. 
 by Tegan at 7:08 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Friday Fitness Blogging 
 Weight = X-4 Change From Last Week = -4 Met Exercise Goal? No. Goal was fifteen minutes a day (walk/bike/swim) at least six days. Current Exercise Goal = fifteen minutes a day (walk/bike/swim) at least six days. Kept food diary? No. I've been having a rotten two weeks exercise-wise. I'm trying to not think about it too much. But it's nice to see that my weight is fluctuating wildly anyway. 
 by Tegan at 6:36 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Review Copy Reviews 
 The Annotated Mantooth! by Matt Fraction, Andy Kuhn, and Tim Fisher: I really didn't like the comic much. The character didn't interest me, the humor was a little off for my tastes, and the story didn't hang together well enough for my perfectionism. But the format of the book, which includes the script on the left page along with notes and the comic on the right page, worked really well for me. It turned what would have been an "eh." comic into an "Ah!" comic. And while I don't think my humor will ever align with Mantooth, I did very much enjoy the experience of reading this book. It became one of those lovely dichotomies that are always fun to experience. Recommended. 
 by Tegan at 8:24 AM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Thursday, October 07, 2004 

 I Got Nothing 
 Too braindead to post anything really interesting. Even my links are a bit narrow tonight. The Comic Treadmill posts The Aquaman Song . Small doses, folks. Small doses. Speaking of Aquaman, Scott tackles the issue of people living underwater over at Polite Dissent. 
 by Tegan at 10:30 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Rapid Reviews - Exercise Shows 
 Farscape [2-01]: Mind the Baby : At points, this episode is disjointed. However, after the cliffhanger, it is definitely a relief to learn what happens to everyone. On the other hand, the end of this one is extremely distressing. I've gotta wonder what will happen with the baby ship in the future. Very nice exercise show, but the quality is a little lower than the last few episodes. Farscape [2-02]: Vitas Mortis : So Worf finds a female of his own kind. What's that? Oh, right. D'Argo, not Worf. This episode could have been put into Star Trek and worked almost as well, except for the fact that the Enterprise isn't a living ship. I didn't love it, but it was ok. Still good for exercising to. Farscape [2-03]: Taking the Stone : I like the concept of a planet tomb. We didn't see enough shots of it for my tastes, but enough to get an idea. The "aliens" in this one were fun to try to understand, although I admit I had a lot of difficulty following their dialogue much of the time. The mushroomed Crichton had some nice special effects. I do like that Crichton couldn't stop Chiana from doing what she felt she had to do. He wants to be the hero, but he seems to screw up just as often. The subplot with Rygel was fun... nice to see a graverobber getting his just desserts. Farscape [2-04]: Crackers Don't Matter : This one got me. I thought it was the crackers, for sure. The real cause was more obvious, but I thought they would go for the strange one. John makes a good insane guy, but then every actor loves a good chance to chew up scenery and this was one of those real scenery-chewing episodes. This was a really good exercise episode, with both plenty of action and lots of nice suspense. Why is the crew always the most interesting when they are at each other's throats? 
 by Tegan at 9:33 AM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Wednesday, October 06, 2004 

 Rapid Reviews - 6 October 2004 - Part Zero 
 Quite a list of books for me to review this week, so I haven't even started reading yet. Instead, I'm going to start out with a couple of things I wrote reviews for yesterday, and hold off on my regular reviews until I actually have time to read the books. I also did the big job of flipping through Previews and writing up some thoughts. Anyway, here's the reviews: The Batman [1-04]: The Cat and the Bat : I like the look of Catwoman overall. The design makes more sense than some costumes she's worn. I also like her motivation. Batman himself plays the straight man well in this one and the status at the end of the episode is funny. Should this show continue, I can see Catwoman developing nicely as a complex character in this show. This is the first episode I felt like I really enjoyed for its own qualities, and not just for the fact that it's Batman. Vagabond Vol 3 : Takezo is given a new name, Miyamato Musashi, and goes to Kyoto to test his skills against the sword schools there. This is the first time we see the main character as a sane man not consumed by battlefield bloodlust. And while he's a better guy in some ways, he's still no hero. We learn more about Musashi's history and we see that he can be taught, he's not just a wildman. I'm looking forward to reading more of this story. Still to review: Demo, Jax Epoch and the Quicken Forbidden Vol 2, Even More Fund Comics, Justice League Unlimited, Swamp Thing, The Ballad of Sleeping Beauty, and books that David bought that I get to review: Phantom, Conan and the Daughters of Midora, Tomb of Dracula, and Marvel Age Fantastic Four. Wow, that's quite a list. 
 by Tegan at 8:05 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Flipping Through Previews... 
 Yes, it's that time again... time for "Things in Previews That Look Interesting But I Can't Afford To Get (with a list of things I am getting just for contrast)". I'm going to start with the bulk of the book, and then come back and cover the "big four" at the end. Please remember, I'm listing what looks interesting. My actual purchase list is going to be much smaller. The numbers after each title are usually the page number in Previews Magazine , so you can follow along at home. Let's start with the covers. Green guy on the front cover, it's the Legion, isn't it? Not very appealing to me, but I'm guessing it's appealing to the legion of Legion fans out there. The back cover is another one of those artsy covers that doesn't show much but looks pretty. Neither cover is really very interesting. Moving on, let's hit the Splash Page (8-9). Three items on the left, Ultimates looks missable, Hunter/Killer looks like the same old spandex, but Concrete: The Human Dilemma is enough to warrant a second look. On the right, I'm not seeing anything I'm even remotely intrigued by. Let's move on. Skipping over the "Premier" comics, I'll jump in on page 186 with the Wizard section. More Identity Crisis stuff, and a Flash 1/2 issue. The rest of Wizard's mags are just what you expect. Pages 194 to 197 show off the Featured Items from the main comics section. Items of note to me are Proof of Concept from AIT/Planet Lar , which has a bizarre cover. I also love the title of The Big Big Little Book Book , which I'm assuming is about Big Little books, of which I have the Aquaman one for sure, and maybe one or two others hanging around. Adhouse Books has a book called Skyscrapers of the Midwest #1 (204) which looks odd but cool. Looks like a collection of mini-comics. I'd need to see more art samples before I'd go after it, though. Adv Films has taken over some pages of Previews. It's now to the point that I can't safely ignore ad pages within the main comic book section like I used to be able to. I have to check and make sure that the "ads" aren't the only solicits for the books they show. I find this annoying, as a lot of the ads in this section include images I don't really like to see, particularly poorly drawn badgirl artwork, which is why I started skipping over them in the first place unless something caught my eye. Now I have to check them a bit more closely. I just hope there's less ugly art now then when I first started taking Previews years ago. AIT/Planet Lar 's only offering this month is the previously mentioned Proof of Concept (218). An anthology, which I like. I'm not sure if it will make the list, but I would get it if money weren't tight. Amaze Ink/Slave Labor has Street Angel #4 (221). I still haven't gotten my copy of issue #2 yet, so I don't know if I want to keep up with this one. If you are looking for a sampler, APC Christmas Special (227) from AP Comics looks like it might fit the bill. If you want a historical fiction-y book with supernatural elements, it looks like Point Pleasant #1 (228) from Ape Entertainment might be cool. Blind Wolf Studios has a cute-looking book with a lizard scientist called Lunar Lizard (244). Can' tell if it will be any good, but it sounds fun. If you want to get the Bone collections, but don't want to wait for the Scholastic versions, now is the time to get them. According to page 251, the collections will be taken off he market at the end of this year to make way for Scholastic's version. It's a shame, since there's no way I'll scrounge up enough money to get them before they are gone. Committed Comics is putting out a Platypus Rex comic by my old convention friends Quenton Shaw and Mark Brill . I think I'll be getting this one just because. There appears to be a new Nodwick collection (278) that features the earliest Nodwick tales. Dork Storm Press is officially one of my favorite publishers now. Does anyone know anything about Jack Lake Productions? There is a book called Dorothy Gale: Journey To Oz #1 (314) coming out from them. Of course we plan on getting it, but it would be nice to know something about it before buying it. Is it just me or are there an awful lot of good Oz related comics being put out lately? Will this be added to the "good" list? Mahrwood Press (318) is a new one to me. Their offerings appear to lean toward historical fiction, and look interesting enough to want to try out. I'm afraid I won't be able to spend the bucks on these, but if anyone in the blogosphere does, I hope you'll let me know. The Rosen Publishing Group (325) has a nice series of biographies, including such notables as Abraham Lincoln, Sitting Bull, Alexander the Great, and Spartacus. They appear to be an educational publisher, so your mileage may vary. Personally, I'd love to try out one of the books just to see how well the material is presented. I'd probably go for the Alexander or Spartacus one, if I could snag one. I was really looking forward to Silicon Times (326) FCBD offering of Delicious Seasons , but they canceled it. So now I have to decide if I want to order the book sight unseen, now that it's being solicited again. And, amazingly, I'm through the main comic book section already. This seems like a light month... In the Magazine section is another issue of Comic Book Digest (373), which now says it has previews from Image, Dreamwave, DBPro, and Arcana. At two bucks for 128 pages, it's still worth putting on the list. Also in the Magazine section is a solicit for ISC Program Guide With Justice League Adventures (375), which is apparently a special issue of Justice League Adventures that features NASCAR racers helping out. I find myself uninspired. Especially since the price is twelve dollars. If you liked The Science of Superheroes , the same team has come together to give us The Science of Supervillains (387). Yeah, I'm interested, but I'm also very poor. And I live near a very good library. The Complete Idiot's Guide to Creating A Graphic Novel (390) by Nat Gertler and Steve Lieber would be a no-brainer just due to the team... but it also sounds like it will be a fun book on its own. Again, I'm interested. Again, I'm poor. The Brick Testament: The Story of Christmas (393) is going to have to go on my Amazon.com wishlist . I do NOT need Farscape Trading Cards (412). How many varieties of Uno (487) can you get? Nintendo, South Park, Ren & Stimpy, Simpsons... I think I'll stick with the plain old boring version. You can get Snoopy or Charlie Brown as Soap on a Rope (489). There are a few items of vague interest in the Gaming and Video sections, but nothing I feel like mentioning. Instead, time to jump back to the beginning and hit the big publishers. Starting with Marvel Comics (176), the list has expanded quite a bit because David is interested in more books. For myself, I'll be getting Amazing Spider-Man #74/515 , Supreme Power #14 , Powers #7 , and maybe Spider-Man India #2 ... since I ordered the first Spider-Man India. I might get some of the What If books, but I'm not sure. I'll wait and see what David gets, I think. It looks like he'll get New Avengers #2 , Captain America #2 , Fantastic Four #521 , Captain America & The Falcon #10 , Marvel Age Fantastic Four #9 & 10 , and Tomb of Dracula #3 . That's some list, and I'm allowed to read any of them I want. Back to Image Comics . Battle Hymn (131) looks like a fun little book. If I had more money to spread around, this one would be one to try out. I'm definitely getting Noble Causes #6 (145), which is fast becoming a must-read... heck, has already become one. We'll also be getting the third trade, even though we've read the stories... getting them in color with a new story is too much to resist. Speaking of impossible to resist, Wildguard: Fire Power #1 (158) will make the list. I'll probably re-read the first mini before this comes, too. Only two more, starting with Dark Horse . It's certainly tempting to get Concrete: The Human Dilemma #1 (17). I would like to read more Concrete. Hey, maybe I should check out the library! (Quick check followed by three reservations for Concrete books). Right then, moving on, I'll be getting Conan #11 (20). This has been a great book from the start. I'm fascinated by Samurai: Heaven and Earth #1 (23), but I'm not sure we can swing it. I've become a real fan of samurai books since I got addicted to Lone Wolf and Cub . And finally we move on to the big one, to my main publisher. To DC Comics . Again, I'll do these by sections. Batman (55-60): Detective Comics #801 looks interesting only because of one line in the solicit that says the back-up story features "the return of a classic Golden Age character!" I wonder which one it'll be? Not enough to make the list, but I'll be watching the reviews. It's possible that the answer is in the next solicit, for Batman #635 . We'll see. Birds of Prey #77 will make the pull list, but I'm still hoping the book in general improves. At times I've felt like I'm getting this book just because it features Oracle. Superman (61-64): Nothing of interest for me. DC Universe (65-85): Aquaman #25 is the first issue by the new writer, and will be the test for whether the high standards set by Pfeifer will continue. I'll likely get Adam Strange #4 , and Bloodhound #6 (I chose to buy the last issue, but not Firestorm). To my surprise, I'm slightly intrigued by Deadshot #1 . The preview looks good. I'll be getting Fallen Angel #18 , Green Arrow #45 , Green Lantern: Rebirth #3 , Identity Crisis #7 , JLA Classified #2 , JLA #109 (thank you Kurt Busiek for saving this book), JSA #68 , JSA: Strange Adventures #5 , Outsiders #19 , Plastic Man #13 , Solo #2 , and Teen Titans #19 . Johnny DC (86-87): The Batman Strikes! #4 and Justice League Unlimited #4 will make the list, of course. Can't resist the kid books. Beyond the Universe (88-93): Nothing for me. Wildstorm (94-102): Astro City: The Dark Age #1 is the only one that makes the list, but it's the story we've been waiting for, and I'm looking forward to it. Vertigo (103-118): Trigger #1 looks like a good concept, but I get so tired of dystopian future books. I won't get it, but I suspect a lot of people will like it. DC Direct (119-126): That is one scary looking Scarecrow figure from the Hush series. The Martian Manhunter statue is cool. And that is the lot. Done for this month. Whew. So that's it for this month's "Things in Previews That Look Interesting But I Can't Afford To Get (with a list of things I am getting just for contrast)". Comments? Questions? Did I miss any really cool books that you know about and would like to point out? Do you disagree with something I wrote, and want to correct me? There's the comments, right below. Post something. And, yes, I accept review copies. I'm willing to give almost anything a try. 
 by Tegan at 6:23 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Tuesday, October 05, 2004 

 Random Thoughts - The Late Edition 
 So Mt St Helens has burped again... four days in a row now. They've closed off the observatories closest to the mountain because of the danger. I want to go down sometime and take Torvald for a picture with the mountain, but I think I'll wait until this latest activity is calmed down before going. I have wanted to go up to Johnston Ridge Observatory since I first learned about it. By the way, the "big one" hasn't happened yet. It will probably be similar to some of the dome building that happened in the early 1980s. There's magma building under the current dome, deforming the ground. The scientists they keep interviewing on the local news are clearly in heaven. Here's a Volcano Cam if you want to watch what's happening now. The "Hall of Fame" doesn't have much fun except a fly caught sunning itself on the lens. A powerful bit on KOMO TV today... they showed an old car with a KOMO logo on it that was very nearly the final resting place of a KOMO photographer during the 1980 eruption. It's now part of a museum in the Mt St Helens area to the strength of the mountain. I'm not terribly interested in the baseball playoffs since my team didn't make it, but I do have mild preferences. My friend Peggy from work is a big Minnesota fan, and I hate the Yankees anyway, so GO TWINS. Eric wants to see Boston go to the world series, and Anaheim is one of Seattle's rivals, so GO RED SOX. The National League is much more difficult to pick since I'm used to the AL teams, but I definitely prefer Houston over Atlanta and I guess I'd like to see the Dodgers beat St Louis. In other baseball news, Little Toy Robot sums up the season. As usual, read Mike Sterling . Some good stuff there, including the link to Fred Hembeck's "discovery" on a page of Who's Who. Yes... the X-Prize has been won . See also: Slashdot . TangognaT has some pips for us . Boing Boing has a linking policy . Right? Ok, here's an album I want: Barenaked for the Holidays . Yeah. That's one Christmas album I gotta have. Via Various and Sundry . Everything There is to Know About Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (If You're Not J.K. Rowling) . I signed up for the e-mail update when they learn what the actual release date is. Via The Leaky Cauldron . I agree with the Modulator . Why is the government forcing through a change to digital TV, against the apparent desires of the buying public? Why is the government wasting money on advertising for the electronics industry? A guy in Texas believes he can pull enough water from the air to solve water shortages. I'm skeptical, not of the method, but of the idea that he can generate enough water. On the other hand, if he can make it work cheaply enough, then there's something good there. Some insane people have put together a chart that shows the links between 164 TV shows . I'm fond of TV series crossovers and such, but this seems a little extreme, even to me. And the name is hilarious, "Tommy Westphall's Mind". It refers to the final episode of St Elsewhere in which it was revealed that autistic child Tommy Westphall had dreamed the entire run of the show. Via Atrios . However! Stop the presses! Crooked Timber has some objections to the Westphall hypothesis. How about finishing this one off with a picture of a flower at the Winchester Mystery House? I knew you'd appreciate it. 
 by Tegan at 6:46 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Monday, October 04, 2004 

 Rapid Reviews - Library Books 
 Anne McCaffrey: Science Fiction Storyteller : A good young adult book with only one fault. It is, however, quite a doozy of a fault. The author, Martha Trachtenberg, breathlessly tells us about the Dragonriders of Pern television series in production... a series that apparently was never actually made and about which I can find no information on Anne McCaffrey's Website . Other than that fact, which she mentions several times, this is a pretty good book with a lot of good biographical information about a woman who changed the face of science fiction in a lot of ways. As I read this I found myself trying to figure out when I met her. She made several trips to the United States on signing tours in the 1980s, and I think it was probably the 1986 tour when I met her, although I'm not positive. Although I enjoyed meeting her a lot, it was the guy behind me in the long line that sticks out in my mind. He was a Vietnam Vet, and he had the tattered remains of a shirt with a stylized dragon stencilled on it with him. Now, I know for sure I'm going to get the facts on this wrong, because I was a kid, it's been nearly 20 years, and I was in awe of the guy. Anyway, he said that his unit took the name "dragons" when a nerdy guy with a copy of Dragonflight suggested it. They used the colors of the dragons from the book. And he claimed that every man in the unit made it home alive. He still hadn't read the book, but he wanted to meet the woman who gave him and his buddies such good luck, and have her sign the shirt. I often wonder if his story was true, and what ever happened to him... did he ever read Dragonflight ? Part of me really doesn't want to know, since it might spoil the sense of wonder. Anyway, this was a great book for a fan of Anne McCaffrey, and made me curious to read some of her non-science fiction books, too. A good read. 
 by Tegan at 5:13 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 So I'm Wrong... 
 Some people do read my blog on Sunday. Now I want to know if those who did read it went and watched World on Fire . I want to take a nice little informal survey here... is what Sarah McLachlan did for this video a good idea, or simply worthless? The reason I ask is due to the comments on the post I got the link from (see comments below). Now, the original post was a bit more political in nature, and it may be that the comments were in reaction to the entire post, and not just the video. If that's the case, then that's simply the case. I won't argue that here because of my vow to avoid presidential politics for awhile. However, if the reaction and comments were based on the video, then I feel they were an overreaction. McLachlan chose to take most of the money she would normally put into making a music video and invest it in a number of charities . She then made a video that compared the production costs of a normal music video to what the charities could accomplish with the money instead. I don't think it's a good idea to make every video a donation. There are people who need the money here in the States, and who get it through working on videos and such. But a video like this, every once in awhile, as a reminder of what a little cash can accomplish, is a good thing, in my opinion. 
 by Tegan at 8:58 AM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Sunday, October 03, 2004 

 Random Thoughts 
 Nobody reads this blog on Sunday anyway, so I'm not sure why I'm writing, but here's some thoughts for any hardy souls who might be reading... Trust me on this one. Go to this website and click on "Watch: World on Fire". Then watch the video. After you've watched it, make sure you check out where the money went . I would like to see every recording artist emulate this video on at least one of their songs. Via BOPnews . Will Pfeifer posts another early work , this one from his college days. From USA Today, the Honda Accord Hybrid is the best one yet. On some future day when Eric and I actually have enough money to get a new car, I hope to get a hybrid. Via Various and Sundry . Mt St Helens video and story links . I'm still really amused by the Seismocam that King5 TV put up (registration required, blah). Via Stuart Hughes . I liked this Gratuitous Cat Photo and the caption. I started coming up with other captions, too... And here's a statue from the Winchester Mystery House: 
 by Tegan at 6:31 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Rapid Review - Movie Night 
 Some Like It Hot : Hubby-Eric was dying to see this again, so I checked it out from the library. I'd never seen it before, and I wasn't sure what to expect. I'm still not sure. It was funny, yes, but not nearly as funny as I was led to believe it would be. There were a lot of cringe moments for me. I guess I don't like dress-up movies like this much. I guess my favorite bit was when Eric and I recognized that the hotel the movie was set at was the Hotel Del Coronado in San Diego. 
 by Tegan at 8:52 AM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 current 

 Bloggity-Blog-Blog-Blog 

 archives 

 09/26/2004 - 10/02/2004 
 10/03/2004 - 10/09/2004
 10/10/2004 - 10/16/2004 

 2002 Archive 
 2003 Archive 
 2004 Archive 

 other 

 My Aquaman Website 
 Why Aquaman? 
 Aquaman Sketchbook 
 Bookshop 
 Support This Site 
 Rapid Reviews Index