Bloggity-Blog-Blog-Blog Archive 24 Oct 2004 to 30 Oct 2004 

 Bloggity-Blog-Blog-Blog Archive
 Laura "Tegan" Gjovaag

 Saturday, October 30, 2004 

 Sketchbook - Art $aVage 
 While at Anglicon, sitting in the Hospitality Suite, I noticed a guy sketching. I peeked at his sketch and complimented him on it. After a short conversation, in which I mentioned my Aquaman sketchbook, he turned back to his drawing and I turned to chat with somebody else. A few minutes later he came over to me with this wonderful little sketch, and said I could post it on my website if I wanted to. He didn't tell me his real name, and made it clear that his artist name starts with a "$" and not an "S". In any case, this is one more sketch for me to post before I run out of permissions... Enjoy! AQUA SQUIRT by Art $aVage 16 October 2004 (permission to post given 16 October 2004 in person) As a reminder: Almost every sketch in my sketchbook was non-commissioned and done on the floor of a con. These are not the best works of the artists. These are only representative of what the artist can do under pressure in a loud, crowded, and often stressed-out environment. Most of them were done as quickly as possible, to prevent huge lines from forming. Don't judge any of these artists negatively by the artwork you see, instead be as impressed as I am by what they accomplished in far-from-ideal conditions. To see all the sketches I have permission to post so far, check out my Sketchbook Page . If you have any contact information for any of the other artists I'm trying to contact , please e-mail me . Click for a random Aquaman sketch . The Saturday Sketch &#8482; is brought to you by the letters "A", "V" and the number "72", and also courtesy the fine artists who pour their lives into producing wonderful comic books, then come to conventions only to get asked by geeky fangirls for a sketch of Aquaman. Support an artist, buy a comic book. 
 by Tegan at 10:10 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Happy Hallowe'en... 
 Usually, for Hallowe'en, hubby-Eric and I opt to rot minds as well as teeth by giving out both candy bars (full-size, of course!) and comic books. Usually we give one of each to each Trick or Treater. This year we have something rather more impressive planned... This is the loot that the first 23 folks dressed in costume who come to our door will get. Much of the loot was courtesy the registration desk at Anglicon , who got a lot of freebies that they were going to have a seriously hard time getting rid of. So we offered to dispose of the cool stuff, and as a result, costumed kids coming to our place will get quite a treat. On the left you see the bag we will be giving people. It's a Sky Captain promo bag. With it comes the Sky Captain promo comic and poster book, and a set of Sky Captain promo trading cards. We also got a box of promo baseball caps from The Grudge that look pretty cool, one in each bag. Our usual candy bar is a Nestle Crunch this year. We also purchased the three Hallowe'en giveaway books (which I reviewed here ), and one older comic book, usually an Archie or Looney Toon, was added for that unique flavor. We don't get many Trick or Treaters here. We got 19 last year , and the year before that we went to Eric's parents house to give stuff away instead. We have a back-up plan in case we run low this year, with lots of extra Sky Captain stuff and "the big box o' comics to give out for Halloween" isn't quite empty yet despite our best efforts. We may only have 23 pre-packaged fun packs, but we've got more candy bars and more comics, so nobody should be leaving our place empty-handed. Full report tomorrow night or Monday morning. 
 by Tegan at 2:47 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Friday, October 29, 2004 

 Rapid Reviews - 27 October 2004 - Part II 
 Demo #11 : Huh. Slackers make a pledge, and one of them takes it almost too seriously. Or maybe there's no "almost" about it. I didn't really identify with the characters, as I've always been a slacker, but never like them. And yet, they were still recognizable to me. The artwork was much more Manga-style than previous books, even using some of the conventions. Another very strong issue. Daisy Kutter: The Last Train Chapter Three : Lots of fun, as we learn the real reason Daisy was hired. Great artwork, characters that I've started to really develop a big liking for, and a solid plot. Yeah, this is a keeper. Green Lantern: Rebirth #1 : Hey, Aquaman is in this one! Yeah! Um... there's not much else to say. I'm going to have to wait and see how this one turns out. The whole issue is set-up. At the end, I didn't really feel like I knew any more than I had already known... it was just all organized into one book. Mildly recommended. Amazing Spider-Man #72/513 : Not being deeply interested in Spider-Man, I'm not having the same problems that other readers are having with this story. In fact, I'm still enjoying this story quite a bit. Still to review: Usagi Yojimbo, Birds of Prey, and Aquaman. 
 by Tegan at 9:12 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Friday Fitness Blogging 
 Weight = X-1 Change From Last Week = er... I forgot to check Met Exercise Goal? Nope. Goal was twenty minutes a day (walk/bike/swim) at least four days. Current Exercise Goal = twenty minutes a day (walk/bike/swim) at least four days. Kept food diary? Nope. Still floundering. I haven't done any proper exercise in far too long, stopped paying attention to what I was eating, and basically everything's gone downhill. Time to start fresh or something. I'm seriously, and I mean seriously considering doing the Breast Cancer 3-Day in Seattle in July 2005. In order to participate, I have to raise at least $2100. I want to know, if I commit to this, will any of you out there be willing to contribute? All the money goes to supporting the 3-day event itself, and to the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation and the National Philanthropic Trust Breast Cancer Fund . I don't know if I can do it, but if I do make the effort, would any of you out there in blogland be willing to support me? If I do choose to do this, if I feel I can get enough support, then this Friday entry will also turn into my training journal. 
 by Tegan at 3:32 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Thursday, October 28, 2004 

 Blogging, Blogging, Over the Bounding Main... 
 So it's been a long time since I've done a proper blogaround. In fact, I don't think I've ever done a proper blogaround. There's always a first time. Here we go, whee! Let's start at Spatula Forum run by Nik. Latest news? Spectacular Spider-Man cancellation, 1990s nostalgia, and a kid with pants on his head. Nik is also a fellow sufferer of punditblogomania, a dangerous condition this close to the election. Tom the Dog reviews comic books and movies. Yet Another Comics Blog also has a good chunk of reviewing. The Stop Button reviews comics... but not Aquaman. The Pickytarian , whom I had never heard of before trying this blogaround, has some solid reviews called Subway Reading. Check 'em out. View From the Cheap Seats discusses Barenaked Ladies, DVDs, and yeah, reviews comics. I think reviewing is something we do in this corner of the blogosphere. Fabio Moon and Gabriel Ba continue to post great artwork and cool stories. The Comics Reporter points us to an NPR interview with Gerard Jones, and also blogs about the death of Bill Liebowitz and Marvel's finances. Trash Heap has some political stuff and a great Dr Doom motivational poster. Ian Brill is Brill Building with news of a new comic strip, fun with Evan Dorkin, and stuff about WE3. Miraclo Miles talks about politics and the recent discovery of an unknown Ed Wood movie. Over in Comic Book Heaven , Scott Saavedra uncovers a fun letter col about Captain Marvel. James Schee is Reading Along with various bits and bobs of Manga. He also tackles violence in Biblical comics, and Marvel Age collections. Irresponsible Pictures gives us Manga news. Motime Like the Present ponders WE3. Wow. I'm barely into this, and I'm already running out of steam... pressing on... Peiratikos has too many words for me, but don't miss the contest. Scroll down... House of the Ded has the flu and reviews comics too. Post-Crisis points out trends on Newsarama. Sort of. Legomancer tells how he became a comic book fan. ChaosMonkey has a lot of cool stuff that I'm not going to try to describe. Go visit. Fred celebrates the end of the curse, and the possible start of another one. Heh. ihatecomics doesn't, really. Pop Culture Gadabout discusses porn and Peel. The Low Road responds to suggestions for comic books to break the doldrums. I second True Story, Swear To God . It's my latest favorite. Ferret Press/Panel has some politics that is still comic book related. Panoramically Challenged has no nipples. Er, wait... that's not right... Mike Sterling is... oh heck, just go read him already. Sheesh. Argh. I can't do it. There are too many of you out there! *deep breath* Ok, I'll post these, and try to finish this later. No promises. Seriously. No promises. This blogaround thing is much harder than it looks. I keep stopping to read... and read... and read... 
 by Tegan at 7:44 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Rapid Reviews - 27 October 2004 - Part I 
 Strange #2 : Ok. Makes sense. Arrogant doctor, struck low by accident. Searches for a way to recover his abilities. Better than the first issue, by quite a bit. I'm still not sure where it's going, but that's why you buy the book, right? The Flash #214 : I got this at the request of my friend, and was only a little surprised to find out it's an Identity Crisis tie-in. I even got to the point at which I forgot I was reading Flash and thought I might be reading IC. Since I'm not that fond of IC, I have to admit that this didn't impress me much, either. It's ok, but nothing special. The Flash #215 : Same as the last issue, only this one actually states "Identity Crisis Tie-In" on the front cover. I liked the long flashback tale, and found it worked effectively in this issue. I'm now very curious as to what will happen with Linda, and what the deal is with Wally's secret identity. I bet somebody in my reading audience could clue me in on the last one, there... Simpsons Classics #2 : I suppose I would enjoy this book more if I were a bigger Simpsons fan. It's ok, but nothing really special. If you like the show, you'll enjoy the comic. And these are just reprints of the original comic book run in an oversize format. Solo #1 : The first of the new anthology books. One artist per book, with different writers, different subjects. I may confine my buying of future issues to artists I actually like, but this wasn't bad overall. A little Noir-centric, or at least it seemed. Mildly recommended. Outsiders #17 : I'm not sure what to think of this. Yeah, I find the team more compelling with Jade in charge, but her apparent disinterest of finding abusers seemed extremely out of character, considering her own past. As for the subject matter, yeah, it's one I don't mind seeing covered. I don't really know much about John Walsh, but I'm sure I'll find something as this story continues. Still to review: Usagi Yojimbo, Birds of Prey, Aquaman, Green Lantern: Rebirth, Amazing Spider-Man, Demo, and Daisy Kutter. 
 by Tegan at 2:32 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Vote Vote Vote Vote Vote 
 I urge everyone, no matter what your political persuasion, to vote next Tuesday (if you haven't voted already through early voting or absentee, in which case: you rock!). Democracy only works when people let their voices be heard. So go out and vote. What if you show up to vote next Tuesday and election workers say you are not registered? 1. Make sure you are the correct voting precinct. You can check at My Polling Place or call 1-866-OUR-VOTE for assistance. 2. If you are at the correct polling place and officials claim you are not registered, request a provisional ballot . It's your right under the law . Please pass this on to as many people as you can. Lifted straight from Political Wire . 
 by Tegan at 9:59 AM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Wednesday, October 27, 2004 

 Rapid Reviews - 20 October 2004 - Part III 
 I want to point out that I'm very irritated with the mini-comics in the centerfolds of a number of DC books. The comic itself isn't really that bad, but the location of it and the placement of the regular story around it has made it extremely annoying. Batman Strikes! #2 : Huh. I don't like the cartoon overmuch, and the comic is about the same quality. I just don't like this take on the character. Add in the evidence that this one should have hit the stands after the first episode featuring Man-Bat, and this just isn't as good as it could have been. H-E-R-O #21 : Huh. Lots of fighting, lots of blood. Some nice explanation of what's been happening. I'm waiting to see how this one ends. It was a book with a lot of promise, and I could have enjoyed it going on just with different people getting the dial for a long time. I'm not as much into the fighting side of things. Oh well, it's going to go out on one heckuva bang. Identity Crisis #5 : I suppose if I knew a bit more about Robin's situation... and maybe had some idea of the personality of his father, this would be of more interest to me. Again, this series hasn't lived up to the pre-hype at all. It's just moderate. Nothing really extreme to the whole DC Universe. Perhaps I'm just a jaded reader, but I expected more from this. Teen Titans #17 : I got this book entirely for Aquawoman. Yup, it's Lorena. And she's got telepathy. As for the story, it seems like a fairly standard "go into the future and don't like what we see" story. I'll get the entire arc just to be sure, but I'm not hopeful. At least Lorena looks good. JLA #107 : Well hey, I was really excited about this because of one thing only. Yup, Aquaman is back in the League! It makes wonderful sense from the point of view of his regular book, now that he's not dealing with Atlantis. So I was hoping to see a little of him here. And that's what I got. A little. I hope to get more in the next issue. In the meantime, the story was a run-of-the-mill day-in-the-life one, clearly working on establishing a status quo to rip asunder in the next issue. I can hardly wait! Recommended. Noble Causes #3 : The plot thickens. This is really a great book, fun and yet soap opera-y enough to engage the interest. I really like Krennick, and I don't mind the focus on him in this story-arc. The sub plot is also cool, with Frost and Rusty. The artwork is also particularly nice, though the faces aren't always perfect. I like the layouts and design work, though. In short, an excellent book. Comic Book Digest #1 : There's more for me to read in this one. I didn't get through it completely. So let's cover what this book is . I ordered it sight unseen because it claimed to be 80 pages of previews for $2. It is considerably more than 80 pages long at 132 pages including the covers. It claimed to have 10 eight page previews. The content is a bit different (back to that in a moment). As expected, the pages are plain newsprint, and the previews are all B&W. In addition to the previews, there are some essays and infodumps. First up is an eight page preview of "the imaginaries" by Mike S Miller followed by an essay on the value of original art by same. While there is nothing wrong with "the imaginaries", and it is in fact a nice idea for a book, the essay just made me say, "huh?" A Curt Swan piece featuring the entire Justice League should be valued lower than an Alex Ross piece featuring Prime? Whatever. Next up is a 7-page interview with Erik Larsen followed by an eight page "Savage Dragon" preview. I should hope "Savage Dragon" is doing well enough that a preview isn't needed, but the inclusion might draw in some folks who otherwise wouldn't have bought this. Next up are a couple of "Transformers" previews that I found mostly unreadable. An essay on comic genres by Sean J Jordan is followed by an eight-page preview of "Deep Sleeper", then a seven page preview of "100 Girls" by Arcana. Two more essays, then a preview of "Point Pleasant" from Ape Entertainment. Next up is "Gun Fu", who gets eight pages. Then the Raymond E Feist short story "The Wood Boy" gets the comic treatment. Then "Quantum Mechanics". At this point you flip the book and get another preview, a much longer one called "Deal With The Devil". Overall, this is a really nice package. Where else are you going to find this many previews, along with a few decent interviews and essays, for only $2. The price point is the key on this one, though. If the price went up much, I wouldn't be able to justify it despite the value, because there are no complete stories in it that I want to read. Still, at this price and with the stuff it's got, I'd have to say this one is recommended. Wow, on to this week's books: Usagi Yojimbo, Birds of Prey, Aquaman, Green Lantern: Rebirth, Outsiders, Solo, Amazing Spider-Man, Demo, Simpsons Classics, and Daisy Kutter. 
 by Tegan at 4:30 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Random Thoughts 
 After reading my enthusiastic comments about Tom Beland's True Story Swear To God: Chances Are... , and my note that I needed to get hubby-Eric to read it, hubby-Eric picked up the book from the "return to the library" stack and started to read it last night. He didn't stop reading until he finished, and there were a lot of moments of laughter along the way. And yes, it did make hubby-Eric turn " into a reminiscent romantic fool. " We spent the next couple of hours quoting lines from the book at each other. Gutterninja tackles Iron Wok Jan . Mystifying Oracle wants you to preorder Four Letter Worlds . Now that I have a better idea of what it's about and who is in it, it will get a second look from me. I was going to point out that Fox Trot mentioned Swamp Thing as my usual Mike Sterling link, but he beat me to it. Oh well. Polite Dissent discusses captive audiences and how we ought to distribute comic books where people are waiting... like in waiting rooms! I've often imagined buying a whole bunch of subscriptions to Aquaman for doctor offices, but that one of those "when I'm rich" fantasies. Jeff Parker finishes his FallCon report . And Monitor Duty calls in bits of his report . Here's a promo image from the New Doctor Who . No, I'm still not excited. I still have to see this thing actually on my TV before I'm going to get pumped. I'm more inclined to believe it's going to happen now, but I've been burned too many times to get my hopes up even now. Scary Larry Osterman explains digital audio in such a way that even I understood it. Wow. LEGO has really advanced since I was a kid. I mean, I don't think I could finish the first level of Mario Bros, but this LEGO contraption can. Very small humans found in dig . "In what is being hailed as one of the most spectacular paleoanthropological finds of the past century, researchers have unearthed the remains of a dwarf human species that survived on the Indonesian island of Flores until just 13,000 years ago." I'll let other people make the jokes. Oooh... Unshelved is tackling the issue of children left alone in a public place. I actually like what the kid did... heh. The thejohncleese.com website is officially open, don't forget your hat. 
 by Tegan at 1:52 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Tuesday, October 26, 2004 

 Rapid Reviews - 20 October 2004 - Part II 
 Vagabond Vol 6 : While Musashi recovers from his first real defeat, his childhood friend Matahachi gets a new name of his own. This book was split fairly evenly between Musashi dealing with fear for the first time in his life and Matahachi dealing with fear for perhaps the last time. Of the two stories, the development of Matahachi is much more interesting because he has so much farther to go. This continues to be an extremely good series, and I'm more than a little upset that the library only has up through volume seven. Smallville [4-04]: Devoted : This is the Kryptonade episode, in which the cheerleaders are making the football players serve them by spiking their water. I found this one really funny and extremely stupid. Particularly the effect the water had on Clark and what he did just after drinking it. I also liked Clark's reasons for wanting to be on the football team. It wasn't high art (when is TV?) but it was certainly funny, if cringeworthy. Smallville [4-05]: Run : Ah yes... the Flash. I admit that I have absolutely no hope of Aquaman ever appearing on Smallville, but it was funny that Clark ran into some girl in Florida... could it be Lori Lemaris? The fans may never know. The in-jokes were cute and didn't detract from the show overall, so I'm thinking this one was a success. There was also a point when Lex knew, without a doubt, that Clark had lied to him. Very interesting how that scene was played. I liked this one a lot. One note on Smallville: I'm not looking forward to this week's episode. I'm tired of body-switching stories. Really tired of them. I don't know if this one will work, but I'm not looking forward to it. Bart Simpson's Treehouse of Horror #10 : Four stories by four scary rockers... ok, three scary rockers and Pat Boone. "Bart Simmons" was typical fare, the location of the guitar was a nice touch. I loved "The Legend of Batterface" by Alice Cooper. A Simpsons twist on an old revenge tale. I confess I didn't really get "House of a Thousand Donuts" by Rob Zombie. What was up with the monkey? "Scareway to Heaven" was a nice finishing story to the anthology. As usual, this book is recommended to anyone who likes Treehouse of Horror. Street Angel #3 : I don't know if I'll ever get a copy of issue two, so I went ahead and read this one. So, the "angel" thing is literal in part? Very interesting. A nice odd book. Not really my thing, but a different sort of book that a lot of folks like. Concrete: Complete Short Stories 1986-1989 : I decided to catch up with as much Concrete as the library could provide. This is the first one I got. This is a series of short stories, all from Dark Horse Presents. Concrete works well in the short story format. And while I still haven't read his origin, at least it's fairly clear what happened to him. None of these stories stand out to me as amazingly good, but all of them were strong. And the introductions were informative. Overall, a very nice package. Neo Dawn #2 : Again, the font has some problems. Info dumps really need to be readable. But Committed Comics has put out some good books recently, and I want to support them. I don't recommend this one to anyone who hasn't read the first issue, but if you have, go ahead and get this one. Amelia Rules: Superheroes #3 : A bit of a filler episode in which Amelia goes to see Tanner at her new home and realizes that the world is bigger than her group of friends. This one is good for the friendships shown, but there's not a lot of action. Plastic Man #11 : I feel like aping DC's solicits for Plastic Man in my reviews. The stuff in the book stays with me for such a short time I don't know if I can pull up any opinions. It's funny. Not as funny as the classic stuff I've read, but amusing in its own way. The inclusion of Lex in a body-switching story was something new. For Plastic Man. At least it was played entirely for laughs. Still to review: Comic Book Digest, H-E-R-O, Identity Crisis, Batman Strikes!, Noble Causes, Teen Titans, and JLA. And did I mention that everyone needs to check out True Story Swear To God: Chances Are... ? Oh yeah. I did. Go read it. Female readers in particular. Most guys will like it too. I need to get hubby-Eric to read it. 
 by Tegan at 8:44 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Doctor 
 I went to the doctor this morning to see if I could deal with this creeping crud, and was given a prescription and sent home to sleep. I've now awakened, and I hope to get a little blogging done. I've still got a stack of reviews to write. In the meantime, go visit links on my sidebars and previous Random Thoughts posts. Lots of good bloggers there. Mark Evanier has a depressing report on what happened to Tom Spurgeon's new blog. Or maybe it's heartening news. I'm not sure. 
 by Tegan at 5:57 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Monday, October 25, 2004 

 Mondo Monday Random Thoughts 
 Bad news. I had the strongest urge to listen to "Christmas Wrapping" by The Waitresses this morning. NO! It's not the season yet! Help me! Must... listen... to... Halloween... music... I've added some images to my Travels With The Troll page... in particular, images taken with the guests and staff at Anglicon . Near Mint Heroes does the linkblogging thing again, and well. And if that's not enough for you, so does Trash Heap . Trash Heap also points me to the very promising Comics Reporter blog by Tom Spurgeon. My usual Mike Sterling link... this time to his comments on the latest Smallville . Mystifying Oracle Jeff Parker reports on FallCon . Ringwood points out a fault with many of us comic book bloggers: "we've allowed ourselves to become secondhand sources of Newsarama blurbs. That's... that's pitiful, is what that is." Agreed. Go on over there and let Ringy know how you feel, fellow comics bloggers. Scientists think that Down's Syndrome is more complicated than previously thought. And this is a surprise, how? It seems to me that there must be an easier way to do this , what with the advances of camera tech. So maybe it's digital and not film, would that make a huge difference? Boing Boing posts funny jokes . I like the control freak one. Hallowe'en is offensive to Wiccans ? Didn't think so, but here it is... and it's local to me, too. Puyallup School District... they are worried that it will take up school time, but that's the district that regularly has trips to the Western Washington State Fair planned during school time. Hmmm. Boing Boing also reports on a new Massively Multiplayer game based possibly on Disneyland. We'll have to see if this one pans out. /. points to this LEGO Rubik's Cube . After reading this Urban Legend , I'll be cheering for Green Bay on Hallowe'en. Deposit a fake check , without even endorsing it. See what happens. Oh yeah, don't miss the cat tossing in zero G movies that Boing Boing links to. Poor cat. It was clearly confused. Via MetaFilter: Bigfoot Field Researchers Organization . See how many sighting there have been in your area! Read about the latest expeditions and even report a sighting if you have one to report. There's also a good section on older bigfoot legends divided by linguistic regions. Um, isn't this overkill ? I mean, I can see interviewing the woman to find out what she was up to, but busting in her door and stealing her stuff? Wha? It's like a scene out of 1984... here come the Thought Police! Speaking of out of control police... I'll let this one speak for itself. Just imagine me shaking my head in disbelief. Trouble with e-voting in Albuquerque . Looks like a classic case of a poorly designed interface that changes choices without a confirmation box. Either that, or someone is trying to steal the election. I just hope everyone remembers to check their ballot before casting it. The diary of a Jewish victim of the Holocaust has been discovered. "Helga Deen, 18, wrote the diary during the three months she spent in the camp in 1943 so her Dutch boyfriend could understand what she was experiencing." Apparently she managed to get the diary to her boyfriend, who kept it secret until his recent death, when his family donated it to the Tilburg Regional Archive. The story of Cahokia , mystery city of Illinois. Due to my unbringing, I'm always fascinated by the archeology of the early peoples of the Americas. And lastly... DONE. This shows my hand and Eric's hand as we do our civic duty and sign our ballots before sending them off to be counted. Yes, we voted. It's over and done with. 
 by Tegan at 4:04 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Rapid Reviews - True Story Swear To God: Chances Are... 
 True Story Swear To God: Chances Are... by Tom Beland. My first thought as I finished reading this book was "why aren't I getting every issue of the ongoing by this guy???!?????" I loved True Story, Swear to God: 100 Stories . And this just confirmed it. This book is spectacular. This book is fantastic. This book is incredibly romantic, and every woman or girl who reads ought to get a copy. If I had any money at all right now, I would not only get a copy for myself (I checked it out from the library), but I'd get a copy for my non-comics reading friend Carmen, who is from Puerto Rico and would love this book. After that, I might get copies for a few other folks, but Carmen is the one I thought of first. And I know I'm going to have to get any of the single issues I can lay my hands on. Don't take my word for it, check it out from your library or buy your own copy. This book is one that everyone should have in their collection. And I've really got to ask Larry Young if he plans on collecting more of Beland's work. I know I'd love to see more. Go visit the AiT/Planet Lar website and the page for this book . This one is as highly recommended as they come. I can almost give it five starfish... let's call it 4 and 3/4 starfish... Update: Go visit Tom Beland's Website . Coming later today: Linkblog and More Reviews. I hope. 
 by Tegan at 8:48 AM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Sunday, October 24, 2004 

 Little Linkblog 
 Happy blogiversary to Johnny B , who is not a criminal . Blog THIS, Pal! agreed with me about Superman: True Brit. He's also got some decent linkblogging going there. Shane Bailey at Near Mint Heroes has changed his format a little, and intends to go into more serious linkblogging. Comic book fans should have his site bookmarked and need to check it frequently. He might not be Dirk Deppey, but his linkblogging is extremely fun. I have nothing else. I'm too tired to do any proper thinking. More tomorrow. 
 by Tegan at 6:55 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 No Blogging Today 
 I'm still fairly sick. Eric and I went out today, and by the time we got home I was feeling extremely poor and needed only to lay down. I don't think it's a flu... flu is painful. This is a classic case of "the crud". It's the kind of illness that gives you mild but persistent headaches, near constant nausea if you are stupid enough to move around, weakness throughout the body, and a strong desire to just lay down and not worry about it. If it were more serious, I wouldn't feel guilty about resting... and if it were less serious I wouldn't need to sleep. 
 by Tegan at 6:44 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 current 

 Bloggity-Blog-Blog-Blog 

 archives 

 10/17/2004 - 10/23/2004 
 10/24/2004 - 10/30/2004
 10/31/2004 - 11/06/2004 

 2002 Archive 
 2003 Archive 
 2004 Archive 

 other 

 My Aquaman Website 
 Why Aquaman? 
 Aquaman Sketchbook 
 Bookshop 
 Support This Site 
 Rapid Reviews Index