Bloggity-Blog-Blog-Blog Archive 10 Apr 2005 to 16 Apr 2005 

 Bloggity-Blog-Blog-Blog Archive
 Laura "Tegan" Gjovaag

 Saturday, April 16, 2005 

 Sketchbook - Sean Chen 
 Another non-Aquaman sketch for you to enjoy today... IRON MAN by Sean Chen 9 February 2003 (permission to post given 6 February 2005 in person) The Artist's Choice As a reminder: Almost every sketch in my sketchbook was non-commissioned and done on the floor of a con. These are not the best works of the artists. These are only representative of what the artist can do under pressure in a loud, crowded, and often stressed-out environment. Most of them were done as quickly as possible, to prevent huge lines from forming. Don't judge any of these artists negatively by the artwork you see, instead be as impressed as I am by what they accomplished in far-from-ideal conditions. To see all the sketches I have permission to post so far, check out my Sketchbook Page . If you have any contact information for any of the other artists I'm trying to contact , please e-mail me . Click for a random Aquaman sketch . The Saturday Sketch &#8482; is brought to you by the letters "S", "C" and the number "27", and also courtesy the fine artists who pour their lives into producing wonderful comic books, then come to conventions only to get asked by geeky fangirls for a sketch of Aquaman. Support an artist, buy a comic book. 
 by Tegan at 11:59 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Friday, April 15, 2005 

 More Cleaning 
 Sorry. No time to blog today. Going to finish up with some cleaning. 
 by Tegan at 8:26 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Thursday, April 14, 2005 

 Spring Cleaning.... 
 In addition to my walking thing , I've been trying to get parts of the house clean enough to allow people to visit us. I can actually see the floor of my computer room now, which is a nice improvement. But with all the stuff I'm doing, it leaves little time for blogging, sorry. 
 by Tegan at 10:11 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Wednesday, April 13, 2005 

 Flipping Through Previews... 
 Halfway through the month, practically, and I haven't even done my Previews review yet. Sheesh. Yes, it's that time again... time for "Things in Previews That Look Interesting But I Can't Afford To Get (with a list of things I am getting just for contrast)". I'm going to start with the bulk of the book, and then come back and cover the "big four" at the end. Please remember, I'm listing what looks interesting. My actual purchase list is going to be much smaller. The numbers after each title are usually the page number in Previews Magazine , so you can follow along at home. Let's start with the covers. The front cover does nothing for me. Just some generic superteam of some sort. The back cover, featuring Hellboy, is more interesting. I figure I may have to get the Hellboy book just from that cover alone. We'll see. I'm going to be working on my order while going through the book, so I'll know by the time I get back to Dark Horse if I'm going to be able to afford it. Moving on, let's hit the Splash Page (8-9). More of Hellboy. And I have to admit to being very mildly interested in hearing about 'The Fate of Wanda Maximoff'. Not enough to buy a book on it, but maybe enough to listen when the news hits the stands. I'll also note that Shojo Beat gets a mention here. Free Comic Book Day (12-15) continues to be solicited. My shop has already received a couple of the books, which the shop owner has kindly passed on to me. I'll be reviewing them closer to the actual date of the event. Ok, time to skip over the Premier Comics section, and start with the regular previewing at Wizard (196-202). What a difference a month makes! I can look at Anime Insider and actually understand what some of the projects mentioned are about. Looking at the Featured Items (204-207), I see the blogosphere's favorite Street Angel is being collected. This is something for anyone who missed it the first go 'round to give a try. More Red Sonja , too, but I think I'll pass for now. Shojo Beat gets another mention. I also see the new Angel book, which I'll probably be buying. I'm not sure if I intend to wait for a trade or just get it outright... we'll see. I also see something called Northwest Passage which made me stop to look. First up is About Comics (210) and Licensable Bear #2 . I'm undecided. The first issue was funny, but not so wonderful that I just have to get this one. I'll have to give it a bit more thought. AiT/Planet Lar (227) continues to evolve, this time with a story about an elevated highway. As I've had dreams about something similar for years, I'm almost curious enough to check this one out, but I think I may have to pass on it. I completely missed OZF5: Gale Force when I first flipped through Alias 's listings (228-242). When it was pointed out to me and I went back and checked it out, I nearly choked. Ok, yeah, we'll get it... but is it just me or does this remind anyone else of Oz Squad ? We'll also be getting Pakkins' Land #3 . Amaze Ink/Slave Labor (242-245) is putting out Street Angel Vol 1 , which collects the first five issues and has a new story and "more squids". I suspect the "24pgs" in the Previews listing is incorrect. Hmmm. Antarctic Press (248-252) has Oz The Manga #1 . Gee, ya think Eric will want it? I admit, the full page ad on page 249 makes it look pretty good. Beckett Comics (268) is collecting The Ballad of Sleeping Beauty . It was a decent series, but maybe not one that I'd be inclined to buy the collection of. If you haven't read it, and are curious, this would be a good way to get it, though. Hero Squared #2 is coming out from Boom Studios (270). We liked the first issue I got as a review copy, so we ordered the first issue of this mini. I guess that means we're likely to get the second issue, too. Well... as if two Oz books this month weren't already enough, there's a third one. Classics Illustrated Jr (278) has Dorothy Gale: Journey to Oz #3 . It's going to be an Oz-y June. There appear to be at least nine covers to the new Red Sonja #1 , counting retailer incentives and Dynamic Forces. No, it's not a record, but it is impressive. Oeming is writing, huh? That makes it a bit more tempting. It's from Dynamite Entertainment (282-284). They are also releasing a collection of Six From Sirius which looks intriguing. Devil's Due Publishing (285-295) is offering G.I. Joe #0 for 25 cents. Count me in. I'll always support the books that are 50 cents or under. Of course, this one is apparently not got a big margin for the retailers, so your mileage may vary. Um. This one is just odd. Digital Manga (296-298) has a book about ... um ... if I understand this right ... a gay pastry chef playboy. No, I don't intend to get it, but the concept sure is different. Dork Storm Press (299): Yaa! Nodwick #29 . Ok, looks like I've missed something good. Evil Twin Comics (304) has a series called Action Philosophers , and there's a sample on their website that looks really good. I think I may have to hunt down the first issue, and maybe even order this one, Action Philosophers: All-Sex Special #1 which bills itself as "For All Ages! (Yes, really!)" New publisher FC9 (309) brings us two titles. Genie #1 is about what really happens when you free a Djinn. Could be very interesting, or just a retread of all the warning stories about being careful what you wish for. The other book, Hell, Michigan #1 appears to be a standard horror story. Not my cuppa, so I'll pass. Headless Shakespeare Press (314) shows off a comic book about children who find a gateway to another world in The Brontes: Infernal Angria #1 . Could be good. Artwork is by Rick Geary . Angel returns, but to comic books, in Angel: The Curse #1 which picks up where the show left off. It's from IDW Publishing (319-325), and looks like it has four covers. I'm still not sure whether I want to get the singles of this or wait for the trade (presuming that there will be a trade). Kandora Publishing (326) continues their growth with Monarch of Manhattan #1 . I'm still just going to get Barbarossa and the Lost Corsairs #4 . I have to know, is Mahrwood Press 's (332) The Weird and Occasional Michael Netzer Digital Internet Forum Sketchbook a first? Maybe the first forum thread to be turned into a comic book? Moonstone Books (332-333): The Phantom #7 . I'm tempted by Northwest Passage #1 from Oni Press (336-339), but probably not enough to get it. Speakeasy Comics (342-344) is apparently having its first guest appearance as Beowulf appears in The Grimoire #4 . As I'm buying Beowulf #3 as well, I hope I'll be able to judge if the appearance is too annoying. Titan Publishing (344) is reprinting classic comics again, this time in Battlestar Galactic Vol 1 . Very tempting. If I had a bit more money to spare, I'd certainly be buying The Kindaichi Case Files: Playing the Fool Part 1 from Tokyopop (349-368). As it is, I'm having difficulties getting it from the library because even Interlibrary Loan can't seem to find the second volume. When I'm rich, I'll get the whole series. Viper Comics (375) presents us with the last issue of Oddly Normal , which I'm glad I ordered. I'm looking forward to seeing how this turns out. Thanks to reading some issues of Shonen Jump , I have a much better grasp of the offerings of Viz Comics (375-385). For instance, One Piece is a zany pirate comic book featuring a guy who wants to be King of the Pirates. Whistle! is your standard sports comic about a kid who just wants to play soccer. It's more fun to read the solicits when you have some idea of what the books are actually like. And that's it for the main listings! Another month down! All that's left are the big four and the merchandise, so anyone uninterested in the mainstream can stop reading now. Comic Book Artist V2 #6 (390) is a huge tribute to Will Eisner. Looks like it's Calendar month, starting at page 417... I might have to get one of the two DC Calendars on page 422. One is the Golden Age of DC Comics, the other is Alex Ross. I will be buying the Usagi Yojimbo Calendar, as usual. Ooh, there's a Justice League Unlimited calendar, too. Might have to get that one. I sense hard choices coming up. Enough of that. Time to go back to the front of the book and hit the big four. Dark Horse (21-56) is up first. I want to get the Hellboy mini, but it's only two issues, and I'm just not sure we can swing it with everything else piled up this month. I will be getting the two Conan books for sure, and there's no question that Usagi Yojimbo #85 will make the list as usual. But that appears to be it for Dark Horse this month. Image Comics (133-181): Age of Bronze finally returns! Yaaaa! I'm already eager for this one. I'll also be snagging Hero Camp #2 , Noble Causes #12 , and The Pact #3 . Marvel Comics (184): Incredible Hulk #82 , Shanna The She-Devil #5 , Supreme Power #17 , Amazing Spider-Man #521 , and Powers #12 . No, I don't plan on getting the variant Powers cover. And last, but certainly not least, is DC Comics . Here is where the bulk of our money is still spent... Once again, I'll work through these by section. Batman (61-68): Nothing so thrilling that I must get it. Superman (69-73): While I'm amused by "Batzarro", I'm still not going to buy Superman/Batman. DC Universe (74-94): Let's see, lots of good stuff in this section... I will be getting Aquaman #31 (well, duh), Birds of Prey #83 , Day of Vengeance #3 , DC Special: The Return of Donna Troy #1 (debated about this one, but hubby-Eric wants it), Green Arrow #51 , Green Lantern #2 , JLA Classified #8 , JLA Classified #9 , JLA #115 , JSA #74 , Legion of Super-Heroes #7 , Seven Soldiers: Klarion The Witch Boy #2 , Seven Soldiers: Shining Knight #3 , Seven Soldiers: Zatanna #2 , Solo #5 , Teen Titans #25 , Outsiders #25 , The Rann/Thanagar War #2 , and Villains United #2 . Whew. There's where the money goes. Johnny DC (95-96): Just the usual for this month, The Batman Strikes #10 and Justice League Unlimited #10 . DC Library (97-105): Nothing in this section interests me much. Wildstorm (106-113): Astro City: The Dark Age #1 looks like it may FINALLY come out. We can hope. Vertigo (114-125): How can we resist Neil Gaiman's Neverwhere #1 ? It's like he's pulling us in... DC Direct (126-132): Thankfully there's nothing here that calls out to me. The Aquaman stuff from last time was bad enough. I should make sure that hubby-Eric doesn't see the Black Canary Maquette, though. So that's it for this month's "Things in Previews That Look Interesting But I Can't Afford To Get (with a list of things I am getting just for contrast)". Comments? Questions? Did I miss any really cool books that you know about and would like to point out? Do you disagree with something I wrote, and want to correct me? There's the comments, right below. Post something. And, yes, I accept review copies. I'm willing to give almost anything a try. 
 by Tegan at 11:01 AM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Tuesday, April 12, 2005 

 Comcast Problems 
 Lots of 'net problems right now, enough so that I'm having trouble getting any internet stuff done. But I've got my Previews Reviews nearly done, so I'll post it probably tomorrow. Until then... (now it's time to cross my fingers and hope this posts). 
 by Tegan at 9:30 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Monday, April 11, 2005 

 Is It Just Me... 
 ...or is the Mar/May solicit for Aquaman #30 almost identical to the May/Jul solicit for Aquaman #32 ? With only two words spelled differently? Complete with exactly the same cover, except that Patrick Gleason's signature is in a different spot? Wonder if this is a minor problem, or something else? Anyone know? Er, anyone else even care? 
 by Tegan at 7:55 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 Sunday, April 10, 2005 

 Sunday Audioblog 
 Whadya know? It worked... 
 by Tegan at 5:16 PM Seattle time 

 - Permalink 

 current 

 Bloggity-Blog-Blog-Blog 

 archives 

 04/03/2005 - 04/09/2005 
 04/10/2005 - 04/16/2005
 04/17/2005 - 04/23/2005 

 2002 Archive 
 2003 Archive 
 2004 Archive 
 2005 Archive 

 other 

 My Aquaman Website 
 Why Aquaman? 
 Aquaman Sketchbook 
 Bookshop 
 Support This Site 
 Rapid Reviews Index