Ville's Research 

 Homepage 
 Experiments 
 About 
 Resources 

 Cavity Structural Effect 
 Fig. 1. Ground bee nest CSE 

 The Cavity Structural Effect (CSE) was discovered in spring 1983 by chance by Viktor S. Grebennikov (1927-2001), entomologist and painter, when he moved his hand over multi cavernous bee nests and felt warmth emanating from them. He started to study the phenomena and found out that the cause of unusual sensations such as warm breezes, cold drafts and tingling in hands, were not heat or a biofield, but the size, shape, number, and the arrangement of cavities formed by any solid objects. (1, 2) 
 The characteristics of the CSE 
 The CSE cannot be shielded, like gravitation, it affects living organism though walls, thick metal, and other screens. 
 The CSE field does not decrease evenly with distance, but surrounds the multi cavernous object with a system of invisible "shells". 
 The CSE field has a stronger impact on living organism when it is directed away from the Sun, and also downwards, facing the Earth's center. 
 When multi cavernous object is moved to another spot, the CSE field builds up in a few seconds or minutes, while the old spot retains a "phantom" perceivable by the hand for hours, and sometimes for months. 
 When multi cavernous object is rotated, the CSE increases significantly. 
 Mechanical and electronic clocks placed in a strong CSE field run inaccurately. 
 The CSE zone inhibits wheat grain germination and the growth of saprophytic soil bacteria, yeast and other cultures. Leaf-cutting bees become more active in this field. 
 Humans and animals adapt to the CSE fields. It couldn't be otherwise: we are surrounded by caverns large and small: by grids, cells of plants (as well our own cells), bubbles of foam-rubber, foam plastic, foam concrete, rooms, corridors, halls, roofing, spaces between machine parts, trees, furniture, buildings. (2) 

 The nature of the CSE 

 There have been many hypotheses about the physical nature of the CSE, but there is one theory that deserves greater attention. It was developed earlier by Valentin F. Zolotarev (1931-2000), Doctor of Physical and Mathematical Sciences, and it is now experimentally confirmed. (1, 3) 
 As a result of a long collaborative research Grebennikov and Zolotarev (1987) describe the discovery as "previously unknown phenomena of interaction between multi cavity structures and living systems, in which de Broglie waves associated with motion of electron flows in the solid walls of cavities create, by interference, a macroscopic field of multi cavity structures, which causes changes in the functional state of living objects located in this field". (1, 3) 
 In multi cavity structures, where the surface area is repeatedly curved, the super high frequency de Broglie waves are added together and they form, like musical overtones, harmonics with lower frequencies. Thus, by lengthening and strengthening due to the mutual overlap in the cells, they form anti-node maximums of standing de Broglie waves. Running against these passive obstacles, nerve impulses change their frequency and speed, causing not only the apparent sensations, but sometimes also significant physiological changes. (1, 3) 
 The CSE is caused by the interaction between de Broglie waves and biological systems. Cavities within the solid body are de Broglie wave resonators; they are a source of standing de Broglie waves (longitudinal waves). The rhythmical location of cavities leads to a reinforcement of the effect.(4) 
 According to B. N. Rodimov (1976, as cited by Frolov, 2001) the walls of multi cavity structures can be considered as the boundaries of the potential electron's box. The group movement of electrons leads to a system of standing de Broglie waves, which have classic frequencies.(4) 
 The classic frequencies are f = nh/4mL 2 , where n is an integer number, L is the circumference of cavity in centimeters, and m is the effective mass of the electron.(4) As an example, the classic frequency for 4.9 mm (side to side) diameter honey bee comb cell is calculated. The effective mass of an electron in beeswax is a bit hard to calculate, and therefore, in the calculation the free electron rest mass is used. 
 f = 1 &middot; 6.626 &middot; 10 -34 kgm 2 s -2 / 4 &middot; 9.11 &middot; 10 -31 kg &middot; (1.7cm) 2 = 0.63 Hz 
 Further, Zolotarev gives a formula for the locations of de Broglie wave maximums: D = 2L(N+1)2 K , where L is the circumference of the tube, N is the harmonic number of the wave, and K is the number of the anti-node/maximum.(4) 
 Fig. 2. Leaf-cutting bee nest CSE 
 For example, calculated wave maximums (1st harmonic anti-nodes) from the honey bee comb are at the distances of 7, 14, 27, 54, 109, 218 cm, and so on. 
 As a comparison, Grebennikov reported (1987) CSE maximums from the leaf-cutting bee nest entrances at the distances of 13, 26, 51, 102, and especially in 205 cm. At another leaf-cutting bee nest they were noted at the distances of 4 cm, 13 cm (especially strongly perceptible layer), 20, 40, 80, 120, and 150 cm. (1) 
 Grebennikov found out that bees and wasps can detect these wave beacons created by their nests. It is necessary for the ground bees to know not to engrave into adjacent nests while constructing their nest cavities, or otherwise the entire underground beecity could collapse. As for the leaf-cutting bees, they need to know where to find finished cavities with necessary parameters. Moreover, one experiment with the hunter wasps showed that they were able to find their moved nest because of a wave beacon created by the nest cavern.(1, 2) 

 Fig. 3. Flower CSE 
 Grebennikov discovered that the flowers of plants also create CSE. By moving a drawing coal over large, bell-shaped flowers (tulips, lilies, amaryllises, mallows, pumpkins), already at a distance, he could feel a "braking" of this detector. And there was another mystery of nature revealed to him by insects. To attract their pollinators, flowers use not only color, odor, and nectar, but also a similar wave beacon, powerful and unstoppable. Additionally he found out that the males of many species of beetles (especially Rhinoceros beetles) have horn cavities that are CSE indicators of specific parameters, which help them to find partners to each other.(1, 2) 

 Rhinoceros beetle (probably Xylotrupes gideon ) in Bali. According to Grebennikov (1987) male beetles horn cavities are CSE indicators of specific parameters. Note that horns are curved and one horn is conical, looking like curved natural vortex surface. 
 Update (April 29, 2011) 

 Many secrets of nature may be solved by the recognition of the CSE. Interestingly, it is a mystery how Pelicans know when Lake Eyre is filling in the deserts of central Australia. According to Grebennikov distant rain creates powerful CSE field that has its impact on a large area. The CSE is created by the movement of multi-layered grid of water drops and gaps between them.(2) Maybe Australian Pelicans can detect and indentify distant rains with their bill cavities. Furthermore, there could be many species of birds that can detect CSE! 
 August 16, 2010 

 References 

 (1) Grebennikov, Viktor S. 1987. Miracles in the Sieve. Translated by Yahoo! Babel Fish and Google Translate. Retrieved August 16, 2010, from http://www.matri-x.ru/book_foto.shtml 
 (2) KeelyNet. 2001. The Natural Phenomena of AntiGravitation and Invisibility in Insects due to the Grebennikov Cavity Structure Effect (CSE). Retrieved August 13, 2010, from http://keelynet.com/greb/greb.htm 
 (3) Frolov, Alexander V. 2005. An Antigravity Platform of V.S. Grebennikov. In New Energy Technologies 3(22): 58-74 (2005). Retrieved August 16, 2010, from http://www.rexresearch.com/grebenn2/greb2.htm 
 (4) Frolov, Alexander V. 2001. Calculation of the Effect of Many-Cavity Structures (Cell Structures). In New Energy Technologies 4: 67-68 (2001). Retrieved August 13, 2010, from http://www.rexresearch.com/grebenn2/greb2.htm 

 Figures 
 1,2,3 Grebennikov, Viktor S. 1995. My World. Retrieved August 16, 2010, from http://www.matri-x.ru/book_foto.shtml 

 What's new 
 Rhinoceros beetle (April 29, 2011) 
 Hyperbolic disc (February 3, 2011) 
 Structural analysis (December 13, 2010) 
 These webpages! (September 30, 2010) 

 Research 

 Permanent magnet motors 
 Cavity structural effect 
 Ether research 

 &copy; 2010-2011 Ville Piippola