Guitar Lessons | Classical Guitar Lessons 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Guitar 
 Principles 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 
 more... 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar Lessons , Classical Guitar 

 Classical Guitar Lessons 

 The purpose of my Column "The Art of Finger Dancing," 
 is to give the classical guitarist of any level new techniques 
 and insights to advance their creative thinking. With this 
 column I hope to teach the traditional, because within the 
 traditional lies a foundation. However, I hope to stimulate 
 the guitarist with inspiration to reach for new sounds and 
 concepts above and beyond the traditional. "The Art of 
 Finger Dancing" column is designed to be a technique 
 column because only through technique are all things possible. 

 Latest Column 

 Why The Classical Guitarist 
 Should Embrace Popular Music 
 by Logan L. Gabriel (21 Apr 2001) 
 Ladies and Gentlemen, I am back and with a vengeance. 
 A vengeance? What am I avenging you ask? What I am avenging 
 my friends is my art! All you classical guitarists and 
 aspiring guitarists and aficionados, listen up, because 
 what you are about to read will change your life forever. 

 Also by Logan L. Gabriel 
 Rock Guitarist as Classical Guitarist 
 Part 1 
 by Logan L. Gabriel (27 Jun 2000) 
 Over my six years of teaching classical guitar to rock players 
 there seems to be a recurring problem. The right hand. 
 Yes, the right hand. The left hand is not the culprit, 
 it has been put through the ropes time and time again with 
 scales, chords, so on and so forth. The right hand has 
 never let go of the pick, and when it has the fingers usually 
 assumed the hand position of a folk or blues player and lacked 
 stability, accuracy, tone, volume and any real control. 
 Rock Guitarist as Classical Guitarist 
 Part 2 - Finger Movement 
 by Logan L. Gabriel (04 Jul 2000) 
 In the last article we discussed hand positioning, and hopefully 
 you have been practicing the exercise I gave you. You've 
 no doubt have listened to classical guitarists before and 
 have noticed their warm, balanced, tone. If you have 
 been practicing the exercise I gave you will probably have 
 noticed that tone and volume is something that is lacking. 
 Do not fear, this article will put you on your way to good 
 tone and clarity. 
 Rock Guitarist as Classical Guitarist 
 Part 3 - Finger Placement and Finger Preparation 
 by Logan L. Gabriel (11 Jul 2000) 
 I was originaly going to write this article about just finger 
 placement, then it dawned on me that finger placement and 
 finger preparation go hand in hand. Finger placement deals 
 with playing the string from the same point of the finger. 
 Finger preparation is just that, preparing the finger in such 
 a way so that the muscles responsible for finger action are 
 trained to place the finger at the same spot each time. 
 The Art of Practice 
 by Logan L. Gabriel (18 Jul 2000) 
 Ever since you have started your instrument you have no doubt 
 heard everyone say "practice, practice, practice". 
 Well, what does that mean? Is practice the monotonous 
 repetition of certain exercises and chords and scales? 
 Is it the same thing day in and day out? My answer is 
 hardly not. Practice, like your instrument needs to 
 be practiced. (2000-07-18) 
 Molding and Shaping 
 by Logan L. Gabriel (25 Jul 2000) 
 The guitar is a kind of voice box, it's language is abstract 
 but very communicative and exacting. Just as the voice needs 
 inflection in order to convey emotional content so does the 
 musical line. The tools of the trade are simple in theory 
 but difficult in practice. 
 Posture 
 by Logan L. Gabriel (01 Aug 2000) 
 How may of us just grab the guitar, take a seat and begin 
 to play? How many of you really understand the importance 
 of proper posture, it's effect on your playing and risk of 
 injury. More and more I see beginners sit in the way 
 their favorite player does, without regards to their body. 
 Scales, Warp Factor 10 
 by Logan L. Gabriel (08 Aug 2000) 
 Before we dive into the realm of developing speed, let's dispel 
 a few misconceptions about it. Firstly, speed in and 
 of itself is irrelevant. The second misconception of 
 speed is that most people believe in order to play fast you 
 must practice fast. 
 Speed Bursts 
 by Logan L. Gabriel (18 Aug 2000) 
 While it is helpful to know your scales and play them quickly, 
 it is not necessary to play them at break neck speed for lengthy 
 periods of time. One of the things that can help us 
 develop stamina to hold out during those passages is the daily 
 practice of speed bursts. 
 Improvisation in Classical Music 
 Part I 
 by Logan L. Gabriel (16 Oct 2000) 
 When guitar began to be taught in universities there was a 
 lot of emphasis given to what we call the "standard repertoire." This 
 is why if you pick up a cd of classical guitar music the program 
 on the disk is pretty much made up of music by a few composers. 
 Hence, people have been hearing the same thing for so long 
 we are doomed to play what they like or we do not get gigs. 
 This in effect stifles the classical guitarists creative thinking 
 because we spend so much time studying and preparing these 
 standard works. 
 Improvisation in Classical Music 
 Part II 
 by Logan L. Gabriel (25 Oct 2000) 
 This week we look at some ways you can build your "improvisatory 
 vocabulary." Leave no chord unturned. And do not 
 buy a chord book. Chord books are evil because they 
 suppress the analytical thought process. 
 Rasgueados 
 by Logan L. Gabriel (08 Nov 2000) 
 Rasgueados serve two very important purposes. The first 
 being a technical exercise, the second being a way with which 
 to add rythmic variety to a harmonic accompaniment. To perform 
 this technique let's first learn to fight our natural tendencies. 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.