Dibny 

 Dibny 

 History: 

Dibny was born at Bitra Hold approximately 10 turns before the Tenth Pass 
began on Pern. Details of his early life are sparse, but as a young man 
he did have memories of a sister - a sister who had run away when he was 
very young. As a young man Dibny was a troublemaker, his ability to contort 
his body in seemingly impossible ways making it very easy for him to sneak
around, hiding in hearths, slipping under some doors in the Hold and 
generally make life hard for his parents and the Hold Staff alike. 

When he reached his fourteenth turn, his mother issued him an ultimatim: 
"Do something with your life, already." Perplexed at the concept of work, 
Dibny started hanging out at the Main Hold looking for ideas. 

At some point, Dibny was sharing a table with Guard Captain Laurel. Off 
the cuff, Dibny asked if she needed any new guardsmen. When he was 
younger, Dibny had idolized young guardsman Clark, now Cl'rek of 
Benden, and had an idea brewing in his head to be the best Clark-like 
guard he could be. In reality, Clark 
had merely been dumb-lucky , "bravely" taking an arrow through his hand 
intended for Lord Holder Malachite. 
Dibny hadn't seen it this way, though, and his enthusiasm convinced 
Laurel to give it a shot. 

Dibny became a Guard Cadet, training with various different Guards at 
different duties. At this time, he learned how to use his 
weapon-of-choice, a small slingshot, though Dibny quickly realized that 
combat was not his interest. 

As a Guardsman, Dibny studied under the tutelage of Reep, the 
current investigator. Dibny found his ductile abilities would be 
quite handy in investigating strange activities at the Hold. He also 
found, oddly, that his nose would begin to itch when he noticed something 
was not right -- such as a mystery. 

Eventually appointed to a semi-permanent investigator position as Reep 
retired, Dibny solved a 
number of mysteries, broke up spy rings, and even recovered the Lord 
Holder's favorite pick-axe. The most important investigation Dibny made, 
in his opinion, was the re-discovery of his sister. 

Having a little free time, Dibny decided to investigate why his sister 
left his parents and find out if she was still alive. Asking around the 
Hold, Dibny discovered she had run away to avoid an arranged marriage, 
and gone to Benden Weyr. Enlisting the aid of his idol, Cl'rek, Dibny 
travelled to Benden and asked a few more questions. Turns out she had 
gone to Igen Weyr next. At Igen, Dibny found out his sister's name was 
Ceres, and that she had been Searched and Impressed at Igen Weyr itself. 

Dibny was overjoyed. He found out she had since transferred to High 
Reaches Weyr and was still alive. Cl'rek brought the passioned Dibny to 
High Reaches where he was reunited with his sister. Ceres, the rider 
of green Dalrianth, was equally happy to see her younger brother. Ceres 
said she still was reluctant to go back to their parents, but Dibny 
convinced her to consider it. 

Since then, Ceres has visited the Hold a number of occasions, and Dibny 
has become an uncle through her child. 

Meanwhile, Captain Laurel had stepped down from her position, and Lord 
Malachite needed to fill the position. As the most experienced and, as 
Malachite felt, most mature Guard leader at the time, Dibny was promoted to 
Captain. 

At first Dibny was confident and did an excellent job with the Guard. 
His professionalism installed confidence in the Guardsmen. Dibny 
increased the importance of investigation over straight battle training 
and police duties. Finally, though, Dibny's quick movement through the 
ranks began to affect him. 

Dibny has, in the last turn or so, felt a lack of confidence in himself, 
and the stress level of the job seems to have magnified - more in his 
mind than in reality. Finally, a turn or so ago, he stepped down back 
into the ranks and allowed Lenam to take over at Captain. He is enjoying 
his job now and things seem to be okay.

 Also: Dibny's player's 
 Guard Guide for the Bitra Guard 
 The Bitra Guard , a song
 written by an old Hold Harper (Tyroc, NPC) sang (to Dibny and some
 others) about the Bitra Guard 
 Bitra Hold's home
 page 
 PernMUSH's unofficial home
 page 

Text by Steve Mohundro. Dragonriders of Pern theme and setting used with 
fond reverence. Pern is (c) 1996 Anne McCaffrey 

 ABODE

 WHO

 about steve, family, folks, writing 

 roleplaying, comic books 

 PLAY

 LLL!

 legion of super-heroes