Guard Policy Document
September 20, 1995
by Steve Mohundro <n9243585@cc.wwu.edu> 
AKA Dibny (Guard Captain)

INTRODUCTION

In the past, Hold Guards have often been portrayed like something 
directly out of the Real World.  Since the Guard of Fax's day was 
portrayed as a sort of private army, powerful enough to take control
of a number of Holds, roleplay has often been organized with this structure. 
Yet it should seem logical that, after Fax died and his power gone, the 
Holders, Craftmasters and Weyrleaders would have agreed to limit the power 
of any one Holder and with that the Guard as well.

A Guard, therefore, cannot be a legion of men (and women) powerful enough 
to decimate other Holds.  In the 10th Pass time of PernMUSH, the largely 
autonomous Weyr Council, Holders Conclave and Craft Council exist to handle 
internal problems and find solutions so a "standing army" at a Hold 
could not be justified.

GUARDS ON PERNMUSH

A Hold Guard is not a military, but rather sort of police force, very 
similar to a small-town, personal force.  A Guardsman, by being someone to 
defend the harmony of the Hold, becomes a staff person of the Hold. 
Guards hold normal patrols in the Holds they serve, helping out visitors, 
children and subduing the incidental criminal activity.

Crime, although exaggerated in some portions of the books to further the 
plot, is probably not really a widespread thing within Holds.  Bitra is 
one exception because it attracts a number of gamblers and cheats, but 
most Holds will have little in the way of internal criminal activity.

When the current Pass approached, a number of Holdless began banding 
together as renegades.  These renegades might infiltrate a Hold and steal 
items from the stores, or kidnap livestock among other violations of 
general order.  Renegade activity is something the Guard of any Hold needs 
to watch, because any thefts can mean loss in resources for their own 
Hold.  One must remember, however, that renegade activity is usually rare - 
being more pronounced during the turns leading up to the current Pass.

One other duty a Guardsman might serve as is escort to leaders visiting 
the Hold or the Holder as he/she travels.  Members of the Guard therefore 
must be very trustworthy because they would be the ones the leaders would 
trust their lives.  Leaders are at risk from many different sources, 
including jealous, power-hungry heirs and renegades set on sending a 
Hold into chaos to their own advantage.

GUARD WEAPONS, SKILLS

According to policy, swords are not canon weapons on PernMUSH.  In fact, 
many weapons one would see in other feudal/medieval settings would not be 
seen on Pern.  Guardsmen should, therefore, know how to use the few 
weapons that do exist on Pern.  Yet, they should also be able to perform 
their duties with little help from weapons.  Guardsmen should use their 
brains and hand-to-hand combat skills to subdue most threats.

Being a Guardsman requires some sort of writing ability.  Guardsmen do 
not have to be harper apprentices, but must be able to convey important 
events in the Hold to their superiors.

On duty within the confines of the Hold, the Guardsman should probably 
not even need to carry a weapon.  Within a Hold, the most likely weapon 
would be a small one like a dagger or slingshot, and a Guardsman should 
be trained well enough to be able to subdue someone with their own 
strength and agility, using the weapon only as a backup.

At the same time, if Guardsmen have a reason to patrol in the outer 
reaches of a Hold's territory, they would carry their weapons in case 
they become outnumbered.  One must remember, though, that while Hold Guard 
might sometimes look like an army, it is merely a defensive force.

One other duty of the Hold Guard is only carried out during Threadfall.  A 
Hold Guard also coordinates, and sometimes assists, the ground crews when 
Thread falls over the Hold.  Likewise, in any other natural disaster such 
as flooding, storms, famine or plague, Guardsmen provide assistance with 
refugees, sandsacks, etc., whatever is needed to assist other staffers of 
the Hold.

GUARD RANKS AND POSITIONS

Each new Guard recruit is usually classified as a "Guard Cadet." A Cadet 
will undergo physical training where personal strengths will be 
enhanced. Cadets go on patrol with other, more experienced Guardsmen in 
different areas of the Hold. At this time, reports on the character 
traits of the Cadet will be filed and taken to the Guard Captain.

The Captain will study these reports and at some point promote the Cadet 
to full Guardsman status.  This is the rank most Guards will remain in the 
rest of their careers.  Guardsmen patrol, train, run drills and generally 
are the most important part of the Guard.

Certain individuals of Guardsman rank may have special status within the 
Guard.  These people are called upon by the Captain to supervise other 
guards or perform special duties.  These duties might be to serve as a 
Quartermaster (a Guard who keeps track of the weapons, uniforms, runners 
and other equipment).  Others with skills of subtly and keen observation 
may be called upon from time to time to serve as a special investigator 
if undercover work is needed to keep the Hold's peace.
 
The Captain outranks all other Guards and directs the other Guard leaders.  
He or she is usually promoted from one of the special leadership positions 
in the Guardsman rank by the Holder. The Captain answers only to the senior 
Steward, Headwoman and the Holder.  The Captain is effectively a part of the 
senior Hold Staff, and must represent the Hold accordingly.  He or she 
may be sent to other Holds, Crafthalls or Weyrs to deliver sensitive 
information, although the Hold Harper will most likely perform that duty 
through his Craft.

GUARD SIZE/JURISTICTION

For a major Hold such as Bitra, a Guard will still be a small portion of 
the total population.  The typical Guard consists of a Captain, three to 
five (1-3 PC and the rest NPC) Guardsmen with special positions and the rest 
normal Guardsmen and Cadets.  While within the Hold only a small number 
of patrols would be conducted at once, with one Guardsman in each patrol. 
If the Hold is bordered on an unpopulated area known for sheltering 
renegades, two-person patrols near those areas would also be possible.  
During a Gather or Festival, more guards may be on duty at one time.

The "Law" a Guard enforces is generally a common law (i.e. no stealing, 
assault, etc.) plus any particular rules a Holder may want enforced. 
Also, the Guard of one Hold is largely autonomous from other Guards, 
although it may consider a liaison or periodic meetings between the two to 
coordinate activity and exchange information.  For example, Bitra Hold 
currently does not have relations with the Guard of the closest Hold, Benden.

GUARD QUARTERS, PAY

Although the Guard is essential for a safe Hold, the quarters are sparse. 
All but the Captain sleep in the Barracks, a large set of rooms within 
the Main Hold (usually).  The Captain may sleep in this area or in a room 
off the Barracks, as long as it is close to the ranks. Cots and small 
presses for personal effects, as well as two sets of uniforms for each 
member of the Guard are all that is provided.

Guards are paid a paltry sum of a few marks each sevenday depending on 
their rank, but are provided clothing, food and shelter as part of the 
job.  The exchange is the respect most Holders show for the Guard keeping 
Hold life as peaceful as possible during a Pass.  Second to Dragonriders in 
some ways, the Guard of a Hold must defend Pernese to the death, and in 
exchange gain the admiration of these same Pernese.

ROLEPLAYING A GUARD CHARACTER ON PERNMUSH

A player of a Guard character must spend some time roleplaying patrols, 
gaining some sort of expertise, etc.  Each Guard Cadet trains and finds 
some sort of activity within the ranks which suits them the most.  This 
is an excellent way to develop your character as he or she discovers 
personal strengths and weaknesses. 

A Guard Captain's player has little more influence on Hold policy than a 
Cadet, and all players of Guard characters can initiate plots themselves. 
The Captain acts as a coordinator to make sure plots within the ranks are 
agreed upon by all parties and approves plots involving criminal actions. 
The Holder has the final say in any tinyplot matters, but anything that 
will effect the cohesiveness of the guards should be brought to the 
attention of the Captain.

Remember also that the Captain is not there to run plots on their own, 
neither is he/she physically capable of keeping track of every plot in 
the Hold.  If something happens in roleplay which affects guards in any 
way, +mail the Captain this as a pseudo-report so he/she can keep up to 
date as they would In Character.

The ultimate goal is not to become Captain (it's a thankless job), but 
to find something your character is good at and make it fit In 
Character.  If being a leader is what you're good at, show this. If being 
a follower is, this is good, too.

Avoid angstful plots with maiming, multiple murders, etc.  If it's a good 
impetus for roleplay, a dead body with a mystery surrounding it is great. 
Coordinate with close-by Weyrs as they are often willing to conduct Hold-
Weyr plots.  Renegade activity is a decent excuse for Guardsmen to use, but 
keep the story consistent (Nabolese border, etc.) to maintain continuity.

Any Guard character can recruit others to join the Guard, but the Captain 
or Holder are the only ones who can add the person to the knot.  Either 
can approve entry into the Guards. When recruiting, be careful if the 
player is completely new.  They should know what they're getting into. 
Emphasize that a Guard is not a warrior in the classic sense - we don't 
want any sword and sorcery types. 
