Lady from Shanghai (1948) 

 Lady from Shanghai (1948) 

 Orson Welles 
 Screenplay by Orson Welles, adapted from the novel by Sherwood King 

 Rita Hayworth (Elsa Bannister)
 Orson Welles (Michael O'Hara)
 Everett Sloane (Arthur Bannister)
 Glenn Anders (George Grisby)
 Ted de Corsia (Sidney Broome) 

 Mike and Elsa demonstrate fun with mirrors 
 Mike and Elsa are joined by Bannister 
 Careful with those mirrors, you might put your eye out! 

 Three guesses who's not a member of the San Francisco Chinese
Opera company 
 Publicity shot of Elsa at the entrance to the funhouse 

 Elsa and Broome 

 Mike tries to hide in Chinatown 
 The happy Bannister couple 
 Mike models an adorable cap; with Elsa at Ye Olde Fisherman's
Wharf 

 Another shot of Elsa and Mike at Ye Olde Wharf 
 Bannister and Mike talk as Elsa watches 
 Mike races through Chinatown desperate to find some good char
siew 

 Mike and Elsa have more fun with mirrors 
 Mike at the end 
 Arthur and Elsa relaxing 

 Elsa and Mike 
 Publicity shot of Elsa in the hall of mirrors 

 MIKE V.O. 
 When I start out to make a fool of myself, there's very little can
stop me. If I'd known where it would end, I'd never let anything start. If
I had been in my right mind that is. But once I'd seen her, once I'd seen
her, I was not in my right mind for quite some time. "Good evening" says
I, thinking myself a very gay dog indeed. But here was a beautiful girl
all by herself and me with plenty of time, nothing to do but get myself in
trouble. Some people can smell danger. Not me. 

 MIKE V.O. 
 And from that moment on I did not use my head very much except to be
thinking of her. 

 MIKE V.O. 
 But in the park in those days the rough young fellas used to be
staging hold-ups and the like. However these young fellas were not
professionals. And that's maybe the reason why I start out in this story a
little bit like a hero, which I most certainly am not. 

 MIKE V.O. 
 Personally I don't like a girlfriend to have a husband. If she'll fool
her husband I figure she'll fool me. 

 MIKE V.O. 
 Naturally someone had to take Bannister home. I told myself I couldn't
leave a helpless man lying unconscious in a saloon. Well it was me that
was unconscious. And he was exactly as helpless as a sleeping rattlesnake.

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2003)