Exploring Nonverbal Communication 

 Culture and Nonverbal Communication 
(28 minutes) 

 QUESTION: 

In the video A World of Gestures , people from all over the 
world demonstrate the remarkable diversity of international
gestures. Can you guess the meaning of this Japanese gesture? 

a. I'm scared like a bunny 
b. I've been hearing things about you 
c. I'm angry 

The video "A World of Gestures: Culture and Nonverbal 
Communication" focuses on international differences in gestures, 
and cultural differences in nonverbal communication generally. 
As might be expected, this video is fascinating, provocative, and 
even outrageous. This video examines angry gestures, obscene 
gestures, friendly gestures, warning gestures, the development of
gestures in children, gang gestures, secret gestures, and embarrassing
gestures. Throughout, the emphasis is on how this powerful form
of nonverbal communication varies across cultural and national
boundaries. 

 QUESTION: 

In A World of Gestures , this woman from France demonstrates
this gesture. Can you try to guess what this French gesture means? 

a. I don't believe you 
b. I wish I hadn't seen that 
c. I am looking at a very handsome man 

 QUESTION: 

In A World of Gestures , we see this gesture performed by a
woman from Iran. Can you guess what this Iranian gesture means? 

a. Good luck to you 
b. You will always be number one for me 
c. "Screw You" (obscene) 

 A World of Gestures helps us understand the richness
and power of cultural differences. The video also helps us
answer several fascinating questions about gestures and 
nonverbal communication: 

1. Is there a 'universal language' of gestures? 

2. At what age do children first learn about gestures, and
when do they become fluent at performing them? 

3. Do all cultures have at least one obscene gesture? 

4. Does the same gesture have radically different meanings
in different cultures? 

5. Can gestures serve as secret messages or as signals of
group membership? 

6. Do some cultures have a unique catgory of gestures--one
that expresses an idea found in no other society? 

 See More Details and Reviews of This Video 
 How To Order This Video 
 Return To Main Page