Maya Ruins Chichen Itza, Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico 

My Father-in-law treated his family to a Caribbean cruise in February,
1996. One of the ports-of-call was Cozumel, Mexico where my husband
and I took an excursion to the site of an old Mayan city, Chichen
Itza.

Our guide quickly took us through the gates, under the trees, past
all the vendors to the most impressive temple in Chichen Itza -
Kukulkan's Pyramid or El Castillo. 

View from the top of Kukulkan Pyramid - the ball court, and Temple of the Jaguars.

Narrow stairs. Yikes! 
Some people had no problem climbing. The proper way to traverse the
steps is sideways, as it was improper to turn your back to the
Gods. The Mayan people were short in stature (about 5 feet average
height for men).

View of the market (all those columns) the Temple of the Warriors
and the Temple of the Tables (far left).

We got to climb to the top. Our guide told us that probably in
1998 climbing on the ruins would no longer be possible - the
government would be roping off access.

There are 91 steps leading to the top, 4 stairways totaling 364
steps plus the top step shared by all stairways adding up to 365
(solar days in the year). During equinox, when the sun is setting,
you can see shadows from the temple terraces that connect with
a serpent head at the bottom of the west stairway. It all connects
into one big snake! Kukulkan's pyramid is build over the top
of another pyramid - Yup, one on top of the other. We weren't
allowed to take cameras inside, so no pictures. 

From the warriors temple. 
 The market place. 
 Wall of skulls - Tzompantili 
Our guide told us the heads of war victims were set on top of
this wall. Human sacrifice in religious ceremony became more and
more common during the Mayan-Toltec period.

 Temple of the Jaguars. 
 From 
the ball court. Acoustics are supposed to be really good in here. 

From inside the ball court. In religious ceremonies, the captain of the 
winning team would be decapitated. It was a great honor to offer your life to the
gods on behalf of your people.

Venus Platform. Venus is a guiding star for travelers. 
 From the Platform of Tigers and Eagles 

Before being uncovered, buildings would be a mere heap of stones with 
jungle growth on top. 

At Chichen Itza hieroglyphs are common. There's a lot more to be uncovered here. 
Chichen Itza translates to -by the mouth of the well of the Itza- 
CHI- mouth 
CHEN- well 
ITZA- name of tribe 

 Cultural Development 
Formative Period (500 B.C. - 325 A.D) 
Classic Maya Period (325 - 925 A.D.) 
--Florescence Period (625 - 800 A.D.) 
--Collapse (800 - 925 A.D) - thought to be brought about by foreign
influence and land exhaustion 
Interregnun (925 - 975 A.D.) 
Maya-Toltec Period (975 - 1200 A.D.) 
Mexican Absorption Period (1200 - 1540 A.D.) - thought to have
been a period of peasant revolt with overthrow of the theocracy.

The pictures on Page 1 show Mayan structures from the 
second half of the Classic Period (7th to 10th centuries A.D.)

The pictures on Page 2 show buildings raised during the 
Maya-Toltec period (11th to 13th century A.D.) There is more Mexican 
influence in the art.

 Page 2