PostgreSQL Usage and Tutorials 

 PostgreSQL Usage and Tutorials 
 -- Using PostgreSQL on Eskimo North and Tutorials -- 

 Requesting a PostgreSQL Database on Eskimo North (eskimo.com) 

 Please contact support@eskimo.com to request a PostgreSQL database for
your username -- one per username, as the database name is the same as the
login -- if connecting results in an error for you. You would need
to let them know a requested password for PostgreSQL tasks (used when
connecting from a remote client) as well. 

 Connecting to the PostgreSQL Server 

 The prompt in PostgreSQL shows the name of the database it's connected to
(the same as your username here at eskimo.com). 

 There are three methods of authentication for connecting the server here: 

 The shell server uses a login and password to connect to it in the first
 place. Ident is used to tell the SQL server which username is to be
 used when connecting in the method described below. 
 CGI's will run on the web server itself (the same server that's running
 PostgresSQL currently) under your own userid. That will be used to
 connect to the right database. 
 You can connect to the SQL server with clients outside our servers
 as well, using your username and a password used only for PostgreSQL.
 This will let others you tell the password to do database admin tasks
 for you if you so desire. 

 To make things easier while working on your databse, be sure to set the
"$PGHOST" environment variable to "www" and add "/usr/local/pgsql/bin" to your
"$PATH" variable in your shell's configuration file
(usually .profile or .login; shell syntax in these tutorials follow the bash/ksh
format): 

 export PGHOST="www" 

 This will allow you to connect by simply typing
" psql " without needing to specify the
server name each time. 

 From the shell prompt here, connecting to the database is done with: 

[eskimo] export PGHOST="www" 
[eskimo] psql 
Welcome to psql, the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

Type: \copyright for distribution terms
 \h for help with SQL commands
 \? for help on internal slash commands
 \g or terminate with semicolon to execute query
 \q to quit

ericj=> 

 Commands here will be shown as if typed directly in a shell connection.
They can also be placed in a text file and sent in larger sets with the
following example "redirect": 

[eskimo] (place commands in file "sql-commands", for example.)
[eskimo] psql < sql-commands 

 PostgreSQL Tutorials (Examples of Usage, etc.) 

 Help with commands, syntax, and typical tricks and workarounds (for images
and internal links, etc.) can be found in the tutorials below. Each set uses
a different set of practical examples, to help give an idea of what sort of
databases I've been fiddling with when both testing and using the server in a
production environment. 

 SQL Tutorial I -- Stock Gain Examples 
 Creating Tables, Inserting and Updating Data 
 Queries and Output 
 SQL Tutorial II -- Sales Examples 
 Normalizing a Database 
 Images and CGI Integration 
 SQL Tutorial III -- Video Database Examples 
 Perl DBI and Optimizing Output 
 Web-Based Searching (coming soon) 
 SQL Tutoral IV -- Guestbook Examples 
 Form-Based Web Updating (coming coon) 

-->

 Home 
 Anime 
 Genealogy 
 About 
 External Links 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2001 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.