HOW-TO QUICKLY CONFIGURE SERIAL TERMINAL LINUX:

HOW-TO VERSION: 
0.1

INTRODUCTION:
Serial Terminal Linux (for brevity, STLinux) is an easy way to convert 
any machine into a bare terminal emulator. That old 386 laptop can 
now be used to keep a top display open, display system messages, etc. 
Serial Terminal Linux uses a stripped down Linux kernel and minicom. 
Essentially, STLinux is a mini distribution that fits on a floppy and 
boots any machine as a terminal emulator. STLinux was created by Jonathan 
Bartlett.

INSTALLATION:
Using Serial Terminal Linux is a piece of cake once you know how 
to get started. All you'll need is a machine to use as a terminal
(I use a junker laptop, for instance), a Linux machine which the
terminal will connect to, a null modem cable to connect the machines,
and a floppy disk to hold the Serial Terminal Linux boot image.

GETTING YOUR CABLE:
First off, you'll need to get a cable to connect your machines. Most
computer stores will sell you a cable while nodding their heads whether
or not they have any idea what you need. You should check the back
of your machines and look for a 9 or 25 pin male port. Armed with
the knowledge of your port types, head to your nearest cable vendor
and ask for a null-modem female to female cable with the correct
pin sizes. If they start showing you cables and ask you to pick
one, or generally don't know what you mean when you ask for a 
null modem cable specifically, head somewhere else. You don't want
to get the wrong cable! :)

CREATING THE SERIAL TERMINAL LINUX FLOPPY:
Download the latest version of STLinux from 
http://members.wri.com/johnnyb/seriallinux/  -If you're on a DOS/Win 
machine you can use the rawrite utility to create your disk. Otherwise,
just pop a floppy in your machine and run:

dd if=serial-terminal-linux-image-file of=/dev/fd0

CONFIGURING THE TERMINAL 'SERVER':
In /etc/inittab, add the following line:

S1:12345:respawn:/sbin/getty ttyS0 DT19200 vt100

Once this line is added, you can make init aware of your changes
with the command:

kill -HUP 1

This will allow a login on the terminal only AFTER the terminal server
has booted. You won't see boot-up messages. Of course, this being linux, 
just skip to the next section) Check out Documentation/serial-console.txt 
in your linux source directory for more information. Once you have
your kernel configured on the terminal server, you can specify
output to a terminal by appending something like 
console=tty0 console=ttyS0,19200N8
to your kernel while booting. If you intend to always do this, add
the following entry to your lilo.conf file:

append=" console=tty0 console=ttyS0,19200N8 "

Then just run lilo and reboot.

CONFIGURING THE TERMINAL:
Boot the terminal machine with the Serial Terminal Linux Floppy. Once
minicom has loaded, you can type CTR-A Z for help. You'll need to set
the Comm Parameters to 19200 8N1.

That's all there is to it! Now, if your terminal is normally your useful
laptop, pack the STLinux disk away inside it's carrying bag until you
need a quick terminal! :)

Hope this helps!
olsson@uiuc.edu
