Mt Olympus 2001 

 Mt Olympus 2001 

It had been my dream to go to the Olympics in 2000. Unfortunately, I never
qualified for anything. Perhaps I should have tried training, but cars are
so much more convenient in this country. I never made it, so I set my
sights on a bigger goal -- the gods of Olympus. OK, so that isn't quite
right. I made a last-minute decision to join Nan, Larry, Dale and Eric on
their trip to Mt Olympus. 

The approach to this mighty and feared peak (all peaks being mighty and
feared, y'know) is lovely and demure. But longer'n a gol-durned barbed
wire fence on a Texas ranch, by gum. But let's take this journey a step at
a time. 

I left Friday after work and hit heavy traffic, then a looonnggg wait for
the ferry to Kingston. This put me way behind the rest of the gang, who
had left 12 hours earlier. By the time I got to the trailhead, it was 10pm
and time for a good nap. So I got up early, downed a large bottle of
ketchup and headlamped up the trail, missing all the wonderful rainforest
in the dark. 45 minutes later it was light enough to see the enormous
trees along this route. At one spot, I heard numerous cracking of branches
in the forest, and then hooved animals bounded off in fright. I guess I
should use better deodorant or wear a bag over my head. 

By 7:15 I reached the Olympic Guard Station where the gang was camped. But
they were nowhere to be found. Hoping they were not too far ahead, I
continued up the trail. So far the trail is nearly flat, having risen only
500' in 9 miles -- the flattest, longest trail I've hiked. At 8:30 AM I
caught the group as they slogged uphill. Good thing, because I didn't have
much left. We somehow stumbled our way to Glacier Meadows, where we were
mercilessly attacked by billions of flies. This is the farthest I've hiked
before noon, or before lunch, and I was hungry and not nearly as energetic
as those dumb flies (easy to swat). The flies went to bed at night,
fortunately. Our feet hurt from the 20 miles. We decided to rename the
peak to "Oh, limp us!" 

 Moraine next to the Blue
Glacier. Photo by Dale Severude. 

After checking out the climbing route from the moraine that afternoon, we
retired early. At 3 am we started up the moraine trail, then descended to
the aptly named Blue Glacier . Our route went alongside the edge of the glacier
to where the blue stops and the white starts. In the early light we could
see without headlamps, but didn't notice the glacier was actually a slushy
swamp that even gaters can't tolerate. Water was flowing everywhere. Yuck.
But after 15 minutes of crossing water-filled crevasses we were on solid
ice and snow. The route up to the Snow
Dome has some crevasses, but none were a problem. The route through
Crystal Pass is still "open" with plenty of crevasses to negotiate. After
the class 4 climb to the top we were
treated to some great views. Too bad the ocean was covered in fog. But I
could see Mt Fuji to the west and Mont Blanc to the east. The register
box is from the Mazamas dated 1939. 

 Eric, Steve, Nan, and Dale on
top of Mt Olympus. Photo by Larry Ingalls. 

One double-rope rappel got us off the summit block. We crossed the Blue
quite a bit lower, to avoid the slush. However, this flat portion of the
glacier has lots of flowing water. It felt like crossing a broken-ice
frozen lake, although the ice was very solid. Nan fell through one
crevasse up to her armpits, but we managed to pull her out as she wriggled
herself over the lip. Luckily it wasn't one of the water-filled cracks.
She pulled a leg muscle but gamely kept walking to our camp. 

We packed up our gear and painfully walked our sore and tired feet back to
Olympic Guard Station. Here, the mosquito problem was manageable. After
well-needed overnight rest we walked back out the last flat 9.1 miles. On
my way out I saw a deer and fawn at camp. This time I really enjoyed the
rain forest splendor. There is one particularly spectacular set of huge
cedars, grouped close together. It was a welcome sight to see lots of
dayhikers with video cameras, meaning we were close to the end. Oh, my
feet! But what a trip. 

 Dale's
photos and story