C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Winter 2005 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Winter 2005 Events and News 

 But the right way to consciousness is made up, unfortunately, of fateful detours and wrong turnings. It is a longissima via , not straight but snakelike, a path that unites the opposites in 
 the manner of the guiding caduceus, a path whose labyrinthine twists and turns are not lacking in terrors. It is on the longissima via that we meet with those experiences which are said to be "inaccessible." Their inaccessibility really consists of the fact that they cost us an enormous amount of effort; they demand the very thing that we fear, namely, the "wholeness" that we talk about so glibly and which lends itself to endless theorizing, though in actual life we give it the widest berth. 
 &#151; C.G. Jung, Collected Works , vol. 12, par. 6 

 Jung Society Winter 2005 Events 

 January 9 
 Twelfth Night Festivities 
 January 14 
 Dreams as Ecosystems&mdash;Incubation for Health and Imaginative Solutions . Lecture by Robert Bosnak, J.D. 
 January 15 
 Embodied Imagination&mdash;Learning the Ropes . Workshop by Robert Bosnak, J.D. 
 January 16 
 A Special Event with Robert Bosnak 
 February 11 
 The Archetype of the Wounded Healer . Workshop by James Hollis, Ph.D. 
 February 11 & 12 
 Creating a Life . Lecture and workshop by James Hollis, Ph.D. 

 February 19 & 26, March 5 & 12 
 Fairy Tales . Class by Lee Roloff, Ph.D.
 March 18 & 19 
 The Father . Lecture and workshop by Luigi Zoja, Ph.D. 

 President's Message 
 We extend a warm welcome to Cally Huttar, who has agreed to be our Newsletter Editor. Cally is a Ph.D. candidate at Pacifica, working on her dissertation connecting Jungian thought with insights from working with Chinese medicine. Anne Arthur, our previous Newsletter Editor, continues to serve on the Newsletter Committee. 
 We thank Rebecca Buttitta and Anchor Environmental for donating a computer, and Anne Arthur for assisting with the transition from our old computer to the new one. We are seeking a copy of Adobe PageMaker for the office. If you own a copy that you do not use, we hope you would consider donating. 
 We have a great program ahead for the Spring and look forward to seeing you at one of our events. 
 &#151; Paul Collins, President 

 Library News 
 We now have a copy of another Sabina Spielrein book, Sabina Spielrein, Forgotten Pioneer of Psychoanalysis , by Coline Covington and the film Soul Keeper , directed by Robert Faenza on DVD. Three Journals of Analytical Psychology have articles about Spielrein and one issue, Vol 46. No. 1, 2001, is devoted to her story. There are articles about her treatment by Jung, her relationship with Freud and Jung, her personal diaries, and as much as was known in 2001 about her psychoanalytic papers that have been translated into English. Her medical school dissertation is available and may be borrowed from the library. The library has copies of several of Robert Bosnak's books including A Little Course in Dreams and Tracks in the Wilderness of Dreaming . 
 Other new books and films include Jungian Reflections on September 11: A Global Nightmare edited by L. Zoja and D. Williams, The Allure of Toxic Leaders by Jean Lipman-Blumen, Spiritual Aspects of Clinical Work by Anne Belford Ulanov, and the video Oil and Water by Cordy Fergus. 
 We are looking for a volunteer who can give time to the library on the first Saturday of each month from 12:30 to 3:30 for several months. Let us know if you can make that commitment, please. 
 We welcome the seven new candidates who are part of NPIAP's Training Program and hope they will find the library useful for their studies. 
 We thank the Katherine Mann Library of the New York Jung Foundation for donating several past issues of Quadrant , which brings our collection up to date for this periodical. It has been published by the New York Jung Foundation for many years. 
 &mdash;Bunny Brown, Librarian 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 29 December 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org