C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Winter 2004 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 James Hollis, Ph.D. 

 The Archetype of the Wounded Healer 
 Workshop: Friday, February 11, 2005, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (registration at 8:30 a.m.) 
 Trinity Church, Eighth & James St., Seattle ( Directions ) 
 For Friday workshop prices and CE credit details, and to preregister, see the WSPA Web site ( www.wapsych.org ). 

 Cosponsored by Washington State Psychological Association (WSPA) and the Jung Society. Members of either organization receive member pricing for Hollis events. 

 As Jung once noted, only the wounded healer can heal. Only the person who has suffered, come to an enlarged consciousness through that suffering, and then relates to others with a more assimilated woundedness, can have a healing effect upon others. 
 The highest percentage of persons in the care-giving professions come from troubled backgrounds and may unconsciously be seeking personal healing through their choice of profession. This program will seek to identify typical intra-psychic motifs of the caregiver, recurrent stresses, and exercises for the identification of one's personal psychodynamics. 
 Learning Objectives for "The Archetype of the Wounded Healer": 

 Identify the deeper implications of the idea of the wounded healer. 
 Discern the typical psychological preconditions which lead one to choice of profession. 
 Enumerate the typical emotional costs to the healer in the conduct of practice. 
 Identify coping and compensatory modes of behavior to deal with the iatrogenic character of psychological praxis. 
 Gain a greater appreciation of the depth and importance of counter-transference phenomena. 

 Recommended Reading 
 David Sedgwick, The Wounded Healer and James Hollis, Creating a Life 

 Creating a Life 
 Lecture: Friday, February 11, 2005, 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
 Trinity Church, Eighth & James St., Seattle ( Directions ) 
$10 members, $15 nonmembers 
2 CE credits 
 Can we create our lives, or does life create us? How is it that we are free but chose such repetitive, self-defeating patterns? How does fate collide with destiny and catch us in between? What are the sources of those replications, and what the insights we need to maximize such freedom as we may have? These are the questions which haunt the modern who, wishing freedom, creates repetitions, yet longs for an authentic journey. 
 Workshop: Saturday, February 12, 2005, 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. 
 Trinity Church, Eighth & James St., Seattle ( Directions ) 
$30 members, $40 nonmembers, $25 student/senior members, $35 student/senior nonmembers 
3.5 CE credits 

 To learn about preregistering for the Saturday workshop, see Preregistration Policy and Form . You do not need to preregister for the lecture. 
 Cosponsored by Washington State Psychological Association (WSPA) and the Jung Society. Members of either organization receive member pricing for Hollis events. 

 We can never be free to create our lives if we are in service to fixed, internalized, and largely unconscious ideas. We will engage questions which stir, sift, and raise consciousness of those deeply ingrained, implicate ideas which create, or repeat patterns, in our lives. With consciousness, comes the power to choose more freely. (Bring a notepad and pen for journaling). 

 Note : The Jung Society Book Study Group will be discussing Creating a Life by James Hollis in January. The Study Group will be meeting at Trinity Parish Episcopal Church 6-8 p.m., on Sunday January 2 & 30, 2005. We typically meet the last Sunday of each month. 

 James Hollis, Ph.D. , is a Zurich-trained Jungian Analyst, author of eleven books, most recently Creating a Life: Finding Your Individual Path , On This Journey We Call our Life , and Mythologems: Rendering the Invisible World Visible , and the forthcoming Finding Meaning in the Second Half of Life . He is Executive Director of the Jung Educational Center of Houston, Texas. 
 The Washington State Psychological Association (WSPA) is approved by the American Psychological Association to offer Continuing Education for psychologists. Workshops offered by WSPA are recognized continuing education activities under the rules adopted by the Washington State Examining Board of Psychology and the Licensed Counselors Advisory Committee. The "Archetype" program has also applied as a Washington State approved clock hour offering. WSPA maintains responsibility for the programs. Any comments, concerns, or complaints should be directed to Doug Wear, PhD, Executive Director, at the WSPA Office. 
 Important Notice: Only those who attend the workshops and complete the evaluation forms will receive continuing education credits. Please note that APA CE rules require that we only give credit to those who attend entire workshops. Those arriving more than 15 minutes after the scheduled start time or leaving before the workshops are completed will not receive CE Credits. For those registering for "Archetype of the Wounded Healer" through WSPA and Friday lecture and/or workshop, there is no additional charge for CE Credits. For those participating in just the Friday evening lecture or Saturday workshop, the cost to receive a certificate is as follows: 5.5 credits for lecture and workshop $15; 2.0 credits for the Friday lecture $10; 3.5. 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 28 December 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org