C.G. Jung Society, Seattle: Winter 2005 Newsletter 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle 

 Lee Roloff, Ph.D. 

 Fairy Tales 
 Class: Four Saturday mornings, February 19 and 26, March 5 and 12, 10 a.m. to noon 
 Good Shepherd Center, Room 202, 4649 Sunnyside Ave. N., Seattle 
 Play: The Secret in the Wings , February 26, 7:30 p.m. 
 $65 + $22 theatre 
 ticket for registrations before Feb 1. 
 After Feb 1, $75 + $22 theatre ticket. 
 Limit 25 participants.

 To learn about preregistering for the class and play, see Preregistration Policy and Form . 

 On four Saturday mornings, 10 a.m. to noon, Dr. Roloff will be presenting a class on fairy tales. This class will be similar to the previous series he presented, which was very well received. The fairy tales selected for this series do not include those covered in the previous series. Class includes attendance at the Seattle Rep's production of The Secret in the Wings , directed by Mary Zimmerman, at 7:30 p.m. on Saturday February 26, 2005. 
 Lee Roloff, Ph.D. , taught myth and fairy tales at Northwestern University and the Jung Institute of Chicago for over 25 years. He is very interested in how the tale is a psychological as well as literary representation of human complexes and conditions. He shared this brief definition of "fairy tales," which he was asked to provide for Dictionary of Myth and Fairy Tale : 

 Fairy tales are short "once upon a time" narratives paradoxically existing concurrent with, yet removed from, the present and possessing qualities of entertainment and cautionary instruction, e.g., rites of passage, quests, awakenings, abandonments, etc. Fairy tales have been interpreted sociologically as reflections of social and political structures, but, since the influence of Freud and Jung, have been interpreted as narratives of inner psychological import wherein each character is defined by special attributes. Of prime import is the first sentence delineating the situation, e.g., "There was once a miller who had fallen on hard times" (the failed father), or "There was once a childless king and queen" (the childless couple), and from this first sentence inevitable consequences follow. 

 Suggested text: The Complete Grimm's Fairy Tales , introduction by Padriac Colum, commentary by Joseph Campbell. 
 This program has been approved for 8 CEU's by the Washington Chapter, National Association of Social Workers (NASW) for Licensed Social Workers, Licensed Marriage & Family Therapists and Licensed Mental Health Counselors. Provider number is #1975-157. The cost to receive one certificate for entire class is $10. 

 C.G. Jung Society, Seattle home page 
 Updated: 28 December, 2004 

 webmaster@jungseattle.org