Buy and Sell - The Beatles 

 Welcome to my Beatles Buying and Selling
page. If you're a collector of Beatles memorabilia, collectibles and
records this is a good place to start. I've found many new links on the
Internet that specialize in buying and selling Beatles stuff. This page will be
updated often as I find more sites. If you have any sites that I haven't got
listed please
 email
me and I'll check them out and add them if they're good. On with the
show. 

Beatles Collectible sites: 

 Songs, Pictures and Stories of the Beatles . has been buying,
selling, and trading Beatles rarities for almost 25 years. Their site features
"Songs, Pictures and Stories" of rare and unique Beatle items. Check
out their for-sale
list. 

 Perry Cox . Co-Author of " The Official Price Guide To The
Beatles Records & Memorabilia " and collector since 1981 has
been dealing Beatles collectibles since 1981. He handles only the best quality
and some of the rarest items on the market. 

 Good Humour. Dealer in the mostly rare UK releases but has many
items from the U.S. and other countries. Good place to look for original
Parlophone releases. 

 4000 Holes. 4000 HOLES is a retail store specializing in the
Beatles-Records, CDs, tapes, books, magazines, memorabilia- new and used. They
also carry all other rock & roll artists - new and used. The sale items are
from his personal collection as well as their store and they also carry all NEW
release Beatle related items. 

 Rockaway Records . Long time company specializing in high end Beatles
and other rock collectibles. Includes rare records/Compact
Discs/Posters/Memorabilia. 

 No Artificial Flavor (NAF) shaped Beatle CD's/Beatle Beatles
Calendar CD-ROM/Interactive CD with games etc. 

 BeatleBay is an awesome site. Many high quality collectibles are
featured there along with most everything a collector would be interested
in. 

 "Very English and Rolling Stone" have been around a long time as
a mail order collectibles company. Now, finally, they're on the net. 
Here's their site. Lots of goodies, both Beatles and other music
collectibles. 

 Online Auctions that have Beatles related items 

 eBay
Auctions 
 This is, by far, the best auction place on the net for Beatles items.
Most of the time there are over 700 items to bid on within 7 days. Free
registration too! 

 Discoveries 
 Associated to Discoveries Collectors magazine, this is their online
auction site. Also free registration! 

 Fab Four
Store 
 Fab Four Store also has an auction page. Like the other ones, this one
has free registration and is located in Canada. 

 More Great Sites for the Collector 
 The below links are by no means of lesser quality than the above with
buttons. They happen to be personal acquaintences or close friends of mine or
people I deal with all of the time. Also in the interest of loading time I
don't want to add more graphics than is necessary. This page will be rewritten
in the near future as it is getting bigger than I first imagined it would be.
When I started this page there wasn't another on the internet. Now everyone
seems to have a collector's link page. 

 My stuff for sale 
 Have a look at a few things I have for sale. Mostly duplicates
as I'm trying to rebuild my collection. 

 Butcher
Posters 
 Very high quality "Butcher Cover" posters for
sale. 

 BeatleFest
Online 
 All sorts of Beatles items. CD's/T-Shirts/Books etc.. 

 More Than Music 
 Located in London, England. New and original releases and
memorabilia. 

 Beat City 
 Located in the U.K. Excellent site for old magazines, new and
old memorabilia. 

 Awesome Beatles
Homepage 
 The Awesome Beatles Catalogue website is
devoted to buying and selling original memoribilia and records of the greatest
Rock 'n' Roll Band of all time: The
Beatles! 

 Beatles for
Sale 
 Walter Durst collection 

 BeatleMania
Shoppe 
 Located in Toronto Canada. Mostly new Beatle items for
sale. 

 Beatle
Stuff Catalog 
 Ask for a list. Nice stuff. 

 Beatles Collectors
Cavern 
 Buying and Selling. Very good place to start hunting for items
to complete your collection. 

 Beatles Collector's
Reference Center 
 This site is owned and operated by Daniel Goudreault, a
French-Canadian, 20 year veteran collector. Very well done site, nicely laid
out and informative. Worth spending the time checking out all the info. 

 Billy Burdette 
 Has mail lists and has started a new site. 

 Frank
Caiazzo 
 The leading authority on Beatles autographs. Autographs for
sale too! 

 Bob
Iuliucci 
 Anthology stock/promos and more. 

 BOJO 
 Online and snail-mail Catalog available - Long time dealers in
Beatles collectibles 

 Brian Kaelin's
Beatle List 
 Lots of goodies here for sale. 

 Bryan Barrows
Site 
 A small collection of misc for sale. 

 Discoveries
Magazine 
 Welcome to Discoveries, the Internet's best resource for
buying, selling, pricing and learning about your records, cds, and other music
collectibles. Within the pages of Discoveries you can: search and browse the
large selection of merchandise available from our Discoveries advertisers,
search through hundreds of classified advertisements, find the nearest music
and record show or auction, stay up-to-date with the latest news from the
collectible music industry, post and reply with other collectible music
enthusiasts and subscribe and advertise to Discoveries magazine. 

 Frame Graffix
Collectibles 
 Cool buying/trading/selling site / Discussion board. 

 Gary Hein's Beatle
site 
 Very high quality and expensive original Beatle records and
memorabilia. 

 Genesis
Publications 
 Unique Limited Editions 

 GoldMine
Magazine 
 Subscribe to Goldmine. Well worth the bucks. 

 Greg's
Beatle Page 
 Original memorabilia and recordings for sale. 

 Jim
Gambino's Beatles Site 
 Lots of goodies here for sale. 

 Glass Onion 
 Lots of great stuff. 

 InterStudio 
 Autographed Gold Disk and Lennon's Studio Instruments. 

 Lenin Imports
(UK) 
 Lots of rare memorabilia and autographed items. 

 MusicMachine 
 Mostly New stuff. And more. 

 NeatStuff Rare Beatles

 Another place to order a catalogue. 

 Only a 
Northern Song 
 Steve Clifford's site. Great stuff for sale, dealing
mostly in Canadian/UK stuff. 

 These are also Steve's Pages. Well worth the look. 
There are Beatles Live Classifieds and also a Beatles discussion area. 
 Beatles
Classifieds ONLINE 
 Beatles
Collecting Discussions 

 Pepperland 
 Regular Advertisements in Goldmine Magazine 

 Record
Collector Magazine 
 Twenty years after it began, Record Collector has become the
world's leading magazine in its field. Besides its features and discographies,
every issue includes hundreds of album, book, fanzine, video and single
reviews, plus exclusive news from the collecting and reissue scenes. That's why
it's essential reading for everyone who's interested in collecting records,
from 1950 to the present day. 

 Revolver Records 
 A wide variety of goodies including: Colored and Rare Vinyl,
Japanese imports, memorabilia, promo items and classic rock records. 

 Sgt. Peppers
Pepperland 
 Trade list. Mostly videos. Pepperland - Compact
Discs/Tapes/Records. 

 Sooz's 
Beatle 
Page 
 An excellent resource for the collector. Also when you fill out
a small form below you will magically receive email from all other applicant
members and be able to join in on discussions about Collecting the Beatles. 

 Subscribe to Beatles Collecting
List 

 Enter your e-mail address: 

 Read the
Beatles-Collecting List Archive 

 A mailing list hosted by
 FindMail 

 Rockmine
Records 
 Lots of goodies here for sale. 

 TRACKS 
 In the UK. Goldmine Magazine advertiser. Many rare items for
sale. 

 Beatles News
Group 
 Buy/Sell and talk about the Beatles. 

 In this section, I'll be showcasing some special hard to get items
from my or my friends personal collections. I'll be adding more to this list as
we decide what to showcase. Please check back often. 

 John Lennon Watercolor painting. Done in 1952 at
age 11 and the earliest Lennon autograph to date. Fully signed and
authenticated. Serious inquiries ONLY! 
 Original Gum wrapper for the
Topps Bazooka " Hard Days Night " I have
two for sale at $45.00 a piece. 

 Add a MUSIC
BUY/SELL link _____! Back to my
main Beatle page.