McCartney's "Flaming Pie" 

 Pictured is the rare Flaming Pie Advance CD. Much
fewer numbers were pressed than the standard promotional CD's. 

 The album debuted on Billboards album chart at # 2, McCartney's biggest
hit album in 27 years, since the Beatles. 

 Click here for the latest Paul McCartney news!

 Flaming Pie , Paul McCartney's much anticipated solo album,
which takes its title from Beatles mythology, hit stores on Tuesday, May 27th. 
 Trivia : " Flaming Pie ",
 Lennon sarcastically wrote in a magazine article that the band's name came when
a man on a flaming pie appeared to him in a vision and said, "From
this day on, you are Beatles with an 'A'." Real
Audio 
 H is first studio recording in four years,
 Flaming Pie marks the first album release by a Beatle since The Beatles
Anthology, which scored three consecutive #1 recordings and a #1 longform
video. McCartney says he was "inspired in the making of Flaming Pie by
The Anthology, which reminded him of the songwriting standards and the fun of
The Beatles." 
 Flaming Pie features 14 songs, almost all written by McCartney
during The Beatles Anthology campaign, and includes bass, guitar, piano and
drum performances by McCartney, as well as appearances by Ringo Starr, Jeff 
Lynne, Steve Miller and Linda McCartney. 
 The album release coincided with the worldwide screening of a new one-hour
television documentary on Paul McCartney, filmed by Grammy Award-winning
Beatles Anthology director, Geoff Wonfor. The documentary, which brings the
McCartney story up to date, aired in 30 countries around the world. 
 The album is in stores now from Capitol Records and a video directed by 
Wonfor is soon to follow. The album includes a 24 page booklet, complete with 
personal liner notes by McCartney and Linda McCartney photographs. 
 Flaming Pie comes 30 years to the week after the release of The 
Beatles' seminal album Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band and 40 years after
the first meeting between McCartney and John Lennon. 

 Pictured is a 3-song sampler of
alternate takes of "The World Tonight", "Young Boy" and "Somedays".
Manufactured by Tower Mastering for Capitol Records on January
30, 1997. It is estimated that only 30 copies were made of this tape. 

 Java Menu 

 Check out the "Flaming
Pie" on the Internet.