Hollywood Bowl Press Pass 

 Hollywood Bowl Press Pass 
 Hollywood Bowl, North Highland, Ave. Los Angeles, California 
 August 23, 1964 

 The above is a press pass issued to allow the press and other bearers
 access to the Beatles after their performance at the Hollywood Bowl. So far,
 this is one of five known copies of this pass to exist. This piece was recently
 discovered and acquired from a relative of a record industry executive that was
 prominent back then. 
 Note : The term "known copies" used by
 collectors denotes a level of rarity. Some items were issued in limited
 quantity originally. Other items are rarer because of diminishing quantities
 over the years and still others are limited just due to their condition
 (example: "only 10 mint copies" are known to exist). Soon after I posted this
 press pass I have been contacted by other people informing me of 4 other copies
 in various conditions. This number might continue to grow. If you have one
 please leave me email at bpentium@eskimo.com 
 Update : It has been a over a year since I've had this page up and
 many people have contacted me letting me know that they have these. Obviously
 they are not as rare as I originally perceived them to be. 

 Pictured at left is Bob Eubanks
 who promoted the Beatles for the Hollywood Bowl appearances in both 1964 and
 1965. His printed autograph is at the bottom of the pass. Bob Eubanks: The
 former host of "The Newlywed Game" and man who brought "The Beatles" in concert
 live to the Hollywood Bowl. This concert was attended by
 18,700 fans 

 Rare mailing envelope from
 Hoopla Promotions August 21st 1964, LA, Calif. "Click on Photo
 for Enlargement" Courtesy of Tom
 Fontaine 

 Unused 1964
 concert ticket 

 Rare color
 photo of the 1964 concert Click on photo for
 a larger view 

 Press
 Conference & Award Ceremony Shortly after the August 23rd
 1964 concert the Beatles joined Vee-Jay exec Randy
 Wood (pictured with John) for a record award ceremony and news
 conference at a dance club called " The Cinnamon Cinder ". The
 award pictured is the Tollie release of "Twist and Shout". " Click on
 photo for a larger view " 

 Rare Photo of the
 Beatles at the Press Conference at " The Cinnamon
 Cinder ". 

 Cinnamon
 Cinder Original Matches 
 Original and
 Rare Bumper Sticker 

 Back to Rarities Online! 
 More
 information on Hollywood Bowl