In His Own Write - My Autographed Copy! 

 Autographed Copy of John Lennon's "In His Own
Write" 
 Description of the Book 
 This book of Lennon short stories, poems and original artwork was published
in the UK and is the third printing of this hard bound version of his first
endeavor as an writer. The first printing was March 1964, 2nd and 3rd
printing in April 1964 . 
 About the Autographs 
 Signed April 23rd 1964 at the Dorchester Hotel in London 
 During the filming of "A Hard Days Night", the Beatles 1st movie,
and during the "Can't Buy Me Love" sequence, John had to leave to
Isleworth to attend a
 literary luncheon 
being held in his honour at the
 Dorchester
Hotel . This is why only Paul, George and Ringo appear at the very end of the
"Can't Buy Me Love"sequence, when a groundsman shouts at them "I
suppose you know this is private property" and George sarcastically
responds, "Sorry we hurt your field, mister". 
 Photos of the Signing! 
 Below are actual photos taken at the Dorchester April 23rd 1964 during
the Foyles Luncheon. 
 The photo of Wilfred Brambell was not taken at the luncheon but he was
there signing. 

 John Lennon showing off his new book. 
 [ Click on photo for a larger view ] 

 Brian Epstein Signing for a fan! 
 [ Click on photo for a larger view ] 

 John with wife Cynthia 
 also there signing books [ Click on photo for a larger view ] 

 Wilfred Brambell 
 British Actor who played Paul's grandfather in "A Hard Day's
Night" [ Click on photo for a larger view ] 

 For more on the event and more photos,
 click here ! 

 All autographs have been verified as authentic by Frank Caiazzo, world's
leading expert on Beatles autographs 

 From Left to Right, Top to bottom 

 Helen Shapiro 
 The Brenda Lee of England, the Beatles first tour was opening for her. 

 Brian Epstein 
 The Beatles Manager - Every Beatle fan knows this. 

 John Lennon 
 Need I say more? Ok, MORE! 

 Arthur Askey 
 British Music Hall Star, comedian 

 Wilfred Brambell 
 British Actor famous from the English program "Steptoe and Son".
Played Paul's Grandfather in the Beatles movie " A
Hard Days Night ". 

 Cynthia Lennon 
 John Lennon's first wife. "Pre-Yoko". 

 Comments? 
 Back to my Beatles
Main Page