The Beatles Remco Dolls 

 The Beatles Remco Dolls 

 Click on Ringo to see a close-up 
 The Remco Dolls were in stores in
1964. They are a 5" tall rubber OR plastic body doll with rubber heads and
lifelike hair. The rubber dolls feature the fine print on their feet while the
plastic ones feature this print on their backs! Each doll was issued with their
respective black plastic with gold trim instrument and it's on these that you
find their signatures. (Handy info. as it's often hard to tell them apart!
(except for Ringo of course, the nose thing you know!) 
 As for store packaging, mostly they were issued each in a custom "Beatles"
box with a window to see which Beatle was inside. The boxes are typical for all
four. (Meaning they are interchangeable). 
 A very rare custom marked 5" square custom " Beatle
Doll Set" cardboard box was used for catalogue sales of the dolls.
Although not as colorful or "Beatlely!", this box is extremely rare
and much more valuable. Inside the box is a cardboard "doll separator".
 Here's a photo of another box . 
 Generally the dolls are fairly durable and not too difficult to find in nice
shape. As anything, perfect or Near Mint sets are hard to get. Usually it's the
instruments that took all the wear, so most collectors look for the degree of
gold trim left on the black plastic instruments. Often, they're missing
altogether. 
 Interesting to note, there have been a few prototype dolls to surface over
the years and they featured "Yellow Instruments with black print" and
minor different markings on the body. These are very rare and would easily be
worth 5-10 times the standard doll value in nice shape. The "Remco Dolls"
as they are commonly referred, continue to be one of the hottest Beatles
collectibles around and when you see a nice set, you see why! 

 Here's a photo of my Remco Dolls playing on my
record player. 
 View this 1964 Woolworths Advertisment for the
Remco Dolls. Very cool! 

 Thanks to Perry Cox for the content and M. McGeary for some
of the graphics.