1993 River Group Beatle Trading Cards 

 Pictured above is a promotional card (size 5x7) from the 1993
 Beatles Collection Trading Cards from "The River Group". John, Ringo, Paul
 and George appear to retrace their steps in this pari of exlusive,
 never-before-made public shots from the photo session for the cover of Abbey
 Road -- the Beatles' best selling album of all time and one whose
 photography started a number of rumors, one of which was that Paul was dead. 
 The rare photos appear on Card #208 in The Beatles Collection, a
 set of 220 trading cards depicting the on and off stage lives of the most
 successful group in music history. The set is the first produced about the
 Beatles in nearly 30 years, providing a complete history of the Fab Four from
 their days and nights in Liverpool's Cavern Club in 1962 to their final studio
 session in 1969. 
 The set, which is authorized by Apple Corps Limited, is produced
 and marketed by The River Group of Westport, CT, manufacturer of 1992's wildly
 successful Elvis Collection trading cards. 
 The Abbey Road photos were shot at 11:35 a.m. on Friday, August
 8, 1969, on London's Abbey Road outside the EMI studios where the Beatles
 recorded all of their albums. The idea for the cover was Paul's and he chose
 the photograph out of six shots that were taken. On the actual album cover, the
 red bus is not seen-- and the Beatles were walking left-to-right in closer
 stride. 
 These photographs were taken 12 days before the Beatles spent
 their last day together in the studio. 

 Here is the back of the 5x7 promotional
 card from the River Group. 

 Chase/Insert Cards 

 8 Classic Hits [#1-8] cards were included in the "Value Packs"
 of 21 cards. Each pack included one of these foil stamped cards. Since these
 cards are easily attainable they are worth much less than the other two
 sub-sets. 
 No. 1 Hits [#1-10] cards were randomly inserted into the
 regular 10 card packs. 
 1st and Last Concerts [2 cards] are the toughest cards to get
 and also were inserted into the regular 10 card packs. 

 Promotional Cards 

 5x7 Abbey Road card . (see photo at the top of this page). Very
 rare to get. 
 Set of 9 Cards - Cards selected from the 220 regular cards but
 have the word "PROMO" printed in white somewhere on the card. 
 Prototype set. These are Cards #1,3,4,5,6,7,8 &9 (#2 was
 never issued)! 
 Uncut Sheet of the first 4 of 9 promo cards. 

 Last but not least, there is a 3 ring
 binder that was made and acquired through mail-order to house all of the
 sets of cards. 
 Back to my Rarities Page.