Original UK HELP Poster 

 Original UK HELP Poster 

 This is an original 1965 U.K. movie poster for the
release of the Beatles first color film HELP! This poster measures 39 1/2 x 27
1/2. Printed on heavy poster stock and came folded. Different than the U.S.
verticle version, this one is horizontal. The reprints are 38
x 26, come rolled and are Quad 

 Additional Reading about "A Hard Days Night" & "HELP!" 

 A Hard Day's Night (1964) was the Beatles'
first, feature-length motion picture. Directed by American Richard Lester, it
takes an imaginative look at a-day-in-the-life of the Fab Four. The madcap
result is a visual delight, with many Beatles songs on the soundtrack, including
"And I Love Her", "Can't Buy Me Love", "I Should Have
Known Better" and the title track. The score was written expressly for the
film.

 HELP! (1965), The Beatles' second
film, is a wild and funny picture about a religious sect who attempts to recover
a sacrificial ring from Ringo, forcing The Beatles to travel the globe. This
movie, again directed by Richard Lester, includes the popular songs 'Ticket to
Ride," 'Another Girl' and "You've Got to Hide Your Love Away."

 The two films were restored by Paul Rutan Jr. and 4-Media Company Film
Laboratory, who worked closely with the films' producer, Walter Shenson, for
nearly four years on the restoration process.

 Until now, the only prints that existed on A Hard Day's Night 
were release prints manufactured (from a duplicate negative) in 1964 and, a few
prints left over from a reissue in 1986. Rutan found these prints to be of poor
quality and unsuitable to fill the requirements demanded by discerning viewers
today. In order to produce top quality theatrical or broadcast elements, the
original negative had to be secured. Eight of the ten reels were discovered in a
vault in South Central L.A.

 An exhaustive search in Los Angeles, Pittsburgh and London turned up only
bits and pieces of the missing negative, leaving Rutan to believe it had been
cannibalized and discarded. Also, to make matters worse, severe damage was
discovered in several areas of the existing negative. Therefore, Rutan and his
crew faced the daunting tasks of replacing the missing and damaged original
negatives. Using a fine grain duplicating master from 1964, they applied various
photographic processes to create a new restored duplicate negative that was very
close to the original. Then they set out to repair the rest of the original
negative, replacing the torn footage, fixing each splice and cleaning each frame
with a scribe and solvent to remove ground in-dirt. The original negative was
fully corrected for density and contrast, then a new print and a finegrain
master were struck. 
 The restoration of HELP! was even more difficult. Again
Rutan sought out the original negative. It was discovered in a vault in Los
Angeles, greatly damaged and poorly repaired. For example, a section of negative
in the "Bahamas sequence" had a seven-foot tear, plastered back
together with scotch tape. Therefore, a suitable alternative element had to be
located to replace the torn and damaged areas. No separation masters had ever
been manufactured, and an interpositive struck in 1965 could not be located. An
old duplicate negative (with German titles) was located in a vault in
Pittsburgh, it was damaged and worn but the areas needed to replace the original
was serviceable. Through photographic processes once again, a duplicate negative
was created that closely resembled the original negative. The various tears and
damage were replaced with restored footage.

 Each frame on the original negative was then cleaned to remove dirt. The
negative was fully color corrected and new prints and an interpositive were
struck. 
 The restored negatives are now safely in deep-freeze storage at the Academy
of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. 
 [ LINK ]
to more information on other Beatle Movie Posters