China 1999 - Beihai Park      China 1999      Written by Al Wong( Write to me )  This is my experience in Beijing, China in the Summer of 1999.If you came to this webpage first, it's better if you start from the beginning of the story.     Saturday, July 10th Beihai Park, Cyber Cafe, NASA One More Time! One or two mosquitoes more resistant to the RAID hot platekept me up until about 4am when they finally succumbedto the pesticide. The RAID hot plate had been on formore than an hour this time.I got a little sore throat from it too.At least those mosquitoes won't be bothering me tonight.I got about 5-6 bites from them last night! They aregetting vicious. Today's activities include:     Beihai Park. We went here in the morning because the weather is cooler.This beautiful park was created in the Qing dynastyas a resting place for the emperors. It is a huge parkwith a large lake in the middle and a few islands.It has all sorts of very beautiful ponds with literallydozens of bridges, pavilions, temples, etc. Those Qing dynasty emperors really knew how to be comfortable.Many places were very relaxing and pleasant.    The Nine Dragon Wall, similar to the one in the Forbidden City, can also be found here.Very worthwhile to see. Surprisingly, this famous site was relativelyuncrowded. Very good for picture taking.    I also found this stone tablet with old Chinese stone scriptcarved into it. The script was very clear and I thought this tablet wasinteresting. This park seems to be a hangout for the locals. I sawretirees performing/teaching Kung Fu forms with staffand sword. Other locals were practicing Chinese calligraphyusing water and the cement squares on the floor.One lady, who was ambidexterous, drew two Chinese characterson the floor with each hand at the same time!You may also rent out boats and paddle around onthe lake. We only had 2.5 hours to walk around the place and it wasnot nearly enough to see everything. I would definitely like to goback and see this park again sometime.  Class Session. We went over borrowing and returning things, compliments anddescribing what people wear in clothes and jewelry. Thiswas a good lesson too.  Later That Night. It's 5:20pm and we have free time for the rest of tonight.I'm going to take a nap right now as I didn't get enoughsleep last night and today's walk through Beihai Park waslong. And my knees were starting to hurt again even thoughI'm wearing those new sport shoes. Too much walking. Then at 5:50pm I woke to Cathy's sepulchral voice screaming down thehallway! Dinner call. Some of our group has decidedto go for the shampoo, haircut, and massage again and theyhave to get to the hair salon early because there are about10 people going. So they have to eat fast.I decide to pass on the hair salon as I don't needa haircut now. Also, 7 more high school andcollege teachers are arrivinglater tonight to join us in our tours. It looks like theminibus will be getting full. After dinner, I decided to go to the cyber cafe to upload a couple new entries and check my email. I'm glad I did.I received 8 new email messages at Yahoo and was finallyable to TELNET into Primenet! I had 170 new email messages there!Needless to say, I cleaned out my email file. I was at thecyber cafe for 93 minutes and it cost me $9.00RMB.This is approximately 1.2 cents (US) per minute!The round trip cab fare to the cyber cafe costs more than this! I got back to the language academy around 8:15pm and just caughtAndrew at the entranceleaving for the NASA disco again! The guy is a wildman.He was kind of peeved because he had to wait 45 minutes to getpermission from Cathy to go. Andrew was open for company and, althoughmy knees were hurting, I decided to go with him. We only haveone more week left in Beijing! I put on some long pants andwe were off. As always, it was great at the NASA disco. They charged us$50.00RMB for admission this time. I thought the high admissionfee was because it was Saturday. It turns out they have astage show around 10:40pm!  We had a good time dancing at the disco tonight. Part of it wasour time in Beijing was growing short and we went for the gusto.The funny thing was Andrew was watching the time to leave andI wasn't. It was an interesting switch. Anyway, just as we wereleaving, they started a stage show with dancers! Groaning toourselves that we couldn't stay longer to watch, we left thedisco and took a cab back to the language academy and made itback just at 11pm.  Just in case I haven't mentioned it, the gates to thelanguage academy are supposedlyclosed and locked at 11pm and the night watchmangoes to bed. We would have to cause quite a commotionto get in after the gates close. So 11pm is our curfew.The gates open in the morning at 5:30am. Also, the doors to our floor leading to the stairs are lockedat 9:30pm. So you have to use the elevator if you are arrivinglater than that. This is for "security" reasons.What do we do in the event of a fire at night,I don't know. Dive out the windows, I guess.        
 The Next Day 

  China 1999    My Writings    Al's Wild Web Page                Write to me  Last updated : November 8, 1999
 Copyright 1999 Al Wong, Los Angeles, California, USA  All Rights Reserved     