C.M. Connelly: Towards an Ideal Job 

 &#160; 

 Blog | 
 Debian | 
 Work | 
 R&eacute;sum&eacute; | 
 About... 

 Towards an Ideal Job 

 After a few years working in the computer industry, I've taken some time 
off to do some serious thinking about whether I want to continue working in 
this field or move on. 

 The money which tends to go with these sorts of positions is always 
tempting&#8212;our society has enshrined money as the primary measure of 
success or failure&#8212;but even the highest salaries often don't begin to 
approach fair compensation for the demands on one's life which come with 
such jobs. 

 These demands might be acceptable if I had a strong commitment to a company 
or organization for personal reasons (say, as a major investor (one with 
stock, as opposed to stock options), or if the organization is working for 
something I strongly believe in). But the demands which are all too often 
made of individuals without such personal commitments seem excessive and 
unreasonable to me. 

 I would prefer to have a job with a lower salary which allows me to leave 
it behind when I leave the office. It would be even better if I truly 
cared about the goals of the organization or company. But I don't think I 
could accept another position which demanded twenty-four hour access to my 
life and control over what is supposed to be my "free time" outside of 
work without such a personal involvement. 

 I've also thought a lot about the kind of work I could do, and I believe 
that a position which allows me to be very involved in the creation of a 
final product&#8212;be it a Web site, a manual, a proposal, a network 
installation, or a functioning server&#8212;rather than merely strive against an 
ever-rising tide of tedious work maintaining an existing system which 
allows other people to create things. 

 Copyright &copy; 1998&#8211;2002, C.M. Connelly. 

 Last modified at 1:43 PM PDT, Monday, September 22, 2003; last rendered at 
 9:22 PM PST, Sunday, November 30, 2003 with Mason 
 and Perl . 

 Please e-mail me about problems with this page . Thanks.