C.M. Connelly: All About Work 

 &#160; 

 Blog | 
 Debian | 
 Work | 
 R&eacute;sum&eacute; | 
 About... 

 All About Work 

 Quick Access 

 Areas of Interest | 
 Operating Systems | 
 Documents Available 

 Looking... 

 Like many people these days, I'm looking for work that would both
be interesting and allow me to develop my skills (in writing,
computing, graphic design, or whatever). 

 Areas of Interest 

 Some things I would be very interested in being
paid to do (again) include 

 Book editing 
 Web design 
 Web writing/content creation 
 Technical writing 
 Systems integration 
 Project management 

 I've worked on problems ranging from getting an application to
print properly, to installing a new server, to redesigning a Local
Area Network on the fly, to collecting, analyzing, and reporting on
options for connecting a complex LAN/WAN to the Internet. 

 In the process, I have discovered that I am very good at working
with the bigger picture. I can see how smaller things fit together to
create a whole, and determine how to coordinate work to achieve that
goal. 

 I've found that I tend to like working with people to design
elegant solutions to problems, rather than dealing with the day-to-day
routine of fixing existing systems. I think that I've pretty much
conquered that world of routine tasks&#8212;if something breaks, I can
usually fix it immediately, fix it after some research, or know who I
can talk to to get it fixed. 

 I'm also very interested in the ways in which people interact with
computer systems and each other, and in devising systems which give
individuals the most possible control over their environment, and the
best possible tools to allow them to complete their work tasks. 

 Operating Systems 

 Having spent a great deal of time working with various operating systems, I 
have come to some conclusions about which ones I prefer to work with, and 
which I prefer to avoid. While Windows, in one form or another, has become 
fairly ubiquitous, I tend to be more interested in higher-end systems, such 
as various flavours of UNIX or NetWare, than in working directly with the 
client systems of those servers. 

 I would be most interested in working with the following operating systems, 
in more-or-less the following order: 

 UNIX

 Linux (especially Debian GNU/Linux ) 
 Mac OS X 
 *BSD 
 Solaris/SunOS 
 HP-UX 
 Irix (SGI) 

 Novell NetWare 
 Microsoft Windows 

 Documents Available 

 HTML Format 

 HTML (you're viewing it now) provides a platform-independent way of
sharing information. It's relatively quick to download and view, and
provides some control over the formatting available. 

 My R&eacute;sum&eacute; 
 Summary of Experience by Position 
 Towards an Ideal Job 

 PDF Format 

 Adobe has created the Portable
Document Format (PDF), more commonly known as the Adobe
Acrobat format, to allow people to produce high-quality portable
documents. I have used Acrobat to create PDF versions of several of
the more complexly formatted documents on my site. Downloading these
files will give you a highly-readable document which includes all of
my original formatting, as well as appearing in the typeface(s) of my
choice. These files provide the highest-quality versions of these
documents I can make available on the Web at this time. 

 My R&eacute;sum&eacute; (153 Kb) 
 Summary of Experience by 
 Position (174 Kb) 

 Text Format 

 ASCII text is pretty much the lowest-common denominator on the
Internet. I have the following documents available in text format,
which is useful for e-mailing and adding into text-based database
applications: 

 My R&eacute;sum&eacute; 
 Summary of Experience by Position 

 Copyright &copy; 1998&#8211;2002, C.M. Connelly. 

 Last modified at 1:43 PM PDT, Monday, September 22, 2003; last rendered at 
 9:22 PM PST, Sunday, November 30, 2003 with Mason 
 and Perl . 

 Please e-mail me about problems with this page . Thanks.