KinFolks Korner Genealogy Services - Genealogy For Central Illinois And Surrounding Planet 

 KinFolks Korner Genealogy Services Genealogy For Central Illinois And Surrounding Planet 

 Joyce and
 Dennis Wicks' Home Page 
 (Click name above to view photo) 

 Now Available! The Biographical Record of Champaign
County Illinois 

 Please visit the above sites --- Help support this service! 

 KinFolks Korner Genealogy Services is
primarily involved in Genealogical research concerning people in Central Illinois.
However, we also engage in projects that concern other parts of the country.
At present our on-site research activities are concentrated in and around
Champaign/Urbana and Champaign County, Illinois. However we still maintain extensive
resources and contacts for researching East Texas and Pacific Northwest ancestors, and we will
travel to any location in the United States if the size of the project
warrants. In the course of our research we visit libraries, courthouses,
the Federal Archives, Family History Centers, and even a cemetery once
in a while. 
 Throughout these pages you will see various advertisements and business opportunities. All of the revenue derived from these activities are used to support these pages. 

 We are an 
 amazon.com associate. (Click above to visit amazon.com) 

 Shop at Amazon.com! privacy policy 

 Visit The Piney Woods Bookstore associated with amazon.com 

 LinkExchange Member 

 Link to the Global ViceSpider 

 -->

 Downloaded a Virus? I Doubt It! 
 (Click above for the real story of viruses!) 

 Genealogical Queries for Texas . 

 Genealogical Queries for Rest of World! . 
 -->East Texas Genealogy Announcements 
 -->Genealogy Announcements for The Rest of Texas 
 -->Genealogy Announcements for All The Other Places 

 Joyce's home page 

 Stephen F. Austin SU Home Page from
Nacogdoches, in the heart of East Texas. 

 U.Washington Home Page Check the
Seattle weather! "Almost Live." 

 -->

 Some Very Useful Genealogy Sites 

 ROOTS Surname List (RSL)

 The GenServ System 
 Over 9.5 million names in 7k+ databases available for search! 

 Home Page See what it is all about. 

 GenCount .
 Are your names there? 

 GenSample 
 Try it out for free! 

 U.Washington Family History Web Site

 WWWeb PageXpress 
Web Page Design Service 

 WebMaster: 

 Dennis G. Wicks 

 A member of: 

 Please
Sign Our Guestbook 

 View
Our Guestbook -->

 -->

 -->

 Why is a BBS named Eskimo North located in Seattle? Click below to find out! 
 Eskimo North Home Page 

 LE FastCounter 

 -->

The word "spirit" comes from the Latin word "to breathe." 
What we breathe is air, which is certainly matter, however 
thin. Despite usage to the contrary, there is no necessary 
implication in the word "spiritual" that we are talking of 
anything other than matter (including the matter of which 
the brain is made), or anything outside the realm of science. 
On occasion, I will feel free to use the word. Science is 
not only compatible with spirituality; it is a profound source 
of spirituality. When we recognize our place in an immensity 
of light-years and in the passage of ages, when we grasp the 
intricacy, beauty, and subtlety of life, then that soaring 
feeling, that sense of elation and humility combined, is 
surely spiritual. So are our emotions in the presence of 
great art or music or literature, or acts of exemplary 
selfless courage such as those of Mohandas Gandhi or Martin 
Luther King, Jr. The notion that science and spirituality are 
somehow mutually exclusive does a disservice to both.
 Carl Sagan; The Demon Haunted World 

 -->

 Links 

 View the links for this site. 

 Add your link to this site. 

 Powered by
 UrlBot.com 

 Page created and maintained by Dennis G. Wicks . Copyright(c) D-J Enterprises. Created: 1 Aug 1995