Downloaded A Virus? I Doubt It! 

 The following article is from Eastman&#146;s Online Genealogy Newsletter and is copyright 1997 by Richard W. Eastman and Ancestry, Inc. It is re-published here with the permission of the
author. 

 Every week I receive two or three "warning messages" telling me not to
download some file or some e-mail message because "it contains a virus." These
are all rather hokey messages, and I usually just ignore them. But this week I think I
received the all-time number of messages concerning "virus warnings." I received
warnings about the "Good Times E-mail Virus" and the "Join the Crew"
E-mail Virus. 

 I also received a message this week from a person claiming that he had found the Stoned
Virus in a file he downloaded from a genealogy Web site, and he demanded that I write a
"warning" about this terrible problem in my newsletter. OK, he gets his wish.
But this probably is not the warning that he expected. 

 Please, please, please, before you press the panic button and start sending out all
sorts of warning messages in e-mail about a supposed virus, would you please check the
facts? 99% of these "warnings" are bogus. You will look like a fool if you
spread false information, especially when it is so easy to check for the truth. 

 The U.S. Department of Energy's Computer Incident Advisory Capability (CIAC) virus
database is probably the best-known computer virus reference in the world. It has detailed
information about every computer virus, as well as information about all the hoaxes. It
only takes a few minutes to check this reference at: http://ciac.llnl.gov/ciac/CIACVirusDatabase.html .
That URL address should be bookmarked in everyone&#146;s Web browser. 

 In short, the U.S. Department of Energy's Computer Incident Advisory Capability (CIAC)
virus database advises that there is no such thing as a "Good Times E-mail
Virus" or a "Join the Crew" virus. They are imaginary even though the
"warnings" have been floating around for years. Nobody has ever actually seen
these so-called viruses. 

 The Stoned Virus is a bit different. The Stoned Virus is real, but you can only get it
by inserting an infected floppy diskette into your PC. It is physically impossible to get
the Stoned Virus from a file you download from the Internet or any other online source. 

 Again, please take the first opportunity possible to bookmark this virus advisory
resource: http://ciac.llnl.gov/ciac/CIACVirusDatabase.html 

 If I sound a bit testy, it is because I spent a lot of time this week trying to
convince someone that his e-mail "warning message" contradicted the findings of
the best-known computer virus experts in the world. And I don&#146;t think he believes me
yet. 

 - Good Times Virus 

 I didn&#146;t write the following, but I do suggest that you read it &#150; as long as
you don&#146;t take it to heart: 

 Goodtimes will re-write your hard drive. Not only that, but it will scramble any disks
 that are even close to your computer. It will recalibrate your refrigerator's coolness
 setting so all your ice cream goes melty. It will demagnetize the strips on all your
 credit cards, screw up the tracking on your television and use subspace field harmonics to
 scratch any CD's you try to play. 
 It will give your ex-girlfriend your new phone number. It will mix Kool-aid into your
 fishtank. It will drink all your beer and leave its socks out on the coffee table when
 there's company coming over. It will put a dead kitten in the back pocket of your good
 suit pants and hide your car keys when you are late for work. 
 Goodtimes will make you fall in love with a penguin. It will give you nightmares about
 circus midgets. It will pour sugar in your gas tank and shave off both your eyebrows while
 dating your girlfriend behind your back and billing the dinner and hotel room to your
 Discover card. 
 It will seduce your grandmother. It does not matter if she is dead, such is the power
 of Goodtimes, it reaches out beyond the grave to sully those things we hold most dear. 
 It moves your car randomly around parking lots so you can't find it. It will kick your
 dog. It will leave libidinous messages on your boss's voice mail in your voice! It is
 insidious and subtle. It is dangerous and terrifying to behold. It is also a rather
 interesting shade of mauve. 
 Goodtimes will give you Dutch Elm disease. It will leave the toilet seat up. It will
 make a batch of Methanphedime in your bathtub and then leave bacon cooking on the stove
 while it goes out to chase gradeschoolers with your new snowblower. 
 Listen to me. Goodtimes does not exist. 
 It cannot do anything to you. But I can. I am sending this message to everyone in the
 world. Tell your friends, tell your family. If anyone else sends me another E-mail about
 this fake Goodtimes Virus, I will turn hating them into a religion. I will do things to
 them that would make a horsehead in your bed look like Easter Sunday brunch. 

 - Author Unknown 

 These pages created and maintained using arachnophilia.