The Wallace Inventions, Spin Aligned Nuclei, The Gravitomagnetic Field, 
and The Tampere Experiment: Is there a connection?
By: Robert Stirniman, May 1998

During the 1960s through the mid 1970s, Henry William Wallace was a 
scientist at GE Aerospace in Valley Forge PA, and GE Re-Entry Systems in 
Philadelphia. In the early 1970s, Wallace was issued patents (1,2,3) for 
some unusual inventions relating to the gravitational field. Wallace 
developed an experimental apparatus for generating and detecting a 
secondary gravitational field, which he named the kinemassic field, and 
which is now better known as the gravitomagnetic field.

Wallace's experiments were based on aligning the nuclear spin of elements 
and isotopes which have an odd number of nucleons. These materials are 
characterized by a total nuclear spin which is an odd integral multiple of 
one-half, resulting in one nucleon with un-paired spin. Wallace drew an 
analogy between the un-paired angular momentum in these materials, and the 
un-paired magnetic moments of electrons in ferromagnetic materials.
 
Wallace created nuclear spin alignment by rapidly spinning a brass disk, of 
which essentially all isotopes have an odd number of nucleons. Nuclear spin 
becomes aligned in the spinning disk due to precession of nuclear angular 
momentum in inertial space -- a process similar to the magnetization 
developed by rapidly spinning a ferrous material (known as the Barnett 
effect). The gravitomagnetic field generated by the spinning disk is tightly 
coupled (0.01 inch air gap) to a gravitomagnetic field circuit composed of 
material having half integral nuclear spin, and analogous to magnetic core 
material in transformers and motors.  The gravitomagnetic field is 
transmitted through the field circuit and focused by the field material to 
a small space where it can be detected.

In his three patents, Wallace describes three different methods used for 
detection of the gravitomagnetic field -- change in the motion of a body on 
a pivot, detection of a transverse voltage in a semiconductor crystal, and 
a change in the specific heat of a crystal material having spin-aligned 
nuclei. In a direct analogy with a magnetic circuit, the relative amount 
of the detected gravitomagnetic field always varied directly with the size 
of the air-gap between the generator disk and the field circuit.

Wallace's patents are written in great detail, and he appears to be 
meticulous in his experimental design and practice. In my opinion, it is 
nearly certain that his experiments performed as claimed. None the less, 
there has been no scientific acknowledgment whatsoever of Wallace's 
discoveries. An in-depth search of the literature has uncovered only two 
references to Wallaces work (4, 5), and each of these references merely 
creates further mystery.

The necessary existence of a magnetic-like gravitational field has been 
well established by physicists specializing in general relativity, 
gravitational theories, and cosmology. But, the existence of this field is 
not well known in other of arenas of physical science. The gravitomagnetic 
field was first hypothesized by Heaviside in the 1880's. The field is 
predicted by general relativity, and was first formulated in a relativistic 
context in 1918 by Lense and Thirring (6). In 1961, Forward (7) was the 
first to express the gravitational field equations in a vector form 
directly analogous and nearly identical to Maxwells equations for 
electromagnetics.

During the last 20 years many other scientists, (8 to 17), have published 
articles demonstrating the necessary existence of the gravitomagnetic 
field, using arguments based on general relativity, special relativity, 
and the cause and effect relationship which results from non-instantaneous 
propagation of energy (retardation). Nearly all of these authors present 
the gravitational field equations in a vector form similar to Maxwells 
equations. Some authors comment that these equations provide fundamental 
insights into gravitation, and it is unfortunate that they are not at all
well known. Despite their relative simplicity and possible practical 
value, Maxwells equations for gravitation do not appear in any under-
graduate physics textbook.

Just as in Maxwells equations for electromagnetics, it is found that in the 
presence of a time varying gravitomagnetic flux there will always exist 
concurrently a time varying gravitoelectric field. The secondary generated 
gravitoelectric field is a dipole field, and unlike the background gravito-
electric field due to mass charges, the generated  gravitoelectric field 
always exists in closed loops. Henry Wallace recognized this and described 
it in his inventions.

Wallace also describes another effect which may result from generation of a 
secondary gravitoelectric field. Wallace believed that a secondary gravito-
electric field can result in exclusion of an existing primary background 
field. In other words, a gravitational shield can be created.  The bulk of 
Wallace's patents describe his experimental apparatus, and his detection of 
the gravitomagnetic field. The effects detected are minuscule, and as such, 
may not be of immediate practical value. In reading his patents it is 
possible to become immersed in the detail of his experimental apparatus, 
and to neglect the possible significance of the alternative embodiment of 
his invention (figures 7, 7A, and 7B of his first patent). The alternative 
embodiment uses a time varying gravitomagnetic flux to create a secondary 
gravitoelectric field in an enclosed shell of material in order to shield 
the background gravitoelectric field of the earth.

Unfortunately, Wallace does not state whether this embodiment was ever 
actually produced, and unlike the detailed discussion of his experimental 
apparatus, he provides no experimental findings or data to back his claim. 
Nor does he provide much in the way of theoretical arguments about how a 
secondary gravitoelectric field can act to exclude a primary field, except 
to state: "It is well known that nature opposes heterogeneous field flux 
densities."

Is it well known that nature opposes heterogeneous flux densities? Well, 
not to me, and I can not find anything in the way of scientific literature 
to directly support this idea. But it does seem to make sense. It could be 
argued thusly. In a well-ordered manifold all derivatives of the fields, 
time-like and space-like, must be continuous. If you force a field to exist 
in a region of space, the existing background field is somehow required to 
form a pattern around or smoothly merge with the created field. Nature does 
not permit flux lines to act with cross-purposes and to exist with widely 
different directions in the same region of space. Flux lines can never 
cross. Wallace seems to have gotten his experiments right -- maybe he is 
also right in his claim of inventing a gravitational shield?

In a ground breaking paper in 1966, Dewitt (18) was first to identify the 
significance of gravitational effects in a superconductor. Dewitt 
demonstrated that a magnetic-type gravitational field must result in the 
presence of fluxoid quantization. In 1983, Dewitt's work was substantially 
expanded by Ross (19).

Beginning in 1991, Ning Li, at the University of Alabama Huntsville, and 
Douglas Torr, formerly at Huntsville and now at the University of South 
Carolina, have published a number of articles about gravitational effects 
in superconductors (20, 21, 22). One interesting finding they have derived 
is the source of gravitomagnetic flux in a type II superconductor material. 
Guess what? It is due to spin alignment of the lattice ions.

Quoting from Li and Torr's second paper: "The interaction energy of the 
internal magnetic field with the magnetic moment of the lattice ions drives 
the lattice ions and superconducting condensate wave function to move 
together vortically within the range of the coherent length and results in 
an induced precession of the angular momentum of the lattice ions."  And 
quoting from their third paper: "Recently we demonstrated theoretically 
that the carriers of quantized angular momentum are not the Cooper pairs 
but the lattice ions, which must execute coherent localized motion 
consistent with the phenomenon of  superconductivity." And, "It is shown 
that the coherent alignment of lattice ion spins will generate a detectable 
gravitomagnetic field, and in the presence of a time-dependent applied 
magnetic vector potential field, a detectable gravitoelectric field."

Li and Torr also demonstrate that the gravitomagnetic field in a super-
conductor has a relatively large magnitude compared with the magnetic 
field -- a factor of 10E11 times larger. The gravitational wave velocity 
in a superconductor is estimated as a factor of two magnitudes smaller than 
the velocity in free space. And the resulting estimate of relative gravito-
magnetic permeability is four magnitudes (10 thousand times) greater than 
the permeability of free space. In their third paper, Torr and Li, 
demonstrate that it is possible to generate a time varying gravitomagnetic 
field in a superconductor, which must exist concurrently with a time 
varying gravitoelectric field.

In 1995, Becker et al (23), show mathematically that a significant size 
gravitomagnetic field must always exist along with a magnetic field 
whenever there is flux pinning or other forms of flux trapping in a 
type II superconductor. They propose a macroscopic experiment to detect 
the gravitomagnetic field. Becker et al, choose not to speculate about 
the source of the gravitomagnetic field, except to provide a brief comment 
that it may result from spin of the lattice ions. One might ask, what is 
a pinning center if not a microscopic hole which carries trapped flux, 
and what must be source of the gravitomagnetic dipole moment if not the 
angular momentum of the lattice ions at the pinning center?

In 1992, an experiment at Tampere University was reported by Podkletnov 
(24, 25). A torroidal shaped type II superconductor disk was suspended 
via the Meissner effect by a constant vertical magnetic field, and was 
rapidly rotated by a time varying horizontal magnetic field. Masses 
located in a cylindrical spacial geometry above the rotating disk were 
found to lose up to 2% of their weight. A gravitational shielding effect 
is claimed.

Conclusion.
Is a time varying gravitomagnetic field generated in the Tampere disk due 
to the horizontal time varying magnetic field used to rotate the disk, and 
does this result in a time varying gravitoelectric field in the disk, and 
possibly also in the space surrounding the disk, and could this result in 
exclusion of the earth's primary background gravitoelectric field as 
claimed by Henry Wallace?

Acknowledgments.
Many of the ideas in this article have been developed in personal 
discussions with Kedrick Brown (http://home.att.net/~kfbrown/index.html). 
I would also like to thank Ron Kita for his kind support and useful 
background information about Henry Wallace.

====================================================

References:

1. US Patent No 3626605, Method and Apparatus for Generating a Secondary 
   Gravitational Force Field, Henry Wm Wallace, Ardmore PA, Dec 14, 1971.
     Wallace's first patent. The gravitomagnetic field is named the 
     kinemassic field. The patent describes the embodiment of his 
     experiment. An additional embodiment of the invention (Figures 7, 7A, 
     and 7B) describes how a time varying gravitomagnetic field can be used 
     to shield the primary background gravitoelectric field. Available on 
     the net. http://www.eskimo.com/~billb/weird/wallc/

2. US Patent No 3626606, Method and Apparatus for Generating a Dynamic 
   Force Field, Henry Wm Wallace, Ardmore PA, Dec 14, 1971.
     Wallace's second patent provides a variation of his experiment. A 
     type III-V semiconductor material (Indium Arsenide), of which both 
     materials have unpaired nuclear spin, is used as an electronic 
     detector for the gravitomagnetic field. The experiment demonstrates 
     that the material in his gravitomagnetic field circuit has hysterisis 
     and remanence effects analogous to magnetic materials. Available on 
     the net. http://www.eskimo.com/~billb/weird/wallc/

3. US Patent No 3823570, Heat Pump, Henry Wm Wallace, 60 Oxford Drive, 
   Freeport NY, July 16, 1974
     Wallaces third patent provides an additional variation of his 
     experiment. Wallace demonstrates that by aligning the nuclear spin 
     of materials having an odd number of nucleons, order is created in 
     the material, resulting in a change in specific heat.

4. New Scientist, 14 February 1980, Patents Review
     This article is one of the only references to Wallace's work anywhere 
     in the literature. The article provides a brief summary of his 
     invention and ends with this intriguing paragraph. "Although the 
     Wallace patents were initially ignored as cranky, observers believe 
     that his invention is now under serious but secret investigation by 
     the military authorities in the US. The military may now regret that 
     the patents have already been granted and so are available for anyone 
     to read."

5. Electric Propulsion Study, Dennis L. Cravens, Science Applications 
   International Corp, August 1990, Prepared for Astronautics Laboratory, 
   Edwards AFB
     This report provides a detailed review of a variety of 5-D theories of
     gravitational and electromagnetic interactions. It also provides a 
     summary of a variety of possibly anomalous experiments, including 
     experiments relating to spin aligned nuclei. The reports contains two 
     paragraphs about Wallace's inventions -- partially quoted here: "The 
     patents are written in a very believable style which include part 
     numbers, sources for some components, and diagrams of data. Attempts 
     were made to contact Wallace using patent addresses and other sources 
     but he was not located nor is there a trace of what became of his work. 
     The concept can be somewhat justified on general relativistic grounds 
     since rotating frames of time varying fields are expected to emit 
     gravitational waves."

6. On the Gravitational Effects of Rotating Masses: The Lense-Thirring 
   Papers Translated, B. Mashhoon, F.W. Hehl, and D.S. Theiss. General 
   Relativity and Gravitation, Vol 16:711-50 (1984)
     A translation of the original article in German by J. Lense and H. 
     Thirring published in 1918. This article is the first fairly 
     comprehensive analysis of the necessary existence of the gravito-
     magnetic field. An earlier prediction of the existence of this field 
     was made by Heaviside in the 1880s.

7. Proceedings of the IRE Vol 49 p 892, Robert L. Forward (1961)
     Forward was the first to express the gravitomagnetic field in the 
     modern form of Maxwells equations for gravitation. He named it the 
     prorotational field.

8. Gravitation, C.W. Misner, K.S. Thorne, and J.A. Wheeler, Freeman 
   Publishing, San Francisco (1973).
     MTW is the bible of gravitational theorists. Among many other theories 
     presented, gravitational field equations are derived from general 
     relativity in a form similar to Maxwells equations.

9. Laboratory Experiments to Test Relativistic Gravity, Vladimir B. 
   Braginsky, Carlton M. Caves, and Kip S. Thorne, Physical Review D, 
   Vol 15 No 8 p2047, April 15 1977
     Gravitational field equations are derived from General Relativity in 
     a form similar to Maxwells equations. The gravitomagnetic field is 
     called magnetic-type gravity. A variety of experiments are proposed 
     and analyzed for detecting the gravitomagnetic field.

10. Foucault Pendulum at the South Pole: Proposal for an Experiment to 
    Detect the Earth's General Relativistic Gravitomagnetic Field, Vladimir 
    Braginsky, Aleksander Polnarev, and Kip Thorne, Physical Review Letters, 
    Vol 53 No 9 p863, August 1984
      Analyses an experiment for detecting the earth's gravitomagnetic 
      field. Possibly the first authors to use the terms gravitomagnetic 
      and gravitoelectric.

11. On Relativistic Gravitation, D. Bedford and P. Krumm, American Journal 
    of Physics, Vol 53 No 9, September 1985
      The necessary existence of the gravitomagnetic field is derived from 
      arguments based on apecial relativity. The field is referred to as 
      the gravitational analog of the magnetic field.

12. The Gravitational Poynting Vector and Energy Transfer, Peter Krumm 
    and Donald Bedford, American Journal of Physics, Vol 55 No 4 p362, 
    April 1987
      Establishes the necessary existence of the gravitomagnetic field 
      based on arguments from special relativity and energy conservation in 
      mass flow. Derives the gravitational Poynting vector. Names the two 
      types of gravitational fields as gravinetic and gravistatic.

13. Gravitomagnetism in Special Relativity, American Journal of Physics 
    Vol 56 No 6 p523, June 1988
      Predicts the existence of the gravitomagnetic field using special 
      relativity and time dilation. Names the fields gravielectric and 
      gravimagnetic.

14. Detection of the Gravitomagnetic Field Using an Orbiting 
    Superconducting Gravity Gradiometer: Theoretical Principles, Bahram
    Mashhoon, Ho Jung Paik, and Clifford Will, Physical Review D, Vol 39 
    No 10 p2825, May 1989.
      Provides a summary analysis of Maxwells equations for gravitation, 
      and an in-depth analysis of the Gravity Probe-B orbital gyroscope 
      experiment for detecting the earth's gravitomagnetic field.

15. Analogy Between General Relativity and Electromagnetism for Slowly 
    Moving Particles in Weak Gravitational Fields, Edward G. Harris, 
    American Journal of Physics, Vol 59 No 5, May 1991
      Derives Maxwells equations for gravitation from GR in the case of 
      non-relativistic velocities and relatively weak field strengths. 
      A somewhat more direct method of derivation is used compared with 
      the PPN formulation used by Braginsky, et al.

16. Gravitation and Inertia, Ignazio Ciufolini and John Wheeler, Princeton 
    Series in Physics, Princeton University Press (1995), Chapter 6 -- The     
    Gravitomagnetic Field and its Measurement.
      Derives the electromagnetic analog of the gravitational field 
      equations, and provides in-depth analysis of experiments for detecting 
      the gravitomagnetic field.

17. Causality, Electromagnetic Induction, and Gravitation. Oleg Jefimenko, 
    Electret Scientific Publishing, Star City WV (1992).
      Jefimenko derives the electromagnetic field equations based on 
      retarded sources, (charges, moving charges, and accelerating charges). 
      He applies similar arguments to the gravitational field equations. If 
      gravitational energy propagates at any finite speed, the gravito-
      magnetic field must exist. Maxwells equations for gravitation are 
      presented. He also presents an unusual configuration of mass which is 
      predicted to provide an antigravity effect.

18. Physics Review Letters, Vol 16 p1902, B.S. Dewitt (1966)
      I don't have this paper, and can not provide a summary. Dewitt was 
      the first to analyze fluxoid quantization in a superconductor in the 
      presence of a time varying magnetic-type gravitational field.

19. The London Equations for Superconductors in a Gravitational Field, 
    D.K. Ross, Journal of Physics A, Vol 16 p1331. (1983)
      Maxwells equations for gravitation are presented in vector form. Ross 
      uses the name coined by Forward for the gravitomagnetic field -- the 
      prorotational field. Fluxoid quantization is analyzed in the presence 
      of a varying gravitomagnetic field. Ross establishes that the momentum 
      of a charged particle in an electromagnetic and gravitational field is 
      given (in MKS units) by: p = mv +qA + mV, where V is the gravito-
      magnetic vector potential, and A is the magnetic vector potential. The 
      resulting modified London equations are presented in covariant form.

20. Effects of a Gravitomagnetic Field on Pure Superconductors, Ning Li 
    and Douglas Torr, Physical Review D, Vol 43 No2 p457, January 1991
      Li and Torr present Maxwells equations for gravitation using MKS 
      units. The equations are given in a form where the gravitomagnetic 
      permeability of a superconductor material is presumed to be different 
      than the permeability of free space. Vector equations for the 
      gravitational potentials are also presented. The canonical momentum 
      is derived (same finding as Ross paper). It is established that an 
      electrical current also results in a mass current, and an inter-
      relationship is derived between the magnetic field and gravitomagnetic 
      field in a superconductor. It is established that the magnetic flux 
      in a superconductor is a function of the gravitomagnetic permeability, 
      and vice versa, resulting in a more rigorous form of the Meissner 
      equation and the London theory. It is shown that the gravitomagnetic 
      field must have a relatively large size in a superconductor, and is 
      on the order of 10E11 times larger than the magnetic field.

21. Gravitational Effects on the Magnetic Attenuation of Superconductors, 
    Ning Li and Douglas Torr, Physical Review B, Vol 64 No 9 p5489. 
    September 1992.
      Li and Torr elaborate on their theory of the interrelationship of 
      the gravitomagnetic field and the magnetic field in superconductors. 
      It is established that the gravitomagnetic field must be sourced by 
      spin alignment of the lattice ions. The velocity of a gravitational 
      wave in a superconductor is estimated to be two orders of magnitude 
      slower than the vacuum velocity, resulting in an estimate of relative 
      gravitational permeability of a superconductor material which is as 
      much as four magnitudes greater than free space.

22. Gravitoelectric-Electric Coupling Via Superconductivity, Douglas Torr 
    and Ning Li, Foundations of Physics Letters, Vol 6 No 4 p371. (1993)
      Torr and Li continue their analysis of gravitational effects in 
      superconductors. Abstract: "Recently we demonstrated theoretically 
      that the carriers of quantized angular momentum are not the Cooper 
      pairs but the latice ions, which must execute coherent localized 
      motion consistent with the phenomenon of superconductivity. We 
      demonstrate here that in the presence of an external magnetic field, 
      the free superelectron and bound ion currents largely cancel providing 
      a self-consistent microscopic and macroscopic interpretation of near-
      zero magnetic permeability inside superconductors. The neutral mass 
      currents, however, do not cancel, because of the monopolar 
      gravitational charge. It is shown the coherent alignment of lattice 
      ion spins will generate a detectable gravitomagnetic field, and in the 
      presence of a time-dependent applied magnetic vector potential field, 
      a detectable gravitoelectric field."
    
23. Proposal for the Experimental Detection of Gravitomagnetism in the 
    Terrestrial Laboratory, Robert Becker, Paul Smith, and Heffrey 
    Bertrand. September 1995. Published on the net. 
    http://www.inetarena.com/~noetic/pls/RBecker/Gmexp2.htm
      Becker, et al, demonstrate mathematically that a significant size 
      gravitomagnetic field must exist concurrently with a magnetic field 
      in a superconductor whenever there is flux pinning or other forms of 
      flux trapping. An experiment is proposed whereby a small hole is made 
      in a superconductor, flux is trapped in the hole, and the gravito-
      magnetic field is detected by measuring counter-torque from a 
      macroscopic cylindrical mass inserted through the hole.

24. A Possibility of Gravitational Force Shielding by Bulk YBa2Cu3O7-x 
    Superconductor, E. Podkletnov and R. Nieminen, Physica C Vol 203 p441 
    (1992)
      Podkletnov describes an experiment where a 2% reduction in weight is 
      created in a mass suspended over a levitated and rotating super-
      conductor disk. A detailed compilation of information about this 
      experiment is available on the net at Pete Skegg's website. 
      http://www.inetarena.com/~noetic/pls/gravity.html

25. Weak Gravitational Shielding Properties of Composite Bulk Yba2Cu3O7-x
    Superconductor Below 70K Under EM Field, Eugene Podkletnov, LANL 
    Physics Preprint Server, Cond-Mat/9701074, January 1997.
      Podkletnov provides greater detail about his experimental apparatus 
      and the construction of the superconductor disk. Available on the net.
      http://www.gravity.org/msu.html

==========================================

Appendix - MKS Units for the Gravitomagnetic Field.

Gravitoelectric Charge     =  Kg
(in purely electrical units,  Kg = (Weber/Meter)(Coul/Meter)(Sec)

Gravitoelectric Field  =  Meter/Sec-Squared

Gravitoelectric Flux Density  =  Kg/Meter-Squared

Mass Current  =  Kg/Sec  =  (Weber/Meter)(Coul/Meter)

Gravitomagnetic Dipole Moment   = (Kg)(Meter-Squared)/Sec
                                = Angular Momentum
                                = (Coulomb)(Weber)

Gravitoelectric Dipole Moment  =  (Kg)(Meter)
(You would need the equivalent of negative mass to make one of these)

Gravitomagnetic Charge  = (Velocity)(Meter) = Square-Meter/Sec

Gravitomagnetic Field   = (Mass Current)/Meter = Kg/Sec-Meter
                        = (Coul/Meter)(Weber/Meter)/Meter

Gravitomagnetic Flux Density  = (Gravitomagnetic Charge)/Meter^2
                              = Velocity/Meter
                              = 1/Sec = Angular Velocity

Gravitoelectric Scalar Potential  = Joule/Kg
                                  = (Acceleration)(Meter)
                                  = (Gravitoelectric Field)(Meter)
                                  = Velocity-Squared
                                  = Meter-Squared/Second-Squared

Gravitomagnetic Vector Potential  = (Gravitomagnetic Charge)/Meter
                                  = Velocity = Meter/Sec

Gravitoelectric Permitivity  =  Gravitoelectric Flux per Gravitoelectric Field
                             =  (Kg)(Second-Squared)/(Cubic Meter)
                             =  1/4(Pi)(G) = 1.1927E09 Kg-Sec^2/Meter^3

Gravitomagnetic Permeability  =  Gravitomagnetic Flux per Gravitomagnetic Field
                              =  Meter/Kg
         Assuming Gravitational Waves Propagate at the Velocity of Light --
                              =  1/(c-squared)(epsilon0)
                              =  9.316E-27 Meter/Kg
