Advertising with Just for You Handcrafted Gifts 

 www.Justforyouhcgifts.com 

 There is no charge 
 for a Banner link exchange. We will display your banner you display 
 ours. 
 Business listings without link exchange require 
 a $20.00 listing fee. Just 
 submit your company information and payment to our mailing address 
 and your listing will be added. 
 Those "going 
 on the road" with us includes web site listing in the advertising 
 package. 

 Business listing 12.50 
 One yr on the road 570.00 
 Two yr on the road 970.00 

 Business list 
 12.50 turns into 20.00, and on the road 570.00 turns into 599.95 
 970.00 turns into 999.95 once you enter the shopping cart 
 Just for You..... On the Road 
 Sponsors 

 Welcome to Just for You Handcrafted Gifts. > Company Info >Advertise 

 Welcome to 
 our Advertising and banner exchange department.Here you may select the banner or 
 button of your choice that would fit most appropriately to your 
 site add the link http://www.Justforyouhcgifts.com. Please email us with your banner/button and site information.You 
 will be added to our Shopping Centre in the Native links, On line Shoppes or Business Connections department. 
 Thank you for joining our associate 
 program. 

 If you would like 
 to take your Business banner across the country with us, read on... 

 We 
 are offering advertising and promotion to Companies interested in the 
 opportunity to have their listing and banner on our web site as well as on the side of our RV traveling 
 across the country from pow wows, events to shows, as we take 
 our shoppe on the road. We will also display Business cards 
 or Brochures, for hand out at shows and events. 
 One year only $599.95, 
 Two years $999.95 Spaces are limited, so sign up early. It's 
 easy!! Simply email us to reserve a spot, once confirmed send us 
 your banner and payment. We'll add your banner to our site and to the RV . Decal stick on or static type 
 banners are best. Size limited to 18x24 inches. Event and Show listings 
 will be posted at our web site. 
 . 

[ Home ][ Company Info ][ Contact us ][ Our Shoppe ][ Shopping Centre ] 

 Copyright(c) 1996-2003 
 Just For You Handcrafted Gifts All Rights Reserved. mindy@justforyouhcgifts.com