Company Information 

 www.Justforyouhcgifts.com 

 To mail in an order or payment, make checks payable 
 to 

 Just for You HC gifts 8327 S Tacoma Way #F20, Lakewood WASH 98499 

 Looking for a Fund Raiser? 50% profit! 
 Visit our Catalog department and 
 Request a fund raiser packet today. 

 Welcome to Just for You Handcrafted Gifts. > Company Info >Information 

 Our mission is to create the perfect gift. 

 Where you can shop for someone special and find Unique, 
 custom designed and speciality items that they won't 
 find anywhere else. To have something created in a favorite 
 color, shape, and or fragrance personally touching the 
 one to receive. 

 Secure Shopping. 

 We offer safe secure shopping on line. 
 Easy to use shopping cart convenience. Processing your 
 payments through a reliable shopping cart and merchant service. We 
 accept Visa, MC, American Express, Discover and 
 US account checks. All orders 
 are confirmed via email, unless you include a phone 
 number and request a call. 
 Payment is due at the time of 
 the order. If an item is out of stock or unavailable 
 you will be contacted and promptly refunded. Wholesale 
 orders take 4-6 weeks. 

 Shipping and Delivery. 

 Retail Shipping rates start at 
 7.50 . We use Us Postal Priority 
 mail and UPS shipping services depending on the 
 item and weight of the order. Creation and Delivery on retail 
 orders takes approximately 3-4 weeks. 

 Wholesale Information 

 Wholesale requests require a 
 Business Identification number, to process an order. 
 We require a $100.00 minimum order. Payment is due 
 at the time of the order. Shipping is calculated 
 at 20% shipped UPS. To process and Deliver an order 
 takes approximately 4-6 weeks. All requests 
 require a $10.00 catalog deposit , which 
 will be credited off your first order. 

[ Home ][ Company Info ][ Contact us ][ Our Shoppe ][ Shopping Centre ] 

 Copyright(c) 1996-2003 
 Just For You Handcrafted Gifts All Rights Reserved. mindy@justforyouhcgifts.com