Policies of Just for You Handcrafted Gifts 

 www.Justforyouhcgifts.com 

 Welcome to Just for You Handcrafted Gifts. > Company Info >Policies 

 Company Policy . 

 Crafters are a form of artists 
 in their own right. Hand crafted pieces are not 
 meant to be exact duplications, such as a factory 
 could produce. Each individual piece holds something 
 original and all it's own. We strive for originality 
 with each piece, taking great pride in our workmanship, 
 carefully crafting to every detail. Nothing leaves 
 our shoppe until it has been inspected and we are 
 satisfied, it is ready to be presented. Many of 
 our products are created here in our shoppe. Whether 
 it is a hand made piece or from one of our vendors. 
 Please note when your piece arrives it may or may 
 not look exactly like the image representation in 
 our brochures and at our on line shoppe. Should 
 you ever receive anything less than expected simply 
 return it for a full refund! 

 Guarantee . 

 We stand behind our products 
 100% Whether they are made here in our shoppe or 
 imported from our vendors. If you are unsatisfied 
 simply return the product for a refund. If for any 
 reason we are unable to meet your specifications 
 or if a product is no longer available you will 
 be contacted and promptly refunded! 

 Products . 

 Many of our products are created here 
 in our own workshop. These items are customized to a 
 specific color size or fragrance. We do not wholesale 
 our unique product line. We carry a complete selection 
 of accent gifts, imported from around the world, many 
 of these items are not available with customized selections, 
 however we do offer on a wholesale opportunity. 

 Order Creation and Processing . 

 It takes approximately 3-4 weeks to 
 create a product, package and ship an order. Some of 
 our accent products are not carried in available inventory 
 and must be ordered. This may cause a slight delay. 
 Availability is checked at the time of the order. You 
 will be notified if an item is out of stock, and promptly 
 refunded. 

[ Home ][ Company Info ][ Contact us ][ Our Shoppe ][ Shopping Centre ] 

 Copyright(c) 1996-2003 
 Just For You Handcrafted Gifts All Rights Reserved. mindy@justforyouhcgifts.com