SeattleOtaku: Review - Princess Mononoke 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 M ononoke Hime (or here in the
US, Princess Mononoke ) broke box-office records in Japan
until it was barely beat out by Titanic . The script, written by
Hayao Miyazaki and translated by Neil Gaiman (of Sandman 
fame, among others), has also been nominated for a 2001 Nebula Award by
the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America (SFWA). 

 Hayao Miyazaki, who also created classics like Nausica of the
Valley of the Wind , Castle of Cagliostro , Laputa:
Castle in the Sky , and others, brings us another environmental saga.
Like Nausica , which showed environmental revenge on Man's
destruction of the forests and a science-created fire demon,
 Mononoke shows us more animal-gods and a forest spirit that
brings out a bit of revenge himself. 

 The story follows Ashitaka, a prince who killed a boar-god in self
defense of his tribe but was cursed in the process. In order to rid
himself of the curse and find the source of the boar-god's original anger,
he sets off on a journey to the forest. Along the way he meets "San", the
girl raised by wolf-gods after a battle she fought against the leader of
"Iron Town"; he also meets the people of Iron Town itself, the source of
an iron bullet that wounded the boar-god. 

 Ashitaka rescues San from the guards of the town and eventually
befriends her and the wolves (somewhat). They meet up with the rest of
the angry boar-gods, and as the lead boar announces, "It will be a battle
the humans will never forget". 

 Semi-Official news and images can be found in English at the fan site
 Nausicaa.Net . The true home for
all Studio Ghibli work is (in Japanese) 
 Studio Ghibli Homepage . 

 Mononoke Hime (Princess Mononoke) 
Distributed by Buena Vista Home Entertainment, Inc. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.