
THE EXTRAORDINARY PSYCHOTRONIC GENERATOR
Jim Francis <jfrancis@peg.apc.org>

"All living things are filled with a type of energy that until recently
wasn't known to Western science. This psychotronic energy seems to be
responsible for psychokinetic effects. A device has been discovered which
collects this energy from a person, stores it,  then releases it on demand.
It has been used to power a small electric motor."


This idea of a bio-energy is not new. The ancient Chinese knew about it -
they called it VITAL ENERGY.  The Hindus called it  PRANA. The Polynesian
Huna people called it  MANA.  Currently the Soviets refer to it as
BIOPLASMIC ENERGY and the Czechoslovakian Scientists (where the generator
was "re-discovered") call it PSYCHOTRONIC ENERGY.
It was suspected that such an energy existed for some time but it wasn't
until the Russians invented the KIRLIAN PHOTOGRAPHIC PROCESS that this
strange energy could actually be observed.

The secrets of the Psychotronic generator were discovered in a strange
manner. Robert Pavlita was the design director of a large Czech textile
plant and patented the design for a new textile process. The royalties from
the successful application of his process were substantial and enabled him
to spend more time on his hobby which was metallurgy and the search for
information on the fabled psychotronic devices. He apparently spent years
searching the archives of Czech libraries and eventually stumbled on the
information he needed in the form of manuscripts which hadn't been
researched for centuries.
Pavlita found that by combining various metals and making them to a critical
shape, he could manufacture devices which would store bio-energy for a
specific purpose. He has even used specially treated wood.
After 30 years of experimenting Pavlita's work came to the attention of  the
Hradec Kralove University Physics department who decided to do some tests.
An electric motor was set up with a free-spinning device attached to it.
Pavlita's generator was placed next to the motor. Pavlita focussed his
mental energy on his generator and the free-spinning attachment on the motor
slowed to a stand-still. As he continued to focus on his generator the
attachment proceeded to spin backwards, against the thrust of the motor
spindle. The university tested Pavlita for 2 years and concluded that an
unknown form of energy was involved and that there was definitely no fraud
involved.
This "stored" PK energy is not new. In the 1921 July 30th edition of the
British medical magazine Lancet it was reported that a Dr. Charles Russ
showed the ophthalmic Congress at Oxford an apparatus that caused a solenoid
to move by merely gazing at it. There have been many others since this but
it was left to Pavlita to commercialise the process and apply for patents.
It was found that this psychotronic energy could be transferred from humans
to inert materials such as paper, wood, silk, etc. And this energy was
clearly not electrostatic in nature because it worked just as well under
water ! It was this last feature that caused the Iron Curtain scientists to
sit up and take notice.

The Czech Scientists believe that everyone has psychic abilities, but they
are blocked by our belief system, so that most of the time we are unaware of
them. To cause them to work we need something to evoke these hidden
abilities which is apparently what the psychotronic generators do.
The psychotronic generators which Pavlita has built apparently resemble
spare parts from the movie 2001! They come in all shapes and sizes, each
being designed for a specific purpose. And strangely enough some of them
closely resemble "ancient ritual artifacts" displayed in museums around the
world! (Think about that one!!)
The method of making them work is to simply focus your gaze and "stare" at
them. After several minutes sufficient "charge"is stored for the device to
be able to perform usefully.
One of the devices he built looks like a cross between a "magic wand" and a
fat screwdriver. When it is "charged" it attracts all sorts of small
non-magnetic objects in the same way that an electrostatically charged
object does ....except.........it works under water !!!  No
electrostatically charged device will work in a moist atmosphere, let alone
under water. When you brush your hair in a very dry atmosphere, you will
probably notice - or hear - an electrical discharge. This is caused by the
build-up of an electrostatic charge. 
A psychotronic charge appears to work on an entirely different principle.
The Czechoslovakian Academy of Science had mathematicians, physicists,
electronics experts and electro-physiologists all investigate the generators
while the devices were shielded against air currents, static electricity,
magnetic fields and temperature changes.
They still worked despite all possible precautions against extraneous effects.
The well known Czech mathematician and physicist Dr. Julias Krmessky made
the following comment:  "The radiation goes right through glass, water,
wood, cardboard and even iron. It's strength does not diminish at all and
furthermore the mind seems to control this energy.
Experiments were done with seeds. Psychotronic energy almost doubled the
growth rate of seeds in some of the scientific experiments. A further
demonstration was done with polluted water. Application of psychotronic
energy caused the impurities to drop out of the water and it was left
reasonably pure. Chemical analysis found that there was a change in the
actual molecular structure of the water itself. The two hydrogen atoms had
spread further apart. 
The energy  does not appear to originate from the brain or any one organ in
the body. It appears to originate from a persons entire Life-Field as
photographed by a Kirlian Camera.
Tests with EEG machines on people who are in the process of "charging" these
generators indicate an unusual brain-wave pattern. The only dominant
physical effect noticed is that the charging process doesn't work so well if
the person is tired. The psychotronic generator that was designed to power
up a small electric motor required an initial "charge" of half an hour then
only a few minutes a day. The electric motor apparently ran continuously for
50 hours. 
A special generator was built to test the effect on the human brain.
Pavlita's daughter Jana was the subject. The generator was directed at
Jana's head and the EEG monitor attached to her indicated a sudden change in
brain-wave activity. Jana became dizzy and her spatial orientation was
affected.
These generators were mentioned on an Australian SBS TV documentary a couple
of years ago. (Secrets of the Russian Psychics).  Apparently one had been
used in an attempt to give a well known Russian leader a heart attack. It
was only partly successful because the well publicised heart attack was only
a minor one.

Experiments were done with other living organisms. Snails subjected to
psychotronic energy withdrew into their shells and went into a state similar
to hibernation. A doughnut shaped generator was found to kill flies, placed
inside it, instantly. 
There seems to be unlimited use for this new (?) energy.

The critical thing about these devices is apparently the shape and form. The
smaller devices collect and store personal PK energy. But experiments with
larger ones indicate that they might well store some form of unknown cosmic
energy. The scientists investigating these devices consider that a pyramid
is a large cosmic psychotronic generator.

One of Pavlita's favourite demonstrations is to place a sheet of glass on a
stand and scatter magnetic fragments over the glass. He then places a
powerful horseshoe magnet under the glass and demonstrates how he can move
the magnetic chips about with this magnet.  Next he uses a psychotronic
generator that looks like a rectangular ball-point pen to pick up the chips
on the glass. They attach themselves to the tip of the generator which is
able to overcome the magnetic force from the magnet underneath the glass to
pick up these chips.
Then he demonstrates the same thing with the whole apparatus under water!!!

The Czech Scientists think this energy might be the same force that allows
psychic healers to remove a person's health problems and to allow people
like Uri Geller to cause mung beans to sprout while held in the palm of
their hands. They also think it is responsible for the way world famous PK
expert Nelya Mikhailova is able to move small objects at a distance. (This
was also shown on the SBS TV documentary).

However the bottom line to all this is that these psychotronic devices are
not new. They appear to have been around for thousands of years. It was left
to Robert Pavlita to "re-discover" them by searching thru ancient
manuscripts, some apparently over 400 years old!



SCIENTIFIC PSYCHOKINETICS EXPERIMENTS

In the early 80's the scientific world received a severe shock when a
scientist at PRINCETON UNIVERSITY was able to prove conclusively that PK not 


