TORSION "FINGER SHOCK" PHENOMENON               1999 new_techn@zmail.ru
The "shape effect"

The "shape effect" produced by torsion fields can be felt by most people
(without any detectors).  For instance, try to make (or have somebody
make) a skeletal wire pyramid having the following proportions. The base
of the pyramid is a square.  If the side of this square is equal to 1,
then the height of a pyramid is equal to 0.618. That's the proportions of
the Great Pyramid, the pyramid of Cheops exactly.) The pyramid may consist
of edges only, e.g. it can be made of copper wire.  The height of the
pyramid (e.g. the segment of copper wire that connects the top of the
pyramid and the center of its base) should be made also. If the side of
the base of the pyramid has the size 20cm, then the height = 12.36 cm. The
central wire is attached to the apex, and extends downwards to the center
of the base, and the lower end of this wire attaches to nothing.  OK to
use solder to construct this.  To prevent curving of the wires, use thick
wires (2mm - 4mm diameter.)

Hold the pyramid by its vertical wire, and orient it so its edges face the
cardinal points.  After several minutes of holding the pyramid by three
fingers (thumb, index, middle) by its vertical wire (the fingers should be
placed at 1/5 - 1/3 of the height from its lower point), most people feel
"the torsion shock":  cold or heat, pricking in the hand, etc. And there
is no need to squeeze the vertical wire too strong, otherwise you'll feel
not torsion shock, but simple pain caused by pressuring the fingers. 

Thus the so-called "passive" torsion generator can be created easily.  But
to create an intense torsion radiation, an "active" generator is needed.
The torsion field generated by "passive" generators is a rather weak
static torsion field.  And moreover, "playing" with the passive torsion
generators is dangerous.  A.A.Beridze-Stakhovsky has developed generators
based upon crystals that could be "programmed" mentally.  Use care,
because the reverse action is also possible.

