Showdown: ELO Mailing List 

 How to join the Electric Light Orchestra Mailing List 

 Showdown is an active, private e-mail list dedicated to the discussion of ELO, Jeff Lynne, Orchestra (formerly ELO Part II), and other projects that these artists have been directly involved with. List members from all over the world are gearing up for the release of "Zoom," the first new ELO album since 1986's "Balance Of Power," and the ELO 2001 tour which kicks off in America on the east coast September 7. 
 The ELO mailing list is offered in two versions: a "talk" (or "bounce") format, and a "digest" format. On the "talk" list, posts are forwarded immediately to each member of the "talk" list. People on this list get information instantly, as group members send it out, and as a result they hear about concerts, release dates, television appearances and the sale of rare collectible items more quickly. They also have an easier time conducting conversations with other list members on ELO-related topics. 
 The "digest" list is an option for people who can't get a lot of mail, or simply can't keep up with the mail on the talk list. Typically, you'll receive one digest every day. Each digest is edited to contain only the substantive posts submitted to the talk list. You will not have to wade through signature files or attached original messages. Digest members can still post to the talk list as often as they wish. 
 Use the form below to subscribe. If your browser does not display forms, scroll down to find plain text instructions. 

 Your Name (first, last) 

 Your City/State/Country 

 Your E-Mail Address 

 By default, you'll be subscribed to the talk list. 
 If you'd prefer to cut down on the amount of mail you receive, 
 you may want to subscribe to the digest instead.
 Check here to subscribe to the digest list: 

 If you have any questions, write to the list administrator at: 
 lhoskins@mediatones.com 

 To subscribe to the Talk list: 
 Send mail to elo-list-request@eskimo.com 
 In the subject line of your message, type: 
 subscribe 

 To subscribe to the Digest list: 
 Send mail to elo-digest-request@eskimo.com 
 In the subject line of your message, type: 
 subscribe 

 To unsubscribe from the Talk list: 
 Send mail to elo-list-request@eskimo.com 
 In the subject line of your message, type: 
 unsubscribe 

 To unsubscribe from the Digest list: 
 Send mail to elo-digest-request@eskimo.com 
 In the subject line of your message, type: 
 unsubscribe 

 To change your subscription address: 
 First, unsubscribe your old address, then 
 subscribe with your new one by following 

 the instructions above 

 To post to this list, send your mail to elo-list@eskimo.com. Please do not send subscribe/unsubscribe requests to the list! Make sure you send those to the -request address or to the list administrator.

 If you have any questions or comments, send them to the list administrator, Lynn Hoskins, at lhoskins@mediatones.com 

 ELO Mailing List Archives - Beginning with October 1997