I Apologize LP 

 One of the more interesting and significant collectibles that
 has been circulating amongst collectors since 1966 is a vinyl lp recording of a
 press conference held the evening of August 11th 1966 on the 27th floor of the
 Astor Towers Hotel in Lakeside Chicago. This was the day before the start of
 another United States tour. The main topic of this press conference was
 Lennon's 1965 statement "We're more popular than Jesus." Lennon, supported by
 the other Beatles, tried to placate the American public about his famous
 statement. The "I Apologize" album was a result of this event. 
 In its original context, the remark was part of a rather
 harmless life-style piece by Evening Standard reporter Maureen Cleave. She had
 spent the day with Lennon, whom she described as "imperious ... unpredictable,
 indolent, disorganized, childish, vague, charming and quick-witted." He took
 her on a tour of his mansion, talking about books and fame, and the gorilla
 suit he bought so he could drive around wearing it. When they reached the
 subject of religion, Lennon said, "Christianity will go. It will vanish and
 shrink. ... We're more popular than Jesus now; I don't know which will go
 first-rock 'n' roll or Christianity. Jesus was all right but his disciples were
 thick and ordinary. It's them twisting it that ruins it for me." 
 The British public took the comment as what is was: An
 opinion voiced by an artist known as much for his hummingbird mind as for his
 considerable talent. In July, however, an American teen magazine called
 Datebook quoted the infamous Jesus statement without reprinting the original
 article. It appeared as part of a cover story called "The Ten Adults You
 Dig/Hate the Most." The American reaction was instantaneous. Radio stations
 across the country, but especially in the South and in the Midwest, stopped
 playing Beatles records. Death threats began pouring in, directed against not
 only John, but the other Beatles as well. Bonfires appeared, with Beatles
 pictures and albums providing the fuel. Maureen Cleave tried to explain that
 "John was certainly not comparing the Beatles with Christ. He was simply
 observing that so weak was the state of Christianity that the Beatles were, to
 many people, better known. He was deploring, rather than approving, this," but
 to no avail. Finally, on August 11, with a scheduled American tour fast
 approaching, Lennon held a press conference in Chicago, at which he attempted
 to make amends. " I'm not saying that we're better or greater, " he said,
 " or comparing us with Jesus Christ as a person or God as a thing or whatever
 it is. ... I wasn't saying whatever they're saying I was saying. I'm sorry I
 said it really. I never meant it to be a lousy anti-religious thing. I
 apologize if that will make you happy. I still don't know quite what I've done.
 I've tried to tell you what I did do but if you want me to apologize, if that
 will make you happy, then OK, I'm sorry ." 
 Some information and text above are taken from Mark
 Lewisohn's book, the Complete Beatles Chronicles and from a web site
 called, News of the Odd. My thanks to those people. 
 Below are various scans of this recording by Sterling
 Productions. The vinyl was pressed by RCA Custom Recordings. My thanks to Perry
 Cox for the scan of the acetate label. Originally included with this album was
 an 8x10 glossy black and white photo of the Beatles at the press
 conference. Click here for an audio
 sample. ( mP3 - 281k ) 
 Click on
 scans for larger views 

 Album cover 
 Disc label 
 Rare acetate
 label 
 Enclosed photo of 
 the press conference 

 Back to
 Rarities