Zoso Network Main Page 

 UPDATED: 
 4/08/03 

 Trower, 
 Links, Zeppelin pages created 

 More Graphics Created 

 You 
 are visitor: 

 Zoso 
 Networking was established in 1997 for reasons unknown. There were more 
 than a few ideas involved on that summer day when this server was created. 
 However, neither the owner, webmaster, or anyone associated with the Zoso 
 Network knows exactly what that reason is. Now it hosts large mailing 
 lists for fans of Led Zeppelin and Robin Trower, it provides email access 
 for a handful of people, and is providing you with this page with links 
 to oppertunity. 

 Led 
 Zeppelin - 
 The 
 Zoso Network and this web page was founded by and for Led Zeppelin fans. 
 Click here to access Zoso's Led Zeppelin Page, featuring information on 
 "For badgeholders Only" (The Led Zeppelin mailing list), links 
 to prominent Zeppelin pages on the internet, as well as a few other goodies! 

 For 
 Badgeholders Only - 
 This 
 is probably what The Zoso Network is best known for hosting. This discussion 
 list, formed in late 1997, is for fans of Led Zeppelin. Membership has 
 grown to over 1100 members worldwide. Here you can find out how to subscribe, 
 what list policies are, and access the archives. No Zeppelin fan's online 
 expirience is complete without a subscription to the worlds largest organized 
 open internet discussion forum on the music of Led Zeppelin. It is an 
 unmoderated list that belongs to it's members that is hosted by The Zoso 
 Network. 

 Robin 
 Trower - 
 Bob, 
 who owns this here web site, is a big fan of guitarist Robin Trower. This 
 page contains information about the Robin Trower discussion list, and 
 a few links to Robin Trower related web sites. 

 Psychedelic 
 Pine Tree - 
 The 
 This is a 2- peice band, that sometimes includes other guest musicians. 
 Zoso Network webmaster, Jeremy Mixer, sings and "plays" some 
 guitar for this band. Here you will find some mp3's from PPT, also including 
 several covers that Jeremy and Tom have done of other artists songs....lots 
 of Zep covers, also some blues, psychedelic rock.... 

 About 
 The Zoso Network - 
 Find 
 out a detailed history of The Zoso Network, how it's purpose has changed 
 over the years, who is behind it, and contact information. Pretty boring 
 stuff. But it's all here!