Links 

 UPDATED: 
 4/07/03 

 HTML 
 created 

 Graphics 
 Created 

 Here are some 
 various links, not related to any of The Zoso Network's other pages, that 
 we thought you may be interested in checking out 

 WKIT 
 100.3 FM - 
 One 
 of the few locally owned commercial radio stations left in the country. 
 Owned by author Stephen King, this classic rocker operates out of his 
 hometown of Bangor, Maine. Incidentally, the webmaster of zoso.net, Jeremy 
 Mixer, also happens to be one of the DJ's. This radio station is also 
 one of the few that continues to stream their broadcast online! This is 
 one of the few radio stations in the country that represents the way commercial 
 radio used to be! 

 Eskimo 
 North - 
 The 
 Zoso Network would not exist if it weren't for the services of Seattle's 
 finest Internet Service Provider. Eskimo North also hosts the NewNet IRC 
 Network. 

 Upon 
 us all a little Rainn must fall - 
 Rainn 
 was one of the original regulars of #ledzep, the now defunct Led Zeppelin 
 IRC channel. She designed the original logo for FBO, as well as many of 
 the beautiful graphics on Buckeye's Led Zeppelin page 

 Jeremy 
 Mixer's Web Presence - 
 This 
 is the personal page of webmaster Jeremy Mixer, and has not been created 
 yet. 

 Big 
 O Expresso - 
 This 
 is Northern Seattle's Place for the best expresso 

 Hot 
 Tuna Offical Page - 
 This 
 is the official page to, in my opinion, one of the best and most underated 
 bands to exist today. Their first album was released in 1969, while guitarist 
 Jorma Kaukonen and bassist Jack Casady were still flying high with Jefferson 
 Airplane, however, they eventually split off to make Hot Tuna a full time 
 gig. Although there have been a couple breakups, the band is still going 
 strong today. Samples of several of their albums are available in Real 
 Audio format at Relix Records who have 
 released much of the bands recent music as well as some of their stuff 
 from the 70's. And for all of you msuician types out there, Jorma and 
 his wife Vanessa have put a lot of work into a summer guitar camp, the 
 Fur Peace Ranch , in which anyone 
 wishing to learn guitar, as well as harmonica, vocals, sound engineering, 
 or various other music-related areas of interest may be interested in 
 attending! Also, be sure to check out Jeff Zahnen's unofficial Jefferson 
 Airplane homepage where you can get the latest news on Hot Tuna, Jefferson 
 Starship, and other related musical projects, including info about 2400Fulton, 
 the Jefferson Airplane Discussion List. 

 Jean 
 Lorrah's Web Page - 
 Jean 
 Lorrah is a regular contributor to FBO, the Led Zeppelin mailing list, 
 as well as a published Science Fiction author. Her page includes her own 
 "Great Book Search" as well as several Star Trek Links....but 
 most importantly to us at zoso.net is the fact that her homepage was the 
 first one to incorperate lemon squeezing into the Zeppelin-related links! 
 It also has the very interesting and motivational "Top 100 Zeppelin 
 Moments" which is definately worth checking out!