Actors Working with Jeff Fahey More Than Once 
 Actors Working with Jeff Fahey More Than Once 

 Plan on surfing for hours from this site or other sites? Why Not Make Some Money While You're At
It? AllAdvantage.com pays .50 an hour you surf, (and .10 for every hour your referrals surf) go here to find out more!: 

 Compiled by Stephanie Horan 

 There was a thread going on this list a while ago about actors who had worked on films/projects with Jeff more than once. I know there were quite a few, but I didn't see a complete list posted here, perhaps no-one kept one. So -- having some time on my hands one morning, I did a bit of browsing through cast lists, and came up with the following, in alphabetical order: 

 Michael Beach - "The Hit List", "Sketch Artist II"

Kevin Costner - "Silverado", "Wyatt Earp"

Courteney Cox - "Curiosity Kills", "Sketch Artist II" 
 Jeff Fahey and Courteney Cox in "Sketch Artist II"

Brian Dennehy - "Last of the Finest", "Silverado"

George Dzundza - "Impulse", "Execution of Raymond Graham", "White Hunter, Black Heart"

Darlanne Fluegel- "Alfred Hitchcock Presents: Enough Rope For Two", "Darkman III: Die, Darkman, Die"

Pamela Gidley - "Last of the Finest", "Freefall"

Gene Hackman - "Wyatt Earp", "Split Decisions"

C. Thomas Howell- "Curiosity Kills", "The Sweeper"

Brion James - "Silverado" (I am *sure* he was in this, but is not in the Internet Movie Database cast list), "Sketch Artist II", "The Marshal" episode: "Kissing Cousins"

Jon Kasdan - "Wyatt Earp", "Silverado"

Jack Kehler - "Wyatt Earp", "Blindsided"

William Lucking - "Parker Kane", "The Marshal" episode: "Natural Law"

Michael McGrady - "Wyatt Earp", "Quick"

Robert Mitchum - "Woman of Desire", "The Marshal" episode: "The New Marshal" 
 Jeff Fahey in "The Marshal

Zakes Mokae - "Body Parts", "Parker Kane".

Joe Pantoliano - "Last of the Finest", "The Marshal" episode: "Protection"
 Jeff Fahey with Brian Dennehy, Bill Paxton and Joe Pantoliano in "The Last of the Finest"

Lisa Jane Persky - "Last of the Finest", 2 "The Marshal" episodes: "Twoslip", "Pass the Gemelli" (as Fellton)

Alan Rosenberg - "Impulse", "Parker Kane"

Elizabeth Ruscio - 3 "The Marshal" episodes: "The Great Train Robbery", "Buy Hard", and "These Foolish 
Things" (she played Sarah Steenbergen)

Miguel Sandoval - "Quick", 2 "The Marshal" episodes: "Unprotected Witness", "Gone Fishing" (as U.S. 
Marshal Lester Villalobos)

James Tolkan - "Split Decisions", "Sketch Artist", "Sketch Artist II", "True Blood"

I doubt that this is a definitive list, I'm sure there will be a handful of minor actors that I didn't spot. But if 
anyone has others to add to the list, please let me know so I can update. By the way, the list above does 
*not* imply that the actor shared a scene with Jeff, only that they did work on the same movie/"The Marshal" episodes

Stef

Return to the Jeff Fahey Internet Fan Club Page 

 Created by The White Rose Inc. (a.k.a Sonja Marie) 1996 
 Last Update 8/6/96 - Previous Update 5/23/96.