Sonja Marie's Paul Wylie Fan Pages 

 Sonja Marie's Paul Wylie Fan Pages 

IMPORTANT (Mar 28th, 1999): I do not plan to update this site any time in the future. If you are a fan of the TV Show "Buffy the Vampire Slayer, visit my links site at Sonja Marie's Buffy the Vampire Slayer Links . Plan on surfing for hours from this site? Why Not Make Some Money While You're At
It? AllAdvantage.com pays .50 an hour you surf, (and .10 for every hour your referrals surf) go here to find out more!: 

 (Photo Copyrighted by Barry Mittan). 
 This page is for fans of Paul Wylie, an excellent and exceptional figure skater, now retired. 
 Do you want to talk to other Paul Wylie fans over email? Then you should join the Paul Wylie Mailing List, to subscribe go to this site and fill in the blanks: 
 The Paul Wylie Mailing List 
 (Note: I add all new members by hand, so if you subscribe but don't get a welcome message don't worry, it's because I haven't added you yet, most likely I'm at work or asleep.) 
 Have you signed the Paul Wylie Fan Pages Guestbook? If not please do and let Paul (if he visits) and I know what you think of this site! Go here: Sign The Paul Wylie Fan Page Guestbook 
 View the Paul Wylie Fan Page Guestbook 
 (Note: If you choose to make the message "private" you should know that only I can view it, Paul doesn't have the password). 
 THE PAUL WYLIE WEB PAGES 
 The Paul Wylie Mailing List 
 A email mailing list where fans of Paul's can discuss his routines and talk to other fans over email 
 Paul skating to "Mission: Impossible". (Photo Copyrighted by Barry Mittan.) 
 THE PAUL WYLIE BIO PAGE 
 The Paul Wylie Biographical Info Page 
 PICTURE GALLERY 
 Sonja's Paul Wylie Picture Gallery 
 Paul and Nancy Kerrigan skating to "Tonight" in Halloween on Ice I 
 PAUL'S COMPETITION HISTORY & PAST ROUTINES 
 Past Competitions and Routines 
 A list of competitions Paul has competed in during his career and music he has skated to during his career, and pictures from them. 
 FUN THINGS 
 (Taken From Blades on Ice - Photo by Irene Ersek - See credits) 
 Breaking the Ice 
 This is a summary of a Afternoon Special that Paul starred in back in 1992. 
 Top 10 Reason Paul Shouldn't Quit Skating 
 OTHER FIGURE SKATING WEB SITES 
 Paul and Members of SOI (Photo Copyrighted by Vicki S. Luy). 
 SkateWeb: The Figure Skating Page 
 Barry Mittan - Electronic Photographer 
 Blades on Ice Home Page 
 Enchantment on Ice, Book/Video Link 
 Barb's Web Page 
 Has links to great pictures of skaters that she has taken. 
 ADDRESSES 
 For those wishing to write to Paul Wylie, his mother is maintaining a mailbox for him: 
Paul Wylie 
PO Box 197 
Richmond, TX 
77406-0197 
 Paul Skating to "On the Water Front" (Photo Copyrighted by Barry Mittan). 
 SIGN THE PAUL WYLIE FAN PAGE GUESTBOOK 
 Let me and Paul (if he visits) know what you think about this site and him!!! 
The server the guestbook is on erased all previous entries, but because I for saw this happening, I copied all the entries and kept them. I'll be putting them online soon. 
 Sign The Paul Wylie Fan Page Guestbook 
 Paul Skating to "Apollo 13".(Photo Copyrighted by Barry Mittan). 
 View the Paul Wylie Fan Page Guestbook 

 If you have trouble signing or reading the guestbook please try again later. 
(Note: If you choose to make the message "private" you should know that only I can view it, Paul doesn't have the password). 
 I will be adding more pictures and info to this site in the days, weeks and months to come, so keep checking back. I even hope to put up my personal pictures of Paul that I and my mother have taken very soon! 
 Credits 

 Disclaimer 
 This fan site is not an official fan site for Paul. I don't personally know Paul or how to get in touch with him other then the address I have above. Thanks! 
 Paul Skating to "Bring Him Home".(Photo Copyrighted by Barry Mittan). 
 Want to learn more about me? Go to my home page: 
 Sonja Marie's Home Page 
 Questions? 
Comments? Praise? And yes if you must, flames - Email me 
 Created by The White Rose Inc. (a.k.a Sonja Marie) 1996 
 Thanks go to Cynthia Paroski for teaching me how to make a web page, and my mother, Vera, for getting me on the internet in the first place.