Sonja Marie's Home Page 

 Me at 18 with my High School Diploma. 
 Me (at 24) with Anthony Stewart Head (Photo By Lisa Vedeckis) elcome to my home page, I am your hostess Sonja Marie! I'm 27 yrs old, born in Fairbanks, Alaska on Aug. 23rd, 1973. I've been living in Washington State since I was 4. At the moment I live in Vashon, WA. I am of French, German, Spanish, Chinese, Tlingit Indian and Jewish heritage (what a mixture!). This is the first website I ever did, and is not very involved, but I do maintain 2 very popular web sites that deal with Anthony Stewart Head and Buffy the Vampire Slayer (both of which have been mentioned in a few magazines, books and newspapers) and 4 email mailing lists. My first real love, as it pertains to interests, is British and European History, which I've been studying since I was 12. 
 y nick name is "The White Rose" from the Historical Wars of the Roses between the House of York (The White Roses) and the House of Lancaster (The Red Roses). 
 I used to write poetry. Read some: 
 Rose Poems and Others 
 Anthony Stewart Head "Fair amount of lingerie, yeah, all of which I tried, none of which fitted" ASH (to me) about what some fans sent him in the mail. - 1997 
 Anthony Stewart Head - a.k.a "Rupert Giles" - Buffy the Vampire Slayer

I Am the Keeper of - Coats and Ties and Am the Retired President of GASP! Click to Check Out the GASP! WebSite! 
 Join the Anthony Stewart Head or Buffy-BETA Fanfic Lists 
 The Anthony Stewart Head List Join Form 

Your Name? 
Enter your email address: 
What Version Would You Like to Join? - ASH-GASP? ASH-GASP Digest? Enter It Here: 

 The Buffy-Beta Fanfic List Join Form 

Your Name? 
Enter your email address: 
What Version Would You Like to Join? - Buffy-Beta? Buffy-Beta Digest? Enter It Here: 

 Anthony Stewart Head Links 
 Links To All Things Anthony Stewart Head and Giles

 Buffy the Vampire Slayer Links - My Favourite Show 
 Sonja Marie's Buffy the Vampire Slayer Links 
 The Official Buffy: The Vampire Slayer - Series Web Site 
 Cast of Buffy, The Vampire Slayer- Series 
 Other Actors I Like - 

 The Jeff Fahey Internet Fan Club Home Page 
 Remington Steele WWW Page 

 The James Bond Home Page 
 Sam Neill 
 The Official Sam Neill Home Page

 My 2nd Favourite TV Show is "The X-Files" -The Truth is Out There - 
 Trust No One! - I Want to Believe 

 The Official X-Files Home Page 
 Questions? 
Comments? Praise? And yes if you must, flames - Email me 
 Created by The White Rose Inc. (a.k.a Sonja Marie) 1996 
 Thanks go to Cynthia Paroski for teaching me how to make a web page, and my mother, Vera, for getting me on the internet in the first place.