Why I Oppose Link Light Rail 

 Why I Oppose Link Light Rail 
 I am not &ldquo;Anti-Transit&rdquo; 
and I do not want to &ldquo;Kill Sound Transit&rdquo;. Please read on . . .

 The Fleming Family home page 

 Mass Transit home page 

 My Monorail web site 

 Rapid Transit 

 Subways 

 Monorail 

 Maglev Trains 

 Surface Light Rail 

 Elevated Railways 

 Link Light Rail 

 Express Buses 

 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) 

 Local Bus Services 

 Personal Rapid Transit (PRT) 

 Bikeways 

 Vocabulary 

 Frequently Asked Questions 

 Links to other transit sites 

 Contact me 

 A statement by a Sound Transit representative accused opponents of Link 
light rail of being &ldquo;anti-transit&rdquo; and of &ldquo;wanting to kill 
Sound Transit.&rdquo; 

I am opposed to Link light rail, but I also strongly support transit 
and I want Sound Transit to live.

 I WANT A GOOD MASS TRANSIT SYSTEM: 
The Seattle area desperately needs a good mass transit system including 
high-capacity high-speed links throughout the area. In today&rsquo;s 
environment light rail is not the best choice. The Link light rail project 
has become much too expensive and is falling short of the original plans. 
If a monorail were to be built instead of light rail it would cost much less, 
provide faster service, and be better in many others ways.

 SOUND TRANSIT IS THE BEST AGENCY FOR REGIONAL TRANSIT: 
Sound Transit has the responsibility of providing high-speed regional 
transit. It is doing a good job with Sounder commuter heavy rail and a large 
fleet of ST Express buses.

But Link light rail is Sound Transit&rsquo;s Achille&rsquo;s Heel. This 
prohibitively expensive project with many shortcomings endangers the future 
of Sound Transit. We need Sound Transit to survive and lead us into the 
future, not with outdated and expensive light rail, but with more effective 
and less costly monorail routes along with other alternatives such as bus 
rapid transit (BRT).

 THE LINK PROJECT IS GOING TO COST WAY TOO MUCH: The estimates for 
the costs of the project have grown enormously from when the project was 
first presented to the voters. A monorail can be built for less or a longer 
line built for the same amount of money.

 FOR MORE MONEY WE GET LESS: The original plans 
were for a light rail line that would go north from Downtown Seattle to 
Northgate, and south from Downtown to Sea-Tac Airport. Due to much higher 
costs, the initial project has been scaled back to where only the southward 
line will be built. So not only will it cost much more, it would not be 
nearly as useful. (They are currently planning the northward line, but will 
need more funding to build it.) If the money is used instead for monorail, 
a longer line can be build in less time, and a line north can probably be 
included.

 SURFACE LIGHT RAIL IS NOT TRUE RAPID TRANSIT: The Seattle region needs 
a true rapid transit 
system, meaning that people travelling over longer distances in the region 
can travel at high speeds from one place to another. In other cities this 
is accomplished with subway systems and heavy rail commuter trains that are 
mostly or completely separated from surface traffic. The plan for Link 
light rail will included long stretches along surface streets. The trains 
will have a dedicated right-of-way, but will still have to cross streets 
every few blocks, so the speed has to be restricted. 
Light rail can not operate at the higher speeds of subways or high-speed 
commuter trains.

A monorail is up out of the way of traffic so operates at higher average 
speed.

 LIGHT RAIL WILL NOT BE AS EFFECTIVE AT ATTRACTING RIDERS: 
One of the main goals of a 
regional rapid transit system is to encourage many automobile drivers to 
use rapid transit instead of driving. This will work best if the drivers can 
drive to a location some distance away from their destination and then ride 
quickly to a point near their destination, saving time over the driving and 
parking. Light rail is too slow to lure many drivers away from their cars.

The higher speed of monorail means a shorter trip, and will encourage more 
people to ride instead of driving.

 MANY HOMES AND BUSINESS WILL BE DESTROYED TO MAKE ROOM FOR LINK TRACKS: 
Where Link will travel through Seattle&rsquo;s Rainier Valley community, 
the tracks will go down the middle of Martin Luther King Jr. Way South, a 
major arterial, with the tracks fenced off from the street. In order to make 
room for the tracks, the street must be widened. This means the tearing 
down of homes and businesses along the street. Similar destruction must 
take place along most of the route, except for a portion that will be in a 
tunnel.

The slender pylons (columns) supporting the monorail can utilize the 
two-way left-turn lines down the center of most streets along 
the proposed route, so that no widening of the streets would be necessary.

 THE TRACKS WILL DIVIDE COMMUNITIES: Again using Martin Luther King 
Way as an example, the tracks will form a barrier down the street except 
for crossings every few blocks. Neighbors and shoppers will no longer be 
able to get from one side of the street to the other except at certain 
crossings. This will in effect divide the community into two parts.

The monorail does not interfere with the movement of people crossing 
the street.

 THE TRAINS WILL BE NOISY: Families and businesses near the tracks 
will have to put up with the increased noise of passing trains. Steel 
wheels on steel rails are inherently noisy. A monorail uses rubber tires so 
it is much quieter.

 THERE ARE CONCERNS ABOUT SAFETY: The tracks will be fenced off. 
But the trains still have to cross streets every few blocks, and the history 
of light rail elsewhere shows that accidents do happen fairly often. There
are inevitably going to be smashed cars and dead and crippled children and 
adults. The monorail trains are up there and can't hit anybody.
 Click here for more about safety .

 LIGHT RAIL WILL DISRUPT THE DOWNTOWN BUS TUNNEL: 
The Link project will run tracks through Downtown Seattle by using the 
Downtown Bus Tunnel for the tracks. The tunnel would be closed down while 
being modified for rail use, and during the modification all the buses now 
using the tunnel will be using surface streets, creating a lot more 
congestion and slowing bus service. After modification, the buses will be 
sharing the tunnel with trains, greatly reducing the capacity of the tunnel 
for buses. A monorail obviously will not use the tunnel.

 CENTRAL LINK WILL NOT SERVE SOUTHCENTER MALL: 
Southcenter Mall would be a major destination, but the Link line will 
not go there on its way to the airport. I think that if a monorail line were 
to be built instead, it could go to Southcenter Mall before going west and 
south to the airport.

 THE TUNNEL UNDER BEACON HILL IS NOT COST EFFECTIVE: 
The tunnel under Beacon Hill is going to be very expensive and will serve 
only one station on Beacon Hill. With a monorail line, it would probably go 
along Dearborn to Rainier Ave. S. and then south onto Martin Luther King Way 
S. It would not have any stations on Beacon Hill, but would better serve 
Rainier Valley. With proper bus connections to the monorail, service to 
Beacon Hill would be better than with Link. Additionally, a future monorail 
line could run down the spine of Beacon Hill.

 LIGHT RAIL SUPPORTERS POINT TO THE SUCCESS OF OTHER SYSTEMS: Many 
cities use light rail and most of these systems are successful, such as 
Portland&rsquo;s Max system and Vancouver, B.C.&rsquo;s Skytrain 
 . But I think monorail would have been more successful at less cost. 
Those places have already have light rail systems and so it is only logical 
to add to what they already have. The Seattle area is about to get locked 
in to the same trap, but it is still not too late to change for the better. 
For more about how things could have been better for other cities, go to my 
 What If? page.

 SO WHAT DO I SUGGEST? I suggest that Sound Transit listen to the voices 
of the people, stop further expenditures for Link light rail, and build 
instead a monorail along a similar route. Since the monorail will replace 
the Link light rail project, I am calling the monorail line Link Monorail. 
 Click here for my Link Monorail proposal .

 Return to my Mass Transit home page 
 Go to my Monorail site 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

 &COPY;2003 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 4 October 2004.