Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) 

 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) 

 The Fleming Family home page 

 Mass Transit home page 

 My Monorail web site 

 Rapid Transit 

 Subways 

 Monorail 

 Maglev Trains 

 Surface Light Rail 

 Why I Oppose Link Light Rail 

 Elevated Railways 

 Link Light Rail 

 Express Buses 

 Local Bus Services 

 Personal Rapid Transit (PRT) 

 Bikeways 

 Vocabulary 

 Frequently Asked Questions 

 Links to other transit sites 

 Contact me 

One form of express bus service is bus rapid 
transit, or BRT.

The idea of BRT is to operate buses in a way that somewhat duplicates the 
type of service provided by subways or light rail, but at a much lower cost. 
The service should be fast, with infrequent stops, quick loading and 
unloading, faster fare collection, and various means of letting the buses 
travel at a higher average speed.

Methods of faster speed include bus-only lanes on regular streets, streets 
set aside for buses only, and traffic lights that turn green when a bus 
approaches.

In more advanced BRT systems, there are separate roadways for buses only, 
and buses may be specially designed to match stations with platforms the same 
height as the floor of the bus, so the buses don't have stairs or wheelchair 
lifts. A ramp folds out from the door of the bus and fits on the station 
platform, so that passengers just walk on and off (or roll on or off in the 
case of wheelchairs). This feature imitates a subway platform and train and 
permits a shorter waiting time at each stop.

BRT can be an effective alternative to light rail. A well-designed bus rapid 
transit line can provide most of the advantages of light rail at much lower 
cost.

However I believe that in many cases BRT will fall short of expectations. If 
a BRT line shares lanes with regular traffic, busses will also be delayed by 
congestion and accidents. Bus lanes on regular streets can also be blocked 
by trucks stopped to load or unload, auto drivers illegally in the bus lane, 
and other hazards. HOV lanes on highways are also subject to congestion and 
blockage.

Buses, whether in BRT or other service, are subject to serious delays in 
winter conditions. A snowstorm is when public transportation is most needed 
but buses slip and slide like everybody else.

I still think monorail is the best alternative on high-capacity routes. The 
trains completely avoid all the congestion and hazards of surface traffic, 
and are less affected by bad weather. When the roads are clogged by 
unmoving traffic with many cars and buses slid crosswise or in the ditch, 
monorail trains will still be rolling, carrying stranded motorists and bus 
riders.

 Return to my Mass Transit home page 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

 &COPY;2003 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 4 October 2004.