Seattle Area Transit 

 Seattle Area Mass Transit 
 by Bob Fleming 
 News about existing and proposed mass transit
in and around Seattle, and a healthy dose of my own opinions! 

 The Fleming Family home page 

 My Monorail web site 

 The Great $4,000,000,000 Experiment 

 Rapid Transit 

 Subways 

 Monorail 

 Maglev Trains 

 Surface Light Rail 

 Why I Oppose Link Light Rail 

 Elevated Railways 

 Link Light Rail 

 Express Buses 

 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) 

 Local Bus Services 

 Personal Rapid Transit (PRT) 

 Bikeways 

 Vocabulary 

 Frequently Asked Questions 

 Links to other transit sites 

 Contact me 

My name is Bob Fleming, and I am very interested in seeing a greatly improved 
transportation system for Seattle and the surrounding region. 

 Current System 

First of all, I must say that the Seattle area has a pretty good 
transportation system now, with a pretty good highway system and quite good 
system of public transportation.

 FREEWAYS: 
There are two north-south Interstate highways, one east-west Interstate 
highway, and several other main routes. For more about the current 
highway system, click here .

 MASS TRANSIT: 
Public transportation is provided by public bus systems operated by three 
counties and a city. There is also a regional transit authority providing 
express bus service, commuter rail service, and light rail service. 
Additionally, there is a short monorail line and a new, longer monorail is 
going to be built. For more about current public transit, 
 click here .

 News 

 COMMUTER RAIL BEGINS SERVICE TO EVERETT: December 22, 2003: 
Sound Transit has begun scheduled Sounder commuter rail service between 
Seattle and Everett (about 30 miles north of Seattle). The initial service 
is with one train daily in each direction. Additional runs will be added 
in the future.

 CENTRAL LINK LIGHT RAIL CONSTRUCTION BEGINS. November 2003: 
Construction has begun on the new Central Link light rail line. Initial 
construction is south of Downtown Seattle in the area where the new 
maintenance base will be. For me, this also begins an experiment to show 
which is best, monorail or light rail, what I call 
 &ldquo;The Great $4,000,000,000 Experiment.&rdquo; 

 FEDS GRANT $500 MILLION FOR LIGHT RAIL. October 25, 2003: 
Yesterday the Federal Transit Administration and Sound Transit signed an 
agreement in which the Federal government will provide $500 million, 
distributed over several years, to help finance construction of the 
Central Link light rail project from Downtown Seattle to a terminus about 
two miles south of SeaTac Airport. Sound Transit plans to begin 
construction about the second week of November.

 SOUND TRANSIT & RAILROAD AGREE ON COMMUTER RAIL PLAN TO EVERETT. 
In early June Sound Transit announced an agreement with Burlington Northern 
and Santa Fe railroad for use of the railroad&rsquo;s track between Seattle 
and Everett for Sounder commuter rail service, which may begin as early as 
late this year.

 SMART CARD FARE SYSTEM APPROVED. Sound Transit has approved a Smart 
Card System for paying for fares and providing a convenient means of transfer 
from one route to another. It is intended that this system will be 
multi-modal and multi-agency, 
permitting seamless use on buses, rail, ferries, and monorail regardless of 
the operating agency.

In addition 
to approval by Sound Transit, the system has been approved or under 
study by King County Metro Transit, Community Transit, Kitsap Transit, 
Pierce Transit, and Washington State Ferries. The Seattle Popular Monorail 
Authority is also said to be considering the system.

The system is being sold by ERG Group of Australia. More can be found in 

the news release on ERG's web site .

 VOTERS APPROVE NEW SEATTLE MONORAIL LINE. In November Seattle voters 
narrowly approved a 1.7 billion dollar project to build a new monorail line, 
to be known as the Green Line, for 14 miles from West Seattle, through 
Downtown Seattle, and north to Ballard and Crown Hill. This would be the 
first of five proposed monorail lines in Seattle. 
 More about the Seattle Monorail Project .

 LIGHT RAIL LINE IN TACOMA FINISHED. A light rail line almost 
two miles long in Tacoma is now open, with free rides. This line is a part of the 
Link light rail system being built by Sound Transit.

 INITIATIVE FILED FOR SUBURBAN MONORAIL. A group known as Citizens 
for King County Monorail has filed for an initiative that would fund a 
study for the feasability of a monorail system than would serve a number of 
suburbs east and south of Seattle.
 Go to their web site .

 My Opinions 

 WE NEED BOTH HIGHWAYS AND MASS TRANSIT: 
The Seattle area needs improved highways and streets, but also a good mass 
transit system with an integrated mix of different modes of transportation. 

 MANY PEOPLE CAN&rsquo;T USE MASS TRANSIT: 
No matter how good the public transportation system is, 
 many people need to drive . The goal should not be 
to try to eliminate most of the automobile traffic, but rather to improve 
public transit as much as possible in order to reduce a significant part 
of highway traffic. We still need to improve the streets and highways, but 
we also need to put a lot more money into public transit. Superior public 
transit will reduce highway traffic and therefore reduce the amount of 
money needed to improve roads.

 MONORAILS WOULD BE THE REGIONAL HIGH-SPEED TRANSIT BACKBONE: 
My vision of a truly successful public transit system would begin with a 
skeletal network of high-speed monorails 
interconnecting the major centers 
of population, work, and activities. The monorails would be the high-density 
backbone of the system, carrying large numbers of passengers quickly over 
relatively long distances throughout the region from Marysville in the north 
to Fort Lewis in the south and to Redmond and Issaquah in the east.

 MONORAILS WOULD BE SUPPLEMENTED BY BUS RAPID TRANSIT AND EXPRESS BUSES: 
 Express buses would extend this network to other areas of relatively 
high ridership density but without enough ridership and/or too geographically 
remote to be economically served by monorails. Express bus service can also 
include 
 bus rapid transit (BRT) .

 LIGHT RAIL IS NOT THE BEST SOLUTION: 
Light rail works. Many cities have light rail. But it is no longer the best 
means of transport. Today monorail is faster, safer, not so destructive to 
neighborhoods, more reliable, faster to build, and less expensive than light 
rail. In some cases bus rapid transit may be a good choice, and it costs even 
less than monorail. Click here to find out why I 
favor monorail over light rail .

 LINK LIGHT RAIL SHOULD BE ABANDONED IN FAVOR OF MONORAIL: 
I am convinced that the people of the Seattle area would be much better off 
if Sound Transit were to kill the Link light rail project and use the money 
to build a monorail line following a similar route. The monorail would go 
from Safeco Field through the Dearborn Cut to Rainier Ave. S., then south 
on Rainier and Martin Luther King Way S., then to Southcenter Mall and 
SeaTac Airport. Unfortunately, construction is now underway on Link light 
rail, so it is too late to replace it with monorail. But you can still 
read why I opposed light rail and wanted monorail. Read and weep! 
 Click here for details of why I 
oppose Link light rail , or 
 click here for details 
of my proposal to replace Link light rail with Link Monorail .

 LOCAL BUS SERVICE WOULD FILL IN THE AREA BETWEEN THE HIGH-SPEED ROUTES: 
 Local bus service would fill in the areas between the higher-speed routes, 
passing as close as possible to as many homes, businesses, and other origins 
and destinations as possible.

 THE VARIOUS MEANS OF TRANSIT WOULD BE INTEGRATED INTO ONE SEAMLESS SYSTEM: 
The goal of this system would be that most people in the region could walk 
only a short distance to a bus stop and then be able to travel to within only 
a short distance of their destination. Riders would transfer as necessary 
from local to high-speed services and back again in order to complete their 
journey. In order to attract the maximum number of riders, therefore 
reducing as many auto trips as possible, the services would have to be 
 well integrated into one seamless system . 
A rider should be able to board a 
transit vehicle anyplace in the system, pay the fare, receive a transfer, 
and use that transfer freely throughout the system, possibly paying an 
additional fare if their trip is long. The fares and zone system should be 
the same regardless of whether the trip is by bus, street car, monorail, or 
other mode of public transport within the system.

 BIKEWAYS WOULD PROVIDE AN INCENTIVE FOR MORE PEOPLE TO USE BICYCLES: 
If a lot more people ride bicycles instead of driving, there would be a lot 
fewer cars on the road, alleviating congestion. Bikeways would make it 
easier and safer for people to go more places by bicycle.

 COMMUTER RAIL TO EVERETT SOUNDS GOOD, BUT IS IT? 
I have mixed feelings about the newly announced Sounder commuter rail 
service to Everett which may begin late this year. I think that basically 
the service will be a good thing, but I have some reservations about the 
route and frequency of service.

The route is mostly along the shores of Puget Sound, too far to the west to 
be convenient to most people that live between Seattle and Everett. The 
service should be good for people living near stations in Richmond Beach, 
Edmonds, Mukilteo, and Everett, but most people live further east, and 
most of those people are concentrated close to the corridor formed by 
Highway 99 and the I-5 freeway, which roughly parallel each other a couple 
of miles apart for much of the distance from Seattle to Everett.

To me a more logical route would be along highway 99 (Aurora Ave. N. in 
King County and Highway 99 S. in south Snohomish County), preferably by 
monorail. However I am afraid that such service won't come for many more 
years and in the meantime the Sounder trains will provide good service for 
some of the people.

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

 &copy;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 

 This page was last updated 4 October 2004.