Maglev Trains 

 Maglev Trains 

Magnetic Levitation (maglev) is an exciting new technology that could 
revolutionize high-speed mass transit, but it may be too soon to start a 
maglev system in the Seattle area. 

 The Fleming Family home page 

 My Monorail web site 

 Rapid Transit 

 Subways 

 Monorail 

 Surface Light Rail 

 Why I Oppose Link Light Rail 

 Elevated Railways 

 Link Light Rail 

 Express Buses 

 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) 

 Local Bus Services 

 Personal Rapid Transit (PRT) 

 Bikeways 

 Vocabulary 

 Frequently Asked Questions 

 Links to other transit sites 

 Contact me 

Mag Lev is short for Magnetic Levitation. It is a relatively new mode of 
transport that basically uses magnet fields to hold a train slightly above 
the guideway, so that it is actually floating in the air. This greatly 
reduces the friction and the train can travel at very high speeds.

The principle behind this magic is really very simple. If you have ever 
played around with magnets, and tried to push the south pole of one against 
the south pole of the other, or the north pole of one against the north pole 
of the other, you discovered that they tried to push each other apart. This 
is the scientific principle, that opposite poles of a magnet attract and 
like poles repel.

Basically, the idea in a maglev train is to somehow set up a magnet in the 
guideway (track) and one in the bottom of the train with like poles next to 
each other so that they push each other apart and lift the train slightly 
off of the guideway.

The principle is simple, but getting it to work is not. It take some really 
big magnets to lift a train, and to get the train moving and to keep it 
correctly positioned on the guideway, along with a lot of other 
technicalities, has kept many engineers, scientists, and companies busy for 
many years.

The concept of a maglev train is an exciting one. It could mean going from 
Seattle to Tacoma or Everett in fifteen minutes, or to Portland in around an 
hour. I think in the future we may very well have a backbone of high-speed 
maglev trains along the I-5 corridor and to the Eastside. However I don't 
think we are ready to start on a maglev system.

Despite the advantages a maglev system could provide, I think it is still 
too new and unproven to start building now, except possibly for a trial 
over a relatively short distance. I think it is probably still too 
expensive, and there is too much risk of unexpected problems once the system 
is in operation.

Furthermore, differenct engineers, institutions, and companies have come up 
with various different designs for maglev construction, and I think it is 
much too soon to determine which designs will work the best.

For now I think monorails are the best option for a high-speed backbone 
network, but that we should follow maglev technology and when there is 
greater assurance that maglev would be successful, then study the feasibility 
of constructing a maglev line in our region.

Because a successful maglev train will probably run at speeds in excess of 
200 miles per hour, I think maglev should be considered only for longer 
distances with several miles between stops. For example, a maglev line 
running north from Downtown Seattle might have stops at Northgate, Shoreline, 
Lynnwood, Everett, Marysville, Arlington, Mount Vernon, Bellingham, 
Richmond, and Downtown Vancouver, B.C. Even with maglev, monorail would 
still be better for intermediate distances.

 Return to my Mass Transit home page 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

 &COPY;2003 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 4 October 2004.