Monorail 

 Monorail 

 Transit home page 
 My monorail web site 
 Seattle area monorail plans 

 ADVANTAGES OF MONORAIL 

 Monorail costs less than light rail. 

 Monorail can be true rapid transit. The monorail is up in the air, 
separated from surface traffic. There are no intersections and no traffic 
lights to interfere with the movement of the monorail trains. The monorail 
trains can easily reach speeds in excess of 60 miles per hour (100 kilometers per 
hour).

 Monorail should attract many car drivers. The high speed of the 
monorail service will encourage many more drivers to ride the monorail 
instead of driving. This migration from car to monorail can be encouraged 
further with large parking lots adjacent to monorail stations in outlying 
areas, and with good local bus service and PRT service 
to bring passengers to the monorail stations. 

 Very few homes and businesses need to be destroyed. 
The monorail normally requires pylons (support columns) only four or five 
feet wide. As much as possible, the route can utilize existing streets that have two-way left 
turn lanes down the middle. The pylons can be placed in the two-way left 
turn lanes and would not require widening of the streets. There would still 
be some places where the streets would be too narrow and would require 
widening, or where the monorail would deviate from streets, and in these 
cases the purchase of property may be required. However careful planning of 
the routes should minimize these occurances. 

 The monorail will not divide the community. 
Instead of a fenced-off railway through the neighborhood, there would be 
a row of pylons that wouldn't have much more impact than a line of telephone 
poles. 

 Monorail is quieter than light rail. 
Instead of steel wheels on steel rails, you would have rubber tires on 
concrete. 

 Monorail is safer. 
The monorail is up there. The pedestrians and cars are down here. What more 
can I say? 

 Monorail can lead to community development. 
The area near the monorail stations would be an attractive location for 
people that don't own cars or don't want to drive much. These locations 
could be zoned for higher density housing and businesses. Property values 
near the stations would most likely go up because many people would be willing 
to pay more rent to live near a station and many retail businesses could 
increae their revenue if near a station. This in turn would lead to higher 
assessed value for real estate taxes, increasing the tax base for the 
community. 

 Learn more about monorails and my opinions about monorails by going to 
 My monorail web site . 

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 4 October 2004.