Subways 

 Subways 

 The Fleming Family home page 

 Transit site home page 

 My Monorail web site 

 Rapid Transit 

 Monorail 

 Maglev Trains 

 Surface Light Rail 

 Why I Oppose Link Light Rail 

 Elevated Railways 

 Link Light Rail 

 Express Buses 

 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) 

 Local Bus Services 

 Personal Rapid Transit (PRT) 

 Bikeways 

 Vocabulary 

 Frequently Asked Questions 

 Links to other transit sites 

 Contact me 

Subways are railways built underground. The ones with which I am familiar 
are heavy rail, meaning that the trains and tracks are of heavy construction 
the same as a regular railroad. Unlike a regular train, there is no 
separate locomotive. The trains usually consist of identical cars powered by 
electric motors.

I think that subways are the best mode of high-speed urban mass transit. 
The tracks and stations are below ground, keeping the streets above free 
of tracks and stations. The system is grade-separated, so the trains are 
not delayed by traffic problems. The trains operate at a relatively high 
speed, so people can move quickly between different parts of the city. 
Since travel by subway is much quicker than by car within the city, many 
people use the subway rather than drive.

The subway is a proven technology used in many cities around the world. The 
most famous subways include New York City, London (The Tube), Paris, Tokyo, 
Boston, and Toronto. In Toronto, The Yonge Street line, once it is north of 
Downtown, emerges onto the surface and runs as a surface railway, but the 
track is isolated from surface traffic with overpasses and underpasses, so 
it has the advantages of a grade-separated line but at lower cost.

The big problem with subways are that in today's economic environment, it 
costs too much to build them. Most cities that have subways built them many 
years ago when construction costs were much lower.

My opinion is the previous paragraph applies to developed countries such as the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. In countries with a lower per-capita income where the large cities have a high population densities. The situation is different.

In cities such as Calcutta, Mombai (formerly Bombay), and Manila, with a millions of people, and with lower labor costs, a subway can be built for much lower cost than in a richer nation with high labor costs. However, depending on local circumstances, monorail or elevated rail may be selected. Manila has no subway system, but now has two elevated light rail lines.

Today, for richer nations, if a city does not already have a high-speed mass transit system and 
wants to begin a system, the best solution may be monorail. Monorail has most of 
the advantages of subways but at a much lower cost. If a subway line can 
be build for a certain amount of money, that same amount spent on a monorail 
line will result in a longer line.

 Return to my Mass Transit home page 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 Contact me 

 &COPY;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
 This page was last updated 15 October 2004.