Burke's Holgate Street 

 This page features information about alcoholism and the history of
Alcoholics
Anonymous as well as some other information of interest to me. This is not
intended to be an extensive historical site. Rather, this site will present some of the lesser known or less readily available historical information about alcoholism and A.A. 

 This site has no affiliation with Alcoholics Anonymous or any other organization related to alcoholism or its treatment. 

 Alcoholism/Recovery: 

 National Home Page of Alcoholics Anonymous 
 The official home page of Alcoholics Anonymous World Services, maintained by the General Service Office, New York City. 

 The Home Page of the AA Grapevine 
 The monthly magazine of Alcoholics Anonymous--"Our Meeting in Print." 

 Seattle
Intergroup Home Page The Greater Seattle Intergroup has a web page. Check out the meeting directory, it's updated 
regularly! 
 Alcoholics Anonymous Related Historical Files 

 An 1878 View of the Washingtonians 
 The Washingtonians had all but disappeared when this temperance writer wrote about the Washingtonian Movement. Predating A.A., its rise was meteoric--and so was its downfall. 
 The Gabriel Heatter Broadcast--April 1939. 
 The first national exposure for A.A. came with this broadcast of the popular "We The People" radio program. 
 The Liberty Magazine Article--September 1939. 
 At last, national exposure that actually began a steady stream of inquiries into the Alcoholic Foundation's New York office. 
 The Cleveland Plain Dealer Articles--October-November 1939. 
 A series of seven articles by Elrick B. Davis which gives a comprehensive, and very interesting, view of the earliest days of Alcoholics Anonymous. 
 An Early Guide to the Twelve Steps 
 Before we had the "12 by 12" this little booklet was used as a study guide by many groups. A later, expanded version was published until quite recently. 
 Chronic Alcoholism 
 A description of a bizarre approach to the treatment of alcoholism which was practiced in 1941. Bizarre, that is, from our current perspective. 

 The April, 1950 Jack Alexander Article The Saturday Evening Post published a second, glowing article about Alcoholics Anonymous. Coming just fifteen years after the founding of A.A., this article is a fascinating snapshot of the early days of the Fellowship. 

 The 1964 Saturday Evening Post Article Criticizing A.A. 
 The January 1963 issue of Harpers carried an article which harshly criticized A.A. This was only the first of several articles which appeared in national magazines in 1963 and 1964--including this one in the"Post". As a result, A.A. took its own inventory at the 1963 General Service Conference 

 Seattle Memorial Service for Bill W. 
 This article appeared in the February 15, 1971 issue of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer 

 Can Alcoholics Learn to be 'Social' Drinkers? 
 Another article from the Post-Intelligencer, this one written by James E. Royce 

 The Oxford Groups and the Big Book (To be added later) 

.

.

[ Return to the Top ]