Reverse Osmosis Systems 

 >>> Category Locator 

 Lighting - Seeds/Cuttings - Hydroponics Systems - Ventilation 

 Trays and Reservoirs - Odour Control - CO 2 & Environment - Weather Center 

 pH & EC Meters - Plant Foods & Supplements - Ready Grow Closets 

 Fungus/Pest Control - Growing Media - Accessories - Growing Media 

 Reverse Osmosis Water Systems - Starter Packs, Specials 

 >>> Reverse Osmosis Systems 

 Water is the most overlooked part of a good hydro system. Many people use regular clorinated mineral filled water! They usually claim good results, but they also usually have minor leaf yellowing and discoloration of the roots. 
 Every single person who finally switches to either distilled water or a reverse osmosis system, has a tremendous improvement in both roots and overall plant health. This leads to increased yields! G ROW gear customers have told us that this is the cheapest way to increase yields up to 20%. 
 Reverse osmosis systems are very efficient, and the water is much better for humans as well! Our advice is to take pics of your plants and roots now, then get a reverse osmosis system, 2 weeks later take pics again. You will be pleasantly surprised! 

 Product# 
 Description 
 Price 

 RO35GPD 
 35 Gallon per Day REVERSE OSMOSIS UNIT 
 $ 209.00 

 RO90GPD 
 90 Gallon per Day REVERSE OSMOSIS UNIT 
 $ 244.95 

 RO180GPD 
 180 Gallon per Day REVERSE OSMOSIS UNIT 
 $ 285.00 

 Why it works! 
 - In tapwater there are many minerals and impurities so there my already br significant amounts of Zinc, Magnesium, etc. When you add hydro fertilizers they already come assuming your water is pure. Often these imbalances show! 
 - Aside from the obvious culprits clorine and flouride chemicals, there may be small amounts of lead, arsenic, and other "goodies". All of which poison the plants. 
 - One of the most beneficial aspects of using pure H 2 O is the pH remains stable! This will not mean much if you are not currently growing hydro. But for those of us who have battled to stabilize pH, Reverse Osmosis is a dream come true! 
 Reverse Osmosis Rejection Guide 

 E.coli bacteria 

 Fecal bacteria 

 Sulfate 

 Radium 

 Arsenic (+3/ +5) 

 Sodium Chloride NaCl 

 Chromium (+3 /+ 6) 

 Glucose 

 Silver 

 Nickel 

 Chloride 

 Copper 

 Potassium 

 Zinc 

 Barium 

 Pesticides 

 Calcium 

 Silica SiO2 

 Nitrate 3 

 Chromate 

 Magnesium 

 Cadmium 

 Fluoride 

 Bicarbonate 

 Iron 

 Sodium 

 Silicate 

 Ammonium 

 Simple example of Reverse Osmosis System setup