The Business Policy Game 

 The Business Policy Game: 

 An International Strategy Simulation 

 A total enterprise simulation 
 for undergraduate and graduate business policy/strategic management courses 
 and for management development programs. 
 Player's Manual, Instructor's Manual and simulation software 
 downloadable from the Internet. 
 User licenses for each team purchased directly on the Internet. 

 5th Edition, A Domestic or an International Game 

 Markets in North America and a choice of an Eastern European, 
 a Latin American or a Southeast Asian country. 
 Markets in North America only for a domestic competition . 
 International competition has separate demand and economic 
 structures for each country. 
 Funds transferred between countries via international exchange 
 rates. 
 Production plants may be located in one or both countries. 

 Sales offices may be located in one or both countries. 
 Market research provides consumer preferences for different 
 market segments. 
 Products uniquely designed to match the preferences of 
 a specific market segment in each of the four market areas. 
 Many changes made to increase 
 realism in the learning environment and to make the game easier to administer. 

 Frequently Asked Questions 

 See Frequently Asked Questions 
 for help in understanding the simulation. The questions are organized by 
 function: finance, marketing and operations. 

 See Game Features--PC Slide Show 
 Download the PC 
 slide show . 

 Unpack BPG5SLID.ZIP file archive. 

 View slides using Microsoft PowerPoint 

 International Competition 
 You may also be interested in the International 
 Collegiate Business Strategy Competition which is held each spring and 
 is based upon The Business Policy Game . 

 Game Support 

 Since the passing of Dick Cotter in March 1998 , David 
 Fritzsche provides all support. 
 The simulation software and manuals are available to university 
 professors and corporate trainers. They may be downloaded from a web site. 
 Contact David Fritzsche for details. 

 This page is maintained by David Fritzsche ( Home
page ). Send comments to fritzsch@eskimo.com . 

 This page last updated 1 November 2001.