Operations Questions 

 Operations Questions 

 1. Training Expense 

Our team closed its home area plant and moved its production to a 
plant in Sereno. However the training expenditure entered on the 
decision form is still going to the home area plant. We spent 155 in 
training. The income statement shows 155 in training expense in the 
home area with 163 for consolidated training and 203 for training in 
Sereno. The Sereno plant just opened a new line which apparently 
accounted for the training cost there. 

 Answer 

The training expense entered on the decision form always is borne by 
the parent company for ongoing training everywhere.

Training for employees on new lines is in the area (and currency) of 
the manufacturing plant.

Training for new salespeople is in the area (and currency) of the area 
where they are located.

The Ps 203,000 for new-line training in Sereno must translate to about 
$8,000 with an exchange rate around Ps 25 to $1.

 2. New model 

 Our company will be producing a new model next quarter and we 
stocked out in several areas except one. Will we see a new model 
increase in sales (normally an increase) this quarter or next quarter? 
In the older BPG v3, you could get immediate benefits if you stock out 
in the previous quarter. The documentation implies that you do not 
regardless as to whether you stock-out or not. We are assuming not 
because of what is said on page 68 in the box.

 Answer 

The box on page 68 of the Player's Manual is correct. Even though you 
may substitute new model production for old model orders, the effect 
of the new model on demand will not be apparent until it officially 
goes on sale at the beginning of the next quarter.

 3. Payment for plant construction 

Do we pay for construction of the new plant in Sereno in pesos or 
dollars? With the exchange rate jumping so much, we would be able to 
build the plant in Sereno with much less dollars this quarter than 
last because of the jump in exchange rates. We are assuming that the 
exchange rates will help us.

 Answer 

Payment is made in pesos for a new plant in Sereno. If your Sereno 
subsidiary needs additional funds to make the payment, your parent 
company will purchase enough stock in the subsidiary to make up the 
shortage. The dollars will be converted to pesos at the exchange rate 
in effect at the time of the funds transfer.

 4. Plant expansion 

 The book states on page 119 that when a company makes a plant in the 
home area, there is space for two new lines on each side of the new 
plant. Does that mean that if a company makes a new plant with a 
capacity of 6 lines that the maximum number of lines they can have 
after plant additions is 6 + 2 + 2 = 10 lines? We made a 8 line plant 
in Sereno from the get-go and will get to 12 lines soon, but my team 
is interested in the fate of the other teams that made 6 lines or less 
from the beginning in Sereno.

 Answer 

The maximum plant size in any area is 12 lines, no matter what the 
original size of the plant was. Expansion can be undertaken by 
building additions with two lines capacity--one addition being the 
maximum to start in any quarter. See the BPG Player's Manual, page 
119, second paragraph under "Additions to Existing Plant."

 5. Production variance 

 Last quarter, we scheduled overtime on 8 of our line in Sereno. We 
expected production to be around 499 units. Instead, we got only 432 
units. Is this variance normal or within the limits of the program or 
does the Sereno workers not do overtime as efficiently as Merica?

 Answer 

Actual production may vary from the amount scheduled. In Merica 
plants the variation seldom exceeds five percent, but experience has 
shown that the variability in Sereno plants is greater, and is more 
likely to be less than scheduled than more. Your actual production of 
13 percent less than scheduled is within the limits of variability. 
See the Player's Manual, page 96.

 6. Deactivate lines 

We would like to deactivate two lines at our home plant in M2 for the 
fourth quarter. As far as we understand, deactivation occurs 
immediately when it is sent in with a decision. Therefore, we did not 
deactivate the two lines on this decision. However, the handbook does 
not state this clearly - if we wait until the next decision (year 3, 
quarter 4) to choose to deactivate two lines, will they then be 
deactivated, and not a quarter later (year 4, quarter 1)? We have 
enough cash in our budget to allow for this deactivation even in this 
decision, should it take one quarter to take effect.

 Answer 

Deactivation takes effect immediately. If you don't need the lines 
for only a couple of quarters, you might find it less expensive to try 
"layoff" rather than deactivation.

 7. Transferring employees from second to first shift 

In a real production setting, an organization that is adding a new 
addition to a plant would realistically keep Second Shift personnel on 
the Second Shift lines until they could be transferred to the new 
lines on First Shift. In this simulation, it appears that we have to 
lay the Second Shift employees off and then hire them for the new 
First Shift lines by paying for their training. Is there any way to 
transfer the productive Second Shift employees to new First Shift 
lines or do we have to treat them like someone off of the street and 
effectively re-hire them?

 Answer 

It is not possible to transfer second-shift production employees to 
the first shift, though that may be a good idea for future versions of 
the simulation.

 8. Inventory allocation 

We currently do not have a Sales Office in Sereno and therefore ship 
all produced product to Merica for Sale. Considering this, we are 
unsure how the Sereno produced product is distributed in Merica.

 Specifically: Is the Sereno produced product equally distributed 
to all three Merica areas?

or

 Is the Sereno produced product distributed only to those Merica 
areas that do not have an operating production facility?

or

 Is the Sereno produced product distributed to all three areas 
within Merica, but only in a ratio that is the same as the ratio of 
Sales Office orders for each of the areas?

 Answer 

If there is a plant but no sales office in Sereno, and if there are 
unsold goods at the end of the quarter from that plant, they would 
show up as "inventory." Normally, goods held in inventory are not 
shipped to other market areas (see Player's Manual, page 18), but held 
for sale by the sales office in the same area. Where there is a 
plant, but no sales office, the goods from inventory are added to 
current production to establish the amount of goods "available for 
shipment" from Sereno (as outlined on pages 18-19).

If goods are available for shipment from more than one plant, sales 
office orders are filled first from non-home area plants beginning 
with Sereno, then from domestic non-home areas, and finally from the 
home area. They are not spread equally across other market areas 
without a plant. For example, if you had a Sereno plant, but none in 
areas 1 and 2, Sereno production would be used to fill the Area 1 
sales office orders first. Then, if more goods from Sereno were still 
available, they would be shipped to Area 2. Any unfilled sales office 
orders in Area 2 would be shipped from the Area 3 plant. Goods would 
not be shipped to Area 3 unless there were not sufficient goods 
available from Area 3 production.

If you are producing goods in three domestic areas, the sales office 
orders in those areas will be filled first from the plants in those 
areas. If there is not sufficient production in an area to satisfy 
the sales office in the same area, goods will be shipped from other 
areas--first from non-home areas (starting with Sereno), then from the 
home area.

 9. Produce in Sereno and ship to Merica 

How can a company specify that it wants to produce in Sereno and ship 
the units produced back to Merica to take advantage of the low 
production costs in Sereno?

 Answer 

The allocation of production is explained on pages 17 to 19 of the 
Player's Manual. We have set up the rules so that it is easy to ship 
from Sereno as a low cost producer. When sales orders cannot be 
filled from a plant within a Merica area, if a plant is located in 
Sereno and the plant has produced more units of product than the sales 
office in Sereno has ordered, the excess Sereno produced units are the 
first shipped to sales offices in Merica where orders were not filled 
completely by production plants in their area. By careful management 
of production capacity and sales office orders, teams can take 
advantage of low cost production in Sereno. 

As an aside you can raise some interesting questions about the impact 
that has upon US workers and what responsibility the firm has to its 
work force. Many interesting avenues of discussion can be followed 
from this.

 10. Deactivate all lines 

We may wish to deactivate all of the lines operating in our home area 
(as we move production operations into Sereno). However, we aren't 
positive that we wish to close the home plant. If we deactivate all 
lines, is there any way we can keep the plant (but not produce 
anything from it)? To save on production costs, we may just move all 
production operations into Sereno (and add second-shifts as demand 
requires).

 Answer 

Deactivating a line just provides for laying off the workers and 
securing the production line equipment for extended storage. It still 
sits in the plant. To close and sell the plant you also have to sell 
the equipment and the plant.

Second-shift operations are not available in Sereno.

 11. New model introduction 

My team came out with a new model last quarter. The following quarter 
the old model was not liquidated. Could you please explain the 
liquidation procedure and the timing of it when you come out with a 
new model.

 Answer 

In the quarter when a new model number is entered on the decision 
form, production of the old model ceases and only the new model is 
produced.

The market demand for that quarter (when the new model is being 
produced) is still for the old model, as the market introduction of 
the new model has not yet occurred.

Sales of the old model during that quarter will be from inventory on 
hand of the old model. If there are not sufficient goods in 
inventory, units of the new model may be substituted in any area where 
the inventory is exhausted. Because all production for the quarter is 
of the new model, all shipments to sales offices during that quarter 
will be of the new model.

At the beginning of the next quarter, when the new model officially 
goes on sale, any unsold units of the old model will be sold to a 
liquidation agent.

Please see the Player's Manual, page 68, for additional details.

 12. Training expense 

We are having trouble with our BPG training expense. According to our 
figures training expenses should be 281,000. This allows for 71,000 
general training, 10,000 for sales people training and 200,000 for two 
second shift lines. According to the report, our training expenses 
are 504,000. We would appreciate if you could explain why this two 
figures differ. 

 Answer 

It is kind of hard to tell what is happening without more information. 
It looks like the team may have entered the entire amount of training 
expense on the decision form instead of only the $71,000 general 
training. New employee training for sales and production are 
calculated automatically by the program (including increases due to 
changes in the CPI) and added to the amount entered for training 
continuing employees.

Allowing a little bit for inflation, the numbers would come out about 
right on this assumption. The figures given for training new 
employees is for Year 3, Quarter 1. As you go through the game, the 
amounts will increase according to changes in the CPI.

This page is maintained by David Fritzsche ( Home 
page ). Send comments to
 fritzsch@eskimo.com . 
 This page last updated 1 November 2001.