Port of Joe Editor to Cygwin 

 Table of Content 

 Please click to select one of the following:

 Joe 2.9.6 binary with wordwrap enhancement from Gerrit's server 
 Joe 2.9.6 source including wordwrap patch from Gerrit's server 
 Compiling Joe 2.9.6 source from SourceForge 
 Compiling Joe 2.8 source from a Linux archive 

 Compiling Joe Editor on Cygwin 1.1.8+ 

 Joe Version 2.8 

 Here is the 
makefile to build and install joe 2.8. This one does not use any configure
script to build itself. You can use the makefile if you don't run configure
 on Cygwin. 

In case you have never done it before, follow these steps:

 Download joe-2.8-src+bin.tar.gz from this site
 .
 Create a new directory by: mkdir joe2.8
 Copy the tar.gz file to the joe2.8 directory
 Also copy Makefile.cygwin to the joe2.8 directory
 Change to the joe2.8 directory
 Unpack joe 2.8 by: tar zxvf joe-2.8-src+bin.tar.gz
 Apply the patch if you like, or just omit the patch if you don't use
rxvt. This patch is not needed to run joe in Cygwin.
 Get into the joe2.8 directory if not in the directory.
 make -f Makefile.cygwin
 make -f Makefile.cygwin install

 That's it.

 Joe Version 2.9.6 

 Version 2.9.6 is the latest version at the time of this writing. 
If you have GNU gcc compiler installed with Cygwin, you can also compile joe
for yourself. The new version uses a configure script* to configure the makefile for Cygwin. 
It is available from 
 Sourceforge . No special
makefile is needed for cygwin. It builds cleanly out of the box.

 In case you have never done it before, follow the instruction:

 Download joe 2.9.6 and unpack by: tar zxvf joe-2.9.6.tgz
 Chdir to the joe 2.9.6 directory 
 ./configure
 make all
 make install

 That's it!

 * In rare cases, the configure script may not run smoothly. You can just 
download the v2.9.6 binary package mentioned above. Another option is to
compile v2.8, which can be built without a configure script on virtually any
 Windows platform.

 Wordwrap Patched Joe 2.9.6 Binary and Source 

 This is the latest version at the time of this writing. You can download
the binary tarball and the source (v2.9.6 with wordwrap patch applied)
 from Gerrit P.
Haase's server . Please be aware that this is a slow link. Try to download
at a later time if you cannot make connection immediately.

 You are visitor number &nbsp &nbsp since June 12, 2001. The 
web counter is provided by www.digits.com 

 Created by: Enoch Wu