UpLink     The UpLink-58 hlg (A better way to throw)  The UpLink-58 is designed to be launched discus style. You grab the leftwingtip at the leading edge about 3 inches from the tip, face a bit to theright of the wind and let the UpLink sort of float. You then rotate aroundto the left with your right arm fully extended and release the UpLink whenfacing into the wind again. This should take less than three quarters ofa second and the UpLink will then be traveling at a bit over terminalvelocity. When the Uplink rotates upward to about 75 degrees you turn offthe launch preset and watch it coast up for about two seconds then push thenose over so you end up at the required cruise speed, either max L/D or minsink, depending on what you need. You can then buzz over and enter the gaggleof conventional hlgs at the top of the pile, or simply float around if allyou need is a one minute max. NOTE: You lefty types need to reverse all of the rights and lefts in theabove but you are probably used to doing that anyway. The Uplink is reinforcedto allow either direction of rotation but the rudder horn needs to be onthe right side for right handed throwing and the left side for left handedthrowing.     The UpLink-58  The Uplink-58 is a sturdy pod and boom hlg designed for discus style launching.It does however have a sealed finger hole slightly aft of the CG to allowquick turnaround for the shorter (40 seconds or less) portion of ladder typeevents. The wing has a .013 composite shear web to keep things togetherduring launch and has a bit of extra glass where you grab it for the discusstyle launch. The stab is held on with two #4 nylon screws so it will packin a small place. This very nice T tail feature comes from a Phil Pearsondesign . The elevator linkage is attributed to Harold Locke. The rudderis almost 50 percent of the total vertical tail surface and provides quickresponse with low deflection rates and low drag. The carbon boom is lightand rigid to take the stress of launch. The pod is a low drag design witha large radius nose to allow the battery pack to be placed as far forwardas possible. The pod is reinforced with carbon where it is required but keptas light as possible. In fact, it is also micro-turbulated with tiny holesbetween the weave to reduce the wing and pod interface drag and also to keepit light. Some others seem to think of this as simply pinholes! The pod isdesigned to hold a 110 mah pack at the front followed by a 555 rcvr (on endno less) and then two servos. I use HS80 / CS80 style servos but you cango a bit bigger or smaller with no problem.   The Pod holds everything with room to spare. None of this radio on a stickstuff. Just position the servo bulkhead where needed for proper balance andstick the servos down with good thin servo or carpet tape. The pod is a bitwider than required for the electronics to allow it to support the huge sideload from the battery pack during launch.   The rudder is nearly centered on the boom so there is not a large twistingload on the boom while launching.   The key to getting the most out of any design is having something to comparewith during a trimming session. The general idea is to spend a lot of foggymornings trimming each hlg to be better than the others. Then do the samething on a few windy days. Make changes slowly, play with the CG, shim thestab up and down a bit, try larger and smaller stabs, different airfoils,etc. When you think you got it right you need to spend an afternoon flyingagainst someone else who has the same goals in mind. I am lucky in havinga number of very good people to fly against in the Seattle area. An hourof all up / last down flying against any of them provides about the sameprogress as about 10 hours of flying alone.     Just hanging around the frequency board    UpLink-58 Shortform Specs:     58 inch span triple taper vacuum bagged wing with composite shear web  special 7 percent UpLink airfoil designed for optimum discus style launch  glass and carbon pod on carbon boom.  T tail with stab removable for easy transport  0.050 carbon pushrods.  9.25 oz average with 2 CS20 servos, 555 rcvr, 110 mah pack   Where it all started: Model Builder, December 1975    Contents (c) 1999 Dick Barker Seattle, WA dickb@eskimo.com  Last updated Monday November, 1999 09:28:11 PST