Web Pages Al Has Created or Maintains 

 Websites Al Has Created or Maintains 

Below are webpages I have created and/or maintain. The most current
pages are listed first. 

 Web Page Title and Logo

 Description

 Tropical Rain Forest 
 Information Center

 A joint effort by JPL and Michigan State University to map out
 the world's tropical rain forests. I am responsible only for the
 radar data archive section of the website. Organizing all this data
 is the tough part. A series of CDs mapping out the rain forests
 will also be published. I am also involved in producing these CDs too.

 New U.S. SAR Mission

 This website contains
 descriptions of the current synthetic aperture radar (SAR)
 technology and new mission plans. A recent SAR mission,
 Shuttle Radar Topography Mission (SRTM), which flew last February 2000
 successfully returned the most precise maps of the world
 to date. By the way, I was supporting webmaster for the SRTM
 website too.

 Unfortunately, access to this page is available only internally
 at JPL so most websurfers will not be able to access it.

 The Magic of John Carney

 Mr. John Carney is a magician extraordinaire. His long and
 distinguished career includes
 performing at the Magic Castle in Hollywood, CA, 
 appearances at several casinos
 in Las Vegas and Lake Tahoe, and TV commercials for Mastercard.
 There are also books and videos available that you may buy 
 with an on-line shopping cart.

 The Chinese American Museum

 in Los Angeles

 The people of El Pueblo de Los Angeles (near Olvera St.)
 are opening a
 museum of Chinese American history in the heart of Old Chinatown.
 The museum will display pictures, artifacts and describe the
 history of Chinese American life in Los Angeles. 
 This is very significant simply because there is
 no other place in
 L.A. like this! Considering the Chinese are the largest Asian
 ethnic group in the US, I am surprised a similar museum has not
 materialized before this.
 The museum is now scheduled to open in 2003! 

 The museum people are not too familiar with 
 the Web or what it can do
 for them so they are getting in slowly.
 I'm trying to get more pictures of their antiques, displays,
 etc. to put up on the web page. They have some very cool stuff
 from what I've seen.

 I created and supported this website for over five years
 but no longer maintain it.

 The Galileo Project

 I am the upgrade webmaster for the Galileo Home page.
 The Galileo project recently sent a satellite and probe to 
 investigate Jupiter and its moons. The mission was
 extremely successful and continues in its extended phase.
 Most recently, substantial amounts of ice/water were found
 on Europa, one of Jupiter's moons. It is speculated that
 life may exist inside the moon!

 Builders Hardware Inc.

 I am branching out from local businesses!
 This is the home page of a hardware manufacturer located in
 Buellton, CA (near Solvang).
 Their entire catalog is now on-line! 
 They offer hardware parts for automotive, patio doors,
 storefronts and windows. This site is relatively
 large with over 50 pages. 
 Their target customers are builders and contractors.

 (They have taken their website off-line and are reviewing
 their marketing strategy.)

 AAA Office Support Systems

 This is the home page of a local office support service.

 They started by offering a reliable answering service
 and courier/messenger services. Now they also offer
 secretarial, telemarketing and catalog order services!

 Their target customers
 are busy professionals, home-based businesses and
 offices that need someone to handle their overruns.
 They have never been on the Net before and have decided
 they wanted the Web to be part of their marketing campaign
 this year.

 South Pasadena Travel

 This is the home page of a local travel agency.
 They have never been on the Net before and wanted
 to take it slow so it's not a very big site yet.
 There is a 

 special travel deals page that
 offers discounted deals for airfares, cruises and tours.

 I kind of stumbled upon this opportunity. I happen
 to be picking up reservation tickets and struck up a
 conversation with the owner. I mentioned I did web pages
 and the rest is history.

 (Their website is currently off-line as they are reevaluating
 their marketing strategy.)

 SIRCED03: Educational CD-ROM

 I recently created this 
 educational CD-ROM about the SIR-C (Spaceborne
 Imaging Radar C) missions.
 This CD was written almost completely in HTML so it can be read
 by any Web browser! Also, the CD follows the ISO-9660 
 standard which means it can be read from many computer
 platforms including the IBM-PC, Macintosh and Unix systems!
 And because the CD can be read from Unix, I decided to put
 it on-line! There may be a delay in accessing the CD
 but please be patient. Remember, it's being read from a CD drive!

 Among other things, the CD contains spectacular radar
 pictures of the Earth, video clips, mission information, etc.
 Needless to say, there is plenty of interest from
 educational institutions to receive this CD.

 Red Cross-JPL World Watch Page

 This is a Red Cross-JPL joint effort for world disaster preparedness.
 I was given a great deal of freedom when I created
 this page. There's all kinds of cool stuff like regional
 disaster information, client side clickable maps
 (you'll need Netscape 2.01 ), radar pictures,
 coloring pictures and even an interactive quiz!

 JPL Section 334

 Radar Science and Engineering

 This is the home page for the section where I work.
 Unfortunately, access to this page is available only internally
 at JPL so most websurfers will not be able to access it.
 I created most of this page but do not directly maintain it.

 JPL Imaging Radar Page

 This page is one of the more popular pages at JPL. It receives
 thousands of hits per day. At this site, there are many, many beautiful
 radar pictures of the Earth and planets of our solar system.
 I help maintain this page.

 JPL AIRSAR Page

 This is the first Web page I created for JPL. There were a lot
 of other firsts for me while working on this Web page.
 First time I really worked on a Macintosh!
 The first Web server I ever brought up (a Power Macintosh).
 The page has an interactive CGI where a user may
 search for, display and order on-line images from the AIRSAR
 image database. This is also a first as no other NASA site
 has this capability! The CGI was written entirely in Applescript!
 (Another first!)
 I created this page but do not actively maintain it. 
 The AIRSAR group maintains it.

Last updated : April 6, 2003

Copyright 1995-2003 Al Wong, Los Angeles, California, USA

&#32;