Ert's personal page 

 -->

 -->Ert's personal page 

 This is one of those homepages that looks like a fairly randomly-arranged
set of factoids, but is really just an opportunity for me to use links
to all the fun little places on the Web I want to visit with some frequency.

 I'm a feminist environmentalist Canadian. The former means (among
other things) I believe in equal pay for equal work. The middle means
(among other things) that I believe we as a species have royally
screwed things up, and in particular we as North Americans are greedy
beyond compare. The latter means (among other things) that if I must
use a car, I drive with my lights on rain or shine. Je parle un peu
fran&ccedil;ais. 

 I've recently completed a couple of decades wandering through what
might be called " schooling ": I finished an M.S. in Software Engineering at The University of Houston at Clear
Lake . I completed a bachelor's degree in Biology 
with a minor in Economics 
at The Massachusetts Institute of
Technology .

 Zephyr and I live at Versailles , a co-op in Arlington, MA, USA.

 I like to DJ, and have spent a lot of time involved with such radio stations as WMBR-FM and KTRU .

 I grew up in Burlington , Ontario ,
about half an hour west of Toronto .
After leaving there, I spent a summer living at the University of Waterloo . Then,
when I was an undergraduate at MIT I
lived at pika in
 Cambridge , for five
years. Then I moved to Somerville,
MA , and lived on a street named after my boss for two years. Then I just went wandering. 

 While on the west coast I lived in the Outer Richmond district of San Francisco,
surrounded by parks and beaches, much to my delight. This is not to
be confused with the city of Richmond in the San Francisco Bay
Area, yet people confuse them, anyway. I tell you they're not to be
confused, but go ahead if you dare. You won't find your life
enriched, believe you me.

 In Texas I lived in Houston and Seabrook (right next to NASA ), which is a whole essay onto
itself. When I first moved there we averaged around 10 wrong numbers a
day. Then it settled down to 8 a week, and that was supposed to make
us happy. People down there still mainly use hair length to figure out
your sex, which works great for transgendered people who can simply
cut or grow their hair to cross the line. The local residents put
their recycling in the trash and their trash wherever they please,
then pave over it all so they can operate more cars simultaneousy.
While I was there, George W Bush as governor demonstrated his strength
and prowess as a great leader, a suitable president. In theory.

 When I was in high school, I attended a summer program called Shad
Valley , which did a fair amount towards having me end up where I am
now. Afterwards I spent three years on the Board of Directors for Shad's
organizing company, the Canadian Centre for Creative Technology, now called
 Shad International . 

 I'm an Atheist :

 An atheist doesn't have to be someone who thinks [they have] a
proof that there can't be a god. [They only have] to be someone who
believes that the evidence on the God question is at a similar level
to the evidence on the werewolf question. 

 - John McCarthy 

 This doesn't mean that I don't believe in ritual or spirituality. I
happen to believe in Gaia, or my personal vision of it, anyway. I
believe that humans grope around trying to deal with the 99%+ of the
universe they don't understand and come up with all sorts of
things. But I don't advocate the interpretation of scriptures as The
Word of Nature. Pluralitas non
est ponenda sine neccesitate 

 Here's a picture of my teeth 
taken a while ago. Note the poorly-oriented third molar on the lower right.
There was an expedition to
rescue it and its friends in late '94. It was quite the adventure,
not completely unlike the neverending story. 

 I enjoy music a lot, and try to listen to a variety of
types. (Unfortunately, I sometimes go for long times listening only to
Alternative ( sic ) and Canadian Indie/Pop.) Here's a
loosely-constructed page that tries (and kinda fails) to describe my
 musical
tastes . 

 I'm a big fan of proportional
representation . and majority preference voting. Feeling that you only have two parties to
realistically choose from when you go to the voting booth is a pretty
poor substitute for actual democracy. 

 I'm a Mac user.

 Winter 1995 I managed to get myself hooked on snowboarding. So
then I moved to Texas for three years. There ya go. I'm also pretty
hyped on picons , and
tend to make them for anyone I correspond with. ("All the better
to see you with, my dear...") 

 I use bizarre expressions involving my name in my email sometimes. If
you can identify the source of all of them 
I'll visit and make you masala dosas. 

 Excerpt from "The Extended Range Transmitter, Supplement to The
Flock of Birds (tm) installation and operation Guide ", published
by Ascension Technology Corporation <ascension@world.std.com>: 

 "The ideal location for the ERT is in an all wood building
or in a large room with a stage above the floor" 

 Excerpt from Ellicot Machine
Corp. <dredge@dredge.com> (capitalization mine). I'll note that
I was born in 1969: 

 [In] 1969 [we] became the first company to lease 400, 600, and
800 HP Dredges for short term use. 

 Designed and built patented environmental Dredge...Design endorsed
by Canadian government's environmental agency for turbidity control. 

 Don't forget to get my
PGP key before you go... 

 I use different E-mail addresses for different purposes, the same way
people have a home phone number and a business phone number. Please try
to send mail to the appropriate address...Thanks! 

 Ert's place in Texas 

 ert [at] alum [dot] mit [another dot] edu