What the Founding Father Said About Guns 

 WHAT THE FOUNDING FATHERS SAID ABOUT GUNS 

 ever wonder what the second amendment really
means? 

 M ilitias. Distrust of government. Abuse of power.
The right to bear arms. Not a day passed without a passionate article or an
editorial on the role of guns in American life. The year was 1775. More than 200
years later, the seminal debate undertaken as John Adams, Thomas Jefferson and
James Madison formulated the laws of the land still echoes. Is the Michigan
Militia an aberration or the Constitution in action? Is Gordon Liddy a dangerous
demagogue or a devoted patriot? What exactly did the founding fathers mean when
they penned the Second Amendment? No sampler can do justice to the debate, but
we hope the following scrapbook helps shed light on the relation between arms
and liberty. Our sources were Alexander Hamilton, Madison and John Jay's
Federalist, "That Every Man Be Armed: The Evolution of a Constitutional
Right," by Stephen Halbrook, "The Road to the Bill of Rights," by
Craig Smith, and a collection of quotes compiled by Charles Curley. 

 TO TAKE ARMS AGAINST THE BRITISH 

 From "A Journal of the Times," calling the citizens of Boston
to arm themselves in response to British abuses of power, 1769: 
 "Instances of the licentious and outrageous behavior of the military
conservators of the peace still multiply upon us, some of which are of such
nature and have been carried to so great lengths as must serve fully to evince
that a late vote of this town, calling upon the inhabitants to provide
themselves with arms for their defense, was a measure as prudent as it was
legal. It is a natural right which the people have reserved to themselves,
confirmed by the [English] Bill of Rights, to keep arms for their own defense,
and as Mr. Blackstone observes, it is to be made use of when the sanctions of
society and law are found insufficient to restrain the violence of oppression." 

 ASSAULT RIFLES, COLONIAL STYLE 

 George Mason's Fairfax County Militia Plan, 1775: 
 "And we do each of us, for ourselves respectively, promise and engage
to keep a good firelock in proper order, & to furnish ourselves as soon as
possible with, & always keep by us, one pound of gunpowder, four pounds of
lead, one dozen gunflints, & a pair of bullet moulds, with a cartouch box,
or powder horn, and bag for balls." 

 GIVE ME FLINTLOCKS OR GIVE ME DEATH 

 Patrick Henry, 1775: 
 "They tell us that we are weak -- unable to cope with so formidable an
adversary. But when shall we be stronger? Will it be when we are totally
disarmed, and when a British guard shall be stationed in every house? Three
million people, armed in the holy cause of liberty, are invincible by any force
which our enemy can send against us." 

 THOUGHTS ON DEFENSIVE WAR 

 Thomas Paine, writing to religious pacifists in 1775: 
 "The supposed quietude of a good man allures the ruffian; while on the
other hand, arms like laws discourage and keep the invader and the plunderer in
awe, and preserve order in the world as well as property. The balance of power
is the scale of peace. The same balance would be preserved were all the world
destitute of arms, for all would be alike; but since some will not, others dare
not lay them aside. Horrid mischief would ensue were one half the world deprived
of the use of them; the weak would become a prey to the strong." 

 SOUND BITES FROM BEFORE AND AFTER THE REVOLUTION 

 Samuel Adams: 
 "Among the natural rights of the colonists are these: first, a right to
life, secondly to liberty, thirdly to property; together with the right to
defend them in the best manner they can." 
 John Adams: 
 "Arms in the hands of the citizens may be used at individual discretion
for the defense of the country, the overthrow of tyranny or private
self-defense." 
 Thomas Jefferson: 
 "The strongest reason for the people to retain the right to keep and
bear arms is, as a last resort, to protect themselves against tyranny in
government." 
 Thomas Jefferson, in an early draft of the Virginia constitution: 
 "No free man shall ever be debarred the use of arms in his own lands." 

 WE HAVE SEEN THE ENEMY AND HE IS US 

 Patrick Henry: 
 "Guard with jealous attention the public liberty. Suspect everyone who
approaches that jewel. Unfortunately, nothing will preserve it but downright
force. Whenever you give up that force, you are ruined. The great object is that
every man be armed. Everyone who is able may have a gun." 

 TREAD LIGHTLY 

 Thomas Jefferson's advice to his 15-year-old nephew: 
 "A strong body makes the mind strong. As to the species of exercise, I
advise the gun. While this gives moderate exercise to the body, it gives
boldness, enterprise and independence to the mind. Games played with the ball
and others of that nature are too violent for the body and stamp no character on
the mind. Let your gun therefore be the constant companion of your walks." 
 Noah Webster, 1787: 
 "Before a standing army can rule, the people must be disarmed, as they
are in almost every kingdom in Europe. The supreme power in America cannot
enforce unjust laws by the sword, because the whole of the people are armed, and
constitute a force superior to any band of regular troops." 

 ON THE ROLE OF A MILITIA 

 James Madison, "The Influence of the State and Federal Governments
Compared," 46 Federalist New York Packet, January 29, 1788: 
 "Besides the advantage of being armed, which the Americans possess over
the people of almost every other nation, the existence of subordinate
governments, to which the people are attached, and by which the militia officers
are appointed, forms a barrier against the enterprises of ambition more
insurmountable than any which a simple government of any form can admit of.
Notwithstanding the military establishments in the several kingdoms of Europe,
which are carried as far as the public resources will bear, the governments are
afraid to trust the people with arms. And it is not certain that with this aid
alone they would not be able to shake off their yokes. But were the people to
possess the additional advantages of local governments chosen by themselves,
that could collect the national will and direct the national force, and of
officers appointed out of the militia, by these governments and attached both to
them and to the militia, it may be affirmed with the greatest assurance that the
throne of every tyranny in Europe would be speedily overturned in spite of the
legions which surround it." 
 Alexander Hamilton, "Concerning the Militia," 29 Federalist
Daily Advertiser, January 10, 1788: 
 "There is something so far-fetched and so extravagant in the idea of
danger to liberty from the militia that one is at a loss whether to treat it
with gravity or raillery. Where, in the name of common sense, are our fears to
end if we may not trust our sons, our brothers, our neighbors, our fellow
citizens? What shadow of danger can there be from men who are daily mingling
with the rest of their countrymen and who participate with them in the same
feelings, sentiments, habits and interests? What reasonable cause of
apprehension can be inferred from a power in the Union to prescribe regulations
for the militia, and to command its services when necessary, while the
particular states are to have the sole and exclusive appointment of the
officers? If it were possible seriously to indulge a jealousy of the militia
upon any conceivable establishment under the federal government, the
circumstance of the officers being in the appointment of the states ought at
once to extinguish it. There can be no doubt that this circumstance will always
secure to them a preponderating infiuence over the militia." 
 Richard Henry Lee, Additional Letters from the Federal Farmer, 1788: 
 "Militias, when properly formed, are in fact the people themselves and
include all men capable of bearing arms. To preserve liberty it is essential
that the whole body of the people always possess arms and be taught alike,
especially when young, how to use them." 
 Tench Coxe, writing as "the Pennsylvanian" in the Philadelphia
Federal Gazette, 1788: 
 "The power of the sword, say the minority of Pennsylvania, is in the
hands of Congress. My friends and countrymen, it is not so, for the powers of
the sword are in the hands of the yeomanry of America from 16 to 60. The militia
of these free commonwealths, entitled and accustomed to their arms, when
compared with any possible army, must be tremendous and irresistible. Who are
the militia? Are they not ourselves? Is it feared, then, that we shall turn our
arms each man against his own bosom? Congress has no power to disarm the
militia. Their swords, and every other terrible implement of the soldier, are
the birthright of an American. The unlimited power of the sword is not in the
hands of either the federal or state governments, but where I trust in God it
will ever remain, in the hands of the people." 

 ANTECEDENTS 

 Connecticut gun code of 1650: 
 "All persons shall bear arms, and every male person shall have in
continual readiness a good muskitt or other gunn, fitt for service." 
 Article 3 of the West Virginia state constitution: 
 "A person has the right to keep and bear arms for the defense of self,
family, home and state, and for lawful hunting and recreational use." 
 Virginia Declaration of Rights 13 (June 12, 1776), drafted by George
Mason: 
 "That a well-regulated militia, composed of the body of the people,
trained to arms, is the proper, natural and safe defense of a free state; that
standing armies, in time of peace, should be avoided as dangerous to liberty;
and that, in all cases, the military should be under strict subordination to,
and governed by, the civil power." 
 A proposed amendment to the Federal Constitution, as passed by the
Pennsylvania legislature: 
 "That the people have a right to bear arms for the defense of
themselves and their own states or the United States, or for the purpose of
killing game; and no law shall be passed for disarming the people or any of
them, unless for crimes committed, or real danger of public injury from
individuals." 

 ROUGH DRAFT 

 An amendment to the Constitution, proposed by James Madison: 
 "The right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed,
a well-armed and well-regulated militia being the best security of a free
country; but no person religiously scrupulous of bearing arms shall be compelled
to render military service in person." 

 THE FINAL DRAFT 

 The Second Amendment, as passed September 25, 1789: 
 "A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free
State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed." 

 WHAT BECOMES A LEGEND MOST 

 George Washington's address to the second session of the First U.S.
Congress: 
 "Firearms stand next in importance to the Constitution itself. They are
the American people's liberty, teeth and keystone under independence. The
church, the plow, the prairie wagon and citizens' firearms are indelibly
related. From the hour the pilgrims landed to the present day, events,
occurrences and tendencies prove that, to ensure peace, security and happiness,
the rifle and pistol are equally indispensable. Every corner of this land knows
firearms, and more than 99 and 99/100 percent of them by their silence indicate
that they are in safe and sane hands. The very atmosphere of firearms anywhere
and everywhere restrains evil influence. They deserve a place of honor with all
that's good. When firearms go, all goes. We need them every hour." 

 [ Home Page ]