Lindy Hop Classes 

 Class Schedules 
 Class Locations 
 How to Register 
 Class Costs, Discounts and Refunds 
 Class Descriptions & Prerequisities 
 Instructor Information 
 Questions? 

 2001 Lindy Hop Classes 

 Class Schedules: 

 Fall
 Session #1 Schedule (September - October, 2001) 

 Fall
 Session #2 Schedule (October - December, 2001) 

 Registration form for Fall Session
 #1 & #2 

 Fall
 Workshop Schedule (September - December, 2001) 
 Registration form for Fall
 Workshops 

 Class Locations: 

 Monday drop-in workshops and swing
 dance 

 Sonny Newman's studio , 201 N. 85 th St., Seattle. (Greenwood) 

 block west of Greenwood Ave, across the street from the Taproot Theater. On the 2 nd floor, enter in back. 

 web based map 
 or neighborhood map 

 Tuesday Classes 

 Wilsonian Ballroom , 4718-1/2 University Way NE, Seattle (University District) 
 On the Ave just North of 47th, on the first floor of the north side of the Wilsonian building. 
 Look for the sign above the entrance to a hallway that leads to the
 ballroom. 
 web based map 

 Wednesday Classes 
 Fusion Dance Studio , 340 15th Ave East, Seattle (Capitol Hill) 
 On 15th between Harrison and Thomas, below street level on the East side of 15th. 
 web based map (Also the location for Friday Night
 Practice, 8 - 10 Fridays.) 

 Phinney Ridge Community Center , 6532 Phinney Ave. N., Seattle
 (Phinney Ridge) 
 Just north of 65th near Greenlake. Just south of Red Mill Burger. 
 web based map 

 Due to venue complications, there will be no Thursday classes for the Fall II session. We are sorry for any inconvenience
 that this might cause, and are actively looking for a venue for the Winter timeframe. 

-->

 Thursday Classes 
 Dance Academy of Bellevue , 721 112th Ave NE, Bellevue (I-405 & NE 8th) 
 In the shopping center at the corner of NE 8th St. and 112th Ave NE, behind the 
 Dairy Queen and next to Meydenbauer Center. 
 web based map 

 Polish Home , 1714-18th Ave, Seattle (Capitol Hill) --> One block north of Madison on 18th Ave --> Century Ballroom , 915 E Pine Street (2nd Floor), Seattle (Capitol Hill). --> In the Odd Fell
ows Hall, S side of Pine in the block just east of Broadway. --> Carpenters Hall , 2512 2nd Ave, Seattle (Belltown). --> 2nd & Wall; park free in the lot just south of the building. --> Bellevue Seni
or Center (Fall only!), 4063 - 148th Ave NE (Bellevue) --> On 520 eastbound, take the 148th Ave exit and go north. The building is on the left side just past NE 40th ST. -->

 Registration: 

 Class registration forms are available on-line. 
You should mail class registrations no later than the Friday before classes start. 

Because of mail delays, if you miss this deadline, you
 should not mail your form because we probably won't
receive it in time to enroll you. Instead, check back for class
availability early during the week classes start. Then, show up a
half-hour early for class so you can register at the door. 

If you have questions, please feel free to ask by emailing us . 
After printing out the appropriate form, make sure that you fill it out completely and mail the registration to us. Your place in class is only 
 reserved when we receive your mailed registration form with your class 
 payment! 

 Not on our mail list? 
 Email us with your name and address 
or call (206) 547-7676 for more information or to have a flier sent to your home. 

 Class Times: 

 Unless indicated otherwise, classes last 1-1/4 hour (75 minutes). Students can normally practice to recorded music between classes. 
Please be courteous (i.e. quiet) while classes are in session. 

 Cost: 

 Our regular classes are set up in "sessions" of 5 weeks. Workshop
 lengths and costs may vary -- the following table summarizes 
 the costs for each type of class or workshop. Note that members 
 obtain a substantial discount for the classes they take! 

 Session Type 

 Total # of Classes 

 Class Length 

 Member Cost 

 Non-Member Cost 

 5-week 

 5 

 1.25 hours 

 $35 

 $50 

 1-night workshop

 1

 2.5 hours

 $16

 $20

 1-night workshop

 1

 1.25 hours

 $7

 $10

 Monday workshops

 Varies

 1 - 1.5 hours

 $8 (includes dance)

 $12 (includes dance)

 Refund Policy: 

 You can have a full refund if you cancel before the class starts. If you decide you 
can't take the class after the session starts, you can still get credit toward another class series. 

 Class Descriptions: 

 Introduction to Lindy Hop - 1 
 Get started with the fundamentals 
of partnering and 6-count swing. This class is perfect for those new to partner dancing, providing a "survival pack" 
of fun and easy moves to impress your friends with. No dance experience required. 

 Introduction to Lindy Hop - 2 
 Jump into some 8-count with this fun class. 
Designed to build on the concepts learned in Part 1 (above), this class will teach you the "basics" that form 
the core of Lindy Hop. Prerequisites: Intro to Lindy Hop 1 or equivalent. Introduction to Lindy Hop - Accelerated This class has been discontinued; the equivalent is the Introduction to Lindy Hop -2 class. 
-->

 Lindy Hop Essentials 

 This level has been divided into four classes designed to develop essential skills and provide 
a solid foundation for work at the Intermediate level. Classes can be taken in any order, but you must complete all four before 
advancing. Prerequisites: Intro to Lindy Hop 1 & 2 

 Essentials: Charleston : Get your kicks! Here's where you'll learn 
those fun Charleston variations, including Kick-Through, Hand-to-Hand, and Tandem. Charleston moves are perfect 
for fast tempos! 

 Essentials: Spins & Turns : Is the room spinning faster than 
you are? Learn how to turn with grace and style, without getting dizzy! This class will teach you a variety 
of fun turning moves, for follows and leads, and put you in control of your spins. 

 Essentials: Classics : Get Hep to the Jive. Learn the Mini-Dip, 
Groucho, Jig Walks, and other characteristic moves that give Lindy Hop its distinctive look. 

 Essentials: Footwork & Flavor : T'aint Whatcha Do... This 
 class will improve the way that 'cha do it. Packed full of footwork variations and Jazz movement, this class 
 will help you swing out with style. We recommend taking this one after you've completed the other classes 
 at this level. 

 Intermediate Lindy Hop 

 You've learned the basics, now add some shine! Expand your repertoire 
with fun new moves. Be prepared for a quicker pace, and have a solid foundation in the standard Lindy Hop vocabulary. 
New moves are taught each session, so you can continue taking this level indefinitely. Prerequisites: Competence 
with ALL the material in the Essentials series. 

 Intermediate/Advanced Lindy Hop 

 Are you an experienced Lindy Hopper? Ready for some flash and really 
tricky lead and follow movement? This class features challenging moves and advanced concepts for only the most 
proficient Lindy Hop dancers. 
 Prerequisites: Intermediate Lindy Hop level for one year. 

 Advanced Lindy Hop 
 Flyin' Home... Creativity is where you're at! Explore the ingenious 
variations and trickerations that make this dance sizzle. If you no longer struggle with complicated moves and 
routines, this class will help you take your dancing to a higher plane. Prerequisites: Continuous study at the 
Intermediate-Advanced level for at least 1 year. Warning: Students slowing the pace of instruction for other dancers 
will be asked to drop back to a less-advanced class. 

 Special Classes: 

 Advanced Styling and
Musicality: Learn to recognize the structure of swing music,
predict that next break or phrase with confidence, and match your movement with
the motion of the music. This class will cover basic swing music structure,
translating this structure into movement, and explore different types of
movement in response to different songs and different sections of songs. 
 Prerequisites: be at the Lindy Hop
Intermediate level for 6 months. 

 Aerials : 
 High-flying
fun! We'll work on some exciting air moves that will teach you the basic
concepts and partnering techniques necessary to make these impressive moves safe
and easy. Bring a long sleeve shirt and wear clothes with as few buttons,
buckles, zippers and things to get caught on as possible. All levels. 
 Partner
required! 

 Choreography
Workshop : This
class will focus on teamwork and creativity as we collectively choreograph a
routine. Learn about musical structure and team formation while sharing
moves and techniques with your peers. Intermediate to Advanced
level. Partner required! 

 Fast
Lindy : Not
for those with pace-makers! We'll teach the technique behind
keeping your fast dancing clean, easy and fun, and share some moves that really
only work at faster tempos. Bring an extra T-shirt! Intermediate
level and above. 

 Floorcraft :
The Art of Dancing Near Other People 
Dancing involves more than just two people, and how dancers relate to other
dancers on the floor is what we call "floorcraft". This workshop
will cover the various skills required for incident-free and confidence building
floorcraft, including: modify various moves for the available space, 
awareness exercises for knowing where other couples are and what they are likely
to do, and assisting your partner to navigate a crowded dance floor. Geared
towards the intermediate dancer, although more adventurous essentials-level
dancers are welcome. 
 How
To Create Your Own Moves : 
 Ever
wonder where those fun new moves come from? Todd & Krissy lead you
through the process of how to be creative in designing your own signature moves
in 8-count lindy. Intermediate
level and above. 
 Intermediate/
Advanced Lindy Routines : 
 Lots
of moves, lots of fun with energetic instructor Jodi Fleischman. Plus a
warmup with fun jazz steps! Intermediate
level and above. 
 Jazz
Movement : 
Great lindy dancers are great jazz movers! Well teach you how to develop
your general movement with style and add character to all those cool steps! 
Whether you have awesome moves already or just generally feel uncoordinated,
this class is for you! All levels. 

 Playing
with Tandem Charleston : We'll show you lots of groovy stuff you
can do while in Tandem Charleston, including a Russian kick, switches and ways
to move around the floor in tandem. Intermediate level and above. 

 No partner is necessary to
register for most classes! (See class descriptions for exceptions.) Class sizes are limited due to space considerations and our desire 
to provide quality, personalized instruction to all students. We encourage you to pre-register for classes to help ensure a spot in the class. 

Your registration will not be confirmed. We will notify you 
only if we receive your registration and the class is full or off- balance. 
Please DO NOT mail in registrations after the deadline shown on the registration 
form! 

 Please note that we do not give cash refunds on registrations, but we can give credits for future classes. 
Credits must be requested no later than the second class meeting 

 Questions about classes? For questions about class content or 
what to take that are not answered by the class descriptions on this page, send email to Shai Smith at lindyshai@hotmail.com . 
Questions about class registration should be referred to Dan Crawford at crooner.dan@gte.net 
or to the club's general email address, savoy@eskimo.com . 

 Savoy Homepage | Calendar 
 | Membership | Classes 
 | Practice | Performance 
 | Events | Announcements 
 | Links