Seattle Swing email lists 

 The Savoy Swing Club sponsors several email lists for its members and interested 
 Swing dancers (see below). There is also a general Swing community email and 
 chat list.You can find out more about, or join, any of the groups listed below 
 by following the links provided. 
 The Lists 
 SSCThink : 
 The Savoy Swing Club's Think Tank 
 This is an email list for anyone interested in sharing their ideas about how 
 to make the Club even better. Past discussions have included on-line registration, 
 classes we should offer, how to advertise the Club, and finding new class venues. 
 This is the place to make your opinions heard! The Club's board members are 
 active members of this list. 
 SSCalert : 
 The Savoy Swing Club's Announcement List 
 This is a moderated, announcement only email. You will usually get only one 
 email a week listing what is happening in the club and swing-related events 
 around town, including upcoming workshops, jams, lindy-exchanges and Club classes, 
 dances and meetings. No chatting and no spam! 
 SONW : Swing 
 Out Northwest Think Tank 
 This is an email list for anyone interested in sharing their ideas about our 
 week-long Lindy Hop dance camp being held at Ft. Worden in Port Townsend on 
 Dec. 26th thru Jan.1. We brainstorm ideas for dances, classes, teachers, etc., 
 as well as get teams of volunteers organized to help out before and during the 
 camp. Be a part of the action and see what it takes to run a dance camp! It's 
 fun! 
 Seattle-Swing-Chat 
 There are several other Swing 
 Seattle EMail Lists which are designed to serve the Lindy & East-Coast 
 Swing dance community in the Seattle area. These lists are supported by the 
 general Swing community in Seattle, and you can often find information posted 
 here from a variety of sources. The most general-interest list is the "swing-seattle-chat" 
 list; for more information, go to the Swing 
 Seattle EMail Lists page and follow the instructions to subscribe. There 
 is also a list intended primarily for UW-Swing Kids.