Lindy Hop Classes 

 Instructor Information (in alphabetical order) 

 Todd & Krissy Biernacki 
Todd & Krissy Biernacki currently run Blue Skies Dance in addition to
teaching for Lykes to Dance & the Savoy Swing Club. They are back from
a 3-year stint in Singapore where they taught and performed extensively,
including a show in the Singapore Arts Festival. Todd & Krissy
competed twice at the US Open Swing Dance Championships, taking 3rd in 1997 and
2nd in 1998 (Lindy Hop division). They taught Lindy Hop workshops on 2
separate occasions in Japan, including one sponsored by Watari-San, the Dance
Director of the movie Shall We Dance . Recently they worked as
Dance Choreographers and Coaches on the Steven King miniseries, "Rose
Red". 

 Lovi&#231;a Callisti 
Lovi&#231;a discovered the joy of Lindy Hop in 1994, and has been consumed by it
ever since. Her passion for the dance has taken her to camps around the
world, and she has studied under international masters. She currently
teaches group classes and private lessons in the Seattle area, and
co-directs the premier dance ensemble, Swing This! In addition to teaching
for several years, Lovi&#231;a has contributed to the local dance community by
serving on the board of directors for the Savoy Swing Club, helping to
organize two major dance camps in the Northwest, judging competitions, and
working with performers from several ensembles as they prepared for
auditions, exhibitions and competitions. 

 Guy Caridi & Nancy Fry 
Guy & Nancy have over 30 years combined dance experience and have been dance partners for almost nine years. 
They are the first couple from the Pacific Northwest to teach Savoy-style Lindy Hop and are the original
instructors for the Savoy Swing Club. Well-known for their smooth dance style and knowledge of a variety 
of dances, they continue to teach and perform throughout the region and internationally. At the 1999 U.S. 
Open Swing Dance Championships in southern California, they brought home trophies in the Lindy Hop and Team 
divisions, and three of Guy's choreographies were place-winners.

 Chris Chapman 
Hooked on Lindy Hop from the first time he saw it, Chris has been a key 
figure in the burgeoning Seattle Swing scene for many years: serving as a 
board member of the Savoy Swing club, starting the UW Swing Kids, long time 
member of "Swing This!" and runs HepCat Productions where he 
offers classes and hosts a weekly dance and other events. His love for this 
exciting dance has taken him all over the world, teaching, performing, and 
studying its history and contemporary developments amongst the most skilled 
dancers and knowledgeable people in the world. His passion, expertise, and 
strong ability to teach ensure fun and exciting classes for all levels of 
dancers in group classes or in private lessons.

 Jonathan Garrigues 
Jonathan started dancing Lindy Hop in early 1996, and has been teaching for the Savoy Swing Club for two years. 
He also dances Argentine Tango, and his obsession with good leading and following spills out of this dance into his
Lindy Hop teaching. He enjoys the social aspect of the dance, and tries to pass along the value of good floorcraft, friendly
dance etiquette, and subtle musicality. He has a degree in music and enjoys sharing his knowledge of swing music structure.
He is also a member of the Century Ballroom's dance troupe, Swing This!

 Maren Perry 
An instructor with Savoy Swing Club since 1999, Maren has been Lindy Hoppin'
for the last six years. Her own joy in dancing comes from reveling in the
constant discovery and creativity that Lindy Hop allows, and she works to
inspire this sense of fun in the students of her classes. Maren believes
that this dance is best when leads and follows both add to the dance, and
feed off each other to create a unique experience for every dance. In
addition to her Savoy schedule, Maren teaches elsewhere in Seattle, all
around the Northwest and Canada, many private lessons, and performs with the
Century Ballroom's renowned swing dance troupe, "Swing This!"

(not all instructors have submitted biographies)

 Savoy Homepage | Membership 
 | Classes | Practice | 
 News | Performance | Events 
 | Dances | Links