Savoy Swing Club Newsletter 

 &#160; 

 &#160; 

 Savoy Swing Club Newsletter Articles 
 Vol 1, Issue 2: Spring 1996 

 Swing Camp Catalina '96 

 Anyone who has ever been to a dance camp knows just how much fun they can be. Whenever we take time to spend six to eight hours a day or more doing what we most love to do, it is going to be pretty great. But if you are talking about " Swing Camp Catalina ", it's more than great, it's truly Fantasy Island. 
 First of all, the camp is hosted by the Pasadena Ballroom Dance Association, the president of which is the world-renowned Erin Stevens of Lindy Hop fame. When this family owned and operated business organization, with over ten years experience and a roster of over eight thousand students to their credit decides to put on an event, be it a party, a wedding or a dance camp, they do it right. 
 Catalina is a beautiful island of about 76 square miles, approximately 26 miles from the Long Beach harbor. The boat ride from Long Beach to Avalon (the name of the town) takes about 1-1/2 hours and offers a truly spectacular introduction to the island. As you approach, you are confronted by the Avalon Ballroom (known as the "Casino", due to its roulette wheel shaped roof) looming up from the edge of the sea, along with the marina, beaches, mountains and European style houses nestled into the hillsides. 
 The Casino, which will be the focus of your stay on the island, was built in the 1920's and remodeled in the 1940's when the ballroom was made to its present size of 10,000 square feet -- round feet actually. Its art deco style, high and ornate ceilings, windows looking out to the sea, outdoor balcony and beautiful (but extremely slippery) wood dance floor make it a real treat to be dancing in. 
 Classes are held in the ballroom everyday along with three other locations throughout the town. PBDA will be providing tram service from building to building between classes. Actually, most things are quite accessible on foot and for those who so desire, little open-air golf carts are available for hire. These are the main means of transport due to the restriction of cars on the island. 
 The schedule of classes being offered this year includes Erin Stevens and Steven Mitchell, Frankie Manning, and David Dalmo and Ewa Staremo of Sweden teaching Lindy Hop; Simon Selman and Louise Thwaite teaching east coast swing; and Tami Stevens and Scott Price teaching west coast swing and tango. New this year is the addition of Rusty Frank teaching intro to tap (tap shoes not necessary) and Shim Sham II -- a brand new dance. 
 At this time of year, you can expect sunshine, temperatures in the 70's and 80's, with gentle sea breezes keeping it from becoming too hot. Quite a contrast to a possibly grey and drizzly June day in Seattle. However, it can cool off at night, so bring some warm layers. 
 There are many historical points of interest to see. The whole island is a wildlife preserve and tours through its' interior may include buffalo sightings. This is one of two places in the world where you can take boats on "Flying Fish" tours. There are also the world famous "Under Sea Gardens" viewed through glass bottom boats or by snorkeling, a 9 hole and miniature golf course and of course a splendid array of shops, restaurants and ice cream parlors. The problem of course is finding the time to do everything -- best to allow an extra day for exploration if possible. 
 Thursday evening festivities will be a welcome dance to taped music and introductions, followed by a live band dance on Friday night and the gala big band dinner dance with the Bill Eliott Orchestra on Saturday night. Bill Elliott is one of the few contemporary composers writing music in the swing style of the 30's and 40's, and his band will really have you hoppin' and boppin'. This evening is sure to include some exciting performances as well. 
 If 6 hours of class and another 4 or 5 at a dance each day isn't enough for you --- keep your ears open. Steven Mitchell and those in the know will generally be found out jammin' somewhere in a club or on the beach after hours. 
 Oh and speaking of the beach, dont miss the Sunday evening farewell Beach Buffet Dinner and Dance. Palm trees, white sand, dancing, good music, good food, good friends (with plenty of new ones by now), more dancing and a moonlit boat ride back to reality . . . . June 6,7,8,9 . . . . . see you there! 

 -- Deborah Gardner 

 ... return to Newsletter Index 

 Savoy Homepage | Membership | Classes | 
 Practice | News | Performance | Events | 
 Dances | Links | Pictures