Savoy Swing Club Newsletter 

 &#160; 

 &#160; 

 Savoy Swing Club Newsletter Articles 
 Vol 1, Issue 2: Spring 1996 

 The SSC Performance Troupe: What's It All About 

 The SSC Performance Troupe is one of the three major branches of the Savoy Swing Club, the other two being the Tuesday night classes and Friday night practice sessions . In keeping with the club's mission statement to preserve and promote Savoy-style Lindy Hop, the performance troupe plays a significant role in bringing the history and excitement of Lindy Hop to the public. The troupe offers a formal setting for showcasing Lindy Hop, related dances and early jazz with choreographed dance numbers, creative staging, appropriate music, costumes, and aerials, whether wild or mild. Some of our engagements have included regional conventions, formal dance concerts, festivals, social dance events, community colleges, senior centers, and private parties. 
 The performance troupe also provides a good deal of publicity for the club. In the two and a half years since our first gig, the Savoy Swing Club has earned an excellent reputation for entertainment of the highest caliber and authentic dance styling. Many people have signed up for our classes after seeing the troupe perform and subsequently have become members of the club . 
 For those who are interested in performing, rehearsals are open for all club members to attend and participate. Although the focus will be given to troupe members for upcoming performances, choreography and styling tips can be picked up by those in attendance who wish to be considered understudies. Additionally, instructional video tapes of the choreography may be borrowed to speed up the learning process (2 of the 4 choreographies are now available). 
 Currently, the performance troupe is full, with six couples. There are always openings for understudies (those who can fill in for regular performers in case of injuries, scheduling conflicts, etc.). Understudies who exhibit thorough knowledge of the choreographed pieces will be given the chance to perform if an opportunity arises. If an opening as a regular troupe member becomes available, understudies will be given first consideration. 
 Besides myself, the troupe members are Dave Atkinson, Kathy Bruni, Nancy Fry, Deborah Gardner, Kristine Hansen, Winfield Hobbs, Ari Levitt, Roger Mowery, Jan de Rie, Viola Spencer, and Julie Walsh. Rehearsals are held every Monday at Phinney Neighborhood Center from 7:45 - 10 p.m. in Room 7 (top floor). 

 -- Guy Caridi, Artistic Director 

 ... return to Newsletter Index 

 Savoy Homepage | Membership | Classes | 
 Practice | News | Performance | Events | 
 Dances | Links | Pictures