Savoy Swing Club Newsletter 

 &#160; 

 &#160; 

 Savoy Swing Club Newsletter Articles 
 Vol 1, Issue 3: Summer 1996 

 Catalina Good For The Soul 

 The Swing Camp Catalina experience was very exciting for the many Seattleites who were fortunate enough to attend this year. Many of us have traveled to other cities and countries and have been spreading the word that Seattle is a happening place. I believe this camp gave first hand proof to the dancers who came from around the world that Seattle is a major Lindy Hop location. 
 More important, it gave Savoy Swing Club members the opportunity to realize for themselves what a great dance community we truly have. At first, I think many were surprised by the all the positive feedback. But as the weekend went on, the continued comments made the reality more apparent. 
 It all came to a climax on Friday night. Club members seemed astonished by all the recognition the first two days of camp and were very alive. When our performance troupe came out to perform (with a broken foot bone and two bad backs on a slippery floor), the excitement of the Seattle crowd stirred up the rest of the audience. The energy generated by the audience fed the troupe to such a high point of inspiration and confidence, the result was our best performance ever. The applause was like a Mariners' playoff game last year. 
 I could really sense the pride and joy of each club member I spoke with after the performance and the rest of the weekend. To me, it was very heart-warming that we played an important part in helping them feel proud to be Savoy Swing Club members and an intrinsic part of the Seattle dance community. As Artistic Director I try to keep in mind the more obvious goals of the performance troupe - to promote and showcase Lindy Hop and the Savoy Swing Club. The Catalina weekend helped remind me that in the course of accomplishing these goals, much greater affects can occur. There's a lot more to representing the club than just performing the choreography. You carry with you on stage the hearts and spirits of each of the club members. 

 -- Guy Caridi 

 ... return to Newsletter Index 

 Savoy Homepage | Membership | Classes | 
 Practice | News | Performance | Events | 
 Dances | Links | Pictures