Savoy Swing Club Newsletter 

 &#160; 

 &#160; 

 Savoy Swing Club Newsletter Articles 
 Vol 1, Issue 4: Fall 1996 

 Performance Troupe Goes International 

 On September 7, 1996, seven SSC members headed out to Vancouver, BC for a performance for the Holland America Lines "Ship-to-Shore" party for a group of travel agents. We were nicely accommodated at the Hotel Vancouver. The event consisted of an SSC performance, a workshop taught by Debbie and Dave A., and "taxi dancing" with the guests, many of whom were in 20s, 30s and 40s vintage style in honor of the partys theme. The "party" organizer and host was decked out in a zoot suite, replete with flat brimmed hat (which he fearlessly wore all evening). Around 7 pm, the group (Dave Gloger, Guy Caridi, Debbie Gardner, Dave Atkinson, Hilary Haselton, Kristine Hansen and Kathy Minsch) dressed in our vintage best, found our way to the ballroom where we did a little warm-up dancing with each other and with one or two of the more adventurous party guests. Then, as the dinner party began in earnest, we repaired to our chambers, changed and met for a pre-show rehearsal in the elevator lobby on the fourth floor. As we practiced to the boom box, periodically an elevator car would arrive with a polite "ding" and the doors would open to the surprised faces of hotel guests. We were thus treated to the presence of a small, but appreciative, audience at our practice session. 

 Back at the party, we performed "Dont Be That Way", "Flyin Home" and "The Lindy Chorus" (with a snappy new solo and new group choreography by Debbie and Guy). Kathy did a lovely job of emceeing our performance; Dave and Debbie taught a great basic styling class to a large and slightly bumptious group of students. The hosts and party guests were a warm and enthusiastic audience. They were also the source of potential publicity for the club as well several potential future performances and public appearances for the SSC troupe. At the evenings end, there were so many boa feathers on the ballroom floor it looked like chickens had been fighting. Now thats a party!! 

 -- Kristine Hansen 

 ... return to Newsletter Index 

 Savoy Homepage | Membership | Classes | 
 Practice | News | Performance | Events | 
 Dances | Links | Pictures