Savoy Swing Club Newsletter 

 &#160; 

 &#160; 

 Savoy Swing Club Newsletter Articles 
 Vol 1, Issue 4: Fall 1996 

 A Couple of British Sensations 
 Something exciting happened the day after the annual Lake Union and Elliott Bay fireworks celebrations lit up the Seattle skies. Courtesy of Hi de Ho, Ryan Fran&ccedil;ois and Jenny Thomas brought their own fireworks for display and lit up the Seattle Lindy Hop community for a week of intensive workshops. Ryan and Jenny have a sensational style of dancing all their own. Not only are they fabulous lindyhoppers, but they also are impressive tap dancers, which they aptly demonstrated during the breaks at the Saturday night dance, when they performed a dazzling tap routine and a lindy piece. 

 Held in the studio with a view - the Swedish Club overlooking Lake Union - Ryan and Jenny taught a lively, inspiring, challenging and fun series of classes to a packed room of eager dancers. Key features were: flashy moves which were actually easier to do than they looked; lots of new, fun footwork for follows and leads; aerials; and great new combinations. Best of all, they grilled us in styling basics every class - fundamentals that we all should be thinking about no matter how long we have been dancing. They reviewed how each of the eight counts in the basic should look, frame for follows and leads, and how to move. Buy a video from Hi de Ho if you want to know more. 

 The final night featured a surprise - a mini-celebration of Ryan and Jennys wedding (they were married right before they came to Seattle) planned by Dave Gloger and Kathy Isaacs, with cake and soda for all. This was followed by an impromptu tap performance by Jenny and Ryan, in appreciation. 

 If you werent at the workshop, look around you. The Fran&ccedil;ois couple, as so often happens when great dance teachers come to town, significantly raised the proficiency of dancing in Seattle. Many who took the workshop have integrated some of the fundamentals and moves into their dancing; both styling and moves from the workshop have been taught on Friday nights; and Guy has added some Fran&ccedil;ois-inspired moves to the performances of Lindy Chorus. Many thanks to Keith and Jennifer for bringing this dynamic teaching duo here. And the best news - they want to come back to Seattle for at least a year in residence, possibly next spring. Stay tuned. 

 -- Kathy Minsch 

 ... return to Newsletter Index 

 Savoy Homepage | Membership | Classes | 
 Practice | News | Performance | Events | 
 Dances | Links | Pictures