Nekocon Flash Advertising Information 

 Neko-Con Advertisng
Rates and Information 
 Advertising in
the Neko-Con Flash Program Book is an easy way for the attendees of Neko-Con
to see your company with out actually being in attendance at the convention
yourself. And, for exihibtors who are in attendance, it can even
help promote your sale at the convention. You can advertise convention
specials or mail order sales you may be currently running, as well offer
a way for the attendees to easily find information on your business after
the convention is over. 
 Interior Ads 
 Interior ads for the Neko-Con
Program book will be Black and White. Please take careful note of the ad
space demisions. 

 Cover Ads 
 Inside Covers (7.5x10)
B/W $200.00 
 Inside Covers (7.5x10)
Color $250.00 
 Outside Back Cover 
$300 
 Reservation Deadline 
- We must have reservations of desired space to advertise in the program
book no later than Saturday, Septemeber 15, 2000 
 Press Deadline - All
materials MUST be to us no later than Saturday, September 22, 2000 This is
an absolute deadline No exceptions wil be made. If you pre-paid for
your ad, and the program book has gone to press. Refunds will be handled
with AFTER the Convention 
 Material Specifications 
 Interior Printing 
- The interior of the program book is being printed with a All Digital
Printing Press System which foregoes the use of PMT or Velox films. They
can be sent to us in digital format on floppy, Zip or CD-R as well. We
can accept files in Photshop 5.5, Pagemaker 6.5, Freehand 7 and Illustrator
7. If you use any custom, or rare fonts, please include them. Please be
sure that your ad fits within the specification listed above. If requested,
all materials sent to us can will be returned after the convention. 
 Cover Printing 
 Black and White -
Production materials should PMT or Velox print of all ad art with the half-tones
and screens in place using at least a 110-line screen, emulsion side down. 
 Four-Color - We will
only accept material that has been color seperated with one CROMALIN or
similar-type proof. Films should be negative, right-reading emulsion down,
using a 150-line screen. Each film must have four-corner registartion marks
outside the image area. 
 SPECIAL FULL PAGE INFO 
 Full Page Bleeds 
- Page Size: 8.75x11.25 (Trim Size 8.5x11) Please keep live material
(Such as important text) .375 from the bleed edges to allow for trim 
 All other ads sizes, up to
Full Page Non-Bleed, please use the specifications above. 
 Payment - Full payment
is to accompany your ad submission. Deadline for payment is September 22,
2000. Checks, moneys orders or cashiers checks should be made out to, Neko-Con. 
Submissions and payment should be sent to, 
 Neko-Con Program Book 
 c/o Neko-Con 
 PO BOX 4141 
 Greensboro, NC 27404-4141 
 EMAIL: info@nekocon.org 
 WWW: www.nekocon.org 

Neko-Con Flash and the contents of this page &copy;2000 Chibi Neko Entertainment, L.L.C. 
Please send comments to the sites webmaster