Nekocon FLASH! Anime Music Video Contest Rules 

 Anime Music Video Contest Winners Winners For Nekocon Flash! 

1st place: 

Rawhide 
Blues Brothers 
Trigun 
Neko-Sama Productions 

2nd place: 

Star Trekkin' 
The Firm 
Martian Succesor Nadesico 
Anime Beach 

3rd place (tie): 

Magic Carpet Ride (Remix) 
Steppenwolf 
Cowboy Bebop 
Eric Ramos 

3rd place (tie): 

About to Break 
One Step Closer 
Linkin Park 
Neon Genesis Evangelion 
Charles Bathel 

 Anime Music Video Contest Rules 

1. LABEL your tape!!! This is VERY important! Put your name and address on the label, as well as the name of the video source, soundtrack, and performing artist. 
2. Please keep a copy of your video!! If you desire, we will make every effort to return your tape (see Rule #10). However, accidents, thefts and fires DO happen, not to mention the dreaded tape-eating VCR! 
3. Videos should be submitted in VHS/SVHS format ONLY, preferably SP mode. No Beta, 35mm or IMAX film please! 
For Digital Submissions, please contact us and we can most likely work something out. 
4. Video length should be about five minutes or less. For instance, submitting a video set to the Beatle's "Hey Jude" is a BAD idea. Besides, Anno sort of already did this in the Eva movie. ^_- 
5. Two videos maximum per contestant please! If you send a tape with more than two videos, be sure to indicate which ones you want entered in the contest. Otherwise we will pick one for you, and it will probably be the one you DIDN'T want us to use. :) Also, in the event that we receive so many videos that we don't have time to show both entries, the first one of the two will be selected. So be sure to prioritize! 
6. Original videos only!! Please don't send us a video that everyone has already seen, or one that is making the "convention circuit". Use your best judgement or ask if you're not sure. 
7. Be tasteful. We can not accept videos with gratuitous nudity or overly-explicit lyrics. If we can only show your video after midnight, it's not going to appear in the contest. 
8. If you would like to submit a non-competing video, be sure to state "NON-COMPETING" on the tape label. A non-competing video still counts as a video entry; it just show up as Non-Competing on the ballot. 
9. Send your S/VHS tape WITH LABEL, along with the following information to the address below. 
 Your name (this will appear on the voting ballot) 
 Your address (include E-Mail address if applicable) 
 Name of the source video (if multiple sources were used, 
 say "VARIOUS")
 Name of the soundtrack 
 Name of the performing artist 
 Write "NON-COMPETING" on the label if it is Non-competing. 

 Send to: 
 Neko-Con Flash Music Video Contest 
 8902 Dangerfield Rd 
 Clinton, MD 20735 

Confirmation of receipt will be made via E-Mail or Postal Service. 
10. If you want your tape returned, include a self-addressed stamped envelope. Otherwise your tape can be picked up at the convention itself. 
11. All entries must be postmarked by Saturday Sept. 29, 2001. Late entries or at-the-door entries will not be accepted. Neko-Con can not be held responsible for damaged, lost, or misdirected mail. 
12. Neko-Con staff members are not eligible to enter the music video contest, but may submit non-competing videos. 
13. Neko-Con reserves the right to refuse any submitted video for any reason, so be nice! ;) 

 Neko-Con FLASH and the contents of this page &copy;2000
& 2001 Chibi Neko Entertainment. 
 Please send comments to the sites webmaster