Nekocon FLASH! Art Show Rules 

 The Art Show 

 The Art Show is one of the longest running convention traditions since
the first conventions were held long, long ago, in hotel far, far away. In
keeping with that tradition we offer a place for the professional and amateur
artist alike to showcase their works of art. And as a part of that tradition,
there are some rules and guide lines that go along with it. We are trying to
be fair to both professional and amateur alike.

 Displaying Your Art Work 

 Any paid member of the convention may enter artwork into the art show.
This means we supply you a place to put your artwork on display for the rest of
the con attendees to come and view it. If you so desire, you may put the
art work up for sale. If you don't wish to sell the art, that's fine, come
show off your skills anyway.

 The art show is open to all kinds of art, both 2D and 3D works are
allowed. but we request that the content reflect anime, manga, or Japanese
images and/or styles. The art show reserves the right to deny entry of any
piece it feels that does not fit the concept of an Japanese anime convention.

 There is no limit to the number of pieces that can be entered into the art
show, however, because we only have a finite amount of space, we are asking
that all artists restrict their works to fit within about a 4'x4' area. The
art show staff reserves the right to limit the number of pieces per artist
if hanging space becomes extremely limited. If more space does become
available, the extra space will also be on a first come, first serve basis. 

 If you wish to sell your art through our art auction, you must assign a
'minimum bid' for the piece and then wait to see if anybody bids on the
piece. If you do not wish to sell a piece, please notify the art show staff
when you enter the piece to the art show, we will mark the piece
appropriately as 'Not For Sale'. The art show does NOT charge a flat hanging
fee to enter artwork, instead we charge a 10% commission on all sales. So
you just wish to come show off your work and not sell anything, it's free!

 The Art Show will begin accepting art work no later than Noon on Friday
(or earlier if possible). The art show will continue to accept artwork as
long as there is still available space or until noon Saturday, which ever
comes first. 

 When you enter your art work into the art show, you much label each piece
with the media used to create the piece. This especially holds true for
photocopies, prints, and/or computer printed art. Prints from limit editions
or numbered print sets will be allowed if the print being hung comes with a
certificate of authenticity signed by the artist and/or has the proper number
registry on the print. Only one instance of any given piece shall be allowed
in the art show, no multiples (as with prints, computer print outs, etc) of
the same piece will be allowed.

 The art show can not accept art work sent to it by U.S. MAIL or any other
parcel carrier. Your art work is safest in transit while it is in your own
hands, in the mail ANYTHING can happen, and probably will. Therefore we
require all artwork to be delivered by hand to the art show. 

 If you wish to submit something to the art show but will not be able to
attend the convention yourself, or feel that you may arrive too late to enter
anything, you may assign an agent over your works. An agent is someone whom
you have authorized to work on your behalf during your absence. The person
who you choose to be your agent must be a paid member of the convention, and
must deliver a signed letter of authorization from you to the Art Show
proving that you have given your consent for their help. An agent will then
be able to enter, remove, and collect any monies from the art show for you.

Q: Can a single person act as an agent to more than one artist at the same
time?

 A: Yes. As long as the person has the appropriate authorization letters,
they may act as agent for as many artists as they wish.

 All two-dimensional artwork *MUST* be framed, backed or matted by the
time the art work is presented for entry to the art show. Other than minimal
hanging supplies (hooks, clips, etc), the art show will not be able to supply
frames, backings or mattes. By framing, backing, or matting your work, it
will have a stronger appeal to the viewer, and will be safer while hanging
in the art show.

 All three-dimensional works such as models and resin figures should be
solidly mounted on a pedestal, base or stand to keep them from falling over
and being damaged. The Art Show staff will provide the best security
possible for all the artists in the show, but they cannot be held responsible
for damages due to improper supports under the pieces. Also, by placing your
work on a stand or base, it has a lot more appeal to the viewer than if it
just sets on the top of a table.

 The art show will accept adult themed pieces. 'Hentai' or material that
could considered too "adult" for the general public will be hung in a special
area closed off from the common viewing area. The Art Show staff has the
final word on if a piece should be in the "Hentai Section" or not. The Art
Show staff also reserves the right to refuse any art work into the art show
if it is considered far beyond the boundaries of good taste. All artists
whose works are to be placed in the 'Hentai' must be 18 or over. 

 Pick-up of artwork and artist checkout may begin one hour (approx. 2pm)
after the art auction begins on Sunday afternoon. If you need to leave the
convention earlier, arrangement scan be made for someone to act as your agent
to pick up your artwork and/or payment. 

 The art show claims no right to the reproductive rights of any art work
displayed in the art show. All rights remain with the artist. To this
effect, no cameras or video recorders are allowed into the art show.

 The Art Auction 

 If a piece of artwork catches your eye, and is for sale, you can try and
purchase it through our art auction. Each piece of art will have a piece of
paper attached to it called a 'bid sheet' which tells the name of the artist,
name of the piece, the media used to create the piece, the minimum bid for
the piece, and a couple of blank lines underneath. Those pieces that are not
for sale will have a large 'NFS' (not for sale) marked through the bid lines
and will NOT have a minimum bid listed.

 Until the art show closes at noon Sunday, all con attendees have the
chance to come in and peruse the artwork on display and if they choose, place
bids on certain pieces. To place a bid, all you need to do is mark on the
bid sheet (in an AVAILABLE bid space) your name, your badge number, and your
bid. All bids must be a minimum of one dollar above the previous high bid
and only in whole dollar amounts. If anybody does enter a bid of other than
whole dollars, the art show may correct their mistake by rounding UP to the
next whole dollar. Any piece of art work that receives three bids during
normal viewing hours is automatically held over for our live auction on
Sunday at 1pm. 

 To avoid the problem of last minute bid jumpers, any bids that are
received after 11:30 on Sunday automatically send that piece to the live
auction at 1pm on Sunday (regardless of the actual number of bids on the
piece).

 At 1pm on Sunday, the live auction starts (check the program guide for the
correct room). The live auction is a classic auction where you have to be
present to continue to bid. An auctioneer will continue the auction for each
piece by starting the biding at the last marked bid. 

Q: How do I know if the piece I was bidding on went to auction?

A: Best thing to do is try to check the status of the piece between 11:30 and
noon on Sunday when the piece is still hanging in the art show. It's usually
pretty obvious at that point if the piece is going to auction or not. If you
couldn't make it back to the art show before the art show closed, either go to
the auction or check after the auction finishes. Usually the art show staff
doesn't know all the pieces that are going to the auction off the top of
their heads, and by Sunday morning are rather busy getting ready for the
auction to check for you. 

 Paying For the Artwork 

 Once you are established as the high bidder on a piece of art work, you
can pay for your piece(s) starting at 1pm on Sunday. You may pay by cash,
personal check, or traveler's checks. We do NOT accept credit cards. No
one may pay for artwork before 1pm on Sunday.

 Artist Checkout : Claiming Your Unsold Artwork and Collecting Payment 

 If you are an artist (or artist's agent) and want to pick up your unsold
pieces of art, you will be able to do so starting at 2pm on Sunday. *IF* you
have to leave early on Sunday, please talk to the art show staff as early as
you can in the weekend and make arrangements. If you can wait until 2pm, it
would be greatly appreciated, as the art show staff really are quite busy
from about 11pm through the end of the auction, and it would be a great help
to them.

 The art show tries to pay cash to all artists as they leave, but this may
not be possible. If we can not pay you cash we will mail you a check,
post-marked no later than one week after the close of the convention. So
please make sure that your address information you supply to us is correct!

 Remember the art show does take a 10% commission of all sales in the art
show.

 Any artwork that is left behind after the art show closes will become
property of the art show. The art show will try to return it to the artist
to the best of it's ability, but it makes no guarantees about being able to
do so.

Q: I brought in my artwork, but I'm leaving early. Can I have somebody else
pick up my unsold artwork and any payment I may receive?

 A: Yes. All you need to do is write up a letter naming and authorizing some
particular person who will be acting as your agent for pick up of unsold
artwork and payment (if any). Then deliver this letter to the art room staff
as soon as you can and we will happily deal with your agent on Sunday at pick
up!

 Neko-Con FLASH and the contents of this page &copy;2000
& 2001 Chibi Neko Entertainment. 
 Please send comments to the sites webmaster