Nekocon Flash Cos-Play Information 

 Cos-Play Winners 

Best in Show Overall 
Gilbert and Sullivan presents Super Dimensional Fortress Macross 

Best Craftsmanship Overall 
Black Blaze 

Best Presentation - Master 
Love and Peace 

Best Presentation - Journeymen 
The Bad Seed 

Best Presentaion - Novice 
Messiah" - A Dark Muffins Production 

Best Craftsmanship - Master 
Yami no Matsuei 

Best Craftsmanship - Journeyman 
The Good, The Bad and Blonde 

Best Craftsmanship - Novice 
Jubei Grips 

 Any questions regarding the masquerade
rules or any other part of the masquerade can be directed to Masquerade
Director, Dan Taraschke . 

 Entry Deadline 
 Masquerade entries will be taken from 11 AM to 2 PM in the York room on Saturday morning. During this time, the coordinator will answer any questions you may have, and you can work out any details you may need to with the Tech crew. There will be a limit of 40 entries , so get there early. During this time, you will be also given a chance to rehearse your skit on stage so that you can get a feel for the stage area and you will learn to avoid any expensive equipment that may be sharing the stage with you. 

 Awards 
 There will be Awards given for the Novice, Journeyman, and Craftsman levels. Due to the excessive amount of gratuities given towards judging panels, any attempt to bribe the judges during the masquerade could result in getting you no where fast and more likely than not will work against you. Things like handing out candy, cases of Pocky, money, sexual favors and the like count as bribes. 

 Best Presentation 
 This award is given to the single performance in each level by an individual or a group who gives a convincing IN CHARACTER performance of who they are playing. This does not mean you are 100% in character. But a well written scipt and plenty of rehearsal shows in your acting and timing. 

 Best Craftsmanship 
 Awarded to a costume in each level based on the quality of workmanship on their costume. This does not necessarily mean the most elaborate costumes, but ones that show the sewing skill of the maker of the costume. Be sure to have hard copy documentation of the character you are portraying. Not everyone, including the judges may be familiar with the character you are playing. NOTE: Craftsmanship judging will begin at 4 PM in one of the Parlor rooms. You don't have to have your costume on, just with you. 

 Junior Award 
 This award will be presented to the best individual or group of performers between the ages of 8 and 13 years of age. For safety reasons children under the age of eight (8) cannot be allowed on stage even if accompanied by an adult. 

 Best Overall Craftsmanship Best Overall Presentation 
 Exactly like the above, but awarded to the best overall, be it a Novice, Journeyman, or Craftsman costumer(s). 

 Best in Show 
 Awarded to the best costume or group overall for the combonation of their on stage performance and the quality of their costume(s) craftsmanship. 

 Judge's Awards 
 Each of the masquerade judges may hand out "special" awards to individuals or groups as they see fit. These awards have no official standings towards the main awards, but prizes may accompany them. 

 Costume Eligibility 
 This is an anime and manga convention. Costumes should be themed as such. We loved The Phantom Menace just as much as everyone else. But, Darth Maul and Spiderman simply are not right for this kind event. Darth Maul fighting Tatewaki Kunou would do though, but we know how that would end up. Plus, you must also actually HAVE a costume. 
 Also, The cosplay staff has the right to refuse a sketch because of questionable content. 
We aren't trying to be cosplay nazi's here, we are just emphasizing that Strip club reenactments and skits involving bodily fluids as a punch line do not belong at a family friendly event such as this. Remember, if you wouldn't perform it in front of your assembled family, then don't think about performing it here. 

 Walk-Through 
 Again, There will be a scheduled walk through on Saturday in the York Room . It will be held between 11am and 2pm. This time is made available so that you may register for the Masquerade, talk to the event staff, have a chance to rehearse your skit on stage and talk to the Tech crew about lighting and music arrangements. 
 NO KARAOKE 
 While it may seem nifty... This has proven not to work and we would like to discourage anyone from singing in their skit. Karaoke has a place and a time, and the Masquerade isn't it. 

 Time Limits 
 With the rising popularity of the Masquerade at anime conventions, and the rising number of participants, the following time limits are going to be strictly enforced. Time limits are based on how many are in your group. 
 1 = One minute 
 2-3 = Two minutes 
 4 or more = Three Minutes 
 Staying within your time limit is essential. You will be disqualified for awards if you go over your time. (Don't make us sic Tex on you, because we will) 

 Appearing in Multiple skits . 
 You may only compete in ONE skit, PERIOD. THE COS PLAY COORDINATOR WILL NOT ACCOMIDATE SPECIAL ORDERS FOR MULTIPLE SKITS!!! (i.e. Don't ask to be skit number 3, 9, and 14. He will laugh at you.) 

 Remember no costume is still no costume!! 
 Nudity on stage is really discouraged. If you have a skimpy costume, be sure it's secure enough that when you get on stage, you don't end up giving the judges and fans a show you will never forget or possibly live down. Also, excessive use of foul language on stage will be grounds for disqualification from competition and having Tex sicced on you. 

 Acrobatics and Martial Arts 
 A martial arts sequence can always enhance a presentation, but always remember SAFETY FIRST. The stage while sturdy, can only take so much abuse from jumping, kicking, and falling down. Remember also, there is EXPENSIVE and FRAGILE lighting and sound equipment to be on the look out for as well. Leave the stage the way you found it. Please make it to masquerade line-up, this will be your opportunity to see how you will fit onstage. 

 Sword Play on Stage 
 Any weapons to be used on stage must get approval of the masquerade staff. There will be NO brandishing of live swords on stage at any time. 

Neko-Con Flash and the contents of this page &copy;2000 Chibi Neko Entertainment, L.L.C. 
Please send comments to the sites webmaster