Nekocon FLASH! Dealers Page 

 NekoCon FLASH!
Dealer Information 

 No matter what reason people
come to a convention, eventually everyone heads for the Dealers Room. 
That's the one place where many people take home more of the convention
than any place else. 
 With our return to the Holiday
Inn Executive Center the dealers room will not be the cavernous expanse
that it was for NekoCon 3. Sometimes, smaller is better. The tables will
be slightly smaller and there will be less tables to offer than last year. 

 Dealer Table Rates 
 Single Tables: 1~27,
30, 36, 40, 45 
 $200.00 per single table
There is a limit of Five(5) tables which can be purchased by one dealer. 
(The first Table includes TWO convention memberships and each table purchased
afterwards will include ONE membership for each table. 
 Corner Tables: 28/29,
31/32, 33/34, 36/37, 38/39, 41/42, 43/44, 46/47 
 $400.00 per set Three
memberships accompany each corner set sold. 
 Space Dimensions: 
Each space is 6 feet wide by 8 feet deep, with 6 foot by 30 inch table. 
Tables are covered by a clothe and additional tables clothes can be provided
to cover merchandise at night. 
 Power : The walls of
the ballroom are lined with power outlets and there are several floor outlets. 
The Holiday Inn Executive Center does not charge a fee for the use of their
power outlets, but we heavily encourage people to bring their own power
cords and power strips. 
 Phone: We can not
offer phone service at this time. The room is not set up for multiple phone
lines. 

 The NekoCon Dealers Reg Form: Download Now! 

 NOTE: To veiw this file you will need Acrobat 3.0 or higher or a compatible PDF plugin for your web browser. 

 Current Room Layout 
 As tables are sold we will
update this as soon as possible. But, we do suggest that you do contact
us before you send in your dealers registration. Email us at info@nekocon.org 
to make sure the tables you want are still available. 

 Dealer Room Policies 
 Not everyone may agree with
our policies. Please remember, NekoCon is a private show and we have every
right to enforce the stated policies to what ever extent we may have
too. If you do feel that you can not do business at our con by following 
 these rules, than you shouldn't
do business at NekoCon. Please refer questions 
 to the dealers room coordinator
or the convention chairman. 
 The regulations we enforce
are for the protection of the anime companies, the fans in attendance,
and our exhibitors. We have worked long and hard to make an event that 
 reflects the respect we
have for an industry that has brought us decades of enjoyment and we will
show our support to the fullest 

 Neko-Con does
not condone the sales of any merchandise that violates United States Copyright
laws, nor the rights of the Byrne International Copyright Treaty. 
Items such as noncommercial video tapes, LD&sup1;s, CD&sup1;s, models,
posters, T-shirts, trading cards and toys are protected under both the
Byrne International Copyright Treaty, and by paragraph code 17, sections
605 and 606 of U.S International Trade Laws. 
 Authentic merchandise will
have the proper Japanese taxation labels applied in an obvious location
on the outer packaging of the item. Most Japanese products carry
these government labels anime or not, regardless of the type of merchandise.
A few of the rare exceptions are garage kits which may only have photocopied
covers on the boxes but still have the proper copyright information
and more often than not still have the official taxation labels. Books
and the vast amounts of Doujinshi that circulate the convention circuit
are also another exception. 
 Copyrights should be easily
noticeable. Any product or piece of merchandise that does not carry
the proper copyright information, or not all will be consider illegitimate
as well. Any such merchandise that can be considered illegitimate in the
best judgment by any of the senior staff of the convention, and/or has
been brought to our attention by any industry representatives, it will
be asked to be removed from your table(s). Any dealer that persists
in the sales of such merchandise after be told to remove it will be removed
from the exhibitors hall, and ejected from the convention with out a refund. 
Consider this notice your only warning. 
 Due to the controversy over
the legitimacy of certain items, the products from the following companies
are fully banned from the dealers room. These companies are, Son
May Records, aka SM Records, Ever Anime International CD&sup1;s, Ho San
CD's, Hook-Ups T-shirts, and the Korean based Academy Models line of Gundam
and other amine related kits. 
 At anytime you may be asked
to produce a Bill of Sale, or Import Papers 
 showing the items came from
japan and are for business and not personal use. 
 These items must have a
copyright notice on it somewhere. This includes but is not limited to: 
 (a) a Japanese tax sticker. 
 (b) a date of manufacture. 
 (c) the place of manufacture
(i.e. 1997, Made in Japan, etc.) 
 (d) information as to who
the owning studio is (i.e. Bandai, Sony, Pioneer, etc.) 
 (e) not be a known bootleg
item. 

 The quality of
the items sold will also be under scrutiny. It is fairly easy to
tell the difference between an item that was made by the original manufacturer,
and one that was made courtesy of your local Kinko&sup1;s Copy Centers
color copier. These items are usually 8.5 x 11 or 11
x 17 color copies of original art work from art books which are made
into T-shirts and mousepads. 
 There will be no blatant
displaying of adult material. Art Books, Manga and Doujinshi in comic
bags and/or in boxes is acceptable. Even having a sign which says
you have adult material is fine. The public showing adult animated
or live films in any part of the public convention area other than the
designated video rooms is not allowed. Virginia State Law also does
not allow the public posting of said suggestive material such as flyers
and posters in public areas such as the hotel hallways and lobby. 
Animecons are become more and more a family event. When selling merchandise,
please show discretion as to whom you are selling it too. 
 In any event Neko-Con, 
The Holiday Inn Executive or any of its staff will not be held liable for
lose of equipment, merchandise, revenues or any other direct or in
direct damages how ever caused. The convention will try to provide
the best security possible, but exhibitors are responsible for their property,
personal vehicles and displays. 
 In the event that you cannot
attend, Neko-Con must receive a written notice postmarked 30 days prior
to the event. Any notice before this date will entitle you
to a full refund of your fees. We cannot guarantee such a request
after the specified deadline. Resale of any tables will be the responsibility
of Neko-Con, and not that of the vendor. 
 Any vendor tables not claimed
by NOON on the second day of the event will be considered forfeit
and will be reclaimed by the event to use as they see fit. To avoid
this from happening, in the event that you will be delayed from your arrival
to the convention, but are still planing to attend. Contact us as soon
as possible. 
 NO ONE may sell merchandise
from their hotel rooms. This would be a violation of the hotels
policies. Anyone found doing so will be referred to the hotel security. 
That and any other illegal activities will be referred to the proper authorities. 
 Anyone removed from the convention
for any reason will not be issued a refund. Neko-Con also does reserve
the right to refuse the sale of vendor tables to anyone for
any reason 

 Neko-Con FLASH and the contents of this page &copy;2000
& 2001 Chibi Neko Entertainment, L.L.C. 
 Please send comments to the sites webmaster