Nekocon FLASH! General Info Page 

 Memberships 

Why would you want to Pre-Reg for the con?
A few good reasons really. Shorter lines when you check in, You can save
a yourself a few extra bucks. It also helps the con to do more and offer more to everyone at the con
to make it a better time for all. The current membership level and rates are as follows. 

 *Single Memberships 

These are good for all three days of the convention, including certain events that may happen on Thursday night. You get access to all public functions and events at the convention. 

 $30.00 Pre-Reg until October 6, 2001 
 $40.00 at the Door 

Child Rates: Newborn-6 years old = Free,......7-11 years old = Half Price,......over 12 = Full Price

 ---------- 

 *Group Memberships 
 Group Memberships are also good for all three days of the convention 

 $125 for 5 Memberships until October 6, 2001 
 (thats $25 a person!) additional memberships are $25 each

 Group registration is for pre-reg only - not at the door. 
Memberships must all come in the same envelope. 
No adding people later, ever, no exceptions! 

 ---------- 

 *Nekocon Flash T-shirts 
The current Nekocon Flash T-Shirt design is located HERE .

 $43.00 Pre-Reg & T-shirt Special (add $2 for 2XL/3XL) 
 $17.50 T-shirt Only (add $2 for 2XL/3XL) 
(prices include shipping) 

 ---------- 

 *Supporting Memberships 

What is a Supporting Membership? Its a membership for those who can't attend the con but would like to "support" the con. Immediatly after the con, we will mail you a Nekocon Registration Packet. You will get a color laminated badge with your name on it, program book and any other goodies that are included.
. 

 $12.00 Supporting Membership until October 6, 2001 
 $26.00 Supporting Membership & T-shirt until October 6 
(T-shirt price includes shipping, add $2 for 2XL/3XL shirt) 
If plans change and you are able to attend Nekocon, you can stop by the At-Door Registration desk and upgrade your Supporting Membership to a Single Membership for an additional $30.00

 ---------- 

 POSTMARKING: The envelope with your registration information and payment should be postmarked by the dates stated above. This just means you have it to your mail carrier, dropped in your mail box or dropped off at the post office by this date. There's no need to spend $12.00 to overnight a letter just to save $5.00, a 34 cents postage letter will do the job.

 Help our pre-reg staff. Please Download and print out the forms below.
PLEASE fill out the registration form completely, including everyones postal addresses and email information if possible. This will help keep our Pre-reg staff from pulling their hair out and really speed things up when you and your group arrive at the con. 

 No Memberships will be accepted that are postmarked after Oct 6. Online pre-reg memberships will be accepted till October 13, 2001. After Oct 6 (Oct 13 for Online), please pay at-door. 

 - Single (or Supporting) Membership Form (10K) 
or Single (or Supporting) Membership Form - Text Version 

 - Group Membership Form (11K) or Group - Text Version 

 - T-Shirt Only Text Form 

 NOTE: You will need Acrobat 3.0 or higher or a compatible PDF plugin for your web browser to view the PDF forms. 

 ---------- 

 Credit Card Payment for Pre-Reg Memberships. 
Nekocon is currently using the services of PAYPAL to allow attendees to purchase SINGLE Pre-Reg Memberships with their credit card. 
 Pre-reg is closed, please do not send us membership money, please pay AT-DOOR 

 ---------- 

 *One Day Rates 
 One Day memberships are only good for the day that they are purchased up to 1AM of the following day. You may attend any of the events on that day. Restrictions on one day memberships are that you cannot submit art work or place bids on art work in the Art Show, or submit entries in the Music Video Contest. 
 $25.00 for Friday or Saturday 
 $20.00 for Sunday 

 General Mailing 
 Mail questions, comments, or pre-registration payments to: 
 NekoCon 
 P.O. Box 4141 
 Greensboro NC 27404-4141 
 (Mail checked on a daily basis) 

 Make all checks or money orders out to:
 NekoCon 
 DO NOT SEND CASH! 
 Or Visit us on the Internet 
 E-mail - info@nekocon.org 
 WWW - http://www.nekocon.org 

 Our business address: 
 NekoCon, P.O. Box 11582, Blacksburg, VA 24062-1582 
 (Mail checked on a weekly basis) 

 Public Mailing List 
NekoCon's Public and Information Mailing Lists are currently being hosted with Yahoogroups.Com We made this move to make it easier for people to access either list from the web browser of thier choice. Doing this has made it easier for people to join or unsubscribe from our lists and choose between receiving single messages or digests of the daily messages in one one email. Going to one of the links below will take you the Yahoogroups page for that list. 
 The Main NekoCon General Mailing List : This is the big one. This is where the Neko-ites and other strange but friendly beings hangs out. We do encourage people to try and stay on topics regarding the convention and anime in general, but that doesn't always work. All we really ask is that you be polite, and have fun. ^_^ 

 The NekoCon Information Mailing List : this list is good if you want to keep up with current announcements and update pertaining towards the con. But, with all the traffic and insuing craziness.

 Neko-Con FLASH and the contents of this page &copy;2000
& 2001 Chibi Neko Entertainment, L.L.C. 
 Please send comments to the sites webmaster