Nekocon FLASH! Guest Page 

What's a convention without guests? Each year we here at NekoCon want to bring you guests and panelist that will make everyones trip to the convetion an enjoyable and informative experience. They range from seasoned veterans of the industry, to individuals who are on track with the newest and latest happenings in video, Jpop, costume and other fandom related topics. NekoCon is happy and privileged to annonce the following people as guests for this years event. It's still early in the year and there will be more guests to annonced as we closer and closer to the convnetion.

 Guests of Honor 

 Mari Iijima 
 NekoCon is honored to announce a Japanese vocal artist who's carreer has spanned nearly 20 years. Along with her many album releases she is also known for her role as the seiyuu for Lynn Minmei in the original Super Dimensional Fortress Macross televison series and 1984 Macross Movie.

Please Visit Mari Iijima's web site at: http://www.marimusic.com 

 Colleen Doran 
 Publisher, Writer, Artist, Illustrator and Editor Americas Unofficial reigning Queen of Shojou Manga", and probably the hardest working woman in the american comics industry

 Studio Ironcat 
 Steven Bennett IV 
 Co-Founder and Art Director 
 Stephanie Brown 
 Copy Editor and Costumer extrodinaire 
 Doug Smith 
 Assistant Art Director (We dont know what else Doug does, but we hear its TOP SECRET)

 Fred Perry 
 Creator, Writer and Artist for Gold Digger Series published by Antarctic Press.

 John Barrett 
 Comic artist for Radio Comix, working on the Gold Digger: Edge Guard mini-series.

 Nickey Froberg 
 Panelist, Anime Reveiwer and designer of anime costumes 

 Michael Brady 
 American Voice Actor in Crusher Joe and Fairie Princess Reine 

 Scott Frazier 
 Formerly a Producer and Animation Director for Productions I.G animantion studios 
 Producers of, Combat Ready Squad: Shinesman, Ghost in the Shell, Blue Seed TV and OVA Series, Bakaretsu
Hunter TV Series, The Patlabor Movies, and the associate producers on Neon
Genesis Evangelion TV and Movies. 
 Teacher, Animator, Artist, Story Teller and Jack of all Trades. 
 To find out more about Scott Frazier, check out his Web Site. 

 Robert DeJesus 
 Anime/Manga Artist Publish by Dark Horse Comics and Antarctic Press
 A feelance Artist famous for his extremely cute, and sometimes "colorful" art
 Illustrator for PSM (Playstation Mazazine) Designer of Banzai Chibi-chan, the mags mascot. 

 Toshifumi Yoshida 
 Executive Producer for Viz Video 

 Jeff Thompson 
 Head Editor of The Right Stuf International Super MEGA release catalog. 

 Sean Carolan & Jenn Moore 
 Writers for DCs Powerpuff Girls 

 Artist/Panelist Guests 

 Sanknights 
 Austell Callwood and Crew 

 Humouring the Fates 
 Marc and Joyce Shahboz 

 FAANS.COM 
 T Campbell, Greg Eatroff, Jason Waltrip, Thor Thorvaldson Jr 

 Conscrew 
 Kara Dennison and Ben Cooper 

 Megazone 
 Co-Founder Eyrie Productions fanfiction, original Moderator of rec.arts.anime.creative 

 Hayes Studios 
 Mike Hayes, Manga Drawing Workshop 

 Missing in Action 

 Tristan McAvery 
will be unable to attend Nekocon due to his recent move
from the east coast to Washington State. Our best wishes go out
to Tristan and good luck on your new projects. 

 Neko-Con FLASH and the contents of this page &copy;2000
& 2001 Chibi Neko Entertainment, L.L.C. 
 Please send comments to the sites webmaster