Nekocon FLASH! Hotel Page 

 Hotel Information 

Animecon going is once again returning to the wonderful hospitality of the Holiday Executive Center in lovely Virginia Beach, Virginia. (Birthplace of Katsucon and NekoCon) The HIEC has held more animecons than any other hotel east of the Mississippi River. During the year we were away from the hotel, it has gone under a slight transformation. A new look for a new Millennium, while still retaining the laid back and casual atmosphere that our attendees and guests have come to enjoy year after year. 

 Nightly Rates 
 $79.00 
 per room per night for Single to Quad Occupany. 
This rate will available starting the Thursday night before the convention through to
the Monday morning after.

 Making Resevations 

 It is best to place your resevations Mon-Fri between 8AM and 5PM EST directly with the hotel. If you call Holiday Inn's 1-800 national number there is a chance they will either tell you that the hotel is booked, or that they don't know about the convention. (It has happened) When you do make your reservations, You must mention NekoCon in order to get the grouip rate. Deadline to reserve a room under the convention rate is September 29, 2001 
 You can place your reservations for Neko-Con by either contacting the hotel
directlty at the address and phone number below.

 Holiday Inn Executive Center
 5655 Greenwich Road
 Virginia Beach, Virginia 23462
 (757) 499-4400

 or 
You can make your reservations over the internet from the Holiday Inn
Executive Center's Online
Reservation Service , loctaed on their web site. 

 Hotel Amenities 
Guestrooms with In-Room Coffee, Cable Television & Complimentary HBO
 Free Parking
 Complimentary Local Phone Calls
 In-Room Voice Mail and Messages
 Mailboxes Etc. locataed in Hotel Lobby
 Room Service
 Complimentary Airport Transportation
 Full Service Restaurant and Lounge
 Indoor/Outdoor Swimming Pools
 Exercise Room, Sauna and Whirlpool
 Business Center Available
 Computer Ports in all Guest Rooms
 Dry Cleaning and Laundry Services 

 Overflow Hotels 
 Hampton Inn - 5793 Greenwich Road (757)490-9800 
122 units. Kings & doubles avail. - free continental breakfast - exercise and weight room - pool - CC/TV - non-smoking rooms 
 Courtyard by Marriott - 5700 Greenwich Road (757) 490-2002 
146 units. A/C - restaurant - lounge - pool - exercise room - whirlpool - CC/TV 

Both hotels are next door to the Holiday Inn Exec Center. 
Note: There is no con rate for the overflow hotels but they are the same price or cheaper. 

 Travel Directions 
 By Car 
For directions by car, CLICK HERE 

 Air 
 Most major carriers fly into Norfolk International 
(Norfolf Int's 3 Letter Airport Code is ORF ) 
The airport is only a short 15 minute ride away and the Holiday Inn Exec Center 
 does offer a complimentary shuttle service for arriving and deprating guests.

 Amtrack and Bus Service 
 The nearest Amtrack or Bus Terminal is located in neighboring Norfolk. 
No shuttle service is available. Calling a cab, or arranging for a friend
to pick you or drop you off is your best way to reach the hotel. 

 After you arrive at the convention, occasionally you may want to leave
to get food, stop by an ATM. or even just fuel up before your long trip
home. Here's a easy to follow map and a listing of some the favorite
spots near the hotel. 

 Holiday Inn Executive Center 

 Sentara
Leigh Hospital 

 1. Denny's
 2. 7-Eleven
 3. Exxon Service Station
 3a. Exxon Gas
 4. Wendy's
 5. MacDonald's
 6. Shoney's
 7. Strip Mall 
 Kyushuu's Take Out Sushi 
 Tony's Hot Dogs 
 New Town Inn 
 8. Amoco Gas
 9. Getty Mart
 10.&nbsp Willie's Grill
 11. Arrow Head Plaza 
 Dunkin Donuts 
 Zero's Subs 
 Burger King 
 12. Nick's Grill 

 13 Kempsville Plaza 
 Pizza Hut Express Carry Out 
 Szechuan Gardens 
 Pastrami Joe's 
 14 China Combo Express
 15 McDonalds's and Lomg John Silvers
 16 Amoco
 17 Palard's Chicken
 18 Ragazzi's
 19 Exxon
 20 Military Circle Plaza 
 Kinko's 
 Compu USA 
 Office Depot 
 Kentucky Fried Chicken 
 21. BP Gas
 22. Texaco
 23. Crown Gas 

 ATM machine are located at the Chartway and the Naval
Federal Credit Union. located within walking distance on Newtown Road.
(Turn at the light on Newton and Greenwich road) 

 Neko-Con would like to thank Patrick Starling for updating the 
 information for our local area map. 

 Neko-Con FLASH and the contents of this page &copy;2000
& 2001 Chibi Neko Entertainment. 
 Please send comments to the sites webmaster