Nekocon FLASH! Volunteering 

 Volunteering 

 Like any major movie, broadway stage production,
rock concert. There are always the people who go by unseen, but their roll
in the production is no less important. Even anime conventions have these
people. They're called the volunteers, gophers, reg takers, door watches,
or roving security. What ever name they are given, they are the support
column of any convention. And like any convention Neko-Con needs volunteers
to help to make this the best con it can be. 
 Right now, you're probably wondering, "Hey
what's in it for me?" Ok, so maybe just the warm fuzzy feeling you get
for helping out just isn't quite enough to make you jump on the band wagon.
That's why we have other goodies just waiting to offer to give you that
encouraging boost. After all, you should get something for all your hard
earned work. Being a volunteer at Neko-Con will entitle you to, 
 Free Food 
 A separate hospitality suite for volunteers
will set up away from the hustle and bustle of the convention for people
to recharge and collect themselves. Drinks, and quick and easy foods will
be there for your consumption. (We're talking real food here folks, just
not chips, dips, and ding-dongs) 
 Sleeping Space 
 The gopher crash space will be limited
to a first come first serve basis. We will only have so many rooms
and you can only fit so many people in a room. And it will give a place
to freshen up, take a shower and change clothes. Stacking people like cord-wood
could cause more problems than it's worth. And, hanging hammocks for the
walls is a sure fire way to upset the hotel. Two things to remember
if you're going to try for the "gopher holes" as a sleeping spot. 
Bring a sleeping bag and pillow, and be sure you have a back up in case
the rooms are currently filled to capacity. 
 Goodies 
 We ask, but not demand that any one who
volunteers for 12 hours during the convention. Twelve hours may seem
like a lot but the time will fly by. After you've done your full 12 hours
for the weekend you are entitled to something for your time well spent. 
And what you will get is one the rare and collectible, Neko-Con Staff T-shirts
to proudly wear and sport around the con showing everyone that you are
one of the few, the proud,
 "The Neko Pack". 
 What if I do more than 12 hours? 
 We're glad you asked. There are
those who put in even more of their time and effort into helping out at
the con, and in turn we do want to do something for helping us out. 
We are offering FREE memberships for next year to next years Neko-Con for those
who do volunteer 20 hours or more. 
 Ok, if you've read this far, then maybe
your still interested in signing up? And there are two ways to sign up. 
 At the Con 
 After you've registered, stop by con operations
and ask to sign up. The staff there be more that happy to take you in,
sign you up, and give you the grand tour. 
 Before the Con 
 After you send in your pre-reg, you can
EMail the head gopher stangler.. err.. gopher wrangler at, macross85@hotmail.com
 and
say you want to volunteer, and what part of the con you want to help in.
Some areas of the con, like video rooms fill up with volunteers very fast.
So you may not get the exact spot and hours you want. If you don't have
email, just put a note in the envelope when you mail in your pre- registration.
Either by email, or US Mail you will be notified that you are pre- registered
for the volunteer squad. 
 Signing up for hours . 
 Your volunteer hours are broken down into
2 hour blocks. And you sign up for each of these blocks in whatever area
you volunteer to help in. But we will never ask to you work more than 2
blocks in a row (4 hours) You did come to see the convention, didn't you?
There will be sign up sheets in the Operations Room at the conventions.
And those who sign up early will get first dibs on the hours that will
be available. 

 Neko-Con FLASH and the contents of this page &copy;2000
& 2001 Chibi Neko Entertainment. 
 Please send comments to the sites webmaster