Tips For Schematic Scanning 

 If you are a collector of European Radios, Click HERE. 
 Scott's Schematic 
 Scanning Tips 
 Since 
 I started posting these manuals on line, I have received a lot of e-mail from 
 people wanting to know how I scanned the pages. I am not a scanning "expert", 
 but I have done enough of these now to put a workable procedure into written 
 form. The procedure I used is really quite simple. 
 REQUIREMENTS 
 FOR SCANNING 
 First 
 of all, you will need: 
 1. A reasonably 
 fast computer, with a lot of memory, a decent video card, and a well-focused 
 video display. 
 2. A good scanner, capable of rendering 256 grayscale shades at a minimum. 
 3. A good graphics manipulation program such as Paint Shop Pro or Photoshop. 
 4. A decent printer. 
 5. A good pair of eyes. 
 What's 
 a reasonably fast computer? Probably Pentium II or above, with at least 128 
 MB of memory. Although you could get by with less speed and memory, It really 
 slows things down if you do. My current system is a Pentium III 800 Mhz syatem 
 with 128 MB of memory, and it seems to work pretty well for this purpose. 
 A well-focused display is a must! 
 What's 
 a good scanner? One that's reasonably fast, rugged, scales the size of documents 
 well, produces nice bright images and clear readable text, and has versatile, 
 well-behaved TWAIN software with it. These requirements seem to eliminate 
 about 90% of the low-buck parallel port scanners out there. I would prefer 
 SCSI or USB interfaces for the scanner because of the higher speeds possible 
 with these interfaces. You do NOT need the latest, greatest scanner to do 
 schematics- I have two rather geriatric scanners, an HP ScanJet IIcx that 
 is almost 10 years old, and a ScanJet 4c that is about 5 years old. I have 
 used both of these scanners to produce the online Beitman books, and they 
 both work great and are built like tanks. 
 What's 
 a good graphics manipulation program? It will be one that works with your 
 scanner, allows you to view an image in extreme close-up, can adjust the brightness 
 and contrast of an image, has an easy way to convert greyscale to 2-color 
 black and white, and one that you are comfortable working with. If you have 
 Photoshop, by all means use it; If not, Paint Shop Pro is a good choice-It 
 does everything that needs to be done when scanning schematics at about 1/5 
 the cost of Photoshop. 
 A decent 
 printer? Anything 300 dots per inch resolution or above will do the trick. 
 The ability to render grayscale or color images accurately is a real plus. 
 THE SCANNING 
 PROCESS 
 When a 
 beginner first scans a schematic, the first thought is usually to scan it 
 in black and white (2 color) mode. After all, It's a black and white drawing 
 on paper, so why not scan it that way? 
 Well, 
 It's not quite that simple. Sometimes, a black-and-white scan will come out 
 just fine, but often, there will be a loss of detail-component values and 
 numbers may not be readable, there may be broken lines, or there are black 
 patches in the scan in areas that should be white. 
 The reasons 
 for the unsatisfactory results lie in the characteristics of the paper and 
 ink used to print the original schematics. Some batches or types of paper 
 discolor more over time than others, some absorb ink better than others, and 
 some inks behave differently than others. So, instead of merely having a purely 
 black and white original schematic as it appears to the naked eye, you actually 
 have a drawing that has a very subtle greyish fringe around everything that 
 is printed on the page. I have found that these subtleties must be captured 
 in the initial scan in order to obtain good results later on in the process. 

 The fastest, 
 most memory efficient to do this is to scan the drawing in grey-scale mode. 
 Scanning it this way allows all sorts of subtle tweaking to be done to improve 
 the quality of the finished product that is impossible with a two color image, 
 as we will see later. 
 Now, we 
 will scan a test image. Fire up your graphics program of choice , put a schematic 
 on the scanner glass and preview-scan it. Almost all scanner software has 
 a "preview" mode, where a test scan is done quickly at a very low 
 resolution so the user can crop the scan, adjust color, brightness, contrast, 
 resolution, etc. (The preview window of HP's scanner software is shown in 
 the picture below, your software may be different in appearance). You will 
 want to set the software's options to scan in "grey scale" mode, 
 with 256 shades of grey, with a resolution of 300 dots per inch (dpi). Do 
 NOT confuse grey-scale with half-tone mode; they are entirely different. The 
 preview mode usually performs an analysis of the image being scanned and will 
 automatically set the brightness and contrast settings to what it thinks are 
 the best values. You will need to bring the brightness down a few notches 
 and the contrast up a few notches before scanning in the final drawing. When 
 everything is set up properly, do the final scan. The resulting scan will 
 most likely be somewhat grey in appearance, rather than white-this is normal. 
 Now, use 
 the magnifying glass tool in your graphics program to display the scan in 
 1:1 mode. This will allow you to view only a small portion of the scan in 
 extreme close-up, as shown in the picture below. 

 You will 
 want to pay particular attention to how clearly small but important details, 
 such as component values and tube pin numbers appear in this close-up mode. 
 If these small details show up clearly, then you can go on to the next step. 
 If they appear to bleed together a bit, you will need to reduce the contrast 
 setting and/or increase the brightness and do another final scan. If the details 
 appear to be missing or broken up, then you need to increase the contrast 
 and reduce the brightness some more and scan again. 
 Now, you 
 will want to reduce the number of colors to 2-black and white. This will greatly 
 reduce the space required to save the drawing to disk and will make it much 
 easier to download if it is to be put on the internet. Paint Shop Pro has 
 a function for this, called "Decrease Color Depth", which is shown 
 below. 

 Photoshop's 
 function for this is called "Image mode", and needs to have "Bitmap" 
 mode selected, which is shown below.. 

 Note the 
 settings shown in the above pictures. These are the settings you should use 
 when reducing the drawing from gray scale to 2-color mode. Set your graphics 
 program to these settings and click OK. In a few seconds you will have the 
 final result-A good looking, clear, black and white schematic. 

 Save 
 the drawing to your disk and you are done. I prefer saving the scans in TIFF 
 format; They seem to be a little easier to work with in that format. You can 
 also save them in GIF format as well. Do NOT save them as JPEG files. JPEG 
 is a "lossy" format and will attempt to compress the files in a 
 way that will result in a substantial loss of detail. 
 You will 
 probably notice a minor loss of detail after the colors are reduced; This 
 is normal and the schematic will still print out nicely on your printer. It 
 won't be quite as good as the original, but it will be close. 
 SCANNING 
 PRINTED PHOTOS 
 Sometimes, 
 you will encounter schematics and other printed material that has black and 
 white or color photos showing component locations, alignment points and other 
 information. Attempting to scan these printed photos often results in a weird, 
 objectionable symmetical pattern in the scanned image that looks as if you 
 are looking at the picture through a screen door, as shown in the picture 
 below, which was scanned directly from a magazine: 

 The original 
 magazine image looks good and the scanner can scan ordinary photos just fine, 
 so what is going on here? 
 In order 
 to understand why this occurs, it's necessary to understand how these printed 
 photos are constructed, and how they differ from ordinary photos. 
 In an 
 ordinary photograph, the photo is printed by selectively exposing to light 
 a sheet of paper that has been coated with a substance containing lots of 
 light senstive particles, and then developing the photo in a darkroom to make 
 the light-exposed particles visible. Due to the nature of the process used 
 to manufacture the light-sensitive paper, the particles are pretty randomly 
 spaced-there is no real discernable pattern to their placement on the paper. 
 A photo 
 that is printed in a magazine or other publication is constructed quite differently. 
 It consists of a set grid of thousands of rows of extremely small, precisely 
 placed colored dots, each placed in such a way that almost any color or shade 
 of grey can be represented. The dots are so small and so numerous that the 
 naked eye perceives the series of dots as one continuous photo. The number 
 of dots in each row is determined by the quality demands of the publisher, 
 and the limitations of the printer used to render the picture. 
 A scanned 
 image is somewhat similar to a magazine photo, in that it also consists of 
 thousands of rows of dots. The exact of number of dots in each row is determined 
 by the scanner's resolution settings, usually represented in dots-per-inch 
 (dpi) 
 So, when 
 you are scanning a magazine photo into a computer using a scanner, you are 
 in essence building an image out of a pattern of dots with a fixed number 
 of dots per row, that is based on an image that is ALREADY BUILT out of a 
 pattern of dots with a fixed number of dots per row. 
 And therein 
 lies the problem......Unless the resolution your scanner is set at precisely 
 matches the number of dots-per-inch in the magazine photo you are trying to 
 scan, there are going to be portions of the resulting scan where some dots 
 in the two images will nearly intersect, and because the number of dots per 
 row is fixed in each image, they will repeatedly intersect in the same place, 
 line after line. It is this repeated intersecting throughout the image that 
 causes the weird patterns. 
 So, what 
 can be done about it? 
 Well, 
 the TWAIN software that comes with some scanners has a "descreen" 
 button or checkbox that attempts to eliminate this problem as you are scanning 
 the document. This feature, on the scanners I've seen that has it, seems to 
 work but the results are a bit generic and inconsistent. Sometimes, the option 
 works OK, but many times the descreening is not enough to eliminate the weird 
 patterns completely. In some cases there is an unacceptable loss of detail 
 along with the de-screening. 
 My scanner's 
 software does not have the de-screening option, so I had to find another way 
 to do it. Basically, what needs to be done is to have the resolution of the 
 initial scan match the resolution of the magazine photo as closely as possible, 
 and then make the dots in the scanned image more random, like a photograph. 
 The way 
 I have found to do this that works best is to scan the picture several times 
 at various resolutions, each one being at least double the resolution you 
 intend for the finished product. View a portion of each one at 1:1 size; you 
 will most likely have one of them that shows less of the weird pattern than 
 the rest. Keep that one and discard all the rest, as shown below: 

 Next, 
 soften the image using your graphics program. In Paint Shop Pro, the function 
 is called "Soften", in Photoshop it is called "Blur". 
 Apply the softening function twice, and there will be a less coarse dot pattern 
 in the scanned image as shown below: 

 Now, reduce 
 the image size by 50%, as shown below: 

 Now, use 
 the "Sharpen" function in your graphics program two or three times 
 until you get an acceptable degree of sharpness: 

 NOTE: 
 You may notice as you are sharpening the image that the weird pattern starts 
 to show up. In this case, you will need to back off the sharpening a notch. 
 Now, reduce 
 the image size to whatever resolution you want for the finished product. If 
 it needs further sharpening as a result of the size reduction, do it and then 
 save your final image: 

 You are 
 done! Now, doesn't the picture above look a lot better than that first scan? 
 What if 
 you can't get the sharpness that you want and still eliminate the weird pattern? 
 I have found that scanning the magazine image cock-eyed and then using the 
 "Rotate Image" function in the graphics program to make it straight 
 somewhere in the above process sometimes helps to eliminate the weird pattern 
 in really stubborn photos. Try it if you can't get acceptable results any 
 other way. 
 SCANNING 
 LARGE SCHEMATICS 
 Sometimes 
 you might encounter a schematic that is bigger than your scanner's glass. 
 One way to get around this problem is to scan the drawing into two or more 
 image files, print the files, and then stick the pieces together with scotch 
 tape. This will work, but it's kind of inconvenient. 
 A better 
 way is to scan the drawing into two or more image files as described above, 
 then piece them back together using your graphics program. The procedure is 
 fairly straightforward. 
 First 
 of all, scan in all of the pieces in such a way that they all overlap a bit 
 when put together, as shown in the pictures below: 

 Then, 
 use your graphics program to make the canvas size of one of them equal to 
 the size of the whole schematic: 

 Now find 
 the point on this portion of the schematic where the drawing matches the edge 
 of the other portion of the schematic. Zoom in to that point so that you have 
 about a 1:2 view of the schematic, then copy and paste the other portion of 
 the schematic and move it into the place where the two portions join as seamlessly 
 as possible, as shown in the pictures below: 

 Not 
 quite there yet....... 

 Perfect!! 
 Once you 
 have done this, you will have to examine the entire length of the "seam" 
 where the portions of the schematic join to make sure it lines up perfectly 
 everywhere. If one portion of the drawing was scanned at a slightly different 
 angle realitive to the other portion(s), It will NOT line up perfectly. The 
 easiest way out of this is to rotate the pasted portion of the drawing a little 
 at a time until everything lines up just about right. 
 Now, reduce 
 the image size so that it will fit on a single sheet of paper, and print it 
 out. Most likely, the text and graphics on the drawing will be small, but 
 still readable. If they are not, then you will need to Increase the image 
 size, and the size of the paper, until it is readable. 
 ELIMINATING 
 BLEED-THROUGH 
 Many 
 schematics taken from books (such as the Beitman books) will have text and 
 graphics printed on both sides of the paper they are printed on. If the paper 
 used is thin and cheap, as is often the case, the information on the side 
 of the page you aren't scanning will "bleed" through to the side 
 being scanned. 
 Adjusting 
 the brightness and contrast of the image will reduce the effects of the bleed-through, 
 but tends to make the results look a little washed out. Fortunately, there 
 is an easier and better way to do it. 
 Get a 
 black piece of paper or cardboard, as black and as thick as you can find, 
 and place it on top of the page being scanned, so that it completely covers 
 the printing on the other side, then scan it as you normally would. This will 
 usually eliminate at least 90% of the bleed-through effect. 
 If there 
 is still enough bleed-through to be concerned about, you can use the brightness 
 and contrast settings in your graphics software to eliminate the remainder 
 of it.