Types of Poles and Bracket Arms 

 Types of Poles and
Bracket Arms 

There are millions of streetlight poles out there, and dozens of
manufacturers. I have compiled 5 of what I have seen to be the most
common. These designs can still be found in most every place in the
United States. These poles are primarily meant for cobra-head
luminaires. 

 Each one of these poles (with the
exception of the davit pole) has a counterpart with similar design that
attaches to wooden poles. An unsupported upsweep arm on a wooden pole is
also known as a cantilever. 

The single and double-guy poles are now on my endangered species list. 
They are still very common on wooden poles, but to my knowledge are no
longer being made for metal poles. These poles were common back in the
day of remote-ballast luminaires. The arm itsself was usually made of
slender pipe, so the guy wires were necessary to keep the lamp at the end
of the arm from swaying too violently. It was the first realistic way to
extend the length of the arm. 

The upsweep arm has been around forever as well. Often, especially in
older installations, you'll see upsweep arms with a small support arch
underneath the arm. These arches were ment to help stabilize the
luminaire, but they also improved the look of the pole. Most new upsweep
arms are without such arches, as they are not needed with todays sturdier
construction, but some manufacturers still offer them. 

Tapered elliptical, davit and Truss-arm poles are commonly found
throughout the US and are still being manufactured by most companies. My
experience has told me these have not been around as long as guy or
upsweep arms. Here in Washington, the WSDOT uses two main types of poles. 
The davit seems the most common these days. Another style, which I call
the double-davit (The state calls it "Angular") is also very common. It
has two small bends (see picture of GE M1000 in Seatac on pictures page
for an example). 

I travel a lot for work. In my travels, here is what I have seen each
state/province using (in new construction on state/provincial highways):
Davit Poles: Washington, British Columbia, Alberta, Minnesota, Rhode
Island. Double Davits: Washington, Utah, New Mexico. Truss-Arm: Texas,
Florida, Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana, Michigan, Ontario, Quebec, New
York, Ohio, Nebraska. (there are likely more states using trusses, I just
haven't seen them) Upsweep: Alaska, Oregon, California, Nevada, Idaho,
Arizona, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, Pennsylvania. Also, span wire
installations can be seen on interstates in Michigan. 

This page is in no way shape or form part of any corporation or government
agency. It is the creation of Jim Terry. Please,
feel free to link to this page!