`9 

 the multiplication of objects 

 O =object
 V =viewer

if the viewer is an object, this substitution can be made:

 V = O 

here's an equation that describes the object-viewer relationship:

x O y V = x O y O = x y = C 

 C equals the number of objects created by this equation.

when the viewer looks or sees, the viewer not only acquires and possesses an
image but also creates an image that is unique. no two viewers can be at the
exact same location at the same time. this alone assures that no two views
can be the same even if the two viewers have the exact same colour sensitivity 
and depth of vision.

 modification 

 O =object
 V =viewer
 T =object location
 F =viewer location

 O V T F = C 

 C =conceived object

example:

1. let's say you're inside a gallery looking at a painting. at that point, 
 O=1, V=1, T=1, and F=1. its safe to say that the painting's location is 
 fixed. 

 you decide to take a closer look at the painting. it is another view. you
 see more details which alter your conception of the painting. this means an
 additional viewer location. using the C equation, the result is 2 Cs 
 (1 1 1 2 = 2).

 after 10 minutes, you decide to move away to look at another painting.
 another viewer looks at the painting you just left. two viewers have now
 seen the painting. at the point from you looking at the painting, then
 going closer, then leaving which enables another viewer to look at the
 painting, four conceived objects have been created (1 2 1 2 = 4).

it looks like i need to modify the equation. wouldn't the result be 6 because
viewer b might have had a different location from viewer a?
(1 2 1 3 = 6). 

somehow, it has to be made clear that adding a viewer doesn't necessarily add
another viewer location (F) in the equation. the same goes for the object.

 modification 2 

 O =object
 V =viewer
 L =location
 C =conceived object

[( O 1 L 1 ) + ( O 2 L 2 ) ... ] [( V 1 L 1 ) + ( V 2 L 2 ) ... ] = C 

 on change 

is change a constant? this concept is based on the principle that all 
things are subject to change. the problem is that concepts are things
themselves, from several different viewpoints. what are the manifestations
of a concept? 

as experience, a concept unfolds through observation. a concept seems
to materialize as the senses and the mind interpret phenomenon as seeming 
to fit a particular concept. however, the fit has a duration. if concepts 
didn't have duration, then the universe would be predictable.

that change is a constant is a concept. it seems to be accurate. in fact,
it is accurate but is subject to change. it is difficult to refute, but 
even this concept is bound by time, as are all concepts, and all things.

however, even the concept of time is bound by...

 approaching situations, objects, and people 

that time is linear is a great deception because its virtually impossible
to not live by it. since our lives are, at the moment, and at the surface
at least, dependent on linear time, here are some principles which can 
help in the perception of situations, objects, and beings who are bound
by this momentary constant.

modification 2 (one of the equations above) can be applied to any situation,
object, or being. can you imagine the number of Cs there are in this world?
for any situation, object, or being, C can easily go into infinity. what
this means is that there isn't any known thing or any known being who can
even imagine, in the literal sense of that verb, every C for any situation,
object, and being. 

more later...

the objective truth of each object