`9 

 honouring a treatise 

February 16, 2002

The Norwegian lady has her sketchbook open. Above the sketchbook is a
small painting, a part of a group of work being critiqued by the professor
and the class. During the course of the critique, the students vocalize
each other's thoughts. Decidedly, I have nothing to add. I shift my
focus onto her sketchbook.

 I believe that art is not for everyone. 

About a year ago I was convinced that all objects have inexhaustible
depth--that all objects can be explored infinitely. Does this make them 
works of art? Is the term art used to describe a complex and mysterious 
object?

 "The crowd will ignore this painting." 

Of course, but that's not the problem. She understands my point of view. 
This is the problem. She understood me and I understood her, yet that
statement was made. How can we proceed?

Perhaps we can treat all her decisions, from excluding the audience from 
that painting to leaving that sketchbook slightly open, as works of art.

 treatment of empty spaces 

Summer, 2001

My superior asked, "didn't I tell you to use this tray for these files?"

I could not remember and felt ashamed. A gap was discovered in two
places. First, the one created by my lack of memory and second, the one
between myself and her. It immediately transformed into a territorial war
for two empty spaces. The first instinct is to claim the space, which
entails an answer to the effect of:

"No, I do not remember."

With even greater shame, I uttered this statement. This is a careless 
handling of the truth. 

I didn't put enough faith on my memory. The easiest statement to utter
was a disservice to the truth, to my superior, and to myself. After a few
minutes of contemplation, the memory of her instruction came back. I
admitted my error after some hesitation. Yes, I also found it hard 
to admit that her memory is superior. 

What if my memory failed? Leave the truth uncomplicated. Leave the gap
alone. What if I was correct? To leave the gap alone remains the superior
action--to nod, and to refresh onesself to do things according to the rules
of the environment.

 jaywalking 

Jaywalking is a working analogy for that which cannot be named at the
present moment.

Here is a definition according to Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary:

:to cross a street carelessly or in an illegal manner so as to be 
endangered by traffic 

To cross a red light without vehicles--does this make onesself endangered
by traffic? Well, if you are in Irvine, you might still get caught. 
Are they aware of higher laws?

Lets say the light is red. There are no cars within 2 minutes from all
directions. Beside you is a child also looking to cross the street. 
This simple action is easily imitable by someone eager to learn.

 from a dream 1 

Inside the room is a letter. Inside the letter, an invitation.

The invitation expresses the selection of a witness to the trial of someone
difficult to name.

They mention two objects--two amulets. The first impression was that
these are eyes. 

There is no surprise in getting this letter. 

 from a dream 2 

At a rare weekday nap, I am back in the Philippines. I can't remember all
the details now. However, father was there. I wonder if his soul is there
right now, taking care of some business. 

I don't hesitate to ask for his help. In return, I try to lead a simple and
honest life. 

I imagine that he sees when I am careless or I am dishonest. I can sense
his disappointment. At the same time, I know that I am never alone.

There is also my grandfather, who I have never met. I am not sure how he
feels so sometimes, I'm not sure what to do.

My movements in this world are for them. They continue to share their
wisdom despite the huge gap between us. At the same time, I must also use
my senses to help them resolve the past, present, and the future.