What Is It? 

What Is It?

 July 3, 1998

 Life is full of mysteries.
 Some will reveal themselves in time or by chance.
 A few mysteries you will never know.
 I have found, in most cases, a mystery is something one just
 doesn't bother to find out.
 I am making a conscious effort to solve one mystery
 in my life which has been tickling my curiosity for years.
 What is the object below? The person who
 can give me the correct answer will have my eternal gratitude.
 You must be able to prove your answer or somehow
 I must be able to confirm it.
 More detailed specifications of the mystery object are given below.
 UFO/Alien theories will be politely ignored.

 General Description 

Object is a round disk approximately 2.5" in diameter and 1/16" thick
with a 0.5" diameter hole in the center.
Object is made mostly from an aluminum alloy 
as the back and edges appear to be aluminum metal.
The top is coated with a
yellow-brown material that is smooth and hard. On top of this
material is a thin etching in a metal that appears to be copper or brass.
The etching is on top of the yellow-brown material and is not
protected as it is rusting (See picture below).
There is an outer and inner circle of etchings. The outer etching
is a circle of regular symmetrical patterns.
The inner etching has a regular design although not symmetrical
and is reminiscent of a fractal pattern.
On the back aluminum side 
near the center hole
there is a two line 
hand inscription. The first line reads 345 or B45 .
The second line reads P972-5 .

I should also mention the object is a bit unusual as it was
made at a time when the process of extracting aluminum
was expensive. Also, the etchings were made without the
benefit of computer aided design. We're talking
1960s technology folks! Home computers did not exist.
Or hand calculators for that matter!

See Magnified Image (113K GIF)

 Mystery Object Specs

 Diameter of Object

 2.5 inches 
 (6.41 cm)

 Diameter of Hole

 0.5 inches 
 (1.28 cm)

 Thickness

 1/16 inches 
 (1.60 mm)

 Material

 Aluminum Alloy

 Age of Object

 At least 30 years old

 Other Markings

 On the back, two line hand inscription 
 345 or B45 
 P972-5 

 My Writings 

 Write to me 

Last updated : April 30, 2001

Copyright 1998-2001 Al Wong, Los Angeles, California, USA

&#32;