Review of The Asphalt Jungle 

 Welcome to the Jungle 

 Without John Huston, we wouldn't even be here. By directing The Maltese Falcon , John Huston launched
a whole new genre, film noir. The Asphalt Jungle 
isn't as famous a film, but it's every bit as good. Huston builds on 9
years of stylistic innovations in film noir since his landmark film and
pushes beyond them into The Asphalt Jungle . 

 If The Maltese Falcon introduced viewers to archetypes--the
tough detective, the femme fatale, the perverse villains--here Huston
creates a world of layered, complex characters. The Asphalt Jungle 
doesn't just take us on a journey into the underworld, it takes us into
the emotional lives of its inhabitants beginning with its antihero Dix
Handley. Sullen Sterling Hayden is perfect as Dix, a Southerner who's
exiled himself to the city until he can buy back the horseracing farm his
family once owned and lost. Dix is a lot like Sam Spade, the detective
hero played by Humphrey Bogart in The Maltese Falcon . Both men
aren't squeaky clean, yet they adhere to an honour code. They may be in
the underworld, but they're just passing through. 

 Stylistically, Huston's come a long way since his first noir. He's
gotten out of the studio sets where The Maltese Falcon took place
and into the city, and the exterior shots convey an arid urban wasteland.
Swaths of light and shadow heighten the noir atmosphere. Huston also uses
tight close-ups of one character or object in the foreground to restrict
the background space where the other characters are, giving them little
literal and figurative room to move. 

 Between raising cash from petty robberies and losing it all at the 
races, Dix gets nowhere but in debt to bookmaker Cobby. But he catches the 
eye of master thief Riedenschneider, an efficient German who moves 
directly from his prison release to planning his next heist at a jewelry 
store. Cobby's crooked lawyer friend Emmerich agrees to fund the heist 
plan but he's secretly broke thanks to a lavish lifestyle and even more 
lavish blond mistress (Marilyn Monroe, who steals every scene she's in 
just by breathing). Emmerich plans a double cross but the methodical, 
girl-obsessed Riedenschneider finds a simpatico if surprising ally in the 
passionate, horse-obsessed Dix. 

 And Dix's friend Doll is crazy about him, though he prefers to keep her
at arm's length. Jean Hagen would later play the shrill diva for laughs in
the classic musical Singing in the Rain . Here her tragicomic
performance is poignant. She makes funny faces as she pulls off her fake
eyelashes, but there's nothing to laugh about as her character finds
herself broke and homeless and gingerly helped by the man she loves. It's
that careful detail to the characters' internal lives that makes The
Asphalt Jungle a worthwhile trip led by a true master filmmaker. 

(June 12, 2002)

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2003)