Movies - GRASSY.net 

 Welcome 

 Kids 

 Odyssey 

 Wedding 

 Genealogy 

 Travels 

 Movies 

 Kayak 

 Contact Us 

 The Graduate (1967): Director: Mike Nichols Stars: Anne Bancroft, Dustin Hoffman, Katharine Ross. Country of Origin: USA.

 A rare, introspective masterpiece about a recent college grad (Dustin Hoffman) and his jaded outlook on life... which leads him into an ill-advised fling with the older, married Mrs. Robinson (Anne Bancroft). A true classic and the spawn of the immortal (don't mention it to Lisa, though) one-word line of advice: "Plastics."

 Hoffman is unforgettable, as is Bancroft (supposedly old enough to be Hoffman's mother but actually only 6 years his senior in real life). And Simon & Garfunkel's soundtrack is also perfectly apt, unforgettable to this day. Now a piece of Americana, The Graduate is one of the greatest, most cynical comedies on film. Highly recommended and nearly perfect. 

 The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert (1994): Director: Stephan Elliott Stars: Terence Stamp, Hugo Weaving, Guy Pearce. Country of Origin: Australia.

 Will The Adventures of Priscilla become the next Rocky Horror Picture Show? It's too soon to say, but for sheer camp value, Priscilla is a lot of fun, even if it has next to nothing to say.

 The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert is an episodic story of three drag queens from Sydney making their way into the interior of Australia in a garishly painted bus they've dubbed Priscilla. On their way to a summer gig of a transvestite show to 70's disco songs at a resort in the middle of the country, get drunk, get chased by mobs, bicker, wear pink and turquoise wigs and have various other adventures. 

 Besides the memorable scenes of the Australian desert, the outrageous costumes and wigs, and the impressive sight of Guy Pearce straddling the top of a speeding bus like a champion water skier, trailed by a 50-foot mylar scarf lip-synching opera are show-stealers.

 Into the West (1992): Director: Mike Newell Stars: Gabriel Byrne, Ellen Barkin, Ciarn Fitzgerald, Raidhr Conroy, Colm Meaney. Country of Origin: Ireland.

 If I were to tell you that Into the West was about two boys and their magical white horse, you would of course think it was a children's film. But it is more than that, although children will enjoy it. The movie is set in a world a little too gritty for innocent animal tales. It concerns two young gypsy boys growing up in the high-rise slums of Dublin, with their father, who loves them but has grown distant and drunken since their mother died. 

 One day their grandfather, who still travels the roads in the ancient way in his horse-drawn gypsy caravan, gives them the gift of a horse. The horse is named Tir na nOg , which means "Land of Eternal Youth", the grandfather explains. Where are two city boys to keep a horse? In their apartment? Of course! But, of course, the neighbors complain, and the police are called, and one thing leads to another. 

 The subtext of the movie involves the gypsy culture in modern Ireland. Known also as tinkers and travelers. The gypsies are often discriminated against, and charged with any crimes that take place even vaguely near to them. For their grandfather (David Kelly), the traveling life is still rich and satisfying, but for their father (Gabriel Byrne), it has been replaced by a form of imprisonment in a high-rise ghetto. The father enlists two friends (Ellen Barkin and Colm Meaney), who remind him of the ancient strengths of the travelers, and what is regained is not only a horse, but a family and a tradition.

 Texture is everything in a movie like this. The bare story itself could be simplistic and silly: Cops chasing a couple of kids on a horse. But when relationships are involved, and social realities, and a certain level of magical realism, then the story grows and deepens until it really involves us. Kids will probably love this movie, but adults will get a lot more out of it.

 Into the West is one of many interesting films to come from Ireland recently. Other good Irish movies to see are: My Left Foot , The Commitments , Hear My Song , and The Crying Game . 

 Cinema Paradiso (1990): Director: Mike Newell Stars: Philippe Noiret, Jacques Perrin, Salvatore Cascio. Country of Origin: Italy.

 There is a village priest in Cinema Paradiso who is the local cinema's most faithful client. He turns up every week like clockwork, to censor the films. As the old projectionist shows the movies to his audience of one, the priest sits with his hand poised over a bell, the kind that altar boys use. At every sign of carnal excess - which to the priest means a kiss - the bell rings, the movie stops and the projectionist snips the offending footage out of the film. Up in the projection booth, the film strips are tossed in a corner so that no one will ever see, not in this village, anyway. 

 The film has two main characters: old Alfredo (Philippe Noiret), who rules the projection booth, and young Salvatore (Salvatore Cascio), who makes the booth his home away from an indifferent home. As the patrons line up faithfully, night after night, for their diet of films without kisses, the boy watches in wonder as Alfredo wrestles with the projection machine that throws the dream-images on the screen. At first Alfredo tries to chase Salvatore away, but eventually he accepts his presence in the booth and thinks of him almost as his child. Salvatore certainly considers the old man his father, and the movies as his family. 

 The story is told as a flashback; it begins with a prominent film director (Jacques Perrin) learning in Rome that old Alfredo is dead and making a sentimental journey back to his hometown. Then we see the story of the director's childhood (portrayed by Cascio) and his teenage years, where he is played by Marco Leonardi. The earliest parts of the movie are the most magical. Then things grow predictable. Yet anyone who loves movies is likely to love Cinema Paradiso .

 The Full Monty (2000): Director: Stephen Frears Stars: Robert Carlysle, Mark Addy, William Snape, Steve Huison, Tom Wilkinson, Paul Barber, Hugo Speer. Country of Origin: UK.

 A different kind of fun, but no less entertaining, is provided by The Full Monty , a creative little jewel from the not-so-Great Britain. That dig is not directed at the country's moviemaking skills, but to point out the jobless rate on which "Monty" hangs its G-strings. 

 You see, it's about strippers -- male strippers -- a quintet of working-class louts who decide to take off their clothes to make a few quid, and even salvage their dignity.

 Robert Carlysle ("Trainspotting") plays the leader of the group, a divorced and devoted dad who concocts the scheme to pay his child support. There's also aging Tom Wilkinson ("Priest") and chubby Mark Addy as a pair whose problems would fill a chapter on midlife crisis and the male ego.

 In Chippendale terms, "the full monty" is slang for baring it all. Without giving away the ending, let's just say director Peter Cattaneo and screenwriter Simon Beaufoy, in their first foray at feature films, show off potential for producing meaningful hilarity.

 Delicatessen (1991): Directors: Marc Caro and Jean-Pierre Jeunet Stars: Dominique Pinon, Marie-Laure Dougnac. Country of Origin: France.

 Somewhere in the mist-shrouded future of France, Louison (Pinon), a grieving ex-clown takes a job as janitor in a crumbling apartment block. Unbeknownst to him, this job has a history of previous incumbents ending up on the neighbor's dinner table via the butcher's block. When Louison innocently falls for the butcher's daughter, the knife is held back to spare her feelings. But as bellies begin to rumble, will love be enough to keep Louison alive? 

 This troubled romance provides the bare skeleton on which Jeunet and Caro hang their dreams. A hugely enjoyable film, Delicatessen welds comedy and magic into a bizarre, grotesque fantasy of an oddball future. 

 The directors are constantly playing curveball with the audience's expectations and nothing can prepare you for the sheer weirdness of it all. Every so often, the plot stops to watch a scene spiral off at a tangent, such as a rhythm of creaking beds rippling out through the hotel, or two boys spying on a old man breeding escargots in his flooded apartment. 

 This tale of star-crossed lovers and small town cannibalism has endured as a true masterpiece of the fantastique. If you like this, see Caro and Jeunet's next film, The City of the Lost Children - La cit des enfants perdus (1995) . Even more bizaare, as beautifully filmed, and almost as good. Jeunet directed Amlie (2001) , a charming little movie, on his own.

 The Brother From Another Planet (1984): Director: John Sayles Stars: Joe Morton, Liane Alexandra Curtis, Reggie Rock Bythewood, David Babcock, Leonard Jackson, Jaime Tirelli. Country of Origin: USA.

 This sci-fi film has become somewhat of a cult classic. It follows the adventures of a black alien (outstanding performance by Joe Morton), who visits the streets of New York and gets into all types of misadventures. However, he's amazingly likeable and none of the people he meets seem to hold anything against him. He's a lot like Edward Scissorhands.

 Though filmed on a shoestring budget, this is certainly an ingenious mix of science fiction and social message. Morton is no less than outstanding, and director John Sayles has a funny part as one of Morton's outer-space hunters. The script is both humorous and poignant, and the supporting characters are perfect for the inner-city setting. Many kudos to Sayles for making a great film, and Morton for an amazing silent performance.

 The adjectives that come to mind when describing The Brother from Another Planet are "off-beat", "charming" and "clever." Unfortunately "erratic" also comes to mind when describing this tale about an alien (who can't - or doesn't want to - speak) that pitches up in Harlem, New York. The alien is a thirtysomething Black man with strange feet and the movie and the movie closely follows his travails as he tries to cope with and understand life in the Big Apple. 

 Mostly a character study, the film consists of some cleverly and funnily written vignettes that vary in quality. Around halfway through the movie, The Brother from Another Planet seems to float around directionless. Despite this, clever satire abounds.

 The Brother from Another Planet is an excellent example of what can be achieved with a very small budget and a good screenplay. It is written and directed (and edited!) by John Sayles who spends one half of his movie career writing screenplays to make money to finance intensely personal indie gems such as this movie and the likes of The Secret of Roan Inish , Passion Fish , Matewan , Limbo , and Lone Star .

 Shallow Grave (1994): Director: Danny Boyle Stars: Kerry Fox, Christopher Eccleston, Ewan McGregor, Ken Stott. Country of Origin: Scotland.

 Shallow Grave is a slick British thriller and blackest comedy to hit theaters since Reservoir Dogs. Unlike Reservoir Dogs, most of the gore is imagined, not on screen. Utterly hilarious in that British way, Shallow Grave is the tale of three roommates, Juliet, Alex, and David, in search of a fourth.

 From the start, this film begins to close its fingers around your neck and never lets go. The eerie feeling that something is just not quite right is present from the beginning, even before things take a turn for the worse. Of course they inevitably do, when the trio's newly found roommate, Hugo, suddenly dies in his room.

 Each of the main characters begin to lose his or her light-hearted sensibility, becoming more neurotic, sinister, or traitorous as the net tightens in search of Hugo and what he possessed. Steel yourself for the unthinkable ending--it's beyond even the famed hypodermic needle scene from Pulp Fiction.

 If you like this movie, consider renting Trainspotting . Another film slick, black comedy from Danny Boyle, starring Ewan McGregor.

 The Seven Samurai (1954): Director: Akira Kurosawa Stars: Takashi Shimura, Toshiro Mifune, Yoshio Inaba, Seiji Miyaguchi, Minoru Chiaki, Daisuke Kato, Isao Kimura. Country of Origin: Japan.

 The inspiration for one of my all-time most watched war movies - The Dirty Dozen .

 The story is as follows. A small village hires seven lone warriors to help them protect their village from murderous bandits. the warriors also teach the townspeople to fight and defend themselves. We meet each warrior and get to know what each of them is like. The two best performances come from Takashi Shimura as the eldest and wisest of the warriors, and Toshiro Mifune as a loud-mouth, who says he's a samurai, but is suspiciously hiding something about himself. The cinematography and settings are truly the most stunning things about this film, as is the action. The movie is very long, over 3.5 hours, so you might want to break it up over a couple nights.

 Kurosawa is one of the best filmakers in the industry. If you haven't seen any Kurosawa films, I highly recommend Ran and The Seven Samurai .

 Raise The Red Lantern (1990): Director: Zhang Yimou Stars: Gong Li, Ma Jingwu, He Caifei, Cao Cuifen. Country of Origin: China.

 Zhang Yimou makes beautiful films which extends beyond the obvious beauty of Gong Li to include the details of the courtyards, lanterns, silks, and rooftops with an inexplicable mixture of tranquility and austerity. Raise the Red Lantern, a heartbreaking and fascinating look into the life of a young, well-educated woman who gives up her future to become the fourth wife of a wealthy landowner in 1920s China. Gong Li delivers a commanding performance.

 The fourth wife of the rich old man comes to live in his house against her will. She has been educated, and thinks herself ready for the wider world, but her mother betrays her, selling her as a concubine, and soon her world is no larger than the millionaire's vast house. Its living quarters are arrayed on either side of a courtyard. There is an apartment for each of the wives. She is quietly informed of the way things work here. A red lantern is raised each night outside the quarters of the wife who will be honored by a visit from the master. 

 Raise The Red Lantern is an excellent film, though probably a bit slow for most tastes. I highly recommend any film directed by Zhang Yimou cast with the actress, Gong Li. See Story Of Qiu Ju and Red Sorghum .

 Smoke Signals (1998): Director: Chris Eyre Stars: Adam Beach, Evan Adams. Country of Origin: USA.

 Smoke Signals is based on stories from the book The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven by Sherman Alexie , is alight with oddball nuances and wry observations: the reservation's radio station, KREZ, uses a broken-down van at the deserted crossroads to gauge the (nonexistent) traffic conditions, and Victor's mother Arlene (Cardinal) is a master in the fine art of flatbread-making. Subtle, lyrically haunting touches like these evoke a palpable sense of loss and the sub-poverty level of Native American life, but also unite the tribe -- broken by alcohol and abuse though they may be -- in long-held beliefs and rituals. It's Victor who teaches his inanely happy friend to act like a real Indian, and Thomas who forces Victor to confront the ghosts of his past no matter how terrible they may seem. The cast is uniformly excellent in their roles, and Eyre's persistent use of long, trailing shots reinforces the story's elegiac tone. This is the first film written, directed, and co-produced by American Indians. At once poignant and slyly humorous, Eyre's film touches on the universal themes of loss, betrayal, redemption, and father/son relationships in ways that echo not only inside the reservation but outside as well. Simple and elegant, Smoke Signals is a delicious, heady debut that lingers long after the tale is told.

 Actors to watch no matter the movie: 

 John Cusack is my favorite actor. Check out his roles in the following movies: Say Anything , Grosse Point Blank , Bob Roberts , Sixteen Candles and Hi Fidelity .

 Ingrid Bergman is my favorite actress. I especially enjoy her in: Casablanca , Notorious , Murder on the Orient Express and The Bells of St. Mary's .

 Forest Whitaker a wonderful and underated actor. He has been in scores of films and done a bit of directing. His shining moment was in The Crying Game . Other good roles were seen in Good Morning - Vietnam , Color of Money , Smoke , Phenomenon and Fast Times at Ridgemont High .