Ultrasounds - GRASSY.net 

 Welcome 

 Twins 

 Odyssey 

 Wedding 

 Genealogy 

 Travels 

 Movies 

 Kayak 

 Contact Us 

 Below are sonograms of the twins. Originally, Lisa accidently found out the genders at the ultrasound on 10 April 2001. Richard decided to wait until the births to find out. At the ultrasound on 8 JUNE 2001, the tech told us that the earlier ultrasound was incorrect on the gender(s)! We are not sure if she meant one or both of the babies. So, now we are both back to not knowing the genders. 

 Sonogram on 23 FEB 2001 - Week 10 
You should be able to make out the two amniotic sacs. Baby A is on the left.

 Baby A and Baby B on 10 APRIL 2001 - Week 17 

 Baby B waving 

 Baby A during ultrasound on 8 JUNE 2001 - Week 25 
 You might be able to make out the torso and leg. The baby is facing right.

 Baby A during ultrasound on 7 AUG 2001 - Week 34 
 The profile of the head facing left.

 We searched long and hard for a doctor and hospital. We finally decided on
 Dr. Wendy Atkinson . She and her staff are wonderful.
She is affiliated with the University of Washington Medical Center. It is one of
two Level 3 facilities in Seattle. It was necessary to find a hospital with a NICU 
(Neonatal Intensive Care Unit) as multiples births are automatically put into the
high risk category. The UW Medical Center is well geared for multiple births. We
are currently enrolled in their 
Expecting Multiples Class . 

 Dr. Atkinson and Lisa 

 The big question, are they identical or fraternal? Identical twins mean that 
they share the same genes. So, if the babies end up being girl/boy, then we know 
right away that they cant be identical.
 Identical twins start out the same way as a singleton, with one egg (monozygotic) and one 
sperm. But the zygote then divides an extra time, producing two separate and identical zygotes. The timing of this additional division determines the structure of the fetal membranes- the inner membrane, or amnion; the 
outer membrane, or chorion; and the placenta.

 When the split happens within three days of conception, while the original 
 zygote is traveling down the fallopian tube, these identical twins will have 
 two separate placentas, two chorions, and two amnions. This is called a 
 diamniotic, dichorionic twin pregnancy . 
 When the extra division of the zygote occurs four to seven days after 
 conception, the twins will have separate amnions but will share one chorion, 
 and their placentas will be fused. This is termed a diamniotic, 
 monochorionic twin pregnancy . 
 If the split occurs after the eighth day following conception, the twins 
 will share the same placenta, chorion, and amnion. This is a monoamniotic, 
 monochorionic twin pregnancy . 

 Fraternal twins result when the mother produces two eggs (dizygotic) instead of one in 
the normal monthly cycle and are fertilized by separate sperm. Fraternal twins always have separate placentas, chorions, and amnions, though sometimes when they are close enough, the placentas may fuse. About 2/3 of all twins are 
fraternal.
 From the ultrasounds, it appears that they are diamniotic and possibly dichorionic. 
This can occur with identical or fraternal twins. If the babies end up being the same sex, we may not be able to determine if they are identical or not right away. One reference states that only 3 to 5 of each 1000 pregancies are monozygotic, meaning the chance of having identical twins is pretty small. 
 We originally did not think there was much of a history of twins in either of our families. Richard knew of two sets of twins in his family history, but now seven sets have come to light. All derive from his Grandmother Grassy's lines. Richard's Great-Great Grandmother Melia, back in Ireland in the late 1800's, is known to have given birth to twins. The rest are cousins from that line, the Diskins, born in the Ireland and the US. If they end up being fraternal, we know that this must have come from Lisas side as producing two eggs can be inherited only from her sides mother or fathers families. 
 Name A Twin survey. 
 Feel free to give us your input on choosing names for the twins by clicking below on the picture.

 Richard and Lisa thinking that this parenthood thing may be a whole lot of fun! 

 Index to images of the Grassy Twins