Director I - Final project 

 MMDP 125 "Director I" 
 Final Project: "A Shockwave Multimedia Greeting Card" 

 Due: Friday March 22 nd . 
 Be prepared to present your project in class! 
 Project size limit: 200kb 
 Value: 25 points 
 YOUR SPEC : Create a Director 
 Shockwave movie & HTML page that achieves the functionality listed below. 
 You will create a multimedia greeting 
 card (for example, a birthday, Christmas, Hanukkah card) that should contain 
 both graphical and audio elements, and a MESSAGE for the recipient. Your project 
 should be formatted like a real greeting card; that is, it should begin with 
 an opening screen like the outside of a card. This screen must provide an "Open" 
 button that the user clicks to open the card (it must wait for the user). When 
 the button is clicked, the card should open using either animation or a transition. 
 Inside there should be additional text, graphics, sound, animation, etc. You 
 should also provide a "Close" button to return to the beginning. 
 Your movie must contain EACH of the 
 following elements, although how you use them is up to you: 

 Animation - Either at the outside 
 of the card, the inside, or both. And it must be more elaborate than just 
 sliding text or a marquee, I want to see frame-based animation! Have fun! 
 Music - You must have some looping 
 background music, at the outside, inside or both - again, where you use it 
 is up to you. Keep it short & appropriate, and it must loop indefinitely. 
 Buttons - "Open" and "close" 
 at the very least, and don't use Director's built-in buttons - make your own 
 that react visibly to the mouse and make a sound when clicked. 
 Other mouse interactivity of 
 your own design - By this point you know how to make objects react to the 
 mouse by playing sounds, changing appearance (cast members), etc. I want some 
 part of the piece to be responsive to the user. Be creative! Providing secret 
 "Easter eggs" is always fun for the user! 

 If you meet all of the above requirements, 
 you will receive at least a "B" for your project. Want a better grade? 
 Impress me! 
 DELIVERY: You may either (1) copy 
 your files to the Director drop box as always, OR (2) you may post your project 
 to the web & supply me with your URL! Remember, your project requires exactly 
 TWO files: the Shockwave file (dcr), and an HTML page to host it. Remember, 
 your dcr must not exceed 200k!!! 
 * * * This is the last day of class; 
 absolutely NO late assignments can be accepted! 
 Back