Brisbane 

 CET: Centre of Effective Therapy 

 About Us 

 Locations 

 Courses 

 Resources 

 News 

 Links 

 Contact Us 

 Blogs and Podcasts 

 Rob McNeilly 

 MBBS 

 Gabrielle Peacock 

 MBBS FRACGP 

 finding a therapist 

 The Milton H Erickson Istitute of Tasmania 

 what's new? 

 workshops for graduates 

 newsletter 

 Ericksonian hypnosis - a 3 day intensive 

 in Brisbane 

 dates to be announced 

In this 3 day intensive, CET with the Milton H Erickson Institute of
Victoria offers a unique opportunity to learn the principles and
applications of one of the most rapidly growing treatment models in
contemporary psychotherapy. The scope of the program is
comprehensive, and presents the essential elements in an elegantly
accessible way. 

The 3 day intensive is open to practitioners of all levels of experience who are passionate about their work. 

 simply learning a natural approach to solutions in hypnosis 

 simple 

hypnosis has been understood as complex, special, even dangerous,
requiring unique restrictions. In this programme we will explore
simple, elegant and respectful ways of connecting clients with their
own unique styles of experience. 

 learning 

There will be a minimum of theory and explanations, focusing instead on
demonstrations and recurrent practice so that participants will have
sufficient skills to begin to use their learning in their clinical
practice immediately. 

 a natural approach 

Erickson spoke of the everyday trance as a natural experience that can
be enhanced in a clinical situation. By utilising individual
clients&rsquo; individual skills, a fail-safe method will be made
obvious and readily useable. 

 solutions 

Ericksonian hypnosis creates a wonderful context for a trusting
therapeutic relationship, helping to restore self-trust in individual
clients by reconnecting them with their natural resourcefulness. 

 hypnosis 

When we begin with the principle that hypnosis is an experience that
involves focus of attention and absorption in that experience, this
natural ability can be readily accessed by clients and incorporated in
any clinician&rsquo;s practice. 

 3 day intensive 

In this 3 day workshop, we will enjoy sharing learning: 

creating a mood of connection to enhance rapport, 

exploring natural links between everyday happenings and the process of
inviting a client into the experience of
hypnosis, 

establishing easy and natural relationships between specific client resources and their solutions. 

 Venue: Staff Club, University of Queensland - St Lucia Campus 

 Cost: $750 [incl GST] 

 Registration 

 Contact: 

Rob McNeilly, 0433 273 352, rob@cet.net.au, www.cet.net.au 

 copyright disclaimer contact us home