curiologists 

 CET:
Centre of Effective Therapy 

 About Us 

 Locations 

 MHEIT 

 Resources 

 News 

 Links 

 Contact Us 

 Blogs and Podcasts 

 Rob McNeilly 

 MBBS 

 Gabrielle Peacock 

 MBBS FRACGP 

 finding a therapist 

 The Milton H Erickson Istitute of
Tasmania 

 what's
new? 

 workshops for graduates 

 newsletter 

 The Milton H Erickson Institute
of Tasmania 

 in
conjunction with 

 The Centre of Effective Therapy 

 presents 

 Fridays 12:30 - 1:30 pm 

 Free
lunchtime meetings for curiologists: 

 conversations with giants 

 presented by Rob McNeilly and Gabrielle Peacock 

 March 28 -
Introduction to Milton H Erickson 

May 2 - Introduction to Humberto Maturana 

June 20 - Introduction to Heinz von Foerster 

August 8 - Maturana&rsquo;s biology of cognition 

October 10 - Introduction to Werner Erhard, Bob Hoffman & Harry
Palmer 

Heinz on ethics 

Introduction to G Spencer Brown 

Maturana&rsquo;s responsibility and freedom 

Ericksonian Hypnosis 

Heinz on trivial and non trivial machines 

Neil Postman&rsquo;s education as a subversive act 

The Partners for Change (Miller, Duncan, Wampold) 

Introduction to Ontological Coaching 

 Venue:
The coach house 336 Elizabeth Street North Hobart Ph 0433 273 352 b.y.o
lunch 

Through this series we would like to introduce curious learners to the
ideas of some of the most influential minds of our time. We have chosen
to begin this series by introducing you to our most valued teachers and
hope to extend this to contributions from members of our growing
learning community. 

Milton H Erickson MD 1901-1980 was one of the most
influential therapists of the 20th 

Century. He changed the direction of therapy from classifying pathology
to exploring 

resources &ndash; from seeking out understandings of causes for
problems to looking with each individual for their own individual
solutions. He was an explorer in therapy, still learning, exploring and
teaching right up till his death. His own personal struggles with polio
and post polio syndrome provided real life experience and personal
exploration with the hypnotic experience. he believed that people
didn&rsquo;t come to therapy to change an unchangeable past, but
with
some dissatisfaction with the present and a wish for a better future.
Rob spent time with Erickson towards the end of his life and brings his
personal connection to this introduction of the man behind the purple
suit. 

 Humberto Maturana is
a Chillean
neurobiologist who has radically transformed our understanding of the
processes of life and cognition. He has become famous as a leading
exponent of modern systems thinking and is the author of several books,
including the bestseller written with Francisco J Varella, The Tree of
Knowledge. Some of his more interesting reflections include his time in
Chile under the Pinochet dictatorship. He was interested to understand
the dictatorship, and how, as in Nazi Germany, how people gradually go
blind, and what the causes of such perceptual deprivation were. the
experience provided a real life opportunity to observe observing.
Maturana came to Melbourne several times in the 90&rsquo;s and Rob
attended his lectures. We would like to introduce you to our take on
the man, and share something of what he is about. Later in the series
we will look in more depth at some of his important contributions. 

 Heinz von Foerster 
1911-2002 has
been variously dubbed a physicist, mathematician, cybernetician, but he
preferred to call himself a &lsquo;curiologist&rsquo;. He would
also
admit to being Viennese! A colleague and friend of Humberto Maturana,
Von Foerster is credited with ceaselessly pointing out the unavoidable
biases and blind spots on the part of the observers, who approach the
object of description that they perceive to be independent of
themselves. He trained as a physicist in Vienna, worked as a magician
throughout the war years and wrote his first book Memory: a quantum
physical study, which attracted the pioneers of American cybernetics
and led to an invitation for him to join them in 1949. He joined a rich
and fertile group of scientists who came together in the 50&rsquo;s
at
the invitation of the Macy Foundation, names such as John Von Neumann,
the inventor of the computer, anthropologists Margaret Mead, Gregory
Bateson, as well as neuropsychiatrist Warren McCulloch and others. His
clarity and whimsy bring a rare mood to looking at otherwise difficult
ideas. We never met him, the closest we get is a video of conversations
between him and Maturana on &lsquo;truth and
trust&rsquo; yet we
have developed a great fondness and gratitude to the man and his
contributions. As with Maturana we would like to introduce you to the
man, and later in the series we will look at some of his important
contributions 

 More to follow in 2008 

 Registration 

 disclaimer contact us home