distance 

 CET:
Centre of Effective Therapy 

 About Us 

 Locations 

 MHEIT 

 Resources 

 News 

 Links 

 Contact Us 

 Blogs and Podcasts 

 Rob McNeilly 

 MBBS 

 Gabrielle Peacock 

 MBBS FRACGP 

 finding a therapist 

 The Milton H Erickson Istitute of
Tasmania 

 what's
new? 

 workshops for graduates 

 newsletter 

 Distance programmes 

with Dr. Robert McNeilly MBBS & Dr Gabrielle Peacock MBBS FRACGP 

 Principles 

The learning experience of these programmes is both unique and
everyday.
The uniqueness is in its almost total lack of theory and formal
structure; the everydayness is in the way the learning is personal and
relates to any individual and their everyday experiences. 

For millennia learning has been the prerogative of the few, usually
wealthy or privileged. Only over the last half century has this begun
to change. Academic circles can still maintain a sense of elitism,
and while the approach of this programme does not have any argument
with academia, it has a radically different focus. 

Because these programmes give precedence to experience over theory,
curiosity over fixed explanations, and individual differences over
categorising into groups or classes, participants can expect to be more
like themselves and less like any of those who may already be seen as
expert in the field. Previous participants comment that their
individuality is enhanced &ndash; personal and professional
&ndash; and
their individual style of working becomes more obvious as the programme
unfolds. 

 Structure 

All programmes include recorded lectures, an e-book, videos of demonstrations,
written assignments, supervision, and most important of all, practice.
Ultimately it is what participants learn and take into their clinical
experience that will be crucial. Anything that is heard, read, observed
or discussed, including personal growth, will become relevant as it
incorporated in life or work. 

At the beginning of each programme, notes and written assignments are
distributed by email, also relevant links to lectures and
demonstrations. Participants can then progress
though their learning experience at their own pace. 

All participants are encouraged to form study groups with others as an
important component of the learning process, many people
reporting that they are the most relevant. Individual supervision is
another important component, whether face to face, email, phone, peer
supervision or some combination of these alternatives. Written
assignments add to the breadth of the learning and there is often an
expression of surprise when they are discovered to be enjoyable as well
as useful. 

Most people report that 2 to 3 hours a week is more than enough to
cover the individual work outside any workshops and study group
experiences. 

Because of the solid foundations of the approach, there are many
options for individual learning styles and outcomes, and participants
can expect to develop confidence in their own individual style of
learning and working. 

 Accreditation 

These programmes are accredited by CET, as
evidence shows overwhelmingly that external accreditation has no
correlation with effectiveness of learning or application. 

 Face to face Workshops 
There will be local face to face workshops organised depending on
numbers and participants are welcome to join in at any other location
during the programme and any time in the future without limitation. 

 Fees 

$4400 or 4 term payments of $1100 [including GST] 

 Diploma of Solution Oriented Hypnosis 

 Content 

The diploma is structured into 4 terms. 

In the first term we explore hypnotic language, hypnotic invitations,
and structuring a hypnotic session. 

In the second term we include the experience of hypnosis including the
classical hypnotic phenomena. 

In the third and fourth term we focus on the clinical application of
this approach as well as supervision issues.

 Diploma of Solution Oriented Counselling 

 Content 

The diploma is structured into 4 terms. 

In the first term we explore the effective use of language in
counselling; 

In the second term we include emotions and the body as an integral part
of counselling as well as strategies and positive reframing; 

In the third and fourth term we focus on the clinical application of
this approach as well as supervision issues. 

 Diploma of Solution Oriented Family Therapy 

 Content 

The diploma is structured into 4 terms. 

In the first term we explore the effective use of questions to
reconnect family members; 

In the second term we include emotions and the body as an integral part
of family therapy as well as strategies and positive reframing; 

In the third and fourth term we focus on the clinical application of
this approach as well as supervision issues. 

 disclaimer contact us home