Louise 

 CET: Centre of Effective Therapy 

 About Us 

 Locations 

 Courses 

 Resources 

 News 

 Links 

 Contact Us 

 Blogs and Podcasts 

 Rob McNeilly 

 MBBS 

 Gabrielle Peacock 

 MBBS FRACGP 

 finding a therapist 
 The Milton H Erickson Istitute of Tasmania 

 what's new? 
 workshops for graduates 
 newsletter 

 Louise Speirs-Bridge 

Director 

Purple Hat Solutions 

0408 126 423 

louise@purplehatsolutions.com 

www.purplehatsolutions.com 

B.A. (Criminology), Assoc. Dip Commerce (Management), Advanced Dip.
Solution Oriented Coaching, Dip. Solution Oriented Coaching, Dip.
Solution Oriented Family Therapy, Dip. HR Management, Cert IV
Assessment & Workplace Training, Cert. Small Business Management 

Louise established her coaching & facilitation practice, Purple Hat
Solutions, 2002. With over 20 years business experience, her career
spans a diverse range of roles including organizational development,
industrial relations, purchasing, recruitment, performance &
diversity management, training, contract management, and compensation
planning. 

As a Coach, Louise primarily works with executives and small business
owners. She uses a solution oriented approach to help establish
business direction and focus, build highly successful teams; balance
work & personal commitments; plan for promotion or career
transition; develop communication skills; and establish value driven
cultural environments. 

As a Facilitator, Louise embodies respect for others and maintains a
watchful awareness of the many layers of reality in a human group.
Effective facilitation is more about focusing on the journey than the
destination, and with Louise the journey is about intentional use of
time and space; evoking participation and creativity; maintaining
objectivity; adapting to changing situations; affirming group and
individual wisdom; and demonstrating professionalism, authenticity and
integrity. 

Louise is a qualified Solution Oriented Practitioner and has studied
Hypnotherapy, Mindfulness and Ontology. She is also accredited to
deliver Human Synergistics' Life Styles Inventory (LSI) and Group
Styles Inventory (GSI); Myers Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI); and
Belbins&rsquo; Team Roles Inventory. She is also a published author and
a highly active member of the Australian professional coaching
community. 

 copyright disclaimer contact us home