3day Counselling Melbourne 

 CET:
Centre of Effective Therapy 

 About Us 

 Locations 

 MHEIT 

 Resources 

 News 

 Links 

 Contact Us 

 Blogs and Podcasts 

 Rob McNeilly 

 MBBS 

 Gabrielle Peacock 

 MBBS FRACGP 

 finding a therapist 

 The Milton H Erickson Istitute of
Tasmania 

 what's
new? 

 workshops for graduates 

 newsletter 

 Solution
Oriented Counselling 

 a 2 day intensive 

 with Dr Robert McNeilly 

The solution oriented approach focuses on solutions right from the
beginning. While the problem is always acknowledged, we encourage the
discovery of what will be most useful for the student or their clients
to move respectfully towards a beneficial outcome. This is achieved
through a rigorous attention to language skills that encourage gentle
but profoundly useful changes in our ability to observe, communicate
and move the therapeutic conversation towards solutions. 

Learning is emphasised rather than pathological classification and
treatment. Clients are assumed to be capable and resourceful,
adding to clinical effectiveness with personal and professional
satisfaction. 

This workshop will be of interest to all practitioners who
value client centred approaches to working with human beings.
Completion of the 2 day intensive workshop can lead on to the diploma
of solution oriented counselling. This will also provide an
opportunity to join
the learning community we are creating. 

 The centre of
effective therapy 

CET was created in 1988 to offer an opportunity for any interested
individual to continue their learning in the essential context and
components of effectiveness of hypnosis, counselling and coaching for
individuals, couples and families. 

Our programmes are built on the widely divergent contributions of such
giants as Milton Erickson, Humberto Maturana, Fernando Flores, Rafael
Echeverria, Julio Olalla, Werner Erhard and Lao Tzu and encourage
creative expansiveness in participating individuals. We explore an
approach to therapy grounded in the solution orientation and
emphasizing individual styles and the therapeutic relationship over
mere technique. 

Traditional learning, which is about information, theories and
classification, is more widely being seen to be insufficient to prepare
us for work with patients. Seasoned health workers are seeking out
learning experience that support the exploration of their own style and
effectiveness, rather than yet another &lsquo;technique&rsquo;.

Our programmes encourage respectful interactions so that shared
learning experiences of individual differences happen in a safe and
supportive environment. Participants frequently notice that this leads
to a pivotal influence not only on their professional work, but also
their personal lives. 

 We
emphasise
practicality in learning with each individual patient through
respectful listening and collaboration - in a shared experience for
what may be missing for them that they have been overlooking, or can
learn, so that they can take charge of their own experience
again. 

 Dr Robert McNeilly 
has a general medical practice background, extensive clinical and
teaching experience and brings a down-to-earth practicality to
complex dilemmas leading to learning that easily and confidently
translates into clinical practice. 

 Dates: 

 Cost: 
 $330 

Please make cheques payable to Robert Mcneilly 

and post to 336 Elizabeth Street North Hobart TAS 7000 

Venue: Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria

 818 Burke Road Camberwell 

Contact: Rob
McNeilly 0433 273
352 
rob@cet.net.au 

www.cet.net.au 

 disclaimer contact us home