Counselling and Family Therapy: the Centre of Effective Therapy 

 CET: Centre of Effective Therapy 

 About Us 

 Locations 

 Courses 

 Resources 

 News 

 Links 

 Contact Us 

 Blogs and Podcasts 

 Rob McNeilly 

 MBBS 

 Gabrielle Peacock 

 MBBS FRACGP 

 finding a therapist 

 upcoming workshops 

 what's new? 

 workshops for graduates 

 newsletter 

 THE MILTON H ERICKSON INSTITUTE OF TASMANIA 

 20th August, 2007 

 Milton H Erickson MD was one of the most
influential therapists of the 20th Century. He changed the direction of
therapy from classifying pathology to exploring resources &ndash; from
seeking out understandings of causes for problems to looking with each
individual for their own individual solutions. 

This solution approach is not just positive thinking. It is a 180
degree shift in direction. While some traditional methods are still
stuck in the old mold, many other schools of therapy have followed his
lead. 

The Milton H Erickson Institute of Tasmania is delighted to provide
learning opportunities to health professionals who are interested to
support their clients to take charge of their lives again; to regain
their self-respect and autonomy; to get out from under the burden of
suffering and labelling which can only add to their difficulties. 

This Institute is the 130th around the world to honour Erickson&rsquo;s
massive contribution and to offer his approach to counsellors,
psychologists, social workers, doctors and other interested health
professionals. 

The Ericksonian approach assumes that problems come when we become
disconnected from our strengths and abilities, and solutions appear
when the individual dignity of each client is respected, assuming their
resourcefulness, and supporting them to reconnect with their own unique
strengths and abilities. 

The Milton H Erickson Institute of Tasmania offers training programmes
in association with CET [The Centre of Effective Therapy] in 

 solution
oriented counselling, 

 solution oriented
family therapy and 

 solution oriented hypnosis. 

These programmes can
lead on the national accreditation through PACFA [Psychotherapy &
Counselling Federation of Australia], and participants can join a
supportive community for ongoing supervision and learning, as well as
assistance and support in moving into a career in private practice. 

You are invited to explore details of our programmes , our resources , or contact us. 

You are invited to join our learning community! 

For information about The Milton H Erickson Foundation Inc ... click here 

 copyright disclaimer contact us home