Counselling and Family Therapy: the Centre of Effective Therapy 

 CET:
Centre of Effective Therapy 

 About Us 

 Locations 

 MHEIT 

 Resources 

 News 

 Links 

 Contact Us 

 Blogs and Podcasts 

 Rob McNeilly 

 MBBS 

 Gabrielle Peacock 

 MBBS FRACGP 

 finding a therapist 
 The Milton H Erickson Istitute of
Tasmania 

 what's
on? 
 workshops for graduates 
 newsletter 

 Robert
McNeilly

Dr. Robert McNeilly was in a suburban Melbourne general medical
practice for 10 years, was inspired by the late Milton
Erickson&rsquo;s
human approach to therapy, has created his own interpretation of
dealing in a respectful, dignified way with human dilemmas that affect
individuals, couples and families. 

He founded the CET in l988 to introduce Ericksonian Hypnosis and
the Solution Oriented Approach to counselling and coaching in
Australia. For more than 20 years, the contribution he brings in his
teaching style, writing
and unique approaches to learning and therapy allow for a ready
application into everyday living are recognised locally,
nationally and internationally. 

He is co-author, with Jenny Brown, of "Healing With Words", "Healing
the Whole Person" was published by Wiley, and Crown House have
publishing a series of DVD demonstrations of counselling and hypnosis. 

Students comment on his easy, respectful manner and his elegant ability
to make complex issues approachable while retaining their essence. 

 &lsquo; Rob McNeilly
studied with
Milton H. Erickson M.D. ... is one of the most knowledgeable
practitioners of Ericksonian methods in Australia. His teaching is
clear, entertaining and edifying.&rsquo; 

 Jeffrey K. Zeig, Ph.D.
Board of Directors, The Milton H. Erickson Foundation, Inc., Phoenix,
Arizona. 

 &ldquo;Rob McNeilly
worked with
Milton Erickson, has been an invited presenter at International
Ericksonian Congresses, and is a passionate and skilful teacher of the
Solution Oriented Approach. I know him and his work, and value his
personal and professional contributions." 

Bill O&rsquo;Hanlon M.S. 

 &lsquo;A highly
skilled presenter
whose unique perspectives and playful demeanour make for a 
delightful learning experience.&rsquo; 

 Michael D. Yapko, Ph.D. 

 &lsquo; .. Your
clear and practical
teaching of the solution oriented approach has enabled me to achieve
more effective interventions with greater ease ..... the techniques are
applicable in many different contexts...&rsquo; Peter Thorneycroft,
Psychologist. 

 [email] or
phone 0433 273 352 

 copyright disclaimer contact us home