Sarah De Jonge 

 CET:
Centre of Effective Therapy 

 About Us 

 Locations 

 MHEIT 

 Resources 

 News 

 Links 

 Contact Us 

 Blogs and Podcasts 

 Rob McNeilly 

 MBBS 

 Gabrielle Peacock 

 MBBS FRACGP 

 finding a therapist 

 The Milton H Erickson Istitute of
Tasmania 

 what's
new? 

 workshops for graduates 

 newsletter 

 Sarah De Jonge - Counselling for children, adolescents and adults. 
BA, Grad DipSc - Psychology 

 "We can never really change someone; people change themselves. 
 But we can help. We can be a resource." 
 Stephen R. Covey 

Usually people seek counselling because they have become stuck and are
uncertain about the best direction to follow. This can lead to boredom,
frustration, or despair. In these moments of uncertainty, I can help
you explore your situation, clarify the direction you wish to take and
discover your next step. I believe there is no set pathway in life, but
that each step we take creates a path that is uniquely our own. 

I began my studies with the Centre of Effective Therapy in 2005 and
have completed Diplomas in Solution Oriented Counselling and Family
Therapy. Along the way I gained three years practical experience
counselling and teaching with the Client-Centred model, and received a
Graduate Diploma of Science, specialising in Psychology. I am currently
continuing my education and training by furthering my studies in
Psychology at UTas and exploring hypnotherapy at CET. 
. 
While my qualifications and experience provide a solid foundation for
my work, you will find my approach highly progressive and at times
unconventional. Ultimately, I am passionate about using my skills to
help you connect with what is most helpful for you as an individual.
It&rsquo;s all about opening up new perspectives, creating
possibilities and generating momentum in your life. 

I am always happy to consult with new clients of all ages, and will work with individuals, couples or families. 

Phone: 0409 481 422 
Email: sarah.dejonge@bigpond.com 

 copyright disclaimer contact us home