Thank you for taking action against the nomination of Bush and Blair for Nobel Peace Prize! 

 Rad Geek Action Alerts 
 Thank you! 

 In English 

 en Fran&ccedil;ais 

 Back to Actions 
 Back to Politics 

 Contact Rad Geek 
 cwj2@eskimo.com 
 AIM: AiPuch 
 ICQ#: 57691526 
 www.eskimo.com/~cwj2 

 Take Action! 
 Reject Bush/Blair Peace Prize Nomination (letter) 
 Close the Angeles prostitution slave camps! (petition) 
 Oppose the Federal Marriage Amendment (petition) 
 Resources: Stop Anti-gay Hatred in Schools (resources) 

 In English /

 en Fran&ccedil;ais 

Thank you for joining your voice to the 
activists who have protested the nomination of Tony Blair and George W. Bush for the Nobel Peace Prize!

 What more can I do? 

If you wish your protest to have a bit more force, you can send a physical letter to the Peace Prize
commitee. They can be reached by FAX at +47 22 12 93 10 , or by international post at:

 The Norwegian Nobel Institute 
 Drammensveien 19, 
 NO-0255 OSLO 
 Norway 

 Spread the word! 

The next step is to spread the word . With your help, we can make revolutionary
use of the Internet for a totally ground-up, word-of-mouth organizing campaign. Please pass this
e-mail alert on to any friends or e-mail listservs of people who would be concerned by this nomination.

 Send to this e-mail address: 

 (If you want to send to more than one
person or to an email list, please send a copy to yourself and forward it from your local account. The way
that this script functions prevents messages from reaching mailing lists run by Yahoogroups and other popular
programs.) 

 Your name: 

 Your e-mail: 

 E-mail contents 
 *** We are counting on you to spread the word for us! Please forward this
*** message to any friends, family, colleagues, bulletin boards, listservs,
*** or web pages that would be concerned about this issue.

TAKE ACTION! Protest the Nomination of George W. Bush and Tony Blair for Nobel Peace Prize

http://www.eskimo.com/~cwj2/actions/bushblairnobel.html

They say that satire died when Henry Kissinger was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, but if a Right-wing Norwegian MP has his way, the Nobel committee will be spitting on its grave.

Harald Tom Nesvik, a member of the Norwegian Parliament from the Right-wing Party of Progress, has nominated U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair and U.S. President George W. Bush for the Nobel Peace Prize for "decisive action against terrorism, something I believe in the future will be the greatest threat to peace."

According to the provisions of Nobel, the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize "shall have done the most or the best work for fraternity between nations, for the abolition or reduction of standing armies and for the holding and promotion of peace congresses." Tony Blair has ordered more military actions than any U.K. leader since World War II, with at least one military action every year since 1998. George W. Bush has urged budgets massively increasing the size and funding of the U.S. standing military, continued and deepened U.S. military aid for the on-going civil war in Colombia and Israeli military occupation of Palestine, and initiated a war not only against Afghanistan, but an undefined, open-ended "War on Terrorism" which administration officials daily threaten to expand to other nations such Iran, North Korea, and Iraq. Vice President Dick Cheney told the Washington Post that the campaign of warfare the President has launched "may never end. At least, not in our lifetimes." Both Bush and Blair have refused to work with multilateral consultation and diplomacy through peace congresses, with Bush's refusal to secure UN Security Council approval before initiating the war in Afghanistan, and Blair's refusal to place the British troops occupying Sierra Leone under the command of United Nations Peacekeeping forces.

Urge the Nobel Institute to reject the nomination of Tony Blair and George W. Bush. Reckless and ever-expanding pursuit of war is not peace, and awarding the Peace Prize for massive world-wide military campaigns would be a slap in the face of peace and justice activists world wide.

To take action, go to:
http://www.eskimo.com/~cwj2/actions/bushblairnobel.html

For more Bush and Blair's nomination for the Nobel Peace Prize, see:
http://www.guardian.co.uk/international/story/0,3604,645075,00.html
http://newsvote.bbc.co.uk/hi/english/world/europe/newsid_1801000/1801773.stm

 Written and maintained by Charles W. Johnson
( cwj2@eskimo.com ). 
 All pages copyright 1996-2002 by Charles W. Johnson unless otherwise noted. 
 All rights reserved.