Wholesale Catalog 

 100% 
 ESSENTIAL OIL PRODUCTS THAT DELIVER THE FULL VALUE OF AROMATHERAPY. 

 Quality makes all the 
 difference and puts our 
 oils, waters, and mixtures 
 truly in a class by 
 themselves. Your customers 
 will come back for more 
 because our pure essential 
 oils are still fresh and 
 alive and actually smell 
 like live plants. Our lines 
 are guaranteed to be free 
 from adulterations of any 
 kind and are gas 
 chromatography tested for 
 purity. We deliver 
 therapeutic quality 
 essential oil products that 
 build customer loyalty 
 because they do what they 
 are supposed to do and they 
 do it every time. 
 Home 
 || Information || Wholesale 
 Info .|| Catalogs || Contact 

 100% 
 Essential Oils 
 Synergies 
 Aladdin 
 Cold Air Diffuser 

 100% 
 ESSENTIAL OILS 
 Fresh and alive, 
 all of our oils are therapeutic grade, and we guarantee them to be 
 100% pure and free from adulteration of any kind. We inventory over 
 200 different essential oils and carry everything from the most popular 
 to the most obscure. Oils come in 1/2 oz. blue glass bottles and are 
 also available in bulk. On request, we can cite the origins and plant 
 parts used in of all of our oils and we will also provide certificates 
 of authenticity if required. 
 BASSETT 
 SYNERGIES 
 Skillful blending 
 of two or more pure essential oils can create very distinctive aromas 
 with exceptional therapeutic qualities. Because the individual oils 
 used in a synergistic blend actually enhance qualities in each other, 
 Bassett Synergies are more powerful and potent than a single oil, 
 used by itself. We offer 15 original synergies in 1/2 oz. blue glass 
 bottles. 
 COLD 
 AIR ELECTRIC DIFFUSERS 
 Heat absolutely 
 destroys the life essence in essential oils, so these diffusers are 
 a 'must have' if you want to maintain therapeutic vitality. Imported 
 from France, these diffusers are both beautiful and practical. They 
 house a very quiet electric air pump inside a wooden base, and feature 
 hand-blown glass containers. Before diffusing oils into a room, the 
 diffusers break the oils into tiny micro particles. Two styles are 
 available; either will freshen a room in about 20 minutes. Excellent 
 for home, office or salon. Use with 100% pure essential oils, or pure 
 synergy blends. 

 Wholesale 
 Catalog 1/4 | Wholesale Catalog 2/4 | 
 Wholesale Catalog 3/4 | Wholesale 
 Catalog 4/4 

 &copy; 
 2001 Bassett Aromatherapy. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or 
 in part without permission is prohibited. Disclaimer: All material provided 
 in at this website is provided for educational purposes only. Consult your 
 own physician regarding the applicability of any opinions or recommendations 
 with respect to your symptoms or medical condition.