Wholesale Catalog 

 BRINGING 
 THERAPEUTIC 
 QUALITY 
 ESSENTIAL OIL 
 INTO EVERY 
 ENVIRONMENT &reg;. 
 Home 
 || Information || Wholesale 
 Info .|| Catalogs || Contact 

 Organic Floral Waters/Hydrosols 

 Specialty 
 Formulas - 
 lotions, massage oils, Zone Therapy 

 ORGANIC 
 FLORAL WATERS 
 Technically called 
 a 'hydrosol', our Floral Waters come directly from the steam distillation 
 process of essential oil extraction, and contain the very valuable 
 plant compounds that become dissolved in the distillation water. These 
 compounds are water-soluble, and, by definition, are not contained 
 in the essential oils. Milder and easier to use than essential oils, 
 Organic Floral Waters make a delightful facial or body splash and 
 are good for toning and conditioning. Organic Floral Waters come full 
 strength from the distillery and are not to be confused with 'misters' 
 that are made by adding essential oil to distilled water. Sold in 
 blue glass or plastic bottles with fine mist sprayers, these Floral 
 Waters are 4 oz. of pure luxury. 
 MASSAGE 
 OIL, ZONE THERAPY &reg;, AND BODY LOTION 
 These are special 
 products for special uses. Our aromatic Massage Oil is an extra rich 
 blend of pure essential oils in a cold pressed oil base. For foot 
 care or problem areas, our Zone Therapy &reg; is a concentration of 
 oils designed to relax or rejuvenate, and can be added to a soak, 
 or massaged directly into a sore spot. Our Body Lotion is luxurious, 
 completely botanical and leaves skin hydrated and supple. It includes 
 special combinations of oils traditionally associated with relaxing, 
 rejuvenation or sensual occasions. 

 Wholesale 
 Catalog 1/4 
 | Wholesale Catalog 2/4 | Wholesale 
 Catalog 3/4 | Wholesale Catalog 4/4 

 &copy; 
 2001 Bassett Aromatherapy. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or 
 in part without permission is prohibited. Disclaimer: All material provided 
 in at this website is provided for educational purposes only. Consult your 
 own physician regarding the applicability of any opinions or recommendations 
 with respect to your symptoms or medical condition.