Information 

 SMELL THE DIFFERENCE &reg; 

 When sampling essential 
 oils, your nose can actually smell the difference between finest quality, 
 therapeutic grade essential oils and oils of a lesser quality. With 
 top quality, orange oil smells like a fresh orange, and lavender smells 
 like live, blooming sprigs of lavender. You can even detect subtle 
 differences, like whether the lavender is wild (lavendula vera) or 
 farmed (lavendula officinalis). 
 This is because therapeutic 
 grade oils, like the ones presented by Bassett Aromatherapy, are 
 still alive with the plant essence. They are fresh, and full of 
 vital elements that are present only when life is still present. 
 When you use these oils, the full vitality of the living plant essence 
 is available. 
 Therapeutic grade oils 
 are distilled slowly and carefully in order to maintain the maximum 
 essential elements. The live plants selected for distillation are 
 organic or wild, exceptionally healthy, and harvested at the peak 
 of their potency. In a laboratory, each batch of oil is tested, 
 and certified to meet standards for purity and botanical composition. 
 Traditionally, certain healing properties have been associated with 
 particular essential oils. To obtain these traditional benefits, 
 you must use only the purest essential oils, and use them when they 
 are still fresh and alive. 
 When you buy from Bassett, 
 this is what you will get. Every time, guaranteed. We believe that 
 our aromatherapy oils and products are in a class by themselves, 
 and we invite you to compare our products with any others on the 
 market today. 
 The comparison test is simple: just untwist the top of one of our 
 oils, put it near your nose, and take a deep breath. You will SMELL 
 THE DIFFERENCE ! . 

 100% 
 ESSENTIAL OILS 
 Fresh and alive, 
 all of our oils are therapeutic grade, and we guarantee them to be 
 100% pure and free from adulteration of any kind. We inventory over 
 200 different essential oils and carry everything from the most popular 
 to the most obscure. Oils come in 1/2 oz. blue glass bottles and are 
 also available in bulk. On request, we can cite the origins and plant 
 parts used in of all of our oils and we will also provide certificates 
 of authenticity if required. 
 BASSETT 
 SYNERGIES 
 Skillful blending 
 of two or more pure essential oils can create very distinctive aromas 
 with exceptional therapeutic qualities. Because the individual oils 
 used in a synergistic blend actually enhance qualities in each other, 
 Bassett Synergies are more powerful and potent than a single oil, 
 used by itself. We offer 15 original synergies in 1/2 oz. blue glass 
 bottles. 
 ORGANIC 
 FLORAL WATERS 
 Technically called 
 a 'hydrosol', our Floral Waters come directly from the steam distillation 
 process of essential oil extraction, and contain the very valuable 
 plant compounds that become dissolved in the distillation water. These 
 compounds are water-soluble, and, by definition, are not contained 
 in the essential oils. Milder and easier to use than essential oils, 
 Organic Floral Waters make a delightful facial or body splash and 
 are good for toning and conditioning. Organic Floral Waters come full 
 strength from the distillery and are not to be confused with 'misters' 
 that are made by adding essential oil to distilled water. Sold in 
 blue glass or plastic bottles with fine mist sprayers, these Floral 
 Waters are 4 oz. of pure luxury. 

 MASSAGE 
 OIL, ZONE THERAPY &reg;, AND BODY LOTION 
 These are special 
 products blended for special uses. Our aromatic Massage Oil is an 
 extra rich blend of pure essential oils in a cold pressed oil base. 
 For foot care or problem areas, our Zone Therapy &reg; is a concentration 
 of oils designed to relax or rejuvenate, and can be added to a soak, 
 or massaged directly into a sore spot. Our Body Lotion is a luxurious, 
 completely botanical lotion that leaves skin hydrated and supple. 
 It includes special combinations of oils traditionally associated 
 with relaxing, rejuvenation or sensual occasions. 
 COLD 
 AIR ELECTRIC DIFFUSERS 
 Heat absolutely 
 destroys the life essence in essential oils, so these diffusers 
 are a 'must have' if you want to maintain therapeutic vitality. 
 Imported from France, these diffusers are both beautiful and practical. 
 They house a very quiet electric air pump inside a wooden base, 
 and feature hand-blown glass containers. Before diffusing oils into 
 a room, the diffusers break the oils into tiny micro particles. 
 Two styles are available; either will freshen a room in about 20 
 minutes. Excellent for home, office or salon. Use with 100% pure 
 essential oils, or pure synergy blends. 

 JoAnne Bassett is a Certified Aromatherapist and is the owner of 
 Bassett Aromatherapy. 

 AROMATHERAPY AS INTENDED BY NATURE 

 Home 
 Page | Sales 
 Catalog 1/2 | Sales Catalog 2/2 | Order 
 Now 

 &copy; 
 2001 Bassett Aromatherapy. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or 
 in part without permission is prohibited. Disclaimer: All material provided 
 in at this website is provided for educational purposes only. Consult your 
 own physician regarding the applicability of any opinions or recommendations 
 with respect to your symptoms or medical condition.