Bartal: Win Like a Bitran 

 Win Like a Bitran 

by Senior Harper apprentice Bartal 

 (Sung to the tune of the Bangles' "Walk Like an Egyptian") 

Bartal wastes no time in starting the piece, his fingers gliding along
the
 gitar's neck, creating a short whining sound before launching into a
 fast-paced, high-energy song. He sings, 

 "All the old gamblers in the Hall 
 Practice dragonpoker, don't you know 
 If you aren't too good, oh-ay-oh 
 Supply of marks will fall very low"

"All the bakers near the hearth 
 They wager who'll lose their savings first 
 All the old gamblers, oh-ay-oh 
 They drink the wine quick but never drop"

The chording on the gitar modulates up a bit, and although the rhythm
changes
 slightly, the tempo remains the same. Bartal sings, 

 "The Hold Harper teaching scales sings 
 Way-oh way-oh 
 ooh-way-ay-oh ay-oh ...

 Win like a sly Bitran" 

Bartal hits the side of the gitar once at the end of the line, as a
 punctuation.

The tone returns to that of the earlier part of the song, frenetic, yet
 cheery. Bartal sings, 

 "The kitchen help they bring you food 
 They spin around then they cross the floor 
 They've got the moves, oh-ay-oh 
 You drop your drink then they bring you more"

"All the Hold kids all done with lessons 
 They like hide-and-seek and other sport 
 When they play their games, oh-ay-oh 
 They like to win like a Bitran" 

Bartal's gitarwork moves toward the chorus as he sings, 

 "The watchweyr on the Hold ramp howls 
 Way-oh way-oh 
 ooh-way-ay-oh ay-oh ...

 Win like a sly Bitran" 

Again the harper slaps the side of his gitar in punctuation, then
launches
 into the bridge. Fingers dancing along the strings yield a line that
first
 climbs, then drops, and finally evens out in a new key. 

Bartal whistles the tune of the refrain once, the gitar stilled.

After whistling, Bartal goes back to singing: 

 "The trader clan display their wares 
 They get the marks for all their troubles 
 Renegades beware, oh-ay-oh 
 They really are as tough as they look"

"If you want to find off-duty Guards 
 They're in the tower, dealing out a round of cards 
 Captain's got a five of dragons, oh-ay-oh 
 That's known as a Clutch, don't you know" 

Bartal slips into a sneaky grin as he looks about, strumming the gitar
strings
 with vigor. He sings, 

 "All the crafters with honed skills 
 When gather comes, up go their tents 
 And the gamblers know, oh-ay-oh 
 Their chance to win like a sly Bitran" 

Moving toward the chorus and climax, Bartal's playing continues to be
 insistent, yet clear. He sings, 

 "All the novices, when dealt great hands, go 
 Way-oh way-oh 
 ooh-way-ay-oh ay-oh ...

 Gamblers play like sly Bitrans 
 Try to win like a Bitran" 

The words done, Bartal is left with the gitar to finish out the song. He
 repeats the refrain a few times, fading out as he goes. When it almost
seems
 silent, he increases the volume and ends in a flourish. 

 Bartal's other songs 

Filk by Steve Mohundro, January 14, 1996. Dragonriders of Pern theme and 
setting used with fond reverence. Pern is Copyright (c) 1996 Anne
McCaffrey. "Walk Like an Egyptian" is Copyright (c) 1986 The Bangles.

 ABODE

 WHO

 about steve, family, folks, writing 

 roleplaying, comic books 

 PLAY

 LLL!

 legion of super-heroes