Bartal: The Trader's Search 

 The Trader's Search 
by Jr. Harper apprentice Bartal 

 (Sung to the tune of "Eurotrash Girl" by Cracker) 

Bartal begins the gitar line, a long series of plodding, moody chords 
that might suggest traveling. Very slowly. After a repeat of a twelve-bar 
phrase, Bartal starts to sing, very deliberately, 

 "I went up to Benden Winecraft, loaded up Benden White 
Went down to visit Nerat, something broke in my cart. 
And I'll search the North over for that girl with green eyes 
Yeah, I'll search my route over for that sweet Harper girl..." 

Bartal continues, a twinkle in his eye, 

"Suddenly Thread fell over Keroon, runner dropped me on my Red Butte 
Some gambler up in Bitra ripped me off of my marks..." 
"And I'll search the North over for that girl with green eyes 
Yeah, I'll search my route over for that sweet Harper girl..." 

Bartal plods along, grinning before launching into the third verse, 

"Kitchen drudges at Igen fattened me up to the hilt 
In the Stands for a Hatching, I rediscovered the pies... 
"And I'll search the North over for that girl with green eyes 
Yeah, I'll search my route over for that sweet Harper girl..." 

Bartal reaches a particular point in repeating the chords beneath, and 
chants the refrain, 
"Sweet Harper girl, Sweet Harper girl, 
Still in the North? Sweet Harper girl." 

The strumming gitar underneath doesn't change as Bartal starts another 
verse. The repetitive motion of the song seems to represent the life of 
a trader well: 
 "Took a detour to Ista, just in case she'd been Searched 
Weyrling on ferry duty landed on my bubbly stash. 
Ended up near the Fort mountains, Weyr, Hold and Crafts 
Gather at Boll produced music -- Wherry stew produced gas." 
Bartal smirks. 

"And I'll search the North over for that girl with green eyes 
Yeah, I'll search my route over for that sweet Harper girl..." 

He smiles wistfully, doing more talking than singing, but it seems to fit the 
mood. He launches into another verse, 
 "And the Reaches were freezing, blanket trading was fast 
But try as I did to find her, not a sight of the lass." 
"And I'll search the North over for that girl with green eyes 
Yeah, I'll search my route over for that sweet Harper girl..." 

Bartal grins, and plays the chords louder, more insistent as he chants 
the refrain one last time: 

"Sweet Harper girl, Sweet Harper girl, 
Still in the North? Sweet Harper girl." 
He ends the gitar chords with an a quick arpeggio up to an unusual note, 
and then he falls silent.

 Bartal's other songs 

Filk written by Steve Mohundro September 2, 1995. Dragonriders of Pern theme 
and setting used with fond reverence. Pern is Copyright (c) 1995 Anne
McCaffrey. "Eurotrash Girl" Copyright (c) 1994 by Cracker. 

 ABODE

 WHO

 about steve, family, folks, writing 

 roleplaying, comic books 

 PLAY

 LLL!

 legion of super-heroes