Bartal: Klah, the Matchmaker 

 Klah, the Matchmaker 
by Jr. Harper apprentice Bartal 

 (Sung to the tune of "Strangers in the Night" by Frank Sinatra) 

Bartal launches quickly into a ballad-like song, chords strong and 
lengthened as he pretends to croon. The smirk on his face is a bit 
unsettling, given the presumed nature of the song. 

"Seacrafters on the deck, exchanging glances 
Wondering in the night, what were the chances 
They'd be sharing klah before the night was through?" 

Bartal winks, and continues with the slow, purposeful background chords of the 
gitar, 
 "Something in their Craft was so exciting, 
Something in hot klah was so inviting, 
Something in the Sea decided it was time to blow..." 

Bartal modulates up, the tempo increasing just enough to notice, 
 "Storm was brief but strong, it did the damage... they were 
Crafters on the deck, two scalded people... 

The tune moves to a short bridge section, losing some of its seriousness and 
adding the hint of a sea shanty as Bartal begins again: 
 "When the boat rocked to and fro, little did they know," 
How one innocent mug of klah could be 
A warm embrace on their pants this way..." 

Bartal stifles a giggle, keeping his expression even as he returns to 
the magestic chords of the beginning, 
 "And ever since that night, they'd been together 
Conversing in the night, love growing stronger 
It turned out so right, for Seacrafters in the night..." 

Bartal falls silent, letting the gitar music tell the story of the love 
between the crafters itself. Finally, he begins singing again, 
 "Was it just circumstance, hot klah spilled on their pants that 
day... 
Ever since that night, they loved each other 
Alert to any plight, to befall their partner 
It turned out so right, for Seacrafters in the night..." 

Bartal's playing goes to the forefront, playing the background to the 
last verse over and over again until it finally dies out.

 Bartal's other songs 

Filk by Steve Mohundro, September 2, 1995. Dragonriders of Pern theme and 
setting used with fond reverence. Pern is Copyright (c) 1995 Anne
McCaffrey. "Strangers in the Night" is Copyright Frank Sinatra. 

 ABODE

 WHO

 about steve, family, folks, writing 

 roleplaying, comic books 

 PLAY

 LLL!

 legion of super-heroes