Bartal: Oh, Pretty Dragon 

 Oh, Pretty Dragon 

by Senior Harper Apprentice Bartal 

 (Sung to the tune of Roy Orbison's "Oh, Pretty Woman") 

Bartal absently tunes his gitar. "This was inspired by a friend of my 
father's, R'orbison, at Benden Weyr," he says. "It's a tale of feeling 
inadequate and how that can't always stop people from appreciating who 
you are in spite of any failings." As he pauses to look around at his 
listeners, he says "I call it 'Oh, Pretty Dragon.'" 

The gitar in Bartal's hands emits a steady, slow-tempo backdrop as he 
plays the introduction. At the end of the first line of song, he starts 
to sing, with a mellow, crooning voice, the first verse: 

 "Pretty dragon, creeling in such distress 
Pretty dragon, the kind I won't Impress 
Pretty dragon 
 I don't believe you, you're not the truth 
I could not look good enough for you..." 

Bartal's face stretches into an expression of pure longing. He growls 
more than sings the word, "Mercy!" like a call for help, but it is soon 
drowned by a repetitive eight-note phrase in the lower register on his 
gitar. 

Bartal quiets down the gitar, and his voice cuts above the 
instrumentation. He continues his insistent sound of longing as he 
sings, 
 "Pretty dragon, would you pardon me 
Pretty dragon, I could not help but be 
in your path 
 You were as sure as can be 
Could you be lonely just like me? 

Bartal waits a moment, and then emits a growl-like sound, though it 
resembles the softer, more expressive > of a young dragon. His 
gitar kicks it with the eight-note phrase again. 

 "Pretty dragon, stopped on by 
Pretty dragon, whirled and whirled its eyes 
Pretty dragon, gave her heart to me! 

Bartal strums more forcefully on his gitar strings, the major chording 
evoking a sense of relief and joy, which he echoes with a soft smile. 

Bartal's fingers move swiftly across the frets before returning to the 
soft, easy tune of the other verses. He sings, 
 "Green dragon named Ognath 
Pretty dragon, call me T'lay 
Pretty dragon, say you'll stay with me! 
 'Cause I need you ... I'll treat you right 
Come with me young one ... curl up 
toniii-iii-iiigh..." 

Bartal's gitarwork becomes more insistent as his voice continues to sing 
the end of the last line. His eyes closed, wistful. 

Bartal sings some more, his face a picture of relief. 
 "Pretty dragon, didn't walk on by 
Pretty dragon, even so you made me cry 
Pretty dragon 
 Don't walk away babe ... okay? 
This is the way it must be, okay? 
I guess you need some meat on a plate 
Oil on your skin -- it'll feel great 
We'll be fighting Thread, just you wait 
Because you'll always be with me ..." 

The catchy eight-note phrase is played first softly, underneath the 
previous verses, and then louder and a little quicker as he reaches the 
climax of the song. He repeats, 
 "Yeah you'll always be with me ... 

Oooh-Oooh ... Pretty dragon." 
The last two words are said quickly and with emphasis, echoing the 
gitar's final notes. Bartal hushes the gitar and looks up, a dreamy look 
in his eyes and an easy smile adorning his face.

 Bartal's other songs 

Filk by Steve Mohundro, May 14, 1996. Dragonriders of Pern theme and 
setting used with fond reverence. Pern is Copyright (c) 1996 Anne
McCaffrey. "Oh, Pretty Woman" is Copyright (c) Roy Orbison. 

 ABODE

 WHO

 about steve, family, folks, writing 

 roleplaying, comic books 

 PLAY

 LLL!

 legion of super-heroes