Machs: What a Wonderful Weyr 

 What a Wonderful Weyr 
by Senior Journeyman Harper Machs of Small Hold, Southern Continent 
 (sung to the tune of "What a Wonderful World" by Louis Armstrong) 

Machs tuned the gitar, and glanced over at young Bartal. "Wonder what 
it's like for your Uncle Cl'rek to live up there at Benden Weyr?" he 
asked. 

Bartal's eyes got wide, and he asked, "How could you live in caves like 
that? I mean, what's wrong with living in big Holds out in the open like 
this?" 

Machs chuckled. "Weyrs are wonderful places, son. You know, I wrote a 
song long time ago when I spent a few months at Honshu Weyr. Might help 
you understand better." 

Bartal nodded quietly, and leaned back on his chair as Machs finished 
tuning the gitar. Rich, full tones emitted from the gitar as experienced 
fingers shaped the melody. He began to sing: 

 I see wings of green ... bronze, brown and blue 
I see them flaming thread, for me and you 
And I think to myself what a wonderful Weyr. 

I see skies of blue and clouds of white 
And the glow of the bowl in the dead of night 
And I think to myself what a wonderful Weyr. 

The colors of the rainbow, so pretty in dragons' eyes, 
Are also on the faces of people going by 
I see residents clasping hands, asking how do you do 
They're really saying 'I love you.' 

I hear babies crying, I watch them grow 
Harpers'll teach them more than I'll never know 
And I think to myself what a wonderful Weyr, 
Yes I think to myself what a wonderful Weyr. 

Bartal smiled as the chords faded from memory. "That was nice. Is it 
really that beautiful in a Weyr? With all those dragons? I mean, 
Cl'rek's brown isn't that colorful," he flushes in embarassment, and 
corrects, "Well, compared to say a green. But together they look..." His 
eyes sparkle, "I can almost see it! Good song, Machs." 

Machs ruffled Bartal's hair and said, "Someday, you might write 
something like this. Bartal just groaned, and said, "Yeah, right."

 Other compositions 

Filk by Steve Mohundro, September 8, 1995. Dragonriders of Pern theme and
setting used with fond reverence. Pern is Copyright (c) 1996 Anne
McCaffrey. "What a Wonderful World" is Copyright (c) 1996. 

 ABODE

 WHO

 about steve, family, folks, writing 

 roleplaying, comic books 

 PLAY

 LLL!

 legion of super-heroes