Tyroc: Doyle and the Bitra Guard 

 Doyle and the Bitra 
Guard by Journeyman Harper Tyroc of Bitra Hold 

 (Sung somewhat to the tune of "(Theme from) the Brady Bunch," 
though it changes about halfway through) 

Tyroc, his eyes twinkling in the light from the hearth, leaned forward 
and whispered to the Hold children, "Have any of you heard of Doyle?" 

One lone hand raised. It was Dibny. The little scamp had wedged himself 
into the crook of a chair and was grinning, "Yeah, when he attacked Lord 
Mal, Clark jumped in front and took his arrow!" His eyes sparkled of hero 
worship. 

Tyroc laughed, his deep baritone ringing in the relative emptiness of the 
Bitra Great Hall. "You're right, young Dibny. But most people don't know 
about what happened that day. I wrote a song about it. Would you like to 
learn it?" He addresses the children. 

The children cried, "Yay!" and nodded vigorously. Tyroc laughed again and 
started playing a few chords on his gitar, "Okay, listen closely:" 

His fingers began playing a gay little ditty, simple and just about the 
right sound to get the children giggling. Finally, he began singing. 

"Here's a story, of Holder named Malachite 
As a Masterminer he tolerated idleness not at all 
(aside: except when he took a nap) 
Kept up shop at the Crafthall, Crom then Bitra 
Yet he was all alone." 

Tyroc grinned at the smiles around the group, and continued: 

"Here's a story, about a miner named Doyle 
Who was thrown out of the Craft on his bum 
(aside: by Malachite) 
One day found some Renegades, they joined together 
Yet he was all alone." 

Tyroc's playing grew to a confrontation of one key and one which he gets 
closer and closer to modulating to. 

"But then one day this Renegade attacked this Holder 
And it became a fierce battle, no holds barred 
(aside: no pun intended) 
That three youths would save Mal from Assasination 
And these kids would be from the Bitra Guard." 

Tyroc launches into the chorus, winking at the children: 
 "The Bitra Guard, The Bitra Guard 
All three youngsters formed the core of the Bitra Guard!" 

"Captain Largand, he must have been born a leader 
Calmly giving orders to his Guard, confident and true 
(aside: most always, anyway) 
That day he spied Doyle drawing out his bow and arrow 
Ran toward Doyle, tackled down that awful Rogue!" 

"Lieutenant Laurel, well she was quick to cry out, 
"I've got you Mal!" and drag him out of the way 
(aside: good she was there that day!) 
She had hair of wavy gold, just like her mother 
And she was tough and strong and tall, and oh so brave!" 

Tyroc looked over at Dibny, who seems to be waiting for something. 

"To Guardsman Clark, loyalty had to be a virtue 
And when Doyle shot he lept into his path 
(aside: perhaps he tripped?) 
Palm got the arrow Doyle had aimed at the Holder 
Stupid, but it sure saved Mal's life!" 

Dibny shot Tyroc a look but soon changed this into his normal goofy 
grin as the Harper runs to the chorus again. 

"The Bitra Guard, The Bitra Guard 
Clark, Laurel, Largand: the Bitra Guard!" 

"And since that day Doyle's been locked up in the Barracks 
Mal was safe, Clark recovered 
(aside: though he's scarred) 
Renegades are careful, and never get to close to Bitra 
Because if so they'll face the brave Bitra Guard!" 

Tyroc launches into the chorus one more time, the children humming along 
by now: 
 "The Bitra Guard, The Bitra Guard 
All youngsters, brave and strong, the Bitra Guard! 

The harper finishes with a flourish, and the children clap. He said, "You 
see, the Guard's here to protect you and me - so give them some credit. 
Who knows, maybe this song will change your life some day." He looked 
pointedly at Dibny and winked. Dibny just smiled.

 Other compositions 

Filk by Steve Mohundro, September 8, 1995. Dragonriders of Pern theme and 
setting used with fond reverence. Pern is Copyright (c) 1996 Anne
McCaffrey 

 ABODE

 WHO

 about steve, family, folks, writing 

 roleplaying, comic books 

 PLAY

 LLL!

 legion of super-heroes