BRITISH TV SHOW REVIEWS "A" 

British TV Show Reviews "A" 

 A | B | C | D 
| E | F | G 
| H | I | J 
| K | L | M 
| N | O | P 
| Q | R | S 
| T | U | V 
| W | X | Y 
| Z 
 Back to Homepage | Next List 
 Dates refer to when review was written 

 Aaagh! It's The Mr. Hell Show (3/02)
 Bob Monkhouse is the voice of the satanic Mr. Hell in this BBC animated
series that takes potshots at everyone in clever sketches but also gives
us a glimpse each week into the life of Mr. Hell (for example, trying to
his boy Damien into a good private school). Probably at its
best when skewing politically correct sensibilities, and taking full advantage
of the leeway given animated cartoons when it comes to good taste.
 About Face (8/91)
 Anthology comedy series with Maureen Lipmann, similar in style to Carol
Burnett's series, with Lipmann in a different role each episode.
 Absolutely Fabulous (5/94)
 Jennifer Saunder's caustic (and allegedly based on real people) comedy
returns for a second season (now on mainstream BBC-1, which hijacked the
series from "artsy" BBC-2 last year) about two women in the fashion and
PR world of London. For those of you who think of Joanna Lumley as a stylish
ex-Avengers girl, or the cool Sapphire, you're in for a shock: she plays
perhaps the sluttiest, most substance-abusing person on television, and
it's hysterical. Saunders is alternatingly dependent and dismissive of
her totally straight daughter who she's trying to raise (or is the other
way around?). Good news, AbFab fans: Comedy Central has picked up the series.
Be warned of cuts though (episodes originally ran 30 minutes each). Worth
catching though--it's all true! (allegedly). Read
my feature article about the series. 
 (5/95)
 The outrageous sitcom antics of Patsy and Edwina returns to BBC television
(and presumably Comedy Central soon thereafter). By the way, I heard that
Carrie Fisher would be starring in the American version of "AbFab." A good
thing or not? Discuss amongst yourselves. Anyway, things on AbFab Prime
are typical: Pats and Eddie take a day-trip to New York to find a doorknob,
Saffron has to show Patsy how to do a breast examination, and New Years
Eve ends in disaster when Patsy's sister (Kate "The Rani" O'Mara) shows
up. You either love this show or hate it. It took me a while to warm to
it but now it makes me laugh a lot. Will the American version stand up?
Is this the worst idea since an American Red Dwarf ? We shall see...
 (1/97)
 In The Last Shout Patsy and Edina are at it again, this time
trying to make sure daughter Saffron makes it to the church on time for
her wedding to a dull rich boy. But first the daffy duo take a skiing trip
with near fatal results for Edina, who gets to meet God (Marianne Faithful
- who also sings the theme song in a way that, as my friend Nancy put it,
"I didn't think was possible to make sound worse.") Patsy even does Saffron
a favor, but of course for completely the wrong reasons. Nearly everyone
who has ever appeared on the series (except for Bubbles, Edina's wacky
secretary) makes an appearance for what we are assured is the "positively,
last, final episode ever." Ha! I bet there'll be a BBC Christmas special
by '99.
 (7/04)
 I was right! A new series (co-produced with American cable network
Oxygen) appeared at the end of 2003.
 Absolute Power (7/04)
 Stephen Fry and John Bird star in this wicked BBC satire comedy series
as partners in London's most ruthless public relations firm. Each
week, in multiple storylines, they take on the most demanding assignments
with Bird typically ending up with egg on his face, and Fry smelling like
a rose. There is nothing they won't do to help a client, including
a candidate for archbishop of Canterbury, a female MP looking to advance
her career, and best of all, Geoffrey Palmer as leader of a rural political
party with a rather large skeleton in his closet.
 The Adam and Joe Show (5/97)
 At first it appears to be a public access show made by two guys in
their bedroom, but this late night Channel 4 program is a witty look at
pulp culture featuring puppet versions of famous movies (including "Star
Wars" and "seven"), "Vinyl Justice" where they burst in on a celebrity
and go through their record collection exposing all sorts of lapses in
taste (now a series on the American VH1 channel), and give advice about
which movies show the best airplane crashes or serial killers.
 Adam & Joe Go Tokyo (3/04)
 The popular Channel 4 duo make the move to the BBC (albeit BBC Three)
and spend six weeks in Japan's capital trying to make sense of Japanese
culture. Sure, they are two goofballs and can't help making fun of
just about everything (some of the popular foodstuffs available do defy
belief) and attempt to make themselves famous over the course of the series
to the celebrity-mad Japanese. It's all in good fun and Japan seems
to have survived the experience.
 Adrian Mole - The Cappuccino Years (1/02)
 Writer Sue Townsend continues the diary of middle England loser Adrian
Mole, now 30 and with a life heading nowhere as usual in this BBC comedy
series. Adrian has managed to end up as a single father, still living
at home, and wanting to be an intellectual and successful writer even though
he has zero talent. Meanwhile, the love of his life, Pandora Braithwaite
(the delectable Helen Baxendale with long blonde hair), is now a doctor
and becomes the town's Labour MP with ambitions of her own that don't include
Adrian. Adrian soon discovers he has yet another son, his parents
and Pandora's engage in some wifeswapping, and Adrian has 15 minutes of
fame on a satellite channel cooking show called "Offally Good." Despite
the insanity around him, he manages to have a good heart and his Good Samaritan
tendencies eventually provide him a modest gain in life.
 Ads Infinitum (3/99)
 Critic Victor Lewis-Smith turns his jaundiced eye towards television
adverts in this series of 10 minute compilations, all accompanied by Lewis-Smiths
incessant narration (much as he did for his previous series, TV
Offal ). Sometimes I think he belabors his point, but the clips
he does did up are funny in their kitschy awfulness.
 The Adventures of Captain Pugwash (1/99)
 Remake of a beloved children's series from the 1960s that was alleged
to have characters with double-entendre names (it wasn't true). Simplistically
animated, with stories to match, obviously it is aimed squarely at younger
viewers and nostalgia fans who recall the original about a dim sea captain
and his crew battling equally dim pirates.
 After the Break (1/97)
 This and Tarrant on TV ran during
the same month, both compilation shows of commercials and other odds bits
from the world of television. Interestingly, in the same week both featured
the same ad from France about a suggestive bottle. Perhaps they're dipping
deeply into too shallow a pool here.
 After They Were Famous (3/04)
 Well-researched documentaries about various popular shows (including
"Star Trek," The Brothers and the movie "Grease"), their rise to
fame and of course what happened to the stars afterwards. And in
the case of The Brothers (the series that launched future Doctor
Who Colin Baker to fame), the producers even arrange a reunion dinner for
the cast. Plenty of clips both from the source series and other appearances,
as well as interviews tell the complete story for fans.
 Agent Z and the Penguin From Mars (9/96)
 Children's comedy series about three boys who plan a hoax on an annoying
neighbor with a UFO sighting in his own backyard. Clever for its "Walter
Mitty"-like fantasy sequences of the ringleader, as well as his knowing
glances to the camera at times.
 Agony Again (1/96)
 The 80s ITV sitcom with Maureen Lipmann as a besieged advice columnist
turns up as a 90s BBC sitcom with Lipmann's character now a TV chat show
host. She still has problems including dealing with her son just coming
out of the closet, a budding relationship with a black town councillor,
and her dotty mother.
 Ain't Misbehavin' (7/94)
 Peter Davison's new sitcom plays like a 50s bedroom farce except for
the fact that everyone is using mobile phones constantly to keep in touch.
Davison finds out from a frantic hairdresser that his wife is having an
affair with her husband. All sorts of wackiness and mixups occur because
of this, but in the end this is very tired material and not very funny.
Davison should avoid domestic sit-coms in the future.
 Ain't Misbehavin' (9/97)
 Not to be confused with the dire Peter Davison comedy of a few years
back, this three part ITV comedy/drama set in WWII stars former musical
double-act Robson and Jerome. An RAF airman is discharged due to brief
catatonic fits only to find himself arriving in London just as the Battle
Of Britain begins. He gets wrapped up with gangsters, black marketeers,
a second-rate band, and a beautiful young society girl (Julia Sawalha).
A charming look at that era, with Warren Mitchell as a band leader and
Jim Carter as a gangster whose turf is threatened by menacing Scotsmen.
 A Is For Acid (1/04)
 In this ITV TV movie Martin Clunes plays
real-life 1940s serial killer John Haigh who came up with the unique notion
that if he dissolved his victims in acid there would be no "corpus delecti"
and he could get away with murdering people for profit. Clunes plays
him as a real smoothie who ingratiates himself with his victims before
killing them, although the movie's attempt to "humanize" him by making
him nice to dogs seems unnecessary.
 Alan Davies - Urban Trauma (3/99)
 Comic Davies (best known for Jonathan Creek )
returns to his stand-up roots for an hour special were he makes wry observations
on everything from flying to Tina Turner.
 Alas Smith and Jones (3/89)
 Mel Smith and Griff Rhys-Jones sketch comedy show. Their 1988 Christmas
special featured "The First Temptation of Christ," a parody of the Scorsese
movie.
 Alexei Sayle's Merry Go Round (9/98)
 A new series of sketch comedy from Sayle, although I think he has gone
to the same well once too often. He insists on trotting out his "Bobby
Chariot, top warm-up man" character, even though he wore out his welcome
two series ago ( The All-New Alexei Sayle Show ),
and many sketches seem to be post-ironic, merely pointing out to the audience
that they don't really have a point. There are brief spurts of humor: "The
Ayatollah of Dibley," and invading aliens who were influenced by Tony Hancock,
but much of the material suggests Sayle just had time to fill but nothing
really inspiring to fill it with. A bit of a disappointment this time.
 Alexei Sayle's Stuff (3/89)
 The British comedian (the one who looks like Mussolini in The Young
Ones ) has his own comedy show which features many excellent sketches.
Up until now I never liked his approach to humor but either his style has
changed for this show or my tastes have. (Follow-up series: The
All-New Alexei Sayle Show ) 
 Alice Through The Looking Glass (9/99)
 Channel 4's complement to the recent NBC adaption of Alice In Wonderland ,
this star-filled effects extravaganza does justice to the sequel story.
Ian Richardson, Steve Coogan , and Geoffrey
Palmer are among the celebrities who turn up, as Alice wanders through
one strange domain after another. Very nicely done.
 Alistair McGowan's Big Impression (5/00)
 The famed impressionist (who once introduced my " Star
Trek: The Pepsi Generation " on a BBC-2 documentary) has his own showcase
for his various characters. Hightlights include a dead-on parody of Alan
Davies in Jonathan Creek , and "The
Student Grants" with Hugh Grant, Richard E. Grant and Cary Grant as students
sharing a dorm.
 Alistair McGowan's Football Backchat (1/99)
 Impressionist McGowan takes soccer footage and dubs in new voices for
sometimes hilarious results (depending if you are familiar with the personalities
he's doing) in this Channel 4 special.
 Alive and Kicking (9/96)
 1991 drama with many of the same themes as "Trainspotting," with the
story about heroin addicts on rehabilitation. Lenny Henry stars as a pusher
whose girlfriend takes their baby and tries to get straight. Henry only
wants the baby back but comes up against the tough-as-nails Scot (Robbie
Coltrane) who runs the rehab center. Coltrane eventually wears Henry down
and inspires him to begin a football club with other former addicts as
its team (hence the pun of the title). Based on real events, and never
maudlin. Comedian Henry holds his own with Coltrane.
 All About Me (3/03)
 Jasper Carrot and Myra Syal ( Goodness Gracious
Me ) star in this ill-conceived BBC sitcom about a blended family. 
Perhaps the creators thought it was "cutting edge" to not only combine
a mixed-race family, but also humor and drama in the form of the disabled
wheelchair-bound son who narrates the show but can't speak in real life. 
It so doesn't work, and Carrott is far too broad for this material but
frankly I can't imagine it succeeding with anyone else either.
 All Along The Watchtower (9/99)
 BBC comedy about a remote RAF base in Scotland and the three nut cases
who run the joint. There are plenty of jokes about village life in Scotland,
but the whole thing is a bit of a misfire and was quickly relegated to
an afternoon timeslot.
 All at Sea (3/95)
 Short subject about the world's most superstitious woman who lives
on a bed floating in the ocean and her philosophy in life.
 All-New Alexei Sayle Show, The (4/94)
 Sayle seems to have moved away from his "fat bastard" persona to someone
who has a real axe to grind about the 70s. From the opening credits which
resemble some long-forgotten BBC sitcom from that era (complete with the
sappily-sung theme tune), to the Australian soap opera mercilessly pilloried
each episode, he expertly spoofs the styles and attitudes from that time.
Other running jokes include the world's worst warm-up man who has to fill-in
in front of the audience when the VT breaks down, to each episode ending
with some British celebrity in bed waking up from a dream and asking, "What
did that mean?" Not for all tastes, but I like it.
 (11/95)
 A new season of "fat bastard" comedian Alexei Sayle ( The Young Ones )
parodies foreign TV shows (such as an Iranian version of Golden Girls 
and "international" versions of Sayle's own program -- complete with "the
world's worst warm-up man.") But the best part is an ongoing parody of
that Irwin Allen classic, The Time Tunnel ! In "Drunk In Time" the
credits, cod historical recreations, the tunnel complex (complete with
Whit Bissel and Lee Meriweather impersonators), and the effects are all
lovingly recreated (Britons, unlike most folks here in the US, are more
familiar with the series due to recent screenings on Channel Four). Sayle's
on a real roll here with many inspired sketches.
 The All New Harry Hill Show (3/04)
 Harry, now with ITV, basically does a big budget version of his old
Channel 4 comedy complete with various celebrities now showing off
arcane hobbies, disgraced political couple the Hamiltons in silly challenges,
a serial about Robbie Williams performed by ventriloquist dummies, and
a proper studio orchestra of Harry look-a-likes. Otherwise, if you
liked Harry before, you'll like him now. And if you didn't before...
 All Night Long (11/94)
 Sit-com set in an all-night bakery in London starring Keith Barron.
Not bad, and if successful I wouldn't be surprised to see an American version
attempted over here.
 All Or Nothing At All (2/94)
 Hugh Laurie takes a dramatic turn
in this drama about a married man living beyond his means who everyone
thinks is a financial wizard. Everyone gives him huge sums of money to
invest, not realizing he is merely blowing it at the track - and running
up a huge debt. Rivetting stuff watching him be a one-man self-destruction
unit.
 The All-Star Comedy Show (10/05)
 Steve Coogan produced this ITV sketch
comedy series that indeed lives up to its name with some of the biggest
comedy names in Britain: Vic Reeves and Bob Mortimer, Matt Lucas, Angus
Deayton, Ronnie Corbett, Richard Wilson and many many more. You'd
think with all that talent it would be a laugh-a-minute but alas the curse
of ITV comedy strikes, and you are left with sketches that are more like
those odd "Saturday Night Live" ones where you scratch your head and try
to figure out what the writers were thinking in the first place. 
This show is a lot like that in many ways.
 All The Kings Men (1/01)
 David Jason ( Only Fools And Horses )
plays the man in charge of Sandringham, George V's official residence,
who volunteers with a bunch of the locals to form a unit to fight in World
War I in this BBC TV movie based on a true story. Big mistake of course,
the last the regiment was seen was disappearing in a fog bank in Turkey.
A mystery developed about what really happened and why a cover-up ensued
so the Royals (and their subjects) would never know about the atrocities
of war that were occurring.
 All Things Bright and Beautiful (5/94)
 BBC TV movie about a small Irish town where an altar boy claims to
have seen the Virgin Mary. A bit heavy-going. Perhaps you have to be Catholic
to really appreciate this material.
 The Alternative Christmas Message (7/97)
 The Queen's annual Christmas message to the nation is subverted by
Rory Bremner who impersonates Princess Diana and presents her side of things
for a change.
 The Ambassador (3/98)
 Pauline Collins stars as the British ambassador to Ireland who, along
with her pet intelligence spook (Denis Lawson), manages to escape diplomatic
traps set each week in this BBC drama series. Much of the focus is on Collins'
family, particularly her rebellious teenage son (is there any other kind?).
But the conundrums she faces are intriguing although Lawson comes perilously
close to being a deus ex machina in every episode.
 Anderson (1/02)
 Mark Williams ( The Fast Show ) stars
in this hilarious comedy pilot (shown on Channel 4's Comedy Lab )
as a clueless suburban dad. The amount of humiliation he endures with no
sense of self-awareness just adds to the humor.
 The Android Prophecy (3/02)
 Channel 4 documentary narrated by Tom Baker about Hollywood's predictions
about robotics, broadcast to coincide with the release of Steven Spielberg's
"A.I. Artificial Intelligence" in Britain. According the Radio Times,
this was the most popular program on TV the week it aired (albeit in late
August).
 Anglian Lives (3/04)
 Frequent Armando Iannucci collaborator Peter Baynham hosts this mock
interview show that kicks off with Norwich's biggest "star," self-important
DJ Alan Partridge ( Steve Coogan ). 
Alan is pretty much as you would expect, shamelessly trying to plug his
autobiography, and Peter's use of a unintelligible voice-synthesized computer
to ask some of the questions just adds to the surrealism.
 Annie's Bar (7/96)
 The name of the official bar of the House of Parliament, this serial
takes us behind the scenes of fictitious MPs and their various scandals
and schemes. Apparently someone realized there was material to be mined
after House of Cards proved an ongoing
success.
 The Annual BARFTA Awards (9/03)
 Jeffrey Tambor hosts this parody of awards shows, in this case to real
live people who deserve "recognition" for one sort of gaff or another. 
Amazingly, a number of them turn up to accept!
 Ant & Dec Unzipped (7/97)
 Refugees from the BBC, this young double act lands on Channel 4, featuring
sketches and show-within-a-show segments. The best bits are "Geordie Gordon
Space Blerk" (pronounced "bloke"), a Flash Gordon parody featuring Northerners;
"Dad Gags," where young members of the audience are humiliated when their
dads come on stage to do some dumb act; and appearances by various minor
British celebrities including Claire Grogan, Alistair McGowan, and Rich
& Stew from Fist of Fun . The boys are
infectious with their comedy, clearly having a good time, and so is most
of their target audience.
 Aquila (1/98)
 Children's BBC series about two young boys who discover a small craft
in a Roman ruins that can apparently travel anywhere and has more gadgets
than the starship Enterprise. Each week they discover a new ability of
"Aquila" while they invisibly fly around their neighborhood accompanied
by loud rock music.
 Arcadia (3/90)
 A 15 minute shaggy dog short for Channel Four. In a video arcade-like
future, a trigger-happy young man must play the most cunning game of all.
Very clever.
 Archer's Goon (9/93)
 This clever adaption of a children's drama plays almost like "Twin
Peaks Jr." Six siblings with strange powers control a British town and
it all has something to do with a boy's father whose "3000 words" he has
to type every three months in lieu of taxes have some control over these
beings. A real oddball fantasy, the kind of thing you might expect David
Lynch to do if he made kids shows.
 Armadillo (3/02)
 Three-part BBC drama about Lorimer Black, an insurance investigator
with a mysterious past whose latest job for his eccentric boss (Stephen
Rea from "The Crying Game") propels him into a multi-million pound conspiracy. 
Black pretends to be college educated and posh, but when he visits his
immigrant family they call him Milo. He collects expensive historical
treasures but his insomnia requires him to sleep at a research center. 
He also becomes obsessed with an actress he first spies in a passing taxi
cab. Adapted from a novel, it's an interesting character study though
he tries a bit too hard to tie up all the loose ends at the finish.
 The Armando Iannucci Shows (3/02)
 Iannucci is best know as producer of satirical programs like The
Day Today and Steve Coogan's I'm Alan Partridge 
series, but now makes his way to the forefront in this Channel 4 sketch
comedy series that aims a bit higher by having each show focus on a different
theme (for example, getting older) and referencing back to it with each
sketch. In a way, this reminds me of early Woody Allen material (and
Iannucci, certainly nobody's idea of a sex symbol, makes himself the butt
of much humor) that while it makes you laugh, contains a real kernel of
truth. Clearly a lot of thought went into this series, and
the mixture of absurdity and relevance certainly make it unique.
 Armstrong and Miller (1/98)
 After a successful pilot last summer, this Channel 4 sketch comedy
series features two comedians who aren't afraid to use the leeway allowed
on Four. In one sketch, "Naked Vets," the props are carefully arranged
(ala Austin Powers ) to prevent anything "naughty" being seen, only
to end with one of the characters facing the camera with all his naked
glory in view. Other running sketches include the cop show "Parsons &
Lampkin...and Lampkin's mate Steve," about duo of detectives saddled with
a civilian they can't get rid of; two men tied together in a basement driving
each other crazy; and a look at the Euro `96 football team that bears more
than a passing resemblance to the history of the Beatles.
 (8/98)
 Ben Miller writes, "Just read your review of our show... go on, give
us a bit more of a plug. Say it's brilliant. Then maybe someone will watch
it. By the way, we've got a new series coming out next year on C4."
 As If (1/02)
 A remake is coming soon to UPN of this Channel 4 teenage-oriented drama
that uses slick editing and camera tricks to disguise the fact it's just
an Afterschool Special with more sex and drinking. All the
characters are middle-class, talk incessantly on their mobile phones, never
actually spend any time in school, and exist in a world where there are
never any parental authorities around (except for the one-shot episode
where we learn one of the characters has an abusive father). All
the archetypes are here: the "cool" one whose really a virginal nerd, the
sexy interracial couple who keep breaking up and getting back together,
the gay guy, the slutty girl, and the cynical girl covered in tattoos and
piercings who has the hots for one of the guys. It might be flashy
enough to impress the MTV generation but it's just a lot of gimmicks dressing
up a routine - and somewhat predictable - drama series aimed directly at
younger viewers.
 At Home With The Braithwaites (3/01)
 Amanda Redman stars as Alison, a middle class mom to three daughters
and married to a spineless loser (Peter Davison, who else?) who is having
an affair with his secretary. But one day Alison wins 38 million
pounds in the lottery -- and doesn't tell her family, in this oddball comedy/drama
from ITV. Instead, knowing it would just increase her family's irresponsibility,
she decides to set up a foundation and donate money to worthy causes. 
This proves to be more complicated than she first thought but eventually
has an entire enterprise going, with herself as the anonymous administrator. 
But back at home things are rapidly falling apart, with little dramas involving
each daughter, and Davison is slowly coming unglued at the seams as well. 
When everyone finds out about the money in the final episode of the first
season, Davison lets go with a level of dramatic intensity I've rarely
seen from him. This is definitely his best part in over a decade
(and sure beats those dog food ads he was doing!). A second season
has already been shown in the UK with the family now living off the fruits
of their mother's luck, but none the happier.
 Atletico Partick AFC (1/97)
 In August, the BBC seemingly goes on holiday and turns the keys for
the network over to the Scottish and allow them to put on whatever they
fancy. This Scottish sitcom about a soccer club is written by Ian Pattison
( Bad Boys ,
 Rab C. Nesbitt ) but is
only of interest to die-hard sports enthusiasts.
 Attachments (1/01)
 Ten part BBC drama series by the creators of cult hit This Life 
about the life cycle of a start-up dot.com. Set before the crash in 2000,
CeeThru begins in the garage of a trendy young couple, quickly moves to
an office building, adds employees, venture capital money and treads the
rocky road to respectability and profit for its impatient investors. Will
they sell out? The staff's mini-dramas provide much of the subplots in
this involving and timely series that came accompanied by its own online
website to follow the action.
 Attention Scum (1/02)
 The League Against Tedium (just one guy, actually), after winning a
Perrier comedy award at the Edinburgh Festival, get their (or his) own
TV series, a bizarre sketch comedy series of deadpan gags (each ending
with a drumroll) as he tours the country addressing the natives at sunset
in each town using his signature device: a sword with a tiny camera in
it. It's very much the sort of experimental humor BBC-2 is famous
for, and while not everything works, it's offbeat enough to elicit the
odd chuckle. Fist of Fun alumni Stewart
Lee directed the series, and Kevin Eldon turns up in many of the sketches.
 Auf Wiedersehen, Pet (1/99)
 Classic 1980s comedy/drama that launched the careers of Kevin Whately,
Timothy Spall, Tim Healy, and Jimmy Nail as a group of somewhat knuckle-headed
Northern building laborers who move to Germany to get work when the economy
dried up back home (thanks to Margaret Thatcher's policies). Amazingly,
the series is very even-handed in its treatment of the Germans, and it's
usually Our Boys who learn a lesson about being in a foreign country far
from home. Very much a product of its time, but wildly successful and worth
catching on a Classics channel.
 (1/04)
 One of the defining dramas of the 1980s is updated with the original
cast and writers reuniting (except for Gary Holton who died in 1985). 
This time, the gang is recruited by Oz (Jimmy Nail) of all people who has
formed a partnership with a crooked former politician (Bill Nighy) to disassemble
a landmark ferry bridge and sell it for a huge profit. But as usual
there are labor troubles, money troubles, and personal troubles, not to
mention Nighy stabbing them in the back whenever he can. Eventually
the action (and the bridge) are relocated to the American Southwest (shot
on location) as they attempt to help an Indian tribe cross a river to their
casino. Originally an ITV series, the new season was made by the
BBC.
 (11/04)
 The newest season of the 1980s revival has the boys from Newscastle
end up in Cuba working for the British government remodeling the ambassador's
residence. Of course nothing is easy, particularly as Neville (Kevin Whately)
is recruited as a spy by British intelligence (his friends think he's having
an affair), Barry (Timothy Spall) is thrown in prison for a traffic accident,
and Oz (Jimmy Nail) romances a Cuban ballerina -- much to the consternation
of both her brother and the government.
 Auntie: The Inside Story of the BBC (1/98)
 Four part documentary about the BBC (produced by the BBC) is a fairly
hard look at the corporation from its early days as "The House That Reith
Built" through the turbulent Thatcher years. The documentary doesn't soft-pedal
the more embarrassing moments such as bowing to political pressure, but
there are also plenty of clips from popular programs ( The Two Ronnies ,
 Only
Fools and Horses , Dr. Who ) to remind viewers just what their
annual TV license fees go to.
 Auntie's All-Time Greats (3/97)
 The BBC celebrated its 60th Anniversary by throwing an awards ceremony
and allowing viewers to vote on their favorite series, actors, and comedies.
Guess which won overall Best Series? EastEnders ?
 I, Claudius ?
Nope, it was Dr. Who . On hand to accept were Peter Davison and Sylvester
McCoy. Lots of celebrities in the audience, as well as classic clips.
 An Awfully Big Adventure (7/98)
 Six-part BBC documentary series subtitled "The Making of Modern Children's
Literature" with a look at the creators of famous and well-loved books.
E. Nesbit ( The Railway Children ), Kenneth Grahame ( The Wind In
The Willows ), Arthur Ransome ( Swallows and Amazons ), J.R.R.
Tolkien, Dr Seuss and Roald Dahl are each profiled and their respective
biographies all seem to point to their using children's fiction as a response
to personal tragedies. Some fascinating tidbits include Tolkien's love
for languages (he appears to have written Lord of the Rings merely
to showcase his invented Elvish), and Theodore Geisel's (Dr Seuss) disenchantment
with Hollywood after working on The Five Thousand Fingers of Dr T 
(which I've always been a fan of).

 A | B | C | D 
| E | F | G 
| H | I | J 
| K | L | M 
| N | O | P 
| Q | R | S 
| T | U | V 
| W | X | Y 
| Z 
 Back to Homepage | Next List 

Written and maintained by Ryan K. Johnson (rkj@eskimo.com) . 

October 17, 2005