HIGHLIGHTED BRITISH ACTORS 

Highlighted British Actors 

 Jump to shows listed alphabetically
 A | B | C 
| D | E | F 
| G | H | I 
| J | K | L 
| M | N | O 
| P | Q | R 
| S | T | U 
| V | W | X 
| Y | Z 
 Back to Homepage 

Index 
 Steve Coogan 
 Warren Clarke 
 Martin Clunes 
 Harry Enfield 
 Robert Lindsay 
 Rik Mayall 
 Paul Merton 

 Steve Coogan 
Character actor Steve Coogan is most famous for two characters: unctuous
television host Alan Partridge (as seen in Knowing
Me, Knowing Yule ) and dim-bulb Paul Calf ( Paul
Calf's Video Diary and its sequel Pauline Calf's Video Wedding ).
In his 1995 series Coogan's Run , he got
to play six different characters who co-exist in the same connected universe
(or at least Paul Calf manages to cameo in each story). In "Get Calf" Paul
is the center of attention as gangsters come after him. "Dearth of a Salesman"
shows the life of a shallow salesman. "Handyman For All Seasons," an elderly
village fix-it man in rural England must fight progress. "natural born
quizzers" reveals the life stories of two nutters who escape from jail
and hope to wreak revenge for an incident on a television school quiz show
20 years earlier. Rounding out the series are "Thursday Night Fever" and
"The Curator." His latest creation is Portuguese pop singer (and slimeball)
 Tony
Ferrino . Coogan's first dramatic role came in 1997's The
Fix , where he played a crusading journalist who uncovers a soccer
scandal. Alan Partridge finally resurfaced in 1997 in the "fly on a wall"
mockumentary series I'm Alan Partridge ,
chronicling his return from exile. Coogan made a cameo appearance in Channel
4's Alice Through The Looking Glass , and
appeared as a vicar in an episode of Mrs Merton
& Malcolm . In 2001, he played the never-before-seen Geoff in
 A
Small Summer Party , the prequel to Marion
& Geoff . He also created and starred in a new anthology comedy
series, Dr Terrible's House of Horror .
In 2002 he did another series of I'm Alan Partridge ,
as well as co-starred in the BBC TV movie Cruise
of the Gods as an actor from an old science fiction series. He
starred as the famed London diarist in The
Private Life of Samuel Pepys in 2003. In 2004 after his breakthrough
part in 2002's "24 Hour Party People" he co-starred with Jackie Chan in
the movie remake of "Around The World In 80 Days."

 Martin Clunes 
 Big-eared Martin
Clunes rode to fame in the comedy Men Behaving Badly .
He is equally likely to turn up in a sketch comedy show (typically with
former co-star Harry Enfield) or a drama such as Demob 
where he played a gay cabaret entertainer alongside Griff Rhys-Jones. His
appearances include: a villain in a 1983 Doctor Who episode ("Snakedance"),
 Gone
To The Dogs , Chiller ,
 An
Evening With Gary Lineker (along with Badly co-star Caroline
Quentin), the "Dancing Queen" episode of Rik Mayall
Presents , and Over Here . He also
narrates the children's program Rottentrolls . In 1997 he directed
and starred in Staggered . He made
a cameo appearance as a bedridden patient in the Channel 5 comedy Hospital! 
In 1998 he appeared in the TV movie adaption of Tim Firth's stageplay Neville's
Island , where he played an executive who hasn't coped with the
death of his wife yet. In Touch and Go ,
he starred as a husband who discovers the "swingers" scene. In 1999 he
directed and starred in the comedy TV movie Hunting
Venus , and was a supporting actor in the movie "Saving Grace."
In 2000 he starred in the TV movie Sex 'n Death 
as an over-the-top television host, and the mini-series Dirty
Tricks . In 2002 he played the title character in the remake of
 Goodbye
Mr. Chips , as well as 1940s serial killer John Haigh in
 A
Is For Acid . In 2003 he starred in the romantic drama series William
& Mary as an undertaker in love with a midwife, and in the
comic TV movie The Booze Cruise .

 Robert Lindsay 
 Robert
Lindsay's first TV hit was the 1970s BBC comedy Citizen Smith where
he starred as Wolfie Smith, a member of the "Tooting Popular Front," and
would-be revolutionary. He has since specialized in playing offbeat characters,
usually in Alan Bleasdale productions. One of his most famous is GBH ,
a 1991 Channel Four production where he played Michael Murray, the increasingly
unstable leader of a city council, full of nervous tics. It was impossible
to take your eyes off the screen when Lindsay appeared. He returned to
situation comedy with two seasons of Nightingales ,
a bizarre series about night watchmen (just an example: whenever anybody
asked, "Is anybody here?" The response was a lilting, "Nobody here but
us chickens," complete with flapping arms). All his character dreamed of
was getting promoted to a better position, but he was continually thwarted
in his efforts. This obscure, clever show deserves screening in the United
States. In 1993's Genghis Cohn , Lindsay
played a German chief of police with a Nazi past. When one of his victims
comes back to haunt him (and of course only Lindsay can see him), the revenge
he wreaks on Lindsay is both delicious and fitting.
 The
Wimbledon Poisoner is a comedy/drama about a man driven to kill
his wife, only to succeed in wiping out most of his neighbors instead.
In 1995, he reteamed with Bleasdale for Jake's
Progress a meandering drama with Lindsay as a well-intentioned
father who lets events get away from him. In 1996 he starred in a comedy
pilot called The Office where on an important
day he manages to lose all his clothes in his bosses office and run around
naked for most of the episode trying to cover it up. In October 1996 he
was appearing on stage in the West End of London in "Oliver." He was reunited
with frequent co-star Julie Walters in Brazen
Hussies as part of the BBC's "Wicked Women" series where he played
a male stripper. In the fact-based drama Goodbye
My Love he played right-to-life advocate Derek Humphry. In 1997
he appeared in the movie "Fierce Creatures" along with John Cleese and
Jamie Lee Curtis. In the Hornblower 
TV Movies he appears as Captain Pellew. In 1998 he appeared in the TV movie
 Remember
Me? as man on the run who disrupts a suburban household. In 1999
he appeared in Bleasdale's adaptation of Oliver Twist . He returned
to sitcom life in 2000 as a demented dentist in My
Family . Visit his official
website .

 Rik Mayall 
Rik Mayall rose to prominence in the BBC-2 comedy The Young Ones 
as "Rik," the people's poet who worshipped Cliff Richard (little known
fact: Sir Cliff starred in a musical called "The Young Ones," as well as
"Summer Holiday," the title of the final episode of the television series).
 The
Young Ones featured appearances by nearly everyone who would have a
impact on 80s television: Robbie Coltrane, Mel Smith, Emma Thompson, Norman
Lovett, Stephen Fry, Hugh Laurie, and Griff Rhys-Jones. Rik made many appearances
in Comic Strip Presents... productions.
Mayall's signature character, and the defining person of the Thatcher era,
was Alan B'Stard of The New Statesman . From
1987 to 1992 Alan schemed and plotted to get-rich-quick, abetted by his
dimwitted friend Piers (Michael Troughton), and equally greedy wife. In
the final season he became a European Member of Parliament in Brussels.
In the feature film "Drop Dead Fred" (filmed in Minnesota), Rik played
an imaginary friend to Phoebe Cates who nearly ruins her life. Rik is hysterical
in the movie, even if it wasn't a big success. He reteamed with his Young
Ones co-star Adrian Edmondson in Bottom ,
playing a character very similar to his earlier one, only ten years later.
This extremely violent and physical show has toured England as a stage
show for several years and produced a movie, Guest House Paradiso .
ITV, to counter a new season of Comic Strip Presents... , commissioned
Rik for three separate one-long comedy/drama productions of Rik
Mayall Presents . Armed with big name guest stars (Amanda Donohoe,
Helena Bonham-Carter), the ratings were good enough for a second set of
three shows giving him a chance to show other sides of himself. In 1994's
 Horse
Opera , a musical written for television by Stewart Copeland, featured
Mayall as a singing cowboy in an extended fantasy sequence. Rik lent his
voice to animation for 1995's How to be a Little
Sod as the world's worst baby giving tips on how to drive your
parents crazy. He was also the voice of "Toad of Toad Hall" for an animated
production of Wind In The Willows . In 1997
he played a guest villain in the soap cop series The Bill . He also
appeared as a demented priest trying to exorcise Ian Richardson in The
Canterville Ghost . In 1998 he reunited with the Comic
Strip Presents team for "Four Men In a Car." In real life, after
suffering a near-fatal motor vehicle accident in 1998, Rik is back to work
on new productions, including the Jonathan
Creek 1998 Christmas special; an animated sequel, The
Willows In Winter ; and Remember Me? 
as an unemployed suburban husband. In 2000 he made a cameo as Robin Hood
in
 Blackadder: Back and Forth , and
a new Comic Strip Presents , "Four Men
In a Plane." In 2002 he reteamed with his New Statesman writers
to play possible mad genius Adonis Cnut in the conspiracy sitcom Believe
Nothing .

 Paul Merton 
Sardonic Paul Merton's patented delivery has been well put to use on British
television in recent years. A regular on Have I
Got News For You (except for the Spring 1996 season), plus appearances
on Whose Line Is It Anyway? have demonstrated his quick wit time
and again. In 1993, the aptly named Paul Merton:
The Series featured sketches written and starring Paul. In 1994
he co-starred in An Evening With Gary Lineker ,
a football (soccer) comedy about World Cup fever. In 1995 he hosted Paul
Merton's Life of Comedy a compilation of classic comedy clips bracketed
with scenes of Paul growing up (he even plays his own father) with television.
In 1995 writers Galton and Simpson dusted off
their old 30-minute comedy plays originally written for Tony Hancock, revised
them, and let Paul put his unique stamp on them. For Christmas 1997 he
hosted the spoof Does China Exist? . His
voice appeared (as a demented doctor) in the 1998 animated series
 Rex
The Runt . He played the on-stage narrator in the filmed 1998 Christmas
panto Jack & The Beanstalk . In 1999
he took over hosting Room 101 , a light-hearted
look at celebrity's hatreds. He directed a short in 2001, The
Suicidal Dog .

 Jump to shows listed alphabetically
 A | B | C 
| D | E | F 
| G | H | I 
| J | K | L 
| M | N | O 
| P | Q | R 
| S | T | U 
| V | W | X 
| Y | Z 
 Back to Homepage 

Written and maintained by Ryan K. Johnson (rkj@eskimo.com) . 

August 6, 2004