"Escape From Seattle" 

 Escape From Seattle (1981) 

 Escape From Seattle was my first movie to be
shot in 16mm, hence I consider it my first "real"
movie. Intended as a 1 minute trailer, my friend Yasha Cunningham
and I were inspired by the John Carpenter movie, Escape From
New York , which not coincidentally had opened the week
before. 

 At the time Westlake Center in downtown Seattle was under
construction, making it appear like the wasteland of Manhatten
depicted in the movie. We mobilized all our friends, and a week
later we were shooting. Yasha assumed the part of
"Slug" Plisken (so named due to the number of
gastropods found in Seattle's damp climate), with local
filmmakers Karl Krogstad as the President of the United States,
and Janice Findley as "Adrian Barbeau's corpse." 

 Filming was completed in one evening at Westlake, along 4th
Avenue, and the Ferry Terminal. Unfortunately, when the film came
back from the lab the following week it was discovered that
Janice's borrowed camera had been improperly loaded, resulting in
a jerky, unstable image. 

 Undaunted, I went ahead with post production, stealing music
from Tangerine Dream's soundtrack to Sorcerer . Whatever
slick polish the film may have been lacking, it taught me how to
perservere in a crisis and the actual mechanics for taking a film
through post production. 

 After directing The Count for Henry Gonzalez, I was
ready to embark on my masterpiece, Kill
Roy . 

 Credits: 

 Escape From Seattle 
1 minute. 16mm. Filmed June 1980, released June 1981. 
 Cast. . . Yasha Cunningham as Slug Plisken, Karl Krogstad
as The President, Janice Findley as Adrian Barbeau's Corpse. 
Written, Produced, and Directed by Ryan K. Johnson 

 Back to Ryan's Homepage 
Escape From Seattle | Kill Roy | Doctor Who | Star
Trek: The Pepsi Generation 
 What's Ryan Watching | The Wolfe Project | Mystery
Science Theater 3000 
 Have I Got News For You 

 Written and maintained by Ryan
 K. Johnson 
 Version 1.1 
 January 3, 1996