BRITISH TV SHOW REVIEWS "H" 

British TV Show Reviews "H" 

 A | B |
 C 
| D | E | F 
| G | H | I | J 
| K | L | M 
| N | O | P 
| Q | R | S 
| T | U | V 
| W | X | Y 
| Z 
 Previous List | Back to Homepage 
| Next List 
 Dates refer to when review was written 

 Hale and Pace (5/89)
 Yet another comedy double act, with Gareth Hale and Norman Pace. They
blew up a cat in a microwave in the opening episode, winning them a role
in a cat-oriented episode of Dr Who ("Survival") later in the year.
 H&P @ BBC (1/00)
 Hale and Pace take their act to the BBC with this audience participation
show that I must admit was more palatable than Reeves and Mortimer's Families
At War . Members of the audience compete for a "screen test" (edited
into a classic film clip) or try to identify music while underwater, while
celebrities are quizzed on general knowledge or get to impersonate someone
famous (a la Stars In Their Eyes ). On the road, the boys try to
get "something for nothing," brazenly going into shops around the country
and just asking for things for free. Amazingly, they accumulate quite a
bit of booty!
 Happiness (1/02)
 Paul Whitehouse ( The Fast Show ) stars
as Danny in this BBC comedy/drama about a middle-aged semi-celebrity (Danny
is the voice of a popular cartoon bear) who is recently widowed and trying
to make sense of it all. His friends are mostly a pack of losers,
including Johnny Vegas as an alcoholic, Danny's ex-girlfriend now married
to a boring librarian (Mark Heap from Spaced )
and expecting their first baby, and Danny's over-aged manager who rides
a motorcycle and tries to hang on to the illusion of youth with a succession
of much younger girlfriends. After a series of disasters Danny finally
gets a posh girlfriend but his insecurity is certain to blow that relationship
too. The series is a nice change of pace for Whitehouse who has slowly
been expanding his repertoire from impersonations and comic characters
to an actual flesh-and-blood three-dimensional person. He also co-wrote
it and sings the title song.
 Hamilton Mattress (1/03)
 Animated BBC children's special about an aardvark who wants to become
a drummer but is told he's too ugly to be in a band. He finds someone
to "front" for him and uses the unlikely pseudonym of Hamilton Mattress. 
But will he be found out or will there be a happy ending? Guess.
 Hamish Macbeth (11/96)
 Second season of this drama about a young policeman (Robert Carlyle)
in a remote Scottish town. Much like Ballykissangel ,
everyone in town is a character, and much of the action revolves around
the local pub. But things get serious in the fourth episode when tragedy
strikes the life of young Hamish. Three seasons in total were produced.
 Harbour Lights (9/99)
 Nick Berry, the British George Clooney, stars in this light-handed
BBC drama series as a former Royal Navy officer who is now Harbormaster
in a small port town. Each week he solves everyone's problems with a deft
touch, while various subplots swirl around him. There's nothing wrong with
this series, but everyone turns out to be okay, and the result is a wee
bit bland and predictable.
 Hardware (3/04)
 Writer Simon Nye ( Men Behaving Badly )
tried to hit gold again with this ITV workplace comedy starring Martin
Freeman ( The Office ). It's
a bit like the macho bonding that Tim Allen captured in "Home Improvement"
particularly the "secret code" that seems to exist between contractors
and hardware staff that the general public just can't grasp. I much
preferred Nye's last comedy, the wacky Wild West ,
rather than this routine sitcom.
 Harry Enfield and Chums (7/95)
 Sketch comedy series with recurring characters each week. Other favorite
bits include "Benny Elton" featuring the actual alternative comic taking
on the characteristics of another notorious British comedian; a parody
of Four Weddings and a Funeral ; some more training films from Mister
Cholmondley-Warner; and the Merchant/Ivory production of Terminator
3 with Martin Clunes . Read
my feature about Harry Enfield .
 Harry Enfield's Brand Spanking New Show (1/04)
 Harry made the big bucks leap to
Sky TV and tried to invent new characters but nothing really catches on
and the absence of former collaborators Paul Whitehouse and Kathy Burke
is sorely missed. Enfield is currently doing voice overs as a gnome
in the Travelocity ads in the U.S.
 Harry Enfield's Guide To Opera (3/93)
 A noble experiment, an attempt to bring and explain "culture" to the
masses (or whoever bothers to catch this 6-part series of Channel Four).
There are attempts at comedy, particularly to take the piss out of stuffy
opera buffs, and plenty of long clips from famous productions. From an
educational point of view, not bad.
 Harry Enfield's TV Show (1/91)
 Enfield, the man behind last year's Norbert
Smith does a collection of characters. He's talented but the writing
could have been sharper here.
 Harry Hill (9/97)
 The jury was out on Harry Hill for a long time. I first became aware
of him from his oddball but endearing shorts, Harry
Hill's Fruit Fancies . And his appearances on Saturday Live 
last year were the only rays of quality. My friend Allen in England would
ring me after each episode of this new sketch comedy to rave about how
hilarious it was. And perhaps on a Friday night after coming from the pub
it is pretty funny. But I felt a little went a long way. Every week,
Harry and his cadre of co-stars would do the same gags and sketches every 
single show. It got to the point where I knew what was going to happen
moment to moment. I suppose the payoff was the final episode where the
expected rhythm was mercifully broken up, but by then I had to wonder,
"What's the point?" Still, it could be funny at times and David Letterman
 loves 
this guy. But literally, if you've seen one, you've seen `em all.
 (5/99)
 The second season on Channel 4 of David Letterman's favorite British
comic is a sight better than last year, which at times seems like they
used the same script for six weeks. This year (under the auspices of Script
Editor Stewart Lee), there are attempts at genuinely funny sketches that
stand up on their own, building jokes on earlier gags, and some truly surreal
moments (the head of Channel 4 is portrayed as a demented puppet who just
wants to get on TV). While Hill's stand-up act still leaves me cold, the
rest of his show has, at least, gone from being dreadful to at least watchable.
 Harry Hill's Fruit Fancies (1/95)
 A short subject about an attempted suicide who keeps offing a succession
of family dogs by accident. Needless to say, it's played for laughs.
 Harry Hill's TV Burp (1/03)
 Fringe comedian Hill comes the closest to mainstream audiences with
this somewhat tired format of commenting on the current week's TV shows. 
Of course he gets to cut loose with his odd brand of humor, such as trying
to give a horse to the characters of Coronation Street or interviewing
a dog from EastEnders .
 Have I Got News For You (5/93)
 Current affairs are turned into a humorous game show with host Angus
Deayton, and panelists Ian Hislop (editor of Private Eye ) and Paul
Merton joined by two celebrities who must recall the current week's
news stories based on pictures, headlines, or other bits of information.
Lots of ad-lib guessing is encouraged (with the word "allegedly" used often
to avoid potential libel suits) and the point scoring is about as accurately
kept as Whose Line Is It Anyway? . In other words, having fun is
much more important than getting the correct answer. A fun way to end each
week during its 8-week seasons twice a year, with plenty of "naughty" words
too.
 (7/94)
 The latest series of this current affairs game show that cleverly gets
around libel suits for disparaging remarks made about famous people by
adding the word "allegedly" after every sentence. As usual, the attempt
by the four panelists is to come up with a humorous quip rather than answer
a question seriously. In the final episode, the guest panelist is Salman
Rushdie!--picked out of a crowd with his bodyguards at random--allegedly!
 Hawking (10/05)
 BBC dramatization of Stephen Hawking's life from 1963-65 while he was
still at University writing his thesis. You get to see a lot of very
smart people argue about the origin of the universe (at the time, the "steady
state" theory was generally accepted, while Hawking fought an uphill battle
to prove the Big Bang theory instead). Meanwhile, he is diagnosed
with his terminal illness and begins to use crutches to walk and meets
the woman who will become his first wife. Flashforwards to two Americans
winning the Nobel Prize in 1978 are used to foreshadow Hawking's eventual
breakthrough.
 Haywire (1/00)
 BBC-2 sketch comedy show that channel surfs in the year 2020 between
all the bizarre choices available. I think they overestimated by several
years, and many of these are either here now (ever watch Public Access?)
or just around the corner: Innuendo TV (cooking shows filled with double
entendres), Quiz News, Looney TV, the Conspiracy Channel, Mob TV, and the
Awards Channel.
 Healer, The (5/95)
 In this two-part BBC drama, an Irish doctor recently hired by a hospital
has the ability to heal (ie, in ways that were never taught in medical
school). He clashes with the medical administration when he begins to "heal"
other doctor's patients, and then a media circus erupts around him when
he brings a young boy back from near-death.
 Heartburn Hotel (11/98)
 Tim Healy ( The Grand ) stars in this
comedy series as a grumpy hotelier in Birmingham whose dreams of glory
went up in smoke along with Birmingham's 1992 Olympic bid hopes. Now the
Social Services use it as a dump for society's misfits, although Healy
still dreams of better days. Co-written by John Sullivan ( Only
Fools and Horses ).
 The Heart Surgeon (9/97)
 Nigel Havers stars in this two part BBC drama as a cool doctor whose
ethics are called into question when a patient of his dies in mysterious
circumstances - and it's discovered he was his lover's husband. Havers
is no saint but sympathy is with him as his world begins to crumble around
him.
 Hearts & Bones (3/02)
 Dervla Kirwan ( Ballykissangel ) and
Amanda Holden ( The Grimleys ) star in this
six-part BBC drama about three couples and their lives and loves. 
Hold on, isn't that Cold Feet over on ITV? 
Well, why mess with success, and the series hews to the formula with plenty
of angst and suspense over who will end up with whom.
 Heaven On Earth (7/98)
 Neil Pearson ( See You Friday ) stars
in this two-part BBC drama about a burned out yuppie who has no where else
to turn after going bankrupt except to follow his wife and daughter to
an
Amish-like religious commune, where his grandfather-in-law is patriarch
and has been suffering terrible visions of doom. Once there though, Pearson
takes to the community like it was second nature, quickly converts, and
learns how to fashion the wood furniture that is so prized by "outsiders."
Soon, he is angling to succeed the old patriarch, while his wife becomes
more and more horrified at the extremes he goes to in order to remain in
control. An interesting look at what would happen if a complete monster
were to assume power in a society where absolute faith in "God's will"
does not allow for dissension in the ranks.
 The Hello Girls (1/97)
 BBC comedy/drama set in the early 1960s featuring a plain girl who
gets a job as an operator with the G.P.O., at the time the phone company
in Britain. Like all British hierarchies, the women are expected to conform
to the organization's exact, and time-honored standards, even though our
heroine's boyfriend is a Marxist. The BBC lovingly recreates the era complete
with busses, cars, location shots, clothes, hairstyles, and it's a fascinating
slice-of-life of another bygone era.
 Hello, I'm Jack Berry (1/03)
 BBC sketch sitcom that is notable for linking every one of its sketches
somehow. This must have been a bitch to write and shoot because each
segment relies on the previous one to set it up. One running gag
involves "The Pissed Detective."
 Henri (7/94)
 A BBC TV movie about a young Protestant girl who wins a music talent
contest and travels to Belfast in order to play her instrument...an accordion.
Needless to say, she finds Catholic Belfast with its armed militia and
barbed wire fences quite a change, not to mention having to cope with people
accepting her unusual choice of instrument. It all ends very strangely:
she flies off aboard a concrete bunker being transported by helicopter
by the British Army over the city. Away she goes...
 Henry VIII (5/04)
 ITV/"Masterpiece Theatre" co-production with an all-star cast including
Ray Winstone as Henry, and Helena Bonham-Carter as Anne Bolin in this big-budget
dramatization. Henry, as played here, is very sympathetic, dealing
with a divided kingdom and driven by his obsession for a male heir. 
That, and a poor choice of advisors, are what lead him to go through his
many, many wives (easy way to remember their fates: "Divorced, beheaded,
died. Divorced, beheaded, survived.") Great pains are made
to show Henry's suffering, particularly anguish over Anne's fate, and perhaps
was custom at the time, the ones for the chop all gave Henry a glowing
testimonial just before they lost their heads.
 Here's Johnny (7/97)
 Latenight Channel 4 chat show with Johnny Vaughn. His interviews (and
guests) are crap, though mercifully brief. Instead, the strengths of the
series are the running jokes: a different ethnic house band each week ("to
try them out"), a "Lurker of the Week" contest featuring the person who
does their best to appear on camera during Channel 4's racing coverage,
and "probes" into things like pub shoes. At 24 minutes (minus commercials),
Vaughn doesn't overstay his welcome, particularly as the series only ran
7 weeks.
 Heroes and Villains (7/95)
 Three episode BBC biographical series featuring famous comedians in
epic dramatizations of some notoriously colorful people in British history.
The first and funniest is Jennifer Saunders ( Absolutely
Fabulous ) as Lady Hester Stanhope who went from being the niece
of Prime Minister William Pitt to a Queen in Syria in the early 19th century.
Secondly, Rowan Atkinson gets behind the wheel again as ace driver Sir
Henry "Tim" Birkin, who drove for Bentley in the 30s but also blew the
family fortune trying to perfect a race car of his own. Finally Jim Broadbent
is Colonel A.D. Wintle, a veteran of both World Wars who went on to be
a famous litigant in a contested estate case. The title of the series is
derived from the fact that as spectacular as each of these people's lives
were, they each paid a price, personally, emotionally, and financially.
Excellent dramas with genuine wit and great historical recreations.
 Hetty Wainthropp Investigates (7/96)
 Patricia Routledge ( Keeping Up Appearances )
stars in what seems at first like a Murder, She Wrote rip-off about
a senior citizen solving crimes on her own, but the drama and characters
take precedent over the whodunit elements and elevate the series to something
watchable.
 The High Life (5/95)
 Suppose Pee-Wee Herman were Scottish? Suppose he were cloned? Then
you'd have something very similar to this sit-com about two thick flight
attendants starring Alan Cumming ( Bernard and the Genie ). Yes, two
Scottish Pee-Wee impersonators do their thing in the air and on the ground.
And if you enjoy this sort of thing, it's all yours.... The pilot was originally
shown on Comic Asides .
 High Stakes (1/02)
 Richard Wilson ( One Foot In The Grave )
stars in this fairly lame ITV workplace comedy set in the world of high
finance. He gamely tries his best but the scripts lack ambition and
go in predictable directions.
 Hippies (9/00)
 Immediately following his series Spaced ,
Simon Pegg moved to over to BBC to star in Arthur Matthews and Graham Linehan's
( Father Ted ) new series set in the 1960s. 
I've become very fond of Pegg ever since he played Julia Sawalha's unloved
boyfriend in Faith In The Future , and
subsequent appearances in Matthews & Linehan's sketch series Big
Train increased his range. But is a series mocking lazy hippies
really necessary? Everyone concerned has done much better work elsewhere,
although it's not without a few chuckles.
 A History Of Alternative Comedy (9/99)
 Once upon a time, British comedy was safe, especially on television,
but in the 1970s a revolution of sorts occurred, with the first comedy
clubs opening in Britain (though nobody knew what to make of Alexei Sayle,
 Rik
Mayall , Adrian Edmondson, or French and Saunders the first time they
saw them on stage), and their eventual success on TV, all chronicled in
this BBC documentary series presented by Angus Deayton.
 The History of Youth TV (1/99)
 Surprisingly, "Yoof TV" (as it's called in the UK) is a fairly recent
invention on British TV (famously parodied by Ben Elton with "Nosin' Around"
during the first episode of The Young Ones ). It was mostly shepherded
into existence by Janet Street-Porter with Network 7 , a MTV-like
blast of graphics, sound, and images aimed at the teen market by Channel
4 in the late 80s. This was followed by The Word and Rough Guide 
travel series among others. But like all trends, it burned itself out with
an ever-increasing number of shows which all had the same styles, and the
realization that more teens were still watching One
Foot In The Grave than any of the programs supposedly aimed directly
at them. Which isn't to say there aren't still some good efforts being
made, including The Adam and Joe Show (who
were interviewed as part of this documentary), and Lee and Herring's material.
 Holding On (11/97)
 This ambitious BBC multi-part drama does for London what Our
Friends In The North did for that particular region. Written by
Tony Marchant, characters are added and interconnected in a rich texture
that requires attentive viewing but pays off handsomely with first-class
drama. It's almost like a huge soap opera except much better written and
with a point. Stylishly filmed with long steadicam shots right on location
in the streets and buildings of London. This contrasts with scenes of Phil
Daniels ( Sunnyside Farm ) as a misanthropic
food critic who is shot with a distorted fish-eye lens and addresses the
camera directly. Death strikes frequently (and unexpectedly), but there
is also love, betrayal, and people who are driven to the brink of breaking
by life and the pressures of the big city and manage (though not in all
cases) to keep on going.
 Holed (1/97)
 TV Movie about a foursome who has golfed together every weekend for
10 years. But all the old rivalries and secrets come to a head one day
with fatal results. Tony Robinson is one of the group, a hypochondriac
who rides his bike to the course (one of the others arrives in his personal
helicopter). His partner is a young man whose late father was the course
champion and bitter rival of the fourth man. Compelling, even if you don't
find golf very interesting.
 Hollywood's Master Of Myth: Joseph Campbell, The Force Behind Star
Wars (3/00)
 BBC documentary that attempts to delve beyond the hype of "The Phantom
Menace" (it was screened the month the movie opened in Britain) by focusing
on the writer who was often credited as a huge influence on George Lucas,
and most "heroic" literature.
 Hollywood Science (3/04)
 Robert Llewellyn ( Scrapheap Challenge )
co-hosts this BBC Open University series that explores whether improbably
things seen in movies are actually scientifically plausible. Backyard
experiments are performed to reproduce some of the dodgy onscreen science,
with a competition to see which movie does the worst.
 Hope & Glory (1/00)
 Lenny Henry ( Chef ) stars in this BBC
drama series as a successful school headmaster who turns down a lucrative
ministerial job to help turn around a failing inner-city grammar school.
Peter Davison appears in the first episode as the outgoing head and he
delivers the performance of a lifetime when he completely loses it during
a farewell party and ends up screaming at all the jeering students and
telling them exactly how worthless each of them are. Clive Russell ( Heartburn
Hotel ) and Amanda Redman are staff teachers who have to be convinced
that Henry's often rash decisions will work, while he tries to stave off
an inevitable heart attack.
 Hornblower (3/99)
 First in a series of ITV movies based on the classic novels. Newcomer
 Ioan
Gruffudd plays Horatio Hornblower, a junior officer whose first ship
is under the control of a sadistic midshipman. Things look up when he is
transferred to a ship commanded by Robert Lindsay ,
and from there its high adventure on the seas in this exquisite, handsomely
mounted production. More movies are coming, and eventually they will turn
up on A&E.
 Horse Opera (5/94)
 An opera specially commissioned for television and scored by The Police's
Stewart Copeland (in much the same vein as his score for the pilot of Babylon
5 ). The plot concerns a middle class Brit cowboy enthusiast who finds
himself in a real western. Rik Mayall also
appears. Strange and quite wonderful. How come nobody in this country makes
things like this?
 Hospital! (3/98)
 Channel 5 TV comedy movie that borrows heavily from the Airplane 
school of comedy with sight-gags-a-minute. An all star cast led by Bob
Peck features cameos by Martin Clunes , Julian
Clary, Alexei Sayle, Nicholas Parsons, and Philip Pope. Hey wait a minute,
didn't Garry Marshall do this idea first in 1982 with "Young Doctors In
Love"? Hmmm...
 Hot Metal (3/91)
 Robert Hardy ( All Creatures Great and Small ) plays dual roles
as a Robert Maxwell-like media lord, and also as the publisher of a tabloid,
"The Daily Crucible" in this 1985-6 ITV sitcom. Much to the horror of editor
Geoffrey Palmer as a serious journalist, things go from bad to worse at
the paper, and he takes the heat for each public relations fiasco. Meanwhile,
an enterprising reporter (John Gordon-Sinclair) finds himself on a real
story. The second season continued without Palmer or Sinclair, with Richard
Wilson ( One Foot In the Grave ) taking over,
although Palmer returned in a special 15-minute 1989 Comic
Relief episode.
 Hot Money (1/03)
 Caroline Quentin ( Jonathan Creek )
stars in this based-on-a-true story ITV movie about a group of women employees
of the Bank of England who stole thousands of pounds over several months
right underneath the bank's nose. Of course class differences come
into the equation, as conspicuous consumption by the working class members
of the gang nearly get them caught. Remarkably, there was never enough
evidence to prosecute the women, although eventually they lost a civil
case brought against them by the bank.
 House of Cards (1/91)
 This year's A Very British Coup . Absolutely top-notch entertainment
from beginning to end with Ian Richardson pulling everyone's strings in
order to become Prime Minister. Very highly recommended. Followed by two
sequels: To Play The King and The
Final Cut . Screenplay adaption by Andrew Davies ( Game
On , A Very Peculiar Practice ).
 House of Windsor (7/94)
 A sitcom directed by Graeme Harper ( Star Cops and "Caves of
Androzani") about the behind-the-scenes goings-on at the palace. This runs
very late at night on ITV after Spitting Image 
and isn't afraid to make the tasteless joke or show what happens when a
Corgi encounters an oversized carpet cleaner. The Royals themselves are
never seen, just the staff, but there are plenty of references to them
and their escapades. They must eat this stuff up in Republican-heading
Australia.
 The House That Jack Built (1/04)
 The late Adam Faith plays an overbearing rich father in this comedy. 
Jack has three kids, two spoiled rotten, and the oldest who is married
and followed in the family business but can't avoid Jack meddling in every
little aspect of his life. Jack means well but he is the father-in-law
from hell trying to be in control of everything around him.
 How Do You Want Me? (7/98)
 Writer Simon Nye's ( Men Behaving Badly ) comedy about an Irish
Londoner who marries a woman from a small country village then lives to
regret moving home with her. He is completely out of his depths in a town
where everybody knows one another and he immediately makes the worst impression
possible, especially on his new in-laws who practically control the place.
To fit in, he buys the local photography studio but doesn't know the first
thing about cameras, and at one point his father-in-law offers him &pound;20,000
to get divorced and just leave town once and for all. He doesn't of course,
because the couple is truly in love, but that never stops the comedic tension.
Like Nye's other new generation of comedies ( My Wonderful
Life ,
 The Last Salute ), this series
is shot on film without a laugh track, with episode titles generated by
lines in the script.
 How to Be a Little Sod (6/96)
 A series of animated shorts featuring the voice of Rik
Mayall as the Baby From Hell giving instructions on how to drive parents
completely crazy. Believe it or not, this ran on staid BBC-1.
 How To Make It Big In Bollywood (1/00)
 American media rules the world, except in India which has a huge homegrown
film industry (known as "Bollywood") that cranks out hundreds of films
every year. And what movies: each is epic-lengthed with elaborate musical
numbers that would put Busby Berkeley to shame. In this series of Channel
4 shorts, different members of the crew talk about how they create the
world of Indian cinema.
 Human Remains (1/02)
 Rob Brydon ( Marion & Geoff ) stars
in this anthology series that looks at the saddest married couples in Britain. 
Fans of the Marion & Geoff style will appreciate the deadpan
humor and lack of laughtrack, but spending extended periods of time with
these people merely becomes painful after a while.
 The Hunt (1/02)
 Amanda Holder ( The Grimleys ) and
Philip Glenister ( Clocking Off ) star
in this ITV two-part drama as a successful young couple who move out to
the countryside and join the gentry. The subplot is the foxhunting
debate, but mainly the local smoothie who has a history of seducing ladies
and sets his eye on Amanda.
 Hunting Venus (11/99)
 Martin Clunes stars and directed this
ITV TV movie comedy about a one-hit wonder rock band from 1982 he is forced
to reform by fanatical members of his former fan club. Of course the band
has spread to the four winds, including Clunes' Men
Behaving Badly co-star Neil Morrissey as the lead singer who's
had a sex change operation in the intervening years. Essentially it's a
road movie, but Clunes has a pretty good directorial touch, the characters
are ingratiating, and of course there's a happy ending.
 Hustle (3/05)
 Robert Vaughn co-stars in this glossy BBC light drama/action series
about a team of slick con men (and one woman). Each week, "Mission:
Impossible"-style, they single out some obvious villain and proceed to
clean his shorts out (apparently this is okay because the audience knows
the mark is a real creep). Usually there is at least one con pulled
on the audience (oh no, they've killed him! Oh, just kidding!) and
digital effects allow them to actually stop the action, explain directly
to the audience what is going on, or even have an impromptu musical number
(during a movie scam). Entertaining fluff.

 A | B |
 C 
| D | E | F 
| G | H | I | J 
| K | L | M 
| N | O | P 
| Q | R | S 
| T | U | V 
| W | X | Y 
| Z 
 Previous List | Back to Homepage 
| Next List 

Written and maintained by Ryan K. Johnson (rkj@eskimo.com) . 

October 17, 2005