Ryan K. Johnson 

 Welcome to Ryan K. Johnson's Homepage 

 More information about him and 
his movies than you ever wanted 

 Index 

 What's New 
 Who Is Ryan? 
 A Complete Filmography 
 How to Get Copies of His Videos 
 Information about Seattle's Doctor
 Who Fanclub 
 Links 

 What's New 

 April 4, 2001 
 New British TV Reviews 

 August 1, 1999 
 Have I Got News For You . A new production
from Ryan! 

 December 12, 1996 
 Ryan's British TV Show reviews. Over 650
reviews of British televisions shows going back over eleven years
in this extensive site. Check it out! 

 June 19, 1996: 
Copies of my movies now available to UK residents in the PAL
format. See below for details. 

 December 16, 1995: 
 Ryan's Shark Page! 101 Uses for an
Archie McPhee Rubber Shark Around the Office. See Sharks in
Space! On Vacation! As Santa! Check it out now. 

 September 8, 1995: 
Selected movies now have their own pages with
photos and more background information than you'd ever want to
know. Click on the appropriate title. 

 Who is he? 

 Ryan K. Johnson is a 39-year-old Seattle native and filmmaker.
Among his many movies are thrillers, dramas, Star Trek 
parodies, and fan videos of Dr Who and Mystery Science
Theater 3000 (see How can I get copies of
Ryan's movies? below for ordering information). His interests
include science fiction, movies, and anything British. Ask him
about his extensive library of videotapes from England sometime.
Check out his reviews . In his spare time,
Ryan plays on his computer, writes, and attends meetings of The Society of the Rusting TARDIS , the Dr
Who club he started 15 years ago. He also collects rubber sharks which can be seen on display. 

 What movies has he made? 

 Ryan's complete filmography: 

 Click on appropriate title for more information and pictures! 

 Escape From Seattle 
 (1981) 1 minute, parody. Writer, Producer, Director. 
 The Count (1983) 20 minutes, parody. Director. 
 Doctor Who: The Wrath of Eukor 
 (1984) 30 minutes, science-fiction. Co-writer, Producer,
 Director. 
 Kill Roy (1985) 20
 minutes, thriller. Producer, Director. 
 Doctor Who: Visions of
 Utomu (1986) 32 minutes, science-fiction. Writer,
 Producer, Director. 
 A TARDIS Home Companion (1987) 45 minutes, live
 stage show. Co-writer, Producer, Director. 
 Pentagon West 
 (1987) 28 minutes, science-fiction TV pilot. Writer,
 Producer. 
 Star Trek: The Pepsi Generation 
 (1988) 18 minutes, parody. Co-writer, Producer, Director. 
 Doctor Who: Broken Doors 
 (1988) 20 minutes, science-fiction. Producer. 
 What's Ryan Watching 
 (1989) 10 minutes, parody. Writer, Producer, Director. 
 PBS Police (1989) 1 minute, Public Service
 Announcement. Writer, Producer, Director. 
 The Wolfe Project: The Cat Came
 Back (1991) 30 minutes, TV pilot drama. Producer. 
 Mystery Science Theater 3000: Star
 Trek V (1992) 110 minutes, comedy. Co-Writer,
 Producer, Director, Actor. 
 Star Trek: The Endeavour Missions: First Command 
 (1993) 18 minutes, science-fiction. Co-producer,
 Director. 
 Mystery Science Theater
 3000: Highlander II (1995) 93 minutes, comedy.
 Co-Writer, Actor. 
 Have I Got News For You 
 (1999) 27 minutes, comedy topic news quiz show. Writer,
 Producer, Presenter. 

 Click here to see Ryan's Secret
Movie Shame. 

 How can I get copies of Ryan's movies? 

 All the above listed movies are available directly from Ryan
in the NTSC (American video standard) format if you send him
blank tapes and postage money (within the United States: $2 for
one tape, $3.95 for two or more; foreign requests add much more).
All tapes are recorded at SP speed (2 hour mode), so figure a
tape for every 120 minutes of movies you want. 

 Residents of the UK can now get copies directly from my agent
there in the PAL format by sending a blank tape and 75p in stamps
to him. 

 Residents of Australia can now get copies directly from my
agent there in PAL as well. 

 For mailing instructions or more information, e-mail Ryan at rkj@eskimo.com 

 What is the Society of the Rusting
TARDIS? 

 The Society of
the Rusting TARDIS (SotRT) is an informal gathering of people
in the Seattle area who enjoy British television. It started in
1985 as a Doctor Who video group (hence the name), but the
lack of new Dr. Who programs in the last several years has caused
the focus to gradually shift. There are also socials, where,
without the distraction of videos, people can actually converse.
More information can be had by subscribing to the Rusting TARDIS
electronic newsletter edited by Jeff Stout. To be added to the
mailing list, send email to onan@eskimo.com .

 Links 

 British Media 

 Ryan's British TV Reviews . Eleven
 years in the making! Over 650 shows reviewed. Spotlights
 on actors. Links. More! UPDATED 
 Anglicon
 Homepage. Seattle's premiere British media
 convention held each May. 
 Doctor Who 
 The
 Doctor Who Homepage . 
 Dr Who News Group 

 Society
 of the Rusting TARDIS Homepage . Seattle
 British video club. 
 The
 Emerald City Androgums Homepage . Another
 Seattle Doctor Who fan club. 
 The
 Federation . Chicago-based parody-making club
 from the 1980s. 
 The Time
 Meddlers of Los Angeles 

 BBC Television
 Schedule 
 Private
 Eye is a bi-weekly humor magazine from Britain that
 ferrets out hypocracy wherever it exists, high and low.
 Originally started by the late Peter Cook, the current
 editor is Ian Hislop (of Have I Got News For You 
 fame). 
 Channel 4 . The UK's
 most cool channel has its own site with program listings
 and really neat stuff (if you're running Netscape). Check
 it out. 
 Father
 Ted Homepage . The brilliant Channel 4 comedy has its
 own unofficial homepage. Check it out! 
 Lee & Herring
 Homepage Makers of Fist Of Fun , a BBC-2
 comedy series that is a favorite among Rusting TARDIS
 members. Worth checking out if only to get the text of
 subliminal messages that flashed during the show. 
 Even more British Media Links . 

 Other Media 

 AIN'T IT COOL
 NEWS!!! Harry Knowles' ("The Wolf Blitzer of the
 Internet," according to Quentin Tarantino) daily
 site of gossip, news, and previews of all the
 "Cool" movies coming. Recommended. 
 Conventions
 Northwest Info and links for cons. 
 The Six
 Minute Movie . The Chicago-based Federation is still
 at it, making fan parody movies. 
 Brian's
 Page of Antique Weirdness . Check it out - if you
 dare! 
 Realm
 of the Ice Princess My friend Lisa's unique vanity
 site is filled with interesting items including great
 film reviews. 
 Karl
 Krogstad Seattle's most surreal filmmaker now has his
 own website. Meet the man who is responsible for much of
 my early film activity. 
 TV Go Home A
 parody of Radio Times listings, updated every two
 weeks. Raunchy but funny! 
 MST3K ( Mystery
 Science Theater 3000 ) 
 Sci-Fi channel 
 TV Barn Aaron
 Barnhart's witty website & weekly newsletter about
 television. 
 Seidman's
 Online Insider . Superior weekly newsletter about
 online providers. 

 Comments and suggestions to rkj@eskimo.com 

 Ryan K. Johnson 

 Seattle International Films 

 April 4, 2001