BRITISH TV SHOW REVIEWS "J" 

British TV Show Reviews "J" 

 A | B |
 C 
| D | E | F 
| G | H | I 
| J | K | L | M 
| N | O | P 
| Q | R | S 
| T | U | V 
| W | X | Y 
| Z 
 Previous List | Back to Homepage 
| Next List 
 Dates refer to when review was written 

 Jack & Jeremy's Police 4 (9/95)
 Late night comedian Jack Dee sends up Crimewatch type series
with this supposedly "live" special intended to promote the police. As
if. Norman Lovett, the original "Holly," makes an appearance, as well as
 Spacecop
2010 , about an oversexed cop in the future.
 Jack and Jeremy's Real Lives (11/96)
 Jack Dee co-stars and co-writes this series each week chronicling what
he and Jeremy Hardy "really" get up to in their spare time. The first episode
reveals they are English aristocrats, which absurdly turns every movie
cliche about the upper classes on their head in a hilarious series of events.
Other episodes reveal their careers as aspiring Serious Writers, restaurateurs,
consumer watchdogs, and other less likely occupations. Often brilliant
stuff, delivered with a completely straight face.
 Jack & The Beanstalk (7/99)
 If youve ever wanted to know what a traditional English pantomime
is like, look no further than this feature-length ITV special. This all-star
version of the classic story was filmed in a live theater (with a few too
many audience reaction shots, I found them distracting) with songs, men
in drag, and the usual bad jokes. Paul Merton 
is the narrator, Neil Morrissey ( Men Behaving Badly )
is Jack, Adrian Edmondson his mother, with Griff Rhys-Jones, Denise van
Outen, Julie Walters, and Julian Clary. The script was by Simon Nye ( Men
Behaving Badly ).
 Jack Dee's Happy Hour (1/02)
 Jack, the cynical "hard man of comedy," is a great dead-pan stand-up
and the BBC has made good use of him in this series which he describes
as "neither happy, nor an hour." Instead, each week he gives the
audience a bit of topical comedy, some animated segments have Jack dealing
with life's little frustrations, he takes (and mocks) dumb questions from
different parts of the country, goes on a field trip (an S&M party
was one stop), and then brings on a celebrity each week who must endure
a three minute roast by Jack in order to earn 30 seconds of BBC-1 prime
time in which they can shamelessly promote anything they want. It's
incredible who will turn up just to get on television. Prior to this
season going out, Dee won the Celebrity Big Brother where he spent
a week in a wired house for Comic Relief and raised over eight million
pounds for charity.
 Jack Dee's Saturday Night (5/96)
 A variety program hosted by former latenight comic Jack Dee, now slowly
reforming himself as a more "mainstream" presenter. Saturday Night 
is like a hip, young Ed Sullivan with a host who can do stand-up. The acts
aren't bad either: Stomp, Robert Palmer, Meat Loaf, Lee Evans, and the
Chinese State Circus among others.
 Jack Dee's Sunday Service (1/98)
 The stand-up comic (and beer spokesman) continues moving more into
the mainstream with this collection of stand-up and sketches, with weekly
appearances by American comic Rich Hall. One running gag is having little
egg representatives of British celebrities and seeing which one blows up
first when placed in a microwave.
 Jackie Mason: The People's Champion (3/00)
 A rather odd debate on ITV, hosted by an odd fellow, Jackie Mason (yes,
the American Jewish comic who had a short-lived series on ABC several years
ago). In front of a live participation audience, he looks at privacy in
journalism by using various famous and infamous members of his audience
as examples. I suppose he could be viewed as a "neutral observer" to Britain's
tabloid journalism-saturated culture (admittedly, America is just as bad
- although on TV instead of in the papers) although I don't know what really
qualifies him to run a debate on this topic, other than he too is a celebrity.
But some good points are brought up and Mason won't let folks off the hook
just because of some moral relativism on their part.
 Jack of Hearts (5/00)
 Keith Allen ( The Life and Crimes of William
Palmer ) stars in this BBC drama series about a streetwise parole
officer who follows his girlfriend and her daughter from London to Wales.
On the job, Jack is a first-rate case officer, dealing with co-workers
and tough guys, but at home his relationship is often on the rocks, and
it doesn't help the girlfriend's father (Andrew Sachs, Fawlty Towers' 
Manuel) distrusts him and tries to drive a wedge between them.
 Jake's Progress (3/96)
 The GBH team of writer Alan Bleasdale
and star Robert Lindsay are reunited in
this five-part mini-series about a dysfunctional family (would Lindsay
be in any other kind?) whose son Jake seems to have watched The Shining 
a few too many times. Though the supernatural is only hinted at, Lindsay
does have his fortune told in the first episode: he'll die shortly after
having an affair. Not soon afterwards, a pretty young immigrant arrives
in his life. The trouble with this series is it moves at a dead-slow pace
telling us everything there is to know about every character, even if we
aren't interested. At 90 minutes per episode too, it's a bit of a long
haul just to make it through each part. I'm afraid this hasn't captured
my interest as other earlier Bleasdale/Lindsay efforts have done.
 Jasper Carrott: Back To The Front (9/99)
 Carrott returns to his stand-up roots (after years of doing The
Detectives with Robert Powell) in this BBC series.
 Jeeves and Wooster (5/90)
 Stephen Fry and Hugh Laurie star
as the famous P.G. Wodehouse characters. Contrary to popular perception,
this was produced by ITV not the BBC.
 (1/92)
 In the new season, an episode concerns Bertie's aunt again trying to
get him hitched, and an apparent scam involving a necklace. It was more
than worth it to see Bertie completely embarrass his meddling aunt in front
of a room full of police inspectors.
 The Jesus File (9/99)
 Tony Robinson (the former "Baldrick" now best known for presenting
the archeological series Time Team ) is
the host of this ITV historical look at Jesus, using the somewhat odd conceit
that what if modern computerized "files" had been kept on Jesus by the
authorities as he went through his life? But there's plenty of location
footage showing the places he would have visited, as well as scholars discussing
various aspects of his life.
 Joanna Lumley in the Kingdom of the Thunder Dragon (1/98)
 Lumley's Grandfather was an ambassador to India and in the 1930s undertook
a long journey to Bhutan on a diplomatic mission. Sixty years later, Lumley
and a cousin retrace their steps via foot, burro, and occasional car. Modern
footage is intercut with black and white film made on the original trip,
with most the route, not surprisingly, very unchanged. Lumley, despite
her glamorous persona, isn't afraid to rough it (particularly after spending
a week alone on a desert island for a documentary four years ago), and
maintains a stiff upper lip throughout, regardless of the hardships.
 Jo Brand Goes Back to Bedlam (9/95)
 Comediennes Jo Brand (a former nurse), and Hattie Hayridge ( Red
Dwarf's Holly) spend a night in the now-deserted famous mental hospital.
An installment of the BBC-2 series, States of Mind, there is a message
here about mental illness and some of Brand's experience in dealing with
it, but most of the program is taken up with touring the enormous dark
and abandoned corridors of Bedlam. Brand is willing to make humorous, if
informative, quips, but Hayridge looks as if she's rather be anywhere else.
 Jobs For The Boys (1/98)
 Comedians Hale and Pace defect to the BBC
with this three part documentary series as the duo spend six months attempting
jobs most people take a lifetime to learn. In the first episode, they train
to be on a top league polo team, going from complete novices on horses
to within a gnat's whisker of winning a championship game. Next, they are
taken on by a major fashion designer and must come up with clothes for
his spring collection. Again, they manage to put together designs and clothes
which pass muster on the big day in front of the press. Finally, they have
to make a toilet paper commercial for a real client. They spent nearly
half a million pounds on a spot which ultimately did run on British TV.
How much of a "fix" was in is hard to say, but it's nice to see "light
entertainers" taken seriously in roles other than just comedians on TV.
 The Johnny Miller Show (5/96)
 This extended advertisement showed up on latenight TV and is a direct
parody of The Late Show With David Letterman . Ostensibly an ad for
Miller Beer, all the familiar Letterman gags are here including remotes,
stupid pet tricks, even the set. Now keep in mind, except for screenings
on satellite television, no one in Britain has ever seen Letterman's show
or can appreciate just how clever this is. Yet this was made exclusively
for the UK market. Totally bizarre.
 John Session's Tall Tales (8/91)
 Essentially a series of one-man shows that tell a story. The best is
"The Glory and the Dream," about an American couple going to Stratford
to discover Shakespeare. Very engaging. In "Don Juan in Cornwall," Sessions
gets to trot out his Sean Connery impersonation as well as parody Bergerac .
 Jonathan Creek (9/97)
 BBC mystery series starring Alan Davies as the title character, a brilliant,
eccentric inventor who devises illusions for his magician boss ( Buffy
the Vampire Slayer 's Anthony Head with an American accent!). Caroline
Quentin ( Men Behaving Badly ) is a novelist
who gets involved with solving crimes and finds herself first competing
with, but then being attracted to, Creek who manages to work out whodunnit
and howtheydunnit every time. A barely recognizable Colin Baker plays the
murder victim in the first episode. A clever, funny series with great chemistry
from the leads. Read my article about the
series .
 Julie Walters Is An Alien...In Miami (1/98)
 A continuing British trend is to unleash some celebrity in a job they
aren't qualified for (usually abroad) and see how they handle it. In this
case, Julie Walters spends a month in Miami being, variously, a beach cop,
animal control expert, and real estate agent for mansions. At one point,
as she walks into a multi-million dollar house, she exclaims her surprise
at the size of the interior by saying, "It's like the TARDIS!"
 The Jump (1/99)
 The loss of innocence is the theme as a sheltered housewife has her
world fall down around her when her businessman husband is sent to prison
for 18 years for a brutal gang robbery he claims he didn't commit. With
his life threatened in prison by mobsters, she promises to help get him
out (a "jump" is a prison break) in this four-part ITV thriller. But the
more she discovers about his business interests, the more truth she uncovers
about his sordid activities she knew nothing about. Jonathan Cake, last
seen in Mosley , is excellent as her slimeball
husband, who is more ruthless than anyone could have suspected.
 Just a Gigalo (5/93)
 Tony Slattery ( This Is David Harper , as well as numerous appearances
on Whose Line Is It Anyway? ) stars as a schoolteacher who through
a series of wacky events that never seem to occur in real life, ends up
a "gigalo," escorting old ladies, when all he really wants to do is go
out with the beautiful Natalie (Rowena King, Full Stretch was her
first series last year, about a limousine service). Slattery lives with
his hasn't-had-a-date-in-four-years younger brother who invariably gets
him involved with a date-from-hell just when he wants to go out with Natalie.
It's okay, as long as you accept the silly bits.
 Just Good Friends (9/96)
 Another 80s relic from the BBC vault, this sitcom chronicles a couple
whose flame hasn't quite extinguished after an affair five years earlier.
 Justice In Wonderland (3/01)
 A very clever dramatization of the famous Hamilton versus Al Fayad
libel trial where a former member of parliament (played here by Charles
Dance) sued the Harrod's owner for claiming Al Fayad had paid him for asking
questions in the House. Al Fayad seems a very dodgy customer, particularly
his allegations about Diana's and his son Dodi's death, but the evidence
against Hamilton is too damning and he loses big time. As Oscar Wilde
discovered a century ago, you shouldn't sue people for libel when what
they are saying is true.

 A | B |
 C 
| D | E | F 
| G | H | I 
| J | K | L | M 
| N | O | P 
| Q | R | S 
| T | U | V 
| W | X | Y 
| Z 
 Previous List | Back to Homepage 
| Next List 

Written and maintained by Ryan K. Johnson (rkj@eskimo.com) . 

February 7, 2002