"Kill Roy" 

 Kill Roy (1985) 

 Kill Roy was filmed a year before The Wrath of Eukor but didn't
see completion until nearly a year later. I was inspired to make
a movie that took place entirely within the confines of a stall
in a men's room by my job at the Kingdome at the time. The Dome
was too cheap to turn on the lights in the bathrooms during the
hours we worked, and the many times I sat in darkness gave me the
idea for a thriller. I must also confess seeing a bootleg video
(at the time) of Alfred Hitchcock's Rear Window (1953),
which had a big impact on me. 

 Getting my Dad to let me use the family garage for
the two weeks and turn it into a soundstage was like pulling
teeth. Ten years later I still got the feeling he held it against
me. Maybe it was because our lack of thorough cleaning job --
even today the safety strings that held up the lights are still
intact in the garage's ceiling! 

 A builder named Thom Sisk was hired to build the bathroom, the
condition being that the entire set had to "wild," that
is, every wall had to be able to moved out of place in order for
the camera to film from any angle. The porcelain toilet itself
was stolen from behind Karl Krogstad's house. 

 Two units were required in order to get the filming done on
time: the first worked during the day, recording all the footage
with the actors. At night, a second unit
would arrive at the house where we would work into the night
grabbing all the insert shots of walls, feet, etc. that would
fill up the movie. The entire film was elaborately storyboarded
(I was still taking my cue from the Master of Suspense), but it
also allowed me to make sure that during the piecemeal way the
film was shot I didn't overlook a vital shot. 

 Initially I visualized the film as running between 30 and 40
minutes, with the first part being a slow build-up to the action
and suspense that was to follow. This was great in theory, but
after I assembled my first rough cut I realized that it made the
opening of the movie deadly boring. But I couldn't bear to cut
any of it! 

 Eventually I turned the film over to editor Alan Blangy, who
finally managed to convince me of the vital cuts the film needed
in order to be watchable. About the time I was ready to begin the
extensive sound editing the film would need in order to sell the
reality of the whole thing, I became bogged down with planning and shooting my first Doctor Who
film, The Wrath of Eukor .
Because I was facing a two month deadline to complete Eukor ,
Kill Roy was put on the back burner for the time being. 

 Ultimately, it wouldn't be until Spring of 1985 that I had the
time, money, and energy to finally complete Kill Roy . The
sound was professionally mixed at Forde Labs in Vancouver, B.C.,
and premiered at the Harvard Exit theater. It went on to be shown
at the Seattle International Film Festival, Bumbershoot, and a
copy was sold to and is part of the collection of the King County
Library System. 

 Credits: 

 Kill Roy 
20 minutes. 16mm. Filmed May 1983, released May 1985. 
 Cast. . . George Catalano as Roy Greer, Coby Scheldt as
Robbie, F. Wilson Milam as Neil, Gary Menkler as the Boss,
Charlie Rathbun as the Cop. (Little known trivia fact: Randy
Rogel from my Doctor Who movies provided one of the voices
in the film.) 
Written by Bruce Mason. Produced and Directed by Ryan K. Johnson 

 Back to Ryan's
Homepage 
 Escape From Seattle | Kill
Roy | Doctor Who | Star Trek: The Pepsi Generation 
 What's Ryan Watching | The Wolfe Project | Mystery Science Theater 3000 
 Have I Got News For You | The 2001 Movies | Norwescon
Movies | Meltdown 

 Written and maintained by Ryan
 K. Johnson 

 Version 1.1

 January 3, 1996