BRITISH TV SHOW REVIEWS "L" 

British TV Show Reviews "L" 

 A | B |
 C 
| D | E | F 
| G | H | I 
| J | K | L | M 
| N | O | P 
| Q | R | S 
| T | U | V 
| W | X | Y 
| Z 
 Previous List | Back to Homepage 
| Next List 
 Dates refer to when review was written 

 The Lakes (11/97)
 Four-part BBC drama about life in a small Lake District village as
it suffers a crisis. The point of view character is a young Scouser who
impregnates and weds a naive student (Emma Cunniffe) from the village and
then follows her back home when his gambling habits become too much. Soon,
he is implicated in a tragic accident and we witness the secrets and passions
that threaten an entire community.
 (9/99)
 Frankly I was surprised when this mini-series from last year returned
for a second season, but clearly the British public (and the BBC) wanted
to see more of the soap-like shenanigans in a small village in the Lake
District. There must be something in the water because everyone is shagging
someone (usually someone they shouldn't), and the most mature character
this year is Danny, who spent most of the last season in trouble for one
thing or another. But now everyone else gets a chance, but there's nothing
a bit of saltpeter wouldn't cure!
 A Landing on the Sun (11/94)
 Despite the title, not an SF movie, but an interesting story gimmick
unites the twin stories of a government clerk researching whether two employees
were up to no good, as well as showing their story as it happens. He finds
correspondence tapes they dictated in the their loft office in a ministerial
building and he imagines them in the room acting out what he hears. A fascinating
love affair begins and the juxtaposition with the present time is cleverly
done. The title in this BBC TV Movie refers to the spot on the roof the
employees discover to engage in some extracurricular activity.
 Last Christmas (1/01)
 A boy's late father (Ray Winstone) comes back as an angel to help him,
but really it's the father who needs to get a life, so to speak, in this
BBC holiday-themed TV movie.
 The Last Movie: Stanley Kubrick & "Eyes Wide Shut" (5/00)
 Channel 4 documentary that coincided with the release in Britain of
Kubrick's final movie, interviewing his friends and family about the reclusive
director's life and times.
 The Last Musketeer (3/01) 
Heartthrob Robson Green ( Touching Evil ) stars in this ITV TV movie
as an ex-con fencer who misses out making the British Olympic team and
instead accepts a short-term teaching job at an out-of-way girls school
in Scotland in order to avoid some angry gangsters when a job goes wrong. 
The embattled headmistress of the school natural falls for Green, as does
his best student, but he manages to inspire everyone to succeed before
vanishing from their lives forever like the Lone Ranger.
 The Last Salute (7/98)
 This BBC comedy series set in the early 1960s demonstrates the long-standing
rivalry between the two automobile clubs in Britain, the Automobile Association
and the Royal Auto Club. Like our AAA, each provides repair service for
members when their cars break down. Unlike the AAA however, their British
equivalents wore official military-style uniforms and cruised the highways
and country lanes (freeways were just beginning to be introduced then)
in gleaming bright motorcycles equipped with sidecars, yellow for the AA,
blue for the RAC. The title of the series refers to the precise salute
these men were required to give passing motorists, which on more than one
occasion resulted in the loss of control of one's motorcycle. The military
aspect is particularly emphasized in the series by the supervisor of one
AA district who overplans everything (with disaster usually resulting)
and who insists Esperanto will be the language of the future. Co-written
by Simon Nye ( My Wonderful Life , Men
Behaving Badly ), this slice-of-life show is a gentle look at a
bygone era.
 The Last Train (1/00)
 Six part ITV mini-series that is Survivors
1999 . A group of middle class commuters outside Sheffield are in
a train crash when a mysterious gas is released. When they crawl out they
discover they were in suspended animation and the entire world has been
destroyed by a meteor strike! A young scientist (Nicola Walker, from Chalk )
seems to have all the answers, as well as a plan to reach a sanctuary that
will have survived the apocalypse, but can she convince her fellow passengers
to follow her and risk their lives in a hostile environment? Though incredible,
it's nicely mounted and acted, though it gets a bit grim near the end.
 Laughter & Loathing (1/96)
 A documentary by Ian Hislop ( Have I Got News
For You ) about Roman satirist Juvenal. In order to dramatize his
most famous sayings and dramas, Hislop has actor Stephen Fry portray Juvenal
walking around contemporary London wearing a toga doing monologues. Despite
being a terrible misogynist and racist, Juvenal was responsible for many
observations that live on today including, "Who is to guard the guards
themselves?" and his most famous, "A sound mind in a sound body."
 Laughing For Ages (7/99)
 Stephen Tompkinson ( Ballykissangel )
hosts this six-part compilation of BBC comedy sketches each featuring a
different historical age (e.g. Romans, Middle Ages, the War). Programs
like this cost hardly anything, but a lot of vintage black-and-white clips
that normally wouldnt be seen were included at least.
 Laughter In The House: The Story of British Sitcom (11/99)
 Julie Walters narrates this BBC documentary look at the sitcom, from
its beginning with Hancock's Half Hour , to such groundbreaking series
like Steptoe and Son (remade as Sanford and Son in the US)
and Til Death Us Do Part (which became
 All
In The Family ). Actors and writers are interviewed to give their perspective
on things, especially how trends were developed, exploited, and then waned,
and how the political and social situations were reflected by the comedies
of the time.
 Laura and Disorder (5/89)
 Wendy Craig stars in this sitcom as a harried woman. Co-stars Stephen
Greif ("Travis" from Blake's 7 ). Fairly amusing.
 Laurie Lees Cider With Rosie (7/99)
 Juliet Stevenson ( Truly Madly Deeply ) stars as a single mother
with a large brood living in the country, as told by her 8-year-old son
(Lee actually narrates the story, based on his memoirs). Theres a rather
ringing indictment of country life, with the occasional murder and rape
just considered part of the post World War I landscape. At least thats
how I saw it. One particular incident concerns a visiting stranger from
New Zealand who goes into the pub one night and tells everyone how successful
and rich he has become after being sent away from the village to live abroad
as a young boy. Afterwards the villagers beat him to death but nobody really
seems to notice. Yeesh.
 Lavender Castle (9/99)
 Gerry Anderson's ( Thunderbirds , Space: 1999 ) latest series,
aimed at children, combining stop-motion and computer-generated effects
in a series of 10 minute episodes on ITV. A odd collection of anthropomorphic
characters form a crew of a space ship searching for the legendary Lavender
Castle, while battling the evil Dr. Agon (get the pun of the name?) and
having adventures, which are neatly told in the short time slot.
 The Law Lord (12/92)
 A political intrigue drama about an idealistic young lawyer who is
elevated to Lord Protectorate of England and then manipulated by those
around him (including a scheming civil servant played by Tom Baker).
 Lazarus and Dingwall (8/91)
 The BBC's answer to "Police Squad" stars Stephen Frost (best known
as the overly enthusiastic head of the firing squad in the Blackadder
Goes Forth episode "Corporal Punishment") as one of two cops in this
laughtrack-less Professionals parody.
 The League of Gentlemen (9/99)
 The easiest way I can describe this BBC comedy series is it's like
if Monty Python did a remake of Twin Peaks . Based on a BBC radio
series, this odd combination of sketches and continuing characters set
in a bizarre Northern village, is entirely performed by the same four actors
(playing both male and female parts). Of note to fans of Dr Who 
is the presence of Mark Gatiss, who has written a number of Dr Who 
novels. It's all very odd and not for all tastes, but certainly something
to be sampled just for its uniqueness.
 The Legacy of Reginald Perrin (1/97)
 The BBC, never one to let a past success go, even if the lead actor
has been dead for years, resurrects this 1970s comedy, fully acknowledging
that the brilliant Leonard Rossiter is no longer alive, and it is now 20
years later. Marking the occasion of Reggie's death, the entire cast of
the original series reunite to discover Reggie had one little surprise
left: a million pounds left to each of them if they can prove to a cool
solicitor (Patricia Hodge) that they have done something truly absurd.
Their plan: to mount a revolution of oldies - with dim-bulb brother Jimmy
(Geoffrey Palmer) as their leader.
 Lenny Goes To Town (1/99)
 Lenny Henry, now 40 but having been in the British eye since his debut
at 16 in a competition, takes his act on the road, visiting different British
cities each week in front of a live audience and tailoring his material
to each venue. Clearly aimed at family audiences, Henry takes great pains
not to offend anyone, and fortunately his huge charismatic presence overcomes
any charges of blandness. If nothing else, he (and the BBC) deserve some
credit for keeping the variety show genre alive, something not seen on
American TV in many years.
 The Lenny Henry Show (9/95)
 The versatile comedian (best known to fans as the Black Doctor during
a 1985 parody) returns in a new variety series. Henry is a funny guy although
he seems somewhat pre-packaged and carefully sanitized for our protection
in this BBC production. As part of the BBC Mafia of comedians (including
his wife Dawn French, Jennifer Saunders, her husband Adrian Edmondson,
Fry and Laurie, and Peter Richardson) you get the feeling that once you
get the "BBC Stamp of Approval" then there's no getting you off the air.
And one begins to see the same comedians over and over again (at least
on BBC-1 -- all the "cutting edge" comics are stuck over on BBC-2).
 Le Show (1/00)
 Frenchman Antoine de Caunes takes his Eurotrash 
act, and attempts to present French "culture" and humor to British audiences,
in this fast paced studio show with celebrity guests, music, and sketches.
How much you can take of someone with a thick accent making fun of the
British is up to the individual, but as the producer (and owner of the
production company), I suppose de Caunes is free to do what he wants.
 Let Them Eat Cake (5/00)
 Dawn French and Jennifer Saunders star (but didn't write) this rather
routine BBC sitcom set just before the French Revolution with Saunders
as a clueless aristocrat and French as her servant. The results aren't
terribly funny, which makes one wonder what prompted the ladies to participate.
 Liberty: The American Way of Independence (1/99)
 Something you wouldn't expect to see on British TV, but co-produced
by Minnesota Public Television (and sure to arrive on PBS here soon) this
nicely mounted Channel 4 production takes us through the Revolutionary
War with recreations and actors reading actual letters and speeches made
by the participants at the time. It's educational, but also fascinating
stuff if you have any interest in how something as odd (and unique in its
time) as the United States came into being.
 Life After Birth (11/96)
 Channel 4 sitcom about a young unwed mother (Emma Cuniffe) living in
a London council flat with her best friend, a slightly dim girl who works
at a betting shop. Motherhood doesn't come easily, and busybody neighbors
and her interfering mum just add to the confusion. Responsibility seems
to be the recurring theme here, but the series is honest and offers some
good laughs as well.
 The Life and Crimes of William Palmer (7/98)
 True-life two-part ITV drama about a notorious 19th Century poisoner,
a doctor with a gambling problem who finds a convenient death here and
there keeps him ahead of the debt collector. The trouble is he soon starts
in on his children (four "mysteriously" die in their cribs), friends, his
wife, but finally goes too far when he kills a business associate with
powerful parents. Protesting his innocence to the very end, nevertheless
he was hanged, and the town he was a resident in all his life actually
changed its name in shame. Beautifully mounted and costumed, it resembles
a Merchant/Ivory production, with a great performance by Keith Allen as
the title character.
 A Life In Pieces (8/91)
 Peter Cook sends up "The Twelve Days of Christmas" in this twelve part
series of five-minute shorts shown over a two week period during Christmas
1990.
 Lipstick on Your Collar (3/93)
 Six-part Dennis Potter ( The Singing Detective ) drama set in
the 50s during the Suez crisis, and features Potter's trademarks of sex
and bizarre musical numbers erupting out of nowhere. Apparently Potter
is running for familiar ground, as his last series, Blackeyes , was
viciously pilloried for its sexism and content. Even if you don't like
the plot in Lipstick , it's great to hear the old 50s musical numbers
played. Lots of nudity, I'd be surprised to see it run in the US.
 A Little Loving (11/96)
 Short comedy film about a young woman whose boyfriend won't commit
until she gains the aid of the Greek Gods, who now live undercover in London.
They try to help her out but Eros' arrows nearly cause disaster in the
attempt. Amusing.
 Little Napoleans (11/94)
 Two immigrant London lawyers are persuaded to run for town council
and get a taste of what politics is really about. Great characters and
a ton of back-stabbing occur in this four-part mini-series from Channel
4.
 Little White Lies (11/98)
 A two-part BBC drama starring Tara Fitzgerald, Cherie Lunghi, and Peter
Bowles) about a disintegrating marriage is shot on video and none-too-subtle.
Cat-lovers are advised not to watch.
 The Liver Birds (11/96)
 Originally a 1970s BBC sitcom about two young women (Nerys Hughes and
Polly James), this update has them now dealing with middle age. The trouble
is the series, despite being set in 1996, still feels like it was produced
in 1970. Hughes and James (both guest stars on Doctor Who during
the Peter Davison era) are clearly 20 years older than the characters they
play, and in light of modern shows about women like Dressing
For Breakfast or Life After Birth ,
 The
Liver Birds seems badly out of synch with the times both in attitude
and comedic style. Strictly for nostalgia buffs.
 Liverpool 1 (1/99)
 Samantha Janus ( Game On ) stars as the
newcomer to a Liverpool undercover squad where she is partnered up with
live wire who appears to be related to just about everyone else in Liverpool,
including the local villains! There's romantic tension of course, but Janus
acquits herself well in this gritty ITV drama series.
 The Locksmith (11/97)
 Warren Clarke ( Dalziel and Pascoe )
stars in this BBC drama series about a divorced locksmith who takes on
a worthless assistant at the same time his ex-wife is nearly killed by
compulsive junkie thief. Their estranged daughter is no help, and the stress
begins to break Clarke down as he searches for the assailant and plans
his revenge.
 Looking After Jo Jo (3/98)
 Hot actor Robert Carlyle ( The Full Monty ) stars in this BBC
mini-series as a young man in Edinburgh running with the wrong elements.
The thick Scottish accents could use subtitles (and a slang dictionary),
and of course every scene is grim, grim, grim. But Carlyle has star power,
no doubt about it.
 Lord of Misrule (11/96)
 BBC TV movie with Richard Wilson as a retired Lord Protectorate who
decides to sell all the dirt he has accumulated about the government to
the highest bidder in order to pay for the upkeep on his house. Quickly
the Prime Minister dispatches a cabinet minister (Prunella Scales) who
was once an old flame of his to make a deal, while his granddaughter's
journalist boyfriend negotiates on behalf of the press to get its 
hands on the incriminating documents. Unfortunately everyone arrives during
a village festival where the town simpleton is crowned Lord of Misrule
and allowed to run amok for a day. Added to the mix some gangsters intent
on recovering a load of cannabis accidentally uncovered by a local fisherman
try to get their property back. Naturally, Wilson watches with detached
bemusement as all these chaotic elements collide.
 Lost For Words (9/99)
 TV movie with Pete Postlethwaite ("In The Name Of The Father") recalling
the life of his mother (Thora Hird), even after she suffers a debilitating
heart attack. A nice touch is the newly remarried Postlethwaite's character
is given a blind wife. Sentimental, but what do you expect?
 Lost In France (9/98)
 A serialized late night comedy series, set during this year's World
Cup was shot on location as events were occurring with topical references
sprinkled in (obviously, in an ideal world, the characters would have followed
the exploits of the England team all the way to the Final, although their
elimination in the second round to Argentina altered their plans slightly).
But the main focus is on a soccer-mad Northern family, cruising all over
France in search of tickets and various venues. Each segment was short
enough not to become boring, and the sweet relationship between the characters
worked well, whatever your opinion of soccer might be.
 Lost In Space (9/98)
 A series of 15-minute shorts on the BBC each highlighting different
fandoms surrounding cult science fictions series. Doctor Who , The
Prisoner , Gerry Anderson fans, Blake's 7 , and Star Trek 
are all profiled, with interviews with their most loyal fans. Surprisingly,
they manage to stay away from the most sad anorak-y types (although I suppose
just by definition, anyone who is a fan of television can fit that category.
Heck, I even get mail from time to time saying I watch too much telly!),
with "serious" fans who are at least knowledgeable and dedicated about
their devotion to a particular series.
 Love and Reason (9/93)
 A huge disappointment. A three-part drama about how a feminist from
a mining community becomes a Member of Parliament, all the while carrying
on affairs and oblivious to the political machinations around her. Told
mostly in flashbacks, as a promised satire it failed to deliver.
 Loved By You (7/97)
 The ITV remake of Mad About You with John Gordon-Sinclair in
the Paul Reiser role. As far as I can tell they've taken the actual scripts
and just modified them to fit London instead of New York. The rest is whether
you are a fan of the original or not, which sadly I'm in the latter category.
 Love on a Branch Line (11/94)
 Quiet and understated Masterpiece Theatre-like comedy about a young
government clerk sent to a manor house full of eccentrics ostensibly to
shut down an obscure ministerial program. But he is seduced by the beauty
of the surroundings and the Lord of the manor's three beautiful daughters.
Will he find love or obey his superiors and order the program shut down?
A sweet period-piece although there is lots of sex and naked bodies too.
 Love In The 21st Century (3/00)
 Channel 4 anthology series that is a cynical look at love, with frequent
unexpected denouements. A different writer did each story, including a
tale by Doctor Who novelist Paul Cornell with Ioan Gruffudd ( Hornblower )
as a husband who gets caught wanking by his wife. Other stories involve
a doctor with two girlfriends, a woman who wants to get sperm donors, and
a teacher who has an affair with a student. Adult material, to be sure,
but tastefully done.
 Loving (3/97)
 BBC TV Movie about life in an Irish mansion during World War II. An
upper class British family has retreated to Ireland for the duration along
with their staff whose complicated lives form the basis for this drama.
A bit ponderous but well acted.
 Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married (9/00)
 ITV mini-series based on a novel that has enough episodes that I think
they adapted every word of the novel about a woman's quest for love. 
What's amazing is they were able to break it up into self-contained episodes,
and each had a different writer, rather than one person adapting the entire
story. With former EastEnder Letitia Dean, Sara Stockbridge,
and Michael Troughton in supporting roles.

 A | B |
 C 
| D | E | F 
| G | H | I 
| J | K | L | M 
| N | O | P 
| Q | R | S 
| T | U | V 
| W | X | Y 
| Z 
 Previous List | Back to Homepage 
| Next List 

Written and maintained by Ryan K. Johnson (rkj@eskimo.com) . 

April 4, 2001