Meltdown 

 Meltdown 

 aka Nothing To Fear 

 Our hardy band that had made three
movies in one weekend in September 2001 regrouped in August
2003 to create yet another epic! This time, we decided to
actually have a script written beforehand, and to that end, we
had a production meeting in July to decide what exactly it was we
wanted to do (and what we would need). Joining us this time were
Shel and Lauren Tozer-Kilts, Larry W. Lewis and my wife Kate
Waterous. Unfortunately, Erik Prill couldn't participate this
year. 

 We decided to tackle the
timely topic of weapons inspectors, which at the time were
scouring Iraq looking for weapons of mass destruction (WMDs).
However, we didn't have a particular axe to grind, in fact, I
would make the case that this movie (which I was tempted to call Monty
Python and the Weapons of Mass Destruction ) reinforces
whatever political viewpoint you have (conservatives will think
the UN can't do anything right, liberals will know they might as
well be looking Utah because there's nothing to be found anyway).
For reasons that seemed more clear at the time, we decided that
our intrepid inspectors would go "to the true source of the
weapons" in Utah, although I have to think New Mexico would
have been a more logical choice (but not as funny, right?). The
working title of the movie was Somewhere In Utah , with
much debate about what to really call it right down to the end. 

 Not to give away the jokes, but the inspectors are pretty
worthless, and their low-bid misspelled helmets, don't help much.
They seem to overlook some obvious weapons in the hands of
suspicious characters, and instead focus their attention at the
homes of Mormon missionaries, a large rock, and McDonalds. But
what fate awaits them at the fondue restaurant? You'll just have
to wait and see... 

 Last minute
 preparations on the helmets. 
 Dave and Anita adding
 details to the "UN" helmets. 
 After a tough day of
 filming, even the cat is tired. 

 Credits: 

 Meltdown 
14 minutes. Mini-DV videotape. Filmed August 2003, released
January 2004. 
 Cast (in order of appearance): Inspectors: Larry W. Lewis,
Janet Borkowski, Anita Taylor, Shel Tozer-Kilts, and Dave
Tackett. Missionary: Ryan K. Johnson, Arab: Lauren Tozer-Kilts,
Hicks: Dave Tackett and Laurel Parshall, Infomercial actors:
Larry W. Lewis and Janet Borkowski, Crusaders: Judy Lyen, Lauren
Tozer-Kilts, Laurel Parshall, Anita Taylor, Farmer: Ryan K.
Johnson, Farmer's Wife: Judy Lyen, Woman at restaurant: Kate
Waterous. 
Written and Produced by the cast, Directed and Edited by Ryan K.
Johnson. (There also exists a slightly longer version running 16
minutes called Nothing To Fear . Rather than risk
alienating people by cutting their scenes, I just created two
versions and folks can choose their favorite.) 

 Back to Ryan's
Homepage 
 Escape From Seattle | Kill Roy | Doctor
Who | Star Trek: The Pepsi
Generation 
 What's Ryan Watching | The Wolfe Project | Mystery Science Theater 3000 
 Have I Got News For You | The 2001 Movies | Norwescon
Movies | Meltdown 

 Written and maintained by Ryan
 K. Johnson 

 December 29, 2003