NEW BRITISH TV SHOW REVIEWS 

New British TV Show Reviews 

April 4, 2001 

 A | B |
 C 
| D | E | F 
| G | H | I 
| J | K | L 
| M | N | O 
| P | Q | R 
| S | T | U 
| V | W | X 
| Y | Z 
 Back to Homepage 

 At Home With The Braithwaites (3/01) 
Amanda Redman stars as Alison, a middle class mom to three daughters and
married to a spineless loser (Peter Davison, who else?) who is having an
affair with his secretary. But one day Alison wins 38 million pounds
in the lottery -- and doesn't tell her family, in this oddball comedy/drama
from ITV. Instead, knowing it would just increase her family's irresponsibility,
she decides to set up a foundation and donate money to worthy causes. 
This proves to be more complicated than she first thought but eventually
has an entire enterprise going, with herself as the anonymous administrator. 
But back at home things are rapidly falling apart, with little dramas involving
each daughter, and Davison is slowly coming unglued at the seams as well. 
When everyone finds out about the money in the final episode of the first
season, Davison lets go with a level of dramatic intensity I've rarely
seen from him. This is definitely his best part in over a decade
(and sure beats those dog food ads he was doing!). A second season
has already been shown in the UK with the family now living off the fruits
of their mother's luck, but none the happier.
 The Blind Date (3/01) 
Ben Miller ( Armstrong and Miller )
has a serious role in this ITV drama about an undercover policewoman whose
latest "sting" beats the murder rap while maintaining his innocence. 
He commits suicide and everyone thinks that's the end of it, but when a
stranger attacks her she begins to suspect the freelance crime photographer
(Miller) might be involved.
 A Christmas Carol (3/01) 
Ross Kemp ( EastEnders ) stars in this modern version of the Dickens'
classic. This time, Scrooge is loan shark working on a grim housing
estate, followed around by his toady Crachit keeping track of all the debtors
in his thrall. What's interesting about this version is in-between
the ghostly visits, Kemp is forced to relive Christmas Eve over and over
(a la "Groundhog Day") until he gets it right. The sentimental finish
though (complete with snowfall) is never in doubt, so be prepared for maximum
saccharine.
 Clocking Off (3/01) 
BBC drama series about workers at a textile factory, each week focusing
on a different character. One week it might be the foreman who is
having trouble keeping his son out of trouble while trying to keep an affair
quiet to his co-worker wife, the next it might be the owner (Philip Glenister)
working to save the company when the building lease expires.
 Donovan Quick (3/01) 
Hunky Colin Firth (aka "Mr Darcy") stars in this update of Don Quixote
as a mysterious stranger who comes to a small Scottish town and does battle
with the corporation that runs the local bus service. He encourages
the family he boards with to start their own line and manages to outwit
the evil corporate stooges for a while before his own tragic past is revealed
in this BBC TV movie. Firth, with his baritone voice, is a dominating
presence, and apparently this part was a welcome break from the period
roles he is often cast in.
 Futurecast (3/01) 
Presented as a typical day in 2030 when a net news broadcast is hijacked
by video pirates who want to demonstrate how a corporation's medical policies
are killing people in this innovative Channel 4 show. This could
be a descendant of Max Headroom , with a look not only at the future
of broadcasting (with cameras and video sources everywhere), but society
itself if certain conditions play out. An interesting experiment.
 Gentlemen's Relish (3/01) 
Light-hearted BBC TV movie with Billy Connolly as a painter who switches
to photography in 1910 but inadvertently ends up in the early days of porn. 
His assistant takes bits and pieces of Connolly's elaborate historical
recreations (complete with artistic nudes) and repackages them under the
banner of "Gentlemen's Relish" which eventually draws the ire of an ambitious
politician.
 It Shouldn't Happen To A Children's Presenter (3/01) 
Amusing ITV documentary about the perils of being a children's TV host,
still an active vocation in Britain both the on the BBC and ITV. 
Interspersed with classic clips and interviews with old hosts is a "Real
World"-like documentary search for the newest host to be cast, following
a number of auditioners through to the final announcement.
 Justice In Wonderland (3/01) 
A very clever dramatization of the famous Hamilton versus Al Fayad libel
trial where a former member of parliament (played here by Charles Dance)
sued the Harrod's owner for claiming Al Fayad had paid him for asking questions
in the House. Al Fayad seems a very dodgy customer, particularly
his allegations about Diana's and his son Dodi's death, but the evidence
against Hamilton is too damning and he loses big time. As Oscar Wilde
discovered a century ago, you shouldn't sue people for libel when what
they are saying is true.
 The Last Musketeer (3/01) 
Heartthrob Robson Green ( Touching Evil ) stars in this ITV TV movie
as an ex-con fencer who misses out making the British Olympic team and
instead accepts a short-term teaching job at an out-of-way girls school
in Scotland in order to avoid some angry gangsters when a job goes wrong. 
The embattled headmistress of the school natural falls for Green, as does
his best student, but he manages to inspire everyone to succeed before
vanishing from their lives forever like the Lone Ranger.
 Mirrorball (3/01) 
Jennifer Saunders assembles her Absolutely
Fabulous gang for this satire of show business types (and had such
a good time with everyone that they've decided to do another season of
 AbFab ). Saunders and Julia Sawalha plays actress roommates
with different ambitions (and talent) trying to scratch a living,
while Joanna Lumley is the washed up torch singer trying to avoid her manager/husband. 
Interestingly, Jane Horrocks plays a Bjork-like waitress from Iceland whose
character will now appear in AbFab . Saunders finally
triumphs in an audition (after Bonnie Langford is told she isn't right
for the part) and gets the lead in the musical version of "Angela's Ashes"
but breaks her leg afterwards in a drunken celebration. Can she keep
it a secret from the director until it's too late to recast? There
was only one episode of this BBC pilot, but at least it shows Saunders
is in good form, and hopefully will avoid being in other people's stinkers
like Let Them Eat Cake .
 My Hero (3/01) 
Irish comic Ardal O'Hanlon (best known as the dim priest Father Dougal
in Father Ted ) stars in this BBC sitcom
as Thermoman, the world's favorite superhero. But he spends
most of his time in his civilian secret identity as George, an Irishman
who doesn't quite understand all (or any, really) Earth customs. 
He falls in love with a nurse and they move in together. Yes, it's
"Mork and Mindy" for the 21st Century, which is zero points for originality,
but the jokes are good and O'Hanlon excels at playing charming comic dimwits.
 Nature Boy (3/01) 
A young man with an affinity for animals crosses Britain looking for his
long-lost father (Paul McGann) and along the way encounters a different
group of people in each episode that use his help in this engaging BBC
mini-series. In one story, he stays with a family that is involved
with the corporate cover-up of contamination, in another a group of tree
lovers try to save a forest from road builders. McGann only appears
briefly in flashbacks or speaking to his son in fantasy sequences.
 The Wyven Mystery (3/01) 
Two part BBC historical mystery drama with Derek Jacobi as a landlord who
takes care of an orphaned woman who is rescued from his clutches by one
of his sons and then whisked off and married. But it isn't
happily ever after, with secret marriages, a creepy manor house, chained
madwomen, missing babies, and a too-helpful brother ( Ultraviolet's 
Jack Davenport) threatening the woman at every turn. Everything is
not as it seems.

 A | B |
 C 
| D | E | F 
| G | H | I 
| J | K | L 
| M | N | O 
| P | Q | R 
| S | T | U 
| V | W | X 
| Y | Z 
 Back to Homepage 

Written and maintained by Ryan K. Johnson (rkj@eskimo.com) . 

April 4, 2001