BRITISH TV SHOW REVIEWS "T" 

British TV Show Reviews "T" 

 A | B |
 C 
| D | E | F 
| G | H | I 
| J | K | L 
| M | N | O 
| P | Q | R 
| S | T | U | V 
| W | X | Y 
| Z 
 Previous List | Back to Homepage 
| Next List 
 Dates refer to when review was written 

 Take A Girl Like You (1/02)
 Andrew Davies ( To Play The King ) adapted
this Kingsley Amis novel set in the early 1960s when a gorgeous young teacher
enters the life of Rupert Graves as a randy teacher in this BBC mini-series. 
He tries all his usual seduction tricks on her but she is determined to
preserve her virginity, which of course only eggs him on further. 
A nice evocation of the era, a time when things were simpler, but in a
way not.
 Takin' Over the Asylum (3/95)
 Six episode BBC comedy/drama about a hard-drinking Glasgow window salesman
who moonlights as a disc jockey at a mental hospital. Needless to say,
the people inside the hospital are a lot more sane than some of the ones
we meet outside. Good touching stuff, with the 60s rock-and-roll oldies
in the background providing a nice soundtrack.
 Tales From Pleasure Beach (1/04)
 Typically, every summer, the BBC lets some of the regional stations
do some programming, hence this anthology drama set on the Welsh seaside. 
In one story, two women's friendship is torn apart when one falls for a
bloke who has a history with the other.
 The Tales of Para Handy (1/95)
 Folksy comic adventures of a cargo ship in Scotland during the 1930s.
Para Handy is the Gaelic name for Peter MacFarland, the Captain (but not
owner) of "The Vital Spark," a ship which has seen better days. Misadventures
vex the crew in one form or another, but it always ends well for our heroes.
 Tales of Sherwood Forest (11/89)
 A Cheers -like drama set in a bar called "Rick's Cafe," although
inexplicably the sign outside says "Sherwood Forest." David Troughton plays
a police inspector.
 Tales of the City (11/93)
 This Channel Four production was completely set and filmed in San Francisco,
and featured an all-American cast including Olympia Dukakis, William Campbell,
Donald Moffet, Chloe Webb, and Karen Black. Based on a series of novels
by Armistead Maupin ("Is a man I dreamt up" for the anagram-happy) about
straights and gays living in San Francisco in the 1970s. Apparently these
are more well known in England than in the US, and certainly a production
of this sort would NEVER get made by an American company. We got William
Campbell - the "Rocketeer" for chrissakes! - in bed kissing and making
love to another man. Chloe Webb moves away from her gay best friedn and
into a place with her black lesbian lover. This is not your father's mini-series.
Superbly acted and written, but something I suspect will only get airplay
in the States on obscure "art" channels. [I was wrong: PBS did show
it, but many individual stations refused, or ran it late at night. And
they wanted no part in funding a continuation of the series.] Excellent
and entertaining.
 Talking Heads 2 (3/99)
 Writer Alan Bennett follows up a series he wrote several years ago
consisting of half hour monologues delivered by some of the best actors
on television including Patricia Routledge as a naive woman who gets involved
with a foot fetishist, Eileen Atkins as a know-it-all antique dealer who
gets her comeuppance, and David Haig as a man with an unhealthy interest
in children. Just by talking directly to us in 30 minutes we are able to
completely believe in them and their stories as real. Pretty good stuff.
 Tarrant on TV (1/97)
 This and After The Break ran during
the same month, both compilation shows of commercials and other odds bits
from the world of television. Interestingly, in the same week both featured
the same ad from France about a suggestive bottle. Perhaps they're dipping
deeply into too shallow a pool here.
 Teachers (1/02)
 Andrew Lincoln ( This Life ) stars in this very arch comedy/drama
series on Channel 4 about a group of less-than-great high school teachers. 
With a loud soundtrack and each day of the week somehow snuck into shots,
Lincoln (looking like a young Chris Barrie) bikes to work, tries to get
through the day with the minimal amount of fuss (and actual work), and
avoid contact with his arch-nemesis Jenny, the ice maiden (who appears
in the series' many fantasy sequences as a dominatrix). But he is
now in his 30s and commitment-phobia about his policewoman girlfriend is
holding him back. Will he mature, or is he doomed to an arrested
development? Real teachers were in an uproar in Britain about the
cavalier way their profession was portrayed but the series clearly is not
presented as a realistic documentary, but a clever and well-written series
about a group of characters who just happen to be teachers.
 Ted & Alice (3/03)
 Dawn French and Stephen Tomkinson ( Ballykissangel )
co-star in this BBC mini-series where boy meets girl, they break up because
he's different, then finally get back together because Love Conquers All. 
Oh yeah, Ted's an alien who has come to Earth looking for some human nooky
(apparently most people on his planet are hermaphrodites and reproduce
asexually). The trouble is, if you take this same story and change
"alien" to "Jewish" or "Russian" you realize this is a bog-standard romantic
comedy plot. Having aliens doesn't make it inherently interesting. 
Nor should it have been padded to three hours that try to add complications
like bounty hunters chasing the aliens or a horrible New Agey finale.
 Ted & Ralph (7/99)
 Paul Whitehouse and Charlie Higson take their Fast
Show characters and spin them off into this hour-long filmed comedy/drama.
Ralph is landed gentry although inbreeding has taken its toll, as he obsesses
about his loyal Irish handyman Ted who quietly goes about his business
on Ralphs estate. The plot, such as it is, concerns Ralphs need to be
married within a month or lose the property to a mad aunt. The trouble
is, Ralphs never been on a date, much less a relationship. Can Ted save
the day? Or will an evil developer get his hands on the estate? I suppose
credit must be given for taking essentially one-joke characters who appear
in five minute sketches and getting this much material out of them, though
its not for all tastes.
 Teletubbies (1/98)
 All you parents who have suffered through Barney have a new
threat to face. Teletubbies took over screens in Britain last year,
originally aimed at preschoolers but quickly becoming a cult for teenagers
and others because of (or despite) the surreal imagery. Four alien-like
beings in primary-colored suits loll around an artificial exterior environment,
each with a TV in their stomachs. A single released at Christmas briefly
knocked The Spice Girls off number one at the charts. PBS will be unleashing
 Teletubbies 
on an unsuspecting American public in April 1998. You Have Been Warned!
 The Temptation Game (11/98)
 Angus Deayton ( Have I Got News For You )
hosts this documentary series which looks (naturally enough) at different
aspects of temptation. His tongue is mostly in cheek during most of it,
plus the added titillation factor that the topic naturally engenders makes
for entertaining viewing.
 The 10%ers (7/94)
 The new series by Red Dwarf writers Rob Grant and Doug Naylor
takes place in the offices of talent agents (hence the title) in London.
Clive Francis stars as the overly excited head of the firm where wacky
things seem to happen every week...or so it claims in the "Radio Times."
Overall though, this show isn't very funny, and Grant and Naylor belabor
the point by putting their two-cents worth in about what they think of
science fiction fans during an episode called "Galaxy Quest 8." Another
in a long line of ITV sitcoms that are instantly forgettable. Let's face
it, when you think of classic British comedies, invariably they are all
made by the BBC: Blackadder ,
 Monty Python , The Good Life ,
 The
Young Ones ,
 Red Dwarf , even Are You Being Served . In
its entire history ITV has been incapable of producing a decent sitcom
and The 10%ers is no exception.
 (1/97)
 The 1993 sitcom originally created by the Red Dwarf boys Rob
Grant and Doug Naylor, returns for a second season a mere three years later
(and I suspect from some of the references it was actually held over a
year). Joining the cast is Emma Cunniffe, the unwed mother from Life
After Birth , but all the regulars are back, including Clive Francis
as the manic head of a London talent agency. The best bits are probably
the teaser to each episode where he arrives on some set where one of his
clients needs some emergency handholding - and the lengths he'll go to
to achieve results. Notable guests stars include Craig Charles as an ubiquitous
rapper who leaves the agency just as he gets hot, and Nicola Bryant as
(what else?) a woman with the most peculiar American accent.
 The Thin Blue Line (3/96)
 A bit of a disappointment, which is shocking considering the talent
involved: the first sit-com Rowan Atkinson has starred in since Blackadder
Goes Forth , and written by long-time collaborator Ben Elton. The results
are pretty dire in this comedy about a "wacky" police station with Atkinson
in charge. Dull supporting characters and a surprising lack of energy from
Atkinson serve to make this merely a routine comedy, with little help at
all from Elton's lackluster scripts. But it slowly begins to improve as
the series goes on.
 Thin Ice (1/02)
 Nicholas Lyndhurst ( Goodnight Sweetheart )
stars as a dodgy doctor who, when the police discover he's dispensing medicine
without a license, ends up working for a mob family. It's somewhat
tongue-in-cheek, with Lyndhurst's dry narration trying to make it sound
like none of it is really his fault in the first place. He's a bastard,
to be sure, but you can't take your eyes off the road accident which is
his life.
 The Thing About Vince (11/01)
 Lovable Timothy Spall (best known for his parts in most of Mike Leigh's
films) gets thrown out of the house by his wife who suspects philandering
and ends up staying at his parents, a daft old couple (Sheila Hancock and
Peter Vaughan) whose house is filled with model railways. Vince is
determined to get back into his wife's good graces but may be in fact his
own worst enemy.
 This Bloke Walks Into A Bar... (9/99)
 Documentary look at the connection between stand-up comedy and drinking,
which in Britain are inseparable.
 This Could Be The Last Time (1/99)
 BBC TV movie with Joan Plowright as a grandmother whose family suspects
has Alzheimer's disease and want to put in a home. On the urging of her
worldly best friend, she instead takes her savings and goes on an impromptu
holiday in Paris which she hasn't seen in decades. But the city has changed
much to her dismay, and her Englishness seems to work against her until
she meets up with a young runaway boy who has stolen money from gangsters.
Unaware of his ill-gotten gains, they team up and explore the city, although
the subplot of the pursuing gangsters seems like something added to a bad
Disney movie (in fact, part of the movie was shot at EuroDisneyland). But
all's well that ends well, with everyone reunited with their respective
families and all misunderstandings solved.
 This Is David Lander (11/89)
 Comedy investigative reporting series with Stephen Fry as crusading
reporter. Easily mistaken as the real thing until you pay careful attention
to what's being said. The second series replaced Fry with Tony Slattery
and was retitled This Is David Harper .
 This Morning With Richard Not Judy 
(7/98)
 Stewart Lee and Richard Herring ( Fist of Fun )
are let loose on a live Sunday lunchtime show, ostensibly sending up ordinary
daytime talk shows ( Richard and Judy being the UK equivalent of
 Regis
and Kathy Lee ). The boys are keen to get a laugh - sometimes a bit
too desperate during live television - but not all their material is up
to their usual caliber. Forced to rely on many pre-taped sketches, too
many of them fall back on becoming running gags and the joke simply becomes
beating it to death each week. As alternative comedians, Rich and Stew
are clever guys, but in this vehicle they were stuck with a format and
time slot that didn't really allow them to innovate as much as they should
have.
 (11/99)
 Comic double-act Richard Herring and Stewart Lee return in this live
Sunday afternoon collection of sketches and studio gags. One of their early
plans were derailed by the untimely death of Rod Hull a few days before
they were going to have sketches of their fake Rod Hull (Kevin Eldon) suffer
a series of accidents. And live TV has its other tribulations, but Rich
and Stew give it their all, and were nice enough to get me tickets to the
first episode during my trip there last March ( read
all about it ).
 This Week Only (3/02)
 Joe Cornish ( The Adam and Joe Show )
hosts this topical comedy panel show on Channel 4. Two or three topics
are bandied about for a few minutes each, with a few guests including Uri
Geller (talking about his friendship with Michael Jackson, for instance).
But I thought it was particularly telling was the episode that went out
September 12th made no mention of the terrorist attack in America the previous
day (and clearly the show can't be taped that far in advance). I
think the producers wisely concluded that no comic value could be mined
from such a disaster and chose to just steer clear altogether.
 Thompson (3/89)
 Emma Thompson, England's answer to Tracy Ullman (ever since she defected
to American TV), in a bizarre series of sketches, most notable for the
lack of laugh track. A friend and I were frequently unable to decide if
a particular bit was supposed to be funny or not.
 The Thoughts of Chairman Alf (1/99)
 Alf Garnet was a character created by Johnny Speight in the 1960s in
 Till
Death Us Do Part , (he became "Archie Bunker" when the format was
turned into All In the Family in the US) . Memorably played by Warren
Mitchell, he now takes Alf in front of a live audience railing on with
what's wrong with Britain and taking questions from the audience. Mitchell
is hilarious (and clearly never heard of political correctness), showing
there's still a place for a Garnet/Bunker-like character even in the 1990s.
 Thunderbirds (3/01)
 One of the all-time greatest children's shows ever (I grew up on it
in Canada in the late 1960s), this Gerry Anderson puppet series has achieved
iconic status in Britain with a new generation discovering the series every
few years. Read my feature article about
 Thunderbirds .
 Till Death Us Do Part (7/97)
 The BBC recently began repeating this landmark series that was the
inspiration for All In the Family . In this version (begun in the
late 60s), Alf Garnett is a racist working class man whose daughter has
married a long-haired undesirable. While considered a classic in England,
it's too hard for me as an American to erase memories of the brilliant
Carroll O'Connor whose Archie Bunker is an indelible part of US culture.
 Time Gentlemen Please (1/03)
 Sky One comedy co-written by Richard Herring ( This
Morning With Richard Not Judy ) featuring Al Murray (Harry Hill's
"brother") as a pub landlord running a spectacularly unsuccessful business
containing a motley collection of regulars, including Phil Daniels
( Sunnyside Farm ) and Julia Sawalha
( Absolutely Fabulous ) as an Australian
barmaid! It's not quite Cheers or even really BBC-2 quality,
but I suppose Sky has to run some original shows not imported from the
USA.
 Time Team (4/94)
 48 Hours meets Archaeology Today . Tony Robinson ( Black
Adder's "Baldrick") hosts this series where an archaeological team
descends on a site (usually someone who has written in asking about what's
in their back yard) and has a weekend to excavate it and answer some questions
about its historical significance to the area. Fairly fascinating to watch
and you learn a ton about English history.
 Tim Roth - Made In Britain (7/00)
 BBC documentary about the actor (and now director of "The War Zone")
who made his mark playing a scary racist skinhead, and is best known for
parts in Quentin Tarantino's movies. Often typecast as a villain
("Rob Roy"), Roth clearly is striving for more, not unlike his buddy Gary
Oldman.
 Tina Takes A Break (3/02)
 Channel 4 TV movie about juvenile delinquents on a grim housing estate
caught in a spiral of poverty and abuse. All joy is sucked out of
life in this uncompromising and frankly depressing portrayal.
 Tipping The Velvet (1/04)
 Andrew Davies adapted this super-sexy tale set in Victorian Times about
Nan Astley (Rachael Sterling), a young woman from Dunstable who works in
her father's oyster house and comes to realize she Isn't Like Other Girls. 
Attracted to beautiful music hall performer Kitty Butler (Keeley Hawes),
they declare their love for each other and run off to London where they
conquer the West End. A few graphic lesbian sex scenes later, Nan
finds her whole world crashing down around her and after working the streets
(disguised as a boy), eventually ends up the "kept woman" of an eccentric
old woman and her friends. Will Nan find true love again or
is life just a series of brutal betrayals? As long as there are plenty
of sex scenes, the audience probably doesn't care. French and Saunders
did a hilarious parody of the series afterwards on one of their specials.
 tlc (1/04)
 Hospital comedy starring Reece Shearsmith ( The
League of Gentlemen ) as a young intern trying to learn from Dr
Noble (Alexander Armstrong). Half the time it's trying to be "Airplane"
with oddball sightgags, the other half it's "M*A*S*H." Running jokes
include a mad priest (Tim Brooke-Taylor) who thinks he's a doctor, Richard
Griffiths as an out-of-touch chief surgeon, and a man in a wheelchair who
almost nearly gets cured each week. Only the lack of a laughtrack
makes it bearable.
 Tomorrow La Scala! (1/04)
 Jessica Stevenson ( Spaced ) stars
in this BBC TV movie as a slightly pretentious artistic director who takes
her opera troupe to a prison to put on a production of "Sweeney Todd" with
selected inmates. Needless to say, the relationships of everyone
add complications and drama to the entire endeavor (we never get to even
see the final production, in fact the final scene as they are about to
go on is shown first out of context when we still don't know who anybody
is). A very nice small scale story with great character moments.
 The Tony Ferrino Phenomenon (7/97)
 Steve Coogan's latest creation is a
pop singer from Portugal who inexplicably gets his own special on British
television. But what becomes clear (like all of Coogan's comic monsters)
is what a slimeball Ferrino is, engorged on his own ego, trying to manipulate
all those around him. A "documentary" screened a few days later chronicles
his entire sordid rise to fame, and expertly parodies "international" stars
who attempt to invade foreign territories.
 Too Much Sun (1/01)
 Mark Addy ("The Full Monty") and Alex Jennings star in this BBC comedy
set in LA as two no-talents from the UK trying to break into the movies.
They live in a tiny bungalow owned by a washed up TV actor (Lee Majors!)
and sit in their hot tub all day dreaming of success. It's fairly funny,
and the boys are surrounded by fellow expatriates and other losers, in
this droll look at the craziness that is Hollywood and the British view
of it.
 Top Gear (5/98)
 One of the most popular programs on BBC-2, whose style (and easily-imitated
presenter Jeremy Clarkson) have been much parodied for years on various
comedy series, is at its heart basically a car show. What makes the reviews
of the latest automobiles entertaining is the almost Siskel and Ebert 
way Clarkson (and others) attack cars that don't quite make the grade.
With no advertisers to offend on BBC television, they can be quite vicious
with their opinions, or worse, devastating in their humor, which had me
laughing out loud at several points. Even if you hate cars (though I'll
bet 80% of their audience is male), it's an amusing series.
 To Play The King (2/94)
 I pity anyone who tries to read Michael Dobbs's novels chronicling
the treachery of Francis Urquhart because the continuity between them is
appalling. The reason? In each novel Dobbs has Urquhart get his commeuppance
in the end - only to have TV writer Andrew Davies let him get away each
time! As a series, the novels make no sense whatsoever. But on television
(which began with House of Cards ) they
are brilliant. Davies, once again, shows a level of cynicism that Dobbs
merely hints at. Davies' Urquhart is ruthless, yet still haunted by the
past (particularly Mattie - who is only fleetingly acknowledged in the
novel but plays a major roll in the TV version). As for the ending, well
I'm not spoiling anything here by saying that in the novel it was clearly
implied that Urquhart was working against a deadline for a general election
before a major scandal would break. In the end, the King resigns, but only
to run against Urquhart once his plans have come to ruin. Needless to say,
Davies and the BBC had something else in mind: like another sequel. So
FU gets away with it again, and not even an election looming. What frontiers
will he conquer next time? Guess we'll have to wait and see. (Trilogy
concludes in The Final Cut ) 
 Tottenham 2 (9/99)
 Low-budget late night Channel 4 comedy (part of it's "4 Later" package
of programs) about two dumb and dumber guys who just hang out at the local
Chinese restaurant in North London making ludicrous observations about
life. Some of it is funny, but even Beavis and Butt-head (which
these two could be the live-action British equivalent) got an honest laugh
once in a while.
 Touch and Go (3/99)
 Martin Clunes stars in this TV movie
about a couple that plays with fire when they enter the world of "swingers."
At first his wife is dead-set against it (while Clunes character - not
unlike his Gary on
 Men Behaving Badly -
is keen to get into it), though inevitably the tables are turned and he
is the one who wants to put a stop to it when his wife seems to be enjoying
it better than him.
 Traitors (8/91)
 BBC Screenplay production about Guy Fawkes and his Gunpower
Plot to blow up Parliament. The British have turned this into a holiday,
similar to the American Fourth of July, though why they celebrate a terrorist
is quite beyond me.
 Travels With Pevsner (5/99)
 Nikolaus Pevsver traveled across England, documenting the land and
the architecture. In this series, different people follow in his footsteps
years later making their own observations. In one, Jonathan Meades ( Further
Abroad ) does his patented delivery on Worcestershire, where he
is from, showing the absurd and the mundane and demonstrating that not
very much separates the two.
 The Trev and Simon Summer Special (1/96)
 Trev and Simon (what? you've never heard of them either?) are yet another
comedy double-act doing their thing.
 Trevor's World of Sport (3/04)
 BBC comedy starring Neil Pearson as a sports agent with a conscience,
which constantly causes friction at the workplace, particularly with his
more amoral partner. Pearson's character is also separated from his
wife, tries to impress his son, and maintain the moral high ground at work
even though it's a cut-throat business.
 Trial & Retribution III (7/00)
 Lynda La Plante ( Prime Suspect ) writes this occasional mini-series
about police and the court system (not dissimilar to NBC's Law and Order )
which in this installment focuses on a missing girl and the prime suspect,
the always intense and edgy Richard E. Grant. What distinguishes
this series is the split screen work which doubles the amount of information
the audience is exposed to (though thankfully they don't overdo it), and
the relationships between the police (including an ongoing domestic drama)
and the overly chummy lawyers.
 The Trial of Enoch Powell (5/98)
 Thirty years ago, Tory MP Powell delivered his devastating "Rivers
of Blood" speech which (some say) set race relations back years in Britain
(he was railing against immigration). In this Channel 4 audience participation
special, the late Powell and his comments were put on "trial" to see if
he really was a racist or not. Most the "evidence" wouldn't have been admissible
in a real court, but this was for TV where only the court of public opinion
was important. In the end, he was found not guilty, though I suspect not
many in the audience had changed their mind much from before the program.
 The Tribe (9/98)
 1996 BBC movie about a cult-like group under the leadership of a woman
named Emily (Joely Richardson) living in a rough south London neighborhood.
When a young executive of a ruthless real estate developer (Trevor Eve)
is sent to their building to try to find a way to evict them, he finds
himself drawn into their group. The irony is, they aren't a cult at all,
but that's the image they like to project because it keeps the dangerous
gangs (and real cultists) at bay. But eventually the house of cards collapses,
but not before the executive throws his lot in with the group. An interesting
look at how a strong personality molds those around her.
 Tribute To The Likely Lads (9/03)
 An updated remake of the classic 60s series (with James Bolam and Rodney
Bewes -- the latter making a cameo here) with Ant & Dec as two Geordies
trying to avoid a football score. I suppose putting the word "tribute"
in the title makes it seem less a knock-off, but what really is the point
of doing it again?
 Trigger Happy TV (1/01)
 Normally I disdain "Candid Camera" type shows that serve to humiliate
unsuspecting members of the public, but most of the time the butt of the
humor on Channel 4's Trigger Happy TV , which executes its jokes
in full view of bystanders, is the star himself. Whether it's a sight gag
on The League of Gentlemen or Monty
Python , there is something inherently funny about a guy walking a stuffed
dog in a park, or answering an oversized cell phone standing in an art
gallery, the only thing they've added here is there is a live audience
witnessing the craziness. The inventiveness of most of the gags is pretty
clever too, and if you didn't like the last one, there's another one coming
a minute later. Of course part of it does depend on shock value from the
hapless witnesses, which are made party to the joke just by their presence,
but as visual humor goes, most of it is pretty clever.
 True Love (11/96)
 A city nurse in a dead-end marriage meets the man of her dreams, a
good looking farmer who falls for her. At first she lays it on a bit thick
about her past, but he accepts her, kids and all. Everyone is happy except
her ex-husband who wants her back in this ITV TV Movie. Later became a
series, My Wonderful Life .
 Trust (1/00)
 Two-part ITV mystery drama starring Caroline Goodall as a solicitor
whose husband becomes the chief suspect in the death of a woman. But Goodall
is no saint either, having an affair with her husband's best friend. Can
she fairly defend her husband? As the title implies, who can she trust,
and the mystery keeps you guessing right until the end.
 Trust (3/04)
 ITV star Robson Green ( Touching Evil ) moves over to the BBC
with this legal drama that also features Neil Stuke ( Game
On ) and Ian McShane ( Lovejoy ). Various subplots permeate
each episode as well as plenty of angst from the yuppie staff but at the
end of the day, does the world need yet another series about lawyers, no
matter how well done?
 Truth or Dare (3/97)
 BBC TV movie about a responsible young woman (Helen Baxendale) who
is reunited with her university chums who still live as wildly as possible.
But things turn serious as blackmail, murder and a conspiracy threaten
to unravel her world.
 TV Hell (9/93)
 While Americans bury such TV disasters such as Supertrain , the
British revel in bringing their dirty linen out for inspection. And what's
amazing is all the people responsible for such nightmares as Triangle 
(a shipboard drama set on the seasick-inducing North Sea) all gleefully
confessing to the camera their involvement with no reservations. When something
bombs in America, everyone involves pretends it never happened or that
they had anything to do with it ("Success has many parents, failure is
an orphan"). The British evidently don't have such a hangup - much to the
delight of bad TV aficionados everywhere.
 TV Offal (9/98)
 Channel 4 comedy series written and presented by TV critic Victor
Lewis-Smith , which pushes offensiveness and libel about as far as legally
possible on television. Each week different celebrities and series are
ruthlessly mocked, sometimes with overdubbing, others with just obscure
outtakes. He especially delights in such features as "Kamikaze Karaoke"
of various pop stars and what he "really" thinks they sound like (although
he hit the jackpot with an actual recording someone once made isolating
Linda McCartney's vocals during a concert once), a fictitious obituary
of a still-living celebrity, "Assassination Of The Week" ("Did they live/Or
are they worm food?" the cheery theme song asks) using news footage, "The
Gay Daleks" featuring Doctor Who's famous foes now dubbed with gay double-entendres,
and footage of awful low-budget programs made produced by hospitals for
in-house viewers or early appearances by now famous people. I think all
of this is fair game until the end of each episode where Lewis-Smith crosses
the line by making prank phone calls to celebrities and proceeds to insult
them. I'm sure he keeps his lawyers quite busy.
 TV To Go (1/02)
 Sketch comedy series performed by familiar TV faces including Pauline
McLynn ( Father Ted ), Mina Anwar ( The
Thin Blue Line ), McKenzie Crook ( The
11 O'Clock Show ) and Hugh Dennis ( My Hero ). 
A pretty good joke-per-sketch ratio, with very few overstaying their welcome.
 TV's Greatest Hits (3/00)
 A BBC summertime clip show but a generous amount of original material
including behind-the-scenes looks at series (including Jonathan
Creek and Antiques Road Show ) plus interesting, but brief,
studio appearances by various footnote people in television (including
the woman seen dancing during the Tales Of The Unexpected credits,
and the worst-ever team to appear on University Challenge ). Gaby
Roslin is no great journalist, but a pleasant enough host at this act of
video navel gazing.
 Twelfth Night (7/99)
 Trevor Nunn adapted and directs this lavishly filmed new BBC version
of the Bards comedy about twins shipwrecked in a foreign land, with Helena
Bonham Carter, Richard E. Grant, Nigel Hawthorne, Ben Kingsley and Mel
Smith. It doesnt get much better than this.
 20 Things To Do Before You're 30 (3/04)
 A channel 4 ensemble comedy not dissimilar to the BBC's Two
Pints of Lager and a Packet of Crisps although in this twentysomething
series the friends are all workmates and one is gay.
 Two Fat Ladies (3/97)
 Ostensibly a cooking show, two dotty old ladies travel around England
in their sidecar-equipped motorcycle making bizarre commentaries about
everything and each other (at one point comparing themselves to Daleks),
and eventually settling down to do some cooking. Absolutely bizarre and
apparently completely serious.
 Two Golden Balls (1/95)
 Kim Catrall stars in this light-touch BBC TV Movie as a porn star who
takes an ordinary British housewife and opens her eyes to a whole other
world. Not to be taken seriously, but as a feminist fantasy, not a bad
piece of work.
 Two Oranges and a Mango (1/95)
 A brother and sister of Indian descent travel back to the mother country
in order to attend to their more traditional-minded father's funeral. Needless
to say, the culture shock is immense as these two British-born-and-raised
people come face to face with the society and customs of their ancestors.
Some amusing bits with the son carrying on conversations with his father
even though the man is now dead.
 Two Pints of Lager and a Packet of Crisps 
(1/02)
 BBC-2 youth sitcom about two twentysomething couples whose main social
life revolves around the pub. Of note is Ralf Little ( The
Royle Family ) who is in a permanent relationship with his live-in
girlfriend, and his best mate who is trying to get it on with the girlfriend's
friend. A lot of it is guy talk and girl talk, and the comedy is
derived from how they both need and are repelled by each other.
 Two Ronnies Night (5/00)
 The BBC dedicated a night to the venerable comedy double-act, and pulled
off the rare coup of getting Ronnie Barker out of retirement to participate
in a round-table interview (along with Ronnie Corbett, and the various
writers (including Jonathan Creek scribe
David Renwick) and directors who worked with them throughout the years)
plus some new sketches. Clips were generous (with the writer of each one
credited) and it was a good nostalgia wallow for all involved.
 Two Thousand Acres of Sky (3/02)
 Michelle Collins ( EastEnders ) plays a working class single mother
from London who moves her family to a remote island off Scotland that needs
more families to keep their local school open in this BBC drama. 
But the catch is, the islanders (who run the place not unlike the anarcho-syndicate
commune in "Monty Python and the Holy Grail") wanted a married couple,
so she passes off her best friend (Paul Kaye) as her husband and they run
the local B & B together while maintaining the pretense. Kaye
is an interesting actor, having first come to prominence as the odious
"Dennis Pennis" but now also starring the BBC comedy Perfect
World . But he keeps his natural unctuousness to a minimum
here, generating a lot of sympathy as a guy who clearly wants the girl
but she won't notice him.

 A | B |
 C 
| D | E | F 
| G | H | I 
| J | K | L 
| M | N | O 
| P | Q | R 
| S | T | U | V 
| W | X | Y 
| Z 
 Previous List | Back to Homepage 
| Next List 

Written and maintained by Ryan K. Johnson (rkj@eskimo.com) . 

April 13, 2004