"What's Ryan Watching" 

 What's Ryan Watching (1989) 

 What's Ryan Watching aka Ryan's As-Yet Untitled SF
Program was a ten minute compilation of material from my
movies plus new satires. The object was to package it for a
"video magazine" as a humor segment, but sadly the
magazine never got off the ground. The idea of the series (which
I admit was shameless ripped-off from an Eddie Murphy-produced
pilot called What's Alan Watching? ) was I would be sitting
in my apartment and all sorts of strange science fiction shows
would appear on my television that supposedly had been modified
by my Invisible Roommate Paul. 

 The segments include: A parody of Back to the
Future with Michael Santo ( Star Trek:
The Pepsi Generation ) as Doc Brown ( left , with
Krystal Kaald and Lance A. McDonald); Captain Commie (Matt Parsons, right , with Randy Gordon
as "Buddinski, the Boy Bolshevik") -- which
unfortunately really dates this movie -- but hey, it was 1989
when we made it!; a send-up of Beauty and the Beast that
asked the question, "Are they ever going to kiss?";
clips from Star Trek: The Pepsi
Generation , Broken Doors ,
an Elivra movie we did for a Norwescon, and A TARDIS
Home Companion . 

 This was my first movie to be mixed in stereo sound. The set
for the Beauty and the Beast parody took a week to build,
went way over budget (those shelves were real and built from
scratch -- I later sold them off to help pay for the movie!), but
we took advantage of it to tape several different parodies of the series which have never
been shown but hopefully someday will see the light of day. Gary
Watts ( left , as "Bincent") was in the makeup for
nearly five hours in a mask that was originally made for Jeff
Harris ( Mystery Science Theater 3000 ),
and complained his nose was sore for three days afterwards! Once
again, like the fall of communisim, real-life events caught up
with us and the "will they or won't they?" aspect of
the real Beauty and the Beast was resolved when Linda
Hamilton's character gave birth to Vincent's son. 

 Credits: 

 What's Ryan Watching 
10 minutes. Betacam. Filmed and released September 1989. 
 Cast. . . Ryan K. Johnson as himself, Michael Santo as Doc
Brown, Lance A. McDonald as Barty, Krystal Kaald as Jenniker,
JoAnne Kirley as Elvira, Darrell Bratz as Donahue, Matt Parsons
as Captain Commie, Randy Gordon as Buddinski, T. Brian Wagner as
the Jehovah's Witness, Karl Krogstad as the Doctor, Henry
Gonzalez as the Interviewer, Jeff Harris and Ford Thaxton as
themselves, Pam Johns as Cathy, Gary Watts as Bincent, Michael
Santo as Picard, Julia Mueller as Ya Har. 
Written, Produced and Directed by Ryan K. Johnson. 

 Back to Ryan's
Homepage 
 Escape From Seattle | Kill Roy | Doctor
Who | Star Trek: The Pepsi
Generation 
 What's Ryan Watching | The Wolfe
Project | Mystery Science Theater
3000 
 Have I Got News For You | The 2001 Movies | Norwescon
Movies | Meltdown 

 Written and maintained by Ryan
 K. Johnson 

 Version 1.2

 December 29, 1996