About me: 
 Hello! I am 33, 5'6, 190, short brown hair, brown eyes, glasses, goatee and 
 mustache I'm mod. hairy, and am most attracted to guys that have some body hair. 
 I'm intelligent, a bit shy, but very friendly. I enjoy raquetball, camping biking, 
 druming, reading, computers, animals and meeting new people. I'm a computer 
 geek by trade. I'm also not your typical drama-queen/bar-fly type. Doh!

 What I am looking for: 

Im looking for a like-minded person, who is an independant, funny, spontaneous
and knows what they want in life. Age isn't a consideration. I am single, and seeking
eventually, a LTR...friends to start. Geeky/quirky types really appeal to me :-) 

I am in the computer/IT world for work. I am a hardcore techie, and can get totally caught up discussing bits and bites and the like. Its part of my geeky self that just takes over from time to time. I love anything techie, and have recently become slight
ly adicted to playing network games, such as Quake Arena, Unreal Tourament, Alien VS Predator, Rune, and others. I've also picked up both an Atari 2600 (gotta love those classic, mindless games!) and a Playstation...I have a friend who got me into Twisted
 Metal 2...awesome game! Big Mortal Kombat fan too..after all that is the game that started the whole fighting theme thing.

 Here are some rather lame pictures of me doing probably my favorite thing 
 -- playing music. I don't consider myself especially photogenic, and don't plan 
 to have any suit/tie shots :-) Don't be scared, cause I don't bite..much. feh!

 This is the most current pic of me, sittin behind my kit. Do I look stoned 
 ? hahaha...no, Im just gettin into the music!

 A few shots of me in my music studio...nice attitude shot! 

 Yep, thats me, yet again, and my 'flaming' drumkit :-) 

 Ok, the one on the left is blurry..sowwwy. The one on the right, well, thats 
 getting to be OLD! like 5 years...those are my 2 doggies, shadow on the left, 
 and TeeJay on the right...I'll post more pix of them at some point.
 Of course, with all this great, useful information, there probably isn't anything 
 I haven't answered, is there?!?! :) But just in case, please feel free to email 
 me at : drmrdave@eskimo.com