Friendz 

I've decided to make a webpage to speak out, and up about friends, and just how important they are. I'm not a mushy guy as a rule, but in last few years, I've made some really good friends...most of which I've met online. Some people will insist that, all you find online are poeple looking for a quick 'hookup'. While I'll agree, I've seen a fair number of people who's sole intention is a few minutes of , ummm...bliss (HA) , I've met some really great people. I'd really be lost if it wasn't for the 'online world' -- I have trouble walking up to someone and striking up a conversation in person...I know -- that sounds totally lame...but, the majority of 'cyberbuddies' have become friends in real life as well, giving me a great social circle of friends. Anyways, here is a run down of some of the people who I care about, and have really contributed alot to my life as a friend.

Divindude -- probably my first 'real life' meeting was with divindude. We've kept in contact for 5+ years now...I'm really glad we have

Appleboywi -- I met him through a mutual friend...I've known him for 3 years or so, and since he has moved to Madison, we do social things quite frequently - very nice guy.

Frenzycub -- I talked with this guy because we had a mutual interest in drumming...got together and drummed, and a friendship took off...so glad to find someone who shares my love of videogames and music!

Kisscub -- I met him , though our mutual fandom of the group KISS -- plus, he is a musican too! Nice guy, who gave me my first 'el' train expirence in Chicago...;)

Adam-mad -- just met him over the fall, and see him alot on state street, and once in a while at the club -- very sweet, friendly guy!

Russian -- Talked to this guy for ever, like way back in the days of IRC...and finally met him, on state street for a round of coffee...very kewl, down to earth guy..and he likes fast cars too :)

mytribes -- Talked to this guy about bands and ended up meeting him on a trip to see a Rush cover band called Animation in Chicago. 
Sweet, friendly, funny guy! WOOF!

 selim -- not an online buddy, met him through some mutual friends from the madcitybears club. Selim is from Turkey, working 
here in Madison for one year -- Selim is very funny and interesting -- He can always make me laugh, even when I'm grumpy!

Whitehat -- chatted with this guy on-line. Met him one night with about 5 other regular 'chatters'. Very friendly, smart and sweet.
a 'real ' guy. Not to mention quite handsome! :-)

Anchor -- we met in a chat room too...oh my..I see a trend here...:D -- anyways, we did social stuff quite frequently..great sense
of humor, funny when he has more then 3 rums and cokes -- AND, he saw just how bad things can get on my birthday!

JonJon -- Another guy I met through the bear club -- cynical, down to earth, twisted sense of humor...he is like the one of the only
the only guys who found humor in my idea to dress up like a bus and gas-can for halloween. Glad to have made his aquaintance.

I've got more to add, as I have time -- I want to at least say something about the people I list here...because they mean alot to me ;)

 Back to the most sloppy, lame homepage on the web :)