Saying goodbye to a friend

Let me prefix this short true story with this -- I consider my dogs to be my 'friends'.

 About 2 years ago...I had to do , what I would consider, the single most emotionally difficult thing I've ever had to do. I had to put one of my dogs to sleep. As you could see in the picture on the homepage, I had 2 dogs. The dog on the left was 'Shadow'. I discovered that she was breathing rather laborously, and took her into the vet. After examining her, the vet showed me the X-rays which indicated that she had fluid in her chest cavity. I assisted him in draining it - and made an appointment with the UW to have ultrasounds done.

The UW Vet came back with grim news...my little shadow, all of 4 years, had lymphatic cancer, and the vet found 3 seperate growths. The prognosis was 6 months - 1 year to live, if I opted for Chemo treatments for her. It was alot to think about, so I said I would have to think about it. She was not eating much, and wouldn't eat her dog food. I started coming home over the noon hour, to spoon feed her babyfood.

 I had to go out of town for work, and , had one of my friends watching my dogs for me. Shadow was not eating much when I left, and , when my friend called me to tell me she had eaten her food wed eve..it made me glad...happy...thinking things would be ok -- 

 I returned to Madison on that thursday, to discover, that shadow couldn't get up. I gently picked her up to take her outside...and, starting crying. I knew that, in being selfish and not wanting the pain of loosing my doggie friend that, I was causing her pain. I went in the house, and called the Vet -- at this point I was pretty upset, and it took some time for the Vet to understand me...that I wanted to put my dog to sleep.

 I called a friend of mine after calling the vet, to tell him what I was doing -- he responed immediately by coming over. He came to the vet with me. The vet asked if I wanted to just leave her, or come into the room and hold her. I couldn't leave her at that moment...I had to see her out, and hopefully, convey that I care for her. I held her , while 
my friend held me...I was of course, crying the whole time. When it was over, my friend helped me back to my car, and stayed some time with me at home. He has no idea how much it meant to have someone with me through that whole, terrible event.

 I get a little misty-eyed, even while writing this -- partly for the loss of my doggie friend, and partly for, not acting sooner -- being selfish and worring more about my feelings , then how my doggie was feeling. I ulitmately did the right thing, but certainly, if I had things to do over, would of acted faster, to lessen her suffering. Saying goodbye to shadow was a life event I will never forget.

 Return to the sloppy homepage