Pairwise Methods Demonstration 

 Pairwise Methods Demonstration 

This is a fully-functional program for calculating the winner of a
pairwise election, as featured in The Perl Journal . I will confess that this interface was
designed more for flexibility and efficiency than user-friendliness,
but with a little patience, it shouldn't be too tough to figure out.
The idea is that you feed it a candidate list and a bundle of ballots,
and it tells you the result of that election. Currently, it calcuates
the Condorcet , Copeland, and Smith winners. 

To use this, enter a two column, comma-separated list of candidate
number and candidate names below. Candidate numbers can be any
non-negative integers of size limited only by the memory of the machine
(I've hardwired a limit of 200 on this machine). For efficiency, numbering
should start at zero and proceed up in increments of one, but this is
not a requirement. 

Here's some sample data you can try (just cut and paste this in to the
field below):

1,Joe Left
2,Sally Middle
3,Martha Right

Enter a list of ballots, one per line. Each line should contain a
list of candidate numbers in order of preference from most preferred to least preferred.
The candidates should be separated by ">" when the next candidate is less preferred, and "=" when the next candidate is equally preferred.
 It is not necessary to rank all candidates on every
ballot. 

If you wish to specify multiple ballots with the same ranking, precede the ranked list with " :", where is the number of times that ballot should be duplicated. 

You may put comments after a hash symbol (#). Any text after # on a line will 
be ignored. 

Here's some sample data you can try (just cut and paste this in to the
field below):

40:3>2 # 40 ballots where Martha is preferred over Sally (and both implicitly over Joe)
9:2>3 # 9 ballots, Sally over Martha (over Joe)
16:2>1 # 16 ballots, Sally over Joe (over Martha)
20:1=2 # 20 ballots, Joe and Sally tied, both preferred over Martha 
15:1>2 # 15 ballots, Joe over Sally (over Martha)

 Back to the Condorcet's method
 homepage 

 Political Justification of
 Condorcet's Method 

 Technical Explanation of
 Condorcet's Method 

 Source Code for Condorcet
 Winner Calculator 

Related sites: 

 robla@eskimo.com 

Last modified: Sat Jan 17 23:36:43 Pacific Standard Time 1998