Two Programs to Calculate Condorcet Winners 
 Two Programs to Calculate Condorcet Winners 

This is condorcet.pl and condorcet.cgi , two programs which tally
ranked preference ballots using Condorcet's method. They are both
written in Perl, and are in essense the same program with a different
wrapper. condorcet.cgi creates much
more aesthetically pleasing HTML 2.0+ tables than the plain text
output of condorcet.pl . If you want to see
 condorcet.cgi in action, check out the working version of the program .

This is only the initial alpha release of this script. It's pretty crude,
and the documentation is pretty much the program. This is just a release 
for the technically inclined. If you do decide to try it out, please let
me know what you think. I was going to wait until I had the time to get 
everything documented and tested, but I would probably just wait
forever. 

Hopefully, there will be more user-friendly releases in the 
near future. I'll announce new versions here as they become 
available. 

 Getting condorcet.pl To Work 
If you are unfamiliar with Perl, check for info in the following places:

 Tom Christiansen's list of Perl Resources 
 Yahoo's list 

Perl is essentially the Swiss Army Chainsaw of scripting languages, and it runs on
just about every operating system available. Note, though, that this 
script runs only with Perl version 5. 

condorcet.pl is freely available software, licensed under
 the GNU Public License . 

usage: perl condorcet.pl [-t] candidate-list ballot-list 

Here's what it all means:

 -t Print the raw tally table. (pair-wise election results)

 candidate-list - contains a two column, comma-separated list of
 candidate number and candidate names. Candidate 
 numbers can be any non-negative integers of unlimited
 size. For efficiency, numbering should start at zero
 and proceed up in increments of one, but this is not
 a requirement.

 ballot-list - this should be a list of ballots, one per line. Each
 line should contain a list of candidate numbers
 separated by commas.

 Ballots are not checked for validity, and results may be
 unpredictable with bad input.

 Copyright 1995 Rob Lanphier 

 This program may be copied under the terms of the GNU public
 license, version 2. 

Now for the script itself . 

 Back to the Condorcet's Method Home
 Page 

 Political Justification of
 Condorcet's Method 

 Interactive Demo of Condorcet's
 Method 

 Technical Explanation of
 Condorcet's Method 

Related sites: 

 robla@eskimo.com