SeattleOtaku: Review - The Vision of Escaflowne 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 The Vision of Escaflowne 

 "W ierd, Doonesbury-esque noses" was my first
thought when I saw a couple of the televised episodes from The
Vision of Escaflowne (or simply Escaflowne ). But
different-than-usual character styles is a good thing; and when it comes
with a great Kanno Yoko soundtrack and a detailed story to
boot. . . . 

 Story Intro 

 Hitomi, a high school girl in danger of losing her first love, a fellow
track athlete who's leaving the country, makes a bet that she can beat her
best time on the 100-meter sprint, asking for a kiss if she makes it. 
Just before she reaches the finish line, she runs into a boy dressed in
medieval garb who suddenly appeared on the track in front of her. Van is
here to slay a dragon, which quickly chases the high schoolers across
campus until it's defeated. When Van teleports back home, Hitomi is
caught in the field and is pulled along for the ride. 

 Van turns out to be a prince of his nation on a world where the Earth
sits in the night sky as "the Mystic Moon", and enemy nations are racing
to collect dragon hearts to power their giant robots and flying ships. 
Hitomi uses her skill at reading Tarot cards and her visions of future
events to help Van and his allies; after all, she's got to find a way back
home, too. But it certainly doesn't hurt that Allan, one of Van's allies,
looks a lot like her love back home. 

 Other Notes 

 The movie Escaflowne: A Girl in Gaea tries to rewrite
the story into a under-2-hour movie. By adding in telekenesis and a few
drastic character redesigns, it's a different experience. I prefer the
13-hour TV story for the depth and original designs. 

 The Vision of Escaflowne (26-episode TV) 
 Escaflowne: A Girl in Gaea (Movie) 

 The Vision of Escaflowne 
 Distributed by Bandai Entertainment 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.