Editorial Cartooning Awards 

 Now why in the world does this link interest you at all ??? If you insist on reading further, I must warn you that I am susceptible to blowing my own horn in this here page ... 

 Anyway, here is where I've been ... 

 For starters, I once came very close to a Pulitzer Prize. 80 pages close to be exact! I was reprinted in Best Editorial Cartoons of the Year, 1994 , published by Pelican Publishing, edited by Charles Brooks. There I am on page 86 only 80 pages away from the Pulitzer Click here to see the featured cartoon. 
 (For those who don't know about it, Best Editorial Cartoons of the Year is the premier annual collection of editorial cartoons in the country featuring carefully selected work from professional cartoonists. To my knowledge, I was the only college editorial cartoonist to be featured in that volume and the only Indian ever to be featured in this collection). 

 Second Prize , Editorial Cartooning, Washington Press Association Communicator in Excellence Awards, 1994. 
 (I'm particularly proud of this award because Steve Greenberg, Editorial Cartoonist for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer and regular contributor to MAD Magazine, came in at Third Place, behind me!) . 

 First Prize , Editorial Cartooning, Society of Professional Journalists Region 10 Mark of Excellence Awards, 1994. 

 Second Prize , Editorial Cartooning, Columbia Scholastic Press Association, 1994. 

 Second Prize , Newspaper Cartooning, Columbia Scholastic Press Association, 1994. 

 Honorable Mention , Editorial Cartooning, Columbia Scholastic Press Association, 1994. 

 Honorable Mention , Newspaper Cartooning, Columbia Scholastic Press Association, 1994. 

 Third Prize , Editorial Cartooning, Society of Professional Journalists Region 10 Mark of Excellence Awards, 1993. 

 Honorable Mention , Editorial Cartooning, Columbia Scholastic Press Association, 1993. 

 Honorable Mention , Editorial Cartooning, Homer Davenport International Cartoon Contest, 1993. 

 Not too bad, methinks, for 2 years of part-time editorial cartooning .. 

 Click here to return to the main page. 

 ( Vikram Madan )