Guitar Noise Site Tour 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Site 
 Tour 

 SITE TOUR 

 Getting Started 
 If this is your first visit to Guitar Noise get ready to 
 be overwhelmed with information. We have hundreds of pages 
 with lessons, articles, tips and advice. To help you get the 
 most out of this site we have put together this short tour 
 to help you navigate the different departments of this site 
 wisely, without getting lost or overwhelmed. 
 Learning guitar on the Internet is not such an outrageous 
 idea. We have been teaching people of all ages online for 
 five years and have received thousands of letters 
 from people who wrote to thank us. You are currently surfing 
 one of the most complete and diverse guitar lesson sites on 
 the web. No wonder we are rated among the most popular sites 
 on Yahoo! 
 and Google . 
 We have tried to make navigating this site as simple a possible. 
 At the top of each page there are links to each of our main 
 departments: Guitar, Bass, Amps & EFX, Songwriting, and 
 the Other Side. Clicking on one of those links will take you 
 to that department and give you an expanded list of choices. 
 In addition to the navigation at the top we have placed a 
 menu at the left side of the page with links to the most popular 
 features. If ever you feel lost or have a question click on 
 the help link. 
 We try to offer something for everyone. There are lessons 
 and articles for everyone from beginner to professional. No 
 matter what level you are at, you will probably get the most 
 progress by developing your own study plan and following it. 
 Everyone's study plan with vary depending on what you want 
 or need to learn. 
 Everything on this website is free, and you don't have to 
 sign up to access certain features. 
 The next page will introduce each of our departments and 
 give you an idea what sort of curriculum they teach. 

 Recommended Browser: 
 Seventy percent of visitors to GuitarNoise.com use Internet 
 Explorer 5.0 or higher, so most features are designed with 
 that browser in mind. The most recent versions of 
 Netscape also work very well with this site. 
 Next page: Choose a 
 Department 
 Jump to: [ departments 
 | sitemap | master 
 list | getting help | about 
 us ] 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.