Review of This Gun For Hire 

 No Misfire, But No Surefire Either 

 It's too harsh and wrong to say that This Gun For
Hire misfires. It's a moderately entertaining film noir with sparks
courtesy of leads Veronica Lake and Alan Ladd. Their unconsummated,
smouldering chemistry together would get them paired again in later noirs
 The Glass Key and The Blue Dahlia , but this is perhaps the
best Lake-Ladd film. But This Gun could have been so much more.
There's a wild story by novelist Graham Greene trying to bust out in this
film but straight-laced direction by director Frank Tuttle keeps it sadly
in check. 

 I say this because parts of This Gun made me recall The Maltese Falcon without attaining
such remarkable heights. Like The Maltese Falcon , everyone runs
around after an intangible object (so intangible here it disappears ten
minutes into the film). The musical score sounds similar. And it has an
effeminate fat guy, though this one is less jokily-named than
 Falcon 's Gutman. Simpering hand-wringing Willard Gates, chemical
company executive by day and nightclub owner by, well, night, hires lone
gunman Raven (Alan Ladd). He kills the man who's blackmailing Gates' boss
and retrieve a chemical formula. In return for a job well-done, Gates
double-crosses Raven by paying him with marked money and siccing the cops
on him. Raven goes on the run and comes after Gates, but he's got company.
Veronica Lake shows up as an even more efficient multi-tasker than Gates.
She's Ellen Graham, magician, singer and secret agent for the U.S.
government. And you thought your job put too many demands on you. 

 Graham's out to bust Gates and his boss Brewster for not being true to
the red, white and blue. They're secretly peddling poison gas formulae to
the enemy during wartime. Since Brewster and Gates get back the secret
formula within the first ten minutes of the film thanks to Raven's
ruthless efficiency, you may wonder why the film didn't end there and then
with the Feds swooping in to arrest them. You would be letting logic get
in the way of enjoying the movie's real attractions. No, not Veronica Lake
dancing in black latex and heels (though that comes close), but the
overwrought plot and the attraction between good girl Lake and bad boy
Ladd. She's engaged to a cop (Robert Preston) but apparently not too
happily because Raven gets to take her hostage not once but twice. Raven
shoots at people, she mothers him. He spills about the unhappy childhood
that drove him to become an assassin, she reminds him of his patriotic
duty as an American. The screenplay may be awkward, but there's nothing
clumsy about the chemistry of these two. 

 As a film noir, This Gun For Hire is
innovative for portraying Raven as both ruthless killer and sympathetic
figure. Alan Ladd gets fourth billing but he's the star of the show from
the opening shot where Raven wakes up to a grubby, solitary life, to the
final shot where Raven closes his eyes blessed by the beaming madonna
played by Lake. 

(July 31, 2002)

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2003)