B@AB : An Any Branch Banking System 

 Banks 
 having centralized databases are offering their customers facilities wherein 
 they can operate their accounts from any branch of a bank. Not all banks 
 have centralized databases and those having distributed databases at their 
 branches need to offer these facilities to compete in an increasingly 
 competitive marketplace. 
 Bankstar's B@AB system allows banks with distributed databases offer 
 their customers these facilities with an implementation cost which is 
 a fraction of banks having centralized databases. 

 Key 
 Features : 

 Cost Effective 
 B@AB integrates to existing baseline systems in operation at branches 
 making it an extremely cost effective system. 

 Flexible 
 B@AB uses the TCP/IP protocol allowing a bank to choose between the Internet, 
 Dial-Up lines, Leased Lines, VSAT's etc. for each of its branches depending 
 on transaction volumes. 

 Currency Independent 
 B@AB can effect transactions in any currency and supports multiple exchange 
 rates. 

 Flexible Authorization Automation 
 B@AB allows users to fine tune the automation of transaction authorization 
 based on individual risk perceptions. 

 Multiple Transaction Types 
 A variety of services such as cash withdrawal, cash deposit, cheque deposit, 
 statements etc are available. 

 System 
 Features : 

 Structured Message Formats 
 Messages are transmitted in a structured format allowing an interface 
 to almost any external messaging system such as SWIFT, INFINET etc. 

 Security 
 B@AB uses server passwords, Testkeys, Symmetrical Encryption, Public Key 
 Infrastructure (PKI) based Asymmetrical Encryption and Hardware tokens 
 making it a highly secure system. 

 User Defined Charges 
 Banks can set up absolutely any type of charge structure using Bankstar's 
 Rule Designer. 

 Interface to PAY 
 B@AB interfaces to PAY, Bankstar's payment system allowing banks to offer 
 instantaneous funds transfer. 

 Interface to BiLL 
 B@AB interfaces to BiLL, Bankstar's billing system allowing banks to offer 
 electronic billing. 

 Interface to TEST 
 B@AB is interfaced to TEST, Bankstar's Testkey and file transfer system.