BankBridge : A System allowing Member banks to connect to a Central Banks CASS System 

 When 
 Central Banks introduce Clearing and Settlement Systems (CASS) Commercial 
 Banks need to prepare themselves for this change. 
 Commercial Banks will need to be in a position to provide and receive 
 clearing files electronically to and from the Central Bank. 
 Most 
 Central Banks require that the files be : 

 Of a 
 format specified them 
 Compressed 
 Encrypted 
 Transferred 
 over FTP 

 BankBridge 
 is a sophisticated software package that can assist Commercial Banks in 
 not just meeting these requirements, but ensuring that files created by 
 their legacy systems are validated to ensure the integrity of file data. 
 Bankbridge 
 Supports : 

 Validation 
 Central 
 Banks will specify file formats for the messages being processed, namely: 

 Financial Messages such as : 

 Cheques 

 Promissory notes (bills) 

 Transfer orders 

 Settlement orders 

 etc. 

 Non Financial Messages such as: 

 Inquiry / Response about an account number 

 Inquiry / Response about the state of account 

 Information about opening/ closing of a branch 

 Change in membership condition 

 Change of representative / operator 

 Suspension or exclusion of bank 

 etc. 

 Commercial Banks will need to prepare and process files that conform to 
 these formats. BankBridge validates files created by existing systemsto 
 ensure any files being sent to Central Banks conforms to the formats prescribed 
 by them. 

 Encryption 
 To ensure the Authentication, Integrity, Non-Repudiation and Confidentiality 
 of files, BankBridge uses a highly secure encryption technique. 

 Compression 
 Standard 
 ASCII files, when compressed, can result in a huge saving in bandwidth 
 and reliability of transfer. BankBridge compress files by upto 95% using 
 a sophisticated compression technology resulting in transfer times of 
 minutes rather than hours. 

 FTP Transfer 
 BankBridge 
 has built in FTP capabilities which allows a Commercial Bank to transfer 
 files via Dial-Up Lines, Leased Lines, VSAT or the Internet. 

 Interface to C-CATS 
 BankBridge 
 has a built in interface to C-CATS (the Cheque Clearing Automation System 
 from Bankstar) which will allow banks to Clear Inter-Bank and Intra-Bank 
 cheques electronically using a user friendly interface. C-CATS automatically 
 creates clearing files which conform to the standards specified by The 
 Central Bank. 

 * 
 BankBridge was released in Q4 2001 and is running live at Member 
 Banks