Bill : A Billing System based on an Electronic Clean Collection 

 According 
 to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, the printing, mailing and delivery 
 of more than 64 billion checks in USA each year costs about USD 40 billion 
 which is the equivalent of approximately 0.5% of the U.S. Gross Domestic 
 Product, the vast majority of these payments are as a consequence of bills 
 raised. 

 In 1997, the pioneers in electronic Billing in USA processed about 85 
 million electronic transactions worth USD15 billion for around 2.5 million 
 merchants at a per transaction cost of about USD0.50 per transaction. 
 These were restricted to Bills in US Dollars payable to merchants located 
 in USA (C to B payments) where both the buyer and the seller have to pre-register 
 with the Billing Company. 

 BiLL is an Internet based Billing product that is effectively an electronic 
 Clean Collection. It does not require the buyer or seller to pre-register 
 and is not restricted to any currency. 

 Key 
 Features : 

 Fast 
 Unlike billing systems based on an aggregator model, BiLL is an electronic 
 clean collection which makes it much faster. 

 Cost Effective 
 Bills do not leave the banking system for consolidation hence is much 
 more cost effective. 

 Currency Independent 
 Bills can be presented in any currency. 

 No pre-registration 
 Neither the Biller not Billee need pre-register with any company. 

 Part/Pre payments 
 Bills can be fully or part paid on or before due date. 

 Biller Templates 
 Billers can created their own bill templates including graphics such as 
 their company logo's. 

 Advertising Revenue's 
 Banks of Billers / Billees can add marketing messages to bill presentations 
 and generate Advertising revenues or mileage for the banks. 

 System 
 Features : 

 Structured Bill Formats 
 Bills are presented in a structured format allowing interface to XML based 
 electronic documentation systems such as Bolero.Net 

 Thin/Fat Clients 
 BiLL supports both thin and fat clients allowing both Billers and Billees 
 to choose between the simplicity of a Thin Client and the flexibility 
 of a Fat Client. 

 Multiple Billee Capabilities 
 BiLL allows Billers to create bills for any number of Billees using a 
 single entry screen making is useful for huge corporations. 

 Microsoft Excel Interface 
 BiLL interfaces to Microsoft Excel allowing Billers to import data from 
 an Excel spreadsheet and create thousands of bills with a few mouse clicks. 

 User definable billing instances 
 Any number of Payment instances can be set up and parameters controlled 
 for each instance. Transactions generated using the instance will conform 
 to rules set up . 

 User Defined Charges 
 Institutions can set up absolutely any type of charge structure using 
 Bankstar's Rule Designer. Charges can be set up to be payable by the Payer, 
 Payee or both. 

 Interface to PAY 
 BiLL is interfaced to Bankstar's internet payment package PAY. When a 
 Billee gives payment instructions, PAY will remit the funds and a Biller 
 will receive clear funds in minutes. 

 Interface to TEST 
 BiLL is interfaced to Bankstar's testkey package, TEST. TEST will generate 
 a testkey for Any payment transaction which requires one.