C-Cats : A System which allows clearing of cheques / checks based on images 

 Banks work against the clock to meet deadlines set by 
 Clearing Houses, a process which often distracts managers from profit generating 
 tasks. C-CATS allows electronic exchange of cheque images and data, between 
 Branches/Service Branch/Nodal Branch prior to physical cheque delivery. 
 This allows branches to dramatically increase the cheques processing time 
 available and moves part of the data entry task from Service Branches/Nodal 
 Offices to Branches. 

 Intra-Bank Cheque Clearing can often take longer than Inter-Bank clearing 
 due to bottlenecks in physical cheque delivery systems and the precedence 
 that Clearing House cheques take over Intra-Bank clearing. C-CATS allows 
 banks to implement Intra-Bank clearing of cheques in hours. 

 Secure 
 C-CATS 
 uses Testkeys, Asymmetrical encryption, Symmetrical Encryption and hardware 
 dongles in addition to Server based passwords and SSL making it an extremely 
 secure system. 

 MICR/Image 
 Scanning 
 C-CATS 
 implements MICR and Image Scanning simultaneously allowing the branch 
 on which a cheque is drawn to verify both data and signatures before the 
 physical cheque is delivered. 

 Fast 
 C-CATS 
 dramatically increases the processing time available for Local Clearing 
 of cheques and allows Intra-Bank clearing in Hours. 

 Cost 
 Effective 
 A 
 single station PC, a low cost MICR/Image scanner and a standard dial-up 
 modem is all the hardware that is required for most branches. 

 Clearing 
 House Files 
 C-CATS 
 creates files for Outward Clearing House Cheques as well as uploads and 
 distributes Inward Clearing House Cheque files. 

 Inter-Branch 
 / Nodal Office Systems 
 C-CATS 
 allows Users to process Intra-Bank cheques directly between branches or 
 via a Nodal Office. 

 Flexible 
 Authorization Automation 
 Users 
 can define authorization automation so that cheques meeting certain criteria 
 be automatically processed and others await manual officer authorization. 

 Currency 
 independent 
 C-CATS 
 allows Intra-Bank clearing in any number of currencies. 

 Dual 
 Client 
 C-CATS 
 has both a fat client and a thin client allowing a Bank to have either 
 a centralized or distributed database for signature verification. 

 HTTP/SMTP 
 Protocols 
 Banks 
 wishing to have a centralized signature database can have a 24X7 server 
 for signature verification via HTTP or can have an on-demand signature 
 verification using SMTP. 

 XML 
 Compliant 
 C-CATS 
 messages are XML compliant. 

 Interface 
 to Baseline Systems 

 Banks 
 having legacy baseline systems can implement C-CATS using its batch database 
 replication system.