CapGen : A System allowing Member banks to create files for a Central Banks CASS system 

 When 
 Central Banks introduce Clearing and Settlement Systems (CASS) to 
 automate the clearing of payment instruments, commercial banks need 
 to have systems which can generate files for outward clearing and 
 accept/process files for inward clearing. 
 Most 
 banks will have existing computer systems prior to this event taking 
 place and supplementing existing systems with a module to handle 
 this is far more advantageous than replacing existing systems. 

 Some 
 Central Banks require the exchange of only data files while others 
 require both data and image files to be exchanged. 
 CapGen 
 is a highly parameterized system, which can be used across a wide 
 range of CASS systems for both paper and image based clearing. 

 Features 
 of CapGen 

 Interface to Document Processors 

 User Defined Payment Instruments 

 Branch Modules for banks having 
 distributed databases 

 Interface to communicate with the 
 Central Bank 

 Automatic generation of outward 
 clearing files 

 Automatic Processing of inward 
 clearing files 

 Automatic Send and receive feature 

 Interface to existing Baseline 
 system 

 End-to-End regularization of paper 
 instruments 

 Interface to Document Processors 
 CapGen 
 interfaces to popular document processors which enables a bank to decide 
 whether it wishes to process documents at Front Office using small inexpensive 
 document processors or at Back Office using high speed large volume processors. 
 These document processors will capture data from the MICR line as well 
 as scan images of one or both sides of the document and pass this data 
 to CapGen for processing 

 User Defined Payment Instruments 
 While almost all Central Banks process instruments such as 
 cheques and transfer orders, each Central Bank also allow other instruments 
 and these can change as time goes by. For example, promissory notes, settlement 
 orders, reimbursement of credit card claims etc. are items that Central 
 Banks allow processing of. CapGen allows users to themselves define new 
 instruments and evolve along with Central Banks. 

 Branch Modules for banks having distributed databases 
 Not all banks have a centralized database. Banks, which have 
 distributed databases at branches need to process instruments at branches 
 and then send the processed data to a Nodal Office. The Nodal Office consolidates 
 data and transfers consolidated data to and from aCentral Bank. CapGen 
 has a Branch Module, which allows this to take place. 
 CapGen 
 also has built in sorting mechanism which enables sorting, preparing and 
 transferring files to various branches at predefined intervals. 

 Interface to communicate with the Central Bank 
 CapGen system has an easy interface to accept and send files 
 to a Central Bank 

 Automatic generation of outward clearing files 
 Once 
 instrument data has been entered into CapGen, it automatically creates 
 outward clearing files in the formats defined by Central Banks 

 Automatic Processing of inward clearing files 
 On 
 receiving inward clearing files from a Central Bank, CapGen can automatically 
 process the instruments for parameters such as account balance, overdraft, 
 cheque stock etc. CapGen allows users to define instruments which can 
 be automatically processed and others that require officer intervention 

 Automatic Send and receive feature 
 CapGen 
 has automatic send and receive feature which allows Users to send and 
 receive files from a Central Bank at user defined intervals 

 Interface to existing Baseline system 
 CapGen 
 has the capability to interface to various baseline systems using a batch 
 or on-line interface. These interfaces are developed/fine tuned individually 
 for each user. 

 End-to-End regularization of paper instruments 

 Many 
 Central Banks now allow clearing of instruments based on electronic images. 
 Paper instruments however, still exist and banks need to ensure that the 
 paper item finally arrives at the correct destination regularizing the 
 instrument which has been cleared based on an electronic image. CapGen 
 keeps track of the complete life cycle an instrument. until it is fully 
 regularized. 

 * 
 CapGen is scheduled to be released in Q3 2003