Mesa : A Multi-Environment Signature Authentication System 

 B anks with distributed databases branches, 
 especially those having systems which run on more than one operating 
 system, face a challenging task in Signature and Mandate Verification. 
 MESA is a versatile yet affordable signature verification system 
 which allows browser based access to customer information including 
 photographs, signatures and mandates. 
 Features 
 of Mesa : 

 Unlimited Images and Signatures 
 per account 

 Bank-wide access 

 Image manipulation 

 Controlled Access 

 One Time Capture 

 Optional Branch Fat Client 

 Multiple Secondary Servers 

 Teller Friendly 

 Highly Secure 

 Real-Time, On-Line 

 Reporting 

 TCP/IP Protocol 

 XML Compliant 

 Interface to C-CATS and CapGen 

 Unlimited Images and Signatures per account 

 MESA allows unlimited images and signatures per account with a free format 
 mandate (special signing instructions ) option. This allows users to keep 
 record of the most complex of mandates. 

 Bank-wide access 
 Any branch of the bank can access customer information irrespective of 
 the branch where the customer actually has his/her account. 

 Image manipulation 
 Users can zoom in , zoom out, rotate and size signature images allowing 
 much greater control over the signature authentication process. 

 Controlled Access 
 Signatures can be managed (added, deleted, changed) by selected personnel 
 only thereby protecting 
 integrity of the database. 

 One Time Capture 
 A signature only needs to be captured once and it can be conveniently 
 linked to all the client's accounts. 

 Optional Branch Fat Client 
 This is an optional module which allows a branch to conveniently capture 
 customer signatures at a workstation within the branch and forward them 
 to the Primary Server on a batch basis. Using this, each branch is responsible 
 for the creation and integrity of its signature database thus reducing 
 the workload of the head office. 

 Multiple Secondary Servers 
 For banks having large volumes, MESA allows data to be stored on multiple 
 Secondary Servers. Tellers logging on to the Primary Server will be automatically 
 redirected to an appropriate Secondary Server where the relevant data 
 is available. 

 Teller Friendly 
 MESA has a simple entry screen for tellers making it a highly Teller friendly 
 at the same time allowing back office to implement a sophisticated vertical 
 and horizontal regulatory system 

 Highly Secure 
 MESA can use a user defined combination of Testkeys, PKI (Asymmetrical 
 Encryption), Symmetrical Encryption, Server Passwords, SSL and Hardware 
 Dongles making it a highly secure system. 

 Real-Time, On-Line 
 MESA is a Real-Time On-Line system allowing verification to take place 
 almost instantaneously 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. This is especially 
 useful for banks operating in multiple countries and time zones. 

 Reporting 
 MESA includes a comprehensive database reporting capability to satisfy 
 auditing and management information requirements. It also interface to 
 QR Designer allowing users to create new reports at any stage on their 
 own. 

 TCP/IP Protocol 
 MESA uses the TCP/IP Protocol allowing users to choose the communication 
 medium from Dial-Up Lines, Leased Lines, VSAT or the Internet depending 
 upon volumes and risk perceptions at different banks/branches 

 XML Compliant 
 All messages generated by MESA are XML messages allowing easy integration 
 to external systems. 

 Interface to C-CATS and CapGen 
 MESA has an interface to Bankstar's C-CATS and CapGen systems allowing 
 overlay and comparison of database and instrument signatures.