PAY : A Secure Electronic Funds Transfer System 

 Logic dictates that the medium on which commerce is conducted 
 and the speed at which it is conducted must have corresponding mediums and 
 speeds for Payments which arise as a consequence of this commerce. 
 The volume of e-commerce conducted over the Internet is growing exponentially 
 and to date, aside from credit cards, there is no payment system to support 
 this. While credit cards are useful to effect payments resulting from 
 e-commerce, they are largely restricted to payments between consumers 
 and established merchants (C-To-B Payments). In addition to the substantial 
 capital outlays required to establish a credit card infrastructure, credit 
 risk factors and chargebacks contribute to adding onto transaction costs. 
 PAY is a revolutionary End-To-End payment system which allows C-To-B, 
 B-To-B or C-To-C payments between parties across international boundaries 
 in minutes. 

 Key 
 Features : 

 Secure 
 PAY 
 uses Testkeys, Asymmetrical Encryption, Symmetrical Encryption, SSL and 
 hardware tokens making it a highly secure system. 

 Cost 
 Effective 
 As 
 PAY uses structured messaging over the Internet, it is a very cost effective 
 system. 
 Fast 
 Using 
 PAY, funds in any currency can be sent across international boundaries 
 in minutes. Typically the time taken for a payment between a payer and 
 payee in two countries, in the currency of a third country, will take 
 place End-to-End in about 10 minutes. 
 Human 
 Resource Effective 
 PAY 
 is an End-to End system which transfers the data entry function from a 
 financial institution to its customers. 
 Flexible 
 Authorization Automation 
 PAY 
 allows users to fine tune the automation of transaction authorization 
 based individual risk perceptions. 
 Currency 
 Independent 
 PAY 
 can effect payments in any currency and supports multiple exchange rates. 
 Intra 
 / Inter Bank Networks 
 PAY 
 allows easy implementation of Intra or Inter Bank Networks. 

 System 
 Features : 

 Structured 
 Input / Output Formats 
 All 
 PAY messages are structured allowing easy integration to other payment 
 systems such as SWIFT. 
 User 
 Defined Charges 
 Institutions 
 can set up absolutely any type of charge structure using Bankstar's Rule 
 Designer. Charges can be set up to be payable by the Payer, Payee or both. 
 Thin/Fat 
 Client 
 PAY 
 supports both Thin and Fat Clients allowing a bank's customers to choose 
 between the simplicity of a Thin Client and the flexibility of a Fat Client. 
 Interface 
 to BILL 
 PAY 
 is interfaced to Bankstar's electronic billing package, BiLL. An invoice 
 raised using BiLL will trigger a payment from PAY when the invoice is 
 selected for payment. 
 User 
 Difinable Payment Instance 
 Any 
 number of Payment instances can be set up and parameters controlled for 
 each instance. Transactions generated using the instance will conform 
 to rules set up . 
 Interface 
 to TEST 
 PAY 
 is interfaced to Bankstar's testkey package, TEST. TEST will generate 
 a testkey for Any payment transaction which requires one. 
 Customer 
 Confirmation 
 At 
 an institution's option, a PAY instance can be set up such that a customer 
 of the institution will need to reconfirm a transaction by email before 
 the payment is made.