SAPIER : A Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) System for Central Banks 

 RTGS 
 has now become an essential component of a National Payment System 
 and one that not only reduces the potential of fraud in a country, 
 but accelerates economic growth. Many Potential Investors now consider 
 an RTGS being a pre-requisite to investing in Government Securities. 
 SAPIER 
 provides the following basic functionality required of an RTGS: 

 Straight Through Payment (STP) 

 Payment Vs. Payment (PVP) 

 Delivery Vs. Payment (DVP) 

 Delivery Free of Payment (DFP) 

 Features 
 of SAPIER : 

 Optional interface to SWIFT 

 Message Warehousing 

 Queuing 

 Gridlock Resolution 

 Repo and Buy-back 

 Net Settlement of Positions 

 Real-time Position and Drill-down Query 

 C ustomizable Charges, penalties and interest calculation 

 Positions and Limits 

 Accounting 

 Disaster Recovery 

 External Participant Services 

 SAPIER provides an optional interface to SWIFT. 

 All messages generated by SAPIER follow SWIFT standards and can be sent 
 over a Central Bank's WAN or via the SWIFT Network. 

 Message Warehousing 
 Warehousing facilities are available with a parameter to limit the number 
 of days that a transaction can be warehoused. 

 Queuing 
 SAPIER allows queuing with options of LIFO, FIFO or FAFO. Queues of Member 
 Banks can be managed by a Central Bank and can, at it's discretion, also 
 allow it's member banks to manage their outgoing queue. A Central Bank 
 can also temporarily freeze the queues of the member banks when events 
 such as Gridlock Resolution occur. 

 Gridlock Resolution 
 SAPIER takes care of Gridlock based on a "Gridlock Busting" 
 algorithm. 

 Repo and Buy-back 
 One of the common ways to increase intra-day liquidity is a Repo. Repos 
 can be effected manually or automatically. Buy-backs of these repo-ed 
 securities can also be effected through SAPIER. 

 Net Settlement of Positions 
 At the end of a day, positions of each participating banks is calculated 
 and a message is sent asking them to settle their positions. 

 Real-time Position and Drill-down Query 
 A Central Bank can view the real-time positions of Member Banks at any 
 point of time. Details of the selected bank are displayed including payment 
 details, securities transferred, accounting and repos. Credits, Debits 
 and balance for each of these are displayed and each of these can be queried 
 to get the relevant details, the drill-down continues until relevant details 
 of a selected transaction becomes available. 

 Customizable Charges, penalties and interest 
 calculation 
 Charges, penalties and interest calculation can be set up by a user to 
 meet a Central Bank's evolving requirements. 

 Positions and Limits 
 Almost any type of Limit can be set up using the Position and Limits (PAL) 
 module. Some examples are: Credit / Debit balance limit for a particular 
 bank, minimum / maximum amount of Payments to be processed in a particular 
 period, the amount and types of Securities that can be Repo-ed etc. 

 Accounting 
 SAPIER has an on-line interface to Bankstar Technologies' Accounting Software. 
 In addition, should a Central Bank have an existing baseline accounting 
 system, provision has been made to interface to it. 

 Disaster Recovery 
 Data backup and restore facilities along with other Disaster Recovery 
 facilities such as Hot Swapping and Mirroring ensure smooth functioning 
 of the system. 

 External Participant Services 
 A Central Bank can allow External participants to the RTGS to login to 
 SAPIER and access certain services. A Central Bank can allow / disallow 
 the following : 

 Securities/Repo Management 

 Outgoing Queue Management 

 Viewing of Incoming Queues 

 Viewing of Accounts Statement 

 Viewing Reports 

 * 
 SAPIER is under development