Re: Looking For Aconcagua Expedition 

 Re: Looking For Aconcagua Expedition 

 [ Follow Ups ] [ Post Followup ] [ Mountaineers Climbing Bboard ] 

Posted by BB Police on July 31, 2001 at 07:52:33: 
In Reply to: Re: Looking For Aconcagua Expedition posted by Bob on July 30, 2001 at 20:46:21: 
: Lloyd Boucke of the Portland Mazamas is going at that time. I am going to go if I can get off from work. But with Bush wrecking the economy I'm not sure if I'll be able to do it. Lloyd's number is 503-227-5170. If you call him, tell him I sent ya. We have 4 or 5 people in the group now, but now I'm getting concerned I may not be able to go. I haven't expressed this to Lloyd so if you tell him I said that he might be more inclined to accept another person on the climb. Completely noncommercial. : Bob Wallace : climberska@hotmail.com : robertx.c.wallace@intel.com Please confine your political opinions to the proper forum. This BB is for climbing information only. BTW, the economy was well on its way down before Bush stepped in. 

 Follow Ups: 

 Re: Looking For Aconcagua Expedition BB Cop Killer 7/31/2001 
( 0)

 Post a Followup 

Name: 
E-Mail: 
Subject: 
Comments: 

: : Lloyd Boucke of the Portland Mazamas is going at that time. I am going to go if I can get off from work. But with Bush wrecking the economy I'm not sure if I'll be able to do it. Lloyd's number is 503-227-5170. If you call him, tell him I sent ya. We have 4 or 5 people in the group now, but now I'm getting concerned I may not be able to go. I haven't expressed this to Lloyd so if you tell him I said that he might be more inclined to accept another person on the climb. Completely noncommercial. 

: : Bob Wallace
: : climberska@hotmail.com
: : robertx.c.wallace@intel.com

: Please confine your political opinions to the proper forum. This BB is for climbing information only. BTW, the economy was well on its way down before Bush stepped in.

Optional Link URL: 
Link Title: 
Optional Image URL: 

 [ Follow Ups ] [ Post Followup ] [ Mountaineers Climbing Bboard ]