Long live the King! 

 George Bush II has been in power now for close to a year. All in all
 the doomsayers of the left have been disappointed, as have been the
 cheerleaders on the right. Neither side has gotten all they wanted,
 nor lost all they feared. But, like usual, we the people have taken
 it in the shorts. 

 First there was a "tax rebate" that wasn't, all that happened was
 that some people got money now, so they could pay it later. Sort of
 like a mugger loaning you $25 knowing that next week he'll take it
 and $20 more from you. 

 Then came the appointment of John Ashcroft as Atty. Gen. On the plus
 side, he's sort of pro gun, but on the down side, he's sort of a
 police state appologist. As the things he has been saying since Sept
 11 show. 

 Then of course there was the attack on Sept-11, truly a "day that
 will live in infamy", since then, both the dems and the reps have
 been trying to out gestapo each other with draconian proposal after
 proposal. One rep even suggested national ID cards, after all he
 said, "what to honest people have to hide?". I guess the only reply
 to a statement that stupid is to tell him to ask the jews.

 Now when you fly the friendly skies, you have to show ID to every
 trumped up monkey in a suit, as if that was actually some sort of
 security policy. Exactly what does showing ID do? did any of the
 hijackers lack ID on sept-11? Don't try to bring a nail file on
 board the plane, you might be a terrorist... bah! The events of
 Sept-11 show how stupid the idea of disarming people is. I mean what
 do schools, airplanes and airports have in common? no guns... Except
 of course if you are willing to break the law. But anyone who thinks
 that ID checks at airports and pat downs at concerts has anything to
 do with security hasn't been reading the program. These are simply
 steps to get people used to the idea of presenting papers when
 asked, and of submitting meekly to anything someone in a uniform
 tells you to do. The powers that would be know that they can't
 control the whole country by force, there aren't enough soldiers to
 do that. Not openly. But they know something that most of you don't.

 "It is simplicity itself to shackle a sleeping man" 

 So wake up America, before it's too late.