The Stanly County, North Carolina Genealogy Home Page 

 The Stanly County Genealogy Home Page 

 Stanly County, North Carolina, was formed in 1841 from Montgomery County. The county seat is Albemarle. 
 The Petition (with signatures) to create Stanly County from Montgomery County 
 NEW 

 Stanly Co. Research Guide 

 Abstracts of Stanly Co. Will
 Book II, 1868-1910 

 19th Century Stanly Co. Divorces 

 History of Stanly County, NC 

 At the Stanly County, NC NCGenWeb Archives 

 partial listing of the Fairview Memorial Park Cemetery 

 partial listing of the Silver Springs Church Cemetery 

 The Stanly County page is maintained by Leah Sims; copyright 2000 by Leah Sims.

 Click here to e-mail Leah: lcsims@eskimo.com

 RESOURCES AND LOOK-UPS 

 ADDRESSES 

 BOOKS 

 VIEW SURNAME LIST 

 VIEW NEW QUERIES (since July 1999) 

 VIEW OLD QUERIES (June 1998 to June 1999) 

 VIEW OLD QUERIES (before June 1998) 

 SUBMIT A QUERY 

 THE STANLY COUNTY MAILING LIST 

There are several other Stanly County-related boards located on for-profit sites. These may contain advertising, and may also claim copyright to your postings.

 GenForum (Family Tree Maker site) 

 GenConnect (Rootsweb) 

 Stanly Co. page at Rootsweb 

 The Margaret Johnston Heritage Room At The Stanly County Public Library 

 The Stanly County Historic Preservation Commission and Stanly Co. Museum 

 OTHER STANLY COUNTY INTERNET RESOURCES 

 GENWEB LINKS 

 USGenWeb 

 NCGenWeb 

 NC USGenWeb Archives 

 NC in the Revolutionary War 

 NCGenWeb Tombstone Transcription project 

 NC Census Project 

 North Carolina Births, Marriages and Deaths databases 

 Questions and Answers about NC History and Genealogy 

 Information about the formation of each North Carolina County and the availability of will records 

This page last modified Wednesday, 13-Mar-2002 07:53:06 PST

 Copyright 2000 by Leah C. Sims

 THE STANLY COUNTY MAILING LIST 

To subscribe to the NCSTANLY list in mail mode send a message
to NCSTANLY-L-request@rootsweb.com 
that contains the word subscribe
and nothing else. If you prefer digest mode, send the
command instead to NCSTANLY-D-request@rootsweb.com 

To unsubscribe, send the command "unsubscribe" to NCSTANLY-L-request@rootsweb.com 
 (if in mail mode) or 
NCSTANLY-D-request@rootsweb.com (if in digest mode).

To switch from one mode to the other, unsubscribe from one
and then subscribe to the other. There is no "no mail" mode -- if you
want messages to stop, simply unsubscribe. 
To post to both NCSTANLY-L and NCSTANLY-D, messages should be sent to 
NCSTANLY-L@rootsweb.com. Messages sent there will appear both places.

To search the archives of NCSTANLY-L, go to the RootsWeb Mailing Lists -- Interactive Search 

 RESOURCES AND LOOK-UPS 

 e-mail Leah to request a lookup from one of these documents: 

 1800-1840 Montgomery County censuses
 1850 Stanly Co. census
 1860 Stanly Co. census
 1870 Stanly Co. census
 1880 Stanly Co. census
 Marriages 1851-1904
 Abstracts of the Minutes of the Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions, 
1841-1850
 Stanly Co., Cemetery Records
 Stanly County Genealogical Journal, vol. 1-15
 List of Stanly County Soldiers in the Civil War

 The following documents can be read online:

 Stanly Co. Research Guide 

 Facts and Myths about Indians in Stanly Co. 

 Stanly Co. Death Certificates 

 1850 Stanly Co. Census 

 42nd Regiment, Company C., North Carolina, Confederate Army 

 42nd Regiment, Company H., North Carolina, Confederate Army 

 Kendall's Cemetery 

 Anderson Grove Cemetery 

 Running Creek Primitive Baptist Church Cemetery 

 partial listing of 
the Fairview Memorial Park Cemetery 

 partial listing of
the Silver Springs Church Cemetery 

 Index to Stanly Co. Estate Records 

 Abstracts of Stanly Co. Will Book II, 1868-1910 

 19th Century Stanly Co. Divorces 

 Page about Gold Mines in Stanly Co. and surrounding counties 

 ADDRESSES 

Stanly County Genealogical Society 
P. O. Box 31 
Albemarle, NC 28002 

Membership is seven dollars a year. 

Cecil Almond 
Register of Deeds 
P. O. Box 97 
Albemarle, NC 28002 

Death certificates are three dollars. 

 BOOKS 

There are several books available from the Stanly Co. Genealogy Society. Prices might have increased (if anyone orders a book and the price is different from what is listed below, let me know).

 1800-1840 Montgomery Censuses (no longer available--out of print)
 1850 Stanly Census ($5 + $2 s & h)
 1860 Stanly Census ($5 + $2 s & h)
 1870 Stanly Census ($15 + $2 s & h)
 1880 Stanly Census ($15 + $2 s & h)
 Marriage Records 1851-1904 ($15 + $2 s & h)
 Records of the Court of Pleas and Quarters, 1841-1850 ($12 + $2 s & h)

 The Society also published Abandoned Cemeteries of Stanly County, NC but they no longer have any copies available for purchase at this time. 

Back issues of the Stanly Co. Genealogy Society Journal are $2 per issue

The address is:

Stanly Co. Genealogy Society
P. O. Box 31
Ablemarle, NC 28002-0031

In addition, there are two volumes of cemetery records (not published by Stanly County Genealogical Society) which can be purchased from:

Lina J. Owens Boyd
P. O. Box 222
Dover, Arkansas 72837
Each volume is $15 + $2 s & h

There is also a 1850 census book published by SK Publications, which contains photocopies of the handwritten records
on the microfilm and an typed index in the back of the book. So
it is different from the 1850 census 
transcription produced by the Stanly Co. Genealogical Society.

 SK Publications 

Lea Morris has published two Montgomery Co. census transcriptions.
1860 Montgomery Co. census ($20 which includes s & h)
1880 Montgomery Co. census ($20 which includes s & h)
Her address is:
Lea Morris
139 Dark Springs Mt. Tr.
Troy, NC 27371
email: lea@ac.net

 THE MARGARET JOHNSTON HERITAGE ROOM AT THE STANLY COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY 

The Margaret Johnston Heritage Room at the Stanly County Public Library,
133 East Main Street, Albemarle, NC 28001. Phone (704) 986-3768. 

The Margaret Johnston Heritage Room offers many resources to genealogists and 
local history buffs. The Heritage Room is widely regarded as one of the best in 
the region. Recent acquisitions include the following multi-volume sets: The 
Roster of Confederate Soldiers 1861-1865; Confederate Military History; The 
Campaigns of the Civil War; The Civil War at Sea. Some notable single volumes 
include local author Michael Taylor's To Drive the Enemy From Southern Soil; 
Extracts From the Letters of Major-General Bryan Grimes to his Wife; and many 
others. The Heritage Room has good coverage of NC censuses, and many counties' 
marriage records, deed abstracts, land entries, etc., plus a great deal of 
Virginia information. They have Internet access for searching GenWeb
resources. The Stanly County Public Library is currently working on a
webpage, so please look for it in the future.

 OTHER STANLY COUNTY INTERNET RESOURCES 

 Parker Heritage. The Parker Heritage family association is dedicated to the preservation and celebration of all Parker family lines 

 Jodie Gee's family page with many Stanly Co. families 

 Brooks family 

 Furr family 

 2nd Furr family page 

 3rd Furr family page 

 Smith and Treece families 

 Sides Family 

 Descendants of Needham Whitley 

 Descendants of George Whitley 

 Descendants of Ezekiel Morton 

 Page containing links to two pictures. 1st picture Needham Whitley and 3rd wife Elizabeth, 2nd picture Noah and Sylvia Whitley Huneycutt 

 Shankle Family Home Page 

 Barbee and Lambert families 

 Jeff Jones homepage (with information about several Stanly Co. families) 

 The John F. Speight Family Home Page 

 The Descendants of James Howard 

 The Descendants of Adam Bowers 

 Harward and Poplin families 

 Craton/Crayton family 

 Descendants of Daniel Little 

 2nd Descendants of Ezekiel Morton 

 Poplin Descendants 

 Thomas Family Page (with many Stanly Co. surnames) 

 Ross and Lowder families 

 Family Genealogy Forums 

 Cagle Family Genealogy Forum 

 Dry Family Genealogy Forum 

 Hartsell Family Genealogy Forum 

 Hatley Family Genealogy Forum 

 Hinson Family Genealogy Forum 

 Honeycutt Family Genealogy Forum 

 Eudy mailing list 

There is a mailing list for Eudy researchers. You can subscribe to the list
by sending a message to EUDY-L-
request@rootsweb.com that contains only the word "subscribe" and nothing els
e.
If you prefer digest mode, subscribe to EUDY-D-request@rootsweb.com .

 Brumbelow mailing list 

There is a mailing list for Brumbelow researchers. You can subscribe to the list
by sending a message to BRUMBELOW-L-
request@rootsweb.com that contains only the word "subscribe" and nothing els
e.
If you prefer digest mode, subscribe to BRUMBELOW-D-request@rootsweb.com .

 Hatley mailing list 

There is a mailing list for Hatley researchers. You can subscribe to the list
by sending a message to HATLEY-L-request@rootsweb.com 
that contains only the word "subscribe" and nothing else.
If you prefer digest mode, subscribe to HATLEY-D-request@rootsweb.com .

 Hinson mailing list 

There is a mailing list for Hinson researchers. You can subscribe to the list
by sending a message to HINSON-L-request@rootsweb.com that contains only the word "subscribe" and nothing else.
If you prefer digest mode, subscribe to HINSON-D-request@rootsweb.com .

 Colson mailing list 

There is a mailing list for Colson researchers. You can subscribe to the list
by sending a message to COLSON-L-
request@rootsweb.com that contains only the word "subscribe" and nothing els
e.
If you prefer digest mode, subscribe to COLSON-D-request@rootsweb.com .

 Honeycutt mailing list 

There is a mailing list for Honeycutt researchers. You can subscribe to the list by sending a message to HONEYCUTT-L-request@rootsweb.com that contains only the word "subscribe" and nothing else. If you prefer digest mode, in which you receive all messages bundled together in one email daily, then send the command instead to HONEYCUTT-D-request@rootsweb.com 

 Sides mailing list 

There is a mailing list for Sides researchers. You can subscribe to the lis
t by sending a message to SIDES-L-request@rootsweb.com that contains only the word "subscribe" and nothing else

 Hathcock mailing list 

There is a mailing list for Hathcock researchers. You can subscribe to the list by sending a message to HATHCOCK-L-request@rootsweb.com that contains only the word "subscribe" and nothing else.
If you prefer digest mode, subscribe to HATHCOCK-D-request@rootsweb.com .

 Bruton mailing list 

There is a mailing list for Bruton researchers. You can subscribe to the list
by sending a message to BRUTON-L-request@rootsweb.com that contains only the word "subscribe" and nothing
 else.
If you prefer digest mode, subscribe to BRUTON-D-request@rootsweb.com .