Road trip '02: AZ, CA. Astro pix preview 

 Here's a look at the best astro 
 pix I got on my recent road trip to Sedona, Arizona, and the state of California. 

 Star Trails 
 #1. Sedona, AZ 5/3/02 

 Paul's and Sue's house in Sedona. This is the first star-trail photo* I've ever been pleased with - even though at first 
 I thought the shot had been ruined: When I got up at 4:30 in the morning to stop 
 the exposure it was already beginning to get light out, and I assumed 
 that the picture was overexposed & that the stars would be washed 
 out. Instead, the dawn's early light was just enough to give the sky its 
 blue color and cover the light pollution from the town beyond (see next 
 pic for comparison). Also got a nice warm glow from the house interior. 
 *Star-trail pictures 
 are made by setting your camera on a tripod, pointing it at the North 
 Star, opening the shutter & leaving it for several hours; as the Earth 
 turns, the stars circle the north pole and leave those arcs on the film. 

 Star Trails 
 #2. Sedona, AZ 5/5/02 

 I took this photo two nights 
 later under identical conditions - same camera, same film - except that 
 this time I stopped the exposure before daylight began. Thus the sky isn't blue, and 
 you can see the city glow in the distance. The rocks have been lit from 
 the front by the 4 th -quarter moon that rose sometime after 
 midnight. 

 Miatascope 
 with Planets. Sedona, AZ 5/5/02 

 Brother Ed's awesome miatascope 
 provided fab views of the planets, Comet Izzy, and various other space goodies. 
 Here it poses with four planets - Saturn, Mars, Venus (triangle, left 
 to right) and Mercury (right, just above roof). 

 Moon with Planets. 
 Crescent Beach, CA 5/13/02 

 Venus, Mars, Saturn and a 36-hour-old 
 moon settle into the dusk over the ocean at aptly-named Crescent Beach, CA. And 
 to think, I almost didn't stop here. 

 Moon with Saturn. 
 Crescent Beach, CA 5/13/02 

 Closeup of the crescent moon 
 with Saturn (and could that be Mercury just below?)