1998 Sailing Trip Around Vancouver Island
by Doug Sanderson (copyright 1998)

Part 2.




September 12th

I managed to get my laundry done and picked up a few more blocks of
ice before it was time to cast off and blast off.  The harbor was busy
as usual as we motored out, but things got quiet after we motored out
into the Strait.  Leo and Mona headed the boat west while I went
below to read some of the email I had downloaded yesterday at the
Internet Cafe.  We got as far as Race Rocks, where we ran into a wall
of fog and wind that blocked any further westward travel.  On our
side of the foggy wall it was a beautiful sunny day with pleasant winds.
But on the other side of the wall it was windy and cold and very
limited visibility.  We sailed into the wall a few times, but quickly
turned back.  It was nasty and dangerous out there, with offshore
rocks that were completely hidden from view.  The actual lighthouse
on Race Rocks was no where to be seen.

After a few hours of lazy sailing on the sunny side of the wall, the
fog began to quickly evaporate, revealing the lighthouse and rocks that
had formerly been hidden from view.  The wind and waves were still
very enthusiastic, and we were soon hanging on by our fingernails
as Spirit heeled way over in the strong winds.  I only had 2 safety
harnesses on the boat, and I gave them to Leo and Mona, then reefed
the sails as best I could.  We were still overpowered.  The boat was
heeled over so far that the sinks were sometimes below water level.
I checked the bilge and found a lot of water down there.  The water 
was somehow finding its way into the bilge via the sinks.  Mona
pumped out the water from the cockpit-mounted pump and Leo steered
the boat as I tended to the sails and the increasing mess down below.
We were getting beat up pretty good and not making much progress.
There was no way we would get to today's destination before dark.
It was time to retreat back to Race Rocks.

We turned the boat downwind and retraced our steps back to Quarantine
Cove, which was just inside the Race Rocks area.  The wind continued
to howl after us, and diminished little even after we had crossed
back to the area which had formerly been the pleasant side of the
"wall".  We got inside the little bay and made ready to anchor, and
STILL the wind hammered us with occasional gusts.  We finally managed
to get the anchor down, put out 7:1 scope on the big plow anchor,
and called it a day.  Wow, what a day!




September 13th

The wall of fog was back next morning.  But there was no hurry, since
a fair amount of cleanup was in order after yesterday's thrashing.
Water had gotten everywhere it could possibly get in a heeled over 
boat, and had even gotten into a few places where I didn't think it
could get.  Soaked cardboard had to be put in the trash.  The printer
for my computer had gotten wet, so that had to be set out to dry.
We needed more wraps around the drum at the bottom of the roller
furling, so I made that adjustment.
And, some rearranging was in order in case the same calamity happened
again.  Eventually, we put everything in order, ran up the sails,
and started sailing back and forth to the fog wall, waiting for the
afternoon breakup.

The fog cleared out rather suddenly, and we headed back into the Strait.
There was quite a herd of sea lions on Race Rocks, and from our
downwind position, it smelled a lot like a livestock barn.  But,
it obviously did not SOUND like a livestock barn.  We had a nice
sail for a while, then switched over to the motor as the winds fell
light.  We navigated our way into the anchorage at the beginning of
Sooke Basin using the range markers.  It was not difficult in the evening
light, but would have been much more challenging if we had kept sailing
yesterday and tried to come into the anchorage after dark.  Turning
back yesterday afternoon had been the right move, at least from
my perspective.  Before I went to sleep that night, I noticed that the
fog had returned.




September 14th

Next morning, visibility was limited, but good enough to catch a
glimpse of the range markers in order to sneak out of the anchorage
and back into the Strait.  From there on, it was navigation by
Braille.  We headed out until the depth sounder registered 100' of
depth, and then turned to parallel the shore, which we would only
occasionally get a glimpse of through the fog.  Using the compass,
we would turn a little north if the depth got greater, and a turn
to the left if we got too shallow.  We were now a day behind schedule,
but there was a lot of trip left, and I felt we could make up for
the lost day.

At this point, I had pretty much resolved myself to the fact that
the trip was going to mostly be done with the trusty Volvo engine,
along with a little sailing thrown in here and there.  I knew that
Lake Washington and Puget Sound often had either light winds or no
winds, but I had hoped that as we got closer to the ocean, a nice
steady sailing wind would become more consistent.  It didn't.

Its an often overlooked fact that, of all the possible winds that
blow, there is only a narrow subsection of these winds that a boat
like Spirit can use.  Of course, if there is no wind, you have to
motor.  If there is light wind, you MAY be able to sail.  However,
if you are in a hurry (light winds will only move Spirit at a couple
knots) or if you are fighting a foul tide, or if there is a sloppy
sea that is tossing the boat around, you have to motor to get anywhere.
Then, there comes the ideal sailing wind, which is 15 to 20 knots
for Spirit.  

Above that, you run into more problems.  As the wind
increases, you must start to reduce the amount of sail exposed to the
wind, which is achieved either through reefing the sail to a smaller
size, or taking the sail down completely.  At this point, whether or
not you can continue to sail largely depends on where the wind is
coming from.  If it comes from behind, you can certainly keep sailing
at a pretty good clip, even with less sail area.  If the wind is blowing
from the side of the boat, you can probably keep going.  But, if the
wind is blowing from ahead of the boat, you start slowing down as the
wind builds.  Less sail area means less force pulling you forward.
More wind means bigger waves slowing you down.  

At some point, the headwind gets strong enough that the sails alone 
won't pull you forward. You will still move through the water, but in 
the long run, the wind will push you sideways so much that it cancels 
out the forward pull of the sail.  You end up traveling perpendicular 
to the wind, even though the boat is pointed into the wind.  At this
point, your only hope of making further upwind progress is
motor-sailing, which is using the power of the sails and the motor at
the same time.  The sails alone, or the motor alone, will not get the 
job done.  If the wind increases any more, you forget about making
any more upwind progress.

I'm basically a power boater.  Friends that know me well would be a 
little shocked to hear me say that, but its true.  I use the engine
much more than the sails, simply because I seldom have the right
amount of wind coming from the right direction.  Sailors like to
complain about how much they hate to use their engines, but you would
not hear a more blood curling cry than the cry of a sailor who has
just lost his engine.  Sailors use their engine when there is not
enough wind, and when there is too much wind.  They (i.e. ME) use
their engine to get in and out of the marina.  They use it to motor
through narrow channels when tacking would be either too dangerous
or too much trouble.  Sailboat engines are used to make progress
when the tide is against you.  They are used to get into port when
you are in a hurry, perhaps because you want to get there when bad
weather (or continued bad weather) is on the way, or perhaps you are just
in a hurry to get in soon enough to get a good night's sleep.  There
are even a few places (Seattle and Victoria are 2 that I personally
know about) where it is not legal to sail your boat, due to lots of
boat traffic in a narrow waterway.

You can probably "get there" by using only your sails.  People have
sailed around the world with only sail power, in the older commercial
sailing ships, and more recently in pleasure craft, both cruising
and racing.  But, if you do it without an engine, it can take days
to cover the same distance that your engine could cover in a few
hours.  You will do less sleeping, and more night sailing.  You will
also be exposed to some dangerous situations, when the wind abandons
you as your boat is drifting towards the rocks. (Sailors like me
conveniently forget about the dangerous situations that would happen
if our engines quit working while we motor past those same rocks.)  
Don't even think about getting there "on schedule" without an engine.
Think about just getting there. Engines are expensive, noisy, and take 
up valuable space on a boat. But, for me at least, and I suspect for 
most other sailors as well, the advantages of having an engine on a 
sailboat are an order of magnitude greater than the disadvantages.  
I luvvv my trusty Volvo...

The fog started to break up in the early afternoon, but never
completely disappeared.  We were able to do some sailing for a
while, but when the fog closed in and it started getting dark,
we turned on the engine and made a run for Port San Juan.  Problem
was, we could not see Port San Juan, which was basically a bay
that cut into a relatively straight shore line that was unremarkable
in most respects except for the hardness of the rocks that lined
the shore.  We would occasionally get a brief glimpse of white
water breaking on the shoreline rocks before the scene was gobbled
up by the fog again.

We made the boating equivalent of an IFR approach.  In an IFR
(Instrument Flight Rules) approach, the pilot of an airplane makes his 
landing approach by referencing his navigational instruments instead of 
by reference to landmarks on the ground.  I got out the chart, plotted a 
series of dots on the chart that would lead us safely into the bay, and
programmed the latitude and longitude of each point into the GPS.
Everything was checked and double checked, since a mistake now
could put us on the rocks as we made our approach.  But, everything
worked like a charm, and the GPS guided us safely into the bay,
even though we could not see either shoreline as we came in.
Near the spot where we planned to anchor, the fog finally yielded
to a zillion stars, which was a very nice ending to such a tense day.




September 15th

We were up at 3am, since we had a lot of miles to cover.  The stars
had chased the fog out of our area, and we were able to let the
engine sleep late as the wind carried us downwind out of Port San
Juan.  Eventually, the sky began to lighten up, as did the wind,
and we motored for mile after mile toward the seaward entrance of the
Strait.  We eventually left the Strait as a right turn took us
northwest up the Vancouver Island shoreline, with nothing but Japan
off to port.  After a 44 mile day, we made it into Bamfield, and
enjoyed an evening meal ashore, and a no stress night tied to a dock.




September 16th

I took a little time to stretch my legs and wander around Bamfield
in the first half of the morning.  There was a nearby airport, so I
naturally had to check that out.  It turned out to be a airplane-less
airport, with a few tie downs, but nothing to tie down.  The airport
seemed to be a combination airport and gravel pit.  The gravel runway
did not look to me like a place where you would want to land an
airplane with a brand new paint job.  A little wooden building seemed
to be a multi purpose terminal building and control tower.  If there
was a busy season at the Bamfield airport, today was definitely not it.

Later in the morning, we got the boat under way again, and headed out
into Barkley Sound.  This is a really great area for kayakers, with
(literally) tons of little rocks and islands dotting the landscape.
We motored under sunny skies enroute to Effingham Bay, only a short
distance away.  Though beautiful, the bay proved to be either too
deep or too narrow or both from an anchoring perspective.  So, we ran
up the sails and continued on a little further to Joe's Bay, which
proved to be not only beautiful and quiet, but an excellent anchorage.
After the anchor was down, we were able to enjoy our anchorage
for several hours before it got dark, which a break from our usual
routine of rush rush.  The fog returned, but that just made it all the
more peaceful.  An occasional kayak or canoe would float by in the
distance, but that was about it as far as afternoon action went,
except for the call of a bird from somewhere along the blurry shoreline.




September 17th

We should have remained in Barkley Sound a second day, but we decided
to push on in order to make up for our lost day.  It was another day
of light winds and fog, so we motored for several hours, guided by
the GPS.  Miles of coast line slipped away to starboard, unseen.  Every
now and then a fishing boat would appear through the gray curtain, then
be swallowed up again as it fell behind us.  Finally in the afternoon,
the GPS said that we could turn towards land.  The waves breaking on
the rocks were the first things to appear.  Then, a few islands, then
the coast line, and finally some of the hills beyond the coastline.
We arrived in Tofino a few hours later, which was a nice little
town that seemed to be part fishing town, part tourist town, and
generally on the sleepy side.  After some poking around the waterfront,
we eventually ended up at the "Weigh West" marina, land of hot showers
and dinner menus.




September 18th

Leo and I were up early, and walked into town for breakfast and a little
grocery shopping.  Back on the boat, we motored over to the gas dock
to grab some ice for the cooler.  There was a fair amount of tidal current
running along the shoreline, and I intended to use the current to slow
down the boat as we approached the gas dock.  But for what ever reason,
the current at the gas dock was reversed, and my landing was one of the
less-than-graceful varieties.  Thank god for fenders.

Having botched the first nautical challenge of the day, we grabbed our
ice and made good our escape.  For most of the morning, we motored
through inland passages under cloudy skies.  About lunchtime, we popped
back into daylight and passed between the barrier rocks back into the 
Pacific.  We switched over to sails as the wind picked up.  But, we
were soon reefing the sails as the wind continued to build.  We made
progress into the wind until we had to take in the yankee, which is the
largest and furthest forward of my 2 head sails.  Once the yankee was
gone, our windward progress stopped.  We were still sailing through
the water at a reasonable pace, but we were not getting any further
up wind.

The sails alone could not overcome the wind and waves, which were now
conspiring against us.  The engine was also not capable of overcoming
the forces of nature thrown against us.  However, we discovered that
with both the engine and the reefed sails, we could make some progress.
This was a bastardization of the sailing purist and the power boat
enthusiast, but its tough to argue with success.  We continued to
motor sail until we reached Hot Springs Cove, our day's destination.
Though we arrived a little on the late side, Leo and Mona both took a
stroll ashore after we had tied up to the dock.  Then, Mona whipped
up another in her series of award winning meals, and we all went to
bed quite content.




September 19th

On this day, our route took us along a coast line for which I had no
charts, only a large tourist map of Vancouver Island.  Fortunately,
we had good visibility, and sailed up the coast line at a respectable
distance from shore.  As luck would have it, there was a spot where
the cost line ran absurdly far out into the water.  For someone 
sailing at night along this coast without charts, it could easily
be a lethal combination.  With either the sails or the engine or
some combination there of, we were able to remain well clear of
the dangers as we used the binoculars to gawk at the ocean swells
crashing into the offshore rocks.

Bligh Bay came into view by mid afternoon.  It was very beautiful,
but again I found it too deep for my anchoring tastes, and we 
went off in search of a better anchorage.  While heading out of the 
bay using the boat's engine, an increasing head wind began to slow
us more and more until we were hardly making and progress at all.
I decided to roll out the yankee to see if that would help, and it
made an amazing difference.  It was like getting another 500 rpm
from the engine.  I don't like sailing with the engine on, but I
was beginning to appreciate what a powerful combination it was.

We decided to take a crack at getting into Critter Cove.  There
was a narrow and extremely shallow entrance guarding the cove, but
from the description in the guide book, there should be just enough
depth to let us sneak through.  Leo stood out on the bowsprit with
his polarized sunglasses, and was able to call out the directions
necessary to safely navigate the watery hallway which soon opened
up into a completely land locked little anchorage.  We had it all
to ourselves all night.




September 20th

We snuck out of Critter Cove as soon as there was enough light to
safely do so, with Leo once more out on the bowsprit checking for 
underwater "critters".  Once outside, we did not return to the 
ocean as we normally did, but instead motored through a series of
narrow but deep passages that cut through the coast line.  Clouds
eventually gave way to sunshine, and absence of the big rolling
swells was a nice change of pace.

About mid afternoon, we arrived at Queen Cove.  Although very
beautiful, it was pretty deep, except for one corner of the
anchorage that seemed to have an ample supply of rocks either
near or above the surface of the water.  Again, Leo headed for
the bowsprit, and after a half hour of exploring the anchorage
with the engine going at a snail's pace, we eventually dropped
the anchor at what we felt was an equal distance from all the
hazards around us.  This was no hurricane hole, but it turned out
to be another beautiful and peaceful place to spend the night
and enjoy the remainder of one of my better birthdays.

Our evening routine was typically a yummy dinner fixed by Mona,
followed by dish cleaning duty by Leo, and finished off with a movie.
Movies may sound strange in a little sailboat, but Leo made it all 
possible.  He had a compact little electronic gadget that doubled
as a miniature television and an 8mm movie player.  Back at home,
he had rented movies, and transferred them from the VHS rental
tapes to the compact 8mm tapes used by many camcorders.  On the
boat, we just plugged his player into the boat's electrical power,
and watched the movies on the tiny screen.  Of course, they were
all re-runs for Leo, but if he minded watching the movies a 
second time, he never complained about it.  Come to think about it,
I would be hard pressed to recall much of anything that Leo or Mona
complained about.  Most of the movies were
ones that I had never seen, and I really enjoyed our evening movie 
time.




September 21st

On this day, it was back to the Pacific.  The boat rolled back and
forth drunkenly amongst the ocean swells.  The offshore rocks and
islands were punished by the breaking waves as we either motored or
motor sailed up the coastline in light winds and sunny skies.  We
eventually slipped into Kyuquot Channel and exchanged the big swells
for little wavelets generated from a pleasant, following breeze.
Dixie Cove, our day's destination, was another completely landlocked
little hideaway.  Though the entrance was narrow, it was plenty deep,
and we slipped inside with no problems.  Here, we spent another
great afternoon at anchor, surrounded by trees, and in general doing
as little as possible.




September 22nd

Because of the hills surrounding Dixie Cove, we were not able to get
a weather report.  We motored out toward the ocean under clear early
morning skies, and were eventually able to get a weather report off the
VHF radio.  They were calling for gale force winds in our area, and
of course the wind would be blowing from roughly the same direction
that we wanted to go.  But, we decided to give it a go, and as it turned
out, the gale force winds never developed.  It was just another
several hours of slogging through the swells far enough off shore to
avoid being pulverized by the waves breaking on the offshore rocks.
The rolling boat sort of got to me, and I definitely did NOT feel in
the mood for food.  Fortunately, my stomach did nothing truly noteworthy.
Around lunchtime, we tied up to a mooring buoy in Columbia Cove,
absolutely delighted to have been spared the wrath of the gale.
We spent all afternoon enjoying an excess of warmth, sunshine, and
inactivity, and the absence of gale force winds and big rolling swells.
We got off easy this time.




September 23rd

We were now within striking distance of Winter Harbor, about 25 miles 
away as the crow flies, but closer to 40 miles for us, since we had to
go around the Brooks Peninsula.  We got up at 2am, thus beating any
records set so far for the ungodlyest hour of the morning.  The winds
were forecast to be moderate, though it was dead calm in the anchorage.
We used all our electronic toys to sneak out of Columbia Cove under the
cloak of darkness.  The night scope allowed us to see how close we were
to shore, the depth sounder showed us how close we were to the bottom,
and the GPS gave us the bigger picture of where we were headed.  I had
plotted GPS waypoints all the way to Winter Harbor last night.  With a
little luck, we should make it my mid afternoon.  As it turned out,
though, luck was in limited supply.

As we eventually started to round the south corner of the Brooks
Peninsula, we started getting some of those sloppy, Pacific swells.  I
assumed that the swells were left over from some recent gale. There was 
a little wind blowing from the northwest, so we ran up the yankee to
add a little power to the engine's efforts.  Leo and I were sitting in
the cockpit admiring the stars and talking about how to deal with a
side current using the GPS, when conditions began to rapidly deteriorate.
The sloppy swells were not left over by anything.  They were were being
generated "as we speak" from a very enthusiastic wind.  While under the
lee of the Brooks Peninsula for the last 12 hours or so, we had no clue
that such a strong wind was blowing out here.

There was a bit of a scramble to get into safety harnesses while the
boat pitched wildly in the swells and wind.  The yankee was NOT the
sail to have up in these conditions.  With all that sail area up forward,
the gusts tended to blow the bow further downwind, which caused the 
boat to heel over even more.  We needed a reefed mainsail now, but we
had been caught off guard.  As soon as the safety harnesses were 
strapped on and the seacocks under the sinks were turned off, we furled
the yankee.  There was so much strain on the sail by the wind that we
had to put the furling line on the winch.  One person just did not have
the required strength.  It was quite an experience.  The sail was 
flapping like crazy as we tried to get it in, the boat was rocking like
crazy from the swells, and it was as dark as all get-out.  When we
finally got the yankee furled, it was wrapped so tightly around the
forestay that we used up all the furling line before the sail was
completely wound up.  But, it was close enough.

We then managed to set the mainsail, despite the Pacific's playful
attempts to toss me into the ocean.  We also got the staysail set,
and with the engine still running, we made an all-out retreat back
towards the protection of the lee of the peninsula.  During one of my
turns at the helm, I managed to get lined up with the wrong navigational
light.  We had to close the main hatch to keep mischievous waves out
of the cabin, and with the hatch closed, the GPS lost its lock on
the satellites it was talking to.  Without that lock, it gave some
amusing readings, but no useful information.  I concluded that the 
most convincing reason for an outside GPS antenna was not so much
that it got better reception, but rather, you could still get GPS
information without having to risk drowning the poor GPS in wet
conditions that were only tolerated by sailors with a low IQ.  Anyway,
I caught my navigational mistake before we had wandered too far off
course, and we gradually left the chaos behind as the sky began to
lighten up.

It was so deceivingly calm in the lee of the peninsula, just another
beautiful morning in light winds and gentle little swells.  There
was no comparison between the lee of the peninsula, and the madness
a few miles to the west.  But, we felt that we were probably just a
little too early.  They DID say "moderate" winds, didn't they?  We
shut down the engine and the sails for a few hours to wait for
something that more closely approached the meaning of "moderate".
Leo and Mona had a light breakfast, and I just slept.

Around 9am we headed west for "round 2", and got the same reception
as before.  Maybe the wind was a few miles per hour less, but not
much, and the gusts were still as enthusiastic as ever, as were the
swells.  Not my idea of anything approaching the meaning of
"moderate".  We turned downwind to retreat, and Spirit took a huge
momentary jump in speed.  I have never seen the boat go so fast,
probably from a combination of too much sail and an extra push from 
a passing swell.  Our wake was an explosion of bubbles as the heavy
boat surged through the water.  Wow, time to put on the brakes.

Instead of a full retreat back to the land of sanity, we hove-to
under double reefed mainsail in order to have a front row seat 
whenever this "moderation" stuff arrived.  It was still as windy
and rolly as before, but the boat rode in a surprisingly sedate
manner.  I clipped my lifeline to a stanchion by the cockpit and 
laid down for another nap in the morning sunshine.  Of course,
there was not much hope for sleep, but at least the motion of the
boat was not too bad, and things seemed to be marginally under
control for a while.  We hung out until a little past noon when
it was unanimously decided to "screw it" for the day and motor 
back to the quiet refuge of Columbia Cove.

We had a little comic relief upon reaching Columbia Cove.  On our
arrival yesterday, I had briefly hopped on the big mooring buoy to
pass our mooring line through the eye of the buoy.  But, I found
it extremely unstable, and quickly got the hell off of there.
This time, I was back in the cockpit with Mona, and left it to
Leo to tie us up.  I noticed he was getting lower and lower up there
on the bow, and I was a little alarmed when he dropped completely
out of sight.  I went forward and found him UNDER the bowsprit,
partially hanging on from above, and partially supported by the
bobstay below.  Leo had also found the buoy to be a little unstable.
Fortunately, he was able to remain above sea level as he gradually
relocated himself on the more conventional side of the bowsprit.
And I had observed the entire performance without once thinking about
grabbing my camcorder.  Damn...

I was encouraged that, despite having been beat up again, the boat
was in reasonably good shape.  We were getting much better at
being beat up.  I had been monitoring the level of both fuel and
water every few days so as not to get caught off guard by low tanks.
So, after returning to our buoy, one of the things I did was to
check the tanks.  I was totally caught off guard when I discovered
a grand total of 1 gallon of diesel fuel remaining in the tank.
I checked a second time and a third time and a fourth time with
the stick I used to measure the tank depth, but I kept coming up
with the same alarming answer.  I had no idea how the tank got so
low so fast.  The only possible answer I could come up with is that
I had not marked my sounding stick correctly.

The fuel situation, or more precisely the lack there-of, put
everything in a new perspective.  We probably had enough fuel to
motor out of this harbor, and motor into the next harbor, but
definitely not enough to run the engine at all in between harbors.
With only sail power, we could only make windward progress with
less wind and less swell; neither of which seemed to typify the
Brooks Pennesula.  In addition, we needed fuel to recharge the
battery.  I was guessing that we would require 2 days and one night
of sailing to eventually fight our way upwind to Winter Harbor,
even after the winds eased.  The navigational tricolor light would
probably eat up a goodly portion of the voltage that currently
remained in the battery, leaving us nothing much to spare.  There
was not much to do except turn off the electronics and get out
the flashlights.

There was one possible way to add to our fuel supply.  I had a little
extra kerosene stowed away that I intended to use for my 
cabin heater.  I thought I could probably pour the kerosene in the
diesel fuel tank to add to our limited supply.  But, I wasn't sure.
On the one hand, I was of the understanding that kerosene was just
a cleaner relative of the diesel fuel family.  Hell, the engine might
run better with kerosene.  On the other hand, I did not know for
sure that this was the case.  Adding the kerosene to my diesel tank
might kill my diesel engine, and the only thing worse than an engine
which was low on fuel was an engine that had self destructed.  Could
I get into harbor with a dead engine?  How many thousand dollars
would it take to replace the engine?  I had a little less than a
gallon of diesel.  I had a little less than a gallon of kerosene.
I thought about it for a long time, then poured the kerosene into
the diesel tank.

The bright side of the situation was that, if we had not been forced
to retreat from our planned day's passage, we would have suddenly
and completely unexpectedly run out of fuel somewhere between here
and Winter Harbor.

We listened with great interest to the weather forecast that night.
There was a gale warning for our area.  Everyone agreed that we
should stay put tomorrow.  We ate dinner before it got dark, then
went to bed after a very beautiful sunset. In the darkness, I thought 
of  all the what-if's looming in my future.  What if I had just signed 
my engine's death warrant by adding kerosene to my fuel tank?
What if the engine ran out of fuel at some critical moment when we
were close to the rocks without enough wind to sail?  What if I was
unable to get Leo and Mona to a bus in time to get them headed south
towards a California wedding they were suppose to attend?  

What if ... what if ... hey, what if a giant asteroid came down and wiped 
out Vancouver Island, and put the whole planet in nuclear winter for the
next thousand years?  It was silly to loose sleep over all the
what-if's.  We would handle the future as it evolved as best we could.
Better to enjoy the present than to get all upset about future events
that might not ever happen.  I decided that the only "what-if" I would
allow myself to think about is what-if Winter Harbor had no supply
of Coca Cola?  Now THAT was a scary thought...




September 24th

We spent the day tied to the mooring buoy as wind gusts poured into
the harbor and gray clouds scurried overhead.  We got a little rain,
but not much.  I am a great believer in the balance of great cosmic
forces in the universe.  So, to compensate for what I felt was likely
to be an intensely challenging day tomorrow, I tried to do as little
as possible today.  Everyone got a lot of reading done.  When we
listened to the evening forecast, the word "gale" once again figured
prominently in the summary for our area.  We again decided to spend
another day in the protection of Columbia Cove.  Another lost day.




September 25th

It was another blustery day.  Sometimes the gusts would slam into the
bay with enough force to heel the boat over a little.  A generally
cloudy morning was followed by steadily clearing skies in the 
afternoon.

I decided to try to call my Dad in Iowa on the VHF radio.  To do this,
you call a marine operator on your radio, and the marine operator
connects your radio transmission to the telephone system.  I had a
"cheat sheet" card on the boat with radio frequencies, so I tried all
the frequencies it gave for marine operators.  No response on any of
the channels.  

Leo suggested I try on channel 22, and I immediately
got through to someone I will call "Operator #1".  This operator placed
the call for me, but was only able to connect to my Dad's answering
machine.  This doesn't work very well when you are placing a "collect"
call.  You don't want to tell the marine operator to put the call
on your telephone credit card, because everyone in the world can
listen to you on their radio as you tell the marine operator your
credit card number (not a good thing).  Later, I tried this again, and
spoke to "Operator #2", who said it would be much cheaper if I used
another frequency.  I got no reply on the other frequency.  We were
in an anchorage with mountains all over the place, so radio reception
was pretty limited.  I later called on channel 22 again, and this time
spoke with "Operator #3", who told me I was not allowed to use this
frequency for a marine operator, and gave me another frequency to
try.  The other frequency didn't work.  The effort had not accomplished
much, but did provide some limited entertainment in an otherwise
uneventful day.

We had settled into a comfortable daytime routine during our stay in
the little harbor.  Leo would read up in the v-berth.  Mona would
either read or bake bread in the main part of the cabin.  And, I
would put on warm clothes and read out in the cockpit.  When we listened
to the weather report that evening, it sounded like we would finally be
able to make a dash for Winter Harbor the next day.  Showtime at last!




September 26th

The day started out with more of a "thud" than a "bang".  We motored
out of the harbor, then shut down the diesel for the rest of the sail
to Winter Harbor.  However, without wind, the sailing portion of the
plan was not very successful.  The best we could do for several hours
was to keep the boat pointed in approximately the right direction.
Progress was put "on hold" until Mona got busy in the galley.  The
wind always seemed to pipe up whenever Mona tried to do anything in
the galley, and today was no exception.  The other magical power that
Mona had was that, no matter how long a seal had played around the
boat, it always disappeared the instant Mona got out her camera.
Ya win some, and ya loose some, I guess.  But, we were off at last.

Despite all hopes to the contrary, the west side of the Brooks
Pennesula remained in its classic lets-beat-up-a-sailboat mood.
I would guess that the swells were 5 to 10 feet, and the wind
gusts were at least 30 knots; maybe more.  I had seen much worse
conditions years ago during a sailing trip in the Atlantic, but
this was pretty big stuff for little Spirit. We could not make 
headway against that much wind and wave action.

Mona suggested a retreat to Tofino.  This was an exceptionally
difficult plan to swallow, but the logic of it was inescapable.
Leo had made it clear from the very beginning that he wanted to
get off the boat in time to attend a wedding in California.  I
had accepted this condition from the very beginning, and we were
now running out of time.  It could take days to get around the
Brooks Pennesula.  On the other hand, Tofino was a downwind run
of about 100 miles.  If this wind held, we could make it in a day
or so under sail.  We considered a shorter run into Walter's
Cove, but I decided against it.  I had the necessary charts, but
it was too rocky an approach for a boat with a questionable engine.
I felt an attempt on Walter's Cove would put the boat at risk, and
I was not prepared to do that.

But, backtracking 100 miles would kill my circumnavigation.  
I didn't have enough time to make up the lost
miles.  Every cell of my body had been focused for months at 
doing a 6 week clockwise circumnavigation of Vancouver Island,
and when I get focused on something, its very hard for me to give
it up.  Turning around now also had major repercussions for my
long term planning over the next several years.  I kept looking for 
another option.  There just wasn't another option.

In the end, I decided to turn around.  Leo and Mona had been good
friends to me and a great help on my sailing trip.  Their travel
plans were no last minute surprise; I had known about them from
the beginning.  I didn't see any other alternative.  I spent a
little time experimenting with some different sail combinations
to see how the boat would react; knowledge that I though might
come in handy on some future trip.  Then, we turned downwind, and I
watched the Brooks Pennesula drop astern in the afternoon light.

I worked out the necessary GPS waypoints before it got dark.
The downwind sail through the night was, well, miserable.  I was
in major need of a major attitude adjustment.  Add to that a lack
of sleep on a boat that rolled drunkenly on the swells, and you
had all the ingredients for what-am-i-doing-here stew.  Leo and I
shared the hours at the helm; one man in the cockpit trying to steer,
and the other in the cabin pretending to sleep amidst the racket
created by dishes, food, and gear as they were tilted one way, then
the other.  The moon was somewhat of a diversion while it lasted,
as was the phosphorescence on the water behind the boat.  There
were also the occasional lights of fishing boats, sharing the blackness
of the windy night (I made a mental note to never even consider
becoming a fisherman, in this life nor any that might follow).  My
Walkman was also a major help to me.  Give me a couple tapes and some
fresh batteries, and I'm good for another hour at the helm.  But even 
with the Walkman and Leo's help, it was a long, LONG  night.