1998 Sailing Trip Around Vancouver Island
by Doug Sanderson (copyright 1998)

Part 6.




October 16th

There was no pressing need to get up early.  It wasn't that far to
Seattle, and the tides were going to be with me except for early
morning and late afternoon.  But, I still got up about dawn, put
on warm clothing, and spent the next half hour or so bringing in
180 feet of anchor chain.  I motored for a while, but an increasing
southerly wind inspired me to set sails and shut down the engine.
We were making pitifully slow progress, with our tacks averaging
about 1 knot of speed upwind.  But, I really missed just simply
sailing my boat, so I decided to burn a little time and let the
boat romp under sail for a while without the engine.

People approach sailing with widely different philosophies.  For
some people, sailing is a necessary evil in their overall travel
agenda.  They put up with the sailing part so they can start
enjoying themselves at the destination, which might offer activities
such as exploring the anchorage, wandering through little shops
in town, eating at a nice restaurant ashore, or what ever.

I tend to be at the opposite end of the spectrum.  For me, a sailing
trip is an excuse to go sailing.  The stops in between are a great
place to rest before doing more sailing.  As an example of my rather
warped sailing mentality, the dinghy was only put in the water once
during my 6 week trip, and even then it was at Tim's request.  There 
were several times on this trip when Leo would be down below and hear 
me grinding winches or furling sails or what ever.  He would immediately 
pop his head out of the main hatch and ask me if I needed help, an offer 
that I probably refused as many times as I accepted.  From Leo's 
perspective, he probably thought "Poor Doug, up there trying to run the 
boat all by himself; I should go up there and help!"  From my perspective, 
it was entirely possible that I was thinking "Wow, this is a fun and
challenging sailing environment, and I've got it all to myself!"

I like sailing, assuming the conditions are not too outrageous.  I
like sheeting in sails, and hauling on hailards, and doing 
navigation, and maybe even taking the tiller for a while.  One
of the things I missed the most on this sailing trip was, oddly
enough, sailing.  It seemed to be that we hardly ever sailed.  We
motored a hell of a lot, we did some motorsailing, and we waited
in port for headwinds to die down.  But, we did precious little
sailing.

My biggest reservation about taking Spirit on a second attempt to
circumnavigate Vancouver Island would be the fact that Spirit would not
be sailing around the island, but rather motoring around the island.
Maybe the winds would inflict this fate on any sailboat making the
trip, but I wasn't convinced this was the case.  You could argue
that allowing more time for the trip would allow you to wait for
more favorable winds, but I tend to think that there might be more
to it than this alone.  

Maybe I needed a higher performance sailboat.

Maybe a different type of design would allow me to point higher
with less leeway.  Maybe a bigger boat would have more sail area
to generate the necessary horsepower to steal a little more lift
from light winds, and plow to windward through increasing headwinds
and waves and swells.  Maybe I needed less of a comfortable cruiser,
and more of a kick-ass sailing machine.  Gee, a new hole in the water
to fill up with new money, just so I could go a couple knots faster
under sail for a couple hours each year.  It made no sense what-so-ever.
Oh well ... welcome to boating. 

On the other hand, it was entirely possible I was missing the whole
point.  Maybe I was already racing through paradise, and a faster
boat would only make it worse.  Anyone that only launches the dinghy
once in 6 weeks has got to be missing a significant portion of the
overall program.  A sea kayaker would not fail to "stop and smell the
roses", but I would be lucky to last 3 days in a sea kayak.  I was
too spoiled on my creature comforts.  But a new boat?  Wow, that would
be a major step for me.  I obviously had a lot of research to 
do, and maybe a little soul searching as well.

I sailed until a self-imposed deadline of 11am, then started taking in
the sails and starting up the engine.  So far, my batteries were
holding up well.  However, there was a fairly brisk south wind coming
from the general direction of Seattle, the day's destination.  The
engine alone could not push the boat to windward any more than the
sails alone.  It quickly became obvious that any hope of reaching
Seattle today was going to have to be a combined effort of sails
and engine.  With all sails set, and the trusty Volvo chugging away,
we began to make progress.  Thank God there was no swell, only
Puget Sound waves.  

I hugged the west shore as much as possible, where the wind and
waves were sometimes diminished by the land.  Also, a fair current
gradually helped me along.  There was a significant amount of commercial
traffic out in the channel; ocean going ships, tugs pulling barges,
and fishing boats.  The miles of shoreline gradually fell astern.
Seagulls floated by, and a porpoise would occasionally drop by for
a brief visit.  By 3pm, I had finally made it to Shillshole marina.

I didn't stop at the marina.  I figured my batteries were probably
good for one more night at anchor, so I continued on to the Ballard
locks.  These locks were cause for mild anxiety when I had a boatload
of crew on board.  I had never attempted them alone until today.  I
put out my fenders and rigged mooring lines at every place on the 
boat where I might possibly need them.  Once I got into the locks,
there would be no time to get another rope or to move existing ropes
from one side of the boat to the other.  But, with a combination of
preparation and luck (I shared the lock with only one other boat,
everyone else was locking-through in the other direction) I made it
through the locks in good form.  The last big challenge of the trip
was now over.

The Seattle drawbridges do not open for boats during rush hour, so
I pulled into Fisherman's Terminal for a few hours while the afternoon
commute was in full swing.  After a call to my Dad and a leisurely
dinner on the boat, it was time to go.  The bridges went by one by
one as afternoon transitioned to evening and then darkness.  I gave
the University Bridge a good looking over with the binoculars as I
approached it, but the #@&?! scaffolding was not hungrily waiting
for my masthead this time.  I motored out of Seattle and crossed
to the east side of Lake Washington.  

As I approached Cozy Cove, my last anchorage, I scanned the waters 
for other boats with my night vision scope.  There were lots of 
lights from all the houses around the
cove, but I saw no other boats at anchor.  I didn't really expect
to see any on a Friday night in mid October.  It was getting a little
chilly for overnight anchoring.  I started shuttling back and
forth between bow and stern, getting the anchor ready for a minute,
then back to the tiller as the boat gradually turned itself toward
the shoreline.  In the midst of all this, I happened to look up,
and was alarmed to see that we were headed toward a power boat,
which was anchored (and well lit) in the middle of the cove.  I
rushed back to the tiller and changed course.  It was yet another
reminder that, even with all the high tech toys available, such
as night vision scopes and GPS, there was still no substitute for
a pair of human eyeballs looking in front of the boat.  Despite 
the low batteries, I decided to leave the anchor light on that
night.




October 17th

There had been a lot of wind last night.  When I got up, north Seattle
had disappeared behind a rain shower.  I would be sailing south on
Lake Washington today, which was the direction the wind was coming
from.  But, the marine forecast was talking about west winds after
lunch, so I was in no big hurry to get under way.  After a pancake
breakfast, I ran down my batteries as much as I dared, using the
cabin lights and recharging my computer batteries so I could work
on my journal a bit more.  When the battery voltage got low enough,
I shut everything off and decided to "get out of Dodge".

The anchor was really dug into the mud at Cozy Cove, but I managed to
extract it with the help of the windless.  I finished securing all
the anchor gear as we drifted north out of the cove, again managing
to miss the power boat that was still anchored there.  Out in the lake,
I set all sail while still in the lee of the land.  However, it was
more windy out on the lake than I had expected, and things started
getting real crazy real fast.  Too much sail.  Things were happening
too fast.  I needed to stop everything for a few minutes and 
regroup, so that's just what I did.  I trimmed the flapping headsails
so the boat headed into the wind, then put a reef in the main, then
furled up the headsails and hove-to.  Ah, much better.  This hove-to 
thing was really a good thing.  I then went below, closed the seacocks 
under the sinks, and latched all the cabinet doors closed.  Now, we were
ready to start again.

I unfurled the staysail and started beating to weather.  In the 
Pacific or in the Strait or even in Puget Sound, a reefed main
and staysail would not be enough to get the boat to weather.  But,
here in Lake Washington where the waves were small, Spirit could
do it.  It was fun sailing, and I almost sailed under the 520
bridge.  But, there were fishermen in a boat right next to the
bridge, and in order to sail under the bridge, I would have to 
pass close enough to the fishermen to shake hands with them.  So,
I motored under the bridge, and resumed sailing on the other side,
crawling slowly to windward.  By the time I had passed by Bill
Gate's little lake cottage, the wind began to lighten a bit.  I
gradually added a reefed yankee, then the whole yankee, then 
unreefed the main.  Finally, in the lee of Mercer Island, the 
wind pooped out all together, which seemed like an excellent 
excuse to stop for lunch.

After lunch I continued south, courtesy of the trusty Volvo.  The
wind came up enough to tease me south of the I-90 bridge, and I
quickly swapped the motor for the sails.  But, it was a classic
teaser wind, and soon disappeared all together.  I furled the sails
one last time, and after a couple more hours of motoring through
the rain, Spirit finally made it home to her very own slip in her
very own marina.  Despite the shortfalls (both hers and mine)
she had brought me home safely.
