1998 Sailing Trip Around Vancouver Island
by Doug Sanderson (copyright 1998)

Part 5.




October 11th

I hopped out of bed long enough to turn on the VHF radio, then 
listened to the latest forecast after running back to my bed.  It
sounded like I was definitely not going anywhere today, and probably
not tomorrow.  I got up again, grabbed breakfast (a banana), and ate
it in bed.  I finally put on my long johns and other clothes, and
headed outside in search of a slip with a 30 amp circuit.  I ran
into the marina operator on the dock, and made arrangements to move
my boat to another slip.  It was dry but fairly windy, and without
his help, I would have had to make more than one attempt to get
Spirit into her new temporary home.

I was up at the office paying my bill, when the marina operator asked
about the weather.  I told him I had heard that it would be wet on and
off for the next several days, with either east or southeast winds,
probably stronger today than tomorrow.  He said that southeast winds
should not give me a problem, since the Strait runs roughly east-west
and I would be partially protected my land from a southeast wind.  I
was a little skeptical of that analysis.  I had a feeling that a 
southeast wind would probably bend around a little to flow down a
natural corridor like the Strait of Juan De Fuca.  But, it was an
interesting thought.  Maybe if I snuck along the Washington shoreline,
I could get a little protection from the wind.  Even so, I would still
have to deal with the tides, and 50 miles was a lot of miles for a
28 foot sailboat.  I figured I still needed a half-decent 
forecast before I set out.

The marina operator also said something else of interest.  He said
that the last of the sailing-to-California crowd had passed through
a few weeks ago.  We both agreed that the meteorological "door" had
probably now closed on that activity until next summer.  He told me
about the sailors who had come to Neah Bay last year, when the door
closed a little earlier than usual (El Nino?).  He said they would
leave here, take a left turn south at Cape Flattery, get beat up, and
then limp back to Neah Bay.  Most of them finally gave up and postponed
their trip until next season.  I wonder if any of them sold their
boats and bought an airplane ticket?

I thought about Spirit, and her battle to get around the north end of 
Vancouver Island.  Even if we had eventually gotten around the Brooks 
Peninsula, there was still Cape Scott to deal with. This was at the 
northwest corner of the island, and what I had assumed would be the 
toughest part of the trip.  Even then, it would not have been a downhill 
run to Seattle.  About the time that we would have reached the southbound 
portion of the trip, the winds would have made their seasonal shift to the 
south. More headwinds.  And, if I learned nothing more from this trip, I
had learned that the winds in the north end of the island were even
more rowdy than the winds than in the south part.  My intended trip 
southward down the east coast of the island would also take us
through some fierce tidal currents (some of the passages had names
like "Yueulta Rapids") which meant that I would only be able to
sail south for part of the day before it was time to seek shelter
from the contrary tidal currents.  Spirit had proved herself to be
a strong boat, but not a windward boat.  My intended itinerary would
put us in an excellent position to get beat-up on a regular basis.
Both the Queen Charlotte Strait and the Strait Of Georgia could
have been nothing short of "hell".  I wondered how many weeks of being 
beat-up I could have tolerated.  How many weeks of waiting for the
southerly gales and headwinds and tidal currents?  How many weeks
without a heater?  How many weeks without an alternator?  What else
would have failed on the boat?

It was possible that the heartbreak of retreating south at the Brooks
Peninsula may have been the luckiest thing that happened on the trip.

I returned to the boat, adjusted the dock lines, plugged in my shore
power cord, and presto, unlimited electricity.  Batteries started
recharging.  I turned on my electric space heater, and left it on.
The warmth was wonderful.  It improved the quality of life inside
the boat by an order of magnitude.  Clothing dried out.  The interior
of the boat dried out.  And best of all, I warmed up.  I know people
who go into the mountains and spend days in the snow and fog and
darkness, living in a tent with little more than a thin ground pad
between them and the snow.  I loved to hear about their adventures,
but I was definitely not in their league.  Amazing people, those
mountaineers.

I spent most of the remaining day writing in my journal, and 
enjoying the simple pleasures of a warm boat.  The rain held off
for a good part of the afternoon, and I actually ventured forth out
of my warm little den in the late afternoon.  My bow had some new
black markings, probably complements of the mooring buoy at
Columbia Cove which had tires protecting its sides.  I got out the
Fantastic cleaner and the scrub pads, which Leo had purchased in
Victoria to clean up Spirit's cockpit so successfully.  I then sat
down on the dock and started scrubbing away on the bow.  The
operation was very successful, though I was chased below by a new
rain squall long before the whole job was done.

At dinnertime, I turned on the radio as I prepared the yummy leftovers
from last night's meal.  The only station I could get with any clarity
was a country music station from Victoria on an AM frequency.  I
enjoyed country music, but there was background interference that
would slowly climb up and down, giving the country music a sort of
1950s science fiction movie effect.  I think the music generally
sounded better without the special effects.  I did some reading
before lights-out, and just before going to bed, I checked the marine
weather on the VHF.  I was definitely not going anywhere tomorrow.
But, at the tail end of the outlook for the Strait of Juan De Fuca,
they said the magic words: "west wind".




October 12th

It had been stormy for most of the night; lots of wind and rain.  The
morning dawned gray and damp.  It was less windy, but the winds were
still out of the southeast. The marine forecast
was now calling for west winds in the Strait by tomorrow afternoon.
Problem was, I needed to leave very early in the morning to have any
hope of reaching Port Angeles before it got dark.  On the other hand,
it would be a drag to get up early and get beat up for several hours
within spitting distance of Neah Bay until the wind decided to turn.
On the other hand (hey, this is starting to sound like "Fiddler On The
Roof"!) the early morning southeast winds that were being forecast
might not be too strong, and they might be generating little waves
instead of a big swell, and they might have enough of a south
component to let me sneak east by staying close in to the northern
coast of Washington.  On the other hand (I think we are on our 4th
hand, now...) there was obviously an abundant collection of rocks
and shoals close in to the northern coast of Washington.  It would
be pointless to get up earlier than 4am, due to the contrary tidal
current I would encounter.  So, if the forecast didn't change much
between now and then, I might just give it a go early tomorrow
morning and see what happened.

I worked on my journal a little in the morning.  The rain seemed to
have stopped for a while, so I finished off the morning with a little
more hull scrubbing, using Leo's bottle of Fantastic.  The hull
didn't look new when I finished my work, but it did look a little
better.  After lunch, I motored over to the fuel dock.  The winds
would occasionally gust from the east, and I was a little
apprehensive about docking the boat by myself, but everything went
smoothly.  On the way back to the marina, I motored far enough out
to be able to see out into the Strait.  Whitecaps from the east
wind were on the march out there.  I didn't see much evidence of
calmer waters closer to the Washington shore, but I didn't really
have a great view, either.  Hopefully, the winds would die down
tomorrow, though it would probably still be a wet day.

I took a walk in the afternoon to kill a little time.  I met one of
the local residents, and chatted with him for a while.  He did some
kind of trucking for a living, though I'm not sure if it was tow
trucks or dump trucks or all of the above.  He seemed to have a
colorful array of various truck-like vehicles in his front yard,
most of which were in some advanced state of decay.  I had seen
a couple TV news trucks earlier in my walk, and he told me that
they were covering the whale killing story.  It seemed that the
local Indians decided they were going to kill a whale this year.
This caused various protest boats to show up and anchor in the bay.
Everyone was poised for their confrontation; Indians, protesters,
and the media.  However, the whales were apparently not cooperating,
and the whole thing was on hold.  The man said that he frankly 
doubted the ability of the current Indian generation to kill a
whale.  One of his relatives on his wife's side of the family had
been a harpooner in the old days, and according to the stories, the
killing of a whale was no trivial undertaking.  I guess one whale
was not going to make a lot of difference in the over all scheme
of things, but still, I was rooting for the whales.

I asked the man if any of the fishing boats in the harbor were making
any money.  Not a one, according to the man.  They were all in some
state of economic collapse.  He then told me some boat stories, and
most of them had a common theme.  The stories usually started out
with someone paying money for a boat, and the stories usually ended
with the boat either sinking or free for the taking (but no takers).
In Neah Bay, most of the boats were living up to their reputation of
being holes in the water filled with money.  I asked about a floating
crane across the bay.  The local indian tribe had apparently bought
it surplus from the US government for practically nothing, and then
paid a tow boat to pull it from California to Neah Bay.  The plan
was to use the crane to move Indian logs from the water to logging
trucks.  But, everything in the crane was operated with DC power, and
the tribe was having a heck of a time finding the required electrical
components to get it running again.  I guess you get what you pay for.

It started raining again, so I made my way back to the marina.  As I
was walking along the dock, I met my neighbor.  The entire dock was
mostly empty of boats except for two boats out on the end; my boat and
a cruising ketch rig.  The owner was just returning from one of his
dream-come-trues; a sailboat trip to Hawaii and back.  He said he
got beat up pretty good last Monday by a Pacific storm.  At that time,
I was just finishing up my 1 week inland cruise, returning to Tofino to
pick up Mike.  All I got was some wind and rain.  My neighbor, however,
had apparently gotten the full treatment.  He said that he was
finishing up repairs.  Apparently, his transmission had "eaten" the
metal key that helps hold the propeller shaft in place.  He could run
the engine in forward, but was afraid to put it in reverse for fear
the propeller would pull the propeller shaft right out of the boat.
He was just about ready to try and make it back to Everett, his home
port.  Another cruising boat limping home.  I could relate to that.
But, he had accomplished what he set out out to do.  We chatted for
another minute or two, then hurried on our separate ways as the rain
continued to fall. I had a good dinner and went to bed early as the 
rain tapped on my cabin top.




October 13th

The alarm went off at 4am, and I stuck my head outside.  Rain and
gusty southeast winds.  Damn!  I went back to bed, furious with the
weather that absolutely refused to let me out of Neah Bay.  I really
didn't have much cause to be angry.  The marine forecast didn't
call for the west wind to kick in until around noon.  And, if things
had worked out a little differently, I could have been in Port San
Juan with a nearly dead battery and no heat; or worse yet, back in
Bamfield.  But, my cup was not looking "half full" that morning.  I
wondered if I was ever going to get out of Neah Bay.

At the first hint of dawn, I was up again.  It was still raining and
windy, but something was different.  The wind had shifted to more
of a southerly direction.  Sometimes, it was even a hair west of
south.  That did it.  I was outta-here.  It was a wet passage to
Port Angeles, though the rain did let up from time to time.  The
winds started out stronger, then gradually went lighter, as did the
waves.  The wind direction was typically a bit ahead of the beam, 
but varied from southeast to west as it flowed off the contours
of the land.  The clouds hung low, covering all but the lowest
parts of the hills off to starboard.  It was a sort of a lousy 
sailing day when it came right down to it.  But, it was quite
satisfactory to me, because I was finally making miles in the right
direction.  Man, did that feel good; even with the rain.  The
trusty Volvo pushed Spirit along the whole day, with a little help
from the wind when it occasionally picked up enough speed, which
was typically just before the rain returned.

Port Angeles looked as unappealing as ever, with the gray skies
adding to the gloom of the ever present oil refinery smoke stacks,
which sent a film of smoke eastward over the town.  I though about
pushing on to Dungeness Bay for the night, but decided against it.
The tide was working against me now, my batteries could use some
shore power juice, and the weather was pretty unsettled to be 
anchoring so far out in the open.  The harbor had two big ships
anchored inside.  There was also a fair amount of commercial traffic,
including the ferry from Victoria, and a tug pulling an oil 
barge.  I put out fenders and mooring lines, and tied up to the
dock below the marina office.  There was nobody home.  The office
closed at 5pm, and it was now 5:15.  I moved Spirit over to a
dock that was marked for transient boats, and tied her up for
the night, paying the fee at the self service drop box at the head
of the dock.  There was no 30 amp power available, so I could not
recharge my batteries.  But, there was a household-type outlet,
so I ran an extension cord to the boat and plugged in my electric
heater.  The run tomorrow to Port Townsend was only 30 miles;
piece of cake...




October 14th

I was up at 6:30, and on my way shortly after.  The moon was just
disappearing as the sky transitioned from dawn to morning.  I hadn't
seen much of the moon since that cold sail into Port San Juan on
Friday night.  There was a fair amount of wind from behind, but I
left the Volvo pushing us along as I messed with the sails.  At
first I tried just the yankee.  But, it did a lot of flapping
around when the wind was dead aft, as it was that morning.  The
sail needed a whisker pole, which I did not have.  I got frustrated
with it and furled the sail away, replacing it with the mainsail.
I was getting pretty easy to frustrate.  The reality of the
situation is that it was a beautiful sunny day with a nice sailing
wind blowing me in exactly the direction I needed to go.  What
could be better?  But, all I could see was "x" number of miles
to my next destination.  I was ready for this trip to be over.  I
guess as far as a pleasant sailing vacation, it was over.  I
justified leaving the engine on by the fact that I had to get around
Point Wilson before the tide changed, which was true, but not the
prime motivation.  I was ready for this trip to be over.

The Volvo did beat the tide around Point Wilson, with some help
from the sails.  I even set the yankee when the wind direction
allowed for it.  There were several sailboats in the Port Townsend
area out enjoying the breeze; more sailboats than I had seen in
one area for quite a while.  I put out the fenders again and set up
my mooring lines.  Usually, I would first have a look at the dock,
then set up the mooring lines on the proper side of the boat.
Today, I decided this was pretty silly, and just pre-set the lines
on the port side.  In the worse case scenario, I would would just
have to turn the boat around before docking.  As it turned out, I
not only had to turn the boat around, I had to back in for part
of the way!  But, it was challenging and a little different from
the standard routine, so what the heck.

I got a slip assignment from the marina office, and started motoring
over to "C" dock.  It suddenly dawned on me that my mooring lines
had to be switched to the starboard side for the slip I was
assigned to.  So, there was a mad scramble to switch the docking
lines to the other side of the boat ... in the marina channel ...
in a crosswind.  And of course, not one, not two, but THREE boats
wanted out as I was in the process of switching my lines.  Crazy.
But, I eventually got everything ready, and moved Spirit into her
slip around 1pm.  After that, my first priority was a shower; my
first in over a week.  Next priority was checking my email at the
Internet Cafe (400-some messages were in my "inbox").  I also sent
my Dad a rather gloomy email greeting.  When I had
transferred my email to floppy disks, I was told I could not pay
my bill with a credit card; the Internet Cafe did not have the
required technology.  Go figure...  Anyway, I went back to the boat,
read my email, did some grocery shopping, and walked into town for
a great Mexican dinner.

I guess I overdosed on the enchiladas because the dreams that night
came fast and furious.  The first 2 dreams were reoccurring dreams.
In my "runaway sailboat" dream, I become convinced that the boat is
sailing or drifting, and there is no one topside to see where she
is going.  What typically happens in real life is that I jump out
of bed, and stick my head out the hatch to see how close we are to
the rocks.  Of course, what I actually see is either a marina or
the anchorage where we are spending the night.  I realize its "that"
dream again, and go back to sleep.  Fortunately, I get at most one
of the "runaway sailboat" dreams a night when I am on a sailboat
trip.  The second dream is my famous "tornado dream", which I have
had for years.  This dream happens when I get too cold when I'm
sleeping.  Its always some variation on the theme "here come the
tornado to get me".  I must have been traumatized by midwest
thunderstorms at an early age.  On this particular night, I realized
I was probably dreaming while I was still in the dream, so I "let
go" and got to fly around inside the tornado for a few moments
before waking up.  Too cool...  The final dream was a scary, new
one.  There were several of us "good guys" chasing 2 "bad guys",
but in the end, everyone turned out to be a "bad guy" except this
gal and myself.  Worse yet, the bad guys were going to shoot the
gal and I.  Fortunately, I woke up before anything too radical
happened, but I never did get back to sleep after that one.  What
a night at the movies!




October 15th

After a less-than-restful night, I turned on the electric heater,
and got up when the inside of the cabin was nice and warm.  After
last night's enchilada-thon, all I wanted for breakfast was a 
banana.  I spent some time in the boat yards of Port Townsend
that morning looking at the shapes of the keels of the sailboats,
trying to guess which ones would be good "upwind" keels.  Then I
wondered the downtown area waiting for a bookstore to open.  I had
been out of reading material for quite a while, and I absolutely
refused to go any farther without another book.  Port Townsend
stores have some interesting hours.  I'm use to store hours like
"9 till 6" or something like that.  In Port Townsend, they post
their hours like "10-ish to 5" or "1pm to 5".  Some shops have no
hours posted, which means they open up whenever their owners see
fit to come to work that day.  Amazing... But, patience won out
in the end, and I got my book.

By "11-ish" Spirit was out of the marina and headed for Port Ludlow, 
an easy 12 miles south.  I took the shortcut through the Port
Townsend Canal.  The sun was playing hide and seek with the clouds,
the temperature was cool but pleasant, and there was a gentle breeze
coming from behind.  It was so nice that I did something I had not
done since Barkley Sound; I put up the sails and gave the Volvo the
afternoon off.  I could suddenly hear sounds like ducks and seagulls
again.  A couple porpoises (porpoisie?) played around the boat as I
relaxed in the sun.  I'll be damned; life was good again.  

Nothing had really changed since yesterday, but I was feeling a whole 
lot better.  Was it the dreams?  Was it the fact that I had finally
made it out of the Strait?  From here to Seattle was an easy 2 day
trip.  The only real challenge I could see was getting through the
Ballard locks by myself, something I had never attempted before.
But, what ever the reason, I felt at peace as Spirit wandered
downwind at 2 or three knots.  One thing that was cause for concern
was that a little too much oil and water was finding its way into
the bilge.  Maybe it was time to replace a gasket or two on the
trusty Volvo, another item for the post trip to-do list.  But,
even that didn't bother me.  I would deal with the problem at
the proper time.  Right now, it was sailing time.  

The anchor finally went down in Port Ludlow about 3pm.  It was too nice 
of a day to mess with marinas.  It was so nice that the clouds
almost disappeared completely.  This made for a glorious late
afternoon, but it also made for a damn chilly evening.  I think
they were predicting lows around 40 degrees.  Man, I sure wished
the heater was working.  After the dinner dishes were done, I went
straight to bed.
