Cascading Style Sheets Syntax 

 CSS Syntax 
 = Index DOT Css by Brian Wilson = 

 Main Index |
 Property Index |
 CSS Support History |
 Browser History 

 What Does a Style Sheet Do? 
 A CSS parser is given a document tree along with a style sheet that has been
 specified using any of three methods .
 Given this information, the parser is then responsible for determining the
 destination media for the rendering of the document tree, retrieving
 all components of the style sheet associated with the target media,
 and generating a formatting scheme using the explicit and implied
 CSS properties for that document tree. The CSS specification does not
 concern itself with the details of how it receives the original
 document tree, or how the formatting scheme it establishes is mapped
 to the destination media.

 What is a Style Sheet? 
 A Cascading Style Sheet consists of one or more statements conforming
 to CSS syntax. There are two kinds of statements: 'At-Rules' and
 'Rule Sets'. Both of these statement types allow complex rendering
 structures to be specified.

 At-Rules are the catch-all
 syntax extension mechanism in CSS. At-Rules start with an '@' character,
 immediately followed by an At-keyword, followed by an identifier.
 An At-Rule consists of everything up to and including the next
 semicolon (";") or the next Block (content surrounded by
 matching curly braces), whichever comes first. Blocks may be nested.
 A Rule Set consists of a Selector followed by a Declaration Block.

 A Selector specifies the
 portion(s) of a document tree that a Declaration Block will apply to.
 A Selector consists of everything before the first left curly brace
 ("{") of a Declaration Block. Selectors allow style sheets to refer to
 the following parts of a document tree:

 Elements and 
 some relationships between them.
 Element Attributes 
 and their values .
 Special HTML Attributes .
 Pseudo-Classes : Portions
 of the document tree that are in a specific state.
 Pseudo-Elements :
 Portions of content not directly defined in the document tree.

 A Declaration Block contains a
 series of Declarations. It begins with a left curly brace ("{") and
 ends with the matching right curly brace ("}"). In between lie
 semicolon-separated (";") style Declarations.

 A Declaration is the most basic of CSS syntaxes. It binds a
 value to a CSS property. A Declaration consists of a property name,
 followed by a colon (":"), followed by a property value.

 A Property is an
 identifier. Every property has its own syntax and constraints on the
 values it accepts. Property values also often indicate
 measurement units to aid in
 rendering to the specified media.

 Miscellaneous Syntax Notes 

 Special Unicode character code points can be entered using an
 escape mechanism syntax in CSS2.
 Comments are included in a style sheet
 between '/*' and '*/' delimiters.
 Additional cascading weight can be given to a style assignment with the
 !important syntax.
 All CSS style sheets are case-insensitive, except parts not under
 the control of CSS (such as font names, URLs, HTML/XHTML attributes,
 and all element/attribute names in XML.)
 If an At-Rule, Property, or Property value contains invalid syntax, it
 is ignored; if a Selector contains invalid syntax, it is ignored along
 with its accompanying Declaration Block.
 Parentheses, square brackets, curly braces: These must occur in matching
 pairs and can be nested.
 Single and double quotes: Must occur in matching pairs. Content inside
 quotes is parsed as a string.
 Semi-colons not in strings must be escaped .
 The first character of a selector identifier may only be alphabetic
 [a-zA-Z], but other characters may also consist of digits (0-9),
 dash "-" or Unicode code points above 160.

 Boring Copyright Stuff....