C.M. Connelly: My Debian Work 

 &#160; 

 Blog | 
 Debian | 
 Work | 
 R&eacute;sum&eacute; | 
 About... 

 My Debian Work 

 Debian and Me 

 I am a Debian Developer. That status allows me to
create packages for the Debian GNU/Linux system and make them
available though the Debian Project's network of archive mirrors. 

 At the moment, my two main areas of activity are maintaining four Debian packages and helping maintain
Debian's tetex-* packages. As part of the latter work, I
have written manual pages (&#8220;manpages&#8221;)
for the teTeX project, most of which have been integrated upstream. 

 My Packages 

 MMinstance 
 ( mminstance ) 

 mminstance includes mmafm , a utility to create
AFM files for multiple-master PostScript fonts, and mmpfb , a
utility to produce a standard PFB font for a single instance of that
multiple-master font. 

 Eddie
Kohler 

 Type 1 Utils 
 ( t1utils ) 

 t1utils is a set of six utilities for working with Type 1
PostScript fonts: 

 t1ascii changes PFB (binary) fonts into PFA
 (ASCII) format 

 t1binary changes PFA format fonts into binary
 format 

 t1disasm translates PFBs or PFAs into a
 human-readable and -editable format 

 t1asm translates the human-readable files into
 PFA or PFB format 

 t1unmac (formerly unpost ) translates
 Macintosh Type 1 fonts into PFB or PFA format 

 t1mac translates PFA or PFB files into Macintosh
 format 

 Eddie
Kohler 

 TeXdocTk 
( texdoctk ) 

 I adopted texdoctk after Adrian Bunk left the project.
 texdoctk provides a graphical browser (using PerlTk)
 for teTeX documentation. 

 Thomas Ruedas 

 ThoughtTracker 
( thoughttracker ) 

 ThoughtTracker is a knowledge base application. Its purpose is
to provide you with a searchable hyperlinked database of information
and ideas. 

 Marco Goetze 

 Obtaining the Packages 

 The current versions of my packages should be available from the
Debian archives in the woody (or unstable )
distribution. In the future, I may make experimental packages
available from this site before I'm ready to upload them to Debian
proper. 

 Copyright &copy; 1998&#8211;2002, C.M. Connelly. 

 Last modified at 12:18 PM PST, Monday, February 25, 2002; last rendered at 
 2:43 PM PDT, Monday, September 2, 2002 with Mason 
 and Perl . 

 Please e-mail me about problems with this page . Thanks.