Statisticians Notes 

 Statisticians
Notes 

 (Pulls 85 thru 125) 
 3 April, 2003 

 Pull 95, Casper
 WY 

 60# class, Bull and Tokk were backwards on the finish
report if the numbers are correct. 

 Name Assumptions 

 For the following entries, the name spelling ( bold )
used is that in the database. Listed is the pull number and how the name was
spelled on the pull sheet ( underlined ). 

 Lily 
pulls 121 & 122, Kingston ,. Lit Lillie Changed in db to Lit Lillie.
Lily was used when Kevin pulled provisional. 

 MEMBERSHIP ISSUES 

 Instead of just assuming memberships, I am carrying
this as a reminder that we have some issues to resolve. If you are on this as
a membership not assumed, besides not acquiring pull points, you are probably
not getting the newsletter either 

 New Issues 

 Memberships Not Assumed 

 The
following were marked as members on the organizer's report. Membership has no
record and the individuals are assumed Provisional until confirmation. Their
pulls will become valid if membership records their join date as on or before
the pulls in question. 

 Chelsie & Ken Cowen Shown as members at the Manson pull 15-16 Feb.
Membership does not have them as of 24 Feb and no sign of joining at the pull.
Assuming provisional at this time. 

 Memberships Assumed 

 The
following individuals apparently joined at a pull (shows in the organizers
financial report). Their membership was assumed with the date of the pull, but
is still being watched until the membership chair has received the paperwork. 

 Jose Villarreal ( Cheryl Larom assumed family member)
apparently joined family at the Penn Valley pull 01 March. 

 Shana Bobbit Apparently joined family at the Union Gap pull on 09
March. 

 George Hideg - - Apparently joined family at the Union Gap pull on
09 March. George is out of Kodiak, Alaska Region 1. 

 Robyn Kissler apparently joined Sunday, March 02 at the Penn
Valley Pull. 

 Sherri Radle Apparently rejoined at the Kalkaska pull on March
15. 

 Nathan Burns & Kevin Kell apparently joined family at the Kingston , OH pull 15
March. Kevin has pulled provisional in the past. 

 Zac Mizelle apparently joined family at the Ohio pull on
29 March. 

 Barb Bradley -- apparently joined family at the Ohio pull on
29 March. 

 Jose Casanova -- apparently joined family at the Ohio pull on
29 March. 

 Danny Bessant -- apparently upgraded to family at the Ohio pull on
29 March.