Statisticians Notes 

 Statisticians
Notes 

 (Pulls 41 thru 46) 
 17 December, 2002 

 Corrections 
To Previous Report 

 Pulls 39 and 40 (Bear, DE), 60# class. On Sat, the 2 nd 
Snow should be Star, and Snow was handled by Pam. On Sunday, Star was handled
by Pam. 

 Requested Changes 

 Star owned
by Larry Brillhart in region 11. Changed to Pam Brillhart 

 Chesty -- owned
by Don Taylor, was sold to Dave Coleman after the pull on 26 October 2002 
(effective date 27 October 2002 ). Chesty will maintain points earned under Don
through 26 October. All points earned after 26 October will be under the
Coleman membership. 

 Assumptions 

 Jar Jar Binks Region 2, Cattle Dog owned by Morgan Star. Marlana Ashley handled
him at Union Gap 9-10 November. Assuming the same dog. 

 MEMBERSHIP ISSUES 

 Instead of just assuming memberships, I am carrying
this as a reminder that we have some issues to resolve. If you are on this as
a membership not assumed, besides not acquiring pull points, you are probably
not getting the newsletter either 

 New Issues 

 Memberships Not Assumed 

 The
following were marked as members on the organizer's report. Membership has no
record and the individuals are assumed Provisional until confirmation. Their pulls
will become valid if membership records their join date as on or before the
pulls in question. 

 Morris Hyzer Listed as a member at the Union Gap pull 9-10
November; but not on the membership roster as of 29 November and no indication
of joining at the pull. Assuming provisional at this time. 

 Lori Houtra listed as a member at Abingdon on 9 Nov, but not on
the membership roster as of 29 Nov. and no indication of joining at the pull.
Assuming provisional at this time. 

 Connie McLean listed
as a member at Abingdon on 9 Nov, but not on the membership roster as of 29
Nov. and no indication of joining at the pull. Assuming provisional at this
time. 

 Jim Chester listed as a member at Abingdon on 9-10 Nov, but not
on the membership roster as of 29 Nov. and no indication of joining at the
pull. Judy Chester is signed-up as individual, so this is probably a family
membership that needed upgrading. Assuming provisional at this time. 

 Todd Sheehan listed as a member at Hartford on 9-10 Nov, but not
on the membership roster as of 29 Nov. and no indication of joining at the
pull. Assuming provisional at this time. 

 Memberships Assumed 

 The
following individuals apparently joined at a pull (shows in the organizers
financial report). Their membership was assumed with the date of the pull, but
is still being watched until the membership chair has received the paperwork. 

 Dropped 

 Membership Not Confirmed 

 Steve Duren Listed as a member at Cashmere on
5-6 October, but is not in the membership database as of 21 Oct. and does not
show as joining at the pull. Assuming provisional at this time. 

 Dave LaFountaine Listed as a member at Cashmere on
5-6 October, but is not in the membership database as of 21 Oct. and does not
show as joining at the pull. Assuming provisional at this time. 

 Ellen Parken Questionably listed as a returning member at the Gloucester 
pull 21 Sept. Does not show as joining at the pull, and is not on the
membership list as of 31 Oct. Assuming Provisional at this time. 

 Eric Thames Questionably listed as a member at the Gloucester 
pull 21 & 22 Sept. Does not show as joining at the pull, and is not on the
membership list as of 31 Oct. Assuming Provisional at this time. But, joined
26 Oct; so pulls on or after that date will count.