Statisticians Notes 

 Statisticians
Notes 

 (Pulls 05 thru 11) 
 17 October, 2002 

 NOTE 

 Two changes to points
this season: 

 Dogs that do not pull do not contribute points;
 and 
 Dogs that change ownership retain
 their points with the old owner (and qualify for medals and championship
 invitation) and start with zero points with the new owner. 

 Requested Changes 

 Sparky 
owned by Steve Jackson in region 5 last season. Changed ownership to
Wendy Leister this season per the note on the finish report, and confirmation
from Debi Pruznick . 

 E R R O R S 

 Pull 9, Sacramento CA 

 100#, Tianna listed with a time of 102.91. Assuming
62.91. Pulling for 42 seconds over the time limit does not seem possible. 

 125#. Both dogs listed as pulling 21.50 pounds. Assuming
2150 pounds. 

 Confirmed. 

 MEMBERSHIP ISSUES 

 Instead of just assuming memberships, I am carrying
this as a reminder that we have some issues to resolve. If you are on this as
a membership not assumed, besides not acquiring pull points, you are probably
not getting the newsletter either 

 New Issues 

 Memberships Not Assumed 

 The
following were marked as members on the organizer's report. Membership has no
record and the individuals are assumed Provisional until confirmation. Their
pulls will become valid if membership records their join date as on or before
the pulls in question. 

 Dwayne Phipps Shown as a member at Leesport , PA on 15
Sep., but does not show in the database as of 15 Oct. Assuming provisional at
this time. 

 Bernie Castonquay Shown as joining at the Rideau Lakes pull
on 21 Sep. However, Membership shows him as joining the 27 th and
there was a problem with the check being issued in Canadian funds. Currently
treating as provisional; but I have no doubt it will be cleared. 

 Resolved 

 Unassumed that were Confirmed as Members 

 Phillip Powell was listed as possibly a member at the Boontown
Season Opener September 1 st . His membership has been recorded as
the 1 st . 

 Assumed Members Confirmed 

 Ted, Marilyn & Cortney Wampler joined family as a new member at the Boontown Season
Opener September 1 st 

 Shane Smith joined individual as a new member at the Boontown
Season Opener September 1 st . Shane has previously pulled
provisional 

 Aaron Dill rejoined individual at the Boontown Season Opener
September 1 st 

 Phillip Dill rejoined individual at the Boontown Season Opener
September 1 st . 

 Ricky Stevens shows on the financial sheet as joining individual at
the Selah Weight Pull 9/7, and he handled that day. His membership application
and check showed the 8 th . The 7 th has been
determined to be the join date.