Statisticians Notes 

 Statisticians
Notes 

 (Pulls 47 thru 59) 
 11 January, 2003 

 Requested Changes 

 Action Jaxon 
owned by Kevin Hybeck in region 9. Changed to Jaxson per request
on the finish report for the Greeley pull of 16 Nov. 

 E R R O R S 

 Pull 49, Northcreek NY 

 100# class. If the data on the finish report is
correct, Xena (Zena) and Zephyrus are reversed. 

 Pull 54, Greeley , CO 

 80# class. There is apparently an issue with whether
Sly Guy was disqualified at 1570 pounds. Two pull sheets with him pulling 1570
pounds and 1300 pounds were submitted. Neither Sanctioning, nor the organizer
indicated which to use, nor was the reason for the disqualification given. Waiting
for resolution . 

 100# class. The region was given instead of the
dogs weight. Took the weight from the previous day for all but Donney 
who did not pull the previous day. 

 60# class apparently missing? I entered 26 dogs.
The financial report indicates there should be 33 dogs and there is no 60# or
#150 pound sheet (60# dogs did pull the preceding day). 

 Name Assumptions 

 For the following entries, the name spelling ( bold )
used is that in the database. Listed is the pull number and how the name was
spelled on the pull sheet ( underlined ). 

 DeAngelo Faxio pulls 47, Chantilly VA ,. DeAngelo Demonia -- assuming they are the
same person. Handled Lady Bug . 

 MEMBERSHIP ISSUES 

 Instead of just assuming memberships, I am carrying
this as a reminder that we have some issues to resolve. If you are on this as
a membership not assumed, besides not acquiring pull points, you are probably
not getting the newsletter either 

 Still Outstanding 

 Memberships Not Assumed 

 Morris Hyzer Listed as a member at the Union Gap pull 9-10
November; but not on the membership roster as of 29 November and no indication
of joining at the pull. Assuming provisional at this time. They may
have assumed they are still a member because our prior membership cards only
listed expiration date and they may have assumed it was initiation date . 

 Resolved 

 Unassumed that were Confirmed as Members 

 Eric & Ryan Thames Joined 26 October 2002 .
The pulls in which Eric handled Denali since 26 Oct will be updated to reflect the points Denali 
earned. 

 Dropped 

 Membership Not Confirmed 

 Lori Houtra listed as a member at Abingdon on 9 Nov, but not on
the membership roster as of 29 Nov. and no indication of joining at the pull.
Remaining provisional. 

 Connie McLean listed
as a member at Abingdon on 9 Nov, but not on the membership roster as of 29
Nov. and no indication of joining at the pull. Remaining provisional. 

 Jim Chester listed as a member at Abingdon on 9-10 Nov, but not
on the membership roster as of 29 Nov. and no indication of joining at the
pull. Judy Chester is signed-up as individual, so this is probably a family
membership that needed upgrading. Remaining provisional. 

 Todd Sheehan listed as a member at Hartford on 9-10 Nov, but not
on the membership roster as of 29 Nov. and no indication of joining at the
pull. Remaining provisional.