on-line supervision 

 Locations 

 Rob McNeilly MBBS was in a suburban Melbourne general medical practice for 10 years, had the privilege of learning directly with Milton Erickson , was inspired by his human approach to therapy, and created his own interpretation to assist clients in a respectful, dignified way with the human dilemmas that affect individuals, couples and families. He founded the CET in l988 to introduce Ericksonian Hypnosis and the Solution Oriented Approach to hypnosis, counselling and coaching in Australia. For more than 30 years, the contribution he brings i his teaching style, writing and unique approaches to learning and therapy allow for a ready application into everyday living and are recognised locally, nationally and internationally, including repeated invited presentations at the Milton H Erickson Foundation&rsquo;s International Congresses in USA since 1980 and workshops in Singapore and Denmark since 1999. He is co-author, with Jenny Brown, of "Healing With Words", "Healing the Whole Person" was published by Wiley, republished as &ldquo;Doing Change&rdquo; by St Luke&rsquo;s Innovative Resources, and Crown House have published a series of DVD demonstrations of counselling and hypnosis. Students comment on his easy, respectful manner and his elegant ability to make complex issues approachable while retaining their essence. &lsquo; Rob McNeilly studied with Milton H. Erickson M.D. ... is one of the most knowledgeable practitioners of Ericksonian methods in Australia. His teaching is clear, entertaining and edifying.&rsquo; Jeffrey K. Zeig, Ph.D. Board of Directors, The Milton H. Erickson Foundation, Inc., Phoenix, Arizona. &ldquo;Rob McNeilly worked with Milton Erickson, has been an invited presenter at International Ericksonian Congresses, and is a passionate and skilful teacher of the Solution Oriented Approach. I know him and his work, and value his personal and professional contributions." Bill O&rsquo;Hanlon MS LMFT A highly skilled presenter whose unique perspectives and playful demeanour make for a delightful learning experience.&rsquo; Michael D. Yapko, Ph.D. &lsquo; .. Your clear and practical teaching of the solution oriented approach has enabled me to achieve more effective interventions with greater ease ..... the approach is applicable in many different contexts...&rsquo; Peter Thorneycroft, Psychologist. 

 On-line Group Supervision with Rob McNeilly Principles We mostly work in isolation, and over the years I have seen the wonderful benefits of connecting with other like minded people. I have been playing with a way of having this happen on-line from our computers, and at last the technology is available. Participants have commented on how useful the process is. Structure There will be a monthly series of events on a Thursday from 5pm - 6pm Eastern Australian Time - April 11, May 9, June 13, August [1,8 or 22 - to be confirmed], September 5 & October 31, 2013. Limit of 10 participants - first come first served. Fees A$150 for the series. Sorry but individual session payment is not an option. Process Each session will happen using zoom.us. If you haven&rsquo;t already domes so, could you go to zoom.us and download the free application. It only takes a few minutes. I will send participants an email 5 - 10 minutes before each session with a link to click on which will allow an immediate and easy connection. Registration [essential]: Please send me an email with the following details:- Name Address phone email Payment by direct deposit to CBA, Elizabeth Street North Hobart 7000 BSB 067 028 account # 1023 2600 Dr Robert McNeilly & Dr Gabrielle Peacock . I&rsquo;m looking forward to this opportunity with you. cet home