Ney Family History: Chapter 2 

 CHAPTER TWO 
 Auswanderer nach Amerika 
 or Immigration to America 

 Given the complicated political history of Luxembourg, the massive
emigration movement of the nineteenth century seems inevitable. During the
course of the nineteenth century one in five Luxembourgers immigrated to
the United States. Five waves of emigration covering the time period of
1828-1925 have been described, but the major influx of Luxembourg
immigrants to the United States occurred during the periods of 1845-1860
and 1861-1875. Significant political changes, both in Luxembourg and the
United States, took place during these periods. These changes influenced
who emigrated, why and where they settled. 

 New York Harbor, Library of Congress. 

 Some of the push factors for both time periods included overpopulation,
high taxes, conscription into foreign armies and agrarian adversities such
as floods and crop failures. Another contributing factor was a practice
put into place during the egalitarian rule of Revolutionary France which
stipulated each child in a family inherited equally from their parents.
This custom, coupled with the Catholic Luxembourgers tendency towards
large families, reduced individual farms to a few acres in a generation or
two. The Bon Pays region with its more fertile soil was home to
many farms. The fertility of the soil would become a very important factor
in determining who was able to emigrate in the nineteenth century as many
Luxembourgers, dissatisfied with foreign rule and trying to support large
families on small parcels of land, began looking to the horizon for better
opportunities. 

 Selling their belongings in the old country helped the
immigrants pay the ship fare as well as acquire a surface of land
considerably larger than they could ever hope to call their own in
Luxembourg. Hence it was not the poorest (the agrarian proletariat) that
left - a candidate for emigration must needs own at least a few acres of
land so as to finance his trip. This is the reason why the Oesling, the
rugged Northern half of Luxembourg has hardly contributed early settlers
to the emigration movement. [ 1 ] 

 Pull factors included the availability of cheap land in the United
States, higher wages, social equality and the general spirit of adventure
that letters, advertisements and guidebooks instilled in the downtrodden
and disenchanted. An oft-repeated refrain in letters to the old country
included a sentence to the effect that "we eat meat every day in this
country." [ 2 ] The
industrial revolution did not reach Luxembourg until the 1880's, long
after the pattern of emigration had already begun.

 The differences characterized between these two periods include the
foreign, military and political threats at the time. For the period
1845-1860 the greater threat was the recently independent Belgians. From
1861-1875 the threats were Germany and Prussia. As a result, many
emigrants in the earlier period were from western and southern Luxembourg. 
During the later period it was residents from the east side of the country
who emigrated. The threat of conscription was valid for both time periods. 
During the earlier period extended families, even small communities,
emigrated en masse. By the later period, chain migration had more impact
with individual families joining earlier emigrants in the United States. 

 For most Luxembourgers, after selling what little property they owned
and many of their personal effects, the port of departure was Antwerp. 
Many of the immigrants during the 1840's were from the former Luxembourg
province of Luxembourg, which had been ceded to Belgium in 1839. The
proximity of Antwerp made it a convenient port and it also provided some
familiarity for the travelers. 

 Left - Reproduction
poster for the Red Star Shipping Line. Right - Advertisement for
the Red Star Shipping Line from Antwerp to New York, Library of
Congress. 

 During the period of 1861-1875 children of immigrant Luxembourgers
began moving away from the original settlements in Chicago, eastern
Wisconsin, Minnesota and Iowa to western cities, Kansas, North and South
Dakota. Luxembourgers tended to settle where other Luxembourgers could be
found, or where settlers from the Letzeb&uuml;rgesch speaking
regions formerly part of Luxembourg were living. The areas included
Bitburg, Trier, Thionville and Arlon. This practice led to culturally
distinct settlements in Wisconsin (Belgium, Holy Cross and Port
Washington), Iowa (Dubuque, Luxembourg and St. Donatus) and Minnesota
(Rollingstone and St. Cloud). These settlements have a unique Luxembourg
flavor that is evident to this day. [ 3 ] 

 An excerpt from a journal kept by Johann Weyker, a Luxembourg farmer
who settled in Ozaukee County, Wisconsin, is representative of the
immigrant experience. 

 In the year 1845, I, Johann Weyker, a native of Oberpallen,
bade farewell to Germany, i.e. the village of Sterpenich in the Province
of Luxembourg and county of Arlon together with my family made up of my
wife and four children, and we came hither to America. We left home on
May 15th of that year and went aboard ship in Antwerp, whence we left on
May 25th. The sea voyage took us 40 days and we landed happily in New
York on July 4th. The fare cost 75 franks per person. And from New York
to Milwaukee we travelled in a fortnight using steamer and railroad. The
fare was 12 dollars per person. In Milwaukee we stayed up to four weeks. 
And each day we went out to have a look at the land, and finally we
discovered this beautiful country near Port Washington. It deemed us most
proper and so we bought land from Congress for 10 shillings per acre. 
That year we were indeed the first settlers in the area around Port
Washington. And in the fall of the year following we numbered already 60
German families. My implements in these early days were a few tools, some
pieces of furniture like a stove, etc. and they cost me $160; add to this
6 cows for $14-15 a piece, a team of oxen for $50, a chariot for $58 and
victuals to start with for $150. [ 4 ] 

 The Weyker family, who arrived in New York aboard the ship Silvanus
Jenkins along with fifteen other families, were among the first
Luxembourg settlers of Ozaukee County, Wisconsin. [ 5 ] All of the families were from villages
along the new border between Luxembourg and Belgium and from the Belgian
province of Luxembourg, which had been part of Luxembourg until six years
prior to the Weyker emigration. Whatever their professions in the old
country - the majority were Tagel&ouml;hner , "day laborers" -
nearly all immigrants became farmers upon their arrival in America. [ 6 ] 

 Table of Contents || 
 Introduction || 
 Chapter 1: Luxembourg || 
 Luxembourg Timeline || 
 Chapter 2: Immigration 
 Chapter 3: Wisconsin || 
 Wisconsin Timeline || 
 Chapter 4: Ney Family || 
 Chapter 5: Ney Children 

 NOTES - CHAPTER TWO

 1. Muller, Jean-Claude. "Luxembourgers in the New World" Voila Luxembourg, April 1992, pg. 145.
 2. Muller, pg. 150.
 3. Thernstrom, Stephan, editor. Harvard Encyclopedia of American Ethnic Groups. s.v. Luxembourg. Cambridge, Mass.: Belknap Press, 1980, pg. 688.
 4. Muller, pp. 142-144.
 5. Ensch, Jean. Muller, Jean-Claude. Owen, Robert E. Luxembourgers in the New World: A reedition based on the work of Nicholas Gonner "Die Luxemburger in der Neuen Welt", Dubuque, Iowa, 1889: published with a complete index ... Esch-sur-Alz

ette, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg: Editions-Reliures Schortgen, 1987, pg. 137.
 6. Muller, pg. 146.

 Last Updated: 14 November 1998 
 Lisa Oberg || 
 lisanne@eskimo.com || 
 www.eskimo.com/~lisanne