Guitar Columns - Leading Questions 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar Columns , Leading Questions 

 Leading Questions 

 Guitar Column # 21 
 Published May 09, 2000 
 By David 
 Hodge 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Let's examine the "mystique" of the lead guitarist. 
 Chances are very likely that you took up the guitar with the 
 fixed mental image of yourself playing soaring, blistering 
 solos in front of hundreds of thousands (we really do build 
 the biggest stadiums in our minds, don't we?) of screaming, 
 adoring, amazed fans. You'd play the fastest riffs, every 
 note right in its place. Whole new generations of guitarists 
 would crop up, hoping to be the next you. 
 But how do you reach this point? Players just starting out 
 will hear leads and usually react in a typically paradoxical 
 manner. They can't wait to play like that but they're afraid 
 to try because they know there's no way they will sound remotely 
 like it. But even the greatest of lead players have to start 
 somewhere. Don't they? 
 Anyone who has ever played with me will be happy to report 
 that I am no lead guitarist. Don't get me wrong, when given 
 my chance to do a solo I can usually hold my own, unless I 
 try to do something I know my fingers cant do, something 
 really outrageous. But I usually don't embarrass myself (at 
 least not anymore when I first started soloing, well, let's 
 just say it's a good thing to play with friends who are willing 
 to overlook things) and that's usually all I tend to worry 
 about when given a chance to solo. 
 Okay, it's not the only thing about which I worry. 
 As I've grown as a guitarist, I've learned a lot about leads 
 and fills from all sorts of sources, hands-on and researched. 
 What we're going to do today is to go over how to start developing 
 your skills as a soloist. We'll examine things you should 
 know and dispel some of the mystique that might keep you from 
 even trying to attempt to "soar." We'll also construct 
 a solo from scratch to show you not only how it's done but 
 also, more importantly, to show you how to start thinking 
 about how it's done. 
 I will warn you outright my "methods" might strike 
 a number of you who have been playing a while as a bit unorthodox. 
 But if you remember that my basic philosophy is to get you 
 to think about the "how" in order to accomplish 
 the "what," then I think you'll see we'll eventually 
 wind up at pretty much the same place. 
 BEFORE YOU EVEN PICK UP YOUR GUITAR 
 ("Don't touch that dial...") 
 There's something that you may already know, but it's very 
 important to fix in your brain. The "solos" you 
 hear on your CDs are NOT spontaneous, just off the top of 
 one's head creations that are laid down on disc (vinyl, tape, 
 whatever) in one take. To think so is to put yourself into 
 a huge disadvantage from the start. Most solos are the result 
 of (gasp!) planning. The guitarists involved know how many 
 measures are involved or what chord changes are taking place 
 underneath the solo. The good lead guitarists will construct 
 a solo, giving it the same qualities of a well-written song 
 - a beginning, a middle and an end as well as points of dynamic 
 tension and release. Of all the guitarists I know there is 
 maybe one or two who are capable of a quality lead at the 
 drop of a hat. Don't get me wrong, there are a zillion who 
 can improvise a spur of the moment solo (usually based on 
 scales) that will sound great and, more often than not, fit 
 the mood of the song. With a fair degree of practice and a 
 backlog of riffs, just about anybody can do this. I'm not 
 kidding. 
 Leads generally fall into one of the following categories: 
 "rhythmic," "melodic," "slashing" 
 and "effects." They're pretty self-explanatory. 
 And they can overlap you can have "rhythmic/melodic" 
 or "melodic/effects" and so on. A rhythmic lead 
 usually is a rhythm guitar part brought to the fore. The start 
 of the solo in "Proud Mary" is a great example of 
 this. The second half of that solo is a melodic lead. 
 The difference between a melodic and a slashing lead is can 
 be best seen (okay, heard) in the two solos in the Pink Floyd 
 classic, "Comfortably Numb." The first solo, between 
 the verses, is truly gorgeous (and the solo on "Mother" 
 from the same album would fit this description as well). The 
 "melody" carefully follows the chord changes. You 
 really can "sing" it, if you wanted to. The lead 
 at the end of "Comfortably Numb" is more harsh 
 full of jarring runs of blues and rock riffs strung together. 
 It's the sort of thing that makes you drop everything and 
 grab your air guitar off its air guitar stand and play along. 
 Slashing leads are more concerned with scales and flashy guitar 
 tricks which could include anything from a simple bend to 
 a complex series of tapping. A melodic solo will follow the 
 path laid out by the chords of the song; the slashing solo 
 will say, Heres my scale! and stick to that, letting the 
 chords of the song fall where they will. 
 An effects lead is precisely that, a solo built out of an 
 effect or multiple effects. Usually, an effects lead is combined 
 with a melodic or slashing lead but it can stand on its own. 
 One of the inherent problems of an effects lead is that it 
 relies solely on the electronics to accomplish its task This 
 is why some bands sound so much different live on stage than 
 they do on record. Innovations in effects are rapidly changing 
 this, however. 
 For the beginner, the melodic lead is the best place to start. 
 Way too often guitarists learn to solo simply by copying other 
 solos. You learn various riffs and "tricks" and 
 then string them together in the appropriate key. This is 
 a tried and tested method and while it will get you off to 
 a fast start, it will not make you a good soloist. It will 
 make you a good imitator. If you start out with discovering 
 and developing your own style, it is easier to adapt other 
 guitarists' styles to fit yours. I'm not saying don't learn 
 solos note for note (more on that later), just wait a little 
 and give yourself a chance first. Become someone else later 
 if you want to. 
 Another good thing about melodic leads is that, again due 
 to the nature of the solo, they can be studied and learned 
 on any guitar, whether electric, acoustic or classical. Never 
 con yourself into thinking that solo automatically implies 
 electric guitar. Any song arranger or soloist worth his 
 or her salt will explore not only different types of instrumentation 
 when constructing a lead, but also the ever-growing array 
 of devices through which to play them. 
 STARTING OUT NICE AND EASY 
 ("we never do anything nice and easy") 
 Most of you have heard of the three "r's" 
 of education. For the beginning soloist, appropriately enough, 
 there are three "s's:" short, slow and simple. I 
 also like to add "singable" to that list. Anyway, 
 just as in all our other studies, our object is to start out 
 with things that we can handle and then branch out to more 
 and more difficult problems. 
 I prefer to work with actual songs but you can also work 
 out solos off of chord progressions. If you decide to use 
 a song, pick something that you know pretty well. It will 
 help immensely if it is slow or moderately paced and it helps 
 even more if it doesn't have a lot of chord changes. I also 
 find that it helps to choose a song that doesn't already have 
 a "famous" solo because I don't want to have that 
 in the back of my head when I'm trying to come up with something 
 myself. I also don't want to start with something very long 
 four to sixteen measures tops. When I get good at this I 
 may never have enough time for a solo, but for right now half 
 a verse, a verse or a chorus is more than enough. 
 So now I take up my guitar and I make a recording of my song. 
 Nothing flamboyant, you understand. Just me playing, singing, 
 whatever on a cheap cassette making certain that I've got 
 a good steady rhythm guitar part where I intend to solo. I 
 may put on a number of songs on one tape so that I have a 
 few things to work on. And, thinking about it first, I will 
 definitely begin the tape by simply playing the open strings 
 one at a time so I have something to be in tune with (it pays 
 off to think of these things in advance). Instead of songs, 
 you can also lay out a tape of chord progressions. Again, 
 I encourage you to keep it short and simple to start with. 
 Also make sure you have a definite pattern. Songs follow patterns; 
 therefore, leads should as well. 
 Okay, if you're with me up to this point, then you'll understand 
 that I have to switch to a concrete example. It's all fine 
 and dandy to speak in generalities up to a point but I think 
 that you'll get a lot more out of things if we have something 
 specific to examine. For the sake of simplicity, I'll pick 
 Dylan's "Knocking On Heaven's Door." It fits the 
 "s" criteria short slow and simple. A single verse 
 is eight measures. Tempo is moderately slow. Chords are as 
 follows: 

 G (2 beats) 

 D (2 beats) 

 Am (4 beats) 

 G (2 beats) 

 D (2 beats) 

 C (4 beats) 

 Repeat this sequence of four measures twice and you've got 
 a verse. Definitely qualifies as simple. Without meaning to, 
 I've actually tipped my hand to the next step. I need to do 
 a quick analysis of the chord structure over which I'll be 
 soloing. 
 As you can see, these are all standard chords in the key 
 of G (which is the key of the song): 

 I 

 II 

 III 

 IV 

 V 

 VI 

 G 

 Am 

 Bm 

 C 

 D 

 Em 

 No surprises here it's almost as if someone planned it 
 that way! The reason for going over this is to see which notes 
 will work and which will not. In other words, I'm figuring 
 out which scale or scales I'll use. And that's all we're going 
 to say about this topic for now 
 ABSORBING THE ATMOSPHERE 
 ("Breathe...breathe the air...") 
 Okay, maybe we'll talk about scales just a bit... 
 The principle reason I tell people not to start out with 
 scales and riffs is very simple - it takes away from thinking 
 about what you're doing. Many fledgling guitarists learn their 
 scales and learn standard riffs (or "tricks" if 
 you prefer) and then are left to simply plug them into a song. 
 Little thought is given as to why a particular scale works 
 and even less thought is given to the mood or the atmosphere 
 of a song, it's just "Hey, I know this lick and I'm sure 
 I can jam it in here somewhere." This is nowhere more 
 evident than when people get together to jam, especially when 
 the particular song being played is not well known by the 
 players involved. If you listen carefully, almost all guitarists 
 have "fallback riffs," a pattern (or patterns) that 
 they will use when called upon to solo on a relatively unfamiliar 
 piece. This is why, believe it or not, it is more important 
 for the lead guitarist to have a bigger repertoire of songs 
 and song styles than the rhythm guitarist. I knew one guy 
 in school who could play "metal" riffs to perfection. 
 I still don't know anyone else who was as fast on the fret 
 board as he was (and probably still is). But that was all 
 he could play. Even simple blues songs left him completely 
 at a loss for an appropriate lead. 
 If you walk away from this column with only one thing, this 
 is what you need to know: THE SONG DICTATES THE SOLO. This 
 is what eventually separates the "soloist" from 
 the "lead player." Yes it will be important to learn 
 scales and different riffs and tricks but all of that will 
 be useless if you are incapable of hearing, imagining and 
 understanding the difference between a lead that enhances 
 a song and one that completely derails the song. This is why 
 the melodic leads is an ideal tool for the beginner - to - 
 intermediate soloist. The very process of coming up with it 
 will ensure its appropriateness to the song. 
 Going back to "Knocking On Heaven's Door," I've 
 decided some things: first, I'm going to put the solo in at 
 a traditional point in the song - between the first chorus 
 and the second verse (there are only two verses). Second, 
 eight measures the length of one verse will be long enough 
 for me. Finally, I want to do something based on the melody 
 line, which in the original recording is also "echoed" 
 by the humming in the intro as well as at the end of the song. 
 By using the melody taken straight from the song I am assuring 
 myself the easiest way I know how of maintaining the mood. 
 It's like taking a shoot from a plant and putting it into 
 a second, smaller pot. After listening to the recording and 
 singing it myself a few times, I've figured it out: 

 I've also found that I cannot get out of my head another 
 melody line that a friend of mine used to do when he played 
 this song (he told me he took it from a live Clapton version 
 of the song): 

 So what I've now decided to do is to throw the two snippets 
 of melody (these are called motifs ) together. 
 I will do motif 1 (the "humming" line) twice followed 
 by motif 2 (the "Clapton" line) also played twice. 
 That will give me eight measures and bring me right into the 
 second verse. 
 And this is as good a place as any to bring up another important 
 topic. While we're discussing the atmosphere and mood of the 
 song it is also good to have an idea of how the lead is going 
 to be played. Leads for single guitarists (no band, no back 
 up) require a great deal of thought and attention. Not only 
 do you have the integrity of the atmosphere to maintain, you 
 also must deal with the integrity of the overall sound. Switching 
 from rhythm to lead dramatically changes the dynamics of your 
 performance so special care must be given to the planning 
 of your leads. We will cover this sometime later (late summer/early 
 fall at this rate...). For now, though, Im working with the 
 simplest plan that I will be playing an acoustic guitar 
 (no tone settings to worry myself with). Usually I will be 
 playing with at least one other guitarist and, if not singing 
 lead, I will be singing harmony on the first chorus. This 
 does not leave me a lot of free time to swing into the lead. 
 Also, I normally would be playing rhythm and singing on the 
 second verse so I want to try to make my solo segue smoothly 
 into the strumming pattern of verse two. Well, so much for 
 a total lack of complications! 
 HEARING WHAT ISN'T THERE 
 (Space and Negative Space) 
 Starting as simply as possible, I string together my two 
 groups of moitfs into an eight measure first draft (which, 
 hopefully, will become my solo): 

 Now that sounds incredibly plain, doesn't it? Well, this 
 is where I need to use my brains, heart and nerve all at the 
 same time. You've probably all heard professional athletes 
 or motivational speakers talk about how important it is to 
 "visualize" things. The theory being is that if 
 you can see it in your mind, then you can somehow (through 
 sheer willpower, talent and, occasionally a small donation 
 to the proper powers that be) do what you see yourself doing 
 in your mind. Make that perfect golf shot. Sell seven hundred 
 percent over your quota. Get a four instead of a queen from 
 the dealer when you're sitting on seventeen. Whatever. 
 Music is one of the few places where "visualization" 
 can truly work. Maybe "audiolization" is a better 
 word (even though, of course, my computer will red line it 
 every time I use it...). If you can hear what you want to 
 do in your head, you should be able to produce it on your 
 guitar. Don't be discouraged if your hands haven't caught 
 up with your head yet. Your skills will eventually allow this 
 to happen, but if you cannot hear what you want to do in the 
 first place, it becomes a moot point. And that's okay, too. 
 Not everybody even wants to solo but certainly there is enough 
 going on musically to allow the chance to whoever wants to. 
 When I listen to music, it's almost always in terms of harmonies. 
 Yes, I'm one of those often annoying people who can't be content 
 to simply sing along with the song, I have to create my own 
 part. So in my head I hear harmony lines along with those 
 motifs. And since they are already fairly slow, I can play 
 them myself instead of counting on a second guitar to do it. 
 One problem, though, is that when I use a harmony line on 
 the first motif, I really can't distinguish it from my normal 
 first position strum. So instead I move the whole motif up 
 an octave and, to flesh it out, I add more harmony parts to 
 it. In essence, I am using chords, albeit a different chord 
 voicing from my first set of chords. I've gone and turned 
 the melodic lead into a melodic/rhythmic hybrid. 
 Here's what we've got now: 

 I'm not satisfied with this. While it's a big improvement 
 over the first one, it still feels, I don't know, stagnant. 
 It doesn't "breathe;" rather, it's like it's inhaling 
 all the time. I really like the first two measures and the 
 last two but I'm not sure how to connect them. Since the first 
 motif is now an octave higher than the second motif, I have 
 an inspiration - why not play the second motif an octave higher 
 the first time and then play it the second time where I have 
 it now? The brain agrees with the nerve. Logically I would 
 be making two descending patterns, one flowing straight into 
 the other. I give it a try and find that I'm really pleased 
 with this: 

 However, I'm still not happy with the transition from the 
 first motif to the second. It's definitely better having the 
 first part of the second motif up an octave. The flow of the 
 notes is much smoother but it still doesn't feel right. So 
 I wrack my brain a little more and think, "You know, 
 this fingering is just a D chord on the seventh fret instead 
 of the fifth. I know a lot of D chord flourishes. That could 
 work." So I play around with different things, hammering 
 on here, picking off there, just like I would if I was playing 
 a regular D. I also toy around with arpeggiating the chords, 
 making them fit somewhat more with the general rhythm. But 
 I also make sure to let the initial strum ring out as long 
 as it can. This holding on to the chord while picking out 
 the arpeggios creates a bit of depth. It sounds like theres 
 a solo lurking under the chords that pops its head out every 
 now and then. And after a bit of trial and a lot of error, 
 I settle on this: 

 Im getting really close now. This little flurry of notes 
 is not too busy and, best yet, it leads me directly into the 
 recently raised up an octave second motif. It also inspires 
 me to try to come up with a "lead in" from the first 
 half of motif 2 (the one up an octave) to the second half 
 and then another lead in from the finish of motif 2 to the 
 G chord to start out the second verse. 
 But I have to be careful here. I've established a nice pattern. 
 Everything is not all rushed together in a torrent of notes. 
 Currently, there is tension and resolution and it almost is 
 an antithesis of the song itself. Where the song would have 
 a vocal line and then some breathing room, I have some slower 
 two and three note clusters held together by a short burst 
 of flourishes. Any of you who have taken any introductory 
 art classes will probably be familiar with the concept of 
 "negative space." What we've done with this lead 
 is essentially a musical equivalent of that. Using some simple 
 hammer-ons and pick-offs, let's put the finishing touches 
 on our solo, shall we? 

 You can hear that this lead certainly keeps the mood of the 
 song intact. There is a nice balance of melody and busy-ness, 
 but not so much busy-ness that it attracts all the attention 
 to itself. The final flourish brings me right back to the 
 G chord without missing a step. All in all, this lead sounds 
 and feels like an organic part of the song. No, its not the 
 flashiest solo youve ever heard (or that Ive ever done), 
 but (a) its not a rowdy song and (b) Im not a flashy guitarist. 
 Which brings us to: 
 PLAYING TO YOUR STRENGTHS 
 Depending on your personality, you will either be saying 
 to yourself, "Wow, this was cool! I'm going to try use 
 this technique on (whatever song I like)..." or "Geez, 
 what's the big deal? I could do that in my sleep!" But 
 what I'm actually hoping for is a combination of the two. 
 A solo doesn't have to be the most flamboyant thing. Not all 
 of us (myself included) are gifted with a brain that is capable 
 of analyzing a chord pattern and then sorting through its 
 catalogue of borrowed riffs, selecting one that will work, 
 transposing it to the correct key, and changing it to a rhythmic 
 pattern that will fill the alloted lead space without sounding 
 like it's been jammed in there by someone who really could 
 care less and then shipping all this information down to the 
 hands (which of course are the world's fastest hands, which 
 never, ever, make a mistake!) and doing all this in the space 
 of a heartbeat. But we are all capable of thinking things 
 through. There is a big difference between soloing and improvising. 
 And I hope that I've been able to make this, if not clearer 
 to you, than at least a little less daunting. Over the course 
 of the upcoming summer, we'll be looking at some of the "tricks" 
 and riffs that you can use to flesh out your soloing notebook. 
 Many of these can be used to serve as rhythm guitar fills 
 as well (and I bet you thought I'd forgotten!). 
 And it really should go without saying that more you work 
 on constructing leads (or simply analyzing the construction 
 of leads), coupled with your knowledge of song structures 
 and scales, the easier improvising will come to you. And real 
 improvisation, not just sticking in riff A because its 
 a rock/blues song in the key of whatever. 
 But it's vital that you realize there is more to soloing 
 than speed and scales. Just as there is so much more to playing 
 than simply knowing the chords and how to strum. Concentrate 
 on whatever appeals to you most but at least try to familiarize 
 yourself with all the aspects of the art of playing. And it 
 is an art. As I've told you from day one, the surest way to 
 regret ever taking up the instrument is to forget why you 
 took it up in the first place. Playing the guitar will always 
 be a challenge and an adventure as long as you keep finding 
 ways to grow. 
 When it comes to soloing, you have to be true to yourself. 
 While I will never be mistaken for lightning, I have it within 
 me for a burst or two to take me to the next melodic line. 
 And I am terrific with melodies and harmony lines. You need 
 to find out what strengths you have and play accordingly. 
 This is how you get a style that is unique. Learn other people's 
 riffs in order to incorporate the techniques used and then 
 come up with ways to use them that fit your style. This may 
 sound incredibly pompous, but we've already got a Jimmy Page 
 and a Steve Vai and whoever. I love listening to them all 
 but I'll always more excited at the prospect of who's coming 
 next. Maybe it's you. 
 And, as always, please feel free to write me with your questions, 
 comments, concerns, ideas for upcoming topics or simply to 
 say how things are coming in your niche of the guitar world. 
 You can email me directly at Dhodge8888@cs.com 
 or drop a line in at the Guitar 
 Forum page. Those of you who are into songwriting should 
 definitely check out A-J 
 Charron's latest articles (and yes, I joined the Guitar 
 Noise Writing Club ). 
 I'd also like to especially thank all of you who wrote me 
 about the last column . I really 
 had no idea that so many of you would respond to it and I 
 am incredibly overwhelmed with your emails. If I haven't gotten 
 a line off to you yet, it's simply because I had to take the 
 time to write this! 
 Until the next update! 
 David Hodge 2000-05-09 
 Previous 
 article in this series "If I Only Had" 
 Next article in this series 
 "Tricks of the Trade" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.