Guitar Columns - Tricks Of The Trade 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar Columns , Tricks of the Trade 

 Tricks of the Trade 

 Guitar Column # 22 
 Published May 16, 2000 
 By David 
 Hodge 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Before moving on with leads, its important that we all get 
 on the same page regarding guitar tricks. Today well look 
 at the four most basic ones, go over some examples and also 
 take a look at how they can be used as fills for rhythm players. 
 Well also continue to play Bob Dylans Knocking on Heavens 
 Door to death (no pun intended). Id also like to note that 
 if youre really interested in this topic, you owe 
 it to yourself to spend some quality time at the Guitar 
 Lesson pages here at the Online Guitar College. I cant 
 begin to tell you how much there is there to look through. 
 Some things come quickly to some people. Students who cannot 
 tell the difference between 4 / 4 and 3 / 4 time will be able 
 to flawlessly perform a complex riff. A guitarist who has 
 no trouble fingering complicated chords will struggle to play 
 a descending bass line. We all approach learning things differently 
 and how easily we can grasp something does not always translate 
 into how quickly well incorporate it into our playing, if 
 we ever do. 
 The techniques or tricks that well examine 
 today are hammer-ons, pick-offs, slides and bends. Just how 
 quickly you catch on to these which come easily and which 
 require a bit of work is, as always, up to you. But that 
 really is the secondary lesson. What I hope to do is show 
 you how the rhythm guitarist or solo performer can also make 
 use of these four techniques generally considered solely 
 as tools of the lead guitarist. And how, by adding these tricks 
 to your playing, one can add new depths to ones style. 
 Oh yes, lest we forget: 
 These files are the authors own work and 
 represents his interpretation of the song. It is intended 
 solely for private study, scholarship or research. 
 THE AMAZING SECOND FRET 
 Lets take a really quick look at the lower end of our fret 
 board the first five frets, shall we? For most guitarists, 
 this is where ninety percent of ones playing occurs. One 
 of the reasons the guitar is tuned the way it is (as well 
 as why so much guitar music is written in the keys you all 
 know so well), is to give the player (relatively) easy access 
 to all the notes in any given scale. Granted its not as easy 
 as it is in the bass (as you can read in Dan 
 Lasleys great article on the subject), but its still 
 not like trying to stretch your hand an octave-and-a-half 
 on a keyboard. Since Knocking On Heavens Door is in the 
 key of G major, were going to concern ourselves with only 
 the notes in that scale: 

 Open 

 1st Fret 

 2nd Fret 

 3rd Fret 

 4th Fret 

 5th Fret 

 E 

 F# 

 G 

 A 

 B 

 C 

 D 

 E 

 G 

 A 

 B 

 C 

 D 

 E 

 F# 

 A 

 B 

 C 

 D 

 E 

 F# 

 G 

 A 

 Okay, there are two important things to note here: first, 
 the fifth fret is, except on the G string, always the note 
 of the next open string. You already knew this because this 
 is how you tune 
 your guitar , right. On the G string, its the fourth fret 
 that sounds the next open string. Why is this important? Well, 
 if you want to run a G major scale (or a natural E minor), 
 you can now pretty much stay on the first three frets. The 
 only note beyond this short range of movement is the F#, which 
 is on the fourth fret of the D string. Youve drastically 
 cut down on the amount of area for your fingers to cover which 
 in turn will allow you to be quicker. See? 

 Open 

 1st Fret 

 2nd Fret 

 3rd Fret 

 4th Fret 

 E 

 F# 

 G 

 B 

 C 

 D 

 G 

 A 

 B 

 D 

 E 

 F# 

 A 

 B 

 C 

 E 

 F# 

 G 

 This is why it pays to think ahead about these things 
 The second thing to notice is how full of useable notes the 
 second fret is. And this is almost always the case in whichever 
 key you might want to play in . Really. And once you are 
 in on this secret, hammer-ons and pick-offs become a breeze. 
 In the first position, anyway. And thats where were concentrating 
 our energies today. 
 A hammer-on is done exactly as its said. Strike 
 an open string (use the G or D to start) and after you strum 
 it, tap a finger solidly onto a fret, just as you would if 
 you were fingering a chord. You should hear two distinct notes, 
 one following the other, if youre doing it correctly. If 
 we do this on the open G and hammer on the second fret, it 
 would look like this (in notation and tablature): 

 This is an incredibly useful tool to have when strumming 
 patterns where you have to hold a chord a while. For instance, 
 say you were playing a song that had several measures in a 
 row of E minor. Instead of a straight strum or even a rhythmic 
 strumming of all six strings, you could do something like 
 this: 

 That adds a little more fun and interest to the proceedings, 
 doesnt it? Now a quick bit of advice you have to hammer 
 on the string harder than you might think, but not as hard 
 as you might think either. Thats really helpful, huh? A 
 good way of practicing this technique is to simply tap on 
 the string without strumming it first. If you can produce 
 a clean note that sustains itself while your finger is on 
 the fret, then youre doing fine. If not, dont worry. As 
 I explained earlier, some things take time for different people. 
 Keep at it and it will come. And while youre practicing, 
 be sure to practice your hammer-ons using each of the fingers 
 of your neck hand. At some point you will need to (or wish 
 you could) use this device with your pinky and ring finger 
 as well as with your index or middle finger. So get used to 
 using it now. And while youre practicing this way, whether 
 you want to or not, you will also be learning pick-offs. 
 Pick-offs , as you already 
 know or have guessed, are also literal-named. Do a practice 
 hammer-on (no strum). Now take the tapping finger away. You 
 should get another sounding of the open string. This is the 
 easy way. 
 Now lets try the hard way. Place your 
 finger on the second fret of the G string. Pick or strum the 
 string with your strumming hand. This will sound the A note. 
 Now pull your finger off. Its not as easy to produce that 
 second note, the open G, is it? If youre lifting your finger 
 straight off the string, you will not get much of a sounding 
 of the open G. What you need to do is pull the string when 
 youre removing the finger and the best way to do this is 
 with a slightly downward motion. Basically what you are doing 
 is picking the string with the finger on the neck. Yes, 
 this takes a bit of practice for some people and a bit more 
 for others. The musical notation for a pick-off looks like 
 this (and were using our A to G example again): 

 The pick-off can also be used as a rhythmic fill, much in 
 the same way as the hammer-on. Heres another E minor strum, 
 this time with pick-offs: 

 Once you get yourself familiar with the notes on the second 
 fret, you can have a lot of fun. And you dont have to be 
 in the key of G all the time. So many first position chords 
 (and their respective scales) make use of the notes found 
 on the second fret that it becomes a challenge not to go overboard 
 with hammer-ons and pick-offs. Heres an exercise you can 
 use to practice both techniques using the key of C: 

 Youll find that if you maintain the basic chord shapes, 
 hammering-on and picking-off with the fingers that would normally 
 be on a given fret for a particular chord, the technique is 
 more natural and it will become second nature for you to use 
 these as part of your rhythm patterns. This is yet another 
 way how guitarists develop an individual style. 
 THE EQUALLY AMAZING D MAJOR CHORD 
 One of the easiest examples of using hammer-ons 
 and pick-offs as rhythm techniques can be demonstrated with 
 the use of a first position D major chord (its an ordinary 
 D major chord one that you might find around the house). 
 Start with a simple D major, then hammer-on your pinky on 
 the third fret of the high E (first) string. 
 This is a D sus4. Then do a pick-off to 
 return to D again and then pick off what ever finger you use 
 to cover the second fret of the E string. This gives you a 
 D add9. Finally, hammer-on back to the original D chord again. 

 I cant begin to tell you how many songs use this particular 
 progression or how many people use it (or variations of it) 
 whenever they find themselves strumming long expanses of D 
 major chords. But its a pretty good way to develop your little 
 finger and get it into the action. 
 Another good exercise to develop the little 
 finger is to play a D major chord and hammer-on the fourth 
 frets of the D and G strings like this: 

 Again, this can be (and is) used in numerous songs. Its 
 up to you to experiment with where and how you want to use 
 it. 

 SLIDING THROUGH THE BENDS 
 The two other techniques were going to 
 cover are slides and bends . Again, 
 theyre self-explanatory. Sliding up or down to a note in 
 a lead creates a distinct tone, which some people call jazzy 
 and some call mellow. Usually a guitarist will start his or 
 her slide two frets away from the target note. Ive heard 
 longer and shorter slides. And you dont only have to slide 
 a single note. Two well-known examples of this technique are 
 the opening riff from the Beatles Revolution and the second 
 lead acoustic fill in Wish You Were Here by Pink Floyd. 
 Here are the standard notations for slides and bends: 

 Bending strings in one of those things that can take time 
 to learn. I absolutely hated bending strings for the longest 
 time because I just couldnt do it. Do it well, I should say. 
 Then one day while listening to a group at a club I really 
 watched the guitarist and saw this guy using two or three 
 fingers to bend strings. That was a big turning point for 
 me. 
 When you bend a string, you actually push 
 the string in towards the center of the neck (if its one 
 of the first three strings). By bending, you are altering 
 the pitch of the string, making it higher than normal. How 
 much higher depends on how hard you bend. Normally a bend 
 of a half-step is done but some guitarists bend notes up a 
 full step. On the Dire Straits song Waterline (or Down 
 to the Waterline), Mark Knopfler does a solo that includes 
 a bend of a step-and-a-half. Dave Gilmour of Pink Floyd will 
 throw in a few of these super-bends into his solos as well. 
 It takes a lot of practice and not just on the fingers. Your 
 ears have to be able to discern the interval you want to achieve 
 in your bend. Yes, its just another shining example of why 
 it equally important to practice your listening as well as 
 your playing. If you cant discern the intervals youll never 
 know whether your bends are in key or not. 
 A favorite blues/rock trick is to bend 
 on one string while playing the end note on the adjacent 
 higher string. I call this a unison bend, but, as always, 
 there are more names for it than are worth going into. This 
 effect is probably best recognized as the one Jimmy Page uses 
 at the end of the solo on Stairway to Heaven. Again, if 
 you take a moment to think about it, youll find that its 
 easiest to perform between the G and B strings (since the 
 interval between these strings is smaller than the intervals 
 between the others). 

 FILLING IN THE BLANKS 
 Ive always thought that the reason blues 
 guitar is almost always in vogue is because this style of 
 playing appeals to the would-be lead player in every guitarist. 
 Typical blues songs are done in what is known as call-and-response . 
 The vocalist will sing a line (call) and the guitarist (and 
 of course they can be the same person) will follow that up 
 with a short lead (which is usually called a fill). This fill 
 is the response. 
 This call-and-response mode of playing 
 extends way beyond blues, not only in terms of musical styles 
 but also in terms of musical history. Pop, rock, country, 
 metal and world music is full of examples of it. Go back to 
 the early classics of Cream or come forward in time to Dire 
 Straits. Here in the shining new millennium you can pick almost 
 any song of the latest Santana album and you will hear it. 
 And its waaaaaaaayyy older than you think. 
 While I was visiting Marrakech last year I had the pleasure 
 of listening to traditional Berber music. While I couldnt 
 decipher a single word, I found that I was already intimate 
 with the style. The narrator would chant a phrase or a number 
 of phrases and then he play a burst of music on the rbab. 
 This music predates much of modern Western civilization, 
 so you can see that, while wed like to think were hip to 
 the next big thing, were actually just the latest to jump 
 on a very long bandwagon. 
 Because a typical response is usually less 
 than a whole measure long, its a great place for a guitarist 
 to hone his or her skills with the various techniques that 
 weve been discussing today. You may not believe me, but its 
 really a relatively short step from handling these fills to 
 coming up with leads. 
 I want to close our session today by re visiting 
 Knocking On Heavens Door, only this time were going to 
 look at it as an exercise in call-and-response. Basically, 
 Im going to go through the sequence of the first verse and 
 chorus and add some fills. Each fill occupies the last two 
 beats of the phrase (okay, really one and three quarter of 
 a beat) and, to make matters even more interesting, each 
 of the first four fills that Ive laid out deals (primarily) 
 with one of our four techniques covered today. The fills in 
 the chorus are mix-and-match - just whatever came off the 
 top of my head. And yes I know (thank you very much) there 
 hasnt been anything on the top of my head for ages. Please 
 note that to make things easier on myself Ive based most 
 of my responses on the chord forms that Im playing and 
 that I always end up back on that trusty G chord which begins 
 the next phrase. 

 You could go on playing this sequence for hours and keep 
 coming up with different ideas. And thats essentially the 
 point. Give yourself room to experiment. See what you like, 
 what comes easily, what needs work. The very least that will 
 happen to you is that youll spice up your rhythm playing. 
 The optimum goal, of course, is that youll start getting 
 ideas and seeing how you can apply this to other music, including 
 your own stuff. 
 As always, please feel free to drop me 
 a line with any questions, comments, corrections, concerns 
 either directly at Dhodge8888@cs.com or via the Guitar 
 Forum page. 
 Until next week! 
 David Hodge 2000-05-16 
 Previous 
 article in this series "Leading Questions" 
 Next article in this series 
 "Once More With Feeling" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.