HyperFaceted(tm) 

 Hyperfaceted 

 Discovery of Freshly Created 
 Martian Flow Features 
 March 18, 2001 

 Jill@Hyperfaceted.com (Jill England) 

 Discovery! 
 For almost a year, there has been a debate about the so-called flow or flow 
 images on the surface of Mars. The intriguing possibility is that they are 
 flows of water from sources beneath the surface happening as real water runoff 
 today. 
 If the hypothesis that flows represent current water flow features is true, then 
 it should be possible to see new ones form and old flows change and disappear. 
 If on the other hand flows can be shown to be persistent and unchanging then 
 they are presumably longer lived features and there is no current activity to 
 generate them. 
 Method 

 The method used in this image analysis will be to find overlapping images, if 
 any, in the list of images of flows collected to date. Images found will have a 
 time lapse and flow features can then be compared. 
 To identify images that are close to each other and possibly overlap a "Great 
 Circle Distance" is calculated for every combination of images in the known 
 flow image list. 
 When overlapping images are found they will need to have comparable resolutions 
 and be of high enough resolution to discern surface features clearly. 
 Qualifying images can be compared to identify any flow feature changes such as 
 new flows being created or old flows becoming invisible. Measurements of any 
 such features should be calculated by multiplying the pixel resolution by the 
 length (in pixels) of the artifact on the image. Note that distances calculated 
 this way will only be estimates due to various combinations of hills and camera 
 angles. 
 As a final part of the analysis a red/blue stereo picture should be created if 
 possible. 
 Results 
 The list of images used in this comparison have already been identified to 
 contain flow features. A copy of this image list may be found here. 

 CLICK FOR: Image List used for these 
 distance tests 

 The distances between each image and all the rest in the list above were 
 calculated generating a report of over 6000 combinations. The top 100 closest 
 matches are listed here. 

 CLICK FOR: Closest 100 images 

 Two overlapping images containing flows, FHA/01100 and M04/01228 have been 
 identified. These two images were taken on March 19, 1999 and August 16, 1999 
 respectively. The images were taken 5 months apart. It is not believed that the 
 seasons at this latitude change the climate substantially.

 Image Name 
 Image Time 
 Resolution 
 meters/pixel 
 Center 
 Latitude 
 Center 
 Longitude 
 Martian Season 

 FHA/01100 
 March 19, 1999 
 1.44 
 -8.34 
 155.05 
 Early winter 

 M04/01228 
 August 16, 1999 
 4.29 
 -8.30 
 155.05 
 Early spring 

 Click on image names above to view original images at Malin Space 
 Science Systems. 
 The images have comparable resolutions of 1.44 meters/pixel and 4.29 
 meters/pixel. The images are also clear and free from obscuring dust or clouds. 
 When the images were compared three New flows were discovered in the more 
 recent image that had no counterpart in the older image. None of the older 
 flows has noticeably changed. The three new flows are labeled A, B, and C in 
 these pictures. 

 Click for full size. 

 Click for full size. 

 The lengths of the new flows found in M04/01228 are as follows: 

 Flow Name 
 Flow Length 
 Approximate Length in Meters 

 A 
 11 pixels 
 45 meters 

 B 
 20 pixels 
 84 meters 

 C 
 32 pixels 
 139 meters 

 In comparison to the lengths of these three new flow features, the largest flow 
 features in M04/01228 are approximately 890 meters long. 
 Conclusions 
 The following conclusions are drawn; 

 1. 
 Flows are "Long Lived" surface features that persist for more than 5 months.

 2. 
 Flows are very recent surface features forming at the present time on the 
 Martian surface.

 3. 
 It seems obvious but it should be pointed out that new flow features appear 
 very dark. Presumably they get lighter over time. Why they start out dark, why 
 they get lighter, and what causes them to suddenly appear are questions that 
 need to be answered.

 Further Study 
 Compare all images in the MOC database searching for other overlapping images 
 containing flow features. This will give additional data and help formulate 
 conclusions about what the flows are made of and how they are forming. 
 In many other images, faded flow patterns are clearly visible next to darker 
 newer flows. Flow features appear to fade with time. How much time it takes for 
 a flow to fade is a very interesting question and that information could 
 possibly be used to draw conclusions about the creation process and creation 
 rate of the flow features. A possible hypothesis is that flow features will 
 appear in a steady state with old flows fading at the same rate that new flows 
 are being created. 

 Since flow features are persistent for periods of time longer than Martian 
 seasons it is unlikely that there will be any seasonal correlation between 
 imaging time and seasons. The exercise should still be done however. 
 Count the number of flows in each image and plot the count against latitude to 
 see if there is a smooth decline in flows as you move away from the equator. 
 Preliminary analysis from Efrain Palermo strongly suggests that this is true. 
 On the wish list, it would be nice to stand in the middle of a flow and sample 
 it. This would instantly answer many questions. 
 Acknowledgments 

 Jill England 

 Custom unpublished software by Jill England, 2001. Said software uses Great 
 Circle Equations from Bowditch, American Practical Navigator, Defense Mapping 
 Agency Hydrographic Center, 1975, pp. 443 582-3.

 Richard Hoagland 

 Who just doesn't get enough credit for initiating interest in Space Sciences. 

 Efrain Palermo 

 For his Web Site dedicated to Martian Flow features, large list of flow images, 
 and analysis of flow image distributions. 

 Nasa/JPL/Malin Space Science Systems 

 For the images and databases. 

 USGS-Flagstaff MGS-MOC Web Pages 

 As an additional archive and access point for the Malin Space Science 
 images and databases. 

 Special thanks to Nasa/JPL/Malin Space Science Systems for their efforts in 
 organizing and creating this data and most importantly making it's catalog and 
 database available. Thank you so much, exploring Mars and making this discovery , 
 whatever it may mean, has been an exciting and wonderful experience and is the 
 closest I am every likely to get to exploring other worlds. 
 Thank you! 
 Disclaimers and Copyright 
 This paper is neither supported by nor associated with Nasa, JPL, or Malin Space 
 Science Systems. 
 This paper was not produced for profit nor was any compensation of any sort 
 provided by anyone for this paper's creation or distribution. 
 This paper is not produced for, supported by, or affiliated with either Richard 
 Hoagland, The Enterprise Mission, or Art Bell. 
 This paper is Copyright(c) by Jill England, 2001. All rights reserved. 
 About the Author 
 Jill England graduated from the University of Puget Sound in Tacoma in 1984 with 
 a degree in Computer Information Systems .

 She makes her living creating software systems as a contract software engineer 
 in Seattle Washington. 

 Copyright (c)2001 - 2004, Jill England 
 and Hyperfaceted Inc.