Autographed Cast Photo! 

 Click on photo for a larger view! 
 Received by contest Oct 1996. 

 I acquired my autographed cast photo during a
contest on the Internet. The contest involved writing 50 words or less on why I
liked Home Improvement. 
 The photograph itself was taken the 3rd season and used through the 5th
season. The first season had a black and white cast photo and the 6th had them
all dressed in black outfits. 
 This fully signed photo was obtained from a person that worked on the
show as a dimmer-switch operator (tuned the lights on and off with a computer
light board). The show received 5 Emmys for lighting. 

 Click on photo for a larger view! 
 Received on 7-30-98 from an online
auction. 

 This fully autographed cast photo I obtained
from Linda Payne's Autographs online
auctions. 
 The photograph itself was taken the 1st season, 1991 and also used in 1992
to early 1993. This photo was autographed in person, at the studio on Feb. 11
1993. 

 Based on the comedy of Tim Allen, Home
Improvement is produced by The Wind Dancer Production
Group in association with Touchstone Television for ABC. The show
premiered on September 17, 1991; and entered syndication on September 11, 1995
with a brand new episode produced specially for the start of syndication (a
first in the industry). The show is taped in Stage 4 of the Disney Lot in
Burbank California; taping is done in front of a live studio audience on Friday
evenings. Home Improvement is one of only a handful of shows in production to
use a test audience. The test group of about 20 people comes in on Wednesday and
moves room to room with the cast as they rehearse the scenes. This allows the
cast and producers to judge the audience reaction to a scene and make any last
minute changes as necessary. The cast and crew work 5 days a week to produce
the show we see each Tuesday. Though the young members of the cast are only
allowed to work 9 1/2 hours per day, the adult members of the cast sometimes
rehearse late into the night. The 1/2-hour show we see on TV actually takes
about 4-6 hours to tape.

 Back