Jehovah's Christian Witness 

 Jehovah's Christian Witness 

Recent health issues (I had a quadruple coronary bypass) plus the rapidly expanding nature of the ministry have all but made the "One-On-One" e-mail ministry approach unmanageable. 
 We will attempt to answer questions as we are able on the Talk to CyberPastor message board. Our discussion can be found under the heading: "Biblical Perspective on JW's." 

First and Foremost, this site is not about hate, it's about truth. Jehovah's Christian Witness exists to supply information and assistance to those who wish to learn about the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society. We have a library of Watchtower publications on hand dating back to 1879, and can provide research into the writings, doctrines, and history of the Watchtower organization. We can send photocopies of specific pages of Watchtower publications by snail-mail on request. We offer assistance to Witnesses, people studying with Witnesses, people with friends and/or family in the Watchtower organization, or anyone else who is interested in the Society. 
 If you are a Jehovah's Witness, you need to know that we are not, and have never been members of the Jehovah's Witnesses, so we do not fit their definition of "apostates." We believe the Bible is the inspired Word of God, and submit to the Lordship of Jesus Christ as taught in the Bible. We believe that most Jehovah's Witnesses are sincere people, but that they have been misled through the false teachings of the Watchtower organization. 
 Table of Contents: 

 Who are the Jehovah's Witnesses? ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 
 A Short History of the Watchtower Organization ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 
 Doctrines of the Watchtower Society ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 
 Tips on Dealing with the Witnesses ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 
 The Watchtower Recruiting Goals ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 
 Dishonesty of the Watchtower Society ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 
 A History of Failed Prophecy ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 
 Is the Watchtower Society God's Organization? ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 
 If Jesus is Just "a god"? ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 
 Jehovah's Witnesses A Cult? ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 
 The New World Translation ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 
 About Watchtower Publications ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 
 Publications of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 
 Sources for Further Information (Links) ( Updated October 7, 2000 ) 

 Updated October 7, 2000.