SMALLnet 

 Archive 

 Sources 

 Articles by Joe Wagner 

 Index of Randy Randolph's Writings 

 Pictures 

 Interesting Articles 

 Welcome to the SMALLnet Web Page!

The SMALLnet-list is owned and operated by Joe Wagner
 vecojoe@juno.com >
and Randy Randolph randyranman@juno.com >.
The list is maintained by Bill Lee Bill@WRLee.com >.

 The SMALLnet will be essentially devoted to e-mail
 communication about non-competition miniature aircraft:
 free flight, control-line, and radio control -- their
 design, construction, materials, finishes, power, flight,
 and related topics.

 The only limitation SMALL (Small Model Airplane Lovers'
 League) imposes is on power. For free flight and radio
 control, the largest individual engine displacement is
 .26 cubic inches displacement -- or the electric motor
 equivalent. For control line the limit is .36 c.i.d.

 All other "modest output" power sources are acceptable:
 rubber, CO2, compressed air, Jetex, and gravity.

 One major emphasis of SMALL activities is "schoolyard
 flying" -- model airplanes of "non-threatening" types
 flown in parks and athletic fields, where the general
 public can see them in action, and perhaps be inspired
 to try SMALL airplanes themselves.

 There's no size limit to the MODELS; only to their power.
 Multi-motor airplanes qualify by the displacement of
 the largest engine. In other words, it's not the TOTAL
 displacement of all the engines that counts, just the
 biggest one.

 To avoid feuds and pointless controversy, SMALLnet will
 exclude "ad hominem" remarks and anything "political".
 All submissions are spell-checked and corrected for
 punctuation etc. as seems necessary for clarity.

 SMALLnet is issued whenever more than ten submissions 
 are in the "In Box". Sometimes that's daily; sometimes not...

 To subscribe to SMALLnet -- free -- send an e-mail to:
 SMALLnet-list-request@eskimo.com 
 with the single word 
 subscribe
 in the "Subject" of the message

To drop out of SMALLnet, use the same procedure, except use 
the word "unsubscribe" in the "Subject" block.

To contribute to SMALLnet (you must be a subscriber) send your
input to SMALLnet-list@eskimo.com .

 Last Modified 11/19/00