Online Pioneers 

 Searchable surname queries, genealogy news, articles, research tips and more.

 SEARCH 
 Online Genealogy 

&#149; by Topic 
&#149; by Surname 
&#149; by Location 
&#149; add URL 

 NEWS 
 G-News Express 
 Genealogy Review 
 Genealogy Today 
 Hot Chocolate 
 FEATURES 
 First Name Basis 
 Serendipity 
 Tree Climbers 
 Family Closet 
 Site of the Day 
 GUIDES 
 Adoption Issues 
 Reunion Guide 
 Software Central 
 Getting Answers 
 U.S. Libraries 
 OPINION 
 Discussion Topics 
 Answer This! 
 Online Survey 
 How'd You Do It? 
 HELP 
 About This Site 
 Lost & Found 
 Writers Wanted 
 Join Our Team 
 Press/Media Kit 

 Home 

 Online Pioneers 

 A monthly online newsletter tailored to genealogy enthusiasts, and keeps subscribers current on new websites, Internet shareware programs and data files, genealogical newsgroups, mailing lists, and developments in cyber genealogy projects. 
Online Pioneers was formed from the merge of two newsletters: Online Researchers (1995-1996) and Pioneers (1994-1996). 
 Picked # 53 on Best Genealogy Links on the WWW! 
 "If you can't keep up with the escalating world of computers and genealogy, Online Pioneers newsletter is for you. A newsletter geared to new and experienced users alike, filled with informative, timely articles, Online Pioneers is a one-of-a-kind publication covering both the online and offline computer genealogy community." - Pam Middleton-Lee
 This site is no longer online. We are working to bring Online Pioneers back! 
 About Marthe Arends 
 Marthe Arends has been involved in genealogy for 18 years and is the 
editor of the computer genealogy newsletter Online Pioneers . 
She has lectured on computers and genealogy to many groups, has been 
the SysOp of a Fidonet genealogy BBS, has written articles for a variety 
of genealogy publications, and has taught several online genealogy 
classes, including two lessons for Genealogy.com's Online University . 
 Books by Marthe Arends 

 Create Your Family History Book with Family Tree Maker Version 8 : The Official Guide 
 Genealogy On Cd-Rom [ Book Review ]
 Genealogy Software Guide 

Advertisement 

 Back to the top 

Copyright &copy; 2000, 2001 by Software Wonders of NJ -- New Providence, New Jersey.
 *This page is not sponsored by or affiliated in any way with "Online Pioneers" by Marthe Arends.
We are, however, working to bring Online Pioneers back!

 Comments or Suggestions? E-mail: webmaster@genealogytoday.com 
 &#149; Team Roots