Heathen's Highly Unofficial #atheism Homepage 

 Undernet #atheism 
 Information and Resources 
 Last updated 23 January 1999 

 Main 
 Ops 
 Policy 
 Regulars 

 Glossary 
 Resources 
 Official Page 
 Webzine 
 FAQ 
 FAQ for Atheists 

 There is also an official Undernet #atheism
homepage which grew out of a general effort to coordinate and
improve the design of the two or three sources of #atheism information
which existed at the time, including this one. ShaiHulud gets credit
for the idea, all the visual design, and most of the general elbow
grease. Content was primarily provided by ShaiHulud, Elladan , AltKey , and Heathen . We nearly killed
ourselves assembling a truly awesome repository of links and
information. Okay, not really. But ShaiHulud put a lot of work into it
and it looks better than this page. So check it out anyway.

 Introduction 

#atheism is an IRC channel where atheists and others can congregate to
chat about a multitude of topics, some of which include atheism,
religion and mythology, philosophy, politics, computers, science
fiction, and music. All viewpoints are welcome, but people who become
offensive or disruptive will be removed. The responsibility of removing
these elements is assumed by the #atheism chanops .
It is our job as chanops to keep #atheism a relatively nice place to
chat.

Undernet #atheism was established by Elladan. Because he does not have
much time to devote to the management of the channel, the managerial
duties have been passed to Heathen and AltKey, with AltKey registered
in W as the official channel manager. The channel is currently served
by three bots, who distribute operator status and perform other useful
services: Episiarch, who is operated by Elladan; W, who is a Undernet CSC bot; and
HeathBot, who operated by Heathen (duh).

Because of its nature, #atheism receives a relatively large number of
annoying evangelists and apologists, who often trot out the same
arguments over and over as though they were some miraculously new and
rational arguments that we'd never seen before. In an effort to help
eliminate this pointless, inane repetition of the same idiotic
arguments over and over again, there are several writeups on common
evangelical arguments hosted on this web site; I wrote most myself,
but some have been written by others or in collaboration with others.

 The Argument from Design and the
Theistic Anthropic Principle , also known as teleological arguments 
 Pascal's Wager 
 The Cosmological Argument , a.k.a.
the argument from First Cause 
 The Lord, Liar, or Lunatic Trilemma
 Various Ontological Arguments 
[submitted by AegisIII]
 Morals and Atheism 
[by AegisIII and Heathen ]
 The Big Rock Conundrum , a
commonly used but faulty argument against the
existence of omnipotent god/s (such as the Christian one).

A large number of debates also center around semantic issues, such as
the definitions of atheism vs. agnosticism .
Such arguments are at best repetitions of arguments well established
in published literature, and at worst are intensely boring and
exasperating. As a community service, I am working in conjunction
with the #atheism community at large to develop a glossary of relevant terms for
discussion on #atheism, which defines a number of important terms as
they are used on-channel.

 Regulars 

Of course, section 34A of the IRC Channel Homepage code reads:

Any homepage which serves as the homepage for an IRC channel shall
henceforth be required to have a page of the nicks of the regulars
and/or channel operators of the aforementioned channel.

Thus, in compliance with the code, here is the
Undernet #atheism regulars page (along with some notable
not-so-regulars).

 Channel Operators 

Although in an ideal world, a channel such as #atheism could exist as
a free and unmoderated forum, it is unfortunately very clear that this
world is not ideal. In order to keep #atheism a friendly place in
which to carry on conversation, and to preserve the security of the
channel from miscreants abusing IRC or other network services, channel
operators on #atheism are invested with the authority to remove users
from the channel, either temporarily or permanently. Operators also
form the core government of the channel, by consensually deciding
issues of channel policy.

As channel moderators, channel operators on #atheism are authorized to
kick or ban users for disruption of conversation and attacks on channel
security. Offenses which constitute these include, but are not limited to:

 Net abuse [eg, cloning ,
 flood attacks ,
 spamming ]
 An overly abusive or insulting attitude
 Unwarranted and repeated caps lock SHOUTING
 Trolling and off-topic/unresponsive
 preaching 

Although there is no absolute set of rules for #atheism, I have
compiled a list of some basic #atheism
policy , which is pretty much what most of the chanops go by.

#atheism's ops system is currently a hierarchy of four main levels,
two of which could be compressed into a single level. The first level
is the normal chanops, who generally have access levels of 100. This
is the entry level for ops. The next level is essentially part of the
first; the trusted low ops, who have levels slightly above those of
the standard issue ops, usually 110, 150, 200, or somesuch. Above these
two levels are the few 400 ops, who are entrusted to add new users to
 W , change user info, et
cetera, and finally a triumvirate of channel managers, composed of myself , Elladan , and AltKey . You
can view the current #atheism ops list ,
according to W in your
browser.

If you have any complaints about the behavior of a chanop, or any
suggestions about the channel in general, e-mail them to Heathen , Elladan , or AltKey .

Written and maintained by Charles W. Johnson
( cwj2@eskimo.com ) 
This page copyright 1997-1999 Charles W. Johnson. 
All rights reserved.