Rhododendron Propagation 

 Rhododendron Propagation 

 Cuttings * Layering * Seed 

 Making a Nearing Frame * Preparing the Frame * After
They Are Rooted 

 Rhododendrons can be propagated
in several ways. Growing plants from seeds is the typical method
of nature, and is often useful for species or for creating new
hybrids. Other types of cuttings produce clones genetically identical
to the original plant, so are best for replicating hybrids or
selected forms of species. 

 Rooting stem cuttings is one
of the most effective ways for the amateur or smaller-scale professional.
Other methods of of vegetative reproduction include layering,
air layering, and tissue culture. Layering is easy and requires
no special facilities, but results in a very limited number of
plants. Tissue culture is appropriate for production on a massive
scale, but the technology and facilities necessary are beyond
the amateur. 

 Nearly all of the 3000 rhododendrons
in the Anderson Garden were made from cuttings in Nearing
Frames . For an explanation of how to make and use a Nearing
Frame, go to the next
page . 

 These three
 Nearing Frames produced about
 25,000 rhododendrons from cuttings between 1961 and 1985. They
 are inexpensive to build and operate, and the cuttings require
 very little care. 

 While my father operated the
first Anderson Garden in New Jersey during the 1940s and 50s,
he became friends with Pennsylvania nurseryman Guy Nearing. Nearing
developed a way to root rhododendron cuttings without the expense
of a greenhouse. The three- by twelve-foot shaded box could produce
about 500 rooted cuttings per year, with a 75% to 95% success
rate. 

 During the cold eastern winters,
the cuttings would freeze solid, and then root in the spring and
summer, when ground temperatures warmedup. In the Pacific Northwest,
with milder winters and cooler summers, it was necessary to add
heating cables to keep the cuttings from rotting. 

 My father rooted cuttings
in six Nearing frames in the New Jersey rhododendron garden, and
three here in Enumclaw. I built four in our Orting garden and
one here. Without the Nearing Frames, the Anderson Gardens would
have been impossible. 

 How to make a Nearing
Frame 

 Preparing
the Nearing Frame