Chinese Finger Trap Part 3

Events subsequent to six years or so of age usually owe
relatively little of their impact to what your age was when
they occurred. Earlier, I mentioned various things to be
sure and include in your timeline. I mentioned various
traumatic events that you should not let slip by you as you
wrote your timeline.

I mentioned loss of a parent through death, divorce,
abandonment, physical illness, and a parent's deep emotional
preoccupation, such as extreme depression. I mentioned other
losses that you may have suffered, such as being moved from
one household to another, or from one place to another, so
that you lost home, friends, and a school. The loss of
anyone that you were close to, such as the death of a friend
or family member can have a great impact.

Other traumas that can have a big impact include: Major
illness; major surgeries; being raped; being assaulted; being
insulted or rejected by someone you love; being fired;
getting a divorce; being diagnosed as having mental illness;
discovering that you are lesbian or homosexual; or failing in
school or being placed in a special education class.

These traumatic events have an effect on your feelings.
You may have dealt with these feelings, or you may not. It
is useful to group the feelings that you haven't dealt with
into two categories: Those that you don't know that you
have, or unconscious feelings, and those that you know that
you have but prefer to avoid feeling and thinking about. If
you are aware of the feelings which these events have caused
you, you need to let yourself get in touch with them. If
not, then you need to discover them.

Depending upon the event, you will have experienced a
different mix of feelings that you will naturally not have
wanted to feel. Grief, anger, fear, anxiety, feelings of
being helpless, guilt, and feelings of low self-worth or
humiliation are all examples of what you would have surely
felt if you experienced some of the events which I have just
mentioned. If any of these events occurred to you, and you
feel that they didn't have much of an impact on your feelings
and beliefs about yourself, I urge you to look again.

If events such as these happened to you and you are
unaware of having such feelings, you are surely defending
against your feelings. A typical series of defenses that you
would use to maintain your unawareness of these feelings
would be repression, then denial, and then rationalization.
You might then feel the need to shore up your lack of
awareness with yet another defense, such as projection,
reaction formation, or transference.

I'll show you an example of how that might work. Let's
say that you were abandoned by your father when you were one
year old. He divorced your mother, and never contacted you
or your mother again. He never showed any interest in you,
and never inquired about your welfare with anyone, as far as
you know. You do not remember him, and don't think about
him. As far as you know, you have no feelings about his
abandonment of you, nor any feelings about him at all.

At my urging, you ask yourself whether or not your lack
of thoughts and feelings about your father's abandonment is
real, or the product of your defending yourself against
unpleasant feelings. You conclude that, despite my
skepticism, you really don't have any feelings about him or
his actions.

I would submit that you have just engaged in the series
of defenses that I outlined earlier. My personal and
professional experiences have led me to conclude that you
must surely, somewhere inside yourself, feel many negative
things. You must be hurt, angry and judgemental about your
father's actions. You may question your worth as a person,
and you may feel grief at the loss. I maintain that you are
repressing (forgetting something painful), denying (fooling
yourself about) what you feel when the subject comes up, and
rationalizing (coming up with a good sounding reason for why
you must not feel what you actually do feel).

Then, if this is not enough to maintain your un-
awareness of your feelings, you may project your feelings
onto me, and believe that I am judgemental about your father.
Alternatively, you may tell yourself that you forgive your
father and wish him well, wherever he may be. This would be
a reaction formation. You might bolster your repression and
denial with displacement, in which you direct your anger
towards your father against me instead of against him.

Yet another defense that you might use is transference,
in which you would see me as being neglectful, irresponsible,
or judgemental. (His abandonment of you might seem like a
judgement of you to you. You would be transferring your
perception that he was neglectful, irresponsible or
judgmental onto me, in order to avoid being aware that you
saw him this way.)

The list continues, as there are many ways that people
enable themselves to continue fooling themselves about their
feelings and thoughts. You might reverse roles and abandon
me, by discontinuing therapy with me. Then, you would be
placing me in the same situation that you had been placed in
by your father. You might forget what we were talking about,
which would be more repression. You might change the
subject, which would be avoidance.

You might start feeling guilty and putting yourself
down, which would be reversal. You might start complaining
about some third person, which would be another example of
displacement. You might agree that you ought to feel angry
and probably do, but go on to say that you don't feel
anything at all at the moment, which would be isolation (of
your feelings from your thoughts). You might tell me what a
great guy your dad was, and how you wish that you could meet
him, which would be defensive idealization. You might grow
depressed instead of angry, which would be reversal of anger.

Still another defense that you might is to use one
feeling to defend against experiencing another. This is
sometimes harder to spot that the other defenses. The trick
is to look for what you have always let yourself feel about
some negative event, and question whether you are using one
negative emotion to avoid experiencing a different one. You
might let yourself feel anger to avoid feeling humiliation.
You might let yourself feel depression to avoid feeling
anger. You might let yourself feel anger to avoid letting
yourself feel helplessness and despair, and so on.

What you need to do, then, as you look at your timeline,
is be alert for the defenses which you may bring to bear
to protect yourself against the painful or frightening
feelings which the process stirs up. As you look at each
negative event, look for a full range of negative feelings.
Each negative event should have given you a number of
negative feelings, rather than just one. If you don't find
them, look to see if you are using any of the defenses which
I have just described.

Perhaps in response to this self-investigation, you will
begin to feel that this process is morbid or pointless. This
is another rationalization. I will reiterate my basic theme:
You are doing this for a reason. The reason is in order to
change your life for the better. You are trying to learn how
to escape the finger trap.

Let's now look at the second tool in your self-
examination, which is your genogram. I hope you have made
your genogram by now, and now have it before you. The
timeline enabled you to examine your life for specific
notable events. The genogram will help you to look at the
ongoing nature of your significant relationships and how they
affected you.

This process is more difficult to do alone than the
examination of a timeline is. This is because while it is
usually difficult to completely disguise the nature of an
event, it is not so difficult to fool yourself about
someone's personality and how you felt and continue to feel
about it. For that reason, we will concentrate on what you
know that you think and feel about your various family
members, but have tended to avoid dwelling upon. Other
approaches we will explore are examining your beliefs about
your family members for contradictions, and looking at things
that people in your family did, in order to consider logical
conclusions which may be reached.

First, let's look at the household or households in
which you grew up. Naturally, it is the people who raised
you that have had the greatest influence on your life. If
you grew up in a standard nuclear family, consisting of your
mother, father, and perhaps brothers and sisters, then your
task is relatively simple.

If you were shunted from relative to relative, or foster
family to foster family, or perhaps lived with a mother who
married and divorced repeatedly, your task is more difficult.
These more complicated examples brings us back to feelings of
grief, anger, and anxiety which you probably discovered as
you made your timeline, if they apply to you. If this is the
case for you, then take some time to let yourself be sad, and
grieve your losses for a while before you continue.

Let's start with your mother. What was she like? Was
she happy, was she stern or critical, was she depressed? Did
she drink too much, was she kind and empathic, was she always
somewhere else, did she beat you? In other words,
describe her moods, attitudes and feelings, and describe her
typical behavior. This may be easy for you, or it may be
difficult. Do this for your father, and for your brothers
and sisters. Do this for everyone that you lived with, or
visited.

If your mother or father, or someone else who took care
of you beat you, molested you, or was alcoholic, I suggest
that you read the books listed in the general bibliography
that focus on that subject. Also, you should consider
whether or not you might benefit from finding and working
with a counselor or psychotherapist. It can be difficult to
deal with the intense and confusing feelings which these
kinds of experiences generate. These experiences usually
cause those who have been abused to feel intense anger,
anxiety, low self-esteem, guilt, self-hatred and confusion.
The earlier in your life and longer lasting the abuse or
neglect, the greater the confusion that they generate.

Other negative experiences are usually more manageable.
If you had a parent who was critical, you probably feel
afraid to assert yourself, and expect criticism from the
world. If you had a parent who deceived you and didn't
listen to you, you probably feel angry, rebellious, and
cynical. If you had a parent who wanted for you to take care
of him, you probably feel over-responsible and don't take
time for yourself. If you had a parent who was clingy,
needy, or intrusive, you probably feel angry and afraid
whenever someone wants to get close to you.

Take a good, hard look at the relationships which you
formed later in life. Expect to find a similarity between
people with whom you have formed relationships, and one of
your parents. The similarity is not always obvious. The
similarities have to do with how you experienced one of your
parents, usually the parent of the opposite sex to yourself,
when you were young. The basis of the similarity is
subjective rather than objective. Its foundation is how your
mother (or perhaps father if you are a woman), impacted you
emotionally.

The reason I bring this pattern of relationships up now
is that you can find clues to what you felt and thought as a
child in your subsequent relationships. Chances are that
what you felt towards, say, your first wife is what you felt
towards your mother. What you thought about your first wife
will give you an excellent idea of what you thought of your
mother or father.

Now when I write "felt" or "thought", I am using the past
tense deliberately. It is not your adult perspective of your
mother or father that will be found in this examination of
your relationships. It is your childhood feelings and
thoughts that will be revealed. It is not necessarily who
your parent really was that is necessarily revealed, but who
you felt them to be. Thus, a parent who simply disappeared
might have been experienced by the child you once were as
being critical, hostile, and destructive. This is because of
the way that you would have felt about being abandoned when
you were a child.

For you, this would have been a hostile and destructive
act, and so you would have seen this missing parent as
critical, destructive and hostile. This does not mean that
your parent necessarily did actually feel critical, hostile
and destructive towards you. Therefore, if your first wife
was critical and hostile, it tells you directly about your
reactions to your parent and only indirectly tells you about
who your parent really was.

I have also seen another kind of relationship pattern in
people's lives. In this second kind of relationship pattern,
what is sought is wish fulfillment through identification.
By this, I mean that you seek someone out who is needy, and
then give them the support, material things or affection that
you wish that you had gotten when you were a child. Then,
you feel that you are receiving what you are actually giving,
because you feel that you are in some sense the same as the
person who is actually the recipient of your support.

If you have this kind of relationship pattern, then you
learn about your hidden longings as a child, and indirectly
about the deficiencies that your parents had, from your point
of view. The defensive purpose of this relationship pattern
is to avoid your feelings of being neglected, unsupported or
lonely, as well as reproachful of your parents for their
neglect.

Let me caution you, once again, about the difficulty of
what you are attempting to do. You are struggling against
your own nature in doing this. You are stirring up deep,
powerful feelings. You will inevitably attempt to avoid,
deny, or misdirect these feelings which you are deliberately
stirring up. Of these possibilities, the worst possibility
is that you way misdirect your anger or your longing towards
someone other than the parent or caretaker who roused these
feelings. You could find yourself embroiled in conflicts or
undesirable relationships caused by displacement or
transference of these feelings, as I described above.

You must be vigilant and you must be determined if you
are to plumb yourself and your life to the depths without
falling into the pitfalls which await you on every side.
Otherwise, you may find yourself pulling against the finger
trap even as you believe that you are pushing into it.

To these words of warning, I would like to add a few
words of support. It is very painful, and perhaps
frightening, to do what you are doing. If you are still with
me, you deserve not only support and encouragement, but
praise for your courage and determination. In addition, I
would like to add words of sympathy. You are probably
suffering many negative feelings right now. If you have
begun to see my point about fooling yourself, you may feel
embarrassed or humiliated about fooling yourself. Just
remember, everybody does this. You don't need to feel
unusual or all alone in doing this.

If you have been making progress then you have also been
feeling the negative feelings that you were fleeing that led
you to fool yourself. You have gone straight into the heart
of the lion's den. Please remember, there are rewards
awaiting which are commensurate to the suffering that you are
experiencing.

 Chapter 6: 
Coping with Your Newly-Discovered Feelings 
 If you have followed the program outlined above, you
probably have discovered many painful and perhaps
overwhelming feelings. You may be convinced that getting in
touch with your feelings is a good thing, but may not know
how to cope with the feelings which you have roused. You are
out of the finger trap, but not out of the woods. There are
two chief dangers.

The first is that you may become disorganized, which is
to say that being flooded by your feelings may disrupt your
life. You may become tearful, anguished, or moody. You may
feel overwhelmed, and be unable to attend to and enjoy your
ordinary, day to day life. The second danger is that you may
"act out" in harmful ways. I will discuss the possibility of
"acting out" first.

The first thing to focus on is to make sure that you
"talk out" rather than "act out". Don't do anything self-
destructive! Until you have regained a calm, centered,
moderate and temperate state of mind, you are in jeopardy of
doing something harmful to yourself. Freud used to demand
that his patients not end old relationships or begin new
relationships while they were "in analysis". Since analysis
could take years, this was a fairly stringent demand. While
I don't recommend that you not end or begin relationships for
the next few years, I do suggest that you keep the general
principle in mind.

The feelings likliest to get you into difficulties are
anger, fear, and depression. With anger, the potential
dangers range from the extreme to the moderate. There is a
danger that you will loose control of your behavior and
actually commit assault, or turn your anger against yourself
and contemplate or attempt suicide, or perhaps simply start
an argument with someone and terminate a relationship which
is valuable to you.

Another possibility is that you might become reckless,
which is frequently a disguised form of anger. You might,
for example, become involved in an auto accident, with
serious consequences for yourself or others. You might also
become reckless financially, or with regard to business or
personal relationships. Alcoholism or drug addiction can
also be a form of turning anger against oneself. A lesser
danger is that you might become difficult to live with, and
the quality of your life could deteriorate as you misdirect
your anger.

If anxiety is aroused by your exploration in self-
discovery, the dangers are that you might "self-medicate" by
turning to alcohol or drugs. Another possibility is that you
might establish undesirable relationships as a result of an
intense desire to have someone to cling to. A third
possibility is that you might become paralyzed with fear, and
become unable to do what is necessary to live a normal,
productive life.

If depression is roused by your stirring up of your
buried feelings, the dangers include most of those mentioned
above, that is to say, you might become "paralyzed",
suicidal, reckless, addicted, or dependant on an undesirable
relationship. More moderately, you might become morose,
moody and withdrawn, to the detriment of your life and
relationships.

All of the above are examples of what therapists call
"acting out". As I mentioned above, the alternative is to do
what therapists call "talking out". Talking out can be an
example of what Freud called sublimation.

In sublimation, you re-direct your feelings, wishes, and
impulses from direct behavior into conscious self-expression.
One method of self-expression is talking to a
psychotherapist, friend or support group about your memories
and feelings. Another is to write a journal about your
memories and feelings.

A third method is to find some artistic method of self-
expression, such composing instrumental music, writing and
singing songs, writing poetry or fiction, painting or
sculpting, dancing, etc. If you express your anger, pain,
longing, yearning, depression, guilt, etc. in an artistic
expression which conveys these feelings, it has a relieving
(cathartic) and transforming (sublimating) effect.

Another approach is to find a constructive and socially
acceptable way to re-direct negative feelings into direct
behavior. Anger can be re-directed into social crusading, in
which some group, social class or prominent leader is seen as
someone or something to be overcome to help the disadvantaged
or victimized. Likewise, anxiety can be re-directed by
focusing on others in danger, and working to save them.
Depression can be re-directed into a program of
philosophical, religious or spiritual discovery, as can
anxiety. Depression can also be re-directed by focusing on
helping others who are sad, lonely or depressed.

Immediate, common sense advice for people being flooded
by strong feelings is: For anger, do an hour of strenuous
exercise, before you return to focusing on what is making you
angry. Chop wood, lift weights, jog or take a fast walk.

For anxiety or depression, do something soothing or
enjoyable. Exercise, take a stroll, take a hot bath, read a
pleasant book, call a friend (or your local crisis line), do
some sexual activity, or watch a movie. If you are
religiously inclined, prayer, meditation or reading religious
books can be helpful. I would suggest that you avoid doing
anything while you are agitated or distressed that requires
concentration. I would also suggest that you try to avoid
self-medication with drugs or alcohol. Sometimes drugs or
alcohol will have the opposite effect to that intended, and
you may become more angry, frightened or depressed than you
already are.

Books on biofeedback, self-hypnosis or meditation
contain descriptions of soothing practices. The two most
popular practices are "breath-counting" meditation and
autogenic relaxation exercises.

In breath-counting, you sit upright or lie down and
concentrate on the sensation of breathing. You breathe a
little more deeply and regularly than usual, while attending
to the sensation of air entering your nose and filling your
lungs. As the breath leaves your body, you experience the
reverse sensations. As you do this, you count exhalations,
from one to ten, and then start over at one again. Ten
minutes of this exercise is usually enough to help you calm
yourself.

In autogenic relaxation, you lie on your back and
concentrate on your body, starting with your toes and slowly
working your way up to the top of your head. You
deliberately relax each part of your body. Once you have
relaxed a part of your body, you move on to the next part of
your body, until you have relaxed each part of your body.
As with the other exercise, ten minutes is usually enough
time to complete the exercise.

Creative visualization exercises can also be soothing.
In visualization, you might imagine that you are relaxing in
some attractive location, such as a beach. You imagine each
detail of your sensations, one at a time, until you have
imagined the sights, sounds, smells, physical sensations,
etc. of the experience. You might imagine the sight of
waves, the sound of crashing breakers, the feeling of basking
in the sun, the crunch of sand, the salt-air smell, etc.,
until you feel relaxed.

I usually call these common sense approaches to dealing
with feeling overwhelmed by negative emotions, "self-
soothing". Self-soothing is a good way to deal with the
immediate problem of being overwhelmed, but should not be
used as a whole program for dealing with your negative
feelings. Ideally, it should be used to enable you to get in
touch with painful feelings, memories and wishes, which you
should strive to eventually gratify, talk out, sublimate or
mourn. Otherwise, self-soothing practices simply become
relatively benign addictions.

If the feelings are a terrible sense of isolation,
emptiness and despair, you will probably need a combination
of religion and psychotherapy to make real headway in
recovering from the feelings. I'll take this opportunity to
write a few words about selecting a psychotherapist.
Psychotherapists (counselors, pastoral counselors, clinical
psychologists, psychiatrists and clinical social workers) are
generally trained in being empathic listeners.

If they are good at their job, they will allow you to
explore and express your feelings, instead of turning you
away from them because they make them uncomfortable. A good
therapist should be able to help you bear your feelings by
showing an attitude of calm, concerned acceptance of your
feelings. A superior therapist will also help you to
discover feelings and memories that you didn't know that you
had, while helping you to avoid the dangers of acting out.

Unfortunately, there are some therapists who subscribe
to theories which encourage turning away from negative
feelings instead of exploring them. Behaviorists and
Cognitive Behaviorists are the prime offenders in this
regard, but beware of anyone whose advice seems to turn you
away from, rather than towards your unhappy feelings. Some
therapists haven't gotten in touch with and accepted their
own pain and anger. If you find a therapist like this, he
won't be able to accept your pain and anger. Unfortunately,
if you have this experience, you will need to sever that tie,
and find another therapist.

There is another, opposite danger here, too. You may
encounter therapists who act out their anger, and encourage
you to act out yours. Some, though not all, feminist
therapists are like this. Some lesbian feminist therapists,
especially separatist lesbian therapists, may fall into this
category. Some therapists who act out anger may also act it
out against you. If you feel that your therapist is trying
to make you feel guilty or inadequate, explore this by asking
them if that is their goal, and not just a misunderstanding,
projection or transference on your part.

A third danger is that you may find a narcissistic
therapist, whose chief interest is in turning his clients
into dependents and admirers of his. If you find a therapist
like this, and this is a replication of your childhood
experience, then he will do more harm than good. This type
of therapist is also prone to the sexual exploitation of his
clients, even though this is contrary to professional ethics
and is illegal in some states. Here, too, it can be
difficult to tell the difference between your "stuff", that
is your projections or transferences, and the actuality of
the therapist's personality.

The fourth kind of therapist to avoid is one who seems
to feel a strong need to "take care of" others. A therapist
who is like this may be unable to support you in your goal of
self-discovery. As with other issues regarding your
therapist's personality, it can be difficult to distinguish
between reality, projections and transferences.

Another kind of therapy about which I have profound
reservations is hypnotherapy. I have seen and heard of what
I can only call therapeutic disasters resulting from
hypnotherapy. I strongly suggest that all clients avoid
hypnotherapy.

The approach recommended in this book is called family-
of-origin therapy, or psychoanalytic psychotherapy. If you
like the approach recommended in this book, you might look
for a therapist who uses one of these approaches or something
similar.

Before I got sidetracked into talking about choosing a
therapist, I mentioned the optimum ways of dealing with or
resolving the feelings and memories which you have uncovered.
They were catharsis, gratification, sublimation, and
mourning. Talking out is essentially anything which is
neither defending yourself against the feelings, nor acting
them out. Thus, talking out may be any combination of
gratification, catharsis, sublimation and mourning.

In classical Freudian psychoanalysis, a symptom is
described as a compromise between a defense and an impulse.
I find that this formula holds true even when the theoretical
framework is not the sexually-determined perspective of
classical analysis.

Gratification is, in a sense, a dirty word for classical
psychoanalysts. This is because they focus on incestuous
wishes, desires to soil one's diapers, murder ones' rivals,
and so forth. Classical analysts would not include
gratification under the category of desirable outcomes. If,
however, you focus on people's desires to feel loved and
respected by their families, gratification seems a lot more
appropriate.

Thus, if your symptom is the mis-direction of anger
towards your children, and your impulse is to express anger
for your parents' lack of concern and regard for you (which
is based on your need to feel loved and respected), and your
defense is to deny that feeling and to mis-direct your anger,
then the gratification of speaking your mind to your parents
about that issue can be a healthy and desirable thing. Thus,
gratification of that impulse to express your anger by
expressing it towards the person who made you feel angry may
be the best outcome.

If that expression of anger opens up the way for
increasing constructive communication in your family, and
reconciliation takes place, then so much the better. In
other words, gratification can be a desirable way of dealing
with a repressed and denied impulse, or an undesirable one,
depending upon the impulse.

Sublimation I have already described in detail. I think
it best if repressed and denied impulses be either gratified
as much as possible, or mourned as much as possible. I
reserve sublimation for the residue that cannot be gratified
or mourned.

Catharsis is something that Freud discovered early in
his career. He had hopes that catharsis would cure people,
but later discovered that this was not the case. In
catharsis, one "bleeds" away the intensity of feeling from an
issue by expressing the feelings without connecting the
feelings to the experiences which aroused them. Catharsis
can reduce feelings only on a temporary basis. If one uses
that opportunity to seek insight, and to bring the other
methods of resolving feelings to bear, then catharsis can be
very useful.

Mourning, as I have written above, is one of the chief
processes in psychotherapy. If you know what you want, and
are sure that you cannot get it, then you must mourn.
Mourning is how you remove your hand from that jar that
trapped the monkey.

As I mentioned above, mourning is sometimes referred to
as grieving a loss. The theory of mourning was first
elaborated in the context of actual bereavement, that is to
say, the death of a loved one. Our interest here is in
mourning in a wider sense of the term. We are interested in
understanding what is required in order for people to give up
unrealistic hopes, wishes and fantasies. You may have heard
reference to "the four stages of mourning". In this commonly
accepted view, the stages are anger, denial, bargaining, and
acceptance. In my own view, these frequently occur, but
mourning is a more complicated process than this would
imply.

In my experience, people give up their unrealistic hopes
and fantasies very slowly and reluctantly. I have watched
people go through numerous cycles of what might be called
disillusionment alternating with the reinstatement of the
fantasy that they will somehow get what they so desperately
want. This cyclic alternation can last for months or even
years for someone in therapy. For people who are not in
therapy, the cycle can last a lifetime.

The reason that people alternate between disillusionment
and fantasy is that they are avoiding the pain and despair of
giving up on what they so desperately desire. I have seen
this cycle most often in people who want to receive love and
recognition from parents who are unable to give or even
truely understand what love and recognition are.

Sometimes people transfer these feelings of hope to
someone, such as a spouse or therapist, and strive to gratify
the fantasy. Often, wishes for recognition and love will be
transferred from one parent to the other, and may then be
attached to a brother or sister. Anger and blame may be
transferred from person to person in the same way. Often the
hopes will be transferred to one person, and the anger and
blame will be transferred to another person.

Sometimes the hope will be kept attached to the parent
towards whom it is directed, and the anger and blame towards
that parent (for failing to really fulfill the hope) will be
transferred to another family member. Sometimes, the blame
is turned against oneself. This "splitting" of hope and
blame impedes the process of giving up the unrealistic hope,
by supporting the fantasy.

To surrender the fantasy of attaining love and
recognition from a parent requires simultaneously
experiencing the hope, yearning and longing, and the painful
awareness of disillusionment over a long period of time.
This is the secret of successful mourning. People keep
themselves trapped in the cycle by turning away from their
hopes when they plunge into the bitterness and despair of
disillusionment. They keep themselves trapped in the cycle
by refusing to be aware of the lonely bitterness of despair
when they are experiencing their hope of love, recognition
and "belonging".

It is very hard to tolerate the experience of feeling
hope, desperate yearning, and longing while simultaneously
maintaining awareness of the unreality of the fantasy of
getting what you hope for. This, however, is the only way to
successfully mourn. Successful mourning is how you can let
go of an unrealistic fantasy, together with all of the
symptoms and side effects that you have suffered in the
attempt to maintain the fantasy.

As you successfully maintain awareness of the
impossibility of your fantasy and the bitterness or longing
that you feel, the mourning process will commence. If the
loss is a severe one for you, you will probably experience
alternating waves of grief and numbness or shock. At times,
you may experience what has been called "searching". You may
feel as though you are looking for what you have lost, and
feel for a fleeting moment as though you had just found it,
only to realize that you were mistaken.

You will probably feel as though some part of you has
been lost, as though through amputation. You may feel an
irrational guilt, as though the loss of your fantasy were
your fault. You may be tempted to idealize the person you
have "lost". Slowly, your feelings of sorrow, grief and loss
will ebb. The emptiness, despair and "greyness" of the world
will slowly subside. The waves of grief will lessen in
intensity and frequency, and you will take more of an
interest in other activities and relationships. Slowly, as
though from a severe physical wound, you will heal.

When people contemplate facing the grief of surrendering
their dream, even though they may never have acknowledged the
dream previously, they often wonder how they can bear it. My
earlier remarks about talking out, sublimation, and self-
soothing describe ways that the grief, bitterness, anguish,
despair, anger, and other feelings of loss and
disillusionment can be borne.

Having the opportunity to share these feelings with an
understanding and accepting friend, clergyman or therapist
can be very valuable here. It is as though the ability
of someone else to bear our feelings with calmness and
compassion showed us a new way to experience them. Also,
their kindness is very comforting, and makes us feel less
"naked and alone".

I'll briefly summarize these ways of dealing with such
feelings: You can express your feelings through talking
about them, writing about them, and expressing them through
an artistic medium. Anger can be dissipated by vigorous
activity. Depression or anxiety can be dissipated by
activities which are soothing, pleasurable and comforting for
you, as long as they don't require too much concentration and
attention. Finally, you can reach out and help others, or
communicate with others.

If you put this knowledge to good use, you will have
removed your fist from the jar, and will have begun to
explore other jars. Eventually, perhaps after several false
starts, you will find a full jar with a wide mouth. Then you
will see that the struggle to pull your fist from the other
jar was worth the effort and suffering.

 Chapter 7: 
Changing Your Life Patterns 
 Now that you have examined your life and discovered or
faced feelings which you had either avoided or been unaware
of, you are ready to make a real change in the pattern of
your life. You have begun to let go of what has impeded you
in the past. You are now in a position to explore the
question of which relationships are worth keeping and
improving, which should be ended, how you can improve those
which are worthwhile, and how you can find desirable new
relationships. You can undertake new projects, expand your
interests, and breathe new life into old activities. You can
begin to enjoy life more, and to be more successful.

Now that you have begun to let go of old hopes and
fears, angers and sorrows, you can begin to seek change.
If you have always sought out relationships that were bad for
you, and which have no promise of giving you what you want
from them, you can end those relationships. Then you can
begin to make relationships with people who previously would
not have seemed appealing, naturally attractive or
appropriate for you. You are now in a position to begin to
appreciate people who previously might have seemed dull,
irrelevant or beyond your reach.

If you have had difficulties in relationships which are
fundamentally sound and desirable, you are now in a position
to improve your relationships by withdrawing your projections
and transferences, letting go of displaced fears and angers,
and opening up lines of positive communication. You can
learn to be more open to the kindness and interest that is
shown to you, and to show these feelings to others. If you
need to become more assertive, you can begin to discover that
you will not be rejected by others for seeking what you want
and need.

If you have been hopeless or defeated, then you can
begin to hope, and to seek and find what you have despaired
of finding. If you have been running from your feelings
because they are so awful, you can begin to find feelings
which feel better. If you have been punishing yourself, in
order to spare others, or in the hopes of pleasing someone
who is harsh or angry, you can surrender this
counterproductive way of life.

All of these gains, and more, have become possible for
you simply because you have become aware of the natural
tendency that people have to avoid facing and experiencing
painful feelings and perceptions, and because you have
chosen to work to discover and experience what has been
hidden inside of you. In my experience, as this is done, the
positive changes which you have sought will flower naturally,
without any need to impose some plan or program. To grow, to
learn, to explore and to discover, to create, to communicate
and to relate, to love and to accept are all natural human
potentials.

I believe that all approaches that try to teach people
to do these things are bound to fail. Rather, one has only
to help people remove the obstacles, as you have started to
do, and positive change occurs by itself.

Having said that, I will try to give you some idea of
how a happy and successful life usually looks. Some people
come from such unhappy backgrounds that they don't know what
a happy and successful life might look like.

Happy and successful people have made the best that they
realistically can of their blood relationships. If they have
relatives who are hopelessly angry, selfish, distant,
possessive or exploitative, and who don't respond to positive
attempts to seek improvement, they avoid them. If they are
married to someone like this, they try to work it out. If
they can't, they get a divorce.

They never give up on their kids, however, because they
are responsible for them. If they don't like their jobs or
careers, they change them as soon as it is practical. They
seek out friends and community, without having inflated
expectations about them. They know that people can't always
agree, and that people need to have some freedom to do their
own thing as well as to be in relationships. They seek out
loving sexual relationships, get married when they find one
that works out well, and have kids. They are faithful in
their marriages, not because straying might not be fun, but
because they don't want to hurt their spouse or jeopardize
their marriage. They seek compromise without hypocrisy.

They give their family and friends permission to have
time with their friends, and to have their own interests.
On the other hand, they also share time together with their
family. They let their children grow up and apart from the
family, without clinging to them or rejecting them. They
encourage and support their children, and also discipline
them, but are not too harsh or demanding. They accept the
fact that children's needs change according to their age.

They show a sympathetic and concerned interest in the
feelings of others, without surrendering their own right to
be angry at times, and serve their own interest to a
reasonable degree. They seek out people who are able to give
and receive personal communication, friendship and love.

They care about others, but they care about themselves,
too. They take good care of themselves, and don't abuse
their bodies or their minds, with excessive drinking, drug
abuse, or in any other way. They are accepting and
understanding about human nature. They ask for what they
want. They seek to have every dimension of life represented
in their lives.

They know that they deserve success, pleasure,
satisfaction, and a sense of spiritual connection, however
they may conceive of it. They enjoy material things, and
work to get them, but they don't make material things the
center of their lives. They do not begrudge having to work
to get these things, but rather know that accomplishment is
part of the pleasure of life. They have hobbies or interests
besides work and family.

They tend to follow the golden rule, and live according
to a natural balance and moderation. Even when they don't
however, they don't get too upset about it. They just
acknowledge their lapse and return to their natural center.
Some people might think their lives boringly humdrum or
conventional, but they enjoy their lives anyway.

If your life doesn't look something like this, I think
that you should ask yourself why. If your life doesn't look
like this, and you have some good-sounding reasons for why
not, I suggest that you question yourself again. You may
just be rationalizing something, to the detriment of your own
happiness in life.

It has been remarked that the price of liberty is
eternal vigilance. That is also true of this approach to
living. Your natural tendency to avoid thoughts, feelings
and actions which are painful, frightening, or guilt-inducing
will never entirely leave you. It will weaken, however, as
you become more aware of this tendency, more committed to
this way of life, and more knowledgeable about your natural
human tendency to fool yourself.

You will naturally learn to notice when you are caught
in a finger-trap, or in a food-jar. When you notice that you
have done this, you will just put them down, and walk away.
You will never again have to be trapped by a wisp of straw or
to starve in the midst of plenty.

 Appendix 1: 
List of Words that Express Feelings 
 This book is about getting in touch with feelings. To
help you in accomplishing that goal, I have encouraged you to
think, write and speak about your feelings about your
experiences in life. Here is a list of feeling words that
may help you when you are struggling to find the right words
to fit your feelings:

Abandoned, abused, accepted, affectionate, aflame, afraid,
agitated, aggravated, alarmed, alienated, alive, alone,
amazed, amused, angry, anguish, annoyed, anxious,
appreciative, apprehensive, aroused, ashamed, at ease, awful,
awkward

Baffled, battered, belittled, belligerent, below par,
bewildered, bitter, blue, bored, bottled up, branded,
broken.

calm, capable, cast off, cheapened, cheerful, competent,
confident, conflicted, confused, constrained, contemptuous,
contented, criticized, crushed.

Debased, defeated, deficient, deflated, dejected,
demoralized, depreciated, depressed, desolate, despair,
desperate, despised, despondent, destroyed, discontented,
discouraged, discredited, disgraced, disgusted, disgusting,
disinterested, disliked, dismal, displeased, dispassionate,
despicable, dissatisfied, distressed, distrustful, disturbed,
done for, doubtful, down cast, downhearted, downtrodden,
dread, dreadful.

Ecstatic, elevated, embarrassed, empty, enraged,
enthusiastic, envious, euphoric, exalted, excited, excluded,
exhausted, exhilarated, exposed.

Fantastic, fearful, fine, fit, foolish, forlorn, forsaken,
frantic, friendly, frightened, frustrated, furious, futile.

Glad, glorious, good, grand, grateful, gratified, great,
guilty.

Happy, hateful, hatred, helpful, helpless, hesitant,
hindered, hopeless, horny, horrible, horrified, hostile,
humble, humiliated, hurt, hypocritical.

Ignored, ill at ease, impaired, impotent, imprisoned,
inadequate, incapable, incompetent, ineffective, inept,
inferior, inflamed, insecure, insignificant, in the dumps,
intimidated, irritated.

Jazzed, jealous, jeopardized, jilted, jittery, joyful, jumpy.

Laughed at, left out, livid, lonely, lonesome, longing,
loved, loving, lustful, lost, lousy, low.

Mad, maligned, miffed, miserable, mistreated, misunderstood.

Needed, negative, neglected, nervous, numb.

Obsolete, offended, on edge, oppressed, optimistic,
ostracized, outraged, overlooked, overwhelmed.

Panicky, passionate, perplexed, pleased, powerless,
pressured, proud, put down, puzzled.

Rage, reborn, rebuked, regretful, rejected, rejuvenated,
relaxed, relieved, repulsed, resentful, restless, revengeful,
ridiculed, ridiculous, rotten, roused, run down.

Sad, satisfied, scared, selfish, sensual, serene, sexy,
shaky, shocked, sickened, skeptical, slandered, spiteful,
startled, surprised, suspicious, swamped.

Tearful, tense, terrible, terrified, threatened, thrilled,
tormented, transformed, transcendent, trusting.

Uncertain, uncomfortable, uncooperative, underrated,
understood, uneasy, unhappy, unimportant, unloved,
unqualified, unsatisfied, unsure, upset, uptight.

Wanted, warmhearted, washed up, whipped, worried, worthless,
worthy.

 Appendix 2: 
Typical Issues 
 The word issue is often used by therapists. I'm not
fond of it, but there doesn't seem to be a good synonym. As
in everyday usage, the word "issue" indicates a subject laden
with intense feelings. When therapists use the word,
however, it does not necessarily imply that there is some
question in dispute to be resolved. Here is a list of
emotion laden situations, some of which may be relevant to
you:

Abandonment: Abandonment can be literal or emotional. A
parent who leaves a child has literally abandoned him. A
parent who is dysfunctional due to alcoholism, drug
addiction, mental or physical illness, depression, etc., will
cause the child to have feelings of abandonment. A parent
who is unsupportive, clinging, and unempathic will make a
child feel abandonment. The very worst feelings of
abandonment originate when parents cling to a child or
discourage exploration, initiative, and the development of
the child's capacities for independence and self-confidence,
starting in early toddlerhood.

Abuse, emotional: Emotional abuse is the term used to
describe deliberate attempts to make someone feel bad about
themselves. The regular use of epithets that make people
wince, such as ass hole, coward, whore, slut, cunt, prick,
idiot, jerk, moron, bastard, pervert, queer, faggot, etc., to
describe someone is emotional abuse. If someone has
subjected you to behavior that has had the effect of making
you feel worthless, unself-confident, timid, frightened,
ashamed, guilt-ridden, inadequate, inferior, etc., you have
probably been subjected to emotional abuse. This is true
whether you consider their behavior to be understandable,
forgivable, justifiable or appropriate, or not.

Typical symptoms of emotional abuse are: A tendency to
emotionally abuse others; A tendency to seek out
relationships with emotionally abusive people; depression and
anxiety; low self-esteem, difficulties in self-assertion, and
lack of self-confidence; and free-floating anger. For an
explanation of the source of these symptoms, see "Abuse,
sexual" in this section.

Abuse, physical: If someone has deliberately or repeatedly
subjected you to violence that has bruised you, raised welts
on your skin, or damaged your body more severely, then you
have been physically abused. This is true whether you have
felt that their behavior was appropriate or not. This is
true whether you agree with the rationale for the abuse or
not. It is true whether you consider the behavior to
represent appropriate discipline, justifiable anger, or an
unfortunate but forgivable loss of self-control, or not.

Typical symptoms are: Anger management problems or free
floating anger; a tendency to physically abuse others; a
tendency to seek out relationships with physically abusive
people, and anxiety. For an explanation of the sources of
these symptoms, see "Abuse, sexual" in this section.

Abuse, sexual: The essence of sexual abuse is force,
intimidation, or lack of consent. For minors, force,
intimidation or lack of consent is implicit if there is
sexual contact between minors having an age difference of two
years or more. Sexual contact of any kind between adults and
minors is always sexual abuse. Sexual contact in which one
partner is not consenting is always sexual abuse, no matter
what their ages.

Sexual behavior includes not only vaginal intercourse,
but also oral and anal intercourse, touching the victim's
genitals or anal area, requiring the victim to touch the
abuser's genitals or anal area, and exposure of the abuser's
or victim's genitals for exhibitionistic or voyeuristic
reasons. In addition, any behavior which has a clearly
sexual meaning and which goes beyond the boundaries of normal
behavior will have the psychological impact of sexual abuse,
whether it violates relevant laws or not.

In any of these circumstances, sexual abuse is sexual
abuse, whether you feel that you have behaved in such a way
as to seduce or arouse the abuser, or not. Likewise,
factors such as alcoholism, drug addiction, or a lack of
sexual outlets for the abuser do not alter the fact that
sexual abuse is sexual abuse. Rationalizations such as
labeling the behavior as "educational" also do not alter the
fact that sexual abuse is sexual abuse.

Sexual play and exploration between children of a similar
age, (less than two years of age), and similar physical and
psychological development, is not sexual abuse, unless there
is an element of force involved.

Untreated victims of sexual abuse may suffer from a
number of symptoms. Since memories of having been sexually
abused may have been repressed (forgotten so as to avoid the
pain and fear associated with the memories), the presence of
typical symptoms should lead one to inquire about the
possibility of having been sexually abused. Typical symptoms
include: Depression, nightmares, a tendency to seek out
abusive relationships, free-floating anger, difficulties in
self-assertion, low self-esteem, guilt, promiscuous sexual
behavior, sexual inhibition, and bed-wetting or precocious
sexual behavior in children.

These symptoms occur primarily as result of defenses
against feelings aroused by the sexual abuse, and treatment
is very successful at dispelling them. Depression occurs as
a result of result of turning the anger inspired by the abuse
inward. The nightmares are a symptom of denied anger. The
tendency to seek out abusive relationships is a result of
repetition compulsion. The free-floating anger is a result
of displacement.

The difficulty in self-assertion is an example of
introjection, as are the lack of self-confidence, guilt and
low self-esteem. The tendency towards promiscuous sexual
behavior is a result of repetition compulsion. Precocious
sexual behavior in children is an example of repetition
compulsion. Bed-wetting probably represents an example of
repetition compulsion, when it is experienced as being a
sexual experience. The sexual inhibition is a result of
transference or displacement. Victims of sexual abuse may
also become perpetrators of sexual abuse upon others through
the defense of reversal of self and other.

With any form of abuse, whether emotional, physical or
sexual, there is usually a multi-generational family history
of the form of abuse practiced. This occurs as a result of
repetition compulsion, as former victims seek out new
abusers, reversal of self and object, as victims become
abusers in turn, and projective identification, as victims
inspire abusive behavior in persons who are already inclined
to becoming abusers. In addition, the roles may be
internalized and then acted out as a result of identification
with an abuser and/or victim in one's family of origin.

Alcoholism and Drug Abuse: If you need alcohol or drugs,
then you are an alcoholic or chemically dependent.
Unfortunately, as it is often said, the chief symptom of
alcoholism or chemical dependency is denial, so many
alcoholics and addicts deny that they need alcohol or drugs.
If anyone has ever suggested that you might be an alcoholic
or an addict, it might be instructive for you to try to go
without using drugs and alcohol for a couple of months, and
see what happens.

Here are some rough rules of thumb: Anyone who regularly
drinks more than two drinks a day is probably an alcoholic.
Anyone who drinks more than five drinks a day more than three
times a year is probably an alcoholic. Anyone who gets in
trouble at work or with the law, or has relationship problems
because of alcohol is probably an alcoholic.

If you use marijuana more than twice a month, you are
probably chemically dependent. If you use cocaine,
methadrine or other controlled stimulants (speed), heroin, or
heroin substitutes more than twice a year, you are probably
chemically dependent. If you have been taking prescription
drugs for the control of depression, anxiety, etc., for more
than six weeks, and you are not in therapy, you are probably
chemically dependent. Anyone who gets in trouble at work or
with the law or has relationship problems because of drug use
more than once is chemically dependent.

If you or any of your family members fit this
description, then you or they are probably chemically
dependent, no matter what reasons, justifications, or
rationalizations that anyone may offer for their behavior.
Typical rationalizations given are: Bereavement,
frustration, unhappiness, desire to fit in or conform
socially, to relax, to have a good time, etc. No matter how
good a rationalization may sound, it does not alter the
fundamental fact of chemical dependency, if the criteria for
chemical dependency are met.

The consequences of alcoholism or drug abuse are
serious, and include damage in every area of one's life.
One's health, physical safety, financial wellbeing, happiness
and stability of relationships, and emotional wellbeing are
enormously harmed. It is important to remember that chronic
abuse or even just a single overdose of many drugs, including
alcohol, can be fatal. You need only to reflect on the many
rock stars who died in the 1970's to be convinced of this
fact.

Typically, there are two primary motivations for
addictive behavior. The first is the wish to fill a deep
inner emptiness, hunger and longing. The second is the wish
to express a deep and abiding anger.

The emptiness, hunger and longing have their roots in an
unhappy early childhood in which the addicted person felt
unrecognized, not truely accepted for himself, and unloved.
This experience left the addicted person with a deep and
abiding wish to get some kind of substitute for what he did
not get in his youngest years. Sometimes the addicted person
knows this already, and other times he or she has managed to
put it so far out of his mind that he or she doesn't remember
the experiences and feelings which he is trying to escape.

This same experience of feeling neglected, unwanted,
not accepted or even actively abused has also left the
addicted person with a deep residue of anger. There are a
number of experiences which may inspire this kind of deep,
long-lasting anger. Often it has to do with feeling that
one's individuality or existence as a separate person is not
truely accepted by one's parents and family. This anger is
usually not recognized by anyone, even by the addicted person
himself.

This deep anger is the reason that the harmful effects
of the addictive behavior is not a sufficient deterrent to
the addicted person. This anger is turned both inward and
outward. This is why the consequences of the behavior to
self and to others is not a deterrent to the behavior. The
harmful effect is actually a kind of revenge or punishment
that pleases the angry part of the addicted person. The
addicted person wants to punish both himself and others, and
the harmful consequences of the addictive behavior serve this
end.

It must be emphasized that the addicted person is not
aware of the emotional sources of his addictive behaviors.
These early experiences and feelings are deeply painful, and
the addict has put them as far out of his mind as possible.
The addict does not knowingly feel these feelings and connect
them with these behaviors. In the intensive counseling
process, discovering these feelings and connecting them with
their sources actually helps free the addicted person from
the feelings and their resultant impulses and behaviors.

Just as a tree has roots, a trunk, branches, and leaves,
so too does addictive behavior. The above addresses the
roots, in the mainsprings of feeling empty and unloved and
feeling angry. It also addresses the branches and leaves, in
discussing the resulting addictive behavior. The trunk is in
the present, in the current daily life of the addict with his
family and work.

Because people who live and work together have to adapt
to each other, they affect one another's feelings and
behavior. Thus, the people in the addict's life and the way
that they adapt to one another also has its effect on the
addictive behavior. The addict cannot continue with his
addictive behavior if people in his daily life will not
tolerate it. Since they usually do, they are called
enablers, as they enable the addict to continue with his
harmful behavior. Sometimes, enablers even help to create
the addictive behavior.

There are a number of different reasons why someone
might be an enabler. Some enablers are simply trying to
adapt to the addict. They feel unable to assert themselves
with the addict in such a way as to make real negative
consequences for his addictive behaviors. Counseling can
help these people to assert themselves, either through
education and encouragement, or through helping them to
discover the roots of their difficulty in asserting
themselves.

Other enablers seem to be actively motivated to
encourage the addict in his behavior, though they may not
know it. These people, like the addict, are not aware of the
roots of their behavior, and usually don't even recognize
that they engage in enabling behavior. Some actively
motivated enablers have the same motivations as the addict
himself. These people might be called vicarious addicts.
They get the "satisfactions" of the addictive behavior
without having to endure the stigma of being the addict.

Other enablers enable in order to have the satisfaction
of being able to have an excuse to be angry, contemptuous, or
superior to the addict. This is sometimes known as
"scapegoating". These enablers don't recognize their
motivation or even see that they contribute to encouraging
the addict to continue with his addictive behavior. These
people, like the addict, have behavior which springs from
deep roots in their childhood experiences. Like the addict,
they are angry and insecure.

A third class of motivated enablers has in effect struck
a bargain with the addict. The unstated, and usually
unthought bargain is, "I will overlook your addictive
behavior if only you will overlook my own flaws" Sometimes
the "flaw" that is traded for is the enabler's own addictive
behavior. Another bargain often struck is "If you will let
me depend on you to an unhealthy extent, I will overlook your
addiction".

As with the addict, it must be emphasized that the
enabler usually has no awareness of the effects of his
behavior, nor any idea as to its roots in his or her own
past. Enablers often learned to be enablers in a childhood
experience of growing up in a family composed of an addict
and enablers, and are finding and creating an environment
similar to that in which they grew up.

In addictive families, it is often the case that family
members do not know how to constructively express negative
feelings and successfully resolve conflicts. In these
families, the addict's behavior can serve to deflect family
conflicts into a behavior that the family is more comfortable
with, even though its effects can be very harmful to the
family.

Thus, the addictive behavior can serve to express not
only anger stemming from the addict's and enabler's early
experiences, but also present conflicts in the family and at
work. Therefore, the addict's behavior can reflect not only
his inner needs to escape feelings of emptiness, sadness,
hurt and anger, but also can serve to fulfill his need to
please people in his current daily life. Sometimes, for that
matter, the addictive behavior was acquired and is continued
in an attempt to please the hidden wishes of a parent in the
course of one's childhood.

Often, addictive behaviors are found in "enmeshed"
families, which are families in which a healthy degree of
independence and individuality are not tolerated. In these
families, addictive behaviors can be both a form of covert
rebellion and a way of "killing the pain" caused by being
trapped in such a situation. In these families, the
addictive behavior serves to maintain the status quo.

Of course, with some addictive behaviors, there is a
substance which is abused, and these substances can cause
physiological addiction and psychological habituation. One
could write a book, and not exhaust the possible reasons for
addictive behaviors, but the above should give some idea of
the most common roots of these behaviors.

One must remember that it would be an oversimplification
to try and find just one or two causes of addictive
behaviors, even in any given case. The truth is that unhappy
families produce unhappy children, who become unhappy adults.
These adults then find partners and found households of their
own. In this way, each case of addiction has an early
childhood component which creates individual feelings of
anger and need, and a current family component, which creates
feelings and needs of its own. It would be very unusual to
find an example of addiction which did not have both roots in
the addict's childhood, and a current family situation which
contributed to the problem.

Successful conquest of chemical dependency by oneself is
unlikely. The best treatment programs for chemical
dependency feature a combination of family, group and
individual counseling, 12-step program involvement, and
after care. Early stages of treatment should focus on
abstaining from the substance abused, and on the influence of
one's immediate environment in encouraging or discouraging
substance use. Later stages should address childhood and
current relationship issues.