The Harsh Conscience

The Harsh Conscience

by Tim Dunn, M.A., C.M.H.C.

Some aspect's of Freud's theories are controversial.
Those aspects, which focus on his theories regarding the
prominence of sexuality in human motivation, are not referred
to here. This paper focuses on aspects of his theories which
are more readily accepted, and which more closely follow our
every day experience.

According to Freud's structural model, the human mind
consists of three parts: The ego, or rational, goal-directed
aspect of one's personality; the id, or the instinctive,
immediate-gratification oriented part of one's personality;
and the super-ego, or conscience.

An excessively harsh conscience often plays a central
role in a number of psychological and relationship
difficulties. I have written elsewhere about the role of
the harsh conscience in addiction. Here, I wish to discuss
the role of the harsh conscience in creating other
difficulties. The harsh conscience, known to psychoanalysts
as the punitive super-ego, can cause escalating blame-
oriented arguments, overwork, and codependency (excessive
caretaking.) It can also create various other difficulties,
including inhibited sexual desire, anxiety, phobias, and
depression.

The conscience represent's one's moral sense, and
reflects the moral judgments of one's parents, other
authority figures and one's peers. It has positive and
negative aspects. The positive side contains ideals, and it
rewards the upholding of its standards with a feeling of
self-esteem, contentment, and a sense of being at ease. The
negative aspect condemns when its standards are violated.
This produces guilt, shame, low self-esteem, and sometimes
depression and anxiety.

A healthy conscience provides guidance. It admonishes,
in a firm, persistent way. It is like an attentive teacher
or guide. A healthy conscience is like a still, quiet voice,
a compass that enables one to steer through moral thickets
with a minimum of difficulty.

A harsh conscience is not like that. It is so
intolerable, so excessive, that it is useless as a guide. It
is like an unrelenting critic, a critic who finds nothing
valuable or worthwhile, a critic whose criticisms are so
destructive that they must be rejected altogether. Rather
than being like a compass, it is like a bludgeon, a club, a
hammer that abuses without mercy or moderation.

Because the harsh conscience is so unbearable, it may be
rejected at times. Rather than being a guide, it is regarded
as an enemy, and is therefore defended against. Because of
this, s person with a harsh conscience often hears the
concerns of others as unbearably harsh criticisms. Feedback
about negative consequences is heard in the same way, as
harsh criticism rather than as friendly warnings.

Some people react to this situation by becoming addicts
of one form or another. Addiction can serve as a haven, a
safe refuge from the "internal persecutor." Addictions to
drugs, alcohol, food, sex, gambling, spending, relationships,
and anything else which offers immediate gratification may
serve this purpose.

Not everyone with a harsh conscience becomes an addict,
however. For these other people with a harsh conscience,
there are three fundamental alternatives. The first is to be
crushed by the harsh conscience, and suffer guilt, shame,
remorse, low-self esteem, and/or depression. The second is
to try to live up to the extreme demands of the harsh
conscience, and become a workaholic, codependent, and/or
perfectionist. The third is to defend against the conscience
in some way.

Being Crushed by the Conscience

A person who is crushed by his or her conscience may
suffer from a variety of symptoms. They may experience
depression, low-self esteem, guilt, shame, anxiety, and a
variety of symptoms such as phobias, codependency and
inhibited sexual desire.

I have often seen these symptoms in combination. I
have one client who presented with marital conflict caused by
inhibited sexual desire. I discovered that he was depressed,
and had difficulty identifying his emotions and needs in
general. His wife was a workaholic, and he simply suffered
her neglect silently. When he did make hesitant sexual
advances towards his wife, she was not pleased because he was
so tentative, and she didn't feel really wanted.

We are working on increasing his assertiveness, on
learning to identify emotions and desires, and on decreasing
his codependent need to make others instantly and perfectly
happy at all times. We looked at his family of origin and
their apparent disinterest in his point of view, combined
with their expectation of total obedience to their every
desire. My client is making progress in working on these
things, and his symptoms are decreasing.

I have another client who has a phobia which is related
to venereal diseases. He feels guilt about past sexual
conduct, and this manifests as a phobia that he will be
punished with a sexually transmitted disease. He also has
inhibited sexual desire, resulting from a fear that he will
give his wife the disease which he fears he might have. He
is an unusually nice person, and he feels guilt towards his
wife for involving her in his problems.

I have a third client who was suicidally depressed. She
also suffered from guilt for sexual conduct. She contracted
a sexually transmitted disease, and reacted with guilt and
suicidal depression. This was disproportionate, as her
disease was a source of discomfort, but was not dangerous.

Each of these clients has a harsh conscience, and is or
was in the "crushed" position. Some clients alternate
between being "crushed", defending by blaming and criticizing
and feeling blamed, being perfectionistic, workaholic, and
codependent, and practicing some addiction.

I have one client who has made great progress, and sees
me only occasionally now. He presented with marital conflict
caused by the blame cycle. He also had a history of
addiction, depression, and workaholism and perfectionism. He
is an example of someone with a harsh conscience who cycles
between being crushed by it, living up to it, fleeing it, and
defending against it.

Living Up to the Harsh Conscience

Codependency, workaholism and perfectionism are examples
of trying to live up to the harsh conscience. Perfectionists
expect too much of themselves and others. Perfectionists do
not focus on realistic goals and normal standards. They
rather ask what the best possible performance is. I ask
perfectionistic clients to ask themselves if they are
expecting more of themselves than of others, if they demand a
higher standard than the goal of the job requires, and if
they demand more of themselves than the average person would
expect. Since no one is ever perfect, perfectionists create
a great deal of unnecessary stress for themselves and others.

Workaholics put in more hours than their peers, neglect
themselves and their loved ones, and set themselves up for
burnout. Anyone who consistently puts in work hours that
they are not paid for, who does work that other people are
responsible for, who tolerates abusive working conditions, or
who is receiving complaints of neglect from loved ones is
likely to be a workaholic.

Codependents are people who focus more on other people's
needs than on their own. As a result, they often feel
inappropriate guilt any time that they do place their own
needs first. On the other hand, they may feel resentment and
self-pity if they do act on the premise that other people's
needs are more important than their own. Codependents
often find themselves in undesirable relationships because
they feel that taking care of dysfunctional, alcoholic or
addicted people is more important than having a two-way
relationship.

What these three conditions have in common is that they
are all examples of striving to live up to excessive and
inappropriate standards. People who do this do so in order
to avoid the punishment of their "overdeveloped" consciences.

Defenses Against the Conscience

Common defenses against the criticisms of the harsh
conscience are to: Project the conscience onto someone else,
and feel victimized; to place the blame and criticism on
someone else, and persecute them; or to plea bargain, and
make excuses or comparisons with other people's behavior.

As people often find others like themselves to relate
to, both members of a couple may have a harsh conscience.
When this is the case, they may become embroiled in a "blame
and criticism cycle." When they are involved in this
interaction, each hears the other as a harsh critic, and
responds by attempting to place the blame and criticism on
the other. This process requires that each engage in playing
the victim role and the persecutor role, as described above.

Both the victim role and the persecutor role are
defenses against the harsh conscience. In psychoanalytic
terms, the defenses in play are projection and projective
identification. In projection, something inside of oneself
is perceived as being outside of oneself. In this case, the
harsh conscience is projected outside of oneself, onto
someone else. In projective identification, a feeling is
taken out of oneself and induced in someone else. In this
case, the feeling is one of being blamed, "bad", in the
wrong, etc.

This process looks like this: Each participant
simultaneously defends himself or herself, while blaming and
criticizing the other for something. Thus, they avoid
acknowledging their own feelings of guilt by rapidly
alternating between the roles of victim and persecutor.
Often self-pity or martyrdom are strategies which enable
transition from the victim role to the persecutor role.

The strategy is to blame and criticise the other for
unfairly or excessively putting one on the defensive. The
argument can be summed up as, "Poor me, how awful that you so
arbitrarily, unreasonably, unfairly attack me. How awful you
are. And that's not all! You have many sins to answer for!
For example, that time that you......."

The customary response is to reply that the other is
being unfair, dishonest, etc., to so slant things, that the
other is being characteristically vicious and arbitrary, and
that they also have many more crimes to answer to justice
for. From here, the cycle escalates to slammed doors, the
"cold shoulder" or the "silent treatment," or even to
physical violence.

The Origin of the Harsh Conscience

Usually, the harsh conscience is passed on by the style
of discipline used by one's parents. Frequently, children
who become adults with harsh consciences are from families
in which they are punished suddenly, without warning, in an
immoderate way. Positive reinforcement or praise and advice
are usually lacking. Instead, the parents or guardians often
alternate between a lack of involvement and harsh criticism.
Sometimes, the parents have an anger management problem, in
which they fail to assert themselves, grow increasingly
frustrated, and then explode. In other examples, the parents
seem to need someone to blame and criticise or take out their
anger on, and so they tell the child that he is bad, but take
no effective steps to change the child's behavior for the
better.

In effect, the parent's style of discipline is taken on
(introjected) by the child, and the child comes to discipline
himself in the same way that the parents disciplined or
reacted to him. The parent's style of discipline is the
model upon which the child creates his conscience.

Sometimes, the conscience is given its harshness because
the person had parents who were too burdened with other
aspects of life. In these cases, the person develops an
ethic of premature self-sufficiency, out of a desire not to
overburden an already burdened parent.

Due to the age (about four years old) at which a child
is capable of recognizing and feeling concern for a parent's
overburdened state of mind, the conscience is "fixated" or
frozen at the early, harsh and immoderate stage of its
natural development. Often, this kind of parent is prone to
deliberate guilt-induction, which increases the severity of
the tendency towards immoderate guilt and shame in the child
later to become an addict.

Sometimes, these clients were treated as though they
were adults while they were still children, or they were used
as resources to be exploited by their parents. These clients
may have been raised in situations of role reversal, in which
they acted as though they were the parents and their
dysfunctional parents were the children.

Whatever the family situation, it always incorporates
some form of dysfunction: Emotional detachment; acting out
of anger; harshness; excessive guilt or shame; addiction and
co-dependency; mental health or relationship problems, and/or
actual neglect or abuse. Some people are quite willing to
admit this. Others, out of loyalty, fear, or a desire to
preserve a comforting myth, are slow to acknowledge the
reality of their family and of their childhood.

In no cases of my experience do the families of people
with harsh consciences provide what might be called pro-
active parenting. That is to say, parents of people with
harsh consciences do not take initiative for exploring the
feelings of their children, helping them cope with their
problems and feelings, and providing understanding and
acceptance for their children's experience of life. This is
a form of neglect, though people rarely realize it.

This history of neglect or abuse is the primary and
fundamental source of the low self-esteem and difficulty in
being moderate in one's demands on oneself experienced by
people who have a harsh conscience.

Moderating the Harsh Conscience

Treatment for the symptoms described above depends upon
the symptom. Some people have difficulty controlling their
behavior, or have difficulty staying motivated to make
constructive choices. These people need to begin therapy
with a form of counseling which focuses on controlling
behavior, such as addiction counseling. Others have less
difficulty controlling their impulses. For these people,
insight-oriented counseling is appropriate.

In insight oriented counseling, three fundamental
problems can be addressed. The first is the excessive nature
of the conscience. The second is any counterproductive
values which have been incorporated into the conscience, such
as overemphasis on work, excessive self-reliance, excessive
responsibility for others, etc. The third is acting out, or
doing counterproductive things in order to defend against the
punishment of the excessive conscience.

Learning to refrain from acting out can be difficult, as
defensive behaviors such as blaming and criticizing others
usually occur without reflection or insight. Learning to
identify acting out, and agreeing to refrain from doing so,
are necessary in order to succeed in insight-oriented
therapy.

People with an excessive conscience normally practice a
double standard. In a process akin to systematic
desensitization (getting used to something frightening,) the
client can address this by learning to act on the basis of
his or her beliefs about how people in general ought to feel
and act. This will at first cause guilt or anxiety, but the
guilt and anxiety lessens over time.

Additionally, the client can focus on reexamining his or
her personal history, and seeing where and how he or she
acquired counterproductive values. This process may require
that the client confront those who taught the client these
values, and asserting the right of the client to have
leisure, deserve caring treatment, etc.

A re-examination of one's values, learning to question
one's assumptions and values, and gaining insight into the
connection between one's values and one's symptoms provides
relief of the symptoms for these clients.