(while not endorsements per se, these are recommendations from Political 
Woman Hotline)

--WOMEN CANDIDATES ON THE WEB
-KAREN SCOTT (CA-AD1/D+): http://www.mcn.org/banana/campaign.html
WLO member Scott chairs the CA Democratic Party Rural Caucus and is a
candidate in the 3/26 Democratic primary. Along with the regular pixs,
bio etc. you will find downloadable campaign posters and a Q&A section
that includes every questionnaire she has answered for every special
interest group in the state.
-DIANE TRAUTMAN (CA-CD25/D+): http://members.aol.com/diane1996

--WOMEN TO RETIRE
Some of our readers are under the mistaken impression that we support all
women candidates, regardless of their politics. Nothing could be further
from the truth. Here are a few examples of women we would like to see
retired from politics.

-CONGRESSWOMAN HELEN CHENOWETH (R/ID/-) SEES ENVIRONMENTAL "HOLY WAR"
"Rep. Helen Chenoweth (R-ID) took to the House floor last week with a
diatribe which the Spokane Spokesman-Review said critics called 'final
proof Chenoweth is off kilter.' Not wanting to join her GOP colleagues as
they retreat from their War on the Environment (or at least as they try
to cloak it in new rhetoric,) Chenoweth denounced the federal government
and said that environmentalism is becoming 'a government-sponsored
religion in America...placing obstacles in the way of American prosperity
[and creating] a threat to our children's future.' The Washington Post
reported that 'she reeled off pages of examples of the alleged religious
incursion by people who want to reintroduce wolves and smother the
working man with onerous regulation in the name of natural resource
management.' The federal government, she said, is waging 'an all-out holy
war against the rancher.' Not surprisingly, Rep. Chenoweth's only
announced Democratic opponent, Boise attorney Dan Williams, is
challenging her to a series of debates. Williams calls Chenoweth a
'national embarrassment.' Others find her entertaining." [Sierra Club
Action #167]

-STATE REP. CATHY MCMORRIS (R/WA) CHAMPIONS OZONE DEPLETION
"Twelve Republicans in the WA state legislature are pushing a bill to
turn back the clock and allow the manufacture of ozone layer-depleting
chlorofluorocarbons in Washington state. This bill would override the
federal Clean Air Act and the 1987 Montreal Protocol signed by 150
nations. The bill would make Washington the second state after Arizona to
try to get around the ban on CFC's. The sponsor of the bill, State Rep.
Cathy McMorris, declined to talk about whether CFC's damage the ozone
layer, but she did allow that she sees this bill as a states' rights
issue. I guess we all have our priorities."[Sierra Club Action #167]


[from Political Woman Hotline v2 No.3 (PolWoman@aol.com)]
