William Affleck-Asch's Home Page 

 Feminism: 
the radical notion that women are people 
Check out my web pages , WA NOW or 
 WA NOW files .

 What's on this page!
 my son Ian's page 
 my music page (Sky Cries Mary, Bush, Pres of USA, more)
 my Resume (ORACLE, Access, or VB anyone?)
 my Tori Amos page 

 Who am I? 

Yes, I know I should upload a picture, but I'm lazy about tech things, like other Aquarian Single Celtic White Male Feminist Ecological Activists listed in Who's Who in the World. 
If your name is Affleck, you're probably a relative. My ex-wife Carla Holley and I have joint mutual shared custody of Ian Affleck-Asch , who's 6 years old and very cute (I've been told I am too). 
I do mostly database work , live in Seattle (deepest darkest Ballard), love alternative music and anything blues or blues-influenced . 
 Tori Amos rules! Used to be a SMOF and a SMOG, published in a number of countries (SF articles, SF&F 
Role-playing games), did radio scripts (SF and Children's stories) and the first alternative energy TV show in British Columbia (where I lived 
from '71 to '89), and have two major themes in my life: Applied Chaos Theory and Changing the World. 
 Also started the movement to get most computer magazines and national magazines to use recycled paper for those magazine insert cards 
that fall out or are bound in. And to change your junk mail to recycled paper. How do you do this? Easy: applied environmental economics! 
Send all the cards and junk mail back to the sender on the postage-paid cards and envelopes and write (I use a rubber stamp now) Use 
Recycled Paper for these cards (and other similar messages) on the part which they expect to find your name and address. And send back the 
non-recyclable plastic windows too. 
 I'm silly, serious, sensuous and into a lot of things. Like pirate songs ... 
Why not send me some email ?

 Washington State NOW List of Other Sites 
Saved some space, click on the title for feminist-related sites and some other relevant ones.

 My expert opinion of Marine training: 
 Click here to hear it. 

 My Music Page 
 Click here to go to my animated music page! 

 You can reach me at: 
William Affleck-Asch 
6542 Jones Ave NW 
Seattle WA 98117-5741 

Phone: (206)789-2643 Fax: (206)782-3097 (if on) Cell ph: ask first 

William Affleck-Asch's Home Page ("http://www.eskimo.com/~feminist/") 
Maintained by William Affleck-Asch 
Webitor for Washington State NOW 
Seattle NOW member, 
Seattle NARAL CAT member, 
Co-Secretary for B.F.Day PTSA, 
Seattle International Film Festival, Amnesty International, Greenpeace, Mountaineers, Sierra Club, WCV, , more ... 
personal email: feminist@worldnet.att.net 
Last updated: November 10, 1997

 Death of a Star 
And why not try this Pirate Song .