Washington State NOW: Position Paper: Child Care 

 Washington State chapter 
 National Organization for Women 
 Position Paper 
 Child Care 

 Go back to the Washington State NOW Home Page 

 Child Care 

 Washington State NOW supports the concept that all parents should have access to safe, affordable childcare. 
For most families, childcare is a necessity, not a luxury and without it many of them will be unable to work. 
Even in middle income families finding childcare that is conveniently located, with adequate hours and quality workers can be difficult. 
Childcare can account for 20% or more of a family's budget, even though the average childcare worker makes only $5.50 per hour. 
 The passage of our state's version of welfare reform in the 1997 session (WORKFIRST) made this issue even more critical. 
It is estimated that 10,000 families a month will begin job search and whether placed in a job, training or continued job search these welfare families will need childcare to succeed. 
 The welfare reform plan reduced the maximum childcare reimbursement rates from the 75th percentile to the 59th percentile. 
Thus giving parents parents and children access to only 59 out of 100 providers based solely on rates. 
With these changes some families will not be able to find the childcare they need, and can afford, to assist them in exiting and staying off of welfare. 
 Washington State NOW supports re-investing savings in the states welfare program (due to the fewer than estimated number of families coming onto welfare) 
by raising the reimbursement rate for child care providers to the 75th percentile, 
establishment of a differential rate for off-hour and other special need child care and lowering the parents co-pay 
 NOW also supports the passage of targeted tax cuts for businesses that either supply their employees with child care vouchers or create on-or-near site child care; 
expanded funding for training of child care workers and reimbursement by the state for FBI background checks for child care personnel. 

 per Washington State NOW Activist - January 1998 

 Call 360-253-7147 for a contact person in your local community. 

Back to the WA NOW Home Page 
Child Care Position Paper ("pp.child.care.html") 
Maintained by William Affleck-Asch 
Seattle NOW member 
Last updated: March 14, 1998