Washington State NOW: Position Paper: Same Sex Marriages 

 Washington State chapter 
 National Organization for Women 
 Position Paper 
 Same Sex Marriages 

 Link to the Washington State NOW Home Page 

 Attempts to Ban Same Sex Marriages 

 Washington State NOW opposes any attempt to legalize discrimination against gays and lesbians by banning same-sex marriages. 
 Attacks on same-sex marriage have become the leading anti-lesbian and gay strategy. 
Despite a recent study showing 71% of lesbians are in committed relationships, same-sex marriage is not legal in any state. 
Nevertheless, radical extremists are using this issue to divide the country and target lesbians and gay men for discrimination. 
Organized opposition to this attempt to legalize discrimination is essential. 
 *The US Supreme Court has declared marriage a fundamental right under the constitution.
 *Without the legal right to marry, same-sex couples do not have rights like family health coverage, medical and bereavement leave, child custody, tax benefits and pension plans.
 *Tradition can't justify discriminating. Not long ago, marriage was traditionally limited to members of the same race and religion, and married women were virtually the legal property of their husbands.
 *Civil and religious marriage are two separate institutions, Civil marriage binds a couple in a legal contract consisting of obligations and benefits. 
 *Legalizing same-sex civil marriage will not require any religion to legalize or recognize these marriages.
 *The rights that married people take for granted, such as the ability to make medical decisions for an incapacitated spouse, are denied to committed lesbian and gay couples.

 Lesbians and gays are the targets of violence, harassment, ostracism and discrimination in all areas of their lives. 
NOW has supported bills which would protect lesbians and gays from discrimination. 
The public does not support discrimination against lesbians and gays. In the last few years four anti-gay initiatives have failed to gather the needed signatures. 

 per Washington State NOW Activist - January 1997 

 Call 360-253-7147 for a contact person in your local community. 

Link to the Washington State NOW Home Page 
Same Sex Marriage Position Paper ("pp.same.sex.marriages.html") 
Last updated: March 20, 2003