Washington State NOW Home Page 

 Washington State chapter 
 National Organization for Women 

 From the President of Washington State NOW 
 NOW : The National Organization for Women 
Membership open to women and men. 
 Feminism : the radical notion that women are people. 
For more info on joining or our mission statements, check out the National NOW web page after you make a bookmark for the most comprehensive NOW site in the Pacific Northwest. 
 FAST INDEX : All Our Web Pages (RECOMMENDED) 
Try our Index of All Our Web Pages or the Index Descriptions 
We also have a mirror site at http://home.att.net/~feminist/wanow/wastnow.html 

 Our New Web Site is at: www.wa-now.org 

 What's at this site! 

 WA ST NOW Legislative Updates 

 Message from the Washington State NOW President (9/19/98)
 National NOW Home Page (LINK - did you bookmark WA NOW first?)
 Our new web site - Washington State NOW (LINK)
 For Emergency Contraception in Washington State without a prescription, phone 1-888-NOT-2LATE 
 Declaration of Sentiments (LINK - did you bookmark?)
 Women Friendly Webring (LINKS - did you bookmark?)

 UPCOMING EVENTS (Seattle and non-Seattle) (updated frequently, at our new site)

 Active Washington and PacNW NOW Chapters (at our new web site)
 Memberships 

 Washington NOW/PAC Endorsements 

 Pacific NW NOW Mailing Lists (for PacNW feminists)

 Washington State NOW FTP sites (many files)

 Feminism and the Net - a guide for fun feminists primer

 Washington State NOW Position Papers (at our new web site)
 NW Regional NOW Natl Board Rpt 
 NW Regional NOW Press Statement on Anti-Marriage Bills 

 Send Email to Government Officials 

 Media Contacts and Web Pages 
 Feminist Links 
 Government Links 
 Other sites of interest 
 No Comment (Opposition Research)

 You can reach us at 
 To Upload to this site 
 Current Officers 

 Advertising Rates 
 Credits 

 Major NOW Sites 
 Why not check out the National Organization for Women Home Page 
 or the Washington State NOW FTP site (lots of files), which contains: 
 Legislative Position Papers ,
 NOW and Other Alerts by State/Prov and Country,
 Catt's Claws and 
 Women of Achievement and Herstory and 
 Political Woman Hotline archives. It also contains info on 
 Conferences , 
 Federal Government Statements . Not to mention alerts for 
 NARAL , 
 Feminist Majority Online ,

 or the Feminism and the Net: a guide for fun feminists primer 

 Thanks for helping us break 212000 web surfs! 

 Send Email to Government Officials 
 Why not send some email to Government Officials in the US, Canada, other countries, the Pacific Northwest, and Washington State, such as: 
 US Senators , 
 Washington State Senators , and 
 Washington State Representatives 
or to the Washington State NOW Webitor ? 

 You can reach us at: 
 Washington State NOW 
PO Box 1853 
Friday Harbor, WA 98250 
You can email the WA NOW President , Secretary , Webitor , and some chapters .. 

 For memberships ($35 full, sliding scale $15-34 for reduced income) contact: Washington State NOW 
Jan Osborn 
Fiscal Officer 
PO Box 1853 
Friday Harbor, WA 98250 
 Click HERE to Join Washington State NOW . 
 If you want to join, but are not in Washington State, then check the National NOW web site (look for the Join NOW section). 

 For upload to Washington State NOW FTP or Home Page 
email web@wa-now.org or senddisks to: 
Washington State NOW Web Site 
William Affleck-Asch 
6542 Jones Ave NW 
Seattle WA 98117-5741 
Phone: (206)789-2643, Fax: same, but have to turn it on, so call first 

 Washington NOW/PAC Endorsements 
 NOW/PAC endorses in local races only when approached by the local chapters. 
To see a List of Washington State NOW/PAC Endorsements and links to related information (as in other groups endorsements), click on the title. 

 Washington State NOW Mailing Lists 
 We currently sponsor two email mailing lists, both focussed on the Pacific Northwest (WA, OR, ID, MT, BC, N.CA, HI, AK) and especially Washington state. 
To join, email either pnwfem-gen-request@eskimo.com or pnwfem-leg-request@eskimo.com 
with the word subscribe in the Subject: field. 

 PNWFEM-LEG is a mailing list hosted by Washington State NOW for Legislative and Legal issues, open to all NOW members as well as any feminists interested in women's issues and information and ideas about legislation. 
The list is not moderated, but postings of a harassing or consistently off-topic nature will not be tolerated. 
Legislative or legal issues of a local, state, regional, national, and international nature are the focus of this list, as pertain to the Pacific Northwest region (WA, OR, ID, MT, BC, and even AK, HI, and CA). 
Once you subscribe to the list, you can send email to the list at pnwfem-leg@eskimo.com . 
Only email from list members is posted to the list. 
To get the digest version email pnwfem-leg-digest-request@eskimo.com with the same subscribe message; 
a digest means you get one big email every day or two instead of 4-20 separate emails.
To unsubscribe, send the word unsubscribe in the Subject: field to the request address. 

 PNWFEM-GEN is a mailing list hosted by Washington State NOW for General issues (non-legislative and non-legal issues), open to all NOW members as well as other feminists. 
The list is not moderated, but postings of a harassing or consistently off-topic nature will not be tolerated. 
Non-legislative issues of any feminist-related nature are the focus of this list, as pertain to the Pacific Northwest region (WA, OR, ID, MT, BC, and even AK, HI, and CA). 
Once you subscribe to thelist, you can send email to the list at pnwfem-gen@eskimo.com . 
Only email from list members is posted to the list. 
To get the digest version email pnwfem-gen-digest-request@eskimo.com with the same subscribe message.
To unsubscribe, send the word unsubscribe in the Subject: field to the request address. 

Washington State NOW ("http://www.eskimo.com/~feminist/wastnow.html") 
 Total number surfs of WA NOW Web pages: 211028 as of 04/01/1999 
Maintained by William Affleck-Asch , web@wa-now.org 
Last updated: April 2, 1999 

This Women-Friendly Website 
site is owned by WA NOW .

Click for the 
[ Next Page ] 
[ Next 5 ]
[ Random Site ] 

Want to join the ring? Click here for all the info .