Stuff to Sell 

 Stuff to Sell 

We have various things for sale.

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

The items for sale belong to Robert M. Fleming Jr. and Emma G. Fleming 
(The Fleming Family). In order to make our selling more efficient and 
better organized, as of 1 May 2002 the sales of all of our personal and 
business surplus stuff is being handled by 
 Flemco Surplus Sales . 
For important information regarding the procedures and rules about how we 
sell our stuff, please see our Conditions of Sales . 
If you are interesting in buying any of our stuff, or otherwise contacting 
us, please send an e-mail to 
surplus@eskimo.com .

 We are selling a bunch of stuff that we don't want or need anymore, including our own
personal stuff, stuff left over from Bob's Mother's estate, and stuff left over from business
activities. 

 In most cases you can follow links to get more details on each item. In some cases we have
set a price, and in other cases we accept bids and will sell to the highest bidder. Each item
has a number, such as F-1234. If you are interested in something, e-mail us at 
 surplus@eskimo.com 
with your name, address, phone number, your e-mail address, the item(s) you are interested in
(be sure to give the item numbers such as F-1234), and, if a bid item, how much you are bidding.

 USED HOUSEHOLD GOODS 
 Knick-knacks, small appliances 

 RV EQUIPMENT 
 Stuff for motorhome conversion 

 CONVALESCENT EQUIPMENT 
 Walker & electric bed 

 ELECTRONIC STUFF 
 Various kinds of surplus 

 8-TRACK TAPES 

 TELEPHONE STUFF 
 Phones, cords, jacks, supplies 

 FURNITURE 
 Various household 

 OLD MAGAZINES 
 Science, electronics, photography, other 

 USED BOOKS 
 Fiction, general, science, technical, others 

Other stuff for sale is available from 
the Flem-Data stuff for sale site and from 

The Fleming Company stuff for sale site .

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;1999, 2000 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
This page was last updated on 1 May 2002.