Plumbing Fixtures to Sell 

 Plumbing Fixtures to Sell 

Intended for Seattle-area buyers

For most items, we recommend that you come to our house in north Seattle and see the 
items for yourself before deciding whether or not to buy. Also, the size 
and/or weight of some items make it impractical to ship them.

These items are unused or little-used, but are more than fairly old, having 
been purchased new for projects that never got done.

If interested, please send an e-mail to Bob Fleming,
at surplus@eskimo.com in order
to make a bid. Include the e-mail address we should reply to, along with
your name and the amount of your bid.

This is our personal property. However in order to simplify the process 
of selling things from our various sites, as of May 1, 2002, all items are 
now being sold through 
Flemco Surplus Sales . Washington State sales tax of 8.8% applies to 
sales to people coming to our house or shipped to Washington State addresses.

 Return to List of Stuff to Sell 

 XHG102: BATH TUB -- Sheet metal regular size bathtub, was used in
bus/motorhome, but is really for normal household use. In excellent condition 
except for some minor damage that will be hidden by installation. 
 Price: $4.00 
 XRV101: KITCHEN SINK -- Regular stainless steel household double kitchen
sink, no provision for garbage disposal installation. Excellent condition. 
 Price: $9.00 
 XHG108: LAVATORY -- Bathroom sink made out of some kind of 
heavy cast plastic material made to resemble marble. Excellent condition. 
 Price: $9.00 
 XHG109: PEDESTAL LAVATORY SET -- Vitreous china lavatory 
and pedestal, never used, still packed in unopened original two boxes. 
Sterline Manufacturing Corp. Lavatory is Hartford #3-314 with holes for 
4-inch fittings. The pedestal is Hartford/Oxford # 3-300. The color of 
both units is bone. 
 Price: $55.00 

 Return to List of Stuff to Sell 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2002 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
This page last updated 19 June 2003.