RV Stuff to Sell 

 Recreational Vehicle Stuff to Sell 

Intended for Seattle-area buyers

We were converting an old bus into a motorhome, but this project has now
been abandoned and we are selling much of the equipment removed from
the bus.

For most items, we recommend that you come to our house in north Seattle and see the 
items for yourself before deciding whether or not to buy. Also, the size 
and/or weight of some items make it impractical to ship them.

If interested, please send an e-mail to Bob Fleming,
at surplus@eskimo.com in order
to make a bid. Include the e-mail address we should reply to, along with
your name and the amount of your bid.

This is our personal property. However in order to simplify the process 
of selling things from our various sites, as of May 1, 2002, all items are 
now being sold through 
Flemco Surplus Sales . Washington State sales tax of 8.6% applies to 
sales to people coming to our house or shipped to Washington State addresses.

 Return to List of Stuff to Sell 

 XRV100: REFRIGERATOR -- Larger size RV built-in 110 Volt A.C. and 12 volt D.C.
refrigerator (no gas) with top freezer. This is an old model similar to 
ones that now sell for $1,000.00. However this one is used and does not 
work. I think it need recharging (new refrigerant), but it may need other 
repairs also. The doors have been removed to get it out of the small door 
of the bus. The shelves and some other items are loose but included. It 
needs a good cleaning. This unit is intended for someone who is building 
their own RV and has the time to fix up this refrigerator. If I get the 
time, I will fix it up and sell it at a higher price. Price: $80.00 
 XRV102: WATER HEATER -- Propane water heater for RV installation. Was never
installed and never used, still in original carton; but it is many years old. 
I do not know if it meets current safety standards, so it should be checked 
out by an expert before buying.
 Price: $40.00 
 XRV103: RANGE HOOD -- Exhaust hood for use above RV range or cooktop.
12-volt DC exhaust fan. Never installed and never used. Price: $15.00 

 XRV104: WATER TANK -- Large polyethylene plastic water storage tank
for RV use. 
The size is 59 inches long, 19 inches wide, and 11 inches high.
Has been in outside storage for about ten 
or more years, so is probably dirty inside. If you plan to use it for 
drinking water, I recommend a very thorough cleaning. But you could use it 
for waste water without worrying about the cleaning.
 Price: $15.00 

 Return to List of Stuff to Sell 
 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;1999 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
This page last updated 26 September 2002