Conditions of Sale 

 Conditions of Sale 

We (Bob and Emma Fleming) are individuals with a small home-based business, 
and are in the position of having more stuff than we have
room for, so we are selling many things on these web pages.

 TIME: There may be delays of a day or so in responding to 
e-mail messages and updating the web site.

 TAXES: Goods delivered to addresses in the State of 
Washington are subject to a sales tax of 8.8%. We do NOT collect tax on 
orders shipped outside of the State of Washington. 
 Details about sales tax 

 CUSTOMS DUTIES: Goods delivered outside the U.S. may be 
subject to customs duties of the country into which the goods are delivered. 
The purchaser may have to pay customs duties imposed by their country.

 FIXED PRICES vs. BIDS: If I have an idea of a reasonable 
price, I will list the item with a fixed price . If I don't have an 
idea of reasonable price, I will sell the item on a bidding basis. 

 FIXED PRICES: If you want to buy a fixed-price item, please 
follow this procedure:

 Send an e-mail to Bob Fleming at 
 surplus@eskimo.com . 
Indicate which item(s) you are interested in. Please include 
your name, mailing address, and telephone number. At this point we 
consider your request for information to be an inquiry and the item 
is still up for sale to others.
 We will reply, letting you know whether or not the item is still 
available. If it is, we will confirm the price of the item and the shipping 
charge and any other charges that may apply. Please note that we need your 
mailing address before we can quote shipping charges. We get requests from 
all over the world, and the postage is different for different countries. 
Even within the United States, the distance makes a difference in some rates. 
We also need to know whether or not you are in the State of Washington as 
sales tax applies in Washington. If you do not include your address with 
your request, there will be a delay while we wait for your address.
 Please do not send payment until you get a reply from us stating that 
the item is available and what charges apply. We do not want to receive 
payment for something that has already been sold to somebody else, and we 
also want to be sure you know the correct amount before sending payment.
 Our reply will also contain the information of what form of payment 
is acceptable, to whom it should be payable, and our mailing address.
 When we receive confirmation from you that you are sending payment, and 
we have your mailing address, we classify this as an order. If the 
item is still available, we will hold the item for you for a minimum 
time pending receipt of payment. During this time we will not sell it to 
anybody else. The hold period is as follows: 
 For shipment to the U.S.A., 14 days 
 For shipment to Canada, 21 days 
 For shipment to other countries, 35 days 
 Upon receipt of your payment, we will consider the item officially 
 sold, and we will update our records and web site accordingly. We 
will send you the item.
 If payment is not received by the time that the hold period has 
expired, we will assume that you changed your mind and decided not to buy 
the item. It then will be made available for purchase by others.
 Sometimes more than one person wants the same item. The item will be 
held for the first person to send an order, with their name and 
mailing address and explaining that they are sending payment. Subsequent 
orders will be rejected but will be queued. If the first order does not 
result in a sale, the item will be made available to the next person in the 
queue.

 BIDDING BASIS: In the case of an item listed for bidding, the item 
will be listed for an indefinite time. However, if somebody bids on that 
item, I will try within a day or two to post the bid on the web site, except 
that I have the right to reject bids I consider unreasonable. If you want to 
make a bid, please send an e-mail to Bob Fleming at Flemco Surplus Sales,
at surplus@eskimo.com . Tell me 
what item(s) you want to bid on and the amount of your bid on each, and 
include your name, address, and telephone number. I will respond accepting 
or rejecting your bid, or requesting additional information.

When the first bid is accepted for an item, it will be posted to the web 
site, and this initiates a bidding period. The bidding information will be 
shown in red immediately following the listing of the item for sale.
If the bid is posted to the web site on a Sunday, the bidding period will 
end on Sunday two weeks later at 3:00 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time (22:00 GMT/UTC). 
If the first bid is posted on a day other than Sunday, the bidding period will 
end at 3:00 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time (22:00 GMT/UTC) on the second Sunday 
after the next Sunday after the first bid is posted. So the period will 
always be less than three weeks but not less than two weeks.
This will give other people an opportunity to place a higher bid. If a 
higher bid is received, the bidding information on the web site will be 
updated to show the new, highest bid. After 
the closing time, no more bids will be accepted. The person making the 
highest bid is obligated to buy the item. I will try to notify the high 
bidder as quickly as possible, but it may take a day or more. The 
notification will include shipping options and costs.

 CURRENCY: Prices on this site are in U.S. Dollars (USD). If you are in another 
country and want to see the price in your own currency, you can 
 click here (Currency Converter) by 
 OANDA.com, The Currency Site .

 Return to the Fleming Family home page 

 &COPY;2000 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
This page last updated 28 December 2003.