Used 1991 Scientific American Magazines 

Surplus 1991 Scientific American Magazines for Sale

Special Issue &mdash; Communications, Computers and Networks

 These magazines are for sale 
for US$3.00 each (plus shipping, taxes, etc., as explained below). 

The purchaser shall be responsible for costs of mailing, taxes, and customs
duties as applicable. 

The items for sale on this page belong to Robert M. Fleming Jr. and 
Emma G. Fleming (The Fleming Family). In order to make our selling more 
efficient and better organized, as of 1 May 2002 the sales of all of our 
personal and business surplus stuff is being handled by 
 Flemco Surplus Sales . 
For important information regarding the procedures and rules about how we 
sell our stuff, please see our Conditions of Sale . 
If you are interesting in buying any of our stuff, or otherwise contacting 
us, please send an e-mail to 
surplus@eskimo.com .

For shipping options, please see Shipping Options .

For payment options, please see Payment Options .

 SCA9109: September 1991 

 ARTICLES 

 Communications, Computers and Networks, by Michael L. Dertouzos 
The transformation of civilization through the fusion of computing and communications technologies has been predicted for at least 50 years. Now the revolution has truly begun. The impact will be as profound as was the shift from and agrarian to an industrial society.
 Networks, by Vinton G. Cerf 
Just as the dirt roads of the early 20th century could not begin to handle today&rsquo;s traffic, so will current computer networks be unequal to the burgeoning flow of information. Advanced packet-switching systems and new schemes for interconnecting networks will help to prevent digital gridlock.
 Networked Computing in the 1990s, by Lawrence G. Tesler 
Not so long ago, computers were electronic megaliths served by a white-coated elite. Today they are simple tools that are as common as pencils on desks or clipboards in factories. The next generation of computers will become active collaborators in the creation and acquisition of information.
 The Computer for the 21st Century, by Mark Weiser 
The most useful, ordinary technologies are invisible. No one consciusly reads a atreet sign or a floor indicator on an elevator. In the same way, the computer will become an integral part of office and domestic surroundings. It will be ubiquitous, woven into the fabric of daily life from the desktop to the light switch.
 Products and Services for Computer Networks, by Nicholas P. Negroponte 
The power of the computer and the capacity of the network will make possible a wide product of products and services that give the consumer new opportunities at work and at play. The ultimate product may very well be freedom from the conventional constraints of space and time.
 Computers, Networks and Work, by Lee Sproull and Sara Kiesler 
&ldquo;Does anybody know...?&rdquo; Such public vulnerability on corporate electronic bulletin boards indicates how rapidly networks are changing the nature of work. Employees grow more open as well as less hierarchical and status conscious. Can management adapt to a more flexible and dynamic environment?
 Computers, Networks and the Corporation, by Thomas W. Malone and John F. Rockart 
By coordinating activities, the computer network has begun to change production and marketing, forcing redefinition of competitive advantiage. In order to prevail in the changing environment, firms have begun to restructure their management, pushing strategic decisions downward in the organization.
 Computers, Networks and Education, by Alan C. Kay 
Music comes from the musician, not from the piano. So, too, the desire to learn comes from the student, not the computer. Computers in classrooms will not automatically improve education. Used wisely, though, they can be a force in education as potent as the advent of privately owned books in the Renaissance.
 Computers, Networks and Public Policy 

 Intrastructure for the Global Village, by Al Gore 
 Common Law for the Electronic Frontier, by Anne W. Branscomb 
 Civil Liberties in Cyberspace, by Mitchell Kapor 

 DEPARTMENTS 

 Science and the Citizen
 Science and Business
 Letters
 50 and 100 Years Ago
 Mathamatical Recreations
 Books
 Essay: R. W. Lucky Stuck in straffic, dreaming of a global electronic community

 This magazine is in very good condition. 

There are also used magazines for sale at 
 The Fleming Company&rsquo;s
magazines-for-sale site and the Flemco Surplus Sales web site .

Return to Stuff for sale 

Return to the Fleming Family home page 

&copy;2006 Robert M. Fleming Jr.

This page was last updated on 26 June 2006.

Our internet service provider and web host is: