Used 1992 Scientific American Magazines 

Surplus 1992 Scientific American Magazines for Sale

 These magazines are for sale 
for US$3.00 each (plus shipping, taxes, etc., as explained below). 

The purchaser shall be responsible for costs of mailing, taxes, and customs
duties as applicable. 

The items for sale on this page belong to Robert M. Fleming Jr. and 
Emma G. Fleming (The Fleming Family). In order to make our selling more 
efficient and better organized, as of 1 May 2002 the sales of all of our 
personal and business surplus stuff is being handled by 
 Flemco Surplus Sales . 
For important information regarding the procedures and rules about how we 
sell our stuff, please see our Conditions of Sale . 
If you are interesting in buying any of our stuff, or otherwise contacting 
us, please send an e-mail to 
surplus@eskimo.com .

For shipping options, please see Shipping Options .

For payment options, please see Payment Options .

 ARTICLES 

 Mind and Brain, by Gerald D. Fischbach 
The human brain is the most complex structure in the known universe. Genes and experience have jointly shaped its machinery; its design is the result of millions of years of evolution. Our survival depends on a deeper understanding of the marvelous biochemical happening that arises from it: the mind.
 The Developing Brain, by Carla J. Shatz 
Remarkably precise connections between more than 100 billion neurons account for all the properties of the mind. Yet in the fetus this intricate wiring is only an approximation of that in the mature brain. The final linkages are shaped by stimulation of the newborn through such sensory experiences as touch, speech and images.
 The Visual Image in Mind and Brain, by Semir Zeki 
There is a great deal more to vision than light meeting the eye. The world we see is literally an invention of the brain, actively constructed from a constantly changing flood of information. Seeing and understanding occur simultaneously through the synchronized activities of specialized areas in the visual cortex.
 The Biological Basis of Learning and Individuality, by Eric R. Kandel and Robert D. Hawkins 
Learning and memory&mdash;the acquisition of knowledge and the retention of that information over time&mdash;are being studied on the cellular and molecular level. These processes, which connect us to our past and are the key to individuality, engage a simple set of rules to strengthen connections between nerve cells.
 Brain and Language, by Antonio R. Damasio and Hanna Damasio 
In the beginning, there were no words. Language arose and persisted because it is a superb means of communication. Three sets of interacting neural structures process language in the brain. One supports nonlanguage concepts, another assembles words and sentences, and a third mediates between the first two.
 Working Memory and the Mind, by Patricia S. Goldman-Rakic 
Working memory has been called the blackboard of the mind. Its ability to combine moment-to-moment awareness and instantaneous retrieval of archived information is fundamental to language comprehension, learning and reason. Experiments with monkeys are identifying the key neural structures.
 Sex Differences in the Brain, by Doreen Kimura 
The different ways in which men and women approach intellectual problem solving has often been attributed to variations in experience. Evidence indicates that reproductive hormones alter brain function permanently during fetal development. Further research may explain the evlutionary significance of these changes.
 Major Disorders of Mind and Brain, by Elliot S. Gershon and Ronald O. Rieder 
Schizophrenia and mania&mdash;the most devastating maladies of the mind&mdash;each afflict 1 percent of the population. Impressive advances in neuroscience and genetics are revealing the anotomic, biochemical and hereditary bases of these disorders. Research has already shaped the development of new therapies.
 Aging Brain, Aging Mind, by Dennis J. Selkoe 
As we age, the neural structures involved in learning, memory and reasoning undergo a number of physical changes. Yet such alterations do no necessary signal an inevitable slow march to mindlessness and mortality. Elderly individuals who remain in good health show only a subtle decline in cognitive function.
 How Neural Networks Learn from Experience, by Geoffrey E. Hinton 
Networks of artificial neurons modeled on conventional computers are helping explain the ability of the brain to process and retain information. These neural-network simulations have already ruled out many theories. They are now beginning to reveal how the brain accomplishes the remarkable feat of learning.
 The Problem of Consciousness, by Francis Crick and Christof Koch 
Can consciousness, the most profound and puzzling facet of the mind, be probed experimentally? Are elusive mental events explainable as the behavior of interacting neurons? The authors argue that existing evidence already provides a glimpse of the nature of visual consciousness that can guide experimenters.

 DEPARTMENTS 

 Science and the Citizen
 Science and Business
 Letters to the Editors
 50 and 100 Years Ago
 The Amateur Scientist
 Book Reviews
 Essay: Jonathan Miller 

There are also used magazines for sale at 
 The Fleming Company&rsquo;s
magazines-for-sale site and the Flemco Surplus Sales web site .

Return to Stuff for sale 

Return to the Fleming Family home page 

&copy;2006 Robert M. Fleming Jr.

This page was last updated on 26 June 2006.

Our internet service provider and web host is: