Shipping information 

 Shipping information for magazines and books 

For shipping single or sometimes even two or three copies of magazines, I 
prefer to use Priority Mail. The strong cardboard Priority Mail envelopes 
are available free from the Postal Service and provide good protection and 
quick delivery at a reasonable price. The postage for U.S. destinations is 
$3.50 for one pound and $3.95 up to the capacity of the envelope. For 
destinations outside the U.S., Global Priority Mail is US$7.00 to Canada and 
Mexico, and US$9.00 to most other countries for everything that will fit in 
the envelope up to a maximum of four pounds (about 1&frac34; kilograms). 
Please note that if the shipment will not fit in a standard Postal Service 
envelope the postage will depend upon the weight.

Express Mail (in the U.S.) and Global Express Mail (outside the U.S.) provides 
safer and faster service, but at somewhat higher cost.

For weights over four pounds to U.S. destinations, Media Mail is cheapest, 
least secure, and slowest; Express Mail is fastest, safest, and most 
expensive; and Priority Mail is a good compromise of speed, safety, and 
cost. 

For weights over four pounds to destinations outside the U.S. postal system, 
The lowest cost is Surface Letter Mail, the next higher cost is Air Letter 
Mail, and the most expensive is Global Express Mail. Rates depend on the 
country of destination, and some services are not available to some 
countries.

If we are unable to use the free envelopes or boxes provided by the post 
office for Priority Mail and Express Mail, we will charge an additional 
amount for our cost of packaging materials we will need to buy.

There are also magazines for sale at 
 Bob Fleming's
magazines-for-sale site. 
and computer magazines for sale at
 the Flem-Data
magazines-for-sale site. 

 Return to Magazines for Sale 
 Return to List of Stuff to Sell 
 Return to The Fleming Company home page 

 &COPY;2001 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
This page last updated 29 November 2001.