Date: Wed, 25 May 94 6:00:35 EDT
From: Nicholas P Zymaris <nzymaris@ic.sunysb.edu>
Subject: File: adelphopoiia.txt

   A D E L P H O P O I I A (The Rite of Spiritual Brotherhood)

This service is a rite of the Eastern Orthodox Church dating from 
very early times and assuming its present form between the fourth 
and ninth centuries AD.  This service is translated from the 
Euchologion of Jacobus Goar, which was printed in 1647 and 
revised in 1730.  A facsimile of the 1730 edition, published in Graz, 
Austria, in 1960, is the edition available in many theological 
libraries.  With the rising influence of western ideas in recent 
centuries, this rite ceased to be practiced widely and was largely
forgotten or ignored except in isolated areas, most notably Albania
and other areas in the Balkans, where it flourished throughout the 
nineteenth century and up to at least 1991.  Both men and women 
were united with this rite or similar ones.  Nowadays, this rite is
performed in the Orthodox church at Elbasan in central Albania, and
at some Orthodox churches in the U.S. (while other Orthodox will
vehemently reject the rite).  There are other manuscripts of this
rite available, e.g. in Russian trebniki (prayer-books); John Boswell
has looked over about 100 adelphopoiia manuscripts which he will
discuss in John Boswell, _Same-Sex Unions in Pre-Modern Europe_ (June,
1994).

This rite is called "spiritual" because the relationship between 
spiritual brothers is not one of blood-relation but of the Holy Spirit, 
and also to distinguish the rite from blood-brotherhood, which the 
Church opposed.  In the service, the saint-martyrs Sergius and 
Bacchus are invoked, who were united in spiritual brotherhood "not
bound by the law of nature but by the example of faith in the Holy
Bacchus are invoked, who were united in spiritual brotherhood "not 
bound by the law of nature but by the example of faith in the Holy 
Spirit".  These saints were tortured and martyred late in the third 
century A.D.  when they refused to worship the emperor's idols.  In 
their biography by Simeon Metaphrastes (available in J.P. Migne, 
_Patrologia Graeca_, vol. 115, pp. 1005-1032) they are described as 
sweet companions and lovers to each other.

This rite is incorporated into the Divine Liturgy.  It begins with the
usual blessing and prayers of a Liturgy.  During the Great Synapte,
petitions for the couple to be united in spiritual brotherhood are 
added to the usual petitions.  After the First Antiphon, two special 
prayers are said for the couple, after which they kiss the Gospel 
Book and each other.  After the priest sings a hymn, the Liturgy 
continues at "Have mercy on us, O God .. ".  Accounts of the use 
of this rite (such as Naecke, _Jahrbuch fuer sexuelle 
Zwischenstufen_ 9 (1908),. 328) confirm that the spiritual brothers 
receive Holy Communion together, thereby forming the sacramental 
bond in this union.  However, Goar mentions in a footnote that in 
some manuscripts, the couple is only blessed with holy water.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

PRIEST: Blessed is the kingdom of the Father and the Son and the 
Holy Spirit, now and ever and unto ages of ages.
Holy God, Holy Mighty, Holy Immortal, have mercy on us. (3 
times).
Glory to the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, now and ever 
and unto ages of ages.  Amen.
All-Holy Trinity, have mercy on us.
Lord forgive our sins.
Master, pardon our transgressions.
Holy One, visit and heal our infirmities for your name's sake.
Lord, have mercy.  Lord, have mercy.  Lord, have mercy.
Glory to the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, now and ever 
and unto ages of ages.  Amen.
Our Father, who is in heaven, hallowed be your name.  Your 
kingdom come.  Your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven.  
Give us this day our daily bread; and forgive us our trespasses, as 
we forgive those who trespass against us; and lead us not into 
temptation, but deliver us from evil.  For yours is the kingdom and 
the power and the glory, of the Father and the Son and the Holy 
Spirit, now and ever and unto ages of ages.  Amen.
(After this, the priest says the Troparion.)
Save, O Lord, your servants, and bless your inheritance.
(And the two who are about to be joined together in brotherly unity 
place their hands on the holy Gospel book, which has been 
prepared and placed on the table.  And they hold in their hands 
lighted candles.)
(And the priest says the following, so that it is heard from above: 
Save, O Lord, your servants.  Followed by the Troparion of the 
day)
Glory to the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit.
Holy Apostles, intercede with the merciful God to grant our souls 
forgiveness of sins.
Now and ever and unto ages of ages.  Amen.
Through the intercessions, O Lord, of all the saints and of the 
Theotokos, grant us your peace and have mercy upon us, only 
merciful One.

THE GREAT SYNAPTE.
(The responses of "Lord, have mercy" are understood.)
In peace let us pray to the Lord.
For the peace that is from above, and for the salvation of our souls, 
let us pray to the Lord.
For the peace of the entire world, the welfare of the holy
churches of God, and the union of all of them, let us pray to the 
Lord.
For this holy house, and for those who enter it with faith, 
reverence, and fear of God, let us pray to the Lord.
For our Archbishop, the honorable priesthood, the deacons in 
Christ, and all of the clergy and laity, let us pray to the Lord.
For the servants of God who have approached to be blessed by 
Him, and for their love (agapesis) in God, let us pray to the Lord.
That they may be given full knowledge of the apostolic unity, let us 
pray to the Lord.
That they may be granted a faith unashamed, a love unfeigned, let 
us pray to the Lord.
That they may be deemed worthy to glory in the honorable Cross, 
let us pray to the Lord.
That both they and we may be delivered from all affliction, wrath, 
and distress, let us pray to the Lord.
Help us, save us, have mercy on us and keep us, O God, by your 
grace.
PEOPLE: Amen.
PRIEST: Having called to remembrance our all-holy, immaculate, 
most blessed, glorious Lady Theotokos and ever-virgin Mary, with 
all the Saints, let us commend ourselves and one another, and all 
our life unto Christ our God.  
PEOPLE: To You, O Lord.
PRIEST (quietly): O Lord our God, whose might is beyond 
compare, whose glory is incomprehensible, whose mercy is infinite, 
and whose love toward mankind is ineffable; in Your tender 
compassion look down upon us Yourself, O Master, and upon this 
holy house, and grant us and those who pray with us Your rich 
mercies and compassion.
PRIEST (aloud): For to You are due all glory, honor, and worship; 
to the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, now and ever and 
unto ages of ages.
PEOPLE: Amen.
PRIEST: Let us pray to the Lord.
Lord our God, who has granted us all things for salvation, and who 
has commanded us to love one another and to forgive each others' 
transgressions; now You Yourself, Master and Lover of mankind, 
to these Your servants who have loved each other with spiritual 
love, and who approach Your holy temple to be blessed by You, 
grant to them a faith unashamed, a love unfeigned.  And as You 
gave Your holy disciples Your own peace, also grant these all the 
petitions for salvation, and eternal life.  For You are a merciful and 
loving God, and to You we ascribe glory, to the Father and the Son 
and the Holy Spirit.  Let us pray to the Lord.  Lord our God, the 
omnipotent, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea, who 
made man according to Your image and likeness, who was well-
disposed to Your holy martyrs Sergius and Bacchus becoming 
brothers, not bound by the law of nature but by the example of faith 
of the Holy Spirit; Master, do send down Your Holy Spirit upon 
Your servants who have approached this temple to be blessed.  
Grant them a faith unashamed, a love unfeigned, and that they may 
be without hatred and scandal all the days of their lives.  Through 
the prayers of Your immaculate Mother and of all the Saints.  For 
Yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory, of the Father 
and the Son and the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and to the ages.
(And with the table made ready in the middle of the church, they 
place the holy Gospel upon it.  And they kiss the Holy Gospel, and 
each other.)
THEN THE PRIEST SINGS: By the union of love the apostles join 
in the praying to the Master of all; themselves committed to Christ, 
they extended their beautiful feet, announcing the good news of 
peace to everyone.
PRIEST: Have mercy on us, O God. 
(And continues the Liturgy.)

(Translated June 1989; introduction revised June 1994)
