Anti-Cult links 

"I am the way, the truth and the life." -- Jesus Christ

"God is dead." -- Nietzsche

"Nietzsche is dead." -- God

 Scientology
 Scientology Page 
 Cults lose appeal in Russia and are ordered to pay a fortune for
frivolous lawsuit: (click here)

 Please Note: The Cult Awareness Network (CAN), a
resource for help and information about cults for many years, was targeted
by a Scientology "Fair Game" 
campaign of harassment and misinformation. 
Scientologists bought the CAN name and logo and now the new CAN does not
even use the name "cult" any more (except in using the CAN name to
deceive those who don't know they destroyed CAN). The "new CAN" no longer
provides any help at all with regard to cults, and now devotes all their
energies to maligning the former directors of CAN and the former
activities of CAN. The unabashed slanders and lies which the Scientology
president Heber Jentsch and other Scientologists uttered on the news
programs 
 60 Minutes (December 28, 1997) and 
 Public Eye 
(January 7, 1998) serve as a typical example of the new CAN's mission.
This will also be very familiar to those who have seen the "sacred"
teaching of L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of Scientology, on declaring
their critics to be "fair game."

 Moonies (Sun Myung Moon) 
 Steve Hassan's Anti-Cult Home Page (Moonies and other cults) 
 The Truth About Sun Myung Moon 
 The Truth About Sun Myung Moon (old link) 
 Front Groups of the "Unification Church" 
 List of Moonie organizations with addresses and information on meeting with cult members (by Ex-Moon Organization)
 ("This link has been temporarily disabled") 
 Moonism 
 Allen T. Wood's home page 

 Russellites ("Jehovah's Witnesses")

 The Watchtower Observer ("Jehovah's Witnesses") 
 Jehovah's Witnesses - All Along the Watchtower 
 Watchtower tells JW's to refuse blood transfusions only after naming the cult as life-insurance beneficiary 

 "Heaven's Gate" and the similarities with the Russellites 
 Heaven's Gate - 2nd Cult's Leader Still at Large - Rising Death Toll 
 Reconciliation , page 14 (JW's believe in going to a "heaven" in outer space (The Pleiades) much like HG members) 

 Mormons ("Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints") 
 Recovery from Mormonism 
 A Mormon Church Translator for 15 Years and Her Husband Decide Mormonism is Inconsistent and Incompatible with Christianity 
(in English and Finnish)

 Krishna Consciousness Society ("Hare Krishnas", ISKON) 
 Welcome and Listen to our Voice - Child abuse in ISKCON 

 Transcendental Meditation (TM)
 Meditation Information Network 

 Cult-like Fundamentalism ("Fundies")
 New Forum 1 

 "Worldwide Church of God" (Herbert Armstrong/Joseph Tkach/" Plain Truth ")

 Since 1994 this group has initiated widespread reforms and has
acknowledged that it was a cult and apologized. Thus, the group is now
much less cult-like and may even evolve into just another denomination, if
it does not lose all its members first, some of whom are rather attached
to the former Armstrongist beliefs. Either way, the direction seems to be
towards One Less Cult in the World. 
 The "Worldwide Church of God", publishers of the Plain Truth 

 Other Cults, and Additional Links to cults listed above
 Steve Hassan's Resource Hotlinks 

Need to verify a cult's claim about a Bible passage? Bible Gateway - Search the Bible in Seven Languages and Multiple Bible Versions 

Thinking of suing a cult? Is a cult trying to sue you? Search for an attorney with West's Legal Directory (Basic Search Form) 

 Your comments are welcome: Click here
to send me mail! 
 This site has been viewed times
since May 3, 2001. 
 nickz@eskimo.com Last updated: May 28, 1998.