Path: nntp.farm.idt.net!news.idt.net!cpk-news-hub1.bbnplanet.com!news.gtei.net!news-peer.gip.net!news.gsl.net!gip.net!news-peer1.sprintlink.net!news-backup-west.sprintlink.net!news.sprintlink.net!news-west.eli.net!news.cet.com!not-for-mail
From: "JM" <--@--.--->
Newsgroups: alt.disability.blind.social
Subject: ASPARTAME WARNING,
Date: Thu, 4 Mar 1999 18:20:02 -0800
Organization: Cutting Edge Communications, Inc. - http://home.cet.com
Lines: 757
Message-ID: <7bnf42$u1p$1@news.cet.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ppp-54.spocom.com
X-Newsreader: Microsoft Outlook Express 4.72.2106.4
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V4.72.2106.4

                          THE BITTER TRUTH ABOUT
                           ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS

  Aspartame sugar substitutes cause worrying symptoms from memory loss to
brain
  tumours. But despite US FDA approval as a 'safe' food additive, aspartame
is
  one of the most dangerous substances ever to be foisted upon an
unsuspecting
  public.
     _________________________________________________________________

   Extracted from Nexus Magazine, [6]Volume 2, #28 (Oct-Nov '95) and
   [7]Volume 3, #1 (Dec '95-Jan '96).
   PO Box 30, Mapleton Qld 4560 Australia. [8]nexus@peg.apc.org
   Telephone: +61 (0)7 5442 9280; Fax: +61 (0)7 5442 9381
   From our web page at: [9]http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/

   © 1995 by Mark D. Gold, 35 Inman St, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA
   Phone: (617) 497 7843,
   E-mail: [10]mgold@holisticmed.com
   Web page: [11]http://www.holisticmed.com/aspartame/

   Originally published in Blazing Tattles, Vol. 4, Nos. 4, 5, 6,
   April-June 1995
   PO Box 1073, Half Moon Bay,
   CA 94019 USA.
   Email: [12]blazing@igc.apc.org
   [13]www.concentric.net/~blazingt
     _________________________________________________________________

   Aspartame is the technical name for the brand names, NutraSweet,
   Equal, Spoonful, and Equal-Measure. Aspartame was discovered by
   accident in 1965, when James Schlatter, a chemist of G.D. Searle
   Company was testing an anti-ulcer drug. Aspartame was approved for dry
   goods in 1981 and for carbonated beverages in 1983. It was originally
   approved for dry goods on July 26, 1974, but objections filed by
   neuroscience researcher Dr John W. Olney and Consumer attorney James
   Turner in August 1974 as well as investigations of G.D. Searle's
   research practices caused the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to
   put approval of aspartame on hold (December 5, 1974). In 1985,
   Monsanto purchased G.D. Searle and made Searle Pharmaceuticals and The
   NutraSweet Company separate subsidiaries.

   Aspartame is, by far, the most dangerous substance on the market that
   is added to foods. Aspartame accounts for over 75 percent of the
   adverse reactions to food additives reported to the US Food and Drug
   Administration (FDA). Many of these reactions are very serious
   including seizures and death as recently disclosed in a February 1994
   Department of Health and Human Services report.(1) A few of the 90
   different documented symptoms listed in the report as being caused by
   aspartame include:
   Headaches/migraines, dizziness, seizures, nausea, numbness, muscle
   spasms, weight gain, rashes, depression, fatigue, irritability,
   tachycardia, insomnia, vision problems, hearing loss, heart
   palpitations, breathing difficulties, anxiety attacks, slurred speech,
   loss of taste, tinnitus, vertigo, memory loss, and joint pain.

   According to researchers and physicians studying the adverse effects
   of aspartame, the following chronic illnesses can be triggered or
   worsened by ingesting of aspartame:(2)
   Brain tumors, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, chronic fatigue syndrome,
   parkinson's disease, alzheimer's, mental retardation, lymphoma, birth
   defects, fibromyalgia, and diabetes.

   Aspartame is made up of three chemicals: Aspartic acid, phenylalanine,
   and methanol. The book, Prescription for Nutritional Healing, by James
   and Phyllis Balch, lists aspartame under the category of "chemical
   poison." As you shall see, that is exactly what it is.

   ASPARTIC ACID (40% OF ASPARTAME)
   Dr Russell L. Blaylock, a professor of Neurosurgery at the Medical
   University of Mississippi, recently published a book thoroughly
   detailing the damage that is caused by the ingestion of excessive
   aspartic acid from aspartame. [Ninety nine percent of monosodium
   glutamate 9MSG) is glutamic acid. The damage it causes is also
   documented in Blaylock's book.] Blaylock makes use of almost 500
   scientific references to show how excess free excitatory amino acids
   such as aspartic acid and glutamic acid in our food supply are causing
   serious chronic neurological disorders and a myriad of other acute
   symptoms.(3)

   SUMMARY OF HOW ASPARTATE (AND GLUTAMATE) CAUSE DAMAGE
   Aspartate and glutamate act as neurotransmitters in the brain by
   facilitating the transmittion of information from neuron to neuron.
   Too much aspartate or glutamate in the brain kills certain neurons by
   allowing the influx of too much calcium into the cells. This influx
   triggers excessive amounts of free radicals which kill the cells. The
   neural cell damage that can be caused by excessive aspartate and
   glutamate is why they are referred to as "excitotoxins." They "excite"
   or stimulate the neural cells to death.

   Aspartic acid is an amino acid. Taken in its free form (unbound to
   proteins) it significantly raises the blood plasma level of aspartate
   and glutamate. The excess aspartate and glutamate in the blood plasma
   shortly after ingesting aspartame or products with free glutamic acid
   (glutamate precursor) leads to a high level of those neurotransmitters
   in certain areas of the brain.

   The blood brain barrier (BBB) which normally protects the brain from
   excess glutamate and aspartate as well as toxins 1) is not fully
   developed during childhood, 2) does not fully protect all areas of the
   brain, 3) is damaged by numerous chronic and acute conditions, and 4)
   allows seepage of excess glutamate and aspartate into the brain even
   when intact.

   The excess glutamate and aspartate slowly begin to destroy neurons.
   The large majority (75%+) of neural cells in a particular area of the
   brain are killed before any clinical symptoms of a chronic illness are
   noticed. A few of the many chronic illnesses that have been shown to
   be contributed to by long-term exposure excitatory amino acid damage
   include:

   Multiple sclerosis (MS), ALS, memory loss, hormonal problems, hearing
   loss, epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease,
   hypoglycemia, AIDS dementia, brain lessions, and neuroendocrine
   disorders.

   The risk to infants, children, pregnant women, the elderly, and
   persons with certain chronic health problems from excitotoxins are
   great. Even the Federation of American Societies For Experimental
   Biology (FASEB), which usually understates problems and mimmicks the
   FDA party-line, recently stated in a review that "it is prudent to
   avoid the use of dietary supplements of L-glutamic acid by pregnant
   women, infants, and children. The Existence of evidence of potential
   endocrine responses, i.e., elevated cortisol and prolactin, and
   differential responses between males and females, would also suggest a
   neuroendocrine link and that supplemental L-glutamic acid should be
   avoided by women of childbearing age and individuals with affective
   disorders."(4) Aspartic acid from aspartame has the same deleterious
   effects on the body as glutamic acid.

   The exact mechanism of acute reactions to excess free glutamate and
   aspartate is currently being debated. As reported to the FDA, those
   reactions include:(5)
   Headaches/migraines, nausea, abdominal pains, fatigue (blocks
   sufficient glucose entry into brain), sleep problems, vision problems,
   anxiety attacks, depression, and asthma/chest tightness.

   One common complaint of persons suffering from the effect of aspartame
   is memory loss. Ironically, in 1987, G.D. Searle, the manufacturer of
   aspartame, undertook a search for a drug to combat memory loss caused
   by excititory amino acid damage. Blaylock is one of many scientists
   and physicians who are concerned about excititory amino acid damage
   caused by ingestion of aspartame and MSG. A few of the many experts
   who have spoken out against the damage being caused by aspartate and
   glutamate include Adrienne Samuels, Ph.D., an experimental
   psychologist specializing in research design. Another is Olney, a
   professor in the department of psychiatry, School of Medicine,
   Washington University, a neuroscientist and researcher, and one of the
   world's foremost authorities on excitotoxins. (He informed Searle in
   1971 that aspartic acid caused holes in the brain of mice.) Also
   included is Francis J. Waickman, M.D., a recipient of the Rinkel and
   Forman Awards, and Board certified in Pediatrics, Allergy, and
   Immunology.

   Other concerned scientists include: John R. Hain, M.D., Board
   Certified Forensic Pathologist, and H.J. Roberts, M.D., FACP, FCCP,
   Diabetic Specialist, and selected by a national medical publication as
   "The Best Doctor in the US"

   John Samuels is concerned, also. He compiled a list of scientific
   research sufficient to show the dangers of ingesting excess free
   glutamic and aspartic acid.

   And there are many more who can be added to this long list.

   PHENYLALANINE (50% OF ASPARTAME)
   Phenylalanine is an amino acid normally found in the brain. Persons
   with the genetic disorder, phenylketonuria (PKU) cannot metabolize
   phenylalanine. This leads to dangerously high levels of phenylalanine
   in the brain (sometimes lethal). It has been shown that ingesting
   aspartame, especially along with carbohydrates can lead to excess
   levels of phenylalanine in the brain even in persons who do not have
   PKU. This is not just a theory, as many people who have eaten large
   amounts of aspartame over a long period of time and do not have PKU
   have been shown to have excessive levels of phenylalanine in the
   blood. Excessive levels of phenylalanine in the brain can cause the
   levels of seratonin in the brain to decrease, leading to emotional
   disorders such as depression. It was shown in human testing that
   phenylalanine levels of the blood were increased significantly in
   human subjects who chronically used aspartame.(6) Even a single use of
   aspartame raised the blood phenylalanine levels. In his testimony
   before the US Congress, Dr Louis J. Elsas showed that high blood
   phenylalanine can be concentrated in parts of the brain, and is
   especially dangerous for infants and fetuses. He also showed that
   phenylalanine is metabolised much more effeciently by rodents than by
   humans.(7)

   One account of a case of extremely high phenylalanine levels caused by
   aspartame was recently published the the "Wednesday Journal" in an
   article entitled "An Aspartame Nightmare." John Cook began drinking 6
   to 8 diet drinks every day. His symptoms started out as memory loss
   and frequent headaches. He began to crave more aspartame-sweetened
   drinks. His condition deteriorated so much that he experienced wide
   mood swings and violent rages. Even though he did not suffer from PKU,
   a blood test revealed a phenylalanine level of 80 mg/dl. He also
   showed abnormal brain function and brain damage. After he kicked his
   aspartame habit, his symptoms improved dramatically.(8)

   As Blaylock points out in his book, early studies measuring
   phenylalanine buildup in the brain were flawed. Investigators who
   measured specific brain regions and not the average throughout the
   brain notice significant rises in phenylalanine levels. Specifically
   the hypothalamus, medulla oblongata, and corpus striatum areas of the
   brain had the largest increases in phenylalanine. Blaylock goes on to
   point out that excessive buildup of phenylalanine in the brain can
   cause schizophrenia or make one more susceptible to seizures.

   Therefore, long-term, excessive use of aspartame may provide a boost
   to sales of seratonin reuptake inhibitors such as Prozac and drugs to
   control schizophrenia and seizures.

   METHANOL (AKA WOOD ALCOHOL/POISON) (10% OF ASPARTAME)
   Methanol/wood alcohol is a deadly poison. Some people may remember
   methanol as the poison that has caused some "skid row" alcoholics to
   end up blind or dead. Methanol is gradually released in the small
   intestine when the methyl group of aspartame encounter the enzyme
   chymotrypsin.

   The absorption of methanol into the body is sped up considerably when
   free methanol is ingested. Free methanol is created from aspartame
   when it is heated to above 86 Fahrenheit (30 Centigrade). This would
   occur when aspartame-containing product is improperly stored or when
   it is heated (e.g., as part of a "food" product such as Jello).

   Methanol breaks down into formic acid and formaldehyde in the body.
   Formaldehyde is a deadly neurotoxin. An EPA assessment of methanol
   states that methanol "is considered a cumulative poison due to the low
   rate of excretion once it is absorbed. In the body, methanol is
   oxidized to formaldehyde and formic acid; both of these metabolites
   are toxic." The recommend a limit of consumption of 7.8 mg/day. A
   one-liter (approx. 1 quart) aspartame-sweetened beverage contains
   about 56 mg of methanol. Heavy users of aspartame-containing products
   consume as much as 250 mg of methanol daily or 32 times the EPA
   limit.(9)

   Symptoms from methanol poisoning include headaches, ear buzzing,
   dizziness, nausea, gastrointestinal disturbances, weakness, vertigo,
   chills, memory lapses, numbness and shooting pains in the extremities,
   behavioral disturbances, and neuritis. The most well knowm problems
   from methanol poisoning are vision problems including misty vision,
   progressive contraction of visual fields, blurring of vision,
   obscuration of vision, retinal damage, and blindness. Formaldehye is a
   known carcinogen, causes retinal damage, interferes with DNA
   replication, causes birth defects.(10) Due to the lack of a couple of
   key enzymes, humans are many times more sensitive to the toxic effects
   of methanol than animals. Therefore, tests of aspartame or methanol on
   animals do not accurately reflect the danger for humans. As pointed
   out by Dr Woodrow C. Monte, Director of the Food Science and Nutrition
   Laboratory at Arizona State University, "There are no human or
   mammalian studies to evaluate the possible mutagenic, teratogenic, or
   carcinogenic effects of chronic administration of methyl alcohol."(11)

   He was so concerned about the unresolved safety issues that he filed
   suit with the FDA requesting a hearing to address these issues. He
   asked the FDA to "slow down on this soft drink issue long enough to
   answer some of the important questions. It's not fair that you are
   leaving the full burden of proof on the few of us who are concerned
   and have such limited resources. You must remember that you are the
   American public's last defense. Once you allow usage (of aspartame)
   there is literally nothing I or my colleagues can do to reverse the
   course. Aspartame will then join saccharin, the sulfiting agents, and
   God knows how many other questionable compounds enjoined to insult the
   human constitution with governmental approval."(10) Shortly
   thereafter, the Commissioner of the FDA, Arthur Hull Hayes, Jr.,
   approved the use of aspartame in carbonated beverages, he then left
   for a position with G.D. Searle's Public Relations firm.(11)

   It has been pointed out that some fruit juices and alcoholic beverages
   contain small amounts of methanol. It is important to remember,
   however, that methanol never appears alone. In every case, ethanol is
   present, usually in much higher amounts. Ethanol is an antidote for
   methanol toxicity in humans.(9) The troops of Desert Storm were
   "treated" to large amounts of aspartame-sweetened beverages which had
   been heated to over 86o F. in the Saudi Arabian sun. Many of them
   returned home with numerous disorders similar to what has been seen in
   persons who have been chemically poisoned by formaldehyde. The free
   methanol in the beverages may have been a contributing factor in these
   illnesses. Other breakdown products of aspartame such as DKP
   (discussed below) may also have been a factor.

   In a 1993 act that can only be described as "unconscionable," the FDA
   approved aspartame as an ingredient in numerous food items that would
   always be heated to above 86&degree;F (30&degree;C).

   DIKETOPIPERAZINE (DKP)
   DKP is a by-product of aspartame metabolism. DKP has been implicated
   in the occurance of brain tumors. Olney noticed that DKP, when
   nitrosated in the gut, produced a compound which was similar to
   N-nitrosourea, a powerful brain tumor causing chemical. Some authors
   have said that DKP is produced after aspartame ingestion. I am not
   sure if that is correct. It is definately true that DKP is formed in
   liquid aspartame-containing products during prolonged storage.

   G.D. Searle conducted animal experiments on the safety of DKP. The FDA
   found numerous experimental errors occured, including "clerical
   errors, mixed-up animals, animals not getting drugs they were supposed
   to get, pathological specimens lost because of improper handling," and
   many other errors.(12) These sloppy laboratory procedures may explain
   why both the test and control animals had sixteen times more brain
   tumors than would be expected in experiments of this length.

   In an ironic twist, shortly after these experimental errors were
   discovered, the FDA used guidelines recommened by G.D. Searle to
   devlop the Industry-wide FDA standards for Good Laboratory
   Practies.(11)

   DKP has also been implicated as a cause of uterine polyps and changes
   in blood cholesterol by FDA Toxicologist Dr Jacqueline Verrett in her
   testimony before the US Senate.(13)

   AILMENTS RESULTING FROM ASPARTAME
   The components of aspartame can lead to a wide variety of ailments.
   Some of these problems occur gradually, others are immediate, acute
   reactions.

   There is an enormous population of people who are suffering from
   symtpoms contributed to by aspartame, yet they have no idea why herbs
   or drugs are not helping relieve their problems. There are other users
   of aspartame who appear not to be suffering immediate reactions to
   aspartame. But even these individuals are susceptible to the long-term
   damage caused by excitatory amino acids, phenylalanine, methanol, and
   DKP. A few of the many disorders that are of particular concern to me
   include the following.

   Birth Defects.
   Dr Diana Dow Edwards, a researcher was funded by Monsanto to study
   possible birth defects caused by the ingestion of aspartame. After
   preliminary data showed damaging information about aspartame, funding
   for the study was cut off. A Gentetic Pediatrician at Emory University
   has testified that aspartame is causing birth defects.7360-367.

   In the book, While Waiting: A Prenatal Guidebook by George R.
   Verrilli, M.D. and Anne Marie Mueser, it is stated that aspartame is
   suspected of causing brain damage in sensitive individuals. A fetus
   may be at risk for these effects. Some researchers have suggested that
   high doses of aspartame may be associated with problems ranging from
   dizziness and subtle brain changes to mental retardation.

   Cancer (Brain Cancer).
   In 1981, Satya Dubey, an FDA statistician, stated that the brain tumor
   data on aspartame was so "worrisome" that he could not recommend
   approval of NutraSweet.(14) In a two-year study conducted by the
   manufacturer of aspartame, twelve of the 320 rats fed a normal diet
   and aspartame developed brain tumors while none of the control rats
   had tumors. Five of the twelve tumors were in rats given a low dose of
   aspartame.(15) The approval of aspartame was a violation of the
   Delaney Amendment which was supposed to prevent cancer-causing
   substances such as methanol (formaldehye) and DKP from entering our
   food supply. The late Dr Adrian Gross, an FDA toxicologist, testified
   before the US Congress that aspartame was capable of producing brain
   tumors. This made it illegal for the FDA to set an allowable daily
   intake at any level. He stated in his testimony that Searle's studies
   were "to a large extent unreliable" and that "at least one of those
   studies has established beyond any reasonable doubt that aspartame is
   capable of inducing brain tumors in experimental animals...." He
   concluded his testimony by asking, "What is the reason for the
   apparent refusal by the FDA to invoke for this food additive the
   so-called Delaney Amendment to the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act? ....
   And if the FDA itself elects to violate the law, who is left to
   protect the health of the public?"(16)

   In the mid-1970s it was discovered that the manufacturer of aspartame
   falsified studies in several ways. One of the techniques used was to
   cut tumors out of test animals and put them back in the study. Another
   technique used to falsify the studies was to list animals that had
   actually died as surviving the study. Thus, the data on brain tumors
   was likely worse than discussed above. In addition, a former employee
   of the manufacturer of aspartame, Raymond Schroeder told the FDA on
   July 13, 1977 that the particles of DKP were so large that the rats
   could discriminate between the DKP and their normal diet.(12)

   It is interesting to note that the incidence of brain tumors in
   persons over 65 years of age has increase 67% between the years 1973
   and 1990. Brain tumors in all age groups has jumped 10%. The greatest
   increase has come during the years 1985-1987.(17)

   In his book, Aspartame (NutraSweet). Is it Safe?, Roberts gives
   evidence that aspartame can cause a particularly dangerous form of
   cancer - primary lymphoma of the brain.

   Diabetes.
   The American Diabetes Association (ADA) is actually recommending this
   chemical poison to persons with diabetes. According to research
   conducted by H.J. Roberts, a diabetes specialist, a member of the ADA,
   and an authority on artificial sweetners, aspartame:
   1) Leads to the precipitation of clinical diabetes.
   2) Causes poorer diabetic control in diebetics on insulin or oral
   drugs.
   3) Leads to the aggravation of diabetic complications such as
   retinopathy, cataracts, neuropathy and gastroparesis.
   4) Causes convulsions.

   In a statement concerning the use of products containing aspartain by
   persons with diabetes and hypoglycemia, Roberts says: "Unfortunately,
   many patients in my practice, and others seen in consultation,
   developed serious metabolic, neurologic and other complications that
   could be specifically attributed to using aspartame products. This was
   evidenced by:
   "The loss of diabetic control, the intensification of hypoglycemia,
   the occurrence of presumed 'insulin reactions' (including convulsions)
   that proved to be aspartame reactions, and the precipitation,
   aggravation or simulation of diabetic complications (especially
   impaired vision and neuropathy) while using these products.

   "Dramatic improvement of such features after avoiding aspartame, and
   the prompt predictable recurrence of these problems when the patient
   resumed aspartame products, knowingly or inadvertently."

   Roberts goes on to say:
   "I regret the failure of other physicians and the American Diabetes
   Association (ADA) to sound appropriate warnings to patients and
   consumers based on these repeated findings which have been described
   in my corporate-neutral studies and publications."

   Blaylock stated that excitotoxins such as that found in aspartame can
   precipitate diabetes in persons who are genetically susceptible to the
   disease.(5)

   Emotional Disorders.
   A double blind study of the effects of aspartame on persons with mood
   disorders was recently conducted by Dr Ralph G. Walton. Since the
   study wasn't funded/controlled by the makers of aspartame, The
   NutraSweet Company refused to sell him the aspartame. Walton was
   forced to obtain and certify it from an outside source.

   The study showed a large increase in serious symptoms for persons
   taking aspartame. Since some of the symptoms were so serious, the
   Institutional Review Board had to stop the study. Three of the
   participants had said that they had been "poisoned" by aspartame.
   Walton concludes that "individuals with mood disorders are
   particularly sensitive to this artificial sweetener; its use in this
   population should be discouraged."(18) Aware that the experiment could
   not be repeated because of the danger to the test subjects, Walton was
   recently quoted as saying, "I know it causes seizures. I'm convinced
   also that it definitely causes behavioral changes. I'm very angry that
   this substance is on the market. I personally question the reliability
   and validity of any studies funded by the NutraSweet Company."(19)

   There are numerous reported cases of low brain serotonin levels,
   depression and other emotional disorders that have been linked to
   aspartame and often are relieved by stopping the intake of aspartame.
   Researchers have pointed out that increasing in phenylalanine levels
   in the brain, which can and does occur in persons without PKU, leads
   to a decreased level of the neurotransmitter, serotonin, which leads
   to a variety of emotional disorders. Dr William M. Pardridge of UCLA
   testified before the US Senate that a youth drinking four 16-ounce
   bottles of diet soda per day leads to an enormous increase in the
   phenylalanine level.

   Epilepsy/Seizures.
   With the large and growing number of seizures caused by aspartame, it
   is sad to see that the Epilepsy Foundation is promoting the "safety"
   of aspartame. At Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 80 people who
   had suffered seizures after ingesting aspartame were surveyed.
   Community Nutrition Institute concluded the following about the
   survey:

   "These 80 cases meet the FDA's own definition of an imminent hazard to
   the public health, which requires the FDA to expeditiously remove a
   product from the market."

   Both the Air Force's magazine Flying Safety and the Navy's magazine,
   Navy Physiology published articles warning about the many dangers of
   aspartame including the cumlative deliterious effects of methanol and
   the greater likelihood of birth defects. The articles note that the
   ingestion of aspartame can make pilots more susceptible to seizures
   and vertigo. Twenty articles sounding warnings about ingesting
   aspartame while flying have also appeared in the National Business
   Aircraft Association Digest (NBAA Digest 1993), Aviation Medical
   Bulletin (1988), The Aviation Consumer (1988), Canadian General
   Aviation News (1990), Pacific Flyer (1988), General Aviation News
   (1989), Aviation Safety Digest (1989), and Plane and Pilot (1990) and
   a paper warning about aspartame was presented at the 57th Annual
   Meeting of the Aerospace Medical Association (Gaffney 1986).

   Recently, a hotline was set up for pilots suffering from acute
   reactions to aspartame ingestion. Over 600 pilots have reported
   symptoms including some who have reported suffering grand mal seizures
   in the cockpit due to aspartame.(21)

   One of the original studies on aspartame was performed in 1969 by an
   independent scientist, Dr Harry Waisman. He studied the effects of
   aspartame on infant primates. Out of the seven infant monkeys, one
   died after 300 days and five others had grand mal seizures. Of course,
   these negative findings were not submitted to the FDA during the
   approval process.(22)

   Why don't we hear about these things?

   The reason many people do not hear about serious reactions to
   aspartame is twofold:
   1) Lack of awareness by the general population. Aspartame-caused
   diseases are not reported in the newspapers like plane crashes. This
   is because these incidents occur one at a time in thousands of
   different locations across the US.
   2) Most people do not associate their symptoms with the long-term use
   of aspartame. For the people who have killed a significant percentage
   of the brain cells and thereby caused a chronic illness, there is no
   way that they would normally associate such an illness with aspartame
   consumption. How aspartame was approved is a lesson in how chemical
   and pharmaceutical companies can manipulate government agencies such
   as the FDA, "bribe" organizations such as the American Dietetic
   Association, and flood the scientific community with flawed and
   fraudulent industry-sponsored studies funded by the makers of
   aspartame.

   Erik Millstone, a researcher at the Science Policy Research Unit of
   Sussex University has compiled thousands of pages of evidence, some of
   which have been obtained using the freedom of information act 23,
   showing:
   1. Laboratory tests were faked and dangers were concealed.
   2. Tumors were removed from animals and animals that had died were
   "restored to life" in laboratory records.
   3. False and misleading statements were made to the FDA.
   4. The two US Attorneys given the task of bringing fraud charges
   against the aspartame manufacturer took positions with the
   manufacturer's law firm, letting the statute of limitations run out.
   5. The Commissioner of the FDA overruled the objections of the FDA's
   own scientific board of inquiry. Shortly after that decision, he took
   a position with Burson-Marsteller, the firm in charge of public
   relations for G.D. Searle.

   A Public Board of Inquiry (PBOI) was conducted in 1980. There were
   three scientists who reviewed the objections of Olney and Turner to
   the approval of aspartame. They voted unanimously against aspartame's
   approval. The FDA Commissioner, Dr Arthur Hull Hayes, Jr. then created
   a 5-person Scientific Commission to review the PBOI findings. After it
   became clear that the Commission would uphold the PBOI's decision by a
   vote of 3 to 2, another person was added to the Commission, creating a
   deadlocked vote. This allowed the FDA Commissioner to break the
   deadlock and approve aspartame for dry goods in 1981. Dr Jacqueline
   Verrett, the Senior Scientist in an FDA Bureau of Foods review team
   created in August 1977 to review the Bressler Report (a report that
   detailed G.D. Searle's abuses during the pre-approval testing) said:
   "It was pretty obvious that somewhere along the line, the bureau
   officials were working up to a whitewash." In 1987, Verrett testified
   before the US Senate stating that the experiments conducted by Searle
   were a "disaster." She stated that her team was instructed not to
   comment on or be concerned with the overall validity of the studies.
   She stated that questions about birth defects have not been answered.
   She continued her testimony by discussing the fact that DKP has been
   shown to increase uterine polyps and change blood cholesterol and that
   increasing the temperature of the product leads to an increase in
   production of DKP.(13)

   Revolving doors
   The FDA and the manufacturers of aspartame have had a rovolving door
   of employment for many years. In addition to the FDA Commissioner and
   two US Attorneys leaving to take positions with companies connected
   with G.D. Searle, four other FDA officials connected with the approval
   of aspartame took positions connected with the NutraSweet industry
   between 1979 and 1982 including the Deputy FDA Commissioner, the
   Special Assistant to the FDA Commissioner, the Associate Director of
   the Bureau of Foods and Toxicology and the Attorney involved with the
   Public Board of Inquiry.(24)

   It is important to realize that this type of revolving-door activity
   has been going on for decades. The Townsend Letter for Doctors (11/92)
   reported on a study revealing that 37 of 49 top FDA officials who left
   the FDA took positions with companies they had regulated. They also
   reported that over 150 FDA officials owned stock in drug companies
   they were assigned to manage. Many organizations and universities
   receive large sums of money from companies connected to the NutraSweet
   Association, a group of companies promoting the use of aspartame. In
   January 1993, the American Dietetic Association received a US $75,000
   grant from the NutraSweet Company. The American Dietetic Association
   has stated that the NutraSweet Company writes their "Facts"
   sheets.(25)

   Many other "independent" organizations and researchers receive large
   sums of money from the manufacturers of aspartame. The American
   Diabetes Association has received a large amount of money from
   Nutrasweet, including money to run a cooking school in Chicago
   (presumably to teach diabetes how to use Nutrasweet in their cooking).

   A researcher in New England who has pointed out the dangers of
   aspartame in the past is now a Monsanto consultant. Another researcher
   in the Southeastern US had testified about the dangers of aspartame on
   fetuses. An investigative reporter has discovered that he was told to
   keep his mouth shut to avoid causing the loss of a large grant from a
   diet cola manufacturer in the NutraSweet Association.

   What is the FDA doing to protect the consumer from the dangers of
   aspartame?

   Less than nothing.

   In 1992, the FDA approved aspartame for use in malt beverages,
   breakfast cereals, and refrigerated puddings and fillings. In 1993 the
   FDA approved aspartame for use in hard and soft candies, non-alcoholic
   favored beverages, tea beverages, fruit juices and concentrates, baked
   goods and baking mixes, and frostings, toppings and fillings for baked
   goods.

   In 1991, the FDA banned the importation of stevia. The powder of the
   leaf has been used for hundreds of years as an alternative sweetner.
   It is used widely in Japan with no adverse effects. Scientists
   involved in reviewing stevia have declared it to be safe for human
   consumption - something which has been well known in many parts of the
   world where it is not banned. Everyone that I have spoken with in
   regards to this issue believes that stevia was banned to keep the
   product from taking hold in the US and cutting into sales of
   aspartame.(26)

   What is the US Congress doing to protect the consumer from the dangers
   of aspartame?

   Nothing.

   What is the US Administration (President) doing to protect the
   consumer from the dangers of aspartame?

   Nothing.

   Aspartame consumption is not only a problem in the US. It is being
   sold in over 70 countries throughout the world.

   ASPARTAME CAN BE FOUND IN:
   - instant breakfasts
   - breath mints
   - cereals
   - sugar-free chewing gum
   - cocoa mixes
   - coffee beverages
   - frozen desserts
   - gelatin desserts
   - juice beverages
   - laxatives
   - multivitamins
   - milk drinks
   - pharmaceuticals and supplements
   - shake mixes
   - soft drinks
   - tabletop sweeteners
   - tea beverages
   - instant teas and coffees
   - topping mixes
   - wine coolers
   - yogurt

   I have been told that aspartame has been found in products where it is
   not listed on the label. One must be particularly careful of
   pharmaceuticals and supplements. I have been informed that even some
   supplements made by well-known supplement manufacturers such as
   Twinlabs contain aspartame.

   The information I have related above is just the tip of the iceberg as
   far as damaging information about aspartame. In order for the reader
   to find out more, I have included some resources below.

   BOOKS


     * Blaylock, Russell L., Excitotoxins: The Taste That Kills (Health
       Press, Santa Fe, New Mexico, c1994). One of the best books
       available on excitotoxins. Well worth reading!
     * H. J. Roberts, M.D., Aspartame (NutraSweet), Is it Safe? Available
       from the Aspartame Consumer Safety Network.
     * Sweet'ner Dearest, Available from the Aspartame Consumer Safety
       Network
     * Mary Nash Stoddard, The Deadly Deception, Available from the
       Aspartame Consumer Safety Network.
     * Barbara Mullarkey, Editor, Bittersweet Aspartame - A Diet
       Delusion,
     * Available from the Aspartame Consumer Safety Network.
     * The Aspartame Consumer Safety Network, The Aspartame Consumer
       Safety Network Synopsis.
     * Dennis Remington, M.D. and Barbara Higa, R.D., The Bitter Truth
       About Artificial Sweetners, Available from the Aspartame Consumer
       Safety Network

   ASPARTAME CONSUMER SAFETY NETWORK
   PO Box 780634
   Dallas, Texas 75378, USA.
   Phone: (214) 352-4268
     _________________________________________________________________

   REFERENCES
   (1) Department of Health and Human Services, Report on All Adverse
   Reactions in the Adverse Reaction Monitoring System, (February 25 and
   28, 1994).
   (2) Compiled by researchers, physicians, and artificial sweetner
   experts for Mission Possible, a group dedicated to warning consumers
   about aspartame.
   (3) Excitotoxins: The Taste That Kills, by Russell L. Blaylock, M.D.
   (4) Safety of Amino Acids, Life Sciences Research Office, FASEB, FDA
   Contract No. 223-88-2124, Task Order No. 8.
   (5) FDA Adverse Reaction Monitoring System.
   (6) Wurtman and Walker, "Dietary Phenylalanine and Brain Function,"
   Proceedings of the First International Meeting on Dietary
   Phenylalanine and Brain Function., Washington, D.C., May 8, 1987.
   (7) Hearing Before the Committee On Labor and Human Resources United
   States Senate, First Session on Examing the Health and Safety Concerns
   of Nutrasweet (Aspartame).
   (8) Account of John Cook as published in Informed Consent Magazine.
   "How Safe Is Your Artificial Sweetner" by Barbara Mullarkey,
   September/October 1994.
   (9) Woodrow C. Monte, Ph.D., R.D., "Aspartame: Methanol and the Public
   Health," Journal of Applied Nutrition, 36 (1): 42-53.
   (10) US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, No.
   84-1153 Community Nutrition Institute and Dr Woodrow Monte v. Dr Mark
   Novitch, Acting Commissioner, US FDA (9/24/85).
   (11) Aspartame Time Line by Barbara Mullarkey as published in Informed
   Consent Magazine, May/June 1994.
   (12) FDA Searle Investigation Task Force. "Final Report of
   Investigation of G.D. Searle Company." (March 24, 1976)
   (13) Testimony of Dr Jacqueline Verrett, FDA Toxicologist before the
   US Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources, (November 3, 1987).
   (14) Internal FDA memorandum.
   (15) Analysis prepared by Dr John Olney as a statement before the
   Aspartame Board of Inquire of the FDA. Also Excitotoxins by Russell
   Blaylock, M.D.
   (16) Congressional Record SID835: 131 (August 1, 1985)
   (17) National Cancer Institute SEER Program Data.
   (18) Walton, Ralph G., Robert Hudak, Ruth Green-Waite "Adverse
   Reactions to Aspartame: Double-Blind Challenge in Patients from a
   Vulnerable Population," Biological Psychiatry, 1993:34:13-17.
   (19) Barbara Mullarkey, "How Safe Is Your Artificial Sweetner,"
   September/October 1994 issue of Informed Consent Magazine.
   (20) US Air Force. "Aspartame Alert." Flying Safety, 48 (5): 20-21
   (May 1992).
   (21) Reported by the Aspartame Consumer Safety Network.
   (22) Barbara Mullarkey, Bittersweet Aspartame, A Diet Delusion.
   (23) Millstone, Eric "Sweet and Sour." The Ecologist, 25 (March/April
   1994).
   (24) Mary Nash Stoddard, Editor, "The Deadly Deception," Aspartame
   Consumer Safety Network.
   (25) ADA Courier, January 1993, Volume 32, Number 1. (26) "FDA Rejects
   AHPA Stevia Petition" by Mark Blumenthal, Whole Foods, April 1994.

References

   1. http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/welcome.html
   2. http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/Subs.html
   3. http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/BackIssue.HTML
   4. http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/Products.html
   5. http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/ProdList.html
   6. http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/228.conts.html
   7. http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/301.conts.html
   8. mailto:nexus@peg.apc.org
   9. http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/welcome.html
  10. mailto:mgold@holisticmed.com
  11. http://www.holisticmed.com/aspartame/
  12. mailto:blazing@igc.apc.org
  13. http://www.concentric.net/~blazingt
  14. http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/welcome.html
  15. http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/Subs.html
  16. http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/BackIssue.HTML
  17. http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/Products.html
  18. http://www.peg.apc.org/~nexus/ProdList.htm
.l




