AXIOS - Eastern and Orthodox Gay and Lesbian Christians 

 AXIOS - Eastern and Orthodox Gay and Lesbian Christians 

 This is the Axios site at eskimo.com 
 Please note that the old idt.net address is no longer valid. 

 This is an icon of Ss. Sergius and Bacchus from the Monastery of
Simonas Petras, Mt. Athos, photographed in 1991. 

 Axios.net - Axios / Los Angeles
chapter 
 Axios / Boston 
 Axios USA Events Calendar 

 Back Issues of Newsletters not previously available on the Web: December 1987 
 First page of Dec. 1987 Newsletter (clickable; same as the one in the above zip file) 
 On Being Orthodox & Gay (May 1997) 
 Bibliography for On Being Orthodox and Gay 
 Adelphopoiesis from a Canonical Perspective (English; alternate link) 
 Scripture and Tradition on Homosexuality: Discussions 
 Axios Home Page on QRD 

Links to Russian National LGBT Site gay.ru :

 Index to Russian National LGBT site 
 Religion page of
gay.ru 
 Old Russian Gay Life home
Page (not updated since 1997 and superceded by gay.ru links above; does have Russian fonts for download
and information also)
 Moscow church
scenes -- the Church of the Veil of the Theotokos, with text in
Russian and English

 General Information on Axios and Adelphopoiia 

 General Axios Information 
 Axios Newsletters 
 E-mail our chapters in the U.S.A. and abroad 
 Orthodox Rite
of Brotherhood - Preliminary (May 1994) Discussion 
 Orthodox Rite of Brotherhood - English Translation of Goar's 1730 edition 
 Orthodox Rite
of Brotherhood (English Translation: Alternate Link) 
 Orthodox Rite of Brotherhood - English Translation of Edinovertsii 1904 edition 
 Orthodox Rite of Brotherhood - Bibliography 
 Orthodox Rite of Brotherhood - Some Responses to Preliminary Discussion 
 Orthodox Rite of Brotherhood - He Adelphopoiesis ek Kanonikes Apopseos 
 Comments on translation of Orthodox Rite of Brotherhood 
 Orthodox Rite of Brotherhood - English Translation of Florensky's commentary 
 Pamphlet cover with icons of Christ's Transfiguration and Sts. Sergius & Bacchus 
 Colorized icon from Synaxarion 
 256-greyscale icon of Sts. Sergius & Bacchus from New Skete 
 B/W icon of St. John Maximovitch 
 Same-Sex Union, compiled by J. Goar (Euchologion, 1730 edition), first page (p. 706 of 709) 
 Same-Sex Union, Goar edition, 2nd page (p. 707 of 709) 
 Same-Sex Union, Goar edition, 3rd page (p. 708 of 709) 
 Same-Sex Union, Goar edition, 4th page (p. 709 of 709) 

 Other Orthodox Resources 

 The Orthodox Church in America (incl. Parish Directory) 
 The Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America 
 Orthodox Ministry ACCESS Saint of the Day Calendar 
 The Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople 
 Orthodox Page 
 OCF Icon Archive 
 Orthodox Listserv Archive 

 Other Resources 

 TLG -- Thesaurus Linguae Graecae 
 Medieval Latin 
 Institute for Christian Leadership 
 Guide to Christian Literature on the Internet 
 Christian Classics Ethereal Library 
 The Practice of the Presence of God 
 The World-Wide Web Virtual Library: Religion 
 GaYellow Pages 

 Other/Duplicate Links 

 Old Catholic Homepage 
 religion [Mar 16 10:34] 
 Yahoo 
 Yahoo Search 
 Index of /QRD/religion/ 
 RELIGION (The World-Wide Web Virtual Library: Religion) 
 Religion, Christianity (part of The WWW Virtual Library) 
 Christian Resource List -- Christian Organizations and Churches 
 Christian Resource List -- Christian Organizations and Churches - Old List 

 The Whole Internet Catalog 
 The Progressive Directory @igc 

 This site has been viewed times
since May 3, 2001. 
 There have been

visits to this page since January 15, 2002 18:58:32 EST. 

Page last updated: July 10, 2001.
Links last updated: July 10, 2001.