Scientology: Information, Documents, Links 

(Quotes contrasting Christianity and the cult are mostly excerpted from
 Peik J Strmsholm's site )

 About being open-minded 

 "Test everything. Hold on to the good." - St. Paul, 1 Thessalonians 5:21
 "Never permit an 'open-minded' approach. [...] Never let them be
half-minded about being Scientologists..." - L. Ron Hubbard, Keeping
Scientology Working , HCO PL 7 Feb 65, reissued in 1980, 1991 edition. 

 The Cult Awareness Network (CAN) has been taken over by the cult! 

 In Retrospect: Cult Awareness Network 
| A Mother's Betrayal by the New CAN 
| CAN and "Fair Game" 
| Heaven's Gate thanks CoS for destroying CAN 
| If you're in Australia there is an organization of similar name
 which has no relation to the Scientologist CAN: Cult Awareness & Information Centre - Australia 

 My correspondence with Greek Helsinki Monitor went to CoS instead! 
Use extreme caution with any mail sent to helsinki@compulink.gr! 
 Click here to view the correspondence. 
 Another response from Human Rights
Watch (posted on Usenet) 
 Links to Greek Helsinki Monitor News Releases on Scientology
(Greek Helsinki Monitor is not affiliated with Helsinki Watch, Human
Rights Watch or IHF). These claim that the closing of KEFE was an act of
religious bigotry: 
 December 19, 1996 
| June 21, 1997 
| Analysis and Rebuttal 

 Cult attempts to influence
WCCC, HRC, and other organizations in 1980's from their point of view 

 What Scientology
Says About Homosexuality and Gay Rights 

 Scientology -- religion or not? (Main Page) 

 Nazi propaganda techniques in Scientology 

 The Greek Case Against "Scatology" 
They tried to get into Greece twice and were shut down -- once in the 1960's, once in the 1990's

 Introduction: about the Greek Case and the Raiding and Shutting Down of KEFE (CoS) in 1996 
 Greece Uncovers Scientology: Home Page 
 Scientologist ordered to
"disconnect" from her father in the hospital (in 1995 , years after CoS claims such practices ceased)
 December 24, 1997: Greek Appeals Court Upholds Decision to Shut Down Scientology in Greece (with some discussion) 
 January 4, 1998: From _Apogevmatini_ 

 Some Television News Programs: 
 Operation Clambake:
Xenu Outed on 60 Minutes (December 28, 1997) 
 Public Eye with Bryant Gumbel
(Jan. 7, 1998) : Report on Lisa McPherson's death from standard
Scientology "tech", featuring cult president Heber Jentsch going bonkers!
 General Links 

 The Road to Xenu: A Narrative Account of Life in Scientology 
 R. Newman's "$cientology vs. the Net" site (Moved 5/97 due to abominable behavior by previous ISP) 
 Operation Clambake, Norway 
 Operation Clambake: QUILL - Scientology from inside out 
 Operation Clambake - The Inner Secrets Of Scientology 
 CoS FAQ with prefatory comments from a.r.s. (12/97) (Link to original is below)
 "Scientologists: Can We Talk?" 
 Lisa McPherson Memorial Page 
 Willkommen in Charlie's Playhouse (Scientologie, usw.; deutsch) 
 RealAudio files and flyers 
 Co$ Flyers Index, including Scam Flyer 
 Scamizdat 
 Time Magazine article May 6, 1991 pp. 50ff. : "Scientology: The Thriving Cult of Greed and Power"
 Perch of Scientology 
 Perch of Scientology / RPF 
 Measures Taken Against Scientology by the Government of Bavaria (Bayern), Germany 
 Scientology FAQs 
 (Scientology) The ARSCC (does not exist) Home Page 
 Scientology: Cult of Greed and Power (Entheta.net) 
 $cientology KILLS 
 Introducci&oacute;n a la Cienciologia (in Spanish / en espa&ntilde;ol) 
 Scientology and Freedom 
 ftp://ftp.sonic.net/pub/users/jimbo 
 SpPack: Scientology Book Insert 
 The dead animals that seem to follow critics of Scientology 
 Hubbard's Interrogation for Children Ages 6-12 
 Diary of a man's ruin and death in Scientology 

 More Recent General Links 

 Pattinson on Scientology - A `New OT8' Celebrity Painter Speaks 
 60 Minutes CoS report, Dec. 28, 1997: Real Audio 
 Bare-Faced Messiah: The True Story of L. Ron Hubbard 
 Scientology in the Media -- Internet 
 Hubbard's Handwritten OT III with Transcript 
 alt.religion.scientology Week in Review 
 IRC: #scientology 
 Who's the "Copyright Terrorist?" 
 Karin Spaink - I write, therefore I am 
 Scientology and the IRS 
 What They Don't Want You To Know About The Church of Scientology(R) 
 Scientologists in action: Hate messages to critics instead of arguments 
 We know who you are and what you're trying to do 

 About telling the truth 

"Simply let your 'Yes' be 'Yes', and your 'No', 'No'; anything beyond this
comes from the evil one." - Jesus Christ, Matthew 5:37 

"Handling truth is a touchy business ... Tell an acceptable truth." - L.
Ron Hubbard, The Missing Ingredient , 13 August 1970.

THE ONLY WAY YOU CAN CONTROL PEOPLE IS TO LIE TO THEM. You can write that
down in your book in great big letters. -- L. Ron Hubbard, 1967

 Fair Use : an essential tool in criticizing the so-called scriptures of this barratrous cult in the USA

 On revenge and enemies: 

"Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse
you, pray for those who ill-treat you. If someone strikes you on one
cheek, turn to him the other also." - Jesus Christ, Luke 6:27-28, Matthew
5:38-39

"An enemy... may be injured by any means or tricked, sued or lied to or
destroyed. [...] Start feeding lurid, blood sex crime actual evidence on
the attackers to the press." - L. Ron Hubbard, HCO Policy Letter ,
18 Oct 67 and HCO Policy Letter, Attacks on Scientology (Additional Pol Ltr) , 25 Feb 66 

 Comparative Theology and Relation to Other Cults 

Many of Scientology's beliefs have been plagiarized from various occult
sources and then sold as if they were Hubbard's unique gift to humanity. 
For example, somehow Hubbard got the idea that the Greek letter "theta" 
meant "spirit" or "life" (the real Greek words for these are "pneuma" and
"zoe" or "bios"; "theta" is merely the name of a letter of the alphabet),
and from that he came up with his notions of "thetan", "body thetan" and
"operating thetan." Aleister Crowley was Hubbard's idol, though it is
said that Crowley thought Hubbard a fool. Much of Hubbard's "discoveries" 
can be traced to Crowley. There may be a relation between Hubbard's
"theta" and Crowley's "thelema" ("will", which was central to Crowley's
views). This primacy of will may also explain the mental bullying that is
often observed among adherents of these views.

The cult feels that the only reason anyone could possibly not understand
their "tech" (techniques, technology, practices) is due to an "M/U"
(misunderstood word), so they conveniently provide The Official Scientology and Dianetics Glossary online.

 The Scientologist / Satanist Connection 
 Misconceptions about Hubbard's idol,
Aleister Crowley 

 "Church" of Scientology Creed and OT Documents with Criticism and Further Links 
 L. Ron Hubbard's views analyzed by category 
 Detailed article with footnotes on the roots of Hubbard's occult teachings 
 The Scientology / Dianetics Comparative Theology Page 
 Hollywood, Satanism, Scientology and Suicide (564,393 Bytes) 
 Routine 3 - Heaven (the "A.D." is "Year of Dianetics" rather than Anno Domini) 
 Scientology and Christianity 
 CoS `inspired religious writings' 
 Peik Strmsholm: Scientology vs Christianity: Hubbard's Cynical System Exposed 
 Other Cults 

 On Exploitation, Pettiness and Playing God 
(I would like to thank D. Van Horn for finding the following Hubbard quote;
I am responsible for the other two quotes in this section.)

"Letting a suppressive person collapse stats or an org is a shooting offense."
 ("stats" refer to statistics, i.e. productivity quotas in a cult
organization ["org"]. A "suppressive person" (SP) is anyone who opposes the cult.)

 "Flunk for blinking! Start over!" -- a Scientologist auditor.
 [And Jesus said:] "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees!" ... The teacher
of the Law replied to [Jesus]: "Rabbi, you also insult us by saying such
things". And He said: "And woe also to you teachers of the Law, because
you put onerous loads which are hard to carry on people's backs, but you
will not lift one finger to help them carry the loads." -- Luke 11:44-46.

 Usenet Newsgroups 
 alt.religion.scientology: Voluminous daily postings, Scientologists and Critics of the Cult 
 alt.religion.scientology.xenu: 
Much easier to get through in one sitting, since many scientologists avoid it owing to their superstition about that four-letter "x-word"
 alt.religion.scientology.squick.squick.squick : Another cult lie demolished! SQUICK! goes Hubbard's skull!

 What's this "Xenu/Xemu" thing about? 

Scientologists spend years of hard effort and thousands of dollars to
reach a level called "Operating Thetan 3" ( OT3 ),
where they are to be told the Great Secret of the Universe that will save
the planet (and justify the utter destruction of anyone who opposes them). 
If this sounds bizarre or unlikely, remember that the prospective OT3 has
been conditioned by years of psychological techniques to accept the
bizarre from the very beginning. 

 (Spelling note:
The word was apparently originally spelled "Xenu" by Hubbard, but "Xemu"
is sometimes used as an alternate spelling, particularly in England.) 

 Xenu's World Tour
 of Scientology : the Darth-Vader-like villain of the CoS "scriptures"
takes on a life of its own in CoS parody
 Wem &auml;r Xemu? (in Swedish) 
 Who is Xemu? (in English) 
 Qui est Xemu? (en franais) 
 "What is Scientology?" - criticism in English and French 
 The Road to Xenu, Chapter 1: "Implant Stations in the Sky" 
 The Xenu
Anonymous Remailer specifically for posting on CoS-related newsgroups

 About using religion to make money 

"... men of corrupt mind, who have been robbed of the truth and who think
that godliness is a means to financial gain." - St. Paul, 1 Timothy 5:5

"I'd like to start a religion. That's where the money is." - L. Ron
Hubbard to Lloyd Eshbach in 1949; quoted by Eshbach in Over My Shoulder .

 Disclaimer? 
Legitimate businesses are entitled to trademark disclaimers, not abusers
of trademark laws and the entire legal system.

"But trademarks are for businesses to distinguish the products they sell,
not for religions!", you might say. Well, yes, but Scientology tries to
have it all ways: to be a profitmaking business which sues their critics
mercilessly to protect their so-called trade secrets, a tax-exempt U.S. IRS
(501)(c)(3) organization, a religion, a philosophy and a technology. In
some countries such as Greece, they vehemently deny being a religion in
order to circumvent anticult laws, whereas in Germany and the U.S. they
just as adamantly claim that they are a religion. 

 Scientology has the dubious distinction of actually having its well-known
lawyer Helena Kobrin mentioned in a standard legal textbook on civil procedure,
in an negative example showing the cult's incredible abuse of the legal
system for its own ends. To view summary and bibliographical information
on this legal text, or to order a copy of the 1996 or 1998 editions, click on 
the following link: 

Steven C. Yeazell, 
FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE, with Selected Statutes and Cases 

 Some examples of their use and abuse of the law include the so-called
"'Ho letters", which are e-mails from Ms. Kobrin threatening legal action
for such things as parodying Scientology on one's web site. They had a
popular Finnish anonymous remailer, anon.penet.fi , shut down in 1996 for
alleged infringement of the Los Angeles-based cult's rights after someone
posted some of their "scripture" on the remailer. This and other
"scripture" is easily available on the net and elsewhere and can hardly be
considered a "trade secret", especially if the cult considers itself a
relgion or philosophy and not a "trade". 

 As another example, the cult's home page graphic 
features the word "Scientology" with the "i" made with the "Scientology
cross" adjacent to a registered trademark symbol. Do you know any 
legitimate religions which attempt to trademark a cross? And why use a
cross when they consider Christianity to be a mere false "implant"? (The
arrogance and cynicism of this is not atypical of Hubbard and his legacy). 

It is not surprising, however, for this deceptive "religion" which
actually promises to empty the adherent's "bank" while selling him or her 
the (trademarked, naturally) "bridge" -- would you buy a "bridge" from
such an organization? (Explanation for non-U.S. residents: There is an
old joke about selling the Brooklyn Bridge in New York: "do I have a
bridge to sell you!" -- from this, the expression "selling a bridge to
someone" refers to defrauding them, since bridges are not the kind of
things that are usually sold to individuals on a whim). Other possible
puns in their lexicon include the notion of "thetan"; despite officially
claiming it is some kind of life force, it sounds just like lisped
version of "Satan"; for more information, click here . 

Naturally they claim trademark protection for many of the words in their
bizarre lexicon, including Scientology, Dianetics and E-Meter (their
$3000.00 lie detector that they claim is a religious tool). How many
religions do you know whose very name is a trademark? And they have a
separate affiliate, the "Religious Technology Center", which administers
their aggressive litigation in order to attempt to silence critics. The
cult does not deserve some lame "please don't sue me!" trademark
disclaimer, but rather this: 

 Warning: cults like this one are severely harmful to your spiritual,
mental and physical health, and may even be fatal! For God's sake, don't
let them sell you their Bridge(tm) to Total Disaster. 

 About the judicial system 

"Settle matters quickly with your adversary who is taking you to court." -
Jesus Christ, Matthew 5:25

"The law can be used very easily to harass... the purpose of the suit is
to harass and discourage rather than to win." - L. Ron Hubbard, The
Scientologist - A Manual on the Dissemination of Material , reprinted in
 The Technical Bulletins of Dianetics and Scientology volume 2,
pp.151-171, 1979 printing.

"The only real crime for which one can be punished by the governments
of today is lack of money. In other crimes if one has the huge sums
necessary to hire lawyers one can often get off." - L. Ron Hubbard
in HCOPL 20 Sept 1976, The Stat Push 
 "Somebody some day will say 'this is illegal'. By then be sure the
orgs say what is legal or not." - L. Ron Hubbard, HCOPL 4 January 1966

 Scientology
 Ring: 
 Next 
 Skip-Next 
 Next-5 
 Prev 
 Skip-Prev 
 Prev-5 
 Random 
 List 

 Your comments are welcome: Click here
to send me mail! 
 This site has been viewed times
since May 3, 2001. 
 There have been

visits to this page since December 7, 2001 03:14:16 EST. 

 nickz@eskimo.com 

Last updated: May 28, 1998. 
Minor changes: October 12, 1998.