Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) Vintage Mini- &
Microcomputers 

 PDP-11's, RSX-11, Pro 350's, RT-11, Y2K issues and more... 

This page is dedicated to PDP-11 and compatible hardware and
software as well as other vintage DEC systems such as the Rainbow 100.
PDP-11-based computers are still manufactured today (e.g. by Mentec and
Strobe) and emulated (e.g. by DBit); DEC no longer makes them and in any
case has been absorbed by Compaq. 

 Click here for an
important message about Mad Cow Disease! 

 First, a historical note... 
The first two major computer systems in history, dating from 1946 and 1951
respectively, were ENIAC and UNIVAC. The ENIAC
Simulation Home Page plans to have an online emulator in place
soon that can be programmed from the web. Also of interest is the
vintage UNIVAC page at fourmilab.ch ,
with links to Unisys (which still
makes Univac-compatible systems, among others). For their company
timeline extending from 1873 to the present, click here .
Computers back then were huge mainframes that took up an entire room and
had a cost to match. When Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) produced
their first computer
in August 1959 , they
called their product the PDP-1 -- Programmable Data Processor, to
distinguish it from the humongous mainframes. Subsequent machines also
bore the name PDP. The most popular and well-known of these PDP's were
the PDP-8, 10 and 11 minicomputers; the latter made its debut in June
1970. Newer PDP-11's were manufactured in subsequent years with more
memory, speed and disk capacity; this continues today with PDP-compatible
hardware and PDP emulators for non-PDP hardware. For a timeline covering
DEC and related products from 1958 to 1990, click
 here .

 Links, links and more links... 

 New: The Telnet Song, a recursive musical classic (Words and Music 
by The Great Quux; copyright &copy; April 1984, Guy L. Steele, Jr. & D.E. 
Knuth; transcribed into MIDI and NWC formats by yours truly on 12/13-Aug-2001).
Available in MIDI and NWC formats with N=2. 

 New: BCKRead and related utilities page has been
updated; for copying from a VMS or AXP .BCK saveset to MSDOS or Files-11 disks,
including blank disk image generator and blank disks, bootable and not. 

 New: P/OS I/O Driver Fiche, DEC
#AH-CG61A-TK , contains source listings and maps for the P/OS Executive
and drivers for DW:, DZ:, TT:, video fonts, etc. As it involves an
enormous amount of scanning from paper copies of the fiches (each of the
first 15 fiches contain up to 13x16 = 208 pages), it will take time to
scan this in (and I'll probably skip the parts which seem to be the same
as RSX-11M-Plus circa version 2, which is most of the Executive code, and
considerably reduces the amount of scanning needed). I do hope to get the
DZ and DW code and maybe parts of the TT code up soon, which is
Pro-specific. Why DEC didn't supply it on floppies and make things easy
is beyond me. Anyone else have the fiches and want to help out? So far I
have made paper copies of ACSUB, INITL, DWDRV, DZDRV, NLDRV and the index
on fiche 16 (to replace the thermal-paper copies made in the '80's which
have long since faded). See how to allow DWDRV to recognize larger disks
by zapping the NOP with a BR; P/OS V2.0 supports RD50-RD52 but support for
other disks (e.g. RD53) can apparently be added very easily. May also be
useful for anyone thinking of writing a Pro300 emulator. 

 NoFPP.CMD , a command file allowing use
of Fortran-77 executables on a much wider variety of RSX systems. Allows
M-only tasks to run on M-Plus, and allows F77 programs that don't use the
FPP to run on a system without one. See the comments for details and
usage instructions. Requires ZAP.TSK (not included, but available on any
P/OS distribution with Toolkit [see below] or under RSX-11M, M-Plus, or
RSX emulation under RSTS/E). This was used to make the QIOLOG for RSX disk editing utility and Pacman tasks run on all the systems I tried
them on, with or without an FPP, on 11M, M-Plus, Micro RSX and P/OS,
without relinking. 

 Calendar and Timeclock for P/OS and
RSX, Pro/Basic and Basic-Plus-2 (originally under RT-11 Basic). The
calendar program prints a full-size calendar on the line printer (or to a
disk file in later versions) with a user-selectable ASCII-art image at the
top; years can range from 1582 to 9999. Timeclock is a concatenation of
TIME (an ASCII alarm clock) and CLOCK, an analog-display clock written by
a classmate at college; the latter uses the Pro350's bitmap display and
CORE Graphics Library calls. Calendar was on the PDP 11/23 (running RT-11
and TSX) at Northport High School, revised by E. Schaefer at a nearby
school in March 1975; it was enhanced by David Kraus in November 1982. I
ported it to the Pro 350 in September 1983 (when TIME and CLOCK were
written) and to RSX in 2000. Updated for Y2K, supplied on RX50 floppy
image with old and new versions and INKEY routine. 

 New for 2001: "2001: A Space Odyssey" -- this is the December 1978 Super
Star Trek for RT11 on its own bootable disk image with documentation plus a
Y2K-compatible 1998 sysgen of RT11SJ V5.01C and utilities such as CINIT and DIR2.
Please note that this version of RT-11 is covered by Mentec's hobbyist license unless you have your own license with
different terms. I include an E11.INI file for use with the E11 emulator, however
it can also be used on a real PDP-11 or the Supnik or other emulators. Please keep
in mind that only use on the Supnik emulator is covered by Mentec's hobbyist
license included here. The E11.INI file can easily be used as a guide to the
commands to use for the Supnik emulator; substitute ATTACH for MOUNT and boot the
image (the key definitions and other frills are not needed unless you use KED/KEX
or the single-line editor, which is disabled on this disk anyway). The SST software is provided on an RX02 image (zipped) and
you can see my two highest scores in the High Score
log , which also show that a file is missing (PLAQUE.SAV). If anyone has this
file I'd be grateful to be able to complete the fileset. 

 A very rudimentary and incomplete emulation of the P/OS V2.0a Main Menu for MS/PC-DOS . It is
a .COM file with .TASM source code for any 80x86 machine with DOS or
Windoze. 

 DTIME V1.01 - a replacement for
TIM that is Y2K and Y3K compliant! (This version supersedes all older
versions, e.g. V1.00 / DTIME2.ZIP). Especially useful to set and display
the time on the Pro 350 (it is Y2K OK but not Y3K on the Pro) but works on
old and new RSX as well, with the same syntax as RSX TIM except one uses
the DTI (or any other chosen abbreviation) command instead of TIM. Years
are always displayed with four digits, but can be entered with 2 or 4
digits in both the 20th and 21st centuries (which TIM can't do). Supplied
on a disk image along with other goodies such as GREP and Y2K DATE
subroutines for Macro-11 and high-level languages, with source code.

 RSX-11M/M-Plus page -- some new programs and
updates for RSX-11M (see also Pro 350 area ), and BRU Reader V1.1 for MS/PC-DOS. For reading VMS
Backup files under MS/PC-DOS, as well as many other file transfer utilities for
various systems, click here for the BCKREAD
page . Patches for Fortran (IV and 77) to enable use on systems with no FPP and
to add Year 2000 compliance also available, works on Pro 350 and all other tested
platforms, for RT-11 and P/OS / RSX. 

 Emergency Boot Disk for Pro 325/350/380 with various
utilities, useful for recovering data from hard disk when P/OS refuses to
boot or is corrupted; can also fix certain file structure errors via the
logical/physical block editor. Click here 
to download it, and click here 
to get the updated version 4.6 of QIOLOG.TSK (1999) for these utilities.
The disks themselves were made in 1984. See the readme files at either
location for more information on these utilities. Note that the new
QIOLOG is much bigger than the old one since it was linked without using
resident libraries. Either the old (V4.5) or new (V4.6) QIOLOG will
perform disk editing functions just as well under most circumstances, but
V4.6 has a number of enhancements and a bugfix. 

 Note: some miscellaneous utilities which were formerly hosted on
Tripod.com have been removed due to their remote loading policy and can
now be found in this miscellaneous DEC subdirectory . 

 F11READ.COM : Files-11 index file
information for MS/PC-DOS, works on index files and RSX/POS container
files. Shows LBN allocation and lists the bitmap. Year-2000
compliant. 

 RT-11 Utilities and Year 2000 Patches Page 

 Please read the Read Me file first,
then download the utilities, patches and accompanying information from
 here . The Y2K patches are intended for RT-11
V5.01C but will work with slight modifications on other versions such
as V5.3. Please note that these are not provided by DEC or Mentec and
are not supported by them or any third parties, including me. The
monitor itself is not provided, since it is copyrighted by Mentec; only
the patches are supplied. Mentec does not permit use of the source
code by those not licensed to use it (but see here for binaries licensed for noncommercial use
provided they are only used with the PDP-11
simulator by Robert Supnik). 

However, the other programs which I wrote (e.g. DIR2) or obtained via
disassembly from public-domain programs (e.g. EDMSG) or downloaded
(PI.TEC) are not subject to these restrictions and thus the full source
and executable code can be freely provided here. Also, P/OS and Venix do
not require these licenses, and PDP-11 Unix is licensed by SCO or others;
the details are here . 

 Most of the files should be transfered in binary mode, but the readme
files and some of the source code is in Unix format (linefeed for
newline), so that it will be easiest to use text/ASCII mode for them. 

There is also more information on RT-11, Year 2000 and Mentec below. 

Also: A patch for DIR.SAV V5.1C for versatile use with logical disks. 
This version is not yet Year 2000 compatible; the patch consists of a 
 SIPP file and the documentation . Other enhancements are also
planned. 

I have posted a test program called DIR2 which was written without any DEC
or Mentec code but does not have all the features of DIR; however it is
fully Year 2000 compatible and handles any RT-11 date up to 31-Dec-2099. 
At this time, it does provide a standard listing of a directory, in
decimal or octal, optionally narrowing the list down by such attributes as
whether the file is protected or not, today's date, and other options. I
have updated the old RT11DIR program on this site for Year 2000
compatibility; it is a simple DIR2 that reads RT-11 diskettes under P/OS
or RSX. If anyone is using older versions of either DIR2 or RT11DIR, they
should upgrade them, because the old versions had some bugs. Make sure
the handler for the device you wish to read is loaded before running
DIR2 . The current version for both of these is V2.1. It is also
available on a bootable disk image. The caveat
about making sure the device handler is loaded also applies to TCONV; they
behave unpredictably if it is not loaded and may freeze. 

 Mentec is now shipping RT-11 V5.7,
fully Year 2000 compliant. 

 Mentec permits free downloading and personal, non-commercial use of
older versions of RSTS, RSX and RT-11, under a license that accompanies
most distributions on the net, a copy of which is provided here . Mentec themselves do not allow
downloading; the disk images must be downloaded from a third party and
Mentec does not provide support for them; the license is merely a courtesy
to hobby users, who have after all provided much over the years in
enhancements to these systems. The images covered by the license are to
be used only on an emulated PDP-11, not a real PDP-11. Currently, the
versions covered are RSTS V9.6 and prior, RT-11 V5.3 and prior, and
RSX-11M V4.3 and prior. However, all versions of P/OS and Venix are public
domain and not subject to any such licenses. And if you have obtained a
real PDP-11 from a third party, you should be able to transfer the
existing license. The permitted versions covered by the hobbyist license
may gradually increase with time and the release of new versions from
Mentec. See below for more information on obtaining and installing such
disk images. 

 Utilities Galore: The 

Sunsite PDP-11 archives , including most DECUS archives for all PDP-11
operating systems. 

 The Professional 300 Series personal computers 

 Download 
 Pro 300 series specific files (ROM
image, disk and screen editors, RT-11 to P/OS utilities) 

 Update in Sweden:
Get P/OS V3.2 and Toolkit for free! 

 The Pro300 series (325/350/380) is a PDP-11 compatible microcomputer
released by DEC in 1983 which was supported until the early 1990's and
still has its loyal users today. Though it was superior in many ways to
the contemporary IBM PC's, it ran a watered-down version of RSX-11M-Plus
called P/OS and was marketed poorly. Many were (and are?) used as
front-ends for VAXstation systems. I still use it occasionally to access
the internet via a 19,200 bps connection to a Unix shell account, where I
can use elm, pine, tin, lynx, etc. One can also use Fuzzball for native internet capability on the Pro. 

 A Pro can also run RT-11, a fast and efficient realtime operating
system which is discussed below (I also provide fixes
and information for solving problems in 21st Century dates designed
for Version 5.01C but useful for any version prior to V5.7, which
should have full Y2K support).

 For those with P/OS, the "Pro/Tool Kit", or Native Toolkit offers a
command-line interface on the Pro that is very close to RSX-11M-Plus DCL. 
P/OS and RSX-11M-Plus share the same basic system calls (such as QIO$ and
EXIT$), though P/OS has some calls of its own, like WIMP$ ("What's In My
Professional" -- who said DEC doesn't have a sense of humor?). The Tool
Kit supports standard RSX-11M+ Fortran 77, Macro-11, Pascal, Cobol and
Dibol. There is a C package available from DECUS, and the Fortran and
Macro-11 packages are also included in the freely downloadable archives of
 Update in Sweden
(P/OS and Toolkit included). RSX and P/OS store only the lower two digits of
filenames so the existing Files-11 structure can be used in any century, 
provided individual software does not make assumptions that would cause a date
of 2002 (e.g.) to be treated as 1902. RSX-11M-Plus V4.5 is apparently
fully year-2000 compliant, except for some minor issues in bundled
software such as the date routines in Fortran-77, fixed in March 1998 (as
noted on Mentec's Year 2000 page). Utilities such as PIP and RMSDSP have
been fixed already and will work till at least 2027; the V4.6 updates
apparently will extend this to c. 2100. 

 Under P/OS 2.0a (the latest version being 3.2) the Setup routine will
only permit dates from 1982 to 1999, but this is only an issue if the
battery powering the CMOS non volatile RAM (clock) dies (it uses standard
NiCd cells, easily replaceable); the system will request the new time on
the next reboot. This can be bypassed, and one can set the time from Tool
Kit with standard DCL commands. Any user startup routine can be named
[ZZSYS]STARTUP.TSK to be run as soon as the ROM and bootblock have been
read; one can check for a password and/or Y2K issues and then chain to the
original STARTUP.TSK (P/OS V2.0 and above have built-in password and
account software). Also, one can either write one's own utilities or use
PAT or ZAP to fix the P/OS tasks; most RSX-11M/M-Plus utilities are
interchangeable with their P/OS counterparts. 

The Pros offered high-resolution bitmap graphics, multitasking with
hardware memory protection and 22-bit addressing of up to 4 megabytes of
memory, when PC's were still in real mode and hadn't even reached 640K;
this used the same orthogonal PDP-11 instruction set that had already been
in use through the 1970's on the PDP-11. 

 Why can't I see the filenames when I dump the directories in ASCII format? 

Many DEC operating systems avail themselves of Radix-50 to efficiently
pack information such as filenames and tasknames into 16-bit words, three
characters to each word. The "50" here is 50 octal, and the Radix-50 set
contains all the uppercase letters, the numerals, and some special symbols
like "$" and "." which indicate system calls or tasks (e.g.: ...PIP,
EXIT$S, .EXIT). 

 Other operating systems 
There are also varieties of Unix for PDP-compatibles, such as Venix for the Pro
350/380 by VentureCom, as well as BSD and other Unices for PDP-11's. The PDP-11
FAQ states that much of Unix was, in fact, developed on PDP-11's. See this FAQ
for a comprehensive list of all the operating systems used on PDP's; and one
should also add Fuzzball ,
a public-domain OS which is very compatible with RT-11 but has full TCP/IP
internet support and utilities included.

 RT-11: General Information on the Operating System 

RT-11 is a popular realtime operating system for PDP-11's which has been
in use since the early 1970's, as has Unix and its clones. Mentec has bought RT-11 and other O/S's
from DEC and has released new
versions of RT-11 as well as RSX-11 and other PDP-11 operating systems,
featuring full Year 2000 compatibility. The releases having been delayed,
some users resorted to making their own patches (RT-11 is often sold along
with its source code, so one does not need to disassemble the monitor
first, one merely changes the source and does a SYSGEN -- system
generation -- which can be highly customized). 

 Old Patches for RT-11 V5.1C (to be superceded by final ones)

(These were written in November 1997 and are incomplete). 
Click here for a brief
summary of the Y2K bug in RT-11 V5.01c. I have written a patch for the
KMOVLY.MAC file which permits RT-11 to properly handle all dates from 1-Jan-1972
to 31-Dec-2099 which is available here , as well as an old patch for the rollover code in
RMONFB and RMONSJ. Despite the extensions, these are SIPP files,
not PAT files.

 They are provided for the benefit of RT-11 users with older versions
and for educational use. I have removed as much original monitor code as
possible from the old patch files, only leaving enough in so that one can
find the correct location in the source file to patch, especially if one
has a different version which differs somewhat. Also some lines which I
commented are left in; I consider this a "fair use" commentary on the code
(DEC stripped most comments from the originally-provided source code). To
my knowledge, it is legal for a licensed RT-11 user to download this code. 
The code in lowercase is my own, and that is legal for anyone. If anyone
wants specific legal advice however, I would suggest talking to a lawyer
or checking one's license. 

 All of the newer (final) patches will be in SLP or SIPP format so that
there is no question of infringing on any of Compaq/DEC's or Mentec's
rights. 

 Version Information: The patches are for Version 5.1C. The current
version is V5.7, which has a number of enhancements over the older
versions, including full Year 2000 support (i.e. for dates through Dec. 31,
2099). 

 In some cases it is possible to obtain a low-cost or free license
for hobbyist use, such as the 
 OpenVMS Hobbyist License ; if
you acquire a PDP-11 from a third party along with its software, the
transfer may or may not involve technicalities, according to discussions in
November 1997 on vmsnet.pdp-11 . 
The same discussion noted that DEC seems to have been much more lenient
than Mentec in its terms of license transfer when PDP-11's change hands,
often doing so for free. If you wish to obtain a software upgrade from
Mentec, you should have your CPU serial number and DEC number, if
available. 

 Old versions of many DEC OS's can often be used for free, if the use is
noncommercial, as noted above. Note that they are not freeware, and
Mentec still fully owns this software; they are just making it easier for
hobbyists, who have provided many of the enhancements for these
systems. 

 Needless to say, the patches are provided as is, without warranty (insert
standard disclaimers here, except that I hate disclaimers :-), of
course. However, I have tested it and it works on my version of RT-11. If you
have different results with your version I may be able to help, and would like
to know how other systems fare with these patches. However, the DIR.51C patch
noted above should not be used on versions other than V5.1C unless you want to
patch the patch. 

 For those who would like to patch RT-11 themselves, look at the code
beginning with: 

6$: MOV $DATE-$RMON(R0),R2

 Hint: change the BIT #140000,R2 to BIT #140037,R2 and then process the high
bits accordingly. The two high bits of the date word add to the 5 low bits of
the year to give a year range of 1972-2099. One also needs to change the ROLOVR
global routine if one has enabled month rollover in a SYSGENned monitor.
There are also various other places that need to be patched, wherever the
monitor or a utility reads the date (via the .DATE call, which expands to
MOV #5000,R0; EMT 374, or 12700 5000 104374 in octal) and fails to take
into account the effect of the year incrementing beyond 1999, or clears
the two high bits summarily. For a complete fix, also patch the date
references in the utilities: PIP, DIR, MACRO, SP, etc. 

 Usenet Newsgroups 

 DEC Micros on Usenet: Wanna
Trade? 
 The PDP-11 Enthusiasts' Newsgroup 

 Rainbow 100 Sites 
 The Rainbow 100 Home
Page 

 PDP-11's, both real and emulated 

 John Wilson's/D Bit site : PUTR
(file transfer between and from/to DEC and FAT formats, create bootable
disk images), Ersatz-11 (E11) PDP-11 emulator, RT-11 software and games.
 Relcom's
Emulator site ; has E11 plus Robert Supnik's port of another PDP-11
emulator, as well as emulators for many other systems (Z80, Apple,
Sinclair, Atari)

 Telnet and FAQ Resources (PDP-11, TOPS-20) 

 D Bit Ersatz-11 Demo System 
(running RSX-11M-Plus V4.5 (Y2K OK) -- login instructions provided)

 Magica - PDP-11 running RSX-11M+
V4.6 in Sweden with guest access. 
 Telnet to a TOPS-20 System 

 J. Comeau's PDP
and other links 
 Max & Marisa's 
home page: PDP-11, Pro, RT-11 game archive and lots of other stuff 

 The PDP-11 FAQ 
 pdp-11.ftp 
 The
PDP-11 FAQ / Appendix A: Related PDP-11 Sites 
 The PDP-11 FAQ
/ Vendor List 

 Minnie sites 

 PUPS Archive FAQ 
(Everything about getting, licensing and installing old Unix on a real
or emulated PDP-11) 

 PUPS Archive FAQ 
(Everything about getting, licensing and installing old Unix on a real
or emulated PDP-11) 

 PUPS
Site for Source Code for Robert Supnik's PDP-11 Simulator with Disk Images
of UNIX, RT-11 V5.3 and Other Operating Systems 

 DEC's FTP site for
downloading Robert Supnik's PDP-11 Simulator and Disk Images of UNIX,
RT-11 V5.3, RSTS/E V7.* and Other Operating Systems 

 Printed Material for PDP Unix - Lions Book 

 Note: As I said, I hate
disclaimers, but because of our litigious society, I will state what
should be well-known to most computer enthusiasts, i.e. that all
trademarks are the property of their respective owners. DEC manufactured
and trademarked their Vax, PDP-11 and similar systems (such as the
MicroVax, Micro PDP-11) and licensed their software (though some early
PDP-11's were licensed to use any PDP-11 OS and duplicate it for their own
use or for others with similar licenses). It is safe to assume that most
names of hardware and operating systems are thus trademarks (Even "VT-100"
is a DEC trademark, as are the names of all the VT-series terminals,
though most VT-100 emulators don't note this). 

 The PDP-11 was no longer supported by DEC as of December 31, 1997, and
DEC itself has since been assimilated by Compaq, which seems to have
decided that it is in its best interest not to obliterate DEC's identity
totally. Actually, even in February 1999, while Altavista has the Compaq
name on it, DEC's home pages still are DEC. However, "DEQ" no longer
manufactures hardware or produces the software for PDP-11's anyway; that
is Mentec's job; they now own RSTS, RSX, RT-11, etc. Mentec continues to
manufacture PDP-11's, and companies such as Strobe Data manufacture PDP-11
clones-on-a-card. 

 According to Mentec, there are still many PDP-11's in commercial use,
which drives the market for PDP-11 hardware and software regardless of
DEC's action. Several third parties, noted below, continue to manufacture
PDP-11-compatible hardware and have no plans to stop anytime soon. There
are also emulators for Unix, MS-DOS and the Alpha (check the Relcom site for emulators for these or any other
platforms). The Mentec updates, generally done and released between 1995
and 1998, make all the supported PDP-11 operating systems work with all
dates up to at least 2099. 

 P/OS and Fuzzball are public-domain operating systems and freely
available on the net. While P/OS was designed only for use on the
Professional 300 series personal computers (which are based on a
microcoded PDP-11 CPU design), the RSX utilities included with P/OS
such as PIP and ZAP are identical to their RSX counterparts of the same
version. 

 Links to DEC, Mentec and Third Party Vendors of DEC and Emulating Hardware
and Software 
 DEC Home Page ; or alternate page .
 Compaq -- in case they pull the DEC page... 
 Digital Equipment Computer Users Society (DECUS) 
 Mentec: PDP-11 Hardware and
Software -- featuring Year-2000 compliant RSX, RT-11 and more.
 Strobe Data: Hardware
PDP-11 emulation for 80x86-based systems 
 Strobe Data's SFX V1.28 File Transfer 
Utility , mirrored here since their FTP site went down.
 What's New - Comware PDP11 under WinNT 
 The REVIVER PC Upgrade System 
 Strobe's list of competitors' products 
 D-Bit's Ersatz-11 (E11) V2.0: Commercial
and Demo Versions 
 E-Mail D-Bit 

 Some disk images of DEC operating systems available for download 

These images are accompanied by a license permitting free non-commercial
use on the simulator ; see the license for full
details.

 RSTS/E,
including RSX-11M and RT-11 runtime system (some include source code) .

 RT-11 V5.01C, Year 2000 compatible, RX01
Binary , with my DIR2, CINIT, TCONV, CLOCKI and other utilities. I
sysgenned this in January 1998; it includes multiterminal support. DATE
displays four-digit year and allows entry in two or four digit year
format. The license (solely for non-commercial simulator use) is here . DIR2 is Year 2000 compliant; the image
also includes the older patched DIR.SAV that is not
Y2K OK. Or download the zipped RL01 image with an explanation of the
utilities ( self-extracting DOS/Windows executable , is
smaller than uncompressed RX01 image). 

 RT-11 V5.3, not Y2K compliant 

 P/OS for Pro 350
and Pro 380 plus many utilities for V2.0A - V3.2. Requires Teledisk to
generate the RX-50 floppy images. Public domain; no need for license.
I have many P/OS disk images in raw format also; e-mail me for information.

 PDP-11 Unix: PDP-11 Versions 5, 6, 7 (BSD 
Unix also available if you fill out license form at this site);
 Venix for Pro 350
or Pro 380 .

 Non-PDP-11 operating systems (for PDP-8, etc.) 

These companies stock DEC hardware (parts and/or systems): 
 Processor - New/Used Hard/Software: IBM, DEC & others 
 The World Wide Buying Network (DEC,etc/Computer Hotline) 
 (I have not personnally shopped from these two so I can't vouch for or
against them.)
 Other Links of Interest 
 DEC's Altavista Search Engine 
 Advanced Altavista Search 

 PDP-11 Resources (small
PDP simulator written in C and other links) 
 unsorted RSX stuff at Update (!) 
 Users' Reference to B 

 MadGoat Software Archive (VMS/Alpha) 

 St. Peter's College VAX : HTML access also available, but not as
informative. Vax with many interesting files.

Your comments are welcome: Click here
to send me mail! 
 This site has been viewed times
since May 3, 2001. 
 nickz@eskimo.com 
Last updated: September 6, 2001.