Hillside Wrestling Weekend X, July 2003 

 ">

 Hillside Wrestling Weekend X, July 2003 

 This page
is under construction. If you have trouble accessing it, I&#8217;m
probably in the process of modifying it, so check back soon...
:) -->

No Frames? No problem. This web page designed to work with 

Any Browser, Any System, Any Time. 

 For more information, see the
 Best Viewed With Any Browser 
campaign link. 

 Click here 
to go directly to Hillside 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 or 2002 pages,
or to the registration and general information page. 

 Photo 
credit: Erich Richter -->

 Hillside Wrestling Weekend X was held July 16-20, 2003. It was the tenth 
annual wrestling weekend and the eighth one which I attended; there were a 
number of wrestlers present who had attended all ten events. As in previous 
years, wrestlers came from all over the U.S. as well as Canada, Germany and 
the U.A.E. The mat setup allowed everyone to have plenty of mat time in 
different wrestling styles, though there was no ring for the pro wrestlers as 
in the last two years (the Sheriff promised that next year the ring will be 
back though). In freestyle wrestling, the second annual tournament was a 
success, which was held Saturday morning, concluding in time for lunch. The 
food was great, and the weather was mostly pleasant. It rained on Friday again
but wrestling continued, and the rain stopped long enough for lunch in the 
open. 

 Many pictures have been resized for quick loading; e-mail me if you want to 
see particular originals. If all the thumbnails don't load, just hit the
Refresh button or click the blue rectangle to see the full-size picture. 

 Click on one of the following links to jump to a particular section of
this year&#8217;s page: 

 The Ride
(NY, NJ & PA) |
At Hillside: Wrestling 
and other photos from Hillside Campground | 
 Additional 
Tournament Pictures from Gene 

 Hillside 2003 -- the ride there and back 

 This year, I took the usual route through Queens, Manhattan, New Jersey and 
eastern Pennsylvania, then turned north at Honesdale to enjoy the mountains 
that I previously bypassed to the south. The route featured great views and 
the steep consecutive hills which give the Endless Mountains their name. While
the usual route features three mountain passes, the highest one being at 1940 
feet, this route goes into the low 2000's, crossing some valleys around 1600 
feet before descending to 1000 feet about 6 miles from Hillside. The road from
there went over 1600-foot Kennedy Hill which was scenic and quick (a molehill 
compared to the previous mountains), ending up 4 miles later in Gibson, 
minutes from camp. Arrived at the campground after dinner but had a sub 
sandwich ready. Unlike the scorching weather of the previous two years (in the
90's and 100's &deg;F), the temperature this year was in the 70's and 80's, mostly
sunny with a brief shower in the morning. The weather on the ride back was 
similar, despite the dire weather forecasts of flash floods and continuous 
severe storms -- it rained for a few hours and then the nice weather returned.

Flushing Meadows Corona Park - soccer game, Unisphere and other 
scenes. 

Honeywell Av. bridge, Queens, opened recently after being closed for over
20 years. 

Sculpture in Central Park, NYC.

On Rte. 191 in Honesdale, PA, shortly after leaving the usual route to head
for the mountains.

View of mountain along Wayne-Susquehanna county line from Old Newburg 
Turnpike (in Susquehanna county, PA). 

Same location: More detailed view of 2600-foot Elk Mountain Ski area from
2000 feet elevation. 

Elk Mountain, seen from the south side on PA 106 riding home. 

Skin irritation on wrist from the weekend of wrestling, with Elk
Mountain as background. 

Thunderstorm brewing in Honesdale, PA (rained about an hour then cleared 
up) 

Appalachian Trail crossing US 206 in Sussex Co., NJ 

US 206 North at Kittatinny Mountain, NJ. 

Note left by a hiker at Appalachian trail entrance. 

Appalachian Trail entrance at US 206 South. 

The Appalachian Trail west of US 206. 

Another view of the vicinity. 

There are wild raspberries growing here too, just smaller. 

Route 15 South, Sparta, NJ, starting upgrade towards last mountain pass of 
the ride, at mile marker 14 (the summit is at mile 8). 

Route 15 North, in Sparta. 

At the Unisphere in Queens; 10 miles to go. 

The final stretch near the Queens-Nassau line, on (of course) Hillside 
Avenue (Rte. 25B). 

I'm home... 

...and there's my post-Hillside weight. 

 At Hillside 

 (Elevation 1350 ft.)

 Pictures of the campground and matches -->

Upper Site 60 on Thursday morning. 

Mike wrestling Rick on submission mat. 

Mike wrestling Rick on submission mat (closeup).

The freestyle mat, Thursday morning. 

Richard and Glenn. 

Joe's tent has poinsettias this time. 

And the wrestlers from Toronto have arrived too. 

Getting ready for lunch on Thursday. 

The camp's banner at the front gate is still facing in, not out. 

Creek near the camp's front gate. 

Creek as seen from footbridge. 

Footbridge over creek. 

Klaus on the submission mat. 

Dinner on Thursday. 

Think I'll have some more dessert -- but not on this bench. ;-) 

Another mat to set up. 

The pool area on Thursday evening. Still closed from being clogged by the
previous weekends' shedding bears. 

The freestyle mat late on Thursday night. 

Hanging out at the meal area, 12:15 AM Friday (time exposure). 

The campfire. 

QuickTime movie of the campfire. 

Friday evening on upper Site 60. 

Time exposure after dinner on Friday. 

The bonfire in front of the rec center. 

A dragonfly on the raspberry bushes behind the mats, before the tournament.

 Hillside Freestyle Tournament, July 19, 2003 

The tournament and related pictures have been moved: 
click here or on the above picture to see them. 

 Click here 
for Mike's tournament pictures . 

 Pro Wrestling at Hillside 2003 

Even though there was no pro ring this year, the pro wrestlers did clinics and
matches every night, as well as on Saturday afternoon, on the mat at site 60A.
They showed how to execute various moves and put on shows which drove the 
crowd wild. 

The frame for the tent over the pro tent on site 60A, before setting it up.

The Sheriff's down. 

Big Al gets stretched. 

Kicking him when he's down. 

Demonstrating a headlock. 

Sprawled on the mat. 

Pile driver. 

Lou has Chuck where he wants him -- or vice versa? 

If you do this headlock correctly... 

...you end up here. 

In mid-throw. 

"Where the head goes, the body will follow." 

Nice cradle. 

Lou has Chuck at his mercy (Photo enhanced by Donald Black). 

And now for the "Indian death grip" (?) 

No, no, this is how you do it... 

...get everything in position... 

...there we go... 

...and get that knee on him for good measure! 

Sleeper (Photo enhanced by Donald Black). 

Double-leg camel clutch. 

And the single-leg, which leaves a hand free for other things. 

Care to demonstrate? 

Friday night on the pro mat. 

Got him... 

...on his knees... 

...not so fast! 

Strutting around gloating over the victory. 

Next match... 

Good thing he's flexible... 

Reversal -- gimme that arm! ... 

Hey, this is fun! ... 

Lou fights back with a low blow... 

...again, while lifting him... 

...lets him down momentarily... 

...but not for long... 

Lou takes advantage of the situation... (Photo enhanced by Donald Black)

...stretches his opponent out some more... 

You won't see this on TV... 

...and the ref is powerless to stop these egregious rules violations... 

Pile driver him again... 

..and then attack the ref! ... 

The ref being pile drivered... 

...and sprawled on the mat. 

Getting the ref right where he wants him... 

...while the audience loves it. 

 This year WrestlerVic had his
own mat on upper site 60 too, where there were a number of taped and
untaped matches throughout the weekend. You can find out more at his Wrestling in
the Hills of PA website. 

 The Talent Show and Saturday evening 

 Sunday and the conclusion of the Wrestling Weekend 

Mike and Kris singing at midnight Sunday. 

"Haunted Campsite" sign, definitely not in Kansas. 

Saying goodbyes at the meal area, Sunday morning. 

Mat rolled up and taken away, midday Sunday. 

Group picture, at upper site 60. 

Site 60 with the mat and wrestlers gone, Sunday afternoon. 

This bird now has all of site 60 to itself. 

My tent. 

Raspberry bush 

The cat that hung around us all weekend. 

A thistle in the NNS area of Hillside. 

12:21 AM Monday -- starry sky 

More stars. 

Still seeing stars. 

Bumble bee pollinating a raspberry flower on site 60. 

Another bee pollinating a raspberry. 

Taking down my tent, I find the 
 Marshall Memorial Tent stakes. 

 Also check out the Outsports
article by Gene Dermody along with its gallery of pictures 

Previous pages:
 Hillside 1996 | 1997: Digest & Pictures |
 1998 |
 1999 |
 2000 |
 2001 |
 2002 

 General Information
about the next Hillside Wrestling Weekend |
 Home Page / Other
Pictures 

Click here to send me comments on this web page . 

 This site has been viewed times
since May 3, 2001. 

 This page has been visited

 times since July 24, 2003. 

 nickz@eskimo.com 

Page created: July 24, 2003
Last modified: Aug. 29, 2003