Hillside Wrestling Weekend XI, July 2004 

 ">

the base href can allow the pics to be stored on some other site, but makes it
necessary to link to e.g. #previous via absolute URL which means it won't work
in an offline archive. -->

 Hillside Wrestling Weekend XI, July 2004 

 This page
is under construction. If you have trouble accessing it, I&#8217;m
probably in the process of modifying it, so check back soon...
:) -->

No Frames? No problem. This web page designed to work with 

Any Browser, Any System, Any Time. 

 For more information, see the
 Best Viewed With Any Browser 
campaign link. 

 Click here 
to go directly to Hillside 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 or 2003
pages, or to the registration and general information page. 

 Photo 
credit: Erich Richter -->

 -->

 Hillside Wrestling Weekend XI was held July 21-25, 2004.
It was the eleventh annual wrestling weekend and the ninth one which I
attended; there were a number of wrestlers present who had attended all eleven
events. As in previous years, wrestlers came from all over the U.S. as well as
Mexico, Canada, Germany and the U.A.E. The mat setup allowed everyone to have
plenty of mat time in different wrestling styles. In freestyle wrestling, the
third annual tournament was a success, which was held Saturday morning,
concluding in time for lunch. The food was great, and the weather was mostly
pleasant. It rained on Friday again but wrestling continued, and the rain
stopped by lunchtime. There was a new tent over the meal area which came in
handy both for the rain and the sun.

 Many pictures have been resized for quick loading; e-mail me if you want to 
see particular originals. If all the thumbnails don't load, just hit the
Refresh button or click the blue rectangle to see the full-size picture. 

 Click on one of the following links to jump to a particular section of
this year&#8217;s page: 

 The Ride
(LI, NJ, upstate NY & PA) | 
At Hillside: Wrestling 
and other photos from Hillside Campground 

 Additional 
Tournament Pictures from Gene --> 

 Hillside 2004 -- the ride there and back 

 This year, I took the usual route through Queens,
Manhattan, and into Morris County, New Jersey. At that point I took what was
to be a shortcut through Mt. Hope but ended up heading towards the N.Y. state
line so I decided to enjoy High Point, NJ and the Catskills in New York. High
Point is the highest point in NJ (1803 feet) but is not very high by
Pennsylvania standards (many of the hills and mountains in the vicinity of
Hillside are well over 2000 feet including Elk Mountain at 2698 feet). But
it's scenic, and there is a steep ascent (to get that heart rate up) to the
state park at the top of High Point where there is a large obelisk. In the
Catskills, elevations are higher but the slopes were not as steep. I returned
to the usual route via the Delaware and Lackawaxen river valleys which lead to
the town of Hawley. Temperatures were moderate, in the 70's and 80's, unlike
the scorching weather in 2002 and before. The weather was sunny throughout
the ride there and back. 

My weight before leaving for Hillside (125.0 lb.) 

Sign under test, on NY 25A near Queens Plaza (zoomed in). It was still
flashing the same message on the ride back. ;-) 

Yes, the sign is really under test (zoomed in more) 

Looking west (towards that sign) on Northern Blvd. (NY 25A) towards
Queens Plaza (zoomed out) 

Rte. 12, bridge over the Hackensack River from Bogota to 
Hackensack, seen from Hackensack side 

Hackensack, capital of Bergen County, NJ 
 Here's a nighttime
view of the same capitol building from the opposite side from 2002 .

Paterson, NJ (view from Clark and Market Streets) 

US 46 West, just after Pine Brook-area merge, at 
a McDonald's. 

US 46 looking east in the vicinity of the merge. 

The Empire Diner, Parsippany, NJ (also on 10th Av. in NYC) 

Ascending out of the coastal plain, on US 46 (looking back, i.e. 
east) 

Looking west on the same hill. 

Mountain seen on Rte. 513 (starting detour to the 
north) 

Rte. 513 

Cliff near Craigmeur Ski Area 

That's me in front of the cliff. 

Closeup of this cliff.

Apparently unused rail station, Newfoundland, NJ 

View east along the tracks 

General view of station area 

Closeup of station details 

The obelisk at High Point, NJ comes into view,
past Colesville, NJ. 

Heading towards the obelisk on NJ 23. 

The upgrade becomes steep, and trucks are warned
to take a detour. 

Looking back at the view about halfway through the steep area 
(camera in manual mode) 

View up the hill at steepest part. 

Looking back at steep section as road levels off near summit. 

At the summit, a hiker enters the Appalachian Trail. 

Administrative building at summit. 

Entrance to High Point State Park with beginning of downgrade
visible. 

That's me at the entrance to High Point State Park, elevation 
1803 feet. 

Heading down from High Point towards New York State. 

View looking back (up) from same spot. 

At the bottom of the 4.5-mile downgrade, cross into Orange County, 
NY. 

Only 57 miles to Scranton from here but I continue the detour into the
mountains. 

The Hawk's Nest overlook, showing road along foggy mountainside in 
the Catskills. 

Looking back at Hawk's Nest and mountainside. 

River view from Hawk's Nest overlook. 

Further up the valley, road almost at river level and it matches the river's 
upstream slope. 

One-lane bridge, Sullivan County, NY 

Passing Rte. 55 (used on Diff'rent Spokes' 1989 Delaware Water Gap ride and
other rides) 

PA Rtes. Y & 590, heading towards Hawley. 

14 miles to Hawley, PA where I'll get on usual Hillside route. 

Island in Lackawaxen River, PA 

Along the Lackawaxen River on Rte. Y 

Bingham Park (same Bingham as in Binghamton?), Hawley, PA. 

Mountain near downtown Hawley (at bridge over the Lackawaxen) 

Zoomed view at bridge over the Lackawaxen River 

Historical marker shows origin of town's name 

Entering Hawley on the ride back. 

Just past (west of) Kean Lake campground, on Rte. Y east of Waymart, PA, 
looking south. 

Just past (west of) Kean Lake campground, on Rte. Y east of Waymart, PA,
looking west. 

Wind turbines on top of mountain pass between Waymart and Carbondale,
PA. 

Approaching top of mountain pass, turbines and a cell tower are close 
by. 

State jail near the top of the pass. 

Just above elevation 1940 feet ,
looking at summit. 

Any closer to that turbine and I'll get a haircut ;-) 

Checking out a different route again: Rte. 92 & 2073 between Lenox and South
Gibson, PA -- almost there! 

Union Hill, PA is even smaller than Gibson, just a (recently repaved) 
crossroads up the hill and a few minutes from Gibson. 

My weight on returning from Hillside (124.5 lb.) 

 At Hillside 

 (Elevation 1350 ft.)
(Km. 299.3) -->

 Photo Credits indicated by background color around
image: 

 white = NickZ 
 red = DCGrappler 
 green = BulldogMF 
 blue = WrestlG 
-->

-->

 Arrival at camp,
wrestling and campsite pics 

 Short video clip and animated GIF 
of a match 

 Movie 
 Animated GIF +
 Sound 

If you need the DivX codec for this video, you can 
 download it here or from 
 the DivX website . The GIF/MP3 excerpt
does not need any codec software. 

 The codec is not needed unless you can't view the video and get errors
such as "can't find appropriate decompressor". It combines good image
quality with small file size. 

 To install, as the FAQ notes, unzip to any folder. No need to double
click "Register_DivX.exe" in WinZip; just unzip the files to a directory
and then right click on the file "DivX.inf", then choose "Install". I
tested it on Win98, Me and XP and use it on my own computer. 

 Roger's Hillside 2004 Photo Gallery

Click to see the galleries: freestyle clinic, around the camp and more 

 Post-tournament pics on Saturday

 Some camp and clinic pictures from 
Friday and Saturday, contributed by BulldogMF 

The canopy kept wrestlers dry during the rain Friday morning. 

A chipmunk wants to join us for dinner. 

Drilling the gut wrench during the pre-tournament clinic on 
Saturday (1) 

Gut Wrench (2) 

(3) 

Pulling one's opponent up to prepare for the gut wrench 

Halfway through the gut wrench 

 More camp and wrestling pictures,
contributed by Rick 

Chuck vs. Juanito 

A little submission drilling on the freestyle mat 

David vs. Joe 

After a hard-fought freestyle match 

Chris, Rob & Bob, upper site 60 

Alan, Joe, Greg 

Joe, Ryan, Damon 

Joe, Vern, Alan 

Bob and Andy, founders of Hillside Wrestling Weekend, with this year's
T-shirts 

Mealtime under the new canopy (1) 

Mealtime (2) 

Joe, Tom and Ed 

Rick and James enjoying the food prepared by this year's new cooks,
Zel & Antonio 

Chatting with Coach Kevin 

2 on 1 (1) 

2 on 1 (2) - Pile Driver 

2 on 1 (3) - Scissoring David 

Scott from Metro NYC vs. El from the DC Wrestling Club 

 Hillside Freestyle Tournament, July 24, 2004 

Click to see the freestyle tournament pictures 

 Pro Wrestling at Hillside 2004 

Click to see the pro wrestling pictures 

 The Talent Show and Saturday evening 

 The freestyle tournament and pro show were coordinated
with the talent show so they didn't overlap and we could attend all three
events. Metro Wrestling 's
Kris and Troy performed, singing their piece towards the end of the show
to loud applause. 

Kris and Troy's act comes on (1) 

Kris and Troy's act comes on (2) 

 Sunday and the conclusion of the Wrestling Weekend 

16-second exposure showing clear, starry sky at site 60, without the optical
noise in last year's attempts to do this. 

The site 60 campfire, late Saturday night (i.e. Sunday morning) 

Joe tending to the campfire, 2:43 AM Sunday. 

Just a mosquito bite: no 
 ringworm 
or other skin irritations this year.

 -->

 Also check out the Outsports
article by Gene Dermody along with its gallery of pictures 
-->

Previous pages:
 Hillside 1996 | 1997: Digest & Pictures |
 1998 |
 1999 |
 2000 |
 2001 |
 2002 |
 2003 

 General Information
about the next Hillside Wrestling Weekend |
 Home Page / Other
Pictures 

Click here to send me comments on this web page . 

 This site has been viewed times
since May 3, 2001. 

 This page has been visited

 times since July 28, 2004. 

 nickz@eskimo.com 

Page created: July 27, 2004
Last modified: Aug. 10, 2004