Nick's Home Page (with links to Axios and other interesting sites) 

 Welcome to Nick's home page on eskimo.com 

 This website is compatible with Lynx, Netscape, or any other browser
you may choose to use. It defeats the purpose of the Web (communication)
to design web pages for only one browser, or to exclude those who use a
different browser. For more information, see
 Best Viewed With Any
Browser . 
 Non con&ccedil;u pour un fureteur particulier. Utilisez ce que vous
voulez . 

 Welcome to the Palaestra --
an open-source wrestling roster, links, event and chat site 

 Nick's Personal Home Page (with Pictures and
More) 

 Axios & other Eastern Orthodox Links 

 Bicycling Links: Resources, Trip Diaries,
Pictures. 

 Music Page (MIDI & NWC) 
 Click here for info on interface for
Cateye Pulse Monitor and similar units that does what Polar's overpriced
units do for orders of magnitude less expense . 

 Wrestling Links 
 Aspartame and other Sweeteners Page 
 Worldwide Weather Conditions and Forecasts 

 Zenith Z-Star 433VLp Laptop Technical Info & Utilities 

 Vintage DEC Computers 

 Nga Shqip&euml;ria: Albania Online! 

 M&euml; shum&euml; lajme shqiptare, nga 
GazetaExpress (More Albanian news from GazetaExpress) 

 Revista Kosovarja 

 Fight Internet Spam & Junk Mail! 

 My response to spam I received from David Chang ,
who claims he wants to "bring people together in laughter" while talking
of killing Blacks, Hispanics and Gays, of course using the pejorative
terms. His racist Yahoo ID also sums up his true view which is "i hate
black monkeys". I guess Yahoo's Terms Of Service people are asleep! -->

 Some Anti-Cult Links 

 The Multimedia Tick Page 
 . . . . 
 And more humor .

 Why IDT still 
stands for International Dismal Tech-Support: the ongoing saga of how
 not to run an ISP. IDT was my ISP until January 2001.

 IDT Home Page (the site this page was on from
1996 to 2001) 

 Eskimo North (my current Unix-friendly 
ISP)
 Apex Tutoring , Long Island, NY
 Always Your Choice Medical Office
 Ron D'Albero's Free Keyboard Lessons -->
 Islamic Jihads, A Byzantine Emperor and September 11, 1922 
 Error in Media Reporting on new 120th Precinct
Police Station in Stapleton, Staten Island 

 Infrared photography 
 Webanswers and its Referral Program 

 Background is of a ride in Greece from Athens to Megara in July 1991 on
the National Road (Ethniki Odos, Rte. 8); the temperature was 38 &deg;C 
(100 &deg;F). 

 Your comments are welcome: Click
here to send me mail! 

 This site has been viewed times
since May 3, 2001. 
 There have been
Can't open count data file for Reading: No such file or directory
Can't open count data file for Writing: No such file or directory
System doesn't support file locking: Bad file descriptor 
visits to this home page since Friday, December 7, 2001 00:06:00 EST. 

 nickz@eskimo.com 

Page created: 1996-1997 
Last modified: September 16, 2015