Suncoast Wrestling Weekend, St. Petersburg, Florida, March 2006 

This web page, including the hit counter, is designed to work with all web
browsers, both text and graphical. 

 Please Note: 
This is the information for the 2003 event; the 2004 event information is
not yet available. It is for information purposes only, until the actual
2004 event information is posted. 
-->

 Please
Note: The location of the 2006 event is St.
Petersburg, Florida. It will not be held at Sawmill. See
the Eagles
website for details and registration. 

 Eagles Wrestling Club 
 Wrestling Weekend 
 March 10-12, 2006 
Information & Registration Form 

 Eagles 
 Wrestling Club 
 Wrestling 
 Weekend and Tournament 

 February 15-17, 2002 
 March 14-16, 2003 
 March 12-14, 2004 
 March 11-13, 2005 -->
 March 10-12, 2006 
 Sawmill Campground 
 21710 U.S. Hwy. 98 
 Dade City, Florida 
 USA -->

 Florida&#8217;s Gay Camping Resort -->

-->

 Please check back for the latest information on this second-annual event. 
-->

For the latest information and registration, check out the Eagles'
 online
registration form . 

 Costs 

 The Fees for the weekend will be $120*. This fee
will cover two nights tent camping, all meals from dinner Friday through break
fast Sunday, campground membership, access to all wrestling mats, Saturday
clinics, and participation in the tournament, if desired. For those that
would prefer a cabin, the fee will be $135*. 

 *(Based on last year's amount; check website to confirm this year's.) 

 Accommodations The
campground features a large shaded area for group camping. The sites are
designated for tent camping, but are equipped with water and electric
hookups. The area is flat, smooth, and grass covered. The campground has
several amenities, including a pool area, sand volleyball, hiking trails,
a large pond, creek access with boat rentals available, a well-equipped
camp store (with sundries, etc.), two full-service bars, and a large rec
hall. --> 

 Meals 

 We will be providing buffet-style, sit-down meals. These
will be served in the center of our camping area. In addition, light
snacks will be available throughout the day. Water will be provided at all
wrestling sites. Beer will be available during nightly campfires. 

 Early/Late Arriving
Early/Staying Late?: Please contact Sawmill directly. They will place you
into our camping area, but fees, etc. must be arranged directly through them.
Please indicate if you will be arriving early on your registration, as we
must inform the campground not to charge a membership fee on your arrival. 

 For More Information, e-mail 
 Eaglewresl@aol.com or check out the 
 Tampa Eagles&#8217; web page 
(in case of difficulty on 
older browsers, click here ). 

 Click here to see who's coming .

 Schedule of Events 
 Friday, March 14: 

 3-6 pm 

 Open Mats, Also all recreation facilities open 

 7-9 pm 

 BBQ dinner 

 9-?? pm 

 Nightly activities (both organized and organized by you!) 

 Saturday, March 15: 

 8 am- ?? 

 Mats open, breakfast available 

 10 am-12 noon 

 Freestyle and Submission wrestling clinics Open Mats, Buffet
lunch, also pool/rec facilities available 

 2-5 pm 

 Freestyle tournament (double elimination) 

 6-8 pm 

 Dinner 

 8-?? 

 Freestyle, oil mat areas remain open. (Submission must be
closed for social events) Evening campground-sponsored social
events 

 Sunday, March 16 th : 

 8 am 

 Mats open, breakfast available 

 11 am 

 Clean up, packing, etc. 

 Transportation 

 The campground is conveniently located one hour north of the Tampa Bay
area, and is approximately 90 minutes from Orlando. Participants may elect to
fly into either airport. If taking the train directly to Dade City, click here to skip airport directions . 

 ROAD DIRECTIONS: From Interstate 75: If you are traveling on 1-75,
take Exit 61 and head east on Route 50 and 98 toward Orlando. Go 2.8 miles to
Route 98 South. Take Route 98 South and go 2.3 miles toward Dade City. Watch
for the Withlacoochee River sign. The Sawmill is located on the left just past
the bridge over the Withlacoochee River. (Be careful, easy to miss) 

 From Orlando: Take Route 50 West toward Brooksville. Watch for
Route 98 South sign. Take Route 98 South and go 2.3 miles toward Dade City.
Watch for the Withlacoochee River sign. The Sawmill is located on the left
just past the bridge over the Withlacoochee River. (Be careful, easy to
miss) 

 From Lakeland: Take Route 98 North past Dade City. The Sawmill
Campground is located 7 miles North of Dade City. When Route 98 separates
from Route 301 (a left turn) the Sawmill will be on the right side of the
road just before the bridge over the Withlacoochee River. (Be careful easy to
miss) 

 AIR: Tampa International Airport is located on the west side of the
city, and is conveniently located near the expressways participants will need
to travel on. Rental car facilities are located in the airport, directly
across from the baggage area. Orlando International is south of the city,
and is again convenient to highways. Of note, several of the major
expressways in Orlando are toll roads. As Florida is a major tourist 
destination, both of these airports are large, and served by all of the major
airlines. For pricing help, Tampa has a large number of U S Airways and
Southwest flights. Orlando is a regional hub for Delta. 

 RAIL: The Amtrak 
&#8220;Silver Palm&#8221; train serves Dade City; this is 7 miles from the
campground; follow the From Lakeland directions
above to get to the campground from the train station. This train also
serves Tampa as well as many other area cities; click the link for details
and reservations or call 1-800-USA-RAIL. 

 BE WARNED: February is high tourist season (beautiful weather,
etc.). Be sure to shop around for flights and book early. For those coming
on international flights, Orlando tends to have more direct flights, with the
exception of flights to or from Canada, which are more frequent at Tampa. 

 For those who need transportation from the airport, a van will be making
pickups on Friday at 3pm and 8pm. Please notify us if you will need this
service by designating so on your registration. Otherwise, you may not get
picked up. Return times will be arranged during the weekend, based on the
group&#8217;s needs. There will be an additional $20 charge for ground 
transportation if this service is needed. Please include this with your
registration fee. 

 About the Campground 

 SOCIAL: The campground is open year-round, and thus serves as a
second home to a large group of campers. Each weekend has a designated theme.
-->

 WRESTLING: There will be a large tent covered area for freestyle.
The submission wrestling will take place inside the rec hail. There is an
additional semi-private barn area for oil matches. All of these areas in
within a close walking distance to each other and the campsites. 

 TOILETS/SHOWERS: Are located close to our camping area. They are of
more than adequate size for the group. Shower facilities are group showers
(oh, darn!) 

 WHAT TO BRING: March in Florida is warm compared to the rest of
the country, but it can get cool, especially at night (a good reason for
having this year's event in March, not February as in 2002). We advise
some warm clothing. Of course, bring your tent and camping supplies. A
swimsuit is a must (pool is heated). Don&#8217;t forget your wrestling
gear! 

 MEDICAL: Standard first aid items will be available. In addition,
medical staff will be able to provide taping, etc. Please note, however, that
medical services and advice are provided under the guidelines of &#8220;good
Samaritan&#8221; treatment only, and cannot replace regular medical care. Each
wrestler will complete an agreement to hold harmless on registration to the
campground. 

 Information is from, and event is run by The Tampa
Eagles . Converted to web page, reformatted and edited by NickZ . 

-->

 For pictures
from my Florida &#8217;83 trip, click here . 
 Click here for pictures from Sawmill 2002 .

 This Sawmill Wrestling Weekend web page has been viewed

times since December 5, 2001 19:56:00 EST.

Page created: December 5, 2001 
Last modified: December 23, 2005