Albania & Albanian Page: Na flasim shqipe ktu! 

 Crisis: March-April 1999 -- Kriza: Mars-Prill 1999 

 Ndihmoni Kosovaret e
Vendosur n Shqipri! 

 Help Stop the Genocide! -- Ndihmoni pr t Ndalur Gjenocidin! 

 The Kosova conflict has turned into a total humanitarian disaster.
With the Yugoslav army trying to destroy the majority Albanian community
in Kosovo, NATO commenced air strikes against Yugoslavia. In retaliation,
Yugoslav President Slobodan Miloshevich has ordered a total genocide of
the Albanians in Kosova. Those who have been able to escape are straining
the humanitarian resources of neighboring countries. These hundreds of
thousands of refugees have had all their vital records destroyed by the
Yugoslav/Serbian government as if they never existed, and are streaming
into Albania, F.Y.R.O. Macedonia and other countries, penniless and
countryless. In the meantime the air strikes continue, but they do not
appear very effective, and have hit civilian as well as military targets,
and have caused the former Serbian opposition to Milosevich to dry up.

 Appeal for humanitarian assistance to Kosovar refugees in Albania 

 Contact the heads of state of the affected countries or examine
national web pages: 

 Albanian President Rexhep
Meidani's Home Page 
 Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) 
 Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) Government 
 Any other national home
pages and e-mails: Address Directory - Politicians Of The World 

 Lajme dhe Informat&euml; -- News and Information 
 Lidhjet p&euml;r
lajme kosovare dhe shqiptare -- Kosovar and Albanian news links
(Kosovapress) 
 A.T.A. -
Latest News in English |
 A.T.SH. - Lajmi i
Fundit n&euml; shqip 
 Lajme
ditore nga Kosovapress -- Daily news from Kosovapress 
 Deutsche Welle radio n&euml; 
shqip -- Deutsche Welle Albanian-language radio 
 Gjendja dhe Parashikime Atmosferike --
Weather Conditions and Forecasts 

 March 1998: War in Kosova -- Mars 1998: Lufta n Kosov 

 Koha Ditore (News & Pictures from Kosov) 
 Government of Kosova in Exile -- Qeveria e Mrguar s Republiks s Kosovs 
 Qendra pr Informim e Kosovs (Kosova
Information Center) 

 Other Information -- Informat e ndryshme 
 UNDP Tirana Freenet www.tirana.al 

Antoni mbi veten, gjuhn dhe letrsin 
 Albanian
Language -- Gjuha Shqipe 
 ATA: lajme t prditshme nga Shqipria (ky URL s'sht i mir tani) 
 Sekti/Cult of "Scientology" Infiltration in
Albania - May be linked to pyramid scams of 1997 

 Nineteenth-Century Gay Love Songs by
Nein (Nechin) of Prmet (In Albanian & English) -- Knga e Dashuris
Burrash nga 19. Shekullit 

 Sokratis (Socrates), an
Orthodox Christian from Elbasan in central Albania, August 1991. 

He told me about the practice of vllamria ,
also known as adelphopoeia, pobratimstvo and bratotvorenie (English
translation here ), a same-sex ceremony of
union common in parts of Albania and northwest Greece, which survived
both the anti-religious and anti-gay actions of the former communist
regime in Albania and continued to be performed in 1991 in Elbasan. He
lived with other Albanian emigres in Megara for awhile until the police
raided the house and he disappeared (this kind of harassment and
discrimination against Albanians was and is unfortunately quite common
in Greece). If anyone has any information regarding his current
whereabouts, it would be much appreciated. His wife remained in
Elbasan, Albania (Disclaimer: The mentioning of the information he
provided about ceremonies in Elbasan should not be construed as an
indication of his sexual orientation. Heterosexuality does not prevent
one from speaking about homosexual-related topics without prejudice, as
I have often found in speaking to Albanians from various parts of
Albania and Kosova). 

Usenet Newsgroups:
 soc.culture.albanian 
 bit.listserv.albanian 

Komente? Comments? Klikni ktu!
Click here! 
 This site has been viewed / Kjo faqe ka vizituar times
since May 3, 2001 / her&euml; nga 3 Maj 2001, edhe ka vizituar

her nga 7 Dhjetori/December 2001 01:52:58 EST. 
 nickz@eskimo.com Revizioni i fundit: 16 Prill 1999