Gifted and Talented (TAG) Resources Home Page 

 Welcome to the Gifted Resources Home Page 

 ( 
http://www.eskimo.com/~user/kids.html ) Version 1.91
 --
 What's New 23-May-2000
(build 53)

This Gifted Resources Page contains links to all known
online gifted resources, enrichment programs, talent searches, summer
programs, gifted mailing lists and early acceptance programs, including
CTY, EPGY, CTD, NRC/GT, TIP, RMTS, ERIC, NCSSSMST, Odyssey of the Mind,
and many, many others. It contains links to 4+ years of TAG-L mailing
list archives (over 10 MB). It also contains contact information for
many local gifted associations and government (mostly US state) programs.
As more resources become available, they will be added.

This page is intended to be a convenient starting point for
gifted students, their parents and educators to
access Gifted Resources, whether on the internet or otherwise.

This is a free information resource. You may view our 
 Privacy Policy .

 Sponsors 

After many years of supporting the Gifted Resources Site by paying
all of it's expenses out of pocket, we have recently entered into
several affiliate programs which may defray part of the costs of keeping
this site up. Please visit our sponsors 
to help support our site.

 Where to Start 

If you are new to the field of gifted education, here is a
 short summary of giftedness and beginners guide
to using this site.
If you have visited this site before, you might
like to look at the What's New section
to see what has changed since you last looked.

 ERIC Clearinghouse 
Since ERIC is such a comprehensive resource, I have highlighted a
few resources of particular interest for gifted education. The
 ERIC Gifted Highlights 
list points to ERIC resources which are
available from the main services and to selected bibliographies which
have been derived from the ERIC sources (with permission).

ERIC is probably the most comprehensive clearinghouse of education
related material.
It includes a number of
public domain digests of information related to gifted and talented children.
ERIC also provides a bibliography of relevant
publications and other useful information.
ERIC is available from
 the ERIC
Web Page, or from
 an alternate WWW page. 

ERIC will also respond to email queries. Send your
question to askeric@ericir.syr.edu

 Talent Searches and Summer Programs 
There are regional talent searches in the US, conducted by Stanford,
Northwestern, Duke and other Universities.
Candidates identified by the search are
then invited to participate in summer enrichment and other programs.
Some additional summer programs which are not part of the regional
talent searches are also listed.

 Other Summer Programs 
CEC no longer offers the diskette database of summer programs.

 Mentoring Program 
HP operates a mentoring program which usually includes entire classrooms,
but has been used for selected gifted children in a classroom or in a 
homeschool situation. General information about the 
 HP Telementoring program is
available on their web site. Specific information about using
the program for gifted children or homeschoolers is available
by email from Ann Foster 
or by fax: 888-453-0635
or by voicemail: 888-453-0635

 Distance Learning Programs 
Enrichment opportunities which can be accessed remotely.
These specifically targeted programs from Stanford, Duke, Northwestern
and Johns Hopkins, as well as searchable lists of thousands other programs. 
 Early Entrance Programs and Scholarship Programs 
Some colleges and universities offer early acceptance programs for
unusually qualified students.
Some offer special scholarships or academic programs for gifted students.

 Publications for Gifted and Talented 
A listing of periodicals devoted to the gifted and education of the gifted.

 Organizations and Societies 
Contact information for organizations serving the gifted. 
 Legal Info 
A review of legal requirements for gifted education in individual countries
(and states). Very little info is available, yet.
This area needs significant work.

 Catalogs and Vendors 
A listing of mail order catalogs and product vendors of special interest to
gifted and talented students.

 Publications and Other Activities
using the work of the Gifted and Talented 
A small collection of organizations, publications and activities
for the gifted to display their works.

 Mailing Lists 
A collection of education mailing lists and info for gifted
and talented children. There is also one
 online chat service. 

 Schools and Home Schools 
A very incomplete list of schools with programs for
gifted and talented children.
Also includes some information about Home Schooling.

 FAQ Files 
Some collections of Frequently Asked Questions and their answers, as compiled
by various net sources.

 Other Resources for Education 
A large collection of other educational sources and services.
Many of the collections referenced are themselves large collections
of additional sources.

 Other Enrichment Sources 
Some sources for educational enrichment opportunities. 
 General Curriculum Information 
General information about curriculum available on line. 
 Pen Pals 
Two pen pal exchanges specifically for gifted children and several
of general interest.

 Learning Disabilities 
Some resources for those who are both gifted and learning disabled.

 Books and Bibliographies 
Some bibliographies of gifted resources
in printed form. Also, an online bookstore for ordering some
selected Gifted books immediately.

 Upcoming Events 
Upcoming events of interest may be found here.

 We will be adding some current calendar information. Please check back.

 Research Program 
Dr Peter Street is conducting a research study: 
I am a school principal in NSW, Australia, and have 
recently completed my Ph.D. in gifted education, examining 
the factors that contribute to academic success of gifted 
middle school students. This information may be of help to 
parents of gifted students who feel their children arre not 
achieving at the anticipated levels, or to scholars 
undertaking similar qualitative research. I am also seeking 
students and parents willing to participate in a 
qualitative survey of academic self-concept of gifted 
students. Any parents wishing to be involved in this 
research (leading to a Ed.D. degree) can contact my email 
and I will return their enquiry within 48 hours. I need 
about 200 participants from the US to ensure the validity 
of this study.

For more information, please contact
 Dr Peter Street streetp.@lisp.com.au 

 Search Engines 
If you cannot find what you are looking for here, then
most search engines can be used to locate other educational resources. 

 Guestbook and Usage Stats 
Thank you for your continuing support of the Gifted Resources Pages.

Here are the usage statistics for the Gifted Resources Pages and
an opportunity to volunteer to help. 

 Call for Collaboration 
Volunteers are sought for further work developing these pages, collecting
new material to add and verifying the information contained here. If you
would be interested in contributing assistance to further improve this
web resource, please send email to:
 user@eskimo.com 

 Eskimo North 
 This web page is served courtesy of
Eskimo North.
 This is the main Eskimo
home page.

 Page Mirrors and Link Problems 
If you find an out of date version of this page, or notice that
links do not work, please reload from the home URL:

http://www.eskimo.com/~user/kids.html 

These pages are displayed using a pastel background color. Each time
the site is updated, all pages have the same background color. If you
see different background colors as you navigate around the site, this is
a visual cue that you may be being served an out-of-date page from a 
cache somewhere. You can bypass the cache and request the current
up-to-date page by selecting "Refresh" or "Reload" on your browser.

Also, should you notice any problems or know of
any applicable resources which are not included here,
please send email. This site continues
to improve, thanks to reader feedback.

If your browser supports mailto, you can click
here to send me a comment. Send mail to
user@eskimo.com 
Otherwise, please send your comments by email to user@eskimo.com 

Much of this page is devoted to links
to other resources available on the internet.
Some of these resources have limited hours of operation and some of them
will be unavailable from time to time. If you have problems accessing something
referenced here, and believe that the reference is out of date or incorrect,
please send email to user@eskimo.com, and I will attempt to make corrections.

This page updated by automatic build: 23-May-2000
(build 53)
 -- 

Gifted Resources Home Page 

 2000 
Bruce User. All Rights Reserved.
Information in this document is subject to change without notice. 

Have you tried 

 Shopping 

at Valet?

Or you can search the web:

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page