Gifted Resources Brief Summary Page 

 A Short Summary of Giftedness 

This is intended to be a gentle guide to what is giftedness and how 
to use this Gifted Resources WWW Site. 
The intent of this site is to provide a convenient starting point for
accessing information and resources for gifted students, their parents
and teachers.
When in doubt 
seek qualified professional assistance. Some of the general
information about giftedness at the end of this page has been
taken from public domain ERIC digests.

 This Site 
This site contains links to all known on-line resources targeted to gifted
children as well as links to some on-line resources which may be of particular
educational interest to gifted children. This site also includes
contact information for non-computer resources which are targeted to
gifted children. Updates are made approximately weekly
as new resources are brought to the attention of the maintainer.
If you have comments or additions please 
 send email to
 user@eskimo.com 
 Using this Site 
If you are new to the topics of gifted education, you might browse the
 ERIC digests or the 
 bibliographies for background information. There
are many good books available with information for and about gifted children.
There are many dimensions to providing assistance to gifted children, including
emotional support as well as intellectual opportunities.

If you are interested in specific learning opportunities for gifted
children you might look at the information about
 talent searches, which also includes summer
learning programs. You might also see the information about 
 distance learning, which includes programs
targeted to gifted students, as well as links to some large collections
of general distance learning opportunities.

If you have current questions or are looking for support from others
in similar circumstances you might look at the
 mailing lists, which several email
forums for asking questions and discussing issues.
Another good place to find support is from
 local support organizations .

If you are looking for information outside of the USA, you might look
under 
 organizations where some contact information
is available for some countries. (Special appeal to non-USA users,
please 
 send local contact information 
to user@eskimo.com 

 What is Giftedness 

 Using a broad definition of giftedness, a school system could expect 
to identify 10% to 15% or more of its student population as gifted and 
talented. A brief description of each area of giftedness or talent as defined 
by the Office of Gifted and Talented will help you understand this 
definition.

General intellectual ability or talent. Laypersons and educators alike 
usually this in terms of a high intelligence test score--usually two 
standard deviations above the mean--on individual or group measures. 
Parents and teachers often recognize students with general intellectual 
talent by their wide-ranging fund of general information and high levels of 
vocabulary, memory, abstract word knowledge, and abstract reasoning.

Other sources generally cite IQ scores and their labels something like:

85-99 Lower normal 
100-114 Upper normal 
115-129 Bright 
130-144 Gifted 
145-159 Highly gifted 
160-above Profoundly gifted 

Specific academic aptitude or talent. Students with specific academic 
aptitudes are identified by their outstanding performance on an 
achievement or aptitude test in one area such as mathematics or language 
arts. The organizers of talent searches sponsored by a number of 
universities and colleges identify students with specific academic aptitude 
who score at the 97th percentile or higher on standard achievement tests 
and then give these students the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT). 
Remarkably large numbers of students score at these high levels.

Creative and productive thinking. This is the ability to produce new 
ideas by bringing together elements usually thought of as independent or 
dissimilar and the aptitude for developing new meanings that have social 
value. Characteristics of creative and productive students openness 
to experience, setting personal standards for evaluation, ability to play 
with ideas, willingness to take risks, preference for complexity, tolerance 
for ambiguity, positive self-image, and the ability to become submerged in 
a task. Creative and productive students are identified through the use of 
tests such as the Torrance Test of Creative Thinking or through 
demonstrated creative performance.

Leadership ability. Leadership can be defined as the ability to direct 
individuals or groups to a common decision or action. Students who 
demonstrate giftedness in leadership ability use group skills and negotiate 
in difficult situations. Many teachers recognize leadership through a 
student's keen interest and skill in problem solving. Leadership 
characteristics self-confidence, responsibility, cooperation, a 
tendency to dominate, and the ability to adapt readily to new situations. 
These students can be identified through instruments such as the 
Fundamental Interpersonal Relations Orientation Behavior (FIRO-B).

Visual and performing arts. Gifted students with talent in the arts 
demonstrate special talents in visual art, music, dance, drama, or other 
related studies. These students can be identified by using task 
descriptions such as the Creative Products Scales, which were developed 
for the Detroit Public Schools by Patrick Byrons and Beverly Ness Parke of 
Wayne State University.

Psychomotor ability. This involves kinesthetic motor abilities such as 
practical, spatial, mechanical, and physical skills. It is seldom used as a 
criterion in gifted programs.

The 
 complete 
text of an appropriate ERIC Digest is available.

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page 

If your browser supports mailto, you can click
here to send me a comment. Send mail to
user@eskimo.com 

Otherwise, please send your comments by email to:
 user@eskimo.com 

This page updated by automatic build: 23-May-2000
(build 53)
 -- 

Gifted Resources Home Page 

 2000 
Bruce User. All Rights Reserved.
Information in this document is subject to change without notice. 

Have you tried 

 Shopping 

at Valet?

Or you can search the web:

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page