Gifted Resources Curriculum Lists Page 

 Gifted Resources Curriculum 

 CSMP - Comprehensive School Mathematics Program. 
A program that introduces advanced topics through
stories and models. Some of the 5th grade topics covered exponential
patterns, geometric translations, probability games, Gaussian counting
method, combinations, and algebraic functions. These are introduced in ways
that are meaningful for younger students; they don't know they're doing
algebra and transformational geometry. To get more information, contact:

McRel Institute 
2550 S. Parker Rd. 
Suite 500 
Aurora, CO 80014 
email: cheidema@mcrel.org 

 Swarthmore sponsors a large collection of lesson plans.
 The
Invention and Design Project of the University of Virginia -
funded by National Science Foundation, the Fund for the Improvement of Post-Secondary
Education, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the Geraldine R. Dodge
Foundation.

 Mendicino CA has online curriculum served courtesy of 

NASA's Quest Gopher server 

 Science Programs That Work 
as collected by Project Kaleidoscope (often too busy to accept new connections).
Look in /files/pkal/PTW.

 Center for Gifted Education at the College of
William and Mary has curriculum information 
 by gopher. 
Also, through the 
 Center for Gifted Education gopher. 

Information is available by phone at: 804-221-2588, or by
postal mail to:

 Center for Gifted Education
 College of William and Mary
 232 Jamestown Road
 Williamsburg, VA 23185

 California Math Curriculum is available by mail from:

 Mathematics Framework for California Public Schools
 California State Dept. of Education
 PO Box 271, Sacramento, CA 95802-0271

 Calvert School carries curriculum from pre-school through grade 8.
They can be reached by phone at 410-243-6030 or by postal mail to:

 The Calvert School
 105 Tuscany Road
 Baltimore, MD 21210-3098

 The Carter
 G. Woodson Elementary School in Baltimore has just started using 
the Calvert Curriculum in a partnership with Calvert.
 U Kansas Explorer
 Math/Science Project 
A collection of Math and Science curriculum information. 

 ERIC , its AskERIC Virtual Library , and database of lesson plans 
 New York State Education Department 
 (NYSED) gopher server of Internet resources
 Vose Elementary Scho
ol list of Internet resources -- very well organized
 Kid's Web -- A WWW
digital library for kids, very well presented -- from Syracuse University
 Illinois Learning Mosa
ic by NCSA, especially the resources page 

 Brentwood Elementary , Austin, Texas
 Scholastic Internet Center , with lesson plans and assorted classroom materials
 Minnesota Educational Media Organization (gopher)
 U Mass K12 gopher by kids and completed multimedia projects by kids.
 Plugged In , a non-profit 
group which brings computer-based educational
programs to children from low-income communities -- curriculum materials, online
projects by kids and completed multimedia projects by kids.
 MAYAQUEST -- a project 
to work cooperatively, with archeologist mentors, studying the collapse of the Maya civilization.
 The Jason Project 
 -- electronic field trips for student participation
 CoVis -- Learning Through 
Collaborative Visualization
 On-line projects 
from the Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction, State of 
Washington gopher
 Pathways to 
School Improvement sponsored by North Central Regional Educational
Labratory has some links to useful materials and a great deal of
background material about school improvements.
 Circumpolar 
Expedition gopher from TIES
 The University of Michigan Dewey School's Journey 
North : an experiment in building a web
environment that students can expand. Based on the World School's
Journey North activity, the primary feature of the experiment is a
series of maps which can be altered by students, as they enter in
observations of wildlife migration.
 KIDLINK gopher
 Intercultural E-Mail Classroom Connections, or IECC : home of the email collaboration 
lists, with archives of projects.
 Home Schooling Info 

 Computer Curriculum Corporation 
 service is currently free, but the 
curriculum component will eventually be subscription-based.

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page 

If your browser supports mailto, you can click
here to send me a comment. Send mail to
user@eskimo.com 

Otherwise, please send your comments by email to:
 user@eskimo.com 

This page updated by automatic build: 23-May-2000
(build 53)
 -- 

Gifted Resources Home Page 

 2000 
Bruce User. All Rights Reserved.
Information in this document is subject to change without notice. 

Have you tried 

 Shopping 

at Valet?

Or you can search the web:

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page