Gifted Resources Distance Learning Page 

 Gifted Resources Distance Learning 
 Special Resources for Gifted and Talented Education 
There are distance learning opportunities particularly
targeted to Gifted learners:

 EPGY at Stanford offers remote courses for Gifted Students.
The Educational Program for Gifted Youth can be reached by phone at
800-372-3749 or 415-723-0512, or by 
 FTP server, 
or by 
 Gopher server, 
or by 
 WWW Web Page, 
or by postal mail to:

 Stanford EPGY
 Ventura Hall
 Stanford CA 94305-4115

Here is an EPGY Information
Brochure 

 EPGY at Stanford offers Course Sequence in
Structured Individualized Learning (CSSIL). CSSIL is designed to meet the
needs of students who are not sufficiently challenged by their classroom
mathematics courses or who want the opportunity to do additional work in
mathematics in an individualized, though structured, way, but who do not meet
the stringent admission requirements of EPGY.
Information is available by phone at: 415-329-9925, or by 
email to: ravaglia@csli.stanford.edu, or by
 FTP server. 

 Duke's Learn on Your Own offers academically talented students an
opportunity to take accelerated courses in their hometowns
throughout the year. Info available by phone at 919-684-3847
or by postal mail to:

 Duke TIP
 Learn on Your Own
 PO Box 90747
 Durham, NC 27708-0747

 Johns Hopkins Center for Talented Youth offers 
Expository Writing Tutorial-by-mail.
 The Writing Tutorials 
are accessable by WWW.
Information is also available by phone at 410-516-0337.
They also offer 
 many other programs including
talent searches, summer programs and other distance learning programs.

 Distance Learning Project partnership EPGY and CTY
 East Coast USA phone: 410-516-0241
 West Coast USA phone: 818-500-9034

Northwestern University
 Center for Talent Development 
offers research info and programs, including
Letter Links Learning, correspondence courses for academically 
talented students grade 6 to 12.
 Letter Links Program information 
is available by WWW, as is their 
 Centerpoint magazine .
Information is available by phone at: 708-491-3782 or by postal mail to:

 Northwestern University
 Center for Talent Development
 Northwestern University
 2003 Sheridan Road
 Evanston, IL 60208

 The Home Education Network 
On-line courses from UCLA Extension for business, writing, test
prepartion. 
The Home Education Network (THEN) offers distance learning on-line
education through Internet courses in business management,
organizational behavior, risk management, accounting, screenwriting,
fiction writing, test preparation and teacher certification. THEN
on-line courseware is offered in conjunction with the UCLA Extension
University. At-home study courses can be completed on-line or through
employers and an affiliated Intranet training and distance education
network.

 Virginia
Satellite Education Network offers language and AP classes.
Currently enrolling students from 20 states and expanding their services.
Contact Greg Weisiger at 804-692-0335.

 Center for Academic Precocity at Arizona State University
offers summer and school year programs and talent identification.

Information is available on
WWW. 

Center For Independent Study at the University of Missouri-Columbia 
offers challenging
courses for high performing students.
Information is available by phone at: 800-877-0536.

 The international science olympiads (initiated by UNESCO) are especially
targeted at talented children (senior pupils at secondary schools).
There is a permanent secretariat for the 
 International Olympiad in Informatics(IOI) 
 International Olympiads 
are available for Biology, Chemistry, Informatics (Computer Science), 
Mathematics and Physics.

 Other Resources 
There are other distance learning opportunities of interest:

 Class.com is a fully
accredited high school offering internet based remote study.
 National Distance Learning Database (formerly
hosted by University of Kentucky at telnet://ndlc.occ.uky.edu) is
a national listing of distance learning programs with a
searchable catalog of over 14,000 programs.
Now avaiable by WWW access 
 Distance Education Clearinghouse from University of Wisconsin.
This is available as a 
 web page or as a
 gopher server. 
 UK Distance Learning Database 
as hosted by International Centre for Distance Learning, Open University,
United Kingdom.
Use "ICDL" as username to start a search.
 SERC - a
provider of high school, middle school, and staff development courses. It
is a consortium of 24 state departments of education, that provide the
curriculum expertise, and public television stations, that provide the
production expertise. 
 The Digital Education Network 
is a Canadian-based project offering
online courses for students in grades 7 through 12.
 New Brunswick Canada tele-education
site describes distance education available. Also an interesting web site.
 Los Angeles County Office of Education
TEAMSnet. 
TEAMSnet is an instructional service of Los Angeles County Office of
Education's TEAMS Distance Learning Project. This is a federally funded 
Stars
Schools project and offers live, interactive distance learning programs via
satellite, cable, ITFS, or PBS television in math, science, history, social
sciences, English, and language arts. 
 University of Washington distance learning. Contact by phone
at 206-543-2350 or 800-543-2320 or email to instudy@u.washington.edu
 List of Distance
Education Links from Indiana University, School of Education.

GNA - Globewide Network Academy. 
 CASO Internet University listing
of 700+ courses available online.
 California
Distance Learning Project (CDLP) a cooperative effort with the 
San Francisco Bureau of CNN.
 Mind Extension University - cable and video classes (phone: 1-800-777-6463)
 Grade 12 Marketing, Data Processing and other classes.
 Available through
Langley school web site in British Columbia, Canada. 
 National Consortium for Secondary Schools Specializing in 
Mathematics, Science and Technology

 NCSSSMST
 1429 Senate Street
 802 Rutledge Building
 Columbia, SC 29201
 Phone: 803-734-8385

 City University - (Bellevue, WA) 
provides on-line courses.

 Nebraska Independent Study High School

Independent Study High School
Nebraska Center for Continuing Education
33rd & Holdrege Streets
Lincoln, NE 68583-0900
Phone: 402-472-2175

 Eugene 
Public School District 
in Eugene, Oregon USA is offering high
school level credit classes over the Internet for students with email and
World Wide Web access.These CyberSchool classes are open to students
worldwide with no tuition or fee. However, space is severely limited.
Contact Tom Layton at layton@4J.lane.edu for more information.

 Cyber High School 
is a private high school providing complete instruction over the Internet.

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page 

If your browser supports mailto, you can click
here to send me a comment. Send mail to
user@eskimo.com 

Otherwise, please send your comments by email to:
 user@eskimo.com 

This page updated by automatic build: 23-May-2000
(build 53)
 -- 

Gifted Resources Home Page 

 2000 
Bruce User. All Rights Reserved.
Information in this document is subject to change without notice. 

Have you tried 

 Shopping 

at Valet?

Or you can search the web:

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page