Gifted Resources Education Connection Page 

 Resources for Education 
There are a great many internet resources available for education. The
collection presented here is not complete.
is a 
 Gifted Resources for Education 

 Linda Silverman's Gifted
Development Center has online gifted info.
 GT World is an online support
community for parents of Gifted and Talented children. Others
interested in supporting and nurturing gifted and talented children
are also most welcome. 
GT World offers electronic facilities comprised of a
 website, the GT-Families mailing list,
and the GTworld MOO.
 A variety of gifted/talented education resources can be found on
 Miles Abernathy's home page 
 Assiniboine South School Division in Canada has a Gifted Info service
called the 

RightTrack. This is quite extensive.
 NY 
Gifted and Talented 

Missouri's Gifted Programs 
 Center for Excellence in Education 

Another Gifted Resources WWW Page. This is from Millville Elementary
School, Millville, Utah.
 Gifted and Talented Enrichment Center 
in New York state. Has a program called Interactive Classroom and
other gifted materials.
 Hebrew University in Jerusalem's
gifted resources site (in Hebrew).
 Special Needs
Education Network from SchoolNet in Ottawa, Canada. Has some gifted
resources and a great deal for other special needs.
 Florida State
University and Florida Dept Education joint project on
Varying Exceptionalities in Florida's schools.

Kidsource has some resources on gifted and talented
children, including:

 Calendar of activities and information and resources for parents
of gifted children 
 41 Articles on Gifted students, Learning Disabilities with giftedness
and more
 Websites (many with reviews)
 Reviews of books about and for gifted students

 Douglas Eby's resource list
and articles about giftedness in women.

 Other Resources for Education 

 US Dept Education WWW is quite extensive.
 US Dept Education gopher 
 Wentworth Education Collection 
 Cisco Online Education Collection 
 TENET K-12 's 
very large collection of schools, school districts, universities and
educational sites.
 Education List-of-Lists 
 K-12 Education Web66 
 old Pitsco Education
Resources 
 New Pitsco Education
Resources server... expected online Jan 1996
 Web sites for teachers 
including many non-USA sites.
 Library of Congress National
Digital Library program , a K-12 outreach program.
 Teachers.Net is a web
presence devoted to providing teacher resources. It also
includes a gifted special
interest discussion group. 
 South Central Regional Technology in
Education Consortium is a US Dept of Education funded group 
serving 6 million students and 400,000 teachers in Kansas,
Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma and Texas. Can also be 
reached by phone at 888-832-2001.
 K-3 Yellow Brick Road Project 
 Common Knowledge Project (Pittsburg Public Schools) 
 Global SchoolNet Foundation (GSN) 
helped construct the
concept of the "Global Schoolhouse" where teachers,
students, business, government, and the community can learn
side-by-side.
 Global Schoolhouse 
 is defined as a global, mult-dimensional community,
comprised of students, teachers, parents and professionals collaborating
across time and space to transform the learning environment. The mission
of the Global Schoolhouse is to support the self-directed learner both in
and outside of the school environment. On November 28, 1995, GSN 
announced a partnership with Microsoft to make the Global Schoolhouse the
premier site for teacher and classroom resources and activities.
 Class IV Publications
extensive list of education related links. 
 K-12 Ties 
 Canadian SchoolNet offers
all kinds of educational services. Lots of Canadian content.
 Canadian SchoolNet gopher 
 TECFA (Switzerland) Educational Technology Page 
 New Zealand Centre for Adult Education 
 Corp for Public Broadcasting EdWeb 
 List of American Universities 
 CSU Education Collection Project 
 Pathways to 
School Improvement sponsored by North Central Regional Educational
Labratory has some links to useful materials and a great deal of
background material about school improvements.
 National Center to Improve Practice (NCIP) ,
funded by the U.S. Department of Education, Office of Special Education 
Programs, seeks to promote the effective use of technology to enhance 
educational outcomes for students with sensory, cognitive, physical, and
social/emotional disabilities.
Can also be contacted at: 

 NCIP
 55 Chapel Street
 Newton, MA 02158-1060
 Phone: 617-969-7100 ext.2387
 TTY: 617-969-4529
 FAX: 617-969-3440
 email: ncip@edc.org

University of Virginia School of Education has resources for teachers 
 U Kansas Explorer Math/Science Project 
 California Dept Ed gopher 
 Minnesota Dept Ed gopher 
 Florida Tech Education gopher 
 UIUC Education gopher 
 Oregon State University K12 server 
 ASU Education gopher 
 K-12 Education gopher 
 Odyssey of the Mind 
 Odyssey of the Mind (alternate address) 
 Instructional Development gopher 
 International Tutor Project 
 CapAccess (use login: guest, password: visitor)
-- at prompt type: go gifted 
 Deaf Education gopher 
 Montessori Public School Consortium 

 Montessori Public School Consortium
 11424 Bellflower Rd. NE
 Cleveland OH 44106
 Phone: 216-421-1905

 Montessori information 
 A Montessori home page 
hosted by Seattle University school of Education.
 Another Montessori
collection from a Montessori consulting company.
 An actual Montessori School with a web page.
 Children's Book Reviews 
 Children's Literature Info 
 Parents-Helping-Parents a searchable library for special needs.
Can be reached by phone at: 408-727-5775 
 Read-to-Me program for very young children. 
 The On-line Books Page 
 Inkspot -
resources for young writers.
Also has an Alternate Address. 
 Eisenhower National Clearinghouse (ENC) -
lots of Math and Science classroom resources.
 Science and Mathematics Education Resources 
 Mad
Scientist Network a colletion of scientists who will answer science
questions over the net. You can also
 volunteer
to become a scientist who answers questions.
 Miami Museum of Science in Miami
Florida.
 Miami's Science Learning Network Hotlist in cooperation with the Miami Museum of Science
Florida.
 The MIT Home Page 
 Family World Resources 
 K12 Educational Resources 
 Education (Stanford) 
 EDUCOM WWW server 
 ThinkQuest is a collection of
references to interesting educational sites.
 Ideas and Education 
 Appetizer for Math and Reason - a collection of intriguing subjects of possible interest to
gifted students.
 Some interesting mathematical references 
 DA-CLOD: Education 
 Virtual Frog Dissection Kit 
 Foreign Languages for Travellers 
 MSTE at UIUC 

 Global Tutor Project a for fee
tutoring network sponsored by the International Tutoring
Foundation. Contact: Ann Parsons or
the tutor-l mailing list from
St Johns University. 

 Teaching K-8 Magazine has
lots of resources and links about teaching this age group.
 Mighty Media a 
free online service offering a chat connection for teachers and
a Youth in Action network for youth to work cooperatively on social
issues.
 NASA home 
 Ames Research Center K12 page 
 HPCC K-12 
 SL9 Comet 
 TERC Science and Math Education 

Elementary Science This Month an on-line magazine of science
for elementary school.
 U Laval general
education information (in French)
 Saturday Academy is
a non-profit organization that provides hands-on
educational experiences to kids all over the state of Oregon.
 NSBA 
Electronic School magazine 
 Project LEGAL is
a nationally validated (USDE) law-related 
education program that provides teacher training for 
elementary and secondary American history teachers on landmark 
Supreme Court cases through open-ended visuals and hypercard 
software applications. 
 SAT Preparation Material 
 List of
K12 sites 
 ZIA Kids curriculum listing 
 Franklin
Science Institute Museum's Educational Links 
 WSFP - South Florida
Public Television's using internet in education site.
 Internet Resources Library a direcory
of education software, maintained by California State University, Fullerton.
 Alternate address
for Internet Resources Library 
 Pacific Bell's
Education First website, called Blue Web (reguires a table capable
browser)
 CPSR - Computer 
Professionals for Social Responsibility - Palo Alto chapter 
has a collection of education related links.
 A
fairly long of College and University pages.
 Pepsite - a large
collection of Educational Software.
 SMILE - Science and
Math Investigative Learning Experiences, an enrichment for
disadvantaged and minority students in rural Oregon. Has some web accessable
information.
 French Langauge resources
and links to ESL sites 
 Manitoba Library Association
review of education materials - is an on line review of books, videos and
education related materials. Has a significant Canadian orientation.
 Introducing Internet
resource into Science Classrooms a project to show the 
possibilities of using internet resources to better teach science.
 Daily Report Card 
 - a summary of k12 info, generally online. Updated about 3 times a week.
 School's
Internet a very thorough UK education site.
 A big collection 
of bookmarks from Craig Nansen.

 Another Big List of Resources for Education 

 Search Engines 
If you cannot find what you are looking for here, then
most search engines can be used to locate other educational resources. 

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page 

If your browser supports mailto, you can click
here to send me a comment. Send mail to
user@eskimo.com 

Otherwise, please send your comments by email to:
 user@eskimo.com 

This page updated by automatic build: 23-May-2000
(build 53)
 -- 

Gifted Resources Home Page 

 2000 
Bruce User. All Rights Reserved.
Information in this document is subject to change without notice. 

Have you tried 

 Shopping 

at Valet?

Or you can search the web:

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page