Gifted Resources Learning Disabilities Page 

 Learning Disabilities 

 Online Resources 

 Linda Silverman's 
Gifted Development Center has information about many
gifted issues, including Learning Disabilities. 
 The Council for Exceptional Children 
 ERIC's gopher service 
 Special Needs
Education Network from SchoolNet in Ottawa, Canada. Has some specifically
gifted resources and a great deal of information for other special needs.

Ontario Institute's Learning Disabilities gopher is quite
extensive and links to many other useful resources.
 CHADD - Children and Adults with 
ADD online.
 British Columbia
Teachers Federation sponsors Inclusion Resource Network an extensive
collection of information and resources about inclusion, primarily
targeted at teachers.
 Davis Dyslexia Association has
a good deal of information for parents and their children, as well as 
links to many other related sources.
 IEPs and other ideas for
meeting the needs of special education students 
 ADD InfoNet a 
fairly comprehensive guide to ADD resources online.

Sarah's big collection of education resources, with special concentration
on special education.
 National Center to Improve Practice (N
CIP) ,
funded by the U.S. Department of Education, Office of Special Education 
Programs, seeks to promote the effective use of technology to enhance 
educational outcomes for students with sensory, cognitive, physical, and
social/emotional disabilities.
Can also be contacted at: 

 NCIP
 55 Chapel Street
 Newton, MA 02158-1060
 Phone: 617-969-7100 ext.2387
 TTY: 617-969-4529
 FAX: 617-969-3440
 email: ncip@edc.org

 Communication Aids
for Language and Learning 
from Edinburgh University, Scotland. Primarily physical disabilities.
 MicroMUSE telnet serivce 
(Login as guest) has been suggested as a resource. I have not yet successfully
located relevant info, but I am a beginner.
There is some help available from their
 WWW pages. 
 ld-list, the mailing list for learning disabilities.
To subscribe send a mail message with "subscribe ld-list"
in the body (not the subject) of the message
to majordomo@curry.edu
 gt-special, the mailing list for twice-special children and
families.
All gifted children are special because of their intellectual abilities.
Some, however, have disabilities that make them twice-special.
Generally, this list discusses any gifted child who has a
learning disability (LD) and/or other neurological problem(s) that
interfere with the child's ability to reach the full potential of their
giftedness. These other neurological problems may but are not
limited to ADD, hyperactivity, autism, Asperger's Syndrome, Tourette's
Syndrome, PDD, ODD, OCD, anxiety disorders, sensory integration disorders
(SI), and depression. Parents/guardians, educators and mentors, and medical
and mental health providers who are facing the joys and challenges of
supporting and nurturing these children are most welcome.
To subscribe to the list, send e-mail with an empty subject line and
the body of the message
containing the text "subscribe GT-SPECIAL"
to
majordomo@gtworld.org

If you still have questions or need any further assistance regarding
GT-SPECIAL,
contact

owner-gt-special@GTworld.org> 

 Contact Info 

Parents of Gifted and Talented Learning-Disabled Children 
2420 Eccleston Street 
Silver Spring, MD 20902 
phone: 301-986-1422 

The Orton Dyslexia Society 
Chester Building Suite 382 
8600 LaSalle Road 
Baltimore, MD 21204 
Phone: 410-296-0232 

Association for Children with Learning Disabilities is reported to
be
in New York.

 Appeal for Assistance 

Please send any additional information or contact info about Gifted
students and Learning Disabilities to user@eskimo.com

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page 

If your browser supports mailto, you can click
here to send me a comment. Send mail to
user@eskimo.com 

Otherwise, please send your comments by email to:
 user@eskimo.com 

This page updated by automatic build: 23-May-2000
(build 53)
 -- 

Gifted Resources Home Page 

 2000 
Bruce User. All Rights Reserved.
Information in this document is subject to change without notice. 

Have you tried 

 Shopping 

at Valet?

Or you can search the web:

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page