Gifted Resources Gifted Education Press Page 

 Gifted Resources: Gifted Education Press 

From: "Maurice D. Fisher" (mdfish@PIPELINE.COM)
Subject: Gifted Education News-Page

Educators and Parents might be interested in reading our Gifted Education
News-Page for information about new trade books and other materials/ideas
related to teaching the gifted. If you would like a hard copy of this
newsletter (Feb.-March 1995 issue) and future issues free-of-charge, please
send us your name and snail mail address. Thanks, Maurice Fisher, Publisher
 mdfish@pipeline.com

 GIFTED EDUCATION NEWS-PAGE
 VOLUME 4, NUMBER 3
 Published By GIFTED EDUCATION PRESS; 10201 YUMA COURT;
 P.O. BOX 1586; MANASSAS, VA 22110; 703-369-5017

BOOKNEWS AND REVIEWS

 ". . .someday they will just stumble on something stupid, like that
Fleming. He left his food on his plate, and it moldered, and so he just
stumbled on penicillin." Glenway Wescott, 1955.

CLEOPATRA'S NOSE: ESSAYS ON THE UNEXPECTED by Daniel J. Boorstin (Edited by
Ruth Boorstin). (1994). Random House: New York.

 The author, a former Librarian of Congress and Professor of History at
the University of Chicago, has written a book of essays about the
relationship between American culture and the history of discovery,
creative endeavors and technology. The title refers to an observation made
by Blaise Pascal (1623-62) that a small chance variation in Cleopatra's
beauty would have changed the course of world history. Mistakes, going up
blind alleys and accidental observations are all part of the art of
discovery and creation. As Boorstin demonstrates in these essays, most of
the important developments in the arts and technology are the result of
chance occurrences. His discussions of these occurrences involve some
fascinating ideas that can help gifted students to better understand the
future direction of American society. Some of the author's major ideas
related to producing this understanding are as follows:

 The unification of the cultures of discovery and creation has been
occurring for the last 500 years ("The Cultures of Pride and Awe," "An Odd
Couple: Discoverers and Inventors"). This combining process has led to
powerful developments in science and technology. The history of discovery
has emphasized groups of individuals working toward common goals, while the
history of creation has stressed the uniqueness of individual achievement
in the arts, crafts and technology. Today we need individual creativity in
all areas of society more than ever.
 We have been living in "The Age of Negative Discovery" as illustrated by
the astounding seafaring voyages of Columbus, Vasco da Gama and Captain
James Cook. Some examples (page 7) of negative discovery from astronomy
and modern space sciences are: the Earth is not the center of the Universe,
the Sun in not the center of the Universe, and our galaxy is not the center
of the Universe. In this age, the amount of data produced by scientific
research has increased at an "ever-accelerating" pace, leading to "hosts of
answers to questions not yet asked."
 We are living in the Fourth Kingdom -- The Machine Kingdom ("Darwinian
Expectations," "Statistical Expectations"). This kingdom, as contrasted
with the animal, vegetable and mineral domains, is governed by the
principle of "expatiation" which means to walk or wander freely. According
to this principle, technological progress is unpredictable and largely due
to negative discovery. Regarding the Fourth Kingdom, Boorstin says (page
153): "The career of Thomas A. Edison, paragon of inventors in the fourth
kingdom, suggests that if there is a law of invention, it is not a law of
evolution or linear advance. To expatiate -- 'to wander freely' and toy
with the problem -- is the way of the inventor. . . ."
 Major technological breakthroughs are in many cases by-products or
unexpected offshoots of planned technologies such as the steam engine and
telescope ("An Odd Couple: Discoverers and Inventors," "Statistical
Expectations"). Boorstin emphasizes the idea of unexpected discoveries
throughout his essays.

He addresses other issues concerned with the social and political history
of the United States. Among these are:

 Great writers have expressed concern for society through the Public
Conscience and Private Conscience ("The Writer as Conscience of the
World"). The author discusses how these concerns have influenced current
politics, law and social behavior. In "Our Conscience-Wracked Nation" he
shows how the modern conscience has led to extremes of rights without
responsibilities, the lowering of academic and work standards, and the
Balkanization of our nation. Additional matters he writes about are: the
importance of the White House (the building itself) in American history,
the role of the printing press in the adoption and dissemination of the
United States Constitution, the design of the Capitol, Tocqueville's
America, and the new machine kingdom that requires a search for the laws of
the unexpected.

The concluding chapters on his roots, his father and his vision of the
nation's future demonstrate a humbleness and optimism that encourage us to
take pride in America's history, accomplishments and future. As a model
for gifted students, Boorstin exemplifies the Yiddish idea of a "Mensch" --
an individual who cares about his fellow human beings. His vision of the
United States is one of hope for our culture and technology. This book has
significant implications for educating gifted students and for
understanding the advanced industrial/technological age in which we live.

GREAT ESSAYS IN SCIENCE by Martin Gardner (Editor). (1994). Prometheus
Books: Buffalo, NY. BEST SCIENCE WRITING: READINGS AND INSIGHTS by Robert
Gannon (Editor). (1991). Oryx Press: Phoenix, AZ.

 In previous issues of GEN-P we have highlighted books that exemplify
excellent science writing. Here are two that many outstanding
essayists in all areas of science, medicine and technology. Gardner's book
has high-powered writers such as Isaac Asimov, Rachel Carson, Charles
Darwin, Sigmund Freud, Stephen Jay Gould and H.G. Wells. Their topics
cover such areas as the sphinx (Francis Bacon), the influence of Darwinisn
on philosophy (John Dewey), reflections on a grain of salt (Carl Sagan) and
seven biological wonders (Lewis Thomas). Gannon's book is a unique
collection of award winning essays on a variety of topics -- for example,
the function of the liver, orthopedic surgery, studies of the geological
features of the western states, deceptions in psychological research, and
chaos theory. An important feature of this volume is that it contains
descriptions of how each author works and how they gathered information to
write their essays.

ADDITIONAL RESOURCES AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
DISCOVER: THE WORLD OF SCIENCE -- The January 1995 issue contains an
astounding article entitled, "Beast in the Belly: A Strange Tale of
Medicine and Faith" by Sherwin Nuland. The author is a surgeon at Yale
University-New Haven Hospital and a winner of The National Book Award. He
is one of the greatest medical writers of our age with a strong
literary-humanities bent. Write to Discover Magazine Science Program at
the following address to learn about this science education resource: 105
Terry Drive, Suite 120; Newtown, PA 18940-3425.

THE NEW YORKER -- Read the remarkable story of an autistic child who is a
highly talented artist in the January 9, 1995 issue. The author, Oliver
Sacks (another M.D. with a world renowned reputation as a medical writer),
relates his observations and ideas on neurological dysfunctions to the
humanities. This article provides some excellent insights into the nature
of creativity in the visual arts such as the idea that it involves
extraordinary technical skills combined with strong individual initiative.

PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY (1792-1822): OUR CONTEMPORARY BY MICHAEL E. WALTERS
NEW YORK CITY PUBLIC SCHOOLS
"A poet is a nightingale who sits in darkness and sings to cheer his own
solitude with sweet sounds . . . ." From A Defence of Poetry (1821) by
Shelley.

 It is not only his lyrics that sing and inspire us, but his unique
sensibility that enriches us. The Modern Library-College Edition (Random
House, 1951) of Shelley's poems has an introduction by the literary critic,
Carlos Baker, that describes this wonderful sensibility and its eternal
wisdom. Baker did not delve into the biographical details of Shelley's
life, but sought instead to analyze his profoundly poetic awareness.
Shelley warned that society has a habit of confusing words with thoughts,
and it is essential to understand what "poetic" means to appreciate his
works. We may know the dictionary definition of this word but lack
understanding of the poetic concept. Baker described the
cultural-spiritual development of Shelley who began his career as the
enfant terrible of the Enlightenment. Shelley developed a Platonic concept
of mind and spirit. The manifestations of this spirit were first
intellectual beauty, and then cosmic love. He believed the latter would
help to solve major political and social problems. The final thrust of his
ideas was that poets are the moral legislators of humanity.

Shelley expressed his poetic philosophy in an essay he wrote in 1821, A
Defence of Poetry -- the most significant exposition of sensibility since
Aristotle's Poetics. Teachers of the gifted and their students would find
it illuminating to read and study this essay for insight into the link
between giftedness and sensibility. There can be no denial that Shelley
was highly gifted. Simultaneously, it cannot be denied that sensibility is
the key to understanding giftedness. The term sensibility is not
educational jargon; instead it is crucial to understanding the style and
thought of this great genius.

Ironically, Shelley would be considered very politically correct by today's
standards. One of our major conceits is that we have invented new concepts
rather than rediscovering older wisdom. Shelley was a spokesperson for
feminism, e.g., many of his poems criticize patriarchal dominance of
society (Queen Mab). However, his goal was to unify feminine and masculine
components of the human psyche (Prometheus Unbound). Other poems were based
upon his response to events such as liberation struggles versus oppression
-- for example, Ode To Naples depicts the Italian revolt against the
Austrians, and Hellas describes the Greek rebellion against the Ottoman
Turks. Shelley also had an avid concern for the preservation of nature (To
A Skylark). Here is my lament to his premature demise at 29 during a
sailing expedition: A good wind means nothing when you lack a port of
destiny,/Crossing the lake -- passing the inlet shrubbed, hard shiny
pebbles,/Sparkle in the pathos of ebbing daylight,/Soon a squall
approaches,/Racing for the shore if you arrive too late,/The awaiting
ceremony is burnt heart./Adonais is the port of entry.

 Maurice D. Fisher, Publisher, Copyright ) by Gifted Education Press,
February-March 1995
--
MAURICE FISHER

From mdfish@pipeline.com Thu Mar 9 17:46:53 1995
Subject: gifted education news page

Dear Bruce -- This would be fine to archive the issue of Gifted Education
News-Page you received! You have my permission to also archive all future
issues I place on Internet. Thanks, Maurice Fisher 

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page 

If your browser supports mailto, you can click
here to send me a comment. Send mail to
user@eskimo.com 

Otherwise, please send your comments by email to:
 user@eskimo.com 

This page updated by automatic build: 23-May-2000
(build 53)
 -- 

Gifted Resources Home Page 

 2000 
Bruce User. All Rights Reserved.
Information in this document is subject to change without notice. 

Have you tried 

 Shopping 

at Valet?

Or you can search the web:

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page