Gifted Resources Change Log Page 

 What's New on these Pages 
The following are brief descriptions of changes made in recent revisions
of the Gifted Resources Pages. This log of changes may help in locating 
new material added since a previous visit to the pages.
 1.91
 23-May-2000
(build 53)

 Added Class.com links. Class.com
offers a fully accredited High School education for distance learning
over the internet.
 Joined FlyCast Network for sponsorship.
 Added web site to
info about Prometheus Society.
 Removed a great many homeschooling and unschooling links to
resources which have been discontinued.
 Alabama Association for Gifted
Children has a web site. 
 New Jersey Association for Gifted Children (NJAGC) has changed
to a new permanent web address www.njagc.org 
 Added links to Kidsource 
 Updated Ohio OAGC contact info.
 dropped CEC summer program diskette, which is no longer available.
 Reformat opening page.
 Added HP Telementor program info.
 Added research program solicitation for Dr. Peter Street.
 General cleanup.
 Corrected web address for New Zealand Association for Gifted Children.
 The
New Zealand Association for Gifted Children has
a new web site.
 Added DirectHit search engine to
list of engines for finding other info.

 1.90 16-Nov-1999 (build 21) 

 Created a new archiving and building system for updating info.
No information is added, but this new system should make it much easier to 
update information in the future.
 Added page backgrounds to provide visual cue for out-of-date pages
which may be cached.
 Cleaned up a few dead links.
 Improved the search engine listings.
 Removed out of date offer from Dream Green listing.

 1.89 30-Oct-99 

 Updated NAGC address and contact info.
Gifted Child Quarterly
is the official publication of the National
Association for Gifted Children (NAGC).
They can be reached by phone: 202-785-4268
or at web address http://www.nagc.org 
or by fax at: 202-785-4248
or by postal mail at:

 NAGC
 1707 L Street, N.W.
 Suite 550
 Washington, DC 20036

 Updated Northwestern University's Center for Talent Development 
contact info. The corrected contact info is:
Northwestern University Center for Talent Development.
Information is available by phone at: 847-491-3782 or by fax: 847-467-4283
or by
 WWW page, 
or by email to ctd@nwu.edu 
or by postal mail to:

 Center for Talent Development
 Northwestern University
 617 Dartmouth Place
 Evanston, IL 60208

 Updated links
to TAG-L archives. 

 1.88 10-Jun-99 

 Corrected address and link to 
Wisconsin Association for Talented and Gifted --
1608 W. Cloverdale Drive --
Appleton, WI 54914 --
Phone: 920-991-9177 --
Web Page: http://www.focol.org/~watg 

 Added link to:
The New Zealand Association for Gifted Children 
The New Zealand Association for Gifted Children has branches throughout the
country, organising regional events and an annual national camp. We also
assist with academic research, publish a quarterly magazine (Tall Poppies)
and annual refereed journal (APEX). In addition, NZAGC lobbies government
and holds conferences to educate and inform gifted students, their parents,
teachers and the community as a whole.

 The
New Zealand Association for Gifted Children also has
a web site. 

 Added reference to:
 Utah
Talent Search 
The Utah Talent Search is conducted by the Utah State Office of Education.
It culminates in a summer program known as the Youth Academy of excellence
at the University of Utah. The web site is

http://www.usoe.k12.ut.us/curr/g&t/talent/ 

 Added link to:
Montgomery County PADI 
 Web site:
www.mcps.k12.md.us/departments/eii/padi 
describes the Program of Assessment,
Diagnosis and Instruction (PADI). The PADI program finds and fosters
potential giftedness among elementary children, particularly Hispanic,
African American and low socio economic. 

 1.87 19-Aug-98 

 Corrected link to 
 an ERIC digest. 
 Added link to
 Montana
Association for Gifted and Talented Education 
web page. 
 Updated contact info and web address for
Free Spirit Publishing, 400 First Avenue N., #616, Minneapolis, MN 55401
(phone: 800-735-7323).
Specialists in SELF-HELP FOR KIDS. since 1983.
Publishers of THE GIFTED KIDS SURVIVAL
GUIDES, THE SURVIVAL GUIDE FOR PARENTS OF GIFTED
KIDS, TEACHING GIFTED KIDS IN THE REGULAR CLASSROOM,
BRINGING OUT THE BEST: A GUIDE FOR PARENTS OF YOUNG GIFTED
CHILDREN and more.
There is a web page or they can
be reached by phone: 612-338-2068 or fax: 612-337-5050
 Added link and contact info for Dream Green, a supplier of math based
games and software. See 
http://www.weit.net/~dgreen for more info. They are also
sponsoring a math game give-away until Sept 30, 1998.
 Added link to

Seven Springs Middle School in Florida. 
 Added contact info for 
Texas Association for Gifted and Talented's quarterly
journal, Tempo.
Tempo is a juried publication that reaches an audience of more than
8,000. National figures in gifted education are frequent contributors.

 Tempo
 5521 Martin Lane
 El Paso, Texas 79903
 Phone: 915-778-3988

 1.86 2-Aug-98 

 Added link to 
 C-Mites at Carnegie
Mellon , which offers a regional talent search as well as
weekend and summer enrichment
programs for students in 3rd through 6th grade in Pennsylvania.
 Added subscription info for 
gt-special, the mailing list for twice-special children and
families.
To subscribe to the list, send e-mail with an empty subject line and
the body of the message
containing the text "subscribe GT-SPECIAL"
to
majordomo@gtworld.org

If you have questions or need any further assistance regarding
GT-SPECIAL,
contact

owner-gt-special@GTworld.org 

 1.85 27-Jul-98 

 Corrected a very out of date ERIC digest address. 
The old gopher was quite extinct. Sorry. See

ERIC Digests for more info.

 1.84 17-Jun-98 

 Added 
link to Teaching K-8 Magazine ,
which has lots of resources and links about teaching this age group. 
 Added Phillips Academy to the listing
of schools.
 Added St. Mary's College, Ipswich, Queensland, Australia
to the list of schools for their Gifted and
Talented program for students of Grades 8, 9, and 10 called (PEAC)
Personal Enrichment and Advancement Classes.
Web site:
 http://www.smc.qld.edu.au/peac.htm 
 Updated contact information for the University of Washington
talent search, summer programs and early college entrance programs.

 1.83 12-Jun-98 

 Added contact info for EHK, a support group for parents and gifted
children in Switzerland. EHK has a web site
(in German) 
 Updated North Carolina contact info in the 
list of Gifted Organizations 
 Updated Connecticut contact info in the 
list of Gifted Organizations 
 Updated Triple Nine Society contact info in the 
list of Gifted Organizations 
 Added Teachers.Net , a web
presence devoted to providing teacher resources. It also
includes a gifted special
interest discussion group. 

 Added links for new months archives of TAG-L. 

 1.82 24-Apr-98 

 Added link to the official 
OAGC web site. The Ohio Association of Gifted Children.
 Added a link to Linda Silverman's
Gifted Development Center , which has information about many
gifted issues, including Learning Disabilities.
 Fixed some typos
 Added links for new months archives of TAG-L. 

 1.81 14-Nov-97 

 Fixed a typo
on the Mega Society link.
 Added links for GT World , an online support
community for parents of Gifted and Talented children. Others
interested in supporting and nurturing gifted and talented children
are also most welcome.
GT World offers electronic facilities comprised of a
 website, the GT-Families mailing list,
and the GTworld MOO. 
 Added link for new months archive of TAG-L. 
 Corrected address and added link to 
 Kansas Assoc for
Gifted and Talented web site. 

 1.80 27-Oct-97 

 Added a link to Linda Silverman's Gifted
Development Center , which has a great deal of online gifted info. 
 Updated the address and contact info for the California Association for the Gifted.
 Added link for the
 web site for the
Rhode Island State Advisory Committee for Gifted and Talented Education 
 Added link for the
 Fairfax County Association for the Gifted
McLean, VA web site. Contains local gifted info, plus an extensive
collection of summer programs. 
 Corrected contact info for the Mega Society and added their 
Web site ( http://www.brokersys.com/~bahai ) address.
 Corrected contact info for the
Johns Hopkins University - IAAY Office of Public Information
and IIAY web site
(http://www.jhu.edu/~gifted) 

 1.79 10-Sep-97 

 Updated address and contact info for 

 Institute for the Study of Advanced Development
 1452 Marion Street
 Denver, CO 80218
 Phone: 303-837-8378 or 888-GIFTED1

Institute for the Study of Advanced Development can also be
reached by email at 
gifted@gifteddevelopment.com 
or through their web page. 

 Updated address for Gifted Psychology Press, PO Box 5057, Scottsdale, AZ 85261
 Phone: 602-368-7862
 email: GiftedBook@aolcom 
 Added link for new months archive of TAG-L. 

 1.78 25-Jul-97 

 Added new section to list publications and organizations which
accept contributions from students. Initial list contains only
the Concord Review. Please send additions to user@eskimo.com
 Added Zipper Press to the vendor lists. 
 Updated link for
 Parents for
Enrichment Programs (PEP) - a local parent support
group in Montana.
 Added A Mensa
special interest homeschooling newsletter and list of useful resources and
references. 
 Changed President of Michigan Alliance for Gifted Education and added
new email address. 
 Updated address for Pharos, the gifted organization in the Netherlands.

 1.77 23-May-97 

 Added link to
 Miles Abernathy's home page 
which contains a variety of gifted/talented education resources.
 Updated Rocky Mountain Talent Search links to 
University of Denver
 Rocky Mountain Talent
Search (RMTS). 
Information is available from the
 main
Center for Educational Services page 
or by phone at: 303-871-2983
There is also Summer Institute information available from the

Rocky Mountain Talent Search Summer Institute page .

 1.76 23-Apr-97 

 Added link on first page to itself, specifying full URL. Some
unauthorized (out of date) copies have been placed where they can be indexed
by search engines, but these imitations
are incomplete and do not function well.
By following the link, readers can reload a current correct copy
from the true home page.
 Added link for April 1997 TAG-L archive. 
 Added the new mailing list e-TAG-USA.
e-TAG-USA is a national list to discuss advocacy efforts for TAG
students including, but not limited to, discussions about obtaining a
national law, tips, suggestions, and ideas for advocacy at the district
or state level, getting a bill passed, discussion about what state laws
have helped or hurt TAG kids and why, and what laws *looked* good on
paper but didn't help and more. For informaton on how to subscribe,
please contact Monique Lloyd, at monique@rtinet.com

 1.75 11-Apr-97 

 Added link to Texas A and M Galveston 
 summer program 
for TAG students.
 Fixed a typo which was causing large blocks of text to be lined-out.
 Enhanced keywords, making site more easily found by search engines.
 Added link to South Central Regional
Technology in Education Consortium -- a US Dept of Education funded group
serving 6 million students and 400,000 teachers in Kansas,
Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma and Texas. Can also be
reached by phone at 888-832-2001. 
 Added
link to Class IV Publications
extensive list of education related links. 

 1.74 1-Mar-97 

 Added link to
 Hebrew University in Jerusalem's
gifted resources site (in Hebrew) 
 Added link to
University of South Carolina 
 TAG 97 -
a summer enrichment program for Talented and Gifted middle school students
which focuses on academics.
 Added link to 
 The Home Education Network .
On-line courses from UCLA Extension for business, writing, test
prepartion. 
The Home Education Network (THEN) offers distance learning on-line
education through Internet courses in business management,
organizational behavior, risk management, accounting, screenwriting,
fiction writing, test preparation and teacher certification. THEN
on-line courseware is offered in conjunction with the UCLA Extension
University. At-home study courses can be completed on-line or through
employers and an affiliated Intranet training and distance education
network.
 Added link for Febraury and March 1997
archives of TAG-L. 

 1.73 29-Jan-97 

 Added link to

the OAGC web site. (Ohio Association for Gifted Children).
 Changed NRC/GT phone number to reflect area code change.
 Added
Michigan Association for Gifted Education 
 WWW Site (on another server) and
the New Jersey
Association for Gifted Children site to the list of those
developed in collaboration with this Gifted Resources site.
 Added link to 
 British Columbia
Teachers Federation sponsors Inclusion Resource Network an extensive
collection of information and resources about inclusion, primarily
targeted at teachers. 
 Added link to

CHI (The Support Society for Children of High Intelligence)
web site in the UK.

 1.72 9-Jan-97 

 Added two new mailing lists. OZGIFTED in Australia and
GIFTED-CHI-L in the UK.
 Added Family Unschoolers
Network to the homeschooling resources list. 
 Added link for December 1996 and January 1997 archive of TAG-L. 
 Corrected links for archives of TAG-L 
and added file sizes.
 Added 

Some homeschooling suggestions and resources 

 1.71 31-Dec-96 

 Corrected listing for Utah Association
for Gifted Children address.
 Added listing for Utah midwinter conference in events section
of the main page. 
 Happy New Year 

 1.70 18-Dec-96 

 Corrected gtot-l subscription info 
due to a change in list processing software.
 Updated link to
the alumni page for CTY 
participants.
 Updated contact address for 
 Maine Parents of Gifted and Talented Yout
h 

 Added Global SchoolNet Foundation (GSN) 
a consortium of teachers,
students, business, government, and the community.
 Added Global Schoolhouse which
 is defined as a global, mult-dimensional community,
comprised of students, teachers, parents and professionals collaborating
across time and space to transform the learning environment. The mission
of the Global Schoolhouse is to support the self-directed learner both in
and outside of the school environment. On November 28, 1995, GSN 
announced a partnership with Microsoft to make the Global Schoolhouse the
premier site for teacher and classroom resources and activities.
 Added Instep -- Music vendor 
with "music for accelerated learning."
 Added ThinkQuest -- a collection of
references to interesting educational sites.
 Added web address for
 Gifted 
and Talented Children's Association of Western Australia Inc. 

 1.69 18-Nov-96 

 Added Nysmith School for the Gifted (grades 1-7)
 Added ORTAG, a mailing list to discuss Oregon TAG education related issues.
Contact Monique Lloyd at monique@rtinet.com for information on how to 
subscribe.
 Updated contact info for Arizona Association for Gifted and Talented.

 1.68 4-Nov-96 

 Added Extensive
list of Home School support organizations 
 Corrected Multi Media Arts listing in vendors listings. 
 Added another Montessori
collection from a Montessori consulting company.
 Added link for October and November 1996 archive of TAG-L. 

 1.67 4-Sep-96 

 Added listing for Georgia Association
for Gifted Children 
 Added link for September 1996 archive of TAG-L. 
 Updated contact info for Mensa.

This page updated by automatic build: 23-May-2000
(build 53)
 -- 

Gifted Resources Home Page 

 2000
Bruce User. All Rights Reserved.
Information in this document is subject to change without notice.