Gifted Resources Pen-Pal Connection Page 

 Pen-Pal Exchanges 
 Gifted Pen-Pal Exchanges 
There are two pen-pal exchanges oriented to Gifted children.
Please note that these exchanges are in no way affiliated with this
web page.

 Gifted Children E-Mail Pals program 
The following description of the program is
provided by permission of Linda Whitley and may not be redistributed
without explicit permission. Contact 76702.626@compuserve.com for details.

----------------------- BEGIN GCEMP.TXT -----------------------

Copyright 1995 by Linda Whitley.

 GIFTED CHILDREN E-MAIL PALS

 Disclaimer: This program has not been sanctioned, recognized, or
 approved in any way by American Mensa, Ltd, or any other Mensa
 organization.

If you are a gifted child who is interested in corresponding with an
e-mail pal or if you know of a gifted child who is, please send me
an e-mail message containing the information listed below. No
affiliation with Mensa is necessary for a gifted child to participate
in the Gifted Children E-Mail Pals program. All gifted children of
school age, including gifted students enrolled in college, are both
eligible and encouraged to participate. 

At present, it is difficult to determine how long it will take 
to match children of similar ages together. It really depends upon 
the number of children who participate in addition to other factors.

Any gifted education teacher with Internet e-mail access who would 
like his/her students to participate can send me an e-mail message 
indicating this. At this point I do not know if I will be able to 
fill requests of this nature. No attempts will be made to match 
classes with classes as there are already a number of programs which 
provide such a service.

The following information needs to be included in the request for a
GC E-Mail Pal:

 Name of gifted child
 Child's gender
 Child's date of birth
 Child's grade in school
 Name of child's school (or indicate that child is homeschooled)
 City, State, and Country where child lives
 E-Mail address(es) to be used for correspondence
 Name of child's parent/guardian if the child is under 18
 (and e-mail address if it differs from the child's address)
 Name of person providing the information. (It is adequate to
 indicate whether the child or a parent is providing the
 information.)

Strongly encouraged, but optional, information to be included:

 A short list of the child's interests or hobbies

Send the request for a GC E-Mail Pal to me via e-mail at the
following e-mail address:

 CompuServe: Linda Whitley, 76702,626
 Internet: 76702.626@compuserve.com

------------------------ END GCEMP.TXT ------------------------

 Team Pages from
North Hagerstown High offer a key pal matchup service for Gifted High School students.

 Other Pen-Pal Exchanges 

 K12Pals 
To subscribe send a mail message with "subscribe K12Pals Your Name"
in the body (not the subject) of the message
to listserv@suvm.syr.edu

 PENPAL-L 
To subscribe send a mail message with "SUBSCRIBE PENPAL-L Your Name"
in the body (not the subject) of the message
to listserv@unccvm.uncc.edu

 IECC 
The Intercultural E-Mail Exchange is intended for teachers to 
organize classes into intercultural pen-pal exchanges.
To subscribe send a mail message with "subscribe iecc"
in the body (not the subject) of the message
to iecc-requests@stolaf.edu 
The IECC exchange 
spans 30 countries and more information can be 
found by WWW.

 Kidlink 
To subscribe send a mail message with "SUBSCRIBE KIDLINK Your Name"
in the body (not the subject) of the message
to listserv@uvm1.nodak.edu

 pen-pals 
To subscribe send a mail message with "SUBSCRIBE pen-pals Your Name"
in the body (not the subject) of the message
to listproc@mainstream.com
 E-mail Pen Pal Connection 
Provides a free 
service to bring together students of English and interested native 
English speakers from around the world. 

E-mail Pen Pal Connection is directly accessible through WWW.

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page 

If your browser supports mailto, you can click
here to send me a comment. Send mail to
user@eskimo.com 

Otherwise, please send your comments by email to:
 user@eskimo.com 

This page updated by automatic build: 23-May-2000
(build 53)
 -- 

Gifted Resources Home Page 

 2000 
Bruce User. All Rights Reserved.
Information in this document is subject to change without notice. 

Have you tried 

 Shopping 

at Valet?

Or you can search the web:

 Return to Gifted Resources Main Page