WHO: Steve's Life and Times Archives 

I didn't always know I was going to be a writer, but I did write some stories as a child. I was greatly influenced both by my mother (with her English degree), my father (with his sense of humor) and my grandfather Joseph Pohl.

Grandpa Joe wrote a long series of stories about, and to his grandchildren. Me, my sister and my cousins, plus Mr. Rabbit, Mr. Mouse, Mr. Friddle and a cast of oddball characters populated these stories. 

A combination of just plain children's fantasy (flying beds), laugh out-loud humor (I seem to remember a cornflake gun of sorts), and his wonderful drawings spurred my imagination.

When I decided that I would major in journalism, I dedicated this decision to my grandfather's memory. I just hope I can touch someone and make them laugh as he did for me those many years ago (and still).

I'm working full-time now at The Polaris Group , doing production and q/a work on the Microsoft for Partners Web site. I began in late October 2001 and became a permanent employee this June.

After working in technology in the Seattle area for years, I finally worked a contract copy editing job at Microsoft , working on the SQL Server 2000 Resource Kit .

I took a chance at a startup/public company called OnHealth Network Company in the throes of a merger (with WebMD) as an Editorial Production Assistant. Despite a good six weeks on the job, I was deemed "redundant" and let go. I'm still in touch with many of the editorial folks (and the site no longer exists).

I spent two months as a Copyeditor at Amazon.com through the agency The Write Stuff . It was a contract job and ended up being temporary. It was here I learned that "copyeditor" can be one word.

Seems like only yesterday that I started on the "News project" at Starwave, working on
what eventually became ABCNEWS.com .
That was October 1996, and since then I served as an intern up to morning wire editor, from development and launch to its status as the fastest-growing news site on the Web. When I left, my job included
assembling a story budget for, keeping tabs on, and posting stories in the
Business, Science, Technology, Travel and Health & Living sections, plus
Sports and Entertainment. (This was the Seattle newsroom -- there's a larger newsroom in New York.)

 Outside Online , produced at Starwave like ABCNEWS.com, was where I was an Editorial intern from June to mid-October, 1996. I wrote and edited stories, coordinated event coverage of the Leadville
100 and helped fix up older pages to standard HTML, among other things. (Starwave no longer produces the site.)

 The Western Electronic
Post was the
unofficial e-mail newsletter for the Department of Journalism at Western.
I served as Editor from June 1995 to September 1996, and then helped out in the summer of 1997.

 The Western Front is the
school newspaper at Western. From September 1994 to June 1996 I served
in many capacities on the Front, including reporter, News editor (twice),
Graphics editor, Features editor, Assistant News editor and Managing editor.

Assorted logos Copyright &copy; 2001 their
respective publications/online services. Used without permission.
Please do not redistribute without
their permission.

 ABODE - go home! | Address any comments and suggestions to mohundro@eskimo.com