WHO: Steve's Life and Times 

 [25.jan.2003 update] 
 Minor updates. 

 Let's get this over with: This is an ego-driven enterprise. Bad 
 enough this Steve guy puts up his own Web pages, but now hes making 
 everyone read about him. Well, then dont read it. (Or, even better, read 
 it and then criticize it! Tell me how 
 self-centered I am .) 
 The basics: Im from Seattle, born and raised, leaving only to get my 
 degree in journalism from Western 
 Washington University in Bellingham, WA. Since graduation, Ive 
 worked in and out of the tech industry. I am now a resident of Seattle's Ballard neighborhood, where I frequent coffee shops, music stores, and bowling alleys. In my spare time, I read books and comics, play with my two kittens Lucy and Linus, listen to music, go on walks, go to live music shows, watch TV, go to movies. You know, the usual. 

 To keep myself pop cultured, I turn to a number of online forums 
 to help me find my way, including Fametracker for general celeb 
 talk and Television Without Pity , which helps me 
 sort out good TV, bad TV, and TV thats so bad its good. I lurk on other online forums as well.

 I like the rain, a sure sign of a Seattle native, yet don't own any Gore-Tex&trade;. I am Steve, and am at least a bit more interesting than this text indicates.

 where I'm working these days Until recently, I was a Web Production Specialist at a company called The Polaris Group , located in the "funky" Fremont neighborhood of Seattle. I am now looking for new work. For more 
 information, see my resume and my archives . 

 My Mom , Anne Mohundro, is a 
 Learning Specialist in the Learning Center at Seattle 
 University ... My Dad , James J. 
 Mohundro, is a project manager in the Housing Division of the City of 
 Seattles Department 
 of Housing ... My sister , 
 Leah Myungjin (Myung-Jin Lee) Mohundro (adopted from Seoul, Korea), is 
 working at KPMG ... Also: My Aunt 
 Alice and Uncle John Graber live in Bellingham, raising my cousin Carl, 
 who is in second grade ... Uncle Rick 
 Pohl and Aunt Angi Blackwell live in San Francisco with my youngest 
 cousin, Clare Marie Blackwell ... Uncle Dennis Pohl lives with 
 Grandma Eleanor Pohl in Rochester, 
 N.Y. ... Uncle John and Aunt Helen Pohl 
 live in Montreal, Quebec with cousins Ula (who has her own 
 website ), Nyssa (who has a great website, Bald and Famous 
 People ), Arden (who also has his own website, Kirbys Korner , 
 which features the comic strip adventures of Igneto Man&reg;), Leatha and 
 Emilie. 

 you ought to be in pictures Linus and Lucy - Here are pictures of my kittens Linus and Lucy.

 Trip to Korea - October 2002 - From October 21 to 30, 2002, I traveled Korea (mainly Seoul and Gyeongju City) with my friend Chris.

 Jon 
 and Amanda (Eastman) Wolf's Wedding, September 2001 - I served as a groomsman at my 
 college pal Jon's wedding. 

 Bay 
 Area Gather, February 2000 - Many online friends, from near (San 
 Jose) and far (Sydney, Australia) gathered to put faces to names and 
 pseudonyms.
 UK Trip, 
 October 1999 - In which I met Emily and Kirsti, and enjoyed both 
 the Robin Hood Experience and Brighton Pier. 

 The "Friends" list is a relic of the mid-90s personal Web page mania. In those heady days,
 everyone (and sometimes their pets) had Web pages, so you put up a link to your friends' pages. 
 Unfortunately, while many net-savvy folks have either a blog or online journal, having your own URL is no
 longer universal.
 I also found that I was leaving out people that I do consider friends, from people on LiveJournal , to co-workers, to former co-workers, to
 neighbors. The people I did have on this list only go to my Web pages to see if I've libeled
 them, yet, and it's a pain to keep updated. So, the list is short because until you folks 
 get vain enough to have Web sites, I won't put you here: 
 Che Green helps run the
 Northwest Animal Rights 
 Network ... Kynn and Liz Bartlett run an Web 
 presence provider called Idyll Mountain 
 Internet , and Kynn writes books and advises on Web accessibility standards (he won't like 
 this page). Before that, Kynn introduced me to MUSHing . Ive since 
 spent four San Diego Comic-Cons with them (1997, 1999, 2000 and 2001 - 
 they are now officially sick of me) ... 
 Tony Pi was the 
 first person that I met first on the Net (on LegionMUSH) and then in Real 
 Life ... Jaye AKA Jean Prior played my 
 PernMUSH rider 
 character s weyrmate Nich. I see her online occasionally, in newer
 guises ... Lynette Tait , a.k.a. 
 Jehrina, Trizane, Esmerel, et al on various MUSHes, is now an LJ friend ... Kirsti Reeve is a wonderful RPer and a 
 great host if you're in Nottingham ... Emily completed school and is now a dentist ... Tall guy Scott and Helene Schappell helped 
 lure me back to MUSHing and graciously host some 
 of my Web content ... Bernadette is a sweet, 
 oddball, wonderful Aussie MUSHer who flew across the ocean to meet me (all 
 right, and others) 

 ABODE - go home! 
 | Address any comments and suggestions to mohundro@eskimo.com