Ball Lightning 

 TOP | 

 TESLA COILS | 

 GOOD STUFF | 

 NEW STUFF | 

 HELP | 

 NOTICE: New Book 

Ball Lightning: and unsolved problem in atmos. physics 

 Ball Lightning Page 

 Some Ball Lightning Books 
 Some Ball Lightning Papers 
 Ball Lightning Papers, Literature Search 
 Shortcut: Ball Lightning Research 
 Ball Lightning: Eyewitness accounts (large archive)
 Ball Lightning and skepticism 
 More Ball Lightning skepticism 
 Resonant "Energy-sucking" Antennas (New 7/99)
 Langmuir's Ball Lightning Vacuum Tube 
 Newsletter on Atmospheric Elect. , Russian BL
 B. Talbot article fm/ sci.geo.meteorology
 Report your unusual phenomena 
 About sparks and lightning 

BALL LIGHTNING does not look like "lightning." Instead, it usually
appears as a mysterious glowing sphere which drifts through the air. It
is typically the size of a grapefruit, but sometimes appears as small as a
pea, or as large as a bus. It sometimes drifts through the air, but can
also bounce along the ground. It usually lasts only a few seconds, but
sometimes persists much longer. Various colors of "BL" have been seen,
sometimes it changes colors, and sometimes it has internal structures
such as layers or moving sparks. 
Most researchers agree that it is real, yet its nature is still highly
controversial, and no sensible theories yet exist to explain it. See
Scientific American: BALL
LIGHTNING , also SAINT ELMO'S
FIRE 

 Make Your Own Ball Lightning? 

 Microwave Oven Ball Lightning (msg from usa-tesla listserv)
 Jean-Louis Naudin's MW plasmoids 
 Microwave Oven Recipe: Ball Lightning
 More Microwave BL 
 C. Sanders' attempted replication of Corum/Corum reports
 Some possible experiments 
 Extremely stable ion streams , any relation?
 Abstract: Golka1.html from Atmospheric Electricity Page 
 Microwave oven BL , from Keelynet 

LOOKING FOR BOOKS? Try searching

amazon.com : 

 (try "atmospheric electricity" too) 

Help Support The Science Club , use the above
form to buy your books. 
(We make a few $$ on any books ordered via these links.) 

 Ball Lightning Research 

 Corum Ball Lightning paper fm/TCBA 
 Call for papers , IBLS 2001 (july 26-29 St. Louis)
 Symposium Abstracts ISBL Antwerp 1999
 Royal Society BL report 
 Tornado experiment forms sphere of burning fuel 
 Sandia ICOPS99: Ball Lightning 
 ALP project (anom. lum. phenomena)
 Prof. Yoshi-Hiko Ohtsuki , Dept of Physics, Waseda U, Jp
 Masashi Kamogawa Waseda U., Jp
 ISBL-99 Report Int'l Seminar on Ball Lightning
 New E. Lewis page (BL/plasmoid/gorgon articles)

Planetophysical Function of Vacuum Domains , A.N. Dmitriev, V.L. Dyatlov, A.V. Teteno
 Nocturnal Lights, Norway 
 Some Ball Lightning Books 
 Some Ball Lightning Papers 
 Ball Lightning Papers, Literature Search 

 Journals with Ball Lightning on the WWW 

 Abstracts of the Journal for Scientific Exploration:

 Ball Lightning and St. Elmo's Fire as Forms of Thunderstorm Activity 
 BL Penetration into Closed Rooms: 43 Eyewitness Accounts 

 Ball Lightning papers on the INE web page: 

 Tornadoes and Ball Lightning 
 Gorgons, Tornadoes, and Plasmoid Phenomena 
 Concerning Production of Elements and Plasmoids 
 Plasmoid Phenomena 
 Considerations about Plasmoid Phenomena and Superconductivity Phenomena 

 Atmospheric Electricity HomePage 

 Abstract: Handel talk 
 Abstract: Golka1.html 

 TORRO J. of Meteorology, Ball Lightning 

 1994 Index 
 1995 Index 
 1996 Index 

 4th Torro Conference: Ball Lightning

 Links to Other Websites: 

 Spectres in the Storm 
 Boules de Feu (about.com UFO section)
 Two eyewitness BL accounts 
 NRP , Kolok's "plasmak"
 Mysterylights page
 Geophysical "Meteors" 
 Hubler/Abrahamson: BL is silicon aerojel 
 Newsgroup: alt.sci.natural.phenomena.unusual 
 Ball Lightning Articles from Corliss' 
 Science Frontiers newsletter
 S. Goodfellow page 
 A.D. Johnson 
 BL Article at New Scientist magazine
 Computer animation of Ball Lightning 
 Ball Lightning radio show , and more BL 
 What is Ball Lightning? 
 SciAm "Ask Experts" page 
 NY Times Article 
 Mysteries of Ball Lightning, X-tagger page 
 Koloc Ball Lightning article
 Ball Lightning email discussion
 "Tiny ball lightning" article, BL and Cold Fusion
 Ball Lightning Stories from sci.geo.meteorology
 Kugelblitz Page (German)
 J. Logajan's CF page , Plasmak artificial BL by Paul Koloc
 Message from Jonathan Woithe 
 Plasma Sci and Tech , and archive of sci.physics.plasma newsgroup
 Use Dejanews to search newsgroups for "ball lightning" keyword

"It is not uncommon for engineers to accept the reality of phenomena
that are not yet understood, as it is very common for physicists to
disbelieve the reality of phenomena that seem to contradict contemporary
beliefs of physics" - H. Bauer

"Round about the accredited and orderly facts of every science there
ever floats a sort of dust-cloud of exceptional observations, of
occurrences minute and irregular and seldom met with, which it always
proves more easy to ignore than to attend to... Anyone will renovate his
science who will steadily look after the irregular phenomena, and when
science is renewed, its new formulas often have more of the voice of the
exceptions in them than of what were supposed to be the rules." 
- William James

Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com .

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email.