Four Winds Kite Shop - Revolution Kites 

Whether for recreation, sport, or competition, Revolution offers

 a line of kites that will give all ages and abilities endless

 enjoyment in the ancient art and 21st Century technology of kite flying.

 Speed Series 

Revolution announces the Speed Series line of quad-line kites. 

 The first two in the series -- Shockwave and Supersonic are

 in response to fliers wanting more speed. We feel we have answered the kite

 flying public with a line that continues Revolution's commitment to quality.

 Shockwave 

The Shockwave is the first to come out of the new stable of

 Speed Series kites. With a noticeable increase in speed, fliers can

 test their flying ability on a kite that surpasses all other quad-line kites. 

 In order to accommodate the kites' higher performance, new graphite

 technology was researched to give this kite a structure that could withstand

 the unfamiliar level of stresses. It was this technology that gave the

 Rev 1.5 the SLE designation.

 Wingspan: 91 in. 

 Wind Range: 4-20 mph 

 Frame: 3wrap & Super Leading Edge 

 Price: $199. 95 Kite only 

 $289. 95 Complete 

Raspberry/DarkBlue 

Aqua/Gold/Purple 

Red/Black 

 Supersonic 

The Supersonic harnesses the speed of the Shockwave and has

 reduced the pull for those wanting a more forgiving yet still very fast kite. 

 Like the Shockwave , the Supersonic outperforms all other

 quad-line kites in linear speed, agility, precision, and durability.

 Wingspan: 91 in. 

 Wind Range: 4-20 mph 

 Frame: 3wrap & Super Leading Edge 

 Price: $199. 95 Kite only 

 $289. 95 Complete 

Raspberry/Black 

Blue/Raspberry/Aqua 

Aqua/Purple 

 Rev 1.5 SLE 

The Rev 1.5 continues to be the most dominant quad-line kite on the

 market today. For 1998 the Rev 1.5 will be released as the Rev 1.5

 SLE . The advances in the kite will be a new polyester sail and a

 Super Leading Edge . The new leading edge is the result of continuous

 research in the area of graphite technology. A larger diameter tube with

 stronger overall bending and hoop strength, give a more nimble and precise

 performance. Traditional quad-line flight characteristics are enhanced with

 the new technology.

 Wingspan: 91 in. 

 Wind Range: 4-20 mph 

 Frame: 3wrap & Super Leading Edge 

 Price: $159. 95 Kite only 

 $249. 95 Complete 

DarkBlue/Raspberry/Black 

Aqua/Gold/Purple 

Red/Black 

 EXP Experience 

New for 1998 will be the Rev EXP (The Revolution Experience). The

 EXP has the identical classic design as the traditional Rev 1.5 

 but a more economical sail makes the model the best value in quad-line kiting. 

 The performance that has long been associated with the Rev 1.5 remains

 unchanged. New fliers will find the EXP to be the ideal selection

 for entry level enthusiasts.

 Wingspan: 92 in. 

 Wind Range: 3-15 mph 

 Frame: 3wrap 

 Price: $104. 95 Kite only 

 $159. 95 Complete 

Aqua/DarkBlue 

DarkBlue/Raspberry 

 Phase 2 

For years fliers have been searching for the ultimate all-purpose sport kite

 that excels in all aspects of flying including ballet, precision, team, trick

 and recreational flying. While other kites have attempted this, the usual

 result has been a kite equally mediocre in those areas. The Phase 2 ,

 designed by master kite flier and instructor Dodd Gross gives the kite

 flier the one dual line kite to have in their bag. The sail is half-ounce

 polyester and the frame is Revolution 's aerospace quality graphite. 

 The frame is stiff enough for the flier to perform the latest tricks and

 forgiving enough for aggressive ground maneuvers. The Phase 2 

 features top quality construction throughout the kite.

 Wingspan: 90 in. 

 Wind Range: 4-18 mph 

 Frame: 3wrap 

 Price: $209. 95 

Blue/Aqua/Purple/White 

Raspberry/Blue/Purple/White 

Yellow/Purple/Raspberry/White 

 Accessories 

Also available from Revolution is an assortment of accessories. A variety of

 graphite spars, handles, videos, and flight lines will accommodate any wind

 condition or level of performance. Repair and upgrade kites are available to

 keep you kite at peak performance. The best dressed kite fliers will be

 sporting the "Team Revolution International" T-shirt.