Guide to installing an Apple Laserwriter II printer on a Windows PC

 Guide to installing an Apple Laserwriter II printer on a Windows PC 

Note: I'm not currently using this setup as it was just too slow for me.

I have just finished setting up two different Apple LW printers on separate Windows machines.
First config is a LW IIf on WinNT 4.0. I downloaded the Apple installer and Adobes latest 5.0 
driver. Configured the serial port for 9600/N/8/1, used a NullModem cable, 9pin-25pin. And 
it works fine. Slow, but fine. By slow I mean 4 minutes to print 1 page from Acrobat.
I downloaded the Mac based Apple LW Utilities, hooked up my Mac 7300/200 to the printer
via localtalk, set the baud rate in the printer to 57600, changed the WinNT com1 setting to 57600
(no reboots required) and the time went from 4 minutes to 2 minutes. Still not the greatest,
but not that bad either.
I'm also sharing this across my ethernet to my Win98 box next to the WinNT box, and I just 
installed the Adobe drivers for the Apple LW IIf, and it prints fine from there.

Items needed:

 LaserWriter IIf printer
 Windows NT 4.0 on a PC with an available serial port
 Adobe Drivers
 9pin-25pin serial cable, preferably a NULL modem cable
 NULL modem adapter, 25pin-25pin, if you don't get the NULL modem cable, I bought mine at Radio Shack
 Buy a NULL modem cable from Radio Shack

Step by step:

 Set LW near PC, plug in, do not turn on
 Connect 9pin end of serial cable to open port on back of PC, make sure you know which COM port this is, and that it's working
 Connect 25pin end of serial cable to back of LW, if the cable is a NULL modem cable. If it's not a NULL modem cable, insert the NULL modem adapter between the 25pin connector on the serial cable and the printer
 Power up LW, after a minute or two, the status sheet should print. This may be turned off by default
 Power up PC if not already running
 Download Adobe Drivers
 Download Apple Drivers
 Install all drivers
 Configure printer to use correct COM port
 Configure COM port to 9600/N/8/1 XON/XOFF (LW defaults)
 Check that the DIP switches on the back of the LW are set correctly, read the manual from Apple's site to see what all these settings are.
 For a LW IIf or IIg, here are the communication switch settings.

The other install is downstairs on my father's Win98 laptop. We hooked an Apple II NTX 
printer up via null modem serial cable, 9pin-25pin. Tried using the latest Adobe drivers and
they didn't work, they only support Postscript II, the NTX is Postscript I.
Went to "add a printer", selected "apple", then "laserwriter II ntx", installed.
Then in properties for that printer, I set the com1: to 9600/N/8/1. 
Presto, it works. Kinda slow, but workable.

Items needed:

 LaserWriter II NTX or NT printer
 Windows 95/98 on a PC with an available serial port
 Windows 95/98 install disk
 9pin-25pin serial cable, preferably a NULL modem cable
 NULL modem adapter, 25pin-25pin, if you don't get the NULL modem cable
 For the LW II NTX here are the communication port switch settings.
 For the LW II NT here are the communication port switch settings.
 Apple's page on connectiong a Windows PC to a LW NT printer.

Dale Beuning

 Apple's page giving complete details on the correct null modem serial cable pinouts.
 Apple TIL page on hookup your LW up to Windows.
 Adobe Windows Drivers 
 Apple Windows Drivers for Windows NT 
 Apple Windows Drivers for Windows 95 
 Apple Windows Drivers for Windows 3.1.x 
 Apple Laserwriter PDF Documents 
 Apple Macintosh Printer Utility 

Links: 

 Other ways to connect a Laserwriter to a Windows machine