Papers on Christianity

Papers on Christianity

There's not much here right now, but I like to write, so hopefully this
will populate soon. Everything here is copyrighted by Jonathan
Bartlett. I haven't decided fully on a distribution license, but
essentially you may freely distribute it as long as you keep my name
attached. You can even modify it, just be sure to put your name on the
modified parts and not mine. Also, if you do something with these,
find them interesting, find a mistake, or just want to discuss something
here, send me an email
(johnnyb@eskimo.com) .

Working on a new ministry and web site - check it out at http://www.tgministries.org/ (after further consideration, I may just fold this into Bartlett Publishing ).

Note that some of these pages are XML-based, and may require using a 
browser such as Mozilla to
render properly.

 A Call for a New Kind of Seminary 

 Ethics 

 Ethical Problems of Corporations 
 Finding and Dealing with Undirected Systemic Evil 
 Ginomai - a dialectic about why Oklahoma should not have a lottery 

 Confessions of Faith 

Confessions of faith are just that - confessions. They don't really
require proof because the person is simply saying what they believe. Here
you will find my confessions. Feel free to discuss them with me if you
are interested. 

 A Pragmatic Confession of the
Christian Faith - also available in LaTeX , PostScript , and PDF 

This is a paper I wrote for class at OBU ,
so it contains some parts that were more to fulfill the requirements of
the class than something that I thought fit. I believe everything I
wrote, but some parts are kind of disjointed because they were required
for class.

 Short Studies 

These are short studies on various topics, intended for doing over
several small-group Bible-study gatherings or for doing in a 
single, intensive study session.

 Christian Decision-making 

This is a bible study series I am working on. It is basically a bible-study
version of the book Decision-making by the book by Haddon W. Robinson,
with some extra stuff thrown in. It is currently a work-in-progress

 Correctly Handling the Word of Truth - an Introduction to Biblical Interpretation 
 Being Part of the Body of Christ 

 Short Essays 

 The Problem of Moralizing Non-believers 

 Book Reviews 

Okay, I don't have any yet, but I'm working on it.

 Other 

 Johnnyb's Quick Guide to Dieting 

Go back to the main page