We Need Campus Activism: LTE, The Index, 12 April 2000 

 Charles W. Johnson 
 We Need Campus Activism 
 22 January 2001 

 Vital stats 
 Essays 
 Ideology 
 Socialism 
 Welfare 
 Causes 
 Issues 

 Homepage 
 Feedback 

This is actually the first LTE I ever wrote. It was a letter to the
editor of the Kalamazoo College campus newspaper, The Index at
the end of Winter quarter. It was in response to a fairly ludicrous letter by Ryan
Biziorek which applauded our camups's most notorious anti-activist,
Frank Church, and declared that we should chill out on the campus activism
because, apparently, it gets in the way of the rich white boys having a good
time by "forcing" them to be "aware." It especially took
aim at feminist activism, since Womyn's Equity Coalition and Women's
Resource Center are almost the only student groups that take major action
over events on campus anymore. This came on the heels of a Winter quarter
during which men harassed and physically assaulted women at a women's
self-defense workshop , destroyed a WRC
clothesline display on violence against women, and disrupted a feminist
presentation on pornography . During Fall quarter, Maggie
Wardle was murdered by her former partner . Women were
 dying on our campus and yet the boys thought activists were
going too far. I felt the need to say something, and say it very loudly and
publicly, against the anti-activist tide. The letter was published in the
second week of Spring quarter (some very excellent responses were printed
first week, but mine was put off due to its length). People stopped me on
campus to congratulate me, and the Women's Studies department even posted
the article on their bulletin board with
"Thank you Charles Johnson!" written in marker. It was definitely
one of the most gratifying responses I have ever received for a piece of
writing.

- CWJ, 23 July 2000

Dear Index staff and members of the Kalamazoo College community,

Looking back at a quarter filled with turmoil over activism, and ahead to
one in which we will only be bombarded with more speeches, marches, and
awareness weeks, we as a campus community are at the perfect time to
consider where we are and where we are going. And considering it myself, I,
like Ryan
Biziorek , would like to call for a round of applause - not just for Frank
Church , but also for Stephen
Beights , for all those who attended the pornography
LAC , for those who
tore down the tee shirts on the Quad , and for Ryan himself. Indeed, these
fine citizens of the campus community (or, in the elder Beights's case,
citizens by proxy) deserve more than just applause. Their shining example
demands a standing ovation, a public celebration, for all the people
responsible for one of the most crude, offensive, ill-conceived series of
statements and acts that I have ever had the displeasure to witness.

Better than anyone else who has written on the topic, Ryan Biziorek
proves, to anyone who cares to read his odious words, the absurd and
repugnant conclusions of the laid-back liberalism that pervades our campus
culture. In his response to the conflict of last quarter, Biziorek has
deployed a truly impressive combination of complete ignorance, total apathy,
and an ability to find the perfect, carelessly appalling phrase in which to
frame his complacent attitudes towards gender violence. He has provided the
perfect expression of every reason why we, as participants in campus
culture, need to get pissed off,
 need to get involved, and above all
 need to reject the facile assumption that we live
in a blessed age that no longer needs activism.

Writing on the LAC lecture during Eighth Week by Alicia Turner, Biziorek was
appalled to find that Ms. Turner "was so rude as to IGNORE people who
were asking questions about the flip side of pornography." What Ryan
chooses to ignore , however, is that in fact Alicia
answered questions about the "flip side" repeatedly, and only
"ignored" those who continued to badger her with the same
questions she had just answered, rudely preventing others from speaking in
the discussion. He further ignores the
disrespectful, hostile behavior of many of the attendees, who chattered
incessantly throughout the presentation and discussion, and at one point
broke out in laughter at a slide. Ryan goes on to
 ignore what Turner explicitly said during the
lecture, and tell us that he "was amazed to find that the speaker
favored laws against 'this' and government regulations against 'that,'"
which I assume means laws banning pornographic depiction. If Ryan had
actually chosen to pay attention to what Ms. Turner said, he would have
found that she favored legislation which allowed women to seek civil 
redress for tangible wrongs - harassment, assault, rape, etc. - committed
against them in the production of pornography, and that she
 opposed criminal legislation which bans
"obscene" sexual depiction. Desperately trying to prove that his
incomprehension knows no bounds, Ryan asks, "Really, isn't it
[pornography] just another form of art?" Pornography, by the definition
given by Turner and other feminists (whom Ryan has decided to
 ignore ) is not just
another form of art; it is the violent subordination of women captured and
disseminated to the public. If there is , as Ryan
himself admits, "harm to women and men and other types of social
violence that evolves from pornography," then what other than the moral
laziness of laid-back liberalism could ever enable such atrocious
complacency, as trying to ignore the problem and
"look at the other side of the coin?" The other side of rape and
murder is not art; it is still rape and murder.

The absurdity reaches its height as Ryan wails of how activists do not
"appreciate the freedom we have as Americans," how we "throw
statistics at us and talk about laws regulating this and controlling
that," how we are trying to "regulate this freedom." Believe
it or not, Ryan, there is no legitimate freedom to beat, imprison, rape, or
murder women, nor to have these vicious crimes made invisible because people
are too busy relaxing to care. Presenting lectures (which cannot be
"shoved down our throats," since attendance is voluntary),
speaking out, and acting up against gender violence, are not taking away any
"freedom" that anyone ever had the right to possess - no matter
how much it may remind you of being forced to eat your veggies. It is
certainly true that "If we dwell on the past and if we dwell on
statistics," then "they only enrage us." They
 should enrage us. That, of every seven women you
know, at least one has been violently raped,
 should enrage you. That just in the past two
quarters, on our own campus, women have been harassed,
assaulted , and,
finally, murdered in acts of gender violence, should 
enrage you. Only the dull apathy of the laid-back liberal could allow
someone to still tell us to "look upon the good times and remember
those because we cannot change any part of the bad times." The more the
anti-activists of our community tell us to just Chill Out, Man, the more
they reveal the insipid bankruptcy of their politic, and the vicious regime
of terror and violence in which they are willing to live, so long as they
can "appreciate the basic everyday things around us," apparently
including the lofty achievements of 'this,' 'that,' porn, and cafeteria
food. 

And it is just this revelation of apathy, incomprehension, and disrespect
for which I applaud all those who have given voice to the growing tide of
anti-activism on campus. I spent a great deal of time over the past two
quarters fuming that such things could be taken seriously in our community.
It is primarily because the events of the past quarter that I have finally
moved beyond silent anger and begun actively participating in public
statements and campus organizations which stand up and speak out in
opposition to gender violence, particularly the Women's Equity Coalition and
Men Against Gender Violence. And, in no small part, I have the tasteless and
crude statements of the anti-activists to thank for it. Judging from the
responses I have seen, I believe that many others in our community feel the
same. So thank you, Frank Church, Ryan Biziorek, and all the rest. Thank you
for showing us the moral abyss that we must avoid at all costs. A standing
ovation for you all.

Charles W. Johnson, K'02