Children And Rape: LTE, The New York Times, 20.Apr.00 - Charles W. Johnson 

 Charles W. Johnson 
 Children and Rape 
 20 April 2000 

 Vital stats 
 Essays 
 Ideology 
 Socialism 
 Welfare 
 Causes 
 Issues 

 Homepage 
 Feedback 

This is one of my many cranky Letters to the Editor of the New
York Times . There had been a horrible rape in a Harlem public middle
school committed by preteen boys against a little girl. Michael Garber
wrote in to point out that the rape was not an isolated incident, but
part of a huge pattern of sexual violence by youth throughout the country.
While this was true, I felt that his reasoning about why this pattern
exists to be less satisfactory: he seems to think that it has to do with
"children" (i.e., boys) being oversexualized at an early age,
and somehow this awareness of human sexuality converts them into little
monsters who have to get off somehow, and so go out and commit a rape.
Well, no, it has to do with the fact that they are constantly exposed
to the denigration of women and the portrayal of sex as an act of power
and a weapon that men use against women. Like most of my LTEs to the
 Times , this was never published.

-CWJ, 25 May 2001

To the editor:

Re Michael Garber's letter to the editor on 20 April 2000: I am glad that
someone has written to point out that the horrific school rape in Harlem
was not just an isolated incident, but rather part of a much larger social
pattern of sexual violence.

I am less glad about his notion that some of the primary causes of this
sexual violence are exposure to "sexualized behavior from television,
movies, ads" and from seeing adults having sex, and equating their effects
along the way to the effects of rape of children by adults.

Garber seems to believe that any portrayal of sexual behavior seen by
pre-adolescents somehow corrupts innocent little minds into bestial
rapists. In fact, what enables such crimes to happen is the systematic
regime of degradation of and violence towards women, which unfortunately
is often played out in television, movies, and ads. Rape committed by
adults is the most extreme and violent end of this spectrum.

Working towrads helping aggressors is an important part of a solution. But
the problem itself will never be cured until sex is no longer portrayed as
a weapon used by men against women.

 Charles W. Johnson 
 Kalamazoo, Michigan , 20 April 2000