On the Million Mom March: LTE, The New York Times, 11.May.00 - Charles W. Johnson 

 Charles W. Johnson 
 On the Million Mom March 
 11 May 2000 

 Vital stats 
 Essays 
 Ideology 
 Socialism 
 Welfare 
 Causes 
 Issues 

 Homepage 
 Feedback 

This is one of my many cranky Letters to the Editor of the New
York Times . It was written on 11 May 2000 immediately after the Million
Mom March for gun control. The Times printed a fluff Op-Ed
piece on how great it was to see all these moms out there organized in
mommish care for their kids. I too was glad to see a strike taken against
the NRA, and especially to see political action by a mass mobilization of
women, but it also galled me to see yet another example of women
mobilizing for anyone other than themselves, reinforcing the notion that
women's political action must be delimited by their roles as caregiving
Mothers keeping watch over the interests of their beloved men. As usual, the
letter was not published.

- CWJ, 20 August 2000

To the Editor:

Re "Moms Marching for Gun Control" (Op-Ed, May 11): I agree that the
"Million Mom March" will be valuable in helping "seize control of
America's gun control debate from the National Rifle Association and its
political mouthpieces" by allowing the majority voice on gun control take
the advantage in organization and coordination away from the NRA. However,
in a year in which a new President and Congress will be elected, and
Supreme Court decisions will be made on the Violence Against Women Act and
Nebraska's attempts to terrorize abortion providers through an
indecipherably vague "partial-birth abortion" ban, I view "The spectacle
of huge numbers of mothers organizing to protect their children" with
resignation and regret.

 When will our culture have moved far enough beyond the view that women
exist only to birth and care for [male] babies, that we witness the
spectacle of huge numbers of women organizing to protect
 themselves ? When will we see a Million Woman March
demanding political action without being chained to sons, husbands, fathers,
or brothers? 

Charles W. Johnson 
Kalamazoo, MI, 11 May 2000