Prison Overcrowding and the War on Drugs: LTE, Opelika-Auburn News, 24 May 2001 

 Charles W. Johnson 
 Politics: Prison Overcrowding and the War on Drugs 
 24 May 2001 

 Vital stats 
 Essays 
 Ideology 
 Socialism 
 Welfare 
 Causes 
 Issues 

 Homepage 
 Feedback 

This letter to the editor of the Opelika-Auburn
News is a condensed version (because of their 300 word limit) of a slightly
longer letter that I sent to Governor Siegelman, Lt. Gov. Steve Windom, my
state senator and representative, and several other figures in state politics
immediately after Judge Shashy's ruling was announced. Alabama's inhuman
prison system and racist, violent police force are one of the single greatest
barriers to the continuing progress of racial justice in this state. As
they always have been; to paraphrase Malcolm X, the white supremacist have
traded in the hoods and white sheets - well, some of them have traded in
the hoods and white sheets - for badges and blue uniforms and black robes.
The letter was published on Thursday, 24 May 2001.

- CWJ, 24 May 2001

Editors, Opelika-Auburn News:

This past Friday, Judge William Shashy ordered the state to move to state prisons the nearly 2,000
state prisoners who have been illegally jammed into county jails for more than 30 days. Intense
overcrowding throughout the prison system has produced inhuman conditions for the prisoners, and
huge headaches for county sheriffs and the Department of Corrections. Our state government has
responded to the situation by proposing to spend more of our tax money on newer, bigger prisons
and more corrections officers. But why should we keep throwing more people into an expanding
prison system, when that's what landed us in this crisis in the first place?

About one out of every six prisoners in the state of Alabama - over 4,000 inmates - is imprisoned for
nonviolent drug offenses, "crimes" which hurt nobody but themselves. Theyre jammed into overcrowded
cells for years, stripped of their civil rights to vote, and made to work like slaves in furniture plants,
chemical plants, and right out on the fields through prison labor programs. Worse, two-thirds of the
prison population is Black; the racist enforcement of the War on Drugs - a war on some people who
use certain kinds of drugs - threatens to take Alabama back to the plantation and Jim Crow.

Prison population has been skyrocketing ever since the introduction of Alabama's mandatory
minimum sentencing laws, which require judges to put away nonviolent first-time drug offenders
for anywhere between three and nineteen years, depending on the drug involved. If you want to
solve Alabama's prison population crisis, don't throw away more of our tax dollars on new prisons.
Instead, release Alabamas 4,000 prisoners of the War on Drugs and repeal the insane drug laws
that created this crisis.

 Charles W. Johnson 
 Auburn