The Daily Bleed: A Calendar Better Than Boiled Coffee! Timeline, Chronology, Labor, Radical, Arts, Literature, Authors, Poets, Anarchists... Our Daily Bleed... 1606 -- Trial & conviction of Gunpowder Plotters, London.    "Since the day a man had the criminal ability to profit by another man's labor, since that very same day the exploited toiler has instinctively tried to give to his master less than was demanded from him. In this wise the worker was unconsciously doing SABOTAGE, demonstrating in an indirect way the irrepressible antagonism that arrays Capital & Labor one against the other."  Emile Pouget     ( Cited, Daily Bleed, Jan 27, 1606 )   Use your back button to return to today's Daily Bleed  
 1842 -- Savoyard Franois Dumartheray (1842-1931) lives, in Collonges, the High Saone. Member of the First International & an anarchist communist.  Dumartheray took refuge in Switzerland during the French repression. He was a delegate to the anti-authoritarian International Congress in September 1873, & those to follow.  In February 1876, he published the booklet "Aux travailleurs manuels partisans de l'action politique". In 1877, helped write the constitution of an anarchist French federation which held its first congress at Chaux-de-Fonds.  In February 1879, he joined Kropotkin & Herzig to produce in Geneva the newspaper "Le Rvolt", propagating "libertarian communism" which was adopted by the Jurassic Federation at its Congress of 9 & 10 October 1880. Despite the French amnesty of 1880, Dumartheray remained in Switzerland until 1927. Francois  http://www.freespeech.org/sans-culottes/anarcho2.html  http://perso.club-internet.fr/ytak/janvier4.html#27  ( Cited, Daily Bleed, Jan 27, 1842 )   Use your back button to return to today's Daily Bleed  
 1880 -- Thomas Edison patents electric incandescent lamp.  The primary drawback to gas lighting was the danger of fire, particularly indoors. Leaking or partially closed light fixtures could fill a room or building with an explosive volume of gas, resulting in a deadly blast that often led to fire. Detroit newspapers of the gaslight era are filled with tragic reports of whole families and blocks of homes being lost in gas explosions or fires. Apparently, turn-of-the-century Detroiters resignedly accepted these in the same way they would later accept motor vehicle accidents, as part of the cost of Progress. ( Cited, Daily Bleed, Jan 27, 1880 )   Use your back button to return to today's Daily Bleed  
 1913 -- US: Patterson silk workers' strike.  800 employees of Doherty Silk Mill quit work in protest of firing a workers' committee trying to talk to management about eliminating the four-loom system, returning to two-looms per worker. The new system meant faster, harder work for less pay. The strike became industry-wide Feb 25. The IWW was called in to help & 25,000 -- virtually all the silk workers in the city -- went on strike. Lasts six months, ending when ribbon workers negotiate separately. Negotiations broke down, shop by shop. The workers had become impoverished & weakened during the long strike. See Joyce Kornbluh's book Rebel Voices .  ( Cited, Daily Bleed, Jan 27, 1913 )   Use your back button to return to today's Daily Bleed  
 1945 -- Ukrainian division of Soviet Army frees surviving Auschwitz prisoners. Near the provincial Polish town of Oshwiecim, the Soviet Red Army liberates Auschwitz, a Nazi concentration camp where between two & three million people perished during World War II. As the Russians explore the three main camps comprising Auschwitz they find approximately 8,000 survivors--individuals too sick & hungry to participate in the death marches forced on the other surviving prisoners by the Nazis days before the camps liberation. Although the Nazis had made efforts to destroy the evidence of their atrocities before their departure, the massive scale of the genocide committed at Auschwitz is too great to hide & the remains of the camps extermination facilities--& of its victims--are documented by the Russians.  ( Cited, Daily Bleed, Jan 27, 1945 )   Use your back button to return to today's Daily Bleed  
 1969 -- A group of Detroit African-American auto workers known as the Eldon Avenue Axle Plant Revolutionary Union Movement leads a wildcat strike against racism & bad working conditions. Since the 1967 Detroit rebellion, African American workers organized militant groups in several Detroit auto plants. The most famous of these was the Dodge Revolutionary Union Movement, or DRUM. Combining Black-Power nationalism & workplace militancy, these young militants compare factories to plantations & white supervisors to brutal overseers. Shutting down inner-city plants in more than a dozen wildcat strikes, they criticize both the seniority system & griivance procedures as racist. United Auto Workers (UAW) union leaders quickly denounce the protests, calling the dissidents (quote) "black fascists." The revolutionary groups leave a permanent imprint on the Detroit labor movement. Most inner-city UAW locals aresoon be headed by African Americans, some of them veterans of the insurgency. See Detroit: I Do Mind Dying by Dan Georgakas & Marvin Surkin (new foreword by Manning Marable):  http://www.lbbs.org/sep/detroit.htm  http://www.igc.org/dissent/archive/summer98/fraser.html ( Cited, Daily Bleed, Jan 27, 1969 )   Use your back button to return to today's Daily Bleed  
 1973 -- Vietnam Peace Treaty signed in Paris. All American troops are to leave Vietnam within 90 days. Ends the longest war in US history. This is the same agreement as was drafted the previous October. 23,000 American troops still left in Vietnam. & announcement of (?) draft end. 3 million Americans are enlisted in the military 55,000 Americans have died in the Vietnam war  Great Exp: 58,000 dead / 153,000 wounded / 35,000 widows & orphans created  275,000 Americans experience a death in their family  1.4 million saw someone in their family wounded  6.5 million served in armed forces, 1 million+ saw combat  ( Cited, Daily Bleed, Jan 27, 1973 )   Use your back button to return to today's Daily Bleed  
 1988 -- Center for Constitutional Rights reveals the FBI had under surveillance a number of organizations critical of Beloved & Respected Comrade Leader Reagan administration policies in Central America.  Although the principal target was the Committee in Solidarity with the People of El Salvador (CISPES), more than 100 other groups were investigated, including the Roman Catholic Maryknoll Sisters, the United Auto Workers, the United Steel Workers, & the National Education Association. Beloved & Respected Comrade Leader FBI director William Sessions said the investigations were an outgrowth of the belief that CISPES was aiding a "terrorist organization."  http://www.catholicworker.org/  ( Cited, Daily Bleed, Jan 27, 1988 )   Use your back button to return to today's Daily Bleed  anti-CopyRite 2000-3000, more or less Subscribe to daily email updates (include the words 'subscribe bleed' in subject field), or send questions, suggestions, additions, corrections to: "> BleedMeister David Brown Visit the complete Daily Bleed Archives The Daily Bleed is freely produced by Recollection Used Books