The Daily Bleed: A Calendar Better Than Boiled Coffee! Timeline, Chronology, Labor, Radical, Arts, Literature, Authors, Poets, Anarchists... Our Daily Bleed... -- I whispered: memory hurts wherever you touch it.  George Seferis 
 -- MARCH 27  SARAH VAUGHN "Divine Sassie," the legendary jazz vocalist. Ancient Rome: LIBERALIA, the festival of the Vegetation God, Liber Pater, which in the third century B.C. exploded into the wild nocturnal orgies of the Bacchanalia, later suppressed by the state. Egypt: SMELL THE BREEZES DAY. Traditionally a time for picnics. In the morning, smell a cut onion, get dressed up & head for a picnic in the country. AFRICAN LIBERATION DAY. Mason City, Iowa: ROSA'S CANTINA DAY. LAZY MOOCHER'S DAY. 
 922 -- Execution of Abu al-Mughith-al-Husayn ibn Mansur al-Hallaj. 
 1513 -- Pedophilia?: Ponce de Leon reaches Florida looking for fountain of youths. 
 1599 -- Earl of Essex sent to put down a rebellion in Ireland. 
 1797 -- Alfred de Vigny (1797-1863) lives. French poet/playwright/novelist, gave up a military career for poetry. Friend of Victor Hugo & his circle. http://www.kirjasto.sci.fi/devigny.htm 
 1814 -- Massacre of Tohopeka (Horseshoe Band). Beloved & Respected Comrade Leader General Andrew Jackson overwhelms Creek forces. To count the dead, whites cut off their noses -- piling 557 of them --- & skin bodies to tan hides for souvenirs. What Ayn Rand, for one, will justify as "bringing them civilization." 
 1871 -- Heinrich Mann (1871-1950) lives, Lbeck. German writer, brother of Thomas Mann.  Attacks on militarism, nationalism & the authoritarian social structure of German society led to his exile in 1933 to the United States. Studied bookbinding & tried also career as an artist. Best known novel Professor Unrat , is a story of a professor destroyed by his passion to be a night-club singer, has been filmed many times, but best known version is Der Blaue Engel (The Blue Angel), directed by Joseph Von Sternberg, featuring Marlene Dietrich. http://www.kirjasto.sci.fi/hmann.htm 
 1873 -- US: Major W.H. Brown's troops attack Tonto Apache camp at Turret Butte, Arizona. 
 1892 -- France: Bomb explodes, partly destroying the building where the Paris prosecutor lives. Ravachol set it off, in revenge for trying & sentencing of the anarchists Descamps, Dardare & Lveill, (August 28, 1891.) 
 1898 -- US: Red Emma Goldman lectures in Cincinnati to a large meeting of the Ohio Liberal Society. Brady complains about their separation; she responds by asserting her need for freedom.  anarchist feminist 
 1909 -- US: Wally Nelson, tax-resistor & non-violent activist, lives, in Arkansas. Massachusetts farmer & conscientious objector (CO) who has refused income tax payments for over 50 years. 
 1910 -- Ai Qing, poet, lives, Jinhua, China. Advocate of the doctrines of Mao Zedong. Selected Poems of Ai Qing is published in 1982. 
 1911 -- This Month in Labor History: March   March 27, 1967 -- Local 225 organizes Hudson Transit Lines in New Jersey.  March 28, 1962 -- Fifth Avenue Coach employees return victoriously to work as company abandons operation to NYC authority. Birth of MABSTOA. 
 1912 -- Canada.: Start of 8-month Fraser River Strike by IWW (Industrial Workers of the World) railroad construction workers, British Columbia. http://infoshop.org/texts/iww.html 
 1912 -- US: First Japanese cherry blossom trees planted in Washington DC. 
 1917 -- US: Toothless In Seattle? The Seattle Metropolitans become the first US hockey team to win the Stanley Cup, defeating the Montreal Canadiens, 600-1, more or less. Pucker Up. 
 1923 -- American poet Louis Simpson lives, Jamaica, B.W.I. Won the 1963 Pulitzer Prize for At the End of the Open Road. 
 1923 -- Commemorate the passing on this day of James Dewar, inventor of the thermos flask. Source: 'Calendar Riots' 
 1924 -- Legendary American jazz vocalist Sarah Vaughn lives. 
 1928 -- D. H. Lawrence, writing to Aldous Huxley, calls Arnold Bennett "a pig in clover." Exactly three years later, in 1931, Bennett dies of typhoid at 64, after drinking water in a Paris hotel to prove to companions that it is safe. The next night Virginia Woolf notes in her diary:  "Queer how one regrets the dispersal of anybody...who had direct contact with life for he abused me; & yet I rather wished him to go on abusing me; & me abusing him." 
 1931 -- Uruguay: Arrest of Miguel Arcangel Roscigna, anarchist Argentinean expropriator who, after being a wrought iron craftsman, went from anarcho-syndicalism to violent action. Initiated by Durruti in bank robberies to finance propaganda & to help prisoners escape. October 1, 1927, Roscigna & his gang (Andrs Vasquez Paredes, Vicente & Antonio Moretti) netted an impressive 141,000 pesos in a Buenos Aires robbery. A police officer was killed but they escaped to Uruguay. There they financed a spectacular escape from the Punta Carretas Prison in Montevideo, freeing nine men, but resulting in the arrest of Roscigna & Moretti. Sentenced to six years in prison before being delivered to the Argentinean police who then murdered them: the body of Roscigna has never been found (a now familiar "method" of torturing & disappearing the victims). See Osvaldo Bayer's Les anarchistes expropriateurs . 
 1942 -- US: The Army issues Public Proclamation No. 4 prohibiting the changing of residence for all in Military Area No. 1, effectively ending the "voluntary evacuation." Seeing the unworkability of his plan to allow Japanese-Americans to leave the Pacific Coast of "their own accord" (most Nisei were turned back at whatever state line they happened to reach, or were attacked by hostile mobs once they did manage to find a new home.) Lt. General John DeWitt ended the voluntary policy (see 2 March). Two days later, a more "practical" policy, forced evacuation & internment , officially took effect. http://www.janm.org/clasc/resources.htm 
 1951 -- Iran: Mossadeq nationalizes Anglo-Iranian Oil Company. 
 1953 -- The US State Department bans Dashiell [DASH-ell] Hammett's novels from its overseas libraries.  This year, Senator Joseph McCarthy sent aides Roy Cohn & G. David Schine on a tour of U.S. libraries in Europe to ferret out so-called subversive books. McCarthy's boys found 300 Hammett detective stories there. Questioned by Cohn in front of the House Un-American Activities Committee, Hammett would not say whether he was a Communist, when he wrote the books, nor whether royalties ended up in party coffers. Hammett frustrated the committee with these ambiguous words,  "If I were fighting Communism, I don't think I would do it by giving people any books at all." http://www.mysterynet.com/hammett/ http://www.thrillingdetective.com/eyes2.html 
 1962 -- Good Friday psilocybin experiment. 
 1964 -- A magnitude 8.3 (Richter) earthquake flattens Anchorage, Alaska. Some 30 blocks of residential & commercial buildings are destroyed in the city, & 131 die (most victims of a tidal wave generated by the quake). One of the largest ever recorded, the quake is felt as far away as Seattle. 
 1966 -- South Vietnam: 20,000 Buddhists in silent march for peace, Hue. 
 1967 -- A riot breaks out at a Rolling Stones concert in Halsinborg, Sweden. 5 days later, 154 fans were arrested in another riot at a Stones concert in Vienna, Austria. & then 3 weeks later, another riot broke out at a Stones concert in Zurich, Switzerland. 
 1967 -- US: Local 225 organizes Hudson Transit Lines in New Jersey. 
 1968 -- Colonel Yuri Gagarin killed in a crash of his jet trainer the cosmonaut who piloted Vostok 1 as the first man in space. 
 1968 -- Little Willie John, 31, dies of a heart attack in Walla Walla (Washington) Penitentiary. A teenage R&B singer in the gospel-influenced mold of James Brown, Sam Cooke & Jackie Wilson before going to jail for killing a man in a Seattle street fight in 1961. 
 1969 -- US: The first Chicano Youth Liberation Conference in history is held by the Crusade for Justice. During the week-long conference, the poet known as Alurista (Alberto Baltazar Urista) presents his poem on the myth of Aztln, which captures the imagination of the conference by defining a symbolic Chicano homeland within the borders of the United States.  The conference celebrates its delegates' cultural identity as the 'nation of Aztlan' & organises the Brown Berets (for community self-defence).  
 1969 -- Bo Diddley opens at Winterland, Frisco. 
 1970 -- US: Alice Herez dies after immolating herself on 16 March to protest the Vietnam War. 
 1971 -- NY radio station WNBC bans the song "One Toke Over the Line" by Brewer & Shipley for alleged drug references. Other stations around the country follow suit. The composer of the tune, Tom Shipley, responds, "In this electronic age, pulling a record because of its lyrics is like the burning of books in the Thirties." http://hempology.yi.org/textbook/ch6.html#cannabis 
 1971 --  Today Heberto Padilla, the renowned Cuban poet & former editor of "Granma" (fired for favorable comments on the work of GuillermoCabrera Infante), is jailed for 37 days.  He is also denied work for a year.  His case aroused a world-wide storm of protest by prominent pro-Castro & other intellectuals & writers.  Dumont, in true Stalinist fashion, confesses he was guilty of adopting "counter-revolutionary" attitudes & in his own words, "... providing information to CIA agents like myself & K.S. Karol (p. 120ff.; Karol is a friendly critic of Castro & author of Guerillas in Power , & like Dumont invited to visit Cuba by Castro).  Sam Dolfoff, The Cuban Revolution   Out of the Game The poet, get rid of him He has nothing to do around here He does not play the game lacks enthusiasm He does not make his message clear does not even notice the miracles. He spends the whole day thinking always finds something to object to That fellow, get rid of him Remove the party pooper the summer malcontent who wears dark glasses in the new dawn of time without history He is even out of date He likes only the old Louis Armstrong Humming, at most, a song of Pete Seeger He sings 'Guantanamera' through clenched teeth No one can make him talk No one can make him smile each time the spectacle begins... 
 1972 -- US: Soledad Brothers acquitted. 
 1975 -- US: Christ's body found in Detroit! by the Fifth Estate newspaper staff on Easter Day.   This possibly explains this paper's longevity, as it continues to publish today.  The oldest survivor of the hundreds of underground papers started nationwide in the 1960s is Detroit's Fifth Estate.  The FE was founded by Harvey Ovshinsky, now an award-winning TV producer, in November 1965.  While the vast majority of alternative papers died or became mainstream, the FE got more radical through the years. In its 35th anniversary issue, the paper describes itself as the longest-running English-language anarchist journal in U.S. history. The issue carries stories about protests against global capitalism, mental hospitals, radical sexuality, utopias, the myths of the democratic process & a review of Detroit's anarchist band, The Layabouts . 
 1977 -- Worst accident in aviation history occurs when a Pan Am 747 collided with a KLM 747 on a runway in Tenerife in the Canary Islands, resulting in about 580 deaths. 
 1980 -- A leg of the North Sea oil drilling platform Alexander L. Keilland breaks off during a storm, causing the platform to capsize; 123 die. 
 1980 -- US: Mount St Helens in Washington State becomes active after 123 years of just laying about. 
 1986 -- US: Welfare Bums? US Senate approves 100 million for rightwing Nicaraguan contras while cutting domestic programs, slashing welfare programs. 
 1988 -- Charles Willeford dies. Novelist, poet.  1947, Five poems published in "Outcast Poets," published by Alicat Bookshop Press; 1947-49, Kyushu, Japan. Runs Army of Occupation radio station WLKH; 1948, Proletarian Laughter published by Alicat Bookshop Press; 1974, Film version of Cockfighter produced & released; Willeford writes the screenplay & plays the role of Ed Middleton. 3/88 Died in Miami; buried in Arlington National Cemetery. To lose Willeford  We can ill afford. "He was born with a gift of laughter & a sense that the world is mad."  Rafael Sabatini http://www.dennismcmillan.com/charleswillefo/ 
 1988 -- Israel: Mordechai Vanunu jailed 18 years for disclosing Israeli nuclear weapons program. He is kept incommunicado, in solitary confinement, for the next 10 years. 
 1993 -- Germany: A new generation of Rote Armee Fraktion activists destroys a recently completed hi-tech prison. Source: 'Calendar Riots' 
 1995 -- Sudanese government agrees to two-month cease fire in its war with rebels in southern Sudan. 
 1996 -- Germany: The Kleine Hamburger Strasse 5 is evicted. This follows yesterday's eviction of The Palisadenstrasse 49, & is part of a 2-year government assault on the Squatter's Movement. http://www.eskimo.com/~recall/bleed/1003b.htm#1990 
 1998 -- US: Five thousand demonstrate in Washington, D.C., in support of Mumia Abu-Jamal, Leonard Peltier, & other political prisoners in America. http://fusion.sims.berkeley.edu/lcush/IWactionpage2.cfm 
 1999 -- US: Fourth Annual Bay Area Anarchist Book Fair. Frisco County Fair Building, Golden Gate Park. Admission - FREE! Over 60 anarchist groups participate & over 2000 persons attend. http://burn.ucsd.edu/~mai/ 
 3000 -- ICHOR  n. A fluid that serves the gods & goddesses in place of blood.  Fair Venus, speared by Diomed, Restrained the raging chief & said: "Behold, rash mortal, whom you've bled Your soul's stained white with ichorshed!"  Mary Doke, from Ambrose Bierce, The Devil's Dictionary  
 4000 --  anti-CopyRite 2000-3000, more or less Subscribe to daily email updates (include the words 'subscribe bleed' in subject field), or send questions, suggestions, additions, corrections to: "> BleedMeister David Brown Visit the complete Daily Bleed Archives The Daily Bleed is freely produced by Recollection Used Books anarchist, labor, radical books See also: Anarchist Encyclopedia http://recollectionbooks.com/bleed/gallery/galleryindex.htm Stan Iverson Memorial Library http://recollectionbooks.com/siml/ Anarchist Time Line / Chronology http://recollectionbooks.com/bleed/indexTimeline.htm