The Daily Bleed: A Calendar Better Than Boiled Coffee! Timeline, Chronology, Labor, Radical, Arts, Literature, Authors, Poets, Anarchists... Our Daily Bleed... -- . . . There are other ways; we know the way to make the other choice for death: unformed or broken, less than whole, puzzled, we live in a formless world. Endless, we hope for no end. I tell you death, expect no smile of pride from me. I bring you nothing in my empty hands.  William Bronk (1918-1999) "The Smile on the Face of a Kouros," Life Supports: New & Collected Poems ; originally published in TheEmpty Hands , 1969 
 -- APRIL 12 JOSEPHINE BAKER Saint of the Sinuous Sensuous. HELL IS A DEMOCRACY DAY.   Photo op: The US staging of Saddam Hussein statue toppled in Bagdad  Guatemala: Cohumatan Indians have CEREMONY TO PRESERVE CORN from frost by using prayers to chase the frost into a crack in the mountain & sealing the crack with mortar. Very way cool trick. Russia: COSMONAUT'S DAY. News item: 'General Yuri Glazkov, deputy commander of the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Centre, said Tuesday Lucid's presence on Mir will be a bonus because, "We know that women love to clean" ' see 13 April. BARBERSHOP QUARTET DAY. 
 1557 -- Thomas Loseby, Henry Ramsey, Thomas Thirtel, Margaret Hide & Agnes Stanley burnt for heresy 
 1709 -- Richard Steele publishes the first issue of The Tatler. 
 1782 -- US: During the Revolutionary War, a US militia troop attacks Christian Indians of the Delaware Nation in their villages on western Pennsylvania's Tuscarawas River. The Indians declared themselves neutral in the war against the British. During the attack, the Indians stand their ground but take no defense. Assured no harm will befall them, the Indians allow themselves to be rounded up. The soldiers know the Indians are peaceful, but this does not stop them from killing more than 100 men & women. Eyewitness David Zeisberger describes the Indians:  "They prayed & sang until the tomahawks struck into their heads. The bodies were burned together with the houses."  The Pennsylvania assembly will investigate & condemn the massacre, but will take no action against the soldiers or their commanders.  
 1812 -- Charles Messier, "comet ferret," ends the hunt. http://www.seds.org/messier/xtra/history/biograph.html 
 1861 -- CSA: Confederate troops fire the first shot of the Civil War against Fort Sumter, South Carolina. The Union commander of the fort had offered to surrender in two days, when his food supply was due to run out. But the Southern officers refused to allow the delay, fearing, as one later admitted, that Abraham Lincoln & Jefferson Davis would settle their differences amicably, & the chance of war would slip away forever. 
 1871 -- France: DECREE OF THE COMMUNE TO DEMOLISH THE VENDOME COLUMN: "The Paris Commune , considering that the Imperial Column in the Place Vendme is a monument of barbarism, a symbol of brute force & false glory, an affirmation of militarism, a denial of international law, a permanent insult directed at the conquered by their conquerors, a perpetual attack upon one of the three great principles of the French republic, decrees that the column in the Place Vendome "shall be demolished."  from Schulkind (ed.), The Paris Commune of 1871: The View from the Left  This decree, passed today, was carried out May 16, 1871. Photos of the Column having been pulled down can be found in various books. (The column was brought by Napoleon from his Egypt campaign.) A few years later, in 1879, when the Commune was still recent enough that a reference to this event would be recognized, Mark Twain closed his "Some Remarks on the Science of Onanism" with these words:  "...in concluding, I say, 'If you must gamble away your lives sexually, don't play a Lone Hand too much.' When you feel a revolutionary uprising in your system, get your Vendome Column down some other way -- don't jerk it down."  quoted in a footnote of G. Legman's The Limerick , p. 465.  http://flag.blackened.net/revolt/talks/paris.html Anarchist_Archives/pariscommune/Pariscommunearchive.html  http://www.place-vendome.net/html/accueil.html 
 1877 -- US: Catcher's mask first used in a baseball game. 
 1900 -- Florence Reece lives. Active in Harlan County, Kentucky coal strikes & author of the famed labor song "Which Side Are You On?"  The song was written in 1931 during a strike by the United Mine Workers of America. During this strike, the sheriff, J.H. Blair, led his gang of thugs on a violent rampage, beating & murdering union leaders. They found themselves at the Reece's home, looking for her husband Sam, where Florence was alone with the children. The men ransacked the house to no avail. While Florence waited inside for her husband, she wrote the song on an old wall calendar.   [Details, click here] 
 1900 -- Puerto Rico: American Empire begins in earnest as the island is surrendered to the US military authority. Today, the Foraker Law (Organic Act of 1900) is approved, establishing civil government & "free" commerce between the island & US. 
 1904 --  US: During this month Emma Goldman seeks to extend her influence beyond the immigrant community by exposing a broader American audience to anarchism. She lectures in Philadelphia on "The Tragedy of Woman's Emancipation." Her first attempts to deliver her lecture is stalled by Officer Friendlies, but public support for free speech gains her eventual success in delivering the lecture. 
 1906 -- Spain: Francisco Ferrer, Spanish anarchist pedagogue, continues to test the tolerance of Spanish authorities & clerics by organizing a massive demonstration today, Good Friday (April 12, 1906), in support of secular education. http://recollectionbooks.com/bleed/gallery/galleryindex.htm#Ferrer 
 1907 -- American mystery-adventure writer Leslie Charteris lives, Singapore.  Best-known for "The Saint stories, depicting adventures of Simon Templar, hero outside the law. First screen adaptation was made in 1938, TV series started 1963.The Saint preceded Ian Fleming's James Bond, but as an outlaw & thus a relative of Robin Hood, Maurice Leblanc's gentleman thief Arsen Lupin, or Mickey Spillane's fascist Mike Hammer.  Alexandre Marius Jacob (1879-1954), the anarchist bandit credited with over 150 burglaries, is the original "Arsene Lupin" in the French detective novels of Maurice Leblanc, with only slight exagerations which made him a sensational "fictional" character. 
 1908 -- US: A fire that began in a dump in the Chelsea section of Boston, Massachusetts spread through the community & ignites oil tanks on the Chelsea Creek, eventually rendering 17,000 people homeless. 
 1913 -- France: Georges Cochon & several thousand homeless invade the town hall in Paris.  Cochon, a tapestry maker, anarchist & very popular secretary of the "Federation of Tenants", declared war on "Mister Vulture" (the landlords). He helped the evicted move, as well as take over unoccupied housing. 
 1916 -- Beverly Cleary lives, author of Ramona children's books. 
 1918 -- Russia: Moscow headquarters of the anarchists surrounded & attacked by Bolshevik troops. For the past two days Cheka, the Bolshevik secret police has carried out raids on Moscow anarchist groups & making arrests. Very similar to what happens to anarchists, radical & labor activists in the US during this period.  "At last the Soviet government, with an iron broom, has rid Russia of Anarchism."  Leon Trotsky, who prepared the military action against the anarchists  Apparently Snowball missed a few; given all the current Russian & other anarchist groups in the former USSR.  [Details, click here] 
 1919 -- Ireland: The Limerick Soviet of 1919. See Daily Bleed Gallery page, http://www.eskimo.com/~recall/bleed/sinners/LimerickSoviet.htm 
 1919 -- Italy: Founding congress of the l'Union Anarchiste Communiste held, 12-14 April. 
 1919 -- US: Benefit concert at Carnegie Hall for the League for the Amnesty of Political Prisoners organized by M. Eleanor Fitzgerald ,Stella Ballantine, & Harry Weinberger. anarchist  Eugene Debs is incarcerated this month.  Also an Immigration officer interrogates Emma Goldman in prison. Following the visit, the Bureau of Immigration determines there are no legal barriers to Goldman's deportation. Anthony Caminetti, Commissioner General of the Bureau of Immigration, pursues policy for allowing her deportation.  Socialist Kate Richards O'Hare joins Goldman in prison, getting her very own cell at the Jefferson City, Mo., penitentiary.  
 1923 -- Tiny Tim (Herbert Buckingham Khaury), singer with falsetto warble & ukulele ("Tiptoe Through the Tulips" ), reportedly lives. 
 1927 -- China: Shanghai Commune is betrayed by the Communist Party into the hands of K.M.T. troops. 
 1931 -- Spain: Teresa Claramunt, (1862-1931) dies, Barcelona. Militante anarchiste, anarcho-syndicaliste et fministe catalane. Elle est ne en 1862. Ouvrire dans le textile et militante anarchite, elle collabore la revue "El Productor"( Le producteur). Ds 1905, elle revendique, dans une brochure, le droit l'galit desfemmes dans la socit, et la prise en mains par ces dernires de leurs propres destines. Elle est, encompagnie de Soledad Gustavo (avec qui elle tait trs lie), une des pionnires del'anarcho-syndicaliste fminin en Espagne, poussant Federico Urales reprendre la parution de"La Revista Blanca". Militante acharne, Teresa est plusieurs fois arrte et interroge par lapolice. Elle y subit de mauvais traitements pour avoir refuse de livrer les noms de ses compagnonsanarchistes recherchs, et sera condamne 5 ans de prison. Son enterrement, le 14 avril futl'occasion d'une grande manifestation anarchiste dans la ville de Barcelone. Edited La mujer en la Lucha Social y en la Guerra Civil de Espaa , de Lola Iturbe. (Editores Mexicanos Unidos, S.A. Mxico D.F., 1974). http://perso.club-internet.fr/ytak/janvier1.html#iturbe 
 1933 -- Moffett Field is commissioned. Becomes infamous playground for the Navy. 
 1934 -- Elechi Amadi lives. Nigerian novelist, dramatist, & educator, from an Ibo family in the Delta region of Eastern Nigeria. Like other Nigerian writers, including Wole Soyinka, Chinua Achebe, John Okigbo, John Pepper Clark, & Cole Omotso, he attended the University College of Ibadan. His first novel was The Concubine (1966). 
 1934 -- F. Scott Fitzgerald's Tender Is the Night is published, but the novel about rich expatriates is unenthusiastically received during the Great Depression. http://www.sc.edu/fitzgerald/index.html 
 1935 -- 60,000 college students across U.S. go on strike against war.  
 1937 -- 60,000 students across the country took place in the first nation wide student strike. The protest was against participation in any war.  
 1945 -- US: Beloved & Respected Comrade Leader President Roosevelt, 63, dies of a cerebral hemorrhage in Warm Springs, Georgia; Vice-President Harry S. Truman was sworn in as the next Beloved & Respected Comrade Leader. 
 1954 -- US: Bill Haley & the Comets record "Rock Around the Clock" for Decca Records. The song is released the following year when it's included in the film "Blackboard Jungle." (Collage by SaintMeister James Koehnline ) 
 1961 -- Russian cosmonaut Yuri Gargarin is first man to orbit Earth. Went around once; sends US Cold War(riors) into a panic spin. 
 1961 -- US: No NukeBall? Douglas MacArthur declines offer to become baseball commissioner. Duke Nuk'em Rapidly Fading Away. 
 1966 -- Jan Berry, half of the hitmaking surf-rock vocal duo Jan & Dean, runs his Corvette into an parked truck on L.A.'s Whittier Boulevard. Berry suffers total physical paralysis for over a year as well as extensive brain damage which makes it nearly impossible to return to performing. They do give it a try in 1973 but it is a fiasco. 
 1966 -- US: NY Stock Exchange anti-Vietnam War leafletting. 
 1967 -- US: 1,500 march down the Ave. in Seattle's U-District protesting the Vietnam War. 
 1968 -- Frank Zappa & the Mothers of Invention perform at the National Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences Dinner in New York City: Zappa looks down at the audience & declares the event "a load of pompous hokum...All year long you people have manufactured this crap, now for one night you're gonna have to listen to it!" Zappa later remarks, "We played the ugliest shit we could ... That's what they expected us to play." http://www.zappa.com/MUSIC/fzac/welcome.htm  http://catalog.com/mrm/zappa.html 
 1968 -- US: Tigua Pueblo people of northwest Texass recognized by U.S. government. 
 1971 -- US: Women's peace march on the Pentagon, Washington, DC. 90-year-old Jeanette Rankin, the first US Congresswoman & only member of to vote against U.S. entry to both World Wars, leads 8,000 in protest of the Vietnam War. http://chss.montclair.edu/english/furr/vietnam.html 
 1971 -- France: First European anti-nuclear power demonstration, Fessenheim. 
 1975 -- Black American sensual dancer Josephine Baker dies, Paris, France. 
 1975 -- In Tony Hillerman's novel Finding Moon , Moon Mathias, small-town Americna newspaper editor with a chequered past, finds today is destined to become the first day of a completely new take on life... His brother is killed in a helicopter crash in Cambodia. 
 1980 -- At Beloved & Respected Comrade Leader President Carter's request, the US Olympic Committee votes not to attend the Moscow Summer Olympics in retaliation for the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. If other countries took this moral high ground everytime the US invaded a country there would be no games. 
 1980 -- Puerto Rico: Total blackout of the entire island, & the abduction of the Operations Manager of a power plant occur on the same day. 
 1981 -- The world's first recyclable spacecraft, the Space Shuttle Columbia, goes into space. It completed a successful mission two days later. 
 1988 -- Bill Gates?: Harvard University patents gene-altered mouse. 
 1989 -- Abbie Hoffman, Yippie peace activist of the 60's, dies at 52.  Commits suicide.  A Chicago Seven radical who founded the Yippie movement once tossed dollar bills onto the floor of the American Stock Exchange to disrupt business. It worked. Near-riot in the mad $cramble for free buckaroonies. http://www.teaching.com/webstock/center/text/webstock19.htm http://www.eden.rutgers.edu/~bbbobbb/abbie.html 
 1990 -- Singer James Brown is released from a South Carolina jail on work furlough after serving 15 months of a six-year sentence for various drug charges. 
 1993 -- England: Fascist violence in London against anarchist bookstore.  From a flyer: "On the night of April 12, an attempt was made to burn down the 121 Centre. 121 has been open for several years as a drop-in and advice center, with a cafe & bookshop. The 121 collective has been involved in local housing & poll tax campaigns, as well as struggles against police violence & council corruption. They have consistently opposed fascism & racism." 121 Railton Rd, Brixton, SE24 London, England (ph 071 274 6655)." The flyer also mentions that Freedom Bookshop has recently been attacked & damaged. 
 1997 -- US: Ted Joans reads at Recollection Used Books in memorium to Allen Ginsberg. "Well, for all intents & purposes Seattle stiffed at the Sunday AG remembrance. I wasn't at either the Anne Waldman remembrance on Friday in Auburn nor at the Ted Joans reading in the U District on Saturday at Recollection Used Books , but the Blue Moon Tavern was pretty much a ghost town on Sunday. Just goes to show that no matter how much you can try & do with the wonders of email & the net/web with only a few days notice it doesn't guarantee ANYthing. I tried." MALCOLM LAWRENCE http://recollectionbooks.com/siml/bluemoon.htm http://recollectionbooks.com/siml/library/JoansTed/joans.htm 
 1999 -- US: Microradio movement news accounts on the struggle to free the airwaves: "City of Gainesville, Florida supports community microradio" -- Radio4All [Source: Pirate Radio Kisok] 
 2001 -- US: Pat Ellington, dies from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, although she also suffered from lung cancer.  She was married to the anarchist - Wobbly - typesetter Dick Ellington , who is credited with the term FIJAGH , & fanzine of the same name. They met in New York as Science Fiction fans in the 1950s. After they moved to California, she was a contributor to Femizine , a fanzine put out by the hoax fan Joan W. Carr (H.P.Sanderson). See the SF Site, In Memoriam: 2001 by Steven H Silver http://www.sfsite.com/columns/steven120.htm 
 3500 -- "There may be times when we are powerless to prevent injustice, but there must never be a time when we fail to protest."  Elie Wiesel, Nobel laureate 
 4500 --  anti-CopyRite 1997-3000, more or less Subscribe to daily email updates (include the words 'subscribe bleed' in subject field), or send questions, suggestions, additions, corrections to: "> BleedMeister David Brown Visit the complete Daily Bleed Archives The Daily Bleed is freely produced by Recollection Used Books anarchist, labor, radical books See also: Anarchist Encyclopedia http://recollectionbooks.com/bleed/gallery/galleryindex.htm Stan Iverson Memorial Library http://recollectionbooks.com/siml/ Anarchist Time Line / Chronology http://recollectionbooks.com/bleed/indexTimeline.htm