The Daily Bleed: A Calendar Better Than Boiled Coffee! Timeline, Chronology, Labor, Radical, Arts, Literature, Authors, Poets, Anarchists... Our Daily Bleed... -- The day recounts itself backwards. At the bus-stop this morning I was thinking how simple it sometimes actually is just to set things in motion  Peter Didsbury, "The Seventeenth of June," That Old-Time Religion , (Bloodaxe Books, 1994)  www.bloodaxebooks.demon.co.uk  
 --  JUNE 17  EMILIANO AGUINALDO Leader of insurrectionary forces for Philippine liberation.  Milwaukee: HOMEBREWERS BEER COMPETITION. Iceland: REPUBLIC DAY. (Where the beer is always on ice...)  PIRATE RADIO DAY. See MoocsterJesseWalker's article Rebel Radio ; Steal This Radio is of interest; & Mid-Atlantic InfoShop , an excellent jump-off point with many links.   "Every animal knows, & humans are no exception, that when there is a stampede you must join in or get out of the way. Try to stop it, & you will be crushed."   Rhizomatic Radio & the Great Stampede, by Ron Sakolsky  Frequencies of Resistance: The Rise of the Free Radio Movment  Sakolsky tunes in to SA  Seizing the Airwaves Edited by Ron Sakolsky & Stephen Dunifer  The Power of the Airwaves   
 1094 -- Valencia taken by Don Rodrigo Diaz de Bivar "El Cid". 
 1397 -- Union of Kalmar established between Denmark, Sweden & Norway. 
 1579 -- New World: Francis Drake opens at the Fillmore; lands at Frisco Bay, & claims New Albion (California) for England. http://www.mcn.org/2/oseeler/climate.htm 
 1719 -- Essayist Joseph Addison dies, London. Buried in Westminster Abbey. 
 1775 -- US: Battle of Bunker Hill (actually it was Breed's Hill). 
 1808 -- Henrik Wergeland lives. Norways national poet, symbol of independence who opposed pro-Danish "intelligentsija". Lectured, distributed books, founded journals, established lending libraries. Defender of the rights of Jews to settle in Norway, as typified in his poem The Jew. http://www.kirjasto.sci.fi/wergelan.htm 
 1823 -- Get Wet, Get Wild, Get Sexy?: Charles Macintosh patents his waterproof material for raincoats. Inspires Black Rain, Raining Frogs & Fishes, & brightly colored condoms. Source: 'Calendar Riots' 
 1824 -- US: Bureau of Indian Affairs established, Washington DC. 
 1838 -- US: Cherokee Indians begin Trail of Tears 1,200 mile forced march to Oklahoma. (Or May 23rd?)  Gold was discovered on their territory. 4000 Cherokees die when 17,000 of them are forced west by Beloved & Respected Comrade Leader President Jackson's Indian Removal bill, the culmination of his efforts to exterminate them.  Jackson was also a notorious land speculator, slave trader & bribe-artist. Evacuation was carried out, during the winter of 1838-9, by federal troops commanded by General Winfield Scott.  Along the way, 10% of the tribe was wiped out by disease, fatigue, & exposure.  http://www.cviog.uga.edu/Projects/gainfo/trailtea.htm  
 1850 -- US: Paddle-wheeler "G P Griffith" burns off Mentor, Ohio (206 die). 
 1864 -- US: Arsenal Explosion Monument now stands in Congressional Cemetery a towering spire marks the burial site of 21 female munitions workers killed in an explosion today, Washington D.C.'s worst civilian disaster during the Civil War. http://www.aflcio.org/safety/wmd_mem.htm 
 1867 -- Henry Lawson lives, Grenfell, Australia. Sheep shearer & poet. Wrote short stories & ballad-like verse. Noted for realistic portrayals of bush life, based on his wanderings.  The ghost of a pause in the shed's rough heart,  & lower is bowed each head,  then nothing is heard save a whispered word,  & the roar of the shearing shed.  http://www.abc.net.au/btn/australians/lawson.htm 
 1871 -- Black American writer James Weldon Johnson lives. 
 1876 -- US: Encampment of Lakota & Cheyenne led by Crazy Horse attacked by, & subsequently routes, US army soldiers. Rosebud, South Dakota. 
 1876 -- Italy: Bologna anarchist trial ends, after three months' duration. Endless months of preliminary arrest had been followed by a series of monster trials, (Florence, Perguia, Leghorn, Massa Carrara, etc). But the Marches & the Abruzzi (Aquila) prisoners were tried with the Bolognese & Romagnols in the largest of all trials, that of Bologna March 15 to June 17, 1876 where Andrea Costa was the leading spirit.  Errico Malatesta had been tossed in prison, then tried, along with six others, at Trani (Apulia) in 1875 & acquitted.  On August 29 Carlo Cafiero wrote to Michael Bakunin ,  "The effect of the trial of Malatesta & Co. in the three Apulias is incredible.  The jury the richest men of the province even immediately after the verdict shook hands with the accused who were received in triumph".  Source: Max Nettlau, Errico Malatesta: The Biography of an Anarchist . 
 1880 -- American author Carl Van Vechten lives. 
 1882 -- Igor Stravinsky, composer, lives, Oranienbaum, Russia. 
 1894 -- US: First poliomyelitis epidemic in the country breaks out, Rutland, Vermont. 
 1895 -- George MacLeod, pastor, pacifist & founder of Iona Community in Scotland, lives. 
 1903 -- US: Mary Harris "Mother" Jones leads a rally in Philadelphia to focus public attention on children mutilated in the state's textile mills.  Button in Philadelphia ,  Locust Walk beteen 34th and 36th   [Details, click here]    
 1905 -- Russia: Five ships of the Black Sea fleet arrive from Sevastopol to quell the Battleship Potemkin Mutiny. One of the ships, George the Conqueror, joins with the Potemkin, & both ships escape to Romanian waters. Source: 'Calendar Riots' 
 1906 -- US: Emma Goldman & others address a crowd of 2,000 people who gather to greet Alexander Berkman upon his release from prison, in NY City.  
 1907 -- US: Equality Colony in Washington State (name changed to Freeland) closes. The Brotherhood of the Co-operative Commonwealth, Equality, Washington, 1895-1906.  This community was founded by Socialists who hoped to "capture the state of Washington for socialism". The leader was J. E. Pelton. It had a resident membership of 160 & 3000 dues-paying non-resident members. On the whole its members were high class educated people, who for ten years worked hard to build up a self-sustaining community. Rivalry for position & authority marred their peace, however, & in 1904 they changed from communism to a group system of limited cooperation advocated by Theodore Hertzka. At this time the name was changed to Freeland. Two years later the company dissolved & the 40 remaining members returned to the individualistic system."' anarchist http://www.seattlehistory.org/preview.asp?id=7489 
 1911 -- James Cameron, inspired foreign correspondent, lives. His first job as a journalist is in Dundee. Also visited & wrote on the Vietnam War. 
 1913 -- US: Pitchman? Chicago Cubs pitcher sets a baseball record for the longest appearance by a reliever. 'Zip' Zabel came in with two outs in the first inning, pitching until the 19th inning when he beat the Dodgers 4-3. 
 1913 -- US: Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) sitdown strike at Studebaker auto plant. http://iww.org/ 
 1914 -- American author John Hersey lives, Tientsin, China. Wrote Hiroshima; The Wall. http://jhhs.dist214.k12.il.us/ 
 1917 -- African American author Gwendolyn Brooks lives, Topeka, Kansas. Poet/novelist & the first black to win a Pulitzer Prize, in 1950 for Annie Allen. 
 1921 -- US: In the Sacco & Vanzetti trial, Connolly, the officer who arrested Sacco and Vanzetti on the train, testifies that Sacco & Vanzetti reached for their guns when they were arrested. anarchist  
 1923 -- Argentina: Kurt Wilckens (1886-1923) dies after being murdered in his prison cell yesterday by a rightwing guard.  German anarchist, member of the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), pacifist, responsible for the attack on Varela (known as the "Killer of Patagonia").  A miner by trade, Wilckens worked in Arizona, where he led a strike in 1916. He was then interned in a US camp for German prisoners, but escaped & made his way to Argentina.   Kurt Wilckens (1886-1923) See Daily Bleed , January 25, 1923 . In French see Ephmride anarchiste.   
 1925 -- Alexander Shulgin lives. 
 1929 -- Harry & Caresse Crosby publish The Black Sun Press edition of the "Tales Told of Shem & Shaun" section of James Joyce's Finnegans Wake (a work in progress).  The printer discovers the final page has but two lines & begs Caresse for more, but she says she could never approach Joyce with such a request. The next day the printer had eight more lines:  "He had been wanting to add more, but was too frightened of you, Madame, to do so."   Harry once sent a telegram to Boston:  PLEASE SELL 10,000 WORTH OF STOCK.  WE HAVE DECIDED TO LEAD A MAD & EXTRAVAGANT LIFE.  James Joyce reads a fragment from Finnegans Wake   http://www.banger.com/crosby/index.html http://www.cohums.ohio-state.edu/english/organizations/ijjf/ 
 1932 -- Angelo Sbardellotto (1885-1966) dies. Italian anarchist & antifascist, he was executed by a fascist firing squad, having told a Tribunal Spcial (fasciste) of his intention to assassinate Mussolini. http://perso.club-internet.fr/ytak/decembre3.html#mualdes 
 1936 -- US: The Steel Workers Organizing Committee founded in the Grant Building in Downtown Pittsburgh, by Philip Murray, John L. Lewis & nine other labor organizers. 
 1939 -- Gives Good Head?: Winner of the Dubious Lifetime Achievement Award : Eugene Weldman is the last guy ever guillotined in France. 
 1942 -- American author Ron Padgett lives. 
 1943 -- Annie Shepherd Swan, prolific popular novelist, dies. 
 1944 -- Iceland, with the oldest Parliamentary Assembly in the world, proclaims itself an independent republic. 
 1947 -- Scribner's editor Maxwell Perkins dies, Stamford, Connecticut. He advises: "editors are extremely fallible people, all of them. Don't put too much trust in them." 
 1953 -- US: Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas stays executions of spies Julius & Ethel Rosenberg scheduled for tomorrow -- their 14th anniversary. A temporary reprieve. 
 1953 -- East Berlin, East Germany: Workers Uprising, strike for democracy; oppose Russian imperialism; USSR invades, sending in tanks "to restore law & order."  Gnter Grass's play was "The Plebeians Rehearse the Uprising" is based on one the workers' uprising in East Berlin...  [Details, click here] 
 1954 -- Guatemala: Making the World Safe For Democracy? US-CIA supplies & directs forces in overthrow of democracy, destroying the constitutionally elected government of Jacabo Arbenz Guzman when it nationalizes United Fruit Co. property, & murdering many of his supporters.  Decades of government-sponsored genocide against Guatemalan Indians follow. Oh the companies keep a sharp eye And pay their respects to the army To watch for the hot-blooded leaders And be prepared for the junta to crush them like flies. So heavy the price that they pay As daily the fruit it is stolen...  Phil Ochs, "United Fruit"  http://www.english.upenn.edu/~afilreis/50s/guatemala.html  CIA Had Hit List  http://www.stanford.edu/~mbucheli/chronology.html  http://www.patriagrande.net/uruguay/eduardo.galeano/memoria.del.fuego/19540617.htm 
 1955 -- US: Disneyland opens, Anaheim, California. Looks like the rest of California. 
 1958 -- US: Beloved & Respected Comrade Leader President Eisenhower's assistant, Sherman Adams, testifying about a vicuna coat given him by Boston industrialist Bernard Goldfine, before a House panel: "I think perhaps somewhat more prudence would undoubtedly have perhaps obviated some of the questions that have come before your committee." 
 1960 -- US: First convention of Students for a Democratic Society (SDS), New York City. 
 1962 -- Author William Faulkner thrown from a horse. He dies a few weeks later (July 6) of a coronary occlusion.  
 1963 -- US Supreme Court rules, 8-1, that laws requiring the recitation of the Lord's Prayer or Bible verses in public schools are unconstitutional. 
 1966 -- US: 19-year-old Guy Cleveland is the second person killed at Disneyland after he is struck by a train & dragged 30 feet trying to sneak into the park on the monorail track, Anaheim California. 
 1967 -- Red China: Chinese explode an H-bomb, joining the club of nuclear-terror states. http://babtech.com/duke3d.html 
 1967 -- Moby Grape releases 5 singles simultaneously. Critics dismiss them as "sour grapes." 
 1968 -- The Ohio Express get their first gold album for "Yummy, Yummy, Yummy." "It's not true (the congressman was sleeping during the debate). He was just taking a few moments for deep reflection." ---aide to Rep. Martin Hoke, R-Ohio 
 1969 -- US: Woody Herman & His Orchestra at the Fillmore West in Frisco , California. 
 1972 -- US: CREEP(y) break-in Watergate complex, Washington DC. Five clowns, in this their fourth attempt to get into Democratic Party headquarters, are rudely arrested. This badly bungled burglary (BBB) was the beginning of the end for the dreaded Tricky Dick 'I Am Not a Crook' Nixon gang. [Details, click here] 
 1977 -- EPA approves Seabrook. 
 1977 -- International Indian Treaty Council announces its intention to provide Soviet Union with a list of U.S. human rights abuses against its indigenous peoples. 
 1982 -- US: National Marine Fisheries Service, after 14 month SAM-SCAM investigation of illegal fish sales on the Columbia River -- using wire taps, body microphones, aerial reconnaissance photography & river patrols, & zeroing in on the 147-mile stretch between the Bonneville & McNary Dams where only Indians fish under the 1974 Boldt decision based on the 1855 treaty, raids camp of, & arrests David SoHappy, 50, Howard Jim, 65, & 73 other Indians. 
 1982 -- Low-Wattage?: Interior Secretary James Watt warns the Israeli ambassador that if "liberals of the Jewish community" oppose his plans for off-shore drilling, "they will weaken our ability to be a good friend of Israel." 
 1991 -- Northern Ireland: Half the population is under 28; all parties but Sinn Fein meet about home rule ("after 17 years of England's involvement since troubles started"). 
 1997 -- Washington state voters narrowly approve public financing of a new football stadium for billionaire Paul Allen's Seahawks, in the first U.S. election ever directly financed by an individual for the direct financial benefit of that individual; Allen paid the state for election costs. 
 3000 -- "He who joyfully marches to music in rank & file has already earned my contempt.  He has been given a large brain by mistake, since for him the spinal cord would fully suffice."  Albert Einstein http://users.skynet.be/AL/motscle/index.htm anti-CopyRite 2000-3000, more or less Subscribe to daily email updates (include the words 'subscribe bleed' in subject field), or send questions, suggestions, additions, corrections to: "> BleedMeister David Brown Visit the complete Daily Bleed Archives The Daily Bleed is freely produced by Recollection Used Books anarchist, labor, radical books See also: Anarchist Encyclopedia http://recollectionbooks.com/bleed/gallery/galleryindex.htm Stan Iverson Memorial Library http://recollectionbooks.com/siml/ Anarchist Time Line / Chronology http://recollectionbooks.com/bleed/indexTimeline.htm