The Daily Bleed: A Calendar Better Than Boiled Coffee! Timeline, Chronology, Labor, Radical, Arts, Literature, Authors, Poets, Anarchists... Our Daily Bleed... -- The Daily Bleed; On this day, October 1: anarchists: Charles Cros, Elisee Reclus, Peter Kropotkin, Fernand Pelloutier, Andre Dupont, Kenneth Rexroth How close the clouds press this October first & the rain a gray scarf across the sky.  Stephen Dobyns, "No Map"   
 -- OCTOBER 1  MARSILIO FICINO Great Renaissance neo-Platonist & occultist.  WYN MONETH: Wine month in the Saxon calendar. WORLD VEGETARIAN DAY. MAGIC CIRCLES DAY: Project spheres of consciousness.  & very important to remember...  OCTOBER is . . . Auto Battery Safety Month, National Breast Awareness Month (Vancouver, Canada), National Family Sexuality Month, National Popcorn Poppin' Month, Spectacle of the Geese Month, Month of the Hedgehog, Vegetarian Awareness Month, Co-Op Awareness Month, International Book Fair Month, National Apple Jack Month, Communicate With Your Kid Month, Depression Education & Awareness Month, National Health Care Food Service Month, Infertility Awareness Month, National Kitchen & Bath Month, National Sarcastics Awareness Month 1st Week 2nd Week 3rd Week Last Week Careful, this is: Get Organized Week, Spinning & Weaving Week, National Customer Service Week, Teens on the Town Week American Beer Week, National School Lunch Week, National Pet Peeve Week National Kraut Sandwich Week, Pickled Pepper Week, Getting the World to Beat a Path to Your Door Week, Peace With Justice Week, International Pinball Week National Magic Week, Peace, Friendship & Good Will Week, National Hug-A-Vending Machine Week, Save Your Back Week, Disarmament Week(24th-30th)   October Movable Daily Holidays  Day Holiday  Sunday before the 2nd Tap-Up Sunday  1st Sunday Grandparent's Day Blessing of the Fishing Fleet  1st Thursday Nottingham Goose Fair begins (UK)  1st Saturday Black Cowboy Parade (Oakland, California)  2nd Weekend America's Sexy Wines Contest (Albuquerque, NM) Fireant Festival (Marshall, Texas) National Wild Turkey Calling Contest & Turkey Trot Festival (Yellville, Arkansas)  2nd Sunday  Good Thief Sunday Sunbeam Sliding Sunday (Fairy)  2nd Monday Thanksgiving Day (Canada)  2nd Wednesday International Day for Natural Disaster Reduction (UN)  2nd Saturday America's Sexy Wives Contest National Wild Turkey Calling Contest & Turkey Trot Festival (Yellville, Arkansas)  3rd Sunday National Shut-In Visitation Day No Boss' Day  3rd Saturday Sweetest Day Frabjous Day Ironman Triathalon  4th Sunday Exaltation of the Shellfish (Spain) Mother-in-Law Day  Last Thursday Punkie Night (Somerset, UK)  
 --   October Song  They who never ruled before  poured from their factory districts  across the bridges of Petrograd  to make October. The moon was so startled  all global tides  shifted. The lights went on all over Europe.  Nothing  can ever be the same again.   Dan Georgakis from Three Red Stars , 1975  anarchist 
 1499 -- Marsilio Ficino dies, Italy. 
 1684 -- Pierre Corneille, who introduced tragicomedy to the French stage with Le Cid , dies in Paris at 78. 
 1742 -- New World: "Bloody Election Day" in Philadelphia. The Proprietary Party hired 30 burly sailors "with large clubs or truncheons" to keep the rival Quakers from controlling the staircase leading to a ballot box. But the Quakers, aided by German allies, rallied & drove the sailors off. (1842?)  Clothes Pin  Claes Oldenburg, Philadelphia    
 1760 -- Author William Beckford lives (1760?). 
 1838 -- US: Trail of Tears: 4000 Cherokees die when 17,000 of them are forced west by Beloved & Respected Comrade Leader US President Jackson's Indian Removal bill, the culmination of his efforts to exterminate them. Jackson was also a notorious land speculator, slave trader & bribe-artist. Realizing a key to development of the Cherokee Nation was a written language, the warrior Sequoyah(a.k.a. George Gist or Guess) began work on the "talking leaves", a graphic representation of the Cherokee language. The alphabet, officially listed as being completed in1821 took 12 years to create.  Sequoyah came up with the idea of "Talking Leaves" when he visited Chief Charles Hicks who showed him how to write his name so he could sign his work like white silversmiths. Initially he tried single pictograms to represent entire sentences, but quickly realized this was impossible. Then he began to create symbols for each sound the Cherokees made. In the interim, Sequoyah fought alongside Andy Jackson in the Creek War of 1813-1814. Although he lacked a formal education he spoke several languages fluently. This is the only instance of a written language developed by a single person.  The name "Talking Leaves" was satirical of whites. The Cherokee felt that white man's words dried up and blew away like leaves when the words no longer suited the whites. http://www.cviog.uga.edu/Projects/gainfo/trailtea.htm 
 1842 -- Charles Cros lives. French poet, inventor of the phonograph.  Charles Cros, inventor of the phonograph, was the most popular poet-singer of this kind in mid-19th-century Paris, & his poems spoke for a way of life completely unassimilable by the money-crazy, hypocritical, debauched, & puritanical society of Louis Napoleons gimcrack Second Empire. It is from people like Charles Cros, simple, sensuous, lyrical, & sarcastic, that poets like Verlaine come, & all of those that he, Verlaine, first called potes maudits, the cursed, the outcast poets, Germain Nouveau, Arthur Rimbaud, Alfred Jarry, Tristan Corbire, Jean Richepin. All of these poets are still sung.  Kenneth Rexroth , Subversive Aspects of Popular Songs http://history.acusd.edu/gen/recording/cros.html  
 1847 -- An item to consider for including in the Daily Bleed on October 1, 2000 Date: Sat, 16 Oct 1999 11:52 From: "Wild Bill Up On the Hill"   Dave, Here's another suggestion with lots of lead time, based on astronomy picture of the day. Maria Mitchell, pioneer Americanwoman astronomer, discovered her very own comet (Mitchell 1847V) on October 1, 1847.  She lived from 1818 to 1889 (don't know the DAY of her birth or death), was one of the most famous scientists of her day. She was the first woman to be appointed a professor of astronomy (Vassar), & the only woman elected to American Academy of Arts & Sciences until 1943.  Lots of the Bleed's saints & sinners would support her two-word quote:  "Question everything."  http://209.68.19.123/   
 1851 -- US: Syracuse crowd busts up a police station to free a recaptured escaped slave. William "Jerry" Henry, a runaway slave & craftsman in Syracuse, NY is arrested by a US Marshall & scheduled to be returned to slavery. Ten thousand citizens of the city storm the sheriff's office, free Henry & aid his escape to Canada via the underground railroad. 
 1856 -- First installment of Flaubert's Madame Bovary appears, publisher refuses to print passage about Emma's adulterous liaison in the back seat of a cab. The novel's realistic treatment of adultery and suicide prompted obscenity charges to be brought against the author in the following year. He was acquitted, and the novel became a classic of French literature. http://www.kirjasto.sci.fi/flaubert.htm http://endeavor.med.nyu.edu/lit-med/lit-med-db/webdocs/webdescrips/flaubert191-des-.html 
 1860 -- US: Decree from Norton I, Emperor of the United States & Protector of Mexico, bars Congress from meeting in Washington, D.C. http://www.zpub.com/sf/history/nort.html http://www.sfmuseum.org/hist1/norton.html http://www.notfrisco.com/nortoniana/index.html 
 1863 -- US: 5 Russian war vessels entered the port of New York & were warmly received. Cold War soon follows. 
 1866 -- US: 3,750 acres of Chehalis Indian Reservation returned to public domain by Executive Order. They weren't really using it, anyway. 
 1867 -- Fernand Pelloutier lives (1867-1901), Paris. Socialist who became an anarchist through the influence of Augustin Hamon . Encouraged anarchist participation in the trade unions, which were revolutionary then, favoring direct action, sabotage, the general strike, & rejection of political parties. "We are men without God, without Masters & Fatherland, irreconcilable enemies of any despotism, moral or collective, i.e. laws & dictatorships (including that of the proletariat), & impassioned lovers of the culture of oneself ".  Fernand Pelloutier See the Anarchist Encyclopedia page, http://recollectionbooks.com/bleed/Encyclopedia/PelloutierFernand.htm 
 1871 -- "Today is the first day of October. It is a veritable gold & crimson fantasy as far as the eye can see. Such splendor, such magnificence: the golden sun rising from the smoke hazed mountains transforming them into a wonderland of riotous colours then continuing on in its orbit ever upward radiating in the vast heavens of cerulean blue." "The Last Return From the Sea," The Captain's Lady's Cookbook 
 1873 --   1873  The father of the detective novel, &Eacute;mile Gaboriau, dies in Paris, France. Wrote Le Crime d'Orcival (1867, The Mystery of Orcival ), Monsieur Lecoq (1868), Les Esclaves de Paris (1868, The Slaves of Paris ), & L'Argent des autres (1874, Other People's Money ).  
 1875 -- Ion Creanga, Romania's greatest story teller, publishes his first story, "Soacra cu trei nurori" (published in 1875, in "Convorbiri literare". Ion was encouraged to write by his poet firend, Mihail Eminescu. http://www.ici.ro/romania/culture/l_creanga.html 
 1885 -- Poet Louis Untermeyer born. On his 90th birthday he boasts, "I'm writing my third autobiography. . . the other two were premature."  
 1885 -- 'L'Ordre', prefaced by Elise Reclus , dated October 1, 1885, was first published... & in the book later the same month, & reprinted In 'Le Rvolt' on October 11/24, 1885. alt; Elisee Reclus  Words of a Rebel Preface by Elise Reclus  FOR TWO AND A HALF YEARS Peter Kropotkin has been in prison, cut off from the society of his fellow-men. His punishment is hard, but the silence imposed on him concerning the things he cares about most is much harder: his imprisonment would be less oppressive if he were not gagged. Months & years may perhaps pass before the use of speech is restored to him & he can resume interrupted conversations with his comrades. . . 'L'Ordre' was first published in Le Rvolt on October 1, 1881, a few weeks after Kropotkin had been expelled from Switzerland ... It was reprinted as the ninth chapter of Paroles d'un Rvolt in 1885. A translation by William C. Owen was published in the Chicago anarchist paper The Alarm on June 23, 1888; & a full translation by David Nicoll was published in the Sheffield anarchist paper The Anarchist on September 23, 1894. ... It also foreshadows the parallel conceptions of topia & utopia in Gustav Landauer 's The Revolution (1907) & of entropy & revolution in novelist Yevgeni Zamyatin's On Literature, Revolution & Entropy (1924).  
 1888 -- First issue of "National Geographic" published. 
 1890 -- US: Congress passes McKinley Tariff Act, taxing opium at $10 a lb. if manufactured for smoking. SMOKE! SMOKE! SMOKE! (THATCIGARETTE)  Written by Merle Travis for Tex Williams; the release not only saved Tex Williams' waning career, but also became Capitol Records' first million-seller. "It ain't cuz I don't smoke 'em myself & i don't reckon that it'll hinder your health I smoked 'em all my life & I ain't dead yet..." http://www.globerecords.com/Cody.html http://www.globerecords.com/VideoClips.html#lincoln 
 1894 -- Egypt: Greek workers employed by the Suez Canal Company go on strike. Sakilarides Yanakakis establishes a shoemakers union. Dr. Skouphopoulos is another well known agitator in this region. http://stiobhard.tripod.com/east/egypt.html 
 1898 -- France: Spanish & US commissioners meet in Paris to draft a Peace Treaty. On September 29, Spain officially announced that Puerto Rico had been ceded to the US as part of the war spoils. 
 1899 -- American author Ernest Haycox lives. 
 1905 -- 'Wild Beasts', a group of artists including Henri Matisse, make their debut at the Salon d'Atutomne in Paris, to uniformly harsh reviews. Matisse goes on to become one of the most influential painters of the century. 
 1910 -- US: Twenty-one killed when the Los Angeles Times building is dynamited while embroiled in labor strife. McNamara arrested. Anarchist involvement immediately suspected. 
 1910 -- Mexico: The Mexican Libral party adopts anarchist slogan, "Tierra y Libertad".  "La terre! criait Bakounine, La terre! criait Ferrer, la terre! crie la R&eacute;volution Mexicaine".  Ricardo Flores Magn   http://www.geocities.com/CapitolHill/2419/revoindx.html http://dwardmac.pitzer.edu/Anarchist_Archives/bright/magon/home.html 
 1910 -- Canada: Subscribers denied receipt of materials from the anarchist Mother Earth Books in NY, by order of Canadian authorities, because of their "treasonable nature." [BleedMeister & treasonous friends Stan Iverson , Joy Cameron, Charlie Knox, Paula Silverman, & others in Seattle began an anarchist bookstore of the same name, around 1970, in honor of the fine tradition begun by Emma Goldman ]. 
 1910 -- Syndicalism in the Colne Valley  In October 1910 Honley Feast, a carnival at which association football was played, together with the Fartown football matches, brought 42 summonses against workers for French leave. The summonses were to show to the police why the workers should not pay fines for absenting themselves from work without permission.  French leave was described like this by The Worker:&ldquo;As a result of the belated but beautiful fine sunnier weather at Honley Feast aided by attractive foothall fixtures at Fartown the servitude in the compounds was more than usually uninviting and hundreds of operatives took French leave. In some cases they asked permission, and hinted at taking it if it was not granted but in cases where they were certain of refusal they just disappeared.  French leave was in fact an old customary right that the manufacturers were trying to stamp out. Fifty summonses two years previously had failed to do the trick and now in the wake of direct action for more holidays (one week was demanded for Honley Feast) the Fine Cloth Manufacturers Association summonsed the textile union officials to negotiate for 13 days a year holiday. However, there was also some talk of a lockout in the employers association.  In passing it must be noted that the Socialist Party paper editorial condemned the leave as an out of date custom, irresponsible and disorganising to the social machine. Source: http://www.skysail.clara.net/syndicalism.html 
 1911 -- Aguigui Mouna (aka Andre Dupont) lives. French agitator, propagandist pacifist, philosophical & individualistic libertarian.  Mixes pacifism & anarchist individualism, dating from 1951. Broke & on the streets of Paris he discovered his talent as agitator:  "It is while speaking that one becomes a loudspeaker". Demonstrating alone, he harangues passersby in the streets of Paris. An early anti-nuke protestor, he started his own newspaper, "Mouna Frres".  Seeking opportunities to be heard, Mouna, on several occasions ran in presidential elections as a "Non-Candidate".  Died May 8, 1999 in Paris. Bernard Baissat devoted a film to this anti-conformist & Anne Gallois wrote the biography, Aguigui Mouna: "Gueule ou crve" . http://perso.club-internet.fr/ytak/octobre.html#mouna 
 1914 -- Historian & Librarian of Congress emeritus Daniel Boorstin lives, Atlanta, Georgia As a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University, he took first-class honors in jurisprudence & was admitted as a barrister to the Inner Temple in 1937. Two years later, he returned to the US to teach history, first at Harvard & then at the University of Chicago. He left Chicago in 1969 to become the director of the National Museum of American History at the Smithsonian Institution & in 1975 moved on to become the Librarian of Congress, a post he held until 1987. He's best-known for his three-volume history, The Americans. The third volume, titled The Americans: The Democratic Experience , was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in 1974. 
 1918 -- T.E. Lawrence captures Damascus. 
 1918 -- Germany: Oct-Nov, street fighting in Berlin. By November, full-scale revolution councils of workers, soldiers, intellectuals, & artists replace the government. http://www.geocities.com/WallStreet/9973/council.html 
 1919 -- US: Baseball's World Series begins as a best of nine affair; White Sox intentionally throw this series to satisfy gamblers (The Black Sox Scandal). "Say it ain't so, Joe..." http://www.blackbetsy.com/jjrelate.htm 
 1924 -- US: In the case of the anarchists Sacco & Vanzetti case the highly prejudiced Judge Thayer ("Did you see what I did to those anarchist bastards?") denies all motions for a new trial.   "Give flowers to the rebels who failed."  Bartolomeo Vanzetti  See Heroes & Martyrs: Emma Goldman , Sacco & Vanzetti, & the Revolutionary Struggle , an audio CD by Howard Zinn.  http://www.infoshop.org/sacco_vanzetti.html http://www.torremaggiore.com/saccoevanzetti/storia.html 
 1925 -- Germany: Anti-Kriegs Museum the first museum for peace founded, Berlin. http://www.anti-kriegs-museum.de/ 
 1925 -- Korea: To give some idea of how the movement had grown I want to look at how things had progressed since the early 1920s. InKiho province the daily newspaper "Dong-a Ilbo" reported in October 1925 that 10 members of the League of Black Flag hadbeen jailed for one year each. http://flag.blackened.net/revolt/talks/korea.html 
 1928 -- Russia: Beloved & Respected Comrade Leader Joseph Stalin's first five-year plan is announced, calling for development of heavy industry, seizure of farms, & collectivization of all workers. 
 1928 -- US: Duke Ellington records "The Mooche." 
 1929 -- "Un Chien Andalou" by Bunuel & Dali screened at Studio 28. "Land Without Bread" is a horrifying account of one of Spain's most desolate & poverty-stricken rural regions, Las Hurdes.  http://www.eonline.com/Facts/People/0,12,39551,00.html  http://www.madsci.org/~lynn/juju/surr/bio/surrealist-bio.html  http://www.lib.berkeley.edu/MRC/bunuel1.html   Un Chien Andalou/Land Without Bread (1928)   & these resigned faces, which once bore flashes of desire like ink splattered on a wall, were like shooting stars. Let gin, rum & brandy flow like the Great Armada. This for the funeral oration. But all those people were so commonplace.  "When I am dead I hope they burn everything I ever made. I share the feelings of the Marquis de Sade. I want them to burn me & throw me to the four winds. I want to disappear completely, without trace."    "The last dream is one of autofellatio, in which I can suck my own member. My cock must be very small in the dream, because it fits perfectly in my mouth. But I get no pleasure from it. It'sstupid, I don't like any part of it. "What luck," I say, "to be able to blow myself, right?" But no, nothing. "    
 1937 -- 
 1942 -- Gnther Wallraff lives. German writer/journalist, who disguised himself once as a Turkish immigrant to reveal hard labor conditions of migrant workers. The book, Ganz Unten , sold over 2.5 million copies & is one of the best-selling books since World War II. Educated as a bookseller. 
 1942 -- US: Little Golden Books publishes its first children's book: The Poky Little Puppy . http://www.dawgdayz.com 
 1942 -- Raven Sherman dies. ( Terry & the Pirates comic strip; 1941). 
 1943 -- Sono istituite la regione dell'Alpenvorland (comprendente le province di Trento Bolzano e Belluno) e dell'Adriatisches Ksterland (comprendente le province di Udine, Gorizia, Trieste, Pola, Fiume e Lubiana). Entrambe queste regioni vengono annesse al Reich tedesco. Da alleata ad asservita.  [Source: Crimini e Misfatti]  
 1946 -- Nuremberg War Crimes Tribunal rejects defense of "following orders" where crimes against humanity are concerned. 
 1946 -- American Author Tim O'Brien, Going After Caccioto , lives Austin, Minnesota. Won the National Book Award in 1979 for his novel Going After Cacciato (1978), about the experiences of a soldier in Vietnam. O'Brien was drafted & sent to Vietnam soon after his graduation from Macalester College in 1968. He served in the Army for three years, reached the rank of sergeant, & was awarded a Purple Heart.  His first book was If I Die in a Combat Zone, Box Me Up & Ship Me Home (1973), a semi-autobiographical story of an infantryman's year in Vietnam. His other books include The Things They Carried (1990), In the Lake of the Woods (1994), and Tomcat in Love (1998). Writing good stories, he says, "requires a sense of passion, & my passion as a human being and as a writer intersect in Vietnam, not in the physical stuff but in the issues of Vietnam: of courage, rectitude, enlightenment, holiness, trying to do the right thing in the world." 
 1946 -- American novelist and short story writer Judith Freeman lives, Ogden, Utah. Her first novel, The Chinchilla Farm (1989), is a road novel about a Mormon woman who packs all of her belongings into a livestock trailer & heads for L.A. after her husband walks out. 
 1946 -- Italy: Ennesimo rastrellamento di fondi da parte dello stato con il "prestito della ricostruzione". Lo stato ottiene 231 miliardi. [Source: Crimini e Misfatti] 
 1949 -- China: So-called "People's" Republic of China founded. Communists officially proclaim it so, so it must be so, & take power. 
 1949 -- US: Pacifica Foundation (founded 1946) starts first radio station, KPFA in Berkeley (April 15 they air their first show). Founded by Lewis Hill, poet, pacifist & journalist. The marginal status of FM during the 1950s was the bane of early KPFA's existence. Long before America On Line gave away its software to subscribers, KPFA's staff gave FM sets to their's. Not until manufacturers began attaching FM receivers to stereo equipment did the station's subscription base really take off. http://www.kpfa.org/ http://www.alsopreview.com/foley/jfoley.html 
 1949 -- US: 500,000 steel workers strike. 
 1961 -- Roger Maris sets record of 61 HRs. 
 1962 -- US: James Meredith became the University of Mississippi's first black student after 3,000 troops put down riots, completing the registration he began yesterday. 
 1964 -- US: Police attempt to arrest University of California-Berkeley math grad student Jack Weinberg for passing out literature for the Congress Of Racial Equality (CORE) in Sproul Plaza inadvertently starting the Free Speech Movement (FSM). Police car is surrounded by demonstrating students for 32 hours. Mario Savio & Joan Baez involved; early September: Clark Kerr bans all politicking outside UC's main gate; late Sept: Kerr suspends 8 students for political activities. Weinberg: "Don't trust anyone over thirty." 
 1965 -- Indonesia: Attempted coup against Beloved & Respected Comrade Leader President Sukarno precipitates the state's systematic extermination of more than 400,000 suspected Communists & other leftists. 
 1966 -- 65 0R 55?  Oct. 1 Military coup detat in Djakarta and massacre of Indonesian Communists.  1966  Apr. Start of cultural revolution in China. Mayor of Peking, Peng Chen, dismissed and several cultural officials, including Chou Yang, removed from office. [Source: K.S. Karol]  
 1968 -- e1to e4?: Surrealist artist Marcel Duchamp dies, Neuilly, Paris. Gave up art for chess. "The individual, man as a man, man as a brain, if you like, interests me more than what he makes, because I've noticed that most artists only repeat themselves." www.freshwidow.com/duchamp-aug96.html http://www.artpool.hu/Duchamp/MDlinks/Wanted2.html http://www.icp.org/exhibitions/man_ray/ 
 1968 -- US: The House Committee on Un-American Activities convenes hearings to plumb the extent of Communist subversion in the Convention Week protests in Chicago.  Testifying over the course of the hearings are: Lt. Joseph Healy & Sgt. Joseph Grubisic, both of the Intelligence Division of the Chicago Police Department (the Red Squad); Robert Pierson, a Chicago police officer who went undercover & was Jerry Rubin's bodyguard; Robert Greenblatt, national coordinator of MOBE; Dr. Quentin Young of the Medical Committee for Human Rights; & soon-to-be-indicted Tom Hayden, Rennie Davis, & David Dellinger. (The hearings recessed on October 3rd & were concluded December 2 through 5. Windy City indeed!) http://www.geocities.com/Athens/Delphi/1553/c68chron.html 
 1969 -- Canada: Protesters shut down the U.S.-Canada border crossing at Blaine, Washington, in opposition to U.S. nuclear testing in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska. 
 1970 -- Jimi Hendrix buried in Seattle, Washington. Mourners include Miles Davis, Johnny Winter, Eric Burdon, & Eric Clapton's group, Derek & the Dominoes. Got grave concerns? 
 1970 -- Curtis Mayfield leaves the Impressions to start up his solo career & to found his own label. The LA Times reported he had felt he never really belonged, that from the beginning he'd made a bad impression. 
 1970 -- US: Clallam tribe awarded $400,000 by Indian Claims Commission for stolen lands. 
 1973 -- Steele Mill?: Danielle Steele publishes her first book ( Going Home ). 
 1975 -- Al Jackson is shot to death in his Memphis home by an intruder. Drummer for the MGs, the legendary Stax Records house band which backed-up Otis Redding , Sam & Dave & Wilson Pickett. His wife is questioned about the killing because she was arrested in July for shooting her husband in the chest. He was 39. 
 1975 -- Ellice Islands split from Gilbert Islands, take name "Tuvalu". 
 1976 -- New Zealand: Peace squadron resists arrival of US nuclear warship, in Auckland. 
 1982 -- US: First Trident submarine, U.S.S. Ohio, becomes fully operational. 
 1985 -- E.B. White, author, dies. 
 1987 -- US: TV evangelist Pat Robertson -- who stayed at a friend's house there for three months in 1959 -- returns to his "roots" in the Brooklyn ghetto of Bedford-Stuyvesant to announce his candidacy for the Replublican presidential nomination. "Bigot!" local residents chant, proving that you can't go home again. "Bigot!" 
 1989 -- US: A Real Boner? US issues stamp, labeling an Apatosaurus a Brontosaurus. 
 1995 -- Willie Nelson, John Mellencamp, Neil Young, Hootie & The Blowfish & The Dave Matthews Band raise nearly $1 million at Farm Aid concert in Louisville, Ky. 
 1997 -- Kosovo: 100,000 demonstrate in Pristina, the capital (occupied by Serbia), for civil rights for the majority ethnic Albanian population. 
 1997 -- England: A half-day blockade temporarily shuts down a COPEX "Covert Operations" fair at a base in Farnborough. 
 3000 --   "We live in a decaying age. Young people no longer respect their parents. They are rude & impatient. They frequently inhabit taverns & have no self control."  Inscription, 6000 year-old Egyptian tomb (quoted in R. Buckminster Fuller's ISeem to be a Verb ). 
 3001 -- anti-CopyRite 1997-3000, more or less Subscribe to daily email updates (include the words 'subscribe bleed' in subject field), or send questions, suggestions, additions, corrections to: "> BleedMeister David Brown Visit the complete Daily Bleed Archives The Daily Bleed is freely produced by Recollection Used Books anarchist, labor, radical books See also: Anarchist Encyclopedia http://recollectionbooks.com/bleed/gallery/galleryindex.htm Stan Iverson Memorial Library http://recollectionbooks.com/siml/ Anarchist Time Line / Chronology http://recollectionbooks.com/bleed/indexTimeline.htm