Anchorage 

 Anchorage Times PETA editorial 
 as published in the Anchorage Daily News 

 Voice of the 
 times 
 (scroll down past grayed out type to PETA item) 

 (Published: 
 March 12, 2002) 

 U.S. VOTERS SUPPORT . . . 

 ANWR drilling 
 A NATIONAL poll conducted for a coalition of labor 
 and business groups shows that those most likely to vote support energy 
 exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge 2-to-1. 

 The poll was taken in mid-February and indicated 
 likely voters support ANWR drilling 62 percent to 31 percent. Its results 
 were released last week by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, one 
 of its sponsors. 
 The poll question was: "Some people say we are too 
 dependent on foreign oil and that we should drill for our own oil in Alaska. 
 Other people say that oil exploration will damage the wildlife in Alaska and 
 should not be allowed. Which one is closer to your opinion?" 
 The result: 62 percent agreed with the first 
 statement and 31 percent agreed with the second. The other 7 percent said 
 they didn't know or declined to answer the question. 
 The Teamsters announcement said previous surveys by 
 groups opposing ANWR drilling "have wrongly offered a false choice to 
 participants. Those surveys ask questions that make the participant choose 
 between developing new sources of energy and exploring the ANWR." It noted 
 that the coalition, called Job Power, has long maintained that the United 
 States should do both. 
 Whether the Senate vote will reflect the desires of 
 the nation's voters remains to be seen. That seems unlikely given the fact 
 that so many senators have thrown their political lot in with the green 
 zealots who control so much of the American political scene these days.

 PETA under fire 
 FINALLY, someone is going after the tax-exempt status of People for the 
 Ethical Treatment of Animals. 
 The Associated Press reports that the Center for the Defense of Free 
 Enterprise of Bellevue, Wash., is asking the IRS to revoke PETA's tax status 
 because "publicly available information strongly suggests that PETA induces 
 or encourages the commission of unlawful acts." 
 Center Vice President Ron Arnold said it has been linked to breaking the 
 law, the AP reported. 
 And the IRS? 
 Well, it's not talking, one way or the other. 
 No matter the outcome of the Center's complaint, there are far too many 
 tax exempt organizations with dubious aims that are, in effect, subsidized 
 by taxpayers. 
 The world would be a better place if PETA and the others had to pay their 
 own way. 
 The 
 Voice of the Times does not represent the editorial views of the Anchorage 
 Daily News. This commentary is published under an agreement with the owner 
 of the former Anchorage Times newspaper to preserve its separate editorial 
 voice. The Voice of the Times staff can be contacted at

 AnchTimes@corecom.net .