Anti-mining 

 "EVERYBODY KNOWS THEYRE NOT 
REALLY ENDANGERED: 
W e just need them to stop mining " 

 by Don Fife 

 San Bernardino National Forest, 
Southern California: A Forest Service Wildlands Conservation Botanist, a 
deep-ecology, rain-forest individual, refused our use of our existing RS 2477 
access roads*; but the Powers That Be in Washington D.C. told him that he must 
allow us access for drilling in Lone Valley. So he let us use the existing RS 
2477 roads, right? Wrong! He had us build NEW roads, destroying more of the 
forest, for our access. 
 The existing RS 2477 roads had been planted with native 
vegetation (sometimes huge boulders are considered native vegetation). When I 
found a Forest Service crew replanting another RS 2477 access road on my 
property with native vegetation, I struck up a conversation with the botanist in 
charge. I introduced myself and my associate, Buster LaMoure. I asked him if it 
would be o.k. to videotape his "restoration work" on the road. He said it would 
be fine. 
 I asked him where he went to college. This young botanist who 
had been on the job for just a few months told us he graduated from a small 
university in eastern Indiana. I said, "Gee, I went to the University of Dayton. 
We used to play you guys all the time." His response was, "Yeah, the Flyers just 
kicked our rear ends last week." 
 Since he was now thoroughly disarmed, I asked him about these 
"endangered weeds" that the Forest Service had listed under the Endangered 
Species Act (ESA). How could they be endangered, every time you clear a 
firebreak or there is a wildland fire, they thrive in the newly cleared land? 
The response was, "Everybody knows these arent really endangered. We just need 
them to stop mining." 
 Standing next to me was my associate, Buster LaMoure, former 
Director of Minerals and Geology (Chief Geologist) for the U.S. Forest Service, 
Washington D.C. office, now retired and working with me as a consultant. His 
mouth dropped open when he heard the botanist say this! Two weeks later we were 
in Spokane, WA telling this story to the Deputy Chief to the Forest Service. 
 A former Forest Service employee signed an affidavit that the 
San Bernardino National Forest (SBNF) staff had volunteers collect the seeds 
from these ESA-listed plants and spread them in the forest to stop mining and 
recreation on up to 44,575 acres of the mineral-rich forest. 
 On January 24, 2002 Representative Richard Pombo (R-CA) 
brought this abuse of the ESA to the attention of hundreds of members of 
Congress on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. The SBNF is now 
under closer scrutiny by headquarters in Washington D.C. In fact, Under 
Secretary of Agriculture Mark Rey and Forest Service Chief Dale Bosworth would 
like to hear from others who have been victims of arbitrary and capricious acts 
by Forest Service officials. 

 Don Fife is an environmental and economic geologist with more than 20 years 
experience in government, private practice and academia. He was the advisor to 
four Secretaries of the Interior over a period of 8 years for Geology Energy and 
Minerals on the 25,000,000-acre California Desert Conservation Area. 

 Don Fife can be reached at (714) 544-8406 or 

CPRV@mindspring.com .

 * Note: RS 2477 roads can be researched at

www.rs2477roads.com 
 RETURN TO FALSIFICATION OF SCIENCE TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE