Arnold named expert for study 

 Ron 
 Arnold 

 Ron Arnold named as ecoterrorism expert in 
major study 
 Researchers will examine planning and preparation of 
terrorist attacks 
 BELLEVUE, Washington Ron Arnold, author of 
EcoTerror: The Violent Agenda to Save Nature , has been retained as expert 
consultant on ecoterrorism for a major study at the University of Arkansas 
Terrorism Research Center, funded by a grant from the National Institute of 
Justice (NIJ). 
 The new honor was announced by Alan Gottlieb, president of 
the Bellevue, Washington-based non-profit research and education foundation, the 
Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise, where Arnold is executive vice 
president. 
 "We are proud of Ron and pleased that the Terrorism 
Research Center has recognized his expertise with this consultancy," said 
Gottlieb. "Ron has testified before Congress on this and other issues and is the 
author of EcoTerror: The Violent Agenda to Save Nature , which was voted 
one the 100 most important books of the Twentieth Century in a Random House 
reader poll. Of course, Ron will continue his duties as our executive vice 
president uninterrupted. He accepted the consultancy as a private individual
 the Center does not 
accept government grants and has no connection to this study project." 
 Brent Smith, professor of sociology and director of the 
Terrorism Research Center at the University of Arkansas, said that Arnold's 
talents will be tapped for his latest 
project, "Pre-incident indicators of Terrorist Incidents: The Identification of 
Behavioral, Geographic and Temporal Patterns of Preparatory Conduct." 
 Prof. Smith's researchers will cull data from the court 
records of more than 500 known terrorists to track the criminal, geographic and 
temporal patterns that precede terrorist attacks. Understanding how such attacks 
develop and progress could lead to prediction and prevention measures that save 
lives. Arnold will identify ecoterrorism cases for researchers to study, and 
suggest quantifiable pre-incident indicators for analysis. 
 The research is sponsored by a $343,885 grant from the 
National Institute of Justice, according to government records. 
 Very little empirical data exists on the planning and 
preparation of terrorist attacks, Prof. Smith said. In attempting to predict attacks, 
federal agents and police officers largely rely on anecdotal information about 
early indicators of terrorist activity. Smiths research will use in-depth 
analyses of known terrorist plots to provide quantitative data on how terrorists 
plan and prepare their attacks. Arnold's extensive knowledge of ecoterrorist 
cases will be called upon for the study. 
 "Terrorists commit hundreds of preparatory and ancillary 
crimes that are not terrorist attacks but which might give us some indication of 
the routinized patterns of preparatory conduct," Smith said. "Our goal is to map 
those preparatory crimes by time and location to determine if patterns of 
conduct exist." 
 In pursuing the project, Smith will collaborate with 
Robert Heibel, former deputy director of the FBI Counter-Terrorism Division. 
Heibel now directs the Research/Intelligence Analyst program at Mercyhurst 
College in Erie, Pennsylvania. 
 Using court documents and FBI indictment records for 
reference, Smith will select 75 incidents of terrorist activity to serve as case 
studies from which he and Heibel will extract quantitative data. Theyll note 
the number and types of preparatory crimes committed. In addition, they will 
record demographic information about the terrorist group, including the number 
of participants. Theyll create a timeline of events leading to the attack. And 
they will geographically pinpoint all stages of activity where the terrorists 
lived, where they planned, and the relation of those places to the intended and 
actual targets. 
 "We need to know details. Do terrorists tend to live near 
their targets or do they move around? Are there separate locations for living 
and planning? Was there a flurry of activity followed by a lull before the 
incident, or was there a steady escalation in preparation?" Smith explained. "No 
one knows what sort of patterns exist in how terrorists think, plan and act." 
 To acquire all the information they need, Smith and Heibel 
will supplement the FBI and court documents with a variety of other sources, 
including books, memoirs and personal records written by and about known 
terrorists, copies of terrorism manuals from groups worldwide and the expertise 
of numerous consultants, including Arnold. After compiling and analyzing the 
information, Smith will use the data to create GIS maps that reveal spatial 
patterns and visually plot the progress of terrorist activity. 
 Many of the case studies used in this project will be 
culled from the American Terrorism Study a database that Smith created while a 
professor at the University of Alabama in Birmingham. Funded by the Oklahoma 
City National Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism, this database 
contains information on more than 3,000 criminal charges against nearly 500 
terrorists representing 60 different terrorist organizations. It spans more than 
20 years of FBI investigations from 1980-2002. 
 The database will serve as a resource for identifying case 
studies in Smiths current project. In addition, he has hired Ron Arnold as an 
expert in environmental extremism, along with experts in right wing and left 
wing terrorism, international terrorism and Puerto Rican terrorism to advise on 
the project and to suggest terrorist incidents that may not be included in the 
database but deserve greater study. 
 The National Institute of Justice (NIJ) is the research, 
development and evaluation agency of the U.S. Department of Justice. It 
identifies counter-terrorism as a high priority goal over the next 3-5 years, 
and it allots funding in this area to "develop knowledge and tools that help 
prevent, deter or apprehend terrorists, including improving intelligence 
gathering, information sharing, risk assessment, target hardening, surveillance 
and detection." 
 For more information on the NIJ, visit its Web site at
 http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij/ . The 
NIJ announcement of grant award reads as follows:

 University of Arkansas [Grant #]2003DTCX0003 Pre-incident 
Indicators of Terrorist Incidents 09/08/03 $343,885. 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 
VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE