Arrests 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 ENVIRONMENTALISTS ARRESTED 

 Many environmentalists have been arrested on diverse civil disobedience or 
civil disorder charges. Some have been arrested on felony charges. All arrests 
listed below were gathered from public sources such as newspaper reports and 
have appeared previously in other publications. No privacy rights were violated 
in obtaining this information. Most of the misdemeanor charges were dismissed or 
perpetrators were sentenced to short jail terms or small fines. This page lists 
only arrests. All suspects are innocent until convicted in a court of law. For 
convictions, see ENVIRONMENTALIST CONVICTIONS. 

 October 16, 1997 . Eureka, California. 
Approximately 60 Earth Firsters, including two advance men wearing black ski 
masks, black gloves and black clothing, attacked the field office of Congressman 
Frank Riggs (R-1st), terrorizing female staff members and causing serious 
vandalism damage from a tree stump dumped on the floor along with a six-inch 
deep litter of wood chips, sawdust and tree debris. Office computers were 
covered with fine sawdust. The female staff members choked on the sawdust for 
several days thereafter. A female Earth Firster also urinated on the floor. 
Supporters of the attackers described the action as a "non-violent civil 
disobedience protest" against logging of privately owned commercial redwood 
trees belonging to Pacific Lumber Company. Environmentalists are seeking to 
confiscate the company's timberlands through legislation. The company is 
negotiating to sell a portion of the timberlands to the government for use as a 
park. 
 Staff members of Rep. Riggs's Eureka office 
described the incident: A loud boom sounded, shaking the building and rattling 
windows. A female staff member said, "I thought a bomb had gone off and we were 
going to experience Oklahoma City all over again." The sound was the tree stump 
being dumped from a handtruck. Another female staff member said, "I saw figures 
with black ski masks covering their faces, black hoods, black gloves. I remember 
the blood draining from my head and feeling dizzy. Thoughts of my two children 
came into my head, as if they would be my last thoughts on this earth." A female 
staff member said, "I went around the corner of the building to witness a white 
male reach up to his face and pull something off his head. I concluded it to be 
a ski mask. The white male held a walkie-talkie and said, 'It's a green light. 
It's a go, it's a go. Let's go.'" 
 Law enforcement officers responded to the scene 
and attempted to dislodge the Earth Firsters, but they refused to leave 
peacefully. Police applied pepper spray with swabs to their eyelids following 
county and city guidelines and removed the protesters under arrest. 
 Four Earth Firsters were arrested: 1) Jennifer 
Beth Schneider, 28, of Carmel Valley; 2) Terri Lee Slanetz, 34, of Oakland; 3) 
Lisa Marie Sanderson-Fox, 30, of Oakland; 4) Maya Portugal, 16, hometown 
unknown. 
 Humboldt County and the city of Eureka have been 
sued in a civil rights complaint by nine anti-logging Earth Firsters whose 
eyelids were swabbed with pepper spray at three separate demonstrations, 
including at Rep Riggs's office. The civil suit seeks a restraining order 
against the county and city use of pepper spray, but U.S. District Court Judge 
Vaughn Walker declined to hear arguments on their motion for a restraining order 
because attorneys for the plaintiffs neglected to serve the county and city 
properly with copies of the complaint and a summons to a court hearing, which 
would violate constitutionally mandated due process rights. Macon Cowles, an 
attorney for the Earth Firsters, apologized for the error: "It is a matter of 
some distress to us that we have started this case out stumbling on this very 
important issue." 
 The female staff members of Rep. Rigg's office 
experienced disabling panic attacks for months. 
 July 17, 1997 . Olympia, Washington. Earth 
Firster Brette L. Clubbe was charged with damaging a $380,000 mechanized tree 
cutter belonging to Herbrand Logging of Eatonville, Washington, and pointing a 
rifle at Keith Herbrand, the owner-operator. A police report said Clubbe and an 
accomplice were protesting the cutting of timber along the 4100 block of Cooper 
Point Road near Evergreen State College. Clubbe allegedly stood in front of the 
machine to stop its logging, then attempted to cut hydraulic hoses with an ax, 
then threw cement blocks and a metal box into the machine's cutting blades, 
causing about $2,000 damage. Herbrand had all the required permits to log the 
trees. Clubbe was booked into the Thurston County jail and released on bail. 
Another example of ecoterror attacks against a small family-owned logging 
company rather than the multinational giants denounced in environmentalist 
rhetoric. 

 June 29, 1997 . 200 animal rights activists 
attacked a McDonalds restaurant Sunday crowd in Crystal City near Arlington, 
Virginia. Activists alleging cruelty to animals harassed employees and customers 
including terrified children. Three activists threw condiments and a container 
of ketchup in the crowded family restaurant. The mob of activists blocked 
driveway access to the McDonalds in the 2600 block of Jefferson Davis Highway 
for more than 2 hours. 
Police arrived in full riot gear. Activists threatened and spit on police. 
Police used pepper spray to subdue the activists when they refused to leave. 
18 animal rights activists were arrested on criminal trespass charges. 
Three of the 18 were charged with vandalism for throwing food. 
Animal rights activist Miyun Park led the mob in chants. Brian Bowers, of San 
Diego, showed a list of grievances against McDonalds. 

 June 16 1997 . Shelburne, New Hampshire. 
Native Forest Network activist Paul Daniel White, 22, of 126 Mt. Agassiz Road, 
Bethlehem, N.H., was arrested and charged with criminal trespass and conspiracy 
after allegedly wrecking equipment and then chaining himself to a wood chipper 
at the R & J chipping plant on U.S. Route 2, about 2 miles from the Maine 
border. State Police Cpl. Timothy Hayes said White and four unidentified 
activists who left the scene allegedly did more than $1,000 in vandalism damage, 
deflating tires on trucks, tearing out electrical conduits and destroying 
telephone lines. The motive was a protest against the federal government, which 
plans to sell U.S. Agriculture Department Forest Service timber in Bartlett, 
Jackson and Chatham. Manchester Union Leader, Tuesday, June 17, 1997, by 
Lorna Colquhoun, p. A1. 

 June 2 1997 . Eugene, Oregon. Earth 
Firsters, Cascadia Forest Defenders, Cultural Defense Leaguers and other 
protesters blockading the downtown building site of Broadway Place, a 
residential complex and parking garage, to protest the cutting of 40 trees, 
created a riot when ordered by police to allow workers to proceed with the job. 
22 protesters were arrested. 
For second degree criminal trespass: Lacey Phillabaum, 22, Eugene; Lyndy Worsham, 
26, Eugene; Michael Turaski, 20, Eugene; James J. Bowler, 25, transient; Jeffrey 
Hogg, 23, Eugene; Sarah Heaton, 19, Eugene; Benajmin Darwin, 18, Eugene; 
Jeremiah Guske, 21, transient; Joshua Laughlin, 22, Eugene; Brett Cole, 25, 
Eugene; James P. Flynn, 36, Eugene; Aleece Nelson, 21, Eugene; Christopher B. 
Allen, 27, Eugene; Cynthia Noblitt, 33, Eugene; Michelle Dunlap, 29, Eugene; 
Michael J. Garvin, 38, Eugene; and a female juvenile, Eugene. 
For disorderly conduct: Arlo Waterbury, 20, Eugene; and Camilo Stevenson, 23, 
transient. 
For assaulting a police officer: Brian Garrison, 20, transient; and Andrew 
Cottrell, 20, Eugene. 
For obstructing justice: Lori Ann Chadwick, 19, Eugene. 
 April 20 1997 Davis, California. Animal 
Activists Arrested at UC Davis . -- Thirty-two animal activists were arrested 
during a four-hour protest at the University of California, Davis. They were 
charged with a range of violations: trespassing, resisting arrest, vandalism, 
and wearing a mask during the commission of a crime. Starting shortly before 11 
a.m., 34 protesters held a brief demonstration in front of the campus's John E. 
Thurman Veterinary Diagnostic Labor atory 
-- site of the country's most costly destructive act by animal rights activists 
in 1987. Following acts of civil disobedience, police arrested 29 adults and 
three juveniles. 
The 29 adults arrested and taken to the Yolo County jail were: 
* Nicole Dawn Briggs, no date of birth given, of Santa Cruz, charged with 
trespassing; 
* Stephanie Hope Ewton, 27, of Sebastopol, trespassing; 
* John Paul Goodwin, 24, of Memphis, Tenn., trespassing; 
* Brian Halverstady, 21, of Seattle, Wash., trespassing; 
* Dustin Curtis Hamann, 19, no hometown given, trespassing and vandalism; 
* Joshua Caleb Harper, 22, of Portland, Ore., trespassing; 
* David Patrick Hayden, 29, of Costa Mesa, trespassing; 
* Kevin Michael Keller, 19, of San Francisco, trespassing, resisting an officer 
and wearing a mask during commission of a crime; 
* Michael Ian Kennedy, 19, of Novato, trespassing; 
* Lisa J. Lakeman, 42, no hometown given, trespassing; 
* Sheila Adele Laracy, 50, of Sacramento, trespassing; 
* Corinna Margaret Lawrence, 18, of San Pedro, trespassing and resisting an 
officer; 
* Peter J. Leone, 28, of Williams, trespassing and resisting an officer; 
* Chelsea Knox Lincoln, 21, of Eugene, Ore., trespassing; 
* Gerard Leon Livernois, 33, of Costa Mesa, trespassing; 
* Kattie Louis, 19, of Portland, Ore., trespassing; 
* Jonathan C. Mark Paul, 31, of Williams, trespassing and resisting an officer; 
* Eric Joseph Paulson, 25, of Guerneville, trespassing; 
* Jessica Mohr Peters, 19, no hometown given, trespassing, resisting an officer, 
wearing a mask during commission of a crime; 
* Leslie James Pickering, 19, of Portland, Ore., trespassing; 
* Craig Scott Rosebraugh, 25, of Tigard, Ore., trespassing; 
* Lawrence Alvin Schlagel II, 24, of San Francisco, trespassing; 
* Todd Bennett Selby, 19, of Berkeley, trespassing; 
* Bhaskar Sinha, 18, of Davis, trespassing and vandalism; 
* Derek William St. Pierre, 24, of San Francisco, trespassing and vandalism; 
* Deborah Lynn Svoboda, 25, Concord, trespassing, resisting an officer; 
* Crescent Vellucci Jr., 48, of Sacramento, trespassing and resisting an 
officer; 
* David Leigh Wilson, 19, of Kearns, Utah, trespassing and resisting an officer; 
* Peter Daniel Young, 19, no hometown given, trespassing and resisting an 
officer. 
 Each April's World Laboratory Animal Liberation 
Week has typically been observed with protest rallies, graffitied sidewalks and 
buildings, acts of civil disobedience, and vandalized campus vehicles. 
In 1987, there was a $4.6 million arson fire at the campus's John E. Thurman 
Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory. Although the letters ALF (Animal Liberation 
Front) were found painted inside that burned laboratory, no one was ever 
prosecuted for the fire, due to the lack of evidence. The building was 
eventually completed and now provides diagnostic services and information to 
help control animal diseases. 
The ALF also claimed responsibility for a March 18 arson fire on campus at the 
site of the partially constructed Center for Comparative Medicine, west of the 
main Davis campus. Damage, estimated at under $1,000, was confined to an area 
about 10 feet square. 
 April 3 1997 . Paul Watson, executive 
director of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, was arrested in the 
Netherlands by Dutch police acting on a Norwegian warrant issued by Interpol. 
Norway wants Watson to serve a prison sentence handed down in absentia for the 
scuttling of a whaling vessel at dockside in Norway's Lofoten Islands in 
December 1992. Watson did not appear in court to answer charges. Norway also 
wants to charge Watson with ramming a Norwegian coast guard vessel in July 1994.

 March 31, 1997 . Five Michigan residents 
were arrested and later appeared in court for a bail hearing on charges of 
breaking, entering and mischief after 1,500 minks were released from Ebert's Fur 
Farm, 60 miles east of Windsor, Ontario, Canada. 
Arrested were: 
1) Pat Dodson, 48, a founder and president of the Royal Oak, Michigan-based 
Humanitarians for Animal Rights Education (HARE); 
2) Hilma Ruby, 59, of Rochester Hills, an early member of HARE; 
3) Gary Yourofsky, 26, of West Bloomfield, HARE member and organizer of Animals 
Deserve Adequate Protection Too (ADAPT); 
4) Robyn Weiner, 25, of Farmington Hills, another HARE member and organizer of 
ADAPT; 
5) Alan Hoffman, 47, of Roseville, Yourofsky's uncle, also was arrested. 
Each was charged with breaking and entering and criminal mischief. Dodson also 
was charged with possession of break-in tools; Weiner and Hoffman were charged 
with possession of stolen property over $5,000. 
All were freed on $10,000 cash bail. 
Two have been branded traitors to the animal rights movement, agreeing to 
testify against the other three. Alan Hoffman made statements to the police 
which were read in court, giving a blow by blow account of everyone's alleged 
activities that night. Encouraged by her family, Robyn Weiner has also made 
statements AND implicated one of the other defendants in a previous raid. 
The Earth Liberation Front raided Ebert's Fur Farm, the same Chatham-area mink 
farm, two weeks earlier. No one was arrested in that raid, said Tom McLellan, 
who owns the farm with his father, Bill. 
About 1,500 mink were released, 100 were never found and about 400 died from 
infighting, exposure or being hit by cars. McClellan puts his losses at 
$500,000. 
The five were also served with a civil suit by Eberts Fur Farms Inc. They are 
seeking: $2,000,000 in general damages; $1,000,000 in specific damages; $500,000 
in punitive damages; plus legal costs. 
Other details included in the suit are: 20 years of breeding information lost; 
1542 minks released - 1500 female, 42 male; 95% females were pregnant with an 
average expected litter of 6 kits per; 1500 females would have produced 7125 
pelts @ $70/male pelt & $50/female pelt. 

 October 23 1996 . Canyon City, Oregon. The 
Grant County sheriff arrested Dr. Patrick Shipsey, a John Day, Oregon, physician 
and chief sponsor of a grazing reform ballot measure, for killing 11 cows 
belonging to Robert Sproul, 85, by shooting them behind the head, using a 
Finnish 6 mm Sako target rifle. Shipsey was arraigned on 11 felony counts of 
criminal mischief. Each count carries a maximum penalty of five years in jail 
and a $100,000 fine. 11 Cows Slain, Range Reformer Held, Portland Oregonian , 
Wednesday, October 23, 1996, by Hal Bernton and Richard Cockle, p. A1. 
 January 13 1996 . Eureka, California. 35 
Earth Firsters arrested for obstructing Sierra Pacific second-growth logging on 
the Elk River reached a plea agreement with the District Attorneys office in 
court for criminal trespass under a little bit more serious penal code section 
than simple trespass, resulting in stiffer fines. Earth First members reach 
plea agreement, Eureka Times-Standard , January 13, 1996, p. 1. 
 September and October, 1995 . Williams, 
Oregon. 219 Earth Firsters and allied protesters arrested for criminal trespass 
in forcible work stoppage of Sugarloaf Timber Sale operated by Boise Cacade 
crews. 30 tree spikes were discovered after a logger broke his chainsaw on a 
16-inch spike. 15 arrested in Sugarloaf timber sale protest, Portland 
Oregonian , Tuesday, September 12, 1995, by Eric Gorski, p. A1. See also 
Guerrilla war looms in woods, Portland Oregonian , Wednesday, February 
7, 1996, by Dana Tims and Peter D. Sleeth, p. B1. 
 9/17/95 . Carlotta, California. 264 Earth 
First protesters arrested at demonstration against Sierra Pacific Industries 
proposed logging of second-growth trees in the Elk River area, adjacent to 
Headwater Forest owned by Pacific Lumber Company. Humboldt County Sheriff Dennis 
Lewis said one officer was knocked down and pepper sprayed his assailants. Eight 
Earth Firsters were arrested at the site the day before. 125 officers were 
called to the scene, including California Highway Patrol and deputies from other 
counties, funded by mutual aid agreements. Humboldt County provided food and 
lodging for officers from outside the area. Two Earth Firsters were charged with 
criminal trespass. Anti-logging demonstrations end, Earth First curbs protests; 
sheriff arrests 2 on trespassing counts, Eureka Times-Standard , Tuesday, 
September 19, 1995, by Mary Lane, p. A6. 
 10/20/92 . Long Beach, California. Six 
environmental activists, including Earth Firsters Jim Flynn of Portland, Ore., 
and Jake Kreilick (using his alias Jake Jagoff) of Missoula, Montana, protesting 
logging of rain forests, handcuffed themselves to cranes on the Sammi 
Superstars, a South Korean freighter docked in Long Beach and for several hours 
kept longshoremen from unloading plywood from Indonesia. The six were from 
Greenpeace, Earth First and the Rainforest Action Network (founded and led by 
Earth Firsters) and boarded the ship at about 7 a.m. They were charged with 
misdemeanor trespassing. The maximum penalty is a six-month jail sentence and 
$500 fine. Two others dangled from ropes on the side of the ship beside a banner 
that read, Stop tropical timber imports. Illustrated cooperation between Earth 
First and Greenpeace. Environmental Activists Chain Selves to Cranes of Lumber 
Ship Protest: Unloading of plywood from Indonesian rain forests is blocked 
temporarily. Demonstrators agree to leave ship and be cited for misdemeanor 
trespassing., Los Angeles Times , Wednesday, October 21, 1992, by Rick 
Holguin and Maria L. La Ganga, p. B1. 
 8/24/92 . Winooski, Vermont. Tom Carney, an 
Earth Firster from Schenectady, New York was arrested for criminal trespass 
after trying to disrupt a hydroelectric dam construction project. Schenectady 
Man Arrested At Protest, Albany Times Union, Tuesday, August 25, 1992, by The 
Associated Press, p. B6. See also Timber war brews - Shawnee forest management 
plan becomes question of use or abuse, Chicago Tribune, Sunday, August 30, 
1992, by Hugh Dellios, Section 2, p. 1. 
 8/27/91 . Shawnee National Forest, 
Illinois. Twenty-five Earth Firsters protesting the Fairview timber sale were 
arrested. A protester, Jan Wilder-Thomas, faced assault charges for slapping a 
deputy. One of those arrested, Chris van Daalan, co-director of Save Americas 
Forests, claimed his hand was broken when he was run over by a logging truck 
belonging to East Perry Lumber Company. Authorities at the scene said van Daalan 
was hit by a small log he threw in the path of an oncoming pickup truck. Forest 
protest leads to arrests - Man injured trying to stop logging work, Southeast 
Missourian (Cape Girardeau, Missouri), Thursday, August 27, 1991, by Mark Bliss, 
p. 1.