Back to Petroleum 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Paul 
 Driessen 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Paul's new book, 

 Eco-Imperialism: Green Power Black Death 
 is now in 
 bookstores! 
 we present a series of his essays on related subjects, 
 the second of which is 

 Back to Petroleum 

 BP, a master of greenwashing its public image 
through advertising, 

 is rushing back to its petroleum base. In 
reality, it never left it. 
 F or 
two years, the world's second largest hydrocarbons producer spent many dollars 
on a clever public relations and advertising campaign to convince consumers that 
BP no longer stands for British Petroleum, but for Beyond Petroleum. 
 One ad proclaimed, We're 
one of the largest producers of natural gas ... and are investing in the new 
energy sources of the future hydrogen and wind. It's a start. Another tried 
to get beyond the guffaw test with the line: We believe in alternative energy. 
Like solar cappuccino. 
 Many people were surprised 
that a huge oil company was so committed to alternative energy technologies. 
They needn't have been. BPs total six-year investment in renewable technologies 
was US$200-million the same amount it spent on its Beyond Petroleum ad 
campaign. Nearly US$45-million of this went to buy Solarex Corporation meaning 
BPs renewable energy investment was 0.05% of the US$91-billion it spent to buy 
oil giants Arco and Amoco back in the 1990s. 
 That US$200-million is a lot 
for an ad campaign. But its a drop in the barrel for futuristic technologies 
that were the centrepiece for the slick marketing effort. Moreover, just as the 
ad campaign was winding down, BP announced it was spending US$6.75-billion for a 
50% controlling interest in a rich Russian oil prospect and will be spending 
another US$20-billion over the next five years exploring this and other newer 
fields in Angola, Azerbaijan, the Gulf of Mexico and the Asia-Pacific. 
 In other words, the ad 
campaign was little more than greenwashing disinformation intended to 
present an environmentally responsible public image. BP wanted journalists, 
politicians, investors and environmentalists to perceive it as a socially 
responsible leader and reward it accordingly. 
 Few did. Green activists 
denounced BP for hypocrisy and blasted the company for continuing to exploit 
some of the world's most sensitive ecological areas. A major business magazine 
said simply, Well, please: If the world's second largest oil company is beyond 
petroleum, Fortune is beyond words. 
 Meanwhile, BPs total wind 
and solar electrical output last year was barely enough to keep the lights 
burning in Regina, Saskatchewan. and thoughtful observers began to realize 
that wind and solar arent quite as eco-friendly as activists claim. 
 A single new 555-MW 
gas-fired generating plant in California produces more electricity in a year 
than do all the states 13,000 wind turbines. The gas-fired plant occupies about 
10 acres; the giant 200-foot-tall windmills dominate thousands of acres, and 
kill thousands of raptors and other birds every year. Current photovoltaic 
technology is just as habitat hungry. 
 Worse, chief executive Lord 
John Browne was forced to lower BPs production estimates three times last year, 
and the companys 11% return on average capital was well below that of 
arch-rivals ExxonMobil (13.7%) and Royal Dutch/Shell (14.8%). BP share prices 
reflected investors displeasure with its poor performance and the fact that the 
company's profit margins would not improve for a decade or more if the company 
remained focused on renewable energy and old oil fields. 
 Thus, if BP ever really was 
Beyond Petroleum, going Back to Petroleum (and Bigger Profits) was a sound 
business decision. However, the Great Beyondo ad campaign involves more than 
mere greenwashing and disingenuous but theoretically harmless puffery. It also 
reflects the desire of many multinational companies to appease critics and gain 
a public relations advantage over competitors, by adopting the language of 
ideological environmentalism. 
 This radical school of 
thought increasingly uses ethical buzz-words and dogmas to justify its demands. 
Chief among them are sustainable development and the precautionary principle, 
the foundations of so-called corporate social responsibility (CSR) and 
socially responsible investing doctrines. 
 Activists from affluent 
Western countries developed the doctrines to promote their agendas and oppose 
energy and economic development. They define what is responsible, focusing 
debate on conjectural problems and theoretical needs of future generations of 
wealthy elites -- and ignoring real, immediate, life-and-death needs of people 
who struggle daily just to survive. The stakes are huge. 
 More than 1.5 billion people 
in developing countries do not have access to electricity. Half a billion women 
and children spend their days collecting firewood, or squatting in mud laced 
with animal feces and urine to collect and dry manure for fuel. Millions die 
every year from lung diseases caused by indoor air pollution from cooking fires, 
and dysentery due to contaminated drinking water. 
 Hydroelectric or fossil fuel 
projects could provide electricity for families, water purification plants and 
economic development. But radical activists oppose these projects and say the 
worlds rural poor should be content with solar panels on huts. 
 Today, 14 million Africans 
face imminent starvation. Desperate people are destroying woodlands and wetlands 
in search of barely edible plants, and hunting anything that flies, swims or 
crawls. Biotechnology could save lives, reduce suffering, and preserve wildlife 
and habitats by enabling farmers to grow more food on less land. But radical 
activists prevent its use and threaten sanctions on any nation that ignores 
their edicts again in the name of sustainable development and social 
responsibility. 
 Investors are also at risk, 
particularly retirees whose futures depend on pension and mutual funds that own 
nearly US$8-trillion in market share 50% of the total stock market. Many of 
these funds are managed less to safeguard or increase principal than to promote 
radical principles. 
 The California Public 
Employees Retirement System is among the largest and most influential of these 
institutional investors. But as the Wall Street Journal noted recently, the fund 
has begun to tailor more of its investment calls to an ideological agenda. 
Calpers fiduciary duty is to its 1.3 million public employees and their 
families, who expect a solid return on their money. The fund claims to keep a 
watch over business, but someone is going to have to keep a more careful eye on 
Calpers. 
 Due in no small part to 
significant investments in companies like Enron, WorldCom and BP, which somehow 
met Calpers slippery criteria for socially responsible investing, the pension 
funds retirees lost billions of dollars over the past couple years. Somewhere 
along the line, Calpers fiduciary duty to its investors apparently gave way to 
an assumed duty to activist groups. 
 Others to watch closely are 
Robert Monks' Institutional Shareholder Services, CERES (the business and 
activist Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies), London-based 
Claros Consulting -- and Innovest Strategic Value Investors, which now provides 
company and industry sustainability research for BP Investments, the 
investment arm of the British Petroleum pension fund. Even the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index merits investigation. 
 All provide supposedly 
professional, unbiased analytical and advisory services. But they support 
political agendas based on CSR doctrines, underwrite often questionable 
analyses, and rely heavily on stakeholder (activist) input to justify how they 
grade companies in client portfolios. 
 Some of these advisors also 
work with liberal foundations to recruit, advise and fund labour unions, church 
groups like the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility, and even attack 
groups like Greenpeace and Campaign ExxonMobil, whose fusillades against 
ExxonMobil indirectly benefit BP. All to advance ethics, morality and social 
responsibility, of course. 
 For investors, it can be a 
double whammy. Their retirement nest eggs face financial risk, and they are 
forced to support causes the retirees may vigorously oppose causes that lock 
billions of people into lives of hunger, poverty, disease and despair. 
 What to do? Urge regulators 
and journalists to investigate these companies and investor firms for breech of 
fiduciary duty. Demand that the companies, firms and activist groups open their 
books and provide full disclosure of their meetings, contacts, and monetary and 
other relationships. Then insist that legislators change the law, to make these 
groups subject to the same false advertising laws and the same standards of 
transparency and accountability that activists insist should govern for-profit 
corporations. Unbelievably, right now, these ideologues are mostly exempt. 
 The world will be a better, 
safer, more ethical place especially for retirees and the world's poor. 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 
VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE