Blame Congress for High Gas Prices 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 Paul 

 Driessen 

 You can blame Congress for a lot of today's high gas prices 
 If you refuse to use available resources, whose fault is your scarcity? 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Mediocrity 
reigns supreme 

 Congressional hot air 
substitutes for energy policy 

 Paul Driessen 

 In 1774, 
Irish statesman Edmund Burke told voters, Your representative owes you not his 
industry only but his good judgment. And he betrays instead of serves you if he 
sacrifices his judgment to your opinion. 

 Two hundred 
years later, US Senator Roman Hruska argued, There 
are a lot of mediocre people. Theyre entitled to a little representation, 
arent they? 

Fortunately, Congress rejected Hruskas appeal for mediocrity on the Supreme 
Court. Unfortunately, ongoing debates on energy policy suggest that mediocre 
people are over-represented in todays Senate and House of Representatives, and 
good judgment has been supplanted by opinion and demagoguery. 

 US 
crude oil output has declined 43% since 1985, as demand increased by 31% and 
imports have skyrocketed to 60% of the oil we use (compared to 28% just prior to 
the 1973 OPEC oil embargo). Meanwhile, China and Indias booming economies have 
intensified global demand for oil. 

 As 
if that werent enough to send prices into the stratosphere, political unrest 
and muscle-flexing in Iran, Iraq, Chad, Nigeria, Bolivia, Venezuela and Russia 
have generated jitters and further price hikes. Additional upward pressure on 
gasoline prices results from air pollution laws that mandate 18 expensive 
specialized gasoline blends for individual markets, highly subsidized and 
hard-to-transport ethanol for broader markets, and a 54-cent tariff on imported 
ethanol. 

Not surprisingly, crude oil is now over $70 a barrel, and gasoline hit a 

 national average of $2.90 per 
gallon in April. 

Congressional actions have likewise helped make clean-burning natural gas the 
fuel of choice for numerous applications. US utilities use 41% more of it than 
just a decade ago, and 87% of all generating plants coming online in next 5 
years will burn gas including plants that provide essential backup electricity 
for unreliable wind turbines that Congress and state legislatures promote, 
subsidize or even mandate. Natural gas is also used to make fertilizer to grow 
corn and other crops, and burned to convert various crops into ethanol and 
bio-diesel. 

 So 
demand is up, while production has stagnated, and natural gas prices have soared 
from $2 in the 1990s to nearly $9 per thousand cubic feet today. 

Winter heating bills soared 25% during the relatively warm winter of 2005-06, 
and fertilizer prices rose nearly 50% in a years time. Facing sharply higher 
costs for heating, lighting and transportation, businesses and schools are 
desperately trying to control other costs, without laying off more workers. The 
National Association of Manufacturers estimates that more than 3.1 million 
high-wage manufacturing jobs have been lost since 2000; many have moved 
overseas, where natural gas is plentiful and costs less. 

But why are US supplies so tight and prices so high? Its not because we are 
running out of oil and natural gas. In fact, using US Minerals Management 
Service projections, the Consumer Alliance for Energy Security calculates that 
our offshore Outer Continental Shelf contains enough natural gas to heat 100 
million homes for 60 years, and enough oil to power 50 million cars for 60 
years. 

 MMS also 
says Alaskas Arctic National Wildlife Refuge could hold another 16 billion 
barrels of recoverable oil. That's 30 years of imports from Saudi Arabia. 
Turned into gasoline, it would power Californias vehicle fleet for 50 years. At 
$70 a barrel, ANWR oil could replace $1.1 trillion worth of foreign crude, 
create 500,000 American jobs, and generate hundreds of billions in royalties and 
taxes. 

But President Clinton vetoed 1995 legislation that opened ANWR to drilling, 
arguing that the oil and gas would not be available for a decade which is 
right now, just in time to meet the current supply and price crunch. What do we 
hear from Congress? No drilling, because the energy wont be available for a 
decade. 

Even after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita which impacted a fourth of our 
production and refining capacity and in the midst of the current price shocks, 
Congress cited flimsy environmental arguments and voted to keep US oil and gas 
locked up: off our Pacific, Atlantic and Eastern Gulf of Mexico coasts, and in 
Alaska (including ANWR), the Rockies and Great Lakes. 

Even California senators and congressmen, representing by far the biggest energy 
consuming state in the US, steadfastly oppose petroleum development in any of 
these areas. And even Florida, our third biggest energy consumer, refuses to 
allow one rig off its coast, to help slake its ravenous demand for oil and gas 
to power the cars, boats, trucks, planes, houses, hotels, casinos, businesses 
and air conditioners that make the Sunshine States good life possible. 

Canada is 
drilling in the Great Lakes. China and Cuba are planning to drill 45 miles off 
the Florida coast. In 60 years of drilling off our shores, there has only been 
one accident where significant oil reached shore (1969 off Santa Barbara). We 
clearly need the oil and gas. 

And yet Congress wont budge on drilling, or on easing permits for refineries, 
pipelines, liquefied natural gas ports or nuclear power plants. About the only 
things it does promote are tax-subsidized ethanol, biodiesel, wind and solar 
projects, which together supply less than 0.5% of our energy needs. 

However, in a raucous showing of bipartisan, bicameral blather, neo-Hruskas did 
find time to denounce purported corporate greed, price fixing and obscene 
profits and vote to outlaw price gouging. (On a gallon of gasoline, oil 
companies earn about 10 cents profit, most of which they spend on new 
exploration and development work, while the federal government gets 18 cents in 
taxes, and states add another 28 to 60 cents in taxes.) Congress didnt know how 
to define price gouging, but legislators are certain theyll know it when they 
see it (unless its taxes doing the gouging). 

 In 
a few weeks, the same legislators will consider global warming legislation that 
could push energy prices up another 20% for no perceptible environmental 
benefits. 

 As 
Will Rogers famously observed, Every time Congress makes a joke, its a law. 
And every time it makes a law, its a joke. If we could simply harness 
congressional hot air, Americas energy problems would be history. 

Until then, however, Burkes wisdom will be but a dim memory. Hruskas paean to 
mediocrity will reign supreme. America will be held hostage to foreign 
oiligarchs and domestic environmental extremists. And consumers will have to 
dig deeper into their pocketbooks or try to live more like the average family 
in China or India. 

________________ 

Paul Driessen is senior policy advisor for the 
 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise and 
Committee For A Constructive Tomorrow, and author of 
 Eco-Imperialism: Green power &#8729; Black death 
( www.Eco-Imperialism.com ).