Book Reviews 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Paul 

 Driessen 
 European Reviews of Eco-Imperialism 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Major European newspapers review 
Eco-Imperialism 

 by Holger Thuss, CFACT-Europe

December 6, 2006 

 With 150.000 copies and about 
twice as many readers every day, the Swiss newspaper Neue Zuericher Zeitung 
is not only the largest Swiss newspaper, but also the most respected daily paper 
among the German-speaking Europeans. Under the headline Eco-imperialism at the 
expense of the poor, it also was the first major print media that informed its 
readers of the newly published German edition of Paul Driessens 
Eco-imperialism: Green Power Black Death on September 11. 

 According to the reviewer, 
Detmar Doering of the German Liberal Institute, it is fully comprehensible 
that humans care for an environment worth living and want it protected. 
However, that should be a reason to challenge environmentalism, because 
apparently its cultural hegemony in the public sphere corrupts this movement. 
Many scenarios by which environmentalists impress the (western) public are 
based on bogus science, e.g. the climate catastrophe, as Driessen can 
meticulously demonstrate. Justified concerns for the environment, the review 
concludes, must not be directed against the economic perspectives of the 
worlds poor. It is a pity that only few have the courage to say it that way. 

 Christian Bartsch of Junge 
Freiheit (Young Freedom), a conservative weekly with 30,000 readers from 
Berlin, reviewed the book on October 6, and predicted the new Driessen book 
will be a shock for many because of its appalling facts about the global 
activities of self-appointed guardians of the environment. According to Bartsch, 
modern environmentalists act like medicine men or shamans in prehistoric times: 
Both discovered fear as the best means to make their sheep compliant. In both 
cases it is about them silencing evil demons which were invented by themselves 
and presenting environmentalist shamans as the keepers of public morals and 
ethics. 

 On October 21, as well Dirk 
Maxeiner, one of Germanys most renowned environment writers, reviewed 
Eco-imperialism in Die Welt . With some 800,000 readers, the paper is 
one of Germanys major national dailies. Its literary supplement Die 
literarische Welt (World of Literature), where the article appeared, 
represents the great humanistic journalistic tradition of the 1920s. Maxeiner 
not only mentioned the devastating consequences of extreme environmentalism but 
also focused on the dangerous ethical standards of several green investment 
funds: From Nike to Reebok, from BP to Shell, Paul Driessens book is full of 
examples of opportunistic companies practicing a fatal appeasement policy toward 
noisy lobby groups in rich countries, at the expense of the poor. For managers 
and entrepreneurs this book is a must-read, because it could also bear the title 
Corporate palookas in green pinstripe suits. 

 Other reviews of 
Eco-imperialism: Green policies with lethal consequences this is the book 
title re-translated from German appeared in Eigentuemlich Frei 
(Peculiarly Free), Neue Nachricht (Current News), and NOVO 
Germanys most distinguished libertarian periodicals, in Civis , a 
quarterly loosely affiliated with Chancellor Merkels ruling Christian-Democrat 
party, and the Chemische Rundschau (Chemical Review), a special 
interest magazine for chemists from Switzerland. Altogether, reviews of CFACT 
Europes most important 2006-publication reached more than 1.1 million readers.

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE