Sustainable Development Book Review 

 Sustainable 
Development The book and the ideology 

 Paul Driessen 
Senior Fellow - Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

August 15, 2002 

 Scarcely a day goes by these days, 
without a grim new report warning of dire consequences if the world does not 
quickly adopt new protocols on sustainable development. Most of these studies 
are produced or sponsored by the United Nations, and are intended to set the 
stage for the UNs upcoming 
 World Summit on Sustainable Development, to be held 
in Johannesburg, South Africa at the end of August. 

 These protocols are backed by dozens 
of countries (most notably the European Union), hundreds of wealthy activist 
groups, vast armies of bureaucrats, literally billions of dollars of taxpayer 
and foundation money, and throngs of sympathetic journalists. But now an 
 important new book 
challenges the themes, assumptions, analyses and solutions advocated by the 
sustainable development movement. 

 Sustainable 
development: Promoting progress or perpetuating poverty? 
 is thought-provoking, well researched and backed by extensive data. 
Edited by Julian Morris, co-director of the International Policy Network, the 
book brings together the experience and thoughts of seventeen experts from five 
continents. It should be required reading for anyone heading to Johannesburg or 
dealing with issues of trade, development, foreign aid, environmental 
protection, and a better future for people and our planet. 

 Ask an environmental activist to 
define sustainable development, and he will most likely say it means we must 
meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future 
generations to meet their own needs. 
 Its pious and altruistic, but incredibly vague.

 Less vague are the means by which SD 
proponents intend to achieve their brave new sustainable world. Those are 
spelled out in detail in a 300-page manifesto known as 
 Agenda 21 . 

 Agenda 21 
 proposes that national 
governments pursue sustainability by controlling education, land and energy use, 
economic production and consumption, transportation, markets, labor, trade, 
housing, policy making processes and peoples daily lives. It would do so 
through centralized government plans and edicts, monitored and enforced through 
the United Nations and global NGOs (non-governmental organizations). 

 As Professor Morris points out, this 
vision of sustainable development primarily reflects the aesthetic preferences 
of a small cadre of bureaucrats, multinational NGOs and wealthy foundations in 
developed countries. The needs, views and concerns of poor people in poor 
countries were largely ignored. 

 The activists vision is likewise 
rooted too much in 
conjectural problems and theoretical needs of future generations and too 
little on real, immediate, life-and-death needs of present generations. It 
focuses too little on fostering economic development, and too much on 
restricting development typically in the name of protecting the environment.

 Agenda 21 
and the Johannesburg summit also reflect the assumption that we are rapidly 
depleting our natural resources and destroying the planet. These beliefs have 
been vigorously challenged by numerous scholars, including Ronald Bailey, Robert 
Bradley, Gregg Easterbrook, Bjorn Lomborg, Greenpeace co-founder Patrick Moore 
and the late Julian Simon. 

 Their work demonstrates that 
environmental quality has been steadily improving, at least in the developed 
world, human health has never been better, and we are not running out of 
anything. Indeed, as resource economist Bradley points out, the worlds proven 
reserves of crude oil totaled 68 billion barrels in 1947. Over the next 50 
years, we consumed 783 billion barrels and yet we still had proven reserves of 
1,050 billion barrels at the end of 1998! 

 True sustainable development, says Morris, requires a shift in 
focus away from false perceptions and supposedly desirable outcomes and toward 
an institutional framework that allows and encourages people to improve their 
lives, make the best use of available resources and improve the environment. 
This framework must include decentralized ownership and control of property and 
natural resources, enforceable property and contract rights, free markets, 
limited regulation, and empowering individuals and communities to take charge of 
their own lives. 

 The Johannesburg protocols, however, fail to do this and thus make 
it increasingly difficult to address truly critical Third World problems. 

 1.6 
billion people still do not have access to electricity, and 3 
million (mostly women and children) die from acute respiratory infections, 
because they are forced to cook and heat with wood and dried cow dung. 
Hydroelectric dams and coal or gas-fired power plants could eliminate this 
indoor air pollution, but SD proponents oppose all these energy alternatives and 
favor wind and solar power. 

 However, wind power requires giant 
turbines that slaughter birds by the thousands, and generating electricity equal 
to just 20% of America consumption would mean 230,000 hectares of turbines (an 
area the size of Virginia or Cuba), according to American Wind Energy 
Association data. And gas-fired generators would still be needed, to produce 
electricity whenever the wind stops blowing. Solar power has similar 
limitations. 

 1.3 
billion lack access to clean drinking water, and more than 2 million (again, 
mostly children) die of water-borne diseases every year. Environmentalists 
oppose the dams and water projects that play an essential role in solving this 
problem. 

 300 
million people contract malaria every year, and 2 million die. The 30-year death 
toll (since a DDT ban went into effect) stands at 50 million, mostly children 
and pregnant women, nearly all in the Third World, the majority in sub-Saharan 
Africa. 
 But radical greens still oppose 
even limited, carefully controlled use of DDT in homes to combat this killer 
disease. 

 800 
million people are chronically undernourished. But most sustainability 
proponents favor severe restrictions on the biotechnology that could replace 
crops with insect and drought resistant varieties, increase crop yields, and 
reduce both the need for pesticides and the amount of land being farmed. 

 3 
billion people live on less than $2.00 a day. But the protocols would limit the 
right of Third World countries to develop. They would also reduce wealth and 
buying power in developed nations that are important trading partners and 
sources of foreign aid, and give rich nations a rationale for barring imports 
that contain biotech products or result from allegedly unsustainable practices.

 And yet, Johannesburg summiteers 
cynically suggest that they will hold foreign aid hostage until African and 
Asian leaders ratify sustainable development treaties that will prolong this 
agony. 

 Free Africa Foundation president 
George Ayittey notes that what exists in many African countries is a vampire 
or pirate state a government hijacked by a phalanx of gangsters, thugs and 
crooks who use the instruments of the state to enrich themselves, their 
cronies, their tribesmen, and various bureaucrats and educated elites. The poor 
get almost nothing and little of the aid promised at the first sustainability 
conference in Rio de Janeiro has ever materialized. 

 No wonder Africas villagers and 
honest politicians have become so disenchanted with these attempts to impose 
First World treaties and policies on the Third World. 

 As Morris observes in 
closing: It is our duty to ensure that the institutions we pass on to our 
children, and our childrens children, enable them to progress. And we must 
strive to ensure that institutions which enable progress are adopted widely, so 
that people alive today are able to improve their lot; to live rather than 
subsist; to create rather than copy; to be free rather than be oppressed.

 It can only be hoped 
that the sustainable development movement and Johannesburg summit will take 
heed. 

Sustainable development: Promoting progress or perpetuating poverty? 
 is available 
for $15.00 (plus 
$3.95 shipping and handling) from the International Policy Network (IPN), 1001 
Connecticut Avenue, NW - Suite 1250, Washington, DC 20036. 

 Paul Driessen is a 
senior fellow for the Center for the Defense of 
Free Enterprise. Contact him at
 paul@cdfe.org . 

 RETURN TO 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO 
CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE