Ron Arnold Quoted on Indictments 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 EcoTerrorism 
 Eleven ELF/ALF Indictments 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Center executive vice president is quoted in this Boston Globe article on 
 recent indictments of eleven ecoterror suspects. 

 http://www.boston.com/news/nation/washington/articles/2006/01/21/justice_dept_accuses_11_of_us_eco_terrorism/?page=full 
 The Boston Globe 
 January 21, 2006 
 Justice Dept. accuses 11 of US 
 eco-terrorism 
 By Charlie Savage 

 WASHINGTON -- Justice Department officials yesterday hailed the 
 indictment of 11 alleged members of an extremist group responsible for a 
 string of property attacks across the Pacific Northwest and the Rockies as a 
 ''substantial blow" to domestic terrorists bent on using violence to protect 
 the environment and animal rights. 

 A 65-count indictment unsealed yesterday describes the 11 defendants as 
 members of a group that claimed affiliation with the Earth Liberation Front 
 and the Animal Liberation Front, two loose-knit movements the government 
 describes as eco-terrorists. The government accuses the group of committing 
 17 attacks across five states, causing millions of dollars in damage to 
 property. 

 ''The indictment tells a story of 4 1/2 years of arson, vandalism, 
 violence, and destruction claimed to have been executed on behalf of the 
 Animal Liberation Front or Earth Liberation Front, extremist movements known 
 to support acts of domestic terrorism," Attorney General Alberto Gonzales 
 said. 

 Eco-terrorism is sabotage to stop activities considered by activists to 
 be damaging to the environment or animals, such as real estate development, 
 fur farming, logging, mining, and biomedical research and product testing on 
 animals. The FBI estimates that eco-terrorists were responsible for 1,200 
 incidents from 1994 to 2004, including arson, theft, animal releases, and 
 other vandalism. 

 The 11 defendants named yesterday are accused of a series of assaults on 
 a broad range of businesses and facilities from 1994 to 2001, including 
 forest ranger stations, meat-packing plants, lumber companies, holding pens 
 for wild horses, and a high-tension power line tower. Several are also 
 charged with starting a 1998 fire at a ski resort in Vail, Colo., that 
 caused $12 million in damage. 

 Gonzales did not explain how investigators tracked down the defendants, 
 but the indictment makes oblique references to an informant. Six of the 
 suspected eco-terrorists were arrested in early December, and two more were 
 taken into custody this week. Three more remain at large and are believed to 
 be abroad, he said. 

 According to the indictment, the defendants were a group of activists who 
 referred to themselves as ''the Family" and swore an oath of allegiance to 
 one another. The group scouted their targets and caused damage with homemade 
 incendiary devices built with kitchen timers, model rocket fuses, and jugs 
 of fuel, the indictment said. 

 The group allegedly took credit for the attacks in the name of the Animal 
 Liberation Front and the Earth Liberation Front, scrawling the movement's 
 names in graffiti at the site of the vandalism and sometimes issuing news 
 releases, according to the indictment. 

 Ron Arnold, who tracks eco-terrorism for the libertarian think tank 
 Center for Defense of Free Enterprise, said that among environmental 
 extremists the Family was an aberration. Most eco-terrorist acts are 
 committed by onetime vandals, he said, but the Family is accused of 
 committing many acts over time. 

 FBI director Robert Mueller said yesterday the group's aim to end the 
 abuse of animals and the environment is no excuse for using violence and 
 breaking the law. 

 ''Terrorism is terrorism, no matter what the motive," he said. ''It is 
 one thing to write concerned letters or to hold peaceful demonstrations. It 
 is another thing entirely to construct and use improvised explosives or 
 incendiary devices to harass and intimidate victims by destroying property." 

 At the fringe of mainstream environmentalism, the eco-terrorism movement 
 traces its roots to renegade British anti-hunting protests in the 1970s, 
 which used pranks to make its point. It later spread to the United States, 
 when groups such as Earth First began putting spikes in trees to discourage 
 logging. 

 The movement took a more violent turn in 1992, when a radical faction of 
 Earth First formed a separate group called the Earth Liberation Front, 
 specialists said. The Animal Liberation Front sprang up as a sister 
 movement, sharing many of the same members. 

 David Martosko, an eco-terrorism analyst at the Center for Consumer 
 Freedom, said that the ELF and ALF function more as labels than actual 
 organizations. Vandals who share the extremist movement's ideology sometimes 
 invoke the names during attacks, but may have no link to each other. 

 At a Senate hearing last year, Environment Committee chairman James 
 Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, estimated that eco-terrorism had caused more 
 than $110 million in damage over the years. 

 But specialists said that it is difficult to quantify the attacks because 
 the numbers change depending on the criteria used to analyze them. For 
 example, some incidents amount to nothing more than a brick thrown through a 
 window, but arson that the Earth Liberation Front claimed to have committed 
 in 2003 at a San Diego construction site caused about $50 million in damage. 

 The Justice Department identified the suspects in custody as Chelsea Dawn 
 Gerlach, Sarah Kendall Harvey, Daniel Gerard McGowan, Stanislas Gregory 
 Meyerhoff, Jonathan Mark Christopher Paul, Suzanne Savoie, Darren Todd 
 Thurston, and Kevin M. Tubbs. The suspects not in custody are Joseph Dibee, 
 Josephine Sunshine Overaker, and Rebecca Rubin. The indictment made passing 
 reference to another suspect, William Rodgers, describing him as an ''unindicted 
 coconspirator." Rodgers, who was also arrested in December, was found dead 
 in his cell in Arizona, on Dec. 22, in an apparent suicide. His head was 
 covered in a plastic bag and he had suffocated, according to reports. 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 

VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE