Triple Bottom Line? 

 The Triple 
Bottom Line: Authentic New Model or Tripartite Nonsense? 

 By Steven F. 
Hayward 

 "It 
won't be an oil company that will change the world," declares TV producer Philo mena 
Ryan in splashy full-page newspaper ads sponsored by BP 
corporation . "BP " used to stand for "British 
Petroleum," but on the ad we are given to understand that "BP" now stands for 
"Beyond Petroleum." BP shareholders beware: this ad campaign seems to suggest 
that BP intends to go out of business. 

 The claim "It 
won't be an oil company that will change the world" is narrowly true: oil 
companies already did change the world a century ago, so now it is probably so meone 
else's turn. That's not what BP has in mind. Instead, BP informs us that "In 
1997 we were the first in our industry to recognize the risks of global climate 
change and set a target to reduce our own greenhouse gas emissions" at its 
refineries. BP proudly achieved this target ahead of schedule to the plaudits 
of environmentalists, who (for now) politely overlook that fact that motorists 
keep using more and more of BP's CO 2 -producing products-the 
equivalent of the anti-smoking movement praising tobacco companies for using 
recycled paper in their cigarette rolling plants. 

 What's going on 
here? 

Environ mentalists 
have, of a sudden, begun to embrace the virtues of market capitalism-sort of. 
Corporations, meanwhile, have begun to discover that environmentalism can be 
profitable-up to a point. Is the lion really snuggling up next to the lamb 
after all? And if so, in this age of genetic modification, what is the progeny 
likely to be? 

 The 
progeny of this odd convergence is so mething 
called the "triple bottom line." To the standard bottom line of profit-and-loss 
are added two more categories with balance sheets of their own: environmental 
quality, and social justice. Forget "win-win" situations; now we are told we 
can have "win-win-win" situations. 

 At 
first glance this new enthusiasm may appear to be environ mentalists 
trying to make lemonade from the lemons history has dealt them. The "limits to 
growth" argument that characterized the modern environmental movement has been 
widely and thoroughly discredited, while the American economy has proven that it 
is possible to have vigorous economic growth along with falling pollution and 
more efficient resource use. The limits of bureaucratic regulation and the 
ascendance of market-oriented solutions to environmental problems (mostly 
developed by non-environmentalists) threatened to leave environmentalists at the 
back of their own parade. The Worldwatch Institute, for example, published a 
book entitled The Natural Wealth of Nations: 
Harnessing the Market for the Environ ment , 
in which the author (David Roodman ) conceded that 
government regulation fails "for precisely the reason 
that central planning has run aground almost everywhere it has been tried." 
Another recent entry is Natural Capitalism: 
Creating the Next Industrial Revolution by Paul 
Hawken , Amory Lovins and L. Hunter
 Lovins . The Lovinses 
are famous for advocating "soft" energy technologies (that is, energy sources 
that don't work for modern economies), while Paul Hawken , 
co-proprietor of the garden supply chain Smith & Hawken , 
has proven himself a capitalist genius for his ability to take a $3 trowel, 
paint the blade green and stain the handle, and sell it to you for $30. (Did I 
mention that Smith & Hawken is based in Marin 
County, which long ago gave up any Smith & Wesson attitudes. . . ) 
 Hawken , et al., praise markets for "their ingenuity, 
their rapid feedback, and their diverse, dispersed, resourceful, highly 
motivated agents [which] give markets unrivaled effectiveness." 

 With 
all this market-affirming language, it is tempting for the long-suffering 
advocates of free markets and individual liberty to declare "we've won!" and do 
a sack dance in the lobby of the Sierra Club. But a closer look at the details 
shows that the newfound green embrace of market capitalism is highly 
superficial, and represents a protean adaptation of their essentially unchanged 
socialist impulse for control over people and things. Much of this new green 
capitalism has the quality that Winston Churchill once observed of Stanley 
Baldwin: "Occasionally he stumbled over the truth, but hastily picked himself up 
and hurried on as if nothing had happened." 

Consider the three parts of the "triple bottom line" in reverse order of 
mischief. "Social justice" im mediately 
raises a red flag (in every sense of the term) because it is a euphemism for 
egalitarianism; adding the adjective "social" to the idea of justice does not 
meaningfully inform the principles of justice, which have stood on their own for 
millennia. In fact, "social" justice, if it has any distinct meaning at all, is 
a disingenuous attempt to turn justice on its head by claiming legitimacy for a 
redistributive agenda. The people who use the undefined vocabulary of "social 
justice" are usually the same people who speak of "unbridled" capitalism without 
defining in any serious way what exactly is meant by "unbridled," let alone 
acknowledging that "bridled" capitalism is better known as either fascism,
 statism , or corporatism. 

Environ mental 
quality, the second leg of triple bottom line, can be more straightforward so 
long as sensible standards are applied. Most businesses, especially 
manufacturing firms, have emissions and resource-use profiles that can be 
measured and improved-upon through various means. And most large corporations 
these days now produce annual environmental reports to go alongside their annual 
financial reports, detailing company progress on various environmental 
benchmarks. Most of these gains are mere efficiency gains, which can even be 
profitable in many cases. In one widely heralded case, the Natural Resources 
Defense Council (NRDC) teamed up with Dow Chemical in Michigan on a "source 
reduction initiative" that set as its goal a 35 percent reduction in the amount 
of pollution discharged at Dow manufacturing plants. At the end of a three-year 
process Dow had not only exceeded the target, achieving a 43 percent reduction 
in discharges, but saved a net $5 million a year in production costs that now 
flows to the financial bottom line as additional profit. (The production 
changes required to achieve this savings cost $3 million.) Here, we are told, 
is a classic "win-win" for both the financial and environmental bottom lines. 

 That an evil 
chemical company can make money while reducing pollution is almost no fun at all 
to hard shell environ mentalists 
(The NRDC's Linda Greer, who spearheaded the NRDC-Dow 
project, told an interviewer: " If 
you told 
 me five years ago 
that I was going to help Dow increase its profitability by $5 million a year, I 
would have stood and waited for the punch line!") , 
though it has provided the greens with the idea that there are huge profitable 
efficiency gains just waiting to be captured if only lunk -headed 
corporate executives will wake up and look for them. Environmentalists are only 
too happy to lend their "expertise" on plant efficiency. Although there are 
lots of efficiency gains that can be profitably attained, a one-dimensional 
focus on efficiency gains leaves out of account both opportunity cost of 
dedicating working capital and trained personnel to this as opposed to other 
tasks, and consideration of the internal rate of return (IRR) on the company's 
capital. In other words, efficiency gains may have a much lower rate of return 
on capital than other potential investments a company may be able to make. In 
the fullness of time, a corporation needs to devote its capital to investments 
with the highest rate of return. 

 This is not a 
hairsplitting or trivial consideration. 
 U.S. 
oil refineries, for example, spent nearly 50 percent of their capital 
expenditures between 1991 and 1995 on pollution abatement equipment, according 
to the World Resources Institute, little or none of which added to the bottom 
line. (Most of this expense was required to comply with the Clean Air Act.) 
The energy industry spent $8.5 billion in environmental compliance costs in 
1998, which was more than twice the net income of the top 200 oil and gas 
companies. After such mandated expenditures, it is natural that companies would 
wish to devote their remaining working capital to developing assets that add to 
the bottom line in a more meaningful way than an incremental efficiency gain. 
(Also, given the long-term trend toward greater energy efficiency and raw 
material use, in many cases these efforts amount to merely speeding up 
efficiency gains that would be achieved in any case.) 

 While so me 
environmentalists, such as the NRDC's Greer, 
recognize these finance considerations (" they 
have in mind other invest ments 
for that $3 million that they think will be more profitable," says Greer), the 
more creative environmentalists suggest that we need new "metrics" to calculate 
the financial bottom line that reflect the "value" of "social capital" and 
"intellectual capital." Neither of these categories is self-evidently silly; to 
the contrary, the idea of "social capital" has been developed by scholars on 
both the left and right, such as Robert Putnam and the late Edward
 Banfield , while the significance of intellectual 
capital is central the rise of the information economy. But the marketplace has 
ways of assigning value to the intellectual capital of firms such as Microsoft 
or Intel, where the higher multiples of earnings 
reflected in the stock market price express the fact that the accumulated human 
knowledge of the company's employees greatly exceeds the standard book value of 
raw materials and physical assets. These valuations may or may not be 
"correct," but they are recalculated daily by millions of investors in the daily 
auction of the stock market, rather than imposed by subjective fiat of a special 
interest group. 

 This 
is not what environ mentalists 
mean by assigning value to these intangibles. They are looking for ways to 
shoehorn the idea of sustainable development into accounting standards that 
assigns a proper negative asset and cash flow value to environmental 
externalities. While no one has yet come up with proposed FASB (Financial 
Accounting Standards Board)-style rules for doing this, there is great agitation 
to make triple bottom line sustainable development "a board level issue." And 
it is making some headway in boardrooms. Monsanto's CEO Robert Shapiro wrote in 
a 1995 corporate environmental report: "We have to broaden our definition of 
environmental and ecological responsibility to include working toward 
'sustainable development.'" 

Meanwhile, environ mentalists 
are not waiting for serious conceptual work on how objective accounting 
standards might incorporate environmental concerns. They are starting to play 
the stock market game by "warning" investors that companies that do not heed the 
call of the triple bottom line will see their market value decline. It is a 
sophisticated way of mau-mauing corporations that 
don't toe the green line. A special target of green wrath is
 ExxonMobil , which has steadfastly refused to enter a 
guilty plea as a destroyer of planet Earth. Campaign 
ExxonMobil , a self-appointed pressure group dedicated to making
 ExxonMobil annual shareholder meetings as unpleasant 
as possible, recently sponsored an ostensible shareholder valuation analysis by 
some outfit known as " Claros Consulting" which 
argued that ExxonMobil's market capitalization could 
fall by as much as 10 percent (or about $20 billion) because of its refusal to 
take global warming seriously or invest in renewable energy technologies. Then 
the World Resources Institute got into the act, with a study of "Emerging 
Environmental Risks and Shareholder Value in the Oil and Gas Industry" which 
argued more cautiously (but still spuriously) that 
ExxonMobil and other energy companies face an average loss in market 
value of about 6 percent. 

 There is so mething 
more than a little ironic-even comical-about environmentalists pretending to be 
stock market analysts at the very moment that stock market analysts have fallen 
into disrepute with the public, and when market volatility has greatly exceeded 
the possible range of valuation changes under either of these studies. (Next 
they'll be telling us that internet companies are a good investment.) This 
suggests that the probity of these studies is about zero. Naturally the 
favorite companies of the greens are those companies that make vocal pledges to 
fight global warming and invest in renewable energy such as BP and Royal Dutch 
Shell. If these green stock market valuation studies are correct, we could 
expect that investors would already be giving the greener companies higher 
valuations in the stock market. Yet even after the horrendous market shakeout 
of July, ExxonMobil's price-earnings ratio was a 
third higher than either BP or Royal Dutch Shell, suggesting that investors 
believe the earning prospects for ExxonMobil 
 are much better than for their greener competitors. 
 ExxonMobil also enjoys a higher profit margin and 
higher return on shareholder's equity than BP or Royal Dutch Shell, reflecting 
perhaps that ExxonMobil isn't wasting capital on 
unproductive renewable energy technologies. (In fact, 
ExxonMobil has the highest return on equity in the entire energy 
industry, according to the Value Line Invest ment 
Survey .) 

 The green 
solicitude for shareholder value beco mes 
even more absurd when we keep in mind the environmentalists' all time favorite 
energy company: Enron. Enron endorsed the Kyoto protocol and was positioning 
itself to be a key broker of any tradable emissions permit scheme that might 
used to help meet Kyoto CO 2 reduction targets, though cynics may 
wonder whether Enron saw this as another market it could manipulate or employ 
creative accounting to puff up phony profits. Indeed, the former CEO of Enron, 
Jeffrey Skilling , is reported to have said: "We are 
a green company. The green we like is money." 

 Paul Georgia of 
the Competitive Enterprise Institute compiled a sampler of environ mentalist 
endorsements of Enron. An internal Enron memo in 1997 noted: "Enron now has 
excellent credentials with many 'green' interests including Greenpeace, World 
Wildlife Fund, Natural Resources Defense Council, German Watch, the U.S. Climate 
Action Network, the European Climate Action Network, Ozone Action, World 
Resources Institute, and Worldwatch ." Ralph 
Cavanaugh of the NRDC wrote: "On environmental stewardship, our experience is 
that you can trust Enron." In April 2000, NRDC listed Enron as one of several 
"progressive companies" that "support responsible global warming policy." 
 And Jim
 Marston with Environ mental 
Defense also praised Enron, saying, "They are smart. They think that being 
pro-environment is a good business and political strategy." And in his 2001 
book Eco-Economy , Lester Brown 
praised Enron for being "keenly aware of the part it can play in the transition 
to the new energy economy." 

Enron's bankruptcy neatly parallels the bankruptcy of green accounting, as 
neither of the collateral bottom lines of the triple bottom line (environ mental 
quality and social justice) could help keep Enron from collapse. The thousands 
of people who lost their jobs and their retirement savings in the Enron debacle 
remind us that a corporation's first duty to its shareholders and employees is 
to make a profit; the old-fashioned, one-dimensional financial bottom line takes 
precedence. The failure to do so, as Enron and other fraudulent corporations 
that have collapsed in recent months show, has its own serious social 
consequences. 

 The 
example of Enron shows that that environ mentalists 
are trying to turn corporations into social service adjuncts of a
 statist agenda-something that market-oriented 
corporations are not supposed to be. 

 Steven F. Hayward 
is F.K. Weyerhaeuser Fellow at the A merican 
Enterprise Institute in Washington, and author of the Pacific Research 
Institute's annual Index of Leading Environmental Indicators. 

 FAIR USE NOTE: In accordance with U.S. 
Copyright Law as codified in Title 17 U.S.C. section 107, any copyrighted 
material herein is displayed without profit or payment for non-profit research 
and educational purposes only. It is posted here only after a commercial 
purpose of any copyright holder has been satisfied, and complies with fair use 
clauses of the U.S. Copyright Act. For more information go to:

http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml 

 RETURN TO FREE MARKETS TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE