President Bush gives citizens a voice in conservation 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Congratulations, President Bush, 
 for Executive Order on Cooperative Conservation! 
 Government recognizes the Center's long-standing campaign to respect private 
 property in conservation! 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 President George W. Bush has signed an Executive Order, "Facilitation of 
Cooperative Conservation," that instructs federal agencies to include private 
landowners and businesses when making decisions that affect land use and 
environmental regulations. 
 Center Executive Director Ron Arnold congratulated the President for bringing 
all citizens into the federal decision-making process. 
"We have looked forward to this order for a long time," said Arnold in a news 
release. "It finally recognizes that ordinary citizens have a role in federal 
environmental rule-making, not just the big organized power-and-pressure groups 
that prefer command-and-control tactics from the top. For too long, the 
left-leaning environmental movement has rolled back the safety net of 
constitutional protection of property owners from federal intrusion and abuse. 
President Bush's inclusion of all of us is just what America needs to stop 
irresponsible and senseless rules that do nothing to help the environment but do 
everything to increase the power of zealous bureaucrats. This is a great day for 
all the people of the United States." 
 The order instructs five federal agencies - the Departments of Interior, 
Agriculture, Commerce, Defense and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) - 
to include local groups in decision-making that affects land use and 
environmental regulations. 
 The Sierra Club has condemned President Bush's inclusion of local people in 
the decision-making process because it dilutes environmentalist power to dictate 
policy through Club members and allies in the bureaucracy. The Sierra Club and 
other environmental groups call for defeating Bush's re-election bid in an 
effort to gain powerful jobs in a Democratic Party administration. 
 The full text of President Bush's order: 

Executive Order 

Facilitation of Cooperative Conservation 
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws 
of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 
 Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this order is to ensure that the 
Departments of the Interior, Agriculture, Commerce, and Defense and the 
Environmental Protection Agency implement laws relating to the environment and 
natural resources in a manner that promotes cooperative conservation, with an 
emphasis on appropriate inclusion of local participation in Federal 
decisionmaking, in accordance with their respective agency missions, policies, 
and regulations. 
 Sec. 2. Definition. As used in this order, the term "cooperative 
conservation" means actions that relate to use, enhancement, and enjoyment of 
natural resources, protection of the environment, or both, and that involve 
collaborative activity among Federal, State, local, and tribal governments, 
private for-profit and nonprofit institutions, other nongovernmental entities 
and individuals. 
 Sec. 3. Federal Activities. To carry out the purpose of this order, the 
Secretaries of the Interior, Agriculture, Commerce, and Defense and the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall, to the extent 
permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations and in 
coordination with each other as appropriate: 
 (a) carry out the programs, projects, and activities of the agency that they 
respectively head that implement laws relating to the environment and natural 
resources in a manner that: 
 (i) facilitates cooperative conservation; 
 (ii) takes appropriate account of and respects the interests of persons with 
ownership or other legally recognized interests in land and other natural 
resources; 
 (iii) properly accommodates local participation in Federal decisionmaking; 
and 
 (iv) provides that the programs, projects, and activities are consistent with 
protecting public health and safety; 
 (b) report annually to the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality 
on actions taken to implement this order; and 
 (c) provide funding to the Office of Environmental Quality Management Fund 
(42 U.S.C. 4375) for the Conference for which section 4 of this order provides.

 Sec. 4. White House Conference on Cooperative Conservation. The Chairman of 
the Council on Environmental Quality shall, to the extent permitted by law and 
subject to the availability of appropriations: 
 (a) convene not later than 1 year after the date of this order, and 
thereafter at such times as the Chairman deems appropriate, a White House 
Conference on Cooperative Conservation (Conference) to facilitate the exchange 
of information and advice relating to (i) cooperative conservation and (ii) 
means for achievement of the purpose of this order; and 
 (b) ensure that the Conference obtains information in a manner that seeks 
from Conference participants their individual advice and does not involve 
collective judgment or consensus advice or deliberation. 
 Sec. 5. General Provision. This order is not intended to, and does not, 
create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in 
equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, 
instrumentalities or entities, its officers, employees or agents, or any other 
person. 
 GEORGE W. BUSH 
 THE WHITE HOUSE, 
 August 26, 2004. 
 # # # 

 RETURN TO PUBLIC POLICY TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN 
TO CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE