CEOs Should Mind Their Own Business 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Senior Fellow Nick Nichols 
 and Henry I. Miller 
 CEOs Should Mind Their Own Business 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 This 
thought-provoking article appeared in Investors Business Daily on 12/27/2005 
 HENRY I. 
MILLER AND NICK NICHOLS 
 President Coolidge once said the business of 
 America is 
business. He might have added that the business of business is to pursue 
profits, for lately some corporate leaders seem to have lost sight of that basic 
precept. 
 Instead, they have embraced corporate social responsibility (CSR), the 
political doctrine du jour of the leftist ninnies who seek to further socials 
goals that they have decided are virtuous. The activist-inspired CSR movement 
represents the convergence of two seemingly discordant political doctrines 
corporate socialization and the privatization of regulation. 
 Gary Johns, a one-time Australian Labor Party MP turned NGO watchdog, has 
described the phenomenon as a left-wing conspiracy dressed up as a right-wing 
conspiracy. Perhaps this accounts for the schizophrenic response to CSR by some 
in the business community who seem not to realize that it is socialism via the 
back door. 
 Daniel Vasella, the chairman and CEO of Novartis, the worlds fifth largest 
pharmaceutical company, has written that multinational companies have a duty to 
adhere to fundamental values and to support and promote them. If he were 
referring to corporate values such as honesty, innovation, voluntary 
transactions and the wisdom of the marketplace, hed be right. But what he meant 
was collaborat(ing) constructively with the U.N. and civil society to define 
the best way to improve human rights. 

Do-Gooders 

 The 
expansion and consolidation of human rights are worthy goals, to be sure, but 
Vasellas saccharine altruism brings to mind economist Milton Friedmans 
reproachful observation: 
 Businessmen believe that they are defending free enterprise when they 
declaim that business is not concerned merely with profit but also with 
promoting desirable social ends; that business has a social conscience and 
takes seriously its responsibilities for providing employment, eliminating 
discrimination . . . and whatever else may be the catchwords of the contemporary 
crop of reformers. 
 Regrettably, there are many in the media, business and public office who cite 
the convictions of these corporate leaders as justification for corporate 
socialization. 
 Vasellas catchwords are human rights and corporate citizenship, but we 
have recently seen other examples of businesses trying to do good (or perhaps 
trying to look good) while straying from their primary purpose. These include 
McDonalds ending its popular supersized portions in the name of discouraging 
obesity, and businesses adopting less efficient but supposedly environmentally 
sustainable practices. 

Inside The Gates 

 Some 
businessmen see the CSR as a public relations opportunity to get the leftists 
off their backs, or naively think that the Holy Grail of successful business 
management is good PR. Why else would one of the worlds largest 
biopharmaceutical companies spend a small fortune to bring National Public 
Radios Prairie Home Companion program to the San Francisco Bay Area? 
 Other executives support the CSR movement because their companies can afford 
to, and they believe the competition cannot or will not pay the price of 
admission to the CSR cult. At every chance, they preen for the press on issues 
such as the 
 Kyoto 
treaty, sustainable development, rain-forest protection, the so-called living 
wage and Vasellas human rights. BP incessantly reminds us that it is looking 
Beyond Petroleum. 
 One would think that these corporate chieftains aspire to sainthood, but 
their real motive is to use CSR as a tool to achieve a nonproductivity-based 
advantage over the competition. They are neither puppets of the left nor 
appeasers. They are just good old-fashioned opportunists. 
 CSR is pernicious, a 21st century Trojan horse designed to destroy free 
enterprise from within. Fortunately, some corporate warriors still understand 
that businesses dont have social responsibilities; only people do. And inasmuch 
as corporate leaders work for business owners, their legal and moral 
responsibility is to pursue the best interests of their employers interests 
that relate primarily to making as much money as possible while conforming to 
the laws, regulations and ethical norms of society. 
 By spending company funds on activities that he decides arbitrarily are 
socially responsible, a corporate executive, in effect, reduces returns to 
shareholders and is, therefore, spending someone elses money. 
 It is easy to spend other peoples money. It is far more difficult, but more 
meaningful, to spend your own on the causes in which you believe. If executives 
wish to support nonbusiness-related goals of their own choosing, they should 
make charitable contributions from their private fortunes. 
 But billions of corporate dollars are diverted from investors and distributed 
elsewhere, often according to the whims of unaccountable activist groups. These 
are often the same groups that attack relentlessly the very technologies and 
products that are developed by their benefactors. 
 The result of this undemocratic process is that, in effect, leftist activists 
are able to dictate business policies and expenditures, based on their dubious 
vision of what is sustainable, equitable and fair for the rest of us. 
 Neither free enterprise nor the human condition worldwide is likely to 
benefit from companies pursuing CSR. Such actions do, however, raise the cost of 
doing business and lower corporate productivity. By diverting resources away 
from productive capital, businessmen will hurt many of the very people they 
claim to want to help. 

Equitable Misery 

 The 
solution to the CSR threat is for individuals and organizations to inform the 
100 million or so Americans who have money in stocks that their investments are 
being shanghaied by the CSR movement, their influence is being diminished, and 
their money (including their tax dollars) is being used by activist groups, 
corporate appeasers and do-gooders to undermine free enterprise and promote 
corporate socialism. 
 Socialism is a philosophy of failure, the creed of ignorance and the gospel 
of envy, (and) its inherent virtue is the equal sharing of misery, Winston 
Churchill once said. 
 Do business leaders really want to move our society in that direction? 

Miller, 
 a 
physician, is a fellow at the 
Hoover Institution. 

Nichols 

teaches crisis management at 
 Johns 
Hopkins University and is a fellow at the Center for the Defense of Free 
Enterprise. 
 RETURN TO THE CENTER 

VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE