Comes the Revolution 

 The Center View: Comes the Revolution 
 "Revolutionary Cells" bombing at Chiron Corp. 
racheting revolutionary rhetoric 
 Craig Rosebraugh's revolutionary oratory 
reverberates as domestic terrorist movement shifts gears 
 September 4, 2003 
 The FBI has opened a domestic terrorism 
investigation of a group called "Revolutionary Cells" that claimed blame for the 
August 28, 2003 bombing of Chiron Corp. in Emeryville, California. 
 We haven't seen that group's name before, but 
we've heard the rhetoric. And it's becoming the defining characteristic of 
ecoterrorism. Revolution. The violent overthrow of the United States government. 
And of technological society. 
 Is it a serious threat to the survival of the 
United States? Probably not. 
 Is it a serious threat to the survival of 
technological society? As a whole, no. To its victims, you bet. Serious enough 
to stop it with law enforcement tools before military tools become necessary. 
 The "revolutionary" tag in 
"Revolutionary Cells" is another in a 
growing number of ecoterrorist references to revolution in their rhetoric. While 
the idea of ecoterrorism as an act of revolution has been floating around 
radical circles for some years, it was brought into sharp focus by former Earth 
Liberation Front spokesman Craig Rosebraugh, whose 2002 master's thesis was titled, " Rethinking 
Nonviolence: Arguing for the Legitimacy of Armed Struggle." 
 Rosebraugh obtained his master's degree through 
 the Institute for Social Ecology, 
affiliated with Vermont's Goddard College. 
Rosebraugh's message, "Terrorism can be OK, can be justified," is increasingly 
reflected in current headlines. 
 In the past month, we've seen a $50 million 
Earth Liberation Front arson of a San Diego apartment complex under 
construction, a $1 million ELF arson of a Los Angeles-area Hummer dealership, 
attacks against chefs who serve pate de foie gras (fattened goose or duck 
liver), the animal rights bombing of Chiron Corp, and vandalizing of SUVs in 
Houston. 
 A few examples among many of revolution 
entering the ecoterrorist universe of discourse: 
 California State University at Fresno hosted 
an event February 13-14, 2003 dedicated to the topic of Revolutionary 
Environmentalism 
 A Dialogue between Activists and Academics. It 
included a list of speakers that read like a Whos Who of the environmental and 
animal-rights criminal culture. 

 Convicted felon Craig Marshall (aka "Critter") 
gave a prison interview to Outside magazine contributing editor Bruce 
Barcott in April, 2003 to discuss "the revolution necessary to save a doomed 
planet." Barcott wrote of Marshall, "He describes the radical environmental 
circles in which he traveled as a tight-lipped culture that recognizes arson as 
a legitimate act of political protest. 'It takes all the tools in the toolbox to 
dismantle the master's machine,' he says. 'More passive people do tree-sits. 
More active people are comfortable risking their well-being. There's a line a 
lot of people are not willing to cross. I was willing to cross it.'" 

 The line Marshall 
crossed involved firebombing Joe Romania Chevrolet dealership in Eugene, Oregon 
in 2000 "to punish carmakers and
 consumers for their love affair with the gas-hogging SUV." Marshall now dwells 
for a five and a half year term at taxpayer expense in a clean, well-lighted 
facility called Snake River Correctional Institution in the eastern Oregon 
desert. His co-conspirator Jeffrey Luers (aka "Free") got twenty-two and a half 
years in prison for the same crime plus the attempted arson of two gasoline 
tankers. 
 Ecoterrorists in jail consider themselves to 
be political prisoners. That's a little hard to swallow considering we don't 
know what their preferred political system looks like. Do they want some kind of 
eco-socialism? State ownership of industry? The elimination of private property? 
Would they like an absolute eco-dictatorship where only the faithful get to 
vote? Or nobody gets to vote? 
 We have not yet seen anything resembling a 
revolutionary program from the ecoterrorists, nothing that draws a picture of 
the future ideal society they might want. 
 One reason may be that an ideal society, or 
any society at all, may not be in their plans. Rhetoric about dismantling the 
master's machine does not necessarily mean they have some better society in 
mind. Their goal may be no society. Total genocide could be lurking in 
the murk. 
 We've heard reports of campfire chants among 
the eco-revolutionaries that endlessly repeat "Billions are living that should 
be dead." That could be mere youthful enthusiasm, but it might be more. 
 Chatter about revolution is an American clich 
that shouldn't trouble us too much. 
 Chatter about revolution accompanied by 
bombing and arson should trouble us a lot. Add to that chants about genocide, 
and you have a situation that deserves close scrutiny. 
 Radicals are fond of recalling that Thomas 
Jefferson made a famous 1786 remark about "A little rebellion now and then is a 
good thing" but that was before he became President in 1801, after which he 
became much less tolerant. Things look different when you're responsible for 
making things work. 
 The FBI is talking about radicals "racheting 
up" ecoterrorism. Maybe they're missing the point. 
 It's the revolution, stupid. 

 RETURN TO 
ECOTERROR TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE