Congressional Oversight 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Congress, 
in addition to its lawmaking duties, has oversight authority over the Executive 
Branch. 
 What is "congressional 
oversight?" Simply put, it's members of Congress monitoring Executive Branch 
activities. 
 The dictionary 
definition of "oversight" is "w atchful care; 
superintendence; general supervision." Congress regards oversight as " the 
authority to conduct inquiries or investigations of the executive, to have 
access to records or materials held by the executive, or to issue subpoenas for 
documents or testimony from the executive. " 
 The 
following article can also be found at

http://www.house.gov/rules/jcoc2aq.htm . 
 CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT 

 Oversight is an implied rather than an 
 enumerated power under the U.S. Constitution. The government's charter does 
 not explicitly grant Congress the authority to conduct inquiries or 
 investigations of the executive, to have access to records or materials held 
 by the executive, or to issue subpoenas for documents or testimony from the 
 executive. 
 There was little discussion of the power 
 to oversee, review, or investigate executive activity at the Constitutional 
 Convention of 1787 or later in the Federalist Papers , which argued in 
 favor of ratification of the Constitution. The lack of debate was because 
 oversight and its attendant authority were seen as an inherent power of 
 representative assemblies which enacted public law. Historian Arthur M. 
 Schlesinger, Jr., has noted that ``no provision in the American Constitution 
 gave Congress express authority to conduct investigations and compel 
 testimony.'' 15 He added, ``but it was not 
 considered necessary to make an explicit grant of such authority. The power to 
 make laws implied the power to see whether they were faithfully executed. The 
 right to secure needed information had long been deemed by both the British 
 Parliament and the colonial assemblies as a necessary and appropriate 
 attribute of the people to legislate.'' 16 

 Oversight also derives from the many and 
 varied express powers of the Congress in the Constitution. It is implied in 
 the legislature's authority, among other powers and duties, to appropriate 
 funds, enact laws, raise and support armies, provide for a Navy, declare war, 
 and impeach and remove from office the President, Vice President, and other 
 civil officers. 17 Congress could not reasonably 
 or responsibly exercise these powers without knowing what the executive was 
 doing; how programs were being administered, by whom, and at what cost; and 
 whether officials were obeying the law and complying with legislative intent.

 The Supreme Court made legitimate the 
 oversight powers of Congress, subject to constitutional safeguards for civil 
 liberties, on several occasions. In 1927, for instance, the High Court found 
 that in investigating the administration of the Justice Department, Congress 
 was considering a subject ``on which legislation could be had or would be 
 materially aided by the information which the investigation was calculated to 
 elicit.'' 18 

 FOOTNOTES 
 15 In Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. and Roger 
 Burns, editors, Congress Investigates: A Documented History, 1792-1974 , 
 New York, Chelsea House, 1975. v. 1, p. xix. 
 16 Ibid. See also Telford Taylor, Grand 
 Inquest: The Story of Congressional Investigations , New York, Simon and 
 Schuster, 1955. pp. 1-16. 
 17 U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8 and 
 Article II, Sections 2 and 4. 
 18 McGrain v. Daugherty , 273 U.S. 135, 177 
 (1927). See also Watkins v. United States , 354 U.S. 178, 187 (1957) and
 Barenblatt v. United States , 360 U.S. 109, 111 (1959). 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 
VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE