Corporate Social WHAT? 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Nick 
 Nichols, senior fellow 

 It's time to hoist the black flag 
 and start kicking some butts 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Corporate 
Social WHAT ? 

 By Nick Nichols 
 Saturday, 
September 9, 2006 
 While waiting for 
the wind called Ernesto to make its way up the East Coast - bent on flooding our 
basement for the second time this year - a Google Alert blew into my inbox from 
the website

www.worldchanging.com . I expected to be accosted by yet another diatribe on 
how Ernesto was caused by global warming, which in turn was caused by evil doer 
corporate polluters and their leader - the devil incarnate - George W. Bush. I 
was wrong. 
 The headline on the 
posted article caught my eye: Is Capitalism Growing More Socially Conscious? 
The article opined that recent trends suggest that both corporations and 
investors are taking socially responsible investing more seriously. As proof, 
the author cited a recent study revealing that 34 companies listed on the S&P 
100 had issued Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reports based on a 
third-party standard - the

Global Reporting Initiatives Sustainability Reporting Guidelines . 

 As an investor and a 
long-time critic of corporate socialism, my curiosity was piqued. Surely, 34 
blue-chip companies would not embrace these so-called Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines without first determining with whom they were getting in bed. Was 
this Global Reporting Initiative a counter-balance to the whacky, anti-free 
enterprise dogma preached by the kill-kapitalism crowd that launched the CSR 
movement in the first place? Was industry finally getting its act together? I 
fired up my turbo-charged laptop to find the truth. 
 Truth be told, the 
34 companies that have adopted the reporting guidelines advanced by the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) are either blissfully ignorant or they have joined 
the ranks of corporate appeasers and capitulators in the Neville Chamberlain 
Club. 
 It turns out that 
GRI is run by Ernst Ligteringen, a former Executive Director of Oxfam 
International and a past consultant to the International Labor Organization. The 
U.S. representatives on GRIs board are Sean Harrigan, who previously served as 
an official with the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, and Joan Bavaria, 
who has served as President and CEO of the Trillium Asset Management 
Corporation, a social investment firm. For the record, Ms. Bavaria also sits on 
the boards of Earthjustice and the Earth Day Network. She is on the advisory 
boards of the Union of Concerned Scientists and the Greening of Industry 
Network. 
 Of particular note 
is that Ms. Bavaria is also the Founding Chair of CERES, a national network of 
investment funds, environmental organizations and other activist groups. Why is 
this noteworthy? Well, according to its website, GRI started as a project of 
CERES. So, who runs CERES? Does its governing board include representatives from 
the blue chippers of the S&P 100? No. Not one. Zero. Zip. Nada. The CERES board 
is a whos who of the anti-free enterprise lobby, including the executive 
director of Friends of the Earth, and officials from the Sierra Club, Natural 
Resources Defense Council, World Wildlife Fund, AFL-CIO, AFSCME and, yes, the 
Screen Actors Guild. 
 H.L. Mencken once 
observed that, Every normal man must be tempted at times to spit on his hands, 
hoist the black flag, and begin slitting throats. As an investor and 
unapologetic cheerleader for free enterprise, I must admit that when American 
companies jump under the sheets with activists that have dedicated their lives 
to undermining the very foundations of our economic system, Menckens words take 
on new meaning. More than 100 million Americans have invested their hard-earned 
dollars in the stock market. They have a right to expect that the companies they 
invest in will focus their resources on maximizing the return on their 
investments. Corporate resources diverted for the purpose of playing footsie 
with the Far Left represent a hidden tax on investors and a drain on the 
economy. 
 The time has arrived 
when individual investors must take names and demand sanctions when corporate 
executives join the Neville Chamberlain Club. This is advocacy of the kind 
employed by the

Free Enterprise Action Fund (ticker symbol FEAOX), which uses its status as 
an institutional shareholder to persuade companies to focus on increasing 
shareholder value and profits rather than vainly trying to appease outside 
activists. Its time to hoist the black flag and start kicking some butts.

 With over three 
decades in the communications business, Nick Nichols specializes in crisis 
management and risk communications. He teaches graduate-level crisis management 
at the Johns Hopkins University. 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 

VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE