Corporate cleanup law must set higher standard for all 

 Corporate 
clean-up law must set higher standard for all corporations, 
 including non-profits 
 CENTER OPINION, July 15, 2002 
 President George W. Bush, Congress, business leaders, investors, workers and 
the American public are furious at scandal-ridden corporations. 
 The problem is real. 
 Look at all the scandals WorldCom Inc., Enron Corp., Global Crossing Ltd., 
Qwest Communications International Inc., Andersen. Worse, each new report of 
accounting trickery and management skullduggery spurs new worries that more 
business disasters are on the way. Even staid IBM may have to restate its 
financial condition to set the record straight. Who will be next? How bad will 
it be? We only know that it's not over yet. 
 Even President Bush, who has long worked to get government off the back of 
business, has had to react sternly, announcing efforts to crack down on 
corporate fraud. There is little question that Mr. Bush's plan, which centers on 
aggressive enforcement of current laws, is sorely needed. 
 But is it enough? And how do we judge what is enough? Do we need to "restore 
business' sagging credibility" as conservatives say? Do we need to "prop up the 
public's teetering faith in the free enterprise system" as liberals say? Do we 
need to change the structure of corporate America with new rules, as the 
Senate proposes? Do we need to get rid of capitalism and place global economic 
decision-making power in the United Nations, as progressives such as the 
International Forum on Globalization (IFOG) recommend? 
 The Senate proposals are the most likely measures to actually become public 
policy. In addition to prosecuting corporate fraud, the Senate has voted in 
favor of a law that would impose sentences of up to 10 years for corporate 
officers who cheat investors or drain employee pensions. Presumably that will 
give pause to the few dishonest operators that find their way into top 
management. We all know that only honest people do honest work. New laws are 
not likely to make dishonest people honest, but they could certainly locate them 
in clean, well-lighted federal facilities where they would have plenty of time to 
reconsider the merits of dishonesty. 
 The Senate proposal addresses the central problem revealed by the recent 
scandals: managements that act as if they owned the company, when in fact they 
don't, and are just the high-priced hired help of the real owners, the 
investors. 
 Corporations may be "judicial persons" or "artificial persons" in legal 
jargon, but in practice they are property, just like your home or car or 
clothes. You can't own a person, but you can own a corporation. Corporations are 
property. A share in a corporation is property. Shareholders are property 
owners. Since the employees of many companies these days own stock in the 
firms they work for, that includes a lot of workers who own a property interest 
in their employer. The rights of property owners are and should be protected by 
law. 
 Although we call the current debacles "corporate scandal," we're really facing 
"corporate officer scandal," mostly "manager scandal," sometimes 
including "board of director scandal." But nobody's furious 
at "workers" or "investors." They're corporate too. Most of us are 
"corporate" in some fashion. So it pays 
to sort out rhetoric from reality, and sort out the proper target for legal 
punishments from those whose rights must be protected. It's a few bad officers at issue. 
 Managers are hired to make the corporation work. They are the people, 
according to management theory, that do not do the work, but get others to do 
the work. The talent and skill required to get others to do the work efficiently 
and profitably is not found in everyone. Thus, managers are well compensated for 
their ability. They are the highest-priced of high-priced hired help. They are 
entitled to a few perquisites. 
 But they are not entitled to abuse. 
 It is not unreasonable to require managers to go to the bank when they need a 
loan rather than to borrow from their owners at no interest and dubious payback 
terms. 
 It is not unreasonable to require managers to report revenues correctly so 
the owners know what's happening to their money. 
 It is not unreasonable to require managers to judiciously steward pension 
funds so employees know what to expect for their retirement. 
 Managers may have personal justifications for what they did in the current 
scandals, but there was no corporate justification -- no justification for the 
whole corporation, the managers, the directors, the owners, the workers. 
 It is not unreasonable to put managers in jail if they put the owners' money 
at risk with personal loans that have no corporate justification. 
 It is not unreasonable to to put managers in jail if they put the owners' 
money at risk by false revenue reports that make them look good but have no 
corporate justification. 
 It is not unreasonable to put managers in jail if they put the employees' 
retirement money at risk by measures that have no corporate justification. 
 If the board of directors cannot or will not police their management, perhaps 
law enforcement agencies should be asked to do it. And a "citizen attorneys 
general" clause that would allow investors to bring legal action against 
unlawful management acts would be a reasonable check and balance to management 
power. 
 Some version of the Senate proposals is most likely to become the law of the 
land. 
 In addition, members of the Senate are proposing steps to police the 
accounting profession. A bill sponsored by Maryland's Sen. Paul Sarbanes, a 
Democrat, calls for establishing a government-backed oversight board to 
discipline accountants and create certain auditing controls and standards. 
Meanwhile, Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona seeks a complete ban on 
auditors serving as consultants for their clients. 
 Not many Americans believe the accounting industry can be trusted to police 
itself anymore. A new government oversight bureaucracy may or may not make 
things better, but it may create the perception that a supervised accounting 
industry is more trustworthy. 
 But let's not fool ourselves: it's just another layer of bureaucracy, and how 
much do you trust bureaucrats? They have a way of treating the honest and the 
dishonest equally, which punishes everyone in the regulated industry, not just 
the bad guys. Their fairness is unfair. But a new bureaucracy may be the only 
way to deal with public distrust. 
 While President Bush is forming a financial "Swat" team within the Securities 
and Exchange Commission to chase down offenders, he is criticized for the SEC's 
lack of credibility under current Chairman Harvey Pitt. Mr. Pitt knows industry, 
but critics say he knows it too well and is unlikely to vigorously enforce the 
law. It's up to him to prove them wrong. It's up to the President to act if he 
doesn't. 
 Something that has escaped public notice in these scandals is the need to 
create and enforce laws against mismanagement in non-profit corporations as well 
as in for-profit corporations. 
 Both are corporations run by hired managers and controlled by a board of 
directors. 
 Both make a profit. 
 The difference is that nonprofit corporations may not distribute their 
profits to investors because nonprofit corporations may not issue stock. 
 The profits of nonprofit corporations may be invested in stocks, however, and 
many well-known nonprofit corporations own substantial portfolios of common 
stocks, corporate bonds, government obligations, mutual funds, real estate, and 
other financial assets. But the flashy websites of such nonprofit groups don't 
reveal that fact. They don't tell how much they have in their investment 
portfolio. You can only dig that out by reading their IRS annual report Form 
990, if you know how to read one, and if you take the time and trouble to obtain 
it every year. Transparency for corporations should extend to nonprofit 
corporations. 
 Few realize that truth in advertising laws do not apply to nonprofit groups 
soliciting funds for their causes. Nonprofit corporations are free to lie to and 
cheat their donors with impunity, claiming that non-existent problems are about 
to destroy this or that and then taking credit for the miraculous disappearance 
of the problem after their publicity campaign has made it go away, after paying 
the staff a handsome salary. There is no First Amendment right to lie. Free 
speech protections do not cover defamation, libel or slander. There is no 
justification for letting nonprofit corporations off the hook of truth in 
advertising. 

 BACK TO PROBLEM POLICIES TOP 
PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE