Cottrell convicted 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 William 
 Cottrell convicted in SUV arsons 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Ecoterrorism case decided swiftly 

LOS ANGELES -- William Jensen Cottrell, a California Institute of Technology 
graduate student, was convicted November 19, 2004 of firebombing sports utility 
vehicles at a Hummer dealership last year to protest the American auto 
industrys contribution to environmental pollution. 
 After deliberating less than a day, a federal 
court jury found Cottrell, a 24-year-old doctoral candidate in physics, guilty 
of seven counts of arson and one count of conspiracy. 
 Cottrell, who testified that SUV dealers were 
"evil," faces at least five years in prison when he is sentenced in March.

 But he was spared an additional 30 years behind 
bars, mandatory under federal law, when the jury acquitted him of the most 
serious charge, using a destructive device during a crime of violence. 

 Two other suspects in the Aug. 22, 2003, string 
of arsons and vandalism are fugitives. Tyler Johnson, a Caltech graduate, and 
his girlfriend, Michie Oe, have been named as unindicted co-conspirators. They 
are believed to have fled the country. 
 "The U.S. Attorneys office is pleased that 
justice has been served," Beverly Reid OConnell, the lead prosecutor, said 
after Fridays verdict. The hunt for the other two suspects is continuing, she 
said. 
 Cottrell, Johnson and Oe are blamed for causing 
nearly $5 million in property damage during a nighttime escapade in which about 
125 vehicles and a building were damaged or destroyed at four auto dealerships 
in L.A.s San Gabriel Valley. 
 The case attracted wide attention after the Earth 
Liberation Front, a loose association of militant environmentalists, claimed 
responsibility. 
 Prosecutors offered no evidence during eight days 
of trial that Cottrell was connected to the ELF, although his lawyer suggested 
that Johnson and Oe were tied to the group. 
 The defense contended that Johnson and Oe duped 
Cottrell into joining them on what was supposed to be a foray to spray paint 
environmental protest slogans on gas guzzling SUVs. 
 Defense attorneys Michael Mayock and Marvin 
Rudnick had intended to call a psychologist to testify that Cottrell suffers 
from Aspergers syndrome, a form of autism marked by impaired ability to 
understand social situations. 
 U.S. District Judge R. Gary Klausner ruled such 
testimony irrelevant and barred the defense from raising the issue before the 
jury. 
 Mayock said he plans to ask for a new trial based 
on the contention that Cottrell was unable to adequately explain his behavior 
because of the judges refusal to allow evidence of Aspergers disorder. 

 Testifying 
in his own defense, the boyish looking Cottrell said he was surprised and upset 
when Johnson shattered the side window of an SUV parked on a residential street 
and hurled a Molotov cocktail inside, setting the vehicle ablaze. 
 As they left the scene, Cottrell said, he argued 
with Johnson about the firebombing. His friend promised not to do it again, he 
said. But as he was painting slogans on Hummers at a dealership, Cottrell said, 
Johnson resumed firebombing vehicles. 

 Cottrell 
said he was "mad" and left the lot immediately after Johnson threw the first of 
at least seven Molotov cocktails into SUVs. About 15 vehicles and a parts 
building were set ablaze as the fire spread. 
 Federal prosecutors accused Cottrell of trying to 
"write himself out of the script" by placing all of the blame on Johnson and Oe. 
They said he was actively involved in planning and carrying out the arsons. 

 Among 
the 42 witnesses called by the government were three fellow Caltech graduate 
students who testified about Cottrells behavior and comments after the arson 
attacks. 
 One friend, Daniel Feldman, said Cottrell told 
him he was concerned about possibly having been caught on videotape as he helped 
Johnson and Oe fill bottles with gasoline at a service station. Cottrell denied 
saying that. 
 Claire Jacobs, another Caltech friend and 
confidante, said that Cottrell asked her to provide an alibi for him on the 
morning after the arsons. She also disclosed that he later offered to marry her 
so she would not have to testify against him. 
 None of Cottrells friends testified that he had 
admitted taking part in the actual arsons. 

RETURN TO ECOTERRORISM TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO 
CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE