Court tightens species law 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 No more phony endangered species 
 obstructions 
 Courts require 
 environmentalists to show 
 real evidence of likely harm or no injunction 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Pacific Legal Foundation wins landmark 
lawsuit 
for property owners 

 BOISE, ID; April 25, 2005: In an important victory for 
western property owners, the United States Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals has 
ruled for Pacific Legal Foundation, and Idaho rancher Verl Jones family, in a 
closely watched case that addresses the standard by which injunctions can be 
issued under the Endangered Species Act. The Ninth Circuits ruling clarifies 
for the first time that environmental plaintiffs must present actual evidence 
that a species is likely to be harmed before an injunction can be issued against 
a property owner, and that a lack of evidence of past harm is indicative of the 
likelihood of future harm. 
 For years, environmental plaintiffs have been able to get 
injunctions ordering private property owners to cease legal activity on their 
land on the basis of mere allegations alone. PLF has long argued, as it did in 
the Joneses case, that there must be an evidentiary showing of real harm to a 
species before a court can issue an injunction that would result in serious 
economic harm to the property owner. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals agreed.

 "The court said environmentalists have to prove their 
case, not just allege it," said Russ Brooks, managing attorney for Pacific Legal 
Foundations Pacific Northwest Center. "The courts decision means that 
environmental activists can no longer use the Endangered Species Act as a weapon 
against property owners without a shred of evidence that any species is actually 
being harmed." 
 "For too long, environmentalists have been able to easily 
obtain injunctions against property owners on the basis that courts should give 
the benefit of the doubt to the species. The Ninth Circuit has just put 
environmentalists on notice that now they are going to have to give courts 
legitimate evidence of a likelihood of harm they cant get away with destroying 
peoples lives on baseless allegations anymore," Brooks said. 
 The Jones family operates a small ranch near Challis, 
Idaho. Since 1961, they have diverted water from nearby Otter Creek in the 
summer months to irrigate their alfalfa pastures for livestock. 
 An antigrazing, environmental activist group, the Idaho 
Watersheds Project, sued Verl Jones and his family in 2001, claiming the family 
was violating the ESA by diverting water from Otter Creek and killing bull trout 
protected under the Act. The group presented no evidence that bull trout were 
being harmed to support their claim. 
 PLF says the environmental groups real aim was to shut 
off the Joneses water use to force the family into bankruptcy and off their 
land. PLF presented evidence to the court, including testimony by the Jones 
family and a longtime ranch hand, that no one has ever seen a bull trout injured 
in Otter Creek, let alone killed, in the 40 years the family has operated their 
irrigation diversion. 
 Nevertheless, the federal District Court granted the 
environmentalists request for summary judgment and issued the injunction, 
ordering Jones to stop diverting water to the family ranch. As a result, the 
Jones family has been forced to buy about 100 tons of hay per year to make up 
for the loss of irrigation water for the past three years. 
 The Ninth Circuit overturned the District Courts 
decision, and ruled that courts cannot defer to environmentalists mere 
assertion of harm to a species. The court reversed and remanded the case to the 
lower court for trial to consider the evidence and lack of evidence presented. 
The unpublished decision is significant because it is the first time the Ninth 
Circuit has clarified the type of evidence that must be demonstrated in order 
for an environmental plaintiff to obtain an injunction under the ESA. 

 "The Ninth Circuit said that if the evidence shows a bull 
trout has not been harmed in 40 years, it isnt likely to be harmed in the next 
40 years certainly not likely enough to support an injunction shutting of the 
Joneses water," PLFs Brooks said. 
 As Brooks explained, the Joneses case has been widely 
watched by Idaho property owners who have for years been terrorized by 
environmental activist groups that have used the ESA as a means to shut down 
land use activity they oppose. 
 "For the Jones family, like other citizens in Idaho and 
across the west, the Endangered Species Act has brought nothing but despair, 
hardship, and lawsuits. Instead of restoring fish, the ESA has been used by 
environmental groups to hurt people who work the land for a living," said 
Brooks. 
 "This decision should give a lot of property owners hope 
where they have felt powerless against environmentalists frivolous lawsuits for 
years," added Brooks. "Its been a long time coming, but the tide is turning and 
its turning for the rights of property owners and reasonableness in 
environmental laws." 
 About Pacific Legal Foundation 
 Founded in 1973, Pacific Legal Foundation is a national 
leader in the effort to reform the Endangered Species Act and raise awareness of 
the Acts impact on people. PLFs Pacific Northwest Center is located in 
Bellevue, Washington. More information on the Foundation can be found at 

 www.pacificlegal.org 
Pacific Legal can be reached at (425) 576-0484. 

 RETURN 
 TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE