Court Abuse 

 American Forest Resource Council 
September 20, 2002 Newsletter http://www.afrc.ws/ 

 Sierra Club's abuse of the courts cited by 
judge. 
Time for Congress to shut down the Club's lawsuit mill? 

 $100,000 Bond Ordered 
 On September 17, U.S. District Court Judge Owen Panner issued an 
order giving the Sierra Club and others plaintiffs until September 24 to post a 
$100,000 bond or equivalent in cash to cover having an injunction issued pending 
appeal of their challenge of Stimson Lumber Companys approval to access its 
private land in northeastern Washington. You may recall earlier this year, 
Judge Panner ruled against the environmentalists claims that the Forest 
Services decision to grant Stimson access would endanger several threatened 
species. The case has been appealed to the Ninth Circuit, but the appeals court 
is letting Panner set the injunction bond amount. The Sierra Club argued to 
Panner that they were a non-profit entity seeking an injunction in the publics 
interest and therefore should not be required to post a bond. 

In his decision the judge stated, I do not find this argument persuasive. In 
many of the cited cases, the injunction was against a government agency. By 
contrast, in this case the Plaintiffs are seeking an injunction against a 
private business. That is an important distinction. In addition, while the 
Sierra Club may be a non-profit, organization, it is hardly destitute. The 
Sierra Clubs tax return reports gross revenues of $72,432,099 in 2000 and net 
assets of $37,537,568. It has hundreds of paid employees The Sierra Club 
prosecutes approximately 80-100 lawsuits annually and typically has a docket of 
approximately 150-200 open cases. Requiring the Sierra Club to post a 
substantial injunction bond will not deprive that venerable organization of 
access to the court. What the Sierra Club cannot do is to act with utter 
disregard for the consequences of the many lawsuits it files each year. These 
never-ending injunctions and delays cost private timber companies money, 
increase the risk of fire and cost timber workers jobs. In the present case, 
Stimson submitted the proposed project in early 1997. Stimson then endured 
almost five years of exhaustive environmental studies before gaining final 
approval from the federal agencies, only to have the Sierra Club and its allies 
file a merit less lawsuit demanding still more studies. While the studies and 
lawsuits dragged on, bark beetles and other voracious insects are using 
Stimsons private lands as an open-air cafeteria and fire risks increase. 

The Ninth Circuit has a hearing on the appeal scheduled for early October and 
should the plaintiffs post a bond, they will likely argue that Judge Panner was 
excessive in setting the amount. If you would like a copy of this opinion, 
contact AFRCs Portland Office. Stay tuned. /Chris West