Socialism Revisited? 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Nick 
 Nichols, senior fellow 
 Corporate Social Responsibility 
 or Corporate Socialism? 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Socialism Revisited? 

 A timely essay on a vital subject 
by Center senior fellow and Johns Hopkins University lecturer 
Nick Nichols 

 Remarks delivered at the CSR Reconsidered 
2005 Conference , held Wednesday, Nov. 2 at the Omni Shoreham Hotel in 
Washington, D.C. 

 See also the remarks at the same conference of 
Center senior advisor Paul Driessen
 CSR 
and the Developing World . 

 It seems to me that 
the question before us today is whether the clamor for CSR is truly about social 
responsibility . . . or is it about socialism revisited? 

 Some argue that CSR 
is a mutant offspring of the anti-globalization movement. 

 I guess they say 
mutant because some activists are actually threatened by CSR. They think it 
will undermine their true objective revolutionary change in the global 
economy. Why go after one corporate apple at a time when a few sticks of 
dynamite can take down the whole orchard? 

 Others claim that 
CSR is nothing more than a public relations gimmick that companies buy into for 
the sake of appeasing leftist activist groups. 

 From my vantage 
point, CSR is a 21 st century Trojan Horse designed to destroy 
free-enterprise from within. 

 I subscribe to 
Milton Friedmans view that the social responsibility of business is simply to 
maximize the rate of return to the general shareholders, consistent with the 
law. Anything that sidetracks corporate management from that responsibility 
spells big trouble. 

 The bottom line for 
me is that millions, if not billions, of corporate dollars are being diverted 
away from investors and redistributed elsewherenot by duly constituted 
governmentsbut as a result of the power of extortion wielded by wealthy 
activist groups who are accountable to no one but themselves. 

 I dont recall 
seeing television coverage of Mother Earth going to the polls to cast her vote 
for the Rainforest Action Network. 

 And I dont believe 
the peoples of Africa, Asia and South America have appointed Oxfam, or for that 
matter any other NGO, their official representative when it comes to economic 
development, worker rights, health and safety and their environment. 

 I do wonder on 
occasion how the millions of people who have died from Malaria would have voted 
if they had been given the chance to elect or reject the activist NGOs who 
systematically denied them access to mosquito-killing pesticides because they 
know whats best for indigenous people . 

 Or how about the 
people who have been denied running water, electric power and the benefits of 
employment because these things just didnt fit into the activists concept of 
sustainability? How would they vote if they had a choice? 

 It is an 
indisputable fact that many of these activist NGOs are now being allowed to 
execute corporate coup detats for the purpose of dictating business policies 
and behavior based on their vision of what is sustainable, equitable and 
fair for the rest of us. 

 Ironically, these 
groups are being aided and abetted by corporate PR flacks and their CEOsmodern 
day Neville Chamberlains willing to appease at any cost so that they can claim 
peace for our time at the next board meeting. 

 Examples . . . just 
to name a few: 

 Nike contributes $7.7 million 
dollars to the International Youth Foundation to found the Global Alliance for 
Workers and Communitiesa group whose primary purpose is to investigate Nike 
labor practices. 

 Wal-Mart endorses social and 
environmental sustainability and a hike in the minimum wage. Next well see 
Greenpeace activists as greeters at Sams club! 

 Ben & Jerrys, a company that 
makes Neville Chamberlain look like Rambo, launches a $5-million social 
awareness television advertising campaign. 

 Toyota joins the activist Pew 
Center on Global Climate Change and a group called "Business for Social 
Responsibility" (BSR). What does Toyota get in return for its social 
responsibility? Environmental activists took out a full-page ad in Saturday's 
(Oct. 30) New York Times featuring a photo of the Toyota CEO next to a wolf in 
sheep's clothing. The ad blasts Toyota for not being "green" enough. Welcome to 
the world of appeasement. 

 It seems like 
everyone is jumping on the CSR Trojan Horse for a ride down the road toward 
neo-protectionism, reduced competition and wealth redistribution . . . Im not 
simply referring to the perpetually spineless companies like Starbucks and 
British Petroleum . . . you can add General Electric, Ford, CitiGroup and Bank 
of America to the growing list of CSR appeasement artists. 

 When the threats 
posed by the CSR movement to free markets, worldwide competition, and important 
concepts like individual freedom, private property, and representative 
governance are calculatedit doesnt take a Ph.D in economics or political 
science to conclude that the true objective of CSR advocates is not kinder, 
gentler CEOs, its global socialism and the power to dictate how we live our 
lives. 

 They failed to 
achieve their objective at the ballot box and in the court of public opinion, so 
now they are trying the old-fashioned way . . . usurp authority by means of 
subversion, intimidation and extortion. 

 Winston Churchill 
once observed that Socialism is a philosophy of failure, the creed of ignorance 
and the gospel of envy, its inherent virtue is the equal sharing of misery. 
Given the choice between Neville Chamberlains values or those embraced by 
Winston Churchill, Ill choose Churchill. 

 I am here today to 
assert that once again we are confronting a global battle over the democratic 
values that we hold dear: individual freedom, open markets, unfettered 
competition, and progress. And I would suggest to you that the battle would 
already be lost were it not for the front-line efforts of groups like the Free 
Enterprise Education Institute, the Competitive Enterprise Institute and the 
National Legal & Policy Center. 

 So, it would be 
fair to say: Nichols, you spend your time in academia . . . its easy for you 
to criticize and cajole when you arent in the trenches . . . how do we 
ultimately win this battle? 

 Thats a fair 
question. One of my favorite crisis management rules comes from that well-known 
Midwestern philosopher Al Capone. Al once said that you can achieve a lot more 
with a smile, a kind word and a gun, than with a smile and a kind word. 

 I believe the 
solution to the CSR threat is pretty simple. Our weapon of choice should be 
sunshine. By that I mean, get the facts about the CSR movement out in the open 
for all to see. 

 Unlike the views of 
some folks in academia, I actually believe that the average person on the street 
has a brainincluding the 100 million Americans who have investments in the 
stock market. 

 What these folks 
need is personally relevant information about how their investments are being 
shanghaied by the CSR movement; the fact that their power as investors is being 
subverted by the NGOs and their CEO puppets; and how their money (including 
their tax dollars) is being used by the NGOs and the corporate appeasers to 
undermine free enterprise and the global economy. 

 Perhaps it is time 
to cast a wider net when it comes to social responsibility . Lets give 
the activists a taste of their own medicine. By that I mean holding the 
activist NGOs to the same standards of accountability and transparency that 
apply to publicly traded corporations. Call it Global Social Responsibility. 
Who could oppose that? 

 Force the NGOs to 
answer these questions: 

 Where does your 
cash come from? 

 How much have you 
received from individual donors, governments, or international agencies? 

 Who, exactly, are 
you accountable to? 

 Are your policies 
and practices the result of a democratic process? 

 Have your members 
been allowed to vote on these policies and practices? Do they even know what 
they are? 

 Who are your 
members? 

 Are your leaders 
elected, appointed or simply anointed? And what is their annual compensation? 

 How have your funds 
been used? 

 Do the people who 
funded you know how their money is being used? 

 Will you submit to 
an independent audit to determine the effects of your policies and practices on 
the people you claim to be helping and, of course, their impact on Mother Earth? 

 Is your NGO in 
compliance with the laws and regulations of the countries you work in? For 
example, are you obeying the IRS code as it applies to non-profit 
organizations? 

 Are you willing to 
abide by an independently developed code of conduct, and monitored for purposes 
of certification by an outside panel of experts? 

 In short, are you 
prepared to hold your NGO to the same book of rules that you are seeking to 
impose on business? 

 Global Social 
Responsibility. Perhaps its time to assert the old clich that whats good for 
the goose is good for the gander! 

 Allow me to leave 
you with another one of my favorite crisis management maxims. Its from The 
Hobbit. 

 J.R.R. Tolkein 
wrote that, It doesnt do to leave a live dragon out of your calculations if 
you happen to live near one. 

 CSR is a live 
dragon. Its time to go out and either slay it, or focus the fire breathing 
beast on the people who let it loose in the first place. 

Nick Nichols teaches crisis management for the Advanced Academic Programs at the 
Johns Hopkins University 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 

VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE