Good for the Gander 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Nick 
 Nichols, senior fellow 
 Anti-capitalist 
 Charities On the Chopping Block 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 What is good for the goose 
 is good for the gander 

 Saturday, February 24, 2007 

 2007 may prove to be a very bad 
 year for activist groups who discovered decades ago that they could raise 
 lots of tax-exempt cash by telling the rest of us how to run our lives. They 
 preached planetary doom and gloom, sermonized about the evils of capitalism 
 and coerced corporations to become more transparent, more sustainable and 
 more socially responsible. They pressured world leaders to ban the use of 
 DDT while millions of people were dying of malaria. They used their 
 political clout to oppose economic and resource development in areas of the 
 world where clean water and basic sanitation are luxuries that only a few 
 can afford. They demonized agricultural biotechnology and, as a result, 
 starving children were denied access to donated food. 

 But now, those winds of change 
 may be reversing course. Tax-exempt activist groups who have been demanding 
 corporate social responsibility are discovering the hidden meaning behind 
 that old English idiom: What is good for the goose is good for the gander. 
 My mother used to utter these words often, but I must admit that I never 
 understood what she was trying to say and why she was so fixated on geese.

 Developments in Germany, 
 England and Australia will no doubt clarify the meaning for the activist 
 charities.

 The German government has announced plans to reform its laws on 
 charitable organizations and donations. A report prepared for the German 
 Ministry of Finance found that the chaotic proliferation of charitable 
 organizations had enabled special interest groups to avoid taxes and to win 
 undue public influence. According to a recent article by journalist Thomas 
 Deichmann, Greenpeace may lose its charity status in Germany because of its 
 political campaigning and alleged illegal activities. If that happens, the 
 Rainbow Warriors goose will indeed be cooked. 

 The British are at least one 
 step ahead of the Germans. Last November, Parliament approved the Charities 
 Act which seeks to enhance transparency and accountability among tax-free 
 groups. Hail Britannia! 

 Meanwhile, Down Under, the 
 Australian Tax Office has announced that it is

 cracking down on charities engaging in partisan political campaigning. 
 The Australian Broadcasting Company reported last weekend that in a review 
 of 59 groups claiming charitable status . . . inspectors found that many of 
 them accept money from the public and then pass it on in political 
 donations. The news report also stated that at least one environmental 
 charity has already been stripped of its tax-exempt status for what the Tax 
 Office said was inappropriate political campaigning. 

 Michael Schrage, an MIT 
 researcher who ran a global philanthropic education initiative for a U.S. 
 investment bank, recently opined in a 
 Financial Times commentary that, perversely, todays FTSE or 
 Nasdaq companies are far more transparent, accountable and responsibly 
 governed that the typical wealthy foundation or charity. He added, More 
 damning, corporate results are measured in the marketplace while 
 philanthropic results are not. That invites mischief and mismanagement.

 For the business executives who 
 are reading this column, keep Schrages words in mind the next time some 
 activist group claims your company isnt transparent, and that you need to 
 be more socially 
 responsible , or that your firm isnt paying enough taxes. Just remember 
 that in the United States, activist groups are not required to practice what 
 they preach, and they certainly arent obliged to be as transparent or 
 accountable as the corporations they attack. And, never forget that federal 
 and state lawmakers have rewarded these groups with the ultimate 
 privilegethe privilege to pay no taxes. 

 I never thought that I would 
 find myself encouraging the U.S. Congress to follow the lead of the Germans, 
 the British and the Australians on matters involving the regulation of 
 tax-exempt activist groups. The fact is that efforts by a few brave souls to 
 reform the laws governing tax-exempt organizations in the U.S. have been 
 thwarted by a powerful activist lobby. Given the makeup of the current 
 Congress, I have no expectation that the situation will change anytime soon. 
 Reform will require a majority in the House and Senate to stand up to the 
 special interests and proclaim that what is good for the goose is, indeed, 
 good for the gander. Until that happens, the goose that is being cooked 
 belongs to the American taxpayer. 

 Nick 
 currently develops and teaches graduate-level crisis management courses at 
 the Johns Hopkins University and co-author of

 Rules for Corporate Warriors: How to Fight and Survive Attack Group 
 Shakedown . 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE