CSR and the Developing 
World 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 Paul 

 Driessen 

 Corporate social responsibility is irresponsible. 

 It tramples on the rights and freedoms of the worlds poorest people. 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 CSR and the Developing World 

 A timely essay on a vital subject 
by Center senior advisor and Congress of Racial Equality senior policy advisor 
 Paul Driessen 

 Remarks delivered at the CSR Reconsidered 
2005 Conference , held Wednesday, Nov. 2 at the Omni Shoreham Hotel in 
Washington, D.C. 

 See also the remarks at the same conference of 
Center senior fellow Nick Nichols
 Socialism 
Revisited? 

 At the risk of repeating what others have already 
said, let me begin by setting forth something I think we all solidly agree on:

 All companies should always be 
honest, ethical and devoted to the well-being of our environment and of the 
publics they serve: employees, investors, customers and communities alike. Its 
good business. Its whats expected. Its moral. 

 HOWEVER, that is not the issue. The issue is that 
social and environmental activists are attempting to promote their 
political agendas by co-opting this simple truth, and twisting it into 
self-serving notions about corporate social responsibility CSR for short.

 They insist that CSR is a lighthouse an ethical 
beacon that corporations must follow if they are to earn their right to 
continue operating and create a cleaner, safer, more just world a world 
that they say must based on sustainable development, renewable energy and the 
precautionary principle. 

 Unfortunately, theyve been hugely successful up to 
now as the conference elsewhere in this hotel attests. However, that success 
and the sanitized, utopian version of CSR must not be allowed to distract us 
from reality. 

 The fact is, these terms have largely been defined, 
interpreted, marketed and imposed with two specific purposes in mind. All too 
often, they are used: 

 To help promote agendas that Greenpeace 
co-founder Patrick Moore properly condemns as morally and intellectually 
bankrupt and consistently anti-science, anti-technology, anti-development and 
anti-people. And 

 To silence critics, tarnish the reputations 
of companies that dont go along to get along, give certain companies leverage 
against their competitors, and make up for power lost at ballot boxes or in 
union halls. 

 As to CSR being a lighthouse, I think its really 
more like the bonfires pirates once lit along Irelands coast, to lure 
unsuspecting ships onto the rocks, where they would be plundered and destroyed. 
Even worse, as in the case of the Titanic , there arent enough lifeboats, 
and its the people in steerage who suffer the most horrendous losses. 

 Ive addressed this unpleasant reality at length in 
many of my essays and in my book, Eco-Imperialism: Green power &#8729; Black death . 
It is a truth that has been assiduously swept under the rug and rarely discussed 
in the polite, politically correct circles of BSR conferences brie and white 
wine social events board rooms, news rooms, congressional hearing rooms UN 
conferences and all too many religious sermons. 

 Its time to lift the rug, and expose the truth 
about corporate social responsibility to the bright light of day, and the 
cleansing action of open, robust debate. 

 CSR advocates have done a brilliant job of 
disguising their eco-imperialist tendencies and effects. Through the use of 
concepts like sustainable development and the precautionary principle and 
theories like catastrophic global warming and estrogenic chemicals it protects 
healthy, affluent First World activists from distant, conjectural, exaggerated 
risks. Worse, it does so by imposing real, immediate, life-threatening risks on 
the worlds most powerless and destitute people. 

 The Circle of Life 

 As anyone whos seen Disneys Lion King knows, 
there is a circle of life. For humans, it is composed of electricity, disease 
prevention, clean water and nutrition. All are essential, and all are 
inter-connected. 

 Their vital importance ought to be obvious from 
Hurricanes Isabel, Katrina and Rita. Just think about how many lives have been 
affected by the lack of electricity, refrigeration, safe drinking water, decent 
housing, sanitation and adequate food. Reflect on how quickly we began massive 
insecticide spraying programs, to eliminate any threat of disease outbreaks.

 Then try to imagine what life is like every 
day for two billion people who NEVER have electricity who struggle to 
survive on less than $500 a year who are wracked by disease and who never 
enjoy the basic necessities that we too often take for granted. 

 Indoor pollution from their wood and dung fires 
causes 4 million deaths a year from tuberculosis and other lung infections. 
Unsafe water and spoiled food cause intestinal diseases that kill another 6 
million people. 

 Over 800 million people are chronically 
undernourished, and 200 million children suffer from Vitamin A Deficiency.

 A million children go blind annually from the 
deficiency, and 2 million die from starvation and diseases they might well 
survive with better nutrition. 

 Malaria and other insect-borne diseases infect over 
a half billion people every year killing millions and contributing massively 
to the Third Worlds endemic poverty. 

 Corporate social responsibility advocates ought to 
be doing everything in their power to improve these conditions, and save lives. 
However, as currently defined and practiced by most of the activists in 
attendance at that other conference CSR says and does nothing 
about any of these problems. In fact, it helps perpetrate and perpetuate them.

 Abundant, reliable, affordable electricity would 
generate jobs and prosperity, dramatically reduce lung and intestinal diseases, 
and help preserve habitats that people now chop into firewood. 

 Biotechnology would reduce crop losses from insects 
and plant disease, help alleviate hunger and malnutrition, and decrease the 
amount of land that must be cultivated to feed growing populations. 

 Insecticides would control mosquitoes and flies 
that spread killer diseases. In fact, just spraying tiny amounts of DDT on the 
inside walls of houses once, or twice a year, keeps 90 percent of mosquitoes 
from even entering homes reduces malaria rates by 75 percent or more and 
enables doctors to provide the very best medicines to people who still get 
malaria. 

 Using this two-pronged approach DDT plus ACT 
(Artemisia-based combination therapies) South Africa slashed its malaria rates 
by 96 percent in just three years! Zambia and Mozambique also achieved 
tremendous success, using DDT in privately funded programs. 

 But extremist groups and the foundations, 
companies and government agencies that support them under the guise of CSR 
viscerally oppose fossil fuel, nuclear and hydroelectric power projects. 

 They fight bank financing of projects that would 
generate electricity, health, jobs and hope for the future and use little 
children to confront Citigroup and JP Morgan Chase with accusations that they 
are hurting the Earth if they bankroll generating, logging or mining projects.

 They battle biotechnology with almost religious 
passion while wealthy foundations and organic food companies pour millions 
into the coffers of radical anti-biotech organizations. 

 They do everything they can to prevent countries 
from using insecticides especially DDT. 

 They despise mining projects even in areas where 
extracting minerals to meet the needs of modern societies is about the only 
available source of jobs and revenues. Close the mines and smelters, and those 
workers and their families will end up in the slums of Lima, Rio de Janeiro and 
other Third World cities. 

 They try to shut down so-called sweatshops as 
though no jobs is better than low quality jobs. As though working 
as 12-year-old beggar, thief or prostitute is better than working in garment or 
shoe factory. 

 CSR literature rarely mentions these unhappy facts.

 To deflect criticism over their callous policies, 
they promote solar panels that power a light bulb and radio in mud huts. They 
advocate wind turbines that spoil scenic vistas and kill birds, to produce 
trivial amounts of expensive, unreliable electricity. They extol subsistence 
farming that is land and labor intensive, and subject to massive crop losses. 
And they practically canonize bed nets that at best might reduce malaria by 
 20 percent . 

 The real meaning of sustainable 
development 

 These approaches, they argue, preserve indigenous 
cultures and traditional lifestyles, while fostering sustainable development and 
protecting people from the dangers of modern chemicals and Frankenfoods.

 But as Kenyas Akinyi Arunga points out: Cute, 
indigenous customs arent so charming when they make up ones day-to-day 
existence. Then they mean indigenous poverty, indigenous malnutrition, 
indigenous disease and childhood death. I dont wish this on my worst enemy, and 
I wish our so-called friends would stop imposing it on us. 

 In fact, I would love to meet just one Green 
activist, Hollywood celebrity or CSR promoter whos willing to go native for 
even one month and take his family to live in a state-of-the-art mud hut in 
malaria-infested rural Africa, under the squalid indigenous conditions they 
extol and perpetuate. 

 Id like to see these neo-natives drink the locals 
contaminated water, breathe polluted smoke from their wood and dung fires, 
endure swarms of diseased mosquitoes and tsetse flies and swelter happily 
under bed nets, trying to sleep when the temperature in the hut is 95 degrees, 
and inside the bed net its 105. 

 And do it all with no DEET, no pesticides, no 
anti-malaria pills and prepared to walk 20 miles to the nearest 
clinic, carrying their sick or dying child with them, when theyre inevitably 
afflicted with the agonizing fevers and convulsions of acute malaria. 

 Thats the real meaning of sustainable development, 
appropriate technology, the precautionary principle and corporate social 
responsibility. 

 These policies replace the Circle of Life with a 
 Circle of Death and their impact on Third World steerage passengers 
is horrendous. 

 To put them in terms we can better appreciate: Take 
the tragic death toll from Katrina and Rita (1000) and multiply it times 10,000 
and you get the annual toll from lung and intestinal diseases. 

 Take our six-year toll from West Nile virus (600) 
and multiply it times 10,000 and you get the death toll from 
malaria over the same period. 

 Thats why colleagues and I have launched the Kill 
Malarial Mosquitoes NOW! campaign. We want to change US policies, establish new 
rules for bureaucrats who insist on spending vast sums on conferences and 
consultants but not a dime on insecticides and begin saving lives TODAY.

 Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Congress of Racial 
Equality national chairman Roy Innis, and hundreds of physicians, clergy and 
human rights advocates have already signed our Declaration. We hope you too will 
endorse it and help end malarias global reign of terror. 

 While were at it, lets ask the businessmen and 
activists attending the BSR conference: Where do you stand on 
this? With children and parents suffering and dying from malaria? Or with 
self-interested bureaucrats, self-styled business ethicists, and anti-pesticide 
ideologues? 

 An ethical alternative to CSR 

 The worlds poor dont need a precautionary 
principle that protects affluent Americans and Europeans from theoretical or 
exaggerated risks. They need one that safeguards poor families from the real, 
immediate, life -threatening risks that confront them every single day.

 They dont need sustainable development. They need 
sustained development. 
 They need policies that 
apply the same standards of honesty, transparency, accountability and liability 
to non profit corporations like Greenpeace, NRDC, Rainforest Action 
Network, Domini Social Investors, labor union pension funds and CERES as to 
for-profit corporations like Enron and WorldCom. 
 They need to know that 
government agencies like Jong-Wook Lees World Health Organization, Paul 
Wolfowitzs World Bank and Andrew Natsioss USAID will not have just power
 and authority but also real accountability 
for the success or failure of their programs. 

 In short, they dont need corporate social 
responsibility. They need GLOBAL social responsibility a radical new 
concept that emphasizes responsibility 

 toward all people the world 
over, not merely to middle and upper classes in the First World who can 
afford to focus on concerns that dominate discussions about CSR, because 
they no longer have to worry about electricity, disease and malnutrition 

 toward all concerns , not 
merely environmental concerns 

 for all corporations , 
for-profit and not-for-profit alike, including activist NGOs, stakeholder groups 
and government agencies 

 and for supporting property rights, free 
enterprise, enforceable laws and contracts, reasonable regulations and modern 
technology the keys to health, innovation, wealth creation, life, liberty and 
the pursuit of happiness. 
 GLOBAL social 
responsibility would help create a truly cleaner, safer, more ethical, more just 
world. It would help ensure that the worlds poor can finally 
enjoy just a few of the blessings that we almost view as our 
birthright 
 It would help ensure that 
the worlds poor can finally take what Rabbi Daniel Lapin calls their rightful 
place among the Earths prosperous people. 
 Until then, we must do 
everything we can to debate and reform these fatally flawed concepts of 
corporate social responsibility. 
 You can begin right here, 
by joining our anti-malaria coalition and talking with attendees at the 
Business for Social Responsibility conference. (Judging from some of the books 
on display in the BSR registration area, and some of the featured topics and 
speakers, there is certainly a need for our perspectives.) 
 With your help and input, 
perhaps next year the BSR program will invite some of us to be speakers, and 
will focus more on GLOBAL social responsibility and less on BS. 
 Paul Driessen is 
senior policy advisor for the Congress of Racial Equality and author of 
Eco-Imperialism: Green power &#8729; Black death 

www.Eco-Imperialism.com . 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 

VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE