Property rights activists beat Nature Conservancy 

 Little Darby Creek wildlife refuge proposal 
is dead, U.S. official says 
 Columbus Dispatch 
Wednesday, March 13, 2002 

Michael Hawthorne, Dispatch Environment Reporter 

The Bush administration yesterday confirmed what local landowners and 
lawmakers have known for months: There won't be a Little Darby National 
Wildlife Refuge west of Columbus. 

In the end, three years of studies, hearings and rallies were boiled down to 
a few paragraphs sent to the local members of Congress who pressured the 
Interior Department to scuttle the project. 

"We believe that conservation of the agricultural and natural resources of 
the Darby watershed is important,'' wrote Craig Manson, assistant Interior 
secretary for fish and wildlife and parks, in letters to Republican U.S. 
Reps. Deborah Pryce of Upper Arlington and David L. Hobson of Springfield. 
"The strong interest expressed in protecting the rural nature of this area 
indicates that it is best that all levels of government work with local 
citizens to find a preferred approach to conserving those resources.'' 

The refuge proposal, he wrote, will be officially withdrawn soon. 

In 1997, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service officials proposed the refuge as a 
way to protect the Little Darby Creek, a national and state scenic river that

boasts one of the most diverse collections of aquatic species in the Midwest.

The service wanted to purchase 23,000 acres from willing sellers in Madison 
and Union counties and buy development rights for an additional 26,000 acres 
to ensure that the land would be kept as fields and woods. 

But federal officials soon ran into opposition from farmers, some of whom 
feared that they would lose their way of life or not receive enough money for

their land. Landowners slapped deed restrictions on 18,000 acres. 

Moreover, after months of courting by the Fish and Wildlife Service and the 
Nature Conservancy, a national land-preservation group, one of the largest 
single landowners indicated that it wouldn't sell to the federal government. 

Orleton Farms Joint Venture, a partnership between the J. Sayer Co. and 
Metropolitan Life Insurance, owned about 5,000 acres on both sides of Rt. 29 
north of London. In November, about a year after it rejected the government's

overtures, the partnership sold the land to a Michigan company that has 
several large confined-animal dairy operations in Ohio and other Midwest 
states. 

Mike Boerger, a Mechanicsburg farmer and leader of an anti-refuge group, said

the wildlife refuge wasn't needed to protect the creek. 

"Our children witnessed the power of concerned citizens who joined 
together,'' he said. "Now our community has regained its role as the primary 
stewards of the creek. And we'll continue to do a good job.'' 

Hobson and Pryce issued prepared statements reaffirming their support for 
efforts to protect the creek that are supported by local citizens. One 
alternative being discussed is a federal program that pays farmers to plant 
trees and establish buffers between fields and streams. 

Some refuge supporters have their own ideas. 

Last year, U.S. Sen. Mike DeWine secured $900,000 in federal money to expand 
Battelle-Darby Creek Metro Park, which surrounds the confluence of the Big 
and Little Darby creeks. Metro Parks already has added 740 acres to the park 
during the past two years. 

The Ohio Department of Natural Resources also is buying land along the two 
creeks. With the recent purchase of a tract where Rt. 40 crosses the Little 
Darby, the department now owns or retains conservation easements for about 
400 acres. [Center editorial comment: These lands and locations were never 
within the proposed wildlife refuge boundaries, but are more than five miles 
east.] 

"We've known the refuge proposal was all but dead for quite a long time 
now,'' said Mike Dawson, spokesman for DeWine, an Ohio Republican. "The 
senator's interest has been, and continues to be, efforts to protect this 
precious national resource.'' 

Copyright 2002, The Columbus Dispatch 

 FAIR USE NOTE: In accordance with U.S. 
Copyright Law as codified in Title 17 U.S.C. section 107, any copyrighted 
material herein is displayed without profit or payment for non-profit research 
and educational purposes only. It is posted here only after the commercial 
purpose of any copyright holder has been satisfied, and complies with fair use 
clauses of the U.S. Copyright Act. For more information go to:

http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml 

 RETURN 
 TO PROPERTY RIGHTS TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE