Defenders 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 DEFENDERS 
 Top stories: 

Rep. Richard Pombo selected chairman of House Resources Committee 

 Bruce Vincent, a Wise Use Hero 

Provider Pals program gets $1.5 million boost 

Activist Cash 
website debuts 
 Links to defenders of free 
enterprise 

 ActivistCash.com 
Project of the Center for Consumer Freedom, tracks money of anti-free 
enterprisers. Contact: David Martosko. 
 Contact the
 Alliance for 
America , the largest umbrella group in 
the wise use movement. President: Rose Comstock-Correia 

 American Forests 
(formerly the American Forestry Association) American Forests is the oldest 
conservation organization in the United States today. For more than 120 
years--since 1875--American Forests has worked to ensure a sustained future 
for our nation's forests. 

 American Forest & Paper Association National 
trade association of the forest, paper, and wood products industry. 

 The American Land 
Rights Association Nonprofit organization defending property rights 
across America. Executive Director: Charles S. Cushman. 

 The Blue Ribbon 
Coalition Nonprofit organization 
defending motorized recreation and public access to government lands across 
America. Executive Director: Clark Collins. 

 California Forestry Association Statewide 
forest industry trade association. President: David A. Bischel. 

 Cato Institute Perhaps the nation's premier 
libertarian organization. Edward H. Crane, President. 

 Competitive Enterprise Institute 
Washington, D.C.-based think tank devoted to free markets and limited 
government. Founder and President: Fred Smith. 

 Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow 
(CFACT) Nonprofit organization that deals with many issues, including 
individual liberty, property rights and sound natural resource policy. 
President: David Rothbard. Executive Director: Craig Rucker. 

 Environmental Conservation Organization 
 Nonprofit organization emphasizing the international aspects of the wise 
use movement. Executive Director: Henry Lamb. 

 Frontiers of Freedom Institute 
 Non-profit, non-partisan research and educational foundation dedicated to 
defending constitutional rights and promoting a limited government agenda. 
Founder: Senator Malcolm Wallop, retired. Executive Director: George Landrith. 

 Finnish Heidelberg Association 
 Believes in nature conservation, abilities of man, blessings of 
scientific research, economic growth and increasing standard of living. Mostly 
in Finnish, some English. 

 The Heartland Institute Chicago-based 
non-profit, nonpartisan center for public policy research. Executive Director: 
Joe Bast. 

 Heritage Foundation Think tank on conservative 
issues. President: Dr. Edwin J. Feulner. 

 High North Alliance Norway -- Working for the 
future of coastal cultures and the sustained use of marine resources. 

 The Idea Channel 
by the producers of Milton Friedman's "Free To Choose" series. 

 Ludwig von Mises Institute , devoted to the 
Austrian School of economics and concerned with private property rights, free 
markets, hard money and less government. Founder and President: Llewellyn H. 
Rockwell, Jr. 

 Maine Conservation Rights Institute , statewide 
non-profit organization protecting private property. Founded by the late Bob Voight. 

 Mountain States Legal Foundation Public 
interest law firm dedicated to individual liberty, the right to own and use 
property, limited government and the free enterprise system. President and Chief 
Legal Officer: William Perry Pendley. 

 The National Center for Public Policy Research 
Conservative/free market foundation established in 1982 and located on Capitol 
Hill. Executive Director: David Almasi. 

 National Endangered Species Act Reform Coalition 
 Information about the Endangered Species Act and why this 
well-intentioned law, which everyone agrees is one of the most important 
environmental laws ever adopted, needs to be reformed. Chairman: Senator James 
A. McClure, retired. 

 National Wilderness Institute Nonprofit 
organization defending rational wilderness use. Executive Director: Rob Gordon. 

 Pacific Legal Foundation Public interest law 
firm for less government and 
the preservation of free enterprise, private property rights and individual 
liberties . President and Chief Executive 
Officer: Robert K. Best 

 Political Economy Research Center 
 Market-oriented think tank focusing on environmental and natural resource 
issues. Executive Director: Terry L. Anderson. 

 PropertyRightsResearch.org . Encyclopedic 
information website covering many vital issues. Operated by Julie Smithson. 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE 

 Liberty Park 

 12500 N.E. Tenth Place 
 Bellevue, Washington 98005 
 (425) 455-5038 
 (425) 451-3959 (fax)