Eco-war on National Defense 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Robert 
 Bidinotto 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Senior Fellow Robert Bidinotto on: 

 The environmentalists' war on our national security 
 posted 11/12/03 (edited Wednesday, Nov 12, 2003 16:04) 
 Our military men and women are fighting and dying in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
and defending our interests in other trouble spots around the world. But while 
politicians of both parties posture about "supporting our troops" and 
guaranteeing them the best in training and assistance, theyve also passed a 
mountain of environmental laws that greens now use to undermine our soldiers 
safety and preparedness. Rather than focus on training, our military personnel 
must now worry about complying with the endless requirements of statutes such as 
the Endangered Species Act, the Marine Mammal Protection Act, the Clean Air Act, 
and many others. 

As a result , in Arizona the Air Force must move or cancel its practice 
bombing runs if antelope are spotted within 5 kilometers of a target area. In 
Idaho, low-level combat flying missions are prohibited because the noise might 
disrupt the mating of elk. Navy ships assigned to support bombers flying over 
Afghanistan were forced to cancel a missile-firing exercise off the California 
coast, for concern about nearby seals. 

Consider the situation at Fort Hood, Texas , one of the Armys main training 
installations. There, 66,000 acres, or 33 percent of its total training area, 
are now reserved as habitat for two allegedly endangered species, the 
black-capped vireo and the golden-cheeked warbler. Out of consideration for the 
birds, soldiers arent allowed to veer off trails, and are even limited in their 
use of camouflage netting. Combined with other environmental restrictions, 84 
percent of Fort Hood is currently subject to some kind of training limitations.

Consider the situation at Fort Lewis, Washington , where, according to an 
Army spokesmans congressional testimony, "70 percent of the training land is 
designated as critical habitat for the threatened Northern Spotted Owl, and yet 
the Northern Spotted Owl is not even present anywhere on the installation." 

Consider the situation at Camp Pendleton, California , which is home to the 
1st Marine Expeditionary Force, the Corps oldest and most highly decorated 
division. Last February,

Marine Lt. General Richard Kelly reported that, thanks to the Endangered 
Species Act, training at the camp "is not realistic." 

Though the camp has a 17-mile beachfront, protections for 18 allegedly 
endangered species prohibit Marines from conducting mock amphibious assaults on 
all but 1,500 meters of shoreline. To keep one supposedly endangered bird, the 
gnatcatcher, out of harms way, Marines simulating amphibious assaults on 
Pendletons Red Beach are required to take buses between scenes of battle. 
Theyre also limited in practicing off-road maneuvering in their vehicles, and 
are generally restricted to driving on designated caravan routes. Digging 
protective foxholes--once a staple of training--also is severely limited. 

Now, a

pending lawsuit by the Natural Resources Defense Council --the same group 
that initiated the 1989 Alar-on-apples hysteria--would make restrictions at 
Pendleton even worse. The NRDC suit would bar Marines from training near 
"critical habitats" for six species, including the gnatcatcher, the tidewater 
goby, and the arroyo toad. When added to areas already subject to restriction, 
the proposed new designations of critical habitat would put 56 percent of the 
base, plus 65 percent of the Miramar Marine Corps Air Station in nearby San 
Diego, off-limits to training activities. 

This is obscene. The very survival of the young men and women whom we count upon 
to defend our nation depends on their receiving the most realistic military 
training, under the widest possible range of environmental conditions. Yet vast 
expanses of their own military bases are now taboo, and the realism of their 
training is undercut, so that some toad might not get squashed by a soldiers 
misstep, or that some lusty elk might not endure the trauma of coitus 
interruptus . 

But the undermining of training is not the only, or most dangerous, aspect of 
the greens' attack on our national security. 

Last year, for example, the Natural Resources Defense Council filed

another lawsuit that enjoined the Navy from deploying a new low-frequency 
sonar system, claiming it might violate the Marine Mammal Protection Act. How? 
Because environmentalists speculate, repeat,

 speculate that the high-intensity sonar may be causing some 
whales to beach themselves. And under the marine mammal laws absurd definition 
of animal "harassment," any military action that becomes an "annoyance" to the 
animals, and has the "potential to disturb" them, is prohibited. 

But while whales will be protected from harassment, we Americans may not be as 
well protected from harassment by our enemies. Thats because the NRDCs 
legal harassment of the military is preventing the Navy from using its new 
sonar to track advanced, ultra-quiet submarines that have been deployed over the 
past six years by China, Iran, and North Korea. 

Ordered by a federal judge to reach

a settlement with the NRDC, the Navy finally agreed this past month to 
restrict use of the new sonar only to the eastern seaboard of Asia, to avoid 
using the system near the coast, and not to use it during seasons when whales 
are migrating. 

The Pentagon has asked Congress to loosen the laws definition of animal 
"harassment" to allow the sonar to be used more widely, but the NRDC has pledged 
to fight,

declaring that any such change would "substantially reduce the level of 
protection to marine mammals." Which, in their worldview, is far more urgent 
than the protection of American people. 

At a time when terrorist-sponsoring enemies, such as Iran and North Korea, are 
developing nuclear weapons, it speaks volumes about the moral character of 
environmentalists such as those at NRDC that they worry less about the survival 
of their fellow Americans than about the survival of migrating whales. 

It speaks additional volumes about the eco-corruption of our laws and courts 
that the once-proud U. S. military is now forced to beg and bargain with such 
characters for the right to defend American lives--and their own--with the best 
technologies and training available. 

 Robert 

 To contact me, send e-mail to

contact@ecoNOT.com . And for the latest news and in-depth analysis of 
environmentalism and "animal rights," visit my Web site at

ecoNOT.com . 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 
VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE