Destroying America's Energy 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 CONTROVERSIES 
 Anti-industry 
 forces try to shut down America's oil and gas supply 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Why we care: Environmental groups driven by grants from 
anti-industry foundations are using the Sage grouse as a surrogate to destroy 
America's domestic oil and gas industry and harm everyone who uses petroleum 
products. The grouse population is doing well and pairs can be seen nesting near 
thousands of active oil and gas wellheads. America's supply of natural gas, the 
cleanest fossil fuel, would be devastated if the grouse is listed as endangered 
under the Endangered Species Act, since the range of the Sage grouse covers a 
huge swath of the West where oil and gas development is best, and listing would 
halt all industrial activity. Anti-industry groups that are fanatically opposed 
to all forms of development selected the Sage grouse as a surrogate specifically 
because of the vast damage it could do to America's domestic oil and gas 
production. There is no reason other than ideological politics to list the Sage 
grouse as endangered. There is good reason to protect our supply of oil and gas 
for simple reasons of supply and demand: if anti-industry forces are allowed to 
lower the supply, prices will go up, and that will harm the poorest first. For 
this reason, CDFE supports the conservation of Sage grouse habitat by reasonable 
and prudent methods now in use and opposes the listing of the Sage grouse as an 
endangered species. 

 The Problem 
 Talk about protecting sage grouse under the 
Endangered Species Act is worrying the coalbed natural gas industry and 
consumers. 

 The industry and consumers have been benefiting from good news over 
the past year or so. Drilling permits are again being issued after they were 
suspended during an environmental study, and gas can now become more available. 
 Both industry and consumers stand to lose if sage grouse are 
federally protected. "Anywhere where there's sagebrush habitat, any industrial 
activity in that area will be curbed," Devon Energy spokesman Todd Ennenga said.

 In April, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
announced that there is not enough evidence to consider protecting sage grouse 
under the act. 
 That announcement triggered a period for states to 
prove that enough conservation efforts are already in place to make the federal 
listing unnecessary. 
 People in the methane industry say it accounts for 
only a small fraction of the many factors responsible for periodic declines in 
numbers of sage grouse - especially when precautions are taken. Others agree.

 Solutions 
 "If you could remotely sensor your wells, bury the 
power lines and then pull out, then there's very little impact," Bert Jellison, 
habitat biologist for the Wyoming Game and Fish Department, said at the sixth 
annual Coal-bed Methane Education Fair in Gillette this year. 
 "Many producers are doing that, but then there's 
always a percentage that aren't." 
 The U.S. Bureau of Land Management encourages 
companies to protect sage grouse habitat by consolidating their roads, gas 
pipelines, water pipelines and power lines into shared corridors. 

 Jellison said the industry should follow that advice 
so it does not disturb more habitat than it has to. Buried power lines are 
better than standing ones, for instance, because sage grouse tend to avoid tall 
structures where predators can perch. 
 He also suggested that, since companies are already 
required to reseed disturbed land, they should plant species favorable to sage 
grouse. They include plants with showy flowers called forbs, which produce seeds 
that birds like to eat. 
 "The cattle will want to eat them, the deer and 
antelope want to eat them and so do the sage grouse," he said. 

 RETURN TO 
CONTROVERSIES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE