BP - Beyond Petroleum or Beyond Probity? 

 BP: 
Beyond Petroleum or Beyond Probity? 
 As ideology, activism, marketing, politics 
and financial gain converge, 

 one company stands 
out 

 UK-based 
British Petroleum became the worlds second largest hydrocarbons producer in 
1998, when it finalized a $55 billion merger with Amoco Corporation and changed 
its name to BP Amoco. After a $36 billion merger with Arco the following year, 
the company adopted the simpler moniker BP. Now, according to its latest 
marketing campaign, BP no longer stands for British Petroleum, but for Beyond 
Petroleum. [1] 

 The company 
has installed expensive solar panels on 200 of its 17,000 service stations and 
launched a barrage of news releases and newspaper, television and wall ads 
asserting its basic corporate message: We protect the environment, vigorously 
support the Kyoto Protocol, devote vast sums to wind and solar energy and by 
the way, still produce a little petroleum. (But we produce it more responsibly 
than our competitors.) Televised interviews with people on the street expand 
on the same themes. 
 One Great Beyondo ad announces that BP was the first 
oil company to publicly recognize the risks of global climate change and set a 
target to reduce its own greenhouse gas emissions. Another claims the company 
voluntarily introduced cleaner burning low-sulfur fuels. Yet another says, 
Were one of the largest producers of natural gas and are investing in the 
new energy sources of the future hydrogen and wind. Its a start. 
 A 
building-sized wall ad along Washington, DCs New York Avenue boldly proclaims: 
Solar, natural gas, hydrogen, wind. And oh yes, oil. Its a start. Another 
tries to get beyond the guffaw test with the line: We believe in alternative 
energy. Like solar cappuccino. 
 The ads have 
not gone unchallenged. Conservatives, environmentalists and journalists alike 
have voiced bemusement, skepticism and even outrage. Indeed, the credibility of 
the Beyond Petroleum message is neatly summed up by the fact that the enormous 
(30 x 60 foot) wall ads are made of vinyl as in plastic, as in petroleum.

 Certainly, 
the ads stretch the truth, gloss over inconvenient facts, and rely more on spin 
than on science, economics or reality. Fortune magazine reacted thus: 
Well, please: If the worlds second largest oil company is beyond petroleum, 
FORTUNE is beyond words. [2] 
One wag even suggested that BP might want to address its identity crisis yet 
again, file for one more name change and just call the company BS. 
 A green 
activist group in the Netherlands decried BPs hypocrisy, suggested that BP 
actually stands for Boiling the Planet, and noted that the company is still 
increasing oil production and moving to exploit some of the worlds most 
sensitive ecological areas. [3] 
Others deride the entire campaign as slick advertising and blatant greenwashing, 
saying BP is hardly beyond petroleum; its all about petroleum. [4] 

 Clearly, 
BPs effort to reinvent itself as a born-again savior of the environment raises 
some very interesting questions especially against the backdrop of recent 
history, where the glowing claims of Enron, Global Crossing, WorldCom and other 
companies were ultimately revealed as nothing more that hot air, clever 
manipulation of facts and figures, and criminal fraud. 
 One can legitimately ask, Has BP really gone Beyond 
Petroleum or just Beyond Probity? 

 But the basic question does not apply only to British 
Petroleum. It is symptomatic of a much larger problem. It is a highly visible 
example of the propensity of many corporations (for- and not-for-profit alike) 
to stretch the truth reinvent reality substitute hype, spin and brilliant 
advertising for honesty and play fast and loose with ethics, the law and the 
numbers to promote their products and agendas, attract investors (and donors), 
and convince pliant journalists, politicians and bureaucrats to turn the 
corporate agendas into coercive public policies. 

 One would 
think that all the condemnations, investigations, recriminations and legislation 
of the past year would foster a new era of honesty and protection of consumers 
and investors. Most companies and other organizations have always been honest. 
Most others have certainly gotten religion. But not all. 
 Some have 
merely become more ingenious, more arrogant in their stolid belief that their 
way is the True Way, or simply more fully protected by politicians and activists 
who share their agenda and arrogance. 
 In many 
cases, they voice newfound commitments to pious goals like sustainable 
development, Corporate Social Responsibility, saving Mother Earth, environmental 
justice and renewable energy. Often, they behave as though the mere utterance of 
these terms ends the debate and puts skeptics on the side of evil. Just as 
often, they arrogantly assume they are immune from any attempt to hold them 
responsible for their actions, because they are too vital to their local (or 
even the world) community to worry about accountability 
 What is 
happening is a profound and disturbing convergence of ideology, activism, 
marketing, politics and financial gain, all in the service of ultra-liberal 
political agendas. 
 This is 
occurring not just on the part of huge multinational corporations like BP. It is 
also the modus operandi for the huge multinational ethical investment 
groups, foundations and NGOs (nonprofit Non-Governmental Organizations) that 
increasingly dominate the global political scene. These groups often work 
hand-in-glove with many companies condemning and shaking them down one day, 
then accepting secretive contributions and devising joint legislative, legal, 
regulatory and public relations strategies with them the next. 
 It is 
crucial that they be exposed to the harsh light of day and that they be 
compelled to operate in accord with the same rules that govern the rest of our 
society. 

 Paul K. Driessen 

 Senior Fellow 

 Atlas Economic Research 
Foundation 

 Fairfax, VA 22031 

 December 28, 
2002 
 CONTENTS 

 BP: Beyond Petroleum or Beyond Probity 
(Introduction) 

 Renewable Energy 

 Wind energy 
 Solar Power 
 Hydrogen 
 Biomass 
 Too much energy? 

 Corporate Social Responsibility 

 Energy 
sustainable, abundant and affordable 
 Malaria and DDT 
 Starvation and 
biotechnology 
 International trade

 Shareholder 
activists and stakeholders 
 Global climate 
change 
 In search of true 
Corporate Social Responsibility 

 Greenwashing 

 British 
Petroleum 
 Ted Turner 
 ExxonMobil 
 ChevronTexaco, Sun 
Company, Ford, General Motors 

 Market Manipulation and Investor Fraud

 Activists and 
institutional investors (including Robert Monks) 
 Institutional 
Shareholder Services 
 Claros Consulting

 Campaign ExxonMobil

 Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index 
 CERES (Coalition for 
Environmentally Responsible Economies) 
 Innovest Strategic 
Value Investors 
 A challenge for the 
Rule of Law 

 Johannesburg: End of the road for 
eco-imperialism? 

 Renewable 
Energy 

 Has BP 
really gone Beyond Petroleum? Where does the hype over BPs investments in 
fossil fuels and renewable energy end and the reality begin? When will the 
romantic promise of near-term renewable energy reflect the reality of costs, 
energy output and environmental impacts? 

 Over the 
past six years, BP invested more than $200 million in solar power. It plans to 
expand this into a billion-dollar business by 2007. Worldwide, it generates a 
combined total of 77 megawatts (MW) of wind and solar power. [5] 
These numbers and the companys ad campaign make its commitment to renewable 
energy sound quite impressive. However: 

 During 
 2001 alone, BP spent $8.5 billion exploring for and producing oil and gas. So 
 its average annual investment of $33.3 million in solar amounts to an almost 
 imperceptible 0.4 percent of its 2001 petroleum expenditures. [6] 

 Its 
 total 6-year solar investment is a mere 1.3 percent of what it plans to spend 
 drilling for oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico alone, over the next 15 years. 
 Its proposed billion-dollar business five years out is just 0.6 percent of the 
 companys current worth ($174 billion). [7] 

 Its 77 
 MW of solar and wind output is barely enough to keep Boise, Idahos lights lit 
 for a year whereas its oil and natural gas production (3.4 billion barrels 
 of oil equivalent, or BOE) could satisfy all of Americas oil needs for six 
 months. [8] 

 BPs 
 beyond petroleum advertising campaign is expected to cost the company $100 
 million a year three times what its actually spending annually on solar 
 power. [9] 
 If BP executives were completely honest about it, says the Washington 
 Times , theyd have to admit the company spends far more in a single year 
 burnishing its environmental image than it has invested in solar power in the 
 last six years. [10] 
 And shareholder activist group SANE BP says the company spent more on its new 
 eco-friendly helios logo than it did on renewable energy during all of 2000. [11] 

 BP 
 became the worlds largest producer of solar energy primarily by spending 
 $45 million to buy the Solarex Corporation [12] 
 0.1 percent of what it spent to buy Arco or 0.9 percent of what will spend 
 between 2002 and 2006 on oil exploration in Alaska. 
 Wind 
 and solar currently provide only 0.1 percent of global primary energy 
 production. [13] 

 Environmentalists excoriate ExxonMobil as an eco-Darth Vader. Yet it spent 
 over $500 million on renewable energy R&D two decades ago (over $1 billion in 
 2002 dollars), before abandoning the effort as too fraught with scientific and 
 economic uncertainty, and refocusing on fossil fuels. [14] 
 However, the company still invests heavily in fuel cell technology, energy 
 efficiency, and reducing carbon dioxide and other GHG emissions. 

 ChevronTexacos renewable energy division focuses on fuel cells, improved 
 batteries (via a joint venture with Ovonics), hydrogen, wind and solar. But 
 the company gets about as much green ink and acclaim for these environmental 
 investments as does ExxonMobil. 
 Shell 
 Oil Company also operates a fledgling wind-power business and, having 
 purchased Siemen's solar photovoltaic operations, is now the fourth-largest 
 solar-energy business in the world. The company also emphasizes biomass 
 burning wood in power plants to generate electricity. It is planning to invest 
 $500 million to $1 billion in renewables over the next five years (and a like 
 amount in oil shale), and believes there is a chance that renewable energy 
 could become a profitable business over the next several decades. [15] 

 Even BP 
regional president Bob Malone admits the companys press releases, wall ads and 
investments will not take it beyond petroleum for at least a couple decades. [16] 

 But that 
inconvenient fact has apparently not gotten in the way of its advertising 
hyperbole, or efforts to tout its bottom line and share prices. Neither have the 
environmental, economic and practical downsides of politically correct renewable 
energy. Renewables will eventually play a growing role in our energy mix. The 
electricity they generate is more expensive than fossil, hydro or nuclear 
versions, but its still a welcome addition to power grids. However, decisions 
and ad campaigns need to reflect more hard reality, and less romanticism, hype 
and deception. 

 Wind energy 
 A gas-fired power plant capable of generating 50 
megawatts of electricity typically requires 3-5 acres of land. A 50 MW wind 
facility, by contrast, needs over 4,000 acres. 
 The American Wind Energy Association claims the United 
States could generate 20 percent of its electricity by dedicating less than 1 
percent of our landmass to wind farms. (We now get about 20 percent of our 
electricity from nuclear power plants that utilize roughly 73,000 acres.) [17] 

 1 percent of the U.S. is 23,000,000 acres the entire 
state of Virginia (or the entire island of Cuba). Covering this much land with 
tall, noisy wind turbines is hardly an earth-friendly or sustainable alternative 
to fossil fuels. Moreover, these Cuisinarts of the air kill thousands of 
raptors and other birds annually a fact that would likely bring any proposal 
for a fossil fuel power plant to a screeching stop. [18] 

 Wind turbines work only when the wind is blowing at the 
right speed. Their actual output hovers at 35 percent of their rated capacity, 
and can go much lower. Thus, gas-fired power plants would still be needed, 
standing idle much of the time but ready to provide substitute or supplemental 
electricity to keep businesses, schools, factories, homes and essential services 
like police and fire departments, traffic lights, water treatment plants and 
hospitals operating. 
 A 555-MW gas-fired generating plant inaugurated in July 
2001 by California Governor Gray Davis produced more electricity in its first 
year at a mere 72 percent of capacity (3.5 billion kilowatt-hours) than all 
the states 13,000 wind turbines produced in 1999. [19] 
 Britains 
planned Welsh wind farm of 39 turbines (Europes largest) will have a total 
rated capacity of just 60 megawatts. At a more realistic 18 MW output, 4,500 of 
these 400-foot-tall behemoths would be needed to replace a single 2,000 MW coal- 
or gas-fired power plant. [20] 

 Many ideological environmentalists support renewable 
energy only as long as it is a theoretical substitute for detested fossil fuels. 
Once a theoretical choice becomes an actual proposal, support evaporates. In 
Massachusetts, for example, pro-renewable energy sentiments were transformed 
almost overnight into gale-force indignation, when Cape Wind Associates 
proposed a wind farm off the Cape Cod coast. The Not-On-My-Beachfront 
lobbyists were aghast at the thought of enormous, ugly, scenery-destroying wind 
turbines off their scenic headlands. [21] 

 Much the same reaction occurs when someone proposes to 
build a geothermal energy plant, since most of the good U.S. geothermal sites 
are near scenic areas like Yellowstone, Lassen or Hawaii Volcanoes National 
Park. 

 Solar power 

 Producing 
electricity from solar photovoltaic cells is also land intensive. A 50 MW 
operation means blanketing well over 1,000 acres with solar panels and access 
roads to maintain and clean them (assuming an optimistic 10 W/m2 or 5 percent 
peak efficiency). Using the sun to meet Californias electricity needs would 
mean paving over hundreds of thousands of acres of desert habitat along with 
their resident plant and animal life. [22] 
Solar power also requires expensive gas-fired backup electrical generators, for 
nighttime and cloudy days. 

 Hydrogen 

 Hydrogen may 
be abundant, but separating it from other molecules is expensive, and takes more 
energy than is generated by running pure hydrogen through fuel cells. Per unit 
of heat generated, more CO2 is produced by making H2 [hydrogen] from fossil fuel 
than by burning the fossil fuel directly. [23] 
Ironically, some have proposed that nuclear power plants be built to generate 
electricity by day and produce hydrogen molecules by night. [24] 

 Its a 
chicken-and-egg problem. We cannot have large numbers of fuel-cell vehicles 
without adequate fuel available to support them, but we will not be able to 
create the required infrastructure unless there are significant numbers of 
fuel-cell vehicles on the roadways. [25] 

 America has 
a trillion-dollar infrastructure in place for its gasoline-powered automotive 
fleet. Replacing it with an effective system for distributing and serving up 
hydrogen is a daunting economic challenge. [26] 
Fuel cells based on gasoline would use our existing infrastructure and enable 
cars to increase their mileage and reduce pollution significantly. 
 Getting 
hydrogen into cars is also a challenge. A single tank of gasoline contains 2 
million Btus of energy. A five-gallon propane tank full of hydrogen at 150 psi 
holds only 7,000 Btu meaning 285 barbecue tanks would be needed to equal a 
tank of gasoline. [27] 
A daunting task, even for a huge SUV. Heavier high-pressure containers of 
liquefied hydrogen could reduce the space requirement to about the volume of an 
average car trunk, but this would wipe out cargo space and spark fears of 
Hindenburgian conflagrations, if a container ruptured in a collision. [28] 

 Biomass 

 Shell Oil 
plans to grow trees on sustainably managed plantations, solely to burn them to 
generate electricity. It claims replanting the trees will absorb the carbon 
dioxide liberated during combustion, thereby preventing global warming. (Will BP 
follow suit?) 
 Lewis 
Carroll and Jonathon Swift would have delighted at exploring how reverting to 
wood fires represents progress in an age of nuclear power or ecological 
sanity in an era when radical environmentalists oppose cutting even diseased or 
burned trees (except perhaps if solar-powered chain saws alone were used, and if 
no one made a profit off the logging). [29] 

 Too much 
energy? 
 Even if all the environmental problems associated with 
fossil and nuclear power could be solved, one suspects that radical 
environmentalists would still be unhappy. Their real gripe appears to be that 
nuclear and fossil fuels actually do what they were designed to do: provide 
reliable, affordable, abundant energy. 

 Itd 
 be a little short of disastrous for us to discover a source of clean, cheap, 
 abundant energy because of what we would do with it. We ought to be looking 
 for energy sources that are adequate for our needs, but won't give us the 
 excesses of concentrated energy with which we could do mischief to the Earth 
 or to each other. [30] 

 Giving society cheap, abundant energy would be the equivalent of giving an 
 idiot child a machine gun. [31] 

 But others recognize the vital, fundamental role that 
energy plays in modern society. 

 A 
 reliable and affordable supply of energy is absolutely critical to maintaining 
 and expanding economic prosperity where such prosperity already exists and to 
 creating it where it does not. [32] 

 Reliable and affordable access to modern energy services is an 
indicator of sustainable development, for without it basic needs cannot be 
satisfied. [33] 

 The 
triple bottom line here is really quite simple. 
 First, 
renewable energy is not yet ready for prime time. Not only is it highly 
misleading to tell investors, consumers and policy makers that it is ready now, 
or just around the corner. It also results in terrible tax, economic and public 
policy decisions. 
 Second, 
the environmental case for renewables erroneously assumes that: wind and solar 
facilities are sustainable and ecologically benign; burning fossil fuels causes 
global warming; and fossil fuels are rapidly being depleted. In fact, as just 
discussed, the environmental impacts of wind and solar energy are numerous and 
significant. As noted elsewhere in this paper, the frightening tales about 
catastrophic global climate change are based on computer models and activist 
scare-mongering and have no basis in scientific evidence. 
 As to 
exhausting the worlds fossil fuel supplies, that day may eventually come 
(though some geologists believe the earth is continually creating new supplies 
of oil and natural gas). But that day is much farther in the future than green 
activists care to admit. 

 In 1947, the worlds proven reserves of crude oil totaled only 68 
billion barrels. Over the next 50 years, we consumed 783 billion barrels and 
at the end of 1998 still had proven reserves of 1,050 billion barrels! Back in 
1966, the world had proven natural gas reserves of just 1,040 trillion cubic 
feet (tcf). By the end of 1998, we had used up 1,880 tcf and still had 
untapped reserves of 5,145 tcf! 

 At 1998 consumption rates, todays proven reserves are equal to 43 
years of oil and 62 years of natural gas and crews are still discovering new 
deposits all over the world. [34] 

 Third and 
most important, for radical NGOs and government policy makers to tell Third 
World nations that they must rely on wind and solar and forego hydroelectric 
or fossil fuel projects is to deprive them of reliable and affordable 
electricity for their citizens. It throws new obstacles in the path of their 
economic development and social, health and environmental improvement. Worst, it 
condemns billions of people in these countries to perpetual poverty and misery. 
 And it does so for no valid reason but only to promote 
the hard-baked ideologies of vocal activists, who refuse to let science, 
economics or opposing viewpoints stand in their way, and whose indifference to 
the suffering and aspirations of poor people the world over will eventually be 
their undoing. 

 Corporate Social Responsibility 

 What is 
Corporate Social Responsibility? Who developed the concept and definition? What 
is the source of their moral and legal authority for determining what is 
ethical or socially responsible or in accordance with societys 
expectations? Why have other stakeholders had only a limited role or voice in 
this process and why are their interests not reflected in the CSR 
definition or application? Why have certain companies and foundations 
collaborated so closely with NGO and government activists in promoting the 
concept? 

 Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) purports to assign to businesses new roles and 
purposes, above their duties to shareholders and customers, and beyond their 
traditional practice of supporting families and institutions in their 
communities and nations. Now they are told they must embrace a radical new 
vision of corporate citizenship and run their affairs in close conjunction 
with an array of self-appointed stakeholders so as to promote the 
precautionary principle and sustainable development. 

 According to the former, precautionary measures must be taken, whenever an 
 activity raises threats of harm to human health or the environment, even if 
 some cause and effect relationships are not yet fully established 
 scientifically. This is just common sense. [35] 

 Development is sustainable only if it meets the needs and aspirations of 
 the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet 
 their own needs. [36] 

 Adherence to 
these concepts supposedly generates a triple bottom line (social, economic and 
environmental) that companies should meet in judging true profitability and 
citizenship. Only by measuring their costs, benefits and profits against all 
three standards can businesses meet societys expectations, earn their 
license to operate, and give capitalism a human face. [37] 

 Caution is 
clearly essential whenever any activity is contemplated or undertaken, and 
measures should always be taken to protect health and environmental values, 
reduce waste and pollution, increase energy efficiency, and safeguard future 
needs while meeting todays. However, these common-sense practices are not what 
is meant by this highly politicized terminology. 
 Inherent in 
these precepts is a conviction that corporate activities especially those of 
large multinational companies result in resource depletion, environmental 
degradation, impaired human and societal health, social harm and imminent 
planetary disaster. Also inherent is the belief that the doctrines of 
sustainable development, precautionary decision-making and Corporate Social 
Responsibility are well understood, enjoy nearly global recognition and 
acceptance, and alone can prevent the disastrous future foreseen by eco 
catastrophists. 

 There 
 is certainly a superficial allure to CSR reinforced by frequent stories and 
 reports promoting the concepts and denigrating critics. However, neither the 
 terminology nor its constant repetition represents a groundswell of actual 
 public support; makes specific actions or policies truly ethical, responsible, 
 cautious or sustainable; or obviates fundamental problems with these precepts.

 While they are altruistic 
sounding, no one can explain what they really mean, or what they imply in 
practice for corporate behavior. 

 The concepts primarily reflect the aesthetic and governance 
preferences of a small cadre of bureaucrats, multinational NGOs and wealthy 
foundations in developed countries. 

 These CSR advocates have little understanding of (and often harbor a deep 
 distaste for) capitalism, market economies, global trade or the role of 
 profits. Yet, it is they who proclaim and implement the criteria by which 
 businesses are judged, decide which of societys goals are important, and 
 determine whether those goals are being met while largely ignoring the 
 needs, views and concerns of poor people. They also employ pressure tactics to 
 harass and intimidate companies, and bring them in line with their thinking.

 Actually implementing the 
doctrines requires significant centralized control of land and energy use, 
economic production and consumption, corporate innovation and initiative, 
markets, transportation, labor, trade, housing, policy making processes and 
peoples daily lives. Under the activists agenda, control would be monitored 
and enforced through the United Nations and global NGOs. This is the antithesis 
of the private property rights, capitalism, and freedom of nations, communities, 
companies and individuals to make their own decisions and thereby generate 
prosperity, human health and environmental quality. [38] 

 Corporate Social Responsibility 
thus stands in direct opposition to the systems that have brought the greatest 
wealth, opportunities, technological advancements, and health and environmental 
improvements. Its real effect is to reduce competition, innovation, 
trade, investment and economic vitality while impairing economic development 
and thus social and environmental improvement in communities worldwide. 

 Many companies pledge allegiance to the concepts in bids to 
improve their image, gain greater public acceptance, blunt or forestall activist 
attacks, or gain a competitive edge. 

 Countries often utilize them as legally or politically acceptable 
methods (hidden tariffs) for keeping foreign goods out and protecting domestic 
businesses and interests. 

 The 
 supposedly equal emphasis on all three components of the so-called triple 
 bottom line is often skewed so that environmental considerations trump all 
 others, even in the case where peoples lives are put at risk (as in the case 
 of DDT bans and malaria). 

 CSR, SD and the PP are rooted too much in conjectural problems and theoretical 
 needs of future generations and too little in real, immediate, 
 life-and-death needs of present generations, 
 especially billions of poor rural people in developing countries . Even 
 members of elite political classes in developing countries collaborate closely 
 with NGOs and the UN, and pay little attention to the basic needs of their own 
 rural poor. 

 The environmental activists notion of sustainable development focuses too 
 little on fostering economic development, and too much on restricting 
 development typically in the name of protecting the environment. It also 
 reflects their erroneous doctrine that we are rapidly depleting our natural 
 resources and destroying the planet. The putative welfare of ecosystems again 
 trumps even the most obvious welfare of people. 
 Their 
 precautionary principle is typically applied in only one direction. It 
 promotes agendas set by activists in developed countries, while ignoring 
 countervailing interests and needs of developing nations: eg , creating 
 economic opportunity, alleviating poverty and disease, ensuring adequate and 
 reliable supplies of affordable energy, and giving people the right to protect 
 their families against killer diseases. It gives the CSR, SD and PP precepts 
 credit for any potential public health and environmental risks they might 
 reduce, but imposes no discredit for risks, injuries or deaths that they 
 might generate. 

 [39] 

 Under these principles, science is 
replaced by rhetoric, and vital questions go unasked: Is the risk real? Do the 
benefits outweigh the risks? Will the radical policy proposals improve poor 
peoples lives or result in more poverty, misery, disease and death ?

 CSR 
 thus ignores the legitimate aspirations and needs of people who have not yet 
 shared the dreams and successes of the developed world. To suggest that this 
 doctrine represents progress, environmental justice or ethical, moral, 
 responsible behavior is absurd. 

 Energy sustainable, 
abundant and affordable 
 I would 
promote solar and wind for power, not damming more rivers, intones television 
actor Ed Begley, Jr. Weve dammed most of the rivers in the nation. The two 
most abundant forms of power on earth are solar and wind, and they're getting 
cheaper and cheaper. Its much cheaper for everybody [in Africa] to have 
electricity where they need it, on their huts. [40] 
His views, however sincere, strike many as paternalistic and worse. 

Environmentalism, couched in difficult-to-combat superficial imagery, has taken 
a sinister turn. Now highly politicized, it has a gross disregard for the 
[positive] impact that the energy industry has on the world economy. Using 
moralistic, yet blatantly dishonest slogans and pseudo-science, the 
environmental movement has digressed dangerously and has replaced some of the 
most radical movements for social experimentation of the century. [41] 

 Electricity and energy are power economic and political 
power. The Third Worlds poor increasingly want to trade their huts for real 
homes, choose their own destinies, modernize and improve their lives, enjoy some 
of the other benefits taken for granted by westerners (and by intellectual and 
government elites in their own countries), and see their children live into 
adulthood and enjoy even better lives. 
 They resent having their choices dictated by First World 
environmental activists, under the guise of sustainable development and 
Corporate Social Responsibility. As one Gujarati Indian woman told a television 
news crew, We dont want to be encased like a museum, [42] 
in primitive lifestyles so romanticized by Hollywood and radical greens and so 
rife with desperate poverty, disease, malnutrition and premature death. Perhaps 
most of all, they bristle at the suggestion that they must never expect to 
enjoy the lifestyle of the average American or Westerner. [43] 

 Barun Mitra, 
president of Liberty Institute of Delhi, India, presented the matter forcefully 
and succinctly in a recent commentary. 
 European governments, 
third-world bureaucrats, businesses such as The Body Shop and the European Wind 
Energy Association, and NGOs such as Greenpeace, have decided that renewable 
energy and clean development are the future for third world countries. But 
while the coalition focuses on preventing the hypothetical, long-run risk of 
climate change, [it has] conspicuously ignored the real risks that poor people 
face today. Indias economy needs reliable, cheap energy of any kind to fuel 
economic growth and improved quality of life. 
 The human health, economic, and 
environmental impact of burning these renewable fuels is immense. Young 
children and women spend hours each day in the drudgery of collecting firewood 
or [squatting in mud laced with animal feces and urine, to collect, dry and 
store] manure for use in cooking, heat, or light rather than attending school 
or engaging in more satisfying or productive economic activity. The 
refrigerators, televisions and computers that environmentalists take for granted 
are not to be seen here. 
 While environmentalists fret about the 
effects of air pollution caused by the burning of fossil fuels, the risk that 
poor people face is indoor air pollution. The World Health Organization says 
that indoor air pollution is linked to 4.3 million childhood deaths worldwide 
each year primarily from respiratory illnesses such as pneumonia. Burning 
biomass also contributes to asthma and lung cancer, particularly in women. 
 Likewise, the unsustainable cutting of 
firewood on marginal lands leads to erosion and environmental degradation. The 
burning of wood in urban areas contributes to air pollution. Reduced economic 
productivity, increased human suffering and loss of life, and negative 
environmental consequences all result from current reliance on renewable 
energy. For Indias poor rural people, efficient, reliable energy remains a 
dream rather than a reality. [44] 

 Following a 
march against sustainable poverty at the Earth Summit in Johannesburg, Mitra 
observed that environmental activists romanticize poverty then fly to these 
eco summits in jet airplanes and stay in five-star hotels, talking about 
poverty and not giving options to the people who are actually poor to come out 
of poverty. [45] 
 In Indias 
Gujarat Province, the Narmada dam project ground to a halt, because Friends of 
the Earth and other eco-activists pressured international lending agencies to 
withdraw their financial support. In Uganda, where only 3 percent of the 
citizenry has access to electricity, work on the Bujagali dam has been halted, 
due to environmentalist pressure. What this really means, says Gordon Mwesigye, 
a senior official of Kampala, is that people will cut down our trees, because 
they dont have electricity, and the country will lose its wildlife habitats 
and the health and economic benefits that come from having abundant electricity. 
Air quality will also deteriorate, and the regions ecological balance will be 
increasingly jeopardized. 
 People will 
not just cut down trees. They will also die. The Narmada project alone would 
have provided electricity for 5,000 villages, renewable power for industry and 
water purification plants, irrigation water for crops, and safe drinking water 
for 35 million people. In a land where thousands of infants and children die 
every year from diarrhea, it is not surprising that local people have reacted 
angrily and some even view opposition to the dam as a crime against humanity. [46] 

 However, at 
the recent World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, companies, 
environmental NGOs and government bureaucrats continued to promote small-scale 
wind and solar projects in developing countries, oppose hydroelectric and fossil 
fuel projects, and call for passage of the Kyoto Treaty on global climate 
change. And for this, they were deemed to be responsible, concerned about the 
poor, moral and passionate about the environment. 
 Malaria and DDT 
 In 2000 
alone, say World Health Organization and other studies, malaria infected over 
300 million people. It killed nearly 2,000,000 most of them in sub-Saharan 
Africa, and over half of them children. Since 1972, over 50 million people have 
died from this dread disease. [47] 

 In addition 
to thousands of needless deaths, malaria also saps economies and health care 
resources. It keeps millions home from work and school every day, and chronic 
anemia can sap peoples strength for years, while cerebral malaria can cause 
lifelong learning and memory problems. The disease drains the Indian economy of 
up to $345,000,000 every year, in lost wages due to deaths and absence from 
work, reduced productivity due to fatigue, and money spent on insecticides, 
medicines and malaria research. [48] 

 Africas 
gross national product would be $400 billion a year instead of its current 
$300 billion annually if malaria had been wiped out in 1965, when it was 
eliminated in most of the developed world. Malaria control costs Africa $12 
billion annually, depleting budgets for other health, environmental, economic 
and social programs. It particularly afflicts poor families, who have to use up 
to 25% or more of their income on prevention and treatment. [49] 

 These are 
real deaths and real impacts not just theoretical deaths, based on 
extrapolations from rodent studies (as in the case of Alar [50] ), 
or hypothetical impacts (like flood and drought scenarios generated by certain 
climate change computer models). 
 They are due 
in large part to the near-global ban on the production, export and use of DDT. 
Originally imposed in the United States by EPA Administrator William Ruckelshaus 
in 1972, [51] 
the DDT ban has been expanded and enforced by NGO pressure, coercive treaties, 
and threats of economic sanctions by foundations, nations and international aid 
agencies. 
 Where DDT is 
used, malaria deaths plummet. Where it is not used, they skyrocket. In South 
Africa, for example, the incidence of malaria had been kept very low (below 
10,000 cases annually) by the careful use of DDT. But in 1996 environmentalist 
pressure forced the program to cease using DDT, and one of the worst epidemics 
in the countrys history ensued, with almost 62,000 cases in 2000. Shortly 
after this peak, DDT was reintroduced and in one year malaria cases were reduced 
by 80 percent; in two years they were almost back to the 10,000 cases per annum 
level. Similar experiences have been recorded in Zambia, other African 
countries, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and elsewhere. [52] 

 No other 
chemical comes close to DDT as an affordable, effective way to repel 
mosquitoes from homes, exterminate any that land on walls, and 
disorient them, largely eliminating their urge to bite in homes that have 
been treated once or twice a year with tiny amounts of this miracle insecticide. 
(And affordability is a critical consideration in these impoverished countries.)

 DDT is not a 
panacea, nor a super weapon that can replace all others; nor is it suitable in 
all situations. However, it is a vital weapon often the best available 
technology in a war that must be fought against a number of mosquito species 
(vectors) and malaria parasites, in different terrains and cultures, and under a 
wide variety of housing and other conditions. Like any army, healthcare workers 
need to have access to every available weapon. To saddle them with 
one-size-fits-all solutions (swords and pistols, bed nets and drug therapies) is 
unconscionable. 
 The chemical 
is no longer used in agriculture (which accounted for 99 percent of its use at 
the time Rachel Carson wrote Silent Spring ). Today it is used almost 
entirely, and very selectively, in malaria control, via spraying in tiny 
quantities on the insides of houses. 
 It is not 
carcinogenic or harmful to humans; used in accord with these modern practices, 
it is safe for the environment; and malaria-carrying mosquitoes are far less 
likely to build immunities to DDT than to other pesticides that 
environmentalists and US, EU and UN agencies tolerate only as a last resort. In 
fact, notes Richard Tren, president of Africa Fighting Malaria, in the 60 years 
since DDT was first introduced, not a single scientific paper has been able to 
replicate even one case of actual human harm from its use. [53] 

Nevertheless, the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), Greenpeace, the 
Pesticide Action Network and World Wildlife Fund, Physicians for Social 
Responsibility and other groups remain adamantly opposed to the use of DDT a 
stance that angers many who must live with the consequences of malaria every 
day. The UNEP advocates using insecticide-treated mosquito nets, which do help 
at night, expensive drug therapies, and fish that eat mosquito larvae (a 
haphazard approach, at best) but not pesticides, and certainly not DDT. 
 A principal 
argument against DDT is that its use is not sustainable. This claim has 
frequently been made by Gro Harlem Brundtland, who was instrumental in promoting 
the sustainable development concept when she was Norways prime minister and 
has headed the World Health Organization since 1997, when it adopted its current 
anti-pesticide stance. However, without DDT, the lives of millions in developing 
countries are certainly not sustainable. 
 Dr. Donald Roberts, 
Professor of Tropical Public Health at the Uniformed Services University of 
Health Sciences, is outraged at the high pressure tactics that have forced 
many countries to abandon public-health uses of DDT and see their disease and 
death tolls soar. He is not alone. 
 If we dont 
use DDT, the results will be measured in loss of life, David Nabarro, director 
of Roll Back Malaria, says bluntly. The cost of the alternatives tend to run 
six times that of DDT. [54] 
That fact, however, appears to be irrelevant to many activist groups and aid 
agencies. 
 The U.S. 
Agency for International Development will not fund any indoor residual spraying 
and neither will most of the other donors, Tren says. This means that most 
African countries have to use whatever [these donors] are willing to fund (bed 
nets), which may not be the most appropriate tool. Belize and Bolivia have both 
admitted that they stopped using DDT in the face of USAID pressure, and many 
other developing countries refrain from using DDT because they don't want to 
damage their chances of exporting agricultural produce to the North. [55] 
 Indias 
Department of Trade and Industry worries that the countrys agricultural produce 
will be turned away from Europe if any traces of DDT are found, Tren notes. And 
in a truly bizarre example of misplaced priorities and concerns, Zimbabwes 
department of health was forced to stop using DDT because tobacco growers were 
worried that their (carcinogenic) tobacco would get rejected by the EU if any 
DDT were found on it. 
 Ugandan Health Minister Brig Jim Muhwezi summed the 
matter up succinctly, when he recently announced that his country would begin 
using DDT to control mosquitoes. Uganda did so despite warnings by 
environmentalists and the European Union that it risks having its fish and 
agricultural exports banned in EU and other foreign markets, if it goes forward 
with its plan. 
 In Muhwezis 
view, the cost of treating malaria and the burden it has placed on the country 
outweighed any environmental repercussions. He cited the successful use of DDT 
in Mauritius and South Africa to slash malaria disease and death rates and said, 
Our peoples lives are of primary importance. The West is concerned about the 
environment because we share it with them. But it is not concerned about malaria 
because it is not a problem there. 

 [56] 

 A prime 
example is 34-year-old designer and businesswoman Fiona Fifi Kobusingye, a 
friend of Cyril Boynes, Jr., director of international affairs for the Congress 
of Racial Equality (CORE). She saw her doctor in early November, because she 
felt fatigued and discovered she has malaria. Her year-old niece shivers and 
cries all night, and is suffering from kidney failure, because of malaria. Her 
sister is critically ill and hospitalized with malaria, and her mother came to 
Kampala to help tend everyone but ended up in the hospital herself with 
malaria. 
 The United 
States and Europe successfully used DDT to all but eradicate malaria. For them 
to downplay the impact of this disease on developing nations while worrying 
incessantly about largely theoretical health and mortality problems from trace 
amounts of chemicals in food and drinking water strikes Nabarro, Tren and 
Muhwezi as hypocritical, paternalistic and callous. 
 New 
insecticides and drugs are clearly needed. However their development and use are 
hampered by insufficient funding, excessive reliance on the precautionary 
principle (particularly in Europe) and the ever-present threat of 
multi-billion-dollar liability judgments (especially in the United States). Even 
if they might someday be a reliable substitute for DDT, tens of millions are 
likely to die in the meantime. The false alternatives are little more than 
wishful thinking in its deadliest form promoted by people who have staked out 
an ideological position against DDT anywhere, anytime and under any 
circumstances, and cling to their position like limpets to a rock. [57] 

 The DDT ban 
and intense pressure on countries not to use it are a lethal form of 
eco-colonialism, imposed by nations that eradicated malaria, dengue fever and 
typhus decades ago, against nations that continue to be devastated by these 
deadly diseases. They are also a grotesque abuse of CSR and the precautionary 
principle akin to telling terminally ill cancer patients they may not use 
morphine to ease their pain, because you wouldnt use addictive drugs when 
youre healthy. 
 And yet, for 
their intense opposition to DDT use and their blatant lack of concern for 
people companies, NGOs, Hollywood celebrities, foundations and government 
bureaucrats are deemed to be responsible, concerned about the poor, moral and 
passionate about the environment. 
 Starvation and biotechnology

 Green groups and European 
bureaucrats may not be conspiring to starve millions of sub-Saharan Africans, 
but they may as well be, suggested Andrew Natsios, director of the U.S. Agency 
for International Development. He accused environmental groups of endangering 
the lives of 14 million people who face starvation in southern Africa, which is 
enduring its worst drought in a decade, by encouraging their governments to 
reject genetically modified U.S. food aid. 
 They can play these 
games with Europeans, who have full stomachs, but it is revolting and despicable 
to see them do so when the lives of Africans are at stake, he said.

 [58] 

 Nearly 2.5 million are on 
the verge of starvation in Zambia alone, where President Levy Mwanawasa has 
caved in to NGO and EU pressure, and refused to accept food aid from the United 
States. 
 The U.S. has shipped 
17,000 tons of corn to Zambia, where many are down to one small meal per day, 
only to have the grain sit in storage. Parroting the EU/Greenpeace line, 
Mwanawasa has decreed it is unsafe for consumption, because some of the corn has 
been genetically modified, to make it more resistant to drought, salt and insect 
pests, reduce the need for pesticides, and save wildlife habitat by enabling 
farmers to grow more food on less land. Anonymous European Commission officials 
have gone so far as to accuse the U.S. of using Africans as guinea pigs, to 
prove biotech foods are safe to eat. [59] 

 The fact that Americans 
have been consuming this corn for years has not altered their intense opposition 
 nor have repeated scientific studies concluding that biotech foods are safe to 
eat nor demands by the starving Africans, who have attempted to break into the 
warehouses. It is yet another example of the precautionary principle run amok. 
Said the Wall Street Journal : 
 The green brigade, 
which likes to buttress its political opposition to GM foods with junk science, 
is cheering Zambias intransigence. And the willingness of Greenpeace, Friends 
of the Earth and the like to let Africans starve in the name of someone elses 
ideology is remarkable enough. 
 But the Europeans are 
also blameworthy. Zambia is just as worried about upsetting trade relations with 
Europe, its biggest export market. The European Union bans most GM crops lest 
they upset Europe's heavily subsidized farm system and Mr. Mwanawasa's concern 
is that the U.S. corn will cross-pollinate with non-GM varieties and taint 
future yields [thus triggering EU bans on crops from Zambia and neighboring 
countries]. 
 The eco-lobby has targeted the Third World 
with a five-year, $175 million campaign against GM foods. The Sierra Club is 
calling for a moratorium on the planting of all genetically engineered crops. 
Greenpeace says it opposes all releases of genetically engineered organisms 
into the environment, an act it calls genetic pollution. [60] 

 $175 million would feed 
millions of starving people for months. But of course, President Mwanawasa and 
his cronies are not going hungry. Nor are Mr. Mugabe and his cohorts in 
Zimbabwe. They will, however, profit mightily from any agricultural and other 
trade with the European nations that threaten their countries with sanctions, if 
the Africans dare to import, export or even grow GMO crops. Meanwhile, the 
desperate masses continue to starve. 
 Indeed, even where 
malnourished Africans seek to plant disease- and drought-resistant GM crops only 
to feed themselves, these precautionary radicals still cry genetic pollution. 
And the well-fed European countries still threaten to maintain their 
GM-free-at-any-cost moratorium against the import of grains and other crops from 
any nation that dares to defy their anti-biotech edicts. 
 Ugandans eat 500 pounds 
of bananas per person every year more than any other people on earth. But 
their banana crops are being devastated by an airborne fungus that prevents 
photosynthesis and nematodes that destroy the roots. Scientists have already 
developed a bio-engineered solution for the fungus, and are working on the 
nematode problem. However, implementation of these crop-saving technologies 
remains snarled in a bureaucratic nightmare that insists Uganda must first 
construct a legal framework (acceptable to GM-phobic Europeans) to prove beyond 
any doubt that the non-traditional plant breeding techniques will pose no 
environmental risks. 
 If I want to eat a 
biotech banana here, the U.S. shouldnt care, and Europe shouldnt care, says 
C.F. Mugoya, associate executive secretary of Ugandas National Council for 
Science and Technology. If science offers us a solution, we should go for it 
if we want. 
 Unfortunately, if you 
say biotech here, all hell breaks loose, bemoans John Aluma, deputy director 
general of the countrys National Agricultural Research Organization. Adds W.K. 
Tushemereirwe, director of Ugandas banana research program, The Europeans have 
the luxury to delay. They have enough to eat. But we Africans dont. [61] 

 Physician and biotech 
expert Henry Miller is blunt in his denunciation of the EU and UN actions. This 
self-serving involvement in excessive, unscientific biotechnology regulation, 
he notes, will slow agricultural research and development, promote 
environmental damage, and bring famine to millions in developing countries. The 
UN-sponsored biosafety protocol negotiated in Montreal two years ago is based 
on what he calls the bogus precautionary principle, which imposes an almost 
impossible proof-beyond-a-reasonable-doubt standard on innovation. 
 No longer must regulators 
demonstrate that a new technology is likely to cause harm. Instead, the 
innovator must now prove the technology will not cause any harm. Worse, 
regulatory bodies are free to arbitrarily require any amount and kind of 
testing they wish. [T]he biosafety protocol establishes an ill-defined global 
regulatory process that permits overly risk-averse, incompetent, and corrupt 
regulators to hide behind the precautionary principle in delaying or deferring 
approvals, as in the case of a years-long moratorium on EU approvals of 
gene-spliced plants. [62] 

 Meanwhile, nowhere is any 
caution or concern expressed about the harmful, even lethal effects that delays 
or bans on GMO crops will impose on the starving millions in Africa and Asia.

 Biotechnology is also on 
its way to transforming corn, soybeans and other crops into little drug 
factories that generate proteins to combat blindness and diseases that threaten 
millions of people in developing countries. It could also save endangered 
species and protect the wild grasslands and forests that figure so prominently 
in environmental literature and fund-raising campaigns. 
 [T]he hunger in 
southern Africa is driving its desperate inhabitants to hunt down anything that 
flies, crawls or swims for their stewpots. The regions normal hunting of 
bushmeat has escalated now that food is scarcer than AK-47s. Thanks to 
Euro-leadership, Africa is currently projected to clear wildlands greater than 
the land area of Texas in the next 20 years for more low-yield, subsistence 
farming. [63] 

 But these harsh realities 
likewise have had no effect on anti-GMO radicals or on the politicians and 
companies that are too timid or uncaring to speak out for more thoughtful 
approaches to these life-and-death concerns. Indeed, for their intense 
opposition to GMO seeds and crops and their callous disregard for Africas 
starving multitudes companies, NGOs, European bureaucrats and Hollywood 
celebrities are frequently lionized as responsible, compassionate, morally 
superior and passionate about the environment. [64] 

 International trade 

 Corporate 
Social Responsibility tenets also demand that uniform rules apply across 
international borders for the transport of industrial materials and the wages 
paid by multinational companies (MNCs) in their domestic and overseas factories. 
Rarely is any consideration given to the perverse consequences that these 
policies have on ordinary people in developing nations. 
 This notion 
of a level playing field, however, is often little more than a clever 
subterfuge by developed countries to protect their own industries, by imposing 
hidden tariffs on imported goods, under the guise of safeguarding environmental 
quality, workers health and human rights, preventing sweatshop conditions in 
overseas plants, or demanding living wages. The result is the elimination of 
economic opportunities for the Third Worlds poor, and developing countries 
single most important competitive advantage: low cost labor. 

 [65] 

 In many 
cases, cries for US or EU standards often harm those whom the self-proclaimed 
champions of the worlds poor purport to represent. It may well be that wages 
and working conditions in foreign countries are far below what would be 
tolerated in America or Europe. However, they are frequently better than the 
alternatives: no jobs, worse jobs, malnutrition and, for young girls, 
prostitution (if thats what it takes to put food on the family table). In many 
cases, they are also higher than wages paid to teachers, and even doctors, in 
those countries. 
 The 
machinations of special-interest groups in this country may work well to 
protect domestic job security. But they also prevent workers in developing 
countries from finding better opportunities to raise their living standards. If 
MNCs are forced to pay US wages in countries where job skills, productivity, 
and local economic and labor-market conditions cannot justify such wages, there 
would be no production cost savings and hence no purpose in relocating to those 
countries in the first place. Their poverty-stricken people would then lose the 
jobs and other benefits of direct foreign investment, including improved local 
economic conditions, a chance to develop their technical skills, and better 
roads, schools, hospitals and sanitary facilities near the new factories (many 
of them built by the MNCs). [66] 

 CSR and the 
precautionary principle also have perverse unintended consequences in the area 
of waste recycling. The low value of labor in developing nations justifies the 
long hours spent extracting material and recycling metals and chemicals. Free 
trade in waste would allow the comparative advantage of societies to make waste 
processing economically viable and efficient. However, recently enacted 
treaties and rules thwart this process. [67] 

 The Basel 
Convention on the Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Wastes prompted European 
companies to stop exporting chemicals, lead and zinc and India to stop 
importing them. Indias low consumption of automotive batteries and other 
products has thus meant that its own industrial and consumer markets are no 
longer able to support recycling plants in the absence of imported raw 
materials. Plants have closed, jobs have disappeared, and Indias ability to 
remove chemical and metallic contaminants from its environment has been 
drastically curtailed. 
 Activist 
demands for comparable wages and working conditions are now threatening 
another major Indian industry: the dismantling of huge ocean-going vessels to 
recycle their steel and other metals. Trade creates wealth, and if free trade, 
including trade in waste, is allowed greater productivity and more advanced 
technology will ensure [greater recycling rates,] reasonably priced disposal of 
waste that cannot be traded, and better standards of living for millions of 
people in Third World nations. [68] 

 Restrictions 
on free trade mean that fundamental human rights are glossed over or ignored. 
Those basic freedoms include the right to jobs, adequate food, better health and 
economic conditions, and priorities set by sovereign nations and communities, 
without being second-guessed or dictated to by bureaucrats and NGOs from 
developed countries. 
 Shareholder activists and 
stakeholders 
 CSR 
proponents often speak of stakeholders most of them well-funded activists 
and NGOs that piously assert a right to participate in corporate and 
government decision-making. In some cases, they are politicians, bureaucrats and 
other elites in developing countries. They may also be shareholder activists, 
who may own substantial shares in a company or just enough to qualify them to 
introduce resolutions at annual meetings, demanding that the company adopt their 
positions and agendas on Corporate Social Responsibility, sustainable 
development, global warming, the precautionary principle or human rights. 
 The final 
2000 report of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 
asserts that the essence of Corporate Social Responsibility is to recognize the 
value of external stakeholder dialogue. [69] 

 But who 
elected them stakeholders? Who made their narrow definitions and agendas the 
arbiter of what is moral or in the broader public interest? Who gave them the 
authority to exclude other stakeholders from debates and decision-making 
processes entire nations and billions of mostly destitute people, who are 
being denied the benefits of global trade, economic development, centralized 
energy projects, and wise use of resources, pesticides and biotechnology? 
 Pension fund 
investors and other ethical investor groups, we are told, want to retire into 
a clean, civil and safe world. [70] 
They therefore pressure companies to appease activist NGOs and meet acceptable 
standards of sustainable development and social responsibility. 
 Their 
commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility and its tenets may bring about a 
cleaner, safer, more civil world for them . But what about for the poorest 
citizens of Africa, Asia and Latin America? Or even the poorest citizens of the 
United States, Europe and Australia? 
 A moral 
vacuum surrounds this arrogation of power. Businesses and elected government 
officials ought to take a leadership position on these issues or at least 
question the underlying premises of CSR, as currently defined, and contest the 
demands of anti-business activists. Instead, many pursue a strategy of 
appeasement and accommodation, and cede moral authority to unelected NGOs, 
bureaucrats, ethical investors and other activists. Some have actually 
endorsed the activists demands and collaborated closely with them. 
 But for this 
they are praised as moral, responsible and concerned about the worlds poor. 
 As Charles Schwab has noted, trust in business will be 
restored only when companies accept three fundamental principles: transparency, 
disclosure and accountability. [71] 
But what about these unelected power brokers? 
 They often oppose economic development and opportunity, 
and the NGOs are exempt from false advertising and other laws (including the 
Lanham Act) that govern for-profit corporations. They likewise are not held to 
basic standards for disclosure and financial transparency, give little 
consideration to needs and desires that may be in conflict with their own, and 
are not made accountable for the adverse consequences of agendas they promote or 
impose. 
 Perhaps it 
is time that NGOs, activist stakeholders, and government bureaucrats 
themselves do what they demand of business: demonstrate that they can behave 
ethically and responsibly in return for the freedoms and opportunities that 
society bestows upon them. [72] 

 Global climate change 

 The very 
definition of CSR to say nothing of its actual implementation clearly raises 
an entire new genre of far-reaching concerns, not just for businesses, but for 
families, communities and nations. The worlds poorest citizens are especially 
vulnerable. 
 How 
corporations respond to the challenge will play a critical role in determining 
whether our future will be shaped by science, technology, freedom and hope or 
driven by fallacies, deception, despotism and fear. Many of the omens are not 
overly optimistic. 
 In May 1997, British Petroleum CEO John Browne endorsed the 
catastrophic global warming hypothesis and said tough measures should be taken 
quickly, even without scientific proof. Many interpreted BPs support for the 
precautionary principle as evidence that the company was convinced about the 
science and had decided to become a responsible citizen. [73] 
Indeed, Sir John later said, We accepted that the risks were serious and that 
precautionary action was justified. We were the first company in our industry to 
do so, and the first to say that, if we were asking other people to take 
precautionary action, we had to show what was possible and to set an example. [74] 

 Under the leadership of chairman Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, 
Royal Dutch Shell likewise played a lead role in promoting CSR, sustainable 
development, the precautionary principle and the Kyoto Protocol. The company 
issued a series of reports on people, planet and profits, offering guidance on 
the meaning and purpose of CSR, the nature of the corporate commitment it 
requires, and how companies should actually implement its doctrines. [75] 

 Rarely, if 
ever, have these companies or any other members of the World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development so much as suggested that NGO opinions or CSR 
assumptions might be ill-informed, misleading, false or even open to question. 
Never have they opined that their narrow definition of CSR could actually be 
harmful to millions of people. 
 Indeed, BP, 
Shell and other WBC members provide significant financial and political support 
for activists, politicians and regulators, to further promote the CSR agenda. 
They are also strong proponents of the notion that CSR principles are widely 
accepted and irrefutable permitting no disagreement or deviation. 
 According to 
this line of thinking, neither companies, communities nor countries have a right 
to adopt their own definition of Corporate Social Responsibility, sustainable 
development or the precautionary principle to fit their own unique 
circumstances, or their own pressing needs and priorities. To permit this would 
tilt the playing field, give some an unfair advantage, and result in 
irresponsible or unethical practices. 
 However, in 
the realm of CSR and the race to appear green, some have suggested that BP is 
in a class by itself surpassing even Enron in seeking to profit from emission 
trading, a largely coercive switch from coal to natural gas in electrical power 
generation, and other policies designed to combat catastrophic global climate 
change. [76] 

 Columnist Robert Novak brought to light several internal 
Enron memos that outlined in detail how the company could parlay the Kyoto 
treaty into immensely profitable business endeavors.
 A December 12, 1997 memo claimed Enron had 
excellent credentials with many radical environmental groups which, the memo 
claimed, referred to Enron in glowing terms. It asserted that the Kyoto treaty 
would do more to promote Enron's business than any other initiative and said 
the treatys emissions trading authority would be good for Enron stock!!

 An August 4, 
1997 memo to Enron president Ken Lay sought to prepare him for a White House 
meeting on how to persuade the United States to embrace the climate treaty. 
Present at the meeting were President Clinton, Vice President Gore and BP CEO 
Sir John Brown. The memo described BP as Enrons international equivalent, 
presumably because of the UK giants global reach, similar policy objectives and 
equally stellar reputation among environmental groups. [77] 

 The Kyoto climate treaty would compel signatory nations to slash 
fossil fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions. But Enron, BP and others believe 
they can create and run a complex system that allows companies and nations to 
trade (sell) credits for energy use foregone. Credits that now sell for a few 
cents or couple dollars per ton of emissions might go for $10, $20 or $100 a ton 
under a mandatory Kyoto program generating tremendous returns on investment, 
and tremendous incentive for these socially responsible companies to promote 
vigorous action to combat catastrophic global warming. [78] 

 The Kyoto accord would slash Americas fossil fuel use to some 40 
percent below what it would otherwise be by 2012. The International Panel on 
Climate Change (IPCC) has suggested that, to stabilize greenhouse gases, global 
emissions must be reduced to at least 60 percent below 1990 levels, even 
as emissions rise in developing countries that are not subject to the treatys 
requirements. 

 The U.S. Energy Information Administration has calculated that the 
treaty could drain over $300 billion a year from a U.S. economy that drives 
one-third of the entire global economy further harming American citizens, and 
making it even more difficult for developing countries to climb out of poverty, 
disease and despair. The climate treatys impact on Europe could be similarly 
devastating, further harming developing nations. 

 Even worse, the misery would bring few benefits. According to the 
National Center for Atmospheric Research, even full and perfect compliance 
with Kyoto would reduce average global temperatures in 2050 to only 0.13 F 
below they would be in the treatys absence. Actually stabilizing greenhouse 
gases at current concentrations would require 19 Kyotos and send our use of 
fossil fuels tumbling to Depression Era levels. [79] 

 The profit motive. 
At least some of this supposedly principled, altruistic, moral concern about 
global warming on the part of BP, Shell and other companies is likely to be 
actually motivated by a crass desire to develop new revenue streams and maximize 
profits. This is apparent from the Enron and BP emission trading activities, and 
from statements made at a recent oil industry conference on global climate 
change. 
 In response to questions after his formal address, Dr. 
Stephen Pecala, a Princeton University researcher working under a $20-million 
BP-funded grant, suggested that oil companies should embrace the Kyoto Protocol 
and global climate change theories, because they could raise their per-barrel 
prices through a self-imposed energy tax. The tax would promote greenhouse gas 
sequestration and would allow companies to reap the full benefits of oil 
development, he said. 
 In other words, energy and other companies that play the 
climate change game according to the Kyoto rules could earn billions of dollars 
in profits via traditional steps of petroleum extraction, refining and sales 
and then earn billions more by disposing of the resultant carbon via emission 
trading and sequestration schemes. [80] 

 The power and influence motive. 
Another factor driving the climate treaty is Europes clear desire to protect 
its industries, preserve its massive welfare state, and continue its efforts to 
integrate the economic basket case it inherited when the Soviet Union collapsed 
and the Eastern Bloc states again sought to be aligned with Western Europe. It 
is also a matter of Europeans chafing under American wealth, power and influence 
that once were theirs, and that they believe should rightfully still be theirs. 
And it reflects a prevailing green and EU mindset that Americans are crass, 
greedy, wasteful and wedded to profligate resource consumption. 
 For nearly 
two decades, Europes growth rate has been about half that of the United States, 
while unemployment has been nearly twice the U.S. rate, and tax burdens in some 
EU countries is 40 percent or more of their Gross Domestic Product. Europeans 
seem to prefer high levels of job security, unemployment and welfare while 
Americans opt for lower levels, as a tradeoff for greater growth, innovation, 
living standards, and flexibility in changing jobs and cities. But now the 
Europeans want to impose their choices as the worlds norm. 
 The EUs 
self-interest is highly visible in its insistence that Ireland, the United 
States and other nations adopt a system of global tax equity or tax 
harmonization, under which the U.S. would raise its taxes to EU levels, to 
prevent disruption and eliminate unfair and harmful tax competition. [81] 
It is also apparent in EU support for the Basel Convention on Transboundary 
Movement of Hazardous Materials (to protect chemical companies and jobs) and its 
intense opposition to GMO foods (to protect its agricultural base). 
 One suspects 
that the Europeans and greens opposition to biotechnology might also be related 
to their insistence that catastrophic climate change is behind every weather 
oddity and rain, drought or storm cycle. Although droughts are a centuries-old 
problem in southern Africa, if the latest ones can be tied to global warming, 
that might deflect some of the blame they deserve for their unbending antipathy 
toward GM crops that grow well in saline soils and dry climates. 
 Several 
major companies and activist groups (including BP, Vivendi, Greenpeace, Friends 
of the Earth and the World Wildlife Fund) were members of the official 
European Commission delegation to the August 2002 Earth Summit in Johannesburg, 
South Africa! They and Europe in general see the Kyoto Protocol, not merely as 
an environmental program, but also as a trade issue a way to pressure the 
United States to reduce its energy use and economic productivity, and thereby 
bring itself down to the level of European nations that refuse to adjust their 
industrial, labor, tax and welfare policies. 
 EU 
Environment Commissioner Margot Wallstrom made precisely this point in response 
to President Bushs decision to abandon the Kyoto climate treaty. This is not a 
simple environmental issue, where you can say it is an issue where the 
scientists are not unanimous, she declaimed. This is about international 
relations, this is about economy, about trying to create a level playing field 
for big businesses throughout the world. You have to understand what is at stake 
and that is why it is serious. [82] 

 Her remarks 
were echoed by several EU officials, who suggested that Americas lower energy 
taxes constitute an unfair trade advantage that could justify trade sanctions 
against the U.S. 
 The EU 
countries recognize that they cannot compete with the U.S. or developing 
countries as long as Europes tax rates, unemployment levels, welfare benefits 
and work disincentives remain high, their farms remain mired in traditional or 
organic practices, and many of their companies are reluctant to become lean and 
mean the way their American counterparts did in the 1980s and 1990s. It is far 
easier politically for the EU to criticize its competitors, and demand 
equitable arrangements under compulsory international treaties, than to admit 
and correct its own shortcomings and anti-competitive policies. 
 The EU, 
environmental activists and United Nations also envision the Kyoto treatys 
restrictions on energy supplies, energy use and greenhouse gas emissions as an 
opportunity to expand the authority of international institutions. Indeed, 
French President Jacques Chirac has termed the Kyoto Protocol the first 
component of authentic global governance. It would be, moreover, a massive 
bureaucracy, devoid of checks and balances, ensconced primarily in the EU and 
UN, fed and nourished with billions in tax dollars, and holding unprecedented 
power to control decisions by nations, states, communities, businesses and 
individuals over energy, economic, housing, transportation and numerous other 
matters. [83] 

 How moral, ethical or socially responsible these 
corporations are, for promoting their business interests via a climate treaty 
with such far-reaching impacts, is certainly open to question. How altruistic 
and socially responsible the EU countries are, for protecting their political 
and economic interests through the treatys hidden tariffs, is also 
questionable. 
 It would 
clearly seem far more responsible for BP, Shell, other companies and European 
nations to take a principled stand in defense of true science, and human life 
and welfare by 

 revealing all the ways they and the various activist groups stand to profit 
 from ratification of the Kyoto climate treaty; and 

 publicly challenging radical environmental agendas, while actively supporting 
 less hasty action on climate change, approving the use of DDT and GMO foods in 
 Africa and Asia, and engaging in a full re-examination of CSR doctrines. 

 In search of true Corporate 
Social Responsibility 
 From its 
very beginning, the doctrines of Corporate Social Responsibility have too 
narrowly defined what is moral, ethical, sustainable, ecologically beneficial, 
compassionate or in the public interest. From its inception, companies, 
journalists and politicians alike have treated the views and demands of CSR 
activists and other hostile critics of business as more rationally based, more 
representative of societys expectations, more morally sound, than they really 
are. 
 But under 
what standards by whose definition is it moral, ethical or socially 
responsible for them to take the positions they have on energy development, DDT, 
biotech foods, trade and global warming? How is it that the assertions, 
accusations and agendas or these radical elements have become the arbiter of 
corporate and societal responsibility? 
 Free markets 
and free people generate innovation, opportunity, optimism, prosperity, health 
and environmental quality. But CSR activists demand one vision, one mode of 
thought, one kind of ethical, economic and environmental policy. They permit no 
marketplace of ideas no deviation from politically correct thinking no right 
of people in different companies, communities, cultures and countries to think 
for themselves, make their own decisions, set their own priorities, address 
their own most pressing problems, decide their own destinies. 
 At best, 
this blind adherence to current CSR doctrine puts BP, Shell, the EU and the 
WBCSD in league with some of the most radical elements of Western society. At 
worst, it makes them guilty of silent complicity (or even active collaboration) 
in the misery and death of millions. 
 When will 
they demonstrate real leadership and reexamine the tenets of Corporate Social 
Responsibility, and their corporate stance on this radical doctrine? 
 When will 
they demonstrate that they truly care about people and not just about 
profiting from policies sanctioned by CSR doctrine, or burnishing their 
reputations among Euro, green, Hollywood and media elites? 
 If BP and 
Shell want to demonstrate real social responsibility and lead the way in truly 
making the world a better place for its poorest inhabitants, they need to 
challenge Europe and the radical environmentalists on energy, malaria, biotech 
foods, climate change and trade and insist that CSR, sustainable development 
and the precautionary principle reflect the hard realities noted here and by 
many other commentators. 

 C.S. Lewis may have put it best, 
when he observed: 

 Of all tyrannies, a tyranny 
exercised for the good of its victims may be the most oppressive. It may be 
better to live under robber barons than under omnipotent moral busybodies. The 
robber baron's cruelty may sometimes sleep, his cupidity may at some point be 
satiated; but those who torment us for our own good will torment us without end, 
for they do so with the approval of their own conscience. [84] 

 Greenwashing 

 Is BP really 
greener than its fossil fuel competitors? Or do its actions and expenditures 
belie its public pronouncements and advertising hype? How do other oil companies 
stack up to BP in terms of energy efficiency, renewable energy, pollution 
control, greenhouse gas reduction and wildlife conservation? Who else ranks high 
on the list of greenwashers? 

 Greenwashing , says the Concise Oxford English 
Dictionary, is disinformation disseminated by an organization so as to present 
an environmentally responsible public image. It perfectly describes BP s 
Beyond Petroleum ads and other public pronouncements, proclaiming that the 
company is much greener than its competitors. 
 Solar, natural gas, hydrogen, wind. And oh yes, oil. 
Its a start. A minuscule one, perhaps, but enough to get the masters of spin 
and advertising hyperbole rolling along in a $100-million-a-year, 
self-congratulatory ad campaign. 

 In the 
 midst of spending $91 billion for its merger with Amoco and Arco, BP managed 
 to scrape together $200 million for a 6-year solar program that included 
 installing solar panels on 200 of its 17,000 service stations. That works out 
 to 99.8 percent on oil, and 0.2 percent on solar (and solar panels on 1 
 percent of its stations). [85] 

 Its 
 average annual $33 million solar investment also equals a stunning 0.4 percent 
 of its $8.5 billion 2001 petroleum expenditure 0.02 percent of its current 
 net worth or a third of what it is spending each year on its Beyond 
 Petroleum campaign. [86] 

 BPs 
 combined global generation of 77 MW of electricity from wind and solar is 
 barely enough to keep Boise, Idahos lights lit for a year let alone make a 
 dent in Californias electricity demand. [87] 
 The tally of birds chopped up by its wind turbine rotors is unknown. 

 In contrast 
to its omnipresent beyond ads, BP is far more reticent when the conversation 
turns to drilling in Alaskas Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). Yet, it is 
the biggest operator on the North Slope, with huge lease holdings, and would 
certainly consider producing oil there if given the chance, admits John Mogford, 
BP vice president for renewable and alternative energy. [88] 

 How could 
the company responsibly take any other position? Government geologists estimate 
that ANWR could hold 6-16 billion barrels of recoverable oil. Thats 11-30 
years of imports from Saudi Arabia. Turned into gasoline, it would power 
Californias cars and trucks for 18-50 years. Midrange estimates put ANWRs 
natural gas potential at 4 trillion cubic feet enough to fuel Californias 
electrical generating plants, homes, schools and businesses for several years. 
 All this 
from impacted areas totaling less than 2,000 acres. Thats one-twentieth of 
Washington, DC or 20 of the buildings Boeing uses to manufacture its 747 jets! [89] 
 Its no 
wonder the Eskimos who live in ANWR support oil development by an 8:1 margin and 
are outraged that Gwichin Indians continue to take money from environmental 
groups for opposing oil drilling in the regions flat, desolate coastal plain. 
Moreover, while the Gwichins hypocritically denounce drilling in an area 300 
miles from their villages, they have leased every single acre of their own land 
and formed an oilfield services company to drill and develop oil prospects and 
build a pipeline along a major caribou migratory route. [90] 

 But mentioning these facts (especially in the midst of 
its ad campaign) could tarnish BPs greener-than-our-competitors image. So the 
company has quietly pulled out of the ANWR debate and the pro-drilling trade 
association, Arctic Power while keeping its onshore Alaska drilling options 
open and building an artificial drilling island in the Beaufort Sea off the 
Prudhoe Bay coast. 
 Meanwhile, BP was handed a maximum criminal penalty of 
$500,000 by a U.S. District Court in 2000, for failing to report the illegal 
disposal of hazardous waste on Alaskas North Slope. The company was also 
ordered to pay $15 million over the next five years to establish a nationwide 
environmental management system designed to prevent future violations in 
addition to the $6.5 million that it agreed to pay in civil penalties. [91] 

 In January 2001, BP was assessed a $10 million penalty and 
agreed to spend $500 million modernizing its pollution-control equipment, for 
violating federal clean-air laws at eight U.S. refineries. 
 On the other 
hand, BP is clearly at the forefront of efforts to secure ratification of the 
Kyoto Protocol on global climate change. It may be that Sir John Browne 
sincerely believes the global warming theorists and computer models are right 
even in the absence of any satellite or other empirical evidence to corroborate 
them. However, one can justifiably suspect other motives. 
 One could be BPs substantial and growing stake in 
natural gas, which many tout as a key substitute for coal and oil, since it 
emits less carbon dioxide when burned. Ratification of the Kyoto accords would 
send the value of BPs gas holdings skyward, significantly improving its bottom 
line (the traditional one, as well as the fabled triple bottom line.) 
 A second motivator might 
be emissions trading. Before it went into Chapter 11, 
Enron hoped to cash in on Kyoto by masterminding a worldwide trading network in 
which major industries could buy and sell credits to emit carbon dioxide. [92] 
 BP may now be in a position to replace Enron as the primary power broker 
for any greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme that may emerge from the climate 
change debates, as nations seek to find ways to comply with its draconian 
provisions, without decimating their industries and economies. [93] 

 A proposed European 
Emissions Trading Directive would enable countries that are not part of the 
European Union to link their schemes with those of the EU and thus recognize and 
trade in each others allowances. The directive is also intended as a practice 
run, to give EU nations and companies experience and a competitive advantage, 
before the Kyoto treaty comes into full force in 2008 (if it is indeed ratified, 
despite reluctance or worse on the part of the United States, Canada, Australia 
and Russia). 

 The potential for fraud and 
other mischief is enormous, as is the potential for some companies (and 
countries) to get wealthy from the prospect of economic misery of others. 

 Russias CO2 emissions are some 36 percent 
below its 1990, pre-USSR-collapse levels. This could be a valuable source of 
revenue, particularly if Russia holds out for major monetary concessions, as its 
price for ratifying Kyoto and foregoing much of its own economic future. The 
Kremlin could sell billions of euros of emissions credits to nations that exceed 
their Kyoto targets. Europe will also be dependent on Russian natural gas to 
provide for economic growth, putting Russia in an enviable position versus the 
EU. 

 But both Russia and other 
participating nations could engage in much sleight-of-hand. What, for instance, 
is to prevent games of Lets pretend? As in: We were thinking about building a 
huge coal-burning factory. But if youll pay us $5 billion for the CO2 it would 
have emitted, we wont build it, and you can build the plants that Kyoto 
otherwise prohibits, because you have already exceeded your permissible 
emissions allowance. 

 There are no systems in place to measure, 
verify or police actual, potential or mythical emissions from the vast array of 
stationary and mobile GHG sources. 

 Nor do standards exist to regulate these 
transactions comparable to what have long governed U.S. commodity trading and 
accounting practices. With emission trading, its an 
open invitation for fraud and abuse . How much easier will it be to cook 
the emissions books for an international system, when the measurement standards 
and means to verify emission reductions are yet to be developed, tested and 
verified? [94] 

 The entire climate change 
process strikes many as a monumental exercise in 
make-believe problems with make-believe solutions much as in the case of a 
Hollywood horror movie blockbuster (with billions of dollars in potential 
royalties for producers and investors). [95] 

 And yet, BP 
gets tremendous mileage out of being green for its support of the Kyoto 
Protocol and for actions it has taken to reduce greenhouse gases and prevent 
catastrophic global warming. Indeed, BP loves to be green. As in the color of 
money and the color of greenwashing. 
 Clearly, 
what is needed here is a healthy dose of skepticism something like the kind 
Greenpeace employed when it presented Sir John Browne with an award for giving 
the Best Impression of an Environmentalist. 
 Of course, 
BP is not alone in touting its supposed environmental credentials. 
 CNN founder
 Ted Turner is a greenwasher non pareil . He sponsors elite bison 
hunts at $10,500 per hunter erected killer fences that snare and strangle 
migrating wildlife cuts timber drills for natural gas and even bulldozed a 
hilltop to give himself a better view of a mountain range all on his Montana 
ranch. The ranch is part of his 1.8 million acres in U.S. real estate holdings 
(Delaware is only 1.3 million acres) and part of an empire that includes an 
Argentina ranch that Turner regularly flies to in his private jet. The 
billionaire also received more than $217,000 in American taxpayer agricultural 
subsidies between 1996 and 2000. [96] 

 Most 
corporate tycoons would be pilloried and hauled into court by environmental 
groups for such actions. They might even receive midnight visits from Earth and 
Animal Liberation Front eco-terrorists. But Turner gets a free pass. They dont 
even ask him to conduct an energy audit, to determine how many Btus he 
consumes in a year, with the heating and air conditioning for his mansions and 
servants quarters, sprawling ranches, SUVs and other vehicles, private jets, 
extensive vacation and other travel via commercial jetliners, fancy 
entertaining, pricey hotel accommodations, and other accouterments of his 
celebrity lifestyle. 
 (Come to 
think of it, the greens never ask these embarrassing questions of Robert 
Redford, Barbra Streisand, Leonardo DiCaprio, Ted Kennedy or other energy 
scolds, either.) 
 Thats because the media mogul donates millions to 
environmental causes, helping radical greens shut down other peoples cattle 
ranches, stop medical experiments and other peoples cruelty to animals, close 
vast acreage of public and other peoples land to timber cutting and oil 
drilling, lobby against SUVs and other extravagant fuel consumption by 
ordinary Americans, and prevent global warming (caused by other peoples 
excessive jet travel and SUV use). 

ExxonMobil , on the other hand, is (properly) viewed as the antithesis of 
greenwashing. In fact, it is regularly excoriated by self-styled 
environmentalists for its unflinching views on climate change and oil drilling, 
and its adamant refusal to bow to radical green demands. 
 They point 
out that the company refuses to invest any more money in renewable energy 
projects, and persuaded the vast majority of its shareholders to vote against a 
pro-renewable-energy resolution at its May 2002 annual meeting. However, while 
thumbing its nose at environmental activists, the company has worked without 
fanfare on energy conservation, pollution reduction, artificial reef and other 
initiatives. 

 It 
 claims its facilities reduced greenhouse gas emissions by over 35 percent (200 
 million metric tons) during the past 25 years, and achieved similar 
 improvements in energy efficiency in its refineries and chemical plants over 
 the same period. 

 ExxonMobil has also expanded co-generation at its refineries and chemical 
 plants, using waste heat to generate electricity and steam for other uses. 
 In conjunction with Toyota and General Motors, it is researching fuel cells to 
 develop technologies that lower carbon emissions and increase fuel efficiency. [97] 

 The 
 company recently joined General Electric, Schlumberger and European energy 
 distributor EOn, to sponsor a 10-year, $225 million dollar a year research 
 project by Stanford University. The program will assess which alternative 
 energy technologies offer the greatest promise, how todays major suppliers of 
 energy can become even cleaner, and how these technological advances could 
 obviate the need for drastic reductions in U.S. energy use, to address the 
 concerns some have about global warming. [98] 

 It 
 also undertook a major effort to preserve rare tigers and their Asian 
 habitats. The Save the Tiger campaign was undoubtedly as much an effort to 
 save its marketing symbol (Put a tiger in your tank), as it was a wildlife 
 conservation program. But plaudits were rare, until November 2002, when the 
 World Wildlife Fund lauded the campaign, saying ExxonMobil's efforts were 
 probably the most significant corporate contribution to endangered species 
 conservation ever. [99] 

ChevronTexaco has undertaken similar energy efficiency and pollution 
reduction projects, and is also working on fuel cells, improved batteries, and 
hydrogen, wind and solar programs. The Sun Company has carried out a 
major alternative fuel automotive program for many years. 
 Both Ford 
Motor Company and General Motors recently decided to abandon their 
electric car programs Ford after spending more than $100 million, GM after 
exhausting over $1 billion of shareholders capital. Both decisions underscore 
the dangers of allowing environmental politics rather than sound business and 
economic sense to determine capital investment decisions. 
 Many of 
these efforts are certainly comparable to BPs. And yet, more often than not, it 
is BP that pats itself on the back, runs expensive print and television ads, 
actively courts acclamation for its programs, and gets singled out by friendly 
journalists and environmentalists as the epitome of social responsibility and 
planetary concern. 
 Of course, 
not all environmentalists are persuaded. Climate activist Kenny Bruno charges 
that steps taken by any oil company including BP to reduce its own GHG 
emissions are symbolic and irrelevant, because the companies impact on 
hypothetical global warming is primarily due to the emissions by consumers using 
their petroleum products. 
 If we 
measure those emissions, he says, Shell alone accounts for more carbon dioxide 
than most countries in the world. Thus, on a symbolic level, Shell and BP may 
have broken with unrepentant ExxonMobil and embraced the Kyoto Protocol. But on 
a practical level, they are just as bad as their hard-line counterpart, 
because what they offer is mostly sophisticated, soothing rhetoric, and they 
are still drilling for oil and gas anywhere and everywhere. [100] 

 The lesson 
should be plain for all to see. Greenwashing is dishonest, quixotic and 
political spin in its purest form. It is especially so for companies whose core 
business involves extracting raw materials (eviscerating and raping the 
Earth) or manufacturing (depleting finite resources and spewing toxic 
chemicals into fragile ecosystems), to create automobiles, fuels or other 
products (that further violate Mother Earth and lead us further from the goal 
of perfect balance with Nature, as epitomized by primitive Amazonians). 
 Greenwashing 
is also a depressing commentary on what Greenpeace cofounder-turned-arch-critic 
Patrick Moore observes has increasingly happened to a movement he helped launch. 
As the environmental movement gained power, it succumbed to political and 
social activists who learned to use environmental rhetoric to cloak agendas that 
have little to do with ecology. Our original vision of Spaceship Earth and one 
human family was stolen and transformed into a virulent attack on corporations, 
technology, trade and science. [101] 

 The 
environmentalists certainly began with legitimate grievances about serious 
threats to the natural world. But over the years, they have become more 
intolerant in their views, more insatiable in their demands, and more 
disingenuous in their claims about increasingly hypothetical risks from 
chemicals, fossil fuels, biotechnology and nearly every other manifestation of 
modern society. 
 In their 
constant litany of doom and gloom, they have remained steadfast in their refusal 
to acknowledge what, by any rational standards, are major improvements in air 
and water quality, tremendous reductions in the use of fuels and raw materials 
per unit of economic output, and significant declines in the rate of human 
population growth. Even a recent study, by Conservation International 
demonstrating that nearly one-half of the 
Earth's surface remains an untouched wilderness and tropical rainforests remain 
largely intact is unlikely to moderate their outrage or demands. [102] 

 Radical 
environmentalists have also become callously indifferent to the suffering that 
their policies are causing for tens of millions of people who face daily 
struggles merely to feed their families and stay alive. 
 Perhaps even 
worse, every attempt to placate these organizations is doomed to failure. And 
every attempted greenwashing plays further into the radicals hands making 
true progress and better lives for the most miserable inhabitants of our planet 
even more difficult. 
 It is yet 
another reason why responsible companies, politicians and citizens must begin to 
challenge these radical groups and their greenwashing corporate and investor 
accomplices. Why they must take steps now to ensure that the environmental 
alarmist movement does not remain the only multinational industry that is not 
governed by basic rules for fairness, honest advertising, transparency, 
disclosure and accountability. And why they must insist that this movement cease 
its arrogant flouting of the standards of morality and common ethics that it has 
long demanded of for-profit corporations. 

 Market Manipulation and Investor Fraud 

 Are some 
investment advisory firms using misleading, perhaps even fraudulent, tactics to 
denigrate certain companies and attract investors to competitor companies 
favored by the advisors, using promises and projections about future earnings 
that reflect dubious energy and environmental claims? Do cozy relationships 
between foundations, corporations, activists, and socially responsible 
investor groups and stock analysts further this strategy? 

 Investors 
lost billions in 2002, when the deceitful practices of Enron, Global Crossing, 
WorldCom, Arthur Anderson and other companies became public and their financial 
house of cards came crashing down. 
 Fortune, 
Business Week, the Washington Post and New York Times , 
activists, citizens and politicians alike made impassioned pleas for 
prosecutions, new laws and tougher penalties. These actions, they said, were 
needed to curb widespread patterns of cooking the books, shading the truth, 
misleading statements and other distortions of facts and accounting figures, 
breaches of trust, abuses of power, unfair enrichment and even outright fraud.

 Arrests 
followed, corporate crooks are being prosecuted, and Congress enacted new rules. 
In the process, many legislators assumed that the nature and scope of the 
problem was worse than it actually was, and wound up criminalizing even 
inadvertent or minor accounting errors. [103] 

 However, 
some dubious practices escaped notice, and continue today. The old Roman proverb 
is particularly relevant to this brand of deception: Caveat emptor . Let 
the buyer be equally aware of what is being pedaled as sound or ethical 
investments by politically correct organizations. 
 The hard 
reality is that some companies, investment advisors, foundations and activist 
groups still have not gotten the message. Sometimes, its because they wear 
three hats at one time. 

 They 
 are corporations even huge multinationals some for-profit, others 
 not-for-profit. 
 They 
 may serve as financial advisors, urging consumers and investors to put their 
 money into companies that they assert are ethical, green or socially 
 responsible, and pull their money out of companies they portray as 
 environmental or human rights Darth Vaders. 
 They 
 may also be social activists, vigorously promoting certain energy, economic 
 and environmental agendas that reflect their ideologies and help fill their 
 own coffers. 

 Perhaps now 
is the time to ensure that our new and rediscovered principles and standards are 
applied across the board not just to companies, but also to activist NGOs, 
analysts, advisors and foundations that appear to be engaging in Enronesque 
practices, to further their political, ideological and financial goals. The 
advice offered so freely for corporate reform in 2002 would be a good starting 
point for further house cleaning, to inspire government oversight and better 
enforcement of ethical principles for nonprofit organizations. Here is a 
sampling of that advice. 
 Companies should be required to state 
profits in a way that is more meaningful and less subject to manipulation. Even 
if companies want to tout random, unaudited, 
watch-me-pull-a-rabbit-out-of-my-hat figures in their press releases, investors 
should immediately be able to compare these figures with full financial 
statements prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles. [104] 

 Accountants and auditors should not be 
permitted to merely sign off on clients financial statements. They should also 
have to grade the quality of their earnings. [105] 
Because they are in a unique position to judge how dependent the financial 
statements are on assumptions that could prove faulty, accountants and auditors 
also need to exercise much more skepticism and not conduct merely cursory 
reviews. [106] 

 To ensure research with integrity and avoid 
conflicts of interest, analysts should not be allowed to participate in 
investment-banking deals, or make recommendations on buying stocks while 
simultaneously selling their advice to the companies whose stocks they cover. 
They must disclose any actual and apparent conflicts of interest. [107] 
They must go beyond putting out glowing recommendations that are long on 
concepts and potentials, but short on facts and figures. [108] 

 Companies should require: codes of ethics 
for their boards of directors, annual (public) performance evaluations of 
directors, and directors who are truly outsiders independent from the company, 
with no ties to the CEO, and no dependence on the company for their livelihoods. [109] 

 Companies need to replace CEOs who fail at 
moral leadership, accountants who engage in borderline accounting, and 
directors who fail to direct, have vested interests in maintaining systems that 
are beneficial to them, are asleep at the wheel, or dont want to rock the 
boat. [110] 

 Corporations should also strive to create 
cultures that encourage and reward integrity as much as entrepreneurship 
hire executives who are not only exemplary managers but also the moral compass 
for the company and establish a system of checks and balances that insures 
against companies crossing the ethical divide, by providing the CEO with a 
roomful of skeptics and actively encouraging dissent. [111] 
 Companies must no longer employ the 
arrogant, closed-culture approach. They cannot presume that they know what is 
best not only for the organizations, but for affected constituents. Nor can 
they assume they are immune from responsibility for their actions [because they 
are] too large, or too powerful, or too vital to a community to worry about 
accountability. [112] 
 And finally, from shareholder activist 
Robert Monks: Our legal system and companies should empower institutional owners 
to hold corporate managers accountable for their actions and the consequences 
thereof (especially in the social, environmental and human rights arenas), to 
ensure that corporate interests reflect the goals of society as a whole. [113] 
 Curing 
corporate malfeasance, accounting fraud and conflicted advice can also be summed 
up in three core principles. Transparency conducting business and 
making decisions in the light of day, with integrity, honesty and input from 
investors, consumers and the institutions that serve them. Disclosure 
giving investors and the general public a clear picture of the biases and 
conflicts built into the advice they receive, and providing easy access to that 
information, so that they can make informed choices. Accountability at 
the senior-most executive levels, for actions and their consequences, under 
codes of conduct that require the CEO and chief compliance officer to certify 
that the proper controls are in place. [114] 

 But will 
these basic principles now be applied in other arenas, where passivity and a 
too-narrow focus have led to numerous abuses that continue to cry out for 
reform? 

 America has long prided itself on having a single legal 
system that applies equally to all citizens, does not permit selected groups to 
live by different standards, and imposes the same duties and penalties on all. 
But this system of equal justice for all has lost its bearings. 
 In this critically important era when 
for-profit and not-for-profit corporations, activist groups, investment advisory 
firms, institutional investor funds and major foundations all exert enormous 
influence on our economy and the performance of individual companies our 
system allows these selected groups to play by very different rules. 
 Not only are these groups exempt from false 
advertising, transparency, financial disclosure and accountability rules. But 
recent legislative and regulatory reforms apply primarily or only to the 
for-profit corporate sector, despite widespread patterns of abuse within these 
exempt sectors. 
 Having spent much of 2002 addressing corporate fraud, 
our watchdog groups, journalists, legislators, regulators and courts must now 
devote their attention to correcting abuses that have become prevalent in these 
other sectors. The principles noted above would provide excellent guidelines for 
long overdue reforms. 

 Activists and institutional 
investors 
 Pension and 
mutual funds today own nearly $8 trillion in market share! A mere 75 mutual 
funds, pensions and other institutional shareholders control $6.3 trillion worth 
of stock some 44 percent of the total stock market. In fact, pension funds are 
now the largest owners of U.S. companies, and the California Public Employees 
Retirement System (Calpers) is the most influential institutional investor of 
all. [115] 

 These 
pension fund investors, says activist Robert A.G. Monks , want to retire 
into a clean, civil and safe world. Monks plan is to empower institutional 
owners to hold corporate managers accountable for their actions and align 
corporate interests with the goals of society as a whole. This, he says, will 
compel CEOs to factor the social and environmental concerns of their long-term 
shareholders into all their decisions, and bring corporate and government 
programs in line with the agendas he and his activist investors have charted. [116] 

 To move this process along, Monks advises, energizes and 
even funds shareholder campaigns that help persuade CEOs to adopt his social 
and environmental platforms. Most of these campaigns are led by liberal church 
groups, unions, socially conscious mutual funds, public sector pension funds 
like Calpers, radical activist groups like Greenpeace and Campaign ExxonMobil, 
and large foundations (that often set the agendas for activist groups they 
support). 
 Their passion for The Cause is revealed in 
comments that Father Michael Crosby, director of the Interfaith Center on 
Corporate Responsibility, made to Dr. Ray Bohlin, executive director of Probe 
Ministries, after Dr. Bohlin opposed a shareholder resolution that Father Crosby 
had introduced at the 2002 ExxonMobil annual meeting. 
 You disrespected the 
Gospel, Father Crosby told him, by using Christian references to oppose the 
resolution, and must have been duped into saying those things. [117] 

 These environmental activists have now become an 
$8-billion-a-year industry, which for the most part is subject to none of the 
laws that govern for-profit corporations on matters of transparency, disclosure, 
false advertising and accountability. [118] 

 But what 
happens when the concerns and proposed solutions of these activists and 
institutional investors result in additional problems for the poorest people on 
the planet those who have not yet shared the dreams and successes of the 
developed world? What if creating a clean, civil and safe world for these 
retirees results in a less clean, civil and safe world for people in 
Africa, Asia and Latin America? 
 What if, for instance, the retirees socially conscious 
agenda includes opposition to energy and economic development, pesticide use, 
biotechnology, trade and other programs that people half a planet away 
desperately want and critically need? 
 Whose agenda 
then determines what are to be the goals of society as a whole? Equally 
important, who has given these activists the moral or legal authority to impose 
their goals and the consequences thereof, intended and otherwise on people 
who do not agree with the goals, must live with the consequences and had no role 
in making the decisions? 
 Who will hold Robert Monks, the institutional investors, 
and the various church, environmental and other activists accountable for 
their actions? What is to be their moral compass, provide a system 
of checks and balances, and ensure that a healthy measure of skepticism and 
dissent presides when they pressure corporations to do their bidding? 
 How can our 
legal and political systems ensure that these activists do not remain an 
arrogant, closed-culture that knows whats best for affected constituents and 
believes it is immune from responsibility because it is too vital to the 
community to be hauled onto the carpet? 
 Monks and 
his activist allies have spent years crusading for the principles that have now 
been imposed on (or voluntarily adopted by) for-profit corporations. If the 
principles are to mean anything as fundamental arbiters of ethical behavior, 
they should certainly apply with equal force and effect to the crusaders 
themselves. 

 Institutional Shareholder Services 
was founded by Robert Monks to research companies, offer investment advice to 
pension funds and other institutional investors, and recommend shareholder 
resolutions on renewable energy and gay rights. ISS has 300 employees, 750 
institutional clients and real clout, and Monks is a key behind-the-scenes 
advisor to the trustees of Calpers and other huge institutional investor 
groups. Hes also written books and articles on ethical investing and on 
corporate power, social responsibility and accountability. 

[119] 
 To track the 
supposed relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and shareholder 
value, he developed a simulation program called Brightline. This program was 
used by former Chase Investment Bank analyst Mark Mansley to assess the 
reputational damage and litigation risks that ExxonMobil could face if it did 
not make changes advocated by Monks and other ethical investment activists. 

[120] 
 Monks helped 
underwrite the Mansley report, Risking Shareholder Value? ExxonMobil and 
Climate Change. Issued under the auspices of Claros Consulting in London, 
the report became the centerpiece for a years-long shareholder campaign against 
ExxonMobil. Monks also gave money and advice to the coalition of church groups 
and environmentalists who ran Campaign ExxonMobil. [121] 

 Claros Consulting is a UK-based 
consulting firm that provides expert information and advice on socially 
responsible investment (SRI) for institutional investors. It publishes an 
online Guide to Socially Responsible Investment for Pension Funds, covering 
what it is, how to develop an SRI policy, the legal position, the various issues 
and approaches. [122] 

 Once the 
polite euphemisms are stripped away, however, what Claros and its allies 
actually operate is a sophisticated protection racket and shakedown operation. 
While the allied groups engage in hijinks like those popularized by Greenpeace 
and Campaign ExxonMobil, Claros employs more modern weaponry such as 
deliberately politicized financial analyses, used in concert with shareholder 
resolutions and the hardcore radicals more theatrical tactics. 
 One of the 
more highly sophisticated examples is Mark Mansleys shareholder value 
analysis, which was sponsored by Campaign ExxonMobil, Robert Monks and the 
Coalition for Environmental Responsible Economies (CERES), to promote various 
shareholder resolutions. 
 It claims 
ExxonMobils market capitalization could fall by as much as 10 percent (or 
about $20 billion) because of the companys refusal to take global warming 
seriously or invest further in renewable energy technologies. It also asserts 
that ExxonMobil could lose up to $50 billion from damaged reputation alone, face 
a loss of insurability, and be subjected to mass tort liability lawsuits for 
damaging the earths climate. 
 However, in 
a teleconference arranged by Claros to promote its report shortly before the May 
2002 ExxonMobil annual meeting 
 Monks relied on ad hominem attacks 
on ExxonMobil and other companies as dictators 
with vast power, who refuse to be accountable to what their owners require, 
and 
 Mansley admitted that much of his report 
was based not on actual data and analysis but rather on primitive computer 
models of the U.S. and global economies, and on assumptions about catastrophic 
global climate change. His answer to one of the last questions was sprinkled 
with I think and I am fairly sure, and concluded: 
 The results are only an economic 
analysis. They are only going to be an approximation of the truth, but the 
results appear reasonable. They appear to reflect reality. [123] 

Unfortunately, an approximation of the truth and computer model results that 
appear to reflect reality hardly support the reports conclusions or justify 
attempts to coerce a company into adopting radical green policies on fossil 
fuels, renewable energy and climate change. 
 The reports 
conflicts of interest are blatant and obvious, there is little of substance to 
back up its criticisms, and its rampant guesswork make the analysis 
meaningless and subject to easy manipulation. In fact, its unaudited data and 
conclusions rely so heavily on conjecture about future energy, technology and 
climate scenarios that they violate Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and 
offer virtually nothing of substance to support the reports dire predictions, 
or give people reliable enough data to make informed investment decisions. 
 If the Claros report were correct, investors should 
already be giving the greener, more politically correct companies higher 
valuations in the stock market. That has not happened. In fact, villainous 
ExxonMobil has been among the energy industrys most consistently strong 
performers in recent years. 

 It had 
 sales of $213 billion in 2001 and netted $15 billion, making it the most 
 profitable company in the United States. Annual total returns to ExxonMobil 
 shareholders averaged 13 percent over the past five years, and the annual 
 dividend payment increased in 2001 for the 19th consecutive year. (Profits are 
 likely to be lower in 2002, as ExxonMobil suffered a 17 percent profit decline 
 in the third quarter 2002, as did Royal Dutch Shell.) 

 ExxonMobils price-earnings (P/E) ratio was 24.4 in Q3-2002, 
compared to 19.0 for Shell and 50.7 (!) for BP. ExxonMobils $1.44 return on 
shareholders equity is slightly below the Royal Dutch/Shell return of 
$1.47/$1.57 but well above BPs $0.78 return. 

 J.P. 
 Morgan said in March 2002 that ExxonMobil deserves to trade at a premium 
 valuation. Goldman Sachs agreed, adding the companys strong management team 
 and impressive pool of employees allow investors to sleep well at night. The 
 first quarter 2002 Value Line Investment Survey noted that ExxonMobil 
 had the highest return on equity in the entire petroleum sector in 2001 . 
 And Peter Lynchs Guru profile gave it good marks in October 2002: a 100% 
 score and a fast grower rating. 

 According to the 2002 Forbes Platinum 400 list of blue-chip companies based or 
 operating in the United States, ExxonMobil had a 5-year average 14.0 percent 
 return on capital (profitability), and a 10.4 percent return in 2002; its 
 profit margin over the last 12 months was 5.9 percent. BPs 5-year average was 
 10.1 percent; its 2002 return a meager 5.7 percent; its profit margin only 2.9 
 percent in 2002. [124] 

 Thus, when Claros claims ExxonMobils climate change and 
renewable energy strategies put it at a competitive disadvantage, what it really 
means is that radical activists have singled the company out for boycotts, 
protests and shareholder resolutions. 
 When it says i nstitutional investors 
are making climate change a high priority in their investment decisions, it 
actually means Claros, its allied groups and other green activists are lobbying 
them to do so and intend to continue their high-pressure, protection racket 
tactics. 
 And when Monks, ISS, Claros, CERES, 
Innovest and Campaign ExxonMobil engage in the borderline accounting 
and shoddy analysis reflected in Mansleys report, what they are also doing is 
promoting their own agendas, vested interests and bottom lines. 
 Under any reasonable definition and interpretation of the 
law particularly in the wake of Enron, WorldCom, Global Crossing and the 
Sarbanes-Oxley corporate reform law this smoke and mirrors analysis and 
shakedown attempt is deceptive and unethical. It should be investigated by 
Congress, the Federal Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. 
 Campaign ExxonMobil 
is determined to compel ExxonMobil to take a responsible position on global 
warming and make serious investments in solutions. Its tactics include street 
theater, letter writing campaigns, shareholder resolutions, kangaroo court 
trials to convict the company of human rights violations and unrestrained 
corporate power, and thinly veiled threats of lawsuits and direct action. [125] 

 But theres more here than meets the eye and more than 
Campaign ExxonMobil wants people to see. 

 Campaign members and advisers include the Committee in Solidarity 
with the People of Iraq, North Texas Islamic Association, UPROAR, Anarchist 
Black Cross, Industrial Workers of the World, Monkeywrench Collective, 
PressurePoint, Ruckus Society, NRDC, CERES, U.S.PIRG and former members of the 
Black Panther Party. 

 Campaign ExxonMobil is actually a front group for the Texas Fund 
for Energy and Environmental Education. TFEEE gets its money from the Energy 
Foundation, a conglomerate of 7 giant liberal foundations the Rockefeller 
Foundation, Pew Charitable Trusts, John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur 
Foundation, Packard Foundation, Hewlett Foundation, McKnight Foundation and 
Joyce Mertz-Gilmore Foundation. These giants have combined assets of $21 
billion, mostly in multinationals other than ExxonMobil. 

 Campaign coordinator Chris Doran also works for Greenpeace and for 
another activist group appropriately called PressurePoint. 

 PressurePoint gets its money from Downwinders at Risk, a virtually 
unfunded group that acts as a monetary conduit for the Samuel Rubin Foundation, 
which (like the TFEEE foundations) is heavily invested in multinational 
companies. 

 Another major player in the anti-ExxonMobil effort is CorpWatch, 
which hides under the umbrella of the Tides Center, a secretive donor-advised 
fund that gets large sums from corporations, big-money foundations and other 
donors. 
 But figuring out these assorted front groups, shells, 
interconnections and money laundering schemes takes hours of painstaking 
research, because none of this information is readily available to the average 
investor or concerned citizen. 
 The relationships between attack groups in this campaign 
are extremely complicated and difficult to trace. There are shells within shells 
within shells. Assumed names are common. Ironically, the non-profit attack 
groups that scream loudest, demanding full disclosure from the for-profit 
sector, are themselves the most secretive and invisible to public scrutiny. [126] 

 Why all these secretive relationships and payments? Why 
dont these radical activists follow the laws, ethical guidelines, and precepts 
for honesty, transparency and social responsibility that they demand for 
corporations? How can any investor, regulator or journalist trust anything they 
say? 
 Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index. The DJSI tracks the stock market performance of 300 global 
companies whose business practices have received a green seal of approval from 
Sustainable Asset Management. Index promoters claim that there does seem to be 
evidence that corporate sustainability can create shareholder value. There is 
also evidence that investors can take advantage of this information to generate 
superior returns. [127] 

 However, the evidence seems to be more manufactured than 
real. The DJSI analysis includes not only market trends and subjective 
environmental performance but also reviews of media, press releases, 
articles and stakeholder commentary that are often used as a basis for 
possible downgrading of a company through the ongoing Media and Stakeholder 
Analysis process (emphasis added). [128] 
In other words, even the Dow Jones (!!) Sustainability Index is apparently yet 
another activist ally in campaigns against companies that have not gotten 
onboard the CSR and sustainable development bandwagon. 

 CERES (the Coalition for 
Environmentally Responsible Economies) bills itself as the leading U.S. 
coalition of environmental, investor and public interest advocacy groups, 
working together for a sustainable future. It includes some 70 companies that 
have endorsed the CERES Principles, a ten-point code of environmental conduct. 
Its political agenda is plain to see. [129] 

 Executive director Robert Kinloch Massies speech on 
climate change and fiduciary duty is displayed prominently on the 
organizations website, as is the May 2002 Claros report and a similar April 
2002 report written for CERES by Innovest Strategic Value Advisors, titled 
Value at Risk: Climate Change and the Future of Governance. 
 All three 
documents assert that ExxonMobils stance on climate change could jeopardize 
long-term shareholder value in the company. They also underscore how closely all 
these activist groups work together, and in conjunction with more radical 
organizations like Campaign ExxonMobil. (In fact, CERES was an advisor to the 
anti-ExxonMobil campaign.) Their common goals are to: 

 Pressure company executives to assess current and probable risk exposure 
 from climate change policies and link executive compensation to the company's 
 performance on that issue; and 
 Compel 
 institutional investors to incorporate climate change considerations into 
 investment strategies, require disclosure of climate change-related 
 information from portfolio companies, increase investments in energy 
 efficiency and renewable energy opportunities, and promote the adoption of 
 government climate change initiatives. 

 But once 
again, the documents are laden with glowing recommendations that are long on 
concepts, unfounded assertions about glittering potential for renewable energy 
and sustainable development, and horror stories about global warming and 
irresponsible corporations but woefully short on facts, figures and solid, 
independent analysis that is in accordance with GAAP standards. 

 Innovest Strategic Value Advisors is 
yet another ethical investor group. It operates the EcoValue21 analytical 
platform and includes among its institutional clients two of the worlds largest 
pension funds, CalPERS in the USA and ABP in the Netherlands. 
 Innovest 
recently published Intangible values linked to sustainability, complementing 
its Value at Risk: Climate Change and the Future of Governance report. 
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, former chairman of Royal Dutch/Shell when it initiated 
WBCSD and other efforts to promote CSR and sustainable development, is now a 
member of the Innovest board of directors. 

 Innovest 
was recently selected to provide company and industry sustainability research 
for BP Investments , the investment arm of the British Petroleum pension 
fund. [130] 

 This selection further complicates the spiders 
web of interrelationships among activist investor advisory groups, liberal 
foundations and pension funds, radical environmental organizations and 
corporations like BP and Shell, which seek to polish their images and profit 
politically and economically from the sustainability and Corporate Social 
Responsibility movement that they did so much to inaugurate. 

 A challenge 
for the Rule of Law 
 The cooperation and coordination among these groups is 
startling. 

 Robert Monks, Institutional Shareholder Services, Claros 
Consulting, CERES, Innovest and the DJSI provide putative legitimacy and 
supposedly professional, unbiased analytical and advisory services in support 
of their narrow political agenda. They develop computer programs, provide 
pension fund advisory services, make buy and sell recommendations based on CSR 
and sustainable development, underwrite cursory reviews and questionable 
analyses, and develop and sell research and advice on proxy voting. 

 The activist advisors and a number of major liberal foundations 
recruit, advise and fund labor unions and liberal church groups like the 
Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility and National Religious Partnership 
for the Environment, often setting agendas and planning strategies. 

 They likewise recruit, advise and fund attack groups like 
Greenpeace and Campaign ExxonMobil, bringing their motley assortment of radicals 
and anarchists into play. 

 Government agencies, especially at the federal level, provide 
further research and financial assistance, as well as regulatory pressure in 
support of the agendas. [131] 

 All work in consort to develop radical new principles of corporate 
ethics and government control, while pressuring corporations, legislators and 
regulators to adopt their vision and agenda based on false, misleading, 
make-believe notions about resource depletion, planetary destruction, renewable 
energy, sustainable development, precaution and Corporate Social Responsibility.

 All 
 support activities that seek to promote the reputation and value of favored 
 companies, while damaging the good name and bottom line of companies that have 
 not yet seen the light on sustainable development, the precautionary 
 principle and global warming. 

 Beneficiary corporations like members of CERES and the WBCSD 
hope to benefit from being associated with the green hats. They may seek 
competitive advantages, or hope to reduce public censure for their roles in 
resource depletion and environmental degradation. Often, they are persuaded to 
embark on product development programs (such as electric cars) that may be 
politically attractive in the near term, but are fraught with serious 
technological and economic questions, and thus raise serious questions regarding 
the companies fiduciary duties to investors and creditors. 
 As the Enron 
stain continues to spread, questions have arisen regarding additional examples 
of corporate abuses such as potential conflicts of interest, lack of 
arms-length relationships and misleading statements that have led consumers to 
believe they were dealing with independent associations offering advice about 
insurance. In the latter case, the charge is that, far from being independent, 
many of these associations serve primarily as a marketing arm for particular 
insurers or agencies, endorsing their products to the exclusion of others. [132] 

 In fact, in this post-Enron era, nearly every 
conceivable buyer-seller, consumer-merchant, public-corporate relationship is 
being scrutinized infinitely more closely than ever before. But the equally 
troubling and far-reaching relationships detailed here are still exempt from 
review and from legislative, regulatory or judicial action. 
 No one is suggesting that environmental activist 
organizations should not have a right to organize, speak out and promote their 
cause. However, they should do so in accord with the laws, regulations and 
ethical guidelines that govern for-profit businesses and trade associations. 
 The potential for this cartel of special interest 
organizations to manipulate markets and prices, pressure companies and 
consumers, mislead investors and violate numerous codes of ethics is enormous. 
Their conflict of interest is real and obvious. Their integrity is on the line.

 It is time for Robert Monks, Claros, 
Campaign ExxonMobil and all their allied groups to come clean. To do what they 
demand of for-profit corporations. To open their books and provide full 
disclosure of their meetings, contacts, monetary and other relationships, direct 
and indirect. To act in accord with false advertising laws, and abide by the 
same standards of honesty, integrity and accountability. 
 If they have nothing to hide, they 
should be happy to disclose and broadcast these facts and relationships for all 
to see. 
 It is also time for Congress, state legislatures, 
regulators, journalists and watchdog groups to hold hearings, investigate these 
organizations and their operations, and ensure that all operate in accord with 
the same rules and principles that now govern for-profit corporations and the 
rest of our civilized society. They need to exercise their jurisdiction and meet 
their obligations to the taxpaying and investing public to ensure full 
scrutiny, full transparency, full public disclosure and full accountability, 
under the principles outlined earlier in this chapter. 

Johannesburg: End of the road for eco-imperialism? 

 Some 60,000 
activists, bureaucrats and politicians flew gas-guzzling, greenhouse-gas-spewing 
jets into Johannesburg, South Africa, last August for a $50-million Earth 
Summit. Many settled into comfy five-star hotels, intending to make the summit a 
high water mark for sustainable development, global warming and the 
precautionary principle. 
 Over the 
next two weeks, they denounced everything from electricity and flush toilets, to 
fossil fuels, biotechnology, capitalism and, of course, the United States. The 
World Wildlife Fund issued a jeremiad, wailing that mankind will need at least 
1.2 more Planet Earths by 2050 to maintain our present standard of living, if we 
dont change our evil ways. 
 However, 
despite their Herculean efforts, the summit didnt turn out quite the way they 
expected. 
 The United 
States, Australia and Canada refused to go along with the orchestrated agenda 
and, instead, promoted free markets, free trade and economic development as the 
solution to global poverty and environmental degradation. Secretary of State 
Collin Powell spoke in support of these themes and the three nations increasing 
alliance with the developing countries against the forces of alarmism and 
pessimism. USAID Director Andrew Natsios spoke out against NGO and EU demands 
that starving people be denied GMO corn. 
 Writing in 
Londons Telegraph , the director of South Africas Free Market Foundation 
had earlier accused the NGOs and EU of insidious eco-imperialism. 
 These latter-day 
imperialists are neo-Luddites who place elitist environmental whims and nebulous 
fears of resource depletion above the needs of the world's destitute billions. 
They seek to impose first-world conceptions of environmentalism and human 
development on developing countries. They do not want poor countries to follow 
the path that made the prosperity of their own countries possible. [133] 

 The charge resonated. 
Hundreds of poor African protesters marched in Johannesburg against what they 
called the politics and policies of Sustained Poverty. Their growing anger and 
resentment toward green despotism was obvious. Barun Mitra of India presented a 
special BS Award to the international NGOs for sustaining poverty. It was a 
plaque heaped high with two piles of animal excrement symbolizing both the 
quality of the environmental radicals arguments and the biomass fuel that many 
NGOs seem to want poverty-stricken Third World families to use for generations 
to come. 
 In the end, many of the 
greens key agenda items were tabled, voted down or relegated to indeterminate 
timetables, and they were left to cry angrily in their white wine. The Energy 
and Climate Caucus coalition denounced the Earth summit as a total failure, 
Friends of the Earth called it notably feeble, and Oxfam International summed 
it up as nine days of bluster. [134] 

 It is 
certainly dangerous to make any kind of prediction about the demise of an 
$8-billion-a-year environmental gorilla. However, it is possible that 
Johannesburg will turn out to have been a watershed event in the history of eco 
extremism. 
 At previous 
summits dating back to 1992 in Rio de Janeiro, discussions had focused on 
Malthusian limits to growth, planetary apocalypse and global governance. In 
Johannesburg, the focus was on poverty and on how poverty can be eliminated, 
and peoples health and environmental quality improved, through private property 
rights, market economies, global trade, technology, innovation,
 democratic process es, sustained economic 
growth, and the right of individuals, communities and nations to make their own 
decisions and chart their own destinies. 
 At previous 
summits, the dominant theme was the struggle between rich and poor between 
haves and have-nots between a greedy United States and an impoverished Third 
World. In Johannesburg, the struggle was largely between those whose vision is 
one of hope, progress and faith in mankinds amazing intellectual capacity 
against those whose vision is one of fear, worsening environmental degradation 
and man as the supreme danger to all he surveys. 
 Whether this 
change in priorities and agendas becomes permanent is largely up to those who 
support Third World rights of self-determination. It will not be easy, but it 
can be done. To maintain the momentum, they must: 

 Challenge BP, Shell and other companies, politicians, bureaucrats, journalists 
 and investor groups to do the right thing on energy and economic 
 development, Corporate Social Responsibility, sustainable development and the 
 precautionary principle. We can do so not only by appealing to their better 
 instincts, but also, where necessary, by embarrassing them publicly. 
 Insist 
 on a level moral, ethical and legal playing field for all corporations 
 for-profit and not-for-profit alike. We must demand that NGOs and the 
 foundations and government agencies that fund them abide by the same 
 principles of honesty, integrity, transparency, disclosure and accountability 
 that they have long demanded for the corporate world. 

 Confront the persistent socialist ideologies and government infrastructures 
 that still dominate Europe and the United Nations and find new ways to 
 broaden the public discourse in these arenas, where free speech, true press 
 diversity, talk radio, think tanks, internet access and other independent 
 sources of thought are far less prevalent than here in the United States. 

 Provide greater financial and other support to think tanks, journalists, 
 politicians, companies and other advocates of private property, free markets, 
 trade, technology, innovation, democracy and 
 economic growth. 

 Recruit and support more people in developing countries who want an 
 opportunity to be heard, and give them forums to confront the environmental 
 NGOs and urge market reforms for better futures for their families, 
 communities and countries. 

 Do these 
things, and Johannesburg could mark, not just a pothole, but the end of the road 
for eco-imperialism. 

 References 

 Introduction 

 [1] 
 The $200 million, 2-year campaign was crafted by Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide. 
 The campaign is winding down, as 2002 nears an end.

 [2] 
 Cait Murphy, Is BP Beyond Petroleum? Hardly, Fortune , September 30, 
 2002.

 [3] 
 The climate greenwash vanguard: Shell and BP Amoco, Corporate Europe 
 Observatory Issue Briefing (undated).

 [4] 
 News release, Dont be fooled by corporate greenwashing: Groups release 
 list of Top 10 Greenwashers of 2000, Earth Day Resources and ecopledge.com, 
 March 28, 2001 (citing BP as one of the most prominent examples for its 
 beyond petroleum campaign); Kenny Bruno, Advertising: Greenwash, Inc., 
 Sierra Magazine, May 2001. Greenwashing, notes the Tenth Edition of the 
 Concise Oxford English Dictionary, is disinformation disseminated by an 
 organization so as to present an environmentally responsible public image.

 Renewable Energy 

 [5] 
 Cait Murphy, Is BP Beyond Petroleum? Hardly, Fortune , September 30, 
 2002.

 [6] 
 Ibid .

 [7] 
 Ibid. 

 [8] 
 Ibid. 

 [9] 
 The climate greenwash vanguard: Shell and BP Amoco, Corporate Europe 
 Observatory Issue Briefing (undated); Darcy Frey, How green is BP? New 
 York Times Magazine , December 8, 2002.

 [10] 
 Currying favor with the green lobby, editorial, Washington Times , 
 October 12, 2002; BP: Oil Giant Spends Big to Promote Green Image, 
 Greenwire , December 6, 2000.

 [11] 
 Kenny Bruno, A convenient confusion, New Internationalist 335 , June 
 2001. SANE BP is made up of Greenpeace, the US Public Interest Research 
 Group (USPIRG), and socially responsible investors in the United States 
 and Britain, at times joined by Trillium Asset Management Corporation. 

 [12] 
 Kenny Bruno, A convenient confusion, New Internationalist 335 , June 
 2001.

 [13] 
 Energy Information Administration, International Energy Annual 1999: 
 World Energy Overview ; Ronald Bailey, Global Warming and Other 
 Eco-Myths: How the environmental movement uses false science to scare us to 
 death , Washington, DC: Competitive Enterprise Institute (2002), pages 
 250-260; Bjorn Lomborg, The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the 
 real state of the world , Cambridge University Press (2001), page 130.

 [14] 
 Heesun Wee, Can oil giants and green energy mix? Business Week Online , 
 September 25, 2002. 

 [15] 
 Steve Raabe, Shell exec: Patience may pay off for oil shale, renewables,
 Denver Post , May 13, 2002. 

 [16] 
 Cait Murphy, op. cit . 

 [17] 
 Farming the wind, Parade magazine, June 23, 2002; Nuclear Energy 
 Institute, personal communication, September 6, 2002. See also Wind power 
 costly, consultant says, Charleston, WV Gazette-Mail , December 3, 
 2002.

 [18] The 
 National Audubon Society initiated a campaign to stop construction of a wind 
 power farm near Los Angeles because many birds, including endangered 
 condors, were being decimated by the turbines. It is hard to imagine a 
 worse idea than putting a condor Cuisinart next door to critical condor 
 habitat, Audubon's Daniel Beard commented. According to Audubon, more 
 eagles are killed by wind turbines than were lost in the disastrous Exxon 
 Valdez oil spill. National Review, The Week , October 11, 1999. A 
 recent study by 
 Dr. J. M. Lekuona in Navarra, Spain 
 revealed that a mere 400 wind turbines killed 
 432 raptors, 671 bats and 
 6,152 small birds in a single year suggesting that Spains stated goal of 
 building 10,000 to 20,000 wind turbines will likely have a devastating 
 effect on bird species migrating from Africa to Europe via the Iberian 
 Peninsula. By contrast, t he impact of 
 the snail darter, Delhi sand fly, spotted owl and other species on non -renewable 
 energy and other projects scarcely needs to be recounted here. 

 [19] 
 Ronald Bailey, Global Warming and Other Eco-Myths , p. 258.

 [20] 
 S. Fred Singer, Will UK get towers of power or a load of hot air? 
 Environment & Climate News , September 2002.

 [21] 
 Collin Levey, Tilting at windmills [in Nantucket Sound], Wall Street 
 Journal , August 8, 2002.

 [22] 
 Paul Driessen, Recipe for Disaster: What really caused the California 
 energy crisis? What can we do now? Committee For A Constructive Tomorrow (www.CFACT.org), 
 April 2001; Kenneth W. Davis, The coming electric power crisis: A think 
 piece, The Week That Was , Science and Environmental Policy Project, 
 November 25, 2000.

 [23] 
 Martin I. Hoffert, Thomas Wigley, et al., Advanced Technology Paths to Global Climate Stability: Energy for a 
 Greenhouse Planet , Science , November 1, 2002; vol. 
 298; pages 981-987 

 [24] 
 The burning question of hydrogen, editorial, Washington Times , 
 November 10, 2002. 

 [25] 
 Lawrence D. Burns, J. Byron McCormick and Christopher E. Borroni-Bird, 
 Vehicle of Change: Hydrogen fuel-cell cars could be the catalyst for a 
 cleaner tomorrow, Scientific American , October 2002. (The authors 
 are General Motors hydrogen fuel-cell development experts.) 

 [26] 
 At this time, there is but one place in the world where a hydrogen-fueled 
 car can be refueled: Hamburg, Germanys international airport.

 [27] 
 Jim Hood, letter to the editor, Washington Times , November 12, 2002.

 [28] 
 The possibility of such a conflagration is probably remote, because of the 
 way fuel tanks are constructed. However, tort lawyers and precautionary 
 principle aficionados will certainly ponder them carefully.

 [29] 
 John McCaslin, Solar sawing, TownHall.com, July 2, 2002. Air pollution 
 from wood burning stoves and fire places (soot, hydrocarbons and carbon 
 dioxide) is a serious problem, according to the U.S. Environmental 
 Protection Agency. Under pressure from the EPA, California has proposed 
 banning such heat sources and requiring some 500,000 homeowners to 
 permanently disable their fireplaces and stoves, converting them to natural 
 gas or upgrading them to modern systems with soot scrubbers, before they can 
 sell their homes. Anyone caught burning wood on bad air days could be 
 fined. Fireplace owners smoking: California area ban considered, The 
 Washington Times , December 10, 2002. The proposal raises fascinating 
 questions for civil libertarians, anti-fossil-fuel zealots, pro-renewable 
 alarmists, sustainable development aficionados and global warming 
 catastrophists alike.

 [30] 
 Amory Lovins, The Mother Earth, Playboy interview, 
 November-December 1977. 

 [31] 
 Paul Ehrlich, An Ecologist's Perspective on Nuclear Power, Federation of 
 American Scientists, Public Issue Report , May-June 1978.

 [32] John 
 Holdren, Memorandum to the President: The Energy-Climate Challenge, in 
 Donald Kennedy and John Riggs, editors, U.S. Policy and the Global 
 Environment: Memos to the President (Washington, DC: The Aspen 
 Institute, 2000), page 21. 

 [33] 
 World Energy Council, Living in One World , London: World Energy 
 Council (2001), page 74.

 [34] 
 Robert L. Bradley, Jr., Julian Simon and the Triumph of Energy 
 Sustainability , Washington, DC: American Legislative Exchange Council 
 (2000), pages 28-35. 

 Corporate Social 
 Responsibility 

 [35] 
 See for example, www.safe2use.com/ca-ipm/01-03-30.htm, regarding the 
 Wingspread Statement of January 1998; Henry I. Miller and Gregory Conko, 
 The Science of Biotechnology Meets the Politics of Global Regulation, 
 Issues in Science and Technology, Fall 2000.

 [36] 
 See for example, Julian Morris, Sustainable Development: Promoting 
 progress or perpetuating poverty? London: Profile Books (2002), 
 especially pages 7-19; Stephen Hayward, Sustainable development in the 
 balance, American Enterprise Institute, Environmental Policy Outlook, 
 August 2002; James Glassman, Moving on from Sustainability, 
 TechCentralStation.com, August 19, 2002. The World Business Council for 
 Sustainable Development, in its 1999 interim report on Corporate Social 
 Responsibility, states that CSR is an integral part of sustainable 
 development.

 [37] 
 David Henderson, Misguided Virtue: False notions of corporate 
 responsibility, London: Institute of Economic Affairs (2001), pages 
 15-18. 

 [38] 
 See Arnold Kling, What Causes Prosperity, TechCentralStation.com, December 
 3, 2002; Marc Morano, Sustainable development called antithesis of human 
 progress, CNSNews.com, September 4, 2002.

 [39] 
 See Indur M. Goklany, Applying the precautionary principle to DDT, 2001, 
 Africa Fighting Malaria, available at http://www.fightingmalaria.org/ddt_and_pp.pdf 

 [40] Ed 
 Begley, Jr., discussing environmental issues during Public Relations Society 
 of America teleconference on Hollywood support for environmental causes, 
 October 29, 2002. Begley is actively involved in a solar-panels-for-huts 
 program in Africa; while certainly an improvement over the current 
 situation, it is little more than a bandaid approach to a critical 
 electrical deficiency. Smith, editor of the Earth Island Institutes online 
 magazine, TheEdge, says Africans would spend too much time watching 
 television. If there is going to be electricity, I would like it to be 
 decentralized, small and solar-powered, he commented during the recent 
 Earth Summit in Johannesburg. Marc Morano, Environmentalist laments 
 introduction of electricity, CNSNews.com, August 26, 2002. 

 [41] 
 Michael Economides and Ronald Oligney, The Color of Oil , Round Oak 
 Publishing Company (2000), page 141.

 [42] 
 Unidentified woman, Against Nature , Martin Durkin producer, London: 
 Channel 4 Television Corporation (1997). A partial transcript from the 
 program can be found online at www.africa2000.com/INDX/channel4.html

 [43] 
 Ibid ., opinion voiced by Brent Blackwelder, president of Friends of 
 the Earth. Blackwelder also expressed deep satisfaction that 
 environmentalists had succeeded in blocking blocking almost 300 dam projects 
 in the Third World.

 [44] 
 Barun Mitra (Liberty Institute, New Delhi, India), Stop energy 
 eco-imperialism, PolicyNetwork.net, November 5, 2002. 

 [45] 
 Protesters March Against Sustainable-Poverty, CNSNews.com and 
 townhall.com, September 1, 2002.

 [46] 
 Against Nature , Martin Durkin producer. The program narrative points 
 out that, according to the World Health Organization, 40 percent of the 
 worlds population still uses wood and dung for fuel, 5,000,000 infants and 
 children die every year from respiratory diseases caused by indoor air 
 pollution in these countries, and 3,900,000 children died from diarrhea in 
 1996, as a result of drinking impure water.

 [47] 
 See AfricaFightingMalaria.org and extensive studies and articles cited and 
 linked by that website, including Malaria and the DDT Story, by Dr. Kelvin 
 Kemm of Stratek Technology Strategy Consultants, in Environment Health 
 (Lorraine Mooney and Roger Bate, editors). See also Walter Williams, 
 Killing people, The Washington Times , October 17, 2002; Deroy 
 Murdock, Nutritional Schizophrenia, NationalReviewOnline, June 25, 2002. 
 According to the WHO, The 2001 death toll included 906,000 children the 
 equivalent of 50 fully loaded school buses plunging over a cliff every day.

 [48] 
 Liberty Institute, Mosquito bites the economy,
 Business Standard, August 12, 2002 

 [49] John 
 Gallup and Jeffrey Sachs, The Economic Burden of Malaria, Harvard 
 University Center for International Development, London School for Hygiene 
 and Tropical Medicine, for the World Health Organization, 2000. For a 
 detailed examination of the health, social and economic impacts of malaria 
 especially on African countries see Richard Tren and Roger Bate, When 
 Politics Kills: Malaria and the DDT story , Sandton, South Africa: Africa 
 Fighting Malaria (2000). A more recent version of Malaria and the DDT 
 story can be downloaded from the Institute of Economic Affairs website 
 at http://www.iea.org.uk/record.php?type=publication&ID=11 

 [50] 
 The chemical Alar was used to regulate the growth and ripening of apples, 
 until it became the subject of an attack launched by Fenton Communications, 
 the NRDC and CBSs 60 Minutes. In a later interview, David Fenton admitted 
 that the PR campaign was designed so that revenue would flow back to NRDC 
 from the public. See Bonner Cohen, John Carlisle, et al., The Fear 
 Profiteers: Do socially responsible businesses sow health scares to reap 
 monetary rewards? Arlington, VA: Lexington Institute (2000).

 [51] 
 In so doing, Ruckelshaus ignored thousands of pages of scientific evidence 
 attesting to the pesticides safety and recommendations that its use be 
 continued for malaria control.

 [52] 
 Richard Tren, president, Africa Fighting Malaria, personal communication, 
 December 20, 2002; Brian Sharp, P. van Wyk, et al., Malaria control by 
 residual insecticide spraying in Chingola and Chililabombwe, Copperbelt 
 Province, Zambia, Journal of Tropical Medicine and International Health , 
 pages 732-736, September 2002.

 [53] 
 Richard Tren, DDT still saving lives, a UPI Outside View commentary, 
 November 11, 2002. See also Bjorn Lomborg, The Skeptical 
 Environmentalist: Measuring the real state of the world , Cambridge, UK: 
 Cambridge University Press (2001), pages 233-235, 237, 243-244. During World 
 War II, DDT was classified as a secret weapon, because of its ability to 
 prevent malaria and typhus. After the war, virtually every concentration 
 camp survivor and most Italians were doused multiple times with DDT to 
 prevent typhus, with no ill effects reported. The widespread use of DDT in 
 Europe and the United States played vital roles in eradicating malaria and 
 typhus on both continents.

 [54] 
 David Nabarro, director, Roll Back Malaria; quoted in Malaria Meeting: 
 Africans Discuss a Disease Biting Into Lives and Economies, ABCNews.com, 
 April 2000. 

 [55] 
 Richard Tren, personal communication, December 17, 2002; Roger Bate, 
 Without DDT, malaria bites back, www.spiked-online.com, April 24, 2001. 
 See also note 22. Ignoring the fact that malaria is virtually nonexistent in 
 the U.S. principally because of DDT, the USAID says it cannot support 
 overseas use of this life-saving pesticide because its use is not permitted 
 in the United States. Swedish, Norwegian and other aid agencies take a 
 similar position.

 [56] 
 David Kaiza, Uganda to use DDT despite ban, The East African , 
 Nairobi, Kenya, December 2, 2002.

 [57] 
 Even the New York Times now says the developed world has been 
 unconscionably stingy in financing the fight against malaria or research 
 into alternatives to DDT. Until one is found, wealthy nations should be 
 helping poor countries with all available means including DDT. Editorial, 
 December 23, 2002.

 [58] 
 Paul Martin and Nicole Itano, Greens accused of helping Africans starve, 
 Washington Times, August 30, 2002. See also James Pinkerton ( Newsday 
 columnist), The Pure and the Starving Poor: Environmentalists stifle 
 modern agriculture in the Third World, Los Angeles Times , September 
 3, 2002. Natsios welcome views about GMO foods and starvation stand in 
 sharp contrast to USAIDs position on the use of DDT to combat malaria. The 
 agency refuses to fund DDT programs, because the insecticide is not 
 permitted in the United States, which has virtually no malaria. USAIDs 
 current stance also contrasts sharply with its previous support for DDT and 
 other chemicals between 1950 and 1972, when it contributed $1.2 billion to 
 the Global Malaria Eradication Campaign. All other countries combined 
 contributed only $2.8 million (via the WHO). Tren and Bate, When Politics 
 Kills , page 24.

 [59] 
 Seeds of Doubt: As U.S. and EU clash on biotech crops, Africa goes hungry: 
 Tinkering with banana genes could save Uganda staple, but the seeds stay in 
 lab: Using the poor as guinea pigs? Wall Street Journal , December 
 26, 2002.

 [60] 
 Why Africans are starving, editorial, The Wall Street Journal , 
 September 17, 2002.

 [61] 
 Seeds of Doubt, Wall Street Journal , December 26, 2002.

 [62] 
 Henry Miller and Gregory Conko, The UNs bizarre war on biotech, 
 TechCentralStation.com, December 18, 2002. 

 [63] 
 Dennis Avery, Must America fight a trade war with Europe over biotech 
 crops? Knight-Ridder News Service, October 3, 2002.

 [64] 
 There is a clear need for legislation specifically permitting the use of DDT 
 to combat malaria and imposing sanctions on EU nations that thwart the use 
 of GMO crops in developing countries. Such bills ought to enjoy strong 
 bipartisan support. They would certainly put liberal Democrats in the 
 difficult position of having to choose between assuaging anti-pesticide 
 radicals and helping starving, disease-ridden people in Africa, Asia and 
 Latin America.

 [65] See 
 David Henderson, Misguided Virtue: False notions of corporate 
 responsibility, London: Institute of Economic Affairs (2001), pages 
 111-116.

 [66] 
 Stephan Spath, The Virtues of Sweatshops, Ideas on Liberty , 
 Foundation for Economic Education, March 2002.

 [67] 
 Barun Mitra (Liberty Institute, Delhi, India), Poverty, Wealth and Waste,
 PERC Reports , March 2000.

 [68] 
 Ibid. 

 [69] 
 WBCSD, Corporate Social Responsibility: making good business sense , 
 page 15; discussed in Henderson, Misguided Virtue , pages 54-57. Many 
 of the Councils members are businesses that would likely profit (at least 
 in the near term) from legislated carbon dioxide limits, for reasons having 
 to do with their particular products and operations. 

 [70] 
 Mark Gunther, Investors of the world, unite! Its up to institutional 
 investors to fix corporate America, says the dean of shareholder activists,
 Fortune , June 24, 2002.

 [71] 
 Charles Schwab, My investors, my responsibility, Wall Street Journal , 
 November 5, 2002.

 [72] 
 This lofty language is taken from the World Business Councils 1999 interim 
 report on Corporate Social Responsibility. See Henderson, Misguided 
 Virtue , page 70. 

 [73] 
 Hans Henrik Ramm, The precautionary principle: A
 Warning About a New and Alien 
 Political-Scientific Paradigm, Still Waiting for Greenhouse website, 
 December 1997. 

 [74] Sir 
 John Browne, Group Chief Executive of BP, Beyond Petroleum: Business and 
 the Environment in the 21st Century, to Stanford Graduate School of 
 Business, March 11, 2002. See also Darcy Frey, How green is BP? New 
 York Times Magazine , December 8, 2002. 

 [75] 
 See Misguided Virtue , pages 40-46. Sir Mark is now a member of the 
 board of directors for the ethical investor group
 Innovest Strategic Value Advisors, which 
 recently published two reports: Intangible values linked to sustainability 
 and Value at Risk: Climate Change and the Future of Governance. 
 Innovest operates the 
 EcoValue'21 analytical platform and 
 includes among its institutional clients several of the worlds largest 
 pension funds (CalPERS in the USA, BP in the United Kingdom and ABP in the 
 Netherlands). 

 [76] 
 See the further discussion of emissions trading in the chapter on Corporate 
 Greenwashing.

 [77] 
 Robert Novak, Enrons green side, Townhall.com, January 17, 2002; Chris 
 Horner, Green with greed, TechCentralStation.com, September 13, 2002; Marc 
 Morano, Enron and the Clinton Administration: Ties That Bind, Cybercast 
 News Service, CNSNews.com, March 18, 2002 (first of a three-part 
 series). Sir John Browne thinks there will soon be government regulation of 
 greenhouse gases. And companies that have anticipated regulation will not 
 only know how to use it to their advantage; they will also, as Browne puts 
 it, gain a seat at the table, a chance to influence future rules. At 
 Brownes direction, BP has already set up a corporate emission trading 
 system, in which each of its 150 business units, spread across more than 
 100 countries, would be assigned a quota of emissions permits and encouraged 
 to trade with one another. (Darcy Frey, How green is BP?) The BP system 
 could certainly aid in the design of a much broader program, and give the 
 company a competitive edge in seeking to design and coordinate a European or 
 even global system, should it choose to seek such a role.

 [78] 
 See Brian O'Connell, Banking on the Apocalypse, Wall Street Journal 
 Europe, March 12, 2001. The article notes that Shell, BP, Swiss Re, ICF, 
 Climate Care (UK) and other companies (many of them once strong opponents of 
 the Kyoto agreement) are now leading the charge for the nascent 
 carbon-trading market.

 [79] 
 Martin Parry et al ., Adapting to the inevitable, Nature , 
 Volume 395, page 741 (1998); Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 
 Climate Change: The IPCC Scientific Assessment , Cambridge University 
 Press (1990), and subsequent 1992 and 1995 reports; Energy Information 
 Administration, Impacts of the Kyoto Protocol on U.S. Energy Markets and 
 Economic Activity (1998); Margo Thorning, A Better Way, 
 TechCentralStation.com, November 29, 2002.

 [80] 
 Dr. Stephen W. Pacala, Princeton University, speaking on Academic & 
 Industry Partnerships/Carbon Mitigation R&D Initiatives, at the Second 
 Annual Climate Change Voluntary Action Conference, sponsored by the American 
 Petroleum Institute, November 21, 2002. 

 [81] 
 See Daniel Mitchell, OECDs perpetual tax grab, Washington Times, 
 December 7, 2000; Walter Williams, Global tax thuggery of OECD, 
 Washington Times, December 29, 2000. The proposals are a clear 
 recognition that Europes high-tax, cradle-to-grave social welfare system is 
 not sustainable without such an agreement.

 [82] 
 Stephen Castle, EU sends strong warning to Bush over greenhouse gas 
 emissions, The Independent (London), March 19, 2001.

 [83] 
 James Glassman, The conservation myth 
 stars as the latest (sub)urban legend, JewishWorldReview.com, June 14, 
 2001, citing Chiracs speech in November 2000 at the United Nations 
 COP-6 climate change conference at The Hague.

 [84] 
 C.S. Lewis, Mere Christianity , 1952, ISBN: 0060652926. 

 Greenwashing 

 [85] 
 Cait Murphy, Is BP Beyond Petroleum? Hardly, Fortune , September 30, 
 2002.

 [86] 
 Ibid .; The climate greenwash vanguard: Shell and BP Amoco, 
 Corporate Europe Observatory Issue Briefing (undated). 

 [87] 
 Ibid. 

 [88] 
 Heesun Wee, Can oil giants and green energy mix? Business Week Online , 
 September 25, 2002; Currying favor with the green lobby, editorial, 
 Washington Times, October 12, 2002.

 [89] 
 Paul Driessen, Help for 
 Californias energy crisis, Washington Times , February 8, 2001 ; 
 California's Crisis Means ANWR 
 Should Be Opened, Capitalism Magazine , June 5, 2001. 

 [90] 
 Paul Driessen, The slick politics of ANWR oil exploration, 
 TechCentralStation.com, November 26, 2001, and Environment & Climate News , 
 January 2002.

 [91] 
 Environment News Service , February 2, 2000.

 [92] 
 William OKeefe, Why Enron loved Kyoto, and the EU shouldnt, Wall 
 Street Journal , July 25, 2002.

 [93] 
 See the further discussion of emissions trading in the chapter on Corporate 
 Social Responsibility. For an examination of economic and political issues 
 facing Europe and the United States, see Margo Thorning, Climate Change 
 and Public Policy: European and American Approaches to Kyoto , 
 Washington, DC: Marshall Institute, September 24, 2002.

 [94] 
 Ibid. 

 [95] 
 See for example, James M. Taylor, Still no consensus on global warming 
 science, Environment & Climate News , January 2003.

 [96] 
 Audrey Hudson, Greens cut Turner a break, Washington Times, January 
 20, 2002. The most common environmental group nickname for Ted Turner is 
 Daddy Greenbucks, according to Barry Clausen, private investigator and 
 author of Burning Rage .

 [97] 
 See www.ExxonMobil.com/corporate -- Actions and Results -- Safeguarding Our 
 Environment; Cogeneration and climate, The Lamp , Fall 2001; Thomas 
 Torget, Corporate citizenship in a changing world: New publication examines 
 ExxonMobils business principles and commitments, The Lamp , Fall 
 2002.

 [98] 
 See Paul Driessen, Global warming review could prevent EU gaffe, Columbia 
 (MO) Tribune , November 26, 2002.

 [99] 
 Marc Morano, Greens praise ExxonMobil for efforts to save tiger, 
 CNSNews.com, November 22, 2002. ExxonMobil has invested $10.3 million in 13 
 habitats since the funds inception in 1995, and recruited martial arts 
 action star Jackie Chan and other celebrities to publicize the cause.

 [100] 
 Kenny Bruno, A convenient confusion, New Internationalist 335 , June 
 2001.

 [101] 
 Nick Nichols, Rules for Corporate Warriors: How to fight and survive 
 attack group shakedowns , Bellevue, WA: Free Enterprise Press (2001), 
 Introduction by Patrick Moore.

 [102] 
 See Marc Morano, Studys Authors 
 Surprised to Find Nearly Half of Earths Wilderness Intact, CNSNews.com, 
 December 6, 2002; and Global 
 Analysis Finds Nearly Half The Earth Is Still Wilderness, press release 
 from Conservation International, December 4, 2002. 

 Market Manipulation and 
 Investor Fraud 

 [103] 
 See Paul Craig Roberts, Criminalizing business [with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
 corporate reform law], Washington Times , October 23, 2002; Jack Kemp, 
 Criminalizing corporate behavior, Washington Times , October 30, 
 2002. 

 [104] 
 Joseph Nocera, System Failure: Corporate America has lost its way. Heres a 
 road map for restoring confidence, Fortune , June 24, 2002.

 [105] 
 Ibid. See also Mark Gunther, Investors of the world, unite! Its up 
 to institutional investors to fix corporate America, says the dean of 
 shareholder activists, Fortune , June 24, 2002.

 [106] John A. 
 Byrne, et al ., Restoring trust in corporate America: Business must 
 lead the way to real reform, Business Week , June 24, 2002. 

 [107] 
 Joseph Nocera, System Failure; How to fix Wall Street, Washington 
 Post editorial, November 11, 2002; John A. Byrne, Restoring trust in 
 corporate America. Otherwise, they say, especially in the case of IPOs, 
 analysts too easily serve as a marketing tool, implicitly (and sometimes 
 explicitly) promising favorable coverage if their firm is allowed to 
 underwrite the deal.

 [108] 
 John C. Bogle, Reality Bites, Wall Street Journal , November 21, 
 2002.

 [109] 
 Joseph Nocera, System Failure. These suggestions come from a June 6, 2002 
 report by the NY Stock Exchange.

 [110] 
 John A. Byrne, Restoring trust in corporate America.

 [111] 
 John A. Byrne, Restoring trust in corporate America.

 [112] 
 Rich Long, Countering Corporate Arrogance, The Public Relations 
 Strategist , Spring 2002 quoting Carole Gorney, director of Lehigh 
 Universitys Center for Crisis Public Relations and Litigation Studies. 

 [113] 
 Mark Gunther, Investors of the world, unite! citing shareholder activist 
 Robert A.G. Monks. See also John A. Byrne, et al ., How to fix 
 corporate governance, Business Week , May 6, 2002

 [114] 
 See Charles R. Schwab, My investors, my responsibility, Wall Street 
 Journal, November 5, 2002.

 [115] 
 Joseph Nocera, System Failure; John A. Byrne, How to fix corporate 
 governance. 

 [116] 
 Mark Gunther, Investors of the world, unite!

 [117] 
 Personal communication from Ray Bohlin to Paul Driessen, June 4, 2002.

 [118] 
 Capital Research Center, Foundation Watch newsletter, Explorations 
 in Nonprofits: Part II: Environmentalists Gain Ground (2002).

 [119] 
 Mark Gunther, Investors of the world, unite! 

 [120] 
 Mark Mansley, Risking Shareholder Value? ExxonMobil and Climate Change: 
 An Investigation of Unnecessary Risks and Missed Opportunities, Claros 
 Consulting, May 2002, available on the Claros, CERES and Campaign ExxonMobil 
 websites.

 [121] 
 Mark Gunther, Investors of the world, unite! 

 [122] 
 See http://www.claros.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk

 [123] 
 Transcript of May 2, 2002, teleconference featuring Peter Altman, National 
 Coordinator of Campaign Exxon Mobil; Mark Mansley of Claros Consulting of 
 London, England; Arianne Buren, Senior Project Manager of the Sustainable 
 Governance Project at CERES; and shareholder activist, Robert A.G. Monks. 
 Transcript is available at www.hastingsgroup.com/shareholderstudy.html. 

 [124] 
 The Best Big Companies in America: The Forbes Platinum 400 have the best 
 balance of long- and short-term financial performance, Forbes , 
 January 6, 2003.

 [125] 
 See Marc Morano, Oil giant guilty of crimes against humanity, protesters 
 say, Media Research Center, www.green-watch.com, May 29, 2002.

 [126] 
 Activist watchdog Ron Arnold, commenting on www.undueinfluence.com/exxon_mobil_attacks.htm. 
 See also www.undueinfluence.com, an invaluable website for tracking the 
 environmental movements money, power and harm, as it uses capitalist 
 investments to destroy capitalist society. The site includes a master 
 page on the ExxonMobil attack campaigns and extensive information about 
 numerous activist foundations and radical groups. 

 [127] 
 See www.sustainability-indexes.com and the February 2002 DJSI Newsletter, 
 page 2.

 [128] 
 See Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Indexes Guide, version 2.0, 
 September 2002, page 13, available on the DJSI website. See also Steven 
 Hayward, The new corporate balance sheet: Black, red and green, American 
 Enterprise Institute, Environmental Policy Outlook , October 2002, 
 http://www.aei.org/epo/epo14483.htm 

 [129] 
 See www.ceres.org

 [130] 
 See www.innovest.com

 [131] See 
 Henry Lamb, How the feds hand out your dollars, WorldNetDaily, December 7, 
 2002. Lamb calculates that just six environmental organizations (including 
 the World Resources Institute, National Audubon Society, World Wildlife Fund 
 and NRDC) received $129.1 million in taxpayer dollars between 1997 and 2001. 
 The Nature Conservancy alone received $146.7 million, above what these six 
 got. An additional $25 million went to several government organizations and 
 labor unions, including $4.4 million to the American Federation of State, 
 County and Municipal Employees, which in turn contributed $19.5 to political 
 candidates 98 percent of it to Democrats. (Under current law, unions are 
 not required to conduct independent audits of their accounting books and 
 financial records. However, proposed Department of Labor rules would mandate 
 that unions keep records of money spent each year on political and lobbying 
 activities, as well as on organizing and strike benefits.) See also Marc 
 Morano, EPA seeks faith-based grants for green causes, CNSNews.com, 
 December 20, 2002. 

 [132] 
 Chad Terhune, Nonprofit groups that tout insurance have hidden links: 
 Associations that offer deals are often set up by insurers; rate boosts come 
 later, Wall Street Journal, November 21, 2001. 

 Johannesburg: The end of 
 the road for eco-imperialism? 

 [133] 
 Leon Louw, Poverty today is truly miraculous, London Telegraph , 
 January 9, 2002.

 [134] 
 Marc Morano, Earth Summit's Failure Called Good Thing For Poor Nations, 
 CNSNews.com, September 5, 2002. 

 2002 

 Paul K. Driessen, 
 Senior Fellow 
 Atlas Economic Research 
 Foundation 
 4084 University Drive
 Suite 103 
 Fairfax, Virginia 
 22030-6812 

 Telephone 703-698-6171

 Facsimile 703-698-6172

 Email pdriessen@cox.net