Earth to California 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Robert 
 Bidinotto 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Earth to California: thank environmentalism 
for your wildfires 

 The first spark of the California fire season ignited unseen, 'way back in 
1988, when its kangaroo rat was declared an "endangered species." Since then, 
compliance with the federal Endangered Species Act (ESA) of 1973 has forced 
California communities, and countless more across the nation, to develop species 
and habitat

"conservation plans" that severely limit human activities in "protected" 
areas. 

"Protected," that is, from everything except wildfires--especially on the vast 
tracts of government lands and forests in the West. "Species protections" and 
"wilderness" designations have erected formidable legal barriers to

common-sense forestry management measures , such as cutting new roads through 
forests for fire-fighting equipment, bulldozing "firebreaks," and clearing away 
dead branches, underbrush, and sage scrub--fuels which sends fires leaping to 
the crowns of trees and raging out of control. 

The General Accounting Office warned in 1999 of the dangerous accumulation of 
fuel, but environmentalist pressures continued to prevent humans from 
managing environments that greens preferred to keep "pristine." In a recent

 Wall Street Journal article , Robert H. Nelson surveyed the resulting 
damages and body counts. In 2000, 8.4 million acres went up in smoke. In 2002, 
6.9 million more acres were reduced to ashes, as were 800 homes, in firestorms 
that also took the lives of 23 more firefighters, and cost $1.7 billion. Now, 
three-quarters of a million acres of California are gone, and with them, over 
3,500 homes, $2 billion, and 22 more human lives. And all this doesn't count the

impact on critters , either. These conflagrations destroyed many of the very 
"endangered species" and habitats that environments claimed they wish to 
protect. 

When 1994 wildfires destroyed 3 million acres and killed 14 firefighters, many 
called for timber-thinning in these overgrown areas; but the Natural Resources 
Defense Council (NRDC) opposed these plans as being a mere

"pretext for accelerated logging." Youd think all the deadly fires since 
would have changed their minds. But when Congress recently passed the Healthy 
Forests Initiative, which would fund tree-thinning measures, the NRDC still 
opposed the measure, calling it a "Trojan horse" that would sneak through 
logging. 

For environmentalists, then, it is far better that a state, its citizens, their 
homes, and even the environment itself go up in flames, rather than allow anyone 
to profit by preventing it. 

And the greens arent through playing with fire: they aim to make matters even 
worse. On October 13, the Western Environmental Law Center--representing 
something called the Forest Service Employees for Environmental Ethics--filed a

federal lawsuit to stop the U. S. Forest Service from using aerially applied 
chemical fire retardants, and to halt its use of bulldozers to create firebreaks 
in national forests. 

Anyone still want to claim that the main concern of environmentalists is 
"protecting nature"? Not me. And

the Pacific Legal Foundation , which is fighting the greens lawsuit, doesnt 
buy it, either. "The fact that environmental activists are willing to sacrifice 
their favorite 'constitutents' (i. e., nonhumans) reveals the hypocrisy of their 
'save the species' campaigns and unearths their true agenda--to discourage any 
human contact with wilderness areas, even if it means putting human life and 
private property at grave risk." 

As I put it in my recent "Death By Environmentalism" lecture: 

"But whenever the naked consequences of their actions are made clear...and when 
even then , they fail to recoil in horror and repudiate their agenda--such 
people may be called many things. But 'idealist' is not one of them. 

"And I, for one, mean for the world to know that." 

 Robert 

 posted 11/07/03 
 See

http://bidinotto.journalspace.com/?entryid=39 for Robert's blog and links to 
the rest of his blog site. 
 Also, be sure to visit 

www.ecoNOT.com 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 
VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE