Eco-Imperialism 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Paul 
 Driessen 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 A major publishing event 

 Eco-Imperialism: 
 Green Power 
 Black Death 

 by Paul Driessen 

 with an introduction by 

 Niger Innis 
 Congress of Racial Equality 
 In  bookstores everywhere 

 Excerpt from Eco-Imperialism: Green 
Power Black Death 

 Introduction 
by Niger Innis 

 This book should have been written years ago. 

 It reveals a dark secret of the ideological environmental 
movement. The movement imposes the views of mostly wealthy, comfortable 
Americans and Europeans on mostly poor, desperate Africans, Asians and Latin 
Americans. It violates these peoples most basic human rights, denying them 
economic opportunities, the chance for better lives, the right to rid their 
countries of diseases that were vanquished long ago in Europe and the United 
States. 

 Worst of all, in league with the European Union, United 
Nations and other bureaucrats, the movement stifles vigorous, responsible debate 
over energy, pesticides, biotechnology and trade. It prevents needy nations from 
using the very technologies that developed countries employed to become rich, 
comfortable and free of disease. And as a consequence, it sends millions of 
infants, children, men and women to early graves every year. 

 The ideological environmental movement is a powerful 
$4-billion-a-year US industry, an $8-billion-a-year international gorilla. Many 
of its members are intensely eco-centric, and place much higher value on 
wildlife and ecological values than on human progress or even human life. 

 They have a deep fear and loathing of big business, 
technology, chemicals, plastics, fossil fuels and biotechnology and they 
insist that the rest of world should acknowledge and live according to their 
fears and ideologies. They are masters at using junk science, scare tactics, 
intimidation, and bogus economic and health claims to gain even greater power

 As this book forcefully points out, these radical activists 
have now wrapped their ideologies up in several elastic principles that focus on 
perceived environmental threats and largely ignore human needs: corporate social 
responsibility, sustainable development, the precautionary principle and 
socially responsible investing. What makes Eco-Imperialism unique, 
though, is not just its insightful analysis of corporate and environmental 
"ethics," but its reliance on personal, sometimes angry observations by people 
from less developed countries, who bear the brunt of these misguided 
environmental policies. 

 The ideological environmentalists are helped every step of 
the way by people who ought to know better, and ought to be the first to 
challenge their assumptions, claims and demands: corporate executives, US civil 
rights leaders, politicians, journalists and even clergy. They should be paying 
intense attention to the issues raised in this book. Instead, they typically 
ignore them, preferring to focus on Republican misdeeds, perceived slights and 
other contrived problems. By their silence, they accept and encourage the human 
rights violations, and the brutalizing of entire nations and continents. 

 During the recent World Trade Organization meeting in Cancun, 
Mexico, the Congress of Racial Equality confronted a number of extremist 
environmental groups with these facts. We discovered that they were very 
uncomfortable with having to defend the indefensible as well they 
should be. CORE concluded that the time has come to hold these radicals to 
civilized standards of behavior, end the tolerance for their lethal policies, 
and demand that they be held accountable for their excesses and the poverty, 
disease and death they have perpetrated on the poor and powerless. 
Eco-Imperialism begins to do exactly that. 

 Driessen does a masterful job of stripping away the radicals 
mantle of virtue, dissecting their bogus claims and holding them to the moral 
and ethical standards they have long demanded for everyone except themselves. 
And he does so with humor, outrage and passion and always without 
pulling any punches. Every concerned citizen and policy maker should read this 
book. The environmentalists will hate it. The worlds destitute masses will love 
it. And everyone will be challenged by it to reexamine their beliefs and the 
environmental establishments claims. 

 Niger Innis 
Congress of Racial Equality 
New York City 

  CSPAN2 Broadcast of Driessen at University of Wisconsin, Madison 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 
VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE