Ecoterror 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 ECOTERRORISM 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

TOP STORIES 
 News reports on ecoterrorist crimes. 

 ECOTERROR 
RESPONSE NETWORK 
 Database of environmentalist crimes. 

 EARTH 
LIBERATION FRONT Profile of the 
domestic terrorists. 

 ANIMAL 
LIBERATION FRONT : ALF website is at 

www.animalliberationfront.com/ 

 FBI Statement on Terrorism The Domestic 
Terrorism Threat for description of ecoterrorist crimes. 

 What is ecoterrorism? 
 Ecoterrorism is a crime committed to save nature. The crime 
must have the characteristics of terrorism as defined by the FBI. To begin with, ecoterrorism had no separate definition and crimes were investigated and prosecuted under the general definition of terrorism: 

 Terrorism 
 is the unlawful use of force or violence against persons or property to 
 intimidate or coerce a government, the civilian population, or any segment 
 thereof, in furtherance of political or social objectives. 
 FBI Terrorist Research 
 and Analytical Center, Terrorism in the United States: 1994 , 
 Washington, D.C., U.S. Department of Justice, 1995, p. 24. 

 By 2002, ecoterrorism crimes  were recognized as a specific criminal violation. The FBI adopted this  definition, which stands unmodified in 2005: 

    ECOTERRORISM:   "The FBI defines eco-terrorism as the use or threatened use of violence of a  criminal nature against innocent victims or property by an  environmentally-oriented, subnational group for  environmental-political reasons, or aimed at an audience beyond the target,  often of a symbolic nature."     James F. Jarboe, Domestic Terrorism Section Chief, Counterterrorism  Division, FBI; , Feb. 12, 2002. 

 For comparison, in 
 the 
 Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing 
Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT ACT) 
Act of 2001, the term ' domestic 
 terrorism ' means activities that-- 

 (A) involve acts dangerous 
 to human life that are a violation of the criminal laws of the United States 
 or of any State; 
 (B) appear to be 
 intended-- 

 (i) to intimidate or 
 coerce a civilian population; 
 (ii) to influence the 
 policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or 
 (iii) to affect the 
 conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, or kidnapping; 
 and 

 (C) occur primarily within 
 the territorial jurisdiction of the United States. 

 Thus the acts of Earth Liberation Front (ELF), Animal Liberation Front (ALF), 
and other extremist nature-saving networks, are clearly terrorism and ecoterrorism under the law. Contrary 
to claims of their partisans that they are not terrorists because they have not killed or injured any 
living being (and thus their acts are mere vandalism and not terrorism), the 
murder of Dutch politician Pym Fortuyn by an animal rights extremist, and their use of 
arson and pipe bombs, contradicts claims of innocence, and their intent is to 
influence policy by intimidation and coercion. 

 Read the 
 Testimony of Ron Arnold at the 
Hearing on Ecoterrorism before the House Subcommittee on Crime 
held on June 9, 1998. 
 Read the 
 Report to Congress on the Extent and 
Effects of Domestic and International Terrorism on Animal Enterprises 
 from the U.S. Department of Justice as mandated by the Animal Enterprise 
Protection Act of 1992. 
 For a complete discussion of the issue, read

 EcoTerror : The Violent Agenda to Save Nature - The 
 World of the Unabomber by Ron Arnold. 

 RETURN TO 
CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE