Ecoterror 

 TESTIMONY OF RON ARNOLD 
JUNE 9, 1998, TUESDAY 
 HEARING OF THE CRIME 
SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE 
SUBJECT: ECO-TERRORISM 
 CHAIRED BY: REPRESENTATIVE BILL 
MCCOLLUM (R-FL) 
 2237 RAYBURN HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING 
WASHINGTON, DC 
 2:30 PM. 
 REP. BILL MCCOLLUM (R-FL): The Subcommittee on 
Crime will come to order. Good afternoon. This hearing of the Subcommittee on 
Crime is here to consider the growing and extremely disturbing problem of 
violent acts by radical environmental organizations, or eco-terrorism. 
 Our great nation was built upon the bedrock of 
free expression. Those with strongly held views are welcome in the public 
square. But when such advocates threaten or injure in the name of the cause they 
hold dear, they cross a very important line. 
 Civilization cannot tolerate the physical attacks 
of another person simply because of differing views. Obviously, when protest 
results in injury or death, the message gets lost. In the case of today's 
witnesses, the lost message is ostensibly, "Protect the Earth." Yet, as we will 
hear, eco-terrorism only encourages fear and anger. In the name of protecting 
Mother Nature, radical environmentalists generate nothing but terror. 

 There's no question that society has a large 
responsibility for protecting our planet. We must be concerned about issues such 
as wholesale deforestation of rain forests and the extinction of some species of 
plants and animals. Environmental groups have been very successful in 
heightening our collective awareness of the limits of our natural resources. We 
know that we must plant new trees in place of the old. And we must set up 
protective habitats for birds, fish and other animals. 
 Human beings have an obligation to be good 
stewards of our environment. Yet the very fact that we are already taking these 
important strides underscores how inexcusable and unnecessary violence and 
destructive behavior in the name of this cause really is. Peaceful education and 
consistent advocacy in defense of plant and animal life has been proven to work. 
We simply cannot -- and will not -- tolerate domestic terrorism in the name of 
Mother Nature. 
 It should be noted that the subcommittee has 
heard from the northern California faction of Earth First!, claiming that the 
movement's use of violence has been exaggerated. We have welcomed them to submit 
testimony for the record. We certainly don't want to unfairly malign any person 
or group. And I invite any statements for the record which can help clarify what 
actions the various groups endorse. 
 However, there is no denying that there have 
already been many victims of radical environmental attacks. This is not a 
manufactured problem. Our witnesses today have a unique perspective to bring to 
bear on this issue. And many have been subjected to personal injury or have had 
thousands of dollars in property destroyed. 
 They are here to simply tell their stories so 
that Congress may become better educated about these violent environmental 
movements. And I look forward to hearing from them.... 
 REP. HUTCHINSON: We've been joined by Mr. Arnold. 
The rest of the panel has given their testimony. Your full testimony will be 
admitted into the record without objection, and you may, and I hear none, you 
may summarize your testimony. We're glad you're here, sir. 
 MR. RON ARNOLD: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. 
Chairman, members of the committee, my name is Ron Arnold. I'm testifying as the 
executive vice president of the Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise, a 
non-profit citizen organization based in Bellevue, Washington. The center has 
approximately 10,000 members nationwide, most of them in rural natural resource 
industries. Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you on behalf of our members for 
holding this hearing today. It is long overdue. For the past five years, our 
members have routinely contacted our headquarters to report crimes committed 
against them of a type we've come to call ecoterrorism, that is a crime 
committed to save nature. These crimes generally take the form of equipment 
vandalism, but may include package bombs, blockades using physical force to 
obstruct workers from going where they have a right to go, and invasions of 
private or government offices to commit the crime of civil disobedience. 

 So, you can see, Mr. Chairman, the range of 
ecoterror crimes spans the most violent felonies of attempted murder to 
misdemeanor offenses such as criminal trespass. But, they are all crimes. I'm 
not here to discuss non-criminal actions that do not result in arrests and 
convictions. 
 My organization'smembership is nationwide. There 
is no region in the United States where I have not received complaints from 
members about being victimized by ecoterrorists. It is a broad and pervasive 
crime that is seriously under reported because the victims are terrorized and 
fear reprisals, copycat crimes, or in the case of corporations, loss of customer 
confidence and resulting drops in share prices. I am the author of a book on the 
subject of this hearing titled, "Ecoterror". And, in researching that book, I 
have investigated and reported on organized vandalism called by 
environmentalists, monkey wrenching, which means sabotage against goods 
producers, and their equipment, in order to save nature. Now, ecoterrorism has 
been studied by social scientists with illuminating results. In particular, the 
tactics of the group known as Earth First have been described in the Academy of 
Management Journal in a study titled, "Acquiring Organizational Legitimacy 
Through Illegitimate Actions". I request that pages 699, and 715 through 717 of 
this study be made part of the record, which I have provided for the purpose.

 REP. HUTCHINSON: Without objection, so ordered.

 MR. ARNOLD: Thank you. Now, I have interviewed 
the lead author of this study to verify its contents. Kimberly Elsbach told me 
that the data she used were gathered directly from Earth Firsters who allowed 
her to witness or report criminal acts on condition that she destroy her notes 
as soon as her scholarship no longer required them, and those notes have been 
destroyed according to her. One of the most pertinent tactics that she 
discovered was called decoupling, which has law enforcement implications. It's a 
set of techniques denying the crime while deploring the conditions that caused 
the perpetrators to become so frustrated they had to commit the crime. Thus, 
decoupling throws blame onto the victim while it denies guilt. However, law 
enforcement officers have concluded that, in fact, Earth Firsters were the 
perpetrators, a conclusion drawn as a result of several arrests and convictions 
in which the defendant admitted connection to Earth First! 
 As Earth First!, in recent years, has tried to 
mainstream itself, eco-terror crimes have become more destructive to their 
wishes for a good public image. Therefore, the late Judy Bari, an Earth First! 
leader recently deceased, wrote an article in the Earth First! Journal 
recommending that a decoupling group call itself Earth Liberation Front in order 
to create deniability for Earth Firster crimes. I document this in my book, 
"Eco-Terror" on page 270. And I request that be entered into the record of the 
hearing for which I have provided a copy. 
 REP. MCCOLLUM: Without objection. 
 MR. ARNOLD: In fact, the Earth Liberation Front 
has subsequently become a well-known entity to law enforcement. Furthermore, Mr. 
Chairman, the Earth Liberation Front and the Animal Liberation Front signed a 
joint communiqu stating their solidarity and their blending. I've been able to 
determine that certain criminal Earth Firsters, Earth Liberation Front members 
and Animal Liberation Front members are, in fact, the same people.... I'm 
stating that there is no difference between eco-terrorism and animal rights 
terrorism. And there evidently has been some dispute about that difference. The 
perpetrators are, in large part, the same people. And the solidarity of action 
between them is openly declared.