Education 

 Environmental Grantmakers 
Association 
1992 Fall Retreat 

 Session 8: 
Environmental Education K-12 

 DORI JACOBSON, National 
Geographic Society, Washington D.C.: [Tape begins in mid sentence]...get a 
little quieter in a few minutes. This session is on environmental education 
K-12 There is another session I believe tomorrow that is on public education 
more broadly defined what were talking about today is really classroom education 
at the pre-collegiate level. 

 I wanted to introduce 
those of you who have not yet met, heard of Barbara Link (or Lenk) who is the 
new president of the National Environmental Education and Training Foundation 
which is based in Washington. Barbara has just moved up from Texas and is just 
getting her hands around a very large task and she'll bring everybody up to date 
on what is happening there. There are a couple of objectives for this session, 
one of which is to bring everybody up to date on what has happened since a lot 
of us gathered at Mountain Lake last year. 

 Secondly it is to take 
a look at three key issues one of which is where environmental education is 
fitting within the K-12 classroom and the curriculum: the adequacy of teacher 
preparation and some of the issues, about science based versus advocacy based 
environmental education and I would expect even within this group there's some 
debate about which way things should go. I have certain biases and I will try 
and keep those under control perhaps until we get to the discussion period, in 
which case I think its, I think its free to, for anybody (Laughing) to say what 
they feel. 

 Let me start with 
something. I'm going to start with just about five minutes of background that I 
think is very important for all of you to understand about what is happening and 
then I would like Barbara to talk and then we can come back to some of the 
critical issues we outlined. first, on the sheets over here. 

 I have just given it a 
little bit of history and I don't want to go into this in too much stress, but I 
think it is very important that people understand that environmental education 
has been frustrated in its efforts over the last few years, in fact the last two 
decades because it has not had a home. And over the last couple of years, 
particularly, those of us who have been working, either in geography education 
which is our particular focus or in environmental education more broadly. We 
have seen a number of events take place that in fact are extremely positive. a 
lot of the conference activities we have focused on here have been debate,.. a 
lot of compelling issues have been raised, a lot of counter issues have been 
raised, what I would like to, I'd like to...sort of re-orient this session and 
say there is a system that is developing to take care of issues about 
environmental education. I want you to know what that system is. so this 
background is helpful. when I...first, I am with the National Geographic 
Society, I think I've met most of you. I'm Dory Jacobson. 

 BARBARA LINK FROM THE 
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOUNDATION. When I first came to 
the National Geographic Society in 1986 and became involved in geography 
education effort. And we define geography extremely broadly and in, in many ways 
it is, it is a vehicle now for environmental education. Most of the people who 
were giving money to environmental education, geography education, or in fact in 
education in general, were getting it to reform efforts. Things like, site-based 
management, leadership skills among teachers and administrators, localized 
decision making, any kind of discussions we had about content were pushed back 
and there were so much, antipathies perhaps too strong a word but a lot of 
controversy in the foundation community about where we should be putting our 
dollars. 

 Should it go 
into-systemic reform or should it go into content. In the last seven years we 
have seen a major change, and it's a very positive one from where I'm sitting, 
into content oriented educational reform and improvement. In 1989, as many of 
you know, the nations governors and the president got together and in fact 
agreed upon a framework for national educational improvement. There were six 
goals: I'm going to talk about one of them. And one of them was there would be 
five core disciplines that would, that would shape curriculum efforts henceforth 
until the next major reform effort movement. those five core disciplines are 
English, Science, History, Mathematics, and Geography. New, new to that grouping 
was geography. This really illustrates a very conservative philosophy among the 
state governors and, the President himself. 

 We are looking back at 
classical disciplines. We are trying to get back to what students in fact should 
know. following that... statement...and I should say that the...all of the 
governors have endorsed that, the chief state school officers have endorsed 
that, the National Assessment of Educational Progress, all of these major 
institutions have endorsed these five goals., regardless of what happens in 
November, Governor Clinton has been clearly behind this, this movement, as has, 
President Bush. and in fact Ross Perot has been a content driven, advocate when 
it comes to educational reform. So regardless of what happens I think this 
focus on core disciplines will continue. That's important because environmental 
education has never had a home before. People have debated whether or not it 
should be in science, or in Geography or whether or not there should be a 
separate curricular area called environmental education. 

 What we are starting to 
see is that there are five disciplines that are going, that are going to get 
money and they are going to get attention. So, so environmental education either 
has to be addressed through science where it is, an appropriate area 
particularly at upper grade levels, or through geography which is more 
appropriate at the elementary and middle school levels. Following this in 1990, 
the Congress passed the National Environmental Education Act. And that has a 
number of features in it one of which was the establishment of the National 
Environmental Education and Training Foundation which Barbara represents and we 
are going to come back and she'll talk more about. The last two things I think 
it is very important for you to know before we go much further, are the next two 
items on the sheet. In 1992 there is something called the National Assessment of 
Educational Progress. 

 And I'm sorry for all 
the Washingtonspeak but you really ought to know what this is. This is the 
assessment mechanism that will be testing children and has been testing children 
for the last 20 years at grades 4, 8, and 12. It's what kids have to know and 
once you establish what children have to know through an assessment or testing 
framework, you are going to be driving what a teacher teaches in the classroom. 
Teachers teach to the test, it's that simple. The National, ..National for, 
..Assessment for Educational Progress, framework which we call the NAEP 
framework has identified within the area of geography a content fee which is 
called environment and society. 

 That's important for 
you all to know because, because environmental education now has an articulated 
home in geography which is one of the five core disciplines around which money, 
testing, training and everything else will happen. A parallel effort is going on 
right now in the ..in the discipline of science. They also are developing a 
framework of what children should know at the 4th, 8th, and 12th grades. They 
are, they are.. behind the, geographic educators. We have completed the first 
stages of, of...of what we have needed. In 1994 this process is going to be 
complete. There will be another document that comes out which addressed world 
standards and that is the actual outcome, ..the outcomes, the skills and 
knowledge base that children need to know in all five disciplines. We're at work 
right now, developing those world class standards against which students are 
going to be tested in the field of geography and as I said a minute ago within 
geography there is a content area called Environment and Society. Those areas, 
just so you understand the breadth of this, the, section of geography is going 
to address the earth, earth's natural systems, biosphere, the atmosphere, 
hydrosphere, the physical side of environmental issues, as well as it will 
address earth's human systems. 

 The behavioral side, 
and that is transportation, agriculture, economy, and politics. So within the 
framework of geography you are getting both the physical sciences and what we 
might call human behavior or human sciences. This will get into things like, 
interactions between natural and human systems, the interdependencies of these 
systems one on another, the limits or the carrying capacities of the physical 
system and how much it can accommodate human behavior and human change and what 
the impacts are of technology whether or not it's transportation 
and,...shipping, pipelines...road transportation et cetera, and what the outcome 
of those technological improvements are on the environment. It's a lot of 
background and it's a lot of Washingtonspeak, but it's important for you to know 
that, that environmental education has within Geography a, a, a home. And as I 
said training and testing and, curriculum materials are all going to be focusing 
on, geography as the mechanism for environmental education over the next five 
years and certainly,...unless there is another major restructuring of the 
educational system and we don't anticipate that for probably ten years. this is 
what you can count on... I'd like Barbara to talk for a few minutes about what 
happened in 1990, and the creation of her foundation and where she's sees some 
of it's priorities. And then I want to come back and talk a little bit more 
about programs, teacher preparation and that whole subject of advocacy versus 
science based education. 

 BARBARA LINK (or Lenk) 
of the National Environmental Education and Training Foundation, Washington, 
D.C.: Thank you Dori. Can you all hear me? I apologize, I have a severe 
respiratory infection and if I start coughing, excuse me. Well I' m really 
excited to be hear. As Dori mentioned I'm the new president of the National 
Environmental Education and Training Foundation. However, I don't consider 
myself within the beltway person. I've lived in Texas and worked on a variety of 
environmental non-profit endeavors. a lot of coalition building and grassroots 
work and so forth, but was at the very end of my time in Texas, very much 
involved with the question of environmental literacy and environmental 
education. 

 As a matter of fact the 
organization that I left was an organization that was able to fund a state 
coordinator for environmental education.. through the Texas Department of 
Education. It was not an easy thing to do, believe it or not, Texas just last 
year mandated environmental education at the state level through Senate bill 
1340. and as you may know it's the, .it is a state that has the second largest 
second largest public school, ..attendance in the United States second to 
California and were...were having a tremendous amount of problems with our 
educational system. The National Environmental Education and Training 
Foundation, as Dori mentioned, was founded under the National Environmental 
Education Act of 1990 signed into law by President Bush. As many of you know 
there was another,...Act known as the 

Environmental,...Quality Education Act or also the Environmental Education Act 
of 1970. housed under the Department of Education the U.S. Department of 
Education at that time or the U.S, Office of Education....This Act was 
interested in doing a number of things. First and foremost I believe it was 
interested in creating an Office of Environmental Education at the Environmental 
Protection Agency. There was thinking that in a...in addition to enforcement and 
regulating that the agency should also be allowed to educate, that it needed 
that third leg on that stool to really, ugh...consider itself doing the job of 
environmental protection. 

 It created the 
foundation as a private (501) (C)(3) foundation. many of you may be familiar 
with National Fish and Wildlife Foundation that has a similar relationship to 
the Department of the Interior. We were predicated on the National Fish and 
Wildlife Foundation. and Id just like to read you the language of the Act so 
your very clear about what we are supposed to be doing. .the foundation is 
established in order to extend the contribution of environmental and,...excuse 
me, environmental education and training to meeting critical environmental 
protection needs (pause) both in this country and international. And 
internationally. To facilitate the cooperation, coordination and contribution of 
public and private resources, to create an environmentally advanced educational 
system and to foster open and effective partnership among federal, state, and 
local government, business, industry, academic institutions, community based 
environmental groups and international organizations. 

 More specifically, it 
should conduct environmental education activities as will further the 
development of an environmentally conscious and responsible public, a well 
trained and environmentally literate work force and an environmentally advanced 
educational system. Well, her...when I came in. 3 months ago and had this great 
mission of getting this foundation up, you know there's a tremendous amount of 
opportunity and there is a tremendous amount of, ..amorphousness within the Act. 
let me give you a little bit more background on the foundation for starters. We 
are a (501)(C)(3) foundation. 

 We receive via the 
Environmental Protection Agency a federal appropriation every year. With those 
moneys we are, mandated to make grants for environmental education and training. 
This year, actually for year '92, we have just gone through a small grantmaking 
cycle we will be giv...we have announced, actually as of Tuesday, grants of a 
million point one to environmental education projects across the nation. next 
year our appropriation is a million dollars and therefore we'll be giving out 
about 2 million dollars. So we're reasonably small. ..the point of the 
foundation is to work with EPA and other federal agencies as you heard but also 
to work with business and environmental non-profits on promoting environmental 
education. 

 And that for me has 
personally proved to be very difficult. in my talk today I'm going to attempt to 
cover a lot of territory. I think from Dori you got some language of the 
educational reform which clearly of interest to the foundation. And I want talk 
a little bit about, the environmental movement and how it's achieved it's goals. 
Environmental education... what is the definition of environmental education? 
This is one of the questions that came up for the foundation. How do you define 
environmental literacy? What is it? What does it take? How do we work with 
educational reform? Is this an appropriate vehicle for us to be attached with? 
And Dori has,...given me the charge to look at science based versus advocacy 
based environmental education and also look at teacher preparation and look at 
how curriculum is both developed and used in the schools. And I'm going to do 
that, in I hope in a very short time. I...I have a prepared paper here if people 
would like copies of it, please ask me. I also have the attendant literature 
which formed the basis for this paper. I...I want to, underscore the fact that 
at this time the foundation is really feeling as though it is evolving. You've 
heard that we were created two years ago. 

 The reality of that is, 
in May 29th our board met legally for the first time, and we have a very small 
but a very committed board. I should mention to you that, a number of notable 
people from the environmental arena from ..the business arena, the educational 
arena, the chairman of our board is the former governor of New Jersey Tom Kane, 
our Vice Chairwoman is Ellen Salzberger-Strauss, and among others on the board 
we have people like Rebecca Rymole who is executive director of Pew Charitable 
Trust, Ed Bass,...whom many of you may know is involved with 
Biosphere,...Lawrence Fuller who is CEO of Amco (Amoco?) corporation so it is a 
very broad range of people and it is quite bipartisan in it's nature. we are 
seriously looking at the role the foundation needs to play. and in some part we 
have come to the conclusion in talking with our constituencies, the 
environmental educators, other foundations, the public at large, federal 
agencies that really what's needed is a stable funding base, and we hope that 
through leveraging these federal dollars will be in part able to, ..meet 
that...that,...requirement. Environmental education, as many of you know, is an 
extremely malleable concept meaning different things to different people. 

 This diversity is noted 
by a well known environmental consultant, John Rash, stems from the fact that 
the conservation movement in the United States lacks a common vision of what 
needs to be done to protect the environment. We've heard a lot of debate on that 
here, in the last few days. And while such diversity can be viewed as a source 
of the movement's strength, as frequent debate over and re-evaluation of goals 
helped to strengthen the movement, it also limits the education community's 
ability to map out a coherent strategy for implementing an education program 
that would meet, meet national goals...in the language of the educational reform 
movement. Conflicts pitting science based against advocacy based education 
exposed a fundamental difference at the heart of the environmental movement. 
Such divisions can be interpreted to represent a particular manifestation of the 
battle between wise-use conservationists and no-use preservationists. 

 A conflict which I'm 
sure all of you know, which...which was brought to national prominence at the 
earliest stages of the environmental era between, over the Hetch-Hetchy dam 
project between John Muir and the, ..National Park Service's Gifford Pinchot, 
into direct conflict over the management of federally protected areas. The more 
generally it represented two fundamentally different ways of viewing the 
relationships between humans and the natural environment. From it's earliest 
period, two very different approaches to environmental issues were readily 
identifiable within the environmental movement. And I say this, there is 
certainly a lot more, but I, I want to set the stage here for where 
environmental education is within this context. The Hetch Hetchy conflict tested 
the political power of the new voices determined to shape the evolving national 
commitment to our natural resources. Environmental education was likewise 
affected by the external atmosphere which dominated it when it became a 
national issue in the 1960's. At this time education challenged by the successes 
of the space sputnikspace program was being re-organized and greater attention 
was being focused on improving the quality of science education. I think if you 
look at the history of the educational reform movement in the United States, you 
see that it is always reacting to what it perceives as threats internationally, 
and I think the first, indicator of this was the Educational Reform Act of 1958 
which was brought on by the space race between Russia and the United States, and 
mandated that United States schools really look to teaching science, math, and 
foreign language in a better manner than they had been to be able to globally 
compete with Russia. 

 More recently we've 
heard the language of this educational reform movement talking about 
competitiveness in the market place. What we'll,...What we'll What are the 
skills needed for our children to compete economically in the marketplace. 
Ecological science was also in the ascent during the sixties, Rachel 
CarsonSilent Springand others brought it to the forefront. These two 
developments greatly influenced the...environmental education movement. On the 
more practical level, schools which already felt over-extended were being asked 
to allot space to a field which few teachers had expertise. As science was both 
the focus a new attention and through ecology a natural home for environmental 
themes, it is understandable that environmental education would use science 
education as the principle means to reach this larger audience. In time this 
marriage of convenience was solidified as state education boards increasingly 
assigned greater responsibility for environmental education to those in charge 
of science education. 

 That represents 
basically the science based part of the equation in terms of where environmental 
education should be placed. However, the other side, which is advocacy, 
..advocacy based states that, they feel that environmental education, if it's 
placed within one discipline, will not adequately,...reflect the fields 
diversity, which I set out in the beginning to talk about conservation or 
preservation or, you know, however you like to frame that, and that like the 
environmental movement itself, environmental education requires diversity to 
maintain it's vitality. There's some interesting, language on the need for 
advocacy based environmental education and it comes from people like David Orr 
and Bill Staff who are considered the fathers environmental education or part of 
the founding movement for E.E. in the United States. And in the words of Orr, he 
says, the need to restructure environmental education on the view that 
environmental issues are complex and cannot be understood through a single 
discipline or department, that they should be designed to function as 
interdisciplinary laboratories. In his view real learning is......participatory, 
experiential and interdisciplinary. Staff, who is from the University of 
Michigan for those of you who don't know, says that an environmental education 
program must deal with the root causes of environmental ills, values and 
attitudes mixed with the corresponding lack of skills and knowledge. 

 Awareness to action is 
environmental education's continuum. I think that's, ..fairly well important and 
would probably reflect some of the environmental non-profits arenas'...view on 
where environmental education should be. Current support for the...the increased 
advocacy-based environmental education reflects the need for greater diversity 
within the environmental ed. community. Supporters of advocacy-based E.E. view 
environmental problems as more than scientific issues, as I just said, and feel 
that environmental education should be taught in a manner reflecting the need 
for social action and individual responsibility, in the face of deteriorating 
environmental quality. Science teachers from this perspective are not trained to 
examine the moral, historical, social, aesthetic, and geographical elements of 
contemporary environmental issues. Supporters of advocacy based E.E. hold that 
environmental themes should be infused, the first of my topics here, should be 
infused throughout the education system in order to create an understanding for 
the inter-relatedness of environmental problems and problem solving methods.

 There is a lot of 
discussion in the educational reform movement over whether, as Dori was saying, 
E.E. will become another core discipline and be a somewhat fixed place within 
the curriculum and within, the, the...school frameworks, or whether it should be 
infused within these five core disciplines, geography being one. In spite of 
uncertainty concerning ultimate goals, environmental education continues to be 
taught in the classrooms across the nation. While there are numerous factors 
determining the manner in which E.E. is delivered, three factors deserve 
particular attention: Infusion, state participation in education, and teacher 
preparation. Infusion is another rather nebulous term, but it's generally 
defined as meaning environmental education infused with the materials being used 
in teaching the more traditional disciplines. This concept which, which has 
become one of the central tenants of environmental education, is based on a 
simple idea that through infusion at every grade level and in all subjects a 
more comprehensive treatment of environmental subjects can be delivered. The 
ultimately goal of infusion is an environmentalization of the total curricula.

 Experience shows it is 
a goal that has yet to be attained. A variety of factors have prevented the 
infusion concept to be utilized in a balanced and extensive manner. Numerous 
studies have found that science, and to a lesser degree social studies, 
classrooms remain the principle means for infusing environmental education 
materials. As alluded to in the above discussion, there are several reasons for 
such an orientation. In education everything begins with the teacher and this is 
something that I think as a...as a...a grantmaker we really have to focus on is 
what is the best way we can really create an environmentally literate, public. 
Well, some teachers are doing a wonderful job of integrating E.E. materials with 
their existing curricula, the majority of teachers feel ill-equipped to carry 
out such a task, and for several reasons. Pre-service teacher training, when it 
occurs, generally places responsibility for E.E. in science training. This 
science tilt accept... accentuates non-science teacher's environmental education 
phobias. The fear is further reinforced by the lack, on the national level, of 
quality environmental education materials designed for the need for teachers 
outside the science.....setting. 

 As if these problems 
were not enough, the balanced inter-disciplinary idea of infusion, and this is 
very important, is controlled by state level coordinators of environmental 
education programs who are primarily teachers with science backgrounds who view 
environmental education as a sub-unit of their broader discipline. I think the 
next point, and that is the states participation, actually control over 
education is...is instrumental and also in understanding where E.E. is today. 
The power the state coordinators have over the manner in which environmental 
education material is developed highlights America's decentralized system of 
education. The high degree of independence the states and local school districts 
enjoy is considered by many to be sacred ground. As set out under the 10th 
amendment, the constitution does not specify education as a federal function, 
therefore it is control and day to day administration are reserved for the 
states. 

 All states are held 
accountable to their citizens and the nation as a whole for the provision and 
quality of education programs within their state boarders. Any role assumed by 
the federal government relative to state...education must be in support of the 
general welfare as provided by this preamble to the constitution. This is an 
interesting point because what happens here is that how...state coordinators 
view environmental education, how they implement it state by state, the...the 
diversity varies incredibly. Two seminal states that are working on 
environmental education are Wisconsin and Kentucky. I can't tell you exactly why 
those two states seem to be well ahead of the game, except I can tell you that 
in Wisconsin they mandated environmental education within the state in 1935. 
They were by far the...the first forerunner. and I had specific examples from 
each of those states .which I...which I'll mention a little bit later. 
interestingly enough, in the past, environmental educators have placed a great 
deal of significance, however, on the federal government in terms of directions 
programming...programs, I'm sorry, and funding. However, the reliance on the 
federal government was in contradiction to state and local government domination 
over the real day-to-day management and control of education. We see a lot of 
hope in this arena with the national educational goals process. recent 
developments in educational reform, however, offer the prospect of a radical 
revision in the the relationship among state, local and national education 
goals. While it's still top early to tell, it seems that states are beginning to 
restructure their education system in accordance with broad nationally 
a...determined achievement based goals. 

 This is what Dori was 
talking about with the National Governors Association's work. we're encouraged 
by this...and ...and actually we're funding some of the work that's being done 
on standard setting right now. Kentucky's recent education reform act is a case 
in point. Kentucky's program has revolutionized it's whole education project 
process. It is built around the National Education goals panel, I'm sorry, 
National Education goal panel, goals panel goals...Sorry. I...I'm still getting 
used to all this terminology. An...And it includes attention to issues such as 
delivery, curricula and assessment. For instance, they define effective 
assessment in, in measuring the transition from knowledge to application. In 
other words you have to be able to show how information has been mastered in a 
way that makes it usable for students. They're also concentrating on outcomes 
assessment which is very much a part of the educational reform movement. 
Teachers are actually held accountable for their students, they will be forced 
to set realistic targets for students and held accountable if they fail to meet 
these goals. Environmental educators must adapt a strategic approach to E.E. 
which capitalizes on the positive potential that this change offers. Despite a 
new emphasis on national standards, final implementation will still remain the 
responsibility of state governments. Thus,...continued attention to state 
education boards will remain a necessity for environmental education advocates. 
Teacher preparation: Beyond all other factors the key to successful K through 12 
environmental education is the classroom teacher. If teachers do not have the 
knowledge, skills or commitment to environmentalize their curriculum it is 
unlikely that environmentally literate students will be produced by our K 
through 12 schools. Unfortunately well developed comprehensive teacher training 
programs with a high level of concern for environmental education are not 
well...are not wide spread. While some states such as Wisconsin have advanced 
programs for incorporating environmental education considerations in the state 
certification process for teachers, the majority of states lack any legislative 
mandates supporting environmental education in general. 

 And often, I can tell 
you in the case of Texas, that what...while they may have a legislative mandate, 
it usually comes with no funding and no ability to enforce. Nationally, few 
undergraduate programs in education give much attention to the content and 
processes involved in studying environmental questions. It is apparent that if 
environmental literacy is to become a product developed or enhanced in K through 
12 schools, additional efforts must be made to provide teachers with the 
necessary pre-service training to accomplish such as goal. Existing teacher 
training programs overburdened as they are, are hard pressed to locate the space 
in their curricula for lessons devoted to environmental education materials. 
Given such limitations, some educators feel that teacher training centers 
should utilize the same methods the environmental education, environmental 
educators have been proposing for K through 12 schools and that is infusion. 
En...Environmental materials need to be included in the materials used for 
pre-service training for math, science, the arts and so on. Such an approach 
will not only introduce teachers to the inter-disciplinary nature of 
environmental problems, but it will also provide these future teachers with an 
understanding of how they can infuse these materials into their own classroom 
setting. Flexibility seems to be a key ingredient to motivating teachers to use 
environmental education materials. The ability to practically apply this 
approach, however, is limited as teacher trainers are generally felt to lack 
understanding of environmental issues and training methods. One proposal for 
circumventing this obstacle is to obtain some environmental experts travel to 
the nation's teaching colleges to give seminars on how educators can incorporate 
environmental education materials in their pre-service teacher-training 
programs. At the state level mandatory teacher training in environmental 
education could provide teachers with the E.E.... competency necessary to 
environmentalize their instruction. Pre-service...competency requirements being 
used in Wisconsin and other states where environmental educators have been able 
to force it to the top of the agenda offer models that can be adopted 
nationally. 

 And just briefly, 
Wisconsin's environmental initiative is, is built around two requirements. Since 
July of 1985 all teacher certification candidates in science, social studies, 
agriculture, early childhood, and elementary education have to demonstrate seven 
competent... competencies in order to receive state certification. The areas in 
excuse me, the areas of competency include four dealing with environmental 
content, and three relating to environmental education methodology. Since 
September 1990 all school districts must also have developed and be implementing 
curricular plans for all subject areas into which environmental education has 
been incorporated. Plans in art, health, science, and social studies education 
must show the greatest emphasis on environmental education. The stress in this 
program is clearly on promoting infusion. Well so much for the, .. rhetoric and 
the paper, I wanted to just conclude by telling you or by, ..letting you know 
where our foundation feels it is beginning to evolve here and ask you, hopefully 
there will be time for all of you to share with me and with Dori your efforts, 
I'm certain that over the last few decades. Many of you have funded this and 
have ideas on how to really adequately and appropriately use funds in 
environmental education. The foundation feels that with it's very broad mandate 
it should remain, as a vehicle to provide environmental literacy. I think the 
question becomes what is environmental literacy? And how do you provide a 
definition with some parameters that is, that promotes diversity and plurality 
within the various arenas, but also is effective in measuring the literacy of 
our students and whether or not we're really gaining ground or loosing ground. I 
know that there...there's a lot of controversy about the education reform 
movement, but without the basic tools of measurement, without providing a 
basic, or a fundamental baseline from which we can start to measure, we will as 
E.E. I really firmly believe over the last two decades, that certainly within 
the formalized school systems, has floundered because it does not have any 
specific ..measurements and tools to measure what environmental literacy is. One 
of the things we have begun doing is going around talking to the various 
constituencies. We've talked with the folks involved with the National Governors 
Association, people involved in environmental reform movement, department of 
education as well as people like the North American Association for 
Environmental Educators, the Alliance for environmental education, whom I term 
the trade organizations for E.E. and other foundations to, to ascertain what 
they believe environmental literacy is, what are the tools to measure it in the 
language of environmental reform, what are the skills, the knowledge, and the 
behavior that we want to infuse in our children. 

 The foundation feels a 
very, feels itself to be an important vehicle, hopefully to help bring consensus 
and bring these different parties to the table to determine what some of those 
definitions are, what some of these parameters are and we feel, we-we perceive 
ourselves to be a facilitator on this,...consensus building. I think without 
bringing everybody to the table here and really looking at what's going on and 
what needs to go on, we will fail. Some of the ways we hope to accomplish that 
is a nationwide poll. We are looking at different methods for doing that whether 
it's Broker or Gallup or someone like that, there's been some discussion on 
other types of, infusing it in other types of testing, current testing methods 
going on, national testing methods. We feel that we have to establish, 
partnerships and we feel that we have to in some way attach environmental 
education to the education reform vehicle. In our opinion from the preliminary 
research that we've done and with the, ..assistance of National Geographic and 
other, well known people in this area, we really feel that we need support from 
other areas, we need to harness this wagon to other, efforts that are going 
forward. And I think importantly the foundations see itself primarily as a 
grant-maker, and hope that through funding and through the provision of 
resources to some of these groups that have been working for decades in this 
area that will be a corner stone and provide some stability, in achieving some 
of the, ..desired goals. 

 DORI JACOBSON: I'm 
going to go back and reiterate something if I haven't said it strongly enough 
and that is when you're dealing with the education system you truly have to work 
within the system and that's changing and I feel as positive and optimistic 
about it now as I have since I really began in this field about seven years ago. 
there about four different things where I can suggest, you as grantmakers, we as 
grantmakers can spend your dollars most effectively. One of which is, because 
so much is system driven, I think you need to look, and Barbara and I could have 
a longer discussion about this, I think you need to look at the disciplines that 
have been articulated so far by the governors and by the President. And, whether 
or not you choose to put your dollars into science, put it into geography, or 
put it into, history or something else, find those areas of those disciplines 
that have been articulated as being, responsive to environmental concern...and I 
certainly know geography very well...and...and...put your money into a program 
that is reflective of the change that is happening right now. 

 So...look carefully at 
is what is going on in those disciplines. secondly, I would argue that there is 
more than enough environmental education materials out there in the field. I 
would say that where ever possible maximize, use your dollars to maximize 
dissemination efforts. Training efforts, the distribution of materials, and 
minimize the creation of new materials. I mean there will always be room for, 
additional materials perhaps on areas that haven't been covered such as 
fisheries, but...there is a staggering of wealth of material out there, it is a 
matter of getting this thing out and getting it used. thirdly, our efforts over 
the last seven years have been in the area of in-service training and for those 
of you who are not comfortable with the language, in-service simply means those 
teachers who are currently in the classroom. I think probably most of you are 
aware that by, the turn of the century, in the year 2000, between now and then 
we will be looking for another million or so teachers to fill the gaps of those 
who are retiring and those who drop out. so it is critical that we direct our 
attention to the pre-service area, the colleges of education, where the new 
teachers are going to be coming from. Let us look at something that is 
preventive as opposed to curative, for example. 

 So the extent to which 
your dollars can go for in-service,......pre-service training, I think it will 
be dollars, extremely well used. And third, those of you, who..excuse 
me,..fourth, those of you have a regional or a state-based, funding focus, take 
a look at your,...take a look or meet with your chief state school officers or 
those people who are familiar with the state curriculum. As Barbara has said so 
much input of this has come from Washington but in fact the burden of the 
responsibility is on the states. in addition to, Wisconsin, The state of 
Maryland, for example, has a very strong environmental education thrust that is 
going through it's curriculum., the systems are there and it's very hard to 
fight the educational system to the, so the extent to which can use this process 
that is going on right now, your dollars are going to be impounded ever more 
strongly, so that would probably be my encouragement... I'd love to open it up, 
we have, ..at least 45 minutes to talk and we were encouraged to make sure we 
give adequate time to share what people are doing and if there is anybody out 
here who who'd just like to throw out if not a question, an issue you want to 
get to, lets just bat it around. Tom? 

 TOM HORMEL: .I feel 
that it is important that I plug you all in to something, something ..I, I want 
to present, the work that is in progress, ...that's in process. ..maybe I 
should...(mumbling while speaker receives a microphone). I'm going to give you a 
little background on this because I think it's really of vital importance, and 
it presents,...a number of, ..facts that, ..obviously aren't, ..of wide 
knowledge. My name's Tom Hormel and I'm from Idaho and we did a, a, global 
tomorrow coalition conference in 19...I think it was '89. It was called, 
Globe-scope-Idaho. And following that, ..we started doing teacher training in 
Ketchum for teachers all over Idaho, most of them came from... the Boise and 
southern area, but there were ..a few that were from the ..the East and from the 
North. ..in the process of this teacher training it was obvious that ....there 
was a great hunger for .. the environmental knowledge, ..and that infusion was 
extremely important. 

 And there was also, ..a 
great evidence that there were numbers of...of...curricula available and if you 
just hold that for a minute I'm going to go on to something, ..to the...the 
next step for me was to become involved in the theory of education and I 
presented a paper at Tufts University, Bruce Babbitt and I were the dinner 
speakers for the ..New England environment conference and my thesis was that 
with all of the things that have to be done, education has three very important 
missions. And the first obviously was to disseminate or to see to it that there 
was an infusion of environmental information, I mean that's pretty obvious that 
people were not very well informed. But secondly that .there also had to be a 
real citizen connection...and this is absolutely an...an educational, mandate. 
You don't just get...citizen action. It something that is a learned response, 
it's something that has to be learned in school, if you don't learn in school 
how to communicate with your elected representatives, if you don't actually do 
it in school, if you don't, if you only learn well this is what your supposed to 
do when you grow up and your 21 and you can vote, ..here's how you vote, it's 
not (tape goes blank). 

 END OF SIDE "A" 

 ...in a democracy 
that's going to work. And this is not happening in education today so it's a 
very important part of the educational community to take that responsibility. 
And this is something that they have been doing very well at Tufts. Nancy 
Anderson has, .. been really leading the ..efforts of....the informal, ..part of 
education at Tufts, and formally, Dr. Meyer ..did something that astounded me 
and, .impressed me and got me really started in writing this education paper. He 
said I want this campus to become environmentalized and I've turned over the 
campus to, ..the department of..the environment department. And I want to see 
recycling and I want to see all of these things happening. I don't know how well 
it's happening, but among other things that Dr. Meyer did, ..was,...and I'm 
saying this because this is what has been thrown out as, ...as being an 
important aspect. Now I really believe that it is in the infusion of...of 
information to teachers. .he realized that it was difficult to get teachers to 
learn something and to...and to start using new curricula, because they're all 
entrenched in what they're going to do, let alone get department heads to talk 
to each other. 

 And that is really an 
impossibility. So, what he did was, to, give everybody a sabbatical for 
attending a, ..conference that, .. was done by the Lincoln-Vining Center on 
campus. ..Nancy Anderson's group, actually. ..where they learned ..how to put 
environmental factors into .the....context of, of their, ..curricula. So ..I 
went home and I, ..there was a teacher who was an environmentalists, he was the, 
..he was the head of the..........I, I don't know how to say this, but he, he it 
was recreation at, .. Yosemite. And then, ..he became a teacher and he was 
teaching in the lower grades for about eight years and all of a sudden he quit 
teaching and he was available and I said, boy have I got some projects for you. 
And I gave him six projects. One of them was to handle a problem in a reserve in 
Costa Rica, and there were various things like that. And another one was to...to 
derive from these education papers some...kind of a focus 

 that...to bring all of 
the information together in such a way that people would know where to go for 
curricula. At least it would have listed all of the curricula. ..when he started 
doing this, he very quickly became, began to really become involved with the 
process. As a teacher, he realized that you cannot ask teachers to know 
everything about a... education. And that there was...I mean about 
environment...and there was a way of getting it started. ..the book now, ..we 
have six pilot schools, ..we're starting a new group of pilot schools, the 
process is going to be available in, ..in it's completed state. ..right now it's 
in it's final testing state. ..in 1993 at the beginning of the semester, in next 
summer, and, .the way it's been working has absolutely phenomenal. ..the book is 
given to the class, ..the teacher reads one page, and the students select a 
leader and they start reading and they perform miracles, I mean it's 
unbelievable how empowered they become, how they become connected to, 
.the...the...to the...administration and ....to....governments. They 
have.........gone to the administration and found out what kind of use of 
electrical energy they have and they've OK if you do this and you put these kind 
of light bulbs in, ..you end up with this kind of expense instead of what you 
are doing now, and the schools save money, the teachers become educated, the 
infusion of...of knowledge is both with the teachers and the students, the 
teachers are not running this, ..effort...they go into the, ..to the 
..cafeteria, they change the eating habits of the school, they go in and look at 
the pesticides that are being put on the lawns, and they stop the, the whole 
gardening process and start a whole new one. Et...they become empowered, they 
get attached to government. In Idaho one school has actually gone in and, ....as 
I understand it the, the Governor of Idaho is now, .. about to change the whole 
structure of the, ....power company so that, ..instead of the more you use the 
cheaper it gets, is the less you use the more benefit, or the...the cheaper it 
is to use a small amount, the more you use the more you pay for it, so.....it's 
a system that's working and it's called Earth Time and, ..I had no idea that I 
was, ..supposed to let anybody know about this because we're in a testing 
process.......last week we, ....opened a highschool in Manhattan Beach in Los 
Angeles ..with 2000 students that are totally mixed, ..we...Chevy Chase went in 
with a Beta camera and a crew and ....filmed a lot of the .....process and, .the 
before and the in the process of being filmed. I think this is going to be an 
enormous success and if anybody's interested in the Earth Time brochure, ..which 
they've put out, ..I've brought a bunch of them. I'm sorry to take so much time, 
but I think it's an important thing that's heard here. 

 DORI JACOBSON: Well 
in fact, ..in fact Tom brings up sort of an interesting situation and that is it 
gets back to advocacy vs. science based education and we've done some pilot 
programs in schools where children have, in fact, become, really actively 
oriented in judging their environment. In fact we through, we had a pilot 
program where kids were looking at the wastes that they were disposing of at 
lunch. And we were comparing, children in various schools all around the country 
in terms of what they were throwing way. And one would think that apples would 
be a great thing in a child's lunch. Well probably two thirds of the apples that 
were given to those kids went right into the trash. Small example, of how kids 
can become very involved in...analyzing their own human behavior and the effect 
that has on environmental issues. It also pointed out that the administration 
didn't want to hear about a lot of this. The same way we had kids doing some 
basic testing on the lead content in the water. Well, there wasn't a school 
district around that wanted to be faced with the results of what those children 
were coming up with. Environmental education is very compelling because it's 
very immediate, it's very involving, it's very visual. it brings things home to 
children. It is very strong, it gets them excited about education, but it is 
not..........uncontroversial by any means. letting children loose to get 
involved in things that are very compelling and energizing, has a positive 
benefit, in that they like...they like studying. What they dont...what the 
negative impact of that is often that you will upset the systems, as they are, 
and it is just a matter of finding of,...finding the right way of cooperating 
between kids and the administration particularly in school settings. It's very 
been interesting for us to watch. anybody else have some comments? Walcott?

 MALE AUDIENCE MEMBER 
(very faint): Just a couple of sidelines. The way to tackle environmental 
education, what we've done in Chicago... 

 DORI JACOBSON: Just 
speak up. 

 MALE AUDIENCE MEMBER: 
There are two things. One is that we have been working with the local zoos, and 
aquariums, over the last five years, to try and transform them from more than 
edu, not education, entertainment role and role as keepers of endangered species 
to environmental educator, and that you don't you have environmental education 
as part of their three or four major lags of their strategy, which is a big, big 
change for them. And now taking that into that accentuates almost their primary 
role within an urban environment. And we're looking at urban environments but 
who's going to educate these people beyond the school. I'm just saying, you 
know, in addition to the schools, I think the zoos and aquariums have great 
potential because there's millions of visitors...there's some passive 
educational opportunities there. the other side of this that there is a pilot 
program going on around the country with business schools, putting in 
environmental education and infusing it, as you put it, into that curriculum. 
And we're working with Northwestern and there are five other schools. So this is 
going to different levels of the education process and not just the five year 
old or fifth graders, I mean not just completely (unclear) ...It's also, you 
know, try to tackle other areas that are, you know, the future business leaders 
and that kind of stuff. Anyone interested in that, Nancy and I are, are 
(unclear)..... 

 DORI JACOBSON: Thank 
you. there's a difference, just to comment on that, there's a difference that we 
have seen between environmental education within the classroom and that which is 
happening in, civic, groups outside and other institutions like Susan's 
botanical gardens. You're going to find greater advocacy oriented education in 
civic groups as such the girlscouts and boyscouts and other groups. Within the 
classroom there is a movement to insure, that the education that those kids are 
getting is NOT advocacy based. That's a trend. it's not to say that it is not, 
that you don't end up at the same place. I see you shaking your head. It's to 
say that the, the facts and information that those children are learning have a 
scientific base to them that allows them to debate issues, that allows them to 
test their hypothesis, and draw conclusions, to look at human ramifications of 
things, and toss those around. It's not to say that their is not an advocacy 
outcome, it is to say that, it...there is a scientific base in approaching the 
issues, so that there is debate going back and forth. That then leads into a 
requirement that the teachers involved in environmental education have a 
facility in coaching children as opposed to talking at children. because so much 
of environmental education is really inquiry based and participatory, it 
requires something different from the teacher in the classroom. So a lot of the 
teacher training programs that we are supporting ARE...are changing the role of 
the teacher and I think that's critically important particularly in this area. 
Robin? 

 FEMALE AUDIENCE MEMBER 
(very faint): A couple of quick points. I don't know how many of you are of a 
major movement in this country that goes under the...the terminology "service 
learning." But it's a movement that's really got fueled by a number of 
foundations that were interested in encouraging young people really becoming 
actively involved their society as problem solvers and as active citizens. And 
if educational setting is involved, various programs in the curriculum 
activities that gets kids out doing community service projects and their 
learning about the issues that are behind them. this movement is obviously a 
tremendous opportunity for environmental education because obviously many 
children these days are interested...when asked to define what problems in their 
community are dealing with often times are environmental problems. Now effort 
has now been, gotten a major infusion of support by some federal legislation 
that was passed a couple of years ago, and through a newly created commission on 
national community service. There is a hundred and fifty million dollars of 
federal money that has just been awarded last June,......a large part is going 
to State education agencies to support service learning programs in schools. 
Others are supporting demonstration projects around the country like Boston 
City. Also our higher education campus-based programs. Again, this is not an 
environmental issue, per se. What I see is going on a good one third or half of 
the activity that is generated, ..through service learning is environmentally 
oriented. This is something you should be aware of....lastly, I want to ask a 
question. you mention the amount of curriculum that is already out there, you 
advise not to fund to curriculum development. Is there a clearing house 
somewhere? Has this already been done? 

 DORI 
JACOBSON: Well? (audience banter) Please! 

 BARBARA 
LINK: Can I answer? 

 FEMALE 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Would it not be a logical role for Barbara's house to serve as 
a clearing house for all of us, and all of the teachers? I want to know where 
can I get the best curriculum on this issue? 

 BARBARA 
LINK: Yeah...I've actually...(audience interruptions). The question was is there 
a plethora of materials out there, is there a central, clearing house for such 
materials. And indeed, the foundation I didn't really go into some of the other 
programs we're looking at doing, but one is the idea of a clearing house or 
resource bank. The problem with it is, is there has, there have been attempts in 
the past to do a kind of clearing house. Erik out of Ohio State University was 
one of the notable ones on the network, really didn't work and the reason is 
it's very hard to continue, ..an updated list of the materials that are out 
there. It's hard to, ..sort of compartmentalize what the curriculum materials 
are, what there for, what there used, you know, what's the, how to evaluate 
them, how to describe the meaningfully so that clearinghouse can work. It's an 
enormous undertaking. It is one, and I'm sure Tom you know, it is one that we're 
looking at, I should also say that Office of Environmental Education at EPA has 
something that they're developing. It's in the prototypical stages. It's a 
multi-media, interactive data-base, that, what it does is it...it actually looks 
like a library. And the teacher, it's not a network system, it's not a 
distributive system, it's on basically CD ROM. And a teacher can go into this 
data-base basically look at all different types of topical issues, all different 
types of approaches for teaching E.E. and them actually call up the materials 
from this disk so that they may try and use them in their classroom. They have 
spent a fair amount of money in developing it. But in my opinion it has a lot of 
problems. Not the least of which is it's not a distributive system. what they 
are including in that clearinghouse is interesting. It's pretty much federally, 
other federal agencies. I mean you look at the Department of Energy, the 
Department of Energy believes that for the last 25 years it's been in the 
environmental education business. And they, you know, have a lot of materials 
they feel are, are relevant. 

 So EPA has gone around 
and put a lot of these on disks. in addition to that, their section five grant 
for $1.6 million this year went to the University of Michigan led consortium. It 
will receive $1.6 million each year for the next 3 years. One of their 
responsibilities is to develop a clearinghouse for teacher, training types of 
things.....we are in sort of talks all the time with EPA and Michigan to 
determine how the three of us can come up with something that adequately meets 
the needs of what we're hearing out there. It's not a small task. I think Tom 
Kane has been known to go around, to talking about the foundation as a resource 
bank. And we really would like to be a resource bank. It sounds good, it's a 
great concept, it's how you do it. So we are looking at that. And, it's 
going to require a lot of money and a lot of effort. But we feel that clearly it 
is an important aspect. I think the corollary to that is whether or not, then, 
we will try to evaluate, or put in, within certain parameters those materials. 
Because without some type of classification it gets to be a very mundane listing 
that has, in my opinion, little value when you look at the plethora of materials 
out there. 

 DORI JACOBSON: There 
are very, just quickly, there are very high hopes for this grant to University 
of Michigan. They have an interesting consortium of people who are involved. 
They got EDF, which many of you may know, which is basically into satellite 
distribution, working with Turner Educational Services, which is Ted Turner's 
network, Apple computer, they are looking towards new technologies as a way of 
driving, the ability to exchange materials in this ..environmental education 
clearing house. 

 BARBARA LINK: And I 
should also just say that the foundation is very much involved in that. We are 
looking at Time-Warner and some relationships with Time-Warner, to help us do 
that, so we feel we've got the right support, now it's coming up with a concept 
and really getting going. 

 MALE AUDIENCE MEMBER: I 
have the same challenge. My popular report from Rio and the Global Forum. We 
have 500 audio tapes. Back form Brazil. And all we have is titles on them. And 
these resources sit idly in our companies back room, waiting for some input. If 
we could cull out the best half dozen and have them distributed to every 
highschool or environmental (unclear) in the country, (unclear) Jacques 
Cousteau, they were wonderful. 

 BARBARA LINK: Do you 
have a sense what that would cost? 

 SAME MALE: Low end 8 
grand, high end 36 grand. Less to spend for our human future (unclear) needs a 
survival piece. They are co-copywrite holders, I think they could be right.

 DORI JACOBSON: Unclear: 
Harry?) all right, you've been (unclear) say something for a long time. 

 UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE 
MEMBER: While we are doing announcements about our favorite pet projects, I 
thought it would behoove me to inform you to what the (UnclearIsland?) 
foundation is doing. And, OK.....(Takes the microphone). So I start it again? 
While we are doing announcements about our favorite pet projects, I thought it 
would behoove me to inform you to what the Island foundation in Massachusetts is 
doing in this domain. We decided to allocate a significant amount of our money 
on an educational project which has a distinctive environmental overtone. The 
organization that we have created, through a grant is called Ecose, ..which is, 
as we know, has the root word from which both environment and economics are 
derived. the mission of Ecose is twofold: One is to disseminate Montessori 
practices of instruction throughout public education; and the other one is to 
redesign the Montessori model for the next century. 

 Our take on this 
enterprise is a little bit more radical, ..than we've heard this morning. We are 
deadly serious about what the, the question about what does an education for 
sustainability look like. ..and in that regard we are really taking a look at 
how schools are structured, how classrooms are structured, and our emphasis 
really is based on children and what developmentally appropriate education looks 
like. ..We've seen the Mont...Montessori model as the best existing model that 
we have at this point for providing a developmentally appropriate hands on, 
..multicultural education to a diverse population of kids in a sustainable 
manner. ..where Montessori has been implemented in public schools we're blowing 
the doors off the achievement scores that are out there. Kids are achieving 10 
to 20 points higher on all the standardized achievement tests. Not that we 
believe in the standardized achievement test, but for those that believe in that 
sort of thing, there we are. but beyond that in the Montessori classroom 
environment, children are profoundly exposed to an educational experience that 
fosters their physical development, their social development, and their 
spiritual development. Citizenship skills are fostered in that environment, as 
are,...a sense of sound,...social responsibility. And it's in that regard that 
we consider ourselves as really providing, or working towards trying to develop 
the model, to provide the best model, for environmental sustainability. Anybody 
that would like to talk me more about that with me, I've brought on brochure. 
Those of you that can slide me a business card, I'd be delighted to give you, 
..a packet of information in the mail that describes the rational and what we 
think we're about. 

 MALE 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning, my name's Bob Fry. I'd like very much to 
reinforce (unclear) comments that Barbara made about the (unclear: access to 
the?) educational system. I'd like to make four comments on my role on the 
school board (coughing obscures voice). The first, in our state, I suspect this 
is true in any state, they are changing the teacher certification requirements. 
Among the requirements, prospective teachers must now display confidence in is, 
..issues involving child abuse, alcohol and drug abuse, sexually transmitted 
diseases, students with special needs and diversity issues. Secondly, there are 
changed expectations for our public educational system to include provide, to 
include providing health and family services. There is, a very important 
declining financial support for education especially based on property taxes. 
There's increased requirements for retention of students. Keep them in school at 
all costs. There is a demand for individualized educational programs for 
students and especially for those with special needs. Thirdly, there is a,...a 
great competition right now in public education for empowerment. This... this 
competition is among patents and teachers. In New York State we have what's 
called a compact for learning. It's required by 1995. And every public school 
district demonstrate a system by which, parents and teachers, and in our state 
that means teachers unions, will have a role in determining the curriculum and 
how funds will be expended in our particular district. It also requires to 
provide writing across the curricula whole language programs, continuum across 
the curriculum. And all of this is done within the context of the system which 
is very hard to change, no one quite, knows who's in charge, and it's, ..much 
like trying to, ..nail jello through a tree. (Laughter: unclear) ...in terms on 
how your going to inculcate this particular issue, as important as it is, it's 
important to recognize the full context of the competition for time, energy, and 
resources that your going to encounter. And I can tell you as a school board 
member for nine years, board president for three, and this is my last year, 
every time someone comes in with a new mandate, a new requirement, a new 
concern, you simply hold your head and say how does that relate to the removal 
of asbestos from our schools, how's that relate to a bond effort to put new 
roofs on our buildings, and what is the translation going to be and what is our 
budget going to be next year, which in most of our communities the taxpayers 
vote on what the budgets are. So it's important to keep in context these kinds 
of issues you guy's are raising. 

 DORI JACOBSON: Well I 
hope the tape picked that up, because that was a profound statement of reality 
of what is happening in our schools. It also reinforces what Barbara and I and 
so many, I think, in this group feels which is infusion and you have got to work 
within the disciplines that are established already in the curriculum. Because, 
I mean I can, I can argue, environmental education is not going to find a role 
here. Seven years ago when we started poking at geography education 
superintendent of schools Bill Honig out in California said don't talk to me 
about geography education, talk to me about how you're going to put geography 
into history. Or put it into literature. Well that has changed, and perhaps 
someday this will change, but right now the system has, has dictated there are 
five core disciplines, and unless we work in that area we are going to be 
fighting a major battle. Joe? 

 JOE: Hi, I have a 
question. ..I would like various responses and that is if we could get more 
specific about, exciting arguably model programs focusing on teacher education, 
either at the local community level, within the kind of context that, that he 
just described, ..or perhaps a larger regional area like a state such as North 
Carolina. And whether, whether they're government sponsored, publicly supported 
within the departments of instruction or whether they're independently 
sponsored, such as privately supported teacher training centers of some sort. 
Can you just throw out to us some notable exemplary programs that go directly to 
the teacher that are on line who within those kind of restraints, or are open, 
or receptive and motivated to go ahead and do some of the infusion that I think 
you both are advocating. 

 DORI JACOBSON: Take it. 

 BARBARA LINK: I'm not 
sure I can really answer your question. and that's one of the things we're 
trying to look into is trying to identify models like that that have some 
replicability or have some meaning for other people to sort of look at and say 
well this made sense here maybe if we modify in this way we can do it. ..I'd 
have to point to Wisconsin and Kentucky again, Wisconsin in particular just has 
had a tremendous history in working within a broad coalition of groups at the 
state and regional levels to get environmental education both, mandated legally 
and really demanded from the grasssroots up. And I think it's that kind of an 
effort, you know, as Dori was saying there's tremendous interest at the 
grassroots level for environmental education. There's a tremendous interest 
within the k through 12 students themselves to become better environmentalists. 
That all equates into some factor of political pressure. we're, you know, we're 
just beginning to, our foundation I should say, is just beginning to review some 
of the programs out there. There are things like Project Wild and Project 
Learning Tree which, you know, do, ..deal with curricular materials and training 
over regions of this country. but they have, while they have been successful, 
they really have not served this purpose of really helping E.E. to become 
infused within schools, so I, I, I'm not... 

 MALE 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: We're targeting teachers, too. 

 BARBARA 
LINK: ...targeting teachers, yes I said teachers are the key, here, in a sense, 
or one of the keys in getting this to, to happen. 

 DORI 
JACOBSON: I'm going to do something I didn't think I was going to do. I thought 
I would control myself. I was not asked to do this panel to be an advocate to do 
what we are doing. I was asked to do it to just sort of bring some perspective 
to the floor. But, I'm gonna seal another few minutes and tell you about what 
it is we have been able to do over the last seven years. National Geographic 
established a national network of what we call geographical alliances. These are 
teacher training programs that combine K-12 educators with university 
professors. There is a geographic alliance in every single state. The geographic 
alliance in Texas for example, has about 3000 K-12 teachers involved, It has two 
university focuses on, at, ..Southwest Texas University which is a major 
teaching institution. And Texas A. & M. Again these are replicated in all other 
49 states. Every summer we provide funding to them to conduct a teacher training 
institute. They all look to local funding to do that. They bring in anywhere 
from 20 to 40 teachers who spend between 2 and 3 weeks either in the field, 
looking at geology, topography, climate issues, basic fundamental physical 
sciences. They go back and they learn teaching methods, and they learn how to 
use teaching materials. 

 Those are either, print 
materials, or they are new computer driven tele-communications driven materials. 
In every instance, we require that these teachers come away and commit to us 
that they will go out and conduct workshops in their schools. We in essence are 
not just training a teacher, we are training a teacher consultant. Somebody who 
has enough grounding, confidence and competence in the subject, that they can go 
out and share that expertise. In seven years we have reached approximately 
75,000 teachers across this country through this 50 state network. this summer 
for example we conducted with Kraft General Foods and the Kellogg foundation a 
ten day summer institute out in California on water, fresh water issues. These 
hundred teachers, two from every state, were joined for the last couple days for 
this institute, by their respective water agency personnel from their state, so 
that the two teachers from Texas had the Texas water agency personnel join them 
for the last couple days. They talked about how, what they had learned over ten 
days could be localized so that when those teachers go back to Texas this fall, 
they were equipped to handle not just the general issues of water conservation, 
water use, and water abuse, but they were linked up with somebody who could help 
them with localized issues. We have spun this around. and this fall, every fall 
there is something called National Geography Education Awareness Week. Every one 
of those teachers, those hundred teachers when they left California after, after 
ten days with us, committed to us that they would develop a state wide plan to 
work with teachers across their states during Geography Awareness Week on the 
subject of fresh water resources. Working with City Bank, we put together 
packets of materials that have gone to 180,000 educators across the country. 
That curriculum is forming the basis for what is being looked at during 
Geography Awareness Week. And believe me there are probably 3 million kids this 
fall that are going to be doing activities this fall beginning with the week 
intensive program and going on through the year on fresh water resources. What 
you have got to find in your, in the funding programs that you have is a system 
of delivery, a system of dissemination. And we feel very confident about what we 
have been doing. I know that the National Science Teachers Association is doing 
the same thing on science, I know that the history people are doing the same 
sort of things in history. There are mechanisms out there and it is the most 
efficient way to utilize your dollars if you tap into that system. There. I 
didn't mean to make it a commercial, but it is very important that these systems 
exist out there. 

 BARBARA LINK : Yeah, 
and I'd just like to comment on it because, as, an organization that's going out 
and trying to evaluate, you know, how we do our business, once we figure out 
what that is. National Geographic's model, I think, without contention has been 
an incredibly successful model in a very, very short period of time. One of the 
other programs that the foundation is looking at doing is, how in fact, how do 
we build these state by state alliances of people interested in environmental 
education. Who should they consist of, you know, what are the benefits, because 
without that delivery system on a state by state, basis we feel that we're never 
really gonna get anywhere with both understanding what's out there, evaluating 
what's out there, being able to measure it. And being able to monitor it from a 
very, basic stand point. So we're looking at doing that and, I'd certainly be 
interest in hearing if any of you have ideas on that. There are a lot of 
networks out there and, most of them don't really, haven't been very functional 
for environmental education. So we're looking to do that. 

 DORI JACOBSON: And 
we're certainly hoping to change that as environment and society has been 
articulated as a key to geography. I mean science has a major, major 
responsibility in environmental education, and hopefully as they go through 
their assessment framework and develop their standards for testing they will 
look at environment as well. But there is a home that has already been 
established. 

 BARBARA LINK: And I 
should comment. I don't even know if Dori knows, this, you probably do, we're, 
the foundation in this first grantmaking cycle did fund, they, we are assisting 
with funds for the environment in society piece of this, .....geography 
framework. We're also working, ..with National Academy of Sciences on how we can 
participate in the science standard settings as well because we feel that 
they're both core disciplines, they're both interested in the foundation is 
trying to bring people together who will represent environmental education in 
these areas. It is not an easy task, I might add. And it's one that I don't want 
to see driven by, within the beltway mentalities, it's one that needs to be 
driven by people who have been involved, across the United States in, in 
different environmental education initiatives so we're struggling with this and 
believe there's not a lot of time and there's not, there's never enough money to 
do any of what you want to do. 

 DORI 
JACOBSON: We've got about ten minutes. Go ahead. 

 FEMALE 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Have you explored the awards systems things. Like what you're 
seeing out there, you know, you are provided this knowledge base. are you going 
to get back from the teachers the thousands that you're impacting. What they 
found worked, who was successful truly reaching those other teachers, what 
wonderful community problem they resolved, what's, is there, possibly a possible 
goal or a need for or an incentive side? You guy's have a challenge, you put it 
out there, you wonder, what's happening? 

 DORI 
JACOBSON: I can only say... 

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Could you repeat the question, please? 

 DORI 
JACOBSON: the question has to do with rewards, and I think feedback about 
success. And I can only speak for what we have been doing. and National 
Geographic only does things one way and that is extremely thoroughly. and 
sometimes it takes a long time, but part of our efforts have, focused on 
evaluation, and it is constant evaluation and that every teacher who 
participates in these programs does with us a pre-evaluation and they do a post 
evaluation and right now a number of our states are doing, sort of four year 
benchmark evaluations as to how things are changing. Now, not just within the 
teaching community but within the student community. Oklahoma, for example, now, 
has had eight years behind them and they have two four year studies as to how 
things are changing. So we're starting to get some of that feedback. The other 
thing, you talk about sort of rewards, it is absolutely critical for us to teach 
those, to treat those teachers as professionals. And that nobody goes through 
our program and, ..completes the program without getting some certificate of 
merit. We even have little pens, we have tee-shirts, we have bags, we do 
everything ewe possibly can to give them something back. And these rewards are 
so modest, but I tell you, after teachers have gone through a professional 
program, we have seen some of them weeping because they have never been treated 
like that before. Angie? 

 AUDIENCE 
MEMBER ANGIE: Just to continue questioning that what we're doing, we are just so 
unionized in Indiana, we have to pay... 

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You can come to the microphone. 

 ANGIE: On 
that note that Dori was just mentioning, in answering your question about 
rewards and everything, I don't know if Indiana is just so unionized, or, or 
what, but we have to actually pay stipends to get the teachers to come. does 
everybody else have to do that? 

 (Audience banter) 

 DORI JACOBSON: Well 
actually there is a bit of a black market out there, 

 ANGIE: No this is in 
the summertime. You know when they're under contract and stuff. Oh, I meant 
summer workshops. And it's not just this curriculum it's English, it's science, 
it's everything. That's standard practice? Okay, my board has a real problem 
with that so that's why I'm asking the question. Thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE 
MEMBER: It doesn't sound like the teachers are making an outrageous amount of 
money, anyway. 

 DORI JACOBSON: Right. 
Joe, did you want to say something? 

 JOE: North Carolina, 
but it's a professional courtesy, based on, particularly.. 

 DORI JACOBSON: Yeah. 
Yeah. And virtually every one of our programs we built into their budgets and we 
compensate them for paying a stipend and if you're at the teacher level that can 
range from $100, well actually range form $60 a day to about $150 a day. If 
you're an academic professor it's $500 a day. To attend a summer workshop often 
they are compensated at the 4 or 5 hundred level. And it's interesting among 
those institutes that draw upon a national population, New Jersey, for example, 
pays a scandalous amount of money for somebody to attend. And we have, in fact, 
seen some teachers choose to go where the dollars are, so, you have to be 
competitive which is unfortunate but that is the case. Gail. 

 GAIL: I'm concerned 
about the (unclear) and you were mentioning it was (unclear) the content issue. 
The pulp and paper industry and the forest timber products industry is very 
powerful, and I recently went to a conservation, went to a conservation program 
at one of our local nature centers. And the educational materials that were 
being presented were, ..clear-cut forestry is okay, planting aspen is good, it 
helps the deer and crops. And I think the issue the public, because of that 
(unclear) very powerful political force, what influence they have in terms of 
the content. It's one thing to deplore (unclear) 

 BARBARA LINK: Yeah, 
that's something I'm familiar with too, coming from Houston, and the Petro-chemical 
companies having a clamp on a lot of what goes on. A lot of, the way in which 
they spend their philanthropic dollars in something non-threatening such as 
environmental education, and BFI, for instance, would develop a solid waste 
curriculum which, you may or may not always agree with. That is more, that more 
reinforces this need, A, for a clearinghouse and a resource bank, but also a way 
to evaluate materials. I mean it all gets back to evaluation. In a sense, are 
they providing people with the skills and the knowledge necessary to be 
environmentally literate. One of my biggest, soap boxes, coming from the 
coalition building side of things, is that information has to have, to mention, 
it has to have perspective. This only presenting one side of the issue is not 
achieving what we need. It's not providing people with critical thinking tools. 
And I don't know how you get around it, other than to say there's got to be some 
kind of evaluation for those materials and not providing a one sided, scenario 
on any particular issue, and allowing other information to be developed. 

 And in fact, ..funding 
other information to be developed. It's very tricky and that's sort of my, also 
my problem with this plethora of materials out there. To be perfectly honest, I 
mean solid waste is an issue I've dealt with recently and there are a number of 
people driving that Keep America Beautiful. Keep America Beautiful for those of 
you involved with environmental non-profits, it's funded by the solid waste 
industry, you know BFI waste management, you name it and a lot of their 
materials are not only poor in content, I know that in the lasko(?) in Texas 
they were given $350,000 to develop this solid waste curricula. They had no 
teacher training associated with it. The curricula was not effective, it was not 
well used, we lost $350,000 down the drain, in my opinion, for an organization, 
that, you know, if they're interest in solid waste and that kind of education 
should have provided not only well balanced material, and forced the industry to 
educate themselves about what the, you know, what the perspectives are out there 
because I feel there is a reciprocal responsibility here. But also, if it's 
going to be used in schools or nature centers or wherever, provide teacher 
incentives and teacher training to do that. It is a real problem. 

 DORI JACOBSON: I 
recently had an experience dealing with our geographic alliance up in Maine. 
they had an offering from the paper industry council up there, ..$50,000 that 
would match the $50,000 that National Geographic provides, and I got a call from 
the alliance coordinator saying hey, this is terrific, I got some money. And I 
said, hey, let's take a look at this. What is it that is part of the agreement 
with the paper industry council. And it was a matter of a month or so of 
conversations going by to build up my coordinators confidence that she could go 
back to the paper industry council and say, Yes we would like your money, but 
no, you do not have editorial control. And, you know, the paper industry got 50 
percent out of it which is what they wanted. They wanted some image and that was 
fine. What they didn't get was the other half of what they wanted which was the 
editorial control. And I think this points to, unfortunately, some of the 
naivet of grantees, which is Oh god, here's money, this is what I need, I'll do 
whatever. And it doesn't really take all that much to go back to a grantor, 
particularly a corporation and say, listen. We would like to do that, we would 
like some sort of partnership but here are the ground rules. And we're starting 
to see that change, by, you know...(people reader?)...Jack? 

 JACK: I just want to 
share something that the San Francisco Foundation is doing right now with 
this.... 

 DORI JACOBSON: And we 
probably have this and one other...? 

 JACK: where, we've been 
making environmental education grants for the last three years. About $200,000 
each year, and we are currently conducting kind of a reality check. We've hired 
two consultants to review our grantmaking and to go out into the community and 
to interview various environmental educators in the schools, nature centers, 
folks who do teacher training. and getting their perspective, finding out what 
they see as the needs in the Bay Area and what they see as trends, and the 
consultants will be making recommendations to the foundation as to how we can 
improve our grant making. In the looking, we found some look along four 
dimensions specifically. One is the diversity issue, and how environmental 
education is, where they're affected at reaching students of color and whether 
the curriculum values and traditions of other cultures. That's so very important 
in the Bay Area. Secondly, where the environmental education is really changing 
peoples, young peoples behaviors, we know that the awareness level is up but is 
it working along that continuum that was referred to earlier and really getting 
young people to change their behaviors. Third is, where the foundation might be 
able to help with the networking and sharing of information and encouraging 
collaboration amongst various environmental educators in our region. And then 
fourthly, is how can environmental education encourage young people to pursue 
environmental careers. Especially students of color. And, and women. So we're 
conducting the study, we're hoping to have a result, by mid-November, time for 
our board retreat. If it's a good piece of work I think we'd be happy to share 
the results, so come talk to me and we'll get you on our mailing list. 

 DORI 
JACOBSON: I was wondering if you just tell Pam about what you're doing. Pam 
Mora. Because it would be interesting for her to disseminate that. Great. 

 RETURN TO 
EGA TAPES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE