Economic Human Rights Project 

 Economic 
 Human Rights Project 

 "Economic rights ARE human 
 rights" 

 An initiative of the Center for 
 the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 in cooperation with the Congress of Racial Equality. 
 Paul Driessen, Director. 

 February 4, 
2004 

 Message from 
Alan Gottlieb, President, CDFE: We are proud to announce the Economic Human 
Rights Project, in cooperation with CORE, the Congress of Racial Equality. I am 
personally pleased to join in this project with Mr. Roy Innis, CORE chairman, a 
long-time ally in the fight for civil rights and individual liberty. We look 
forward to great achievements together in bringing economic human rights to 
people everywhere. 

 Mr. Innis 
and I are pleased that Mr. Paul Driessen, noted author and veteran public policy 
expert, has agreed to take on the challenging job of Director, Economic Human 
Rights Project. Mr. Driessen will be responsible for development and 
implementation of the Project's goals and programs. 

 Today, in an auspicious 
laun ching of the 
Economic Human Rights Project, Paul Driessen gave congressional testimony 
announcing the Project and introducing the United States Congress to 
representatives of the Congress of Racial Equality: Niger Innis, National 
Spokesperson; Cyril Boynes, Director, International Affairs; and 
 Fifi 
Kobusingye-Boynes , 
designer and entrepreneur, Uganda. 

 Paul Driessen 

 Niger Innis 

 Cyril Boynes 

 Fifi 
Kobusingye-Boynes 

 Economic Human Rights Project delegation meets 
with U.S. House Resources Committee Chairman Richard Pombo at congressional 
hearing. Left to right: Cyril Boynes, Paul Driessen, Fifi Kobusingye-Boynes, 
Rep. Richard Pombo, Niger Innis. 

Here is Paul Driessen's testimony before the United States Congress: 
 SCIENCE AND PUBLIC POLICY 
 Statement of Paul Driessen, Director, 
Economic Human Rights Project 
 before the 
 House Subcommittee on Energy and Natural 
Resources 
 Barbara Cubin, Chairwoman 
 February 4, 2004 

 Madame Chairman, members of the subcommittee. It 
is an honor to be here, and I thank you for inviting me to testify. 

 My name is Paul Driessen. Im the author or 
Eco-Imperialism: Green Power Black Death and director of the Economic 
Human Rights Project, an initiative of the Center for the Defense of Free 
Enterprise, in cooperation with the Congress of Racial Equality. Neither the 
project nor our sponsoring organizations receives any government funding. 
Accompanying me today are Niger Innis, Cyril Boynes, Jr. of CORE and Fifi 
Kobusingye-Boynes of Uganda. 

 We believe Economic rights are human 
rights. We are dedicated to correcting prevalent environmental myths and 
misguided policies that help perpetuate poverty, misery, disease and early death 
in developing countries. 

 I am here today to discuss three glaring 
examples that fall within the subcommittees jurisdiction, which includes 
cooperative efforts to encourage, enhance and improve international programs 
for the protection of the environment and conservation of natural resources. 
Indeed, because the lives of so many people are directly affected by these 
examples, they may be among the most important issues you will face. 

 Two billion people in Africa, Asia and Latin 
America still do not have electricity and must live without lights, 
refrigeration, hospitals, sanitation, safe water, or the hope of economic growth 
and better lives. Millions of mothers and daughters spend their days gathering 
wood or cow dung and breathing polluted smoke from cooking and heating fires.

 Four million infants, children and mothers 
die every year from lung infections millions more from dysentery and other 
diseases caused by tainted water and spoiled food. 

 Wildlife habitats slowly disappear, as people 
cut down trees, because they dont have electricity. And progress and economic 
development remain no more than dreams or mirages because without energy and 
mineral production, there can be no wealth generation, no new investment in 
these destitute nations, no hope or opportunity for their people. 

 How can this happen? It is due in large part to 
strident opposition to hydroelectric, fossil fuel and nuclear energy projects by 
powerful, First World environmental groups that insist that developing countries 
must rely on wind and solar power, or go without electricity. 

 This is Eco-Imperialism and its destructive 
to people and their environment. 

 Biotechnology could fortify plants with 
vitamins, to reduce malnutrition and blindness. It could increase crop yields, 
replace crops devastated by disease and drought, provide childrens 
vaccinations, and reduce the need to cultivate so much wildlife habitat, and use 
so many pesticides and fertilizers. 

 But ideological environmentalists oppose this 
technology, too on speculative environmental and specious ethical grounds. As 
Kenyan plant biologist Florence Wambugu says, I appreciate ethical concerns, 
but anything that doesnt feed our children is unethical. 

 Every year, 250 million Africans get so sick 
from malaria that they cannot work, go to school, care for their families or 
cultivate their fields, for weeks or months on end. Every year, 2 million 
Africans die from this dreaded disease far more than from AIDS. More 
than half are infants and children. 

 Millions more are so weakened from malaria that 
they succumb to AIDS, dysentery and other serial killers that stalk these 
impoverished lands. 

 How is this possible? It happens in part because 
environmental activists along with the World Health Organization and our own 
USAID tell these countries they must rely on bed nets and drug therapies, 
since the WHO and AID oppose and will not fund pesticides. 

 These people can afford to take this 
position. They live in wealthy, malaria-free societies because we used 
pesticides to eliminate malaria in the United States and Europe, and still use 
pesticides today to combat West Nile virus. 

 But their inhumane policies mean hundreds of 
thousands of children and parents will die every year who would live , 
if their countries could also use pesticides. 

 What can be done? 

 What I suggest is not a solution. But it will 
lay the foundation for a solution. I recommend that the subcommittee 
commission a careful, brutally honest study to explore three questions: 

 1. 
 Will biotechnology and non-renewable electrical generation be better or 
worse for plant and animal species, habitats, scenic values, air and water 
quality, and people in developing countries? 

 2. 
 Will greater prosperity in developing nations place greater stress on the 
Earth and its natural resources or will it free people from poverty, 
starvation and killer diseases unleash their creative energy and generate 
the wealth, human spirit and technological progress that can help conserve 
energy, mineral and environmental resources? 

 3. 
 Will the use of pesticides to control malaria, under careful, modern 
guidelines, harm or improve the environment of developing countries? In 
other words, should hypothetical risks of pesticides, or ideological opposition 
to them, override the clear health and economic benefits of using them? Does 
banning these pesticides violate the most basic human rights of people in these 
countries including their right to live? 
 I think I know the answers to these 
questions as do you. Our country is living proof. If the subcommittee accepts 
the Projects challenge, millions of parents, children and animals will be alive 
to thank it. 
 Thank you for this 
opportunity to testify. Id be happy to answer any questions. 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE