EHRP01 

 Economic 
 Human Rights Project 

 "Economic rights ARE human 
 rights" 

 An initiative of the Center for 
 the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 in cooperation with the Congress of Racial Equality. 
 Paul Driessen, Director. Niger Innis, CORE National Spokesperson. 

 Economic Human Rights 
Project: January 19, 2004 

 Congress of Racial 
Equality Ambassadorial Reception, New York City 

 Message from 
Alan Gottlieb, President, CDFE: We are proud to announce the Economic Human 
Rights Project, in cooperation with CORE, the Congress of Racial Equality. I am 
personally pleased to join in this project with Mr. Roy Innis, CORE chairman, a 
long-time ally in the fight for civil rights and individual liberty. As we stand 
side by side here in New York City, we look 
forward to great achievements together in bringing economic human rights to 
people everywhere. 

 Mr. Innis 
and I are pleased that Mr. Paul Driessen, noted author and veteran public policy 
expert, has agreed to take on the challenging job of Director of the Economic Human 
Rights Project. Mr. Driessen will be responsible for developing and 
implementing the Project's goals and programs. 

 The Economic Human 
Rights Project was approved at 
the Congress of Racial Equality 2004 Martin Luther King Holiday Celebration in 
New York City. 

 Director Paul Driessen, CORE Chairman Roy Innis, and CORE National 
Spokesperson Niger Innis made final arrangements for the cooperative venture 
between the Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise and the Congress of Racial 
Equality. 

 Center president Alan Gottlieb and executive 
vice president Ron Arnold attended. 

 Paul Driessen, Roy Innis, 
 Niger Innis 

 At the Ambassadorial Reception, Raymond V. Gilmartin, Chairman, President and Chief Executive 
Officer of Merck & Company, confirmed his company's continued work in Africa to 
provide free and low-cost drugs to fight HIV infection. The Economic Human 
Rights Project will be working to help people eliminate malaria, the continent's worst 
killer. 

 20 th Annual CORE Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Awards 
Celebration , 
New York City 

 At awards ceremony, Paul Driessen is 
recognized and Eco-Imperialism books are distributed to guests. 

 Iraq war hero Brigadier General Vincent 
 Brooks, California Supreme Court Justice Janice Rogers Brown, and American Conservative Union 
 Chairman David Keene were honored with awards for 
 outstanding service in "Living the Dream" of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 

 Project Director Paul Driessen was recognized 
for his new book Eco-Imperialism: Green Power Black Death , which was 
distributed to guests. 

 CORE National Spokesperson and author of the 
book's introduction, Niger Innis, announced a high-level seminar on 
Eco-Imperialism to be held at the Sheraton New York Hotel and Towers the next 
day, co-sponsored by CORE and the Womens' National Republican Club. 

 Next: 

 January 20, 2004 

 Eco-Imperialism 
Seminar, New York City. 

 RETURN TO ECONOMIC HUMAN RIGHTS 
PROJECT TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE