ELF 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 EARTH LIBERATION FRONT 

 01 /30/03 
 ECOTERROR

 Profile of Craig Rosebraugh 

 Former ELF 
 muffin man wants violent revolution - by others so he stays safe. 

 09/10/02 

 ECOTERRORISM 

 ELF 
Admits to Arson 

 Washington Times report on U.S. 
Forest Service torched by ELF, threat to use guns. 

 ELF website is at 
 earthliberationfront.com 

 Earth Liberation Front Profile 
 1992: 
Founded in Brighton, England, by Earth First! members who refused to abandon 
criminal acts as a tactic when others wished to "mainstream" Earth First! 

 February 1994: 
Earth First! leader Judi Bari recommends that Earth First! mainstream itself in 
the United States, leaving criminal acts other than unlawful protests to Earth 
Liberation Front. Published in Earth First Journal. 

 September 22, 1993: 
Animal Liberation Front and Earth Liberation Front publish communiqu declaring 
their solidarity of action. 
 Criminal acts for which Earth Liberation Front 
claimed responsibility: 

 1996 

 Oct. 28; Detroit, Oregon. 
 A U.S. Forest Service pickup is torched 
on the parking lot of the Detroit Ranger District headquarters. The saboteurs 
tag the building with "Earth Liberation Front" and other graffiti. A plastic jug 
rigged as an incendiary device is later found on the roof. It did not go off. 
Damages: $15,000. Joint ALF / ELF claim. 

 October 30, 1996. Near Eugene, Oregon. 
Arson destroyed U.S. Forest Service Oakridge Ranger Station south of Eugene. 
Cost estimate, $5.3 million. Not officially recognized as an ELF arson; 
disgruntled law enforcement officers assert that a joint ALF / ELF claim was 
received but not published. 

 1997 
 March 14, 1997. Near Eugene, Oregon. 
Tree spiking at Robinson-Scott timber harvest site in the Mackenzie River 
watershed, Willamette National Forest. Joint ALF / ELF claim. 

 July 21, 1997. Redmond, Oregon. 
Arson of Cavel West meat packing plant in Redmond. Estimated cost over $1 
million. Joint ALF / ELF claim. 

 Nov. 29; 1997. Hines, Oregon. 
 Arsonists destroy a U.S. Bureau of Land Management 
horse barn, chutes, pens and equipment. Four hundred horses are released, but 
they are later recaptured. The Earth Liberation Front and the Animal Liberation 
Front take joint responsibility. Damages: $474,000. 

 1998 

 July 3 1998. Middleton, Wisconsin. 
Break-in and release of 171 mink and ferrets from United Vaccines laboratory. 
Joint ALF / ELF claim. 

 June 28 1998. Boston, Massachusetts. 
Sprayed red paint on the Mexican Consulate in Boston to protest the treatment of 
peasants in Chiapas, Mexico. ELF claim without ALF. 

 June 2; Olympia, Washington. 
 Two U.S. Department of Agriculture wildlife 
stations, miles apart, go up in flames on the same morning. The Earth Liberation 
Front and Animal Liberation Front take joint responsibility for both of the 
attacks. Damages: $1.9 million. 

 Oct. 10, 1998. Rock Springs, Wyoming. 
 Would-be saboteurs cut the locks off horse pens at a 
BLM corral, freeing about 40 wild horses. Failed incendiaries are found next to 
a pickup truck and a building. The Earth Liberation Front and the Animal 
Liberation Front take joint responsibility. Damages: negligible. 

 Oct. 19, 1998. Vail, Colorado. 
 Fires ravage a portion of the Vail ski resort, seven 
structures destroyed: 4 ski lifts, a restaurant, a picnic facility, and a 
utility building. The Earth Liberation Front later claims it torched the resort 
because of proposed expansion into the declining habitat of lynx. Damages: $12 
million. 

 October 26, 1998: Powers, Michigan. 
Release of 5,000 mink at Tom Pipkorn's Mink Farm near Hermansville in the upper 
peninsula. An estimated 500 are run over on roads, starve, drown in a swimming 
pool or disappear. Damages: $100,000. ELF claim of responsibility faxed to 
Associated Press offices by North American Animal Liberation Front. 
 December 26, 1998: Oregon. Arson of U.S. Forest 
Industries' corporate headquarters in Medford, Oregon. The three alarm blaze 
resulted in over $500,000 in damages. ELF claimed responsibility in a communique. 

 Dec. 27, 1998. Medford, Oregon. 
 Fire ravages the headquarters of U.S. Forest 
Industries. An Earth Liberation Front communiqu issued weeks later by the 
Liberation Collective in Portland, Oregon says the strike was payback to a 
company it accused of razing forests and killing wild animals for profit. 
Damages: $700,000. 

 1999 

 Aug. 7, 1999. Escanaba, Michigan. 
A fishing boat is set ablaze in the driveway of a veterinarian who once worked 
as a mink rancher. A garage door is tagged with graffiti 18 inches high: "FUR IS 
MURDER. E.L.F." The Earth Liberation Front later claims in an Internet posting 
it targeted the veterinarian after finding a "Fur is Enough" sign outside his 
home. Damages: $15,000. 

 Dec. 25, 1999. Monmouth, Oregon. 
 Fire burns down a Boise Cascade timber management 
office. "Let this be a lesson to all greedy multinational corporations who don't 
respect their ecosystems," the Earth Liberation Front writes in a claim of 
responsibility to The Oregonian. "The elves are watching." Damages: $1 million.

 Dec. 31; Lansing, Mich. 
 Arson breaks out in the offices of Catherine Ives, 
Room 324, Michigan State University's Agriculture Hall, a campus landmark. The 
Earth Liberation Front later issues a communiqu saying it doused an office with 
gasoline and set it ablaze because the university financed development of 
genetically modified crops to force developing nations in Asia, Latin America 
and Africa to switch from natural crop plants to gentically engineered sweet 
potatoes, corn, bananas and pineapples. Monsanto and USAID are major funders of 
the research and promotional work being done through Michigan State University. 
According to local newspapers, the fire caused some $400,000 in damage. "Cremate 
Monsanto, Long live the E.L.F. On to the next GE target!" 

 2000 

 Jan. 23; Bloomington, Ind. 
Fire destroys a luxury home under construction at the Sterling Woods 
Development. Investigators find a cryptic message spray-painted in black on a 
sign near the house: "No Sprawl - ELF." Damages $200,000. An ELF statement 
obtained by the Environment News Service says, "The house was targeted because 
the sprawling development it is located in is in the Lake Monroe Watershed. This 
is the drinking water supply for the town of Bloomington, Indiana and the 
surrounding area. It is already being jeopardized by existing development and 
roads." 

 April 30; Bloomington, Ind. 
At least six pieces of logging and heavy construction equipment are sabotaged 
and a trailer full of wood chips is set ablaze at a road construction site just 
outside the city. A communiqu from the Earth Liberation Front states its plan 
was to punish those developing wooded areas around Bloomington, which "have 
turned what was once forested land into parking lots, luxury houses for rich 
scum and expanded roads." Damages: $75,000. 

 July 20; Rhinelander, Wis. 
Vandals hack down thousands of experimental trees, mostly poplars, and 
spray-paint vehicles at a U.S. Forest Service research station. The Earth 
Liberation Front claims the attack was against bioengineering, although 
researchers say the trees were bred naturally to grow faster and resist 
diseases. Damages: $1 million. 

 Sept. 9; Bloomington, Ind. 
Fire erupts at the headquarters of the Monroe County Republican Party Committee 
headquarters. Investigators say a flammable liquid was poured on the building 
and ignited. The arson was a reminder, according to the Earth Liberation Front 
communiqu, that it would not sit quietly as politicians pushed for plans to 
extend an interstate highway. Damages: $1,500. 

 Oct. 18; Shoals, Ind. 
Vandals find four pieces of heavy logging equipment in the Martin State Forest 
and cut hoses, slash seats, destroy gauges and pour sand in the engines, fuel 
tanks and radiators. They leave spray-painted graffiti including, "Earth Raper," 
"Go Cut in Hell," and "ELF." Damages: $55,000. 

 Nov. 27; Niwot, Colo. 
 Arson hits one of the first luxury homes going up in 
a new subdivision. The Earth Liberation Front later sends a note, made of 
letters clipped from magazines, to the Boulder Weekly newspaper: "Viva la 
revolution! The Boulder ELF burned the Legend Ridge mansion on Nov. 27th." The 
underground group explains in a follow-up communiqu that the arson was driven 
by defeat of a statewide ballot measure to control growth. Damages: $500,000.

 Dec. 9; Middle Island, N.Y. 
 Fire erupts in a condominium under construction. The 
Earth Liberation Front claims responsibility, saying the homes were "future dens 
of the wealthy elite." The group, announcing "an unbounded war on urban sprawl," 
claims it checked for occupants - human and animal - in 16 condos before setting 
incendiaries in them. Damages: $200,000. 

 Dec. 19; Miller Place, N.Y. 
A house under construction goes up in flames. "Building homes for the wealthy 
should not even be a priority," the Earth Liberation Front writes in its 
communiqu. "Forests, farms and wetlands are being replaced with a sea of 
houses, green chemical lawns, blacktop and roadkill." Damages: $50,000. 

 Dec. 30; Mount Sinai, N.Y. 
 Three luxury homes under construction are set 
ablaze, and a fourth is spray-painted with graffiti: "If you build it we will 
burn it." The ELF issues a communiqu saying, "This hopefully provided a firm 
message that we will not tolerate the destruction of our island." Damages: 
$160,000. 

 2001 

 Jan. 2; Glendale, Oregon. 
 Fire ravages the offices of Superior Lumber Co., the 
town of 770's leading employer. The arson is the third holiday conflagration of 
an Oregon timber firm in as many years. It summons investigators from local, 
state and federal law enforcement agencies. Damages: $400,000. 

 Feb. 15; Suffolk County, New York. 
 Charged with arson and arson conspiracy in 
connection with the Long Island, New York arsons, were Connor Cash, 19. Cash 
entered a not guilty plea. Charged with arson conspiracy were Jared McIntyre, 
17, Matthew Rammelkamp, 16, and George Mashkow Jr., 17. Cash, of Sound Beach, 
was charged with conspiring with the others to burn the Mount Sinai homes Dec. 
30. Prosecutors said he procured the gasoline for the incendiary devices and 
instructed the others to carry out the torching because as an adult, he feared 
he would face greater penalties if caught. McIntyre, of Coram, and the other two 
were accused of carrying out the Dec. 9 arson of four new homes in Middle Island 
and plotting to torch a Center Moriches duck farm and a McDonald's in Miller 
Place. Mashkow, of Coram, and McIntyre were charged in the Dec. 19 torching of a 
home under construction in Miller Place. Rammelkamp, of Miller Place, and 
McIntyre were charged with carrying out the torching of the Mount Sinai homes. 
As part of plea bargains with federal prosecutors, George Mashkow and Matthew 
Rammelkamp pleaded guilty as adults and agreed to cooperate with investigations 
into ELF and a related group, the Animal Liberation Front. Jared McIntyre also 
pleaded guilty to arson conspiracy. 
 Contacts: 
 ELF: David Barbarash, Canada 
 Unofficial: Lance Robertson, sympathetic 
reporter, Eugene Register-Guard, 541-485-1234. 

RETURN TO ECOTERRORISM TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO 
CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE