Environmentalists Enforce Starvation 

http://www.spokesmanreview.com/news-story.asp?date=092102&ID=s1220155&cat=section.commentary 
 Arrogant zealots harm 
more than help 
 Dennis Avery slams the 
environmental radicals who argue Africans should starve rather than eat 
genetically engineered food that is, in fact, safe. 

 Dennis T. Avery 
Knight Ridder

 WASHINGTON -- Have environmental activists adopted the ethics of the Ku Klux 
Klan? In Africa, environmental groups like Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth 
have lobbied the governments of drought-stricken countries not to distribute 
American corn donated as food aid to their millions of starving people because 
it might contain genetically modified kernels. 
 No matter that most of their American members have been eating such 
foodstuffs for the past decade with no ill effects! The membership of Greenpeace 
and Friends say starving Africans should forgo it so Western greens can make an 
obscure political point. 
 The president of Zambia says the activists told him the corn is "poison." 
This is the same pest-resistant corn approved for safety by three U.S. 
government agencies, and eaten daily since 1995 by millions of Americans in such 
forms as corn flakes, corn flour and, through livestock feed, hamburgers and ice 
cream. Biotech foods have undergone more testing than any foods in history, with 
no danger found. 
 But in Zambia, 17,000 tons of U.S. corn is locked in warehouses, while 
desperate women and children grub for roots and eat tree bark. A blind old man 
cries out for something, anything to eat. 
 An observer in Johannesburg writes, "The message of death from Greenpeace was 
clear: `You darkies must go hungry, poison your soils, and poison your 
biodiversity until we, the wise white Bwanas from Europe, decide that GM crops 
are acceptable.' The sickening, condescending, callous, racist arrogance of 
Greenpeace!" 
 Meanwhile, at the "Earth Summit plus 10" in Johannesburg, three policemen 
were wounded by angry activists. The protesters weren't angry about the wild 
creatures being killed and eaten by starving people whose farming systems are 
too primitive to provide food security. The activists were instead declaring 
their solidarity with Palestinian "suicide bombers." 
 In the Netherlands, a candidate for prime minister was murdered last year -- 
shot at close range with hand-loaded hollow-point bullets -- by an animal rights 
activist apparently angry over fur farming and confinement hog production. 
 Animal rights fanatics beat a medical research executive with a baseball bat 
and burned the apartment of a financial firm's president. The men attacked had 
committed the "crime" of aiding the search for medicines to cure diseases in the 
most effective way we know -- testing new medicines on a few laboratory animals. 
Such testing has saved millions of human and animal lives. 
 In August, the Earth Liberation Front torched a U.S. Forest Service research 
laboratory in Pennsylvania. The lab was researching sustainable forestry. The 
group said it was protesting "proposed timber sales, oil drilling and 
greed-driven manipulation of nature." 
 Worse, the ELF communique claiming responsibility for the fire declared that 
segments of this global revolutionary movement are no longer limiting their 
revolutionary potential by adhering to a flawed, inconsistent "nonviolent" 
ideology ... "where necessary, we will no longer hesitate to pick up the gun to 
implement justice." 
 I recently received an e-mail from a woman I'll call Harriet. She says, "I 
feel you must be enlightened, somehow ... factory farm hogs are tormented, 
tortured and traumatized. ... Don't encourage people to eat this kind of meat. 
It is killing us." 
 Of course, we all owe a debt to the environmental movement. They called our 
attention to the environmental dangers years before we might have elevated 
eco-priorities without their urging. 
 Patrick Moore, a co-founder of Greenpeace, still contends that nonviolent 
confrontation was valid in the 1970s, when virtually no one paid any attention 
to protecting the environment. But Moore resigned from the group in the 
mid-1980s, because Greenpeace was still bent on confrontation, even though a 
huge majority of the public by then supported environmental protection. 
 The very success of the environmental movement may have made it inevitable 
that some eco-zealots would overestimate their virtue and power. 
 I was privileged to be in the 1963 March on Washington, when the Rev. Martin 
Luther King gave his famous "I Have a Dream" speech. King, I feel sure, would be 
the first to warn us that violence and inhumanity have no place in American 
democracy. It doesn't matter if they're intended to further civil rights, 
environmental protection or other lofty goals. 
 Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth are zealots who believe they are pursuing 
a noble cause -- and that their way is the only way. We must remember that those 
sentiments are held by the remnants of both the KKK and the primitive fanatics 
who attacked us last September. 

 Dennis Avery is the director of the Center for Global Food Issues at the 
 Hudson Institute (www.hudson.org).