Environmentalism and the Blackout 

 Downeast Coastal Press 
 August 19, 2003 
 Blackout Sheds Light on 
 Environmentalisms Opposition to an 
 Advanced Industrial Society 

 by Erich Veyhl 

 During the major blackout of New York City in the mid 1960s, people stood 
 across the Hudson River in New Jersey staring in awe at what was then regarded 
 as a freak once-in-a-lifetime failure in modern industrial society. Since 
 then, blackouts and inadequate supplies of energy, such as those occurring 
 regularly in California in recent years, and the dramatic breakdown this week 
 in the Northeast, Midwest and Canada, have become more routine. 
 Failures and shortages in electric power generation and breakdowns in its 
 distribution grid are still regarded as major inconveniences, but their cause 
 is now shrugged off as one of those things that just happen. New York Mayor 
 Bloomberg called the recent blackout a natural occurrence. Another typical 
 reaction is maybe terrorists did it, which along with yet another layer of 
 permanent government intrusion and restrictions since 9/11, is also becoming 
 accepted as just part of life. 
 Public assessment and rejection of the causes of a pattern of failure 
 illustrated by this weeks blackout is long overdue. The electric power 
 industry suffers under New Deal era regulations, while environmentalist 
 restrictions and prohibitions prevent new development of energy production and 
 distribution across the board. Attempts to partially reform control over the 
 industry have been tied up in the Senate for two years, mostly by 
 environmentalist pressure groups and their allies and apologists in 
 government. 
 The environmentalist ideological war against industrial civilization, 
 including its opposition to energy production and in particular energy 
 consumption as well as a culturally well-established anti-business, 
 anti-producer mentality in general, are all taking their toll. 
 Superficial explanations in terms of specific events and personalities of 
 the moment, not policies and philosophical outlook, are a smoke screen. One 
 example is Hillary Clintons latest shrill attack pointing to the corruption 
 in Enron as if it were a basic cause, not an effect, while blaming the 
 blackout personally on George Bush for favoring privatization instead of 
 seeking further controls and nationalization of the energy industry. As a 
 supporter of the discredited policies of Gov. Gray Davis, Clinton also blamed 
 the blackout on the current recall election in California, as if any of this 
 had anything to do with the decades of government policy and philosophy 
 leading to the state of the industry today. 
 It all reminds me of the events portrayed in a novel I read and enjoyed 
 long ago, Ayn Rands Atlas Shrugged . So does the widespread passive 
 public acceptance of progressively worse breakdowns and disasters as now 
 normal, while our political and cultural leaders routinely engage in class 
 warfare envy rhetoric against the rich, smugly blaming the producers they 
 seek to control, hobble and exploit. So does the failure of the producers, 
 treated like a persecuted minority, to defend themselves reluctant to 
 challenge the moral intimidation directed at them as they quietly continue to 
 work at whatever they are still permitted, or gradually drop out, only to be 
 replaced by the less competent or, worse, hucksters and manipulators 
 symbolized by the Enron and MCI/WorldCom scandals. 
 The political lefts drumbeat of attacks on capitalism, corporations and 
 business as such has been around for a long time. But while the economic 
 failure and unworkability of socialism and statism is increasingly 
 acknowledged, the ideological moral ideal of Marxist scientific socialism 
 and its impossible promise of economic progress by such means has been 
 replaced by a new goal defined by the environmentalists. They, misportrayed as 
 scientists, hold a vision of romanticized primitivism and economic deprivation 
 regarded in principle as a goal for mankind. The left has finally endorsed 
 this moral ideal for which their economic and political methods work. 
 The advanced industrial society we currently enjoy is not the natural 
 state of mankind. It took millennia for mankind to rise above its original, 
 natural state as primitive, tribalist hunter-gatherers living short, brutal 
 lives made possible at all only by back-breaking labor and a perpetual 
 physical battle against an unpredictable and often harsh nature. 
 Rising above that level of existence is possible only under certain 
 conditions. It requires an advanced culture of individualism, rationality, 
 creativity, and political and intellectual freedom from the tribe. It requires 
 a culture in which the individuals pursuit of happiness is widely accepted 
 as a moral ideal, with the purpose of government being to protect the rights 
 of the individual. It requires leaving the individual free to use his mind and 
 to create, obeying and altering the natural environment for his benefit in the 
 pursuit of his dreams of a life on earth that is not provided automatically by 
 nature. We can only enjoy nature within the context of advanced 
 civilization, which that makes possible; otherwise nature becomes a 
 perpetual nightmare in which we struggle for our very survival as 
 illustrated by mans original life in the cave and his descent into the Dark 
 Ages, where cold and dark were natural. 
 We cannot artificially produce energy supplementing primitive muscle-power 
 on the industrial scale required for advanced human life if the logging of 
 trees, the mining of coal and uranium and the drilling of natural gas and oil, 
 as well as the production and delivery of energy in the form in which we use 
 it, are prohibited on principle everywhere the environmentalists can get away 
 with it for the sake of yet another unique area in a natural, pristine 
 environment. But that is now almost everywhere in the United States. This 
 rhetoric misleads a gullible public into thinking that every barren, forsaken 
 area they want to preserve from mans artificial tampering is the Grand 
 Canyon. To their anti-human, nature-worshipping minds, everything is the Grand 
 Canyon, not to be touched except by wilderness hikers. 
 The energy we use does not fall out of the sky for free, but if it did, the 
 greens would oppose our unnatural use of that, too. The only alternative to 
 industrial-scale energy technology they endorse is politically correct 
 alternative energy that is not economically practical to actually use and 
 if someone tries to implement it on some more limited economic scale, he is 
 opposed by enviro activists for obstructing the viewshed in the name of the 
 natural flight paths of birds (windmills), swimming of fish 
 (hydro-electric), or their equivalent. 
 The Constitution and the principles of the founding of the (original) 
 American form of government are not compatible with eco-socialism. 
 Protecting an untouched environment against exploitation by mankind 
 the viros vision and goal for our culture at the expense of the individuals 
 pursuit of happiness and the property rights required to achieve it in reality 
 is not a function of government proscribed or allowed by the Constitution. 
 Its time for those who want to live on earth, not worship it from a dark 
 cave, to reject on principle the alleged scientific and moral superiority of 
 the environmentalists ideological shut it down and lock it up mentality. 
 Stop granting them the moral sanction of the victim and leave them to argue 
 among themselves in some malaria-invested swamp instead of dictating suicidal 
 national policies to the rest of us. 

 Copyright 2003 Erich Veyhl, All Rights Reserved 

 RETURN 
 TO DISMANTLING INDUSTRY TOP PAGE 

 RETURN 
 TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE