The Endangered Species Act at 30: Time for Reform 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 AGENDA 2005 
 Making a Difference 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 The Endangered 
 Species Act 
 The ESA at 30: Time for 
 Congress to Update & Strengthen the Law 
 A report by 
 Richard W. Pombo (R-CA), Chairman 

 I. The Endangered Species Act - History 
 The Endangered Species Act (ESA) was signed into law on December 28, 
 1973, by President Richard Milhous Nixon. Nothing is more priceless and 
 more worthy of preservation than the rich array of animal life with which 
 our country has been blessed , he said. It is a many-faceted 
 treasure, of value to scholars, scientists, and nature lovers alike, and it 
 forms a vital part of the heritage we all share as Americans. 
 Thirty years after he signed the landmark law, President Nixons words 
 still ring true. Recognizing what would forever be a noble and important 
 cause, Nixon sought to give the government both the authority to make early 
 identification of endangered species, and the means to act thoroughly to 
 conserve and recover them to healthy populations. 
 We as a people have made great strides in species conservation in the 
 second half of the 20th century. In fact, a few of the most 
 widely-recognized species in the world once stood at the brink of extinction 
 in the United States, but have since sustained their populations. The 
 American Bald Eagle, the American Alligator, and the Peregrine Falcon, for 
 example, are great success stories in American conservation efforts. 

 Efforts to protect and recover these species began long before the ESA 
 was signed into law. For example, the Bald Eagle Act of 1940, which made it 
 illegal to hunt the eagle, many state and local conservation efforts, and a 
 ban on the poison DDT all contributed to the more robust Bald Eagle and 
 Peregrine Falcon populations the United States enjoys today. 
 Unfortunately, success stories in species recovery due to the ESA are few 
 and far between. The law has fallen victim to unintended consequences, 
 partisan politics, and counter-productive lawsuits filed by environmental 
 organizations. These forces have rendered the ESA a broken law that is in 
 desperate need of updating and modernizing after thirty years of failure. 
 Congress has an obligation to address these unintended consequences and 
 refocus the law's application on species recovery, its original intent. 
 II. ESA by the Numbers: 12 out of 1304 recovered 
 The Endangered Species Act has become a program that checks species in 
 for protection, conservation, and recovery, but never checks them out. 
 According to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), there are currently 
 1265 species in the United States that are listed under the ESA as 
 threatened or endangered. An additional 39 species were listed and de-listed 
 over the last thirty-years, for a grand total of 1304 species in the Acts 
 history. 
 Most Americans are surprised to learn that only 12 of these 1304 
 species have been recovered in the Act's history, according to the 
 Fish and Wildlife Services data on

 de-listed species . That is an abysmal, less than 1 percent rate 
 of species recovery. The FWS's statistics show that only 30 percent 
 of species are "stable" and only 9 percent are "improving." 

 Moreover, numerous qualified studies assert that none of the species 
 listed by the FWS to have been recovered in the United States may 
 reasonably be claimed to have recovered as a result of the ESA. The fact is 
 that the few recovery success stories are not even attributable to 
 regulatory protections under the ESA, but unrelated factors such as bans on 
 DDT and other organochlorides. 
 For example, in its 1997 report,

 Conservation Under the Endangered Species Act, A Promise Broken , The 
 National Wilderness Institute (NWI) states that there is no case which 
 required the ESA to bring about the improvement of a species and in at 
 least four of the claimed recovery cases there was little demonstrable 
 change in the species condition attributable to anything other than data 
 error. 
 In short, the Endangered Species Act has failed to recover species, which 
 was the intent of the law. As a result, the ESA is becoming more and more of 
 an unsustainable program. In addition to the 1265 species currently listed 
 nationwide, 257 additional " candidate " 
 species are now proposed for listing. 

 III. Unintended Consequences 
 Environmental Litigation 
 The Law of Unintended Consequences has been especially unkind to the 
 Endangered Species Act. What was born of a desire to apply American 
 ingenuity to the cause of saving species has become a tool not for species 
 recovery, but for political, ideological, and fundraising goals. 
 Under the mantra of species protection, radical environmental 
 organizations use the ESA to raise funds, block development projects, and 
 prohibit legal land uses of nearly every kind. By filing inordinate numbers 
 of lawsuits under the ESA, environmental organizations have hand-cuffed the 
 FWS to courtroom defense tables, draining the time, money, and manpower 
 Congress intended the service to spend on species recovery in the field. 
 According to the Tulane University Environmental Law Journal, The entire 
 ESA budget runs the risk of being consumed by the bottomless pit of 
 litigation driven listings and designations. It does not end there. As Yogi 
 Berra might say, the bottomless pit is getting even deeper: as soon as the 
 FWS makes a decision driven by a court imposed deadline, it is being sued on 
 the merits of that decision. (16 Tul. Envtl. L.J. 257) 

 This is where the FWS is today: the 
 decisions relating to ESA listings and designations, arguably the most 
 important decisions under the law because they trigger all other 
 protections, are driven solely by litigation. The FWS has lost all 
 flexibility in making its own determinations as to which species is most 
 endangered and should be listed first, and which habitat is most 
 vulnerable and should be designated as critical. Litigation-driven 
 actions prioritize only those species that have a plaintiff behind them 
 (and often a larger political objective), rather than those species that 
 are most endangered. (16 Tul. Envtl. L.J. 
 257) 

 In yet another substantive analysis of ESA lawsuits filed by 
 environmental organizations, the Sacramento Bee found that government 
 biologists are being forced to spend more time on legal chores than on 
 field work to recover species. The result? These organizations and their 
 attorneys are collecting millions while species are ignored. ( Sacramento 
 Bee, Environment, Inc. ) Litigation involving the Endangered Species Act 
 has become like 'piecework' for these groups, as they seek attorney's fees 
 and court awards from the federal government for the suits they file. 
 In fact, the flood of environmental litigation became so great that it 
 bankrupted the Fish and Wildlife Services fund for critical habitat in May 
 of 2003, ( U.S. 
 Department of Interior ). But this is certainly not new to the current 
 Administration. In a 2001 New York Times op-ed, former Secretary of the 
 Interior Bruce Babbitt described the effects of environmental litigation 
 thusly: Struggling to keep up with these court orders, the Fish and 
 Wildlife Service has diverted its best scientists and much of its budget for 
 the Endangered Species Act away from more important tasks like evaluating 
 candidates for listing and providing other protections for species on the 
 brink of extinction. 
 The best alternative is to amend the Endangered Species Act , 
 Babbitt continued, giving biologists the unequivocal discretion 
 to prepare maps when the scientific surveys are complete. Only then can we 
 make meaningful judgments about what habitat should receive protection. 

 Science Not Defined 
 The Endangered Species Act relies on a standard of best scientific data 
 available for regulatory decision-making such as listing a species as 
 threatened or endangered and designating critical habitat. Unfortunately, 
 Congress failed to define science when the law was written in 1973 and to 
 specifically outline whether or not particular data would meet this 
 standard. 

 The problem with a best available data standard is that best is a 
 comparative word. Thus the data need not be verified, reliable, 
 conclusive, adequate, verifiable, accurate or even good. The best 
 available data standard hampers the effectiveness of the program.
 This is certainly true in practice. Agencies that evaluate scientific 
 data under the ESA - and courts forced to evaluate agency decisions 
 based upon such data - have found their efforts severely hamstrung by 
 two factors: (1) the ESAs lack of definitional terms and (2) the fact 
 that species data is, by its very nature, often vague, ambiguous, and 
 frequently subject to best-professional judgment rather than objectively 
 quantifiable. 

 The scientific community would generally agree that, in terms of 
 ESA, the best science would be comprised of data that had been 
 collected by established standards or protocols, properly 
 analyzed, and then peer-reviewed before published or released to 
 the public. Such information is assumed to be reliable and the 
 conclusions drawn usually can be duplicated to test the accuracy 
 of the information. Unfortunately, the ESA currently has no such 
 standards in either the provisions of law or in the accompanying 
 regulations. (16 Tul. Envtl. L.J. 387) 

 Some of our nations other environmental laws have avoided this problem 
 by requiring peer review. The Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), for example, 
 employs the best available standard, but also requires that data be peer 
 reviewed and in accordance with sound and objective scientific practices. 
 Given the fact that FWS will even consider oral and anecdotal data on 
 species, the need for a more rigorous scientific review for the ESA, such as 
 that used in the SDWA, is clear. 
 The absence of clear, objective standards has resulted in a litany of

 data errors and poor decisions on species protection and critical 
 habitat designations. These errors waste valuable agency resources that 
 could be spent on species in proven need of recovery efforts. 
 Shoot, Shovel, and Shut-up 
 Another major unintended consequence of the ESA stems from the fact that 
 it creates an adversarial relationship between government regulators and the 
 people who are most critical to the goal of saving endangered species: 
 Americas farmers, ranchers, and private property owners. Known as the 
 shoot, shovel, and shut up syndrome, research shows that the ESA has 
 created perverse incentives that prompt land owners to actually destroy 
 species habitat to rid their property of the liability that comes with 
 endangered species. 

 Michael Bean of Environmental Defense has noted 
 that ESA regulations have unintended negative consequences, 
 including antagonizing many of the landowners whose actions will 
 ultimately determine the fate of many species. In addition, 
 increasing in evidence that at least some private land owners are 
 actively managing their land so as to avoid potential endangered 
 species problemsnot the result of malice toward the 
 environmentbut fairly rational decisions motivated by a desire to 
 avoid potentially significant economic constraintspredictable 
 responses to the familiar perverse incentives that sometimes 
 accompany regulatory programs. 

 (1994 Speech, FWS) 

 This adversarial relationship and land-owner propensity to preemptively 
 destroy species and their habitats is only perpetuated, if not 
 exacerbated by management actions that are devoid of sound science and 
 common sense. In the recent case of the Klamath Basin and the 
 endangered sucker fish, for example, it was determined that the sucker 
 fish needed water supplies more than the area's farmers needed it to 
 irrigate their crops and feed their families. The result was a 
 devastating loss of family farms, human life and economic vitality. Only 
 after the damage was done, the National Academy of Science (NAS) 
 determined that decision by the federal government to shut off 
 irrigation water to nearly 1,200 farmers and ranchers had no sound 
 scientific basis. 
 Or, consider the case of the endangered longhorn 

 elderberry bark beetle and the Arboga levee in California. Weak levees 
 went without repair because the work might have disturbed the habitat of the 
 endangered beetle. The result: a huge flood broke the levee at the exact 
 point where repairs were needed. Three human beings lost their lives. 
 Approximately 500 homes, 9000 acres of prime farmland, and the four largest 
 employers in the poorest county in the state were flooded. Overall, 35,000 
 people where displaced. 
 These and hundreds of other

 horror stories and cases of

 government abuse (report pages 25-34) under the ESA have fostered an 
 adversarial relationship between government regulators and private property 
 owners. This is incredibly deleterious to the goal of saving species because 
 over 90% have habitat on private lands. ( General Accounting Office, 
 Endangered Species Act: Information on Species Protection on Nonfederal 
 Lands. ) 
 IV. Problems in Diagnosis and 
 Prescription 
 When the science is in fact accurate in "diagnosing" a species as 
 threatened or endangered, the "treatment" aspects of the law remain fatally 
 flawed. They are ambiguous, open to arbitrary personal judgment and do not 
 rely on sound science or peer-reviewed research as outlined above. Known as 
 "listing" and "critical habitat" respectively, these key elements of the act 
 are responsible for the misdiagnosis of species as endangered or threatened 
 and the application of a one-size-fits-all solution. 
 When a species is listed for protection, treatment comes in the form of 
 critical habitat designations, which forbid the use of lands by or for 
 anything but the species. Critical habitat is one of the most perverse 
 shortcomings of the act. It has been interpreted to mean that if an animal 
 is determined to be in trouble, there is only one viable option -- to 
 designate critical habitat -- and "let nature take its course." 

 This "hands-off" approach fails to recognize amazing strides in 
 technology, biology and medicine over the last thirty years, which is 
 why FWS has long maintained that critical habitat designations afford 
 little protections for the species. It is the FWS lowest priority. Yet, 
 because of litigation, the FWS will use the entire amount capped for 
 designations for that purpose. It is thus devoting two-thirds of its 
 listing program to actions it believes have little value for the 
 species. (16 Tul. Envtl. L.J. 257) Indeed, both Republican and 
 Democrat administrations have agreed that critical habitat designations 
 contribute little, if anything, to species recovery. The Clinton 
 administration's, Fish and Wildlife Service Director, Jamie Rappaport 
 Clark,

 testified before Congress in 1999 that the critical habitat 
 provision "provides little additional protection to most listed species, 
 while it consumes significant amounts of scarce conservation resources. 

 "Critical habitat has turned our priorities upside-down. Species 
 that are in need of protection are having to be ignored. This is a 
 biological disaster." 
 - Jamie Rappaport Clark, Sacramento Bee, April 24, 2001 

 Likewise, Craig Manson, the current Assistant Secretary for Fish and 
 Wildlife and Parks, has testified that the present system for designating 
 critical habitat is broken and that it provides little real conservation 
 benefit but consumes enormous agency resources and imposes huge social and 
 economic costs. (Manson

 testimony) 
 V. Updating and Strengthening the ESA 
 Many observers of the Endangered Species Act have gauged the laws 
 performance on how many species are listed annually and have avoided 
 extinction. However, merely preventing extinction is not a long-term 
 measurable success, nor was it the intent of the law. The law was intended 
 to conserve and recover Americas endangered 
 species. In that light, the Act has failed. It must be updated and 
 strengthened to focus on results for species recovery or it will continue to 
 be an unsustainable program that checks species in, but never checks them 
 out. 
 Among the priorities: 

 Incentivize Stewardship : Because Americas endangered species 
 reside predominantly on private lands, Congress must take steps to get 
 landowners on the side of the species by removing unintended 
 consequences and incentivizing species stewardship. 

 Establishing well-defined scientific standards for listing and critical 
 habitat decisions will be instrumental to this effort by reducing the 
 incidence of data error and focusing the disbursement of valuable agency 
 resources in species most in need of agency attention. 

 Focus on Recovery : Generally, the Act must also place greater 
 emphasis on recovery actions over bureaucratic listing actions. It must 
 encourage the use of innovative approaches to increase species 
 populations. This can be done, in part, by moving the designation of 
 critical habitat into the development of species recovery planning. 

 Strengthening the Act includes improving the quality of science used to 
 make policy decisions. This will enable the effective use of federal 
 monies and time in restoring species populations truly in need.
 Updating the Endangered Species Act and the way its implementation will 
 provide necessary funding for better implementation of the Act and the 
 tools necessary to enable private landowners and states to be partners in 
 achieving the goals of the Act. 

 Working in cooperation with conservation organizations and private 
 landowners is the path to species recovery. 

 Encourage States to play more active roles in state and local 
 based innovation and collaboration that recover species. 

 Additional Informational Resources 
 The Congressional Research Service - 

 www.crs.gov - 
 The National Endangered Species Act Reform Coalition -

 www.nesarc.org - 
 Western Governor's Association -

 www.westgov.org - 
 The National Wilderness Institute -

 www.nwi.org - 

 RETURN TO AGENDA 2005 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE