Flower Power used to stop new homes 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Ron 
 Arnold's Notebook: 
 Flowers the latest weapon 
 in war against new homes 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

Transplanted Wildflower on California Housing Site 
Prompts Criminal Investigation 

 Authorities in 
California have accused environmentalists of dirty tricks after discovering 
endangered wildflowers on a site scheduled for development. The state Department 
of Fish and Game has launched a criminal investigation into the sudden 
appearance of limnanthes vinculans, a low growing white wildflower commonly 
known as Sebastopol Meadowfoam, on the 21 acre Laguna Vista site in Sebastopol, 
near San Francisco. 

 Robert Evans, an 
opponent of the Laguna Vista housing development in Sebastopol reported finding 
specimens of the rare Sebastopol meadowfoam on the development site in April. 
Investigators determined that the 30 flowers did not grow on the site but had 
been transplanted. 

 "The location of 
the plants, the type of clusters that were found, the fact that they were on 
sloping areas that normally this type of plant is not found on, gave us the 
first indication," said Fish and Game's Troy Swauger. "To find this on a 
development site at this point indicates to us that they have been transplanted. 
We're considering this a criminal act." 

 The species, 
which grows less than a foot tall and has tiny, white flowers, has been found in 
less than thirty locations in seasonally wet meadows around the Sonoma County 
wetlands area known as the Laguna de Santa Rosa, according to a fish and game 
website. 

 Both federal and 
state authorities list the meadowfoam, as an endangered plant. Both possession 
of an endangered species and translocating an endangered plant species are 
illegal, said Swauger. 

Environmentalists have opposed construction on the 21-acre patch of land because 
of its proximity to the wetlands area, which one city official said has already 
been greatly compromised by previous development in the county. 

 "Laguna de Santa 
Rosa is one of the most significant wetlands areas in Sonoma County," said 
Sebastopol city planning director Kenyon Webster, "a large watershed relatively 
diverse although severely compromised over the last 200 years through 
agricultural activity and development." 

 Webster said the 
state investigation sparked by the meadowfoam flowers has hampered the city's 
efforts to move forward with construction on the 145 units of housing. 

 "The additional 
environmental studies that we were starting to do and public review that we 
would have done will not occur," Webster said. 

 Swauger said 
whoever transplanted the meadowfoam could be slapped with a $5,000 fine and face 
up to a year in county jail. Federal penalties for harming an endangered species 
could result in a $50,000 fine for each incident and a year in federal prison. 

 "This isn't a 
standard poaching case, it's not a standard environmental violation case. This 
is something that's unusual," Swauger said. 

 Once its 
investigation is complete, Swogger said his department would turn its findings 
to the district attorney, who must then decide whether to press charges. 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 

VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE