Foreign Terrorism 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 FOREIGN TERRORISTS 
 AND NATIONAL SECURITY 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 TOP STORIES: 

 Yes, 
This Is About Islam 

 Novelist Salman 
Rushdie speaks the unspoken obvious. Repost from 2001. 

 Transcript of Osama bin Laden tape 
 Department of Defense transcript showing bin Laden gloating over Islam's victory 
in American deaths 

The events of September 11, 2001 
made clear the most severe threat to American free enterprise in history. 

 The suicide missions using hijacked 
airliners targeted the twin towers of the World Trade Center as the most visible 
symbol of capitalism and the Pentagon as the center of U.S. military power. The 
hijacked plane in which passengers overwhelmed the terrorists and crashed in 
Pennsylvania may have been targeted at the White House or Capitol building. 
 The Islamist terrorists who carried 
out the September 11 attacks represent an ideology that seeks the destruction of 
capitalism and its greatest symbol, the United States, through jihad , or 
"religious war." 
 President Bush responded with 
America's War on Terrorism. Congress passed and the President signed the 
USA PATRIOT Act anti-terrorism bill. The Center strongly supports the Congress 
and the President in the War on Terrorism, recognizing the dangers to civil 
liberties in wartime legislation but supporting wartime law enforcement 
capabilities and scrutinizing the application of the law for abuses. 
 Islamist religious fanaticism poses 
a far more dangerous threat to free enterprise than communism during the Soviet 
era in Russia. It is imperative for an informed American citizenry to know this 
enemy. The term Islamist is used is the sense defined in the 
 Encyclopeadia of the Orient . 
In brief: Islamism is opposed to secular democratic governments and 
institutions; is opposed to non-Muslim culture, values and art; is opposed to 
both capitalism and socialism in most forms; feels inferiority since the decline 
of the great Muslim empires that once ruled the known world; tends towards 
dreams and delusions of grandeur; is fascinated by modern technology; uses 
violence to achieve its goals. 
 Islamic leaders caution that 
Islamist fanaticism is not representative of the views of most Muslims . 
 Posted here to increase public 
understanding of the September 11 attacks by Islamist terrorists are discussions of 
"martyrdom operations," as Islamists call such suicide missions. 

The Islamic Legitimacy of The "Martyrdom Operations" is an 
article from Nida'ul Islam magazine in Australia justifying suicide 
missions. It is vital for Americans to understand the religious underpinnings of 
the September 11 terrorist attacks. 

 The Islamic Ruling On 
The Permissibility Of Martyrdom Operations 
is a more complex discussion by Islamic scholars justifying suicide missions. 
The discussion contains many Islamic terms from the Arabic unfamiliar to most 
Americans. A search engine such as Google can find most of them in an 
understandable context. 
 For a thoroughgoing presentation of 
extreme anti-American Islamist propaganda, visit 
 http://www.inin.net/ , website of the Islamic 
News and Information Network. 
 National Security 

 Declaration of National Emergency 
by Reason Of Certain Terrorist Attacks 
 09/14/01 Proclamation 7463 by 
President George W. Bush. 

 Address to a Joint Session of 
Congress and the American People 09/20/01 One of the great 
presidential speeches of American history. 

 Executive Order on Terrorist 
Financing 09/24/01 Freezing the assets of suspected foreign 
terrorists. 

 Citizen Preparedness in 
War on Terrorism Executive Order 
 11/09/01 Executive Order 13234 by President George W. Bush. 

 President Issues Military Order 
11/13/01 Provides for the military detention of suspected non-citizen 
terrorists and their trial by military commission. 

 RETURN 
TO CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE