Forest Certification 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 ISSUES 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Working Paper number 18, 2002, 
from the University of Gvle, Sweden 

 A EUROPEAN VIEW OF FOREST 
CERTIFICATION 
 ISSUES FOR CONSIDERATION 
 Tage Klingberg 

University of Gvle 
 Sweden 

 ABSTRACT 

 Certification of forestry is a tool that 
may influence the image of forestry in the eyes of the consumers. Several 
certification schemes have been developed. 

 The organization of family forest owners 
in Europe turned away from FSC, (the Forest Stewardship Council) and instead 
established the PEFC, the Pan-European Forest Certification to better 
accommodate the ownership pattern with many small holdings. 

 So far certification has not, in a 
global perspective, managed to penetrate those parts of the world where abusive 
forest practices are most common and where vast forest areas are lost every 
year. 

 Some problems in connection with 
certification are identified, e.g. increasing complexity of rules and the 
governance of the systems. 

 To judge the potential for forest 
certification the attitudes of consumers to forestry and certification is 
discussed. Different scenarios of the role of certification are identified. 
 The use of labelling as an extension of 
certification is mentioned. 

 In the third world certification of 
forestry may play different roles as compared to in Europe or North America. 

 Key words: 
 Forest certification, labelling, 
sustainable forest management, governance of certification. 

 Author: Tage Klingberg, 
 Associate professor 
 Department of Business and 
Economics 
University of Gvle 
 S 801 76 Gvle, Sweden 
 Telephone: + 46 26 13 32 80 
 Telefax: + 46 26 13 20 31 
 e-mail: 

tkg@hig.se 

 FOREWORD 

 The role of 
forest certification is developing. The effects are still diffuse. 
 My ambition is 
to raise some issues for discussion and further study. 

 This Working 
Paper is a revision of my manuscript from presentations at 
 seminars for 
faculty and graduate students at 

 - 
the University of Gvle, 
 - 
the Department of Forestry at North Carolina State University, 
 - 
Nicholas School of the Environment at Duke University, NC, 

 - and at the School of 
Forestry & Environmental Studies at Yale University in Connecticut. 

 I am thankful 
for all the comments and questions I have received. They help remind me that any 
conclusion is at best a well-grounded hypothesis, not yet falsified. Forest 
certification is still under development. It is a controversial issue. Therefore 
it warrants further study and analysis. Any comments are welcome. 

 I am not 
impartial or objective even though I try to be open for different viewpoints. 
I consider myself an environmentalist. At the same time I am a forest owner. In 
a Swedish context it is not a contradiction to favor both our environment and 
the production of wood. That is, in my mind, the great charm about forestry. 

 Gvle, Sweden 
 March 2002 
 Tage Klingberg 

 TABLE OF 
CONTENTS 

 Marketing of wood means 
selling the idea of acceptability 

 page 4 

 Certification enters the 
scene 

 page 4 

 Certification is off 
target 

 page 5 

 The development in 
Sweden 
 page 6 

 The Dove 

 page 7 

 Three different views of 
certification 

 page 8 

 What do the consumers in 
Europe want? A matter of acceptance page 8 

 The explanation may be the 
following 
 page 8 

 The origin 
.. 
 page 8 

 The Swedish policy evaluation 
 a more relevant focus? 
 page 9 

 Where is the time and money 
taken? 
 page 9 

 A trend toward more 
complicated rules? 

 page 9 

 Issues of governance 

 page 10 

 Is certification a temporary 
phenomenon? 

 page 10 

 A parallel: Organic Food, a 
temporary phenomenon? 
 page 10 

 How will the certification 
drive develop? 

 page 
11 

 A diversified market scenario in Europe 
and North America page 11 

 Labelling or 
not? 

 page 12 

 A reservation: Will 
organizations overtake the market? 

 page 
12 

 A completely different role in 
the third world 

 page 12 

 A final remark 

 page 13 

REFERENCES 

 page 13 

 A EUROPEAN VIEW OF FOREST 
CERTIFICATION 

 ISSUES FOR CONSIDERATION 

 Forestry in Europe has gone from 
overexploitation a century ago to abundant supply. The annual increment in wood 
growth greatly exceeds harvest. Forest owners, sawmills and wood-working 
industries in Europe are subject to tough competition from new timber 
exporting countries and from other materials. 

 This is met by greater efficiency and 
increased production which hardly solves the problem of oversupply and falling 
prices. Also, it is met with product development and better marketing. 

 Marketing of wood means selling the idea of acceptability 
 However, since the heated debate over 
tropical forestry decades ago, there is a resistance towards the use of wood. 
Not that people dont like the material wood. But many are concerned over the 
future of the global forest cover and over biodiversity. 

 This fear of depletion of forests has 
been strongly pushed by environmental organizations, bringing the issue up to 
the headlines (see further 
Miller, 2002) . This perception or interpretation of 
reality and the awareness, boosted by the debate and by scientific studies, 
persuaded the forest sector to revise and improve its forest management. In 
Sweden, the state forests and the large corporations made the greatest 
improvements, simply because they had the most to improve due to their previous 
harsh practices. 

 But this was not enough. The public 
perception of forestry had to be improved. 
 How get the material wood accepted? How 
to transform forestry from having an image of destruction of wilderness to an 
image of sustainable management of a renewable resource? Thus achieving 
public acceptance of forestry and the use of wood and paper. 
 A prevailing feeling among forest owners 
in Sweden as well as in Denmark, Finland and Norway is that 

 the problem is not what we do in the forest - our problem is that people do 
not know about it or do not understand it. Therefore, certification as a 
communication instrument is of need. 

 Certification enters the scene 
 The idea of certification is great. An 
independent third party checks forest operations and, if OK, issues a 
certificate. I wish we in forestry had taken the initiative to certification 
ourselves in the 1980s. That might have avoided todays confused and contentious 
situation with a competition between certification schemes, that is not always 
constructive. 

 Now the idea was launched by ENGOs ( Environmental 
Non-Governmental Organizations ) in the 1990s. 
Primarily, so they said, as a tool to influence rough forestry practices in the 
tropics. 
 However, it was not successful there. So 
they moved the pressure for certification to Europe and North America. Primarily 
pulp and paper, which scared the large forest corporations. 

 But since each pulp mill in Scandinavia 
may have over 10 000 wood suppliers it was difficult to handle. So they turned 
to solid wood and saw mills. The prime target was still the large corporations 
since their structure and thinking more suited the large ENGOs. The FSC ( Forest 
Stewardship Council) got a breakthrough for their 
certification system after a deal with the large Swedish forest corporations ( AssiDomn, 
Korsns, MoDo, SCA and Stora ). 

 Certification is off target 
 If we look at the overall certification 
today, FAO in Rome (the Food 
and Agriculture Organization of UN ) concludes that:

 . The area of certified forests 
continues to increase and is now estimated to be roughly 90 million ha. 
Nonetheless, this represents only about 2 percent of the worlds forest area 
and, notably, most certified forests are located in a limited number of 
temperate countries, not in tropical countries for which concern about 
unsustainable timber harvesting practices is greatest . 
 ( FAO, page xii) 

 Data on the 
number of certified hectares in different parts of the world show a 
concentration to Europe and North America. Losses of forest cover are 
concentrated to other parts of the world ( see 
pictures 3 & 4 in the end). 
 You might say that certification so 
far has missed the prime target. 

 The development in Sweden 
 A FSC-process was launched in Sweden in 
1995 with all stake-holders. At that time I was president of the Swedish 
Federation of Non-Industrial Private Forest Owners. We took an active part in 
the process for a year and a half. 

 We found, however, a lack of 
understanding for our ownership pattern, for our small scale forestry practice 
and culture, for our complicated network of supply lines to saw mills and pulp 
mills. Also, on some principal issues, primarily concerning forestry in the 
mountain region where relations to the reindeer herders are complicated, we were 
completely overruled. We had to leave the FSC process. 

 Shortly afterwards the organizations of 
private forest owners in several West European countries initiated the PEFC, the 
Pan-European Forest Certification scheme. After two years, in 1999, it was 
launched. It has developed well, area-wise. Today, 42,7 million hectares are 
certified under the PEFC scheme, 
 (PEFCC, 2002, page 1 ). 

 In PEFC national differences 
are respected. That in itself is an element of diversity. 
 The Swedish PEFC-scheme is 
independent, based on local involvement. This is a grass roots, bottom-up 
approach respected by all involved and not a top-down approach, which might be 
seen as distant, detached and directorial. 

 Small scale local ownership is 
respected. That is crucial, considering that the average holdings are of the 
following sizes: 

 In Sweden 
50 hectares 

 In Norway 
39 hectares 

 In Finland 
 29 hectares 

 In Germany 
8 hectares 

 In Spain 
 4 hectares 

 In France 
 3 hectares 

 This compares with the 
ownership of the large corporations, each owning 0,5 to over 2 million hectares. 

 The standards in PEFC are set 
to maintain the diversity in each region. Local and Rural dependence and 
development linked to forestry is acknowledged. This is in accord with the 
thinking of the Rio 1992 Agenda 21 declaration ( see
 pictures 5 7 for some key characteristics). 

 However, the ENGOs have, despite 
invitations, boycotted PEFC from the start. There is a split situation. This is 
troubling the mills run by the forest industries. Actually, it is troubling 
us all, since it conveys an image of forestry as still being an area of 
conflict, which may hamper the use of wood. 

 The Dove 
 ( more 
correctly: The Stock Dove ) 
 Talks were initiated between PEFC Sweden 
and FSC Sweden already 3 years ago. 

 A bridging document was presented last 
December ( Auln & Bleckert, 
2001 ). 
 The document suggests sharper rules on 4 
points for FSC and on 17 points for PEFC in order to equalize the systems, e.g.

 stronger 
requirements for set-asides, 
 no harvests 
in key biotopes, 
 restrictions 
on fertilization, 
 no GMO-plants,

 at least 10 
trees left per hectare after harvest. 
 And the 
forest manager shall show the green plan to whoever asks to see it. 

 For me as a private forest landowner, 
already PEFC certified, application of The Dove would mean some infringements 
on my forestry. The arguments for the changes as I can read from the bridging 
document seem primarily to be of a tactical or political nature rather than 
scientific. The justifications seem questionable from an biological point of 
view. 

 There have been few and cautious 
reactions so far. Maybe because this has not been an open process. A few people 
have done this without consulting even the formal Swedish PEFC-organization. 
There has been no transparency. Now the document is to be sold. It can be 
noted that 
 - accreditation is not solved. 

 - chain-of-custody is not solved 
 - use of logo is not solved 
 - the relations to the reindeer-herding 
issue is not solved 

 The Dove does not mean that a saw 
mill buying from both FSC-certified and PEFC-certified sources can say that all 
is OK with FSC or PEFC. All they can say is that both sources are certified 
somehow. My conclusion is that this is not Mutual Recognition between FSC and 
PEFC. This may in reality be mostly a political document, despite its 
technical nature. 

 FSC suggests that the two are tested in 
parallel certification on private land 
 (FSC, 2002 ). 
PEFC has said no to a field test, as being unnecessary. 

 It is yet to be seen how the Dove will 
fly when let out in the forest and on the market. 

 The role of certification in the future 
 Thus, the development of FSC and PEFC is 
still unclear. 
 I will now go on to discuss the 
development and importance of certification in the future. 
 First, I will sketch three different 
ways of understanding certification. 

 Three different views of certification 
 What is in the real world 
certification and the process around it? 
 We can see it from different 
perspectives. 

 The innocent view: Certification is a 
 tool for communication with the consumer 

 a) either giving some sellers a competitive edge 

 b) or jointly improving the image of forestry in the 
eyes of the public. 

 A more progressive (or offensive) 
 view: Certification is a tool to make forest owners and managers 
 improve forestry . Also to stop illegal logging and abusive labor relations 
 etc. The mildest form of influence is by increasing awareness and knowledge. 
 A stronger influence may be exerted by putting pressure (economic or social) 
 on those who are not certified. 

 A political view: Certification is a
 power game, a vehicle for some organizations (outside the democratic 
 system) to replace governments and the scientific community as bodies setting 
 standards and supervising the management of natural resources . 

 A way for 
certain actors to get a power position - and maybe even money. 

 Number 1 above is primarily what the 
forest sector wants. 
 Number 2 is probably what many other 
actors want 
 Number 3 is perhaps a realistic 
description of what it really is. 

 What do people the consumers in Europe want? A 
matter of acceptance. 
 Certification is said to be 
market-driven, in the name of the consumers. However, I find it more correct 
to describe it as organization-driven, that is driven by ENGOs, forest owners 
organizations, forest corporations, professional consulting firms and retailers. 

 What do the consumers want and think? 
Let us go to the market and look at their attitudes and behavior. Several 
studies indicate that the environmental argument after all comes in third or 
fourth place for the customer after product, price and quality 
 (see e.g. Forsn, 2002 ). 

 Forsberg & Olsson ( 2001 ) 
found that British consumers (at B & Q and Wickes) as well as Swedish customers 
primarily look at product, price and quality. But, they also want the material 
to be produced in a sustainable way. They have a notion of Scandinavian forestry 
as being OK. They think certification and/or labelling is good and important. 
But most consumers do not know about FSC or PEFC and they are not interested in 
the details of it. Many say they just want to know where the wood is coming 
from. 

 A recent study by Ryhn ( 2002) 
on the Swedish market found that: 

 - 
 Price, quality and appearance are most important. For males price comes 
first. 

 - 
 The awareness of brands or marks is low, but it increases with the level 
of processing. It is low for construction wood, but higher for cupboards and 
wooden floor materials. 

 - 
 Consumers care little about brands. They are interested in the origin.

 - 
 Consumers largely trust the dealers concerning product quality. 

 These reports support observations from 
other studies. What conclusion may this indicate concerning the role for 
certification? People do not look for certificates or labels. They look 
for product quality, appearance and price. But they want forestry to be 
environmentally OK. 

 The explanation may be the following: 
 People do really want our society to 
be sustainable. They will buy wood if they get the feeling that it comes from 
sustainable sources. But they dont want to go into details. If using wood is 
acceptable then it is fine. Then they look at price, quality etc. 

 The key thing may thus be that there 
is a public image of wood being acceptable. 
 Acceptance 
 may be what it is all about. 
 Once wood is accepted or some kinds 
or origins of wood are accepted then the " green 
arguments do not help selling any more. 

 This may explain the observations of 
market effects of certification. It hardly gives a price premium (at least not 
in the long run). The absence of a price premium may be seen as supporting the 
point that end consumers are hardly willing to pay for certification. However, 
certification may be needed anyway. ( Krn, 
2001, pp 164-165 ). Or some kind 
of product declaration . 

 It may be a matter of getting over 
the threshold of public acceptance . 
 Once over the threshold, traditional 
product arguments and marketing strategies dominate. 
 This raises, of course, the question of 
how high is the threshold? 

 The origin .. 
 Some studies indicate that people ask 
from where the wood comes. 
 This makes sense if people have a 
hunch that some countries are already over the threshold. This might lead to 
a mark of origin. In my childhood made in Sweden or made in U.S.A. were 
signs of quality. Maybe we in the future will see labels on wood saying Proudly 
produced in U.S.A. or Grown on private land in Sweden. Something similar to 
what you may find on beef in Europe today. Consumers tend to ask for the origin 
of other products also, (see 
e.g. Ericsson, 2002) . 

 The Swedish policy evaluation a more relevant focus? 
 Talking of the threshold what the 
government and what the scientific community say may have a decisive influence 
in the long run on how the public perceives forestry and the threshold of 
acceptability. 

 The Swedish Forestry Act of 1994 set up 
two goals: Environment & Production. 
 The recent official evaluation showed 
that the environmental goals are met, but we have to resume work to improve 
production, mainly improve replanting (too much natural regeneration so far) and 
non-commercial thinning, ( Skogsstyrelsen, 
2002). 

 The evaluation has been commended by all 
actors for its quality. What impact will this government study have on public 
attitudes? Maybe this is a more powerful certificate than the detailed checks 
at the ownership level performed by FSC and PEFC Sweden. After all to get a 
grip of diversity, an overview like the government evaluation may be more 
relevant, addressing the landscape level. 

 The Swedish government evaluation may be 
compared to the Finnish PEFC certification system, which works on a regional 
level. The Finnish system has been criticized for its lack of detail. Is that 
rather an advantage worth taking after? 

 Where is the time and money taken? 
 A down side of certification work is 
that. 
 FSC has consumed a large proportion 
of the working time of many forest NGOs who previously had given their attention 
to a wide range of ways to resolve forest conflicts. 

 ( WRM 
Bulletin Dec 20, 2001, page 9 ) 

 I can testify that much time and money 
have been spent on all discussions, negotiations and analyses of different 
schemes. One may ask if these resources spent have benefited the environment. 
Maybe the conflicts perceived have turned consumers to using plastics, steel and 
aluminium instead of using recyclable wood. Has the environment gained from 
this? On the other hand, a positive effect of the processes may be an increased 
awareness and a dissemination of knowledge. 

 A trend toward more complicated rules? 
 Certification schemes after their 
honey-moons - have to develop . 
 In the beginning they are by necessity 
schematic and blunt. Problems, questionable outfalls, appeals and conflicts will 
lead to modifications, revisions, amendments etc. One example is that rules for 
set-asides (reserves) 
may be modified. In southern Sweden scientists ask for promotion of not denser 
but more open forests. So they were in many places earlier, ( see 
Nilsson et al, 2001 ). Also in middle Sweden new 
evidence shows that due to an old history of cattle herding open, grazed forests 
were common, (Ericsson, T.S. 
2001 ). 

 Such necessary modifications lead to 
successively more diversified and elaborate rules. 
 We can see signs of this. FSC is now 
restructuring its national standards. They have become too national. The 
Swedish FSC-standard has to be put back in line with the general principles and 
rules. For FSC this causes tensions. According to inside sources this may make 
the national standards more complicated and difficult to understand. 
 (NIS newsletter nr 3, 2002, page3 ) 

 This development toward more elaborate 
rules is parallel to what is facing most government regulations. They become so 
detailed that they may finally be difficult to manage. 

 Issues of governance 
 The larger the role for certification 
and the stronger the concentration to a few systems, i.e. the closer to a 
monopoly situation, the more urgent it is to penetrate matters of governance:

 - Where does the power get its 
legitimacy? 
 - Is the authority acquired a problem 
from a democratic point of view? 
 - Do the forest owners have legal 
protection and assurance of equal and fair treatment? 

 Another issue is the accreditation of 
certifiers. Who is accountable to whom? (S ee 
further Klingberg, May 2001 ). How do the consumers 
know whether the certification criteria are based on sound science or on 
assumptions and myths? 

 Also, the restructuring of FSC rules to 
make national criteria more in compliance with the international rules 
illustrates a problem of decision levels in the sense that local processes loose 
influence (according to NIS 
Newsletter nr 3, 2002, p.3 ). This goes against the 
claim that local actors shall have an important role. 

 Is certification a temporary phenomenon? 
 When we in the year 2020 look back, we 
may see certification as a temporary intervention. 
 The more it penetrates, the more 
hectares certified, the less special it will be. And its direct effects may 
diminish. 

 Maybe the most important impact will 
have been the increased interest and awareness created by the discussions we 
experience at present. Let us call it the indirect effects of 
certification. They may be substantial but maybe temporary. They may help push 
the standard upward. Once above the acceptable level the job is done. 

 Will this mean that certification will 
loose its role completely? Or will it mean that certification will be a 
necessary baseline requirement, which every producer will have to have? If so, 
will it be voluntary or de facto compulsory? These questions are still open. 

 A parallel: Organic Food, a temporary phenomenon? 
 So called organic food is in Sweden 
pushed by an organization for producers and strongly backed by ENGOs and the 
government. Today such food has a limited part of the market, but is in 
increasing demand. 

 There is a debate as to whether organic 
food actually is a sustainable solution. According to the Centre for 
Sustainable Farming at the University of Agriculture organic food is 
questioned and studied. The director believes that the role for the special 
organic food will vanish, as all farming will become more and more 
sustainable and organic farming will be adapted to new scientific knowledge. 
However, he says, the awareness created by the drive for organic food and the 
ensuing discussion has pushed all farming in a more sustainable direction. Once 
there, organic food will no longer have a separate market. 
 (Andersson, R, 2002) 

 How will the certification drive develop? 
 One possible outcome is that 
certification achieves a limited penetration of the market. Let us say 2 15 % 
of the traded volumes. Today it is at around 2 %. Alternatively, a certificate 
may be required for most wooden products. 

 Another aspect is the number of 
certification schemes. We may have one dominating scheme (as is the ambition of 
FSC) or a number of different schemes, such as PEFC, SFI, CSA and so on. We can 
sketch four alternative scenarios for the role of certification on the wood 
market. 

 Penetration of certification 

Limited Considerable 

 Number of Several 
Today Likely in future. 
 Decreasing importance? 
 certification 
 Or will certification be 
compulsory? 
 systems 

 Just one 1990s Monopoly for 
one system 

 The development today shows slowly 
increasing market penetration. Maybe this is subject to the paradox: The 
more successful the certification the less its importance 

 The number of certification schemes is a 
scene of conflict. One or several systems? 
 One possible outcome is that as 
certification grows, tensions and interest will decrease. Consequently it would 
play a more marginal role in the future: Decreasing importance. 
 The consumers will get over the 
threshold of viewing wood as acceptable. 
 And then the consumer will as usual 
go for product, price and quality. 

 A diversified market scenario in Europe and North America 
 We may elaborate on these scenarios. The 
large dealers ( B & Q and 
Sainsbury in UK, Home Depot and Lowe in US ) today 
pushing certification as a competitive tool may continue so. They only want very 
large suppliers, such as AssiDomn, Finnforest etc. They might stick to 
certification. 

 The final customers seldom ask for 
labels. But the big dealers figure on developing this as a market argument to 
strengthen their image. This scenario is supported by a study from Worcester 
University (Wallberg, 2001 ). 

 At the same time many small dealers and 
woodworkers do not ask for certification, because their customers dont. And 
thus many sawmills dont need certification, which is what Swedish saw mills 
claim today, according to our studies. We may come to see the following 
diversified outfall: 

 Use 
of certification and labels 

 Little 
 very much 

 Forest owners, 
 Large 

 Bulk 
 Assi Domn 
 sawmills, 
cabinet 

producers 
 makers etc . 

 Small 

 Most small Some niche 

 Private 
 manufacturers 

 Labelling or not? 
 Once certified, forest owners, whether 
family foresters, corporations, municipalities, churches or state agencies, may 
publicly announce their status. This improves their image and it may help 
improve the image of forestry in general. 

 Another thing is to have a label on each 
piece of wood, on each plank, on each package of moulding and on each chair. The 
right to such labelling requires the dealer to prove that the pieces of wood in 
the product actually come from certified forests. The wood has to be traced 
through the sawmill and the subsequent steps of processing. The wood has to be 
separated from non-certified wood. This chain-of-custody control requires 
considerable administration. 

 Whether the consumers will demand 
labelling and thus justify the cost of chain-of-custody is not yet known. If 
the public view of forestry in a country or in a larger area, such as the Nordic 
countries or all of Europe, is favourable then a declaration of origin may be 
adequate. 
 The general outfall of the current 
debate, of certification processes, of government activities, evaluations, 
scientific research on sustainability and biodiversity etc. will determine the 
potential importance of labelling. Practices in the forests are influenced and 
so is the public perception thereof. 

 A reservation: Will organizations overtake the market? 
 The reasoning above rests mainly on 
indications of lacking interest in certification from the end consumer. However, 
organizations may intervene. Political bodies, e.g. many municipalities, have 
decided to demand certified wood in their procurements. The motivation may be a 
concern over forestry or it may be a political will to appear environmentalist 
in the eyes of the voters. Such organizational interventions may underpin a 
stronger position for certification than my consumer-based indications suggest. 

 Another factor may be the activities of 
so called buyersgroups, i.e. cartels of dealers acting collectively demanding 
a certain kind of certification as a condition for purchase of wood. If such 
groups come to represent a significant part of a market, those selling wood may 
be forced to commit themselves to a certain certification scheme. 

 A completely different role in the third world 
 In the third world certification 
may be a powerful tool to influence management and counteract e.g. illegal 
logging. Maybe it is indispensable there in the absence of effective 
government tools and maybe lacking a tradition of sustainable forest management. 

 The role of certification is and 
should be - different in different countries, due to their diverse institutions, 
traditions and cultures. Studies indicate that certification does already play 
different roles in different countries, for instance: 

 - 
 A communication and marketing tool (Europe and US) 

 - 
 A tool to spread knowledge and awareness to foresters (the Baltic 
countries) 

 - 
 In Poland a tool used by government officials to stop privatisation and 
to regain a reputation for responsible forestry tarnished by practices in later 
decades. ( IIED, 2000 ). 

 - 
 An instrument to force foresters, companies and governments to practice 
sustainable forestry (Thailand? Indonesia?). 

 - 
 A vehicle to promote local community self-reliance (e.g. in Africa). 

 - 
 In Brazil certification is being used by large 
corporations, while local communities so far have been denied certification
 (personal communication).

 A final remark 
 Certification is a strong tool. Its role 
and use in the future is not an issue only for a few organizations and market 
actors to determine. It is a broader issue for different authorities (national 
and super-national) to watch. It has to do with legal protection, equal 
treatment, transparency, avoiding unfair practices etc. And it is an issue for 
the final consumer. 

 The somewhat critical issues and 
questions I have raised may be taken as if I am against certification. I am not. 
But I see that a sound development of certification does require that issues 
raised are addressed openly. 

 REFERENCES 

 Andersson, Rune, Director of the Centre 
for Sustainable Farming at the University of Agriculture in the radio program 
P 1 Konsument (Program 
One, the Consumer ) on Radio Sweden, February 6, 2002.

 Auln, Gustaf, & Bleckert, Stefan, 
Skogsduvan. verbyggnadsdokument mellan svenska PEFC och FSC standarder .
 (The Forest Dove. Bridging 
document between Swedish PEFC and FSC standard s).
 Stockholm, 2001. 

 Ericsson, Daniel, En studie av 
varumrkens och egenskapsmrkningens funktioner, 
 (A study of the functions of 
brand names and quality labelling ), Business 
department, University of Gvle, Work in progress, 2002. 

 Ericsson, T. Staffan, Culture within 
Nature. Key areas for interpreting forest history in boreal Sweden , Doctoral 
Thesis, SLU, Ume, 2001 

 FAO, State of the Worlds Forests 
2001 , Rome, 2001. 

 FSC, Forest Stewardship Council, 
FSC-rdet freslr flttest av Skogsduvan , 
 (FSC Council suggests field test 
of the Forest Dove ) Pressrelease, Uppsala, January 
21, 2002. 

 Forsberg, E. & Olsson, C., 
Konsumenters attityder till och kunskaper om tr, skogsbruk samt 
miljcertifiering - en jmfrelse mellan Sverige och England , 
 (Consumer attitudes to and knowledge about wood, forestry 
and environmental certification - a comparison between Sweden and England ), 
Business Department, thesis nr 100-01, University of Gvle, Sweden 2001. 

 Forsn, Martin, The purchasers view 
of certification of wood , Thesis work in progress, Faculty of Forestry, 
Swedish Agricultural University, Uppsala, Sweden 2002. 

 IIED, Certifications impacts on 
forestry, stakeholders and supply chains , Draft, London, November 11, 2000. 

 Klingberg, Tage, A European Approach 
to Certification of Forestry: To Foster a Tradition of Responsibility, 
Presentation at University of British Columbia, May 8 12, 2001 (in press). 

 Krn, Jari et al, Green marketing of 
Sawn Timber and Wood Based Panels in Finland and Sweden , in the Journal of 
Forest Economics, Ume, Sweden, 
 number 2, 2001, pages 145 168 

 Miller, Norman, Environmental 
politics. Interest Groups, the Media and the Making of Policy, Lewis 
Publishers, 2002. 

 Nilsson, Sven et al, Gles skog och fler 
gamla lvtrd , (Sparse 
forests and more old deciduous trees), in Skog och 
Forskning, Stockholm, nr 3, 2001, pages 20 25. 

 NIS Newsletter number 3, 2002, from

nis@forestry.se . 

 PEFCC Newsletter,March 2002, 
www.pefc.org. 

 Ryhn, Anders, A study of consumer 
attitudes toward branding of wood, Thesis work in progress for a bachelors 
degree, Business Department, University of Gvle, Sweden 2002. 

 Skogsstyrelsen, 
Skogsvrdsorganisationens utvrdering av skogspolitikens effekter, SUS 2001, 
 (The Forest Policy Evaluation 
made by the Forest Authorities 2001), Jnkping, 2001. 

 Wallberg, P., Konsumenter efterfrgar 
inte certifierat tr , ( Consumers 
dont ask for certified wood ), NTT Tr, nr 9, 2001, page 
9. 

 03/14/02 
 A debate 
 in Congress over how to solve the Klamath Basins water battles led 
 Wednesday to a discussion about what constitutes good science and revising 
 the Endangered Species Act. 
 At a sometimes testy hearing of the House Resources Committee, 
 Re-publicans said the Endangered Species Act now lets the federal government 
 make decisions that may not be based on sound science. Some called for 
 more peer review and better scientific justification for natural resource 
 decisions. 
 The Republicans pointed to a recent National Academy of Sciences report 
 about the Klamath Basin, which concluded that the science didnt back up the 
 governments decision to cut off water to farmers last year in order to 
 protect threatened and endangered fish in the region. 
 Rep. Wally Herger said the water was taken based on the speculation 
 of federal biologists. 
 This situation is the poster child for the need to update the 
 Endangered Species Act, said Herger, a Republican whose district includes 
 Modoc and Siskiyou counties. How much balance (is there) when they get 
 zero water? 
 Environmentalists and some Democrats, who were not allowed to invite 
 witnesses to the hearing, have questioned the validity of the National 
 Academy of Sciences report, suggesting that the academy asked the wrong 
 question. 
 They say rather than looking at whether the government cut off water 
 based on adequate science, the academy should have asked if the government 
 used the best available science, as required under the Endangered Species 
 Act. 
 In many cases, we have little science because these species are so 
 rare, said Susan Holmes, endangered species policy expert for Earthjustice. 
 We cant wait for perfect science. 
 William Lewis, chairman of the National Academy of Sciences committee on 
 endangered and threatened fishes in the Klamath Basin, stood by the 
 academys report. 
 We evaluated the scientific elements of the biological opinions, 
 considered documents and testimony, and put our consensus opinion in the 
 report, he said. We found that the recommendations on water levels werent 
 well enough supported. 
 He explained that experts, kept anonymous so they can speak freely, 
 reviewed the report and the committee dealt with each point the reviewers 
 raised to ensure completeness and accuracy. 
 We havent precluded the possibility that someone could prove that the 
 water levels are needed, he said. Scientific matters of this type are 
 never finally settled. 
 Lewis said, however, the government needs to take actions recommended 
 years ago for the fish, including installing fish screens to cover 
 irrigation canals and removing a dam to allow better fish passage. 
 Were hung up on issues related to water management, Lewis said. 
 Rep. Greg Walden, whose district takes in the Klamath Basin on the Oregon 
 side, has offered legislation that would hold the government to a higher 
 scientific standard before making endangered species decisions. He said 
 Congress should consider changing the Endangered Species Act to require peer 
 review and other new standards no matter what happens in the Klamath Basin.

 That is a separate issue, he said. 
 Tensions were high last year in the Klamath Basin when a drought left 
 farmers, ranchers, fishermen, tribes and environmentalists fighting for a 
 short supply of water. The Bureau of Reclamation, which runs an irrigation 
 network serving 240,000 acres, had to sharply reduce deliveries to farmers 
 to protect endangered sucker fish and threatened coho salmon. 
 Some farmers and anti-government protesters broke open the head gates to 
 the irrigation canals on Independence Day to release a trickle of water. 
 The water problems are hardly isolated to the Klamath, though. Rep. 
 George Miller, R-Calif., said people across the country, including the 
 Central Valley in California, have water disputes that must be solved. 
 It is happening over and over again as we get competing uses for this 
 water, Miller said. You cannot make a decision in the West and think it 
 confined to that basin, or that river, or that reservoir. 

 * * * 

 03/14/02 
 A debate 
 in Congress over how to solve the Klamath Basins water battles led 
 Wednesday to a discussion about what constitutes good science and revising 
 the Endangered Species Act. 
 At a sometimes testy hearing of the House Resources Committee, 
 Re-publicans said the Endangered Species Act now lets the federal government 
 make decisions that may not be based on sound science. Some called for 
 more peer review and better scientific justification for natural resource 
 decisions. 
 The Republicans pointed to a recent National Academy of Sciences report 
 about the Klamath Basin, which concluded that the science didnt back up the 
 governments decision to cut off water to farmers last year in order to 
 protect threatened and endangered fish in the region. 
 Rep. Wally Herger said the water was taken based on the speculation 
 of federal biologists. 
 This situation is the poster child for the need to update the 
 Endangered Species Act, said Herger, a Republican whose district includes 
 Modoc and Siskiyou counties. How much balance (is there) when they get 
 zero water? 
 Environmentalists and some Democrats, who were not allowed to invite 
 witnesses to the hearing, have questioned the validity of the National 
 Academy of Sciences report, suggesting that the academy asked the wrong 
 question. 
 They say rather than looking at whether the government cut off water 
 based on adequate science, the academy should have asked if the government 
 used the best available science, as required under the Endangered Species 
 Act. 
 In many cases, we have little science because these species are so 
 rare, said Susan Holmes, endangered species policy expert for Earthjustice. 
 We cant wait for perfect science. 
 William Lewis, chairman of the National Academy of Sciences committee on 
 endangered and threatened fishes in the Klamath Basin, stood by the 
 academys report. 
 We evaluated the scientific elements of the biological opinions, 
 considered documents and testimony, and put our consensus opinion in the 
 report, he said. We found that the recommendations on water levels werent 
 well enough supported. 
 He explained that experts, kept anonymous so they can speak freely, 
 reviewed the report and the committee dealt with each point the reviewers 
 raised to ensure completeness and accuracy. 
 We havent precluded the possibility that someone could prove that the 
 water levels are needed, he said. Scientific matters of this type are 
 never finally settled. 
 Lewis said, however, the government needs to take actions recommended 
 years ago for the fish, including installing fish screens to cover 
 irrigation canals and removing a dam to allow better fish passage. 
 Were hung up on issues related to water management, Lewis said. 
 Rep. Greg Walden, whose district takes in the Klamath Basin on the Oregon 
 side, has offered legislation that would hold the government to a higher 
 scientific standard before making endangered species decisions. He said 
 Congress should consider changing the Endangered Species Act to require peer 
 review and other new standards no matter what happens in the Klamath Basin.

 That is a separate issue, he said. 
 Tensions were high last year in the Klamath Basin when a drought left 
 farmers, ranchers, fishermen, tribes and environmentalists fighting for a 
 short supply of water. The Bureau of Reclamation, which runs an irrigation 
 network serving 240,000 acres, had to sharply reduce deliveries to farmers 
 to protect endangered sucker fish and threatened coho salmon. 
 Some farmers and anti-government protesters broke open the head gates to 
 the irrigation canals on Independence Day to release a trickle of water. 
 The water problems are hardly isolated to the Klamath, though. Rep. 
 George Miller, R-Calif., said people across the country, including the 
 Central Valley in California, have water disputes that must be solved. 
 It is happening over and over again as we get competing uses for this 
 water, Miller said. You cannot make a decision in the West and think it 
 confined to that basin, or that river, or that reservoir. 

 * * * 

 RETURN TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE