Heinz Kerry Foundations 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Fox News story hits key questions about Teresa Heinz Kerry's 
 donations to extremist greens 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Heinz Kerry 
Foundations Tied to Enviros 

 Wednesday, August 11, 2004 

 William LaJeunesse: 

 While 
most Americans are just getting to know would-be Democratic first lady Teresa 
Heinz Kerry, the billionaire heiress is no stranger to 
environmentalists, who have dubbed her "St. Teresa" for her generosity to green 
causes. 

 If money talks, Teresa Heinz Kerry speaks volumes. She is among America's 
richest women. And with family assets estimated at between 1 and 3 billion 
dollars, she would make John Kerry the wealthiest president in U.S. history. 
 Still, it's not her personal wealth that some are concerned with, but the 
powerful private foundations she commands. 

 Fred Krupp, Environmental Defense, Inc.: 

 The biggest influence 
Teresa's likely to have will be by continuing to work through her foundations, 
which for so long have supported the environmental cause. 

William LaJeunesse: Heinz Kerry is 
chairman of the Howard Heinz Endowment and the Heinz Family Foundation, and is 
also on the board of the Vera Heinz Endowment. With assets of $1.2 billion, the 
foundations give out $50 million a year - much of that to environmental groups. 

 Ron 
Arnold , Center for Defense of Free 
Enterprise: 

 It tells us she 
would be much the same as first lady as she has been a philanthropist - giving 
money to people she likes and making sure it is spent against those she doesn't.

 League of Conservation Voters rally: What 
 a great time to send George W. Bush back to Texas! 

William LaJeunesse: The League of 
Conservation Voters spent six figures supporting John Kerry's campaign. Although 
it did not receive Heinz foundation money this year, it has received tens of 
thousands in the past. And its members still do. 

 Months before the League endorsed Kerry , 
Heinz foundations gave $300,000 to Environmental Defense, the NRDC and 
Wilderness Society. 
 All three h ave 
since attacked President Bush for "endangering" citizens' health, "dismantling" 
environmental laws and "selling out" America's wild 
heritage. 

 Teresa spent 20 years on the board of Environmental Defense, which is 
currently suing the EPA on clean air, a suit that could cost utility ratepayers 
millions by slashing coal fired power. 

 Ron 
Arnold , Center for Defense of Free 
Enterprise: 
 If you take a look at those energy plants, they generate 
51 percent of all the nation's electricity. And she's giving money to fund 
lawsuits to shut those down. But what does she want us to do, freeze in the dark? 

 Fred Krupp, Environmental Defense, Inc.: 
 She is working day in and day 
out for the things that she believes in. She is making the funds that are 
available through the Heinz philanthropies available to solve environmental 
problems. 

 William LaJeunesse:

 While no one 
questions her ideals, critics say that Heinz Kerry lives in a way that is 
inconsistent with the ecological ideals that her green groups preach. 
 Sen. John 
Kerry and Teresa Heinz Kerry own five large houses, three SUVs, a gas guzzling 
yacht and a private jet. 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER VIEW 

 RETURN TO 

CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE