Fox News Review 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Fox News review of 
 Paul Driessen's 

 Eco-Imperialism: 
 Green Power, 
 Black Death 
 Review by 
 Steven Milloy 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Eco-Imperialism's Deadly 
Consequences 

The United Nations global warming bureaucracy is meeting (vacationing?) in 
Milan this week pondering how to revive the beleaguered international global 
warming treaty known as the Kyoto Protocol. This weeks news that Russia might 
say nyet to the treaty all but seals its doom. 

A number of questions have been raised about the link between carbon dioxide 
and climate change which do not appear convincing and clearly it sets very 
serious brakes on economic growth which do not look justified, said an aide to 
Russian President Vladimir Putin. 

The treatys scientific and economic shortcomings are both excellent reasons for 
rejecting it. Another reason not mentioned nearly often enough, however, is 
exposed in compelling fashion by Paul Driessen in his new book "Eco-Imperialism: 
Green Power, Black Death." 

Driessen, a senior fellow at the Atlas Economic Research Foundation ( search ) and 
a former member of the Sierra Club ( search ) and Zero 
Population Growth ( search ), 
reveals how the ideological environmental movement -- essentially comprised of 
wealthy, left-leaning Americans and Europeans -- wants to impose its views on 
billions of poor, desperate Africans, Asians and Latin Americans. 

 Eco-imperialism 
( search ) violates 
these peoples most basic human rights, maintains Driessen, and denies them 
economic opportunities, the chance for better lives, and the right to rid their 
countries of diseases that were vanquished long ago in the U.S. and Europe. 

Hollywood actor and eco-imperialist Ed Begley, Jr., for example, preaches that 
the two most abundant forms of power on Earth are solar and wind. Its much 
cheaper for everybody in Africa to have electricity where they need it, on their 
huts. 

Driessen points out, however, that while solar panels would be a major 
improvement over current conditions in many areas of the third world, they are 
but a band-aid approach to the developing worlds critical electrical 
deficiency. 

They cannot possibly provide sufficient power for anything more than basic 
necessities, and large-scale photovoltaic electricity is far more expensive than 
what is produced by coal, natural gas, nuclear or hydroelectric pants. Wind 
power has the same shortcomings. For impoverished countries where few have 
access to electricity, these are not idle considerations, writes Driessen. 

The environmental movement has repeatedly used the alleged threat of global 
eco-catastrophe e.g., global warming to override the wishes of people who 
most desperately need energy and progress, he adds. 

In Indias Gujarat Province ( search ), 
a dam project was halted after eco-activists pressured international lending 
agencies to withdraw financial support. The dam had to be stopped because it 
would change the path of the river, kill little creatures along its banks and 
uproot tribal people in the area, one eco-activist smugly intoned. 

The local tribal people, however, dont appear to appreciate her 
intervention, offers Driessen. One resident angrily called the activists 
handiwork a crime against humanity, because the project would have provided 
electricity for 5,000 villages; low-cost renewable power for industries and 
sewage treatment plants; irrigation water for crops; and clean water for 35 
million people. 

Driessens book isnt limited to global warming and third world energy problems. 
The chapter Sustainable Mosquitoes Expendable People describes the ongoing 
tragedy of the eco-activist crusade against DDT. 

Our family and community are suffering and dying from [malaria], and too many 
Europeans and environmentalists only talk about protecting the environment, 
says Fifi Kobusingye, 34-year old Ugandan businesswoman with malaria. But what 
about the people? The mosquitoes are everywhere. You think youre safe, and 
youre not. Europeans and Americans can afford to deceive themselves about 
malaria and pesticides. But we cant, she added. 

The Ugandan woman is only one of more than 300 million annual victims of malaria 
in the third world. Between 2-3 million die every year. Over half the victims 
are children, who die at a rate of two per minute or 3,000 per day the 
equivalent of 80 fully loaded school buses plunging over a cliff every day of 
the year, explains Driessen. 

Despite this ongoing public health horror story, the United Nations Environment 
Programme, World Bank, Greenpeace, Pesticide Action Network, World Wildlife 
Fund, Physicians for Social Responsibility and other eco-imperialist groups 
oppose the use of DDT ( search ) 
the only practical solution to the malaria crisis. The eco-imperialists 
disturbing attitude toward the third world is perhaps most frighteningly 
described by Robert S. Desowitz in another must-read, "The Malaria Capers," 
( search ) (W.W. 
Norton, 1991). 

Desowitz reports a U.S. Agency for International Development official named 
Edwin Cohn as saying, The third world didnt require a healthy labor 
force because there was a surplus of workers; better some people should be sick 
with malaria and spread the job opportunities around. Even more bluntly, Cohn 
reportedly said people in the third world were better [off] dead than alive and 
riotously reproducing. 

There should be no question, then, about Eco-Imperialisms subtitle: Green power 
does indeed mean black death. 

 _____________

 Steven Milloy is the publisher of

 JunkScience.com , an adjunct scholar at 
the Cato Institute and the author of

 Junk Science Judo: Self-defense Against Health 
Scares and Scams (Cato Institute, 2001).