Free Enterprise Mutual Fund 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Ron 
 Arnold's Notebook: 
 New mutual fund puts its money 
 where its mouth isfor free enterprise 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 At last! A mutual fund that invests to increase 
shareholder value and benefit society by boosting the economy, not playing kissy-face 
with "corporate socialist responsibility" mavens! 

 Although the Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
has no connection to the Free Enterprise Action Fund, we congratulate them on 
their strong good sense and defiance of those who would entangle business with 
left-wing ideology. 

 Here's a news release from the Fund telling it like it 
is: 

 Free Enterprise Action Fund 
Warns Business Roundtable Member Companies To Focus On Real Business Growth 
Strategies, Not Feel-Good Public Relations Stunts 

Washington DC (PRWeb) September 28, 2005 Action Fund Management LLC (AFM), 
investment advisor to the Free Enterprise Action Fund ( 
www.freeenterpriseactionfund.com ), warned the 18 companies participating in 
the sustainable growth initiative recently announced by the Business 
Roundtable (BRT) to stop wasting corporate resources on superficial public 
relations efforts and to concentrate on genuine business development efforts 
that will increase shareholder value and benefit society. 

We are concerned that the BRTs CEOs seem to be more interested in public 
relations exercises of little real value than tackling the tougher challenges of 
real business growth, said Steven Milloy, managing partner of AFM and lead 
portfolio manager for the Free Enterprise Action Fund (FEAF). 

The FEAF is a mutual fund seeking to provide investors with financial returns 
while persuading companies to focus on increasing shareholder value and profits 
rather than appeasing anti-business activists. 

Last week the BRT announced its S.E.E. Change initiative, which is supposed to 
encourage U.S. companies to embrace strategies and projects that measurably 
improve Society, the Environment and the Economy. The BRT members involved 
include 3M, Alcoa, American Electric Power, Citigroup, Coca Cola, Dow, DuPont, 
Eastman Kodak, FPL Group, General Electric, General Motors, HSBC, ITT 
Industries, Office Depot, Procter & Gamble, Sun Microsystems, Weyerhaeuser and 
Xerox. 

Except for HSBC, which is not U.S.-based, the FEAF owns less than one percent of 
the shares of each of the aforementioned companies. 

Under S.E.E. Change, the BRT companies say they are aiming to adopt 
sustainable growth strategies for reducing energy consumption, providing clean 
water and for improving public health. 

First, we think a focus on reducing energy use is misplaced, said AFM managing 
partner Tom Borelli. Our society needs dramatically more affordable energy. 
Experts say worldwide demand for energy will triple by the year 2050.(1) In our 
view, energy efficiency is a short-term strategy that only operates at the 
margins. Its not a long-term, growth strategy for Fortune 500 businesses or 
society, added Borelli. 
If CEOs participating in the BRT initiative expect applause for tightening the 
screws and turning off the lights, theyre sadly mistaken, said Milloy. We 
expect the CEOs to be working on strategies for real growth, not nickel-and-dime 
savings that dont in any significant way answer the question posed by the BRT 
in its full-page newspaper ads, How can my company make the world a better 
place? (2) 

Ironically, BRT members are more likely contributing to global problems rather 
than alleviating them, according to AFM. 

Bowing to pressure from the Rainforest Action Network, S.E.E. Change 
participant Citigroup announced in 2004 that it would restrict lending for 
energy and land-use projects in the developing world. (3) Wealth equals 
health, said Borelli. If the people in the developing world are unable to 
obtain affordable energy and are blocked from developing their own natural 
resources, theyll never achieve the level of economic development needed to 
improve public health and protect the environment, added Borelli. 

S.E.E. Change participants Alcoa, American Electric Power, Dupont, General 
Electric and Weyerhaeuser belong to the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. 
The Pew Center advocates the Kyoto Protocol, the scientifically controversial 
global warming treaty estimated to reduce global economic growth by $150 billion 
to $350 billion per year.(4) We dont see how crippling the global economy is 
going to help anyone, especially when there doesnt seem to be a sound 
scientific basis for the Kyoto Protocol, said Milloy. 

If CEOs really want to act responsibly toward their shareholders and society, 
they ought to use the engine of capitalism to leverage their resources and 
expertise to develop products and services that society wants and needs. In 
doing so, they would open new markets, create jobs and improve the global 
economy, said Borelli. 

Citing the recent work of renowned economist Arthur Laffer, who reported earlier 
this year that there was no association between so-called corporate social 
responsibility initiatives and business profitability, (5) Milloy said, Our 
society is in big trouble if 21 st century CEOs see the public 
relations and the propagation of environmental and economic myths as the path 
toward profitability. 

S.E.E. Change? asked Milloy. Unless the BRT companies focus on business 
growth, we may need to see change in corporate management. 

The Free Enterprise Action Fund seeks long-term capital appreciation through 
investment and advocacy that promote the American system of free enterprise. 
 An investor should consider the fund's 
investment objectives, risks, and charges and expenses carefully before 
investing or sending money. This and other important information about the Free 
Enterprise Action Fund can be found in the fund's prospectus. To obtain a 
prospectus, please call 1-800-766-3960 or visit

www.FreeEnterpriseActionFund.com . Please read the prospectus carefully 
before investing. 
Equity securities (stocks) are more volatile and carry more risk than other 
forms of investments, including investments in high-grade fixed income 
securities. The net asset value per share of this Fund will fluctuate as the 
value of the securities in the portfolio changes. The Free Enterprise Action 
Fund is a new fund with limited investment history and there is no guarantee 
that it will achieve its investment objectives. 

The Free Enterprise Action Fund is advised by Action Fund Management, LLC., 
which receives a fee for its services, and is distributed by BISYS Fund Services 
Limited Partnership, which is not affiliated with Action Fund Management, LLC. 

 References: 
1. Advanced Technology Paths to Global Climate Stability: Energy for a 
Greenhouse Planet. Martin I. Hoffert, Ken Caldeira, Gregory Benford, David R. 
Criswell, Christopher Green, Howard Herzog, Atul K. Jain, Haroon S. Kheshgi, 
Klaus S. Lackner, John S. Lewis, H. Douglas Lightfoot, Wallace Manheimer, John 
C. Mankins, Michael E. Mauel, L. John Perkins, Michael E. Schlesinger, Tyler 
Volk, and Tom M. L. Wigley, Science Nov 1 2002: 981-987. 

 2. See BRT web site.

http://www.businessroundtable.org/newsroom/document.aspx?qs=5786BF807822B0F1AD1438122FB51711FCF49DB 

 3. Rainforest Action Network and Citigroup Announce Enhanced Citigroup 
Environmental Policy. PR Newswire. January 22, 2004. 

 4. Kyoto Protocol Simply Wrong, Wrong, Wrong. Competitive Enterprise Institute. 
February 15, 2005.

http://www.cei.org/utils/printer.cfm?AID=4405 

 5. Does Corporate Social Responsibility Enhance Buisness Profitability. Arthur 
B. Laffer, Andrew Coors, Wayne Winegarden. January 18, 2005. 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 

VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE