Gaia 

http://www.eco.freedom.org/el/20020802/reason.shtml 

 Are humans Gaia's immune system? 
 Defenders of the Earth 
 Book Review 

By Ronald Bailey 
The Gaia hypothesis, which holds that Earth is a living organism in its own 
right, typically has been used to highlight man's role in messing up the 
environment. But if the latest warning of a possible ecological catastrophe 
turns out to be accurate, people could end up helping Gaia rather than 
harming her. 
The Gaia hypothesis--named after the Greek word for the Earth goddess, also 
translated as "Earth Mother"--was devised in the 1970s by atmospheric 
chemist James Lovelock and microbiologist Lynn Margulis. In

 Gaia: A New Look 
at Life on Earth , Lovelock and Margulis wrote, "The entire range of 
living 
matter on Earth from whales to viruses and from oaks to algae could be 
regarded as constituting a single living entity capable of maintaining the 
Earth's atmosphere to suit its overall needs and endowed with faculties and 
powers far beyond those of its constituent parts." They said Gaia could be 
defined as "a complex entity involving the Earth's biosphere, atmosphere, 
oceans, and soil; the totality constituting a feedback of cybernetic systems 
which seeks an optimal physical and chemical environment for life on this 
planet." 
Most evolutionary biologists reject the Gaia hypothesis as an unscientific, 
although poetic, metaphor. But let's not let such quibbles trouble us today. 

According to the Gaia hypothesis, the history of life on Earth can be 
regarded as a progressive modification of the planet's chemistry and 
temperature by biological organisms acting in ways that enhance their own 
flourishing. For example, Earth's atmosphere was modified over billions of 
years, by photosynthetic microorganisms, from one that was predominantly 
carbon dioxide and methane, into its current oxygen-rich state. This 
oxygen-rich atmosphere apparently set the stage for the evolution of 
multicellular life that took off in earnest during the "Cambrian explosion" 
some 540 million years ago. 
In the millions of years following the Cambrian explosion, Gaia took out all 
the stops, and the earth saw a vast diversification of life, and finally the 
colonization of land by plants and animals. Then, 250 million years ago, the 
Permian party came to a catastrophic end in which 95 percent of Earth's 
species were wiped out. Gaia picked herself up and started over. Dinosaurs 
and flowering plants eventually evolved to dominate the landscape in the 
Cretaceous Period (146 to 65 million years ago). At the time, our tiny 
mammalian ancestors were scrambling about the leaf litter, trying to avoid 
becoming dinosaur snacks. The cornucopia of Cretaceous life came to an 
abrupt end 65 million years ago, when 70 percent of all species became 
extinct. 
The leading explanation for these mass extinctions is the havoc caused by 
asteroids slamming into the earth. The asteroid that brought the Cretaceous 
Period to a close is thought to have been 10 miles wide, creating the 
110-mile-diameter Chicxulub crater just off Mexico's Yucatan peninsula. The 
massive Permian extinction is thought to have been caused by an asteroid 10 
times bigger. 
It's inevitable that Earth will be struck again. In 1908 a small comet or 
asteroid, about 165 feet in diameter, exploded over the remote Tunguska 
region of Siberia, releasing energy equivalent to 15 megatons of TNT, 1,000 
times stronger than the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima. In 1989 an 
asteroid measuring a quarter of a mile in diameter missed Earth by just 
400,000 miles. In 1994 the house-sized asteroid XM1 was spotted only 14 
hours before passing within 65,000 miles of Earth, well inside the moon's 
orbit of 238,000 miles. In June an asteroid the size of a soccer field 
missed Earth by 75,000 miles. 
Scientists estimate that an asteroid with a diameter of a kilometer (0.62 
mile) could destroy civilization by drastically changing the earth's climate 
after impact, and kill one-quarter of the world's population. This disaster 
scenario was popularized in 1998 by two mediocre movies, Deep Impact, and 
Armageddon. 
So far, astronomers have identified over 26,000 asteroids in our solar 
system. The 1,700 or so that regularly pass close to Earth's orbit are 
designated Near Earth Objects, or NEOs. Six hundred NEOs measure more than a 
kilometer in diameter. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration's 
Jet Propulsion Laboratory helpfully lists more than a score of upcoming near 
misses for those who have a morbid interest in such things. 
The latest scare occurred last week with the detection of asteroid 2002 NT7, 
which measures more than a mile in diameter. Initial calculations showed 
that there was a small probability that it might hit the earth on February 
1, 2019. Fortunately, subsequent analysis found that civilization will be 
spared until at least February 1, 2060, when there is a very tiny chance the 
asteroid will hit us. In the meantime, NASA and the European Space Agency 
are increasing their monitoring of NEOs and thinking of ways to deflect or 
blow up any asteroids that threaten to smash into Earth. 
What do asteroid impacts have to do with the Gaia hypothesis? In Gaia: A New 
Look at Life on Earth, Lovelock asked, "To what extent is our collective 
intelligence also a part of Gaia? Do we as a species constitute a Gaian 
nervous system and a brain which can consciously anticipate environmental 
changes?" 
Perhaps Gaia has gotten tired of being whacked by asteroids and having to 
restart biological evolution over and over again. Perhaps she evolved 
technologically sophisticated, big-brained mammals who can travel in space 
as a way of protecting herself from asteroids. Like antibodies that protect 
the body from invading disease organisms, humans can defend our Earth Mother 
against extraterrestrial intruders. Just a thought. 
 Ronald Bailey, Reason's science correspondent, is the editor of

 Global 
Warming and Other Eco Myths (Prima Publishing) and

 Earth Report 2000: 
Revisiting the True State of the Planet (McGraw-Hill). 

 FAIR USE NOTE: In accordance with U.S. 
Copyright Law as codified in Title 17 U.S.C. section 107, any copyrighted 
material herein is displayed without profit or payment for non-profit research 
and educational purposes only. It is posted here only after the commercial 
purpose of any copyright holder has been satisfied, and complies with fair use 
clauses of the U.S. Copyright Act. For more information go to:

http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml 

 RETURN TO 
ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO 
CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE