Global Warming? 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Global 
 warming or global cooling: Which is it? 
 John 
 A. Charles and Fred W. Deck er, Cascade 
 Policy Institute 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Opinion 
 Portland Or egonian 
02/16/04 
 A major problem with the 
public discussion of global climate is the tendency of environmental activists 
to distort the facts and exaggerate consequences. Christine Hagerbaumer did both 
in her Jan. 23 essay in The Oregonian, "It's 'global climate change,' actually."

 Hagerbaumer states that 
extreme weather patterns are "expected" because of rises in carbon dioxide; the 
World Health Organization "estimates" global warming is currently responsible 
for 150,000 deaths each year; and, temperature increases also "appear" to help 
the spread of mercury. Finally, she goes over the top by equating global warming 
with cancer. 
 None of these claims has 
ever been validated by empirical research. They are merely assertions, clearly 
intended to scare people. Hagerbaumer could have just as easily predicted 
catastrophic scenarios based on "global cooling" if she had used different 
assumptions. 
 In fact, 30 years ago 
forecasts for global cooling represented the conventional wisdom. For example, a 
feature story in the April 28, 1975, edition of Newsweek described "ominous 
signs" that the climate had started "to change dramatically." According to the 
magazine: 
 England 's growing season had shortened by two weeks, thereby 
reducing the yield of grain crops. 
 A year earlier "the most 
devastating outbreak of tornadoes ever recorded . . . killed more than 300 
people and caused half a billion dollars' worth of damage in 13 U.S. states."

 Pessimists feared that 
"famines could be catastrophic," while government officials predicted a return 
to the "Little Ice Age" because of global cooling. 
 Global climate has 
fluctuated widely for millennia, but Hagerbaumer insists we can control these 
changes by reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Fossil fuel combustion is a 
primary source of CO2, and she claims that we can derive our power from "clean, 
renewable sources instead of dirty fossil fuels." 
 If this were economically 
feasible, renewable energy would already be in widespread use. However, most 
renewable sources are not cost-effective and will only be minor sources of power 
in the near term. They are also running into political opposition by the very 
environmental groups who claim to be renewable energy supporters. 
 For example, large-scale 
hydroelectric projects have become politically unacceptable due to concerns 
about fish passage. Many advocates want to tear out hydro projects, not build 
more. 
 Wind energy is being 
challenged on the basis of noise, visual impact, and wildlife mortality. On Jan. 
12 the Center for Biological Diversity filed a lawsuit against one prominent 
wind energy facility in order to halt the "illegal ongoing killing of tens of 
thousands of protected birds" by wind turbines. The Center claims that each 
year, the 5,400 wind turbines at Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area near San 
Francisco kill up to 60 or more golden eagles and hundreds of other hawks, owls, 
and other protected raptors. 
 Such lawsuits will 
undoubtedly make investors think twice before planning additional wind energy 
projects. 
 Given the scientific 
uncertainty surrounding climate change, we should avoid costly mandates (such as 
restrictions on fossil fuels) and pursue only those renewable resource projects 
that are likely to be profitable. That way, regardless of which climate change 
scenario turns out to be accurate, we will not regret the investment decisions 
we make today. 
 John A. Charles is 
environmental policy director at Cascade Policy Institute, a Portland think 
tank. Fred W. Decker, Ph.D., is professor emeritus of atmospheric sciences at 
Oregon State University. 

 RETURN TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN 
TO CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE