Global Warming Pork and Profits 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Paul 
 Driessen, senior policy advisor 

 Global warming pork and profits 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 First published in the Washington Times 

 February 20, 2007 

 The ink 
 has barely dried on its new ethics policies, and already Congress is 
 redefining ethics and pork to fit its global warming agenda. 
 We need to take a deep breath. Acknowledge that the Kyoto Protocol and 
 proposed "climate protection" laws will not stabilize the climate, even if 
 CO2 is to blame. And recognize that there are reasons more people now 
 support climate "consensus" -- other than concern over climate disasters 
 created by deficient computer models and Hollywood special effects. 
 In accusing ExxonMobil of giving "more than $19 million since the late 
 1990s" to public policy institutes that promote climate holocaust "denial," 
 Senate Inquisitors Olympia Snowe and Jay Rockefeller slandered both the 
 donor and recipients. Moreover, this is less than half of what Pew 
 Charitable Trusts and allied foundations contributed to the Pew Center on 
 Climate Change alone over the same period. 
 It's a pittance compared to what U.S. environmental groups spent 
 propagating climate chaos scares. It amounts to 30 cents for every $1,000 
 the United States, European Union and United Nations spent since 1993 (some 
 $80 billion in all) on global warming catastrophe research. And it ignores 
 the fact Exxon's grants also supported malaria control, Third World economic 
 development and other efforts. 
 A deeper look into the murky waters of climate politics is clearly 
 warranted: 
 * Scientists who use climate change to explain environmental changes 
 improve their chances of getting research grants from foundations, 
 corporations -- and U.S. government programs that budget a whopping $6.5 
 billion for global warming in 2007. They also increase the likelihood of 
 getting headlines and quotes in news stories: "Climate change threatens 
 extinction of rare frogs, scientist says." Climate disaster skeptics face an 
 uphill battle on grants, headlines, quotes and job security. 
 * Politicians can curry favor with activists who support re-election 
 campaigns and higher aspirations; transform $14 billion in alternative 
 energy pork into ethical planetary protection; and promote policies that 
 otherwise would raise eyebrows. 
 Corporate actions that cause injury or death are penalized; but praise 
 is heaped on mileage standards that cause hundreds of deaths, when cars are 
 downsized and plasticized to reduce fuel and emissions. High energy prices 
 are denounced at congressional hearings if due to market forces -- but 
 lauded if imposed by government to "prevent climate change." 
 Alarmist rhetoric has also redefined corporate social responsibility and 
 created the Climate Action Partnership and an emerging Enviro-Industrial 
 Complex. 
 * Environmental activists use climate fears to raise billions of dollars 
 via direct mail and foundation and corporate grants -- to promote government 
 control over resource use, technological change and economic development. 
 Recent developments promise greater rewards. 
 Environmental Defense is collaborating with Morgan Stanley, to promote 
 emission trading systems and other climate change initiatives -- giving ED 
 direct monetary and policy stakes in the banking, investment and political 
 arenas, and in any carbon allowance or cap-and-trade programs Congress might 
 enact. 
 ED designed and led the disingenuous campaign that caused many 
 health-care agencies to ban DDT, resulting in millions of deaths from 
 malaria. Along with Greenpeace, Sierra Club, Union of Concerned Scientists 
 and other groups, it still posts deceitful claims about DDT online, 
 perpetuating the disease. By blaming climate change for malaria, they 
 deflect criticism for their vile actions. 
 Climate cataclysm claims also enable activists to gain official advisory 
 status with companies and governments -- and make it "ethical" for them to 
 oppose power generation in Third World countries, where few have access to 
 electricity. 
 * Companies in the CAP and EIC can develop and promote new product 
 lines, using tax breaks, subsidies, legal mandates and regulatory provisions 
 to gain competitive advantages. They get favorable coverage from the media, 
 and kid-glove treatment from members of Congress who pillory climate chaos 
 skeptics. 
 These expensive new technologies would bring benefits, but also job and 
 economic dislocations. The new legal regime could also become a license to 
 redefine corporate ethics, present self-interest as planet-saving altruism, 
 and profit from questionable arrangements with activist groups and Congress. 
 Cap-and-trade rules will certainly create valuable property rights and 
 reward companies that reduce CO2 emissions, often by replacing old, 
 inefficient, high-polluting plants that they want to retire anyway. 
 DuPont and BP will get money for biofuels, GE for its portfolio of 
 climate protection equipment, ADM for ethanol, Lehman Brothers for emission 
 trading and other deals. Pew, ED and NRDC will be able to influence 
 corporate, state and federal policy, and rake in more cash. Insurance 
 companies can blame global warming for rate increases and coverage denials. 
 The opportunities to "game the system" will be limited only by one's "eco-magination."

 To determine the losers, look in the mirror. We've created a 
 Frankenstein climate monster on steroids. Were it real, we would need to 
 dismantle our economy and living standards to slay the beast. There is no 
 other way to eliminate 80 percent to 90 percent of U.S. and EU fossil fuel 
 emissions by 2050, to stabilize atmospheric CO2. 
 Think 1900 living standards and $6-a-gallon gasoline. Ponder the British 
 environment minister's latest prescription: World War II rationing, no meat 
 or cheese, restrictions on air travel, no veggies not grown locally. Imagine 
 Africans with little solar panels on huts, while kleptocratic dictators get 
 huge payoffs for trading away their people's right to generate electricity.

 We should improve energy efficiency, reduce pollution and develop new 
 energy technologies. But when we act in response to exaggerated or imaginary 
 crises, we railroad through unworkable programs with horrendous unintended 
 consequences. 
 We need to debate these issues, now -- not after the mistakes are made.

 Paul Driessen is senior policy adviser for the Congress of Racial 
 Equality and Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise, two groups that have 
 received some ExxonMobil support for work by him and others on malaria, 
 Third World agriculture and economics, climate change and other issues. He 
 is the author of "Eco-Imperialism: Green power Black death" (www.Eco-Imperialism.com). 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE