Global Anti-capitalists Overwhelmed 

 See the original story 
 posted at

 http://www.cnsnews.com/ViewPrint.asp?Page=/Nation/archive/200205/NAT20020529c.html 

 'Global 
 Capitalism' Foes Overwhelmed by Counter-Demonstrators 

 By Marc Morano 
 CNSNews.com Senior Staff Writer 
 May 29, 2002 

 Dallas (CNSNews.com) - 
 Anti-corporate protesters at ExxonMobil Corporation's annual shareholder 
 meeting in Dallas Wednesday packed up and left after finding themselves 
 outnumbered by free market demonstrators. 

 The anti-corporate protesters began arguing among themselves about how best to 
 deal with the large number of free market demonstrators carrying banners such 
 as "Yankee Rent a Mob Go Home," "Capitalism Rocks" and Greenpeace Hates 
 America." They quickly decided to pack up and leave. 

 "I think we rattled them. They're packing up their bags and they're leaving," 
 stated Niger Innis of the Congress on Racial Equality, one of the free market 
 groups conducting a counter-demonstration. "Victory is sweet," he added. 

 After determining that their message was not being heard over the free market 
 promoters, Scott Crow of the group United People Resisting Oppression And 
 Racism (UPROAR) decided to call it a day. With a chant of "Gone for now, but 
 never forever," a woman in a "Proud to be a Bohemian" t-shirt retreated and 
 other anti corporate protesters began to leave. 

 "The [anti-corporate] protesters are anti-American and anti-democracy, they 
 are not just anti-ExxonMobil," stated Peggy Venable, the Texas State Director 
 for the free market group Citizens for a Sound Economy (CSE.) "They had 
 anarchist training seminars this past weekend," she added. 

 Venable said the ExxonMobil protesters are "shipped in from elsewhere," while 
 her group is from 
 Texas. "We're people that work for a living," she 
 said. 

 Other counter-demonstrators shared the same view. "We don't want 
 environmentalists dictating the way we live," said Jose Muniz. "They want to 
 reestablish socialism, which is what died in Russia. They want to shove it 
 down our throats." 

 Carol Jones of the Texas branch of CSE carried a sign that read "Hitler Held 
 Mock Trials Too," referring to Tuesday night's mock trial of ExxonMobil in 
 which anti-corporate demonstrators ruled the corporate giant "guilty" for 
 "crimes against humanity" and ordered the company's charter revoked. 

 The free marketers also held up signs saying the following: "Greens Suck," 
 "Mother Nature Guilty of Climate Change," "Get Back in Your SUV & Drive Home," 
 "Choose Capitalism Over Eco-Socialism," "Stop Global Whining," "Oil Employs, 
 Anarchy Destroys," "No Poor Man Passes Out Jobs," "How Much Does Castro Pay 
 You?" and "Greens are Red at Heart." 

 One ExxonMobil opponent, who would only give his first name, created a stir 
 when he blamed the U.S. for the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 

 "I understand why [terrorists] did it. America has oppressed the rest of the 
 world for 200 years or even before that when they took the land from the 
 Native Americans and killed them, poisoned them and ran them off their land," 
 Luigi shouted over jeers from the counter-demonstration. 

 Luigi also explained that "global capitalism is destroying the environment and 
 it's destroying the earth. It's destroying the quality of life for everybody 
 other than the upper crusts who are reaping the benefits." 

 Socialism is the Answer 

 Luigi believes America must alter its economic system and convert to 
 socialism. 

 "America is so deeply ingrained in the capitalist ideal. The greed that comes 
 from the attraction of money is what I have a problem with," he said. 

 Another anti-ExxonMobil protester agreed, telling 
 CNSNews.com, "Corporate profits 
 can't continue to kill people." Tim Harris said "global capitalism" helps "to 
 keep people brainwashed and working for [the wealthy] as long as they possibly 
 can." 

 Scott Crow, a protest leader, said they were there to "ensure an end to human 
 rights violations across the world" and to hold "corporations accountable."

 ExxonMobil chairman Lee Raymond told 
 CNSNews.com that he was unfazed by the protesters. "We operate in 
 over 200 countries around the world and for some reason that is bad," Raymond 
 explained. He said ExxonMobil is a good corporate citizen throughout the 
 world, hiring citizens from the countries in which it operates to satisfy 95 
 percent of its labor needs. 

 "If that is what they mean by globalization, then frankly everybody should 
 support it," Raymond said. 

 RETURN TO 
SHAKEDOWN RESPONSE NETWORK TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE