Good News About Malaria 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 Paul 

 Driessen 

 Good 
 news for malaria victims 

 DDT rejoins malaria control 
 arsenal to save millions of lives 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

Malaria: After decades of failure and increasing disease, things are finally 
changing. 

 New WHO 
policies under Dr. Arata Kochi are leading the way. 

Paul Driessen, Senior Policy Advisor 

 We sure 
could use a little good news today. 

 Anne 
Murrays plea certainly resonates in Africa. 

 In Kenya 
alone, 34,000 young children a year perish from malaria, says Health Minister 
Charity Ngilu. Uganda suffers 100,000 deaths annually, notes Minister of Health 
Dr. Stephen Malinga 
 the equivalent of a jetliner with 275 people slamming into its Rwenzori 
Mountains every day. 

 Africa 
has 400 million cases of acute malaria per year; up to 2 million die. Countless 
millions are too sick to work or go to school, countless millions more must stay 
home to care for them, and meager family savings are exhausted on anti-malaria 
drugs. 

 The disease 
costs Kenya 170 million working days and billions of dollars annually. It is a 
major reason that few tourists and investors go to Africa, and that the 
sub-Sahara region remains one of the poorest on Earth. 

 Instead of 
improving, in recent decades the disease rates have worsened. A principal 
reason, as epidemiologist Robert Desowitz observed, has been 
insecticide-resistant mosquitoes lethally combined with insecticide-resistant 
health authorities, who insisted on politically correct policies, instead of 
proven, practical solutions. 

 Indeed, 
since the US banned DDT in 1972, despite an independent commission finding that 
it was safe for people and most wildlife, malaria has killed an estimated 50 
million people. Opponents have focused relentlessly on the alleged risks of 
using DDT while ignoring the undeniable tragedies the chemical could prevent.

 DDT is no 
silver bullet, nor is it appropriate in all places or cases. However, it is a 
critical element of many successful malaria control programs. Sprayed just twice 
a year on the inside walls of homes, it keeps 90% of mosquitoes from even 
entering, irritates those that do come in so they dont bite, and kills any that 
land. No other chemical, at any price, does that. 

 During the 
past year, however, a new sense of urgency and realism has taken hold. Were 
finally beginning to hear a little good news. 

 Archbishop 
Desmond Tutu and hundreds of physicians and infectious disease experts signed 
the Kill Malarial Mosquitoes NOW declaration, demanding changes in malaria 
control policies. The US Congress held hearings and directed that substantial 
funds be spent on DDT, other insecticides, bednets and modern Artemisia-based 
(ACT) drugs. 

 USAID 
inaugurated new programs to provide nets and spray the inside walls of houses 
with DDT and other chemicals. The Presidents Malaria Initiative and Global Fund 
for AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria undertook similar actions. And African 
countries began emulating successful South African and Swaziland DDT-ACT 
programs. 

Anti-pesticide ideologues predictably pushed back, claiming DDT could cause low 
birth weights in babies and lactation failure in nursing mothers and asserting 
that the European Union might ban agricultural exports from any country that 
used DDT. Malaria survivor and activist Fiona Kobusingye of Uganda responded: 
African mothers would be delighted if these were their biggest worries. They 
and their children are dying from malaria! Those are the real risks we face.

 As to trade 
ban assertions, EU President Jos Manuel Barroso removed that cloud of 
uncertainty with his response to a letter from physician and Senator Tom Coburn. 
The European Union fully supports the right and responsibility of countries to 
use DDT and other appropriate malaria control techniques, under Stockholm 
Convention and WHO guidelines, he declared. Only produce contaminated with DDT 
above accepted residue levels would be affected. Of course, such contamination 
is highly unlikely under limited modern indoor residual spraying (IRS) programs.

 An even more 
momentous decision was announced September 15. Dr. Arata Kochi, the new head of 
the World Health Organizations malaria program, issued revised guidelines that 
underscore the major role that DDT and other insecticides will again play in 
preventing malaria. Indoor spraying and ACT drugs are vital to any cohesive, 
comprehensive, effective program, he emphasized. 

 Other 
critical elements of the new WHO program include: 
 strong WHO technical leadership and 
support; expanded focus on malaria-endemic countries worldwide; 
 free or highly subsidized distribution of 
insecticide-treated bednets; prompt diagnosis and treatment of malaria cases;
 strengthened health systems 
and services ; more effective monitoring and 
evaluation of program performance; improved efforts to find and fix bottlenecks 
in delivering aid; and proper training of people who will transport, store and 
use DDT and other insecticides. 

 All 
components, Dr. Kochi emphasized, must be carried out under well-coordinated and 
adequately financed partnerships at the country level, to ensure that 
sustainable malaria programs are aligned with national health and economic 
development plans and priorities. 

 Please, he 
appealed to everyone who cares about people and wildlife: Help save African 
babies, as you help save the environment. 

 The emphasis 
is finally being placed where it belongs. On intense, comprehensive, sustained 
programs that worked in other malarial nations. And away from theoretical, 
environmentally correct strategies that had guided previous WHO and USAID 
administrations and still influence World Bank programs. 

 Were not 
there yet, but maybe someday soon Anne Murray will be able to sing: Nobody died 
from malaria in the whole Third World today and in the streets of Nairobi all 
the children had to do was play. 
______________ 

 Paul 
Driessen is senior policy advisor for the Center, as well as for the Congress of 
Racial Equality and Committee For A Constructive Tomorrow. He is author of 
 Eco-Imperialism: Green power &#8729; Black death 
( www.Eco-Imperialism.com ) 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 
VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE