Diagnosing Mr. Energy - Al Gore 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 The Gore 
 Syndrome: Obesity of the Ego and Diarrhea of the Mouth 

 Henry Miller 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

Advertisement 

 Diagnosing Mr. Energy (Al Gore) 

 March 4, 2007 

 The latest Al Gore flap concerns the extravagant 
 electricity and natural gas consumption at the former vice president's 
 mansion in Nashville. Last year, electricity consumption there--one of 
 several homes owned by Gore--was more than 20 times that of the average 
 American household. 

 As many pundits have noted, this appears to be yet another example of 
 hypocrisy on the part of Gore, who has plenty to say to everyone else about 
 energy conservation. 

 Recall, for example, his impassioned address to the Democratic National 
 Convention in 1996 when he vowed to fight the tobacco industry to his last 
 breath because 12 years earlier his sister had died from lung cancer. In 
 1988, however, while campaigning for the nomination for president, Mr. Gore 
 had been telling tobacco farmers (in a Southern accent much thicker than was 
 ever heard from him in Washington) that he was practically one of them, that 
 he had tenderly held the young plants in his own two hands, had their 
 interests at heart, and so on. 

 Perhaps I can offer a medical explanation for why Al Gore simply doesn't 
 feel that he should be judged by standards of behavior applicable to 
 everyone else. On the basis of his actions and writings over many years my 
 guess is that Mr. Gore suffers from Narcissistic Personality Disorder. 

 The criteria for this diagnosis, as described in the psychiatrist's bible, 
 the "Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders," include a 
 "pervasive pattern of grandiosity [in fantasy or behavior], need for 
 admiration, and lack of empathy, beginning by early adulthood and present in 
 a variety of contexts," as indicated by the following: 

 "A grandiose sense of self-importance [e.g., exaggerates achievements and 
 talents, expects to be recognized as superior without commensurate 
 achievements]." 

 Mr. Gore regularly demonstrates his grandiosity. Who can forget his 
 notorious claim that he had been instrumental in creating the Internet? But 
 far more serious and complex are his delusions about issues of technology 
 and environmentalism, such as his repeated endorsement of anti-technology 
 tracts and criticism of technological advances while a congressman, senator 
 and vice president. His writings generally place science and technology at 
 odds with "the natural world" and, by inference, with the well-being and 
 progress of mankind. More on this below. 

 - "Preoccupied with fantasies of unlimited success, power, brilliance, 
 beauty or ideal love; believes that he or she is `special' and unique and 
 can only be understood by, or should associate with, other special or 
 high-status people [or institutions]." 

 These sorts of fantasies run riot in Mr. Gore's book "Earth in the Balance," 
 in which he assumes that he, alone, has divined the solutions to the world's 
 problems and the bold and dramatic measures that await the education and 
 enlightenment of the public. When he was vice president, Mr. Gore and his 
 staff of true believers attempted to purge the federal government of any 
 dissension or challenge to his view of policy, in a way reminiscent of the 
 worst paranoid excesses of the Nixon administration. Vexed by people who 
 weren't sufficiently "special," Gore simply got rid of them. 

 - "Requires excessive admiration." 

 With the exception of the past six years, a politician for virtually his 
 entire adult life who surrounded himself with sycophants--need one say more? 

 - "Lacks empathy: is unwilling to recognize or identify with the feelings 
 and needs of others ... shows arrogant, haughty behaviors or attitudes." 

 While a senator, Mr. Gore was notorious for his rudeness and insolence 
 during hearings. A favorite trick--which I experienced first-hand--was to 
 pose a question and as the witness began to answer, Gore would begin a 
 whispered conversation with another committee member or a staffer. If the 
 witness paused in order that the senator not miss the response, Mr. Gore 
 would instruct him to continue, then resume his private conversation, 
 leaving no ambiguity: Not only is your testimony unimportant, I won't even 
 pay you the courtesy of pretending to listen to it. Gore's patronizing, 
 apocalyptic and overwrought "Earth in the Balance" provides numerous 
 illustrations of many of these diagnostic criteria, and thereby offers 
 disturbing insights into its disturbed author. In it, Gore trashes the 
 empirical nature of science for disconnecting man from nature. "But for the 
 separation of science and religion," he laments, "we might not be pumping so 
 much gaseous chemical waste into the atmosphere and threatening the 
 destruction of the Earth's climate balance." But for the separation of 
 science and religion, we would still be burdened with the notion that the 
 sun and the planets revolve around the Earth. It is with good reason 
 historians call the last epoch when religion dominated science the Dark 
 Ages. 

 It gets worse. Throughout the book, Gore employs the metaphor that those who 
 believe in technological advances are as sinister, and polluters are as 
 evil, as the perpetrators of the World War II Holocaust. He accuses 
 Americans of being dysfunctional because we've developed "an apparent 
 obsession with inauthentic substitutes for direct experience with real 
 life," such as "Astroturf, air conditioning and fluorescent lights ... 
 Walkman and Watchman, entertainment cocoons, frozen food for the microwave 
 oven," and so on. Makes you wonder why he bothered to create the Internet.

 People who suffer from Narcissistic Personality Disorder are tough to be 
 around. They make terrible bosses, unbearable in-laws and insufferable 
 neighbors. That's why I don't want Al Gore to be president--or to live next 
 door to me. 

 Henry I. Miller, a physician and fellow 
 at the Hoover Institution, was a U.S. government official from 1977 to 1994. 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE