Grassroot review 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Grassroot Institute 
 of Hawaii review 
 of Paul Driessen's 

 Eco-Imperialism: 
 Green Power, 
 Black Death 
 Review by Don Newman 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 A chilling new book by Paul Driessen 

 Ideas and 
ideologies have consequences. Horrid ideas and ideologies have lethal 
consequences. This is the central premise of Paul 
Driessens new book, Eco-Imperialism: Green Power Black Death. 
The notion that environmental theories and values should take precedence over 
the value of human lives has had lethal consequences for millions of people in 
less developed countries and the book documents these consequences in all 
their chilling detail. 

 The methods of 
present day eco-imperialists consist of numerous fronts from which they press 
their case invisibly behind the scenes of public policy. Following several 
intertwined doctrines of social and environmental radicalism, they impose these 
doctrines as the standard to which all companies, governments and individuals 
are to expected to conform. These doctrines are not factual evaluations, but 
projections of desired outcomes based upon nebulous concepts, abstract 
responsibilities, faulty scientific criteria and fraudulent business models.

 What Paul Driessen 
documents in his book is that by fanatically seeking to impose their agenda upon 
the whole of society, especially in the developing world, eco-imperialists are 
directly responsible for advocating policies that literally result in the deaths 
of countless millions of poor and desperate people about the globe. Because 
these self appointed elites have a faulty understanding of business, 
capitalism, market economics, technology, global trade, and the value of 
profits, as they pertain to innovation and progress, their policies condemn 
those who would benefit by such advances to poverty, disease, starvation and 
death. 

 Imagine being 
forbidden all modern conveniences, from electricity to clean running water to 
pesticides to genetically modified foods all of which are commonplace in the 
developed world today. These and nearly all other forms of modern technology are 
precisely what eco-imperialists seek to prevent the worlds poor from acquiring, 
thus condemning them to the cruelest poverty, disease and premature death.

 This book details 
the method that lies behind the eco-imperialist movement. The opening chapter 
reveals how extremist environmental groups demand that corporations adhere to a 
doctrine, called Corporate Social Responsibility, that places the social demands 
of these groups ahead of corporate goals and profits for shareholders. The end 
result is that, by being able to define what corporate responsibility is, they 
are able to define what are acceptable corporate policies, even when these 
policies result in human suffering and misery. 

 Using a new set of 
questionable ethical codes, eco-imperialists seek to impose their view of how 
the world should be according to these codes. Driessen reveals how the doctrines 
of stakeholder participation, sustainable development, the precautionary 
principle and socially responsible investing are used to supplant sound science 
and logic with pressure tactics, political expediency and a new form of 
tyranny. 

 Noting that in 
many cases these activist groups membership might be less than 0.01 percent of 
a communitys or countrys population, the author questions by what authority 
they act to prevent scientific, technological and economic advances, 
particularly in the desperately needy undeveloped and developing world. This is 
especially true when These self-appointed guardians of the public weal have 
little understanding of (and often harbor a deep distaste for) business, 
capitalism, market economies, technology, global trade, and the vital role of 
profits in generating innovation and progress. 

 The self-appointed 
elites who seek to implement this program of eco-imperialism hail almost 
unanimously from affluent, already developed nations. Most return to homes that 
already benefit from the very advances they oppose. Thus, when the book moves to 
the actual result of these policies in the poorest parts of the world, the 
malevolent nature of eco-imperialism is revealed in all its chilling detail. 
Examining different arenas chapter by chapter, Driessen exposes the lethal truth 
behind these policies. 

 No 
country can advance out of a Dark Ages level of poverty without electricity and 
other modern conveniences. As author Paul Driessens new book, 
Eco-Imperialism: Green Power Black Death , The Third Worlds poor 
increasingly want to trade their huts for modern homes, and enjoy running water, 
refrigeration, electrical lighting and other basic necessities taken for granted 
by westerners (and by intellectual and government elites in their own 
countries). Yet these are precisely the advances that radical environmentalists 
oppose. 

 Lacking 
electricity to heat their homes and cook their food, the worlds poor are 
condemned to gather wood and animal dung to burn for these purposes. 
Paradoxically, the destruction of forestland to provide wood for subsistence 
purposes does more damage to the environment in the long run than proposed dams 
to generate electricity would have. The Word Health Organization links health 
consequences of exposure to the severe indoor pollution resulting from burning 
such biomass fuels as wood and cow dung to some 4 million deaths of infants and 
children each year. 

 This scenario is 
repeated for each subject examined. The subject may be water purity, malaria, 
pesticide use, genetically modified foods or one of many others, but in each 
area the number of deaths attributable to the lack of scientific, technological 
and industrial advance is painstakingly documented. The millions of people who 
are slowly starving for want of insect resistant genetically modified foods, the 
millions of people dying of malaria because of opposition to carefully 
controlled DDT use, the millions of people dying due to water borne illness, 
represent just part of the death toll. 

 The junk science 
that underpins much of the eco-terrorists assumptions is also devastatingly 
refuted with documented facts and science. The fallacious reasoning that has led 
to global warming theories is carefully examined. The intentional falsification 
of many studies supporting global warming is also revealed. The manner in which 
scientific integrity is compromised to suit radical environmental goals is 
clearly exposed. 

 Radical 
environmental groups that are at the forefront of promoting eco-terrorism are 
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) that wield great power and yet are 
accountable to no one. Corporations seek to appease these groups through 
donations and by lauding the activists cause, to earn their stamp of approval 
while continuing with business as usual. Those companies that do not endorse the 
program are ruthlessly castigated, even though their policies may in practice be 
more environmentally responsible. 

 This creates an 
unholy alliance between the NGOs and those corporations that seek their 
approval. It also promotes a dark web of interconnected relationships that 
undermine healthy economic competition in favor of garnering influence. Since 
eco-imperialists reject valid scientific research in favor of junk science, they 
easily throw their support behind corporations that give lip service to their 
cause, no matter what the facts are. 

 This book is 
replete with footnotes documenting original sources that support the text. It is 
essential background for anyone seeking to understand the nature of the 
ideological groups that are increasingly active in the world today. Ending on a 
positive note in the final chapters of the book, Driessen gives a number of 
constructive suggestions for how eco-imperialists can be weakened, and 
ultimately defeated. This is critical if we are to prevent the tens of millions 
of deaths a year that result from eco-radicals thwarting the introduction of 
proven advances of science and technology into the Third World. 

 The damage done by self-appointed, elites who 
bask in the fruits of technology and whose supposedly noble agendas deny those 
fruits to others, is a fearful sight. Eco-Imperialism reveals it 
starkly. The book is a must read for anyone involved or interested in health and 
environmental policy. For any such policy should follow the physician's axiom, 
First do no harm. 

 Imperialism: Green 
Power, Black Death, 
 published by the 
Free Enterprise Press in Bellevue, WA. Purchase price, $15. For more 
information, please visit

www.Eco-Imperialism.com 

 Don Newman, senior 
policy analyst for the Grassroot Institute of Hawaii, Hawaii's first and only 
free market public policy institute focused on individual freedom and liberty, 
can be reached at newmand001@hawaii.rr.com