Green Funding 

 Green Wealth: Funding the Enemy 
 By Alan Caruba 

Green and animal rights organizations do not subsist on the sale of calendars, 
books, and stuffed animals. They are wealthy beyond the comprehension of most 
Americans and others who support them in the belief they are "protecting the 
environment" and saving animals from "cruelty" and "extinction." 

You will be astonished to learn that there are more than 4,000 environmental 
groups in America today. "And the number is growing," warns Ron Arnold of the 
Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise, "and they are really out to get you. 
Worse, they have the clout and the money to do it." They use it to lobby and 
support members of Congress to initiate legislation harmful to the interests of 
all Americans. 

Hugo Gurdon of the Competitive Enterprise Institute, in a recent National Post 
article, noted that "The 12 biggest environmental pressure groups in the United 
States enjoy combined annual revenues of $1.95 billion, according to the latest 
Internal Revenue Service figures. Only 725 of the United States' 20 million 
companies can boast such magnificent cash flow." 

"Among the green dozen are some-Nature Conservancy ($731 million) and the 
Wildlife Conservation Council ($311 million)-that are merely left-of-center. But 
there are genuinely extreme organizations-the World Wildlife fund ($118 million) 
and the Sierra Club ($73 million)-that militate aggressively against the free 
market and attack property rights to the detriment of the economy and the 
majority of ordinary people," said Gurdon. 

Arnold has written several excellent books on this topic that demonstrate how 
the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Environmental Working Group, and the 
Rainforest Action Network, have a long record of activities that undermine 
entire industries and the welfare of the nation's mining, ranching and farming 
enterprises. 

In the case of the animal rights groups, Arnold has documented how People for 
the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is a case history of IRS tax law 
violations, stolen trade secrets, advocated arson, and assaulted business 
executives. 

The Greens and the Animal Rights groups use every protection afforded by the 
Constitution and every loophole in our legal and IRS codes to pursue their war 
on capitalism, property rights, and the welfare of this nation. They are a 
Socialist Taliban. 

Americans for Medical Progress, a group that monitors the Animal Rights movement 
that opposes the use of animals for medical research, recently released 
information concerning the wealth of some of the leading groups. PETA's annual 
budget is $13,499,614. It has net assets worth $4,480,988. It heavily 
underwrites the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine whose budget runs 
$2,915,847. 

The American Anti-Vivisection Society as assets in excess of $11,561,737 and an 
annual budget of $1.2 million. The Fund for Animals has net assets in excess of 
$189,438,862 and runs an annual budget of more than $5.6 million. Defense of 
Animals is worth $1,483,334. There are others that include the Animal Welfare 
Institute, the Animal Legal Defense Fund, the Doris Day Animal League, and the 
Humane Society of the United States. 

The Greens are leading the battle against genetically modified foods, a 
scientific breakthrough that promises to end famine. They are behind the US 
government's former forest management policies that have led to years of 
catastrophic fires. Within the passed few weeks the Bush administration has 
announced the revisions necessary to thwart this menace. Through their use of 
the Endangered Species Act and other "environmental" legislation, they fund the 
attack on property rights, the keystone of the American economy. They have 
undermined the training of our nation's military through such laws as well. 

While our attention is focused on the threat of the global Islamic Jihad, we 
also have to keep an eye on these groups. The threat of the Earth Liberation 
Front and the Animal Liberal Front is international in scope and increasing 
daily here on the home front. They have begun to use violence against 
individuals to achieve their goals. In the past, they have specialized in arson 
and vandalism, some of which has destroyed years of scientific research for the 
benefit of humans, animals and protection of natural resources such as our 
forests. 

You can learn the facts by visiting sites such as
 www.undueinfluence.com ,
 www.ranamuck.org , all provided by the 
Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise, 
www.cdfe.org . In the interest of full disclosure, I am an adjunct scholar of 
the CDFE. 

The next time someone buys a Sierra Club calendar or gets a slick brochure 
asking for a donation to these causes, that money will fund the enemies of 
America. 

Alan Caruba writes a weekly column, "Warning Signs", posted on the website of 
The National Anxiety Center ( http://www.anxietycenter.com ). 
Merril Press has just published a collection of his columns. 

 Copyright, Alan Caruba, 2003 

The National Anxiety Center 
9 Brookside Road 
Maplewood, NJ 07040 
(973) 763-6392 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE