Greenwatch review 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Greenwatch review 
 of Paul Driessen's 

 Eco-Imperialism: 
 Green Power, 
 Black Death 
 Review by Lauren Karam 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Although the environment 
consistently ranks in the top 20 issues of many opinion polls, Americans are 
often uninformed about the hidden agendas and serious repercussions that the 
environmental agenda inflicts on many developing nations. Paul Driessen, a 
senior fellow at the free market 

 Atlas Economic Research Foundation , 
focuses on the negative aspects of heavy-handed environmentalism in his work 

 Eco-Imperialism: Green Power, Black Death 
(Free Enterprise Press, $15). 

 Driessens argument against the 
green agenda is eye-opening. He pays close attention to the advocates of 
corporate social responsibility, who argue that business has an obligation to 
enrich society by improving the economy and environment. Many environmentalist 
organizations claim to be social stakeholders in businesses, which means they 
believe their concerns should have priority over the interests of mere corporate 
shareholders. Stakeholders call on corporations to abide by new, costly and more 
strict environmental and ethical standards even when their added expense causes 
companies to close down their operations in impoverished areas of the world.

 Driessen also explores what Western 
environmental standards can do to developing nations that are trying to 
industrialize. Eco-Imperialism describes the hunger and suffering of 
millions of the worlds poor who are denied the benefits of genetically 
engineered food and the use of proven pesticides that would reduce crop blight 
and dread diseases like malaria. 

 Driessen highlights the many environmental 
nonprofits that have become amazingly ingenious in promoting their agendas, by 
cloaking them in the mantle of public interest or social responsibility. He 
calls for non-profit organizations such as

 Greenpeace , the

 Natural Resources Defense Council , and

 People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals 
to abide by the same ethical standards they demand from the corporate sector.

 Driessen believes that holding nonprofits to 
high standards also will help donors evaluate charitable organizations. He urges 
the IRS to examine non-profits excessive efforts to lobby Congress, instead of 
engaging in educational activities, as specified by the terms of their special 
tax status; using false and misleading claims in fund-raising appeals; and 
urging or training members to engage in high-pressure advocacy tactics or 
unlawful activities. 

 Paul Driessen provides us with a careful 
assessment of environmentalist policy, organizations, and outcomes. 
Eco-Imperialism is a must read for anyone seeking an alternative to standard 
green rhetoric. 

 Lauren Karam is a research assistant for

 www.greenwatch.org , a project of the 
Capital Research Center.