PETA Kills Animals 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Gretchen 
 Randall, guest commentator 

 Group claims PETA kills animals

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 January 29, 2007 

 Issue:
The Center for Consumer Freedom (CCF) is running ads claiming that the group, 
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (known as PETA), has killed 14,400 
dogs, cats and other companion animals from 1998-2005 while at the same time 
claiming that by eating meat or drinking milk we are mistreating animals. The 
proof is from papers PETA, headquartered in Norfolk, Virginia, filed with the 
Virginia Department of Agriculture Division of Animal Industry Services. 

CCF has a website exposing PETA's hypocrisy at 
www.petakillsanimals.com Here a few other things you might not know 
about PETA: 
 PETA wants no circuses, no pets, no zoos, no hunting or fishing and no 
seeing-eye dogs. 
 PETA doesn't want you to eat meat, use leather, or drink milk 
 PETA has donated thousands of dollars to radical groups such as Earth 
Liberation Front (ELF), which has set fires that have destroyed condos, SUV 
dealers and a Michigan State University research lab. 
 PETA attacks research groups that use animals to find cures for life 
threatening diseases 
 PETA has attacked the Jewish kosher practice of killing animals calling it 
"Holocaust on your plate." 
 PETA targets children with comicbooks, emails. One comicbook was titled 
"Your Mommy kills animals." 

 Comment 1: Not only is PETA hypocritical but it's dangerous. It 
has helped fund home-grown terrorist activities perpetrated by ELF and then when 
some of the arsonists were caught, PETA donated funds to defend them. 

 Comment 2: PETA: Even if animal research resulted in a cure for AIDS, 
we would be against it. 

 Comment 3: For Bears fans, click here to hear or download the 
Bears fight song, "Bear Down, Chicago Bears," performed by the Chicago Symphony 
Orchestra and Chorus. 

http://www.cso.org/main.taf?p=11,27 

 Background and links: To see a copy of the comicbook, go to:

http://www.petakillsanimals.com/article_detail.cfm?article=156 CCF 
is sending a petition to the IRS asking it to rescind PETA's tax-exempt status 
because it has encouraged arson. To sign it, click here: 

http://www.petakillsanimals.com/article_detail.cfm?article=154 

Contact: Gretchen Randall 
Winningreen LLC 
3712 N. Broadway PMB 279 
Chicago, IL 60613 
Phone: 773-857-5086 
e-mail: grandall@winningreen.com 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE