Hage Article 

 GUEST OPINION 

 An Expert's View on the Battle for Nevada Water 
Rights 

 by Wayne Hage 

 Author, Storm Over Rangelands: Private Rights in Federal 
Lands 

 NEVADA SB 76 WRONG ANSWER TO THE WRONG QUESTION 

 Novelist Thomas 
Pynchon once said; If they can get you asking the wrong questions, they dont 
have to worry about the answers. This would seem to be the case with Senate 
Bill 76, introduced by Nevada State Senator Dean Rhodes (R - Tuscarrora). SB 76 
is intended to amend 140 years of state water law by allowing the federal land 
management agencies to acquire water rights presently owned by Nevada ranchers 
and farmers. 

 SB 76 is billed as 
remedial legislation answering to a Nevada Supreme Court overturn of District 
Court Judge Gambills ruling. Judge Gambill ruled that the BLM and USFS do not 
qualify for stockwater rights in Nevada because Nevada law requires an applicant 
for stockwater rights to be able to put the water to beneficial use. The BLM 
and US Forest Service own no commercial livestock. 

 The Nevada Supreme 
Court overturned Judge Gambills decision, holding that the State Water Engineer 
must allow the federal agencies to apply for water rights on 
unappropriated water on the public lands. 

 Senator Rhodes, in 
his water bill, then proceeds to ask the wrong question: How can we amend 
Nevadas water law to allow the federal agencies to demand all or a portion of a 
privately owned water right from Nevadas farmers and ranchers? How this 
question is answered is somewhat meaningless, if the end result is the 
conveyance of private water rights into the hands of the federal government 
without compensation. This being done at a time when Nevada citizens are facing 
the largest tax increase in the history of the state. 

 When viewed within 
the worldwide rush to control water supplies, we can begin to see what SB 76 may 
accomplish if it is passed into law. 

 The quest for control 
of the worlds fresh water reserves will probably prove to be the defining 
natural resource issue of the 21 st century. An underlying problem in 
the West Bank, between the Israelis and Palestinians, is that the West Bank of 
the Jordan River is the primary source of fresh water for the entire region. 
The Golan Heights issue is underscored by the fact that whoever controls the 
Golan Heights can control the use of the water in the Jordan River, which Syria, 
Israel, Jordan and the Palestinians all rely on. The tensions between Iraq and 
Turkey have been exacerbated by Turkeys control of the headwaters of the Tigris 
and Euphrates Rivers and Iraqs absolute dependence on the water they carry. 

 Starving Ethiopia 
could develop massive food production areas if it could use the water of the 
Blue Nile River which originates in Ethiopias mountainous northwest. The 
nations of Chad, Sudan, Egypt and foreign nations with investments in those 
countries, all live or die by the water flowing down the Nile. Any attempt by 
Ethiopia to develop its water resources would bring immediate retaliation from 
the downstream nations. 

 The quest for control 
of water is alive and well here in the U.S. For example, the water in Idahos 
Boise Valley and the city of Boise itself is controlled by United Water 
Corporation. United Water has been diligently working to gain control of the 
farmers irrigation water in the region through, in part, the Bureau of 
Reclamation. United Water is a sub-corporation of a company called Suez. Suez 
controls all the fresh water in South Korea. Their prospectus states their goal 
is to become the largest owner of fresh water in the world. Suez is owned by 
the United Arab Emirates. 

 T. Boon Pickens, the 
great Texas oil entrepreneur, has now turned his interest to buying as many 
water rights in the Ogallala Aquifer as possible to satisfy the future needs of 
Dallas and other Texas cities. In some places today, a barrel of fresh water is 
worth more than a barrel of oil. 

 Here in Nevada, we 
have had numerous entities vying for control of Nevadas waters. Vidler Water 
Company, Las Vegas Valley Water District, and others, have been buying and 
seeking to control as many water rights as possible. 

 The federal 
government has participated, seeking to use the BLM and Forest Service as 
surrogates, to wrest water rights away from private individuals and into the 
hands of government and its creditors. Most of the water in Nevada is 
controlled by the states farmers and ranchers. The basic strategy behind the 
water grab is to use environmental rules and regulations through the BLM and 
USFS to drive ranchers out of business. Then some entity, such as The Nature 
Conservancy, can obtain control of the ranch and its water for pennies on the 
dollar. Nature Conservancy, or some other environmental group, can then convey 
the valuable asset to the hands of government or the governments creditors, at 
a handsome markup. 

 This attack is 
impacting virtually every farmer and rancher in the state. SB 76 will be an 
extension of this ongoing effort to take control of Nevada water resources and 
convey them to outside entities where their full profit potential can be 
exploited. 

 The Nevada Supreme 
Court did not rule that the state engineer must issue water rights 
to the BLM. It only stated that the state engineer must allow the BLM to file 
on unappropriated waters, if any of those exist. 

 SB 76 opens the door 
for the BLM and USFS to extort water rights from private individuals and/or 
drive them out of business in the process. The valuable water resource then 
eventually finds its way into the hands of one of the water monopolies - such as 
Suez. In the meantime, if some property owners wake up and bring a taking and 
compensation action against the federal government for the value of their 
property, they would find that SB 76 has shifted liability from the feds to the 
state of Nevada. Nevada taxpayers would then pay the bill. 

 The solution: 
obviously SB 76 needs to be recognized for what it is, and deep-sixed into 
oblivion before it can accomplish the mischief it will bring about. The best 
solution though, is for individual water right holders to make sure their title 
to water rights and fee land is perfected. Remember, the Nevada Supreme Court 
only said BLM could apply for unappropriated water on public lands. The 
U.S. Supreme Court has clearly stated: It is well settled that lands to which 
any right or claim of another attaches is not public land. Grazing allotments 
are not public lands and the water rights on them are not unappropriated. 

 Nevada water law 
created these rights and has protected them well for almost 140 years. Lets 
not tamper with success. Leave the amending of Nevada water law alone, but make 
sure we use Nevada water law properly. 

 Readers may contact Wayne Hage at: 

 P.O. Box 513 

 Tonopah, Nevada [89049] 

 (775) 482-4187 

 ewayne@direcway.com 

 RETURN TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE