Helen Chenoweth-Hage Memorial 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 A Power for Good 
 Her Voice for Liberty Can Never Be Stilled 

 Helen Chenoweth-Hage 
 1938-2006 

 Lawmaker for the ages 
 Her legacy will enrich generations yet unborn 

 Helen 
 Chenoweth-Hage died in a rollover 
 car crash October 2, 2006, while holding 
 her toddler grandson, who survived with 
 his mother at the wheel, as they drove 
 near home in Tonopah, Nevada. 
 Lawmaker, fighter for the 
 right, teacher, 
 you left us so enriched, Helen. 

 Biographical Directory of the 
 United States Congress: 

 CHENOWETH-HAGE, Helen P., a 
 Representative from Idaho; born in Topeka, Kans., January 27, 1938; 
 graduated Grants Pass High School, Grants Pass, Oreg.; attended Whitworth 
 College, Spokane, Wash.; self-employed medical and legal management 
 consultant, 1964-1975; manager, Northside Medical Center, Orofino, Idaho; 
 state executive director of the Idaho Republican party, 1975-1977; chief of 
 staff, then campaign manager, to Representative Steven D. Symms; co-owner, 
 Consulting Associates, Inc; guest lecturer, University of Idaho School of 
 Law; elected as a Republican to the One Hundred Fourth and to the two 
 succeeding Congresses (January 3, 1995-January 3, 2001); was not a candidate 
 for reelection to the One Hundred Seventh Congress; died on October 2, 2006, 
 in Tonopah, Nev. 
 She was one of those 
 rare people recognized by her first-name only, like Madonna. In Idaho, if 
 you said "Helen," nobody said "Helen Who?" They knew. 
 And they knew where she 
 stood on the issues because she was unlike other politicians. 
 Helen said what she 
 meant and meant what she said. 
 Her friends admired her 
 and even her most hateful detractors acknowledged her outspoken honesty.

 Helen married legendary 
 property-rights icon Wayne Hage in 1999. Wayne died of cancer in June, 2006.

 Wayne and Helen 

 They are both gone now. Goodbye, 
 great souls. 
 May your spirit live in us, always. 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE