Jail Violent Eco-terrorists 

 This opinion piece appeared in the PASADENA STAR-NEWS April 07, 2003 

http://www.pasadenastarnews.com/Stories/0,1413,206~11851~1307601,00.html 
 Jail violent eco-terrorists 
By Dennis T. Avery 
 WHEN the Iraqi government showed the world photos of dead U.S. soldiers shot, 
execution-style, through their foreheads, President Bush announced that Iraqis 
who shoot prisoners will be prosecuted as war criminals. 
 Shooting defenseless prisoners violates a key rule of today's human 
societies. Saddam's Fedayeen thugs would no doubt retort that the United States 
is so much bigger and more powerful than Iraq that they have to strike any way 
they can. 
 That's also the argument of First World eco-terrorists who have burned public 
buildings, destroyed medical research laboratories and even murdered leading 
Dutch political candidate Pim Fortuyn last year. 
 Their justification is that they have no way but violence to make society 
stop doing what eco-terrorists don't like. This is an argument we wouldn't 
accept from Saddam Hussein, but it seems to protect the eco-terrorists from 
serious prosecution in America. 
 Most of the world's people prefer democracies instead of dictatorships. In a 
democracy everybody gets to help choose, instead of just a thuggish minority 
willing to burn and murder to get its way. Since most people are unwilling to 
commit arson and murder, in a world without rules the thugs win. 
 The spokesman for U.S. eco-violence is Craig Rosebraugh, who admittedly 
fronts for the Earth Liberation Front (ELF). Rosebraugh says the horror of 
seeing the forest behind his boyhood Oregon home cleared for affluent home sites 
made him admire violence. He thinks the U.S. tanks went into Kuwait in 1991 to 
get oil, not to reverse Saddam Hussein's invasion of a neighboring country. But 
he has no answer for this question: "If we went for the oil, why didn't we keep 
it?' 
 Rosebraugh claims corporations are committing wholesale murder. But the 
evidence shows Fascist, Communist and Baath Party dictatorships have murdered 
more than 100 million of their own citizens. Human Rights Watch credits Saddam 
with 250,000 deaths. 
 If Rosebraugh was a resident of Baghdad, he'd have seen his Ultimate Leader 
sell the country's oil to line his own pockets and then deliberately torch 
Kuwait's oil wells to cause an environmental disaster when the Allies threw him 
out. 
 Rosebraugh says corporate greed has set the stage for the "threatening 
shortage of natural resources and the massive environmental pollution and 
destruction present today in the United States.' He seems not to understand that 
the First World's forests are expanding, its farms are feeding more people from 
less land, and its air and water quality are rapidly improving. 
 It's the Third World where millions of domestic animals are starved and 
beaten by their poverty-ridden owners while endangered wild animals are hunted 
down for sale as "bushmeat.' 
 Rosebraugh says, "It is clear that the classic state-sanctioned means of 
social change are not working. It is time for a dramatic increase in underground 
direct action.' 
 Instead of nonviolent demonstrations, he recommends large- scale urban riots, 
physically "knocking the national TV networks off the air,' personally attacking 
heads of government and big companies in their homes, and undermining support 
for the U.S. troops going in harm's way. 
 Most Americans would defend Rosebraugh's constitutional right to speak such 
views but the Constitution also denies him the right to inflict his views on the 
rest of us through violence. 
 It's time the FBI tracked down law-breaking members of eco- terrorist groups 
and allowed them to contemplate their anti- democratic values from federal 
prison cells. 
 -- Dennis T. Avery is a senior fellow at The 
Hudson Institute,

www.hudsoninstitute.org Readers may write to him at Hudson/DC, 1015 
18th Street NW, Suite 300, Washington, D.C. 20036. 

 FAIR USE NOTE: In accordance with U.S. 
Copyright Law as codified in Title 17 U.S.C. section 107, any copyrighted 
material herein is displayed without profit or payment for non-profit research 
and educational purposes only. It is posted here only after the commercial 
purpose of any copyright holder has been satisfied, and complies with fair use 
clauses of the U.S. Copyright Act. For more information go to:

http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml 

RETURN TO ECOTERRORISM TOP STORIES TOP PAGE 

RETURN TO ECOTERRORISM TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE