Indictments 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 ENVIRONMENTALIST 
INDICTMENTS, INFORMATIONS AND WARRANTS 

 An INDICTMENT is an accusation of committing a crime, 
issued by a grand jury. In some countries, indictments are issued by an 
Information of Indictment, as below, rather than by a grand jury. 
 An INFORMATION is an accusation of committing a crime, 
issued by a prosecutor or competent public officer without the intervention of a 
grand jury. 
 A WARRANT is a written order by a court authorizing search 
or arrest relating to a crime. 
 Many environmentalists have been indicted by grand juries, 
accused of crime by an information, or served with a warrant for search or 
arrest on diverse charges. All suspects are innocent until convicted in a court 
of law. 

 March 11, 1997. Six pipe bombs exploded at 1:45 a.m., 
causing $750,000 in damage to the Fur Breeders Agricultural Co-op, a mink-feed 
factory at 8400 S. 700 West, Midvale, Utah, near Salt Lake City. The pipe bombs 
with fuses were detonated in the building and under five semi-tractor trailers 
in the parking lot of the factory, causing about $750,000 damage. The second 
floor of the main building, which contained the administrative offices, was 
gutted by fire. The two families that had lived on the site were not injured in 
the blasts. 
The Animal Liberation Front claimed responsibility. 
On June 19, 1997, Douglas Joshua Ellerman, 19, last known address in South Salt 
Lake, was indicted in U.S. District Court on 16 counts of bombing the feed 
factory. Four counts involved explosions that burned the Co-op. Seven counts 
stem from the bombing of the semi-tractor trailers, and four involve the 
construction of a bomb. The final count alleges use of a bomb in a violent act.

Salt Lake Area Gang Project Detective Brent Larsen described Ellerman as "very 
anti-establishment, very anti-cops. He is a vegan and violent. He's been in 
several fights and aggravated assaults." 
Ellerman has been returned to custody in Salt Lake City. He is said to be 
engaged in working out a plea agreement with prosecutors. 
Ellerman was reported to have became a member of the anti-drug, anti-sex group 
Straight Edge when he was 15 years old. The group adopts close-cropped haircuts 
and body piercings. Next, Ellerman became a vegan, swearing off all animal 
byproducts, including eggs and milk. Then he joined the violent animal-rights 
terrorist group, Animal Liberation Front. 
Detective Larsen believes the ALF may have been hiding Ellerman. "It's a strong 
underground network," he said. "We have kids clear up in Seattle [Wash.] and 
Nashville [Tenn]. I'm sure they could hide him out." 
Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms Special Agent B.J. Zapor said "the 
indictment is not the conclusion of the investigation. It is ongoing." 
Ellerman was convicted and is serving a seven-year sentence in federal prison. 
 1998 In 1997, an information to obtain a search warrant 
was presented by Constable Warren Leigh Ryan, officer of the Royal Canadian 
Mounted Police, before a Justice of the Peace to search certain premises of 
Darren Todd Thurston, 27, and David Nathan Barbarash, 31. Items found in the 
search were held as evidence. 
 On March 27, 1998, the RCMP laid charges against Darren 
Todd Thurston and David Nathan Barbarash, with a total of 30 charges of sending 
razor blades through the mail. 
 Barbarash and Rebecca Rubin, age 23, of North Vancouver, 
were charged jointly with one count of possession of an explosive substance. 
 Barbarash was also charged with possession of a prohibited 
weapon, a stun gun. 
 Thurston was charged with one count of personation, for 
purposes of fraudulently entering the United States, under section 403 of the 
Criminal Code of Canada. 
 Barbarash was arrested in Vancouver on March 25, 1998 and 
released on bail. Thurston surrendered to police on Friday, March 28, 1998, and 
released on bail. Rubin had not appeared in court at last report. 
 Barbarash and Thurston maintain their innocence on all 
charges, asserting police have wronged them. They are innocent of all charges 
until proven guilty in a court of law. 
 Both Thurston and Barbarash have previous ecoterror 
convictions. In June of 1992 Barbarash and Thurston were charged and convicted 
in relation to damage of a University of Alberta research facility. Thurston was 
charged and convicted in relation to the destruction of several trucks belonging 
to the Billingsgate Fish Company. Both served prison sentences. 
 Barbarash left Canada to the United States where he was 
captured in Scotts Valley California. In May of 1994 he was arrested by Scotts 
Valley Police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation while in the company of 
activist Jonathan Paul. Paul's sister, Alexandra Paul of Baywatch 
television fame, joined Earth First in an Oregon protest against the China Left 
timber sale. 
After his arrest Barbarash was deported to Canada. 
 During a search of property belonging to Thurston in 1992, 
the RCMP said it found an assault rifle, ammunition and two hand grenades 
belonging to Thurston. 
 Barbarash asserts that Thurston's firearm was legally 
registered and that there was only one hand grenade, which was a dummy used as a 
desk ornament. 
 Thurston and Barbarash are suspected of being part of 
several extremist environmental groups, including Earth First, the Animal 
Liberation Front, the Justice Department, the Militant Direct Action Task Force 
and perhaps the "David Organization" that made death threats to Chief Justice 
Allan McEachern of the British Columbia court system. Barbarash strongly denies 
any connection with groups that do violence against living beings, emphatically 
stating his rejection of violence against any living being. 
 Earth First Journal published a 1994 letter of David 
Barbarash to fellow Earth Firsters: 
 "Greetings from a Northern Alberta Concrete Bioregion. 
FELLOW ELVES Remember! WE ARE IN HERE FOR YOU; YOU ARE OUT THERE FOR US. 
 At publication date, I will have been here in this jail 
two months - captured almost three months ago in Scotts Valley California - with 
one month to go before my Preliminary Hearing on August 31. I have been denied 
bail on two charges relating to the liberation of 29 cats from the University of 
Alberta on June 1, 1992. The charges are Breaking and Enter/Theft over $1000 and 
Mischief. The Crown Attorney says I'll disappear into the "animal rights 
underground" should I be given half a chance, even though I haven't any "failure 
to appear" on my record. The judge apparently agreed, also saying that the 
"zealousness" of my beliefs is "frightening," and that I most certainly pose a 
"danger to the public." For saving animal lives? Yeah, right. 
 I hold a minor celebrity status in this jail, being the 
resident "terrorist." (Filling in the space left behind by Darren Thurston, who 
spent 15 months in here). Life here trudges on, and if I'm lucky the days go by 
rather quickly. Good books, gym, or perhaps that sacred but illusive hour of 
"outside yard" where I can breath fresh air, are some of the factors which 
determined the speed. If it's a really good day, I'd have received a whole pile 
of letters, which is my real sustenance here - no guilt trips intended, just 
stating my reality. Letters are my only connection to the real world, and my 
deepest thanks and love to all who've written. Your words, thoughts and prayers 
are incredibly appreciated! 
 My overall thoughts about this situation are that, yes, 
life's a drag right now. Prison sucks, no doubt about it, but you can live 
through it. The thought of spending time in a pit like this should not deter 
anyone from taking the action that this planet needs for its survival. The 
fuckers might have my physical body for a short period of my lifetime, but 
they'll never have my spirit. I'll eventually be free, and I'll still have my 
mind, my determination and my will. And they can't stop what's been started; 
they can't stop the struggle which is raging across this beautiful globe. 
("They" - those who are, quite simply, wrong about what life is all about). 
 What it comes down to, I believe, is that they're scared. 
They know our potential, even if most of us don't. They know the threat we pose 
to their bullshit way of life. Why else were they so fully armed to make my 
arrest, or to search, commando style, Red's cabin in Southern Oregon, or persist 
in their fishing trip Grand Juries and imprison activists without laying 
charges? Because they're frightened. They're scared of the force we can become 
if we really wanted to. 
 We humans are now (and have been for a while) poised on 
the precipice of a major cliff, doing a balancing act with the natural world, 
with the wild and with the critters. We will either climb higher or we'll 
stumble and fall. The fuckers are doing their most to push us over: prison; 
intimidation of ourselves, friends and families; burning down our homes; 
beatings; attempts on our lives and in some cases successful ones. It's obvious 
to me they're becoming desperate. It's obvious to me that we need to gain the 
upper hand. 
 You've heard it before, and I'm not afraid of proclaiming 
it: Let's hit them where it hurts the most. Figure it out. Be secure. Be tribal. 
Go for the jugular. There are many options to focus on; it doesnt matter where, 
so much, as it matters when - time is running out. Our lives on this Earth are 
but the blink of an eye in the time and age of this planet. But our actions in 
this day will have an effect which could determine the future. 
 My brother and sister warriors, I love all of you 
courageous spirits. My prayers and magic are with you on the front lines. Soon, 
I will rejoin you there. Until then, give a howl for all of us prisoners! 
Remember those of us who are running and acting and still free, and be proud and 
supportive of each other. Keep in touch, my family. Hoka Hey! Geronimo Lives 
Forever! 
 P.S. Special greetings and love for my tribe, living among 
the rivers and mountains and sage and sun. I miss you all dearly. Be safe. Love 
each other.