India Times 

 http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/cms.dll/articleshow?artid=22889584 

 THE TIMES OF INDIA 

 G reen 
killers and pseudo-science 

 SWAMINOMICS / 
SWAMINATHAN S. ANKLESARIA AIYAR 

 [ SUNDAY, 
SEPTEMBER 22, 2002 12:02:07 AM ] 

 Green fundamentalists are 
 killers. Their opposition to genetically modified foods is killing people in 
 famine-hit Africa today, and could threaten Indians in the future too. 

 The USA has rushed food aid 
 to southern Africa in the form of maize, the staple diet of the region. But 
 Zambia has refused to distribute this maize to its starving population. 

 Why? Because some of the 
 maize may be GM, and may be used by farmers as seed. The US has used GM food 
 for years with no ill-effects. But the European Union, under the influence of 
 Greenpeace and other fundamentalists, has banned the import of GM foods.

 Now, Zambia and other 
 southern African countries traditionally export maize to Europe. They fear 
 Europe will ban such exports if there is any suspicion that they have planted 
 any GM maize. So they face a dilemma. If they reject food aid, people will 
 starve. But if they accept food aid and jeopardise future maize exports to 
 Europe, that too could cause farmer starvation. 

 Greenpeace and its 
 supporters are responsible for this outrageous state of affairs. They 
 spearheaded the ban. Vandana Shiva, a leading Indian opponent of GM foods, was 
 recently honoured by Time magazine as a heroic Third World defender of 
 traditional agriculture. 

 But at the Johannesburg 
 green summit, Shiva was given a very different award: The Bullshit Award for 
 Sustaining Poverty. This was bestowed on her by a group of Third World 
 activists and farmers demanding the freedom to choose seeds, to choose 
 technology, and to trade unhindered by bans. Their citation says that, in a 
 closely contested race, Shiva narrowly beat Greenpeace and some others. I 
 personally think Greenpeace should have won hands down. It has surely done 
 more damage, especially in Africa. 

 Shiva has hit back at her 
 critics, such as Barun Mitra of the Liberty Institute. In an interview with 
 CNSNews.com, she declared that Mitra and others were people whose minds have 
 been bought with money. 

 This is pure McCarthyism. I 
 and many of my colleagues in journalism agree with Mitra that opposition to GM 
 foods is indeed a recipe for impoverishing farmers. 

 The traditional organic 
 farming which Shiva recommends is the very technology that led to mass 
 starvation in India for centuries, with up to one-tenth of the population 
 perishing in periodic famines. 

 Mass starvation was finally 
 ended by the green revolution, which brought in modern genetics and chemical 
 inputs. GM takes scientific innovation a step further. GM foods have not 
 affected public health in any country, including the ultra-health-conscious 
 USA. 

 GM plants are laboratory 
 crosses across genomes. But nature too is replete with crosses across genomes. 
 This is one way species have evolved for millions of years. To condemn such 
 crosses as dangerous or unnatural is pseudo-science of sort that led Hitler to 
 fulminate against the mixing of races. 

 Hitler believed that the 
 Aryans were a superior race. He was aghast at the thought of Aryan blood 
 mixing with the inferior blood of Jews or blacks. His belief that crosses 
 across races would produce genetic horrors had no scientific basis. Yet he 
 banned the mixing of races, and sought to eliminate (as a Final Solution) 
 those he deemed inferior and dangerous. 

 Greenpeace and Co. extend 
 this same argument to plants. They claim that natural species are pure and 
 superior, while GM varieties are inferior and dangerous. Like Hitler, they 
 express horror at the mixing of species. They do not want to allow people to 
 choose what to plant or eat. They want an outright ban. 

 They provide no proof that 
 GM foods are dangerous. Instead they say it is up to proponents of GM foods to 
 prove these are not unsafe. This is eerily Hitlerian too: condemn without 
 evidence, and ask the condemned to prove their innocence. Is this not like 
 asking every Indian Muslim to prove that he is not pro-Pakistani? Or asking 
 every Jew to prove that he does not condone the killing of Jesus Christ? Is it 
 not an insult to common dignity? 

 Science punctures the notion 
 that natural foods are safe and GM foods are not. Science has proved beyond 
 all doubt that a wide variety of natural foods kill. Butter, cooking oil, 
 chocolate, cream and fried foods in general cause cardiac disease, 
 hypertension and cancer. Desserts of all sorts, from ice-cream to gulab jamun, 
 are full of cholesterol-raising ingredients. Alcohol kills. Tobacco kills. All 
 these are products of natural plants. Yet green fundamentalists insist that 
 the real danger is from GM plants. 

 Shiva claims that proponents 
 of GM foods are third-rate scientists, corrupt politicians, and pawns of 
 multinationals. Really? 

 According to Alex Avery of 
 the Hudson Institute Centre for Global Food Issues, the proponents of 
 biotechnology include the World Health Organisation, Food and Agriculture 
 Organisation, six national science academies, the US Department of 
 Agriculture, American Medical Association, American Dietic Association, and 19 
 Nobel prize winners, including Norman Borlaug, founder of the green 
 revolution. 

 Not even Hitler would claim 
 that all these could be bought by the Jews. 

 Center View: Vandama Shiva is no less 
 corrupted by money than she alleges of her opponents. She is the 
 instrumentality of big money foundations with anti-globalization 
 agendas. She r eceives large annual donations 
directed by 
 Jerry Mander from 
 Foundation for Deep Ecology , $165,000 in 2000. 

 RETURN TO GLOBALIZATION TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE