Instructions 

 HHOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 ECOTERRORIST INSTRUCTION MANUALS 

 Several books have been published that constitute instruction manuals in 
committing crimes. 

 1993. Captain Paul Watsons book Earthforce! An Earth Warriors Guide To 
Strategy published. An instruction manual in nine situations including civil 
disobedience, infiltration, and striking illegally and with great destruction. 
Watson stressed the prohibition against injuring or killing any living being. 
Chaco Press, La Canada, California. 
 June 1991. Grass Valley, California. Publication of 

 A Declaration of War: Killing People to Save Animals & the 
Environment , by 
Screaming Wolf [pseudonym of Sidney and Tanya Singer], Patrick Henry Press. 
First overt recommendation to kill people to save nature. The book stirred 
controversy within the radical environmental movement. Some claimed it was 
published by anti-environment activists to discredit the movement, a standard 
defenses of innocence and shifting attention tactic. The actual authors and 
publishers were Sidney and Tanya Singer of the Good Shepherd Foundation, 
long-time animal rights activists. The publishers, now in Canada, claimed that 
the book had been sent to them anonymously on a computer diskette. The book is 
outlawed in Canada and the United Kingdom under incitement to violence laws. 
 1985. Dave Foremans 

 Ecodefense: A Field Guide to Monkeywrenching 
self-published. Nine chapters of instructions on subjects ranging from tree 
spiking to road sabotage, from disabling equipment to disrupting predator 
trapping, from jamming locks and making smoke bombs to propaganda, writing 
untraceable letters and evading capture. Foreman was listed as editor with 
Bill Haywood, pseudonym. Some think Mike Roselle was Haywood, others think 
Foreman worked alone. Roselle later repudiated the book as Foremans and not 
Earth Firsts. Dave Foreman and Bill Haywood, Ecodefense: A Field Guide to 
Monkeywrenching , Ned Ludd Books, Tucson, Arizona, 1985. 
 February, 1972. Washington, D. C. While revising a 1970 book, Earth Tool Kit, 
the group Environmental Action sponsored a nationwide contest for sabotage ideas 
with results published in the handbook 

 Ecotage! 
Ecotage was defined as the branch of tactical biology that deals with the 
relationship between living organisms and their technology. It usually refers to 
tactics which can be exercised without injury to life systems. Detailed 
instructions on sabotaging equipment, destroying billboards, removing road 
survey stakes, unfurling banners, plugging industrial waste and sewer pipes, 
delivering sludge and dead animals to corporate offices, and other now-familiar 
actions. Its description of the ecotage movement presaged Earth First: The 
movements strength is that it is not formally organized and it cannot be 
stopped by elimination of key leaders. Though not rigidly structured, it is 
unified by a philosophy of respect for life. This was the earliest ecoterror 
instruction manual and prototype for Dave Foremans similar 1985 manual, 
EcoDefense. Sam Love and David Obst, editors, with a foreword by Robert 
Townsend, Ecotage!, Pocket Books, New York, February, 1972. 186 pages.

 For various ecoterrorist manuals, visit the ELF 
website 
earthliberationfront.com