Insurance brokers 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 CONTROVERSIES 
 Insurance 
 brokers' conflicts of interest 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Why we care: 
America's faith in the free enterprise system has been seriously shaken by 
corporate scandals in the headlines, from Enron and Tyco to Shell's overstating 
its petroleum reserves. The 
insurance industry is essential to the well-being of our nation, but it has come 
under scrutiny for potential scandals over conflicts of interest and 
self-serving practices. The insurance industry is highly regulated with the goal 
of providing consumer choice , but two practices 
have aroused concern, one called Placement Service Agreements and the other 
called Leveraging. While it is rare for the Center to support government 
regulation, it is also typical of the Center to examine each issue on 
its own merits . Insurance companies have sensed public unease 
over these two practices and some have called for closer public scrutiny. 
 CDFE su pp orts the insurance industry in its effort 
to avoid scandals and provide the best service possible to the public. 

 I SSUE 

 T he 
Washington Legal Foundation recently wrote to attorneys-general and insurance 
departments in New York and California requesting that those offices investigate 
and consider regulating questionable practices. 

 Recently scrutinized in the 
 Financial Times , 
 Placement 
Service Agreements, or PSAs, 
 inherently compromise a broker's 
duty to act in the cli ent's 
best interests by encouraging brokers to refer business only to companies that 
pay them contingency fees. As a result, customers run the risk of paying more 
for coverage they do not need, and 
 potentially receiv e 
less in terms of overall policy benefits. PSAs also referred to as revenue 
sharing and contingency agreements in the mutual funds industry have 
already drawn criticism and have been investigated by the SEC. 

 A related practice, known as
 leveraging or tying has also 
drawn fire from consumer groups. Heres how it works: Insurance companies get 
referrals from brokers who can also sell reinsurance (insurance for insurance 
companies). In leveraging, brokers will threaten to withhold referrals, unless 
an insurance company agrees to fill its reinsurance needs through that broker. 
This can lead to inflated prices for reinsurance (which get passed along to 
insurance customers) and a market that unfairly shuts out competition (because 
captive companies cannot search for the best prices). 

 In 
addition to WLF , 
the following groups/individuals have already weighed in on PSAs and/or 
leveraging: 

 J.P. Morgan Securities 
( JPMorgan ) 

 National Consumers League ( http://www.natlconsumersleague.org/reinsurancepr.htm ) 

 Jeffrey Wilder, Dept of 
Economics at MIT (now with the 
 antitrust division 
of the Department of Justice) 
( http://irm.wharton.upenn.edu/S02-Wilder.pdf ) 

 NY State Insurance Dept. ( http://www.ins.state.ny.us/cl98_22.htm ) 

 RETURN TO 
CONTROVERSIES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE