The Kelo case 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 PROPERTY RIGHTS 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 A disastrous Supreme Court decision against property rights 
 Majority: Your rights are for sale to the highest bidder 
 For a thorough encyclopedia entry on the case, see

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kelo_v._New_London 
 For the Institute for Justice news release on the 
decision, click here . 
 For the magisterial dissent of Justice Clarence 
Thomas, click here . 

 WASHINGTON 
-- The Supreme Court has ruled that local governments may seize people's homes 
and businesses -- even against their will -- for private economic development. 
 The case is Susette Kelo et alia v. City of New London, Connecticut. The 
picture at the left shows one of the homes sacrificed by the Supreme Court's 
ruling. The decision carries huge implications for every American, particularly 
those who live in rapidly growing urban and suburban areas with conflicts 
between development and property ownership rights. 
 The 5-4 ruling represented a defeat for Connecticut home-owners whose homes 
will be destroyed to make way for an office complex. The owners argued that 
cities have no right to take their land except for projects with a clear public 
use, such as roads or schools, or to revitalize blighted areas. 
 With the Kelo decision, the high court gave cities wide power to bulldoze 
residences for projects such as shopping malls and hotel complexes to generate 
tax revenue. 
 Local officials, not federal judges, know best in deciding whether a 
development project will benefit the community, justices said. 
 "The city has carefully formulated an economic development that it believes 
will provide appreciable benefits to the community, including -- but by no means 
limited to -- new jobs and increased tax revenue," Justice John Paul Stevens 
wrote for the majority. 
 He was joined by Justice Anthony Kennedy, David H. Souter, Ruth Bader 
Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer. 
 The key issue was the scope of the Fifth Amendment, which allows governments 
to take private property through eminent domain if the land is for "public use." 
 Susette Kelo and several other homeowners in a working-class neighborhood in 
New London, Connecticut, filed suit after city officials announced plans to raze 
their homes for a riverfront hotel, health club and offices. 
 New London officials countered that the private development plans served a 
public purpose of boosting economic growth that outweighed the homeowners' 
property rights, even if the area wasn't blighted. 
 Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who has been a key swing vote on many cases 
before the court, issued a stinging dissent. She argued that cities should 
not have unlimited authority to uproot families, even if they are provided 
compensation, simply to accommodate wealthy developers. 
 The lower courts had been divided on the issue, with many allowing a taking 
only if it eliminates blight. 
 "Any property may now be taken for the benefit of another private party, but 
the fallout from this decision will not be random," O'Connor wrote. "The 
beneficiaries are likely to be those citizens with disproportionate influence 
and power in the political process, including large corporations and development 
firms." 
 She was joined in her opinion by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, as well 
as Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas. 

 RETURN 

 TO PROPERTY RIGHTS TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE