The Kerry Defeat 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 The Kerry Defeat 

 Maybe it has 
 something to do with complaining about corporate capitalism 
 while stumping in your millionaire wife 's 
 private jet 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 The Two Americas: Why did 
Retro dump Metro at the polls? 
 Big money from the anti-big money party backfired 

Perceived hypocrisy isn't everything in a presidential election, but by George 
it's nearly. 

No one in Charleston or San Jose thinks that Republicans George W. Bush, Dick Cheney or 
Donald Rumsfeld promote anything that would harm the moneyed lives that they 
came from; they clearly and definitely advocate free enterprise and corporate 
capitalism. 

 On the other hand , 
Democrats Teresa Heinz Kerry, John Edwards and George Soros got a lot more money 
from the same system, and they seem intent on mocking, devaluing and even 
dismantling free enterprise - at least the other guy's free enterprise. 

John Edwards got multimillion-dollar legal fees from his law practice.

Teresa Heinz Kerry controls a vast billion-dollar philanthropy empire that gives 
tons of money to anti-industry activists while flitting about in "The Flying 
Squirrel," her private
 Gulfstream V 
jet, named after her favorite ski-run in Sun Valley, near one of her four 
expensive homes.

 Billionaire financier George Soros 

nearly destroyed the small depositors of Great Britain in 1992 by an aggressive 
speculation against the Pound Sterling that forced the Bank of England to 
withdraw the currency out of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism (which brought 
him a cool $1.1 billion) and he did the same thing to Malaysia in the 1997 Asian 
financial crisis. This is the same George Soros that fueled MoveOn.org and its 
"Dump Bush" campaign. 

Why didn't it work? With all that money pouring out of people who complained 
that Bush supports big bad corporate capitalism, why isn't John Kerry the 
president-elect? 

 If you believe Chicago's Democrat Mayor Richard M. Daley, 
the public could tell where the big money really was, 
despite anything Dan Rather or Michael Moore said. 

Mayor Daley was quoted in the Chicago Sun-Times as saying: "We always 
thought that the Republican Party was Washington, DC. The Democrats are 
Washington, DC politicians. They don't reach out to a mayor, a governor or the 
state chairman. There's no local anymore." 

Daley concluded, "If you watch the Republican Party, they're more grass roots 
than Democrats. We think we are. The Republicans outfoxed the Democrats. They 
became the party of precincts, a county, a city. Their strategy was to go to 
the people, not to the money people...We're supposed to be the party of the 
people. We're the party of the money." 

If you believe Hollywood Monday-morning quarterbacks and the Los Angeles 
Times headline 

 Stars rock the vote - in the wrong direction 

it was a backlash against celebrities with 8-figure incomes pretending to be 
populist political pundits. A foul-mouthed Whoopee Goldberg mixed with Tim 
Robbins rants turned toxic for Kerry, and even Bruce Springsteen's mass appeal 
only soured 
 the Heartland on the 
"Hollywood elite." Yes, the movie and music industries' fundraising prowess gave 
Kerry's campaign a significant boost. But it also gave it a significant kick in 
the pants. 

 If you 
believe Victor Davis Hanson, senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, the 
media's clear anti-Bush bias backfired, too: 

"We are nearly reaching the point where 
approval from the New York Times or a CBS puff-piece hurts a candidate or cause, 
as do the billions in contributions from a George Soros." 

Hansen suggests that TV media figures such as Bill Moyers, Andy Rooney and Ted Koppel 
have "morphed from their once sober and judicious personas into highly partisan 
figures that now carry political weight among most Americans only to the degree 
that they harm any cause or candidate with whom they are associated." 

 If you 
believe Republican get-out-the-vote meisters 
 Karl Rove 
and Ken Mehlman , 
it was largely a matter of moral values. 

 Exit polls conducted by 
 a number of organizations found that 22% of voters felt that moral values were 
 the most important reason they votedof this 22%, 80% voted for President 
 Bush. 

 If you believe John Sperling, billionaire founder of the for-profit University 
of Phoenix and author of The Great Divide: Retro vs. Metro America , it's 
because America is two nations, Retro 
and Metro America. Retro America is defined by the South, the Midwest, and the 
Rocky Mountain states; Metro America by the two coasts and the Great Lakes 
states. It was those dumb hicks from Retro America that put Bush in his second 
term. 

 Sperling wrote, "The existence of these two 
nations was dramatically thrust onto the American consciousness by the election 
of 2000; since that time there has been common reference to "Red states," which 
went to George W. Bush, and "Blue states," which went to Al Gore. Map 1-1, 
showing the results of the 2000 election, has become an iconic portrait of the 
political divide at the presidential level." 

 What separates these two Americas is economics, 
which Sperling seems to think determines beliefs. He wrote: "26 Red states have 
a consistently high percentage of gross state product (GSP) produced by 
agriculture, mining, nondurable goods and federal military and civilian 
facilities. In contrast, 24 Blue states rank high on durable goods 
manufacturing, finance, insurance, and services in general." 

 In a masterpiece of insult mistaken for 
analysis, Sperling explained his book title: 

 We chose the name "Retro" because the economies 
of the Red states tend to be dominated by the extraction industries and low-wage 
manufacturing and federal facilities; and because they are the home of 
old-fashioned values and the "Bible Belt," with its pro-life, anti-gay 
convictions and tendency to be more wedded to creationism than to science. We 
named the Blue states Metro America because they represent the Metropolitan 
areas that include both the historic industrial base and the "New Economy," new 
economic classes, a commitment to scientific innovation, and new ways of 
constructing the world. 

 Sperling never seemed to realize that Metro 
America's "new economic classes" still require three meals a day, and that their 
food and other material needs still come from those grungy old-fashioned 
extraction industries in Retro America. 

 Retro America has not forgotten that rather 
basic fact, nor which candidates are likely to help or harm extraction 
industries. 

 Actually, Red America in 2004 looks more like 
this map, created by NewsMax.com, which shows counties that gave George 
W. Bush more popular votes than any President in history. 

 Make of it what you will. 

 If you 
believe the late psychologist Abraham Maslow, it's because people who are too 
well-off forget what keeps them that way 
 and people 
 closer to the 
nitty-gritty don't. 

 Maslow attempted to understand how otherwise mentally healthy 
people could act to harm their own security and material support structure, like 
Sperling, who belittles the extraction industries that keep his belly full. 
Maslow had studied human motivation his entire career and found evidence that 
the things that motivate people can also get in their way. 

 Needs , perceived 
needs , make all the difference. 

 Everybody has needs, and Maslow found that these needs arise in a 
more or less predictable order in successful people, resulting in what he called 
a Hierarchy of Needs. As you'd expect, this "hierarchy" progresses from 
basic to high-level. 

 Here's a chart of how it works, according to Maslow. Ranked from 
primary material needs at the lowest rung, each need motivates powerfully until 
it is gratified, then a new higher level non-material need arises, which in turn 
fades when gratified, and so on up the hierarchy, which Maslow arranged thus at 
the end of his career: 

 Read from bottom 
up 

 Esthetics (need for beauty - to create beautiful things, 
 have beautiful surroundings, live a beautiful life) 

 Knowledge (cognitive needs, curiosity, need to understand) 

 Self-actualization (ego need to be all that one can be) 

 Sense of belonging (need to be part of something greater) 

 Non-Material needs: Love (need for sex, family, closeness) 

 Material Needs: Survival 
 (need for food, clothing, shelter, physical security from danger) 

 This might remain a mere theoretical curiosity except for 
Maslows discovery that 

 as people 
 advance up this Needs Hierarchy, each gratified need motivates less and 
 less 

 and the 
 unsatisfied non-material needs motivate more and more 

 until
 people forget the importance of the 
 material needs 

 Then 

 People 
 take the material needs for granted 

 They begin 
 to mock the material needs (Im above all that) 

 They 
 devalue the material needs (All thats icky) 

 They act 
 to destroy the material needs (We have to get rid of all that) 

 Maslow identified this process as pathological and 
 the most 
important feature of modern culture. 

 He gave it a clinical name: 

 Post-gratification forgetting and devaluation. 

 It is the most important feature of modern culture. 

 Post-gratification forgetting and devaluation helps us 
understand people who have the learned inability to see or appreciate the 
material needs and who mock, devalue and act to destroy them. 

 When whole segments of a culture are so well-off they can move 
all the way up the Needs Hierarchy, you get movements totally involved with the 
two highest-level needs, knowledge and beauty, and totally forgetful and 
destructive of the material needs. 

 Metro Blue America has forgotten its foundations. 

 Retro Red America lives close to its foundations. 
 People who are stuck in 
post-gratification forgetting and devaluation don't seem willing or able to 
learn from experience. 

 If you 
believe the left-wing Grist Magazine, the election results were an unmitigated 
disaster for environmentalists. 

 A poll accompanied Grist's 
November 3, 2004 article, "Environmental leaders and thinkers on what comes 
next." 

 The poll offered five 
alternatives. 

 The vote shown is as of 
November 9, 2004. 

 It's going to be an interesting 
four years. 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 

VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE