Livestock Feed 

 Livestock feed: could it better feed humans? No, says Wyoming 
 lawyer with ranching heritage 

 R adical 
 groups state that that the amount of feed consumed by animals could feed 
 "zillions" of starving humans. However, that is false. The beef industry 
 consumes feed sources that cannot be utilized by humans and converts it to a 
 protein source that humans can utilize. The truth is, that the beef industry 
 adds more protein and other products into the human food supply then is 
 consumed. 

 One such example is the grass and shrubs 
 growing on millions of acres in this country. These range lands would make no 
 contribution to human nutritional needs without grazing animals. In addition, 
 animals consume millions of tons of agricultural by products that humans 
 cannot utilize. Carrot tops, almond hulls, corn stocks, soy bean plants, 
 cotton seed, orange peels and wheat by products are a small fraction of the 
 human food waste products that are utilized as animal feed. Importantly, 
 the parts consumed by animals are the parts that cannot be directly used by 
 humans. Thus, what would be a waste disposal problem is converted into 
 protein and numerous other items that benefit the human population. (Name one 
 country with a highly developed animal husbandry program that does not have 
 enough food to feed it's human population. In contrast, the government of 
 this country is paying farmers to let farm land sit idle). 

 A good example is the Simplot company's cattle 
 feeding program. Initially, Simplot produced and processed huge quantities of 
 potatoes. Cull potatoes and other by products can be a huge waste disposal 
 problem. However, feeding the waste to livestock substantially eliminated the 
 potato waste problem and created one of the largest livestock operations in 
 the world. 

 In summary, livestock convert waste products 
 that humans cannot utilize, into food products that humans can utilize. As a 
 result, the beef industry contributes more protein to the human food supply 
 then it consumes. In the process, the disposal of agricultural waste products 
 is eliminated and society enjoys the benefits of may other products made 
 available through animal husbandry. The simple truth is that we have more to 
 eat and less to cleanup because of animal agriculture. 

 My information for these statements comes from 
 a presentation I attended in the 1980s. The material was presented by 
 researchers from Washington State University and Texas A&M. 

 Frank Falen 

 Attorney at law. 

 RETURN TO FACT FIGHTS 
TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE