Lomborg cleared 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise: Issues 

 Financial Times 
 (London) 

 Bjorn Lomborg 

 Danish writer cleared of 
 'scientific dishonesty' 

 By Vanessa Houlder in London 
 and Clare MacCarthy in Copenhagen 

 Published: December 18 2003 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

 OPPOSITION 

 PROJECTS 

 DEFENDERS 

 WISE USE 

 BOOKSTORE 

 ARCHIVE 

 Center Executive Vice 
President Ron Arnold shared a podium with Mr. Lomborg at an agricultural 
conference in 2002, and supports his efforts. 

 Bjorn Lomborg, the author of a controversial book 
attacking the environment movement, was cleared yesterday of "scientific 
dishonesty" by the Danish science ministry. 

 The ministry overturned a ruling in January by the
 Danish committee on 
scientific dishonesty (DCSD), part of the Danish Research Agency, that Mr 
Lomborg's book 

The Skeptical Environmentalist was "clearly contrary to the 
standards of good scientific practice". 
 Mr 
Lomborg hailed yesterday's decision as "brilliant". It provided confirmation 
that freedom of 
speech extended to the environmental debate, he said. 
 In its 
report, the ministry criticised the committee for failing to provide evidence 
either that Mr Lomborg had been biased in his selection of data or that his 
methodology had been dubious. 
 It also 
said the committee's judgment had used
 "condescending and 
emotional" language. And it was a "clear mistake" that the committee had 
failed to give Mr Lomborg an opportunity to defend himself before publishing its 
judgment. 
 This 
scathing assessment of the DCSD ruling meant that critics would have to find 
solid arguments to attack his work, rather than rely on mud-slinging, Mr Lomborg 
said. The ministry's report, which examined only the procedural aspects of Mr 
Lomborg's treatment by the DCSD, is unlikely to halt the controversy over Mr 
Lomborg's arguments. 
 The DCSD 
was widely 
criticised in January because it relied on published criticisms of Mr 
Lomborg's work instead of conducting an independent analysis. Nature, the 
scientific journal, said the episode "leaves everyone little wiser and the water 
surrounding Lomborg even muddier". 
 The 
DCSD's failure to undertake its own analysis of Mr Lomborg's work also 
disappointed some of his critics. Christian Ege, director of the Danish 
Ecological Council, which has published a detailed critique of Mr Lomborg's 
work, said he was not surprised that the DCSD ruling had been overturned. 
 Mr 
Lomborg accused his critics of being motivated by a desire to stop his 
appointment as director of the Environmental Assessment Institute, established 
by the centre-right government shortly after it came to power two years ago. 
 The 
institute, which has received heavy criticism in recycling-friendly Denmark for 
claiming it made more sense to incinerate waste aluminium cans than recycle 
them, has suffered a wave of defections from its supervisory board. 
 Five 
members of the seven-strong team have resigned, two for personal reasons and 
three in protest at Mr Lomborg's plans to host an international conference - 
Copenhagen Consensus - next spring. 
 The board 
members, mostly academics, say Mr Lomborg is overstretching his budget and 
exceeding his remit by inviting experts and submissions on subjects as varied as 
financial instability, corrupt governance and infectious diseases. 
 Anders 
Fogh Rasmussen, the Danish premier who has defended Mr Lomborg, criticised the 
board defections earlier this month, while opposition politicians said this 
latest crisis was another example of Mr Lomborg's lack of credibility. 

 FAIR USE NOTE: In accordance with U.S. 
Copyright Law as codified in Title 17 U.S.C. section 107, any copyrighted 
material herein is displayed without profit or payment for non-profit research 
and educational purposes only. It is posted here only after a commercial 
purpose of any copyright holder has been satisfied, and complies with fair use 
clauses of the U.S. Copyright Act. For more information go to:

http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml 

 RETURN TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN 
TO CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE