London Telegraph 

 GREEN REBEL 

 by David 
 Thomas 

 The Daily 
 Telegraph 

 Bjorn Lomborg, 
 a former member of Greenpeace, has been branded a traitor by the international 
 environmental movement. His crime? He debunked almost all of its claims about 
 the earth's perilous state. Now, he is a marked man. 

 Bjorn Lomborg 
 does not look like a dangerous revolutionary. When the 37-year-old political 
 science professor from Aarhus University in Denmark slipped into London on 
 Friday afternoon, he was wearing trainers, jeans, a brightly coloured cagoule 
 and a knapsack just like any other skinny, blond, blue-eyed Scandinavian 
 backpacker. 

 But to the 
 nabobs of the international environmental movement - the researchers, 
 bureaucrats, politicians and protesters whose most passionate beliefs and 
 professional livelihoods are staked on the near-religious conviction that the 
 world is confronting imminent environmental catastrophe - Lomborg is the 
 anti-Christ. This former ecological activist and member of Greenpeace has had 
 the temerity to suggest the world is not coming to an end. And the result, as 
 he revealed last week, is that he has become a marked man. 

 It all began 
 last August when he published the book The Sceptical Environmentalist, which 
 reported in painstaking statistical detail that the world's resources were not 
 running out, its species were not rushing to extinction and global warming 
 might not turn out to be quite so disastrous after all. 

 As Lomborg 
 puts it: "It's unrealistic to say that everything is getting better. But we 
 need to get a sense of priority. For example, the level of pollutants is 
 dropping dramatically in the developed world. The air in London is cleaner 
 today than at any time since 1585. 

 The average 
 person in London was much worse off in the past than today. 

 "It is 
 worrying that the rain forest is shrinking. But the fact that people are 
 cutting down trees doesn't mean that the world is coming to an end. Even by 
 the most pessimistic scenarios, people in the developing world will be richer 
 in 100 years time than we are now. So, by then, a Bangladeshi would also be 
 concerned about the environment and able to afford to set aside land and 
 regrow forest. It's a temporary problem. We won't lose the rainforest 
 forever." 

 For daring to 
 utter such eco-heresies, Lomborg has received threats from enraged 
 environmentalists and now opens mail with extreme care for fear of what 
 parcels might contain. 

 From the 
 moment that Lomborg first published his ideas as a series of articles in the 
 Danish newspaper Politiken, campaigners have been lining up to assault him as 
 an intellectual fraudster who is motivated by a fascistic desire to discredit 
 the environmental left. The Danish environment minister even sent Lomborg's 
 articles to 2,500 civil servants, instructing them to report any mistakes they 
 could find. 

 Lomborg 
 reports ruefully: "A lot of my left-wing friends had a hard time with me being 
 so 'immoral' as to say that the environment was actually getting better. 
 There's a presumption that I'd be out there felling rain forests if I could." 

 The science 
 magazine Nature went so far as to declare that Lomborg "employs the strategy 
 of those who argue that gay men are not dying of AIDS, that Jews weren't 
 singled out by the Nazis and so on." The accusation was particularly tasteless 
 since Lomborg happens to be gay. 

 But then 
 nothing infuriates ideologues more than a traitor to the cause. And, to 
 ecologists, that is just what Lomborg is. 

 "I was a 
 comfortable, left-wing, worried kind of a guy. If you'd asked me in 1980, I 
 could not have imagined that we wouldn't be running out of resources by now. 
 I'd go to rallies and marches, but nothing where I could get arrested. I'm way 
 too suburban and academic for that." 

 But then, in 
 1997, he read an article about a renegade American professor called Julian 
 Simon who had for decades been using official U.S. Government statistics to 
 disprove claims made by environmentalists. 

 In the late 
 1960s, eco-evangelists such as the best selling author Paul Erlich stated: "In 
 the 1970s and 1980s, hundreds of millions of people will starve to death in 
 spite any crash programs embarked on now ... Before 1985, mankind will enter a 
 stage of scarcity in which accessible supplies of many kinds of minerals will 
 be nearing depletion." 

 Simon argued 
 the opposite: that resources would become more abundant and cheaper, and 
 events proved him right. Even so, when Lomborg read about Simon's work summed 
 up in a 1995 book called The State of Humanity, he still held the orthodox 
 ecological world view. "I was totally sure Simon was wrong," he says. 

 "I thought: 
 'It should be easy to showed he's wrong, and it'll be fun debunking him.' So I 
 got my students to go through a chapter of his book each to check his 
 statistics. 

 "And, to our 
 surprise, most of what he said was correct." 

 Lomborg gives 
 one simple example of the deviance between theory and practice; the 
 conservationists' claim that the world is losing up top 40,000 species of 
 animals and plants to extinction every year and is heading towards the loss of 
 50 per cent of all species. this estimate is based, Lomborg claims, not on 
 observation, but extrapolation from theoretical equations. 

 'The theory 
 says that if you cut down 90 per cent of a forest, you lose 50 per cent of the 
 species it contains. But that doesn't seem to be confirmed if you look at 
 specific examples." 

 The Brazilian 
 Atlantic rain forest was almost entirely cut down, mainly in the 19th century. 
 By now, many of its species should be extinct. 

 But, as it 
 turns out, the Brazilian Zoological Society and the World Conservation Union 
 compiled a list of 300 species of indigenous mammals, birds and plants, and 
 not one of them had become extinct. 

 It would be OK 
 for the theory if only 45 per cent of species had become extinct. But if you 
 find nought per cent extinct, that seriously questions that whole idea because 
 it's dramatically not true." 

 Lomborg's 
 essential thesis is not anti-environmental at all. He doesn't want to pillage 
 the planet. He simply argues that environmental protection should be based on 
 rational analysis and sensible risk assessment rather than scare mongering and 
 ideology. 

 "The 
 underlying belief behind a lot of recycling policy is that we are running out 
 of resources," he says. "It's a spectacular example of a case where old style 
 environmentalists were simply wrong. But many people still believe it. 
 Recycling makes sense to a certain extent, but we shouldn't do it religiously. 

 "We're not 
 going to run out of resources and we are not going to run out of space to put 
 our garbage. 

 "Even if the 
 US increased the amount of garbage produced per head by 15% a year, and 
 doubled its population, the total amount of garbage produced by the US in the 
 21st century could be put in a 100-foot-high pile covering a 28-by-28-km 
 square. In the context of North America, it would be nothing. 

 "Garbage 
 siting is a political problem - no one wants it in their back yard. But it's 
 not a space problem." 

 For all our 
 many problems, he says, the world's inhabitants are on average, richer, 
 healthier, longer-living and better-fed than at any time in the history of 
 humanity. 

 "In 20 years 
 time," says Lomborg, "we'll look back and wonder why we worried so much. 
 Environmentalism won't be a religion anymore, it'll just be good common 
 sense." 

 For all the 
 demonization he has faced, Lomborg still seems remarkably upbeat. His book has 
 sold well on both sides of the Atlantic, although he insists that, "you don't 
 make a lot of money, not compared to the hours you put in." 

 And he has 
 become a minor celebrity. That, though, is not what gives him the most 
 satisfaction. "It's not fun being famous," he says, and then grins, "but it is 
 fun being right." 

 FAIR USE NOTE: In accordance with U.S. 
Copyright Law as codified in Title 17 U.S.C. section 107, any copyrighted 
material herein is displayed without profit or payment for non-profit research 
and educational purposes only. It is posted here only after a commercial 
purpose of any copyright holder has been satisfied, and complies with fair use 
clauses of the U.S. Copyright Act. For more information go to:

http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml 

 RETURN TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN 
TO CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE