Measure 37 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 PROPERTY RIGHTS 

 Oregon's Measure 37: 
 Complete Ballot Title, 

 Official Explanatory Statement, Chief Petitioners' Voter 
 Pamphlet Statements, and Text 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Complete Ballot Title of Measure 37 

Proposed by Initiative Petition 
 MEASURE 37 

 GOVERNMENTS MUST PAY OWNERS, OR FORGO ENFORCEMENT, WHEN 
CERTAIN LAND USE RESTRICTIONS REDUCE PROPERTY VALUE 
 RESULT OF YES VOTE: Yes vote requires that governments pay 
owners, or forgo enforcement by repealing, changing, not applying restrictions, 
when certain land use restrictions reduce owners property value. 
 RESULT OF NO VOTE: No vote rejects requiring that 
governments pay owners or forgo enforcement by repealing, changing, not applying 
restrictions, when certain land use restrictions reduce property value. 
 SUMMARY: Currently, Oregon Constitution requires government(s) 
to pay owner just compensation when condemning private property or taking it 
by other action, including laws precluding all substantial beneficial or 
economically viable use. Measure enacts statute requiring that when state, city, 
county, metropolitan service district enacts or enforces land use regulation 
that restricts use of private real property or interest thereon, government must 
pay owner reduction in fair market value of affected property interest, or forgo 
enforcement. 
 Governments may repeal, change, or not apply restrictions in 
lieu of payment; if compensation not timely paid, owner not subject to 
restrictions. Applies to restrictions enacted after family member (defined) 
acquired property. Creates civil right of action including attorney fees. 
 Provides no new revenue source for payments. Certain exceptions. 
Other provisions. 
 ESTIMATE OF FINANCIAL IMPACT: 
 The measure would require state administrative expenditures to 
respond to claims for compensation of between $18 million and $44 million per 
year. 
 The measure may require compensation to landowners. The amount 
of state expenditures needed to pay claims for compensation cannot be 
determined. 
 There is no financial effect on state revenues. 
 The measure would require local government administrative 
expenditures to respond to claims for compensation of between $46 million and 
$300 million per year. 
 The measure may require compensation to landowners. The amount 
of local government expenditures needed to pay claims for compensation cannot be 
determined. 
 The effect of the measure on local government revenues cannot be 
determined. 

 Official 
Explanatory Statement of Measure 37 

 Ballot Measure 37 adds a new 
statute to ORS chapter 197. As specified in the measure, the owner of private 
real property is entitled to receive just compensation when a land use 
regulation is enacted after the owner or a family member became the owner of the 
property if the regulation restricts the use of the property and reduces its 
fair market value. 
 If a property owner proves that a 
land use regulation restricts the use of the owners property, and reduces its 
value then the government responsible for the regulation will have a choice: pay 
the owner of the property an amount equal to the reduction in value or modify, 
change or not apply the regulation to the owners property. 
 The measure allows the state, 
county, city or metropolitan service district to adopt procedures for processing 
claims for compensation, but prohibits those procedures from being treated as a 
prerequisite to the filing of a claim in circuit court. 
 The measure does not apply to 
commonly and historically recognized public nuisances, public health and safety 
regulations, regulations required to comply with federal law, and regulations 
restricting or prohibiting the use of a property for the purpose of selling 
pornography or performing nude dancing. 
 The measure specifies that 
compensation is due if the regulation remains in force 180 days after the owner 
makes written demand for compensation. After that time, the present owner may 
file an action in the circuit court in the county in which the property is 
located. The measure also specifies that the present owner is entitled to 
reasonable attorney fees, expenses, costs and other disbursements reasonably 
incurred to collect compensation. 
 The measure provides no new 
revenue source for payments, if any, required under this measure. 
 The measure defines several terms 
that are used in the statute including "family member" which is defined as wife, 
husband, son, daughter, mother, father, brother, brother-in-law, sister, 
sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, aunt, 
uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent, stepchild, grandparent, or grandchild of the 
owner of the property, an estate of any of the foregoing family members, or a 
legal entity owned by any one or combination of these family members or the 
owner of the property. 

 Chief Petitioners' Voter Pamphlet 
Statements 
 (Chief Petitioners, Oregonians In Action) 

Statement #1 

 As chief petitioners of Ballot 
Measure 37, it is necessary to correct the false statements made by groups who 
oppose common sense reform to Oregon land use system. In addition, this 
statement is provided in order to instruct and aid the Oregon courts, so to 
avoid the courts from misinterpreting our intent behind this measure, as the 
Oregon courts have a habit of doing. 
 Despite claims to the contrary, Ballot Measure 
37 does not prohibit the state of Oregon and/or local governments from adopting 
laws that regulate public health and safety. In fact, Ballot Measure 37 
specifically excludes statutes and regulations like fire codes, building codes, 
health codes, sanitation codes, solid wastes or hazardous waste regulations 
and/or codes, pollution control regulations, traffic safety regulations, from 
being subject to Ballot Measure 37's protections. 
 It is not our intention that Ballot Measure 37 
be interpreted in such a way as to allow statutes, regulations, goals, 
ordinances or whatever other means of regulation currently defined in statute, 
regulation, case law etc. as a land use regulation to be bootstrapped into the 
definition of building codes, public health and safety codes, sanitation codes, 
or public welfare codes, by the courts. 
 In other words, there currently exists a body 
of law in Oregon which defines what constitutes regulation of land use. It is 
those regulations that are subject to the provisions of Ballot Measure 37. The 
state government and/or local governments should not be allowed to rename a land 
use regulation simply to avoid the protections of Ballot Measure 37. 
 In sum, it is likely that opponents of Ballot 
Measure 37 will continue to distort the intent and effect of the measure long 
after the measure is voted on. Hopefully we the chief petitioners have provided 
a clarity as to the intent of Section (3)(B) of Ballot Measure 37. 
 Thank you for taking the time to read our 
comments. Please join us in supporting Ballot Measure 37. 

 Statement #2 
 We are the chief petitioners of Ballot Measure 
37. This statement is provided in order to instruct and aid the Oregon courts in 
determining the legislative intent behind Ballot Measure 37, and avoid a 
situation where the Oregon Courts misinterpret the intent of this law, as Oregon 
courts are known to do. 
 Several special interest groups are trying to 
confuse the voters about Ballot Measure 37. These groups are trying to make 
Ballot Measure 37 seem much more complicated than it really is. 
 For instance, opponents of Ballot Measure 37 
are distorting the compensation protections of Ballot Measure 37. Through the 
normal condemnation process, the state government and local governments have an 
efficient statutory procedure already used to determine just compensation. The 
process is quick, clean, and extremely efficient and will be the basis for 
determining just compensation under Ballot Measure 37. 
 Next, opponents of Ballot Measure 37 try to 
confuse the issue of just compensation by claiming it will be impossible to 
determine what regulations will trigger a property owners rights under Ballot 
Measure 37. Again, any land use regulation (as that term is currently 
defined in Oregon law) enacted after a property owner acquired the property that 
has the effect of reducing the fair market value of your home will trigger 
Ballot Measure 37's protections. If, for instance, there are three regulations 
which reduce a propertys value, a property owner can demand use or compensation 
based upon the effect of any of the three regulations, or based upon the effect 
of all three regulation, or any combination thereof. 
 Whats more, subject to the statute of 
limitations in section (5), if a property owner submits demand for use or 
compensation based upon one regulation, the same property owner is not precluded 
from later demanding use or compensation based upon regulations that existed at 
the time the property owner submitted her first demand. 
 Please join us in voting Yes on Ballot Measure 
37. 

 Statement #3 
 We are the chief petitioners for Ballot Measure 
37. This statement is provided in order to instruct and aid the Oregon courts in 
determining the legislative intent behind Ballot Measure 37, and avoid 
misinterpretation of the intent of this law, as Oregon courts are known to do. 
 Voters are told that Ballot Measure 37 creates 
a large bureaucracy and red tape for property owners. Such claims are false. 
Ballot Measure 37 does not require any governmental unit to adopt any procedures 
for addressing Ballot Measure 37 claims. No applicant is required to follow a 
process conjured up by government. The measure makes this clear. All a property 
owner has to do is submit a letter or other communication demanding use or just 
compensation for his property nothing more. There is no requirement that the 
state government or the local government adopt any new processes. 
 Second, voters are being told that the 
definition of "owner" is ambiguous. The term "owner" includes the current owners 
of the property. If the current owner sells an interest in her property, so long 
as the current owner still has a current possessory interest, or a reversionary 
interest in the property, the provisions of Ballot Measure 37 apply using the 
date the current owner acquired the property. Only if a current owner sells all 
of her interest in a piece of property does the date of acquisition change for 
purposes of determining what regulations are subject to Ballot Measure 37 
protections. 
 Finally, opponents of Ballot Measure 37 are 
trying to scare voters into thinking the measure will prevent the state 
government and local governments from enacting nuisance abatement laws. This is 
incorrect. Nuisance abatement laws are exempt from Ballot Measure 37 
protections, but again, a law that is currently considered a regulation of land 
use under Oregon law cannot be re-characterized as a nuisance abatement 
ordinance in order to avoid Ballot Measure 37. 
 Please vote Yes on Ballot Measure 37. 

 TEXT OF MEASURE 37 

 The following provisions are added to and made a part of ORS 
chapter 197: 
 (1) If a public entity enacts or enforces a new land use 
regulation or enforces a land use regulation enacted prior to the effective date 
of this amendment that restricts the use of private real property or any 
interest therein and has the effect of reducing the fair market value of the 
property, or any interest therein, then the owner of the property shall be paid 
just compensation. 
 (2) Just compensation shall be equal to the reduction in the 
fair market value of the affected property interest resulting from enactment or 
enforcement of the land use regulation as of the date the owner makes written 
demand for compensation under this act. 
 (3) Subsection (1) of this act shall not apply to land use 
regulations: 
 (A) Restricting or prohibiting activities commonly and 
historically recognized as public nuisances under common law. This subsection 
shall be construed narrowly in favor of a finding of compensation under this 
act; 
 (B) Restricting or prohibiting activities for the protection of 
public health and safety, such as fire and building codes, health and sanitation 
regulations, solid or hazardous waste regulations, and pollution control 
regulations; 
 (C) To the extent the land use regulation is required to comply 
with federal law; 
 (D) Restricting or prohibiting the use of a property for the 
purpose of selling pornography or performing nude dancing. Nothing in this 
subsection, however, is intended to affect or alter rights provided by the 
Oregon or United States Constitutions; or 
 (E) Enacted prior to the date of acquisition of the property by 
the owner or a family member of the owner who owned the subject property prior 
to acquisition or inheritance by the owner, whichever occurred first. 
 (4) Just compensation under subsection (1) of this act shall be 
due the owner of the property if the land use regulation continues to be 
enforced against the property 180 days after the owner of the property makes 
written demand for compensation under this section to the public entity enacting 
or enforcing the land use regulation. 
 (5) For claims arising from land use regulations enacted prior 
to the effective date of this act, written demand for compensation under 
subsection (4) shall be made within two years of the effective date of this act, 
or the date the public entity applies the land use regulation as an approval 
criteria to an application submitted by the owner of the property, whichever is 
later. For claims arising from land use regulations enacted after the effective 
date of this act, written demand for compensation under subsection (4) shall be 
made within two years of the enactment of the land use regulation, or the date 
the owner of the property submits a land use application in which the land use 
regulation is an approval criteria, whichever is later. 
 (6) If a land use regulation continues to apply to the subject 
property more than 180 days after the present owner of the property has made 
written demand for compensation under this act, the present owner of the 
property, or any interest therein, shall have a cause of action for compensation 
under this act in the circuit court in which the real property is located, and 
the present owner of the real property shall be entitled to reasonable attorney 
fees, expenses, costs, and other disbursements reasonably incurred to collect 
the compensation. 
 (7) A metropolitan service district, city, or county, or state 
agency may adopt or apply procedures for the processing of claims under this 
act, but in no event shall these procedures act as a prerequisite to the filing 
of a compensation claim under subsection (6) of this act, nor shall the failure 
of an owner of property to file an application for a land use permit with the 
local government serve as grounds for dismissal, abatement, or delay of a 
compensation claim under subsection (6) of this act. 
 (8) Notwithstanding any other state statute or the availability 
of funds under subsection (10) of this act, in lieu of payment of just 
compensation under this act, the governing body responsible for enacting the 
land use regulation may modify, remove, or not to apply the land use regulation 
or land use regulations to allow the owner to use the property for a use 
permitted at the time the owner acquired the property. 
 (9) A decision by a governing body under this act shall not be 
considered a land use decision as defined in ORS 197.015(10). 
 (10) Claims made under this section shall be paid from funds, if 
any, specifically allocated by the legislature, city, county, or metropolitan 
service district for payment of claims under this act. Notwithstanding the 
availability of funds under this subsection, a metropolitan service district, 
city, county, or state agency shall have discretion to use available funds to 
pay claims or to modify, remove, or not apply a land use regulation or land use 
regulations pursuant to subsection (6) of this act. If a claim has not been paid 
within two years from the date on which it accrues, the owner shall be allowed 
to use the property as permitted at the time the owner acquired the property. 
 (11) Definitions for purposes of this section: 
 (A) "Family member" shall include the wife, husband, son, 
daughter, mother, father, brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, 
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in- law, aunt, uncle, niece, 
nephew, stepparent, stepchild, grandparent, or grandchild of the owner of the 
property, an estate of any of the foregoing family members, or a legal entity 
owned by any one or combination of these family members or the owner of the 
property. 
 (B) "Land use regulation" shall include: 
 (i) Any statute regulating the use of land or any interest 
therein; 
 (ii) Administrative rules and goals of the Land Conservation and 
Development Commission; 
 (iii) Local government comprehensive plans, zoning ordinances, 
land division ordinances, and transportation ordinances; 
 (iv) Metropolitan service district regional framework plans, 
functional plans, planning goals and objectives; and 
 (v) Statutes and administrative rules regulating farming and 
forest practices. 
 (C) "Owner" is the present owner of the property, or any 
interest therein. 
 (D) "Public entity" shall include the state, a metropolitan 
service district, a city, or a county. 
 (12) The remedy created by this act is in addition to any other 
remedy under the Oregon or United States Constitutions, and is not intended to 
modify or replace any other remedy. 
 (13) If any portion or portions of this act are declared invalid 
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this act shall 
remain in full force and effect. 

 RETURN 
 TO PROPERTY RIGHTS TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE