Media 

 Environmental Grantmakers Association 
1992 Fall Retreat 
 Session 23: "Media Strategies for 
Environmental Protection" 

 [Tape begins in progress] ...Pew 
Charitable Trusts. We're waiting on Denis Hayes, he may be out building the 
majority now as we speak. The approach of this workshop is that we're going to 
present two or three just examples of media campaigns that foundations have been 
involved in, just very brief presentations. Then we're going to engage in a 
discussion. I've passed around some questions there as you sit down, that I've 
asked the participants, the presenters to consider when they're both answering 
questions and making their presentations. And they're questions that especially 
I would like to see answered, and I as a funder who is facing these funding 
proposals, I'd like to see answered. However, if other good questions come up, 
we'll easily divert from these. It's just a way to jump start the discussion 
when we get started. 
 So let's just start with--Josh Reichert, 
who is the director of the Environment Program at the Pew Charitable Trusts was 
to be here but he couldn't make the whole conference, and so I asked Donald to 
present what I was going to ask Josh to present, which was a campaign that 
several funders worked together on on the ancient forest. 
 Donald Ross: It must feel good to be a 
three billion dollar endowment [Pew's assets], [audience laughs] I'm sitting in 
for Josh. I want to really just give a very quick description of the media 
campaign that's been under way for about the last 9 months on the forest issues. 
 It's complicated because there are three 
organizations that are really involved in it that at various times have worked 
very closely together and at other times had a high degree of tension between 
them and not a great deal of communication. And partly we funders are 
responsible for it because at the very same time two separate groups of funders 
picked two separate horses on which to lavish large sums of money to run media 
campaigns. And despite great efforts to get them to work very closely together, 
it sometimes worked not as well as one would want. 
 So as a result, there really were, it 
was a campaign. And rather than use their names, because they're all called 
Ancient Forests, with different other names, the Americans for the Ancient 
Forests, Western Ancient Forests [Campaign], Ancient Forest Alliance, or 
something. 
 There's one campaign was run by David 
Fenton of Fenton Communications, he's a full process public relations firm in 
Washington D.C. that has done a fair amount of activist political work over the 
years for mainly progressive and left wing types of organizations, foreign 
governments, etc. 
 The other major national campaign was 
the [Robert A.] Chlopak effort. Bob is the former head of the Democratic Senate 
Campaign Committee, the staff head and had a lot of background on political 
campaigns. He was working for the past several years for Sawyer-Miller, which 
is a public relations, advertising, media strategy firm. 
 And the third effort was the grass 
roots, was a more grass roots effort run by the Western Ancient Forests 
Campaign. And their contribution to the media portion was to take a large log 
on a truck through the country, which was a guaranteed, in small towns 
certainly, guaranteed picture in the local newspaper, story on the evening 
news. And that's what they did. They spent months crisscrossing the country 
and have clips that all look remarkably the same from papers all over the 
country talking about forests. And it's a relatively low-budget way of getting 
TV, radio, newspapers, etc. and the like. 
 The other two campaigns--when you talk 
about media, and we use that word interchangeably. There's really two very 
distinct branches of the media. There is the paid media efforts and there are 
free media efforts. The forests, the log is the quintessential free media 
effort. You just roll into town, put out a canned press release and it's a 
guaranteed, you know, story. The paid media, the other two, and the Western 
Ancient Forests used no paid media, the grass roots campaign. They only used 
free media. 
 The other two campaigns used a mixture 
of free and paid media. The paid was mainly drive time radio in selected 
Congressional districts of members of the House Interior Committee and to some 
extent the Senate Agriculture Committee on occasion to try to drive home the 
forest issue and generate some community response. 
 But the larger effort of both the 
national effort--campaign--was the free media, the public relations. And the 
Fenton effort I think generated a good deal more media than the Chlopak effort, 
partly because Chlopak's campaign was a political legislative effort as well and 
it wasn't simply a media strategy. And I just want to, I'll just mention a few 
of the things, if we can pass this around, that they did. 
 And Fenton uses this technique in a lot 
of his campaigns and it's pretty effective. He gathered together four or five 
activists, Jeff DeBonis of the Association of Forest Service Employees for 
Environmental Ethics, Andy Kerr, Michael Stewartt of LightHawk and the like, and 
scheduled intensive visits to major media centers, New York City, Los Angeles, 
where they would spend two or three days with back-to-back meetings briefing 
editorial boards, news directors, feature writers. And there is no question 
that that effort produced a torrent of media, which involved everything from 
evening news, television stories on the forest to editorials to features in some 
of the newsmagazines and the like. 
 It was an effort that was loosely 
coordinated with the political work that was going on, but very loosely 
coordinated. And in some respects that revealed one of the I think problems of 
the effort. While it was successful in getting media, often times the media 
blitz was three months before any real political action was taking place and so 
by the time the political action was there and you wished it was on the evening 
news or you wished it was the editorial in the papers that people were picking 
up that day, it was stale news. It was Ancient News. 
 And it wasn't that well coordinated. 
Nonetheless, it produced a fantastic array--and I don't know how many of you may 
have seen some of the reports that were sent out on it, but it was two inches 
thick. 
 And similarly, the Chlopak campaign, in 
a more targeted way, placed a lot of free media, frequently in the newspapers 
that were in the districts, or that covered the districts, of members of the 
House Interior Committee that was the principal body that was wrestling with the 
legislation for much of the last congressional session. 
 That was in essence the campaign. 
There's a lot of lessons to be learned, I think, from aspects of it, but I don't 
want to go into them now. I think the format is that we'll talk about those. I 
merely want to give a descriptive opening of the three components of the 
campaign, the distinction between the free and the paid media and then leave it 
at that until we have time for dialog. 
 Moderator: Let's play some of the radio 
ads. 
 Radio ad: 
 Adult: There used to be a lot more fish 
out here. Now I get my limit by lunch time. Now [indistinct] get a bite. 
 Child: What happened? 
 Adult: I don't know, they're not healthy 
any more. They need clean water. And with all the logging in the forest, 
there's not more good water left. 
 Child: Hey, wait a minute. Salmon don't 
live in the forest. 
 Adult: Sure they do. They begin and end 
their lives in streams that run through the Ancient Forests. and when the 
forests are logged, and the water gets choked up with dirt, the salmon can't 
spawn and they die. 
 Child: I guess that means no one has any 
fish any more. 
 Adult: Sure. You've got a choice. But 
what if I fished for a living? I'd be out of a job. And you'd be out of a 
vacation. And your bike. And a lot... 
 Child: Okay! I think I'm beginning to 
get it. 
 Announcer: Logging in the Ancient 
Forests is destroying our fisheries. Cutting down more old trees will cut back 
the number of fish. And that could mean we lose a billion dollar industry and 
thousands of jobs. It's time to preserve American jobs by preserving America's 
Ancient Forests. A message from Americans for the Ancient Forests. 
 Moderator: Okay you want to play the 
other one? 
 Donald Ross: That ad, by the way, was 
obviously specifically to counter what was the major campaign of Wise Use. The 
jobs were linked to the logging. 
 Radio Ad: 
 Announcer: Have you heard the latest 
from the nation's capital? A Congressman says he's got the real solution to the 
Ancient Forest crisis. There's just one problem. Congressman Peter DeFazio's 
plan would allow the federal government to violate today's environmental laws. 
Says the Oregonian, "DeFazio wants us to trust the federal government, even 
though they've broken these laws over and over again. And what if they keep 
breaking the law? Too bad, because DeFazio's plan also takes away our right to 
stop them. That could hurt a lot of people, like Northwest fishermen who depend 
on the billion dollar salmon industry, an industry being destroyed by 
overlogging. It's time to tell our Congressman we want a real solution for the 
Ancient Forests. Let's tell them we'll fight any plan that lets the government 
break the law and takes away our right to stop them. Call your Congressman 
today at 202-225-3121. That's 202-225-3121. Paid for by Americans for the 
Ancient Forests. 

 Voice: Then we also have LightHawk's 
video, which is about to be--well, Denis, you've been working with this just a 
little bit. Do you want to explain why the, uh, where it's playing and... 
 Denis Hayes: David's version of the 
LightHawk issue is this: they have entered into a collaborative relationship 
with a producer known as Big Blue. That's a small film production company 
headed by a fellow who used to do all of the PR and advertising for Body Book. 
Body Book went [indistinct] wind surfing... 
 Female voice: That last? 
 Denis Hayes: Body Book? For people who 
are into surfing and wind surfing and that sort of stuff. It may resonate more 
than with others. But it became an enormously stylish, very successful 
company. They did a lot of environmental advertising, and he decided he wanted 
to do it full time, so he's now set it up as an independent film production 
company, advertising agency to advertise on behalf of the environment. 
 And following a national trend, he moved 
last week to Seattle. You're concentrating them all in Seattle. [laughter.] 
 They wanted to get the ancient forests 
on the agenda of the presidential campaign--so this is an ad that is 
specifically targeted at the two presidential candidates. It's designed to 
elicit a telegram, a very inexpensive telegram to the two presidential 
candidates focusing upon the ancient forests. And this gives some graphic 
visual images, which we'll see in just a second. What's important about it is 
that they recognized that there is huge competition for PSAs on television, that 
the cost of paid advertising is spectacularly expensive, and so what they have 
done is to approach movie theaters--Big Blue did this on the Earth Summit. They 
got a series of very dramatic ads on the Earth Summit urging President Bush to 
participate in it. He's now gone out to theaters asking them to do this as 
well. Thus far they have signed up fourteen-hundred theaters. There is almost 
a blackout in the Northwest because it's a sufficiently controversial issue up 
here that even Norman Lear's Act III Theaters don't want to do it here. 
 The [indistinct] it elsewhere in the 
country, they have just this huge number of theaters that are going to run this 
several times a night, a preparatory feature to each of the films that comes 
on. The difficulty is that having paid for the production and having paid for 
the initial duplications of it, they are now out of money. To be able to 
duplicate the film to send it to the theaters that have already agreed to run it 
for free if they would only send it to them, costs about forty dollars a film. 
So we've bellied up to bar and given them ten-thousand dollars for 250 films. 
To the extent that any of you are interested in this kind of vehicle, it's 
necessary to do it relatively swiftly. Our ten thousand is because we can do 
some discretionary things with ten thousand, because it's targeted on the 
campaign, the whole thrust is send a telegram to the candidates, it loses a lot 
of its timeliness in about a month. 
 They are all prepared to go. From the 
time they get forty dollars to the time it's in the theater is like two days. 
If any of you are prepared to sponsor it, it would be wonderful if you did it. 
 Female voice: Could we move the screen? 
 Denis Hayes: Yeah, maybe move me.

 Donald Ross: Turn the TV on. 

 LightHawk/Big Blue film: 
 Noises. 
 Paul Newman voice-over: Some day very 
soon, when most of the trees in America's national forests are gone, it will be 
too late to tell you that this is public land. Our land. And every day over 
six-hundred acres of America's national forests are destroyed. Some day, 
someone will tell you the staggering number of jobs that were lost, jobs from 
the vital industries that keep more Americans working that those industries that 
destroy them. You wonder why someone didn't tell you. You have the power to 
make a difference now. Take it into your own hands. Call One-800-Be-A-Hero. 
This is Paul Newman asking you to send an urgent message to both presidential 
candidates demanding the permanent protection of America's national forests. 

 Announcer: Produced as a public service 
in association with Big Blue. 

 Voice: I'm going to ask Denis, uh. If I 
could call-- 
 Female voice: Denis, could you tell us 
where is Big Blue? 
 Denis Hayes: Yes, I'll get it because we 
have it on a card right there. Well, why don't we just read them the address to 
the people who might be interested. Send this to the attention of Michael 
Stewartt, who is the president of LightHawk. And it's 311 First Avenue South, 
Suite 301, Seattle Washington 98104. LightHawk. L-i-g-h-t-H-a-w-k. 311 First 
Avenue South, Suite 301, Seattle Washington 98104. 
 [Paul ?] Voice: Now the ancient forests 
campaign is a very targeted media campaign and--on a national level, since it is 
trying to get one thing done, which is as said, the ancient forest in effect 
legislation before Congress, I also wanted to have Denis here to talk about what 
is really the two largest media campaigns ever done for the environment, that is 
Earth Day 1970 and Earth Day 1990, both of which he organized. So in terms of 
those as media events, if you could just-- 
 Voice: Uh, Paul, before Denis starts, 
could Donald just give a quick quote on the total cost of each of the two 
campaigns, or the three, when you take in the grass roots one, the scale of 
effort, and so forth? 
 Donald Ross: Well the grass roots media 
campaign was paid for largely by, I think, the Chlopak effort. Chlopak I think 
spent about something on the order of about $600,000 beginning in January [1992] 
through October [1992] and the LightHawk effort, I believe, raised a total of 
about $700,000 and I don't know how much of that was spent. The Chlopak effort 
actually raised about $1.1 million but has not spent all of the money. The 
amount spent was about $600,000. And I think the media spending, to the extent 
there was any, by the grass roots was really relatively small. They got money 
from the Chlopak campaign for media. 
 Denis Hayes: I talked, probably, more 
than my fair share this morning. Let me do this one relatively briefly. I 
think there are a couple of structural things that I'd like to say over and 
beyond the really important distinction that Don pointed out between free and 
paid advertising. The concept of all of this is that we are, as most of you, 
all of you, know, subjected to a continual barrage of information. And if you 
look around the room at all of these publications in front of me which I sort of 
glanced at, at the T-shirt, at the mugs, at the what-have-you, at the little 
Starbucks coffee thing on the paper cup, there's just this flow of things, some 
of which have an impact and some of which you don't expect to have an impact but 
apparently do. 
 If you look at financial unpinning of 
movies today, it has become an important structural component of the movie what 
candy bar the guy holds up, what kinds of car the hero drives. They pay for 
that. A company comes in and says, we'll give you $150,000 toward this vehicle 
if, on two occasions, the guy will eat a Milky Way candy bar, and we'll provide 
another 25,000 if he smiles after one of the bites. [laughter] Something that 
sends back a positive subliminal message to people that says maybe we ought to 
do this, especially if it's something they can actually do right there in the 
theater, so they can get their feedback. 
 In all of this stuff from billboards and 
T-shirts and mugs and--somebody this morning was talking about the impact of 
soap operas on the television to news stories, it seems to me that the 
communications fall into sort of three broad categories of human response. The 
first and by far the most common and essential for our sanity is the category of 
"Sinks Without a Ripple." To pass through this maze and you filter out 98 or 99 
percent of this and you are unaware that it has even passed you by and it's 
probably not even lodged in your subconscious--under hypnosis, it's just--you're 
swimming through it. You manage to avoid most of the folks who are targeting on 
you one way or another. 
 The next broad category is that that 
kind of enters into the realm of noise. And this is stuff that you consciously 
register and it maybe even penetrates your short term memory and it doesn't have 
any lasting impact upon your consciousness, your values, your behavior or 
anything that--we all, in this kind of a group, read newspapers with great 
regularity, or multiple newspapers. And by and large I would essentially guess 
that--it's certainly true for me--by the time that I get to lunch time, if you 
asked me to spontaneously come up with the stories that I read that morning, I'd 
have real difficulty triggering up what 95 percent of the stories were and 
coming up with them spontaneously. But if you asked me a question about one of 
the stories, triggered, and it was an associative memory as opposed to total 
recall, I could probably still associate it at lunch. Two or three days later 
it probably core dumped the entire thing unless it was some story that fit in 
already in some important way with a frame of reference that you carry around. 
 The third category, and the one that 
we're all concerned with here is the real communication, the one that leaves 
some kind of a lasting residue that somehow integrates its way biochemically 
into our consciousness and will be carried around with us for some period of 
time, that influences our behavior. It's a complicated field that I don't 
pretend to know enough about. But I know that in my experience there are two 
ways that you can move something from being noise to being communication. 

 One is like the LightHawk business. The 
noise that elicits action tends to take it to a different level. If you see 
this and immediately afterwards you do something as a consequence of it, 
especially this, something which costs you a little bit of money or a little bit 
of inconvenience, then that combination of the information and the action 
associated with it gives you a stronger kind of bond that tends to leave it in 
there for a while. 
 And so I'm very much personally more in 
favor of campaigns that are specifically targeted that--"See this? Spend 30 
seconds on it or 60 seconds on it, and do something"--than things that don't. 
And in fact in some, I, every pretense to intellectuality in me rebels against 
saying this, but I think it's probably true. That something like that may be a 
far better communication vehicle than a very thoughtful reflective piece written 
about the intricacies of the subject in the New York Times because that tends to 
promote people. Be something where you read the first few paragraphs at best, 
and most people only read the headline. Even if you read the whole story, if 
nothing else bonds it to something else, it tends to disappear from your 
consciousness in the deep. 
 It's a source of consistent astonishment 
to me. To take an example that Ren will note, a whole lot of that in Congress: 
people will go into hearings and hear these profoundly moving messages all 
morning long on global warming and come to--you think--have some comprehension 
of, say, the most obvious relationships between CO2 and global warming even if 
they don't go into the other more sophisticated aspects of it, they'll go that 
afternoon and vote for a clean coal bill, because somehow the afternoon was 
talking about sulfur dioxide. The morning was talking about carbon dioxide. So 
you vote for the clean coal bill, forgetting that you can't get the clean coal 
combusted without producing probably more carbon dioxide than you would with 
dirty coal. So you [indistinct] the [indistinct] that comes out of it. 

 Okay, so that's the one broad category. 
Stuff that elicits action. The other category is really the Earth Day 
question. This is the tough thing to do. But the other way to cause it to 
really dent people is saturation. You can have something that suddenly is in 
your face for a protracted period of time until ultimately you can't sort of 
read and toss it off and read it and toss it off and read it and toss it off 
until suddenly you've been reading it so many times, encountering it in so many 
things that suddenly you realize "I've got to confront this. To figure out what 
does this mean for me?" 
 Examples like that war in the Gulf 
States. And people who are in that one out of seven Americans who can't find 
the United States on a map of the world know who Saddam Hussein is, know where 
Kuwait is, know a whole bunch of stuff. Say they know who Norman Schwartzkopf 
is. Not necessarily the most important information they could acquire. But 
among other things learn something about the vulnerability of our oil supplies 
because that globe is just in their face, day after day after day. 
 For some period of time after Bhopal, we 
knew a little bit about the problems that are associated with petrochemicals in 
general and certainly that pesticide in particular and Union Carbide certainly 
took an incredible flap out of it. 
 Chernobyl, that conveys powerful images 
to people. God, the most powerful images perhaps that have been conveyed in a 
negative sense. You can say everything you want to about the relative safety of 
American reactors and American containment vessels, about what we can do with 
inherently safe reactors, the Can Do reactors, but people confronted that visual 
image. 
 It's the sort of thing that the Reagan 
administration did so beautifully by manipulating visual images that undercut 
the impact of the words. So that you had the President out in front of an old 
folks home communicating through this smiling interaction with old people that 
he really understands and appreciates and cares about old people, when he makes 
the announcement that he's cutting 80 percent out of the budget for senior 
citizens health care or something. The image that gets communicated completely 
belies the words. 
 If you've got this constant thing day 
after day of the devastation wreaked by environmental disaster. An Exxon 
Valdez. Powerful images. 
 What we did with Earth Day was the most 
difficult part of that, which was to try to communicate positive images of 
opportunities to people over a sufficiently protracted period of time that they 
had to confront what does this mean for me? 
 Another example that I have used on this 
is perhaps the most difficult to anticipate. Sometimes this is completely 
random and you don't know this is going to happen. Where it happened was the 
Clarence Thomas hearings. Day after day, and there were suddenly a whole lot of 
men who had never thought much about sexual harassment before started thinking 
about it. I mean I know I tend to be a huggy person. Some people probably even 
noticed on the stage today, I hug people a lot. And I hug all the people in my 
office. And I come across this news story in the course of this Clarence Thomas 
thing that says seven out of ten women resent being hugged in their office. And 
I looked at this thing and I said, Jesus! 
 Female voice: You can hug me any time. 
 Denis Hayes: And I called everybody 
together and said, hey, is this offensive? And be straight. I don't want to do 
something bad. And everybody was very gracious and said if you don't hug us, 
Denis, we'll come and hug you. And I was okay. [laughter] 
 There was a heightened sensitivity from 
coast to coast among men. And there was some electrifying impact from coast to 
coast since we all knew about women. It was just transformed, the nation. We 
wouldn't have done it if there was just one quick shot. One story in the 
newspaper. Two stories in the newspaper. It was there in our faces for long 
enough that we had to-- 
 Well, with Earth Day, what we did was 
try to select every vehicle of communication that we could find in the United 
States and encourage them to cooperate in this effort. We went after newspapers 
and met with editorial boards from coast to coast and with reporters from coast 
to coast. We went after the TV networks. We went after the cable. We went 
after every newsletter, every magazine. We went to every organized religion 
because Earth Day was going to be on a Sunday, and we tried to get them to 
preach from the pulpit. Anything that you can think of that delivers a message 
to people, somebody on that staff at some point approached and said will you 
participate. And a whole lot of folks said no. But so many said yes that for 
about a month people just got sort of sick of the environment. It was on the 
cover story for magazine after magazine. Even completely unrelated magazines. 
In a way that we think caused people to say, Jeez, this has really, I mean it 
has got to be important, that all the time. What should I do about it? And 
then in the final week we had a sort of countdown where there was a day that 
talks about recycling. We got a huge number of newspapers to have their cover 
stories on recycling. One on energy conservation. And one on water 
conservation. On down the patch. So that by the time that that hit, there was 
hopefully some receptivity to it. 
 That was targeted to deal with creating 
a context within which we were going to be promoting this agenda for the 
future. We had a series of legislative things, and a series of lifestyle 
changes, and what have you was to come out. The failure of Earth Day, this most 
recent one, was that all that kind of got lost in the hoopla. We got news 
stories, but they disappeared in the noise. Somehow, that didn't tie into the 
other things well enough that it really got embraced. 
 And then what really killed us with both 
Earth Days was that if you're counting on saturation, what kills you is being 
trumped. And in 1970, a couple of weeks after we had the saturation of Earth 
Day, with 20 million people participating, President Nixon invaded Cambodia. 
And we had these eruptions, these violent eruptions across the society. And, 
you know, all the people who were out at Earth Day, or some large fraction, 
suddenly were plunged entirely into a different issue and we had to apply 
artificial respiration throughout the entire Fall to get stuff going back, the 
Dirty Dozen campaign and the Clean Air Act and what have you. 
 This time obviously what happened was 
Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait and completely shoved all of this stuff out of 
consciousness within a matter of weeks of Earth Day once again. And much of 
what was to be the follow-up agenda went down the chutes as a consequence. 
Okay. 
 Moderator: Uh, Kathy? 
 Kathy: I want to talk a little bit today 
about New Jersey's state growth plan, and the media strategies that foundations 
supported. And I've written them down because if I try to talk without notes, I 
get lost. 
 Within the field of growth management, 
New Jersey has distinguished itself in three ways. It is the first urbanized 
state to struggle with the growth management strategy that will tie it into the 
next century. It is also among the first to propose altering the traditional 
relationships between development policies, land use decisions and more 
equitable policies to guide the distribution of wealth and opportunity. 
Finally, the process in New Jersey we used was to arrive with a consensus about 
coordinated growth. The plan has been fully negotiated with all 21 counties and 
567 municipalities. 
 New Jersey's cross-acceptance process 
has brought citizens, local environmental commissions, planning boards, local, 
county and state governments together to compare their plans and programs and 
then negotiate changes among them to achieve a statewide consensus about where 
and how to accommodate population and employment growth. 
 The cross-acceptance dialog was also 
extended to include private sector and interest group participation, so that all 
points of view could be factored into the state plan. Concern about the 
negative consequences of unplanned development led the New Jersey legislature in 
1985 to adopt the state planning act with the aim of conserving natural 
resources, revitalizing urban centers and protecting the environmental quality 
through a statewide plan. 
 It was originally to take 18 months. It 
took 84 months. There were many reasons for this exhaustive process. From the 
onset the state planning process has been controversial. A concept paper 
introduced in April of 87 set off a furor of opposition. Many local officials 
feared that the state would mandate new zoning densities that were either too 
low or too high, depending on local circumstances and needs. And while many 
environmental organizations hailed the concept, development interests claimed it 
would destroy the state's economy. Clearly, the notion that the draft was 
merely a point of departure for discussion was lost amid the debate. 
 The opposition organized quickly, 
leading frontal assaults and end runs. The campaign to derail, discredit and 
delay the state planning commission and the plan was under way. However, the 
public involvement, education, and media approach that local foundations has 
supported from the beginning of the process made a critical difference in the 
outcome. 
 We created a precondition for change. 
We helped people vision what they wanted in their community. The media strategy 
was different at each stage of the process. We targeted at each step, designed 
to change attitudes. Public awareness, training the public officials, 
environmental commissions, public forums, monitoring the process, professional 
support for commission members, evaluation of the interim plan, and analysis of 
the economic impact statement which provided the commission with alternative 
solutions. Most importantly again, foundations helped the people of New Jersey 
decide what they wanted for their community. 
 Today's discussion is about the mass 
media. And as I tried to look at our approach, we could not really in New 
Jersey do mass media. New Jersey is a state that lacks mass media coverage. We 
sit between New York and Philadelphia, and our television stations are about New 
York news and about Philadelphia news, expect for New Jersey public television, 
which, I'm afraid to say, not very many people watch. We really can't get good 
coverage on the TV. 
 Nor do we have a good statewide 
newspaper. We have regional newspapers. And we have the New York Times, which 
gives a summary of coverage for New Jersey. 
 So clearly a mass media campaign was not 
in order as we talked about this. So, early in the process, New Jersey 
foundations participated and supported the creation of New Jersey Future, an 
organization whose primary mission was to promote public action in support of a 
sensible and balanced growth strategy for New Jersey. New Jersey Future 
produced discussion papers, studies, public dialog that ultimately enabled New 
Jersey people to be heard. 
 I brought with me a number of these 
study papers and discussion papers that we really blanketed throughout the state 
at public discussions and hearings. In the final years of the process, four New 
Jersey non profit organizations submitted a joint proposal to several 
foundations: Victoria, Dodge, the Fund for New Jersey, and Schumann Fund for New 
Jersey. 
 New Jersey Conservation Foundation, New 
Jersey Future, Association of New Jersey Environmental Commissions, all 
organized to coordinate this campaign to shore up the public's involvement in 
producing a final plan. Again, I want to stress public involvement. The 
process came up. They initiated a seamless program of statewide activities to 
deliver an acceptable plan by early 1992. 
 But the final media strategy came with 
the release of the impact assessment of the interim state development and 
redevelopment plan. This assessment was produced by the faculty and staff of 
the most prestigious academic institutions and consulting firms in the country. 
The analysis concluded that the plan's development scenario would save 1.3 
billion in infrastructure costs. An additional $400 million in annual fiscal 
savings to municipalities and school districts. 
 In sum, the analysis predicted benefits 
for the state's economy, fiscal resources, environment, quality of life, housing 
cost, intergovernment coordination and farmlands preservation efforts. It 
proved that the plan did in fact set a national standard for growth management 
programming. 
 Incredibly, firmly entrenched opposition 
was in the home building industry continued. Disregarding the findings of the 
independent assessment, opponents were able to find legislative support. And 
you have to remember that in New Jersey. I guess as elsewhere, most of our 
legislators are either real estate developers or lawyers. And they tried to 
resurrect the battle, the oversight battle of the planning commission. 
 Two different bills seeking legislative 
oversight made their way through the assembly and senate committees. But, the 
foundation support and groundwork preparation really paid off. Victoria had 
funded the Center for Analysis of Public Issues to conduct a statewide public 
opinion survey. And I have a copy of this magazine which the whole magazine was 
devoted to land use in New Jersey And on page 20, you can pass those around, 
the public survey of what New Jersey people felt. And what they found out was 
the New Jersey people really were for the plan. They really believed that we 
should limit growth. And you can see for yourself. It made the difference 
because the New Jersey legislature wanted to listen to the people that were 
going to elect the the next time around. 
 The New Jersey magazine poll and survey 
and all of the other work that was done by the New Jersey Conservation 
Foundation and New Jersey Future really did create a mass media campaign, but it 
was not one that we are talking about today as far as public television or ads. 
It was really working with people and helping people determine what they wanted.

 In summary, foundations played a 
critical role by providing operating support to organizations educating the 
public, involving the public in the decision-making process where decisions were 
made locally. Foundations helped the public recognize that land use, the way we 
used our land, was causing the environmental quality of life problems in New 
Jersey: air, traffic congestion, you name it. 
 The goals of the conservationists and 
the social justice community were integrated. The plan made out tiers of 
development to redirect growth. It put forward the concept of affordable 
housing in the city. It put forward the concept of rebuilding our urban 
infrastructure, of improving the quality of life in the state, of lessening the 
impact of development and increasing the feasibility of mass transit. 
 We haven't stopped. We've gone on. 
We've just released this study Beyond the State Plan. And I've brought some 
videos with me that if you want to stay and see later you can. But that's how 
we approached getting what we thought was right on the public agenda and really 
having the public buy into a planning process for the state of New Jersey. 
 Moderator: For the first campaign that 
we talked about, the Earth Day, the Ancient Forests and the New Jersey Growth 
Management Plan kind of illustrates a range of media projects that I've 
certainly seen at the Pew Charitable Trusts and also when I was working as a 
consultant at the Rockefeller Family Fund. We get all those kinds of proposals, 
big, small, and in between. And I guess the first question that I want to throw 
out in the first part of the discussion really is, Is this something, these big 
time media, giving that Donald rattled off some fairly large figures. $600,000 
seems rather large to me in terms of where to invest the money. Is this 
something that's really a viable option for us or a cost effective option for 
us. And I'm going to first ask the panel members that and then get what other 
people have opinions. 
 Donald Ross: I think, Clark? Curt?, 
that public relations, clearly, free media is cost effective. I mean that you 
don't need to hire an outside consultant every time you want to do it 
obviously. Most of the groups we fund do their own to a greater or lesser 
extent. And when you do hire an outside consultant that's a relative cost 
effective way. 
 The problem with free media is that you 
don't really control the message. You try to control it. You try to get the 
story written the way you want it. But there's no guarantee. The reporter, if 
he or she is a decent reporter is talking to both sides, and who knows how the 
story finally comes out. You can't guarantee, and you can't even usually have 
any input into where it's placed in the newspaper or what time it appears on the 
television or the like. 
 Which is why companies rely heavily on 
paid media to advertise their products. They can control the message exactly. 
They can control its placement to a significant extent, the timing and all 
that. But the problem from our point of view is that paid media is expensive. 
A full page ad in the New York Times with guaranteed placement in a certain 
section on a certain day in $53,000. Now you can get it for as little as $7,000 
but you can't control the day, you can't control the exact placement. You can 
get it for somewhere in between for about 17, $18,000 with some control. But 
it's tricky. And even $17,000 is not cheap for one placement on one day. And 
so it's a tradeoff. And I think for many funders and for many non profits that 
they'd like to do the paid media, it's just the reach very often times, of 
particularly advocacy groups. 
 I will mention just one campaign. It's 
not environmental, that I'm following now, and that's Ms. Foundation is running 
a campaign that's called Take Your Daughter to Lunch... 
 [END SIDE ONE, BEGIN SIDE TWO] 
 Donald Ross [continues in middle of 
another sentence]: ...large female market, and they're trying to get a paid 
media campaign and have someone else do the paying. And it remains to be seen 
how well it will work. But on non-controversial, or non-adversarial issues, 
that's a strategy that some, that may prove useful for some environmental 
issues. 
 I suspect that probably Nature 
Conservancy and Trust for Public Lands may have done some of that in the past as 
well. 
 Female voice: I've had this happen, in 
your foundation that put this on, and embark on it in a six month program that 
took seven years or so. [laughter] We have been involved in a similar campaign 
that's taken seven years and if anybody had been told that's what we were going 
to end with in the beginning, we'd frankly still be talking about it. We'd 
never have done it. How do you judge your continuing commitment to this thing? 
Do you just keep putting dollars into it? 
 Kathy: Yeah. I have to back it up to 
say that Victoria's trustees really have over the years supported, given 
operating support to almost all of the conservation groups in New Jersey. It 
something that we believe in. So they were ready to put this together. But 
when they came to us at first about the plan. And I think the first one was 
just the growth management handbook that they came in--and in fact, Dodge funded 
this. Yeah, we didn't have any anticipation that we would be doing this over an 
8 year period. So each year we assessed where we were, we saw what was 
happening, we redirected, we started doing training, for instance, for the 
environmental commissions in each community. 
 Female voice: Would you have been more 
successful if you could have finished sooner? 
 Kathy: No. The 7 years were really 
critical to getting public cross-acceptance of the plan, to have every 
community. The interim plan came out. It showed what could happen in your 
community and what couldn't happen, where development could occur, where it 
couldn't. You know, if it had been a quick process people would not have had 
the time to buy in to vision, to really start thinking about the way they wanted 
to live. And no, in retrospect I think it was good that it was a long process. 
 Moderator: The hand up in the back, 
there. 
 Female voice: Yeah, I assume the prices 
you were quoting, Don, the main broadcasting networks that, does cable 
television show any promise? Uh, in terms of having people... 
 Donald Ross: Well, the problem with, 
when you go on to television is the production cost zooms. I mean, the 
production of a normal newspaper ad is, even one that's done really 
professionally, is considerably less. The communications consortium did a 30 
second spot this year for uh, on automobile pollution, and got it placed on 
about a hundred and some-odd television stations, by sending it out. Some of 
them were cable, some of them went over the air. But the production cost on 
that--and it reached a big audience--the production cost was $45,000 with huge 
amounts of donated labor for a 30 second spot. And that was very cheap, really 
for that type. When you see these 30 second television commercials, they're a 
couple of hundred thousand dollars. And that's the dilemma of--and if you don't 
spend that and you just do it with your home video, it looks like that. You 
know, it has that... 
 Moderator: Grace? 
 Grace: I was going to say, just 
answering your question about cable. I mean, when the cable system was set up, 
and there were federal laws that regulated the cable operations that they had to 
set aside a certain amount of their budget and make their production facilities 
available to community groups to put out the community message. So if you can't 
get in the loop, there are ways, and I will give this advertisement later. We 
have a book specifically on cable access and I'll talk about this when we get 
down to question number six. 
 Moderator: Kathy or Denis, a question: 
I'm going to rephrase it. Should we be putting a greater percentage of our 
environmental funding into media than we do now? In terms of getting the kind 
of change that we want? 
 Kathy: I'm not really qualified to 
answer that. I think from a personal point of view that there are some times 
when, yes, we should, when there's a critical case. I mean, I have been 
absolutely stunned, after going on LightHawk and going over those mountains. I 
mean, I've been coming to EGA conferences for how many years? And you've all 
been talking about ancient forests. And it never hit me like it hit me the 
other day when I got in that plane and looked at what was happening. And so 
people get that out, yeah, it's worth investing in. 
 Moderator: Denis? 
 Denis Hayes: Well, I think Don really 
put us on the horns of the dilemma. The people who have been most effective at 
getting free advertising, free media are sort of depressed at the impact that 
it's been having. They put a huge amount of effort into it, spectacularly 
successful, I mean Fenton is almost is a league by himself in terms of being 
able to get an issue and put it on the evening news, get it on the news story 
magazine programs, put it in the newspapers, get it off the wire services, he 
does a marvellous job of doing it. And there's this fear that it all perhaps 
adds up in some incremental way, but the connections are very tenuous and 
difficult to see. I sometimes think that the principal impact of it is funding 
proposals. People send us all their press clipping to show how effective 
they've been. Some reporter says-- 
 Male voice: Cutting down those trees. 
 Denis Hayes: Cutting down those trees. 
That's right. The alternative to that that a lot of them are very enthusiastic 
about is, you create your own messages, you do it with stories that you package 
yourself and send to local news stations. They sometimes will pick up such 
stories and run them as if their reporters had covered it themselves. The 
sophisticated versions even give them room in it for voice-overs by their local 
reporters to cover the story. To produce advertisements and place them as 
campaigns very much like Chrysler does when they're introducing a new product. 
And that works very well for the introduction of new products. It works very 
much less well in the corporate sector when you're dealing with ideas. In some 
sense one is a very very very very minor contributor to the undermining of the 
nuclear industry is the enormous amount of money that they've wasted on the 
Committee for Energy Awareness with all of these full page ads saying "grow your 
children nine ways better with nuclear power." Nobody pays them the slightest 
bit of attention. My personal favorite was, of course, "Make every day Earth 
Day with nuclear power." [laugher] It had enormous success. [laughter] then 
the question becomes, They can't do that because there this contradiction and it 
seems like it's self promotional, and people tend to distrust it. I don't know 
how effective a paid campaign where the environmental movement--if we could put 
a $10 million campaign into something would be or if it would undercut us. 
 Moderator: Chuck. 
 Chuck: Yeah, I guess I think that's the 
real question about whether more dollars should be donated for the media. I 
think the question is, Is there a role for media in our overall strategy, and I 
think absolutely yes. But it's got to be overall strategy. And I mean one of 
the things we do, in my other hat when I'm giving training sessions to people, 
non-profits, big ones, very sophisticated, $50 million a year budgets. And it's 
mind-boggling when you get the vice presidents for communications together and 
you start asking how these campaigns are not integrated into the rest of their 
program activities. Over and over and over and over again so I think a media 
program by itself doesn't make any sense. Whereas, the overall goal that you're 
trying to accomplish and to get it integrated, and I think when that's well 
articulated it's a valuable part of the program, otherwise... 
 Moderator: Ted: 
 Ted: I want to take of on the major 
theme of what Chuck was talking about. If we get kind of realistic, at least 
from our standpoint, our sense is that most of the major environmental 
non-profits have a poor understanding of media campaigns, of how to do an 
outreach to the public beyond their constituency and membership, and that on 
regular occasions we've received partial proposals or ideas that really aren't 
cutting it. I want to ask a couple of things about this observation, and the 
observation is that most of the Big Ten, or what they were called, really don't 
understand media at all and tend to throw their money down the toilet when they 
try to use it. So if there is a role in strategy, and I'd like to talk quite 
specifically and hard right now, what role do funders have if this observation 
is correct, and the view is correct on you, in trying to elevate their own 
abilities and consciousness on how to integrate a media strategy into what 
they're trying to do. 
 Male voice: That's a good question and 
I don't know what I'd say that might take off of that, but in terms of the 
Fenton-Chlopak ads, there was also another target besides the public, intended 
or not: Congress itself. I can guarantee you that after what the integrated 
campaign between the grass roots and the Chlopak ad on DeFazio quite frankly 
scared the living hell out of him. And that's the kind of ad that he would have 
expected from a political opponent. It was the kind of tactics that wakes them 
up the most. I think that it was quite effective, quite helpful. And whether 
you can do it all the time, or whether it's a specific time, you know, I don't 
know. 
 Moderator: [indistinct] 
 Voice: I hope to speak to a couple of 
these other points. two things, one is that what the panelists describe very 
convincingly and excellently were specific campaigns. And I think that what we 
face as donors is more frequently is the media component of the larger strategy 
or ongoing work. And to evaluate that, I think there are different levels of 
media, uh, presence in media and sophistication. There's myriad basic skills 
and strategizing which Chuck just mentioned, I think is very important skills in 
being able to reach the media and talk to them and integrate it with the rest of 
the work. 
 Then there's another level of 
establishing oneself as a player. Some of these shape the debate. And then the 
third level is the more permanent campaign of creating one's own media and 
making our television, radio and print media out ourself and getting into the 
mainstream. I think all three levels of that can be very effective. And we all 
ought to pay attention to them. Because most organizations, certainly grass 
roots organizations, are only going to be able to do the lowest level, the basic 
approach to the media, and the media to get a message to them. More 
sophisticated organizations, NRDC or these others who have expert scientists on 
staff can help shape the debate, which is extremely crucial over the long haul. 
I think I disagree with you, Denis, a little bit on this way people sort of weed 
out information in getting from the Times and the Post and so on. I think there 
can be very effective campaigns if we think about it over the long haul if you 
are able through scientific expertise and a smart media strategy, you can shape 
the terms of the debate. The Union of Concerned Scientists we did that on Star 
Wars. We were able to stigmatize the entire program as scientifically and 
strategically bankrupt, and Reagan administration had to respond to that, those 
scientists ever since then, for ten years. The program is still wanted, but 
it's a lot less. But that was mainly through scientific critique and some 
discrete but important interventions in the news media, including some work by 
Fenton. And the top layer--I think I just want to put in one more point that 
not just campaigns, the specific campaigns, some of which were quite expensive, 
and some were counter effective, but I think we should also pay attention to our 
allies in the news media, particularly the print media. Newspapers and 
magazines that cover these issues, non-profits like Mother Jones, and The Nation 
and High Country News and all kinds of good print media that are going to cover 
these issues, and can do it as investigative funds can access and want to access 
money through foundations, and can do a pretty good job in exposes and informing 
opinion leaders as well as activists and ordinary citizens about these issues. 
So as we evaluate the total, I think we need three different levels of media 
approach, of media strategy. But I think it's helpful that each one is 
different and has its own needs and its own cause. 
 Moderator: Any reaction by any player up 
here? 
 Denis Hayes: At the tactical level, as 
long as we're doing some of this by funding Mother Jones, the thing that we have 
done a little bit of, but you might want to consider as a funding strategy is, 
you're familiar with the new wave of environmental magazines, most of whom are 
having a fair bit of difficulty right now financially, in this last grant cycle 
we bought subscriptions for E Magazine for every public library in the Pacific 
Northwest as a means of getting it in there where people will see it. Hopefully 
the libraries will resubscribe. You get a high multiplier, and so they put a 
lot of these circulation blanks into each of those magazines, send the out and 
hopefully pick up a lot of new consumers. It's a way of getting information out 
wholesale and retail simultaneously. It's worth considering. Cheap. They sell 
them to you as cheaply as they can. 
 Moderator: Donna? 
 Donna: I want to ask the panel about 
something that happened to come up. At Columbia Foundation we fund media but 
not mass media, it's much more a balance of--I think some of them have been very 
effective when they're used kind of within the Republican community 
[indistinct]. I finally got thinking about, What are the instances where we 
have massive change in the paper probably in this country. The one thing I can 
think about is the drunk driving campaign and the anti smoking campaign, maybe 
recycling. I don't know that'll happen. But clearly the anti smoking campaign 
and the drunk driving campaign we've had massive change in public opinion. In a 
very short time frame. It hard to get people to stop smoking. Just think 
what's happened in this country. What can we learn from that? We're talking 
about the news media, not just for the legislators and not just for a targeted 
district. But really to build an environmental majority we're talking now. 
I'm, what have we learned from that? I can't think of any campaign that I know 
of, maybe I'm missing a lot, but that's really resulted in a massive change. 

 Moderator: This is directed to the 
panel? 
 Donna: The panel, well, anybody, but I 
was asking the panel to respond. 
 Denis Hayes: Well, I think another 
example would be nuclear power. Certainly the combination of the China Syndrome 
and Three Mile Island and Chernobyl, all of the media certainly changed that 
industry, eliminated it for all practical purposes. Don was personally 
responsible for Chernobyl. [laughter] 
 Donna: I don't believe that it 
eliminated it. 
 Denis Hayes: Well, at the present time 
there are no nuclear plants being built in this country. 
 Moderator: Curt? 
 Curt: Well I want to address your point. 
I, my professional work is in recycling and I was out in public education. And 
I find that media is a sort of supportive mechanism to get people aware of the 
issue, but really what makes the changes is personal contact and outreach. One 
of the programs I've started in Seattle called Master Composters, we did work a 
lot with free media and a lot of tv and newspaper and all that other stuff to 
raise awareness, but it isn't until we've trained two or three hundred 
volunteers to go out there and get a message out... 
 Female voice: Like the [indistinct]. 
 Curt: Exactly. And that's where the 
combination of an outreach campaign with the proper tools and the media to 
support that, you can create community action. And in our city now compost is a 
household word. There's probably a quarter to a third of the households that 
compost, are composting at home. But it is a process that takes time. I think 
that where we lose our impact is we expect to go in for a month or a week or a 
short period of time, do a media blitz, as Denis was saying, you just go in and 
out and that's why people forget about it. And you gotta be [indistinct]. 
 Male voice: I think that 
this--[indistinct] who edited that report--just one observation that I wanted to 
add, was that the environmental, big environmental groups, in [indistinct] seem 
to have a real narrow focus and all they really do is direct mail. And it seems 
like that's, you know, you keep hitting the came group of people over and over 
again. And maybe that's obvious, but the thing is that that seems to be where 
their expertise is. But beyond that they do really seem to have, you know, 
there may be exceptions here and there, but they really don't seem to have any 
expertise in what the big media--cable systems, you know, on the air TV, radio 
and all that. There are, of course the possibilities are there, so it seems to 
me to be a real opportunity for funders to look at what the possibilities for 
overall strategies are. Because there doesn't seem to be really all that much 
going on from these groups themselves. I've heard instances where they've tried 
TV advertising and this just got written off as something they just can't do. 
 Moderator: Lisa? 
 Lisa: I just wanted to say briefly. 
We've been in preparing for [indistinct]. I did look at all the literature of 
some of the campaigns we're mentioning and some others. And at least in terms 
of campaigns that have been studied, most of the ones that have been studied 
closely, the government ones--the government put money into it--the three that 
are considered successful are [indistinct] cigarettes and food and nutrition. 
And drunk driving, interestingly, has not been successful. There is absolutely 
no truth, they say, in the levels of drunk driving or designated driving. And 
Jay Winston [?] is now undertaking a study to try to do that. What is 
interesting about some of this--I mean there are lots and lots of theories about 
it and lots of people say they're convinced in the social science 
literature--the more accepting the public is of the message, the easier, 
obviously, it is to change the behavior. Smoking is a very interesting one 
because of course the surgeon general report came out in 1964, had an immediate 
impact, but within 3 months smoking levels were back up. What they attribute 
the change to was not so much the message directly, but the second-hand smoking 
report that caused citizen groups to enact legislation and in fact started 
really to really act. The other thing they also attributed it to is children. 
When children started getting the message and saying to their parents You're 
going to die, that meant something to the parents. Now whether that, the 
message is still there... 
 Female voice: Is there a lesson? 
 Lisa: Well, there is. There is a lesson 
there. But it was really definite. I just had the, I mean I have lots of 
literature. 
 Female voice: What about peer pressure 
and children's parents? 
 Lisa: Well, shame is... [audience 
laughter] financial force is nothing, although they never deal with that. 
 Male voice: What about the ban on 
promotional advertising? 
 Lisa: That helped. Helped a lot. I 
mean, once you get to really, to see the law on [airplane noise obscures voice]. 
 Male voice: That's a, that's a really 
interesting twist on television advertising, because it turns out in the smoking 
controversy what, what encourages people to begin smoking tends not to be 
advertising. It's peer expectations, images that you have of people relaxing 
after sex with a cigarette on in bed, and all the other positive things that 
they've been putting through to us in movies and other subliminal ways. But 
advertising itself is principally, as it's impacting you to smoke Philip Morris 
or to smoke Marlboros, what the sequence is with regard to advertising is a 
series of efforts under the fairness doctrine to get counter-cigarette 
advertising on television. Whenever there was a cigarette ad on television, I 
think it was a ratio of one to three. So what we had then was a whole series of 
cigarette companies that were putting ads on television in order to get them to 
smoke Philip Morris instead of Marlboro, whenever they had three of these ads, 
then there was an ad that came on that said Don't smoke at all, it's going to 
kill you. It was having some effect in persuading people not to smoke. So the 
total cigarette sales were continuing to go down, which made Marlboro and Philip 
Morris want to advertise more to get a larger fraction of this declining 
market. As they advertised more, then suddenly under the fairness doctrine 
there's more opportunity for this public interest group to discourage smoking 
cigarettes [laughter] and there's not much notice. But the effort in Congress 
to have cigarette advertising banned was by the American Tobacco Institute, it 
was in fact a response to this phenomenon where they were caught in a Catch 22. 
But the point of moving to legislative solutions and institutionalize one's 
values, I think is a really important one. If you're talking about these kinds 
of windows to change behavior, if you can convert that into a local law that 
bans smoking in restaurants and that bans smoking in buildings--at Stanford now 
they have a law that says you're banned from smoking. You can't smoke in the 
football stadium, even though it's open air. That brings in an 
institutionalized thing, that applies a sanction to these people that kind of 
look down their noses at people who are engaged in this kind of anti-social 
behavior. That's unsanctioned. 
 Moderator: Did you have your hand up? 
 Male voice: Yeah. The Angelina Fund has 
not funded to date campaigns, but we've been interested in funding capacities of 
different types. We've sort of merged, we're supposed to this [indistinct]. So 
for example, we built on the needs of E Magazine example Denis gave. And we've 
been trying to do all sorts of funding for these, this institution called Center 
for Alternative Journalism. A coalition of eighty weekly newspapers, the 
Chicago Leader, the Los Angeles Weekly, each of which is itself self-sufficient 
per the needs of the [indistinct] to make the [indistinct] institutions. To 
start having editorial content go to all 80 of those. Our goal and this is 
strictly as funders of these (c)(3)s, is we'd like to see a monthly magazine 
developed with one editorial content which would be our press carrying our kind 
of messages to five million leaders every week--once a month to begin with, but 
ultimately every week. And it would be the pro-environmental for profit, the 
for profit organizations with a new capacity would be there. And it's that 
sense of capacity, so we're not each time reinventing the campaign mode. We 
realize that, especially where we support media criticism, we have, our feeling 
is that FAIR, Fairness And Accuracy in Reporting, when it's gone after MacNeil-Lehrer, 
when it's gone after some of these other TV shows, it's had impact and it's 
brought new modes with it. So at then no additional expense, they have to start 
bringing in our sort of voices instead of the middle of the road conservative 
voices that have dominated evening news. The third thing that we've been 
interested in is looking at the future of communication, which I know you have 
too. We've given a lot of support to Jeff Chester and Kathy Montgomery who were 
imported from the West Coast, who have just changed the possibilities in 
Washington because they're the only eco-based people that, who understand what's 
going on in Congress on new modes of communication. And it going to change what 
we can do and the cost of what we can do and who we can reach. And yet they 
don't have a whole lot of support and there's not a whole lot of their folks in 
[indistinct] who are doing that. And they really need some help to get started 
in D.C. It's those three things which are all capacity issues in one sense or 
another, institutional issues, so we don't always have these campaign-specific 
costs and crushes. 
 Moderator: Michael? And Patricia? 
 Michael: I second that idea that there's 
gotta be a facilitator of an environmental majority and maybe we do that by not 
focusing exclusively on campaigns. But a lot, of course at the time it was a 
good thing. And there's a story that illustrates that that I think is part of 
the problem. Apparently, most people who make environmental films are 
documentary people, and typically they make them in a way that is not 
commercially salable. I have a good friend who bought film properties for 
National Geographic for years. And she said that in an effort to encourage 
people to produce marketable film properties they sponsored an environmental 
film festival, and there were 300 films that eventually were shown at the 
festival out of several thousand that were submitted. None of them made it to 
broadcast. Which was interesting. And partially it's because the formula that 
people use when they're making films is totally antithetical to commercial 
formula. So getting film people who are in film now to bring that message into 
a commercially salable form is their strategy. And getting people who are 
making documentaries to use a more formulaic method of making a commercial 
vehicle surround their message will also produce a couple of scenarios. 
 Moderator: Is there some, can you 
explain briefly what it was about those films that wasn't commercial? 
 Michael: She, she explained it to me, 
but it didn't resonate. 
 Female voice: Was it technical about the 
content? 
 Michael: There is apparently--I hate to 
make this, this is truly, because I've been deceived, but there's apparently a 
very formulaic method of making a drama. And you have a man who is the main 
character, and you have a key moment, and that's repeating, and then there's, 
you know, a resolution very quickly and something else happens. It sounds too 
simple to be true, but apparently writers in Hollywood spend their time sort of 
using this formula and filling in holes. And that's how this successful--so why 
not appropriate that model and we put what we want to have in it. 
 Female voice: Michael, my name is 
[indistinct]. There's a lot of junk being made in Hollywood [indistinct]. 
 Moderator: Patricia? 
 Patricia: Well, I don't know how we 
foundations can help stimulate commercially viable films, but with The China 
Syndrome, the [indistinct] it's just not good entertainment when you no longer 
reach the usual suspects. The values of [indistinct] I just wanted to sort of 
second the motion that we all fund [indistinct] communications. How are these 
[indistinct] a lot of talking and a lot of attention is being focused on what 
the multi-media electronics, see the highway to the future and say [indistinct] 
to society. The fact that at last somebody is looking at the Federal 
Communications Commission's public access to communications, may essentially be 
a dead letter. I think we taken the approach that the reasons were we've been 
priced out of a practical avenue to new technology for a lot of us. Standards 
that a scarcity regime has justified [indistinct] have been supplanted by a 
deregulatory adjustment. So if you wanted the same place we as funders just 
[indistinct] how to reach the environmental movement. And they didn't 
understand [indistinct] in the new information age. 
 Moderator: I just want to shift gears 
now for the time remaining. Anyone is welcome to continue with the question 
they were going to ask. But to especially ask foundations here and members of 
the panel if you have worked with communications consultants or with any 
organizations that you have found that your grantees have worked with or you've 
worked with individually who you would recommend as a place for people to go. 
And with that lead-in, let me just call on Craig to explain a little bit more 
than he did. 
 Male Voice: We also sponsored Jeff 
Chester and gang and that's one of our areas of concentration is that there's a 
diversity of media in Washington and that the FCC on what's going to happen in 
the future. But two things that I think are very much of importance for all of 
us here. The one thing is that our foundation has sponsored an advocacy media 
conference in May of this year. And we're looking for people to attend, to 
participate. There is, if we could pass that around so everybody can get a copy 
that would be great. We're trying to get together funders, producers and some 
of the non profit groups together to look at how we can make more advocacy 
videos effective in getting the message out. And there's a brief description in 
the letter here. And we welcome the participation of the people who would like 
to have that. 
 Female voice: I'd to put in a plug for 
the [indistinct] foundations. I think that [indistinct] for grants for our 
grantees, because it runs the gamut of how to use media from talk radio to cable 
access, to [indistinct] to use paid media to how to get onto the op-ed page and 
a lot of things. I think it's a wonderful [indistinct] of publications. 

 Male voice: Can I ask you a question? 
You have said that one end of the scale now is, you know, [indistinct]. I want 
to explain to folks about a series that we have. The MacArthur, Johnson, Ford 
and Carney Foundations have purchased between 500 and 1,000 of these books, sets 
of these book for their grantees. Now if we could pass over the next fact sheet 
here that's under the one here. We have an order form here for the booklet 
Money Raising. Very quickly what you've got. This one is I think the general 
picture on how to design and a [indistinct] campaign. This is how to do 
electronic networking so that you can be involved and get your people involved 
in your campaign, in touch. We have media advocacy, another general thing about 
how to use the media. Op-ed, newspaper kind of things, how to do that. Voice 
programs, talk radio, using video and then last but not least cable access. So 
we've got a series here to--the books are available, but also we're more than 
operative on issues. We've got two very competent staff people that provide 
technical assistance to other foundations and get involved in the Council on 
Foundations and they have a media section of the Council on Foundations board. 
We also provide technical assistance directly to non profit groups. Our focus 
right now is on kids, but I know that after [indistinct], back in the 
environmental business, and that's why I was put on the board with all the gains 
in the environmental field and that is why I'm here to start networking with 
folks and let the people know that we're available to help. 
 Moderator: Do you have any Veg-A-Matics 
there? [laughter] 
 Male voice: Your part of mission of 
funding the little labor and [indistinct] money back, say whatever it is. And I 
imagine it would probably be a center of [indistinct] in San Francisco. It was 
originally funded by West Coast groups. And population groups. Do any of you 
know what the statistics are on the appeal potential of please return 
environmental foundation loan funds in our--have you written any letters. 
 Female voice: I don't quite understand 
the question. 
 Donald Ross: Do you have any--have you 
put out full-page ads. Almost all of those, unless they land on a [indistinct] 
day lose money. 
 Male voice: Lose money and gain zero 
back. You get half back or thirty back, you try to get fifty. 
 Female voice: [indistinct] to pay for 
your ad. But they don't return [indistinct]. 
 Donald Ross: I doubt they could pay for 
their ads. That's not my experience with them. Maybe they would know better 
than I which is more [indistinct]. 
 Moderator: Ed? 
 Ed: I'd like to move back to 
environmental issues specifically and ask for the opinion of the people here and 
the members of the panel, we have a couple of major campaigns coming up. The 
Ancient Forests in one certainly, the Endangered Species Act is another. And 
there are other national campaigns and potential campaigns that we're running or 
doing something about in the next several months. I'm curious to know how 
Kenneth, Donald and other see the role of media in those two or others that you 
might want to talk about. And then further the role, perhaps, of foundations. 
 Donald Ross: Well, it's actually in an 
area I've thought a lot about because of the experience of this Americans for 
the Ancient Forests effort. And so let me give a slightly larger answer, and 
I'll try to be quick. I, there is no organization today that can wage any one 
of these national campaigns by itself. And given the experience on the forest 
issue and others, I'm somewhat pessimistic that a collection of national groups 
are going to be able to get together and divvy up the work in an effective way 
and manage a campaign. What I keep thinking about now on these national efforts 
is that--and this would take a major role by large funders to help drive 
this--is that there's almost a kind of a modular kind of a campaign where you 
would take people from different groups and take different expertises together 
to assemble, so you'd end up with a task force of people from maybe five or six 
different groups that were under some central direction. Part of the problem in 
the forest campaign is you had a lot of these elements including lots of these 
media folks, paid and free. But there was no central direction and very little 
co-, uh, no one was able to really say, okay, like a quarterback, you go this 
way, you go this way, you do this, you do that. There was never a control 
mechanism. So it became too chaotic. 
 Clearly, within house there's not the 
media expertise. And equally clearly, except for a handful of campaigns, you 
can't afford the outside experts. Chlopak's core budget for himself and his 
core staff was $15,000 a month and that is doing it at a pro bono rate. The 
reason we used him is he quit Sawyer-Miller, that wanted something like $30,000 
a month to do the same thing that he was giving us at half price. And Fenton's 
campaign, I don't know what his core monthly operating budget was, but it had to 
be in that same ball park, $10,000 a month. So these are very expensive 
efforts, really. I mean they're not expensive relative to the stakes, but 
relative to foundations' normal response, these are costly... 
 Woman in audience: Did foundations ever 
pool their money out front ahead of the time on these campaigns? 
 Donald Ross: Well, that's how this was 
done. 
 Male Voice: It was the first time out, 
this on the Ancient Forest thing. 
 Donald Ross: The Ancient Forest stuff 
was pooled within the Wilderness Society, actually acted as the fiscal agent. 
But there was a three person board set up with the Wilderness Society having one 
of the seats, to manage that money as a separate venture from the 
Wilderness--they were writing checks. 
 But I think that's what you're going to 
need. Might be interesting, what I think the answer to the question is, is that 
if we're going to have a chance, clearly media is going to have to be a major 
part. Can you imagine the campaign against endangered species when we saw what 
they did with just a little owl on the woods? And when you hit endangered 
species that every snail and every this and every that, they're going to just 
pound us. So there's clearly going to have to be a major media component, but 
by itself, not integrated with the politics, it's not going to be enough. 
 Moderator: Denis? 
 Denis Hayes: I think that I would agree 
with everything that Don just said. To sort of let our hair down here a little, 
I think that we probably disagree about how effective lobbying was in the early 
70s in the environmental movement, but it was certainly more effective than it 
is now. 
 We put together the Clean Water Act and 
there was just no ambiguity: NRDC was the lead organization, and people took 
their assignments, we all reported in. For the coalition against the SST, then 
Friends of the Earth was the leader, we all took our assignments, we reported 
in. For the Clean Air Act, Environmental Action was the leader, we took our 
assignments and we reported in. It all ran like fairly smooth clockwork. 
 Lots of glitches, but it was 
substantially better than today. And there central repositories and there was a 
line of decision-making. What has happened since then in the evolution of these 
national groups is that they are so driven by membership response that each 
wants to claim credit for anything that happens legislatively, than in a media 
strategy, whoever gets out front and is quoted in the lead paragraph gets to 
send that out with their mass mailing, and underlined in red that they did 
this. And it requires people to have very sharp elbows and then the media 
becomes really driven by some of those concerns. 
 It's crucial that we have a media 
component to some of these campaigns. I despair a little bit as to how we're 
going to put it together. But we are certainly going to be under a vast assault 
in the Endangered Species Act. I guess it's way out, by the context of this 
meeting, but I think that we may also have to rethink the Endangered Species 
Act, and rather than just on a pure preservationist thing say what fundamentally 
are we trying to achieve here. And what is a position that we can in a 
strategic way say Yes, we will draw the line here no farther. And it may not be 
where the lines are drawn right now. It may have more of an ecosystem focus. 
I'm not sure that thinking is going on inside the coalition. What we have done 
in this regard to it in our modest way in this enormously preliminary way to 
really let hair down tonight, is not media at all, it's grass roots organizer, 
but it gives you some insight as to our thinking. We got a proposal for a grass 
roots organizer to handle the Northwest and to some extent the West Coast of the 
United States for this campaign. Somebody asked him the question of due 
diligence where the person would be located, and he was to be located in 
Washington, D.C. And then we sort of raised some objections and we started 
talking about Seattle. And we finally sort of agreed that the right place to 
have it was in Tom Foley's district. It's not particularly media, but you ought 
to have somebody there with the local newspapers whose votes and relationships 
in addition to the grass roots stuff has part of the media campaign. We've got 
an expert right there to be quoted in the local papers, in the pivotal office on 
that issue in the first six months of that issue. 
 Moderator: I'm going to use that to wrap 
this up and with an aside in the following comment, which is that, you know, 
it's nice to have workshops you hope that you will come away from one with 
answers. And there's a number of really nice media projects along the 
environmental area that have been done not just with last year, but the last ten 
years. And it shows us what's possible. But despite the growing number of 
consultants in the field it's still very difficult as to who to go into it, how 
big an effort to make and how well coordinated it is to any targeted legislative 
efforts. And I think that that means that the lesson that I draw from that, and 
nothing in this discussion disabused me of this notion, which is that we as 
funders have to be insightful as to where we're going to dump essentially a 
large chunk of money just on these small media projects that come across our 
desks. And we don't have enough resources to go to people and say how do we 
evaluate this or who's good at it or whatever. And I would hope that future EGA 
panels or groups of funders can tell me, and I would be willing to and hope to 
work with some in my position at Pew, if we could start working together at 
evaluating these sort of things, because it's, you know, you just get avalanched 
by it. 
 Male voice: I just want to say one 
thing. I think the real challenge for us here in this community and in the 
non-profits is to develop the in-house capacity to develop our own media experts 
within the foundations and in the non-profit organizations. Because consultants 
are expensive and they usually are kind of a one shot kind of deal, and we need 
to build the institutional capacity in our movement to work with media and get 
the message out and that means education and training. That means what we 
should do, especially the foundations, we can provide education and training for 
media advocacy. 
 Moderator: I'd like to thank the panel 
members. 
 [Applause]. 
 END OF SESSION 
 END OF TAPE 

 RETURN TO 
EGA TAPES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE