Mink release kills animals 

 FUR COMMISSION USA PRESS RELEASE, AUGUST 25, 2003 

Terrorists Strike Washington Family Farm 

(See also:

http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/localnews/2001615032_webmink26m.html 
 Note: the figure of 5,000 reported in the Seattle Times is erroneous. The 
figure of 10,000 cited below is correct.) 

Sultan, Washington: Eco-terrorists attacked a small mink farm in Snohomish 
County, Washington early today, releasing and abandoning over 10,000 
domesticated mink from their pens at Roesler Brothers Fur Farm in Sultan. 

Along with a "small army" of 50 neighbors, farmers and retired farmers, Frank 
Candelario of American Legend Cooperative and Doug Kelly of the American Mink 
Council, the marketing cooperatives of North American mink farmers, worked side 
by side catching mink as temperatures reached almost 90 degrees. 

Frank reported that it was "intense" and "I was very impressed with everyone 
working hard." The "small army of people" caught mink in the thick brushy trees 
and on the farm while paramedics helped the workers deal with cuts and bites. 

Another crew worked cleaning pens of the old feed since the mink had been let 
out and abandoned before they'd eaten their feed that morning. Yet more 
neighbors brought food and drinks to fuel the crews. 

Brothers Brad and Jeff Roesler run the farm along with their families, raising 
mink for use in cold-weather clothing, oils and other products. "I got people 
helping catch mink that I don't even know," said Brad Roesler, visibly moved by 
the kindness of his neighbors. 

Candelario reported that it was the farmers' goal was to get the mink into their 
pens and well fed, "with a healthy dose of feed, to get them calmed down and 
into their routine." 

By 6 p.m., about the time the Animal Liberation Front admitted guilt for the 
crime, about two-thirds of the traumatized mink were bedded down for the night 
and the farm workers took their first breath of the day. The next morning they 
would start again. 

The attack on the mink farm is estimated at over $500,000 in damages, including 
the loss of genetic history for the animals. 
 The latest terrorist strike continues an expensive month for the West. On 
Aug. 1, an arson attack on a San Diego apartment construction site caused $50 
million in damages. This was followed on Aug. 21 by a $1 million arson at an 
automobile dealership in West Covina, Los Angeles. 
 "Obviously eco-terrorists are on a road trip doing damage in Western States," 
stated Teresa Platt, Executive Director of Fur Commission USA, which represents 
mink farmers in 28 states. "We urge people to stay alert. Everyone who relies on 
the Earth and its animals to live is a potential target. That's all of us." 
 Platt added, "We'd like to thank all the good neighbors who helped recover 
the mink, and ask people to call us at 619-575-0139 if they find a lost mink. 
They should also use care since the mink will be scared, hungry and thirsty, and 
it might bite." 

 FAIR USE NOTE: In accordance with U.S. 
Copyright Law as codified in Title 17 U.S.C. section 107, any copyrighted 
material herein is displayed without profit or payment for non-profit research 
and educational purposes only. It is posted here only after a commercial 
purpose of any copyright holder has been satisfied, and complies with fair use 
clauses of the U.S. Copyright Act. For more information go to:

http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml 

 RETURN TO 
ECOTERROR TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE