Mission 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 MISSION 
 STATEMENT 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 The Center was 
founded on July 4, 1976, the bicentennial of the American Revolution. We are 
here to continue that Revolution of liberty, free enterprise and individual 
initiative. 
 Statement of Purpose 
 The Center for 
the Defense of Free Enterprise, a non-profit, non-partisan, tax-exempt 
foundation that accepts no government grants, was established: 

 to operate exclusively for educational,  scientific, literary and charitable purposes under Section 501(c)(3) of the  U.S. Tax Code, and specifically: 
 to publish 
 and disseminate information regarding the principles upon which the American 
 free enterprise system was founded, 
 to relate 
 the application of those principles to contemporary American society, 

 to engage 
 in and foster research and study of issues relating to economics, economic 
 trends, and governmental regulatory bodies and their interaction with  business, 
 to defend 
 the right of individual Americans and American business to participate in the 
 free market without hindrance by government, 
 to foster 
 the values of the American free enterprise system among citizens through 
 speakers, lectures, conferences and publications, 
 to educate 
 America's youth in the values of the American free enterprise system through 
 the dissemination of literature that promotes an interest in the study of our economic 
 system. 

 History 
 The Center was founded by a group of 
distinguished businessmen, educators, legislators and students who were deeply 
concerned about the rollback of 200 years of individual rights and the multitude 
of restrictions being imposed on America's free enterprise system by big 
government--and the lack of understanding of this problem by the American 
people. 
 The Center's founders believed that a 
tax-exempt educational foundation was urgently needed to underwrite educational 
projects oriented to the average American. The Center for the Defense of Free 
Enterprise was established so that Americans could understand and value the free 
enterprise system and contribute to the defense and promotion of the economic 
system that made America a prosperous nation. 
 In just a few short years, The Center rapidly 
grew to become one of the most effective--and most respected--organizations 
working to restore free enterprise to America. Today, The Center has a widely 
recognized leadership which develops educational programs to take the message of free 
enterprise to the average American. 
 The Center has pioneered new methods of 
informing the public of the importance of free enterprise. The Center's work is 
highly acclaimed by business, grass roots and legislative leaders for its 
outstanding quality and enormous impact. 
 The Center does not talk to itself. Instead The 
Center concentrates on the citizen who is not aware that the free enterprise 
system built America and allowed her citizens to prosper as no nation's had.

 The Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
has carefully developed a wide array of educational programs designed to reach out 
and touch each American with the message, "Free enterprise built this 
country...let's keep building." 

 Liberty Park 

 12500 N.E. Tenth Place 
 Bellevue, Washington 98005 
 (425) 455-5038 
 (425) 451-3959 (fax) 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE