Eco-Terror Expert Calls For Inquiry of Green 
Anarchists 

 Eco-Terror Expert Calls For Inquiry of Green 
Anarchists 
 By Marc Morano 
CNSNews.com Senior Staff Writer 
July 18, 2002 

 (CNSNews.com) - An expert on eco-terrorism is calling on the FBI to 
investigate an organization that is touting a nationwide tour to "destroy 
civilization" and raise money for convicted eco-terrorists, but a spokesman for 
the FBI's Domestic Terrorism Program said the agency is taking a hands-off 
approach for the time being. 

 The Green Anarchy Tour 2002 , 
currently traveling from Ashland, Ore., to Washington, D.C., advertises its 
participants as "anarchists," refers to police as "the fascist force we are up 
against" and calls convicted eco-terrorists "prisoners of war." 

Such rhetoric has Ron Arnold concerned. Arnold, vice president of the Center for 
the Defense of Free Enterprise, said the tour "presents probable cause for 
investigation." 

"You do have people here recommending violence, murder, property damage, 
everything you can think of," he said. 

Arnold is author of several books 
on the environmental movement including "Ecoterror: The Violent Agenda to Save 
Nature: The World of the Unabomber." 

He believes that with the increasing number of domestic environmental and animal 
rights terrorist acts in the United States, the FBI should be more proactive in 
investigating possible threats like the Green Anarchy Tour. 

"I would say that law enforcement has an obligation, probable cause to at least 
look into it," Arnold said. "If they say they are going to destroy 
civilization, I think we should take them at their word," he added. 

 FBI Lukewarm to Investigation 

The FBI is less concerned than Arnold, at least publicly, saying it won't do 
anything until and unless the law is broken. 

"The FBI is only concerned when there is a violation of the law," said Steven 
Berry, spokesman for the FBI's Domestic Terrorism Program. "We fully support the 
rights of any and all groups, no matter what their message or their purpose, to 
lawfully assemble, protest and march." 

When asked about the risks of terrorism from domestic sources, Berry said, "The 
FBI is only concerned when there is a violation of federal law," adding that 
eco-terrorism is "the number one investigative priority of the domestic 
terrorism section." 

But Arnold thinks the matter deserves greater attention, noting that the Green 
Anarchy Tour's support of convicted members of the radical environmental group 
Earth Liberation Front makes an investigation more necessary. 

The group's Internet website says that proceeds from the tour will help 
convicted arsonists such as Jeffrey "Free" Luers and Craig "Critter" Marshall. 

"[Earth Liberation Front] is an FBI declared terrorist organization that they 
want to be the beneficiary of their proceeds," Arnold said. 

 Eco-Terrorism on The Rise 

According to Arnold, the threat of domestic terrorists cannot be underestimated. 
"I think it is as much a threat as foreign terrorism. These people are going to 
damage property and kill people," Arnold said. 

Domestic terrorism and violence by environmental and animal 'rights' activists 
is on the rise, according to Arnold. "We've had 'animal rights' activists beat 
people with baseball bats causing serious injury. We see that kind of violence 
growing," Arnold said. 

According to the FBI, there have been more than 600 cases of eco-terrorism 
causing $43 million dollars in property damage over the past decade, prompting 
Arnold to call the federal response to eco-terrorism "a day late and a dollar 
short." 

Arnold cited the failure of federal law enforcement for the escalating violence. 
"We probably have got [sic] literally thousands of [eco-terrorists] who ought to 
be in jail," he said, placing the blame squarely on the FBI for "failing to 
investigate exactly the kind of things you see on the (Green Anarchy) web site." 

 BACK TO ECOTERROR TOP PAGE