Live Up to Your Own Rules 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Nick 
 Nichols, senior fellow 
 Make the Enemy Live Up to 
 Their Own Book of Rules - By Law 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Transparency for the Activist Opaque? 
Let's Legislate it to Make Sure 

 I spent June 6th listening to the background noise of 
 various radio and television pundits pontificating about the Book of 
 Revelations reference to the number 666 and whether this 
 once-in-a-century convergence of sixes in the calendar might portend 
 something onerous or downright satanic. There were news items about 
 expectant mothers postponing deliveries, high schools beefing up security in 
 response to triple-six threats, and reports of satanic vandalism at a number 
 of seminaries, monasteries and churches. True to form, the Internet hummed 
 with apocalyptic conspiracy theories and Hollywood buzzed about Twentieth 
 Century Foxs new version of The Omen .
 As someone who tends to put more faith in science than the scare of the 
 week, I deposited all of the doomsday reports into a mental file labeled 
 hogwash and continued to work on a syllabus for a course I am scheduled to 
 teach in the fall. Then it happened. A Google Alert popped up in my email 
 inbox. The headline wasnt satanic, but it certainly was an unexpected 
 revelation: Greenpeace, Amnesty, Oxfam Sign Code of Conduct. 
 I must admit that when I read the headline it crossed my mind that maybe 
 there was something to this triple-six business. I always thought that it 
 would be a cold day in Hell before the activists held themselves to the same 
 standards of conduct that they have been seeking to impose on corporations 
 through their constant harangue about Corporate Social Responsibility. 
 The activists call it an Accountability Charter and it turns out that 
 eleven of the worlds largest non-government organizations (NGOs) signed the 
 document claiming that, we seek to promote the values of transparency and 
 accountability that we stand for . . . . I found a copy of the Charter in 
 the news section of Amnesty Internationals website ( www.amnesty.org ). It 
 is well-worth reading if you happen to be the target of one of the 
 signatories. 
 Why? Take a cue from a different kind of testament. The one used by 
 activists across the globeRules for Radicals. It was written by the reputed 
 godfather of the American activist movement, the late Saul D. Alinsky. Rules 
 for Radicals (1971) provides activists with strategies and tactics that have 
 proven extremely effective against business targets over the past several 
 decades. Alinskys fourth rule of power tactics is: Make the enemy live up 
 to their own book of rules. What is my point? This so-called 
 Accountability Charter represents a first-ever book of rules for the 
 international activist movement. Lets hold them to it! 
 There are several provisions in the Charter that jump from the page. For 
 example, the NGO signatories promise that they will: 

 Adhere to generally-accepted standards of technical accuracy and 
 honesty in presenting and interpreting data and research, using and 
 referencing independent research. 
 Publish annual financial reports that will conform to relevant laws 
 and practices and be audited by a qualified independent public accountant 
 whose statement will accompany the report. 
 Be both politically and financially independent. Our governance, 
 programs and policies will be non-partisan, independent of specific 
 governments, political parties and the business sector. 
 Be responsible in our criticisms of individuals and organizations, 
 ensuring such criticism amounts to fair public comment. 
 Take all possible steps to ensure that there are no links with 
 organizations, or persons involved in illegal or unethical practices.

 Specifically prohibit acts of bribery or corruption by staff or other 
 persons working for, or on behalf of, the organization. 

 Considering the past behavior of groups like Greenpeace, my initial 
 reaction to the commitments enshrined in the Accountability Charter can best 
 be described by actor Christopher Walkens famous one-liner in The Rundown: 
 Wow! 
 Anyone who has been on the receiving end of a public attack by the likes 
 of Greenpeace must wonder what in the world these NGOs were thinking when 
 they signed this Charter? As a founding member of the heretofore secret 
 society, Cynicism Yields Answers (CYA), I would suggest that the 
 Accountability Charter is not the byproduct of altruism or some 
 hallucinogenic experience, but the other kind of CYA; a literary 
 slight-of-hand by the international activists seeking to preempt efforts by 
 various governments to regulate their behavior, and to impose serious 
 standards of accountability and transparency on their organizations. 
 Whatever the motivation, the bottom line is that the groups that signed 
 the Charter have now publicly proclaimed their pure intentions. They want us 
 to believe that they, too, are socially responsible. The next time any of 
 them skirt the law, slander their targets, exploit junk science, or engage 
 in partisan political activity, throw the Charter at the offender and demand 
 the same degree of public humiliation and sanctions that they often seek to 
 apply to their corporate targets. In others words, make the enemy live up 
 to their own book of rules. 

 With over three decades in the communications business, Nick Nichols 
 specializes in crisis management and risk communications. 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 

VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE