New Chavez study 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 FREE 
 MARKETS 
 New study reveals Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez 
 and his Bolviarian Alternative for the Americas 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 The CITGO handout of 
Venezuelas Heating Oil to Americas Poor 

Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez Builds Political Base in 
 U.S. What For? 
 Venezuelan autocrat Hugo Chavez is building a political 
base in the United States to help deflect criticism of his ambitious plan to 
unite Latin America in a socialist bloc, according to a report released today by 
a Bellevue, Washington-based think tank, the Center for the Defense of Free 
Enterprise. 
 The report, Autocrats and Activists , says the Chavez 
ticket to U.S. citizen support is a $10 million handout of Venezuelan heating 
oil for the poor this winter in heavily Democratic states, including 
Massachusetts and New York. 
 But, the report warns, dont take Autocrats and 
Activists into Venezuela, because criticizin g the President there 
is a crime with a 40 month prison sentence. 
 CITGO, Venezuelas state-owned oil company located in the 
U.S., is handing out deep-discount heating oil for distribution by blue state 
charities as a way to ingratiate Hugo Chavez with poor Americans who have used 
up their own government heating benefits. 
 Autocrats and Activists reveals that its part of an 
ongoing multi-million-dollar effort by Venezuela to court American public 
opinion, using high-powered Washington, D.C. lobbyists and public relations 
firms to build an of pro-Chavez activist groups in the U.S. 
 Behind it all is Chavezs so-called Bolivarian 
Revolution, named after South Americas 19 th Century liberator, 
Simon Bolivar. The Chavez revolution, inspired by his idol Che Guevara, is the 
hard-left socialist movement that swept him into power in 1998s presidential 
election. 
 Chavez has formed a tight oil-fed alliance with Cuban 
communist dictator Fidel Castro, and is forming similar oil-fed bonds with the 
leftist leaders of Brazil, Ecuador, Argentina and Uruguay. The goal is to create 
what Chavez calls The Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas, to unite all 
of Latin America politically, economically and militarily in an anti-U.S. 
socialist bloc. That could be a critical problem for the U.S. 
 Read Autocrats and Activists to see why Chavez wants 
a political base in the U.S.: to have a reliable hard-core activist outcry at 
anything the U.S. does to promote free trade, free enterprise, or otherwise 
thwart the Chavez Bolivarian Revolution. Online at
 www.cdfe.org/autocrats.pdf . 

 RETURN 
 TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE