News Release 

 News 
Release 
 Center for the 
Defense of Free Enterprise 
Date: March 4, 2002 
Contact: Sandy Fields, Communication Director 
Telephone: 425-455-5038 

 Center 
files complaint with Internal Revenue Service against People for the Ethical 
Treatment of Animals (PETA) 
 Center 
asks IRS to revoke PETA's non-profit tax exempt status for connections to 
unlawful activity 

 For the 
complete text of the complaint, go to 
 www.cdfe.org/CDFEPetaComplaint.pdf 

 Bellevue, 
 Washington 
 &#8213; The 
non-partisan Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise has filed a complaint 
against Norfolk, Virginia-based People for 
the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) with IRS Commissioner Charles O. 
Rossotti, asking that PETA's privileged non-profit status be revoked for 
violations of tax laws and connections to unlawful activity. 

 Center Executive Vice President Ron Arnold said 
that the 12-page complaint sets out details of PETA -- 

 Supporting the Animal Liberation Front (ALF), an FBI-declared 
 domestic terrorist group, by acting as a media conduit and providing legal 
 defense funds for a convicted ALF felon linked to PETA; 

 Stealing trade secrets; 

 Advocating arson; and 

 Assaulting business executives 

 Arnold said PETA is one of 
the nations most notorious animal rights groups. PETAs philosophy is extreme: 
animals are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, or use for entertainment, 
according to its Web site. Since its founding in 1980, PETAs name has been 
linked to numerous unlawful acts, ranging from highly publicized anti-fur 
protest demonstrations to undercover theft of business documents to 
secrecy-shrouded break-ins and university laboratory arsons. PETA has received 
recent media notice for its funding of the North American Earth Liberation Front 
-- a group classified by the FBI as domestic terrorists -- and its funding in 
support of Animal Liberation Front (ALF) arsonist Rodney Coronado -- ALF is also 
listed by the FBI as domestic terrorists. 

 The 1995 Government Sentencing Memorandum of 
convicted ALF felon Rodney Coronado can be found at 

www.cdfe.org/Sentencing Memo.htm . 
 Coronado was sentenced to 57 
months in federal prison for the $2.5 million torching of a Michigan 
 State University animal 
laboratory and is still on parole. According to the prosecutions memorandum, 
Coronado sent a package containing documents from the torched MSU laboratory to 
the home of longtime PETA member Maria Blanton for PETA President Ingrid 
Newkirk. The prosecutor wrote, Newkirk had arranged to have the package 
delivered to her days before the MSU arson occurred. 

 Arnold said, "Why hasnt 
the IRS looked into this? Or Congress? PETA continually encourages unlawful 
acts. PETA people have numerous arrests. Tax exempt status is for charitable 
purposes. Theres nothing charitable about encouraging arson. Enough is enough. 
PETA should be stripped of its tax exempt status. 

 Center President Alan 
Gottlieb said, We have been tracking PETA for more than a decade. Ron Arnold 
and I co-authored a profile of PETA in the 1993 book, Trashing the Economy. 
What we found was one criminal act after another, all linked in some way to the 
name of PETA. The IRS has been slack in its oversight of this dangerous group. 
So we have had to issue a formal complaint to IRS Commissioner Rossotti himself. 
We hope the IRS will take PETA seriously now. 

 A history of PETA during 
the 1980s and 90s can be found at 

www.undueinfluence.com/peta.htm .