Nick Nichols 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 The Center 
 welcomes a distinguished Senior Fellow 
 Business communications expert 
 Nick Nichols 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Center President Alan Gottlieb proudly announces 
the confirmation of David "Nick" Nichols as Senior Fellow of the Center for the 
Defense of Free Enterprise, effective January 1, 2005. 

 "We welcome Nick Nichols to the Center and look 
forward to his active involvement in our complex projects," said Alan Gottlieb. 
"Nick's outstanding talent at defending the free enterprise system will be a 
valuable asset in accomplishing the Center's exempt purpose. We intend to make 
Nick's entry into the non-profit world both challenging and fulfilling. His vast 
experience will be put to work in his many areas of proven 
ability. The non-profit organization framework may be very different from the 
corporate and academic world he comes from, but insightful problem-solving 
ability is essential to all three, and Nick's is among the finest to be found 
anywhere." 

 Paul Driessen, Director of the Center's Economic 
Human Rights Project (EHRP), said, "It's a great pleasure to be working again 
with my long-time colleague, Nick Nichols. The Center could not have selected a 
greater champion of free enterprise or a more talented Senior Fellow." Driessen 
was Senior Fellow prior to his appointment as EHRP Director in January, 2004. 

 The Center's Free Enterprise Press published 
Nick's 2001 book, 

Rules For Corporate Warriors: How to fight and survive attack group shakedowns . 
Nick is based in the Washington, D.C. area. 

 Personal profile of David Nick Nichols 

 Nick is the recently retired Chairman and CEO 
of Nichols-Dezenhall Communications Management Group, Ltd., a firm he founded in 
1987, specializing in crisis management and risk communications with an emphasis 
on biotechnology, energy, food, drug, product safety and environmental 
controversies. 

 During 2003-2004, Nick developed and taught 
interdisciplinary, graduate level Crisis Management and Risk Communications 
courses for Johns Hopkins University. He is a guest lecturer on crisis 
management and risk communications at Washington, D.C. area universities. 

 Nick is a widely recognized expert on the 
topics of crisis management, media and government relations, eco-terrorism, the 
precautionary principle, and the political influence of non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs). 

 He is a featured speaker at meetings, seminars 
and national conferences of state and federal legislators, government officials, 
international and domestic trade associations, corporate executives, and public 
policy groups including: the American Legislative Exchange Council, the State 
Legislative Leaders Foundation, the Competitive Enterprise Institute, and the 
CATO Institute. 

 Nick has appeared on television network news 
programs including ABCs Nightline , NBCs The Today Show and the
 CBS Evening News, and participated as a guest expert on numerous talk 
shows. 

 Nick Nichols is author of the book, Rules for Corporate 
Warriors, published in October 2001, and has written numerous articles as well 
as corporate publications that define and examine crisis management strategies 
and media relations tactics. 

 Timeline: 

 2004present Graduate Course 
Development and Instruction, Johns Hopkins University, Zanvyl Krieger School of 
Arts & Sciences, Advanced Academic Programs. Developed interdisciplinary, 
graduate level Crisis Management and Risk Communications courses and teaches 
these interdisciplinary, graduate level courses both in the classroom and 
on-line. 

 19872003 Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer, Nichols-Dezenhall Communications Management Group, Ltd., 
(formerly InterCommunications Group, Ltd.). Specialized in high-stakes 
communications, crisis management, media relations and global issues management 
for Fortune 500 clients; developed a proprietary crisis management/risk 
assessment formula and pioneered unique strategies and tactics for preempting or 
responding to marketplace crises; and expanded company operations from a 
two-person consultancy to an international firm with offices and affiliates in 
Washington, DC, Los Angeles, Sacramento, London and Brussels. (Retired in 
August 2003.) 

 1983-1987 Senior 
Vice President and Account Group Manager, Needham, Porter, Novelli (Omnicom), an 
international public relations firm. Focused on crisis management, corporate 
public relations, as well as media relations and communications for federal and 
state legislative and regulatory initiatives. 

 1980-1981 Deputy Director for 
Public Affairs, U.S. Cuban-Haitian Task Force. White House designated 
spokesperson for the federal government on issues relating to the 1980 Mariel 
Boatlift of 147,000 Cuban refugees to the United States. 

 1980 Public 
Affairs Director, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Region V. Served as 
chief media spokesperson and director of public affairs at the Cuban Refugee 
Processing and Resettlement Center, Fort McCoy, Wisconsin. 

 1979-1980 Campaign 
Manager, People for Dennis Conta. Developed and managed a successful primary 
election campaign for the office of Mayor of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 

 1977-1979 Deputy 
Secretary of Revenue, Wisconsin Department of Revenue. Served as a statutory 
member of the Governors Cabinet; administered the enforcement of state revenue 
laws, departmental rules and regulations, agency personnel policies, budget 
preparation and the Departments automated tax processing systems; supervised 
the operation of four agency divisions with 1,800 employees; enforced Federal 
Court rulings related to tax-exempt organizations that engage in discriminatory 
membership practices; and coordinated departmental investigations into organized 
crime. 

 1976-1977 Chief 
of Staff/Executive Assistant, Wisconsin Department of Revenue. Managed the 
staff of the Secretary of Revenue; served as agency liaison with the Governor, 
cabinet officers, state legislators, and the news media; and provided 
recommendations to the Secretary on matters of public and departmental policy. 

 1973-1976 Executive 
Assistant, Wisconsin Legislatures Joint Committee On Finance. Researched and 
developed legislation and executed legislative strategy; provided counsel on the 
development of the Committees mark-up of the state budget; managed public 
relations for Committee Members; and acted as liaison with other legislative 
committees, partisan caucuses, the Executive branch and independent agencies of 
the state government. 

 1972-1973 Coordinator 
for Training and Development, Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs. 
Developed and implemented education and outreach programs for Vietnam-era 
veterans (WISVET Outreach Project); and managed public relations activity for 
these programs. 

 1971-1972 News 
Secretary/Media Coordinator, Lindsay for President Campaign. Provided media 
relations counsel to New York City Mayor John V. Lindsay during his presidential 
campaign and served as his media liaison. 
 1969-1971 Investigative 
News Correspondent, various broadcast outlets. 

 1966-1969 Cryptographic/Teletype 
Specialist, United States Air Force. Maintained a Top Secret clearance. 
Vietnam service. 

 1961-1966 News 
Production Assistant, WISM. News reporter and commercial production technician, 
Madison, Wisconsin. 
 Selected publications: 

 Nick Nichols and Paul Driessen, Global warming: 
Science versus Spin, Essay. The Science & Environmental Policy Project, 13 July 
2003. 

 Nick Nichols, Crisis Communications in a 
Dangerous World, Chemistry Business , March 2003, pp. 9-11. 

 Nick Nichols, Orwell Would Be Proud, 
TechCentralStation.com , 21 May 2002. 

 Nick Nichols, Theyre Animals, 
TechCentralStation.com , 28 February 2002. 

 Testimony by Nick Nichols On Eco-Terrorism, U.S. 
House of Representatives, House Resources Subcommittee on Forests & Forest 
Health, (Washington, D.C.: 12 February 2002). 

 Nick Nichols, Tips for Terrorists on Web, The 
Baltimore Sun , 24 January 2002, Op-Ed. 

 Nick Nichols, Lets Also Battle Home-Grown 
Terrorists, The Portland Oregonian , 24 September 2001. 

 Nick Nichols, 

Rules For Corporate Warriors: How to fight and survive attack group shakedowns, 
(Bellevue: The Free Enterprise Press, 2001). 

 Nick Nichols and James Hoskins, The Precautionary 
Principle: Throwing Science Out With The Bath Water, Issue Perspectives , 
(Washington, D.C.: Wirthlin Worldwide, February 2000). 

 Nick Nichols and Andy Shea, Ruling the Media 
(Washington, D.C.: Nichols-Dezenhall Communications Management Group, Ltd., 
1998). 

 Nick Nichols, et al., Stopping the Attackers
 (Washington, D.C.: Nichols-Dezenhall Communications Management Group, Ltd., 
1997). 

 Nick Nichols, Crisis Management 
(Washington, D.C.: Nichols-Dezenhall Communications Management Group, Ltd., 
1995). 

 Nick Nichols, Castros Revenge, The 
Washington Monthly , (March 1982). 

 Education: 

1981-1983 BA, Political Science, The American University 

(A combined program of studies at George Washington University and The American 
University) 

 1977 University of 
Wisconsin/Overseas (UK) studies (Public Policy/Media) 

 1966-1967 United 
States Air Force, Air Training Command, Telecommunications School 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 

VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE