Vandana Shiva Is No Hero 

 Center note: The following 
letter to the editor of Time magazine denounces Vandana Shiva, the recipient of 
a Time "environmental hero award." Shiva is the instrumentality of wealthy 
anti-globalization guru, Douglas Tompkins, and receives over a hundred thousand 
dollars each year from his Foundation for Deep Ecology to fight against 
large-scale agricultural production. She is a member of the anti-capitalist 
group,

International Forum on Globalization , which calls for centralizing world 
economic rulemaking in the United Nations. See the

Center's analysis of the Forum's plan to cripple the world economy. 

 Vandana Shiva, Indian small-farm advocate 
strongly opposed to biotechnology, is founder and director of the Research 
Foundation for Science, Technology and Natural Resource Policy, based in Delhi. She is also the ecology 
advisor of the Third World Network, and is author of Biopiracy: The Plunder of 
Nature and Knowledge. Receives large annual donations 
directed by 
 Jerry Mander from 
 Foundation for Deep Ecology , $165,000 in 2000. 

 Editor, Time Magazine: 

 The "Green Century" 
special Earth Summit edition of your magazine called Vandana Shiva an 
environmental hero, lauding her for representing "tradition's voice" by setting 
"an eco-friendly standard that agribusiness must show it can outperform." 

 But when it comes to 
humanity, this "hero" has been downright villainous. 

 Repeatedly she has 
sought to block humanitarian food donations to desperate people, using any 
excuse available. She has attempted to block the access of India monsoon flood 
victims to critical US food donations based on false allegations that such foods 
pose health threats. 

 Even now she's 
defending the indefensible decision of the Zambian government to lock away US 
grain in government warehouses - an act that could kill literally hundreds of 
thousands, if not millions. This type of grain was declared completely safe by 
US regulators years ago and Americans have been eating it for over half a 
decade. 

 Shiva also opposes the 
wonderful new "golden rice" under development that Time properly devoted a cover 
to, in that it that could save millions in developing countries from death and 
blindness due to vitamin A deficiency. 

 Ultimately Shiva is no 
friend to sustainability, either. The very crops she's desperately fighting 
against have been engineered to require less application of pesticides, 
tremendously reducing the use of chemicals. 

 The developing world's 
growing population cannot sustain "heroes" such as these. 

 Signed: 

 Michael Fumento, 
Hudson Institute 

 Alex Avery, Hudson 
Institute 

 Dennis Avery, Hudson 
Institute 

 RETURN TO GLOBALIZATION TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE