On Fox News 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Ron Arnold 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 The 
 Center's media profile remains high because of our broad expertise on the 
 issues and our ability to tell it like it is. 

 Reporters 
seek out the Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise because they know they 
can trust us to be honest, to be authoritative, and to make even the most 
complicated ideas clear and compelling. 

 The Fox News report, 
 Spotted Owls Endangered 
by Logging or Nature? 
 is a good example of how the Center keeps its media profile high. Here's the 
inside story behind the story. 

 Fox 
News reporter Dan Springer sensed a news story when reports emerged that it was 
not loggers that were reducing the Northern Spotted Owl population in the 
Pacific Northwest, but the barred owl invading the spotted owl's territory.

 This embarrassing discovery 
suggested that the timber wars of the 1980s had needlessly destroyed the 
jobs of over 22,000 timber workers. 

 Dan got out his Rolodex and 
went to work. Among the key people he called was the Center's Ron Arnold (left), 
who Dan knew to have long experience in the issue. 

 When Ron 
agreed to appear in the Fox News report, Dan Springer brought his news crew to 
the Bellevue, Washington national headquarters of the Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise for 
the interview. 

 Producer Robert Shaffer and camera operator Charles Stewart quickly set 
 things up. 

 Like all good reporters, 
Dan does not give out interview questions in advance - just a basic outline of 
what the story is about. He counts on direct and 
probing enquiry to produce fresh and spontaneous comment. 

 Ron 
Arnold is known in the business as a "good interview," someone who can give 
thoughtful answers in short, snappy and even sassy sound bites. 
 A critic dubbed Ron "a master of the incendiary sound bite" after 
being scorched by one of them. 
 Dan Springer and his veteran 
news crew took a look at the Center's woodland setting in Bellevue, Washington, 
and decided to shoot outside. 
 With good reason: The 
Center's office sits amidst a dozen 80-foot Douglas fir trees that are carefully 
protected in their Liberty Park complex. 

 So, 
what the viewer saw on the screen - an interview in a forest background for a 
spotted owl / timber wars story - was not staged in some remote site gimmicked 
up just to look good. 
 The Fox News story was shot 
right outside Ron's office door. And incidentally, Ron's 
home, less than a mile from his office, also sits among a dozen 80-foot Douglas 
fir trees on Wilburton Hill, a site that was totally clearcut by loggers in the 
early 20th century. 
 Photos by executive 
assistant Tiffany Lindsey. 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 
VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE