Opposition 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 OPPOSITION 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 04/17/03 

 COURT FIGHTS :

 SPCA bullies lose in court appeal 

 Must pay huge fine for 
 malicious prosecution of innocent farmer 

 Opposition to free 
 enterprise comes from many quarters. 

 Primary opponents 
 of free enterprise are: 

 Progressivists, a 
 spectrum of socialists, democratic socialists, eco-socialists, and other 
 anti-capitalists who don't want to say the "S" word. 

 Anti-corporate 
 advocates, including progressivists, anti-globalization activists, 
 anti-capitalists. 

 Nature advocates, 
 including environmentalists and animal rights activists. 

 Socialist and 
 communist states and advocates, for social and political reasons. 

 Religious objectors, 
 both left-wing and right-wing, to the profit motive and materialistic 
 pursuits. 

 Anti-capitalists in 
 convergent alliances changing the debate from left versus right to big 
 versus little 

 Progressivism:

 The Ideological War Within the West 
 What it's really all about 

 Anti-corporate 
 advocates are a varied lot. For a sample of straightforward 
 anti-corporate rhetoric, read 

 the book review of Nick Nichols' Rules for 
 Corporate Warriors by Multinational Monitor. 
 Read 

 Select Goal - Target Corporations by Troy Prouty of 
 Indymedia Seattle to see the war and violence rhetoric growing among 
 radical anti-corporate activists. 

 Anti-Globalization 
 advocates range from intellectuals to murder suspects. Some get hero 
 awards, others get a fair trial. Read 

 Vandana Shiva is no hero 

 Time magazine award 
 stirs anger in humanitarian organization. 

 Nature advocates tend to be most 
 intolerant of those who disagree with them. For a sample of nearly 
 incredible intolerance of disagreement, read 

 the Scientific American diatribe 
 against Bjorn Lomborg, author of the contrarian book, The Skeptical 
 Environmentalist . Then read the 

 London Telegraph feature on Lomborg's 
 life as a marked man. Then read

 The Economist's take on a Danish 
 committee that found Lomborg guilty of scientific dishonesty without any 
 evidence. 

 For another example of intolerance of 
 disagreement, consider the case of 
 Patrick Moore , 
 Ph.D., a co-founder of GreenPeace, now a professional forester based in Vancouver, British Columbia, 
 Canada. He is the author of Pacific Spirit, which supports logging. He 
 maintains that the environmental movement has been hijacked by political 
 extremists. His website is 

 www.greenspirit.com/ . Environmentalists put up an 
 attack website 

 Patrick Moore is a Big Fat Liar . The 
 content is as childish as the title. 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE