Oregon Property Rights Victory 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 PROPERTY RIGHTS 

 Oregon's Measure 37 mandates compensation 
 to victims of over-regulation 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Oregon voters end era of 
iron-fisted rules forcing private owners to bear the cost of public use 

 Progress towards a true Ownership 
Society 

 Oregonians In Action , a 
statewide property rights lobbying group based near Portland, this year sponsored Ballot 
Measure 37, a bold citizen initiative that would require governments to 
compensate land owners if regulations damaged their property values. 
 On November 2, 2004, a million 
Oregonians voted to pass Measure 37, giving property owners a 60 percent to 40 
percent victory. 
 It was a massive shift in 
public policy: over the past three decades, Oregon has become notorious for 
having the most restrictive land-use rules in the nation. Housing was crowded 
into cities under a planning philosophy sarcastically called "timberland, 
farmland and ring around the city." Vast parcels of private farmland and private 
forests were rendered untouchable by an ever-growing list of rules that put 
public use ahead of private use and didn't pay for it. 
 Each county 
established "urban growth boundaries" around its cities and kept development within these boundaries, 
trampling on the rights of property owners. 
 On farmland, houses could be built only under 
stringent conditions for instance, the buyer had to show that he could 
generate $80,000 in annual gross income from farming for a period of years 
before he could build a dwelling. Non-farm dwellings were allowed only in areas 
with poor soil. But the owners of land rendered useless by government rules 
still had to pay property taxes on it. 
 As a result of these draconian no-use policies, 
suburban growth was killed and land values declined all over Oregon. The 
Ownership Society faded into a remote dream. 
 More fundamentally, the rights of individuals 
were gutted to satisfy the desires of environmentalists and so-called "smart 
growth" advocates. 
 But Oregonians In Action and Ballot Measure 37 
changed all that. Under Measure 37, property owners who can prove that 
environmental or zoning rules have hurt their investments can force the 
government to compensate them for the losses or get an exemption from the 
rules altogether. 
 Ross Day, Director of Legal Affairs for 
Oregonians In Action, told the New York Times , "Regardless of any 
benefits land use regulation may have, the people paying the cost are property 
owners. If Enron does something like this, people call it theft. If Oregon does 
it, they call it land-use planning." 
 Ownership advocates across the country have 
championed the idea of compensation for aggrieved landowners since at least the 
mid-1990s. It was a cornerstone of the 1994 House Republican campaign's 
"Contract With America." Four states have laws dating from the '90s that provide 
some compensation for affected property owners, but in a much more limited way. 
 Other states that allow for compensation for 
damaged property owners are Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Florida. But 
they set a threshold, for example a 25 percent reduction in a property's value.

 Michael Berger, a partner in the Los Angeles 
law firm of Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, said, "In Oregon, they're serious. 
It helps make people sit up and take notice that this is something they have to 
deal with. This is a big shock to the body politic it's a very red-state thing 
to do, and Oregon is very blue, so this shows it cut across everyone." 
 Both sides expect the measure to survive 
court appeals. The state and local governments are required by the new law to start 
accepting 
claims from property owners on December 2, 2004. If claims are found to be valid and the 
government will not or cannot pay, it must instead waive any restrictions that 
went into force after the owners or their parents or grandparents acquired 
the land. 
 Measure 37 has given new hope to property 
owners across the nation who strive to restore the basic civil right to own 
property. Oregonians In Action's Day says, "I've been getting calls from California, 
Idaho, Washington, Alaska and Wisconsin. They all want to find out what our secret recipe was to get it 
passed." 
 Oregonians In Action's campaign was masterful. 
It successfully showed the public just how arrogant and stupid Oregon's land-use 
rules were: One campaign advertisement showed a woman who was penalized for 
cutting blackberry bushes in her back yard in Portland because it might 
become wildlife habitat. Not that it was wildlife habitat, that it 
might become wildlife habitat. 
 Another woman, Dorothy English, 92, became 
famous on drive-time radio spots in the final week of the campaign. 
English told of buying 20 acres in the hills west of Portland in 1953 and how 
all these years later government was still stopping her from subdividing 
residential lots on her ample land. 
 English's punch line got people's blood up: "I've always been fighting the 
government, and I'm not going to stop." 
 Measure 37 won a majority in all 35 of the 
state's counties except Benton County, which includes Corvallis and Oregon State 
University, and even won a thin majority in the ultra-left wing city of 
Portland. 
 Gov. Ted Kulongoski, a Democrat, opposed the 
compensation measure, warning that it could wreck land-use planning in Oregon. 
Voters disagreed. 

 Click 
here for the official documents of Measure 37. 

 RETURN 

 TO PROPERTY RIGHTS TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE