Payday Lending 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 CONTROVERSIES 
 Payday Lending 
 - Bad rap for viable option 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Why we care: The payday advance industry is under attack from a 
variety of critics, many of whom are acting to further their own causes. Payday 
advances are great examples of consumer choice at work , with millions of 
Americans taking advantage of this service every year. Consumers opt for payday 
advances because theyre cost effective theyre less expensive than 
credit-card late fees, for example and banks no longer offer small, signature 
loans. They help borrowers in a financial pinch. In fact, a recent survey found 
92 percent of borrowers agree that these loans are hel p ful to them . 
As a result, shuttering payday advance stores would deprive Americans of a 
useful financial resource and demonstrate that activists can hurt any business 
that they decide to target, no matter how arbitrary their choice may be. For 
this reason, CDFE su pp orts this industry in its effort to meet the 
publics need for small, short-term advances. 

 Payday advances provide small cash loans designed for short-term 
needs. These loans are popular because they dont require collateral or a credit 
check, making them easier to obtain for people with little credit history. 

 Yet these loans are controversial. Some activists are seeking 
legislation to ban these loans, saying they charge high interest rates and prey 
on unsuspecting customers. 

 Supporters, however, say these loans help consumers cover 
temporary expenses, providing them with a helping hand when they need it most. 
In addition, studies show the cost of these loans is less than the average 
bounced-check fee or late payment penalty. 

 What are payday advances? 

 Payday advances are small, unsecured, 
short-term amounts of cash generally used to cover unexpected financial 
situations. They are available to consumers that have an active checking 
account and regular income. 

 How does it work? 

 Eligible payday advance consumers: 

 Read and sign an agreement that discloses 
 the terms of the payday advance; 

 Write a personal check for the advance 
 amount plus a fee, after which he/she 

 Immediately receives the requested amount 
 minus the agreed upon fee. 

 A consumers check is held for an 
agreed-upon time period (usually about two weeks). At the end of that time 
period, either the check is deposited or the customer returns with cash to 
reclaim the check. 

 Who uses payday advances? 

 According to research from

 Georgetown Universitys Credit Research 
Center in Washington, DC: 

 Payday advance customers represent the heart 
of the working middle class: 

 Majority have incomes between $25,000 and 
 $50,000 

 68% are under 45 years old; only 4% are over 
 65, compared to 20% of the population 

 94% have a high school diploma or better, 
 with 56% having some college or a degree 

 42% own their own homes 

 100% have a steady income and an active 
 checking account (required for an advance) 

 Critics say: Payday advances have a high annual percentage rate (APR) and are 
not as beneficial to consumers as some other financial options might be. 

 Research shows: 
 When payday advances are used responsibly, 
they are a valuable credit tool for consumers. Banks abandoned short-term, 
small denomination loans, leaving consumers stuck with limited and unsavory 
options. Now, for a set fee (usually 15 percent of the loan amount) customers 
can borrow the few hundred dollars that is sometimes needed to cover a cash 
shortfall between paydays. APR is a red-herring, since these loans are 
for a few weeks, not long term use. 

 Critics say: Payday advances perpetuate a cycle of debt. Lenders turn 
customers into repeat borrowers by providing easy credit without full 
disclosure. 

 Research shows: 
 When used appropriately, payday advances can actually 
DECREASE debt. For example: bank and merchant fees on a $100 bounced 
check average $49 and the late fee on a $100 credit card payment is about $29. 
However, the fee for a payday loan of $100 is only about $15. A 
 Georgetown 
University study found that a customer who takes out a $100 payday advance to 
pay a $50 utility bill and a $50 credit card bill on time pays less by avoiding 
both late fees. 

 Payday advances are not meant as regular budgeting tools 
and most reputable lenders take steps to encourage responsible use. Customers 
are required to read and sign an agreement, detailing the payday advance terms, 
before it is processed. The national payday advance trade associations best 
practices also include informing customers about the intended, short-term use 
of payday advances. It has even gone to bat for legislation that limits the 
number of payday advances or renewal rollovers and warns customers about long 
term use. 

 Critics say: Payday advance businesses are loan sharks who prey on vulnerable 
communities including low-income and undereducated people. 

 Research shows: 
 Just because customers need help getting through an unplanned 
expense doesnt mean that they are poverty stricken or ignorant. Most customers 
are middle-class, solid citizens, with jobs and income between $25,000 and 
$50,000 per year. 56 percent are college-educated. 

 Payday advances are also a valuable service for consumers 
who are just starting out. Often, these are the people who need the most help 
but whose borrowing options are limited because they havent developed a credit 
history yet. Payday advances dont require a credit check and help young 
customers (68 percent are under 45 years old) with young families (64 percent 
have children in the household) get access to money that, in some cases, will 
keep the lights on and put food on the table. 

 Critics say: Payday advances are predatory and providers should be put out of 
business: 

 Research shows: 
 The payday advance industry is a great example of free markets 
and consumer choice at work. The products popularity increased because banks 
backed out of the market for short-term, small denomination loans. In 1999, 
there was a 42 percent increase in payday advance locations, a 71 percent 
increase in customers and a 104 percent increase in employee payroll. 92 
percent of customers agree that these advances are a useful service. 

 Key Players 

 Proponents of 
Payday Advance as a Viable Choice (click on names to 
see profiles) 

 Community Financial Services Association of 
America 
(the only national trade association for payday lending) 

 Southeastern Legal Foundation 

 Washington Legal Foundation 

 Researchers at

 Georgetown Universitys McDonough School of 
Business Credit Research Center 

 Congressman Michael Oxley 

 National Taxpayers Union 

 American Legislative Exchange Council 

 Council of State Govern ments 

 See all supporters 

 Opponents of 
Payday Advance as a Viable Choice (click on names to see 
profiles) 

 Consumer Federation of America 

 National Community Reinvestment 
 Coalition 

 Community Reinvestment Association 

 of 

 North Carolina 

 National Community Reinvestment 
 Coalition 
 Center 
for Community Self-Help 

 Center for Responsible Lending 

 See all opponents 

 RETURN TO 
CONTROVERSIES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE