PETA Declares War 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 PETA PROBE 
 Jewish World Review on PETA's lack of ethics 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

Extremism at Home: PETA Declares War 
 by 
Lewis A. Fein 

 Jewish World Review 
June 10, 2005 

http://jewishworldreview.com/0605/fein1.asp 

 Of 
the many extremist groups that embarrass themselves while threatening the 
public's welfare, few are as infamous as People for the Ethical Treatment of 
Animals (PETA). The organization routinely uses inflammatory rhetoric that 
defies common sense and insults decent people. (I need not recite PETA's sordid 
tendency to conflate fascism with the alleged mistreatment of animals. But 
behavior of this kind, which naturally shocks even the most morally quiescent 
citizen, should end a conversation between a reasonable individual and this 
extremist group.) 

 Its 
opposition to the kind of necessary scientific research -- inquiry that may save 
lives and uncover the mystery of cancer or Alzheimer's -- is beyond foolish; it 
is willfully destructive. And therein lies PETA's agenda: It seeks to stop 
science and reason, the twin lights of ethics -- a word badly misappropriated by 
PETA itself -- that give us better, safer medicine and unrivaled excellence. Its 
conspiratorial mindset and invasive policies are now a national danger. 

Nowhere is there a better example of this worldview than the intimidation and 
wrongful protests lodged against Covance, one of the world's foremost research 
laboratories and centers for scientific research. Based in Princeton, New 
Jersey, Covance is the victim of a sustained a campaign against its very 
existence. (Its facility in northern Virginia bears the scars of PETA's belief 
system, a philosophy that is as extremely strident.) A place dedicated to 
medical advancement, which may produce a vaccine for AIDS or a cure for other 
terminal illnesses, is now a target for destruction. But Covance will not accept 
PETA's bullying, and will stop -- a lawsuit is already underway -- the group's 
malicious activity, including its infilitration of the laboratory's most vital 
areas. 

PETA has a cause, a viewpoint that condemns compromise and views cooperation as 
a form of capitulation. Rather than concede the obvious -- that Covance works on 
behalf of the public good -- we get crazed rhetoric and warped analogies. Any 
act of deliberate cruelty toward animals deserves condemnation, but stalking, 
vandalism and threatening people with violence are hardly a solution to any 
problem. Never mind science's commitment to ethics and professional research; 
the extremists want their scapegoat, and they will mercilessly wage war against 
the innocent. For this effort is really about attacking science and discrediting 
individuals. 

Yet, why should any reasonable person seriously entertain arguments from a group 
that employs scare tactics and warrants special attention from law enforcement? 
No decent citizen would accept intimidation as a substitute for debate, and no 
sane individual should legitimate PETA's outlandish ideas. If an extremist is, 
rightly, an outcast then this particularly zealous organization also deserves 
some space on the island of lunacy or dogmatic belief. Anything short of 
banishment from the center of serious discussion would be too lenient a 
punishment. I do not advocate censorship, but I do encourage outrage before this 
brand of nonsense. 

Science is about inquiry, theories, research, ethics and simple standards of 
right versus wrong. PETA mistakes science for heresy -- and will condemn the 
other side. We deserve scientists who can work without fear or the threat of 
violence. We need facts to prevail here, and we should all lead the charge on 
behalf science. Most importantly, patients with cancer, AIDS or Alzheimer's 
require our help; they rely upon Covance's research, not PETA's propaganda. We 
have lives to save. 

 RETURN TO 

 PETA PROBE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE