PETAgrantsNews 

 NEWS 
 For Immediate Release 
May 1, 2002 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 Contact: Sandy Fields, Communications Director 
Phone: (425) 455-5038 

 Has PETA Funneled More Money to Domestic Terrorist Groups? 

 CDFE Exposes PETA Reporting Irregularities to the IRS 

 Bellevue, Washington - Today, the 
Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise (CDFE) exposed new irregularities in 
IRS charitable group reporting by the embattled Norfolk, VA-based animal rights 
organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). 
 The irregularities involve PETAs failure to identify 
recipients of monetary grants and donations for two consecutive years during the 
late 1990s. CDFEs findings form the basis of a new complaint, filed today with 
the IRS, urging the agency to revoke PETAs privileged non-profit tax exempt 
status. See 
www.cdfe.org/petagrants.htm . 
 The complaint cites PETAs non-disclosure of grant and 
donation recipients in the groups IRS Form 990s for fiscal year(s) ending in 
1997 and 1998. During this time frame, PETA reported income in excess of $25 
million but those who received PETA grants totaling nearly $1 million remain a 
mystery. 
 This omission is conspicuous, as PETA revealed its funding of 
other groups in its tax filings for the years prior to 1997 and following 1998. 
Its discovery also follows recent news surrounding PETAs $1,500 contribution to 
the North American Earth Liberation Front (ELF), classified by the FBI as a 
domestic terrorist organization. Ironically, PETAs grant to the ELF was 
revealed in its own FYE 2001 IRS Form 990. 
 "Grant and donation disclosure by non-profit organizations is 
required by law," stated Ron Arnold, CDFEs Executive Vice President. "PETA has 
denied the tax-paying public as well as PETAs own financial supporters the 
ability to verify the groups funds were not used to finance additional 
terrorist enterprises. Because of these and other irregularities, we urge the 
IRS to revoke PETAs privileged tax exempt status." 
 In March 2002, CDFE filed a separate 14 page complaint with 
IRS Commissioner Charles O. Rossotti, alleging that PETAs pattern of unlawful 
activity made it ineligible to operate and exist as a tax-exempt organization. 
(Text of the original complaint may be located at 

 www.cdfe.org/peta.htm ). 
Additional information on PETA is available at 

www.cdfe.org/peta-probe.htm . 

 Founded in 1976, the Center for the Defense of Free 
Enterprise is a non-partisan education and research organization which works on 
free enterprise studies, public policy research, book publishing, conferences, 
white papers, and media outreach. 

 BACK TO PETA-PROBE TOP 
PAGE