PETA Funding Terror 

 TRANSCRIPT: PETA FUNDING TERROR 

 KCPQ-TV Channel 13 Fox News affiliate, Seattle 

 News@10, September 18, 2002 

 Video: title PETA funding 
terror. 

Peter Alexander , Anchor: There are new 
allegations tonight about a major animal rights group funding ecoterrorists.

 Video: split screen with 
anchor and reporter: 

Alexander : Q-13s Chris Daniels is live 
at the University of Washington with the story. Chris 
 DANIELS (live, with arson 
site in background): Peter, you may remember what happened here at the Urban Horticulture Center on the U W 
campus. The Earth Liberation Front, a loosely formed group of ecoterrorists, 
claimed responsibility for an arson here in May of last year. They caused about 
$5 million worth of damage, as well as another fire down in Oregon. Well, now a 
paper trail links the group to one of the most prolific animal rights groups 
around: PETA. 

TOBY Bradshaw (in greenhouse): I cant 
say that Im surprised. 

Daniels : Doctor Toby Bradshaw..." 

Bradshaw : Im a kind of all-purpose plant 
geneticist 

Daniels (video of fire with title: UW 
Campus May 2001): was the target of the May 2001 Urban Horticulure arson. 

Bradshaw (in greenhouse, title: Dr. Toby 
Bradshaw, UW researcher): I lost quite a few personal possessions, books and 
papers, things I wish I had back. 

Daniels (video of fire): Bradshaw says 
hes not shocked by a potential PETA connection. 

Bradshaw : If they wrote a check to the 
organization that is at the top of the FBIs domestic terrorism list, I think 
that is a problem for PETA. 
 Ron 
Arnold : They gave money to the Earth 
Liberation Front. 
 (Arnold walking in door)

Daniels : The Bellevue-based Center for 
the Defense of Free Enterprise says PETA has some explaining to do 
 (Arnold showing document)

Daniels : about the payment to the ELF 
and its associates. 
 (title, Ron Arnold PETA 
critic) ARNOLD: Says so on their annual report they give to the IRS. 

Daniels (video, protesters with signs: 
Wild Animals Dont Belong Behind Bars): The People for the Ethical Treatment of 
Animals, or PETA, is perhaps best known for its cheeky ad campaigns, and most 
recently in our area, a complaint alleging animal abuse at Woodland Park Zoo. 
(Video of baby elephant). 
 (Video: PETA Form 990 page 
showing North American Earth Liberation Front donation of $1,500 to support 
their program activities.) 

Daniels : But IRS records obtained by 
Q-13, show the organization gave $1,500 to the ELF just a month before the U W 
fire. Tonight a PETA spokesman claims that donation and others were for legal 
fees of individuals who share its beliefs. 
 (Video: title, ANDREW BUTLER 
PETA spokesperson, logo of telephone) 
 BUTLER by telephone: These 
funds were used for legal defense as support for caring individuals who are 
entitled to their day in court. 
 ARNOLD: Thats a flat lie. 
 DANIELS: Ron Arnold wants 
the IRS to void PETAs non-profit status. 
 ARNOLD: Were asking the 
IRS to revoke PETAs tax exemption. 
 BRADSHAW: My own research 
is largely deals with DNA and seeds. 
 DANIELS: Fire victim Toby 
Bradshaw agrees. 
 BRADSHAW: I hope that all 
the people who belong to PETA for all the cute and fuzzy images take this into 
consideration. 
 DANIELS: PETA also admits 
to paying the legal fees of at least four other individuals convicted of 
firebombing, arson and other crimes, but says that the numbers are being twisted 
by groups with questionable motives. As far as the [Horticulture] Center is 
concerned, it will be rebuilt, but without all of those decades of research, and 
is scheduled to be reopened in the spring of 2004. Reporting live on the UW 
campus, Im Chris Daniels, Q-13 News. 
 -end- 

 FAIR USE NOTE: In accordance with U.S. 
Copyright Law as codified in Title 17 U.S.C. section 107, any copyrighted 
material herein is displayed without profit or payment for non-profit research 
and educational purposes only. It is posted here only after the commercial 
purpose of any copyright holder has been satisfied, and complies with fair use 
clauses of the U.S. Copyright Act. For more information go to:

http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml 

 RETURN TO PETA-PROBE TOP 
PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAG