Public Opinion Poll finds Greens "too extreme" 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Public Opinion 
 Poll 
 by Moore Information 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

 OPPOSITION 

 PROJECTS 

 DEFENDERS 

 WISE USE 

 BOOKSTORE 

 ARCHIVE 

Poll Update: December 19, 2003 

Most Americans Believe Environmental Groups are Too Extreme 

 Results of our 
November 2003 national voter survey show a solid majority of American voters are 
of the opinion that environmental groups are too extreme. Specifically, 61% of 
voters nationwide agree with the statement; While protecting the environment is 
important, environmental groups usually push for solutions which are too extreme 
for me. Just 33% disagree with this, and 6% have no opinion. 

 As would be 
expected, there are major partisan differences in opinion on this issue. While 
Republicans widely agree environmental groups are usually too extreme (80% 
agree), we also find a majority of Independents share this sentiment (52% 
agree/36% disagree). There is a further split among Democrats we find a 
majority of Democrat men agree with the idea that environmental groups are too 
extreme, while Democrat women disagree in majority numbers. Similarly, 
self-described Conservatives and Moderates agree environmental groups are too 
extreme, but Liberal voters widely disagree. 

 Regionally, there 
is majority agreement throughout the country that environmental groups are 
usually too extreme; however, voters in the Pacific region (CA, OR, WA, HI and 
AK) and Northeast are less likely to share this sentiment than voters elsewhere 
in the country. Agreement is highest among voters in the Mountain and Plains 
states. 

Voter Attitudes About Environmental Groups 

 November 10-12, 2003 

 Do you agree or 
disagree with the following statement? 

 While protecting 
the environment is important, environmental groups usually push for solutions 
which are too extreme for me. 

Partisan Attitudes About Environmental Groups 

 Regional 
Attitudes About Environmental Groups 

 Moore Information 
provides insight to clients spanning a wide spectrum of businesses and 
organizations in areas such as market research, brand recognition, advertising 
tracking, corporate image, customer satisfaction, industry and political 
issues. For information: 

 www.moore-info.com 
or phone (503) 221-3100 or (800) 498-5154. 

 *The 
survey was conducted November 10-13, 2003 among a representative sample of 800 
voters nationwide. Sampling error is +/- 3% at the 95% confidence level. 

 RETURN 
 TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE