Sacramento Bee Does Hatchet Job on Rep. Pombo 

 http://www.sacbee.com/content/opinion/ 
 Sacramento Bee runs hit piece against Rep. 
Richard Pombo: 
 Click here for an East Coast rebuttal 
 Pombo lashes out 
on environment 
In a barrage of press releases, he attacks conservation groups. 

By David Whitney -- Bee Washington Bureau 
Published 2:15 a.m. PDT Sunday, June 29, 2003 

http://www.sacbee.com/content/politics/story/6944765p-7894052c.html 

WASHINGTON -- Richard Pombo is on a tear. 
In recent weeks, the Tracy Republican who heads the House Resources Committee 
has fired up the panel's press machine and churned out releases attacking 
"radical environmentalists." 

He began in early June with a missive blasting away at the Southern Appalachian 
Biodiversity Project for "manipulating" through lawsuits the federal Endangered 
Species Act in such a way as to compel federal habitat protection for five 
endangered mussels. 
"These frivolous, politically motivated lawsuits have already bankrupted the 
critical habitat program," he said. "I have never seen a law so abused in the 
name of a good cause. It's egregious." 

Pombo was just warming up. 

Since then, he has issued two releases condemning the League of Conservation 
Voters for giving President Bush an "F" on his environmental record, two 
attacking the Pew Oceans Commission for suggesting that the nation's coasts are 
in trouble, and two blasting the California League of Conservation Voters and 
"radical environmentalists" in general for questioning his commitment to 
endangered species protection. 

There was one excoriating the Sierra Club for raising concerns about Republican 
forest fire prevention legislation in connection with an Arizona blaze, plus a 
general fact sheet entitled a "Priceless Look at Radical Environmental Lawsuits 
in the 1990s." 

The press releases have taken on such a following that Marty Hayden, legislative 
director of Earthjustice, coined a term for the barrage of missives lambasting 
environmentalists. 

"Pomblastes," he calls them. 

Pombo's attack on the Pew Oceans Commission's report on the health of the 
nation's coasts was especially pointed, even though there is widespread 
agreement among fishermen, fisheries managers and the federal government that 
popular fish stocks are overfished and their habitat is increasingly threatened.

Pombo first dismissed the report as a $5.5 million "coffee table picture book." 
Ten days later he returned to the subject, using a Mid-Atlantic Fishery 
Management Council report on rebounding summer flounder stocks as a "reality 
check amidst the doom-and-gloom scare tactics of radical environmentalists." 

Eileen Claussen, former assistant secretary at the State Department for oceans, 
environment and fish in the Clinton administration, was on the commission. 

"He didn't read the report," Claussen said. "We say there are cases where stocks 
have recovered. But we do think there is an overall problem, and it would be 
foolish to deny it." 

Pombo says he is just trying to set the record straight on gross overstatements 
and inaccurate generalizations by environmental organizations. 

"One of my goals (as chairman) was to be more activist in terms of the national 
debate," Pombo said. 

The problem is that Republicans are getting hammered by environmental 
organizations attacking them as currying favor with big business and corporate 
political contributors, Pombo said. 

"You have to explain to people, and educate people, that it is much more 
complicated than, 'Oh, they just don't care about the environment,' or 'They're 
doing this to help their corporate friends,' " he said. "The truth is, everyone 
cares about the environment." 

There's a familiar ring to this message, environmentalists say. 

Pollster Frank Luntz said in a memo to GOP leaders earlier this spring that the 
environment was the party's biggest point of vulnerability and that it was high 
time for Republicans to "reassure a skeptical public that you care about the 
environment for its own sake." 

Among Luntz's recommendations was that Republicans carefully choose the words 
they use in an effort to portray environmentalists as extreme and 
Republican-sought changes in environmental laws as "common sense." 

Asked about this, Pombo agreed that "language is important." 

"That's one of the things I tell my staff," he said. "We have to distinguish 
between those who care about the environment -- and most people consider 
themselves environmentalists -- and fund-raising organizations that portray 
themselves as environmentalist groups. 

"Their job is to scare people into giving them money." 

But Earthjustice's Hayden said the Pombo press releases are more propaganda than 
fact, and they follow the Luntz playbook precisely. 

"If anyone disagrees with you or has a different point of view, you demonize 
them and label them as extremists," Hayden said. "That's what the goal of these 
'pomblastes' seems to be." 

Pombo was elected chairman of the Resources Committee in January after a 
controversial contest in which other, more senior committee Republicans were 
passed over. One of them, Rep. Joel Hefley of Colorado, resigned from the 
committee in disgust. 

In the following months, Pombo toned down his fiery rhetoric against 
environmentalists and was credited with running the panel in an evenhanded way. 
A headline on a National Journal interview with Pombo in March asked, "Newfound 
Restraint at Resources?" Through May, press releases from the committee were 
generally confined to the panel's schedule or commentary about pending bills.

But that ended in early June, when the press release flow turned caustic. 

Pombo said there is nothing that happened in May that caused him to take off the 
gloves. 

"We've probably gotten better at it, or are just more on top of it, since then," 
he said. 

Others wonder whether Pombo was stung when the House in late May rejected his 
committee's broader approach to relaxing Endangered Species Act regulations as 
part of a defense authorization bill. 

The Defense Department had sought relaxation of the law. But Pombo, a strong 
critic of the way the act was written and enforced, led his committee to an even 
broader provision that would have applied to all federal agencies. 

The House decision to reject the Resources Committee approach was largely 
regarded as a significant defeat for Pombo. He insists it was not a setback, 
although environmental groups rushed to portray it as such. 

But Harold Stavenas, press aide for the House Armed Services Committee, said the 
Resource Committee's approach on the Endangered Species Act was kept off the 
House floor in favor of a more narrowly written amendment that only applies to 
defense installations. 

"Representative Pombo has other ideas, and that's great," Stavenas said. "We 
only care about the Defense Department." 

That vote was May 21, just before the Memorial Day congressional recess. When 
the House reconvened in June, the Pombo press campaign was in high gear. 

"I was a little shocked and surprised to see this," said Brock Evans, executive 
director of the Endangered Species Coalition. "When he got the chairmanship, he 
was making more responsible noises." 

"I don't know what happened, but I think he is totally discrediting himself as a 
chairman who can get anything done -- in this Congress or any other," Evans 
said. "All the moderate things he seemed to be saying have gone out the window."

But Doug Heye, who writes some of the press releases as a spokesman for Pombo's 
committee, said the releases are shining a light on environmentalists' "scorched 
earth" assessment of GOP environmental politics. 

"When people hear their words, it makes our case," Heye said. "We fully believe 
in letting the environmental message get out so that people can see how extreme 
it is, how it's entirely political and doesn't have a basis in reality." 

The Bee's David Whitney can be reached at (202) 383-0004 or

dwhitney@mcclatchydc.com .