Profile 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 Left-wing 
 for-profit group beats up Ron Arnold 
 in website profile 
 Arnold says, "Not bad, for a 
 reporter who didn't 
 bother to interview me!" 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 The article below appears on the website of

WorkingForChange , a project of Working Assets, one of three related 
for-profit groups in the

Tides Center orbit created to raise money for non-profit "progressive" 
causes by fund-raising genius

Drummond Pike . 

They don't have fact-checkers there, or they would have found that the old 
chestnut cited from Outside magazine"Facts don't matter; in politics, 
perception is reality"was actually Ron quoting the late Representative Phil 
Burton, Democrat from San Francisco, known as "the congressman from the Sierra 
Club," giving a civics lesson to some industry lobbyists: something to warn 
people about, not to believe. The facts do matter, and it's customary to check 
them first. 
 BTW, Bobby Kennedy is writing a new book, and did 
have the courtesy to check a quote attributed to Ron. It was wrong, but Ron 
provided him with a real one just as useful from an autographed copy of his 
award-winning book, Ecology Wars . 
 Anyway, enjoy the profile. We did. 
 from WorkingForChange.com 

 Terrorist tree huggers 
 Ron Arnold, father of the 'wise use' movement, sets 
his sights on 'eco-terrorists' 

By Bill Berkowitz 
 07.07.04 

http://www.workingforchange.com/article.cfm?ItemID=17243 

 Ron Arnold -- the father of America's "wise use" 
movement -- is back. And this time he's adding accusations of terrorism to his 
arsenal. Consider the following: 
 On June 8, the FBI distributed its weekly intelligence 
bulletin to some 18,000 law enforcement agencies across the country, warning 
that eco-terrorists were planning a "day of action and solidarity" that could 
involve violent actions in a number of U.S. cities. 
 At the recent BIO 2004 annual conference in San 
Francisco, Phil Celestini, supervisory special agent assigned to the FBI 
domestic terrorism operations unit, told attendees that they could be targets of 
attacks by eco-extremists despite the fact that "they don't conduct animal 
testing at their own facilities," the San Francisco Business Times reported. And 
in early June, Rep. George Nethercutt, R-Wash., introduced the "Ecoterrorism Act 
of 2004" which intends to "protect and promote public safety and interstate 
commerce." 
 All 
of these stories have Ron Arnold's fingerprints on them. With friends in the 
Bush administration, a recent Playboy magazine interview under his belt, a 
series of radio appearances and PowerPoint presentations at industry-association 
gatherings, and a new anti-terrorism consulting contract, Arnold is back riding 
high in the anti-environmentalism saddle. 
 "Fifteen years after creating his 25 Point Wise-Use 
Agenda, an agenda prescribing unrestrained, unregulated and unconscionable abuse 
of the American commons, Ron Arnold is within striking distance of checking off 
every agenda item on his list," Scott Silver, executive director of Wild 
Wilderness, told me in a recent interview. 
 Arnold is no novice when it comes to leveling charges 
that environmentalists are eco-terrorists. Sheldon Rampton and John Stauber 
point out in their new book Banana Republicans (Tarcher/Penguin, 2004) that 
Arnold "has been tossing around the term eco-terrorism for years, defining it as 
'any crime committed in the name of saving nature,' which 'includes but it [ sic ] 
not limited to crimes officially designated as 'terrorism' by the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation.' This definition... is so broad," Rampton and Stauber write, 
"that is [ sic ] even includes activities such as sit-ins and other forms 
of peaceful civil disobedience." 
 Since 9/11, Arnold, the executive vice president of the 
Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise, has been energetically and 
enthusiastically revving up his anti-environmental gospel with a new twist to 
his message: Environmental activists not only are working to stifle America's 
economic growth, but they are a breeding ground for terrorism in the homeland. 
 The Bush administration's cutbacks in the enforcement of 
environmental regulations, coupled with its focus on the war against terrorism, 
have planted the seeds for Ron Arnold's makeover as an expert on ecoterrorism. 
 "It comes as no surprise that in today's Orwellian world 
where perception has become reality, Arnold has been recast as the fearless 
protector of corporate interests while mainstream environmentalists are being 
portrayed as terrorists," Silver says. 
 Silver pointed out that Arnold's anti-environmental 
agenda is salted by his public relations expertise and the understanding that, 
as Arnold told Outside magazine in 1991, "Facts don't matter; in politics, 
perception is reality." The same year Arnold also told The New York Times : "We 
[CDFE] created a sector of public opinion that didn't used to exist. No one was 
aware that environmentalism was a problem until we came along." 
 These days, Arnold maintains that a phalanx of liberal 
foundations is not only funding anti-growth and anti-labor environmental 
campaigns, but that the environmental movement has become fertile ground for 
budding ecoterrorists. While none of this is particularly new -- he's been 
plowing similar ground for more than two decades -- it resonates with the 
industry groups that support his work, as law enforcement officials struggle to 
keep on top of President Bush's permanent war against terrorism, and has helped 
him snare a consulting contract supported by government funds. 
 In the May 2004 issue of Playboy, Arnold told Dean 
Kuipers that: "There is a criminal section of the environmental movement, and 
it's probably getting money from the above-ground sector. Some of the 
environmental movement is simply anti corporate; some of it is more 
ideological." And in the May issue of Foundation Watch, a publication of the 
Washington, D.C.-based right-wing think tank Capital Research Center, Arnold's 
profile of the Philadelphia-based Pew Charitable Trusts -- a leading donor to 
environmental groups -- concludes that Pew, which recently changed its legal 
status from "private foundation to public charity," is now be in a position to 
play "an even more active role in advocating sweeping policies to combat the 
alleged global warming threat." 
 A month earlier, in the same publication, Arnold took a 
close look at Teresa Heinz Kerry, the head of the Heinz Foundation and the wife 
of presumptive Democratic presidential nominee John Kerry. Among other issues, 
Arnold looked at the "relationship between the foundation's charitable gifts to 
environmental groups and environmentalist supporters of the senator's 
presidential campaign" and what [that] might mean for a Kerry presidency." 
 Twelve years ago, Audubon magazine's Kate Callaghan 
pointed out that during the 20th century's first decade, Gifford Pinchot, the 
first chief of the U.S. Forest Service, likely used the term, "wise use" when he 
"called conservation 'the wise use of resources.'" Eighty years later, Ron 
Arnold expropriated the phrase and turned it into a political movement. Using 
the term during a multiple use strategy conference in Reno, Nev., Arnold 
suggested that "wholesale mining, logging and grazing are possible while 
simultaneously preserving the land." 
 Arnold's 1989 book, The Wise Use Agenda , brought the 
"wise use" movement to the center of an anti-environmental, pro-industry nexus. 
A savvy corporate fundraiser and public relations spinmeister, he once proudly 
proclaimed himself as the "Darth Vader for the capitalist revolution." 
 Arnold's resume also includes his job as the executive 
vice president of the Bellevue, Wash.-based Center for the Defense of Free 
Enterprise, a pro-corporate group founded in 1976 by his longtime comrade, Alan 
Gottlieb. 
 (Gottlieb is also credited with founding the anti-gun 
control Second Amendment Foundation and the Citizen's Committee for the Right to 
Keep and Bear Arms.) According to the Center for Media and Democracy's 
Disinfopedia, CDFE claims to be "a non-partisan education and research 
organization which works on free enterprise studies, public policy research, 
book publishing, conferences, white papers and media outreach." CDFE's website 
asserts that it tracks "threats to free markets, property rights and limited 
government." 
 Over the years, CDFE, a tax-exempt educational 
organization under Section 501(c)(3) of the U.S. Tax Code, has received support 
from a network of corporations, including Georgia Pacific, Louisiana-Pacific, 
MacMillan Bloedel, Pacific Lumber, Exxon, DuPont and Boise Cascade. 
 In 2002, Arnold launched a campaign to convince the 
FBI's Domestic Terrorism Program to take a close look at the Green Anarchy Tour 
2002. He told the Conservative News Service (CNS) that the tour "presents 
probable cause for investigation. You do have people here recommending violence, 
murder, property damage, everything you can think of." 
 In November 2003, according to the organization's 
website, Arnold, the author of EcoTerror: The Violent Agenda to Save Nature, the 
World of the Unabomber -- which traces the history of the radical environmental 
movement and attempts to link Unabomber Ted Kaczynski to mainstream 
environmentalists -- was "retained as expert consultant on ecoterrorism" for a 
University of Arkansas Terrorism Research Center study funded by a $343,885 
grant from the National Institute of Justice (NIJ). 
 Arnold will work with Brent Smith, a professor of 
sociology and director of the Terrorism Research Center at the University of 
Arkansas, who is working on a project called "Pre-incident indicators of 
Terrorist Incidents: The Identification of Behavioral, Geographic and Temporal 
Patterns of Preparatory Conduct," an effort aimed at predicting future terrorist 
attacks. 
 His warnings may be paying off. In early June, Pork 
Alert, an online publication of Pork magazine, reported that Rep. George 
Nethercutt, R-Wash., had introduced the Ecoterrorism Act of 2004. Nethercutt's 
legislation would "establish federal criminal penalties and civil remedies for 
violent, threatening, obstructive and destructive conduct that is intended to 
injure, intimidate or interfere with plant or animal enterprises. This bill 
would serve to protect livestock from tampering by ecoterrorists." The bill has 
been referred to the House Judiciary Committee for consideration. 
 "From drilling in the Alaskan Wildlife Refuge to 
clear-cutting the Tongass National Forest, from opening all public lands to 
mining and energy production, to gutting the Wilderness Act, from amending and 
weakening the Endangered Species Act to turning America's national parks over to 
the Walt Disney Company, Ron Arnold's agenda is on a roll," Scott Silver pointed 
out. 
 "All that stands in the way of Arnold and his 
ideologically extreme brethren are decades-worth of environmental laws and those 
who are dedicated to defending our public lands." 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 
VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE