Property Rights 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 PROPERTY RIGHTS 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

Top stories:

   Citizens Want Souter Cabin Seized Angered  by  Supreme Court decision in Kelo v. City of New London, property rights  activists want to take Justice David Souter's Weare, New Hampshire  cabin for the new "Lost Liberty Inn."  

 This  Land's Not Your Land Devastating  Supreme Court decision in Kelo v. City of New London allows government  to buy out your rights and sell them to the highest bidder .  Features on the disastrous U.S. Supreme Court ruling in the property  rights case of Kelo v. City of New London 
    The Kelo Case    The Institute for Justice news release    The magisterial dissent of Justice  Clarence Thomas   

   Federal authority 
 to own and control property 
 A federal attorney outlines the points and authorities for the 
 question of federal land ownership and control 

   King County land 
 rules prompt lawsuit and protest 
 Washington State takes up the fight against bad government that 
 Oregon's Measure 37 won 

  Oregon's Measure 37 allows compensation to  victims of over-regulation 

 Property  rights group wins a statewide ballot measure that brings justice to  private owners made to pay for public use of their land 

   Official documents of Oregon's Measure 37   

 Complete  Ballot Title, 

  Official Explanatory Statement, Chief Petitioners' Voter Pamphlet  Statements, and Text 

 Conservation Easements : 

 Perpetual Restrictions on Land and the Problem of the 
 Future by 
 Julia D. Mahoney, 
 Virginia Law Review (full text) (PDF file requires Acrobat Reader) 

 Property rights expand freedom 

 Thomas Bray essay on the social value of property rights 

 Secret Senate vote on federal zoning power 

 Supreme Court Rejects "Categorical" Compensation for 
Temporary Taking 

Little Darby Creek wildlife refuge proposal is dead, U.S. official says 

 Many consider that protected 
private property rights are the fundamental civil rights upon which individual 
liberty rests. The Supreme Court of the United States appears to agree. It held 
in the case of Lynch v. Household Finance Corporation, decided March 23, 1972: 

 [T]he dichotomy between personal 
liberties and property rights is a false one. Property does not have rights. 
People have rights. The right to enjoy property without unlawful deprivation, no 
less than the right to speak or the right to travel, is in truth, a personal 
right, whether the property in question be a welfare check, a home, or a 
savings account. In fact, a fundamental interdependence exists between the 
personal right to liberty and the personal right in property. Neither could have 
meaning without the other. That rights in property are basic civil rights has 
long been recognized. 
 405 U.S. 538, 92 S.Ct. 1113 

 If that is true, government ownership of vast areas of our 
nation becomes a key point of conflict. It is thus no surprise that the 
elimination of private property ownership has become a primary goal of opponents 
of free enterprise. Placing increasing amounts of private land in government 
ownership has become a key tactic in this conflict, whether by government 
condemnation or purchase by environmental groups such as The Nature Conservancy, 
which sells substantial amounts of the land that it buys from individuals to the 
federal government. 
 What will become of the personal right to liberty if 
government becomes the nations dominant landowner? 
 That raises another question: How much of Americas 
1,940,011,400 acres does government already own? 
 The federal government manages a third32.6 percent in 
1992of the entire nation, mostly in rural areas, "a huge federal domain of 
ownership that is hard to reconcile with the reputation this country has as a 
citadel of reliance on markets and the private sector," as the Presidents 
Commission on Privatization reported in 1988. 
"Privatization: Toward More Effective Government," Report of the Presidents 
Commission on Privatization, David F. Linowes, Chairman, March, 1988, p. 242. 
 Every one of the fifty states contains land owned by the 
federal government, not just the eleven Western states we usually think of as 
being federally dominated. 
 Delaware is 19% federally owned; New Jersey and New Hampshire 
are both 13.2% federal; Virginia is 11.8% federal; and the feds own more than 7% 
each of Arkansas, Florida, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, North Carolina, 
Vermont, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. 
 Nevada is more than 82% federal land; Alaska is 66%; Utah, 64%; Idaho, 62%; 
Oregon, 60%; Wyoming, 49%; California nearly 47%; Arizona 44%, and so forth down 
to Washington, at 26.8% the least federally owned Western state besides 
Hawaii (16.7%). 
 However, there is no complete accounting of America's state, 
county and local government land ownership. 
 In other words, we do not know how much of America is owned 
by a government. 
 Part of the reason is the vast number of governments 
enumerated in the 1992 Census of Governments, which identified 85,006 government 
units that existed in the United States as of January 1992. 
 In addition to the federal government and the 50 state 
governments, there are 84,955 units of local government. Of these, 38,978 are 
general-purpose local governments3,043 county governments, and 35,935 subcounty 
general-purpose governments (including 19,279 municipal governments and 16,656 
town or township governments). The remainder, more than half the total number, 
are special-purpose local governments, including 14,422 school district 
governments and 31,555 special district governments such as port authorities, 
local improvement districts, conservation districts, and so on.
 1992 Census of Governments, Volume 1, Number 1, 
Government Organization , Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce, 
Washington, D.C., 1996, p. 7. 
 There is not and never has been a census figure on the amount of land owned 
by governments in the United States. Some analysts believe the total government 
ownership is at least 40 percent of the land area of our nation. Guesses range 
to over half of the land in government ownership. 
 And that amount is growing rapidly as literally hundreds of areas are 
proposed for federal takeover by various environmental groups. 
 Who are the greedy? 
 The policy that would best enhance individual liberty 
is to reverse today's trend toward nationalization and divest government land 
ownerships into individual hands, free of easements and other burdens on title. 
 Land ownership is not the only property right. Violated property rights 
currently include: 
 Water Rights (Klamath Basin farmers) 
 Grazing Rights (Southwestern ranchers) 
 Mining Rights (Western miners denied permits after fulfilling all 
requirements) 
 Timber Rights (Hardwood chip mills) 
 Store Owner Rights (Trespass and intimidation attacks on Home Depot, 
Staples, others) 

 RETURN TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN 
TO CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE