Property promotes freedom 

 http://www.detnews.com/2002/editorial/0204/17/a11-467030.htm 

 Property rights expand political freedom 

 By Thomas Bray / The Detroit News 

 Next 
 week, according to a report in the New York Times, hundreds of English 
 "ramblers" -- walkers -- are planning to celebrate the "Mass Trespass" of 70 
 years ago, when a group of ramblers ignored bailiffs, police and gamekeepers 
 to demand free access to a high plateau in northwestern England that 
 landowners had sought to close off for the use of fee-paying grouse shooters.

 For decades, Britain's stout common law tradition that a man's home is his 
 castle posed a high barrier to such schemes. But the perception that open 
 spaces are dwindling motivated Parliament to pass a law recently opening 4,000 
 square miles of nonagricultural, privately owned land to those seeking 
 recreation. 
 England being England, freedom will survive and not too much trash will be 
 left behind on Squire Jones' property. But the clash illustrates how property 
 rights are gradually being undermined even in their mother country. Similar 
 environmental pressures are leading to erosion of property rights in this 
 country as well. 
 Fortunately the current U.S. Supreme Court has taken a fairly strong stand 
 against the more blatant offenses. Seven years ago, in a landmark case, the 
 high court ruled against a suburban Portland, Ore., community's effort to 
 force a small shop owner to set aside 10 percent of his property as a bike and 
 walking trail as a condition for approving an expansion of his shop. 
 But environmental and other pressures virtually ensure that the temptation 
 to nibble away at property rights will continue. It's never explained why 
 those who think there is a public right to use private property shouldn't be 
 required to at least pay for the privilege. The grouse shooters were paying 
 for access to the property in question in England. Why not the walkers? 
 The answer seems clear: The ramblers of the world think they have a right 
 to a free lunch -- and the sooner the better. It's no accident that the 
 organizer of the first Mass Trespass was an avowed communist. In the Marxist 
 view, private property is theft -- a violation of some imagined state of 
 nature in which all property was held in common. 
 Never mind that even Native Americans developed fairly clear systems of 
 property rights -- say, to particularly fertile fields or fishing banks -- 
 when there was more demand than supply. The fact is that there are no free 
 lunches. Each nibbling away of property rights is a blow to economic 
 productivity, because it makes investors less certain than they otherwise 
 would be that they will be allowed to realize the fruits of their investment. 
 Over the long term, this means less investment, less innovation -- and less 
 wealth and economic security for everybody. 
 Nor does the accumulation of property by government necessarily insure a 
 better environment: witness the monumental degredation of Russia's land, air 
 and water under communism. When land is owned by everybody, nobody has much 
 incentive to treat it well. 
 It's not even true that government always acts in the public interest. A 
 recent hilarious example in the news is the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's 
 plan to spend $17 million to clear-cut 4,000 old cypress, pine and eucalyptus 
 trees on San Francisco's magnificent Presidio property to restore a 
 long-absent coastal weed called lessingia. The weed, it turns out, is an 
 annual -- and thus will have to be replanted every year. 
 But the main point -- one that is largely ignored these days -- is that 
 property rights do serve a higher good. As every school child knows, or used 
 to know, private ownership of property gradually forced English sovereigns to 
 extend political rights to increasing numbers of people. The Framers of the 
 U.S. Constitution understood from long experience that property rights and 
 freedom go hand in hand. In their view, government was more likely to 
 constitute theft than private property. 

 Thomas Bray is a Detroit News columnist who is published on Sunday and 
 Wednesday. He can be contacted at (313) 222-2544 and at
 letters@detnews.com 

 FAIR USE NOTE: In accordance with U.S. 
Copyright Law as codified in Title 17 U.S.C. section 107, any copyrighted 
material herein is displayed without profit or payment for non-profit research 
and educational purposes only. It is posted here only after the commercial 
purpose of any copyright holder has been satisfied, and complies with fair use 
clauses of the U.S. Copyright Act. For more information go to:

http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml 

 RETURN TO PROPERTY RIGHTS 
 TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO 
CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE