Prophets, False Prophets and Profiteers 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 Economic Human Rights Project 

 Paul 
 Driessen 
 Report on the U.N. Conference on 
 Climate Change 
 Buenos Aires, Argentina 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Prophets, 
False Prophets and Profiteers 

 Paul Driessen 

 Some ten 
thousand delegates, scientists, activists, politicians and journalists have 
convened in Argentina for the COP-10 confab on solutions to the theoretical 
problem of dangerous and catastrophic global climate change. Months of hype 
and consternation preceded the event, to pressure the United States and 
Australia into ratifying the Kyoto Protocol. 

 The Day 
After Tomorrow and interminable activist group press releases provided 
appropriate horror movie scenarios. A hearing chaired by Senator John McCain 
promoted his prophecy that a climate Armageddon is near and his legislative 
palliative. 

 A new report 
warned that North Pole temperatures are rising. Science magazine asserted 
that not one of 928 studies supported the position that climate change is 
naturally occurring. 

 UK science 
advisor Sir David King said global warming is a greater threat than terrorism, 
and greenhouse emissions will have to be cut by 80% by 2050 to avoid massive 
coastal flooding due to melting Greenland ice sheets. European Trade 
Commissioner Pascal Lamy hinted that the EU would give preferential access to 
its markets for poor countries that accept Kyoto. 

 The hysteria and caterwauling swamped essential 
facts. 

 Actual 
satellite and weather balloon data as well as historic and geologic records of 
numerous warming and cooling cycles contradict computer models, theories and 
assertions that humans are causing disastrous weather events and climate shifts. 
Arctic temperatures were even higher in the 1930s, before cooling again for 
several decades. Science s editors didnt mention countless studies that 
analyze natural warming and cooling cycles or the fact that 18,000 
scientists have signed a petition saying they see no convincing scientific 
evidence that humans are disrupting the earths climate. 

 All the 
countries in the world together are responsible for less than 3% of the Earths 
total greenhouse gas emissions (the rest are natural), and the U.S. emits only 
1/5 of this. The Kyoto treaty would force the U.S. to slash emissions and fossil 
fuel use by some 25% over the next decade an impossible task that would cost 
millions of jobs and over $300 billion annually, according to government and 
other studies. 

 Even perfect 
compliance with Kyoto would keep average global temperatures from rising only 
0.3 degrees less than they would by 2050 in the absence of a climate treaty. 
Actually stabilizing greenhouse gases and temperatures would require 19 to 40 
successful climate treaties causing ruinous social and economic impacts, and 
diverting resources from 
solvable problems like AIDS, malaria, poverty and poor sanitation. 

 What then energizes all 
these false prophets of doom and their demands for immediate drastic action? 
Simply put, profits and power. 

 Just the 12 
largest environmental lobby groups in the U.S. had a combined budget of $2 
billion in 2003. Collectively, the global environmental movement has a war chest 
of up to $8-billion a year. That buys a lot of influence, but apparently its 
never enough. As National Audubon Society chief operating officer Dan Beard has 
admitted, What you get in your mailbox is a never-ending stream of 
crisis-related shrill material designed to evoke emotions, so that you will sit 
down and write a check. 

 Global 
warming is big business. The U.S. government ladled out $15 billion on global 
warming research and education between 1992 and 2000. The United Nations spent 
billions more, as did the European Union, and big foundations provided hundreds 
of millions more. 

 Unfortunately, most government money goes to 
researchers who support the position that human-caused climate change is a 
serious problem. Foundation money does likewise, for operations like the Pew 
Charitable Trusts Global Climate Change Center, and an International Institute 
for Sustainable Development $700,000 study of how farmers in India may be 
vulnerable to problems supposedly caused by economic globalization and climate 
change. 

 Scientists must be allowed to conclude that we 
dont have a problem, MIT professor Richard Lindzen insists, and funding should 
not be based on politics and preconceptions. Whats needed are
 nonpartisan funding mechanisms to support 
climate research 

 Climate 
treaties are driven by near-religious convictions, Lindzen and author-producer- 
molecular biologist Michael Crichton observed. This further politicizes science, 
makes rational debate unlikely, and keeps people perpetually anxious and in 
desperate search of saviors. 

 To capture the public imagination, global 
warming scientist-activist and former 
global cooling false prophet Stephen Schneider once said, we have to offer up 
scary scenarios, make simplified dramatic statements, and make little mention of 
any doubts we might have. Each of us has to decide what the right balance is 
between being effective and being honest. 

 Former Boston Globe editor Ross Gelbspan 
urged a Washington, DC audience in July 2000: Not only do journalists not have 
a responsibility to report what skeptical scientists have to say about global 
warming. They have a responsibility not to report what these scientists 
say. In a similar vein, Time science editor Charles Alexander told a 
Smithsonian Institution conference: I would freely admit that on [global 
warming] we have crossed the boundary from news reporting to advocacy. 

 Many 
climate alarmists see the Kyoto and other treaties as instruments of 
international power politics. Ultimately, they seek to 
 give activists and centralized 
government bureaucrats control over fossil fuel use, economic growth, 
lifestyles, housing and transportation 

 EU 
Environment Commissioner Margot Wallstroem says Kyoto is not a simple 
environmental issue, where you can say scientists are not unanimous. This is 
about international relations, this is about the economy, about trying to create 
a level playing field for big businesses throughout the world. You have to 
understand what is at stake and that is why it is serious, she declaimed. And 
French President Jacques Chirac has termed the Kyoto Protocol the first 
component of authentic global governance. 

 Even now, proposals are being floated in Argentina 
that would allocate the right to emit carbon on a per capita basis throughout 
the world. Eventually, the scheme would ensure that every person has an 
equitable right to the same (minuscule) amount of energy whatever global 
bureaucrats and activists determine is appropriate and sustainable. 

Environmentalists are quick to accuse their opponents in business of having 
vested interests, The Economist has observed. But their own 
incomes, their fame and their very existence can depend on supporting the most 
alarming versions of every environmental scare. Pressure groups, journalists, 
and fame seekers will no doubt continue to peddle ecological catastrophes at an 
undiminishing speed. 

 Actually, industry has much stronger motivations 
for honesty than do the activists, Daniel Koshland, Jr. noted when he was 
Science magazine editor. Businesses today have product liability and can 
incur legal damages if they place a dangerous product on the market. 
Environmental pressure groups have no such constraints. 

 All this should be on everyones mind in 
developed and developing countries alike as COP-10 attendees debate the merits 
and demerits of Quixotic proposals to control the worlds climate. 

 ______________ 

 Paul Driessen is senior policy advisor for the 
Congress of Racial Equality, Committee For A Constructive Tomorrow and Center 
for the Defense of Free Enterprise, and author of Eco-Imperialism: Green 
Power Black Death ( www.Eco-Imperialism.com ) 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE