Regulation 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 REGULATION 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Top stories 

 06/25/03 REGULATORY EXCESS 

Senators Keen to Reform Endangered Species Act 

 Law is key weapon for greens in battle to dismantle technological 
civilization 

Wayne Hage on Nevada Water Rights 

 Invasive species 

 Regulation is so repugnant to 
defenders of free enterprise that they tend to lose sight of the simple 
realities. Here, then, are a few basics to set the stage for further 
understanding: 
 Regulations are issued by 
governmental departments to carry out the intent of the law. Regulations are not 
the work of the legislature and do not have the effect of law in theory. In 
practice, however, because of the intricacies of judicial review of 
administrative actions, regulations may determine the outcome of cases involving 
regulatory activities. see Black's Law Dictionary, 
Sixth Edition, page1286 
 Federal regulations gain 
their power from laws passed by Congress. Although Congress does not write the 
regulations, laws passed by Congress may contain instructions for executive 
branch officers (such as the Secretary of Defense, the United States Attorney 
General, or other top department heads) to promulgate regulations to carry out 
congressional intent as written in the law. 
 Federal laws are recorded in 
four official publications: The United States Statutes At Large contains 
the complete text of each law exactly as Congress passed it, listed in sequence 
by the date and time of passage. The United States Code (U.S.C.) contains 
only the instructions in each law (eliminating prefaces, findings, purposes and 
other narrative material), categorized into fifty titles. The United States 
Code Annotated (U.S.C.A.) contains the United States Code plus case notes of 
state and federal court decisions which construe and apply specific Code 
sections, cross references to related sections, historical notes and library 
references. The U.S.C.A. is continually updated with newly passed laws in the 
United States Code Congressional and Administrative News . 
 Although this is complicated enough, 
it still does not tell administrators how to carry out the intent 
of the law. That is the function of regulations. 
 Federal regulations are 
written by people in agencies of the United States government to 1) guide the 
activity of those regulated by the agency; 2) to guide the activity of agency 
employees; and 3) to insure uniform application of the law. The actual results 
may stray far from these simple goals. 
 The Federal Register , 
published daily, contains newly promulgated regulations (and other legal 
documents of the executive branch, such as presidential proclamations and 
military orders), usually in stages beginning with a notice of intent to 
promulgate, then a request for public comment, and finally a record of decision 
preceding the text of the actual regulation. 
 The Code of Federal Regulations 
(C.F.R.) is where the text of the actual regulation is published. The Code of 
Federal Regulations is categorized in the same fifty titles as the U.S.C. and 
U.S.C.A. Some regulations are so complex they take more than 5,000 sections to 
tell how to carry out the intent of the law; automotive regulations are among 
the most voluminous in the C.F.R. Opportunities for bureaucratic abuse are 
pervasive. 
 Fighting federal regulations. 
If you are a law abiding citizen and you run into a problem with an 
administrative agency you feel is abusing regulations to your detriment, you 
cannot take it directly to a Federal District Court. You must first exhaust your 
administrative remedies. 
 Administrative remedy is the 
procedure allowing you to assert a right to some kind of relief before an 
administrative agency. Let's say you have been getting a Social Security check 
for less money than you are entitled to. You start with your local Social 
Security office and talk to the clerks, then the supervisors, then the local 
director. If you don't get more money at the local level, you begin at the next 
level up, usually a regional office. There you go through the same explanations, 
first to lower, then higher level officials. If you don't get relief at the 
regional level, you go to the national level of the agency and explain things 
again, first to lower, then higher level officials until you run out of 
officials. If the head of the agency doesn't give you relief, you may request an 
administrative hearing. If you were a rancher defending your grazing permit 
against a new reduction in your herd rather than a retiree trying to get a 
proper payment from Social Security, at this point you could have spent hundreds 
of thousands of dollars trying to keep what was already yours. And you could 
count on a mob of environmental groups sending in their lawyers to help the 
government smash you with accusations of violating regulations or committing 
heinous offenses against the earth. 
 Administrative hearings are 
like trials within an administrative agency, presided over by an 
administrative law judge . There you can lay out your case with rules of 
evidence much relaxed from those of a civil or criminal court. However, a 
fundamental problem with administrative hearings is that administrative law 
judges that preside over them are employees of the agency. If you don't get 
relief from the administrative law judge in an administrative hearing, and if 
you are not yet dead or bankrupt, you have now exhausted your administrative 
remedies and you may proceed to a Federal District Court. 
 Federal District Court is the 
lower court of the federal system. There you can ask for relief from 
administrative abuse. Arguing that a regulation is unconstitutional rarely 
succeeds, no matter how much you want it to. Regulations generally are perfectly 
constitutional. Arguing that the regulation harmed you rarely wins, either. 
Regulations are intended to regulate, and that almost always means someone gets 
hurt. Federal District Courts generally rule that it's just too bad if you get 
hurt. If you don't win in Federal District Court, you may go to a United States 
Circuit Court of Appeals. If you don't win there, you may go to the United 
States Supreme Court. If you win there, your case will likely be remanded to a 
lower court with instructions to find in your favor. The price for all this 
exceeds one million dollars. 
 However, if the federal government
 took your property in the process of regulating 1) you, 2) your actions, 
or 3) your possessions, you can skip all this and go directly to the United 
States Court of Federal Claims . The rules in this court are very simple. You can 
only talk about two things in Claims Court: (1) Did the government take your 
property? (2) If so, how much is it worth? In discussing (1), you will have to 
prove you owned the property. The government cannot discuss your 
alleged violation of regulations or justify their actions as being necessary to 
enforce regulations because the rules of evidence in Claims Court don't allow 
it. If the government took your property, it doesn't matter why they did it. 
They have to pay you. Of course, the property can't have been used in the 
commission of a felony or seized in a drug bust, but we started with the 
assumption that you are a law-abiding citizen, so that wouldn't happen. So if 
you can prove the government took property you owned, you can then argue about how 
much it's worth. You might not be happy with the amount, but they write you a 
check as soon as you're done. The downside is, they get to keep your property 
because they paid for it. 
 Fighting government regulation is a 
daunting task. The government has two advantages over you: 

 The government never dies, and 

 They print the money. 

 One of the reasons the Center exists 
is to fight bureaucratic abuse. 
 Read that sentence again. It does 
 not say "to fight bureaucracy." It says "to fight bureaucratic 
abuse." We cannot have a complex society without bureaucracy. The Center does 
not fight bureaucracy. The Center fights bureaucratic abuse. We can have a 
better society without bureaucratic abuse. To fight bureaucracy is to fight the 
only process that government has to carry out the intent of the law. To fight 
bureaucratic abuse is to fight for what's right and seek government reform. 

 RETURN TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN 
TO CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE