Religion, Science and Blarney 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 Paul 

 Driessen 

 Who's paying for Evangelicals to run Climate Initiative? 
 It's so much like past foundation-sponsored campaigns it makes you wonder. 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Religion, 
science and blarney 

 Evangelical 
Climate Initiative does not represent vast majority of evangelicals 

 NAE and Whos 
Who of evangelical leaders do not endorse ECI position 

 Paul Driessen

 Activists 
recently had breakfast in hoary Senate chambers and a briefing at the National 
Press Club, in an attempt to convince America and the world that the evangelical 
Christian community is united in concern about global warming and the need for 
immediate federal action. Dont be deceived. 
 Just last 
month, the executive 
council of the 30-million member National Association of Evangelicals (NAE) 
passed a motion saying there is ongoing debate about the causes and origins of 
global warming, and a lack of consensus among the evangelical community on 
this issue. Reverend Ted Haggard, President of the NAE, subsequently sent a 
letter to leading evangelicals, assuring them that his group was not taking a 
position on climate change policy. 

 Haggard urged evangelicals to become involved in 
the debate, however. For too long weve allowed a liberal faction with a 
humanism mindset to determine the national tenor of the discussion, he said. 
It is time for Bible-believing evangelicals, who believe that God created the 
Earth and we are to be its steward, to be a voice at the table. 
 The February 
8 breakfast meeting, hosted by Senators John McCain and Joseph Lieberman, was 
intended to counter this, by introducing a new organization that calls itself 
the Evangelical Climate Initiative or ECI. This small but vocal group is lending 
its support to environmental activists who want to point to 
 the involvement of religious conservatives as 
further evidence that momentum is growing across the political spectrum for 
immediate action to reduce what they say is potentially catastrophic climate 
change. 
 The federal 
actions they have in mind would likely include mandatory emission controls, 
restrictions on energy use, and/or higher energy taxes to encourage 
conservation by driving up the costs of nearly everything. 
 Their 
assertions are contested by the vast majority of evangelicals. Even as the ECI 
released its policy statement, top evangelical leaders took issue with the new 
group and declared that there should be room for Bible-believing evangelicals 
to disagree about the cause and severity of global warming, and solutions to 
this issue. Those leaders include Charles Colson (Prison Fellowship 
Ministries), Dr. James Dobson (Focus on the Family), Dr. D. James Kennedy (Coral 
Ridge Presbyterian Church), Dr. Richard Land (Southern Baptist Convention), Dr. 
Richard Roberts (Oral Roberts University), Rev. Louis P. Sheldon (Traditional 
Values Coalition), and Donald Wildmon (American Family Association). 
 They and the 
NAE have made it clear that mankind has 
a sacred responsibility to steward the Earth and not a license to abuse the 
creation of which we are a part. But they also underscore the need to recognize 
the adverse impacts that energy and environmental policies can have on the poor.

 The desire to 
make religious and ethical concerns, sound science and economic progress 
cornerstones of public policy prompted the recent formation of the Interfaith 
Stewardship Alliance (ISA). This new organization also reinforces the fact that 
the majority of evangelicals in the United States do not share the ECI's 
viewpoint and do not embrace its policy. 
 While there 
is a lot of debate about the causes and hazards of climate change and how best 
to respond to it, there is no debate about the Bibles priority on helping the 
worlds poor to improve their lot, ISA national spokesperson Dr. E. Calvin 
Beisner noted. By declining to embrace anti-warming policies that would delay 
economic development and access to clean air, clean water, and reliable food and 
energy supplies in poor countries, we and the NAE are putting the needs of the 
poor at the forefront. 
 The science 
is not settled on global warming, he and the ISA emphasize. More than 17,000 
scientists have signed the Oregon Petition, which states: There is no 
convincing scientific evidence that human release of carbon dioxide, methane or 
other greenhouse gasses is causing or will, in the foreseeable future, cause 
catastrophic heating of the Earths atmosphere and disruption of the Earths 
climate. And the ISA has issued a 
report, An Examination of the Scientific, Ethical and Theological Implications 
of Climate Change Policy, addressing the moral, theological and scientific 
aspects of climate policy. (see

www.interfaithstewardship.org/pdf/ISA_Climate_Change.pdf 
 In that report, Dr. Roy 
Spencer, principal research scientist at the University of Alabama in Huntsville 
and former senior climate scientist with NASAs Marshall Space Flight Center, 
observed: We cannot say for certain how much the planet may be warming, how 
much is due to human activities versus natural cycles, or whether these changes 
in global temperature would be mostly good or mostly bad for the majority of 
people. (Beisner and this author also wrote sections of the ISA report.) 

 Our atmosphere and climate 
are so complex that meteorologists have only a rudimentary grasp of what 
actually causes storms, droughts, heat waves, cold snaps and climate conditions 
that have changed many times over the centuries, often dramatically. In 
addition, as pointed out in the ISA paper, feedback mechanisms are poorly 
understood and only a couple percent increase in low clouds would offset the 
warming effects of a doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide from fossil fuel 
use. All this makes climate models inherently suspect. 
 We believe the embrace of 
mandatory greenhouse-gas emission reductions would pose very high risks to the 
worlds poor and low-income people, without offsetting those risks with 
sufficient benefits from such a policy, Beisner said. We don't think thats a 
right-wing concern, but a basic human and indeed Christian concern. 
 By making energy less 
affordable and accessible, mandatory controls would drive up the costs of 
consumer products, stifle economic growth, cost jobs, and impose especially 
harmful effects on the Earths poorest people. The Kyoto climate treaty, for 
example, could cost the world community $1 trillion a year five times the 
estimated price of providing sanitation and clean drinking water to poor 
developing countries, the ISA report observes, citing various studies. 

 According to the US 
National Center for Atmospheric Research, even full and perfect compliance 
with the Kyoto Protocol would mean the average global temperature in 2050 would 
be only 0.2 F lower than it would be in the absence of emissions controls. Its 
impact on minority communities in the USA, on the other hand, could cost Black 
and Hispanic families 1.3 million jobs in 2012. 
 A panel composed of eight 
of the worlds most distinguished economists examined various proposals for 
dealing with climate change by reducing carbon emissions. The panels 
Copenhagen Consensus concludes that these proposals are bad projects whose 
costs were likely to exceed the benefits. 
 Neither constant drumbeats 
about climate catastrophe, nor the blarney of venerable statesmen like Senator 
McCain, can change these facts or the need to address these concerns. Moreover, 
it would be morally wrong to focus on distant theoretical concerns about global 
warming while ignoring the real, immediate and often life-or-death dangers 
faced by our poorest citizens. 
 _____________ 
 Paul Driessen is 
senior policy advisor for the Congress of Racial Equality and author of 
Eco-Imperialism: Green power &#8729; Black death 

www.Eco-Imperialism.com . 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 

VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE