Responsible Progress in the Andes 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Paul 

 Driessen 
 The Truth about Development's Enemies in South America 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Responsible progress in the 
Andes 

 Insights into responsible mining practices and 
irresponsible anti-mining campaigns in Latin America, Africa and Asia 

 Read the Report in PDF format, 
large files, approximately 1.4 megabytes each. 

In English 

En 

espaol 

Virtually everything we use we owe to mining. From homes, cars and computers to 
the clothes we wear and food we eat, the goods and amenities we need and enjoy 
are produced, powered or otherwise made possible by the raw materials that come 
out of holes in the ground. Mining is also a key to sustainable economies and 
prosperity, especially in places where agriculture, tourism and other 
alternative livelihoods cannot support communities. And it often brings new 
jobs, new investment in infrastructure, and modern practices that improve and 
safeguard health and the environment. 

Yet today, all across the globe, nearly every proposal for a mining operation is 
under assault by well-financed, well-organized social and environmental 
activists. They claim to represent ecological values, workers and families in 
areas that would be affected by the operations and to oppose only facilities 
that would harm human health, traditional lifestyles and pristine natural 
conditions. 

As the attached studies demonstrate, with few exceptions, their assertions are 
without merit and the activists actions actually harm the very people and 
environmental values they claim to be protecting. 

The activists never attack state-owned and operated facilities, regardless of 
how antiquated they are, how much they pollute, how poorly they treat their 
workers, or how adversely they affect peoples health or environmental quality. 
The activists seek to raise money gain prominence, power and control stifle 
foreign investment, globalization and development and keep communities and 
nations indigenous and traditional. Foreign companies are perfect targets; 
state owned companies are not. 

Nor do the activists eschew the jobs, wealth, technologies, lifestyles and life 
spans that result from mining and that their campaigns deny to others, 
especially in impoverished nations. Rarely do they live in (or even visit) the 
communities they claim to represent. Never do these unelected outsiders have to 
live with the consequences of the policies they promote and impose: stunted 
economic, environmental and healthcare progress reduced foreign investment and 
job opportunities antiquated facilities that continue to pollute, instead of 
being replaced by modern systems and unremitting indigenous poverty, disease, 
malnutrition and childhood death. 

The agitators demand corporate social responsibility from the companies they 
attack. But they refuse to accept even the most minimal standards of ethics, 
honesty, transparency and accountability for themselves. Even the church groups 
and wealthy foundations that support, and often help coordinate, the anti-mining 
campaigns refuse to acknowledge that their dishonest, unethical, shortsighted 
programs violate the values and precepts they claim to cherish. Indeed, in 
numerous instances, the most ethical and responsible entities are the companies 
and corporate executives who are being vilified. 

These coordinated, orchestrated campaigns prevent families, communities and 
countries from benefiting from the vast wealth that lies beneath them. That 
potential wealth could bring jobs, improved quality of life and enhanced 
environmental quality today and be invested in education, infrastructures and 
new industries for tomorrow. But as these reports and a forthcoming documentary 
film confirm from Chile and Peru, to Romania, Ghana, Madagascar, Indonesia and 
elsewhere those benefits are being denied. 

We hope you will read the report, pass them on to colleagues, discuss and write 
about their findings and lessons and watch the new documentary: Mine Your Own 
Business. 
 Paul 
Driessen, Congress of Racial Equality and Center for the Defense of Free 
Enterprise, USA 

 Edwar Escalante, 
 Andes Libres , 
 Peru 

Additional authors whose works are included in the report and accompanying 
materials: 
 Patrick 
Moore, Greenspirit Strategies and co-founder of Greenpeace, Canada 
 Phelim 
McAleer, Moving Picture Institute , 

 USA 
 Alan Oxley, 
ITS Global Consultants, Australia 
 Jonathon 
Burns, investigative journalist, USA 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE