Revenue Ruling 

 Internal Revenue Service 
Revenue Ruling 
 Rev. Rul. 75-384 
 1975-2 C.B. 204 
 Sec. 501 
 IRS Headnote 
 Antiwar protest organization. A nonprofit organization formed to promote 
world peace and disarmament by nonviolent direct action and whose primary 
activity is the sponsoring of antiwar protest demonstrations in which 
demonstrators are urged to commit violations of local ordinances and breaches of 
public order does not qualify for exemption under section 501(c)(3) or (4) of 
the Code. 
 Full Text 
 Rev. Rul. 75-384 
 Advice has been requested whether a nonprofit organization formed to promote 
world peace and disarmament by nonviolent direct action including acts of civil 
disobedience qualifies for exemption from Federal income tax under section 
501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. 
 The purposes of the organization are to educate and inform the public on the 
principles of pacificism and nonviolent action including civil disobedience. Its 
primary activity is the sponsoring of protest demonstrations and nonviolent 
action projects in opposition to war and preparations for war. 
 Protest demonstrations are conducted at military establishments, Federal 
agencies, and industrial companies involved with military and defense 
operations. Other activities consist of peace marches and protests against the 
use of tax monies for war purposes. The protest demonstrations constitute the 
primary activity of the organization. They are designed to draw public attention 
to the views of the organization and to exert pressure on governmental 
authorities. To derive the maximum publicity of an event, demonstrators are 
urged to commit acts of civil disobedience. Participants deliberately block 
vehicular or pedestrian traffic, disrupt the work of government, and prevent the 
movement of supplies. These activities are violations of local ordinances and 
breaches of public order. Incidental to demonstrations, leaflets are dispersed 
presenting the views of the organization. 
 Section 501(c)(3) of the Code provides for the exemption from Federal income 
tax of organizations organized and operated exclusively for charitable purposes.

 Section 1.501(c)(3)-1(d)(2) of the Income Tax Regulations provides that the 
term "charitable" is used in section 501(c)(3) of the Code in its generally 
accepted legal sense. The regulation further states that the term "charity" 
includes lessening the burdens of government and the promotion of social welfare 
by organizations designed (i) to lessen neighborhood tensions; (ii) to eliminate 
prejudice and discrimination; (iii) to defend human and civil rights secured by 
law; or (iv) to combat community deterioration and juvenile delinquency. 
 As a matter of trust law, one of the main sources of the general law of 
charity, no trust can be created for a purpose which is illegal. The purpose is 
illegal if the trust property is to be used for an object which is in violation 
of the criminal law, or if the trust tends to induce the commission of crime, or 
if the accomplishment of the purpose is otherwise against public policy. IV 
Scott on Trusts Sec. 377 (3d. ed. 1967). Thus, all charitable trusts (and by 
implication all charitable organizations, regardless of their form) are subject 
to the requirement that their purposes may not be illegal or contrary to public 
policy. See Rev. Rul. 71-447, 1971-2 C.B. 230; Restatement (Second), Trusts 
(1959) Sec. 377, Comment (c). 
 In this case the organization induces or encourages the commission of 
criminal acts by planning and sponsoring such events. The intentional nature of 
this encouragement precludes the possibility that the organization might 
unfairly fail to qualify for exemption due to an isolated or inadvertent 
violation of a regulatory statute. Its activities demonstrate an illegal purpose 
which is inconsistent with charitable ends. Moreover, the generation of criminal 
acts increases the burdens of government, thus frustrating a well recognized 
charitable goal, i.e., relief of the burdens of government. Accordingly, the 
organization is not operated exclusively for charitable purposes and does not 
qualify for exemption from Federal income tax under section 501(c)(3) of the 
Code. 
 Section 501(c)(4) of the Code describes civic leagues or organizations not 
organized for profit but operated exclusively for the promotion of social 
welfare. 
 Section 1.501(c)(4)-1(a)(2)(i) of the regulations provides that an 
organization is operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare if it 
is primarily engaged in promoting in some way the common good and general 
welfare of the people of the community. An organization embraced within this 
section is one which is operated primarily for the purpose of bringing about 
civic betterments and social improvements. 
 Illegal activities, which violate the minimum standards of acceptable conduct 
necessary to the preservation of an orderly society, are contrary to the common 
good and the general welfare of the people in a community and thus are not 
permissible means of promoting the social welfare for purposes of section 
501(c)(4) of the Code. Accordingly, the organization in this case is not 
operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare and does not qualify 
for exemption from Federal income tax under section 501(c)(4).