Ronald Reagan, Optimist 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Ron Arnold: 
 A Farewell Salute to Ronald Reagan, Optimist 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 It was my privilege in 1981 to 
be selected as the official biographer of Ronald Reagan's controversial 
Secretary of the Interior, James Watt. Watt opened all the Interior Department's 
files to me and instructed every Interior executive to grant me unlimited 
interviews, unprecedented access for any writer. President Ronald Reagan had no 
objection and let the
 chips 
fall where they may. 
 They fell into the bestselling
 At the Eye of the Storm: James Watt and the Environmentalists , which went 
through 5 printings in one year. 
 The experience gave me a 
profound respect and admiration for the man who hired Watt despite the certain 
knowledge it would raise a firestorm of criticism from the anti-development 
left. Ronald Reagan picked people who could do the job and let them do it. If it 
created public debate, well, public debate is what American politics is all 
about. He was called the Great Communicator for good reason. He knew he could 
get his points across and he expected others to do the same. Let the 
people decide. That was the Reagan style. 
 It was his style because he was 
an optimist. He believed in people and he believed in his mission. He wanted to 
give America a new beginning and he did. The press called it "the Reagan 
Revolution" and it was. 
 Ronald Reagan was the 
embodiment of the Yes We Can! attitude. For eight world-changing years he guided 
our nation through a tangle of issues and left us a legacy of achievement. At 
home he found an unorthodox path out of recession ("Reaganomics") and gave new life to the 
Republican Party. In foreign policy he set the stage for dismantling Soviet 
communism: "Mr. Gorbachev, tear this wall down!" He felt his greatest legacy was 
ending the Cold War safely. 
 And now he has gone on ahead. 
We grieve for his family. We grieve for America. We grieve for ourselves. He 
died at 93 on Saturday, June 5, 2004 after a ten-year battle with Alzheimer's.

 But our loss is gain in other 
times. His legacy lives on. He left us stronger. He left us greater. And shortly 
before the twilight of Alzheimer's first took him from us, he wrote the words 
that will leave us wiser. 
 "When the Lord calls me 
home, whenever that may be, I will leave with the greatest love for this country 
of ours and eternal optimism for its future. I know that for America there will 
always be a bright dawn ahead." 
 He wasn't just an 
optimist. He was an eternal optimist. 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER VIEW 

 RETURN TO 

CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE