Economic Sabotage 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 ECONOMIC SABOTAGE 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 HOW FREE ENTERPRISE CAN COPE WITH 
ECONOMIC SABOTAGE 

 Education of executives is vital. 
Here's a checklist of questions to ask about your company: 

 Are we a target? 
 Have we been attacked? If not, are we in a business sector 
that has been attacked? 

 Are we prepared? 

 Do we have an emergency response plan in the event of 
attack? Can we properly protect our employees and neighbors? 

 How do we contact law 
enforcement to report economic sabotage? 

 Do we have a plan in place to summon law enforcement if 
necessary? 

 Does our security department have direct lines to the 
county sheriff, local police and federal officers? 

 Are we legally protected? 

 Does our state have legislation that protects us from threats 
and perpetration of economic sabotage and environmental terrorism? Is our legal 
department prepared to prosecute offenders and pursue civil penalties? Is our 
government affairs department actively seeking legislative solutions to economic 
sabotage? 

 Are we fighting alone? 

 Is there a coalition of businesses that we can join to cope 
with economic sabotage? 

 Are we in over our heads? 
Do we need competent assistance? 
 Can we hire a crisis management firm if the need arises? How 
do we identify competent firms? 

 Do we have a public 
constituency that can help? 
 Are there non-profit pro-business groups with solid 
public support that actively campaign against economic sabotage? How do we reach 
this public constituency? 

 What are our long-term 
plans to eliminate economic sabotage? 
 What steps are necessary to render economic saboteurs 
ineffectual? 

Sabotage is a wartime 
concept. In simplest terms, sabotage means 
 deliberate or underhand damage or destruction, especially carried out for 
military or political reasons . 
 AllWords.com . 

 More generally, 
sabotage means 
 any underhand interference with 
production, work, etc. in a plant, factory, etc., as by enemy agents during 
wartime or by employees during a trade dispute . 
Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary. 

 Sabotage technically means 
the wilful destruction or injury of, or defective production of, war-material or 
national-defense material, or harm to war premises or war utilities. 
 Black's Law Dictionary, Sixth Edition, p. 1335. 

 War and national defense material 
includes "arms, armament, ammunition, livestock, forage, forest products and 
standing timber, stores of clothing, air, water, food, foodstuffs, fuel, 
supplies, munitions, and all articles, parts or ingredients, intended for, 
adapted to, or suitable for the use of the United States or any associate 
nation, in connection with the conduct of war or defense activities." 
 United States Code, Title 18 (Crimes and Criminal 
Procedure), Chapter 105 (Sabotage), Section 2151 (Definitions) 

 All these listed items, which 
include nearly everything used in a complex society, define a wartime economy . 
Any harm to the production of these goods in wartime can reasonably be construed 
as economic sabotage . Economic sabotage is, then, deliberate or 
underhanded damage or destruction against an economy or economic unit for 
military or political purposes. Because of the events of September 11, 2001, the 
United States may be considered to be on a wartime footing for the foreseeable 
future. 

 Economic sabotage, then is of two 
kinds: 

 1. Direct physical damage or 
destruction to the production of these goods by foreign agents, ecoterrorists, 
animal rights terrorists, anti-capitalists, anti-globalists, anarchists, or other opponents of 
free enterprise. 

 2. Indirect underhanded damage or 
destruction to the production of these goods by anyone using political or legalistic 
measures. 

 RETURN TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE