San Diego ELF Arson 

  Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 $50 million  San Diego apartment arson 

 Fire set only hours before ELF felon Rodney Coronado   speaks in 
San Diego 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 The Center View: Earth Liberation Front 
commits most dangerous arson yet 
 San Diego apartment arson forces 400 to evacuate homes 

 August 1 through 4, 2003 
 The FBI is 
investigating the Earth Liberation Front in connection with an August 1 arson 
fire that destroyed a five-story 206-unit condominium project under construction 
in University City, a district of San Diego, California. The La Jolla Crossroads 
complex was planned for 1,500 housing units, including low-income and 
market-rate rental apartments, and condominiums for sale. 
 More than 400 nearby residents were reported 
evacuated from their homes to escape the flames and smoke that billowed over a 
hundred feet. 
 The new housing 
units were to be built next to a 165,000-square-foot research center, just south 
of La Jolla Village Drive and west of Interstate 805. Stuart Posnock, of the 
development company Garden Communities, said the center would provide about 650 
jobs. 
 A banner reading 
"If you build it, we will burn it, the ELFs are mad," was found at the crime 
scene, and an e-mail sent to The San Diego Union-Tribune the day of the 
arson said the banner "is a legitimate claim of responsibility by the Earth 
Liberation Front." 
 Damage has been 
set at more than $50 million, more than doubling the dollar loss attributed to 
ELF crimes over the past decade, which stood at a composite total of $45 million 
before the San Diego arson, according to the FBI. 

But the San Diego apartment arson represents a new level in threat to human life 
from ELF terrorism. The worst previous ELF arson was the $12 million 1998 ski 
resort fire in Vail, Colorado, at a relatively unpopulated mountainous site. ELF 
supporters said the crime was to protect lynx habitat, even though a lynx had 
not been sighted in the region for more than 20 years. 
 The urban arson in 
teeming San Diego is a stark departure from past ELF felonies, and put thousands 
of nearby people at risk. The murderous rhetoric of former ELF spokesman Craig 
Rosebraugh, who advocates revolutionary political violence including 
assassination, appears to have influenced the San Diego perpetrators to risk the 
lives of so many people. A lecture Rosebraugh gave at a Portland, Oregon 
bookstore earlier this year has been released on audio CD with the title, " THE 
LOGIC OF POLITICAL VIOLENCE: Lessons in Reform and Revolution." 
 Jan Caldwell, an 
FBI spokeswoman, said law enforcement officers are interviewing hundreds of 
people evacuated from their homes. 

"I think the American people are tired of being terrorized," Caldwell told 
reporters. "Someone out there knows some information." 
 One of those who may "know some information" 
is convicted felon Rodney Coronado, an ELF spokesman. Only hours after the 
arson, Coronado 
spoke a few miles away at an animal-rights event in

Hillcrest 
Center , which bills itself as "serving the 
 San Diego lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender 
community ." 
 Coronado was sentenced to 57 months in federal 
prison for the 1992 arson of a mink research lab at Michigan State University. 
He was wanted for crimes in at least five other states, including other 
university arsons and an act of pure thuggery: he stole and destroyed a 
priceless notebook from the Little Bighorn Museum because it had once belonged 
to one of Custer's army troopers it was one of the few personal belongings 
ever recovered from the massacre (Coronado is part Yaqui Indian on his mother's 
side). 
 Coronado was also sentenced to 3 years 
probation, which ended in 2002, and ordered to pay $2 million in restitution, 
which, of course, he has not paid. 
 This convicted felon spoke to numerous media 
outlets about the San Diego arson. Here is an assortment of his remarks from 
media interviews: 

 "I disagree with the FBI's 
 declaration that ELF is a terrorist organization. I consider a terrorist to 
 be somebody who kills people." 
 (The Government 
 Sentencing Memorandum that sent Coronado to prison had a more realistic 
 concept: "A terrorist combines violence and threats so that those that 
 disagree with him are silenced, either because they have been victimized by 
 violence or because they fear being victimized.") 

 "The fire was a message. 

 The first intent is obviously to cause economic hardship to companies, 
 individuals responsible for destroying the environment." 

 (Setting a raging 
 apartment fire in what Coronado called "an environmentally sensitive canyon" 
 in order to save the canyon calls to mind the ironic bumper-sticker, "Honk 
 if you love peace and quiet.") But we get closer to the heart of ELF 
 motivation in the next Coronado quote: 

 " I 
 would rather see an apartment complex burn to the ground than developers 
 making money off the environment." 

 (Visceral 
 anti-corporate, anti-capitalist hatred is universal among ELF supporters.) 

 "Regardless 
 of how people feel about these actions, they do help bring the issue to the 
 public's attention and maybe when it's enough in the public's attention 
 that's when governments will be called upon to do something about it." 

 (Using violence to 
 coerce government policy has long been a key element of legal definitions of 
 terrorism.) 

 "ELF is in 
 business because groups like the Sierra Club have not been able to get the 
 job done. There's a whole new generation of environmentalists out there who 
 don't have the patience that older people did and who have to work within 
 the system." 

 (There's also a 
 whole new generation of law-abiding citizens out there who don't have the 
 patience with terrorists that older people did and will turn in ELF 
 criminals just like the young Indian woman who turned in Coronado while he 
 was hiding out at the Yaqui Indian Reservation in Tucson, Arizona.) 

 Julie Meier 
Wright, president of the San Diego Regional Economic Development Corp. and a 
University City resident, called the ELF "domestic terrorists," a term also used 
by the FBI. 

"It is awful that people are going to resort to this kind of thing because they 
don't like something," she told a reporter. "I think it's really a shame." 

Gary Frey, a 42-year-old Marine, who was among the hundreds evacuated from the 
adjacent Villas de Renaissance project, looked at the complex remains with his 
wife, Priscilla, and children, Andrew, 4, and Rachel, 6. 

"Terrorism is terrorism," Frey told a San Diego Union-Tribune reporter. "It's a 
terrorist act pure and simple in my mind. ... Don't accept it. You can't yield 
to their strong-arming. Rebuild it." 

 RETURN TO 
ECOTERROR TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE