Scandal-Scan 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

SCANDAL-SCAN: PROBLEM SECTORS 

 Curing corporate problems before 
 they become corporate disasters 
 A pro-free enterprise watchdog trying to keep the system honest rather 
 than trying to destroy it 
 The following sectors of 
 the United States economy have been examined by Scandal-Watch and 
 judged to have potential problems that, if unchecked, could develop 
 into corporate scandals. 

 Greenmail 

 The question: Do firms give 
 coerced payoffs to non-profit attack groups that accuse the firm of "social 
 irresponsibility" or "wrecking the Third World" or "environmental damage" and 
 threaten shareholder devaluation through bad publicity campaigns? Are 
 non-profit groups subject to Federal Trade Commission rules on 
 anti-competitive acts and collusion with for-profit firms to unfairly 
 manipulate markets and damage competing firms? 

 The Nature 
 Conservancy 

 The question: 
 Do executives of for-profit 
 firms take positions on the board of directors of the non-profit Nature 
 Conservancy to enrich themselves with access to land deals and other exclusive 
 perquisites? Is The Nature Conservancy subject to oversight by Congress? 

 Waste Management 

 The question: Are waste management 
 firms entering into " sweetheart deals" with the Environmental Protection 
 Agency on human sludge applications to farmlands, and are environmental groups 
 receiving payoffs or favors to look the other way? 

 Hostile Takeovers 

 The question: Is the highly 
 unusual hostile takeover bid of Oracle Corporation to acquire PeopleSoft just 
 a ploy to batter a competitor, or is it for real, and an overt attempt to 
 monopolize the software industry in the large enterprise and government 
 sector? 

 Newspapers 

 The question: Are newspaper 
 companies that participate in Joint Operating Agreements, as authorized by 
 Congress in the Newspaper Preservation Act of 1970 to legally skirt antitrust 
 rules, violating the intent of the law by trying to shut down some of their 
 newspapers not because they are "failing," but because they are not making 
 enough money to suit the parent company's profit desires? 

 Another question: Are "dominant" 
 newspapers in Joint Operating Agreements (JOAs) using the Newspaper 
 Preservation Act as a cover to build empires by buying out others newspapers, 
 then when large enough, trying to kill the competition by pulling out of JOAs? 

 Insurance 

 The question: Are insurance/reinsurance brokerage 
 combines coercing their clients (insurance companies) to kick back future 
 business, subjecting clients to higher premium rates (and/or inadequate 
 coverage) than could be obtained by competitive bidding among brokers? 

 Gambling 

 The question: Although casinos 
 have avoided scandals by tough regulations that prevent "cooking the books" 
 and executive sellouts of shareholders, is Internet gambling a virtual 
 invitation to money laundering because operators can be based offshore beyond 
 U.S. regulation and will massive consumer debt problems result from credit 
 card use to pay Internet gambling debts? 

 Bank Credit Cards 

 The question: Are banks "slamming" 
 customer accounts shut when they receive large lump payments the bank believes 
 to result from transferring balances to a competing bank, even when the large 
 payment came from customer windfalls, and did not benefit 
 any competing bank? Is this anti-competitive restraint of trade? 

RETURN TO SCANDAL WATCH TOP PAGE 

RETURN TO PROJECTS TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE