ScienceVsSpin 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Nick Nichols and Paul 
 Driessen 
 Global warming: 
 Science versus spin 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Policy wonks and scientists have long 
worried about the vast gulf that often separates facts from news stories and 
public perception. Perhaps few issues exemplify this better than global warming.

 In the age of dinosaurs, the Earth was much 
warmer than today, and atmospheric carbon dioxide levels were 5-10 times higher. 
Following the last ice age, oceans rose nearly 400 feet - rapidly at first, then 
at around 6-8 inches a century for the past 7,000 years. Unless the glaciers 
return, the seas could continue rising for another millennium. 
 When Leif Eriksson colonized Greenland in 
980, the big ice island, Europe and much of the world basked in the "Medieval 
warm period." By 1300, those halcyon days had been replaced by a "Little ice 
age" that lasted until around 1850, when the atmosphere began warming again.

 Wild weather whipsawed Detroit back in '68 
to '79. Six snowstorms hit during April of '68, frosts in mid-August of '69, ice 
in mid-May and a 98 heat wave in June of '74. Local lakes were ice-free in 
January of '77 and '79. Actually, this was 1868 to 1879! Abnormal, violent 
weather is nothing new. 
 The biggest U.S. tornado in history lasted 
three hours, killed 700 people and leveled entire communities along its 220-mile 
path - in 1925. In more recent years, while the number of news stories about 
hurricanes and tornadoes has skyrocketed, the frequency and severity of these 
storms has actually remained constant or even declined slightly. 
 The climate scare 
 Scientists generally agree that the Earth's 
atmosphere warmed by about 1F (0.6C) between 1850 and 1940, then cooled for 
several decades. Around 1960, cars and industries began emitting far more 
greenhouse gases, just as people began noticing that temperatures had fallen.

 An April 1975 Newsweek story proclaimed, 
"There are ominous signs that the Earth's weather patterns have begun to change 
dramatically." Scientists are "almost unanimous" in the view that agricultural 
productivity will decline for the rest of the century, because temperatures in 
the Northern Hemisphere are cooling, due to air pollution, it said. 

 Obviously, those ominous trends did not 
continue. Instead, dire prophecies that the Earth might cool by 5-10F were 
transformed into alarmist predictions that it could warm by 5-10F. 

 Satellites and weather balloons reveal only 
slight atmospheric warming since 1979, mostly in Alaska and Siberia, at night, 
in mid-winter. Land-based thermometers located away from urban "heat islands" 
are in general agreement with these readings. Other urban monitors suggest 
slightly more surface warming over the past 20 years, while some computer models 
predict much higher temperatures by the end of the century. 
 Many people are clearly concerned about 
catastrophic global warming. But over 17,000 scientists (including hundreds of 
climate experts) have signed the Oregon Petition, saying they see "no convincing 
scientific evidence" that humans are disrupting the earth's climate. More than 
100 climate scientists signed the Leipzig Declaration, expressing serious doubts 
about computer-driven climate change forecasts. 
 As debate continues, even former warming 
theory stalwarts like Dr. James Hansen are now saying "empirical evidence does 
not lend much support to the notion that climate is headed precipitously toward 
more extreme heat and drought." His views are supported by a major study 
recently published by Cambridge University Press, concluding that a doubling of 
CO2 and moderate warming (1-3F) would bring numerous benefits, especially for 
forests and agriculture, with few downsides. 
 Science versus spin 
 Nevertheless, proponents of cataclysmic 
climate change theories continue to thunder that any planetary warming, rise in 
sea level or wacky weather pattern is due - not to solar variations or other 
natural causes - but to our growing use of fossil fuels. We are heading toward a 
catastrophe, say PR mavens Sheldon Rampton and John Stauber - and the only 
reason the world hasn't already adopted the Kyoto Protocol on global climate 
change is that "industry PR has been successful in creating the illusion that 
global warming is some kind of controversial, hotly disputed theory." ("Global 
Warming is Good for You," PRSA's The Public Relations Strategist, spring 2001.)

 How can there be such a yawning chasm 
between the evidence and alarmist claims that the Kyoto treaty is the only thing 
standing between a livable planet and a climate fiasco? 
 Atmospheric physicist Richard S. Lindzen 
offers a perceptive analysis: "Science, in the public arena, is commonly used as 
a source of authority with which to bludgeon political opponents and 
propagandize uninformed citizens. This is what has been done with both the 
reports of the IPCC and NAS [Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and 
National Academy of Sciences]. It is a reprehensible practice that corrodes our 
ability to make rational decisions. A fairer view of the science will show that 
there is still a vast amount of uncertainty - far more than advocates of Kyoto 
would like to acknowledge." 
 Climate alarmists have found they can 
dramatically alter the scientific findings, by drafting "summaries" and press 
releases that emotionalize the issues and tilt the findings in favor of their 
agenda. Why would they do that? "To capture the public imagination," climate 
scientist, global warming activist and former global-cooling prophet Stephen 
Schneider once said, "we have to offer up some scary scenarios, make simplified 
dramatic statements, and make little mention of any doubts we might have. Each 
of us has to decide what the right balance is between being effective and being 
honest." 
 The NAS used the words "uncertain" and 
"uncertainty" 43 times in its 28-page June 2001 report, which concluded: "A 
causal linkage between the buildup of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and the 
observed climate changes during the 20th century cannot be unequivocally 
established." The panel's summary and news release, however, were drafted by 
several warming activists, who ignored the uncertainties and focused on computer 
forecasts of a planet baking under 10F higher global temperatures by 2100.

 In October 2000, a few IPCC zealots had done 
the same thing, turning a relatively evenhanded report into a headline-grabbing 
horror story. Sent to the New York Times, Washington Post and other carefully 
selected media outlets, the news release and summary falsely claimed "an 
international panel of climate scientists" had discovered even "stronger 
evidence" that greenhouse gases could devastate the planet by the end of this 
century. 
 In 1995, alarmists altered another IPCC 
document, after the final peer review process was complete; they deleted 
important conclusions and inserted the hotly disputed claim that there is a 
"discernible human influence on global climate." 
 Models, media and more spin 
 In each case, print and electronic news 
outlets trumpeted the hysterical claims and quoted alarmist views at great 
length. They largely ignored contradictory evidence, dozens of climate 
catastrophe skeptics, and even NAS and IPCC scientists who might have corrected 
the errors and explained how the scary temperature projections were actually 
developed. 
 The "Frankenclime" forecasts were based on a 
series of worst-case scenarios that began by assuming that global energy demands 
will soar, be met primarily by fossil fuels with few pollution controls, and 
send air emissions up exponentially. The emission numbers then drove models that 
still cannot calculate climate conditions just one year ahead - and the most 
extreme of 245 possible outcomes were chosen to form the centerpiece for 
"summaries" and news releases. 
 Messrs. Stauber and Rampton have likewise 
spun the facts to make their case. For example: 
 They claim 1998 was the "hottest year 
ever." Actually, several years in the past century were warmer, the 1998 
temperature spike was due to a major El Nio event, and 2000 was slightly cooler 
worldwide. 2001 was only 0.1 degrees Fahrenheit warmer than the global average 
over the past 20 years. Reliable satellite and weather balloon data on global 
atmospheric temperatures do not support the surface data cited by Stauber and 
Rampton. 
 They also impugn the character of 
atmospheric physicist Dr. S. Fred Singer, a leading climate alarm skeptic, by 
calling him a paid consultant for the oil industry. Singer did do some 
consulting 20 years ago but had only one oil company project - on petroleum 
pricing. He has not been a consultant since then and does not solicit industry 
funding. 
 Neo-ethics 
 All these claims and tactics fall under 
Rules for Corporate Warriors' Ethics Edict 5: The more important the mission, 
the less activists feel they need to be concerned about ethics. Activists 
justify their use of phony summaries, slanted news stories, grievous errors of 
omission, and even ad hominem attacks, by claiming they are saving the world 
from a climate or other apocalypse. 
 Journalistic integrity, objectivity and 
ethics suffer the same fate. Former Boston Globe editor Ross Gelbspan urged an 
Institute for Policy Studies audience in July 2000, "Not only do journalists not 
have a responsibility to report what skeptical scientists have to say about 
global warming - they have a responsibility not to report what these scientists 
say." So much for "all the news that's fit to print." 
 In a similar vein, Time science editor 
Charles Alexander admitted to a Smithsonian Institution global warming 
conference: "I would freely admit that on this issue we have crossed the 
boundary from news reporting to advocacy." And Boston Globe environmental 
reporter Dianne Dumanoski once boasted, "I've become even more crafty about 
finding the voices to say the things I think are true. That's my subversive 
mission." 
 "Environmentalists are quick to accuse their 
opponents in business of having vested interests," The Economist has observed. 
"But their own incomes, their fame, and their very existence can depend on 
supporting the most alarming versions of every environmental scare. Pressure 
groups, journalists, and fame seekers will no doubt continue to peddle 
ecological catastrophes at an undiminishing speed." 
 Actually, industry has much stronger 
motivations for honesty than do the activists, as Daniel Koshland, Jr. noted 
when he was Science magazine editor. "Businesses today have product liability 
and can incur legal damages if they place a dangerous product on the market." 
Environmental pressure groups "have no such constraints at the moment." 

 Money and power versus accountability 
 Not at that moment and not now, either. In 
fact, the Crisis Creation Industry is the last unregulated, unaccountable big 
business in America. This fact has helped make it incredibly successful in 
generating revenue, amassing power and promoting its agenda. 
 Recent studies have found that the overall 
budget for the environmental division of this vast industry is $4 billion a 
year! The ten largest U.S. environmental groups collectively had annual 1998 
revenues in excess of $1 billion, according to Robert Lichter and Stanley 
Rothman. This revenue comes primarily from foundations, government grants, a 
constant barrage of shrill direct mail campaigns, and even corporate grants and 
shakedowns. 
 Global warming too is a big business. The 
White House alone spent $18 billion on global warming research and "education" 
between 1992 and 2000. The United Nations spent billions more, as did the 
European Union. 
 Big foundations provided still more millions 
to aid The Cause. The Pew Charitable Trusts gave $5 million to its Global 
Climate Change Center in 2000, and the International Institute for Sustainable 
Development is spending $700,000 just to assess "how farmers in India may be 
vulnerable" to problems supposedly due to "economic globalization and climate 
change." 
 Skeptics generally need not even bother 
applying for these grants. And for the most part, the press has said little 
about them, the incentives they create for bureaucrats and scientists, the 
pressure groups' real motives behind global warming scares, the vested interests 
some companies have in supporting the Kyoto accords, or the anemic level of 
industry efforts to ensure that other viewpoints are heard above the alarmist 
hurricane. 
 The environmental pressure groups' primary 
motive, of course, is raising money, curtailing fossil fuel use and economic 
growth, and dictating lifestyle, housing and transportation choices. 
Frankenclime is by far the most brilliant, audacious strategy yet conceived to 
accomplish these ends. 
 The stakes get higher 
 Ethics Edict 5 also gives activists, 
bureaucrats and journalists an excuse for presenting only one side of the 
precautionary balance sheet. If there is any chance at all that the global 
warming theory is right, we must adopt drastic measures immediately, they say. 
Better safe than sorry. But only rarely do they mention the social or economic 
devastation that those measures might cause, or that they will actually do 
little or nothing to address hypothetical climate problems 
 The Kyoto accord would slash America's 
fossil fuel use to some 40 percent below what it would otherwise be by 2012. The 
U.S. Energy Information Administration has calculated that the treaty could 
drain as much as $340 billion a year from a U.S. economy that drives one-third 
of the entire global economy. This means the climate treaty would sharply 
curtail the developing countries' economic growth, health and environmental 
progress, and hope for the future. Kyoto-style pollution edicts would deal 
another crippling blow to a U.S. and global economy already battered by the 
year-2000 stock market collapse and September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. 

 Even worse, the misery would be for naught. 
According to the National Center for Atmospheric Research, even "full and 
perfect compliance" with Kyoto would mean average global temperatures in 2050 
would be only 0.13F lower than they would be in the absence of a climate 
treaty! Actually stabilizing "greenhouse gases" at current concentrations would 
require "19 Kyotos" - and send our use of fossil fuels tumbling to Depression 
Era levels. 
 It's no wonder that only a few nations that 
ratified the Kyoto Protocol have finalized various "operational details," 
regarding how the treaty would be implemented. Economically comatose Japan has 
rejected the treaty's mandatory carbon dioxide emission caps. Even the Europeans 
are hardly stampeding to implement it - though it could be another useful weapon 
of trade protectionism, and a way to bring the United States down to the EU's 
less productive levels (just as its campaign for "global tax equity" would do).

 It is time to take an honest look at these 
environmental scares - and demand that the Green pressure groups, their PR spin 
doctors and the dominant media be held to the same standards of ethics, honesty, 
integrity and accountability that we now demand for industry. At a minimum, 
public relations professionals must insist that news stories accurately and 
fairly report all sides of this important debate over science, economics, energy 
use and our nation's future. 
 Only then will the United States be able to 
ensure rational decisions, based on science and a full, accurate assessment of 
claims, uncertainties, costs, benefits and potential consequences. 

 The stakes are too high to accept anything 
less. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Nick Nichols is the retired president of Nichols-Dezenhall communications 
management firm and author of Rules for Corporate Warriors: How to fight and 
survive attack group shakedowns. Paul Driessen, APR, Esq. is author of 
Eco-Imperialism: Green Power, Black Death and is Director of the Center's 
Economic Human Rights Project. He was editor of Nichols' book.