Science As Ideology 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 SCIENCE AS IDEOLOGY 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Top Story: 
Global Warming:  Scare tactic 
The Economist: 
 Lomborg defended 
Scientific American: 
 Scientific American Beats Up Lomborg 
London Telegraph:

 Lomborg the rebel 

 Science 
 developed as an 
 open-ended method of discovering the workings of existence. It is 
 operated by people of intelligence, curiosity and ambition with training 
 in technique and subject matter. The operators are presumed to be rational, objective and value-free. 
 Skepticism is the watchword of science. Ideally, scientists 
 present discovered data and hypotheses to explain observations for 
 review and critique by skeptical colleagues. Skeptical colleagues drive 
 scientists to further discovery. Skeptical scientists drive science to 
 healthy ferment. Thus, new data continually displace old 
 data and new hypotheses displace old. Scientists defend their hypotheses 
 and attack the hypotheses of others. However, scientists with a personal 
 or political ideology tend to stifle ferment and dissent. Ideological 
 scientists promote stagnation in science. Stagnant science is no science 
 at all. In science, the fat lady never 
 sings. 

 Policy is the determination and enforcement of preferred social 
 and political arrangements. In Jeffersonian democracies, policy is supposed to reflect values, attitudes 
 and beliefs, whether or not based on fact, reality or other objective 
 measure. Ideally, policy-makers are influenced by those who are to be 
 affected by the policy, presenting proposals for public examination, 
 debate, challenge, review and change. Conflict and controversy generally 
 precede policy, with the majority or the powerful minority winning 
 specific policy disputes. In constitutional societies, 
 fundamental laws or constitutions provide basic principles to be 
 followed indefinitely, to be amended only for the most compelling 
 reasons. 
 Yet policy changes with time. The radical left-wing program of one 
 era becomes the hidebound right-wing conservatism of the next. In 
 policy, it's never over. 

 Using science as a basis for policy offers a degree of confidence 
 in the suitability of policy-making. However, it also has potentially negative 
 effects: 
 1) Scientists in the pay of policy makers tend to discover 
 that existence is exactly what the boss wants it to be. 
 2) Using science as a basis of policy invites policy 
 considerations into science, promoting the erosion of objectivity and 
 inviting personal or political values to corrupt scientists and scientific endeavors, 
 i.e., all science tends to become political science; 
 3) Placing scientists in positions of power as arbiters of 
 policy invites the superior intellect to act upon its inclination to 
 dismiss lesser intellects, with consequent disenfranchisement 
 of vast numbers of citizens; 
 4) Science can be manipulated to suit political preferences 
 as easily as any other human activity, with the consequence that any 
 value, attitude or belief promoted by a powerful group of scientists can 
 be held up as "scientifically sound," as if that were the only standard 
 of public policy-making. 

 Axioms for science 
 based policy: 
 Scientific advice for policy is just that: advice. 
 Science has its place in policy making: servant, not master. 
 Scientists get one vote per person, same as non-scientists. 
 Scientists have no right to disregard those who disagree with 
 them, but they do it anyway, so be skeptical. 
 Scientific advice for policy should always come with a 
 dissenting opinion, like appeals court judgments. 

 Problems already 
 observed with using science as a basis for policy: 

 A government call for 
 the use only of "sound science" in policy making denies that there are armed camps of 
 scientists in conflict over what constitutes "soundness" in 
 particular sciences. It also ignores the fact that people may disagree 
 with science, sound or otherwise, and prefer policy based on 
 non-scientific 
 considerations. 

 Government 
 scientists are in a position to claim "consensus" about 
 controversies such as global warming where none exists. 

 Policy debates tend to 
 degenerate into arguments that "My scientist is better than your 
 scientist," when experts of equal credential produce diametrically 
 opposite conclusions from the same raw data, a situation familiar to 
 attorneys and judges. 

 The presumption that 
 sound science somehow leads to sound policy is a presumption false on the 
 face of it -- policy makers are free to slice and dice any science to 
 fit any policy scheme they see fit, then tout the policy as 
 scientifically sound, perpetrating a fraud on the public. 

 Government scientists act 
 as philosopher kings and disdain the non-scientist who may not 
 agree with their policy recommendations or who do not show proper respect 
 for their wisdom and majesty. 

 "Government scien ce" 
 is an oxymoron. 

 RETURN TO ISSUES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN 
TO CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE