Canadian seal hunt 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 CONTROVERSIES 
 Canadian seal 
 hunt protests - eco-colonialism or legitimate concern? 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Why we care: The Canadian seal hunt was decimated by outside 
intruders who, in the name of saving nature, destroyed the sustainable economy 
of Inuit and Newfoundlanders. As a result, the resource-extracting culture 
withered and its suicide rate skyrocketed as helpless people felt the 
unreasoning hatred of well-fed constituencies in the dominant urban culture. Now 
it's time to turn the tables and outlaw or de-fund the anti-extraction groups 
that practice this barbaric brand of deliberate destruction of 
resource-extracting cultures. For 
this reason, CDFE su pp orts the Canadian seal hunt in its effort to meet the 
Canadian cultures' need for self-determination, protection from eco-colonialism 
and for world respect of different lifeways. The following op-ed from Canada's
 National Post reflects a similar view: 

 The new eco-colonialism 
 Heather Myers And Tracy Summerville 

 June 8, 2004 National Post (CAN) 

 http://www.canada.com/national/nationalpost/news/comment/ 

 The growth of anti-trapping, anti-sealing and 
anti-logging campaigns has had profound effects on Canada's Inuit, aboriginal 
and northern communities. Their way of life has been devastated by groups 
claiming to represent the greater good while excluding from the public-policy 
process the communities that bear the economic and social fallout. 

 Tactics employed by the anti-sealing campaign have 
included spray-painting seal pups with green dye to ruin the value of the pelts, 
draping the pups with protesters' bodies, media campaigns, and the distribution 
of photos from the hunt to British households. 

 In the Northwest Territories and Nunavut, where the 
Inuit had a thriving and sustainable economy based on the use of seals for food, 
oil and skins, adult seals were hunted by rifle and harpoon, a relatively humane 
technique that requires skill and patience. Nonetheless, the Inuit sealskin 
economy was gutted by the anti-sealing campaign, which destroyed the markets for 
their products. 

 Revenues of $13-million per year in 1981 (roughly 
split between Inuit hunting adult seals and Newfoundlanders hunting pups) 
dropped to less than $3-million in 1983. Self-supporting Inuit communities were 
reduced to welfare dependency. This, in turn, led to a staggering suicide rate, 
as people questioned themselves and their culture in the face of condemnation by 
the dominant Western society. 

 A key tactic of the anti-sealing and anti-trapping 
efforts is to portray resource-harvesters as brutal and savage, unsuited to the 
modern world. Fur use is portrayed as cruel, vain, archaic and grotesque. 

 Another tactic, which began with Brigitte Bardot's 
exploits on the sea-ice, is to involve Hollywood stars in the fight -- knowing 
an uncritical public will be attracted by the persona without questioning their 
professional qualifications as ecologists or resource managers. 

 In the absence of scientific proof of seal 
endangerment, campaigns have shifted their focus to essentially value-driven 
judgments about whether sealing, trapping or logging are acceptable activities 
in the "modern" world. Simplistic mantras decrying these activities have 
replaced nuanced policy formation. At the same time, the campaigns have moved 
away from pressuring governments, and are now directly targeting industrial 
consumers and retailers. 

 This approach exploits the shift in public values 
relating to the environment from one that values resource extraction to one that 
venerates nature. This is most noticeable among urban, industrialized 
populations, among whom anti-harvest groups targeting the seal hunt, trapping 
and logging present themselves as the sole legitimate representative of the 
public good. 

 Such tactics appear well-intentioned, but in fact 
push forward a narrow set of values that treat nature as more important than 
human communities. Most importantly, the people living next to or with the 
resources in question are given little say. Michael Kendu of the Sea Shepherd 
Society offers an example. "If a few people are hurt for the good of the global 
society, then that's not our problem," he told the Nunatsiaq News, a newspaper 
based in Iqaluit, NU. "It happens all the time." Essentially, the groups leading 
these anti-use campaigns act as eco-colonialists. 

 Canada's wilderness appears to have evolved from a 
resource that was exploited in order to serve European interests one or two 
centuries ago, to one that is to be preserved in order to serve those interests 
today. After all, argued Randy Hayes of Rainforest Action Network, "Americans 
have the power to influence B.C.'s logging practices and safeguard a magnificent 
landscape they may one day wish to visit." 

 From a northern perspective, the campaigns against 
resource harvesting are often seen as representing the interests of rich, urban, 
well-fed people who have destroyed their own immediate environment and now want 
to save others. Rich people who have a secure livelihood fail to understand that 
other people do not. To date, Greenpeace has at least acknowledged the profound 
social devastation that its campaigns have wrought on Inuit communities and 
issued an apology. 
 But Lynx and the International Fund for Animal 
Welfare never have. 

 For the people of N.W.T., Nunavut and B.C., and all 
the other resource-based regions of Canada, maintaining a continued link to 
natural resources is important, whether for economic, social, cultural or 
spiritual reasons. 
 Sustainability is obviously in their best interests. 
But the impact of external campaigns designed to limit extraction must be 
re-examined. Fashionable environmental goals cannot be achieved at the expense 
of Canada's northern peoples. 
 Heather Myers and Tracy Summerville are members of 
the University of North British Columbia's Northern and Circumpolar Studies 
unit. 

 National Post 2004 

 RETURN TO 
CONTROVERSIES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE