Seattle ELF-ALF Arsonist Pleads Guilty 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Ron 
 Arnold's Notebook: 
 Hate-filled arsonist admits 
 torching Seattle McDonald's restaurant 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 "HATE" tattooed on his right hand as he 
pleads guilty under oath 
 Earth Liberation Front / Animal Liberation Front thug 
avoids 30 year minimum sentence, 
enters guilty plea to 2003 Seattle arson 
 Faces 8 to 10 years in prison 

 Seattle, WashingtonSeptember 26, 2005 

 Christopher W. McIntosh, 23, of Maple Shade, New Jersey 
has pleaded guilty to a federal charge of arson, setting fire to the McDonald's 
restaurant near Seattle's Space Needle in 2003, an act he claimed he did on 
behalf of two groups of domestic terrorists - Earth Liberation Front and Animal 
Liberation Front. 
 Before pleading guilty, McIntosh raised his right hand to 
be sworn under oath and revealed the letters "H-A-T-E" tattooed onto four 
fingers. The Seattle Times did not report the "hate" message that was clearly 
visible on the arsonist's hand, but the Seattle Post Intelligencer prominently 
mentioned it. 
 Under terms of the plea agreement, McIntosh will be 
sentenced on December 16 to eight to 10 years in a federal prison. 
 In the gallery, three animal rights activists looked on, 
including Josh Harper, a defendant in a federal case that seeks to dismantle a 
group trying to stop a company that tests drugs and products on animals. 
 Also observing the proceedings were several members of the 
FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force. 
 His attorney, Stephan Illa, said McIntosh decided to make 
a deal because prosecutors were prepared to invoke an anti-terrorism statute and 
seek a mandatory minimum of 30 years if he lost at trial. 
 McIntosh admitted he carried several gallons of gasoline 
onto the roof of the McDonald's across the street from the Space Needle on Jan. 
20, 2003, and setting it ablaze. The Seattle Fire Department quickly 
extinguished the fire, which caused about $5,000 in damage. 
 Fire broke out at the McDonald's restaurant at 222 Fifth 
Ave. N. about 1:50 a.m. on Jan. 20, 2003, when the restaurant was closed. 
Evidence collected at the scene, including fingerprints and DNA, linked McIntosh 
to the arson. Specifically, the FBI found that McIntosh was "the major 
contributor" of the DNA found on sunglasses recovered at the arson, and that 
latent fingerprints found on a can of spray paint left there matched McIntosh's. 
 Federal agents arrested McIntosh in Philadelphia in March.

 Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Friedman told the court 
that after setting the fire, at 10:39 a.m. that same day, McIntosh placed an 
anonymous phone call to the Seattle arson tipline, stating, "[t]here was an 
E-L-F-A-L-F hit at McDonald's across from the Space Needle. There will be more. 
... As long as mother Earth is pillaged, raped, destroyed. As long as McDonald's 
keeps hurting our furry brothers, there will be more." 
 ELF and ALF have accepted blame for numerous arsons and 
acts of vandalism at McDonald's restaurants throughout the U.S., including 
attempted arsons at two McDonald's in Chico, Calif., in March 2003 and a 
$500,000 arson at a Tucson, Ariz., restaurant in September 2001. 
 Illa said he could shed no light on his client's 
association with ELF or ALF, two loosely knit groups that the FBI says are 
serious domestic-terrorism threats. The FBI estimates that animal-rights and 
environmental extremists have committed more than 1,100 criminal acts in the 
U.S. since 1976, resulting in damages "conservatively estimated" at $110 
million. 
 A week earlier, the Building Industry Association of 
Washington, the state's homebuilders lobby, offered a $100,000 reward for 
information leading to the arrest and conviction of ELF terrorists suspected of 
committing crimes in Washington state. The crimes include arsons and attempted 
arsons at homes under construction in King and Snohomish counties. 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 

VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE