Senator Inhofe 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Congressional Oversight 

 Senator James Inhofe 
 exposes taxpayer money going to big environmental groups 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Senator 
James Inhofe (R-OK), Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works 
Committee, has demonstrated uncommon courage by confronting problems with 
taxpayer money being paid to highly politicized environmental groups. These 
groups receiving government grants use their bloated multimillion-dollar budgets 
to file endless anti-industry lawsuits against government agencies responsible 
for the material wealth of the nation. 
 The Center 
has tracked these problems for more than a decade. We are pleased to present 
Senator Inhofe's reports to the American people. We congratulate him on 
his willingness to face the storm of abuse that environmental groups generate 
when challenged. The following is a news release directly from Senator Inhofe's 
office: 
 INHOFE RELEASES DETAILED REPORT ON 
ENVIRONMENTAL GROUP POLITICAL FUNDRAISING 

Delivers floor speech outlining the environmental family affair 

 WASHINGTON, DC Sen. 
James Inhofe (R-Okla.), Chairman of the Environment & Public Works Committee (EPW), 
in a floor speech yesterday evening outlined the intricate web of political 
fundraising and spending by environmental groups which is detailed in a fifteen 
page Report to the Chairman titled, Political Activity of Environmental Groups 
and Their Supporting Foundations. Inhofe also released an additional thirty 
page report outlining a ten year history of numerous problems with the 
management of grant dollars at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) titled, 
Grants Management at the Environmental Protection Agency - A New Culture 
Required to Cure a History of Problems. 
 Environmental organizations 
have become experts at deceptive activity, skirting laws up to the edge of 
illegality, and burying their political activities under the guise of non-profit 
environmental improvement. These reports demonstrate this interconnected 
environmental family affair of non-profits and their benefactors, Senator 
Inhofe said. 
 In examining how the 
environmental groups receive and spend their federal funds, it became apparent 
that these groups receive funding from numerous sources including large 
foundations. With these organizations political and grass-roots efforts it 
became difficult differentiating the sources of their funds and how they spend 
them. EPW Committee staff has examined the funding and expenditures records of 
these organizations. This information has been compiled into a fifteen page 
Report for the Chairman to provide some preliminary examples describing five of 
the most widely politically active environmental groups including: the League of 
Conservation Voters, The Sierra Club, and the National Resources Defense 
Council, a description of their activity, and the interconnected web among all 
those organizations. 
 The report also contains 
examples of the foundations that provide the financial support for those groups 
 including the Heinz foundations which are a few of the largest contributors to 
these non-profit environmental organizations which has Mrs. Teresa Heinz Kerry 
as either chairperson of the board of trustees or member of the board of 
trustees on each foundation. 
 Interestingly, these 
environmental groups are all tax-exempt IRS registered 501(c)(3) charitable 
organizations meaning that contributions to these groups are tax deductible yet 
all these non-profit groups are also closely associated and fund their 
affiliated 501(c)(4) lobbying organizations and 527 political groups, Senator 
Inhofe said. These groups profess to be the greatest stewards of the 
environment and solicit contributions from a variety of sources by that claim. 
But they demonstrate more interest in hyping apocalyptic environmental scenarios 
to raise money for raw Democrat political purposes, rather than working together 
to improve our environment for the benefit of all Americans. 
 The Committee has also 
released a thirty page Report to the Chairman based on an EPW Committee 
oversight hearing held earlier this year where the Committee heard testimony 
from the General Accounting Office and the EPA Inspector General regarding a ten 
year history of numerous problems with the management of grant dollars a EPA 
Some of the problems included EPA not requiring grant recipients to demonstrate 
real environmental benefits from grants, EPA not requiring competition in its 
grant awards, and a general lack of oversight of EPA grant officers and 
recipients. 
 Both reports can be accessed 
below: 
 Political Report:

Click here for link: (.pdf) 
 Grants: (.pdf)

Click here for link: (.pdf) 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 
VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE