Citizens Want Souter Cabin Seized 

 Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 PROPERTY RIGHTS 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Battle over ruling comes knocking at justice's door 

 By Kathy McCormack 
 Associated Press 
 Published January 22, 2006 

 CONCORD, N.H. -- Angered by a Supreme Court ruling last year that gave local 
 governments more power to seize people's homes for economic development, 
 activists are trying to get one of the court's justices evicted from his own 
 home. 

 A group led by a California man wants Justice David Souter's home seized to 
 build an inn called the "Lost Liberty Hotel." 

 The activists submitted enough petition signatures--only 25 were needed--to 
 bring the matter before voters in March, and this weekend they came to 
 Souter's hometown, Weare, N.H., to rally support. 

 "This is in the tradition of the Boston Tea Party and the Pine Tree Riot," 
 organizer Logan Darrow Clements said, referring to a riot in the winter of 
 1771-72, when colonists in Weare beat up officials appointed by King George 
 III who fined them for logging white pines without approval. 

 "All we're trying to do is put an end to eminent domain abuse," Clements said, 
 by having those who advocate or facilitate it "live under it, so they 
 understand why it needs to end." 

 Bill Quigley, deputy police chief of Weare, population 8,500, said any 
 protesters would be told to stay across the street from a dirt road that leads 
 to Souter's farmhouse. 

 "They're obviously not going to be allowed on Justice Souter's property," he 
 said. 

 Clements of Los Angeles said he has never tried to contact Souter, who was in 
 the majority in the 5-4 decision, Kelo vs. City of New London. 

 "The justice doesn't have any comment" on the protesters' cause, said Supreme 
 Court spokeswoman Kathy Arberg. 

 The petition asks whether the town should take Souter's land for development 
 as an inn, whether to set up a trust fund to accept donations for legal 
 expenses, and whether to set up a second trust fund to accept donations to 
 compensate Souter for his land. The matter goes to voters on March 14. 

 About 25 volunteers gathered at Weare Town Hall on Saturday before setting out 
 in teams to go door-to-door. 

 Clements gathered nine signatures in under an hour, with only one resident 
 declining to sign. He also distributed copies of the high court's ruling, in 
 which it said New London, Conn., could seize homeowners' property to develop a 
 hotel, convention center, office space and condos next to Pfizer Inc.'s new 
 research headquarters. 

 The city argued that tax revenues and new jobs from the development would 
 benefit the public. The Pfizer complex was built, but seven homeowners 
 challenged the rest of the development in court. The Supreme Court's ruling 
 against them prompted many states, including New Hampshire, to examine their 
 eminent domain laws. 

 Supporters of the hotel project planned a rally Sunday at the town hall. 

 State Rep. Neal Kurk, a Weare resident who is sponsoring two pieces of eminent 
 domain legislation in New Hampshire, said he expects the group's proposal to 
 be defeated overwhelmingly. 

 "Most people here see this as an act of revenge and an improper attack on the 
 judicial system," Kurk said. "You don't go after a judge personally because 
 you disagree with his judgments." 

 RETURN 

 TO PROPERTY RIGHTS TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE