SPCA loses court appeal 

 NEPA News (NE Pennsylvania) 
 Superior Court upholds $96,000 verdict against animal shelter 

 April 08, 2003 
 The original story may be found at: 

http://www.zwire.com/site/news.cfm?newsid=7647097&BRD=2212&PAG=461&dept_ 
 The Pennsylvania state Superior Court has upheld a $96,000 verdict against a 
Fayette County animal shelter in the case of a dairy farmer who said he was 
wrongfully cited for animal abuse nearly a decade ago. 
 The Fayette County branch of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to 
Animals said last year that the verdict was so large it could force their 
shelter to close. The SPCA had appealed, arguing the damages awarded were too 
high and that there was not enough evidence to support them. The group also 
argued, unsuccessfully, that it was immune from being sued as a government 
agency. 
 "What is more shameful than a farmer being accused of cruelty to animals?" 
the court said, in upholding the verdict, issued last week. 
 SPCA officials didn't immediately return calls Tuesday for comment on whether 
they plan to appeal the latest decision. 
 The damages stem from April 1993 when John Tabaj sued the SPCA and the 
now-defunct Tri-County Humane Protections Inc. for invasion of privacy and 
malicious prosecution. 
 Tabaj said six animal control agents, four of them armed, were sent by the 
SPCA to search his 190-acre dairy farm in Dunbar Township. The agents were 
looking for a stolen dog that belonged to the estranged husband of Tabaj's 
daughter. Though the dog was never found, Tabaj said animal control workers 
placed him in custody for two hours and issued animal abuse citations, including 
one for a cow. 
 The group dropped the charges after Tabaj argued that the allegations were 
mistaken and said the cow was being treated by a veterinarian. 
 SPCA members have said that Fayette County strays might have to be taken to 
neighboring Somerset County if the shelter is closed. 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE