Spotted Owl decline is nature's doing 

 Center 
 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Ron Arnold 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Here's the FOX NEWS story at

http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,100354,00.html 
 For the story behind the story,
 click here . 
 Spotted Owls Endangered by Logging or Nature? 
 Friday, October 17, 2003 
 By Dan Springer 

 SEATTLE The spotted owl is 
one of the most studied, protected animals in U.S. history but despite efforts 
to halt the logging of their natural habitat, scientists say its recovery is 
endangered and it may become extinct for completely natural reasons. 
 Protective efforts for the owls led to timber industry wars in the 1980s and 
the walling off of millions of acres of forest to loggers 
but the spotted owl is being replaced by a heartier feathered foe the barred 
owl. 
 "Natural systems are pretty unpredictable, Eric Forsman, a 
U.S. forest service biologist, said. When you set about trying to manage 
a particular species there are lots of things that can happen that are 
unplanned." 

 Author Ron Arnold said this discovery vindicates the 
loggers who claimed all along the owls' precarious position wasnt their 
problem. What's happening is a natural process, he said. "You can't turn 
nature into a museum even though environmentalists try. But I think they should 
be very apologetic and do some reparations put the loggers back. 

 Studies show more than 22,000 logging jobs vanished 
because of the battle to save the spotted owl, devastating small mill towns 
throughout the Northwest. They're jobs that despite this new research are likely 
gone forever as environmental groups refuse to give an inch." 
 The Audubon Society wants 
all old-growth logging banned and more tree-cutting restrictions on private 
land, if too late for the spotted owl then for the rest of the forests animals. 
Critics say its time for better balance between man and nature. 
 "If we give up now and we take the argument that they're 
declining, let's give up, let's just log it all anyway, said Alex Morgan of the 
Audubon Society. I think it's definitely a cop out but it's also inexcusable."

 But industry experts say a second timber war is unlikely 
because wood is increasingly being imported from countries with cheap labor and 
less environmental protections the types of protections that activists 
promised would save the spotted owl. 

 RETURN TO THE CENTER VIEW 

 RETURN TO 
CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE