SUV arson suspect arrested 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 

 Ron Arnold: 
 the Center applauds FBI for arrest of SUV arson / vandalism suspect, one of 
 two 
 ELF suspects in one week 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Earth Liberation Front 
 suspect charged in 
California SUV arson, vandalism raids 
 U.S. 
Magistrate orders 
CalTech grad student held without bail 

 Billy 
 Cottrell (FBI file photo) 

 BELLEVUE , 
Wa., March 18. 
Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise Executive Vice President Ron Arnold 
today congratulated the FBI for 
 the March 9 arrest of the 
first of two ecoterror suspects in a week Michael

 Scarpitti was 
arrested March 13 . 
Arnold has been retained as 
 expert consultant on ecoterrorism for a major study at the University of Arkansas 

Terrorism Research Center, funded by a grant from the National Institute of 

Justice (NIJ). 

 William 
Jensen "Billy" 
Cottrell, a 23-year-old graduate physics student from Pasadena, was indicted for 
damaging or destroying 125 sport utility vehicles at car dealerships and homes 
in the Los Angeles area last August, said Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for the U.S. 
attorney's office on Wednesday.

Read the indictment (pdf document 87 KB). 

 "Human life is risked by the nature of 
these offenses," U.S. Magistrate Carolyn Turchin said during a hearing Wednesday 
as she decided not to release Cottrell. 

 His lawyer, Stephen Alexander, said 
Wednesday that Cottrell is innocent. He accused Judge Turchin of "Guantanamizing" 
his client, apparently referring to the military base at Guantanamo Bay where 
U.S. authorities are holding hundreds of suspected Islamic militants without 
access to lawyers. The accusation rang hollow coming from a lawyer. 

 According to 
an FBI affidavit, Cottrell contacted the Los Angeles Times by e-mail using an 
alias and told the paper he was involved in the firebombings. The California 
Institute of Technology student signed the e-mails ELF, short for Earth 
Liberation Front, according to the affidavit. Authorities searched Caltech 
classrooms and tracked the e-mails to Cottrell. Investigators say the 
firebombing spree hit four car dealerships and at least four privately owned 
vehicles.

Read the FBI affidavit (pdf document 128 KB). 

 A fire set at 
one dealership destroyed or damaged 72 vehicles, mostly SUVs, and a parts 
warehouse. "ELF," "Fat, Lazy Americans" and "I (heart) pollution" were painted 
on the SUVs. Prosecutors estimate the total damage at $2.3 million. The Earth 
Liberation Front has claimed responsibility for a string of arsons in Detroit, 
Philadelphia and San Diego, where a fire last year destroyed a 206-unit 
apartment complex under construction, doing $50 million worth of damage. 

 On its website, the Earth Liberation Front calls Cottrell "an 
environmental campaigner." 
 FBI officials said in an affidavit that Cottrell was also involved in a 
plot to plaster sport utility vehicles with 5,000 bumper stickers that read "My 
SUV Supports Terrorism." 
 Many environmentalists disapprove of SUVs because of their high gas 
consumption, just as many families love them for their ability to accommodate 
children safely. 

 If convicted, Cottrell could spend 40 years behind bars. One charge he 
faces, using a destructive device during a violent crime, alone carries a 
minimum sentence of 30 years in federal prison. 
 Cottrell's arraignment is scheduled for March 29. 

 Arnold said, "Domestic 
terrorism is not the way to influence energy policy in America. The 
Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise and its thousands of members 
nationwide congratulate the law enforcement officers who apprehended Billy 
Cottrell, alleged SUV ecoterrorist, one of two ELF suspects captured in a week. We offer any assistance we may to federal 
prosecutors." 

RETURN TO ECOTERRORISM TOP STORIES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO 

CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE