ANWR Jobs 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 AGENDA 2005 
 Making a Difference 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 The following is a government essay: 

 U.S. House Resources Committee: ANWR's 
 Jobs 

 Buy American: 

 The United States should stop 
sending billions of dollars overseas to people who hate us. We should spend the 
money right here at home. 
 The United States should stop 
shipping good jobs abroad. We need them right here in the USA. 
 The United States should open 
ANWR to safe energy production! 
 ANWRs 10.3 billion barrels of 
oil (mean estimate) equals over $300 billion worth of investment here at home. 
It also means over $120 billion in federal revenue that could be used for 
Medicare, Social Security, or prescription drugs. 
 ANWR would also produce 
1,000,000 new jobs for Americans in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, 
according to a new study from the National Defense Council Foundation. 
 Make Big Oil spend their 
money here, rather than abroad. 
Make America run on American Oil! 
 American Jobs: 
 Energy Bill without 
ANWR Creates Jobs 
In the Middle East! 

 Opening ANWRs 2000 acres to 
safe energy exploration would create jobs in all 50 states. New research by The 
National Defense Council Foundation estimates that over 1 million new 
jobs would be created. 
 Providing for Americas energy 
needs requires a balanced, comprehensive bill which includes exploration in ANWR. 
Without it, were sending American jobs and hard-earned dollars overseas. 
 In September of 2003, 
Exxon-Mobil announced a $12 billion investment in Qatar to supply 2.2 billion 
cubic feet per day of LNG to the U.S. (about 360,000 barrels of oil equivalent 
per day) 
 Shell announced a $5 billion 
deal with Qatar to build a petrochemical plant to convert natural gas to clean 
burning diesel, at about 140,000 barrels per day. 
 In two days, $17 billion in 
investments were sent overseas that could have been invested in the United 
States. This is equal to of the energy we would get daily from ANWR. 

 Want American Jobs? Open 
ANWR. 
 The Money: 
 The $7 Trillion 
Dollar Heist 

 From The Economist : 
There is a political risk of relying on the Organization of Petroleum Exporting 
Countries (OPEC). Oil still has a near-monopoly hold on transport. If the supply 
is cut off even for a few days, modern economies come to a halt (* The 
Economist, October 25, 2003.) 
 Since the Arab Oil Embargo, 
crude oil prices have risen from $3 dollars a barrel in 1972 to $42 dollars a 
barrel today. 
 U.S. oil imports hit a record 
level of 66% in September 2003. 
 Saudi Arabia s share of the 
world oil market will actually grow over the next two decades simply 
because it has huge reserves of oil. Two-thirds of the worlds proven oil 
reserves can be found in Saudi Arabia and four of its neighbors.* 
 Over the last three decades, 
OPEC has transferred an astounding 
$7 TRILLION Dollars from American consumers to OPEC producers, simply by keeping 
the oil price above its true market-clearing level.* 
 $ 7 Trillion Dollars was 
approximately 67% of the U.S. Gross Domestic Product in 2002. 
 According to the U.S. Energy 
Information Administration (EIA), the mean estimate of economically recoverable 
oil in ANWR is 10.3 billion barrels. 
 That would replace more than 
30 years worth of Saudi Arabian imports. 
 ANWR exploration would save 
money, invest in the American economy and create more than 1 million new jobs in 
the United States. 

 Click here to go to 
the next ANWR topic, 
 The Technology 

 The Center posts this 
 government essay in the interest of public education. 
 The Center was not solicited to post this essay, nor paid by any party to post it. 

 RETURN TO ANWR TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO AGENDA 2005 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE