Threats 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 ENVIRONMENTALIST DEATH THREATS 

 Many death threats have come from environmentalists. 

 1/4/95 . Shaftesbury, 
Vermont. Anonymous postcard addressed to Danny Fryar, Catron County Manager, 
Horse Springs, New Mexico, angrily alleged that ranchers received subsidies in 
the form of lower grazing fees, saying it was criminal. The card said, Ill 
welcome the opportunity to confront you bastards and blow your fucking heads off 
and that goes for Zeno Kiehne, Betty Hyatt, James Catron, Kit Laney, Brut Stone, 
Richard Manning, Frank Nagol, Ed Cramer, Howard Hutchinson [all county 
officials, association employees or ranching advocates] and the rest of you sons 
of bitches. Fryar gave the card to the Catron County Sheriff, who gave it to 
the FBI for investigation. Fryar never heard from the FBI. 
Telephone Interview with Danny Fryar, October 15, 1996. 

 9/6/94. Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Ranchers receive threats from 
Earth Firsters. A Vancouver-based Earth Firster using the pseudonym George 
Hayduke, after the character in Edward Abbeys The Monkey Wrench Gang, tells a 
reporter, Theres a war against the environmentwere soldiers in that war. 
Were going to cost the ranchers money. Were going to hurt them. Were going to 
punish them. The reporter, unaware that Hayduke was a pseudonym, wrote, Mr. 
Haydukes band of eco-warriors has begun a covert campaign of sabotage and 
intimidation against 10 ranchers he said are using a chemical called Compound 
1080 to rid themselves of predators. Compound 1080 is applied only by 
government conservation officers when predators threaten livestock. Fence 
cutting was reported by ranchers. Eco-group terrorists: Ranchers - Earth First! 
at war, The Province, Tuesday, September 6, 1994, 
by Jason Proctor, p. A6. 
 10/28/94 . Vancouver, B. C., Canada. A self-proclaimed environmental 
group threatened to kill government lawyers and poison courthouses. A group 
calling itself the David Organization made the threats in a letter to Chief 
Justice Allan McEachern. The letter said unless the courts do something to save 
the environment it will kill us all, reported Bob Wright, Vancouver regional 
Crown counsel. It talks about executions of Crown counsel. They talked about 
poisoning the air system, that kind of stuff. B. C. Tightens Court Security, 
 Seattle Times, Friday, October 28, 1994, by Seattle Times staff, p. B2.