TNC Scandal 

 SCANDAL IN THE NATURE CONSERVANCY 

 THE CENTER VIEW: The Nature 
Conservancy (TNC) has been exposed by Washington Post reporters as engaging in 
numerous questionable activites, a message the Center for the Defense of Free 
Enterprise has been disseminating since 1993. Now congressional oversight is 
catching up with the giant land trust. The Center is seeking to expand the 
Senate investigation into TNC by releasing its new White Paper,
 TRU$T U$: 

 The Nature Conservancy: Money, 
Power, Respectability and a Few Dirty Tricks - How the Richest Land Trust in 
America Gets its Wealth, Destroys Small Property Owners, and Hides its Money.
 The Washington Post article reproduced below summarizes the newspaper's 
large 4-part series, available on their website. 
 The Center has 
conducted its own expos of the Nature Conservancy, which is posted on our Undue 
Influence website at

The Nature Conservancy . 

washingtonpost .com 

 Nature Conservancy Suspends 
Land Sales 
Board of Nonprofit to Review Practices 
 By Joe 
Stephens and David Ottaway 
 Washington Post Staff 
Writers 
Tuesday, May 13, 2003; Page A03 
 The 
Nature Conservancy has suspended a range of practices, including the sale of 
ecologically sensitive land to its trustees as home sites, in the wake of press 
accounts describing the Arlington-based nonprofit's activities and concerns 
expressed by some of its 1 million members. 
 The 
Conservancy, the world's richest environmental group, said it has halted all 
"conservation buyer" real estate transactions until the charity's board of 
governors reviews the practice in June. A Washington Post series last week 
reported that many buyers have been current and former Conservancy state 
trustees. 
 The 
Senate Finance Committee's chairman and ranking Democrat announced last week 
that they plan to look into the sales, which are designed to limit intrusive 
development but generally allow buyers to construct houses. 
 Under the 
program, the charity buys raw land, attaches some development restrictions and 
then resells the properties to supporters at greatly reduced prices. Buyers give 
the Conservancy cash payments for roughly the amount of the discount, a sum that 
is then written off the buyers' federal income taxes. 
 Other 
articles described how the Conservancy's board and leadership council today 
include executives and directors from corporations that have paid millions in 
environmental fines. The series also showed how the 52-year-old charity's 
alliances with Fortune 500 companies had helped it amass assets totaling more 
than $3 billion. 
 In a 
statement posted on the Conservancy Web site,

nature.org , the organization said it also has: 
 * 
Suspended all new logging and other "resource extraction activities" on its 
nature preserves. The Post articles detailed how in Texas City, 
Tex., the organization had drilled for oil and natural gas under the last native 
breeding ground of a highly endangered species of grouse known as the Attwater's 
prairie chicken. The suspension will not stop natural gas production on the 
Texas preserve, a spokesman said. 
 * 
Suspended all new "cause-related marketing partnerships." The articles told how 
the Conservancy had sold its name and logo for use on consumer goods, including 
toilet cleaner and other products made by corporations whose executives and 
directors had sat on the Conservancy's governing board and advisory council. 
 * 
Suspended all new loans to employees. The articles disclosed that the 
Conservancy had extended a $1.55 million loan to its president, Steven J. 
McCormick, and then misidentified the interest rate. After being questioned by 
reporters, McCormick repaid the loan. 
 The 
Conservancy statement criticized The Post series, titled "Big Green," for 
containing what it described as "mischaracterizations" and a "lack of context." 
Even so, the organization plans a detailed review of the programs discussed. 
 "We take 
the broad issues the articles raised very seriously," the statement said. "The 
Conservancy's Board of Governors will dedicate its entire June meeting to a 
frank and open discussion of our practices, policies, and procedures. The board 
will focus on the Post's specific charges. . . . 
 "We will 
be paying particularly close attention to issues relating to how we engage and 
work with our Board and state chapter trustees. We are committed to making 
permanent and substantive changes where needed." 
 The 
meeting will be closed to Conservancy members, but will include time for "some 
sort of public discussion," a spokesman said. 
 Over the 
past week, the Conservancy's board has paid for three full-page advertisements 
in The Post, each stressing the organization's accomplishments and its 
dedication to preserving undeveloped land. 
 Sen. 
Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa), chairman of the Finance Committee, and ranking 
Democrat Max Baucus of Montana are drafting a letter to the 
Conservancy seeking answers to a range of concerns about the land deals and 
other governance issues. 

"Taxpayers have the right to know how the Nature Conservancy conducts its 
business," Grassley said in a statement on Friday. "I'll be overseeing the 
charity's actions, asking tough questions and following through until 
satisfactory answers are given." 

RETURN TO SCANDAL-SCAN TOP PAGE 

RETURN TO SCANDAL WATCH TOP PAGE 

RETURN TO PROJECTS TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE