Tolerance 

 CENTER INITIATIVE 

 Eliminate prejudice and discrimination against loggers, miners, 
 ranchers, and other resource producers 

 Hatred of 
 natural resource providers as "destroying life on earth" must be 
 rooted out and new understanding cultivated for those who feed, clothe 
 and shelter us. 

 The story below, written by a 
 victim of hate against loggers, demonstrates the prejudice, 
 discrimination and moral exclusion that must be stamped out in 
 America. The civil and human rights of the resource class must be 
 defended by every responsible and compassionate citizen. 

 http://www.timberharvesting.com/vserver/hb/display.cfm?MagazineKey=4&Iss 
 Timber Harvesting magazine 

 Eco-Terrorism Means New Reality 
 by Dan Shell May 2002 

 Imagine the empty, hollow feeling of rolling through the woods at 
 dawn, 
 mentally calculating the day's activities as you prepare for work, 
 when 
 you round a corner and find your livelihood--and much of your net 
 worth--in charred ashes. Imagine the feeling of looking at the 
 equipment 
 you paid top dollar for in a smoldering or wrecked heap, with a smear 
 of 
 red graffiti: Go Cut Trees In Hell. 

 Anger, rage, sadness, disillusionment, bitterness and a kind of 
 frantic 
 frustration will take their turns with your emotions, but the one that 
 remains is fear: The fear that it will happen again, or happen to you 
 just like it did to another logger working just a watershed away. It's 
 the eco-terrorist's gift that keeps on giving, a general fearfulness 
 that leads you to second-guess everything you do and ultimately (the 
 terrorists hope) question the very business you're in. 

 Background 

 A thorn in the side of Western natural resource-based industries for 
 years, eco-terrorism took off in the '80s, with the rise of Earth 
 First! 
 and other groups, many closely following the works of the late Edward 
 Abbey, author of The Monkeywrenching Gang and also an environmental 
 activist and advocate of vandalism and property damage to protect the 
 environment and thwart development. 

 For the timber industry, early focal points included major protests 
 and 
 demonstrations surrounding Maxxam's takeover of Pacific Lumber Co., 
 and 
 subsequent redwood logging in northern California, plus numerous 
 demonstrations, protests and acts of vandalism in national forests 
 straddling the Cascade Mountains throughout Oregon and Washington as 
 old-growth cutting and spotted owl protection issues arose in the late 
 '80s and early '90s. 

 The past decade has seen the most ominous developments, however, as 
 acts 
 of relatively simple vandalism (cutting hydraulic lines, smashing 
 windows, painting cabs) and political theatrics (showing up at a 
 congressman's office with chicken blood and feathers to highlight the 
 plight of the spotted owl) have turned darkly violent. 

 Two very loosely-organized groups, the Animal Liberation Front (ALF) 
 and 
 Earth Liberation Front (ELF), have claimed credit for much of the 
 eco-terror carnage of the past decade. With the ALF attacking animal 
 industry facilities and the ELF hitting timber, petroleum and other 
 development interests, the groups each have spokesmen who claim to 
 receive "anonymous" communiqus from operatives claiming 
 responsibility 
 for terror events. 

 In fact, a spokesman is about as deep as the ALF and ELF go when it 
 comes to having organizational charts. Despite intense scrutiny and 
 surveillance for several years, including at least two federal grand 
 jury subpoenas and having his house searched and communications 
 equipment seized, former ELF spokesman Craig Rosebraugh was never 
 charged with a crime. 

 In the past, it's safe to say that many--the media in 
 particular--viewed 
 Earth First!'s antics as sophomoric hijinks designed to gain media 
 attention and change people's minds about certain issues while 
 flinging 
 mud in the eye of big business. However, operatives actively promoting 
 the ELF agenda entertain no such thoughts of influencing political 
 discourse: their message is terror and fear, pure and simple. 

 Each communiqu following a firebombing or other event includes a 
 threat, real or implied, to cease operations or face additional 
 attacks. 
 The following letter was delivered to Rosebraugh when the ELF claimed 
 credit for firebombing a Boise Cascade woodlands office in Monmouth, 
 Ore. on Christmas Day 1999: 

 "Boise Cascade has been very naughty. . . Let this be a lesson to all 
 multinational corporations who don't respect their ecosystems. The 
 elves 
 are watching." 

 In many ways, what we're seeing is an ominous evolution of 
 eco-terrorism. In a letter to the Willamette National Forest 
 supervisor 
 in 1997, an anonymous writer declared an alliance between the ALF and 
 ELF: "Solidarity between these two movements is the worst nightmare of 
 those who would abuse the earth and its citizens. Leave the forests 
 alone, and no one gets hurt." 

 While eco-terrorists have traditionally used vandalism to get their 
 message across, radical animal rights activists--perhaps because they 
 see themselves as saving lives as opposed to ecosystems--have 
 routinely 
 used arson and more violent, confrontational tactics to attack various 
 facilities that offend them. 

 This emergence of a more malevolent activist mind-set has directly led 
 to the escalation of "direct actions" and its ensuing property damage 
 toll. On many logging tracts across the country, the fear of becoming 
 a 
 target is palpable. 

 Impact 

 "They are terrorists, and it's my belief that no distinction should be 
 made between an eco-terrorist and any other type of criminal," says 
 Juan 
 Yraguen, part owner of Basco Logging, Sutherlin, Ore. 

 "It's our own brand of terrorism, and it does put the fear into your 
 boots," he explains. "You're always wondering if any equipment will be 
 damaged or destroyed, wondering if you'll be able to work when you 
 show 
 up or worrying about your watchman." 

 The logging company has been lucky enough to escape any major 
 incidents, 
 but it has suffered some vandalism, such as axes through hoods, 
 severed 
 lines and broken windows. 

 Two years ago Basco Logging was working a thinning job on Forest 
 Service 
 land near Diamond Lake while a sale in a nearby area was being heavily 
 protested. "The Forest Service controlled the actual sale areas, but 
 we 
 were on the same road system, so we had to drive through the blockades 
 and watch the protesters being pampered by the Forest Service. It was 
 pretty hard to swallow at times," Yraguen remembers, adding that the 
 contractor working the controversial sale still had his lines cut and 
 equipment painted. 

 Aside from the gnawing fear and worry that can erupt any time the 
 topic 
 crosses his mind, Yraguen says another big impact is cost. "We're 
 definitely being more vigilant and spending more to protect 
 ourselves." 

 For example, the company now has a full-time watchman on every crew 
 and 
 at the office and shop, which lies only a stone's throw away from the 
 busy I-5 freeway in Sutherlin. Only rarely--maybe when working behind 
 a 
 strictly controlled, single-access gate on private land--does 
 equipment 
 go unguarded. 

 Juan and his brothers, Jaime and Nick, owners of Basco Logging, 
 occasionally go to great lengths to safeguard their investments. Last 
 fall, when one watchman wasn't available for two days, they moved 
 their 
 shop watchman to the woods. 

 "Our level of fear is pretty high to make moves like that to protect 
 ourselves, but we wouldn't dare go unguarded, even for two days," 
 Yraguen says. However, he adds, "The alternative is far uglier." 

 Amazingly, no one has been killed yet, either deliberately or by an 
 accident resulting from damaged equipment. (In fall '99, a protester 
 in 
 northern California was accidentally killed by a falling tree after a 
 group of activists repeatedly trespassed into an active timber falling 
 area.) Yet that record will only stand so long. 

 Jim Gahlsdorf, owner of Gahlsdorf Logging in Salem, Ore. and co-Vice 
 President of Associated Oregon Loggers, recently completed a sensitive 
 harvest on Oregon state forest land that was near the controversial 
 Tillamook State Forest Acey Line sale. The Acey Line sale drew 
 extensive 
 protests, including the first tree-sitters to inhabit a state timber 
 sale in Oregon. 

 But instead of simply letting the protesters be, as federal 
 authorities 
 do sometimes, Oregon state and county law enforcement officers 
 forcibly 
 removed those trespassing in the sale area. (The action included a 70 
 ft. fall by one tree sitter who fell asleep after jumping from one 
 tree 
 canopy to another.) 

 Gahlsdorf met with state forest and law enforcement officers before 
 starting the job, which required 24-hour security on site. "I really 
 worry about the night watchmen," he says, noting that many are older, 
 retiree types. "I worry that someone is going to have a heart attack 
 during a confrontation, or a watchman will try to save a burning piece 
 of equipment and get killed." 

 Another impact is on Western tradition. Unlike the South, where in 
 many 
 states almost every timbered tract not in a city limits is leased to a 
 hunting club or otherwise posted, Western timber industry holdings 
 have 
 traditionally offered free, unfettered public access. However, things 
 are changing. 

 "We've seen a lot more tamper-proof locks and gates, and on both 
 public 
 and private lands, there are gates going up everywhere," Yraguen says. 
 "It's sad that it needs to be that way, but it's necessary." 

 Another tradition threatened by eco-terrorism is public pride--at 
 least 
 as far as Yraguen is concerned. " We used to have our company names on 
 all our vehicles and were real proud of it, but now if you put 
 'so-and-so logging company' on your pickup and park it at a shopping 
 center, it's liable to get kicked or keyed," Yraguen explains. "We'd 
 rather not draw too much attention, so we just try to stay out of 
 sight 
 and out of mind." 

 Contact Dan Shell, ph: 334-834-1170; fax 334-834-4525; e-mail: 
 dan@hattonbrown.com 

 RETURN TO 
INITIATIVES TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE