ELF Admits to Arson 

 THE WASHINGTON TIMES 
 ELF admits to arson 
By Audrey Hudson 
September 10, 2002 

http://www.washtimes.com/national/20020910-1341902.htm 

 An extremist environmental group is taking credit for torching a Forest 
Service laboratory in August and is threatening more violence against the 
agency. 
 The Earth Liberation Front (ELF) caused $700,000 in damage and 
destroyed 70 years of research at the Irvine, Pa., facility. 
 "In pursuance of justice, freedom, and equal consideration for all 
innocent life across the board, segments of this global revolutionary 
movement are no longer limiting their revolutionary potential by adhering to 
a flawed, inconsistent, non-violent ideology," the group said last week in 
an e-mail from its Portland, Ore.-based press office. 
 "While innocent life will never be harmed in any action we undertake, 
where it is necessary, we will no longer hesitate to pick up the gun to 
implement justice, and provide the needed protection for our planet that 
decades of legal battles, pleading protest, and economic sabotage have 
failed so drastically to achieve," it said. 
 Bill Wasley, director of Forest Service law enforcement, said security 
has been raised at agency offices and employees have been made aware that 
they could be targets. 
 "What I didn't like about it at all is the reference to using guns," 
Mr. Wasley said. 
 ELF membership figures are unknown because the group operates in 
"cells" that may consist of one or many individuals. Since 1997, according 
to its Web site, ELF has carried out dozens of actions, causing more than 
$30 million in damage. 
 The Aug. 11 fire and the timing of the message, issued just days before 
the anniversary of the September 11 attacks, has angered Capitol Hill 
lawmakers, who call it a "cowardly arsonist act." 
 "World terrorists are against our economic system, and in reality, 
these people are, too - they want the Earth for the critters without human 
involvement," said Rep. John E. Peterson, Pennsylvania Republican. 
 The facility was located in Mr. Peterson's congressional district, 30 
miles from his home. The research there focused on maintaining a healthy 
forest ecosystem on the Allegheny Plateau. 
 ELF said the fire was in response to "threats posed to life in the 
Allegheny Forest by proposed timber sales, oil drilling, and greed driven 
manipulation of nature." 
 "It's very disturbing, I don't know how you rationalize burning down a 
building where research is being done on how to grow trees better and 
faster. This was good research," Mr. Peterson said. 
 "It's very concerning when you have people willing to blow up buildings 
and destroy property and to risk life over false issues. They have very 
twisted minds, in my view," he said. 
 The communication said the facility was strategically targeted, and if 
rebuilt, will be "targeted again for complete destruction." Construction on 
a new building began two days before ELF took responsibility for the fire. 
 "Furthermore, all other U.S. Forest Service administration research 
facilities, as well as all [Forest Service] buildings nationwide should now 
be considered likely targets," the message said. 
 The FBI has identified ELF as one of the country's primary domestic 
terrorism threats, and national forests are ground zero, said Rep. Scott 
McInnis, Colorado Republican and chairman of the Resources subcommittee on 
forests and forest health. 
 ELF gained notoriety after destroying five buildings and four ski lifts 
at the Vail Mountain ski resort in Colorado more than two years ago "on 
behalf of the lynx," causing $12 million in damage. 
 Mr. McInnis, who represented the congressional district before district 
lines were redrawn, chaired a House hearing earlier this year on 
ecoterrorism. 
 "ELF's latest language clearly suggests an escalation of violence and 
the threat to human life, and as I have long said, it is only matter of time 
before their parade of terror results in human lives lost," Mr. McInnis 
said. 
 "Threatening 'maximum retaliation' against the employees of the U.S. 
government, such as Forest Service rangers, is criminal and clearly strips 
away any 'Robin Hood' image ELF hopes to portray," he said. 
 Lawmakers say the domestic terrorists should be pursued as aggressively 
as foreign ones. 
 "Ecoterrorism should outrage and disgust every American, especially as 
we continue to reflect on the heroes who lost their lives on September 11," 
said Rep. George P. Radanovich, California Republican. 
 "This group of extremists has forever damned their cause and should be 
treated by law enforcement as a threat to our national security. ELF is as 
cowardly as al Qaeda and as dangerous as the Taliban. It is critical for us 
to track them down and prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law," he 
said. 

 FAIR USE NOTE: In accordance with U.S. 
Copyright Law as codified in Title 17 U.S.C. section 107, any copyrighted 
material herein is displayed without profit or payment for non-profit research 
and educational purposes only. It is posted here only after a commercial 
purpose of any copyright holder has been satisfied, and complies with fair use 
clauses of the U.S. Copyright Act. For more information go to:

http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml 

 RETURN TO ECOTERROR TOP 
PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE