Tracking the Opposition 

 Tracking the 
Opposition on Todays Frontier 

 A panel presentation made by 
Center Executive Vice President Ron Arnold to 
the 2002 Joint Conference of CropLife America and the California Plant Health 
Association, 
October 8, 2002, in Indian Wells, California 

Fifty years ago it would have been crazy to ask whos against agriculture .

Today, its crazy NOT to ask. Not if you want to stay in business. 

Today, animal rights activists , biotech crop protesters and 
anti-pesticide radicals are hitting agriculture hard. 
 An 
IRS document tells us there are more than 4,000 environmental groups in America 
today. And the number is growing. 

Thats a modern frontier that could made you crazy, paranoid at least. 

Well, here's the good news: youre not paranoid. 

Now the bad news: they really are 
out to get you. 

And today, they increasingly have the clout to do it. They have money. They have 
members. They have media. 

Theyre a credible threat to the survival of large scale agriculture worldwide. 

But who ? Whos out to get you? 
 My 
organization, the Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise, spends most of its 
time finding those answers. 
 We 
track the opposition. 

Then we counterpunch. 

How do we do that? 
 We 
begin by tracking events . We see whos bringing lawsuits against 
industry, whos lobbying Congress, whos organizing protest demonstrations, 
whos advocating violence, and whos firebombing research labs. 

That fills up a whole database. We post the details on one of our three websites 
( www.cdfe.org ;

www.undueinfluence.com ; and

www.ranamuck.org ). 

The database is full of all-too-familiar names like PETA -- People for the 
Ethical Treatment of Animals and other big names like the Natural Resources 
Defense Council. 

Its also full of less-familiar but important names like the Environmental 
Working Group and the Rainforest Action Network. 

Once we have the database assembled, we scrutinize it, probing suspicious groups 
for tax law violations, lobbying abuses, financial irregularities, and just 
plain criminal activity. 

What we find most often, as we did with PETA and the Environmental Working 
Group, is evidence of IRS tax law violations. The IRS is very particular how 
nonprofit organizations operate. 

But it is stunning how arrogant and irresponsible these groups can get. They 
break the rules. They think they can get away with it. 

PETA, for example, donated $1,500 to the Earth Liberation Front, which is an 
FBI-declared domestic terrorist group involved in dozens of arson attacks 
nationwide. Amazingly, PETA didnt even try to hide it. The donation is plainly 
listed in their own

Form 990 annual tax return for the year 2000 . 

When confronted about it by six different reporters, PETA offered six different 
explanations. It was for habitat improvement, it was for animal protection, it 
was for this, it was for that, but never for terrorism. 
 As 
noted on the OReilly Factor, If you give money to Al Qaida and say its for 
goat enhancement, youre still paying for terrorism. 

What do we do about such arrogance? We fight back. 

The counterpunch is to file a complaint with the IRS to strip the offender of 
its tax exempt status. 

Our organization has filed three such IRS complaints in the past two years -- 
one against the Rainforest Action Network, one against PETA, and one against the 
Environmental Working Group. 
 I 
think youll find the last two most interesting. 

Our organization has been tracking PETA more than 10 year, since 1991. We even 
profiled it in our 1993 book, Trashing the Economy. PETAs philosophy is 
extreme. Its web site says: animals are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, 
or use for entertainment. 

PETA tries to enforce that philosophy on everyone else, frequently resorting to 
civil disobedience. 
 In 
mid-2001, we felt PETA had gone far enough, and began working with legal counsel 
to file a complaint against them with IRS Commissioner Charles O. Rossotti. 

Filing an IRS complaint is not to be taken lightly. It took us nine months to 
build the case against PETA. Its like a prosecutor making a case against a 
felony suspect. You cant make any mistakes. 
 In 
early March of this year, the work was done, and we filed our complaint with the 
IRS. 
 In 
it, we made the case that PETA had: 

 Stolen trade secrets; 

 Advocated arson; 

 Assaulted business executives, and

 Supported the Animal Liberation 
Front (ALF), an FBI-declared domestic terrorist group, by acting as a media 
conduit and being involved with a $2.5 million arson of a Michigan 
 State University animal 
laboratory in 1992. The arsonist was captured, convicted and sentenced to nearly 
5 years in federal prison. 

 That last one has been a puzzle since the day it 
happened. There are too many dots that no one has connected. 

 For example, in our complaint, we informed the 
IRS that court documents showed a link between Rodney Coronado, the arsonist, 
and Ingrid Newkirk, one of the two co-founders of PETA. 

 According to the Governments Sentencing 
Memorandum, Coronado sent two packages to Newkirk at a friends home, one just 
before the arson, another just after the arson. 

 The second package contained criminal evidence 
stolen from the torched MSU laboratory. The prosecutor wrote, Newkirk had 
arranged to have the package delivered to her days before the MSU arson 
occurred. 

 When police executed a search warrant on the 
home of Newkirks friend, they found plans for a raid on Tulane 
 University s Primate 
 Research Center and false 
identification for Rodney Coronado and the other co-founder of PETA, Alex 
Pacheco. 

 You dont have to be a rocket scientist to guess 
that PETA and the arsonist were probably on familiar terms. Yet we can find no 
record that law enforcement has ever followed up on that linkage. 

 Our complaint urged the IRS to take action on 
that and all our findings. 

 The first thing people usually ask us is how the 
IRS investigation is going. 

 The short answer is, nobody knows except the 
IRS. 

 The long answer is, privacy laws forbid the IRS 
to even say whether they are conducting an investigation. 

 So, technically, we dont know. 

 However, watching PETAs response tells us 
something is definitely going on. 

 As in most of these cases, PETA denies 
everything, but has shifted much of its operation from civil disobedience to 
lobbying. 

 The case of the Environmental Working Group was 
completely different. EWG, as it is known, is a longtime opponent of large-scale 
industrial agriculture, an anti-pesticide shop, and an advocate for organic 
farming. It does not engage in civil disobedience, but works within the system 
by lobbying Congress. 

 And, man, do they lobby Congress! 

 Thats what snagged our attention two years ago 
when we saw huge amounts of foundation money come pouring in to influence the 
2002 Farm Bill. 

 EWG, like PETA, is tax exempt under Section 
501(c)(3) of the United States Tax Code. Such organizations can only lobby up to 
a certain percentage of their annual budget -- 20 percent for direct lobbying, 5 
percent for urging others to influence legislators. 

 We found newspaper accounts of EWG lobbying that 
must have cost far more than those percentages. 

 So we began to dig into it. Heres the summary 
of what we found, as quoted directly from our complaint to IRS Commissioner 
Rossotti: 

 We believe that EWGs tax exemption should be 
revoked immediately because the organization: 

 Functioned as an illegal political 
action organization, including pressuring Vice President Gore during his run for 
President; 

 Lobbied the California legislature 
for a year without registering as lobbyists 

 Submitted false or misleading 
reports to the IRS about its lobbying expenditures; 

 Hid its lobbying political 
expenditures while operating as a project of the Tides Foundation; 

 Operates as a lobbying 
organization, including receiving a $1.62 million grant to lobby the 2002 Farm 
Bill. 

 Now that last item is utterly appalling. That 
$1.62 million grant came from the Chicago-based Joyce Foundation, which itself 
was created in 1948 with industry money from lumber mills and timberlands. 

 The Joyce Foundation said on its website that 
the $1.62 million to EWG was "to support a concentrated program of agriculture 
policy reform." Sounds innocent enough. 

 But when you look on the Joyce Foundations 
Form 990 annual report to the IRS it says that grant was,
 "For work on 2002 Farm Bill." 

 Why would the Joyce Foundation 
tell the public one thing and the IRS another? 

 And if "working" on the 2002 Farm 
Bill isnt lobbying, what is it? 

 Whats more, foundations are not 
supposed to give any money at all for lobbying. 

 And what did EWG lobby the Farm 
Bill for? 

 First, to eliminate subsidies for 
major crops such as cotton and wheat. 

 Second, to 
 drastically reduce America's large-scale 
industrial food producers by plastering large farms with untouchable 
conservation areas. 

 Third, to subsidize only "organic food" 
production. 

 Why would Joyce fund such a program? Well, its 
Form 990 shows not only the grants it gives away, but also their own investment 
portfolio. 

 And those investments look incriminating to me. 

 The Joyce Foundation had over $1.8 million 
invested in Canadian Wheat Board securities when they gave that money to EWG. Is 
Joyce using EWG to hurt American wheat and benefit their investment in Canadian 
wheat? 

 The Joyce Foundation also had more than 
$410,000 invested in General Nutrition Company, a provider of vitamins, herbals, 
and vegetarian guides. Is Joyce using EWG to hurt large scale agriculture to 
benefit herbal growers? 

 Our IRS complaint against the Environmental 
Working Group made these facts perfectly clear to the IRS. 

 Again, the IRS wont say whether theyre 
investigating the Environmental Working Group, but weve noticed that EWG is 
blustering more and lobbying less. 

 IRS complaints are a successful way to 
encourage the arrogant to follow the rules. But we mustnt think of them as a 
magic solution to organizations that try to put you out of business. 

 The problem with hostile forces is too big for 
that. Ive documented the scope of the problem in my book, Undue Influence. 
The subtitle says it all: Wealthy Foundations, Grant-Driven Environmental 
Groups, and Zealous Bureaucrats That Control Your Future. 

 In closing, let me briefly deal with the most 
important question about this modern frontier for agriculture: 

 What do you do about undue influence? 

 What you dont do is roll over and get in bed 
with your enemies. 

 What you do is fight back. 

 If you think your opponents will negotiate with 
you in good faith without the fight, let me give you the benefit of my thirty 
years experience dealing with them. 

 I call these Arnolds Iron Laws of 
Environmental Activism: 

 First, A Deal with Environmental Group A is 
Not A Deal With Environmental Group B . Let me remind you that there are at 
least 4,000 environmental groups in America, and they're all lined up one behind 
the other saying, "Let's make a deal." 

 Second, You Can Never be Clean Enough or 
Green Enough . No matter how good you get, there will always be another 
extremist yelling its not good enough. 

 Last, You Can Never Outrun an 
Environmentalist To The Left . It you think environmentalism is about the 
environment and not about political power, try to explain why their newest 
groups have names like the Anti-Capitalist Convergence and Green Anarchy. And 
no, I didnt make that up. They're real groups. 

 If you keep these axioms in mind, and act very 
wisely, you can find a way to win. 

 This is a new frontier you must win. 

 For upon you, the food and the fate of us all 
depends. 

 Thank you. 

 RETURN TO SPEAKERS 
BUREAU TOP PAGE 

RETURN TO PROJECTS TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER 
 FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE