Trial lawyers discover global warming 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise 
 Economic Human Rights Project 

 Paul 
 Driessen 
 Trial 
 lawyers discover global warming 
 Eco-radicals add phony lawsuits to their anti-civilization arsenal 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 

 WISE 

USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 Paul 
Driessen, 
Director, Economic Human Rights Project 

 December 18, 
2004 
 Much to the outrage of 
ideological environmentalists and certain segments of the international 
community, the United States wont sign the Kyoto Protocol which some 
apparently believe will guarantee happy ever-aftering on a planet where 
temperatures remain fixed in a one or two degree spectrum, rain never falls til 
after sundown and winters exit March the second on the dot. 
 Even worse, they 
bellow, President Darth Bush has set a terrible example. Now, Australia wont 
sign the treaty either, and neither will China, India, Brazil, Uganda or even 
Argentina, the folks hosting the latest four-star hotel and dinner global 
warming gabathon. 
 Climate alarmists 
might be able to enjoy their usual antics, but they wont come away with the big 
prize they had so eagerly sought: entry into force of a binding treaty that 
would give them and their bureaucratic friends control over the economies, 
energy and lifestyles of everyone on Earth, especially gluttonous Amerikans. So 
they have fallen back on Plan B, with the expectation that it might generate a 
Day After Tomorrow tidal wave of litigation that would make the breast 
implant, asbestos and tobacco suits look like an off-Broadway dress rehearsal. 

 EarthJustice, Friends 
of the Earth, the Center for International Environmental Law and other 
outfits are busy in Buenos Aires, bolstering the efforts of Arctic Inuit Indians 
to sue an assortment of corporations for climate genocide, or something like 
that. The Inuits subsistence traditions are threatened, they inform us, by 
catastrophic warming caused by our wanton use of fossil fuels. On the witness 
stand, providing expert testimony, is one Robert Corell, lead author of the 
Arctic Climate Impact Assessment (ACIA) study thats gotten the New York 
Times , Washington Post , London Guardian and other liberal 
media folks all agog. 
 Very rapid and 
severe climate change in the Arctic, rising sea levels from the projected 
melting of Greenlands ice shelf, changes in animal habitats and possible shifts 
in ocean currents present serious challenges to 
human health and food security, and possibly even the survival of some 
cultures, Dr. Corell solemnly intones. Even now, abnormally warm 
weather might be causing wildlife to disappear and the Inuits snowmobiles to 
fall through the ice. To back up these gloom-and-doom claims, he offers an array 
of glitzy charts and maps. 
 But the linchpin of 
his Armageddon theory lies in a temperature graph that depicts a 33-year warming 
trend, during which temperatures rose nearly 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 F). 
Project that out in a straight line, Dr. Corell and his team say, and its easy 
to foresee a potentially devastating temperature spike of 4.5 C or 8.1 F over 
the next century. Rising seas would surely inundate New York City, Bangladesh 
and the Florida keys, as another Corell graphic graphically shows. 
 Thankfully, its all 
just the stuff of Hollywood horror movies. Not only is the ACIA study flawed. 
Its as phony as a three-dollar bill as plausible as the science in The Day 
After Tomorrow. 
 Its horrific 
scenarios depend on Dr. Cs deliberate selection of the 1971-2003 time snapshot, 
and his faulty assumption that this trend will continue, forever. Relatively 
cold in 1971 warmer in 2003 Arctic meltdown by 2100, if we dont slash 
fossil fuel use immediately. 
 But what if he and 
his team had selected a different window, just a few years earlier such as the 
period 1938 to 1966? During those three decades, Arctic temperatures FELL 3.5 C 
(6.3 F), according to studies by American, Canadian, Russian and other 
researchers. At this rate, equally incompetent computer models could easily 
show, temperatures would plummet a whopping 12.5 degrees C (22.5 F) in just one 
century and reached the temperature of dry ice (minus 109 F) in just five 
centuries. Talk about threatening wildlife and Inuit culture! 
 This scenario is just 
as ludicrous and just as reasonable as what Corell & Co. would have us fall 
for hook, line and sinker. Actually, its only a slight exaggeration of what 
their predecessors the global cooling alarmists who have since morphed into 
todays global warming alarmists did back in the 1970s. 
 Thats when they, 
Newsweek (see its April 28, 1975 issue) and their fellow travelers were 
wailing and gnashing their teeth over agricultural disaster amid another 
theoretical little ice age because of our wanton use of fossil fuels, of 
course. Had they been quicker on their feet back then, the ever-inventive 
eco-lobbyists would no doubt have found some natives in Hawaii (or Tuvalu) to 
file lawsuits to stop that cultural genocide. 
 However, its a fact 
of life here on Planet Earth that our climate is as unpredictable and cyclical 
as the solar and orbital variations that play dominant roles in determining that 
climate. Thus we get mild temperature shifts every 40 years or so, and much more 
significant changes every few hundred years amid interglacial periods that are 
marked at either end by massive walls of ice flowing down from this same Arctic, 
obliterating everything in their path: forests the last time, maybe entire 
cities the next. 
 The global 
environmental movement, however, has long portrayed our planet as a stable, 
idyllic utopia until evil people, corporations and technologies ruined 
everything. It has a nice, neat Garden of Eden ring to it. But it ignores the 
Ice Ages, Medieval Warm Period, Viking colonization of Greenland back in the 
days (950-1300) when people could actually grow crops there, and Little Ice Age 
(1350-1650) when northern seas were choked with ice and Europe was plunged into 
an era of cold, wet, stormy weather that destroyed crops, caused famines, and 
hammered populations, communities and cultures. 
 The ample historical 
record of these events underscores how turbulent and uncertain Earths climate 
has always been. (Its doubtful that caveman, Viking or Medieval fires caused 
those past climate mood swings. Perhaps it was space aliens who also used fossil 
fuels, but took all the evidence home with them.) To suggest that we have 
suddenly arrived at an immutable ideal state may serve the pressure groups 
political ends, but it is not reality. 
 The best thing we 
humans can do is continue to adjust to changing climates, just as our ancestors 
did. The worst thing we could do is follow the radicals prescriptions, and 
agree to hobble our institutions, forego future health and prosperity, and 
impose permanent poverty on our Earths least fortunate citizens in the name 
of preventing a purely conjectural problem. 
 If a corporation or 
accounting firm were to issue an annual report or stock offering as bogus and 
Enronesque as the slick ACIA analysis, its officers and directors would end up 
in jail and deservedly so. Unfortunately for us, but fortunately for the 
climate charlatans, no such laws govern eco pressure groups or even 
semi-governmental groups like the ACIA so they can get away with trying to con 
all of us. 
 In the long run, we 
need to reform our legal system, to enforce basic standards of honesty, 
integrity, transparency and accountability for everyone: for-profit and 
not-for-profit corporations alike. In the short run, we simply need to apply the 
same standards of credibility to Dr. Corell, Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace 
and their Inuit plaintiffs, as we now do to Enron, WorldCom, Arthur Anderson and 
other crooks who bilked employees and investors out of billions. 
 The stakes are 
certainly much higher this time because these eco flimflam artists threaten to 
disrupt our economy, technology, health and prosperity, to safeguard us from a 
risk that is no more real than Tyrannosaurus rex bursting out of a lump of 
Cretaceous amber. 

Paul Driessen is senior policy advisor for the Congress of Racial Equality, 
Committee For A Constructive Tomorrow and Center for the Defense of Free 
Enterprise, and author of Eco-Imperialism: Green Power Black Death ( www.Eco-Imperialism.com )

 RETURN TO THE CENTER 

VIEW 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE