Turf Battle 

 Turf: Is this target of environmentalist 
suppression as an "invasive species" evil really bad for people? No, says a 
distinguished scientist 
 GRASS: SOOTHING TO THE EYE, SOFT ON THE FEET AND HEALTHY FOR YOUR LUNGS 

By Dr. Jay H. Lehr 
Senior Scientist, Environmental Education Enterprises 
Editor of John Wiley & Son's "The Encyclopedia of Water" 
Editor of McGraw-Hill's Standard Handbook of Environmental Science, Health & 
Technology 

Summary 

While society debates the vague issue of global warming and man's spurious, if 
not fully inconsequential impact on temperature, talk often turns to turf. 
V is for VALUE - Turf invariably improves property values. 
E is for ENVIRONMENT -Turf relentlessly improves our environment by 
reducing runoff, stabilizing soil and enhancing air quality. 
R is for RECREATION- Turf provides the safest, least expensive and most 
resilient recreational athletic fields. 
B is for BEAUTY - Turf beautifies ones surroundings and thereby improves 
mental health. 
S is for SAFETY - Turf promotes safety and health by reducing fire hazards, 
reducing injuries to children and athletes, creating buffers for roadsides, 
runways and farm fields. 

VALUE - A field of velvety grass never fails to increase the value of a 
property. 
ENVIRONMENT - Turf moderates climate by cooling city streets. Turf can reduce 
noise levels by as much as 30%. Grass has also proven over and over to reduce 
the spread of western wild fires. 

Because grass converts carbon dioxide in the atmosphere into the oxygen we 
breathe, a 250 square foot turf area will release enough oxygen to meet the 
needs of a family of four. Along the borders of farmland, turf can prevent 
agricultural chemicals from entering our surface waters. 

RECREATION - Where would athletes be without turf? 
BEAUTY - They say beauty is in the eye of the beholder, but truly everyone 
agrees on the beauty of grass. SAFETY - Many people forget turf's role in 
maintaining the health and safety of families and pets. Turf that is free of 
weeds and mowed regularly provides a safe haven for allergy sufferers. 
Concurrently turf reduces allergies from dust because it traps so much 
atmospheric dust from the air above it. 

The more grass a property presents the less problem causing insects are likely 
to be present. 

Kids stay cleaner on the grass as well. 

 RETURN TO FACT FIGHTS 
TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE