Unsolved Crimes 

 HOME 

 ISSUES 

OPPOSITION 

PROJECTS 

DEFENDERS 
 WISE 
USE 

BOOKSTORE 

ARCHIVE 

 UNSOLVED ENVIRONMENTALIST CRIMES 

 Many unsolved crimes have been attributed to environmentalists by law 
enforcement agencies. 

 5/30/97 Mount Angel, Oregon. Ecoterrorists 
attacked a mink ranch and released 10,000 minks, many of which died of exposure 
and were killed crossing roadways. Many others killed each other, as mink 
readily fight when not separated. The loss could amount to several hundred 
thousand dollars. No group took credit for the raid. The Animal Liberation Front 
is the prime suspect, maintaining a web site with explicit instructions on how 
to attack fur farms and the fur industry. The FBI joined the Marion County 
sheriff's department in the investigation. See "Eco-terrorists suspected in 
release of 10,000 minks," The Eugene Register-Guard , 
Sunday, June 1, 1997, by the Associated Press. 
 June 28/96 . Lyons, Oregon. Twelve-inch steel and ceramic tree spikes 
in logs from the Santiam Canyon timber sale hit the blades of a veneer lathe and 
cost the Freres Lumber Co. several thousand dollars, but no one was injured. 
Millworkers found three spikes while peeling logs at the Freres veneer plant 
east of Salem. Tree spikes found at controversial old-growth sale,
 Corvallis Gazette-Times, Friday, July 19, 1996, by The 
Associated Press, p. 1. 
 February 23/96 . Near Olympia, Washington. A historic 80-year-old barn 
sitting on 10 acres of private property within Capitol Forest was destroyed by 
arson. The barn was owned, restored and used by the Tacoma Trail Cruisers 
Motorcycle Club. Arson investigators believe that individual(s) set the blaze at 
about 1:30 a.m. A concrete pump house was also spray painted with the slogans 
Stop Destroying The Rest Of The Wildland and ORV = DEATH. ORV is thought to 
mean off road vehicle. Thurston County Sheriffs 
Department report. 
 June 1995 . Salem, Oregon. Associated Oregon Loggers issues a Member 
Alert, warning that a major private timberland owner reported explosives wired 
into lock boxes on their forest gates. When you try to unlock the gate the 
charge goes off along with your hand. An AOL member also warned of finding 
syringes in gate lock boxes. Members were cautioned to examine all forest gate 
lock boxes before attempting to open them, to notify law enforcement if 
explosives were discovered and not to attempt opening a wired gate. 
 April 15/95 . Near Deming, New Mexico. Thirty-one cows and calves were 
shot and killed in two separate incidents. The first incident occurred between 
6:30 p.m., Friday, April 14 and 3:00 p.m. Saturday, April 15, 1995, when one or 
more persons entered Tom Kelleys Tres Lomitas Ranch and killed 20 head of 
cattle with a high velocity rifle. Each cow was killed with a single shot at 
relatively close range. All shell casings were picked up and removed by the 
shooter(s). During this incident, a water storage tank supplying water to four 
separate pastures was emptied by removing a pipe fitting. In addition, the 
windmill used to fill the storage tank was disabled by breaking the sucker rod. 
The bolts on the legs of the windmill were removed. The vandalism was discovered 
before the mill blew down. Interview with Tom Kelley, 
Reno, Nevada, May 11, 1996. 
 April 12/95 . Stevenson, Washington. Earth Firsters vandalize golf 
course at Skamania Lodge, where the Northwest Forestry Association was meeting. 
Rock salt etched Stumps suck, corporate scum, and EF, initials of Earth 
First, on the putting greens of the Skamania Lodge golf course. Inside the 
lodge, vandals detonated a stink bomb that evacuated the building. The Skamania 
County sheriffs department could not identify suspects. Earth First Journal for 
April, 1995 published instructions on how to sabotage golf courses, 
concentrating on vandalizing irrigation systems. Vandals Mar Meeting Site of 
Timber Executives, Portland Oregonian, Wednesday, April 
12, 1995, by Peter Sleeth and Joan Laatz, p. C1. 
 March 19-24/95 . Churchill County, Nevada. A cow camp in the West Lee 
Canyon of the Stillwater Mountain Range near Fallon, Nevada was destroyed by 
arson. A bunkhouse and cookhouse owned by the Kent family in West Lee Canyon 
were burned to the ground. The arsonist(s) attempted to burn down the nearby 
corrals, and water facilities at the ranch sustained heavy damage. Bureau of 
Land Management signs along the road to the ranch were also destroyed by 
apparent shotgun blasts. Sheriffs Department is searching for arsonist, 
 Lahontan Valley News and Fallon Eagle Standard , 
Wednesday, April 5, 1995, p. 1.