War 

 Select Goal - Target Corporations 
A message sent to the Center by Troy Prouty of Indymedia, Seattle 

Groups from all over the World are taking the lead in a new stage of war. 

This war is not about one Country taking on another Country. This war is 
not against only one Country, yet at times it may seem like it is. This war 
has little to do with diplomacy, democracy, but rather equality and fairness 
to life as a whole. 

The message being sent, Change your ways or we will have to use hard core 
tactics to change them for you! 

Radical groups from all over the world are popping up and are continuing to 
increase in large numbers. "The fight" - Stop Corporation Behavior and do 
it Now. This is no longer about groups such has Green Peace, Earth First 
and the Sea Shepherd, which according to most of these groups - "That 
approach is out dated and does little to nothing to solve the problem". 

Person "A" states that this is "All out war and they are very serious, if 
you are up to no good and you're a company or government, we will be coming 
for you" 

"Here in America, everyone in politics is on the take and bought for a 
price, that is not right and we are here to see that it gets changed". 

" "Elf" and "Alf" started this movement and now it is up to us to finish it" 
replies Person "A" 

While talking to person "B" - "It's about American companies coming into 
our Country and taking advantage of our people through pay offs with our 
government, we are nothing more then slaves and prisoners so Americans can 
enjoy their life of luxury". 

"There is no end insight, unless we take action now to stop them at whatever 
the cost". 

Forces begin to join to fight a common cause and stop corporate expansion 
and influence over the World and to fight slave labor and just plain bad 
behavior of corporate power through political influence. 

In America "Elf" and "Alf" established themselves against cruelty to animals 
and deforestation and genetic engineering. While in other Countries the 
fight against oil companies, Shoe manufactures and toy production is leading 
cause for war, even McDonalds has fallen victim to being bombed. 

Person "C" stated that "Has long has they continue to not listen, then we 
shall continue our ways at whatever the cost". 

We are seeing more and more violence between groups, companies and 
governments. "Companies that refuse to listen, will be punished" replied 
person "C". 

Groups like "FARE" "FARC" "FLB" "ELN" are a constant thorn in the side of 
local governments and companies alike. 

Some goals of these groups are merely to stop Corporations from ruling, some 
on the other hand like "FARC", might have more to do with control of the 
illegal drug market. 

"FLB" on the other hand - merely wants to take over their Countries 
government, which according to Person "B" is not a bad idea. 

Person "A" brings into notice how many times the people in America have 
tried to get campaign contributions from companies to be stopped, because it 
shows a conflict of interest and all to no avail. "When will it stop? It 
won't, until we stop it!". 

One person in the State of Washington has even gone so far to start an 
initiative making it only legal to give campaign contributions if you can 
vote. 

The lines are clearly drawn. On one side of the issue you have the 
political leaders with the conflict of interest of monies received from 
corporate entities. 

On the other side you have those opposed to those interests and are now 
willing to risk life so that others do not suffer the same fate. 

"Someone will have to lose, and it won't be us, no matter how many of us go 
to prison or die in the line of duty". 

What will happen if this tension continues towards this path of destruction? 
A new war, with many cells joined in forces to stop global corporatism and 
those governments that wish to protect them. 

"Lives will be lost on both sides, but it will be necessary in order to see 
the changes that must take place. We do what we have to, if lives are to be 
lost then so be it". 

My hope is that Nations will put aside political influences of corporations 
and side with the people before all out war takes place. 

Tensions continue to rise, making way for the most violent confrontation in 
history in which nobody can win. 

I understand it does not have to happen that way, but do they? 

 FAIR USE NOTE: In accordance with U.S. 
Copyright Law as codified in Title 17 U.S.C. section 107, any copyrighted 
material herein is displayed without profit or payment for non-profit research 
and educational purposes only. It is posted here only after the commercial 
purpose of any copyright holder has been satisfied, and complies with fair use 
clauses of the U.S. Copyright Act. For more information go to:

http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml 

 RETURN TO OPPOSITION 
TOP PAGE 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 
DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE