Wayne Hage Memorial 

 Center 

 for the Defense of Free Enterprise, 
 publisher of Storm Over Rangelands by Wayne Hage 

 A Giant Walked Among Us 
 His Voice for Liberty Can Never Be Stilled 

 Wayne Hage 
 1936-2006 

 Our loss is gain in future 
 times 
 His legacy will enrich generations yet unborn 

 Wayne Hage died of cancer 
 June 5, 2006, peacefully, surrounded by family, 
 at home on the Pine Creek Ranch 
 that he loved. 
 Rancher, scholar, fighter, 
 writer, teacher, gentleman, you left us so much stronger, so much better, 
 Wayne. 
 Goodbye, old friend. 
 May your spirit live in us, always. 

 Biographical 
 sketch from Wayne's book, Storm Over Rangelands: Private Rights in Federal Lands , 
 first published in 1989 by the Free Enterprise Press. Storm went 
 through three editions and five printings, gaining wide recognition, praise 
 from a U.S. Supreme Court Justice, and vicious abuse from environmental 
 groups. It triggered the federal attack that launched the landmark property 
 rights case, Hage v. United States . 

 From 1989, Storm Over Rangelands: 
 Wayne Hage, a native Nevadan born 
 in 1936, is a successful rancher who has lived close to the land all his 
 life. Mr. Hage earned a master's degree in biological science from the 
 University of Nevada at Reno and has served as chairman of numerous range 
 policy boards and committees. He has served as chairman of the Agricultural 
 Land Use Committee of the California state Chamber of Commerce, is currently 
 a member of the American Society of of Farm Managers and Rural Appraisers, 
 and of the Nevada Agricultural Foundation, a trustee of the University of 
 Nevada Foundation, and acts as consultant to financial institutions. Mr. 
 Hage is listed in Who's Who in the West and Who's Who in the Western 
 Livestock Industry. 
 A veteran of many formal challenges 
 to the federal bureaucracy, Mr. Hage has become a leading authority on 
 private rights in federal lands. His numerous long-term associations with the 
 livestock industry and the academic and legal worlds have provided Mr. Hage 
 with the breadth of knowledge required to develop the complex theses 
 narrated in this book. He is in demand as a speaker and enjoys writing and 
 illustrating short stories. 
 DEATH ANNOUNCEMENT 
 FROM 
 STEWARDS OF THE RANGE 

 June 5, 
 2006 

 Dear Members, 

 I am sorry to deliver this news to you, but early this 
 afternoon, my good friend and the great man we all admired 
 and supported, Wayne Hage, passed away peacefully at his 
 home on Pine Creek Ranch. 

 A few weeks ago, Margaret showed him the many letters and 
 notes all of you had sent to him, and he was overwhelmed at 
 the warm thoughts and prayers that were within these. They 
 gave him great comfort in his final days. The family wanted 
 to make sure you knew how much these were appreciated by 
 him. 

 Funeral arrangements are being made by the family now and we 
 will let you know when the service will occur. 

 God Bless Wayne Hage. 

 Sincerely, 

 Frank T. Duran 
 President 

 RETURN TO CENTER FOR THE 

DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE