Whole Foods 

 Fox News: Dispute over "organic" food 
purity and threats of lawsuits 
 Opposing viewpoints provoke 
lively debate and hot tempers 

 Friday, July 
26, 2002 

 By Steven Milloy 

 Whole Foods Market can dish it out, but they sure 
can't take it. The largest organic foods retailer developed a mega-profitable 
business by scaring consumers about conventionally produced foods supposedly 
"contaminated" with chemicals and biotechnology. 

 Now Whole Foods is having a mega- hissy 
fit because someone says its products might not be so unadulterated after all. 

 The American Council on Science and Health, a 
nonprofit group that addresses consumer health issues, notified Whole Foods on 
July 11 of ACSH's intent to sue Whole Foods for 
violating California Health & Safety Code section 25249.6, better known as 
Proposition 65. The law requires warning labels on products containing 
substances deemed "toxic" by California. 

 ACSH says Whole Foods illegally sells its whole 
wheat organic bread without a warning label. Swedish researchers announced in 
April that baking carbohydrate-rich products like bread produces the chemical
 acrylamide - listed as a toxic substance under 
Proposition 65. 

 ACSH doesn't really believe that any minute amount 
of acrylamide present in Whole Foods' organic bread 
is dangerous. But the state of California apparently does. 

 Whole Foods no doubt caught on that ACSH was 
simply playing a practical joke to make a point about the silliness of 
Proposition 65 - a law that needlessly scares consumers and provides no safety 
benefit. 

 The company apparently was ignoring ACSH when the
 New York Times called. Food 
reporter Marian Burros wanted Whole Foods' reaction to the potential lawsuit for 
her article in next Wednesday's Times . 

 Whole Foods no longer thinks ACSH is funny and has 
unleashed its attack dogs (i.e., lawyers). 

 "This is no longer a publicity stunt of limited 
impact. I [am] requesting that [ACSH] confirm in writing (immediately, for 
release to the press) that it does not intend to pursue any claim against [Whole 
Foods] and that it apologizes for any embarrassment or other injury to [Whole 
Foods] on account of your notice and your statements to the press," threatened 
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher lawyer Charles
 Ivie in an e-mail to ACSH associate director Jeff
 Stier . 

 "[Whole Foods] does not intend to sue ACSH, if you 
will immediately rectify this 
damage . It is incomprehensible to me why an organization 
such as yours would have done what it has done," added Ivie . 

 ACSH is not backing down, according to
 Stier . In any event, the irony is rich. 

 Whole Foods papers its stores with advertising 
implying, if not proclaiming, that conventional and biotech foods are downright 
dangerous. 

 Whole Foods issued a press release last September 
claiming organic food is healthier than conventional food because, "... organic 
foods are spared the application of synthetic insecticides, herbicides, 
fungicides and fertilizers. Many EPA-approved pesticides were registered long 
before extensive research linked these chemicals to cancer and other diseases. 
Now, the EPA considers 60 percent of all herbicides, 90 percent of all 
fungicides and 30 percent of all insecticides as potentially cancer causing." 

 Unfortunately for Whole Foods' assertion, there is 
not a single shred of evidence that any application of pesticides has caused a 
single case of cancer anywhere in the world despite 50-plus years of widespread 
use. 

 About biotech foods, Whole Foods says, "As 
consumers learn more about the genetic modification of crops, or
 GMOs , there is increasing concern that biotechnology 
may be moving faster than our government's regulatory system is currently able 
to monitor and evaluate. The effect genetic engineering may have on our 
environment and on long-term human health issues has not been determined by 
health officials. 

 The implication is simply false as regulatory 
agencies have conducted extensive reviews of biotech foods and deem them to be 
safe. 

 Last November, Whole Foods issued a press release 
titled, "Guess Who's Not Coming to Dinner This Year?; Whole Foods Market Offers 
Solutions to Make Holiday Meal Memorable And Delicious Without Artificial 
Additives, Preservatives, Growth Hormones." 

 Omitted from mention is that these technologies 
have been extensively tested and approved as safe by government regulators 
around the world and have been used for decades without any evidence of harm.

 But why let facts get in the way of a profitable 
marketing strategy? 

 A final irony is that 
 New York Times reporter Marian 
Burros is no fan of ACSH and it's facts-not-fear 
advocacy. Her upcoming article is more likely to depict ACSH, not Whole Foods, 
as the bad guy. 

 Whole Foods is lucky the conventional foods 
industry isn't as thin-skinned. Otherwise, Whole Foods' lawyers would have a 
whole lot more to worry about than ACSH. 

 Steven 
Milloy is the publisher of 

JunkScience.com , 
an adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute and the author of Junk Science Judo: 
Self-defense Against Health Scares and Scams (Cato Institute, 2001). 

 Respond to the 
Writer 

 RETURN TO COMPETING VIEWPOINTS TOP PAGE 

 RETURN 
TO CENTER FOR THE DEFENSE OF FREE ENTERPRISE HOME PAGE