Greens Oppose Everything: Now Wind Farms 

 http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2003/01/07/tech/main535607.shtml 

 THEY WANT YOU DEAD 
Greens Out to Kill All Energy Production 
Now It's Wind Farms 

 NORFOLK, Va., January 7, 2003 

 AP) Proposals to build windmills off the Atlantic 
 coast are meeting with resistance from environmentalists who might be 
 expected to support an alternative, "clean" energy source. 

 Offshore wind farms exist in Europe but not in the United States. A company 
 planning windmills off Virginia, New York, New Jersey, Maryland, 
 Massachusetts and Delaware says the farms would provide energy without 
 emitting greenhouse gases that pollute the air. 

 Environmental and wildlife groups argue, however, that the projects 
 represent an offshore land grab of public property for private use. They 
 also contend the farms will mar the natural beauty of the coastline, 
 interfere with fishing, diminish property values, hurt recreation and 
 tourism, and may prove harmful to migratory birds. 

 They'd prefer that the windmills be placed farther out than within a few 
 miles of shore as proposed, in places where their effects would me 
 minimized. 

 "I'm committed to wind energy, but you wouldn't put a wind farm in Yosemite 
 Park," said Robert F. Kennedy Jr., son of the former U.S. attorney general 
 and president of Waterkeeper Alliance, a New York environmentalist group.

 Dennis Quaranta, president of Winergy LLC, based in Shirley, N.Y., said the 
 critics are suffering from a case of NIMBY. 

 "Everyone is a great environmentalist, until it's in their area," Quaranta 
 said. "Then it's not in my back yard, not in my beach view, not in the 
 ocean, not anywhere." 

 That said, the company is willing to listen to and respond to objections, he 
 said. Winergy recently removed three of four potential sites from its wind 
 farm plan for Virginia after learning that the Navy was concerned because 
 military operations take place there. 

 "We do listen to what people have to say," Quaranta said. "We don't try to 
 buck the system." 

 In all, Winergy has identified about 20 offshore sites in federal waters and 
 begun the application process for permission to build there. 

 The company plans to add more sites. Potential customers include local 
 utilities that could resell the power generated by the windmills, large 
 commercial users, and state and local governments. 

 In Virginia, Winergy wants to build a $900 million wind farm at Smith 
 Island, near the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay, in federal waters three miles 
 off the coast. The site off Virginia's Eastern Shore peninsula covers 45 
 square miles with an average water depth of less than 60 feet. It was 
 selected in part because of its wind speeds, proximity to major transmission 
 lines and lack of marine mammal activity. 

 The 271 turbines would either be placed atop platforms or slipped over long 
 poles that would be driven into the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean. The base 
 of each windmill would be 220 to 280 feet, and the wingspan of the turbine 
 blades would be about 330 feet tip to tip. 

 The windmills would generate up to 975 megawatts of electricity an hour. One 
 megawatt is enough to power 1,000 homes for an hour; since the wind likely 
 will blow only about 30 percent of the time, one megawatt probably would 
 power 300 homes. 

 The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' Norfolk district is one of a number of 
 agencies that must approve the project. Quaranta said the permit process 
 could take three to five years and then it would take at least a year to 
 finish building. 

 The corps received about 50 written comments from the public by the Nov. 19 
 deadline and is reviewing them, said Rick Henderson, the Norfolk district's 
 lead project manager for Winergy's application. 

 Henderson said many of the individuals, government agencies and private 
 organizations supported wind energy. However, they raised questions about 
 the effect on birds' migration routes, navigation, marine mammal activity, 
 military operations and aesthetics. 

 Those are the same kinds of concerns held by environmental and other groups 
 critical of such projects, including the first offshore wind farm proposed 
 in America, in Massachusetts' Nantucket Sound. 

 That project, proposed by Cape Wind Associates LLC, involves 170 windmills 
 on 25 square miles of ocean, about four miles from shore. In November, a 
 federal judge in Boston denied a citizen group's motion for a restraining 
 order, paving the way for construction of a data collection tower that is 
 the first step in building that wind farm. 

 Allowing these projects to proceed could result in a lot of additional 
 industrial development of the coastline, including offshore oil rigs, said 
 representatives of groups including the Humane Society of the United States 
 and the Alliance to Protect Nantucket Sound. The groups also say there needs 
 to be a federal process for environmental review specifically for offshore 
 wind energy projects. 

 "We do not want to just have a giveaway of the coast," said Sharon Young, 
 marine issues field director for the Humane Society. 

 Kennedy, an environmental lawyer, said the problem is that there are no 
 regulatory standards for the construction of industrial projects in the 
 territorial seas or on the continental shelf. 

 The Army Corps "has a right to give you a permit to say you're in compliance 
 with the Clean Water Act, but it doesn't have a right to give you a permit 
 that says you can privatize public land on the continental shelf," Kennedy 
 said. 

 Henderson said that in Virginia, the corps is "essentially telling the 
 company that they can place a structure on the sea bed. The concept of 
 granting use of public waterways to private corporations is commonplace in 
 the United States." 

 An official with The Nature Conservancy, which owns many of the barrier 
 islands off Virginia's Eastern Shore, said the environmental group hopes 
 Winergy will provide more information about the ecological effects of the 
 project. 

 In Virginia, the next step is for Winergy to review the public comments. If 
 the company decides to proceed with the permitting process, it would have to 
 respond to all of the concerns raised in those comments, Henderson said. The 
 corps would evaluate the responses and also would need to decide whether an 
 environmental impact study is warranted.