NCPA Colleges Page 

 Starting a College Paintball Club 
 By Former Michigan Tech President Russ Stebner 

 The Paintball Club at Michigan Technological University is 
one of the most successful college paintball clubs. As the current 
president of this club, I receive frequent e-mails asking for advice 
on starting a paintball club at a college or university. As a result, 
I have written this information on starting a club. This information 
comes from the history of the Paintball Club at MTU, my experience 
with the club, and feedback from members of other clubs.
 Is it possible? 
 Ask yourself seriously, "Are there enough paintball players 
at this school to form a club?" If you do not think there are enough 
people, then your best bet is just to find some friends and go to 
open play. If you think there are enough people, then continue reading.
 Research 
 Talk to members of other types of clubs at your school. Find 
out what they did to start. All schools are different and each 
has their own set of rules or regulations. By communicating with 
clubs, you can get an idea of the system in place at your school. 
 Faculty advisor 
 More than likely, you will first have to find a faculty member 
willing to be your advisor. Ideally, this advisor will be a fellow 
paintball player. However, anyone will do as an advisor if they 
are willing to come to a few meetings and help you negotiate with 
school administrators. Your advisor will help you raise money, advertise 
membership, and spread positive word-of-mouth, not to mention counsel 
you with any problems within the team.
 Proposal 
 Write a proposal that includes your goals and reasons for wanting 
to form a paintball club and schedule a meeting with a faculty member 
in charge of student activities or student affairs. Go into this 
meeting well prepared and with an open mind. In order to get your 
proposal accepted, you will more than likely have to push safety 
issues. It will also be helpful to mention the growth of paintball 
as a sport. According to a recent study done by American Sports 
Data, Inc., paintball has surpassed snowboarding to become Americas 
fourth most popular extreme sport. Do not be discouraged if your 
proposal is not accepted. Take some time to do a little more work 
on the idea and then see if you can get another meeting. If your 
proposal is accepted, you really have to get to work.
 Playing field 
 Talk to your schools grounds administrators and find out if 
they own any suitable land for you to use. If the school is unwilling 
or unable to provide you adequate land for playing, then try talking 
to commercial fields in your area. Sometimes, field owners will 
give student groups discounts and other advantages if they are willing 
to help promote the field. The benefits of having your own field 
are freedom, increased future spending power, and cheaper rates 
for members which in turn increases participation. The down side 
to having your own field is initial setup cost. With your own field, 
you may have to buy markers, masks, hoppers, tanks, a CO2 fill station, 
parts kits, barrel plugs, an air horn or whistle, ref vests, first 
aid kits, cleaning supplies, etc. It will also help to have a safe 
place to store equipment or a trailer for transporting the equipment 
back and forth from the field.
 Funding 
 Use the information that you received from the other clubs at 
your school. Some schools fund student groups and others do not. 
Frequently, you will either have to go through your student activities 
office or your student government to start the funding process. 
Next, try getting companies to sponsor you. Once you have a few 
members, you can run fundraisers. You may also need to charge your 
members a fee. Keep membership dues very small (like $50 per semester) 
so that you do not discourage people from trying the club. As soon 
as you have some money, you need to start carefully planning what 
you spend it on and open a bank account. If you will be playing 
on your own field, the first piece of equipment you should buy is 
a chronograph. Then gradually buy rental equipment. The more rental 
equipment you have, the more people can play, and therefore more 
people will join.
 Advertising 
 You have to advertise; theres just no way around it. Some student 
activities offices help with advertising and other schools have 
publicity offices that can help. Otherwise, you are on your own. 
You will need to do a lot of advertising. Post flyers around campus, 
put up table tents in cafeterias, get an announcement on the schools 
radio station and cable channel, and write information for your 
school paper. Advertise an initial meeting for people interested 
in playing. At the meeting, you will need to organize your objective. 
Again, this is where talking to other clubs will really help. Elect 
officers, write a constitution, make some rules, and set a date 
to play.
 Communication 
 The hardest way to communicate between members of the group 
is using a phone chain because people are rarely home, voice mail 
disappears, or messages are never checked. The best way is to create 
an e-mail list. Add the e-mail addresses of all interested people 
to the mailing list. Alternative methods include Web pages or message 
boards.
 Playing 
 Pick times to play that are convenient for the members. When 
you go to play, play whatever everyone feels like. You do not always 
have to play elimination or center flag. Try playing scenario games, 
supply train, attack and defend, president, predator and prey, etc. 
You can find information on many different types of games all over 
the Internet, or you can try creating your own games. 
 Image 

 You have to stress SAFETY if you want to portray a positive 
image, which you will have to do unless you dont want to have a 
team for too long. Also, be careful in how you talk about paintball. 
Try to use terms like marker instead of gun, elimination instead 
of kill. Do not say things like, "I love how fun it is to go around 
shooting people." Do not commit acts of vandalism with your paintball 
marker. Participate in fundraisers that benefit your club and a 
non-profit organization (Habitat for Humanity, food shelter, humane 
society, etc.) at the same time. 
 Fundraising 
 Making a dollar or two on every case of paint you sell at open 
play will not get you very far. If school funding, sponsorship, 
and membership dues do not cover your expenses, you will have to 
run a fundraiser. Rather than selling cookies or raffle tickets, 
the best fundraiser our club has found was holding a tournament. 
We currently have a five-man center flag tournament every spring 
and fall. We charge a small entry fee per team, rent out equipment, 
and make a profit on paint.
 Increasing interest 
 At open play, sell the paint at cost or near cost. Why? This 
will make it cheaper for people to play and thereby increase interest 
in playing. Accommodate players of all levels. Hold special events. 
Have seminars on paintball equipment, tactics and strategies, or 
host special days of play. Run scenario games, different variations 
of play, faculty versus student games, all female day, target shooting, 
dueling, and top gun competitions. Try hosting a local tournament, 
or entering an intercollegiate tournament. Always remember that 
not everyone will come to paintball, so you need to bring paintball 
to everyone. Whenever your school has a student activities day, 
fair, homecoming, or spring fling, setup a table to answer questions 
and let people know about your organization. Display magazines, 
videos (such as JTs Game On), and paintball equipment. However, 
your schools safety policy may prevent you from displaying markers.
 Club advantages 
 There are countless advantages to having a club. One advantage 
is always having friends to play against. A big advantage is that 
many clubs are able to work out deals with distributors and paintball 
companies to get discounts on equipment and supplies. Our club receives 
equipment and paint at wholesale prices. We also worked 
out a deal with our schools SCUBA club to get unlimited compressed 
air fills for $5 a term for those of us with high pressure tanks. 
We pride ourselves as being one of the cheapest, safest, and most 
fun places to play paintball anywhere.