National Collegiate Paintball Association 

 NCPA Discounts 

 Skip directly to the ordering information. 
 Great news! *EVERY* college paintball club and team is now sponsorred.

 Various Discounts on WDP products from The Angel Guy . They're good - you just have to call and ask how good they are.
 10% off or 105% price match (whichever is better) from Paintball-Online .
 66% off retail on K-C Gun Oil .
 Paint - If you need paint, email Chris (raehl311@yahoo.com) and he'll point you in the right direction to get what you need. (Sorry about the lack of pricing details, but we've taken some flak for posting our paint pricing on the 'net.)
 Used Gear - Ohio State player Jason Casebolt runs Jaysales, a web site to clear people's used equipment and offers a discount for college players.

 How do I get this discouinted stuff? 
 Ordering is easy. 

 Go to your club's entry in the NCPA College Clubs List , go to the "Discount ID" field, and after the number and dash, enter six digits.
 Call the retailer, let them know what college you are from, and give them your discount ID. Otherwise order as normal.
 Wait for the carrier to bring you your stuff.

 That's it. Ship it to your local field (which we recommend as it's a little cheaper) or to your dorm room or wherever else you want it. Combine your order with other students at your club or other clubs in your area to cut shipping costs. The flexibility is yours. Forget your discount ID? No problem, just go enter a new one and use that.

 The only condition is you may *NOT* resell any product (except KC Gun Oil, which you may resell for profit) you obtained with an NCPA discount outside of college paintball. You're welcome to charge a markup on paint for events you hold, sell it to students at your college for rec play, college intramurals, tournament practice, etc, but please do not become the new paint provider for the public at your local field. Your purchase of the product at these prices constitutes acceptance of these terms. Your shipping information may also be compared to the location of your college as well as your club's contact email adress to verify eligibility. If you have questions on appropriate use or verifying eligibililty, please contact Chris (raehl311@yahoo.com) . For those of you with support from your college, we can also do purchase orders.

 The Angel Guy :
 Website: www.theangelguy.com 
 Phone: (706)270-8521
 Also, any non-NCPA orders you refer to The Angel Guy net a $50 donation for the NCPA!
 Paintball-Online :
 Website: Paintball-Online.com 
 College orders must be done through Greg Buyserie by calling 1-800-875-4547 Ext. 29
 Also, 5% of any non-NCPA purchases made after clicking the link are donated to the NCPA.
 K-C Gun Oil :
 Website: www.kercon.com 
 Phone: (831)338-0744
 Jaysales :
 Website: http://hometown.aol.com/paintballness/jaysales.html 
 Phone: (614)481-8911

 Visits: