NCPA Game Rules 

 Rough draft of NCPA Game Rules 
1.0 Field Standards

1.0.1 All Game fields shall be free from anything that would pose an unnecessary
risk to players, including cliffs, areas with jagged rocks, etc. 

1.0.2 Both players and judges should be able to move freely on game fields,
and game fields should not contain significant wet or swamp areas, dense
undergrowth or other obstacles that impede free movement. 

1.0.3 All field borders will be free of doglegs, and no section of border
will be constructed in such a manner that allows players to shoot over
a boundary and back onto the playing field. 

1.0.4 Fields will consist of three flag stations, two team flag stations
at either end of the field and a center flag station at midfield. The center
flag will be placed in such a manner as to assure that equally fast players
can reach the center flag station from either team's flag station in the
same amount of time as well as have equal ability to pull the flag or to
be eliminated. 

1.0.5 Taking into account terrain, cover, ability to move, fire lanes and
topography, game fields shall be balanced so that the better and more talented
of two teams will usually win starting the game from either team flag station. 

1.0.6 Fields shall be approx. 100 to 240 feet wide and 150 to 450 feet
long and contain suitable bunkers for 5 man play. 

1.1 Field staffing

1.1.0 Each game field shall be staffed by a minimum of 6 field judges (including
the head field judge). Judges shall be spread evenly over the whole field.
An ultimate judge shall have jurisdiction over all fields and grounds;
a head judge will have jurisdiction over his field only and will be subject
to the ultimate judge's ruling. 

1.1.1 Only judges authorized by the head judge of a field may actually
make calls on that field. 

1.1.2 One time keeper shall be designated by the head judge. This judge
will have sole authority to start the game, the countdown or to call the
end of the game on account of time. 

1.1.3 The ultimate judge has full and sole authority. He may act as a judge
on the field, or in any other capacity he deems appropriate, and shall
have final authority over all calls, rulings and interpretations. 

2.0 Standards

2.0.1 All judges shall be thoroughly familiar with the rules and regulations
contained herein and shall put forth their best efforts in discharging
their duties as judges. 

2.0.2 All judges shall perform their obligations and shall make decisions
in a totally unbiased manner. If any judge is found to have been bias in
his judging activities for or against any team, such person shall be dropped
from the judging team for the remainder of the tournament. 

2.0.3 Radios will be used by the judging staff if available for communication
with each other. 

2.0.4 Judges will wear clothing of bright colors that will distinguish
the judges from the players. Head and ultimate judges will wear additional
markings that readily indicate their status on the game field. 

2.0.5 Clerical or mathematical errors may be corrected at any time prior
the beginning of play which involves a team advancing (or de-advancing)
to another bracket. 

2.0.6 Starting flag stations for preliminary, semi-finals and final rounds
will be determined by coin toss prior to the start of the game. 

2.0.7 Judges will not provide information to teams regarding the location
of flag stations, terrain, boundaries, game time or progress of a game
during the game, except with respect to safety concerns. 

2.0.8 Judges will not, through action or inaction, deliberately reveal
or conceal the locations or actions of players during the course of a game.
Judges will not impede the progress of the game, nor will the judge take
any unnecessary action to reveal or hinder a player in determining that
players status. 

2.1 Brackets

2.1.1 Brackets will be used when enough teams participate for teams in each bracket to play the minimum number of games. 

2.1.2 The number of teams in any bracket may not be more than one fewer or one greater than the number of teams in any other bracket in that round. 

2.1.3 Teams from the same school will not be placed into the same bracket, but if the same school has more teams than brackets, prior to brackets being drawn, they may select exactly two of their teams to be placed in different brackets. 

2.1.4 There shall be no more than four brackets. If there are more than 32 teams in a round, each team will only play six other teams in their bracket in that round. 

2.1.5 If the event has a Junior Varsity division, Junior Varsity teams will play only in Junior Varsity brackets. 

2.2 Finals

2.2.1 The teams receiving the top two scores in each bracket advance to finals. 

2.2.2 Varsity and Junior Varsity teams shall have separate finals. 

 2.2 Game controls

2.2.1 In the event of an emergency situation, the judge discovering the
emergency will request that all judges stay off the radios. Other judges
on the field will immediately cause all action to stop. The game will also
be halted for the duration of the emergency. 

3.0 Scoring

3.0.1 Scoring for the game will be conducted on a 100 point system and
will be awarded as follows. 

3.0.1.a. Flag hang is 50 points 

3.0.1.b. First flag pull is 20 points 

3.0.1.c. Flag in transit, not hung, and in possession of a live player
at game end is 15 points 

3.0.1.d. Elimination's are 4 points per player 

3.0.1.e. Live players are 2 points each. 

3.0.2 Elimination points will be awarded to the opposing team for every
opponent removed from the field during play. A player may be removed from
the field for any valid hit, for surrendering or exiting the field, any
erroneous elimination by an official, any elimination for penalties assessed
against a teammate, for placing any part of his body or anything he is
wearing or carrying out of bounds, unsportsmanlike conduct, concealment
of an armband or acting in any manner indicating elimination, abandonment
of equipment (moving at least 5 feet away from such equipment), (except
pods used to carry extra paint), being out of the flag station at the start
of the game, or delaying taking the field after being told to do so by
the head judge. A player will be signaled as eliminated by removing his
armband, placing his marker above his head, placing a barrel plug or other
safety device onto his gun, placing his hand on his head, or verbally signaling
his elimination. 

3.0.3 A first flag pull occurs when a player not eliminated physically
grabs the flag before a player from the other teams manages to do the same
and is not eliminated in the process of pulling the flag. A flag pull may
not be awarded until a judge can verify that the player has not been marked. 

3.0.4 Flag hang points are awarded when a player breaks the plane of a
flag station with a flag. Flag hangs may be awarded in conjunction with
or independently of first flag pulls. Flag hangs may be awarded to the
team that is not in possession of the flag when it is hung since it is
the flag hang and the station that it is hung in that determines the points
awarded and to whom. Flag hangs will not be immediately awarded upon the
flag breaking the boundary planed of a flag station as the status of the
flag carrying player will first be verified before a flag hang is considered
to be official. Hangs made after the timekeepers announcement of time
will not be considered hangs. 

3.0.5 Hits occurring after the end of the game will or hits from a removed
player will not count as eliminations. 

3.1 Time and start

3.1.1 Each team is expected to report to the chrono station for the applicable
game field at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start of the game. 

3.1.2 Players who have passed the chronograph will be stationed in a controlled
area adjacent to the chronograph area. This area will be supervised by
a judge or other tournament official. Players in this area may not be handed
guns or tools. Players may leave this area to enter the playing field,
or may leave this area with their gun and be rechronod in upon reentering.
Players may not leave their gear unattended in the staging area. 

3.1.3 Players are responsible for removing old hits or bringing the same
to the attention of a field judge so that it may be dealt with in a manner
that would not result in it resulting in an elimination of a player. 

3.1.4 Players are not allowed to bring tools or other prohibited equipment
onto the game field. Presence of such equipment will result in a penalty
and disciplinary proceedings against the offending player and/or team. 

3.1.5 Each player will be given an armband in a distinctive team color
and will wear the same on his left arm in plain, unconcealed view. 

3.1.6 Players must be standing with one foot within or touching the flag
station at the start of the game, with their bodies and heads away from
the opposing team and their barrels pointed to the rear of the field or
breaking the plane of the flag station. 

3.1.7 The timekeeping Judge on the field will begin a game by giving a
10 second warning so that each team may hear clearly such warning. The
timekeeping judge will give such warning with a countdown of "three, two,
one, 10 seconds". Thereafter, the game will start by the timekeeper judge
shouting so that each team may hear, by radio or otherwise either "Game
on" or "Go, go, go." A whistle or horn may be substituted for a verbal
start. 

3.2 Chronographing

3.2.1 Only radar chronographs will be used for official game chronographs. 

3.2.2 Multiple chronographs may be designated for each playing field so
that in the event that a chronograph is not working one which was available
to the teams can be substituted. 

3.2.3 The chrono judge will take a marker from a player, inspect it and
assure that the presence of foreign matter in the barrel, feed port or
loader; that screws, the barrel, tank and other working parts which can
increase or decrease velocity are tight; that any valves, expansion chambers
or levers which can be turned on or off are in their maximum air flow positions;
and that there are no external velocity adjusters which are not covered
or fixed in place or any other device, part or item which would enable
a player to increase the muzzle velocity of the marker on the game field
without resorting to the use of tools present on the marker. He will also
ascertain that markers capable of turbo, burst, full auto or other modes
of enhanced fire have had those modes disabled in such a manner that they
may not be reenabled without the use of tools. 

3.2.4 Players whose markers do not pass such inspection will be informed
and will be given an opportunity to remedy the situation, time permitting. 

3.2.5 An equal number of players from each team shall have their markers chronographed immediately following each game. 

3.2.6 Players shall not discharge, disassemble, or power-toggle
their markers prior to post-game chronographing. 

3.2.7 Each chosen player will shoot 1 clearing shot, then a string of 3
shots. The fps velocity of the three shots will be totaled, and a 1 point
penalty shall be assessed to the offending player's team for each fps the
total is in excess of 900. A team may lose no more than fifty (50) points
per offending player per game. 

3.2.8 Each team will be assessed a 50 point penalty for each player refusing to have their marker chronographed. 

3.3 Armbands

3.3.1 Armbands must be at least 2 inches in width and long enough to fit
around the upper arm and constructed so that they are adjustable in length
and can be firmly affixed to the arm. 

3.3.2 The sets of arm bands will be of contrasting colors as to be easily
distinguishable and distinct from other official colors. 

3.3.3 Armbands shall be worn on the left arm uncovered and unconcealed. 

3.4 Flag

3.4.1 The flag will be a minimum of 12 inches wide and 18 inches long and
of a distinctive color. 

3.5 Number of games.

3.5.1 Teams will play a minimum of 5 preliminary round games. Such games
will be played against teams within the defined division of such team. 

3.5.2 In case of a tie score among teams, such tie will be broken, first,
by head to head competition, the winner of such contest advancing. If the
tie among teams remains after such tie breaking determination, the tie
shall be broken by the previous round scores, the team with the greatest
score in the previous round advancing. If the tie among teams remains after
such tie breaking determination, the tie shall be broken by the eliminations
received by the teams in the round, the team having received the fewest
eliminations in such round advancing. If the tie among teams remains after
such tie breaking determination, the tie shall be broken by the team having
the fewest penalty points. 

4.0 Clothing

4.0.1 Each player may only wear one layer of underclothing consistent with
the weather of the day for all but unreasonably cold weather. This shall
consist of, at a maximum, one pair of under shorts and one short or long
sleeve T-shirt. 

4.0.2 Each player may only wear one pair of full-length pants and a shirt,
either button or pullover style, as long as the colors on the outer garment
are not the same as any armbands, flags, judges apparel or paint chosen
for the event. No multi-colored or patterned clothing that makes it difficult
to see or distinguish a splat mark (such as "Hawaiian" shirts) will be
allowed. 

4.0.3 Players must wear clothing that fits well. If a judge deems that
a players clothing is oversized, the judge may require new attire or make
temporary adjustments using tape, pins, etc. 

4.0.4 Players may not wear jackets, shirts and or pants which are made
out of highly absorbent material, such as felt or fleece, or a highly padded
or slick nature, such as rubber or plastic. 

4.0.5 Players may wear a single pair of gloves, with or without full fingers.
Gloves may be padded. 

4.0.6 Players may wear nylon neck protection of a single layer. 

5.0 Protective gear

5.0.0 When in a shooting area such as chrono or field, masks with ASTM-certified
goggles must be worn. A spectator must wear a mask if there is no safety
netting between the field and the spectator. 

5.0.1 Players must wear full face protection. Players must use masks in
their factory released form, except manufacturer approved accessories designed
to increase safety and fan accessories which do not interfere with mask
function. 

5.0.2 Players must wear ear protection integrated with the mask. Goggle
straps are not considered ear protection. 

5.0.3 Players may wear forearm and elbow protection, provided that the
padding on such has not been modified from the manufactures original form.
Such protection may be worn over or under clothing. 

5.0.4 Payers may wear shin and knee protection, provided that the padding
has not been modified from the manufactures original form. Such protection
may be worn over or under clothing. 

5.0.5 Male players may wear groin protection and female players may wear
breast protection. 

5.0.6 An active player who deliberately breaks the seal between his goggles
and his face during a game, other than with the approval and under the
direct supervision of a judge, shall be immediately considered eliminated
from the game. A player who shoots at a player who has obviously been eliminated
because his goggles have been removed is subject to a 3-for-1 penalty. 

5.1 Markers

5.1.1 Players may use a single, 68 caliber, pump or semi automatic paintball
marker, which consists of a single barrel, a single trigger and a gravity
feed style magazine or stock class configurations. Double action, rt, turbo,
burst, full auto or other enhanced fire triggers are prohibited. Any marker
capable of firing more than one ball per pull of the trigger shall also
be deemed capable of firing in an enhanced mode and be prohibited. A marker
may be used if its enhanced mode can be rendered unusable and can not be
reactivated without the use of tools. 

5.1.2 All markers must have a trigger guard firmly mounted to the marker. 

5.1.3 Gun barrels may be equipped with porting, slots, rifling, but may
not have sound suppresser attached or integral to the construction of the
barrel. Only one barrel will be allowed on the field. 

5.1.4 Players may wear a remote tank hook up. The remote line may be worn
over or under clothing. 

5.1.5 Player may not use cloth, neoprene, or other material to cover the
paint loader on the marker or the marker. Neoprene covers for air source
tanks are allowed. 

5.1.6 Barrel plugs or barrel condoms that are properly fitted and in good
working order are required at all times except on the field or within the
target range. Squeegees and other objects may not be substituted for barrel
plugs. Barrel plugs must fit snugly so that multiple shots will not dislodge
the plug. 

5.2 Other equipment

5.2.1 Players may carry any number of pouches, clips or loaders. 

5.2.2 Vests and pouches may not be constructed in such a fashion that they
constitute padding. 

5.2.3 Players may carry a single hand towel or wash cloth, provided that
it is not of the same color as armbands, flags or judges apparel. Players
may carry multiple squeegees and or swabs. 

5.2.4 Players may carry extra air tanks. 

5.3 Prohibited equipment

5.3.1 Prohibited equipment includes artificial sounding devices (e.g.,
whistles, clickers, horns); shielding devices; artificial light sources;
heat generators (e.g., matches, lighters, heat packs); weapons, flares,
listening devices, communication devices and any form of electronic surveillance
device, incendiary devices, smoke producing devices, red paint, paint which
is toxic or not biodegradable and paint which has a shell, fill or both
altered or augmented in any way from factory form. 

5.3.2 Anything not specified in sections 5.01 through 5.34 inclusive as
permitted shall be prohibited unless allowed by the ultimate judge. 

5.4 Possession and exchange

5.4.1 Two live players may exchange equipment. 

5.4.2 Players who are eliminated must exit the field with all equipment
they were carrying when they were eliminated. 

5.4.3 Players must have all paint, gas, and equipment to be used during
the course of the game on their person at the start of the game. 

5.4.4 the flag may be transferred to another player freely, so long as
both players are live. if the flag carrier is elminated, he may pass the
flag only by holding ti at arms length. 

6.0 Game chronographing

6.0.1 Chronographing on the field may be done at any time at the discretion
of any field judge to determine if a markers muzzle velocity has risen
above the legal limits. Judges will seek to perform on the field chronographing
in a manner which least interferes with play. 

6.0.2 Players with markers chronoed on the field during a game at 300 FPS
or less (one, two or three shots at the discretion of the field judge)
will continue to play without penalty, although such marker may, at the
discretion of any judge, be chronoed at the end of the game and penalties
may be assessed if the marker is shooting hot. 

6.0.3 Markers that are shooting over 300 FPS will be held by the judge
and the player using that marker will be eliminated from play. The marker
will be chronographed at the conclusion of the game and penalty points
will be assessed if the marker is shooting hot. 

6.0.4 Players who are observed working on their marker during the course
of the game with the exception of cleaning paint out of the barrel, loader
or feed ports and changing constant air tanks will be immediately removed
from play. 

7.0 Game times and completion

7.0.1 When the game time has expired or a flag judge declares a flag hanger
clean and the hang completed, the head judge will communicate to all judges
the "Game Over" call in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.22
hereof, and this will be repeated to all live players. 

7.0.2 Official game time will be kept by the head judge or a field judge
appointed thereby, but in no event shall the official game time be kept
by a flag judge. In the event that a game is to be interrupted because
of a medical emergency or otherwise, he will mark the time or cause the
field judge appointed to keep the official game time to mark the time.
The head judge will restart the game and the time will begin by a ten-second
warning followed by the game on signal as specified in section 2.21 hereof.
Time will begin to run upon such restart. 

7.0.3 Game time will be 5 minutes. Only the official timekeeper will keep
official time and call the 10 second warning, start the game, or end the
game on account of time. 

7.0.4 If the game finals cannot be completed for reasons of darkness, weather,
etc., then the tournament team standings as they were at the end of the
semi-finals will stand and no play-off points can be used. If the semi-finals
cannot be completed for reasons of darkness, weather, etc., or no semi-finals
are conducted as part of the event, then the tournament team standings
from the preliminary play will stand and no semi-final points can be used. 

8.1 Checkout procedures

8.1.1 Players that are eliminated, immediately upon elimination, must exit
the field by the most direct route unless otherwise directed by a field
judge. Players that take routes that are not the most direct absent such
direction by a judge or players that refuse to follow a judge's direction
for leaving the field will be assessed a penalty for playing on. 

8.1.2 All live players at the end of the game must present themselves to
a field judge at the exit point for inspection. At this time a field judge
will inspect the player for hits and playing-on penalties will be assessed
for each obvious hit. 

8.1.3 Players may not re-enter the playing field without permission of
a field judge. 

8.1.4 Eliminated players who communicate either verbally or nonverbally
with players still on the field will be assessed a playing on penalty. 

8.2 Game ending procedures

8.2.1 Games will end pursuant to the provisions of section 2.22 hereof,
upon a successful flag hang, the elimination of all players on the field
or the elapse of game time. 

8.2.2 At least one field judge will be assigned to inspect live players
exiting the field at the assigned exit point at game end. 

8.2.3 If the last player on the field is eliminated due to a penalty, the
opposing team shall be awarded the flag hang, provided that their last
player was not also so eliminated. 

8.3 Game forfeits

8.3.1 A forfeit will be declared for each game that a team failed to report
in a timely fashion for its pre-game chronographing, or for any game in
which a team refused to take the field, as long as its opponent is willing
to do so or does take the field. In the event that both teams fail to show
for a game or both teams are unwilling to take the field, both teams will
have forfeited that game. 

8.3.2 Any team which is scheduled to oppose a team that has forfeited a
game will receive the average of all of the scores received by teams from
other games played against the forfeiting team in the same round as the
forfeited game. The forfeiting team will receive zero points, unless the
opposing team also forfeited that game, in which case both teams will receive
zero points for that game. 

8.3.3 Once a forfeit has been declared, the forfeited game will not be
rescheduled and the score will stand, except if the reason for having missed
the game was completely beyond the control of the team declared to have
forfeited that game, including travel, weather or other unavoidable schedule
delays. 

8.4 Game stoppage

8.4.1 Games stoppages will only incur in case of emergency, dangerous weather
conditions, other acts of god, or a physical altercation on the game field. 

8.4.2 Only the head judge may declare the game stopped. 

8.4.3 All field judges will note the locations of the players at the time
that the game is stopped. Once the game has been stopped, the field judges
will insure that players will remain in those locations. Judges will check
all players and will remove any players who are eliminated prior to the
game being stopped. Judges will confer to judge the sequence or events
prior to the game stoppage. If penalties need to be assessed, they will
be so assessed at such time. Players with hits may be reinstated into the
game if the field judges determine that a player was eliminated as a direct
result of illegal actions which led directly to the game stoppage. Once
the conditions causing the game stoppage has abated or been resolved and
all the live players and flags are placed in proper positions by the field
judges, the head judge will restart the game in accordance with the procedures
specified in section 2.21 hereof. 

9.0 When Paint checks are Performed

9.0.1 Paint checks are performed by judges for the purpose of determining
if a paintball has broken on and marked a player. 

9.0.2 Paint checks are performed by a judge when the judge has observed
a player taking fire, when fire is directed into an area occupied by a
player that a judge cannot directly observe, when the physical location
that a paintball may have broken on is not visible to the judge, or when
the judge is directed to do so by another judge. 

9.0.3 Judges may, but is under no obligation to, make a paint check after
a player has requested one. 

9.1 Neutrality

9.1.1 Judges will make every effort to perform a paint check without calling
a player neutral. A judge may however declare a player neutral at his discretion. 

9.1.2 No flag carrier will be stopped and declared neutral for the purpose
of performing a paint check nor will his progress be interfered with in
the course of a paint check. 

9.1.3 A judge calling a player neutral will indicate the same to all players
on the field by standing over the player, calling "neutral" and holding
his arms above his head or waving them. 

9.1.3.a A judge must declare a player neutral if the actions of the judge
unreasonably impede or interfere with such players ability to continue
to play. 

9.1.4 A player declared neutral cannot be eliminated from the game or moved
on, either by the opposing team members or his own team mates. 

9.1.5 A judge may move a players equipment and or request that such player
expose additional areas for examination. 

9.1.6 Players not declared neutral may be eliminated while being checked. 

9.1.7 While the player is declared neutral, he may not shoot his gun, signal
teammates or in any way continue play until the referee puts him back into
active play. 

9.2 Flag carriers

9.2.1 When a player carrying a flag breaks the plane of the flag station
boundary, the flag judge will signal "time" and the player carrying the
flag is immediately considered neutral. 

9.2.2 The flag carrier will immediately be checked for paint. 

9.2.3 If the flag carrier is clean, the flag judge will declare "game over"
to the ultimate judge who will then announce the completion of the game
in accordance with the provisions specified in section 2.22 hereof. 

10.0 Obvious hits

10.0.1 Obvious hits are those which impact and break on easily observable
places on the body or equipment being carried or those that have been felt
by the player. A judge will determine whether a player felt a hit by where
that paintball impacted his body and whether he reacted upon being hit. 

10.0.2 Players who are hit in an obvious location are expected to immediately
signal their elimination by announcing "hit or out" at the time of such
elimination's. 

10.0.3 Such players must then remove their armbands, put in their barrel
plug and hold the marker in the air above their head and exit the field
immediately by the most direct route or upon the instructions of a field
judge, if given. 

10.0.4 Players who are hit in obvious locations which are easily verifiable
by such players may not call for a paint check. Players with self-verifiable
obvious hits who call for a paint check will receive a playing-on penalty. 

10.0.5 Players who are in motion while hit in obvious locations which are
easily verifiable, such as the back must immediately call on a team mate
or judge who can verify whether or not the paintball broke. The teammate
must respond immediately and if the hit player was eliminated, he must
cease play, signal his elimination and exit the field pursuant to the provisions
of section 10.0. Failure to call a teammate for verification or failure
of such teammate to respond immediately constitutes playing on by the hit
player. If no such teammate is available for verification, such player
must immediately call for a paint check by a field judge. Failure to call
for such paint check will constitute playing on by such player. 

10.1 Unobvious hits

10.1.1 Unobvious hits are those which impact and break on players or equipment
in locations which are neither felt nor easily seen by the player. 

10.1.2 Players with unobvious hits will be eliminated but will not be penalized. 

10.1.3 Should a player with an unobvious hit become aware, through his
own actions or through information provided by teammates, that he has been
validly marked, the hit shall be considered an obvious one. 

10.2 Eliminations

10.2.1 A player is eliminated if a paintball shot by a live member of either
team strikes that player or anything he is wearing or carrying and such
paintball breaks upon the object struck. If the paintball strike the player
or anything he is wearing or carrying but does not break and leave a mark,
such player is not eliminated. If a judge does not see a paintball shot
by a live member of the opposing team or a players team strike that player
or another object, but that player has paint on himself or anything he
is wearing or carrying that resembles a hit, such player will be eliminated
by such judge. Generally, if the paint marking is reasonably solid and
at least the size of a quarter, it will be considered a valid hit. If 2
opposing players are hit and marked, as per provided in this section 10.21
simultaneously, or if the judges cannot determine which player was hit
and marked first, both players will be eliminated. Judges will wipe splatter
or none valid hits off a player at the time they are inspected. No player
will be allowed to continue play with paint that is considered non valid
until it is wiped clean by a judge. 

10.2.2 Players will be eliminated if any part of their bodies or anything
they are wearing or carrying breaks the plane separating the field from
the out of bounds area. Such elimination will take place immediately upon
the breaking of such plane. Judges may warn players once and only once
if they are getting close to the boundary line of the field. 

10.2.3 Players will be eliminated if they are not wearing arm bands issued
prior to the start of the games fully exposed on their left arms. 

10.2.4 Players that are found with tools or other prohibited equipment
on the field or those working on their markers in violation of the provisions
specified in section 7.04 hereof will be immediately eliminated and assessed
a two-for-one penalty. 

10.2.5 Players that separate from any piece of equipment or clothing that
they brought on to the game field by more than 5 feet, except squeegees,
rags, or paint pods used in holding extra paintballs will be immediately
eliminated. 

10.2.6 Players that engage in unsportsmanlike conduct, including, but not
limited to, failure to obey a judges directions with respect to moving
on a neutral player, deliberate avoidance of a judge in a manner to prevent
a judge from chronographing a marker on the field or prevent him from making
a call, shooting at judges, excessive shooting at an eliminated player,
the requesting of paint checks to distract judges from checking themselves
of teammates or to use judges to locate opposition players or verbal abuse
of opposition players or judges will be eliminated and the head judge will
assess a 20 to 50 point penalty to the offending player's team. 

10.2.7 Players that take action which would cause members of the opposing
team to reasonably believe that such players have been eliminated, including
but not limited to calling himself hit, hiding the armbands, holding the
markers in positions about the shoulders, placing objects in the barrels
of the markers in carrying them in view of members of the opposing teams
or walking in groups of eliminated players will be eliminated. 

10.2.8 Players whose markers shoot on the field in excess of 300 FPS will
be eliminated in accordance with the provisions of section 7.03 hereof. 

10.2.9 Players may be eliminated as a penalty called by a judge for infractions
committed by teammates. 

10.2.10 Eliminated players will surrender their armbands to the closest
judge and exit the field immediately or, if given, at a judge's direction. 

11.0 Flag carriers

11.0.1 Players carrying flags must carry them openly. 

11.0.2 Flags may be passed from live player to live player. 

11.0.3 A player eliminated while in possession of a flag will remain on
the field of play, holding the flag at arms length and at eye level, until
that flag is recovered by another player from either team. Flags must be
surrendered by the eliminated flag holder to any player touching it. If
the flag carrier is within arms reach of a suitable object when eliminated,
he may place the flag on that object and remove himself from the field
of play. 

12.0 Playing On

12.0.1 Playing on entails continuing to act as a player in the game after
being eliminated. Playing on includes, but is not limited to, continuing
to fire or otherwise engage the opposition, continuing to move except with
respect to exiting the field by the most direct route or at the direction
of a judge, talking, signaling or otherwise communicating, either to a
judge, opposing players or teammates, except that a player may say "I'm
hit" or, "out", or something to that effect once, impeding the progress
of opposition players or a judge, hampering a judge in making a paint check
or a call, discharging or degassing the marker or providing teammates with
paintballs or equipment. 

12.0.2 The penalty for playing on is the removal of a teammate, unless
in the judges opinion such playing on has materially influenced the course
of the game giving the offending players team an advantage, in which case
the penalty for playing on is the removal of two teammates. 

12.1 Wiping

12.1.1 Wiping is defined as the active and deliberate removal of paint
by a player in order to avoid elimination or avoid a judges call. 

12.1.2 Wiping is penalized by the immediate removal of the player from
the game and the simultaneous removal of three additional players from
the same team. 

12.1.3 All calls for wiping shall be reported to the head judge. A team
will receive a 100 point penalty for a second call for wiping against that
team. Any team which accumulates three calls for wiping amongst all of
its members within the course of an event shall be eliminated from further
participation in the event. 

12.2 Freight training.

12.2.1 Freight training is the act of utilizing multiple players who move
and act in such a manner so that the lead players after being marked and
eliminated impede or prevent the timely elimination of others players in
the train. 

12.2.2 Judges will allow a freight train to continue, but will remove one
player for each instance of continuing to play by any of the freight training
players. When the freight train stops, the players who took multiple hits
will also be removed from play. 

12.3 Interference

12.3.1 Spectators may be allowed to observe games at the discretion of
the ultimate judge. 

12.3.2 Team members and associates of the competing teams who interfere
with the play of that game will immediately receive a penalty as if a player
played-on on the field. 

12.4 Assessment of penalties

12.4.1 Judges must assess the penalty proscribed for playing on or wiping. 

12.4.2 Only head judges or the ultimate judge may assess penalties that
remove points earned on the field. 

12.4.3 Judges will issue verbal warnings for the following infractions: 

12.4.3.1. First offense failure to observe a neutral call. 

12.4.3.2. Failure to use a barrel plug. 

12.4.3.3. First offense abuse of calling for paint checks 

12.4.3.4 First offense on the use of inappropriate language. 

12.4.4 Judges will eliminate players for the following infractions: 

12.4.4.1. Second offense failure to observe a neutral call. 

12.4.4.2. Second offense abuse of calling for paint checks. 

12.4.4.3. Second offense on the use of inappropriate language. 

12.4.4.4. Aggressive movement during a neutral call within 60 feet of neutral
player. 

12.4.4.5. A player going out of bounds or moving a boundary tape. 

12.4.4.6. A player hit in an unobvious location. 

12.4.4.7. Not being in the appropriate starting position at the beginning of a game. 

12.4.4.8. Failure to wear goggles. 

12.4.5 Assessment of the one for one rule (the removal of the player committing
the infraction and a teammate) will take place for the following infractions. 

12.4.5.1. A player having tools on the field 

12.4.5.2. Freight training, applied for each infraction. 

12.4.5.3. Continuing to play, hit in an obvious location. 

12.4.5.4. Re-entering the field after elimination. 

12.4.5.5. Interference during the course of the game by a person affiliated
with the team not playing in the game. 

12.4.5.6. Playing on. 

12.4.5.7. Talking after elimination is signaled or eliminated by a judge. 

12.4.6 Assessment for the two for one rule (the removal of the player committing
the infraction and two teammates) will take place for the following infractions. 

12.4.6.1. Continuing to play, hit in an obvious location which results
in an alteration of the course of the game. 

12.4.6.2. Use of a fully automatic marker, a double action trigger, auto
response or similar device. 

12.4.7 Assessment of the three for one rule (the removal of the player
committing the infraction and three teammates) will take place for the
following. 

12.4.7.1. Wiping 

12.4.7.2. Engaging in physical contact with another person on the field
in a hostile manner. 

12.4.7.3. verbally abusing a judge or other participant 

12.4.7.4. Throwing a marker. 

12.4.7.5. Arguing with a judge during game play. 

12.4.7.6. deliberately making contact with a bunker with the objective
to bounce an opposing player out of the bunker (also known as slamming). 

12.4.8 Assessment of point penalties (other than hot gun penalties) will
take place for the following infractions: 

12.4.8.1. Checking in as a live player at the end of the game with a hit
in an unobvious location is a -10 point penalty. 

12.4.8.2. Checking in as a live player at the end of the game with a hit
in an obvious location is a -50 point penalty. 

12.5 Additional penalties

12.5.1 An ultimate judge may assess additional one for one penalties during
the game or point penalties off the field for the following infractions: 

12.5.1. Each time a player fails to obey a judges instructions is a 10
point penalty. 

12.5.2. Throwing a marker or tank is a 100 point penalty. 

12.5.3. Use of profanity which could be audible by the spectators is a
10 point penalty per occurrence. 

12.6 If a penalty is called that results in the removal of the last player
on a team, the other team will be awarded the flag hang automatically,
so long as the other team's last player was not also eliminated by penalty.
12.7 Any team the intentionally gives up points to its opponents or plots
to set scores will be disqualified from the tournament. 12.8 Any player
who engages in a physical altercation will be disqualified from the tournament. 
13.0 Arguing calls

13.0.1 only a team captain may argue a call, and only after the end of
the game with the head field ref, who has authority to settle it in such
matter as he sees fit or to refer it to the ultimate judge in the case
of a rules discrepancy or uncertainty. 

13.0.2 In the case of a rules discrepancy or uncertainty, the call of the
ultimate judge will govern all fields of play. 

13.0.3 A player arguing a call during play with the ref making the call
may be assessed a penalty for interference in play and or/for unacceptable
conduct. 

14.0 Decorum

14.0.1 Teams and players thereon attending events shall refrain from wearing
or otherwise displaying offensive pictures, words or logos at the site
where the tournament is taking place. 

14.0.2 Teams and players thereon attending college events shall refrain
from engaging in any conduct that would bring the tournament, the promoter
or any sponsor into disrepute, including, but not limited to, the trashing
of hotel rooms, the discharge of loaded markers in ungoggled trafficked
areas, the willful destruction of private property, engaging in physical
altercations, except in defense of ones person against an unprovoked aggressor,
or the commission of a criminal act. 

14.0.3 Any person that fails to adhere to the rules and regulations specified
in this section may be prohibited from competing in college events for
at least one year after a hearing by the Board of Directors. 

14.1 Rules and procedures for maintenance and cleanup

14.1.1 All teams shall have equal access to the parking and staging areas,
staging tents, tables and chairs provided for the players. All teams shall
adhere to the administrative rules and promulgated by the NCPA and owner
of the facilities with respect thereto. 

14.1.2 All teams shall police and dispose of all trash generated thereby
within the parking area, the staging area and/or the compound. 

14.1.3 Any team that fails to adhere to the rules and regulations contained
in this section 14.1 and in section 13.51 for unsportsmanlike conduct may
be referred by the Ultimate Judge to the Board of Directors for a disciplinary
hearing to assign a possible suspension from play. 

15.0 Player Ejections

 15.1 Players will be immediately ejected from a tournament for the following behaviors or at the direction of the ultimate judge: 

 15.1.0 Throwing paintball markers or tanks 
 15.1.1 Any hostile phyical contact with another player, referee or spectator 
 15.1.2 Second wiping offense 
 15.1.3 Gross Unsportsmanlike Conduct 
 15.1.4 Second yelling at referee or player offense 

 15.2 A team from which a player is ejected will play short a player for the remainder of the event. 
 15.3 The Ultimate Judge shall report, in writing, to the NCPA President any players ejected from a tournament and the reason for their ejection.

16.0 Suspensions

 16.1 The NCPA President may issue player suspensions to players ejected from NCPA-sanctioned events. The President will always issue the suspensions indicated for the following acts: 

 16.1.0 Fighting with another player, referee, or spectator: Lifetime suspension from all NCPA sanctioned events 
 16.1.1 Throwing paintball markers or tanks: One calendar year suspension from NCPA sanctioned events 
 16.1.2 Wiping: Suspension from the next NCPA sanctioned event attended by that player's college 

 16.2 The NCPA President will suspend any college who has three or more players suspended in a season from further participating in any NCPA sanctioned events for the remainder of that season. A team so suspended will forfiet any series or ranking points earned that season. 
 16.3 A player or team suspended by action of the NCPA President may file a written appeal to the Chairman of the NCPA Board of Directors. The Board of Directors will consider and act on the appeal. The Board may take any of the following actions: 

 16.3.0 Uphold the suspension as issued by the NCPA President 
 16.3.1 Overturn the suspendion 
 16.3.2 Reduce the length of the suspension