MICT2K SponsorPage 

 How College Paintball Works - The Illini Paintball Warriors 

The Illini Paintball Warriors are the paintball club and team for the University of Illinois
at Urbana/Champaign. The paid membership for the 2000-01 school year is approximately 150 students
(so far) with an email list of 1200 interested students. Students do not need to be members to play,
and most people who do go to the recreational outings are not paid members. Paid members pay $5/yr
and get a membership card good for various discounts at local fields and stores in exchange for their
contribution.
 IPW basically operates on a two tier system, with a large base of recreational players and a smaller
group of roughly 25 tournament players. Most of the recreational players have played 3 or less times
if at all, the tournament players range from newbies with just a few rec games experience to those who
have been playing tournament paintball for a few years.
 For the recreational player, IPW offers an easy an inexpensive way for the student to play paintball.
We answer the players questions, get deals with the local fields, make the reservations, and get rides
to the field for players without a car. We keep players involved with the organization through informational
meetings, mass emails to those who have signed up for our list, and the club web page. We also offer t-shirts
and membership cards as a way of keeping our players involved with the club over the long haul.
 Any given year starts out with Quad Day, where every student organization has a chance to set up a
booth on the quad. The bulk of our players are attracted in this manner, so we put a lot of effort into
it. We have several of our members on hand to answer questions, take people's email adresses so we can
email them later, and hand out flyers advertising our first informational meeting and game as well as our
web page and contact information. We also distribute and post the fliers around campus for those who miss quad day.
 Quad Day is quickly followed up by an informational meeting. This is the key step in transforming
interested students into regular players. Any given year we can expect
150-250 students to show up to this meeting, the vast majority of which are new players for that year.
(The old ones are already informed.) Seeing that many other students show up is a very powerful motivator
for getting players to take the step to actually playing. We also make sure to ask how many players have
never played before (and played less than 3 times) so new players know that pretty much everyone else is
in the same boat they are. We describe paintball, assure them that they really don't hurt that much, and
answer all their questions. We take signups for the first game, for membership, sell t-shirts, take orders
for more tshirts, and describe the tournament team to those interested. And we give out free pizza.
 As you can see, the college club provides a lot of advertising and information and organization that
a local field couldn't possibly hope to provide. Not only have we answerred the questions of 250 people
who otherwise would never have had a chance to get informed, we've given them all (AND their friends) an
easy way to actually get on the field - all they have to do is sign up and show up. None of them have to
worry about finding a local field to play at, or figuring out where it is, or getting other people to play
with them so they're not alone, or worry about wether there is going to be some 35 year old weekend warrior
guy bent on winning the game at all costs showing up, since we rent the field out for ourselves. We make
sure students (esp. freshmen) who don't have cars on campus (and thus no hope of getting to a field on their
own) have a ride. We tell them what they need to bring, what they don't need to bring, how much it will cost,
basically everything they don't know that's keeping them from playing that they have pretty much no other way
to easily find out.
 The first big game is Saturday September 9th. It's scheduled to avoid home football games and Labor Day
weekend. We meet at 8 AM. We pick up students at the various dorms and give them a ride to a staging point and make sure
everyone has a ride to the field. 80 players have shown up to play, a roughly even mix of players from the
years before, players who got the info at quad day or went to the meeting, and friends of those people.
Our local fields know we can deliver large groups of players to them and appreciate that we're pretty much
a self-reffing bunch, and we've managed to arrange a great deal for our players accordingly: $5 field fee,
$5 rental, and $75/case for paint (RPS Tiger). Over the course of the day, the new players spend $28.50 each
($10 field fee and rental plus a quarter case), some of the more trigger happy and veteran players buy more paint.
The officers and tournament team players don't usually play and instead ref and help instruct the new players
on what to do. More tshirts are sold, more membership dues are taken, those who want to leave early get
rides home early and those who want to stay longer get to stay longer. Everyone has a great time, virtually
all swear to come back to the next event. The field owners are happy to have us, aside from a labor intensive
period of selling us paint in the morning and a couple refs to satisfy the insurance requirements, we're
pretty much self-sufficient for the day and they're able to run an open game on other fields. Besides, they
just had 80 players who they normally never would have had who will also need a place to play by themselves
or with their dorm floors or fraternities or churches or whatever later, and now the students have a field they know
about to do it at.
 We also organize smaller events for other groups on campus who get in touch with us and arn't qutie sure what
they need, wether it be fraternities, service organizations, churches, departments or dorm floors. This
lets them have access to the price discounts the club as a whole has access to, and we get to again help
out the fields who help us out by bringing them more customers. We also send an officer or two along to
make sure everything runs smoothly.
 On the tournament front, the tournament team has been practicing every Thursday and Sunday at a local
field. The owner is kind enough to charge us nothing to play, his team needs another team to play against
and he also gets refs and field referalls for small university groups in exchange. He sells us paint at
cost (or we can bring our own) and we practice in the off-hours. College nationals are September 30th as part
of USPL's Paintfest 2000
and the MICT (Midwest Intercollegiate Tournament) is November 11th. We have about 10 returning tournament
players as well as 15 new ones, a few of whom have never even played paintball before, most of whom have
a few rec games, and a couple of which are freshman who play on amatuer teams. Those with lots of experience
do lots of coaching for those with little experience, the goal is to enter two experienced teams in nationals
plus one team of "newbies" who feel comfortable playing tournaments after 4 weeks of practice, and then
enter 4 full teams in regionals in November. Not all the players have their own guns, but we have enough
extra to fullfill the need until they get around to buying their own. Of the experienced players, only 2
played tournament paintball before college, and only 3 of the new players have - which means 80% of these
tournament players wouldn't be playing tournament paintball if the college team didn't exist.
 The main thing keeping college players from tournament play is the expense. Since college players
arn't really interested in big prize packages, we're able to keep tournament entry fees low, about $30
a person, and offer paint cheaply, just expensive enough to make the hosting field a little money. That
still leaves a lot of ground to cover though, with paint for practice, uniforms, guns and other equipment,
plus travel, food, and hotel costs to tournaments. IPW is lucky enough to get some help from the University,
but most colleges arn't so lucky. Most colleges can manage to scrape up enough for a local tournament, but
$150 for travel and hotel and food and fees and paint is tough; another $300 for airfare to a national tournament
is next to impossible.
 In summary, what we've accomlished is given a local field an additional 80 players a month plus some
university students a way to get into paintball. In the long run, after people graduate, this
means we've created a few hundred recreational players and a good group of tournament players for life.
Players who have had the chance to play with IPW are more likely to play again on their own, are more
likely to invest in their own equipment, are more likely to bring their friends next time they play and
get them hooked, and they're more likely to have an enjoyable time playing with a large group of other
college students than they would showing up by themselves or with a few friends and finding themselves
at the mercy of the open recball game crowd and the veteran newbie hunters.