NCPA Sponsors Page 

 Sponsors 

 Special thanks to the 
 NCPA 2000 National Championship Sponsors 
 And special thanks to the 
 Spring 2000 MICT Sponsors 

 Media Supporters 

 Your company could be here!
 The paintball industry is generally geared towards prize based sponsorship, i.e.,
a team pays a normally substantial entry fee to get into a tournament and inflated
prices for paint in an attempt to win the prize package that is offerred, usually selling
off the prizes to further finance the team. Teams who do well appeal to various paintball
companies and obtain various degrees of equipment sponsorship.
 While this model is alright for amatuer and professional paintball, and college events,
especially the Spring 2000 MICT, have had a good amount of success in giving out prizes,
the prize based system is not the ideal model for college paintball for a few reasons.
 Firstly, we feel that a large amount of the ridiculous antics in the professional leagues
is due to the sometimes thousands of dollars of prizes on the line. We've all seen the
wiping, the player who gets upset with a call and throws his gun across the field, etc.
This sort of behavior, if not entirely fosterred by, is largely encouraged when teams need
to WIN to finance themselves. College events make a point of NOT announcing prize packages
beforehand for this reason.
 Secondly, we would much rather have all players play for as close to free as possible
than have prizes to give to the winners. The key difference between NCPA events and other
tournament events is profit, i.e., we don't get any. When a team or organization decides
to hold a tournament, they are trying to make a little money, so obviously, charging less
doesn't make a whole lot of sense - the idea is to charge as much as possible and then
try and attract a large number of teams with a good prize package, either donated or purchased
(or perhaps some of both) and pocket the difference. With NCPA events, the goal isn't
profit - its to get as many teams out there as possible. This leaves us the ability to
attract teams not by having to offer huge prize packages, but by giving them the opportunity
to play in a competitive environment at prices much lower than they'd pay for other events.
 Basically it comes down to this: We'd rather have everyone pay a little and play for
a trophy than have everyone pay a lot and fight for the prize package in an attempt to break
even. The goal then is to make what the teams do have to pay to participate as little as
possible. College paintball can do this because we have restrictive eligibility: Unlike the
vast majority of paintball tournaments where anyone willing to pay the entry fee can play,
*ONLY* college teams can play in the NCPA. If we manage to have free entry and $10 cases
of paint, we don't have to worry about everyone and their mother trying to enter - entry
is limitted to a fixed number of teams per school.
 That's where sponsors come in: Teams need help with basic equipment, practice and
tournament paint, and reimbursement for travel to tournaments. Even regional tournament
participation usually involves 3-14 hour drives, national level sometimes a plane ticket,
expenses pretty daunting to the full-time employee, let alone a full-time college student. Our events
need help paying field owners for field usage as well as paying a good reffing staff. This
does create a challenge with sponsorships from the paintball industry which is geared towards
providing prizes to large tournaments and discounts to their sponsorred teams, but also
opens us up as an extreme sport for sponsorship from out-of-industry companies.
 Interested in sponsoring the NCPA or an NCPA event? Let Chris Raehl (raehl311@yahoo.com) know about it.
 For more info on sponsoring NCPA events, click here .