National Collegiate Paintball Association 

 National Collegiate Paintball Association (NCPA) Elections Scheduled for September 
 The National Collegiate Paintball Association will hold elections from September 2 through September 15, 2001 to establish its Board of Directors. Elections will be held online through the NCPA's website at www.college-paintball.com . Voting is open to any paintball organization that has official recognition from their college or university as a club, athletic team or other similar student organization, or any unrecognized club or team that has participated in an NCPA endorsed event within the preceding 12 months.

 Students interested in running for a position on the NCPA's Board of Directors are strongly encouraged to obtain more detailed information from the NCPA's election information page, located at www.elections.college-paintball.com . College clubs and teams who wish to vote in the election should also visit this page.

 The NCPA is a nationwide, non-profit organization created and run by college paintball players and alumni. Established in the summer of 2000, the NCPA supports collegiate paintball on the recreational and tournament level by supporting college players, clubs, teams and events across the country while striving to further reduce the costs college students pay to participate in the sport.

 "While we successfully ran a nationwide league last season including five conference championships and the College National Championships using consensus based leadership, we are frankly getting too big to continue with that model. Electing a Board of Directors formalizes the way college players run their organization and assures that they have a voice in how college paintball continues to grow," said Chris Raehl, the NCPA's founder and college paintball alumni. "After all, college paintball would not exist were it not for many years of work by students across the country," he added.

 Mike Ramsey, tournament captain for the Iowa State University Cyclones , commented, "I like being involved in a league that lets players control the direction of tournaments and I also like the laid back atmosphere of play that the NCPA promotes."

 Because the NCPA is run by the players, NCPA benefits are freely available to all college players, clubs and teams. More information about the National Collegiate Paintball Association and college paintball in general may be found at www.college-paintball.com or by emailing collegepaintball@yahoo.com . The NCPA would like to thank Kick'N Paintballs and AKALMP for their support for college paintball, as well as congratulate last season's repeat College National Champions, the University of Illinois Illini Paintball Warriors .

 Visits: