The Susan Pecsok Collection 

 The Susan Pecsok Collection 

 JR Sroufe 
displays an ad for Rick Barrett's company, Merit Adventures. Ironically,
neither JR or Barrett were aware of the ad......JR displayed it for hours
before discovering it. 

 Pouya
Ayra, Jessica Aspiras, and Jeremy Mixer contemplate what to take a
photo of next 

 Ed Zeppelin and Natel Hernandez take
a moment to settle down in the midst of the raging party in room 975 

 Ed and
Natel study a mysterious invisible object at the convention 

 Larry
Burnett has a chat with Jim Berry 

 This
candid shot of a small corner of
room 975 shows how crowded the room was. Special thanks to Annie and Buzz
Parrish for allowing us to use the room for the party! 

 Oh no! 
Pouya got ahold of a video camera... 

 Jessica
"Jailbait" Kutch sits proudly
in a chair at the Ritz hotel, which was previously occupied by Robert
Plant. This picture was taken just moments after his departure from the
chair. 

 A table of
goodies , some hand crafted by Dale Weiser,
is displayed on a table while onlookers study it's contents. All items on
the table belong to Dale and his wife Shar Weiser, who brought some pretty
cool items, such as the ones you see here, to the convention. 

 Jessica Kutch 
displays one of her
acquired possessions from the Cleveland convention. One thing that sets 
this acquired possession apart from many like it is the fact that this
acquired possession was signed by Jimmy Page and Robert Plant. 

 Natel, Shelby, Pouya,
and Samantha Levins all gaze in amazement at some familiar symbols
held before their eyes 

 Dardo
Simone shares some funny
experiences from recent shows with Kate, as well as with several
Badgeholders not in the picture 

 Pouya 
tries to drink a beer while
Dan Barron tries to enter the room, probably completely unaware that
Pouya is in fact being squished 

 Jeremy 
gives a rather clueless glare towards the camera while Buzz contemplates
the meaning of life 

 Return to Zepfest 98 Photo Album 
 Home 
 Led Zeppelin