Melbourne | Locations 

 Locations 

 Rob McNeilly MBBS was in a suburban Melbourne general medical practice for 10 years, had the privilege of learning directly with Milton Erickson , was inspired by his human approach to therapy, and created his own interpretation to assist clients in a respectful, dignified way with the human dilemmas that affect individuals, couples and families. He founded the CET in l988 to introduce Ericksonian Hypnosis and the Solution Oriented Approach to hypnosis, counselling and coaching in Australia. For more than 30 years, the contribution he brings i his teaching style, writing and unique approaches to learning and therapy allow for a ready application into everyday living and are recognised locally, nationally and internationally, including repeated invited presentations at the Milton H Erickson Foundation&rsquo;s International Congresses in USA since 1980 and workshops in Singapore, Tokyo, Denmark, Brazil, Helsinki, UK and The Czech Republic since 1999. He is co-author, with Jenny Brown, of "Healing With Words", "Healing the Whole Person" was published by Wiley, republished as &ldquo;Doing Change&rdquo; by St Luke&rsquo;s Innovative Resources, and Crown House have published a series of DVD demonstrations of counselling and hypnosis. Students comment on his easy, respectful manner and his elegant ability to make complex issues approachable while retaining their essence. &lsquo; Rob McNeilly studied with Milton H. Erickson M.D. ... is one of the most knowledgeable practitioners of Ericksonian methods in Australia. His teaching is clear, entertaining and edifying.&rsquo; Jeffrey K. Zeig, Ph.D. Board of Directors, The Milton H. Erickson Foundation, Inc., Phoenix, Arizona. &ldquo;Rob McNeilly worked with Milton Erickson, has been an invited presenter at International Ericksonian Congresses, and is a passionate and skilful teacher of the Solution Oriented Approach. I know him and his work, and value his personal and professional contributions." Bill O&rsquo;Hanlon MS LMFT A highly skilled presenter whose unique perspectives and playful demeanour make for a delightful learning experience.&rsquo; Michael D. Yapko, Ph.D. &lsquo; .. Your clear and practical teaching of the solution oriented approach has enabled me to achieve more effective interventions with greater ease ..... the approach is applicable in many different contexts...&rsquo; Peter Thorneycroft, Psychologist. 

 Melbourne Courses 2016 Ericksonian Hypnosis - a 3 day intensive April 11 - 13 [Rob McNeilly] Diploma of Solutions in Hypnosis Term 1: April 11 - 13 [Rob McNeilly] Term 2: June 20 - 22 [ Peter Thorneycroft] Term 3: August 22 - 24 [Rob McNeilly] May 12, July 14 & August 11 [ Peter Thorneycroft] Advanced Diploma of Solutions in Hypnosis dates to be announced Hypnosis Supervision with Peter Thorneycroft Directions to Peter Thorneycroft's new home - 65 Corella Drive, Whittlesea, 3757. To get there by car travel along Plenty Road towards Whittlesea. By train - from Melbourne Central, catch a train from Flinders or Spencer Street, to Sth. Morang Station (approx 50 minutes). From there, catch the 562 bus to Whittlesea (approx. 30 minutes), getting off at Whittlesea Primary School (just a little past the Corella Drive & Plenty Road corner), and it&rsquo;s a short walk (uphill - approx. 5 minutes) to 65 Corella Drive. In terms of local airbnb or B&B&rsquo;s, the most public-transport-friendly one is in Mernda, close to the corner of Plenty Road and Bridge Inn Road (there is a pub on the corner with reasonable counter-meals). Price is $49 per night. Catch the Plenty Road bus from there to Whittlesea (instructions as before). Maybe a 10 to 15 minute bus ride. Link is here - https://www.airbnb.com.au/rooms/9718593?s=H84SQ2EH There is also a B&B at 485 Wallan Road, Whittlesea (Hiltonvale Homestead Country Accommodation. Phone (03) 9716 2744) Link here - http://www.whereis.com/vic/whittlesea-3757/yellowId-12216432 cet home