Established: July 1995 

 Welcome to the Schipperke Pages!

 Those of you who have never met a Schipperke before are in for a treat!
 It is unfortunate that this page cannot do more justice to this delightful
 breed of dogs than to simply show you pictures. But we're bound by the nature
 of the media (and a limited amount of file storage space). 

 The maintainer of the Schipperke Pages is not a Schipperke breeder.
 These are breed pages 
as opposed to breeder pages . Since I cannot check out all the
breeders personally, I believe it best for you to contact
the NSCA Breeder Referal
Representative if you want to contact a responsible Schip
breeder. 

 The purpose of these pages is to introduce "Schipperke Basics"
to those who are not aquainted with the breed. Schipperkes are unusual dogs,
and it is important that potential owners are fully aware of their
characteristics before considering the purchase of one. 

 Schip Info from Belgium

 For those of you who don't know... the Schipperke breed originated
in Belgium. 

 I have been in contact with a wonderful man in Belgium who is
 providing me with all sorts of tidbits about Schipperkes - including the
 correct pronounciation of the breed name. Being the generous sort that
 he is, Mr. Wally Horemans even took the time to record a wav file for us.
 Click on the button to download the file and hear him pronounce
 "Schipperke": 

 So, regarding the pronounciation of "Schipperke": most Americans pronounce
it skipperkey although some prefer the more accurate
 shipperkey . My preference? My last name is of German
descent and I took some German a few years back, so I automatically began
pronouncing it it shipperkey when I first got my pup. I feel
that, in general, it's a more accurate pronounciation. As it turns
out, the correct pronounciation is a sort of combination of the two. It's
pronounced sort of like sh-kee-ip-er-kuh , and actually means "small
shepherd" in Flemish. There's no real English equivalent for the correct
pronounciation, but we can get close. 

 I received a letter from the maintainers of the AKC webpages,
confirming that Schipperke means "small shepherd" rather than "little
captain". 

 Wally has created some beautiful
 Belgian Shepherd
pages in Belgium, which includes yet more
 information
on the real history behind Schipperkes . The Schipperke is part
of the family of Belgian Shepherds, along with the Mechelse, Groenendaeler,
Tervuren, and Laekense Shepherds. 

 Regarding the Schip Pics page... to those who have sent me notes
and cute Schip pics: thank you! These pages haven't
been updated in quite some time, but I hope to get to them soon. My
own pup has been keeping me pretty busy. :) 

 To those who intend to send me Schip pics in the
future: I appreciate your contributions! Please, if you
send me pics via email, choose the best pic you have and only
send one . I love seeing your pics, but getting them from downloaded
email is slow on my connection. Also, when sending them as attachments
to email make sure the are attached separately rather than as part of the
text. Please give the attachments a name other than schip.gif, skip.gif,
and other common Schip-terms - it make the pics a lot easier for me to keep
track of, and to know who is who. Perhaps use your last name rather
than your dog's name. Thanks! 

 The Basics Basic information about the
Schipperke breed. Do you have questions about Schipperkes? If
so, please read this section. I cannot, however, refer you to breeders
of Schips. I do not keep a breeder list. Please go to the
Resources page for information about breeder referral. The AKC has
a page with basic
Schip info and the AKC breed standards , too. 

Schipperke History Info about the origins of our beloved
Schipperkes. Apparently it's not what we'd thought it was after
all! 

 Schipperke Pictures 

 Schipperke Letters Letters from readers
of the Schipperke Pages. 

 Other Schipperkes Online! A list of
some Schipperkes with webpages on the Internet. 

 Schipperke and Dog Related Resources 
Here is where to go if you have questions about breeders , Schip rescue,
clubs and associations, written resources, and other canine resources.
 Also, how to subscribe to the various Schipperke
email lists. I do not maintain a Schipperke email list
myself. If you have questions about Schipperkes you need to
ask, please subscribe to one of the mailing lists and ask your questions
there. 
 Due to the
tremendous amount of email these webpages generate, I am unable to respond
to questions about Schipperkes in email. 

 Schipperke Stuff A list of some
vendors with Schip products. 

 Frequently Asked Questions About Dogs . An excellent
resource maintained by Cindy Tittle More. 

 Some Other Dog Related WWW Sites 

Other Miscellaneous Dog Topics... 

 I learned of a breed of dog that was bred from Alaska Huskies, American
 Eskimo, and Schipperkes: the Klee Kai. I know, as yet, little
 about the breed but wanted to include a link to some pages that I've
 found regarding them. The Klee Kai
 Kennellette . 

 The Schip drawings on this page are the
 kind contribution of Anthony Waters. Thanks, Anthony! If you
 would like to send him comments about his graphics, email them to me
 at 
 baubo@eskimo.com 
 and I will forward them on to him. If you're interested in seeing
 him do more Schipperke pictures, let me know... because I'm interested
 in them and would like to see more, too. Stationery, tshirts, stamps
 - there are all sorts of possibilities. 

 The Schipperke Pages are 
 best viewed with Netscape 2.01 or higher. 

 If the margins or justification look "off" to you, then you're using
 the wrong browser. 

 Eskimo North 
 (is not in Alaska) 

 The Schipperke
 Page copyright of 
 Julie Rampke, baubo@eskimo.com . 
 Drawings contained within these pages copyright Anthony Waters. 
 No portion of these web pages, including 
 original graphics, may be reproduced 
 without the author's or artist's permission