RMIsaac's CyberPage 

CONTENTS: * General & Miscellaneous 
* (E)-mail 
* Webpage Development 
* Browsing the Web 
* Search Engines 
* Security 
* Demographics & Surveys 
* Spam & Commercialization 
* Graphics 
* Fun or Interesting 

 GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS: 

 Where it all began: World Wide Web Home
Page 

 Ever wonder what all that cyber-jargon means? Look it up in the Free On-line
Dictionary of Computing 

 Computer
Currents On-line Dictionary 

 Acronym and
abbreviations 

 >> "> How the Internet
Works 

 Liszt : "If you're wondering if an email
discussion group exists about a particular topic, try this useful
directory of mailing lists. Enter any word or phrase to search over 32,000
listserv, listproc, majordomo mailing lists and independently managed
lists from nearly 900 sites."

 ONElist : "free mailing list
service
where you can start and manage new e-mail communities, subscribe to
existing communities"; has an extensive list of e-mail lists spanning a
wide variety of topics

 Sounds
from Cyberspace : useful links from 'Life on the Internet' for those
who need the helper applications to hear sounds off the Net, including
Virtual Radio and RealAudio 

 Internet
Hoaxes 

 Alligators in the sewers? Poodles in the microwave? Sick boy wants
postcards? GoodTimes virus? Check the Urban Legends page,
including: * David and Barbara Mikkelson's Urban Legend Reference Pages
 * Arthur Goldstuck's Legends from a Small Country
 * Dave Wilton's home page, containing English language and etymology
 information and links 
 * Andy Warinner's home page, which debunks and comments on several
 interesting urban legends and factoids
 * Terry Chan's UL material 

 The AFU & Urban Legends
Archive : the archives of alt.folklore.urban

 Trolls, Hoaxes, Culture Jamming,
Poetic Terrorism, Media Hacks, Frauds, Impostors, Spoofs, Counterfeits,
Fakes, Pranks, Scams, Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of
Crowds 

 (E)MAIL: 

 HotMail : web-based e-mail

 When you write email,
don't forget! The Core Rules of
Netiquette : excerpted from Netiquette by Virginia Shea. 

 Anonymous Email : use the
subject line "remailer-help" for a help file

 Remind U-Mail : send
yourself e-mail reminders of significant dates; free of charge 

 e-minder : 
will send you e-mail reminders of important events in your life

 Why send email when you
can Fakemail? 

 The Electric 
Postcard : having a great time in cyberspace, wish you were virtually here!

 WEBPAGE DEVELOPMENT: 

 Yale Web Style
Guide : all you need to know to design a webpage

 >> "> Special characters
for HTML 

 How to Build a
Webpage : a very organized and thorough site with lots of links to
helpful pages (HTML authoring, etc.)

 Bobby : "a free web-based
service that will help you make web pages
accessible to people with disabilities. It will also find
HTML compatibility problems that prevent pages from displaying correctly
on different web browsers."

 What does your HTML
look like without graphics? 

 Thalia : test
colors for backgrounds and text and links using this page

 ColorMaker : 
use this site to test colors

 Undocumented
Internet Secrets : "A street-smart guide to using the Web to get ahead,
spy on the competition, and uncover hidden stashes of incredible free
stuff..." Contains lots of good tips on webpage design with hypertexted
links to the recommended sites. Features include: * Secret Steals and
Deals (free Internet access, hidden stashes of giveaway software) * Get
the Good Stuff (how you how to break into the Web's secret cache) * Watch
Your Back (dig up dirt--and protect yourself) * Webmaster Tricks

 A Kinder,
Gentler HTML Validator to check the HTML syntax of your webpage

 WebTechs HTML
Validation Service 

 NetMechanic :
submit your URL, it will validate your links and notify you when it is
done; you can then go to a hypertext report

 Submission
pages of various search engines : very convenient!

 Submit It! : another spot to
submit your webpage to numerous search engines

 >> "> Search Engine
Submission Tips 

 wwwstat-1.0 : an
application to figure statistics for your webpage

 BROWSING: 

 Surf the Web ANONYMOUSLY : a
very important tool, as much personal information about yourself can be
gathered every time you make a hit on a website!

 Toss them? Crush them? Find out about Cookies 

 Netscape : "Netscape's Navigator
is the very popular WWW browser on the Internet, under attack from
Microsoft. Support it! 

 BrowserWatch : "You can
monitor everything that is happening in the world of WWW browsers at this
site - whether your interest is in new browsers, servers, cgi's, html
editors, plug-ins, or other software-related offerings of interest to
users and developers of the Web." 

 Browser 
Stats : find out if you have the latest version of your browser

 SEARCH ENGINES: did you know the top
10 search terms (on Inktomi)?
 ...sex/nude/pictures/adult/women/software/erotic/erotica/gay/naked! 

 Not quite what you think: VOYEUR : lets you
see what search-terms are being used at this very moment

 Navigating the
Web : Using Web Search Engines and Evaluating Web Resources *
Navigating the Web * Web Search Engines * Evaluating Web Sites * Citing
Electronic Sources

 Web Directories: 

 Yahoo! : a web directory (not an
index) of 40,000 sites, organized by subject; search by single or multiple words; Boolean equivalent options

 Personalized Yahoo 

 Gopher
Jewels : Over 2,000 pointers to information by category

 Webring : over 15,000 of them
already
exist. They are a new way to find sites of interest to you. Webrings
link sites of similar content and you can move from one to the next
without a lot of searching or passing through sites of no interest. My JewishPage is part of the Jewish Ring, for example.

 Lists of Search Engines: 

 Netscape's
Internet Search : links to a dozen or so of the most popular search
sites

 >> "> Search Engine Listings 

 >> "> Search Engine
Reviews Chart 

 NlightN : an interface to the most
popular search engines

 Search
the Web through varios Web browsers, arranged by subject

 All-in-One Search Page 
for a variety of search engines for the Web; a bit confusing

 Search engines (Web indexes): 

 Google! : "uses a complicated
mathematical analysis, calculated on more than a billion hyperlinks on the
web, to return high-quality search results... uses sophisticated
text-matching techniques to find pages that are both important and 
relevant to your search...gives you an excerpt of the text that matches
your query -- with your search terms in bold -- right in the search
results...returns pages which match all of your search terms in the text
of the page or the link anchors pointing to it...keeps a copy of many of
the web pages it returns. If the server is down or otherwise not 
available, Google!'s copy of the page can be a life saver. Using our
cached version can often be much faster than following the regular
link, though the information you receive will be less up to date. But in
many cases, no more frustrating 404 Not Found errors!"

 AltaVista : full-text index; has
the largest database: 22 million Web pages and 13,000 Usenet newsgroups; 
Boolean terms OK, as well as proximity "near"; relevancy rankings "not the
most effective"; may restrict searches to certain parts of documents
(titles, links, dates, etc.); does not support stemming; gives the most
comprehensive results, "when you want to find as much as you can on a
single topic" (Internet World survey, 5/96) 

 Excite : full-text index of the Web (1.5m
pages using the most popular sites); searches by content rather than
keyword; slower; 50,000 Websites, 10,000 newsgroups; relevancy ranking; no
Boolean logic; does not display URLs in the search results; good for those
interested in mainstream topics which are widely discussed 

 InfoSeek : most complete and relevant
results (Internet World survey, 5/96); full-text index (WWW, FTP, gopher);
proximity rankings used; relevancy rankings; Similar Pages command;
limited database at present; for when you want to find a specific piece of
information 

 Inktomi : one of the
largest indexes of the Web; no proximity option

 Lycos : partial-text index (based on
headers, titles, links, first few words) of WWW, gopher, FTP files; 
relevancy ranking, partly based on sites' popularity; search term marked
in bold in results; Boolean search OK; minus sign (-) decreases relevancy
of search term; casts a wide net 

 >>NEW >"> Direct Hit : "you can instantly see the
best sites that other people have selected as the most relevant sites for
your search request. You benefit from the human intelligence of all
previous searchers who were looking for similar information...Direct Hit
tracks what sites previous Internet searchers have actually selected from
the search results list to determine the relevancy of sites. Based on
these previous selections and a number of other metrics, Direct Hit
provides highly relevant search results for the next searcher who is
looking for similar information."

 MultiCrawl 

 OpenText : Boolean operators OK; 
relevancy score; three types of searches: *simple term; *multiple terms
and operators, with field filter (title, URL, etc.); * your own weighted
search; Similar Pages command; good if you care to expend some effort
tailoring your search 

 WebCrawler : 
does not display text summary for found items; sparse customization
options; no Boolean operators or upper-case letters; relevancy ranking; 
uses well-traveled pages; 500,000 websites at present; good for finding
the most popular pages, but not for complex searches 

 Galaxy : "The Web's resources,
compiled for professionals...": Business And Commerce; Engineering And
Technology; Government; Humanities; Law; Medicine; Reference; Science;
Social Sciences

 "Meta"-Search Engines (search search engines): 

 Ask Jeeves! : searches the top
several
search engines and presents the results; when going to a result, leaves a
frame behind so you can return to Ask Jeeves! easily

 All4One : executes
searches in Yahoo!, Lycos, AltaVista, and Webcrawler simultaneously

 Metacrawler :
queries nine search engines simultaneously; collates, ranks and displays
the results; search by type of site; use + before essential words

 SavvySearch :
queries 25 search engines; ranks results; search plan scans appropriate
search engines first, others may be invoked later

 A great search engine: WebTaxi :
you can narrow the number of engines by subject; WebTaxi can also remain
as a frame on your screen, ready to use, while you continue to surf the
Web 

 Usenet searches: 

 DejaNews : searches Usenet
newsgroups (except alt.*)

 Search for a
Newsgroup on a given subject

 >> "> Zen & the
Art of the Internet : "Explains what Usenet is and is not, as well as
its history, diversity, and propagation of the news." 

 >> "> Usenet FAQ 

 list of Usenet FAQs for all
sorts of newsgroups

 Other types of searches: 

 WorldPages :
search for:
Business * People * Government * Email * Web * MapMaker * Toll Free
Numbers * Attorney * Automotive * Entertainment * Restaurant * Travel *
Classifieds * Weather * more

 555-1212.com : find: area codes
*
yellow pages * white pages * fax numbers * toll-fre numers * hotels *
reverse lookup * international numbers * maps

 Bigfoot : find addresses or email
addresses

 A tool for Finding People on the 
Internet 

 International
People Finder 

 Anywho : "Search for People or
Businesses:
+ Over 90 million entries + User-supplied E-mail, Home Page, FAX, and Toll
Free Number information"

 Personalseek : a search
engine for personal pages all around the world

 Switchboard.com : look up the
names, phone number and street addresses of friends, colleagues and businesses

 Search for a LISTSERV by name,
description, subject and host country (note: this is for LISTSERVs only,
not MAJORDOMO etc.)

 SECURITY: 

 Official PGP
User's Guide , the user's manual for PGP (Pretty Good Privacy)
public-key cryptography software by Phil Zimmermann, its inventor

 Why Do You Need
PGP? 

 DEMOGRAPHICS/SURVEYS: 

 GVU Center's WWW
User Survey Home Page : join thousands of others in this semi-annual
survey of Web demographics! This survey included questions on:
 - Basic Demographics (new questions!)
 - Web and Internet Usage
 - Data Privacy (new questions!)
 - Politics
 - Consumer Opinions and Behaviors
 - Webmasters
 - HTML Authoring, Java
 - Web Service Providers 

 GVU's
(Graphics, Visualization, and Usability Center) 8th WWW User survey
results : * general demographics * internet/web usage *
electronic privacy * consumer issues * cultural issues in web
design *...and more 

 Find out the latest Internet statistics 

 InfoQuest!
Internet Surveys & Statistics : lots and lots of analyses of the growth
of the Web, the Internet and its users

 Growth and Usage
of the Web and the Internet : "Want to know how big the Internet is?
How fast is it growing? Will it ever stop? These pages are meant to be a
collection of Internet statistics in one place." 

 Breakdown of
Internic
Domains : such as: .com 2,680,546
 .net 258,902
 .org 210,466
 .edu 4,678
 .gov 564 

 ISO Country Codes : for
when you wonder what the two-letter suffix for Mali is...

 ISO Country domains 

 Country Domains to
Watch : 
Three country-code domains are being marketed as alternatives to .com such
as .tm (Turkmenistan), .nu (Niue), and .to (Tonga)

 Host Count History :
see the exponential growth of the Net through the fantastic growth of the
number of hosts

 Distributions by
Top-Level Domain Name (by name) : i.e. how many .edu (.com, .de, .jp,
.mil) sites are there? (in alphabetical order)

 Distributions by
Top-Level Domain Name (by hostcount) : i.e. how many .edu (.com, .de, .jp,
.mil) sites are there? (in order of how many there are)

 100
U.S Cities with the most domain names 

 Mac Software 
Archives 

 >> "> Free
Mac Software 

 SPAM AND COMMERCIALIZATION: 

 Hate commercialization of the Web? Blacklist of Internet
Advertisers 

 >> "> Beating the E-Mail Spammers 

 Coalition Against Unsolicited
Commercial
Email 

 >> "> Washington State Junk Email
Consumer Protection : a 1998 law now protects Washington State citizens
against unsolicited commercial email. See how at the Attorney General's
page

 Spam Filter ;
another Spam Filter 

 GRAPHICS: 

 w e b s e r v
i c e s . . . Graphics Archive 

 >> "> Animated GIF links 

 >> "> Animated GIF
links 

 >> "> Animated
GIF Links 

 >> "> CyberOlive Animated GIFs 

 Can you tell I'm fond of TEXTURES? 

 Texture Land! -- Odds
'n Ends Textures 

 Texture Land 

 Webground - Background
Textures 

 Andrew's Texture
Archive 

 GIF Wizard will compress your
GIFs

 Barry's Clip Art 

 ArtToday clip art

 Triangles and rainbows and other queer stuff to spice up your
webpage: 

 Rainbow Icon Archive 

 Queer
Icons 

 ASCII
Art : lots of it, too, including signatures and Star Trek ASCII art and Smilies 

 >> ">All about FIGlets 

 Figlet Ascii Font
Converter 

 FUN OR INTERESTING: 

 What's
Cool on the Net, including the Site of the Day and LOTS of other neat
stuff 

 >> "> Useless
Domain Names 

 !sdrawkcaB : this web
browser displays pages REVERSED! Has to be seen to be believed! 

 Shredder : "The web
browser is an organ of perception through which we 'see' the web. It
filters and organizes a huge mass of structured information that spans
continents, is constantly growing, reorganizing itself, shifting its
appearance, evolving. The Shredder presents this global structure as a
chaotic, irrational, raucous collage. By altering the HTML code before the
browser reads it, the Shredder appropriates the data of the web,
transforming it into a parallel web. Content become abstraction. Text
becomes graphics. Information becomes art." 

 >>NEW >"> The End of the Internet 

 AltaVista
Translation Service : will translate text or a whole webpage (if you
provide the URL) into French, German, Spanish or Portuguese. Of course it
makes mistakes but that's what's so fascinating about it!

 The Dialectizer : will
"translate" text or a webpage to: Redneck, Jive, Cockney, Elmer Fudd,
Swedish Chef, Moron, or Pig Latin.

 Not quite what you think: 
 VOYEUR : lets
you see what search-terms are being used at this very moment

 On the other hand, this
IS voyeurism: Sean Patrick Live! : like the
JennyCam, this features every moment in the life of a gay man at home

 Domain
Name
Disputes 

 Domain Name
Disputes : Cases

 Here you will find (very) many Useless Sites 

 >> "> Useless Pages 

 More Useless
Pages , including a particularly amusing Abandoned Site 

 Bad
Web Pages : Yahoo listing

 Website
Parodies : Yahoo listing

 AOL sucks 

 The
Macintosh Secret Trick List 

 >>NEW >"> Moochers : free software on the 'net

 Comments? Write me at RMIsaac@eskimo.com 

Jump to: 

 HOME 
 RMIsaac 

 Israel 
 Jewish 
 GayJews 
 My Israeli Music 

 Queer I: general 
 Queer II: net, travel, media 

 All About Seattle 
 Seattle: Sightseeing 
 Outside Seattle 
 Gay Seattle 

 CyberStuff 
 Fun Stuff 
 Language 
 News/Media/Film 
 Pinochle! 
 Politics 
 Reference 
 Sexuality 
 Star Trek/Sci-fi 

 Travel 
 My E. Europe Trip 
 My Gay/Jewish E. Europe 

 --- 

Approximately hits on all subdirectories since 28 July 1995