RMIsaac's 
FunPages 

CONTENTS: 
* Political Fun 
* Religious Fun 
* Jewish Fun 
* Cyber Fun 
* Pinochle! 
* Miscellaneous Fun 

 POLITICS: 

 Capitol Steps : political humor

 Exploding Heads 

 Politics of
Cartoon Characters : Is Daffy Duck a Republican?

 The full 35,000 word text of that wacky guy, the
Unabomber 

 The Political Graveyard :
where you
can find the burial places of thousands of politicians; very comprehensive

 Dumb Laws : "huge collection of
the
most senseless laws in the entire United States"; check out your state and
make sure you are a law abiding citizen!

 RELIGION: 

 Which Religion is
Best? : religions rated a la Consumer Reports 

 Jesus'
Homepage : childhood pictures and all; very funny page

 >> "> Stupid Jesus Tricks 

 First Church of Cyberspace :
"Visit the Sanctuary or Gallery, or read psalms from the Hypertext or
Multimedia bible at Reverend Charles Henderson's ecumenical site.
Artist-in-residence, John Grover's oil painting of the church to which he
and Rev. Henderson belong is featured. Sunday nights at 10:00 EST, join
Reverend Henderson's Interfaith Forum with an Internet Chat line
(directions and software download sites are available at this site)." 

 Another First Church of Cyberspace : "We are a
non-denominational, untraditional church with an emphasis on the virtual
aspects of our belief system."

 The
Trinity Explained : "One God, but three separate beings" -- here is a
site that explains it as well as it can be explained...

 How close is the Apocalypse? Find out with the Rapture Index 

 Antichrist.com : debunking of
Christianity -- or is it? .. interesting and thoughtful, if verbose,
site: "Biblically the name Antichrist means "anti-Love and Peace", but
I've taken on that title to help people understand that, in most cases,
Christianity promotes their message of Love with "Fire and Fear". I am an
Antichristian, but I'm not really the Antichrist they were expecting. Yet
I am (Rev 17:8). The Christian religion is the symbol of 'antichrist'.
According to certain scriptures overlooked or misinterpreted, everlasting
Hell is a place that their Jesus came to end once-and-for-all, and
Christianity- for the most part- denies that he succeeded or that he WILL
succeed. If there is such a place then Jesus obviously failed, but this
web site, I'm hoping, will help people understand that eternal Hell is in
the fire of their words..."

 First Church of
Shatnerology 

 Mormon Heresies :
things Mormonism doesn't like too much

 The
Humanist Hymnal" : "'revised' hymns and carols. Some are parodies and
are meant to be funny. Others are more serious and attempt to promote a
positive humanistic philosophy. Still others, in the parody process,
emerged as very anti-Christian and will be considered offensive. You have
been warned."

 The Net Atheists! 

 >>NEW >"> The
Celebrity Atheist List 

 How to Be an Extremely Reform
Jew : "Why *can't* we have a Christmas tree?"; includes The Ten
Suggestions, The
Yo-Yo Diet Guide to Jewish Feasts and Fasts, and The Scratch & Sniff
Passover Haggadah

 PINOCHLE: 

 PENN PINOCHLE : the rules to the version of
pinochle that I learned

 Pinochle 
Rules : one version

 Pinochle 
Rules : another version

 Double 
Deck Pinochle 

 Two-Handed 
Pinochle 

 Pinochle 
Glossary : including terms I am not familiar with but what the heck

 Pinochle 
Tactics and Tips : for bidding, calling trump, passing cards, taking
tricks; good advice (though I disagree with the 2nd and 3rd tips under
"Taking Tricks")

 Pinochle is
for Fun! : includes a player directory to see who plays near you

 Pinochle 
Clubs 

 MISCELLANEOUS: 

 Sean Patrick Live! : like
the JennyCam, this features every moment in the life of a gay man at home

 Purity Test 

 >>NEW >"> The Death Test : when are
you going to die?

 >> ">Wonder where someone is
buried?: Find-a-Grave : interesting
bios, pictures and maps. 

 >>NEW >"> Your Life
Expectancy : "This website provides health-related informational
"tidbits" and an on-line test that will calculate your life expectancy."

 >>NEW >"> 6 degrees of Kevin
Bacon 

 >>NEW >"> William
Shatner Acting Simulator 

 The El Nino Hotline
of DOOM! 

 Alligators in the sewers? Poodles in the microwave? Sick boy wants
postcards? GoodTimes virus? Check the Urban Legends page,
including: * David and Barbara Mikkelson's Urban Legend Reference Pages
 * Arthur Goldstuck's Legends from a Small Country
 * Dave Wilton's home page, containing English language and etymology
 information and links
 * Andy Warinner's home page, which debunks and comments on several
 interesting urban legends and factoids
 * Terry Chan's UL material 

 The AFU & Urban Legends
Archive : the archives of alt.folklore.urban

 Trolls, Hoaxes, Culture Jamming,
Poetic Terrorism, Media Hacks, Frauds, Impostors, Spoofs, Counterfeits,
Fakes, Pranks, Scams, Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of
Crowds 

 The Annals of Improbable Research
(AIR) "is a splendid educational magazine produced by the entire
former editorial staff (1955-1994) of "The Journal of Irreproducible
Results." The editorial board consists of more than 40 distinguished
scientists from around the world including seven Nobel Laureates and a
convicted felon. Each October, AIR produces the Ig Nobel Prize Ceremony
at MIT, honoring people whose achievements cannot or should not be
reproduced" in the fields of BIOLOGY: ENTOMOLOGY: ASTRONOMY: 
COMMUNICATIONS: PHYSICS: LITERATURE: MEDICINE: ECONOMICS: PEACE:
METEOROLOGY

 The Straight Dope : As they
say, "Fighting Ignorance Since 1973 (It's taking longer than we
thought.)"... answers the questions you always had about Why Things Are
the Way They Are... recently aired on A & E, it is now seeking another
network... 

 Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch : 
the village with the longest name in Britain

 A pretty darn cool Card Trick ! 
Also here: Card
trick! 

 NAMES AND NUMBERS: 

 What's in Your
Name : uses math and numerology (kabbalah) to explore the power of a
name

 Anagram Genius
Server : mails you a long list of anagrams of any string you submit

 >> "> PhoNETic : makes acronyms out of any
phone number! Also PhoneSpell 

 Speaking of which... remember when the first two digits were
represented by a two letters which were an abbreviation for a word, like
PEnnsylvania 6-5000 or BUtterfield-8? Find out what word you can use for
your own exchange at the Telephone Exchange Name
Project : "resist the increasing trend towards digitizing our lives. 
Exchange names helped foster a sense of place, and community, in the same
way that cities do. They're also a link to our more analog past which is
fast slipping away." 

 Main Sanitary
Nag (Anagram Insanity): make anagrams out of any word(s) 

 Joy of Pi : all sorts of neat
things about 3.14159... 

 >> "> Useless Pi Pages :
tons of pi info

 Pi
Factoids : more interesting factoids and formulas surrounding the
irrational little dickens...

 The
Ridiculously Enhanced Pi PAGE 

 >> "> Lady Pi 

 >> "> Beauty : a
clever poem about pi, using numbers in many languages

 >> "> The 69 Page 

 >> "> Favorite
Constants 

 >> "> Largest Known Prime
Numbers 

 >>NEW >"> Unclaimed Property Home
Page 

 RogueMarket : try your hand at
trading and profiting from the volatility of our popular culture; buy and
sell shares of the same public figures that are trying to influence us. 

 CARDS AND LETTERS: 

 AprilFools.com : "Put a
friend
(or yourself) in a realistic online 'news story'...Just add a few
appropriate facts and click a button for an instant Web news page...Would
you like to make someone think they just inherited a fortune, or maybe
that their new computer has been recalled? We will build a realistic Web
page with their name ... FakeMail: These official-looking notices and
letters are good, clean fun. Delivered anonymously via the U.S. Postal
Service, FakeMail has been known to fool even the sender! ...Have
postcards -- complete with your personal message -- mailed to your
workplace from such idyllic spots as San Francisco, Australia or the Corn
Palace in South Dakota. The postcards will have real postmarks from the
locations you choose."

 Birthday
Postcards : this site allows you to use your own picture on the web,
and choose from a large variety of music too

 Electronic
Greeting Cards : good site

 >>NEW >"> www.123greetings.com 

 Activegrams : 
clever, animated cards delivered by email or viewable on the web

 E-Toons, Electronic
Greeting Cards on Gay Toons Syndicate 

 >> "> Cartoon Bank : "world's largest
stockhouse of single-panel cartoons, including the exclusive archive of
all cartoons previously published in the New Yorker ."

 The
Surrealist Compliment Generator 

 Complaint
Letter Generator 

 Cyrano Server :
Valentine, love letter or Dear John letter generator 

 Elizabethan Curse
Generator : Revel
in insults that may have been spoken by Shakespeare or Ben Jonson!

 >>NEW >"> perfect present picker 

 Just like those round things with the floating cubes: The Magic 8 Ball 

 >>NEW >"> Kill the Teletubbies 

 >> "> I Can Eat Glass Project : 
based on the idea that people in a foreign country have an irresistable
urge to try to say something in the indigenous tongue. In most cases,
however, the best a person can do is "Where is the bathroom?" a phrase
that marks them as a tourist. But, if one says "I can eat glass, it
doesn't hurt me," you will be viewed as an insane native, and treated with
dignity and respect." You can find this phrase in a zillion languages
(real and invented) and dialects here.

 All together now! Sing along! Karaoke Information 

 Alphabetical List
of Cocktail Recipes 

 Becherovka : the national drink of
the Czech Republic, a blend of spices the formula to which is known only
to two people; it's great! 

 Budvar , a.k.a. Budweiser: 
"Budweiser Budvar, the "Original Budweiser" beer, is known for its unique
quality, tradition and widely recognized rich, full-bodied taste. The
brewing craftsmanship of Budweiser Budvar N. C., originates from a more
than 700-year-old brewing tradition in Cesk Budejovice - or Budweis, as
it is known in German. Budweiser Budvar guarantees the production of a top
lager known through-out the world as a symbol of exceptional quality." 

 Zwack Unicum : a pretty vile little
liqueur from Hungary... but they have great merchandise! 

 SchoolSucks : term papers
already written for you! 

 Meteorite Yields
Evidence of Primitive Life on Early Mars 

 Facade : interactive attractions on the
Internet: prophecy sites: free readings using Tarot, Runes, the I Ching,
and Biorhythms. "Recent additions to the available methods of divination
are Bibliomancy and Stichomancy. If you'd prefer a less 
esoteric thrill, Cindy Crawford Concentration may be the distraction that
you seek."

 The I Ching 

 Astrodienst Atlas Database :
makes your chart if you enter place and time of birth

 The
Devil's Dictionary : wry definitions from Ambrose Bierce (1911)

 Comments? Write me at RMIsaac@eskimo.com 

Jump to: 

 HOME 
 RMIsaac 

 Israel 
 Jewish 
 GayJews 
 My Israeli Music 

 Queer I: general 
 Queer II: net, travel, media 

 All About Seattle 
 Seattle: Sightseeing 
 Outside Seattle 
 Gay Seattle 

 CyberStuff 
 Fun Stuff 
 Language 
 News/Media/Film 
 Pinochle! 
 Politics 
 Reference 
 Sexuality 
 Star Trek/Sci-fi 

 Travel 
 My E. Europe Trip 
 My Gay/Jewish E. Europe 

 --- 

Approximately hits on all subdirectories since 28 July 1995