RMIsaac's GayJewishPages 

CONTENTS: (some categories overlap!)
* General Resources 
* E-mail lists 
* Meeting Other GayJews 
* AIDS 
* Judaism and Homosexuality 
* Queer in Israel 
* Selected Queer Congregations 
* Miscellany 

This 
 Jewish Ring site is owned by
 Richard Isaac .
 Click here for 
[ Prev 
| Skip It 
| Next 5 
| Random 
| Next ]

Want to join the Jewish Ring? 
Click here for the info .

This Gay/Lesbian Jewish
Ring site is owned by 
 Richard Isaac .

Want to join the Gay/Lesbian Jewish Ring ? 

[ Skip Prev ]
[ Prev ]
 [ Next ]
[ Skip Next ]
[ Random ]
[ Next 5 ]
[ List Sites ]

 GENERAL RESOURCES: 

 The Gay & Jewish sides of my Sept. 1997 trip 
to Berlin, Prague, Terezin, Krakow, Auschwitz, Budapest and Pecs

 the
Jewish GLBT Archives : a large repository of gay/lesbian Jewish
resources and information; maintained by John Abush of Toronto

 ONE Institute
JUDAICA COLLECTION : an IGLA (International Gay and Lesbian Archives) 
Special Collection; it "will reflect the range of influence of Jewish
thought, culture and history upon evolving lesbian and gay identity. It
will document how Judaism has treated homosexuality over the centuries,
from biblical prohibitions to recent support of gay and lesbian Jews as
members of the spiritual community. It will document how Jewish principles
about social justice, equality, human rights, diversity, liberation,
interpersonal relationships and suffering have helped develop lesbian and
gay activism. And it will document how individual Jews, gay or straight,
have contributed to these efforts... The Judaica Collection will include
an ongoing living history project to document life stories of lesbian and
gay Jews and those who support them. Using techniques of oral and
cultural history, these archives will honor how individuals have
reconciled their Jewish roots with the lesbian or gay aspects of their
being...The Judaica Collection can be an international safe depository for
activist organizations, community institutions, and political and legal
activities on behalf of lesbian and gay Jews. The Collection can document
the work of lesbian and gay synagogues, Jewish oriented lesbian and gay
organizations, and Jewish activists who defend homosexual rights and
related issues. And it can document the situations of lesbian and gay Jews
in different countries." 

 THE
GAY/LESBIAN JEWISH WEB RING 

 Israeli, Jewish
and Middle East GLBT web sites 

 >> "> Gay
and Lesbian Jewish Organizations via Looksmart

 World Congress of Gay &
Lesbian Jewish Organizations 

 GayJews.ORG : "committed to
providing up to date, accurate information for Orthodox Jews who are gay,
lesbian, bisexual or transgendered. We have links to all other frum GLBT
content here on the web as well as a number of features of our own."

 FrumGayJews' Home Page ,
for religious/observant gay/lesbian Jews

 OrthoDykes is a new group of
orthodox lesbians

 International
Association of Lesbian and Gay Children of Holocaust Survivors 

 Maidelah's
Room : A Place for Jewish CDs/TGs (transgendered people)

 Webapge for
Brazilian datiim 

 Shir
Hadash - Judaism Online : Gay and Lesbian Resources

 E-MAIL LISTS: 

 Complete
List of Gay Jewish Lists from the Twice Blessed Archives

 Comprehensive
list of GLBTQ Jewish lists 

 GAYJEWS
archive : GAYJEWS is a mailing list which serves to facilitate
communication among Lesbian and Gay Jews (NOTE: the archive is currently
not public; to subscribe, write "subscribe gayjews (your name)" to listproc@shamash.org )

 >> "> GayJews : an email
discussion list; not to be confused with the list mentioned above

 BIACHAD : An international
e-mail discussion group created to facilitate communication among bisexual
Jews and their supporters. (use the link to send mail saying "subscribe
biachad [yourname]") 

 TransJews :
"an e-mail discussion list for transgendered, transsexual, genderqueer
and gender-questioning Jews (secular and religious) of all backgrounds and
ages."

 FRUMGAYS : An international e-mail
discussion group for Orthodox/ex-Orthodox/Orthodox-wanna-be Jewish
lesbians and gays. This is a private e-mail discussion list without
archives (public or private) for strict confidentiality.

 Nice Jewish
Girls 
Mailing List : An international e-mail discussion group for Jewish
lesbian and bisexual women. This is a private e-mail discussion list
with archives restricted to subscribers only.

 Orthogays
list : for currently Orthodox g/l/b/t Jews; also contains a list of
other GLBT & Jewish email lists 

 >> "> OzGayJews : an Australia
wide discussion group for GLBT Jewish matters 

 MEETING OTHER GAY JEWS: 

 NuYenta , the Jewish GLBT Online
Dating Service, "a place on the Internet where Jewish Gay, Lesbian,
Bisexual and Transgender singles and our admirers can virtually join
together in the pursuit of friendship and love" 

 GayJews.net : an online singles
service for Gay Jews

 >> "> GayMatch : Gay dating site in Hebrew,
"where you can post a profile or search profiles of others"

 Free Gays MatchMaking
Service for men living in Israel

 Israel Free Gay Matich-making
 : in English

 Atraf : (in
Hebrew)

 Gay Jews Chat :
on
Yahoo!

 Aleph
Melbourne is a social and support group for gay and bisexual Jewish
men in Melbourne, Australia. 

 AIDS-RELATED INFO: 

 Bela
Do'eget , the Agudah's AIDS project: comprehensive information on the
AIDS situation nationwide, as well as specific local projects

 Israel Aids Task Force : 
The Israel AIDS Task Force is a voluntary organization, founded in 1985,
whose purpose is both to provide support and assistance for people living
with HIV and AIDS and also to explain to the public about the virus and
the means of preventing its transmission. ... The IATF website has
information about the organization's activities, lists test centers around
the country, explains exactly what AIDS is, and has a bulletin board for
the latest news.

 Names 
Project-Israel 

 Tzvi Aryeh AIDS Foundation, Inc.
(New York) 

 "Awakening the 
Jewish Heart" Pin (Atlanta) 

 JUDAISM AND HOMOSEXUALITY: 

 "Check out an article written by Jacob Rothman, a student at Bowdoin
College, titled "Judaism,
Homosexuality, Political Activism . Rothman argues that "As Jews, we
can be little or no assistance in the advancement of gay and lesbian
politics unless we first understand who we are as individuals. Moreover, to
the extent that we are able to synthesize our gay/lesbian lives with our
Jewish lives, we receive the added benefit and responsibility of Tikkun Olam
(healing or repairing the world).""

 >> "> 
Judaism and Homosexuality : * What the Bible says about homosexuality *
Marriage and the basic family unit * Personal stories of gay and lesbian
Jews * Acceptance of homosexuality at the local synagogue level

 >> "> Openhalacha :
Homosexuality and Halacha: "Open Halacha is ground-breaking experiment in
generating and perfecting halachic argument in an open forum, using
cutting-edge technology. With international assistance, Open Halacha will
develop arguments, and analyse sources online. Halachists and
non-halachists alike are invited to join in this process by contributing
their observations,and, in particular, suggesting new reference sources.
The combined efforts of a large number of experts, working together, will
yield results, and open avenues of approach that would otherwise have
remained closed."

 >> "> The
status of the homosexual in halacha 

 On Idolizing
Halacha : by Rabbi Harold Schulweiss; uses the law and homosexuality as
an example

 Jonathan J. Oriole's
paper for his 1996 Halachah (Jewish Law) class at Hebrew U: "Homosexuality
and Its Role in Judaism: An argument for acceptance of gay and lesbian
Jews in leadership positions within observant congregations" 

 Essay 
on Homosexuality (Chabad) 

Gayness and God: Wrestlings of an Orthodox Rabbi ; also found here 

 Is Judaism 
Sexist? 

 ISRAELI QUEER RESOURCES: 

 Israel QRD : Queer Resources
Directory; can't promise this link will work (May 2000) 

 >> "> Jewish
GLBT Israel 

 >> "> Gay Israel linklist 

 >> "> Gayfo.co.IL : site for Israeli GLBT
resources

 Gay
Israel 

 >> "> GlobalGay Israel : "one of the finest
and most up-to-date Hebrew websites about gay life in Israel: news,
shopping, clubs and bars listings, "kesher yashir" and much more."

 The
Agudah : The Association of Gay Men, Lesbians, and Bisexuals in Israel
(Agudat ha'homosexualim, ha'lesbiot, v'ha'bisexualim b'yisrael), the
Israeli gay umbrella organization, which has achieved progess for Israeli
queers that some of us can only dream about; the site details the history
of the organization and its goals and projects. Email the Agudah here. 

 Here's a fabu MK (Member of Knesset): Yael Dayan ,
who advocates for Israel's lesbian and gay citizens

 Ha'asiron Ha'acher ("The
Other 10%"), The Gay Students Union in the Hebrew University, now has a
homepage on the web. In its WWW pages you can find updated information
about current activities of the Asiron, both in English and Hebrew. You
can also find details about the Asiron video library, its recent meeting
with president Weizman (including the full text of the letter the Asiron
sent Weizman, the press release and Jerry Levinson's J-post article),
interesting gay Israely links (Pink times, Aguda, Gay Haifa), general
practical information (Aguda, KLAF, White Line, AIDS), and more! 

 Israel's Lesbian Feminist
Community (KLAF) is proud to announce the unveiling of their new
website. Written in both English and Hebrew, the site contains
information about the organization, its monthly activities, news, parties,
and hot spots, etc.

 The
Jerusalem LGB Open House : includes a weekly listing of GLB activities
in Hebrew, including local GLB-themed TV shows and cinematheque movies,
and even a classified ads page

 Tmol Shilshom : 
gay-owned, kosher coffeehouse in Jerusalem

 The Haifa Gay
Community Homepage 

 Young Gays
Frat in Haifa 

 Eilat
Gay Guide 

 >> "> Halev
Baavodah : GLBT members of the Labor Party 

 >> "> Halev
Balikud : GLBT members of the Likud 

 Michal Eden , a
lesbian elected in 1998 to the Tel Aviv City Council from the Meretz party

 GayHay (The Israeli
TEEN GAYs frat) 

 The Israeli
Bears Home Page "includes information on gay life in Israel, personal
ads, links to "bear" sites, and photos..."

 Pink Time (Ha-Zman ha-Varod) ,
an Israeli queer monthly, in Hebrew

 >> "> "B'Ga'ava" : "With Pride": an Israeli
GLBT magazine 

 >> "> Banot :
Israeli Transgender resource center and magazine in Hebrew 

 >> "> "Transgender Forum" : in Hebrew

 >> "> QueerNet:
"trans-jews" Page 

 DANA INTERNATIONAL : Israeli transsexual
superstar who captured the 1998 Eurovision title for Israel and is very
popular in Arab countries as well as her homeland

 Overview &
Commentary: Bagaz 721/94 El-Al v. Danilowitz and the Future of Sexual
Minority Rights in Israel 

 Translation
of Judgment of Supreme Court of Israel in El-Al v. Danilowitz 

 Creative and diverse homepage of Ariel Brosh , an Israeli 21-year
old gay man from Petach Tikva, Israel. It includes: 

 #gay.il page
- IRC 

 Melancholic side
of the moon : about gay suicides

Ariel's piece of heaven : Atheism, and why "Jewish Atheist" is a
consistent metaphor

 Ophira Gloska
page : A fan page for the most unsuccessful singer ever in Israel

 QUEER CONGREGATIONS (SELECTED): 

 The very good home page of Beth El Binah , a gay 
synagogue in Dallas; including: * World AIDS Day Home page * A book review
of A Gay Synagogue in New York * The Holocaust Museum-- One persons
impressions * The Dysfunctional Family of Genesis * Definitely Texas * Gay
and Lesbian Zines * Organizations reachable via e-mail * History of the
Rainbow Flag * Gay & Lesbian Resources * Daily cyberspace Torah reading *
Jewish home pages to visit * The Human Rights Campaign Working for Gay and
Lesbian Equal Rights * Contact Center Network - a comprehensive Web
directory of non-profit resources * Digital Queers * Jewish News Groups *
Gay Jewish Information * Gay and Lesbian Travel Web * Jews in Prison. A
real different look at Jewish Life * Queers in History * The For Better
or Worse comic strip on Coming Out

 >>" >Other selected gay
Congregations/Havurot: 

 Gay/Jewish website
in
Portland, OR 

 Congregation Shaar Zahav
(San Francisco) 

 Congregation Beth Simchat
Torah (NY) 

 Gay and Lesbian Havurah of Baltimore (e-mail) 

 Bet Mishpachah , "the Gay
and Lesbian Synagogue of Washington DC... information about the
congregation and how to contact it; links to Gay/Lesbian/Jewish Internet
sites of interest, including those of other member organizations of the
World Congress of Gay and Lesbian Jewish Organizations; and (coming soon)
excerpts from the congregation's print and electronic newsletters and a
schedule of upcoming events." 

 Jewish Gay and Lesbian Helpline 
(London, UK) 

 Sjalhomo
(Amsterdam, The Netherlands) 

 Yachad Deutschland ,
the gay and lesbian Jewish group of Germany. (e-mail to Aaron Knappstein) 

 MISCELLANY: 

 >> "> Florentene : great Israeli TV
series, from gay director Eytan Fox, about 20-somethings in hip Tel Aviv
neighborhood Florentene, including several major gay characters; very
cutting-edge 

 Nazi Anti-Jewish
Speech vs. Religious Right Anti-Gay Speech : contrasts and compares the
defamations the Nazis raised against the Jews (in propaganda) with
contemporary defamations of gays

 >> "> Virtual Faygeleh : billed
as: "THE site for Gays, Jews, Gay Jews, and the people who love them! Cute
Jewish Boys, Jew of the Month, Book reviews, Jews Who Don't Know How to
Behave, Jews in Space, The Robby Benson is the Cutest Jewish Boy in the
World Page, the Barry Sisters, Links..." ...divided into Culture,
Entertainment and Religion and has some interesting links, including a
Jewish Recipe archive; also a list of people commonly mistaken for Jewish.
Pretty funny and amusing graphics. 

 New Moon (the UK Jewish
magazine) 

 Jewish-Gay
male bibliography ; Jewish-Lesbian
bibliography 

 Lev Raphael , noted gay Jewish
writer

 If you have Hebrew fonts and want to giggle a bit, check out "Tuvia the milkman in
20th century" , where Tuvia has a lesbian daughter, dances the macarena
and tries to open an ISP

 Commitment
Ceremony of Annette Friskopp and Sharon Silverstein : "We had a
"traditional" interfaith lesbian commitment ceremony. What is that, you
may be wondering? Sharon has conveniently linked the components of our day
for your perusal." 

 Switchable Yento (of
Seattle)'s Home Page: Erotic, Kinky, or Pornographic/Blasphemous Jewish
Stories and Fantasies with Religious Themes 

 Comments? Write me at RMIsaac@eskimo.com 

Jump to: 

 HOME 
 RMIsaac 

 Israel 
 Jewish 
 GayJews 
 My Israeli Music 

 Queer I: general 
 Queer II: net, travel, media 

 All About Seattle 
 Seattle: Sightseeing 
 Outside Seattle 
 Gay Seattle 

 CyberStuff 
 Fun Stuff 
 Language 
 News/Media/Film 
 Pinochle! 
 Politics 
 Reference 
 Sexuality 
 Star Trek/Sci-fi 

 Travel 
 My E. Europe Trip 
 My Gay/Jewish E. Europe 

 --- 

Approximately hits on all subdirectories since 28 July 1995