Rich & Ken's notes on SeattleInBrief 

 ****check out the 
large number of Seattle links for an exhaustive
number of resources for what to do in and around Seattle**** 

Date: Tue, 15 Nov 1994 16:33:00 -0800 (PST) 
Subject: Puget Sound area (daytrips, hikes, art, night)

Your Seattle Guide Service has developed the following list of proposed
activities for you to consider prior to your arrival in Seattle. Of 
course, we realize you won't know what everything is, but most things 
are self-evident. 

Below is a list of activities that can be done any day of your visit...

 SEATTLE OUTDOORS 

 Canoe (and swim, if desired) in the Lake Washington Arboretum .
Very cheap. Rent at the U of W. near the stadium... Or paddle-boat at
 Green Lake .

 Swim or walk: Denny Blaine (lesbian), Madison Park Beach (Boys'
Beach), Golden Gardens, Greenlake, Seward Park, Lincoln Park (W. Seattle),
Alki Beach (W. Seattle), Ravenna Park . (Gay beach: north of Carkeek
Park, or even further north at Richmond Beach; be careful of passing
trains if you walk on the tracks, and of passing security officers...)

 Picnic dinner at Gas Works Park, Golden Gardens, Magnolia Bluff
Park, or Alki Beach - all with sunset views.

 Fremont Neighborhood Street Fair (summer Sundays). Big Soltice
festival.

 ART 
Various museums and galleries: 
 Burke Museum
 Henry Art Gallery
 Seattle Art Museum
 Seattle Art Museum (Asian Art Building)
 Museum of History and Industry
 Museum of Flight
 Pioneer Square galleries' tour (open late first Thurs. each
month)

 SOME NEAT NITE STUFF 

 Twostep, etc., at the Timberline (Denny & Boren). Every eve
after 9:00, or at 7:30 for lesson (Tues: beginner two-step; Wed:
intermediate 2-step; Thurs: swing; Tues-Wed: linedance lessons). (closed
Mondays). Disco Sunday 4-9pm.

 Entros -part restaurant/bar, part playground for adults
(non-sexual). A variety of interactive, thinking games. Very hard to
describe, lots of fun. (Yale and Aloha)

 Dessert at the Sorrento Hotel, or Four Seasons Olympic Hotel .

 Dessert at the
 Space Needle -- great view! 443-2100 for more info.

 Jazz clubs . There are several (Serafina, Patti Summers, etc).

 Date: Wed, 20 Jul 1994 22:02:08 -0700 (PDT)
 Subject: Seattle info for visitors--sightseeing

I recommend Pioneer Square (and the Underground tour there), the
 waterfront , and Pike Place Market --all downtown and one can
do all three by foot in the better part of a day. If you like funky
vintage stores, Fremont is the place. There's the Intl. District (aka
Chinatown) , not the best I've seen, and the Univ. District . 
 Capitol Hill is the gay part of town and its main street is
Broadway, with many stores and neat people watching. Most of the bars are
along Pine and Pike Streets (perpendicular to Broadway, at the south end
of Bway). You might enjoy taking a kayak from the Univ of Wash across the
ship canal to the Arboretum , where you can get out and walk around
and go to the Japanese Gardens , or the Foster Island Nature
Walk along the edge of the canal, ending up at the Museum of
History and Industry (much Seattle history there). Also, there's the
 Ballard Locks which is especially nice in to visit when the salmon
are jumping the Fish Ladder there. Nearby, is the funky
 Fremont neighborhood, with lots of vintage stores, restaurants, and
bookstores. 

 Date: Wed, 27 Jul 1994 10:15:13 -0700 (PDT)
 Subject: U-District 

It is not very far from Capitol Hill (by car) and is easily connected to
"the Hill" by bus, too. There's a lot to do there--many ethnic eateries,
cafes, bars, movie theatres, book/record stores, and the University is
(duh) close at hand. It is not, however, as charming as the University
itself. It is not inhospitable by any means, but it is a big-city
atmosphere, a little grittier than Amherst, say; more like Cambridge. It
is not all quiet tree-lined streets (some of it is), and it is advisable
to be on your guard late at night (commonsense advice, also applicable on
Capitol Hill and downtown). There's a large youth presence there, and I
mean pre-college youth, some of lesser means. It is quite active,
especially "The Ave," officially University Way NE, to which most
of the above description applies. The Ave certainly pulses, and you will
not lack for things to do. But if you're looking for peace and quiet...
you might consider elsewhere. Depends what you're looking for. 

 compiled by Richard Isaac & Ken 

 Comments? Write me at RMIsaac@eskimo.com 

Jump to: 

 HOME 
 RMIsaac 

 Israel 
 Jewish 
 GayJews 
 My Israeli Music 

 Queer I: general 
 Queer II: net, travel, media 

 All About Seattle 
 Seattle: Sightseeing 
 Outside Seattle 
 Gay Seattle 

 CyberStuff 
 Fun Stuff 
 Language 
 News/Media/Film 
 Pinochle! 
 Politics 
 Reference 
 Sexuality 
 Star Trek/Sci-fi 

 Travel 
 My E. Europe Trip 
 My Gay/Jewish E. Europe 

 --- 

Approximately hits on all subdirectories since 28 July 1995