Rich's
notes on GaySeattle 

 Greetings from Seattle! 
 The Emerald City
 Jet City
 The Rain City
 The Upper Left Hand Corner

30 Nov 1998

Briefly, I would say that it is very comfortable for gays in Seattle. The
political leadership and atmosphere are very gay-friendly, including the
mayor and Police Chief. There are non-discrimination statutes in Seattle & King County and in state government.
Domestic partnership was passed unanimously in August 1994 by the City
Council. The mayor is always in the Pride Parade, the new Chief marched
for the first time in 1994. A statewide gay civil rights bill just missed
passing the 1994 Legislature; gays are included in the statewide hate
crimes bill. We have our Christians but they are well-opposed in this
area. Two anti-gay initiatives failed statewide to get enough signatures
to make the Nov. 1994 ballot, and two more failed again in '95, but a
pro-gay initiative also failed 60%-40% in 1997. Get out of Seattle
proper, though, and it's a different story, just like anywhere else.

There are a wide variety of political and social organizations, though
there is no LGB community center (yet!). We do have a fabulous gay street
patrol ( Q Patrol ) and a gay
youth drop-in center ( Lambert 
House ). There
are a number (20?) of bars, one of them for women. Most are not
extraordinary, though the country bar (Timberline) 
is awesome, and we have 2 leather bars (Eagle, Cuff). The Pride Parade 
draws about 50-60,000 and will probably outgrow the "gay ghetto" (Capitol
Hill) in the near future. Broadway , the main
drag of Capitol
Hill , is Queer Central and it is extremely comfortable to live here. 
Queers holding hands is not an uncommon sight, and stores cater to us. It
is said the Broadway Market is America's only queer mall. 

There is a strong
bisexual community, a good (drag) court system, an order of the Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence ,
and good AIDS/HIV service organizations (most notable the NW AIDS
Foundation and the innovative GayCity 
(a non-profit community-based HIV prevention organization) which hosts
provocative forums with overflow attendance), and brand new AIDS housing. 
There are several major huge gay social events (The Prom, the
Bump, etc.) and monthly Gay Bingo (except summer). The gay theatre
company (Alice B. Theater) just folded and is restructuring but there is
lots of other fringe theatre and the very queer Greek Active does terrific
queer versions of classic plays.

The movie houses here are wonderful, lots of them small, old buildings,
and you can see much more than the big Hollywood releases here (art and
foreign films abound). There is a big intl. film fest 
in May/June, and a gay film fest each October. Lots and lots of neighborhood
festivals each summer, and really big ones on Memorial Day and Labor Day 
weekends. Good local music scene ,
too. 

In the summer, I would definitely recommend going to the Triangle Campground ; it is a GAY
campground. And it is very campy! It is isolated in the deep woods, very
lush, and very popular in the summer. Gays only. It has recently
relocated to Bender Creek (21 mi. outside Granite Falls, WA on the Mtn.
Loop Hwy; 90 (?) mins. NE of Seattle) after 20 years at Index, WA. You
you can pitch a tent for a few days if you like, for $10/person/day. (No
services provided except outhouses).

Our representative (43rd District) in Olympia (the capital) is openly gay
(the only one in Washington State) and we had a lesbian on the city
council (she was elected in 11/95, which also saw the defeat of another
(black) lesbian city council incumbent, who was until then the highest
openly gay black politician.) 

The economy is relatively healthy; the cost of living is pretty high. The
city is relatively safe and clean and the citizenry and city leaders are
very conscious of the environment and city planning. 

 Below are some links of local resources and organizations which may be
of use: 

 Guide to
websites
of GLBT organizations in the Northwest and British Columbia 

 Freedom Day Committee Web
Site : official page 

 UnOfficial
Seattle Pride Page 

 >>NEW >"> GayPrideNW.com 

 21
Years of Seattle Gay Pride : a chronology of Pride in Seattle over the
years

 Lesbian / Gay / Bisexual /
Transgender Menu at Seattle Community Network (SCN): "includes links
to local information about health services, political groups, gay
newspapers and magazines, support organizations, gay-friendly churches and
other resources. A youth section includes links to sources of help in
several Puget Sound cities." 

 >>NEW >"> Seattle Gay Culture Center : a
work in progress

 SEAMEC : here you will find
the non-partisan ratings of candidates for office in Seattle, King County
and Washington State in regards to their views on issues of concern to the
gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender communities. 

 Seattle Gay News 

 SGN Community Calendar 

 >> "> Events
Calendar : from GaySeattle.com

 Queer
Seattle Events : part of the Queer International
Events Calendar 

 Seattle PFLAG Banner ,
publication of the local Seattle
PFLAG chapter , of which my father is a board member

 Bigot 
Busters : "Democracy in Action": we provide voter education "at the 
point of sale," where signatures are being gathered for 
anti-gay citizens initiatives 166 and 167 in Washington State; this is called "counter-petitioning" and proved instrumental in the defeat of I-608 and I-610 in 1994. 

 Northwest AIDS Foundaiton : "a
volunteer-driven, non-profit AIDS service organization that provides case
management, housing assistance, and emergency grants to people with AIDS,
wellness information to people with HIV, prevention education, public
policy advocacy, and grants to associate agencies and to other AIDS
service organizations throughout Washington state." 

 >>NEW >"> Chicken Soup Brigade 

 Friends for Life , run by
Stuart Cohn

 Association of Abused
and Battered Lesbians 

 Seattle Men's Chorus :
the nation's largest community chorus; highly acclaimed

 CAMP IT UP!: Triangle Recreation
Camp , a unique place: a campground for queer folk. Formerly situated
in Index, WA, it relocated not long ago to Bender Creek, near Lake
Stevens. Still shaping up, it's a great, peaceful place for gays and
lesbians to get away to, far from the bustle of city life, but still
comfortably hospitable. Convenient to Seattle and Vancouver BC, you can
camp for a day or the whole summer for very reasonable fees. The camp
rests on a river and hosts a rocky beach (clothing optional). There are
big parties on the summer holiday weekends. 

 Ingersoll
Gender Center (Seattle) : dealing with (trans)gender issues

 Partners Task
Force for Gay & Lesbian Couples : A national resource for same-sex
couples. Supporting the diverse community of committed gay and lesbian
partners through a variety of media. 

 The Legal Marriage 
Alliance of Washington (LMA) has formed to prepare 
the gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgendered community and the general 
public for the impact of the Hawaii marriage decision on Washington 
State. The Legal Marriage Alliance of Washington is a group of gay and lesbian 
couples and supporters who believe that individuals, regardless of 
gender, who are prepared to devote the love, effort, commitment, and 
sacrifice to build families, deserve the right to legal marriage.
Includes: 
* The legal cases that are shaping the current same-sex marriage debate
* A Media page to support reporters on deadline
* Detailed cases and history from Hawaii, Vermont, and Washington State
* Actual texts of federal and state Defense Of Marriage Acts (DOMAs) and
 who voted for them
* Links to marriage laws of all 50 states
* Review of all 360 benefits and protections of marriage in Washington State
* Review of same-sex marriage laws around the world
* Domestic partner benefits and who offers them

 Northwest Lesbian & Gay History
Museum Project : preserving Northwest queer history; write gayhistnw@aol.com 

 The Tacky Tourists Club of
America which "produces flights of the fancy and guided tours to
realms of the imagination. The parties produced each year are * The
Prom...You Never Went To * The Queen City Cruise * Things That Go Bump In
the Night...[and]...provides financial support for other non-profit
agencies and organizations." 

 Team Seattle : the area's
umbrella sports organization; it "exists to facilitate, provide and
promote opportunities for lesbians, gays and their friends in all sports
at all levels of ability, and to foster their physical and emotional
health and well-being... by providing an inter-sports resource network for
athletes and sports leaders, by organizing Seattle's team to the Gay Games
and by producing the Northwest Gay/Lesbian Winter and Summer Sports
Festivals." 

 Sisters of Perpetual
Indulgence/Seattle : best known for outrageous costumes and flamboyant
makeup, "The Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence are a group of gay nuns ... 
men and women of various religious backgrounds who are dedicated to AIDS
research, education, prevention, and PWA support; social services, social
activism and perpetual indulgence." (one of them is pictured at right with
Charlotte von Mahldsorf, featured in Rosa von Paunheim's "I Am My OWn
Woman")

 CyberQueer Lounge , brought to you by Seattle's premier technoqueer, Tom Hicks

 Gay City : which holds
unique
community forums in an attempt to stem the rise of HIV infections in gay 
men 

 GSBA : The gay business 
association of Seattle... where the "G" stands for "Greater," don'cha know

 BOHGOF
Home Page : that's Bitter Old Hags and Grumpy Old Fags, the gay/lesbian
graduate organization at the Univ. of Washington (Seattle) 

 Northwest Bears 

 REGIONAL MAIL LISTS (partial
listsing);
then search for one of the following terms: 
*ALASKABDSM 
*BDSM SEATTLE 
*BDSM WESTWA 
*MEN'S WELCOMING COMMITTEE (Seattle) 
*NORTHWEST RUMBLINGS 
*PACNWBDSM 
*PUGETSOUNDBDSM (Kitsap) 
*PURGATORY 
*RUBBERLOVERS (Seattle) 
*SEATTLE BSDM 
*SOCIETY FOR HUMAN SEXUALITY: DISCUSSION 
*SOUTHEND SOCIAL CLUB (Seattle)
*WA BDSM 
*WOMEN'S WELCOMING COMMITTEE (Seattle) 

 Long Yang Club -
Seattle (LYC-Seattle) "is a non-profit social and educational group
established for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and transgender people primarily
for social events and to promote the Asian Culture. LYC-Seattle exists to
provide an understanding and supportive environment and to promote an
atmosphere of mutual respect in which everyone can genuinely learn about
the variety of cultures that exist."
 Seattle Irish Gay &
Lesbian Association 

 Pink Zone : a business
specializing in all sorts of queer paraphernalia; located on Broadway

 Cruising for sex
in Seattle 

 Cruising for
sex in Washington 

 >>NEW >"> Olympians : nudist potluck group

 >>NEW >"> The Venerable Friday Potluck
Series : has met every other Friday for nearly 20 years; for gay and bi
men

 Other local organizations or businesses:

 The Lesbian Resource Center , the
oldest such center in the nation; (phone 206-322-DYKE); for info on the
lesbian monthly paper or other lesbian activities

 Lambert House : the gay youth
drop-in center at 1818 - 15th Ave., Seattle; one of the only such places
of its kind in the nation

 Pride Foundation : a gay United Way of sorts, granting thousands
of dollars anually to worthy organizations; run by Exec. Dir. Ted Lord

 Privacy Fund , the statewide gay/lesbian lobbying organization

 Date: Thu, 12 Jan 1995 22:26:14 -0800 (PST) 
 Subject: Seattle info for gay visitors (fwd) 

I can sympathize that it's hard to know what to do from so far away. So
let me try to help. I will include below sections of letters that I have
written to others in similar circumstances that I have found useful. 

The main gay paper is the Seattle Gay
News , and there is always a calendar of events for the week and
a map of gay locales bars, bookstores, sex shops (SEE BELOW FOR A
LISTING). Other papers include the Lesbian Resource Center Community News,
and the Stranger (not a gay paper
per se, but a great local alternative paper, which has very good listings
for music, dance, theatre, films, etc. (and great personals and advice
column!)). THE place to hang out is the Broadway Market, which is very
social and very queer (the Pink Zone is there and sells only queer stuff),
and there are several gay gyms (one in the Market). Broadway in general,
as you may know, is very queer & queer-friendly, so there are lots of nice
cafes where you can meet people too. 

 SPECIAL FOR WOMEN: In regards
to the above, I should mention that R Place, the Eagle and the Cuff, and
CC Slaughters and Thumpers are very predominantly male! However, the Timberline , the Encore,
and the Re-bar have a good mix of women, too, and you should feel
comfortable going to any one of them. Of course, there are women's
spaces, too: are the WildRose (11th & Pike), a nice small bar/restaurant,
relaxed and comfortable. There are other institutions for women, most
notably the Lesbian Resouce Center, one of the oldest such places in the
nation. It publishes a monthly paper, the Community News. Their # is
322-DYKE; I would recommend calling them to get an accurate picture of
what to do in the women's community. Their drop-in hours are 2pm-7pm, but
they're open at 9am for phone calls, etc. 

 Date: Sat, 15 Jul 1995 13:44:23 -0700 (PDT) 
 Subject: Bars, Books, Baths 

Check out GaySeattle.com , or you
may consult the list below, from the Seattle Gay News : with some commentary
of my own. 

 RESTAURANTS & BARS

 CC Attle (and 24-hr. Cadillac Grill); Madison & 15th; dark,
 crowded, loud
 Changes 2103 N. 45th, 545-8363. In Wallingford, neighborhood bar.
 The Crescent 1413 E. Olive Way, 720-8023. Horseshoe bar and juke box,
 piano bar Sunday. Small.
 The Cuff 1533 13th Ave., 323-1525. Pool table, Leather, Levi. 
 Popular Sunday beer bust.
 Double Header 407 2nd Ave., 464-9918. Pool table, dancing. Oldest Gay
 Bar on West Coast.
 Eagle 314 East Pike St., 621-7591 Leather, Levi, Uniform. Rock DJ's.
 Outdoor area in back. 
 Elite 622 Broadway E., 324-4470. Neighborhood Bar. ALL Welcome.
 Elite II 1658 E. Olive Way, 322-7334. Pool table, dart board, micro
 brews, mixed crowd.
 Hamburger Marys corner of Olive and Denny, 324-8112. Restaurant/ Bar/
 Lounge. Full menu, open 7am til 2am.
 Jack's Bistro 405 15th Ave. E, 324-9625. Dining. outdoor courtyard,
 some live entertainment.
 Jade Pagoda 606 Broadway E., 322-5900. Lunch, dinner specials, and
 happy hour. Bar is gay.
 Madison Pub 1315 E. Madison, 325-6537. Neighborhood Pub w/pool,
 darts, large import beer selection.
 Mr. Paddywack's E. Pike at Harvard Ave. 322-7777. Male
 strippers; $5 admission; $5 for 1st drink; rest are free
 Neighbours 1509 Broadway, 324-5358. Restaurant, lounge and disco.
 Nightly specials. Drag and lip-synch shows. Big.
 R Place 619 E. Pine, 322-8828. A Seattle Pub. Pool, darts, pinball,
 microbrews on 3 floors.
 Re-bar 1114 Howell (at Boren Ave.). Mon-Surrealistic Noise Lounge;
 Tue-Live music; Wed-World Beat w/Riz; Thu-Queer Disco; 
 Fri-Macambo Lounge; Sat-Queens Night Out. Diverse crowd.
 Rosebud Espresso & Bistro 719 E Pike, 323-6636. Lunch, Dinner,
 Weekend brunch, serves liquor. Open late.
 Sea Wolf Saloon 1413 14th Ave, 323-2158. Pool, pinball, darts,
 Seattle's only Saturday & Sunday Beer Bust, 6-l0pm, with DJ 
 "D" playing the tunes. Tue- $1 Bottle Bud 8pm-Midnight, 
 Thu-$1.25 Red Hook pints, 8pm-Midnight.
 Sonya's, 1900 block of 1st Ave., near Pike Place Mkt.
 Restaurant and lounge (with a view of Elliott Bay).
 Tacky Tavern 1706 Bellevue Ave., 322-9744. Eclectic neighborhood bar.
 Wed-Transvestite/ Transsexual - all welcome.
 Thumpers 1500 E. Madison, 328-3800. Restaurant/Bar. Genteel.
 Timberline Tavern 2015 Boren, 622-6220. Western Dancing, Pool,
 Pinball, Import Beers. Country Dance Lessons for Beginners, 
 Tuesdays (intermediate-Weds; 70's disco-Suns 4-9pm). 
 Friendly, big, best tavern in gay Seattle.
 Wildrose Tavern 1021 E. Pike, 324-9210, Lesbian bar that serves lunch
 & dinner, beer & wine. Has great jukebox, non-smokers' 
 section, dance floor

 BOOKSTORES & RETAIL SHOPS

 Bailey/Coy Books 414 Broadway Ave. E., 323-8842. General bookstore.
 Beyond the Closet Bookstore 1501 Belmont Ave., 322-4609. Gay 
 bookstore
 The Crypt 1310 E. Union, 325-3882. Sex paraphernalia and magazines
 Red & Black Books 432 15th Ave. E., 322-7323. Feminist coop/gay.
 Seattle Leather Mercantile 1204 E Pike. Great boot selection, custom
 leather. 860-LTHR (5847)
 Sunshine Thrift Shops *NONPROFIT*, 1605 12th Ave # 25, 324-9774. Open
 M-F, 12-6pm, Sat 10-7pm, Sun 10-5pm. Charity Thrift Shops 
 providing financial hope for non-profit AIDS organizations.
 Taboo Video 1012 1st Ave. 622-SEXY
 Toys in Babeland 711 E. Pike St. Toys, etc. for the pleasure oriented
 woman. 328-2914

 BATHS

 Basic Plumbing On 10th b.w Pine and Pike. 682-8441. Gay men's
 club $14 membership/$7 thereafter. Open til 5 am
 Club Seattle 1520 Summit Ave., 329-2334. Clean, friendly and safe.
 Club "Z" 1117 Pike St., 622-9958. Private men's club. 

 Date: Wed, 28 Dec 1994 14:56:07 -0800 (PST) 
 Subject: Seattle B&Bs (fwd) 

Broadway Commercial district:

 N&lt=========Bway East=========|=====Bway=====>S
 700 0 1800 1500
<to the Univ. District bars this area, 
 east & west of here

(all in area code 206) 
Continental Inn 324-9511 955 10th E (Capitol Hill, 2 blks N of 
 Bway comm dist) 
Chambered Nautilus 522-2536 5005 22nd NE (NE of U Dist)
Galer Place 282-5339 318 W Galer (Queen Anne)
Gaslight Inn 325-3654 1727 15th (15th is a pleasant 
 commercial dist; near some bars, 5 
 blocks from Bway)
 Gypsy Arms * gypsyarms@email.msn.com in Fremont district 
Landes House 329-8781 712 11th E (very close to Bway)
Shafer Mansion (!) 329-4628 907 14th E
Duncan Guest Hse 324-4904; 322-3818 1509 S Winthrop St 
Broadway Guest Hse 329-1864 959 Broadway E
Hill House 720-7161 1113 E John (close to Broadway)

* more details on Gypsy Arms, from the owners: "We are fairly well
connected to the BDSM communities, but am trying to find a way to connect
to our other gay friends as well. Our upper two floors are a traditional
B&B, with the subterranean level being a dungeon that is available for the
clients use at will. We try to pamper our guests while attempting to make
it a place that is affordable to all...Gary P. Kubista, Manager Gypsy
Arms" 

(These are all taken from gay listings)

I would add that you could also try the College Inn in the University
District (633-4441; 4000 Univ Way NE). I imagine it's cheaper than most
of the "gay" places (yes, they are mostly not in the 'budget' column--all
those tastefully-appointed Victorian B&Bs!), and it is very close to the
University, but it would be a 10-15 mins bus ride to Capitol Hill (the gay
ghetto) where everything queer (almost) is. Also the restaurant in the
College Inn stays ovpen really late (I believe) and might not be the most
peaceful place to stay. You might also think of trying to get some
housing on campus, if it is summer break; there may be vacant housing
units. I don't know where exactly to direct you, but the main info # for
the UW is 543-2100.

Let me add that there is good bus
service b/w the "U-Dub" and "the Hill"--take the 7, 9 or 43 (the
latter runs a more circuitous route) in either direction. Taxis are hard
to come by unless you call ahead for one. 

And this from a visitor in the summer of '94; I include it not as an
endorsement (since I'm sure most all the above places are just fine), but
as feedback: 

 Date: Wed, 31 Aug 1994 17:07:56 +1000 (est) 
 To: Richard Isaac 

" You may or may not recall sending me some info on places to stay and
to go to in Seattle (a couple of months back). I'm now back in Oz and
thought I'd thank you for the info. I ended up staying at Hill House and
it was wonderful. Not the cheapest of options but really great. The
location is perfect - near Broadway and on the bus route to the uni (where
I had to go for work stuff) and the city, and the whole setup is great. If
other people ask you for recommendations for places to stay in Seattle you
can confidently recommend it - great rooms, FANTASTIC breakfasts,
friendly, beautiful etc. (no this is not a paid advertisement!!). In fact
it was just about the best place I stayed in my two month trip through the
US, UK, Amsterdam, and Paris.

" Seattle is a great city and the gay scene/Capitol Hill is fantastic. 
Here in Sydney the scene is also good, but the main gay places are more
nightclub-y than the great neighbourhood/community feel of Capitol Hill. 
I really enjoyed my time in Seattle." 

 Date: Thu, 4 Aug 1994 13:22:10 -0700 (PDT)
 Subject: Seattle gay-friendly corps (fwd) 

I checked the Queer Resource Directory and found out the following: 

Local companies in the top 100 gay friendly corps: Microsoft, REI, 
Seattle City Light, Starbucks (coffee).

Local companies w/non-discrimination policies: Microsoft , Adobe, USWest. 
Also the City of Seattle and King County, and the state government (and 
hence the University of Washington, a state school).

Local companies w/domestic partnership policies: Microsoft, Seattle Times , Seattle Mental Health
Institute, Visio Corp. Also, the City of Seattle!

Many local companies have gay employee groups: Microsoft, Boeing, Seattle
Times, USWest, and the Univ. of Wash. Several have e-mail (ex. G/L Univ. 
Employees: glue@u.washington.edu ). 

I'm sure there are many other good companies and gay/lesbian employee
groups but I'm not an expert in this area. Hopefully this will be a
start. 

It is a liberal area, including most of King county. I think it is
comfortable in general for queers here. Altho I do have a friend in a
computer corp in the suburbs who says his company is not so friendly. So
there are some of each of course, just like everywhere. 

 compiled by Richard Isaac 

 Comments? Write me at RMIsaac@eskimo.com 

Jump to: 

 HOME 
 RMIsaac 

 Israel 
 Jewish 
 GayJews 
 My Israeli Music 

 Queer I: general 
 Queer II: net, travel, media 

 All About Seattle 
 Seattle: Sightseeing 
 Outside Seattle 
 Gay Seattle 

 CyberStuff 
 Fun Stuff 
 Language 
 News/Media/Film 
 Pinochle! 
 Politics 
 Reference 
 Sexuality 
 Star Trek/Sci-fi 

 Travel 
 My E. Europe Trip 
 My Gay/Jewish E. Europe 

 --- 

Approximately hits on all subdirectories since 28 July 1995