The Beatles: Fan Club Publications 

 Throughout the "1960's" The Beatles (U.S.A.) LTD. based
out of Radio City Station in New York, N.Y. issued monthly and special issue fan
club publications. It is unknown just how many subscribers there were at various
times but it must of been many. "Hey, the Beatles were popular right"?
Below are some of the issues I have in my collection. These are in VG++
condition. The April 1966 issue of the Beatle Bulletin has a ripped page due to
two pages originally stuck together because it wasn't cut properly at the
printers. Anyway, I have these up for viewing so people that haven't seen them
before can see what they looked like. 
 You may click on any of the photos for a
larger view. 

 The
above are four photo albums, one for each member. Each one two pages plus the
cover and back with 6 photos.

 On the inside page is a statement as follows: "Hello, Here is your exclusive Beatle Photo Album -
and we're sure that you're going to enjoy it. We have received these photos
through the courtesy of BEAT PUBLICATIONS LTD and Johnny Dean, Editor of the
BEATLES MONTHLY BOOK. They are samples of the top quality material which
subscribers receive each month. Best wishes from all of us to all of you. 
Sincerely, BEATLE'S (U.S.A.) LIMITED" 

 &#160; 

 Above left is the special anniversary issue from May 1965. It includes
the 1964 and 1965 maps of their concert tours of the U.S. and an descriptions of
their schedule. 
 Above right is the special "International Album" issue of the
bulletin. The editor states the following: 

 This issue of THE BEATLES BULLETIN is quite different from anything
we have done before, but we think that you will enjoy it. We've
included a bit of background on the sensational BEATLES CARTOON SERIES, plus a
full-length script from it, for your reading enjoyment. There is a four page
SPOTLIGHT section of full-page photos which we borrowed for this issue from our
exclusive BEATLES PHOTOS ALBUMS. 

 The above is the August 1964 "SPECIAL TO MEMBERS - SCRIPT" for
 "A HARD DAYS NIGHT" This was graciously sent to the club by
David Picker of United Artists . 
 Back to my Rarities Online page.