SakuraCon 2004 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 SakuraCon 2004 

 Also available: 
 Photos Page 1 , 
 Photos Page 2 ( coming ) 

 Sakura-Con 2004 Report 

 Last updated: Friday, 30-Apr-2004 17:01:49 PDT 

 F or my second
time staying the whole weekend instead of previous single-day visits, I
put out requests to be part of the staff this year, either in the
Merchandising booth or the Theater/CCTV rooms, and as it happened did work
in both. Why'd I do it? Probably the biggest reasons were both an
attempt to get over some of the shyness of being one nameless face to
everyone in a crowd of 3000+ people (4500 or so this year), and knowing it
was an all-volunteer staff with positions still open near the end of the
pre-Con setup stage, I figured I could help somewhere. Plus the black
t-shirts don't hurt; I was late for hotel and registration discounts this
time. 

 So for a couple months before the doors
opened, I helped out with pre-con walkthroughs and training, convention
bag stuffing, filling gaps in the video library for the weekend, etc. 
Hey, it's better than hanging around the house all day on Sundays, and I
meet people at the same time. 

 When Friday came around, and I got a ride
from work down to the Hilton to be able to make it in on time for the
Anime Music Videos showing, things ran smoother than I had thought. I had
been asked a couple days earlier to have a Merchandising shift that night,
but it conflicted with the AMVs; well, the AMVs seemed to let out a bit
earlier than planned (one of the few things that happened with in
the Emerald Ballroom this year), so I was able to do that shift after all
as well. 

 Battle Royale contestant, with 
 the Merchandising booth behind her 

 Then it was time to head to Programming
to check out schedules there; I filled out a hole in the 10pm-1am shift
right away, and then head back to bed to wake in the morning. On CCTV I
caught the tail end of the extended version of Battle
Royale , and I think I'm glad I have the original; I'm not too
fond of the 'Requiem' tack-on portion; but then that's what the original
novel and manga are for, ne? 

 Saturday morning, I helped open the
Merchandising booth on a scheduled shift (9am-noon). Then after some hall
roaming and a CCTV shift at the Marriott, it was time for the Dealers
room, larger this year with a whole wing of the Marriott hallway on both
sides, and more roaming with the camera. 

 It was also my first year cosplaying
(other than a brief high-school attempt as Riff Raff at a Rocky Horror
Picture Show screening), and part of one costume didn't arrive until the
absolute last minute. I did have a couple people through the day
recognize it--Yang Neumann, the YF-19 designer in Macross
Plus --one took a snapshot, as well. 

 I was also Hal "Otacon" Emmerich from
 Metal Gear Solid 2 briefly, but with a white lab
consultation jacket as the only obvious costuming bit, I don't think
anyone "got it". I have some ideas to make them both better next time,
though, not the least of which is losing the weight I had already lost but
gained right back over the last year. 

 Then concert time. Hiro, apparently one
of the hottest acts in Japan (previously in the group SPEED), visited
SakuraCon as her first North American concert, and her first time
performing some of the songs she sang and danced to. There was a lot of
crowd mentality waiting in line for it to start, since as the next-to-last
event in the room that night, with other things during the day running
late and the concert starting even later for various reasons, a lot of
people were in line for a long time. 

 Hiro, links to her webiste 

 I'm not so keen on Pop music all the
time, but I had a good time; turned out I was next to a few of the other
Programming guys in the fourth row, off to the right side, and we had a
great view. Near the end when she read a note in English thanking us, and
asked us to sing along to what turned out to be "Fly Me to the Moon"
(hushed silence during her intro, but a roar of applause and singing at
the obvious parts), I'm sure she made new fans that night. In an encore,
she came out in an Ichiro jersey from the Mariners to a loud roar of
applause as well. 

 Since I start my normal job at 7am, I
decided to take a 7am Programming shift on Sunday to help keep ready for
the early morning wakeups, so I decided against the dance after the
concert (which was the most-delayed event, and with city curfews enforced,
made a lot of attendees angry apparently; I missed that completely,
though). 

 After the concert I was about to go to
bed when I remembered the announced screening of Living
Hell --being a sucker for horror movies, I opted for a couple
less hours of sleep after all, and saw the movie first. Let's see--take
nearly every tortuous element from a variety of Hollywood and Hammer Films
movies, and stick them all into one show, then add on some family
insanity from the likes of The Hills Have Eyes or Texas
Chainsaw Massacre , and you have one sick freakshow of a movie. I
thought the ending was pretty weak, but maybe that was due to the action
and insanity up until that point. 

 When Sunday morning came around, I had
the 7am-10am shift for a video room, including an episode of a show I
wanted to catch anyway ( Tenchi Muyo! GXP , episode 8 of
which is chock full of fan-service--not a bad way to start a morning). Next
up was a plan to rush my videos back down to Programming and rush back up
to the same room to catch the screening of Nescaflowne ,
a fan-dubbed spoof of Escaflowne as the story of Juan
Valdez and the Kingdom of Folgeria versus Ziggy Stardust and the Starbach
Empire (yes, coffee puns and hordes of others were in abundance). 

 Around 9am or so, Mike, the Video/CCTV
Coordinator asked if I'd be willing to pull a double shift, so I stayed in
the room after all and enjoyed the show along with the rest of the folks
(with an eye toward the door to clear space by inviting people in to enjoy
the show). It was a hit, followed by a favorite classic of mine, an
unedited Nausica&auml; . 

 (It wasn't all such a hit; the show I had
before Tenchi Muyo! GXP was a Korean animation called
 Bastof Syndrome , which unless it gets better after the
third episode probably won't make it to my collection. But it was okay for
a quick Sunday morning, and had some nice video gaming references.) 

 Squeek! closing shop 

 Now being after noon, and already too
late for the noon hotel checkout, I knew I was going to have a bit extra
to pay anyway, so I checked with the front desk about the time limits--I had
heard that 5pm was the limit for the discounted late checkout, but someone
at the desk the previous night told me it was 3pm. I verified it was 5pm
for the 2nd-late rate (after which it's a full night's rate), and went back
up to help out with Merchandising until the 3pm closing. 

 We finished off sales a little after 3pm,
and packed up boxes while a line got antsy for the Closing Ceremonies
(running late again from a previous event in the ballroom). I finally
checked out of my room at about 4pm, checking my bags with the Concierge
to catch the "Assault and Flattery" panel at the end without needing to
lug around the heavy gear. If only I'd thought about doing that last
year, I'd have caught the A&F panel last time too, but oh well. 

 Of course, since Closing Ceremonies was
late, the final panel started late as well; I did meet a few webforum
members while waiting, only one with a real introduction at the time (hi
SushiGlomper), the others I hadn't realized until reading the boards at
home (hi FateRuins and FizzTheCarbonated; I know I'm missing a couple
still). 

 Sakura-Con 2004 executives 

 With any volunteer-run organization,
problems will crop up when things get going at the last minute, and a lot
of issues were brought up at the panel and the webforums afterward about
rudeness, the late starts/ends of the events, crowds based on the
ever-growing size of the con, and the like. I know I didn't run
into any problems personally, so I wound up having fun; but I certainly
did miss a lot by being busy in the dark video rooms and off-to-the-side
CCTV controls at times. 

 There are lessons to learn from it all to
make next year even better. And yes, I'll be there, too. 

 ~ Eric 

 On to the Photos... 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.