From a Dreamer's Scratch Pad 

 From a Dreamer's Scratch Pad 

 Hi, I'm Laura Gjovaag... 
 This is a page where I have put my poetry, starting with stuff I wrote years ago (as Laura Dunham), and continuing to the more recent poems I've written. I don't claim to be good. I don't even claim to be mediocre. However, I've won a couple of prizes, been published in a couple of books. I guess that means that someone, somewhere, liked my poetry once upon a time. I truly hope you do, too.

 From a Dreamer's Scratch Pad 
 Click on the section title to go to that page of poetry 
 From a Dreamer's Scratch Pad 

 Manifest Destiny
 Los Libros
 An American Sonnet: Newsweek
 With the Future Left Behind
 The Bus Driver Enroute to the First Stop Makes-Believe She is a Poet
 Dreamscape Painted in Grey with Hints of Green Canvas
 Unprepared to Accept Death
 Loneliness Tastes Like a Math Book
 60 Years or 6,000 Silent Miles are too Near
 Basketball Champs

 Short Thoughts Run Faster 

 A Poetic Morning
 The Nurse's Office, Third Period
 January Bantu
 Origami Is My Favorite Pastime on Thursdays
 My Homework Thinks It's a Kansas Tornado
 Clarinet to Soloist
 After a Basketball Game
 Geometry at 11 O'Clock
 So This is Writer's Block

 The New Nightmare 

 The Sun Sets Before It Can Rise
 Cramming For The Calculus Test
 The Road off Cemetery
 The New Nightmare
 while Listening to Rod Stewart on KUBE...
 Landlocked in a Nightmare
 I'd Rather be an Evergreen
 The Final Day in an Alexandria Hotel with Friends
 But it was only Memory
 Walk Towards the Brightest Dark
 Nonwishes from Middle Students

 A Blue Balloon into a Summer Sky 

 A Dream so Heavy it woke the Cat
 Horizon Poem with the Hazen Jazz Ensemble
 Love Letter and Drifting Pink Hearts
 Living in the Megascopic World
 Self Portrait
 Writing in my Journal...
 Poem Written on a Grease-Stained McDonald's Wrapper...

 Undefined Edges 

 Ten Natural Poems of Stories
 The Race (Hazen 1990)
 Band Waiting Area, Abbottsford B.C.
 Nightmares Through an Open Window
 Green M&M's and Legos
 Black Walls Encrusted with Silence
 Proud Experiences
 Daydream/Nightmare
 After a Quarrel at Girls' Camp
 The Football Game
 From a Dreamer's Scratch Pad
 Starburst Wrappers and Typewriter Thoughts

 Louder Echoes 

 The Alygator Man
 A Past to Create, A Future to Remember
 The Taste of a Hospital is Linen Precision
 One Step Closer to the Cliff
 Leader, Friend
 The First-Grade Carpet was Green
 Symptoms of Daymares
 Return from the Funeral
 Reading about Beijing, July, 1989

 This is all post high school stuff from here on out. 
 Respite 

 Untitled Love Poem
 Respite
 Waiting for the First Snow
 Paper Clips
 A Kiss
 Rendezvous at Breakfast
 The First Week at College
 Dorm Dreamin'
 Seeing You in Class the Next Day
 Homework
 Finals Week

 Holding Ragnarok Away 

 Poem for the Return of the Poet
 The Poet Becomes Abstruse
 Off to Grad School
 Statue
 Sigyn Talks to Her Husband
 Lovepoem
 Chorale of Youth

 Slivers of Memory 

 Embrace
 Evening, Valentine's Day
 That Old Cloud of Black Again
 The Weave
 The New Us
 Poem for Dale
 The Land of Fiction
 Riding the Internet
 Wedding Ring
 Ars Poetica

 Another Life 

 Seattle Haiku

 I'll add more recent poems as I write them, I suppose.

 All poetry on this site is Copyright &copy;1999 by Laura Gjovaag 
 All rights reserved 
 This poetry may be used and copied only with the inclusion of the copyright notice on each poem.
 These poems are mine, I wrote them, I bled my soul into them, I don't want anyone else taking credit or blame for them. 

 Poetry Webring 

 This Poetry Webring site owned by
 Laura Gjovaag .

 [ Previous 5 Sites 
 | Skip Previous 
 | Previous 
 | Next 
 | Skip 
 | Next 5 Sites 
 | Random Site 
 | List Sites 
 ] 

 The Manuscript 
 Or, How I Used to Present My Poems 
 My collection of poetry has been known for a long time as "From a Dreamer's Scratch Pad". It was a simple loose leaf notebook with a title page, quote page, dedication page and table of contents, then nearly uninterrupted poetry from there on out.
 My quote probably came out of Reader's Digest, my high school writing teacher, Mr Mitsui, couldn't stand Reader's Digest so we often slipped as many references to it as possible in our poetry.

 "Be careful of your thoughts;
 they may become words at any moment."
 -Iara Gassen

 I did divide my poems into sections, and what was included in each section changed through the years. I tried to always present my best poetry, with a sprinkling of older stuff (including some I had written in Middle School).
 The sections were as follows:

 Short Thoughts Run Faster - Light poetry, stuff that didn't probe too deeply or think too hard. Simple thoughts.
 The New Nightmare - Mostly dream stuff. Bizarre, floating stuff. For awhile, every poem in this section seemed to end with me hitting my alarm clock to shut it off.
 A Blue Balloon into a Summer Sky - Love Poems. Enough said.
 Undefined Edges - Some serious poetry. Some of these showed my true potential, some hinted at better writing.
 Louder Echoes - Mostly death poems. Some of these are about as serious as I get. One poem that I usually included in this section won my first place in a Washington State poetry contest when I was still a Freshman in High School.

 The dedication read: "To my grandma, from whom I inherited writing" and included a poem by my favorite poet Langston Hughes, "The Dream Keeper".
 I've added several sections to the current version.

 From A Dreamer's Scratch Pad - Lots of early poems, or poems that don't fit into the other categories.
 Respite - College and my life during that time. These show me growing up, I think.
 Holding Ragnarok Away - A mixed bag of poetry I've written as an adult.
 Slivers of Memory - More recent poems. Some of my best poems are in these two sections.
 Another Life - Stuff I've written as a married woman, some of it jointly with my husband.

 I have included virtually all the poetry I've written, bad and good. This makes the collection a bit lopsided in favor of the bad, but I know there are people out there who like all types. You may have to read several sections before finding something you can stand.

 How To Write Freeverse Poetry 

 Look around you. There are things in your life, pictures that exist in your eyes. Look at them. Look at them.
 Say, aloud, what you see. Say: "I see a tree bent by the wind." Say: "I see the fog rolling in."
 Now say it with more detail. Say: "I see a young willow, in the wind, bending over to look at the delicate daisy at its foot." Say: "Like spilt milk, the fog is flowing over the valley, obscuring everything."
 Write it down.
 Arrange it so it looks right . Nobody knows what right is, except you. Listen to what your eyes tell you.
 You have a picture, add tension: "The young willow bends to tell his friend the daisy how short life promises to be." The tension is in the message. The tension can be anything, put it in, or the poem won't give anything to its readers.
 When you have the right combination of picture and tension, the poem is done.
 Rinse.
 Repeat.

 Please send comments to realtegan@excite.com .
 -Laura "Tegan" Gjovaag