Short Thoughts Run Faster 

 Short Thoughts Run Faster 

 A Poetic Morning 
 The Nurse's Office, Third Period 
 January Bantu 
 Origami Is My Favorite Pastime on Thursdays 
 My Homework Thinks It's a Kansas Tornado 
 Clarinet to Soloist 
 After a Basketball Game 
 Geometry at 11 O'Clock 
 So This is Writer's Block 

 A POETIC MORNING

It's not that I have writer's block, there are just too many
 thoughts humming around in there for any one to
 get out safely.
 Poems are hard to write;
 Romantic poems are the easiest - they strike
 like a stab of lightning onto the page,
 and they come during thunderstorms
 of the heart.
 Insanity poems are a little bit harder - 
 They are the buoys in seas of doubt,
 but like buoys,
 they disappear easily in waves of thought.
 When they find the page
 they are often depressing and self-pitying.
 The end is the hardest - the tension.
 For every poem
 The writer must leave
 a little bit
 of their soul,
 Until it is all used up.

 The Nurse's Office, Third Period

The light, turned off,
casts a shadow which
fits precisely the outline
of the tiles.
 I close my eyes and
paint a picture of past rooms.

 In seventh grade, when I was sick,
 the room they put me in had two cramped beds-
 And was smaller than the back of a van.

 A Viking boat paddles roughly by
 I reach further back.

 In third grade, the sick room
 had curtains - it was always dark.
 The nurse's desk shared the room
 with a cracky-sounding heater
 and a small refrigerator.

I tied yellow ribbons to the tree in front
of Maplewood - The hostages untied them.
 Explosions of sound crash my earlobes.
The teacher assistants are arguing
 again
 beyond the open door.

 --- --- --- --- --- 
 When I was very young I used to be very prone to sickness. Or rather, I was able to consciously raise my body temperature to slightly over 100 degrees so I would get sent home from school without having a real doctor called in. I was sick more often than not, it seems. I did not have a pleasant childhood. I recall myself as being too tall, too awkward, I couldn't fit in no matter how hard I tried. I was teased a lot, but more often I would get myself rejected, I didn't want to get along with anyone.
 When life got too hard, I would suddenly have a temperature and go home. I used my ability enough to clearly remember, even now, the exact feel and look of the sick room at Maplewood Heights.
 I have one clear memory of tying yellow ribbons to the trees in front of Maplewood Heights, and I remember asking "But who will untie them?" and a sad faced teacher, not one I knew at that time, said, "The hostages will, when they come home." I did not understand, then.
 I didn't use my talent so much when I got to Dimmitt Middle School, home of the Vikings. Not because I didn't want to, life there was harder than elementary school, but because of the distance the school was from my home. I knew my parents would not put up with driving all the way across town too much, especially if they caught on to the fact that I was never really very sick.
 The Viking boat I refer to in the poem was a mosaic wall hanging that graced the hall of the middle school. I really liked it, and it floats in my memory still.

 January Bantu

Grey clouds rumble over the water.
Basketballs trundling down the court.

The sun hesitates each morning.
Tired songs turn off radios.

Evergreens whisper the snow into drifts.
A pencil drops from a student's cramped hand.

Origami is my Favorite Pastime on Thursdays

 I folded my ditto into a
 canoe
 and skimmed down
 a dream-blue river.

 I folded my assignment into a
 plane
 and whisked it over
 misty violet mountains.

 I folded my homework into a
 horse
 and trundled across
 a tear-green valley.

 I smoothed the page
 flat
 and wrote this
 poem on it.

My Homework Thinks It's a Kansas Tornado

 When I feel around in my
 bag for an ancient-last-chance
 assignment, I wonder
 if my notebook went for
 an afternoon on the town.
 I only have twenty pages
 of important reports
 slammed in a suffocating pocket.
 A problem-filled paper I finished
 only yesterday comes out as
 a butterfly that
 flew through a hurricane. Following
 come troops of overdue sheets of
 story problems that crinkle in my hands
 like the distant crackle of gunfire.
 As the bell rings I triumphantly yank
 A blurry-lined-sheet from my
 out-to-lunch notebook.
 too late.

 --- --- --- --- --- 
 Running out of time was an issue I dealt with a lot when I was in High School. I always seemed to be getting things done just a moment too late. This poem is supposed to reflect the utter chaos I suffered from being forced into trying to learn in the stew of glands and emotions the adults in this country call High School. Those were some of the worst times I ever suffered, and also some of the best.

Clarinet to Soloist

 The music of the
 Bassoon
 Drifts slowly
 To the listening
 crowd,

 And gets louder.

 --- --- --- --- --- 
 When I was talked into learning how to play the bassoon, I didn't think much of it. When we gave our first concert, though, I suddenly realized that I was the only person playing my part. Not exactly a soloist, but close enough for me.

 AFTER A BASKETBALL GAME

 The track is a dark dream
 in the moonlight, it begs
 for presence, for someone to whisper
 empty words.
 Every blade of grass is blue clarity
 and frost sparkles like a universe.
 Above is fog and an ice cube moon,
 Casting shadows.
Here is
 silent.
 Here is 
 free.
 Here is forget, because home
 is loud
 and we just lost.

 --- --- --- --- --- 
 I spent a lot of time in High School at basketball games. I timed JV games, and was in the band for all boy's varsity home games, and a portion of the girl's games too. My freshman year, the basketball team made it to state, and we spent a lot of time on the road with the team. I will never forget the final seconds of the final game that season, when we lost with only a few more games to go.
 But hey, life's like that.

 GOEMETRY AT 11 O'CLOCK

 The room washes silent, and cool;
 whispers drown in tenseness.
 a paper is found and shuffled
 And the clock adds its buzz.
 Without notebook paper emptiness
 I couldn't have a math book.

 Diet Coke is not creative
 Unless a clich is added.
 Maybe tall thoughts aren't the best;
 short thoughts run much faster.
 The desk shudders in mock fear;
 the test just laughs.

 SO THIS IS WRITER'S BLOCK

 Windows don't break
 when you want them
 to.

 Heat pours in through vents
 Made by confident flames.
 They want to stop

 You, make you hate
 walls that burn.
 Don't

 Mention the ash and black-wall despair
 or it will break in
 again. Think of

 Everything you've ever
 fought and raise the
 heaviest oak chair
 to break the window.

 --- --- --- --- --- 
 One of Mr Mitsui's rules was: No self-pitying. No "Why Me?". I wrote this poem in response.

 Back