The Gyroscope - Everything you needed to know 

 Home : 
 Gallery : 
 History : 
 Uses :
 Behaviour : 
 Maths :
 Forum : 
 Propulsion : 
 Links :
 Glossary 

 Dictionary Meanings 

 Gyroscope 

A rotating wheel whose axis is free to turn but maintains a fixed direction 
unless perturbed, esp. Used for stabilization or with the compass in an 
aircraft, ship, etc. Concise Oxford Dictionary Oxford 
 University Press - Precession 

 Gyroscope 

When a force applied to a gyroscope tends to change the direction of the axis 
of rotation, the axis will move in a direction at right angles to the direction 
in which the force is applied. This motion is the result of the force produced 
by the angular momentum of the rotating body and the applied force. A simple 
example of precession can be seen in the rolling hoop: to cause the hoop to 
turn a corner, guiding pressure is not applied to the front or rear of the hoop 
as might be expected, but against the top. This pressure, although applied 
about a horizontal axis, does not cause the hoop to fall over, but causes it to 
precess about the vertical axis at right angles to the applied pressure, with 
the result that it turns and proceeds in a new direction.

 Microsoft (R) Encarta. Copyright (c) 1993 Microsoft 
 Corporation. 
 Copyright (c) 1993 Funk & Wagnall's Corporation 

 Gyroscope 

A wheel or disk mounted to spin rapidly about an axis and also free to rotate 
about one or both of two axes perpendicular to each other and the axis of spin 
so that a rotation of one of the two mutually perpendicular axes results from 
application of torque to the other when the wheel is spinning and so that the 
entire apparatus offers considerable opposition depending on the angular 
momentum to any torque that would change the direction of the axis of spin.

 Webster's Seventh New Collegiate Dictionary 

 Gyroscope 
 A heavy rotating wheel, the axis of which is free to turn in any direction, 
 and which can set to rotate in any plane, independently of forces tending to 
 change the position of the axis.

 The new Webster's comprehensive dictionary of the English 
 language. 
 Trident Press International. 

 Gyroscope 
 A small heavy wheel or top rotated (usually electrically) at high speed in 
 anti-friction bearings. Any alteration of the inclination of the axis rotation 
 is resisted by a turning movement (gyrostatic moment). It is therefore used as 
 a compass, as a controlling device in aircraft and torpedoes, and, in large 
 sizes, as a ship's stabiliser. 
 Chamber's Technical Dictionary W. & R. Chambers, Ltd. 

 Gyroscope 
 Heavy spinning disk mounted so that its axis is free to adopt any orientation. 
 The fact that a spinning top will stay upright as long as it is spinning fast 
 enough demonstrates the property of gyroscopic inertia: the direction of the 
 spin axis resists change. This means that the gyroscope mounted universally, in 
 double gimbals, will maintain the same orientation in space however its support 
 is turned, a property applied in many navigational devices. 
 The new Webster's international encyclopaedia. 
 Trident Press International. 

 Inertia 
 Inertia, the property of matter that causes it to resist any change of its 
 motion in either direction or speed. This property is accurately described by 
 the first law of motion of the English scientist Sir Isaac Newton: An object at 
 rest tends to remain at rest, and an object in motion tends to continue in 
 motion in a straight line unless either is acted upon by an outside force. 
 Passengers in an accelerating automobile feel the force of the seat against 
 their backs overcoming their inertia so as to increase their velocity. As the 
 car decelerates, the passengers tend to continue in motion and lurch forward. 
 If the car turns a corner, a package on the car seat will slide across the seat 
 as the inertia of the package causes it to continue moving in a straight line. 
 Any body spinning on its axis, such as a flywheel, exhibits rotational inertia, 
 a resistance to change of its rotational speed. A force must act upon the wheel 
 to slow or speed up its rotation. The matter in the wheel is constrained to 
 move along a curved path by the molecular forces that hold the wheel together. 
 The speed of the material along the curved path cannot be changed, however, 
 without overcoming its inertia, and this gives rise to rotational inertia. The 
 inertia of spinning objects results in other phenomena, notably the gyroscopic 
 effect. By common experience, inertia is generally related to mass, the amount 
 of matter in a body. A greater force is needed to accelerate a baseball than to 
 accelerate a Ping-Pong ball. The relation is expressed by Newton's second law 
 of motion: Force=mass X acceleration. This equation is the basis of the field 
 of dynamics, the study of moving bodies. According to the formula, the inertia 
 of a body as determined by an acceleration experiment is measured in mass 
 units. Mass, however, is more often measured by its gravitational property, 
 that is, the attractive force it exerts on other masses. If the other mass is 
 the earth, then weight is a measure of mass. T he identity between 
 gravitational mass (measured by attractive force) and inertia (measured by 
 acceleration) is a cornerstone of physics. The fact that inertial force and 
 gravitational force are both directly proportional to mass was first realized 
 and demonstrated by Galileo about 1590. According to Galileo, a light weight 
 and a heavy weight dropped from the top of a tower must strike the ground 
 simultaneously. Modern repetitions of Galileo's experiment performed in the 
 laboratory have failed to reveal any difference between gravitational force and 
 inertial force. Albert Einstein theorized that gravitational forces and 
 inertial forces are identical and that it is impossible to distinguish between 
 them. This equivalence principle is the basis of Einstein's theory of general 
 relativity. According to this theory, local properties of inertia and 
 gravitation are the result of the entire mass of matter in the universe and the 
 space in which it exists. Although the theory of general relativity is not 
 fully accepted, the few experimental tests that scientists have so far been 
 able to conduct have tended to confirm the theory.

 "Inertia," Microsoft (R) Encarta. Copyright (c) 1993 
 Microsoft Corporation. 
 Copyright (c) 1993 Funk & Wagnall's Corporation 

 Inertia (Mechanics, Physics) 
 Reluctance of a body to change its state of rest or of uniform velocity in a 
 straight line. Inertia is measured by mass when linear velocities and 
 accelerations are considered; and by moment of inertia (q.v.) for angular 
 motions (i.e. rotations about an axis).

 Chamber's Technical Dictionary W. & R. Chambers, Ltd. 

 Inertia (Physics) 
 A property of matter by which it continues in its existing state of rest or 
 uniform motion in a straight line, unless that state is changed by an external 
 force. 
 Concise Oxford Dictionary Oxford University Press 

 Moment of inertia (Physics) 
 A measure of the resistance offered by a body to angular acceleration. For a 
 given body, the moment of inertia is not unique but depends on the particular 
 axis of rotation chosen. It is defined as Smr2, where m is the mass of the 
 particle in the body and r is its perpendicular distance from the axis.

 Chamber's Technical Dictionary W. & R. Chambers, Ltd. 

 Radius of gyration (Physics, etc) 
 The square root of the moment of inertia of a body about a given axis, divided 
 by it mass. The radius of gyration is usually denoted by k, so that I=mk2.

 Chamber's Technical Dictionary W. & R. Chambers, Ltd. 

 Flywheel 
 A heavy wheel on a revolving shaft used to regulate machinery or accumulate 
 power. 
 Concise Oxford Dictionary Oxford University Press 

 Flywheel 
 A heavy wheel attached to a shaft (e.g. an engine crankshaft) either to reduce 
 the speed fluctuation resulting from uneven torque, or to store up kinetic 
 energy to be used in driving a punch, shears, etc., during a short interval. 

 Coriolis Force 

 Coriolis force is the inertial force associated with change in the tangential 
 component of a particle's velocity; e.g. suppose a particle moves with a 
 constant speed v, outwards along a particular radius of a horizontal rotating 
 table whose angular velocity is w. The tan- gential velocity of the particle is 
 r.w (where r is the particle's distance from the axis), and is increasing with 
 r. Therefore there is a tangential acceler- ation which turns out to be c, as 
 well a centripetal acceleration of r.w^2. Thus the particle, by d'Alembert's 
 principle, is in equilibrium; the real forces causing the motion are balance by 
 the centrifugal force, m.r.w^2 and the Coriolis force (= mass x Coriolis 
 acceleration = m.w.v) acting in the direction shown 
 The Penguin Dictionary of Physics, 1977 

 Webpage. Copyright &copy; 2003 Glenn Turner. All rights reserved. more info 
 All other images/content copyrighted to the designated owners, 
 and must not be reproduced or distributed without prior permission.