The Gyroscope - Everything you needed to know 

 Home :
 Gallery :
 History :
 Uses :
 Behaviour :
 Maths :
 Forum :
 Propulsion :
 Links :
 Glossary 

 Behaviour 

 In depth 

 To download an Acrobat version (41K): 
 click here 

 How a gyroscope works 

 By Cef (Terry) Pearson Cef's Website: 
 click here 

 I have searched through many texts. But I have never found an explanation of 
 why a gyroscope should resist being turned in any direction perpendicular to 
 it's axis. Maybe the workings of a gyroscope seem obvious to some and needs no 
 explanation. But still, other obvious physical phenomena are explained. So here 
 is the first published (that I know of) account of the physics behind how a 
 gyroscope works.
 Here is a pictorial of a simplified version of a gyro. 

 Instead of a complete rim, four point masses, A, B, C, D, represent the areas 
 of the rim that are most important in visualizing how a gyro works. The bottom 
 axis is held stationary but can pivot in all directions.

 When a tilting force is applied to the top axis, point A is sent in an upward 
 direction and C goes in a downward direction. FIG 1. Since this gyro is 
 rotating in a clockwise direction, point A will be where point B was when the 
 gyro has rotated 90 degrees. The same goes for point C and D. Point A is still 
 traveling in the upward direction when it is at the 90 degrees position in FIG 
 2, and point C will be traveling in the downward direction. The combined motion 
 of A and C cause the axis to rotate in the "precession plane" to the right FIG 
 2. This is called precession. A gyro's axis will move at a right angle to a 
 rotating motion. In this case to the right. If the gyro were rotating 
 counterclockwise, the axis would move in the precession plane to the left. If 
 in the clockwise example the tilting force was a pull instead of a push, the 
 precession would be to the left.

 When the gyro has rotated another 90 degrees FIG 3, point C is where point A 
 was when the tilting force was first applied. The downward motion of point C is 
 now countered by the tilting force and the axis does not rotate in the "tilting 
 force" plane. The more the tilting force pushes the axis, the more the rim on 
 the other side pushes the axis back when the rim revolves around 180 degrees.

 Actually, the axis will rotate in the tilting force plane in this example. The 
 axis will rotate because some of the energy in the upward and downward motion 
 of A and C is used up in causing the axis to rotate in the precession plane. 
 Then when points A and C finally make it around to the opposite sides, the 
 tilting force ( being constant) is more than the upward and downward counter 
 acting forces.

 The property of precession of a gyroscope is used to keep monorail trains 
 straight up and down as it turns corners. A hydraulic cylinder pushes or pulls, 
 as needed, on one axis of a heavy gyro.

 Sometimes precession is unwanted so two counter rotating gyros on the same axis 
 are used. Also a gimbal can be used.

 THE GIMBALED GYROSCOPE 

 The property of Precession represents a natural movement for rotating bodies, 
 where the rotating body doesnt have a confined axis in any plane. A more 
 interesting example of gyroscopic effect is when the axis is confined in one 
 plane by a gimbal. Gyroscopes, when gimbaled, only resist a tilting change in 
 their axis. The axis does move a certain amount with a given force.
 A quick explanation of how a gimbaled gyro functions 

 Figure 4 shows a simplified gyro that is gimbaled in a plane perpendicular to 
 the tilting force. As the rim rotates through the gimbaled plane all the energy 
 transferred to the rim by the tilting force is mechanically stopped. The rim 
 then rotates back into the tilting force plane where it will be accelerated 
 once more. Each time the rim is accelerated the axis moves in an arc in the 
 tilting force plane. There is no change in the RPM of the rim around the axis. 
 The gyro is a device that causes a smooth transition of momentum from one plane 
 to another plane, where the two planes intersect along the axis.
 A more detailed explanation of how a gimbaled gyro functions 

 Here I attempt to show how much the axis will rotate around a gimbaled axis. 
 That is to say, how fast it rotates in the direction of a tilting force.

 In figure 4, the precession plane in the gimbaled example functions differently 
 than in the above example of figures 1-3, and I have renamed it "stop the 
 tilting force plane". The point masses at the rim are the only mass of the gyro 
 system that is considered. The mass and gyroscope effect of the axis is 
 ignored.
 At first consider only of the rim, the left half. The point masses inside 
 the "stop the tilting force plane" share half their mass on either side of the 
 plane, and add their combined, 1/4kg, mass to point mass A of 1/2kg. So then 
 the total mass on the left side is the total mass of all 4 point masses, or 
 1kg. The tilting force will change the position of point mass B and D very 
 little and change the position of point mass A the most. So we must use the 
 average distance from the axis of all the mass on the left-hand side.

 The mass on the left side is 1kg. The average distance the mass is from the 
 "stop the tilting force" plane is 1/2 meter. Figure 5 shows a profile of the 
 average mass in the tilting plane and the average distance from the axis that 
 the mass is situated. We are concerned at how far the mass at the average 
 distance will rotate within the tilting plane when a given force is applied to 
 the axis in the direction indicated.

 Point mass A is rotating at 5 revolutions per second. This means that it is 
 exposed to the tilting force for only .1 seconds. The tilting force of 1 
 Newton, if applied for .1 second, will cause the mass at the average distance 
 to move .005 meter in an arc, in the tilting force plane. Since the length of 
 the axis is twice as long as the average distance of the rims mass, the axis 
 will move .01 meter in an arc. At the end of .1 second the point mass will be 
 in the "stop the tilting force plane" and all the energy transferred to point 
 mass A is lost in the physical restraint of the gimbal bearings.

 The same thing happens when point mass A is on the right side of figure 4. Only 
 now, the tilting force will move point mass A down, and the axis will advance 
 another .01meter. .01 meter every .1 second is not the whole story because the 
 mass on the right side of the gyro hasnt been considered. The right side has 
 the same mass as the left and has the same effect on the axis as the left side 
 does. So the axis will advance half as much, half of .01 meter, or .005meters. 
 Both halves of the rim mass will pass through the stop the tilting force plane 
 10 times in one second. Each time a half of the rim passes though the "stop the 
 tilting force plane", it losses all its momentum that was added by the tilting 
 force. The mass has to undergo acceleration again so we continually calculate 
 the effect that 1 Newton has for .1 second on the rim mass at the average 
 distance, 10 times a second. So then; at the point that the 1 Newton force is 
 applied, the axis will move 5cm per second along an arc. The gyro will rotate 
 at .48 RPM within the tilting force plane.
 What considerations does the rim speed have on the distance 
 that the axis will rotate along an arc in the tilting force plane? 

 The gyro will rotate in the tilting force plane, half as fast if the rim speed 
 is doubled.
 What happens when the mass of the rim is doubled? 

 The gyro will rotate in the tilting force plane, half as fast if the rim mass 
 is doubled
 How does the rim diameter effect rotation in the tilting force 
 plane? 

 The gyro will rotate in the tilting force plane, half as fast if the rim 
 diameter is doubled
 The Math of a gimbaled gyro 

 1 Newton = 1kilogram 1 meter sec. 2 

 F=ma
 d=1/2 X (a X t 2 
 )

 1 Newton acting on 1kg will accelerate the mass at a rate of 1 meter sec^2

 the time that the mass of the rim is exposed to the tilting force at 5 
 revolutions a second is 10 times a second or 1/10; .1 sec
 The distance, d, the mass will go in .1 sec

 d = X 1m / sec 2 X (.1sec) 2 ; = X 1m/sec 2 X 
 .01 sec 2 
 = .005 meter

 The axis is twice as long as the distance from the average distance that the 
 rim mass is calculated from .005 X 2 = .01 meters
 Now consider the other side of the gyro as acted on by the same 1 Newton 
 force.

 .01m / 2 = .005
 The force will have ten times a second to accelerate the rim mass from a 
 relative velocity of 0m /sec.

 10 X .005m = .05m; or 5 centimeters

 Years ago there was a news story about a man that used a gyro to produce more 
 energy than was needed to keep the gyro spinning. He used a surplus ship's 
 directional gyro. I think what he did was use the property of precession to run 
 a generator.

 If left undisturbed, a gyro on the surface of the Earth would turn 360 degrees 
 once every 24 hours. The top of the gyro would normally go westward. But if the 
 top axis were held so that it could not rotate from east to west, due to 
 precession, the gyro will rotate in the north and south direction depending on 
 the direction the rim is rotating. The gyro would turn due to precession until 
 it reaches 90 degrees with it's axis pointing north and south. Then it would be 
 in the same plane as the rotation of the Earth and gyroscopic precession would 
 stop. To get the gyro out of the Earth's rotational plain a small force could 
 be applied to the gyro axis and precession would put the axis back in the 
 original position. The 90 degree precession rotation would be much faster than 
 the once per 24 hours opposing forces rotation, but some gearing would probably 
 still be needed to run a generator. The generator would be mechanically linked 
 to the precession back and forth motion in one direction only so it will turn 
 the same direction all the time. The amount of energy needed to keep the gyro's 
 rim spinning and the energy needed to turn the gimbals back 90 degrees would 
 determine the overall efficiency.

 This is NOT a free energy thing. The energy comes from the rotation of the 
 Earth and therefore the Earth rotational speed is slowed as energy is tapped 
 from a gyro-generator type machine. If this method of generating energy is used 
 to a great extent, days and nights would become longer. If this should happen. 
 let me be the first credited to use the term "rotation pollution" or "motion 
 pollution".

 Other experiments with a gyro 

 There might be a way to accelerate the rotational speed of the rim of a gyro by 
 using a short duration tilting force on the axis. The force's duration would be 
 for much less then the length of time that is required for the rim to rotate 90 
 degrees. When the rim has rotated 90 degrees from the time the tilting force 
 was first applied, The tilting force would be purposely reversed. The direction 
 that the rim is rotating and the direction the rim would have moved due to 
 precession are now close to the same. The two motions might combine and result 
 in an increase in the rotational speed of the rim. T

 To download an Acrobat version (41K): 
 click here 

 Webpage. Copyright &copy; 2003 Glenn Turner. All rights reserved. more info 
 All other images/content copyrighted to the designated owners, 
 and must not be reproduced or distributed without prior permission.