The Gyroscope - Everything you needed to know 

 Home :
 Gallery :
 History :
 Uses :
 Behaviour :
 Maths :
 Forum :
 Propulsion :
 Links :
 Glossary 

 MASS TRANSFER 
 'An Introduction' 
 based on experimental work at the 
 University of Sussex 
 by Prof. E.R. Laithwaite and W.R.C. Dawson 

 A SYSTEM FOR THE TRANSFER OF MASS DERIVED FROM 
THE PRINCIPLE OF CONSERVATION OF MOMENTUM 

The majority of propulsion systems in use today rely either, on
exerting forces against the surface over which they travel (e.g. cars, trains,
funiculars (via their supporting rope) etc., accelerate material which comprises
the medium through which they travel in a direction opposite to the direction in
which they are being propelled (e.g. propeller aircraft, power driven or
manually propelled boats), take advantage of thermally or gravitationally
derived energy gradients (e.g. sailing boats and gliders or surf boards) or
eject material in the form of fuel being contained within the vehicle in part as
in the case of a jet engine or totally in the case of a rocket engine.) If the
vehicle is in space where there is no significant medium with which to react
there has been no alternative but to employ the latter method.
 When compared to the performance obtainable with a jet engine where a large
proportion of the material being ejected from the vehicle is not carried on
board but gathered from the atmosphere ahead of the vehicle, the rocket engine
is highly inefficient. Energy not directly contributing to the propulsion of the
vehicle is lost in heat and light while the huge quantity of volatile fuel
required to be carried represents a danger both to the craft and contents. The
range and indeed manoeuvrability of the vehicle is totally limited by the amount
of fuel carried and indeed once accelerated, deceleration can only be achieved
by the expenditure of further fuel.
 The work we have been doing at the University of Sussex with gyroscopes, or,
in the general sense, flywheels, enables mass to be moved linearly without
reaction with the surrounding medium, or ether, and without projection or loss
of mass from the total. Where there is an existing medium, i.e. on land, sea or
air, the rate of generation of momentum appears to be unexciting. However, in
the absence of a medium, in space, out of easy reach and requiring extended
ability to manoeuvre, this system does not merely come into its own, it is
unique. For the first time, it offers a means of imparting linear movement by
the delivery of small "parcels" of instantaneous momentum to a vehicle in a
manner not too dissimilar from the current way in which space vehicles are
re-oriented by the application of the principle of the conservation of angular
momentum. Now we can offer a device that will enable a vehicle metaphorically to
"Swim through Space".
 EXPLANATORY INTRODUCTION TO MASS DISPLACEMENT 
 MOVING AN OBJECT WITHOUT PUSHING IT.
 When we wish to move an object that appears to be stationary with respect to
us, it is our common experience that it is necessary to apply a force to cause
it to do so. This is because the object possesses mass which gives to the object
that characteristic of resisting having its velocity changed, known as inertia.
The relationship between these properties was discerned by Newton and is usually
written (Force) = (Mass) x (Acceleration). 
 What Newton actually stated was:- "The force is proportional to the rate of
change of Momentum" 
 So what is momentum, why bother with it?
 The Ultimate law concerning energy is that it can neither be created or
destroyed. It has to come from somewhere and must be absorbed somehow. It is
never just 'lost'. Surely this criterion alone should enable us to solve all our
problems in mechanics?

Consider the problem of a bullet being fired into a stationary block
of wood, as in figure 1.
 At a), a bullet of mass m is fired with velocity v into a block of mass M
 At b), the bullet is embedded in the wood and both are travelling at a
combined velocity V.
 How do we calculate V?
 On the face of it, we only need to equate the kinetic energy before and after
the impact, since energy cannot be destroyed and solve for V.
 And when we come to measure V practically, we find it is less than that
predicted by this approach. . . . WHY? The answer is that some of the kinetic
energy of the bullet was used in embedding itself into the wooden block and in
creating heat and sound as it did so. How much of the energy was converted - we
cannot tell!
 Newton spotted this difficulty. Energy has many forms and can be converted
from one to another. It exists as a potential; as heat, light, sound, electrical
and magnetic as well as kinetic energy. Newton said in effect 'if instead of
conserving energy you conserve momentum, you will get the right answer, for
momentum is not convertible to any other form.
 Now, by equating momentum before and after the impact,

 mv = (M + m)V 
and solving for V, we get the right answer.
 STARTING AND STOPPING. 
 Referring to figure 2, the objective is always to move from A to B,
starting at rest and finishing at rest. If A and B are at the same potential
there has been no change in energy so, theoretically, no energy should be
required to make the journey. Yet, in order to move, you have to attain a
velocity at C. So, from A to C there must have been an acceleration. This needed
a force to produce it. Providing a force on moving objects requires work, that
is an energy input.
 Suppose the object of mass m attains its maximum speed v at the centre of the
journey C. The work done has appeared as the kinetic energy (mv^2)/2. Now it has
to be slowed so as to come to rest at B. This also required a force, - a reverse
force. - apparently requiring more energy; but in theory this kinetic energy
could be recaptured.
 Consider for example, that the initial acceleration could be provided
by a spring, as in figure 3. The energy stored in the spring as potential energy
is converted into kinetic energy represented by (mv^2)/2. At B it will again
come to rest having compressed the second spring an equal amount and converted
all the kinetic energy back into potential energy.
 If the anchor point of the spring could now be moved by rotation of 180
degrees to C', it could be used to drag the mass still further to the right and
so on. This cannot be used as a space drive because the spring has to have an
anchor point to act against; in space there is no anchor point nor is there a
means of moving it if there had been.
 ACTION AND REACTION 
 Figure 4. shows two blocks each of mass m joined by a light rod.
Another mass, also m, can slide along the rod. A spring us used to propel the
sliding mass from A to B. At B the sliding mass will have compressed the second
spring to recover its kinetic energy. How will the whole combination have moved?
 Let the accelerating force being applied by the spring be F. The initial
acceleration of the sliding mass is F/m. The two joined masses accelerate in the
opposite direction at F/2m. At the end of the acceleration, i.e. at the mid
point C, the sliding mass has moved a distance x in one direction while the
joined masses have moved a distance x/2 in the opposite direction.
 You can now see that the centre of mass has not moved at all. m moved a
distance x in one direction and 2m moved a distance x/2 in the opposite
direction.
 The same is true for the stopping part of the journey. Apparently we are
therefore totally incapable of projecting anything which is totally enclosed in
a box. Only by projecting material out of the box into space (like a rocket) can
we move the box.
 LINEAR MOTION AND CIRCULAR MOTION 
 Linear motion involved quantities such as:-
 Linear Displacement (Distance)
 Linear Velocity (Rate of Change of Distance with Time)
 Linear Acceleration (Rate of Change of Velocity with Time)
 Linear Force (Mass times Acceleration)
 Linear Momentum (Mass times Velocity
 Circular motion has corresponding quantities:-
 Angular Displacement (Angle)
 Angular Velocity (Rate of Change of Angle with Time)
 Angular Acceleration (Rate of Change of Angular Velocity with Time)
 Angular Force (Torque)
 Angular Momentum (Angular Velocity times (Angular Mass), or Moment of
Inertia)
 In conserving momentum, apparently, we are constrained to conserve linear and
angular momentum separately. If a spinning object moves in a straight line the
momentum of spin contributes nothing to the linear momentum and vice versa.
 Similarly, if a person stands on turntable T, as shown in figure 5,
and rotates once per second, whether the turntable stays where it is or whether
it moves at any velocity, the person on the turntable will still face the wall W
once every second.
 AND YET.... 
 If an object is moved in a straight line, as in figure 5, this
essentially linear motion can be achieved by two pure rotations. In figure 6, an
object is being moved from P to Q and this is achieved by two rotations, one
about A and the other about B.
 MASS DISPLACEMENT BY CIRCULAR MOTION 
 So, is it possible to circular motion to obtain mass displacement? An
arrangement such as in figure 7. looks promising. The two masses M1 and M2 are
initially propelled sideways, as by a compressed spring S1. Thereafter, they
rotate about centres A1 and A2, constrained only by the two light rods B1 and
B2, arriving at M1' and M2' where their kinetic energy is recovered in a second
spring S2. Have the masses moved across space from M1, M2 to M1', M2'?
 Actually no! All the time the masses are rotating about the centres A1 and A2
they are exerting centrifugal forces on a1 and a2. For the first 90 degrees of
rotation they accelerate the centre pivot anchor block containing A1 and A2 in
the direction of arrow Y. For the second 90 degrees of rotation they decelerate
the centre pivot anchor block to rest. All that happens (provided the mass of
the pivot block is zero) is that the masses M1 and M2 will move out sideways to
positions X1 and X2 and then return to their original positions. The pivot block
meanwhile, moves from its original position Y to position Z, attaining a maximum
velocity as it passes between the two masses which are then at X1 and X2.
 No mass transfer takes place. Even if the block itself had mass the centre of
mass of the whole system would not move.
 THE BREAKOUT 
 We discovered that, if the masses M1 and M2 were not 'dead' masses
but were spinning wheels, (shown edge on in figure 8), the pivot block would not
be displaced from Y to Z, as in figure 7, but some smaller distance Z1. Thus,
even if the pivot block has mass, the result of 180 degrees rotation of the
masses M1 and M2 about A1 and A2 is that the mass centre has been moved to the
left.
 Experiments indeed show that the centrifugal forces demanded by spinning
wheels precessed in this manner are less than the values calculated from simple
mechanics. The reduction in centrifugal force depends on the "quality" of the
wheels and the manner of precession. The quality of the wheel depends on the
relative size of the rim to its diameter and the proportion of its mass that is
in that rim. Thus, the finer the rim and the more of its mass is in the rim, the
"better" the wheel will be. Likewise, the faster the rate of spin is to the rate
of precession, and the larger the radius of the spinning wheel is to the radius
of precession, the less will be the centrifugal force it exhibits.
 To get an impressive reduction in centrifugal force you need a large heavy
wheel with a very thin rim, virtually no spokes or middle, running very fast and
being precessed slowly round a small radius.
 Experimentally, with a high quality wheel, precessing on a radius about twice
that of the wheel, with a spin in excess of 100 times the rate of precession, we
have recorded centrifugal forces of less than one tenth of that anticipated from
calculation.
 EXPLOITATION 
 Mass displacement is effected without force on the framework. Spinning wheels
do not deal in linear quantities, including linear force. In returning the mass
to its initial spatial position, any means can be employed that does not deflect
the axis of spin. Such return motion produces reaction force, even against a
resisting force. If a resisting force is present, the work done against that
resistance is supplied by the mechanism, not the wheel. At no time during the
recovery journey does the device as a whole have any linear momentum.
 If the motion of the precessional and conventional linear displacement are
combined in a cyclical manner - and there are many way of doing this - it is
possible to produce a continuous sinusoidal displacement and therefore, in a
polyphase version, continuous steady displacement. The moment the mechanism
stops, so does the motion. The mechanism is no more capable of producing kinetic
energy than it is of producing momentum.
 BUT, repositioning of mass, even against resisting forces, is positively
attainable.
 TORQUE AND PRECESSION 
 Experiments with inertial masses performed in a terrestrial laboratory are
liable to be dominated by gravitational forces which are large in comparison
with those being measured.

Toy gyroscopes, made to precess round models of the Eiffel Tower, do
so as a result of the torque MgR (see figure 9) derived from the mass of
the gyroscope, and the thrust upward exerted by the support on the tower.
Experience with gyroscopes of this type gives rise to the idea that torque is
the cause of a precession.
 A similar idea persists in electrical engineering when a voltage is seen to
the cause of electric current. This is the result of our commercial and
household electrical devices all being connected in parallel to a source of
voltage where the current drawn by individual items depends on the resistance,
so that I = e/R. 
 Had we elected to send a fixed current through all our devices in series, the
voltage developed across an individual item would be given by e = iR and
would be seen as the result of the current rather than its cause.
 In the same way, a gyroscope can be forced to precess in a predetermined
path. If the torque so generated is resisted by the framework (or even another
gyroscope) and is measured, it will be found that the gyroscope will have
demanded just the torque required to make it so precess and that the precession
is, in this case the cause of the torque.
 LOCATION OF AXIS 
 A gyroscope, which is really only a flywheel, is essentially a 3-dimensional
device. Just as the direction of rotation of an electric motor can be determined
from the directions of magnetic field and the electric current, by holding two
fingers and the thumb mutually at right angles in the well-known 'Fleming's Left
Hand Rule', so the directions of spin, momentum and torque may be used to
predict the direction of precession.

If the spin momentum of the wheel is in direction X, (see figure 10),
then the torque applied about an axis in Y, at right angles to the plane of the
drawing, will produce precession about an axis such as Z, perpendicular to the
plane of the drawing.
 Interestingly, the gyroscope appears to be unconcerned about the precise
location of the axis in Y, which may be at Y1 or Y2 or etc. . . Yn, so long as
they are parallel. Likewise the resulting precession can take place about Z, or
Z1 or Z2 or etc. . . Zn. No particular axis in Y is related to any particular
axis of Z.
 The following equation is universal.
 Torque (about any axis in the Y plane)
= Angular-Momentum (of the gyro) x Precessional Angular-Velocity (about any
axis in the Z plane) 

Thus a toy train on a continuously curved track, as shown in figure
11, will be propelled around the track and even uphill, by an arm R carrying a
spinning wheel W, which is pivoted so as to be free to fall vertically under
gravity but transmits its torque horizontally to the truck. Within limits, this
is independent of the radius of the track. It does not even require R to be
exactly at right angles to the tangent to the track, as was first demonstrated
to us in 1975.
 It is precisely this property that allows mass displacement to take place, as
in figure 6, as the result of two simple rotations about parallel axes through A
and B. the essential difference between precession about an axis Yo, that passes
through the centre of mass of the spinning wheel, and precession about any other
axis Yn is that the wheel has to be given the appropriate amount of linear
momentum Mv, in the Z direction such that this tangential precessional velocity
v shall be equal to the distance R times the angular velocity. It is this linear
momentum that is carried by the angular momentum and which enables mass
displacement to be achieved.
 E.R. Laithwaite
 W.R.C. Dawson
 September 1994 

 Pictures reduced in size, touched up, and coded
into this document by David E. Cowlishaw, 24 March 1998, for inertial
propulsion researchers. Gyroscopic
Inertial Thruster Page 

 Webpage. Copyright &copy; 2003 Glenn Turner. All rights reserved. more info 
 All other images/content copyrighted to the designated owners, 
 and must not be reproduced or distributed without prior permission.