The Gyroscope - Everything you needed to know 

 Home :
 Gallery :
 History :
 Uses :
 Behaviour :
 Maths :
 Forum :
 Propulsion :
 Links :
 Glossary 

 Propulsion 

 Patents 

 Patent images 

 Papers 

 My Work 

 Whats next? 

 Gyroscopic Propulsion 

 Warning - Gyroscope propulsion is currently just 
 speculative research and is not accepted by the scientfic community. These 
 propulsion pages should be regarded separate from the rest of the site.

 What do these "Propulsion devices" do? 

The concept is to produce a gyroscope based device that can produce 
sufficient amounts of lift/force to be detectable and useful. In an 
extreme case this may mean that the machine could lift its own weight and hence 
is able to fly or just to push something along. However research is still in 
its early stages and I've yet to see one that can create any force under proper 
test conditions.

 The use of the term "Anti-Gravity Device" 

 The use of the term "Anti-Gravity Device" is sometimes assoicated with this 
 type of device. This is misleading and confusing in many ways and I don't 
 beleave the term should be used. It is highly unlikely that these type of 
 devices effect gravity in any way. I beleave the forces are independent of 
 gravity and more related to the gyroscopic forces. From the e vidence 
I seen, if these devices really do produce force I beleave energy is some how 
converting from rotational energy to a linear thrust. 

 Then these 'machines' can be put to better use in space with a zero or 
mirco gravity envoirement.

 Are these devices related to zero point energy?

 As far as I'm aware non. In fact great amounts of energy has to be put in to 
 get any linear force out (if any). 
 Uses for gyroscopic propulsion devices

Gyroscopic propulsion would have a number of uses on land, sea, air and space. 
What uses the device can do depends on the amount of force produced and its 
efficiency to produce that force. It may turn out that they can only ever 
produce a force a fractional of the weight of the device e.g. a 10Kg device 
give 1% thurst = 100g thurst. The weight to thrust ratio will define whether 
the technology can be used on land, sea and in the air.

However in space the devices come into there own and they would be useful even 
if they could only produce a small thurst compared to theier mass. Rockets 
are used almost exclusively as a means of propelling something in space and 
although inefficient, it is the best we have at present. Assuming gyroscopic 
propulsion does work it provides a means of getting from A to B in space 
without taking your fuel up too. The devices could simply be solar powered 
so the fuel won't run out. Of course the device still needs a way to get 
it into space in the first place.

 Sandy Kidd and Force Precessed Gyroscopes 

 A simplified description of force precessed gyroscopes 

In the following set of diagrams red arrows are used to show the force applied 
to the structure. Provided the gyroscopes themselves are rotating in the 
correct direction (not shown on diagram) the gyroscopes will produce a 
counter-acting force known as precession, as shown in the diagram as two blue 
arrows.

Normally this would produce a continuous torque as the whole device is 
revolving which would cancel it self out in the form of stress in the structure 
of the machine. However in Sandy's patent the gyroscopes are pushed in/out 
using cams resulting in the following motion (represented by the eight 
diagrams). As far as I can understand a number of up-ward pulses are produced 
due to the two gyroscopes (in this particular case, more can be used) exerting 
a force towards the centre of the structure (axle). This in effect is a vastly 
simplified version of what is going on. A number of independent tests have 
shown results for and against the machine.

 SIDE VIEW 

 TOP VIEW 

 Jacket photographs: front; Topham Picture Source/Carolyn Jones: back; 
 Fotopress, Dundee

 Image: Copyright Grampian Television PLC 

While working in the Air Force, Dundee based engineer Sandy Kidd was one day 
taking a gyroscope out of an aircraft. Not realising that the gyroscope was 
still running, he came down the steps of the aircraft and turned at the base of 
the steps. At this point the gyroscope almost threw him across the floor. This 
stirred his interest in gyroscopes, Sandy spent many years and tens of 
thousands of pounds in his garden-shed/garage developing and working on 
gyroscopic devices. Trying to get a number of gyroscopes to react against one 
another to produce lift. In time he developed a device that he claimed could 
achieve this. Building other models using that principle and discussing his 
ideas with others, he came to conclusions of how it worked. Dundee University 
was interested in the invention and for a time worked with him, but long term 
could not supply the funds or enthusiasm that was needed. He tried obtaining 
funds to develop his invention in Scotland, but had to resort to looking for 
funds elsewhere. An Australia corporation BWM took the task on to develop a 
gyroscopic propulsion system but unfortunately the company went bust. British 
Aerospace has also been involved in the research with him but dropped the 
funding.

A UK/European patent for his invention was applied for (I have a copy of the 
application). I did try to find a granted patent for Europe but without 
success. I ended up phoning the European patent office to find out if one was 
granted. I was told that it would have been, but it was withdrawn at the last 
moment (funding dropped). I did however find a granted US patent (5024112). The 
fees for the patent have stopped being paid for some years ago. Which means 
anyone is free to copy, sell etc his invention (At least in the US/Europe).

 Sandy is still working on various devices based around gyroscopes and hopefully 
 we will be seeing more inventive designs from him in the near future. 
 Image: Copyright Grampian Television PLC 
 Dr Bill Ferrier of Dundee University talking about Sandy Kidd's machine in 
 1986: 
 "..............There is no doubt that the machine does produce vertical lift. 
 Several modifications were then made at my suggestions in order to disprove 
 other possibilities of lift, particularly aerodynamic effects. 
 I am fully satisfied that this device needs further research and development. 
 I have expressed myself willing to help Mr Kidd whose engineering ability is 
 beyond question, and for whom I now have the greatest respect. I am currently 
 trying to interest the university in housing the development and also in 
 finding 'enterprise' money to fund the next stage. 
 I do not as yet understand why this device works. But it does work! The 
 importance of this is probably obvious to the reader but, if it is not, let me 
 just say that the technological possibilities of such a device are enormous. 
 Its commercial exploitation must be worth millions." 

 Professor Eric Laithwaite 

 (14th June 1921 - 27th November 1997) 

 Image: Copyright Grampian Television PLC 

 Click here for more information about 
 Eric's work 

 Geoff Russell (Geoffrey C Russell) 

 July 1999 I got in contact with Geoff Russell (Patent No.2,090,404). He tells 
 me that the machine based upon his patent has changed quite a lot. Vast 
 improvements have been made over the years and he now has a device that he says 
 "weighing 22lb, which was able to consistently register weight loss or vertical 
 lift pulses of 20lb, give or take the odd oz" .

 He has very kindly given me diagrams and notes on one of the ways that he 
 tests his devices 

 " Notes on Fig 1 Vertical Lift Weighing Board 

 Fig 1 is designed to detect and measure any vertical lift being generated by 
 your machine. This is achieved essentially by providing a stable base on which 
 to test your apparatus. While leaving the base and apps free to tilt vertically 
 upward, in response to any vertical lift being generated.

 Fig 1 consists of a flat rigid wooden board approx. 1" Thick, the overall size 
 of which should be determined by the size and weight of your own apparatus. The 
 board has two L shape aluminium sections attached to its underside. With the 
 first positioned at the central pivotal axis and the second positioned at one 
 end of the board. A contact switch is attached to this aluminium section so 
 that it operates, lighting an indicator lamp each time the board tilts upward 
 loosing contact with the ground.

 A counter weight approx. the same weight as your apparatus is also required to 
 vary the balance of the board. By varying the position of the board movement of 
 the counter weight towards the central pivotal axis of the board, would mean 
 that your apparatus would have to generate greater vertical lift to light the 
 indicator lamp. Moving it away from the control axis has the reserve effect.

 To determine how much vertical lift your apparatus is generating, you must use 
 a spring balance to measure how much upward force is required to raise your 
 apparatus sufficiently to tilt the board upward, lighting the indicator lamp. 
 The reading you get is the amount of vertical lift your apparatus is 
 generating. You should make a position on the board at which your apparatus is 
 placed for all tests, including the measurements you take before each test to 
 determine how much weightless or vertical lift is required to light the 
 indicator lamp...

 ...Geoff Russell July 1999" 

 Geoff Wilson and the Wilson-Fourier Impulse Engine 
 Website: http://www.sbbg.demon.co.uk/ 

 Geoff Wilson is part of team working which have been experimenting with 
 gyroscopic engines for some 20 years. They now beleave they finally have both 
 the mathematics (copyrighted 1999) and the principals fully understood. They 
 hope to exploit this new engine commencing Y2k. Hopefully more details will be 
 released soon.

 Dr. Spartak M. Poliakov 

 Webpage. Copyright &copy; 2003 Glenn Turner. All rights reserved. more info 
 All other images/content copyrighted to the designated owners, 
 and must not be reproduced or distributed without prior permission.