Gyroscopes - Everything you needed to know 

 Home :
 Gallery :
 History :
 Uses :
 Behaviour :
 Maths :
 Forum :
 Propulsion :
 Links :
 Glossary 

 Uses for gyroscopes 

 Science demonstrations 

 Demonstration 
 gyroscopes are often found in a learning environments such as schools or 
 colleges to teach the physics of gyroscopes. Traditional demonstration 
 gyroscopes tend to be gimballed to allow the user to understand how a gyroscope 
 can continually point in one direction. A gimballed gyroscope allows the user 
 to place weights/forces to one axis to see how the gyroscope will react. The 
 user can also put pressure on a side of the gyroscope (by touching the gimbal) 
 and 'feel' the forces involved which often gives a little more excitement to 
 the demonstrations. 

 Computer Pointing Devices 

 There 
 are a number of computer pointing devices (in effect a mouse) on the market 
 that have gyroscopes in side them allowing you to control the mouse cursor 
 while the device is in the air! They are also wireless so are perfect for 
 presentations when the speaker is moving around the room. The gyroscope inside 
 tracks the movements of your hand and translates them to cursor 
 movements. 

 Racing Cars 
 Gyroscopic behaviour is used in the racing car industry. This is because car 
 engines act just like big gyroscopes. This has its uses, for example in 
 the American Indy car racing some of the tracks are in a oval in shape. During 
 the race the cars go round the circuit in one direction only (the car only ever 
 turns in one direction e.g. left). Because of the of the gyroscopic forces from 
 the engine depending on whether the engine is spinning closewise or 
 anti-clockwise the cars nose will be forced up or down. Providing the engine 
 spins in the right direction it can help the car to stay on the track. 

 Motor Bikes 
 Wheels on motorbikes act as gyroscopes and make the bike easier to balance 
 (stay up right) when moving. For more details see: 
 How gyroscopic forces effect motor bikes 

 The bicycle wheel as a gyroscope 

 Spinning tops 
 Spinning tops are a simple form of gyroscope, as the spinning top is rotated 
 it is able to stand up right without falling over due to its gyroscopic 
 behaviour. However the mathematics are more complex because the friction with 
 the floor changes as the gyroscope leans to the side. 

 Gyrocompasses 

 Gyrocompasses are 
 basically navigation aids. Gyroscopes don't like to change 
 direction, so if they are mounted into a device that allows them to 
 move freely (low friction gimbal). Then when the device is moved 
 in different directions the gyroscope will still point in the same direction. 
 This can then be measured and the results can be used in similar ways to a 
 normal compass. But unlike a standard magnetic compass is not magnetic 
 environmental changes and readings are move accurate. Gyrocompasses are 
 commonly used in ships and aircraft.

 Virtual Reality 
 Gyroscopes 
 have been used in virtual reality headset and other VR products for a number of 
 years. A number of miniature gyroscope sensors are placed in the headset. 
 Wgenever the user moves their head the direction and speed is sent back to the 
 computer. The computer can then change the display as required. 

 Anti-roll devices/stabilisers 
 Monorail Trains 

 Again because of the behaviour, gyroscopes are used to stop things from 
 falling over, some mono-trains use gyroscopes and boats/ships often use them so 
 that in bad seas the boat is kept relatively up right and not thrown about. 

 From the book: H.Crabtree (1914) "Spinning Tops and Gyroscopic 
 Motion" 

 Ship stabilisers 

 From the book: H.Crabtree (1914) "Spinning Tops and Gyroscopic 
 Motion"
 Photo by: Underwood & Underwood. 

 From the book: H.Crabtree (1914) "Spinning Tops and Gyroscopic 
 Motion" Photo by: Underwood & Underwood.

 Artificial horizons / autopilot 
 This works the 
 same way as a gyrocompass but on a different axis. The artificial horizon gauge 
 shows the position of the aircraft relative to the horizon i.e. the pictch 
 of the aircraft.

 Segway Scooter 
 For more details about how they work visit 
 the segway site . 

 Robotics 

 Gyroscopes are now being use to keep complex robots up right, that would normally just fall
 over. Here is an example:

 Two legged robot 

 Levitron (TM) 

 Marketed as an executive toy the Levitron is a unique invention that shows 
 the stabilizing affect of gyroscopes. 
 Two powerful permanent magnets allow a gyroscope to 'float' in mid air. The 
 first magnet is placed on a level surface contained in a plastic base, while 
 the other is housed in a gyroscope. If the gyroscope is placed a couple of 
 inches over the base with out the gyroscope rotating and then let go, it will 
 simply turn over due to the attractions of the magnets and will fall (or is 
 attracted) to the base. If the gyroscope could be held completely level then 
 the forces of the magnets will keep them apart. And this is exactly what the 
 gyroscope does when it is rotating at high speed.

 The first picture shows the base magnet, with the clear plastic tray, to raise 
 the gyroscope on top. The gyroscope has been placed on the tray and is about to 
 be spun. 
 In the second and third picture the gyroscope is now spinning and the clear plastic tray 
 is being lifted to a position where the forces from the two magnets can keep 
 the gyroscope floating in mid air. 
 The last picture shows the gyroscope floating in mid air after the clear tray 
 has being taken away. 

 Click here to see a video of the Leviron in action 

 Website. Copyright &copy; 2024 Glenn Turner. All rights reserved. site info 
 Do not copy without prior permission. Click here for gyroscope products