Bird Feeders - Order for sale 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Garden Center > For the Birds > Bird Feeders 

 Bird Feeders 
 If you feed them they will come! Our collection of Bird Feeders combines beauty and function. 

 Please select either the type of bird or type of bird feeder you are interested in: 

 In-House Window Feeders 
 Squirrel Proof Feeders 
 Suet Cake Feeders 
 Hopper Feeders 

 Tube Feeders 
 Platform Feeders 
 Globe Feeders 
 Gazebo Feeders 

 Copper Feeders 
 Hummingbird Feeders 
 Oriole Feeders 
 Window Feeders 

 Pole Mounted 
 Decorative Feeders 
 Cast Aluminum 
 Specialty Feeders 

 Large Capacity Feeders 
 Cardinal & Song Bird Feeders 
 Wild Bird & Multi-Variety 
 Thistle, Finch & Chickadees 

 Woodpecker Feeders 
 Carruth Bird Feeders 

 Edible Birdseed Houses 
 Hang one of these charming seed-covered houses and you'll find finches, nuthatches and chickadees calling your garden "home, sweet home." After birds have feasted, you can apply a fresh coat of seeds using peanut butter as adhesive. Four designs to choose from, or get t ... 

 Squirrel-Proof Hanging Feeder 
 It's a fact that the smallest songbirds are often the most susceptible to winter food shortages. This feeder offers a protected haven where chickadees, wrens and finches can safely feed, while barring "feeder hogs" like gray squirrels, jays, and grackles. Small birds ca ... 

 Hummingbird Feeder Mobile 
 This contemporary work of art combines brightly painted metal with glass "jewels" that gently move in the breeze. But here's the real beauty: each glass vessel holds 10 ounces of nectar to attract hummingbirds and keep them coming back. ... 

 Casement Window Feeder 
 It's like feeding the birds right in your living room! A one-way mirror in this elegant feeder lets you observe birds from a few inches away without disturbing their meal. Beautifully crafted of durable cedar and finished like fine furniture, the Casement Feeder is acce ... 

 Edible Bird Feeder Kit 
 Everyone loves edible bird feeders; now you can make your own for twice the fun and half the price. Includes everything you need to make 2 feeders: cardboard frames, dowel perches, nontoxic glue, cord and beads, and an assortment of seeds birds love. A great project for ... 

 Birdseed Globes, set of 3 
 When we celebrate the holidays in Vermont, we always remember to put out a special treat for the birds. Like these handcrafted seed ornaments. They're not hollow, but solid seed (held together with protein-rich gelatin) &#150; a whopping 31 ounces in all! Set includes o ... 

 Bird Bouquet 
 Display this charming seed bouquet as a festive centerpiece; then, when the holidays are over, hang it outside for the birds to dine on. The bouquet contains sprigs of broomcorn and sorghum with their seeds attached, and the basket is filled with Spanish moss birds will ... 

 Mesh Feeder 
 There's no waiting in line at this feeder. Birds of all kinds can cling to the steel mesh sides or perch on the ample 9-1/2" diameter base. Holds 2-1/2 lbs. of black-oil sunflower seeds, the preferred food of most birds. Folds flat for off-season storage. ... 

 Sunlight Windowsill Feeder 
 Now you can enjoy watching birds feed up-close, even if you have wide or irregularly sized windows, and without blocking sunlight from the room. This durable cedar feeder mounts outside your window with an adjustable tension rod that is invisible from inside the house, ... 

 Squirrel-Proof Platform Feeder 
 Platform feeders attract a wider variety of birds than any other type - from big, bright cardinals to tiny nuthatches - but most are vulnerable to rain and marauding squirrels. This ingenious platform feeder solves both problems. It thwarts even the most persistent squi ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]