Fertilizers & Applicators 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive]

 [an error occurred while processing this directive]

 Garden Center > Plant & Lawn Care > Fertilizers & Applicators Fertilizers & Applicators Welcome to our extensive Plant Food section. All fertilization needs 

for plants, flowers, shrubs, trees, and lawn are just a few clicks away!

When choosing a fertilizer or plant food, be aware that there can be big 

differences in quality. Spend a few minutes learning what to look for, and 

you'll avoid wasting your hard-earned money on fertilizers that offer 

inadequate plant nutrition or wash away with the first spring rain!

We have carefully selected the products that will maximize your lawn and 

garden potential. Even a Yard Maniac needs a little help in becoming the 

 envy of all the neighbors .

Our goal is to help you cultivate the best plants possible! Choose a 

product category from the list on the right. Choose Category All Purpose Fertilizers 
 Organic Products Indoor Plants & African Violets 
 Azalea & Acid Loving Fertilizers Vegetable-Garden Fertilizers 
 Rose, Bulb & Floral Fertilizers 
 Tree & Shrub Fertilzers 
 Evergreen Fertilizer 
 Root Starter - Early Growth 
 Spreaders & Applicators Soil PH Tests 
 Osmocote Slow Release Fertilizer 

 - 

 Organic & Natural - WOW 

 Fetilzer 

 Lawn 

 Pest 

 and Insects 

 Oxygen Plus For Indoor Plants 

 Organic Products 

 All-Purpose Fertilizers 
 Take care of all your plants needs 
 Acid Loving Plant Fertilizers 
 Azaleas, Camellias, Hollies, Dogwoods, Rhododendrons, Evergreens and Laurels! 

 Rose, Bulb & Floral Fertilzers 

 Tree & Shrub Fertilzers 

 Evergreen Fertilizer 

 Osmocote Slow Release Fertilizer 

 Soil PH Tests 

 African Violet Fertilizers 

 Garden & Vegetable Fertilizers 
 Root Starter - Early Growth 

 Rich Earth Soil Conditioner 

 All-Purpose 
 Fertilizer 
 Avoid the stressful "boom 
 and bust" cycle of chemical fertilizers with 
 our own all-natural formula. It's the best 
 choice for established plants because it releases 
 nutrients consistently. Contains only naturally 
 occurring minerals, peanut meal and animal 
 ... 

 Lawngevity 
 Lawngevity is an all-organic 
 lawn tonic. Packed with kelp, humic acids 
 and yucca, it helps keep lawns green despite 
 the heat of summer and heavy foot traffic. 
 Regular catalog price was $11.95 ... 

 Plant 
 Health Care for Vegetables & Tomatoes 
 Strong root systems encourage 
 plants that can better withstand the stresses 
 of the growing season &#150; naturally. PHC 
 for Vegetables & Tomatoes is a biofertilizer 
 and beneficial root-zone bacteria combo designed 
 to produce more nutritious tomatoes and garden 
 vegetable ... 

 1.75 
 Gallon Pump Sprayer 
 This top quality sprayer 
 requires only one or two pumps to reach optimum 
 pressure - half that of other similar-sized 
 sprayers. The 22" spray wand fits comfortably 
 in your hand and comes with three spray tips 
 (fan, hollow cone, jet stream). The high-density 
 polyethylene ... 

 GSC 
 Organic Tomato Fertilizer 
 Our slow-release, 100% organic 
 fertilizer (5-6-5) gives your tomatoes all 
 the nutrients they need, including plenty 
 of phosphorus for big, abundant fruit. Mix 
 a small handful into the soil at transplant 
 time and side dress when tomatoes begin to 
 set fruit. Regular ... 

 Liquid 
 Sea Cure 
 These all-natural fertilizers 
 give plans an ocean-worth of minerals, nutrients, 
 and plant hormones to help resist stress and 
 disease. Great for seedlings! Sea Cure's seaweed-based 
 formula provides over 60 trace elements that 
 aid in root development and overall plant 
 v ... 

 Organic 
 Lawn Care Program 
 Our exclusive Lawn Care starts 
 with 45 lbs of GSC Organic Lawn Fertilizer 
 (7-3-4). This granular blend of all-natural 
 vegetable or animal protein meal, sulfate 
 of potash, natural nitrate of soda and Chilean 
 nitrate feeds your lawn steadily throughout 
 the growing season. ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive]

 [an error occurred while processing this directive]

 Website 

 Designed by 

[an error occurred while processing this directive]

[an error occurred while processing this directive]