Garden Gauges 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Garden Center > Tools of the Trade > Gauges For a Better Garden 

 Gauges For a Better Garden 
 Like a skilled surgeon, a dedicated gardener requires precise information to diagnose and treat the needs of a lawn and garden. 

 Please select your area of interest. 

 Climate Control Systems 

 Instruments 
 Humidity Control 

 Digital Weather Stations 

 Soil Test Kits 

 Rain Gauges 

 Moisture Meters 

 Soil pH Meters 

 Light Meters 

 Compost Thermometer 

 Soil Thermometers 

 Hay Bale Thermometer 

 Thermohygrograph 

 Easy-to-Read Dial Thermometer 
 This precision weather instrument is designed to be read at a glance, and is guaranteed to last a lifetime. The clean, functional styling was inspired by the speedometer in a vintage sports car, and the solid brass housing adds a touch of luxury to your window for easy ... 

 Wireless Min/Max Thermometer 
 This digital thermometer not only tells the current temperature indoors and out, but displays the day's highs and lows, and the time of occurrence, at the push of a button. It includes one wireless probe and will take up to three probes, so you can check temperatures in ... 

 Weather History Station 
 This record-keeping weather station displays current temperature, humidity and atomic-clock time, plus: Temperature and humidity highs and lows, with time and date they occurred Whether your indoor humidity is in the "comfort zone" Weather trend and f ... 

 Lifetime Wall Thermometer 
 This copper-framed precision instrument is handcrafted here in Vermont, with high-contrast numerals that are easy to read indoors or out. The copper will acquire a rich patina over the years. ... 

 Vermont Dial Thermometer 
 Even a simple device can benefit from a facelift, like this precision dial thermometer inspired by the speedometer of a vintage sports car. Easier to read than ordinary thermometers. Solid brass housing adds a touch of luxury. Mounts on a swi ... 

 Min/Max Thermometer 
 With its big 6" dial and large numbers, our Min/Max thermometer is easy to read from across the greenhouse. No straining to read the high, low or current temperatures so vital to the growth and maintenance of your plants. Thermometer indicates temperature in both Fahre ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]