Watering Equipment 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 Garden Center > Water Works > Watering Equipment 

 Watering Equipment 
 Everything imaginable to keep your lawn and garden lush and green! 

 Please select from the departments below: 

 Water Wands & Coils 

 Watering Cans 

 Timers, Hose Guides, Accessories 

 Copper Sprinklers 

 Sprayers & Nozzles 

 Sprinklers 

 Hose Reels, Hangers & Storage 

 Decorative Faucets 

 Garden Hose 

 Rain Saving Barrels 

 Tree Bags & Irrigation 

 Coil Hose 

 Watering Accessories 

 Watering Hoses& Wands 
 Watering Systems 
 Watering Tools 

 Sprayers & Nozzles 

 Garden Hose 

 Portable Hose Reel with Hose 
 The more hose you have, the more tangles and mess you have - unless you own this state-of-the-art Hose Reel. It stores 120 feet of 1/2-inch hose, dispenses it easily and rewinds it neatly with a smooth-sliding shuttle mechanism. You get the reel plus 120 feet of hose, ... 

 Compact Coil Hose 
 Most gardeners enjoy the quiet moments watering their prized plants - but not struggling with heavy, tangled hoses. This innovative hose stretches just enough to follow you around the garden, then springs back into a neat coil for storage. 10 Reasons Why O ... 

 Noodlehead Sprinkler and Stand 
 The Noodlehead Sprinkler waters irregularly shaped flower beds without wasting water on nearby sidewalks or buildings. It creates lively fountain displays in the garden, and kids love it on hot summer days. Stands on its own or can be anchored with ground ... 

 Hose Butlers 
 Our Wall-Mounted Hose Butler model holds up to 100' of hose and can be installed on any wood, masonry, or stucco wall. It folds flat when not in use and lifts off for indoor storage. Mounting wood screws are included. Our solid, 1/2" steel Hose Butler is a practi ... 

 Hose Butler with Faucet Attachment 
 Our Hose Butler Faucet Attachment brings the water supply out to where your hose is. The high-quality spigot slips onto your Hose Butler and connects to a standard household faucet with an 8' extension. You can turn water on and off right where you hang your ... 

 Copper Hose Bowl 
 As handsome as it is useful, our Copper Hose Bowl easily holds 75 feet of 5/8" hose neatly coiled and free from tangles. It's individually handcrafted from 6 pounds of pure copper with an attractive beaded ring design and rolled rim. A side hole allows you to leave yo ... 

 Star Birdseed Ornaments 
 At holiday time, give thanks to the birds for the joy they bring you all year. Our Star Ornaments are solid seed - a hefty 5 oz in each - and made entirely of natural materials, from the corn syrup binder to the jute hanging cord. Set of 5 Gift boxed with nest ... 

 Hose Hammock 
 Coil hoses are one of the most convenient innovations in recent years, but they can lose their spring if not stored properly. That's why we designed the Hose Hammock. This heavy-duty wire rack holds 25 feet of coil hose; mount one above the other (as shown) ... 

 9-Pattern Wand 
 Watering the garden is a real pleasure when you're using well-made tools like this versatile wand that sprays in nine different patterns. Simply rotate the head to choose a spray pattern-jet, fan, shower, mist, 5 more. Multi-position trigger locks in ... 

 Heavy Duty Rubber Hose 
 This may be the most durable hose you ever use, with 5-ply construction, protective vinyl jacket, and crushproof brass fittings. Yet it's surprisingly supple and easy to handle, because it's made of natural rubber. Excellent burst resistance. Comes in tw ... 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] 

 [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]