Village France tour, May 2001 

 Our route, designed by Rick Steves . 

 Village France tour 
by Compte Renard, le Duc de Fourchette et Cuill&egrave;re. 

 Note: click on photos to see a bigger image. 

In May of 2001, I joined a group from Europe Through the Back Door
on a journey through small villages in France. The trip was a
lot of fun, as expected. But there were some unexpected delights.
Wonderful regional food! Spectacular scenery! Cycling paradise!
Playing boules (throwing heavy steel balls, distantly related to 
bowling). History from Troglodyte to medieval kings to sobering 
reminders of the horror of war. But let's get to the story. 

On my flight from Seattle to London, I asked the flight crew if I
could visit the cockpit. Late in the flight, they said I could!
The pilot, copilot, and navigator were very friendly, giving me
a tour of the London area from the air. 
It was great fun landing while sitting in the flight deck observer's
seat. I doubt that will happen again, due to recent events... 

After a second flight to Paris and a train to Chartres , I meet 
 the gang an hour late. 
Chris was already explaining a few logistics and
preparing for a walk around Chartres. Our tour was to cover nearly
three weeks and many of France's regions. 

 Franois, not expecting any tips from ETBD travelers, 
coerces Ted and Al to wash his coach instead. 

The next day, Malcolm Miller gave an excellent presentation
on the art of Chartres. What a superb preserved jewel of
medieval accomplishment. I climbed the 15th century tower (300 steps)
and gasped at the drop below. I wondered if the old stone railing
would hold, but didn't consider rocking it. After the first of many
excellent picnics, we met entertaining Franois who drove us to 
 Chinon . 

 Our first French dinner in Chinon. First course: quail with sauce, lettuce. 

 Second course: trout with avocado, tomato, shrimp, scallops, and sweet
lemon sauce. 

After a brief time to wander about Chinon, we met for dinner. Thus began
the major feature of the trip that I didn't expect -- a
thorough immersion into the national art of French cuisine. 

After dinner, I wandered on my own, enjoying the evening.
But I forgot that Al, my roommate, had the only key. 
Oops, I was stuck outside the high-walled hotel. Fortunately, 
Chris, Kristen, and Franois happened by before I had to deploy the
retractable bat hook. 
 (Note to self: always tote ubiquitous
bat hook, preferably in money belt!) 

 Intrepid Loire Valley explorers negotiate the flooded road near Usse's "Sleeping Beauty" chateau. 

 Aspiring cyclists, after perspiring along the Loire, conspire to 
replenish reserves. Kristen (asst. guide) and yours truly in front
row. 

 Hmmm... "European" in that thing? Risking un-Chartres territory? 

After a typical breakfast of rolls, jam (particularly good home made) and OJ,
we rode the bus to the "Sleeping Beauty Castle", Usse chateau. Half of the group
hopped on bikes. But... uh-oh, the road is flooded! Yikes. First that immersion into the cuisine, and now the Tour de Wet Pants? 
Not wanting to be called the Dunkin' Do Nots, we donned plastic bags
over our shoes and
rode across. A spate of rain the previous week wasn't going to keep
us from our Loire lollygagging atop our trusty, non-rusty steeds. 

It was a wonderful introduction to cycling in France. There was 
very little traffic on
the narrow roads. We rode to Langeais with its moated castle, then a bit further
to Villandry chateau and it's meticulous huge gardens. After hedging on
how long it takes to keep the bushes trimmed, Ted and I left the bus-bound group,
and enjoyed a muscle-bound bike ride all the way back to Chinon. 

The next day we stopped by the emotionally draining Oradour-sur-Glane . 
This empty village preserves the horror the Nazis perpetrated
one violent day in June 1944. I was extremely moved by the everyday items
left in the yards. It felt like a violation to photograph. Silence was
appropriate.

It was a quiet ride to Sarlat along very winding roads. Franois
was particularly impressive guiding the coach through the Sarlat gauntlet. 

 Canoeing with Phil past an old fortress on the Dordogne. 

 Sarlat is best when the traffic dies down, very late or very early. I
enjoyed both, walking all around including the countryside. 
Many of us went on
a Dordogne canoe trip. Poor Al and Jeanne enjoyed a full immersion capsize (to test the water resistance of Al's camera I suppose 
-- canoe imagine that?), while the rest of
floated lazily for an hour downstream to our picnic spot. Later that day we enjoyed
Troglodyte cliff dwellings and Cro-Magnon caves with their
fillet-Magnon drawings. 

 Franois provided a first-class coach experience. 

We spent the next few days in Rocamadour . This pilgrimage cliff
town
enjoys a very pretty location. I took several hikes up both sides of the valley.
The far side was particularly interesting. Old fields, mostly rock, were fenced
with rock from centuries ago. Some of the stone fences had crumbled away, but
enough remained to get a feel for the hard life the farmers had. I walked far
up old paths to a farm that had far less dirt than rock. Yet it was "plowed", 
or rather raked, in a feeble attempt to sustain crops. 

One Sunday morning I heard the organ playing in one of the 7 chapels high on the
cliff. I rushed up to hear a poorly played Bach's Little Prelude and Fugue. But
it brought back old memories of playing that same piece. Later, we visited 
the deep caves Grotte de Rouffignac . Engravings of mammoths, bison, and
others by prehistoric man were fascinating. On the return trip we had an
interesting lunch of duck gizzards and strawberry tart. Opinions were mixed
on the gizzards
(I rather enjoyed them), but unanimous on the tart! 

We stopped in Conques , with its medieval exterior tympanum of the
Last Judgment. Driving through a hailstorm, we continued to La
Malene in the Gorg du Tarn. Wow, what a spot this place is! Al and I
were given a spectacular room in a 15th century chateau. Vicky and Bill
(the love birds) enjoyed a similar room. The ornate antique furniture was
much fancier than I'd expect on a Rick Steves trip. I took a long hike up
river on the trail, until I ran out of time. Upstream I could see a town
far from any road -- a private domain for some lucky owners. Dinner at the
hotel was a 3 hour, 4 course fabulous event. Unfortunately, we had to
suffer through this type of dinner two nights in a row! I guess someone
has to do it. You'll have to suffer looking at it. 

 Al enjoys his bacon and pear in a sauce, while I have saffron
pearl barley salad, dried tomato, and smoked duck fillet. 

 Loretta can't bear to look at my lamb and cauliflower. Nope, she isn't wearing the saffron pearls! 

 Loretta anticipates her sorbet dessert, while I go for the entire
assortment. Later, I finish several other desserts. I suspect I'm
pregnant but the morning after my stomach had shrunk to only 150% of
its normal size.

 Canoeing the Gorg du Tarn. 

On our day in the Gorg du Tarn, some of us floated the river. Darn, this Tarn is
rugged! We gorged our eyes, and dropped our jaws at the scenery. 

I scrambled high above the river that afternoon, getting all scratched
in the brush, but finding some ancient stone walls. The next morning I caught 
up on needed sleep and enjoyed the luxurious room. 
We drove much of the day, stopping at Uzes briefly.
Then past the Pont du Gard , the Roman aqueduct, and finally to
 Cassis . 

This Mediterranean town had more traffic than the very small
villages of the rest of the tour. But after a day on the beaches I grew to
enjoy it as much as the smaller villages. 

I went on a long walk along amongst the calanques. Some of the trail was more
of a scramble. I dropped down to the bottom of the third calanque to the beach,
and enjoyed a particularly lovely example of French 
"scenery" for quite some time. 
While waiting for her to turn over, I watched some rock climbers. 

 Mediterranean coastline near Cassis. 

We moved on to Aix du Provence , which wasn't nearly as village-like as
the rest of the trip. The old core portion of town is surrounded by lots of
traffic. But it was not a long stop, and we moved on to Domaine de la
Citadelle. Here, the spectacularly beautiful Perrine was our guide of the winery.
Then it was on to Roussillon , a quiet artist town with red ocre cliffs.
Ah... now back in a tiny village, I felt wonderful again! 

I took a walk along the ocre area, and wandered the interesting art galleries. 
Mostly I soaked up the village ambience. For lunch it was just a bagette and water.
In fact, this was all my lunch for several days on the trip. It was a welcome
change from the fantastic, but rich food. By evening, I was ready again for 
another delicious and beautiful dinner.

 Driver Franois and friend bemoan the mouse is gone in
Roussillon. 

 First course: Salad with olive oil, aged red wine vinegar, 
dijon mustard, spices de Provence, poached egg on toast. 

 Second course: Beuf (beef) -- cheek portion. 
Third course (not shown): goat cheese, whole peppercorn fromage.

 Fourth course: Coconut custard, raspberry sauce, strawberry, kiwi,
and apple slices. Oops, bumped the strawberry out of alignment! 

We took a day trip from Roussillon to the Provence market town of Apt .
It's a huge market, with food, clothes, gadgets, etc. Not being much of a shopper,
even when it's a cultural event, I wandered to the cathedral. Wow, it has
a Cavaille-Col organ (2 manuals, 15 stops)! And the sub crypt was 4th
century. Once again, I'm thrilled. 

We also had the ultimate picnic lunch at Bonneaux , with items many had
gathered at the market. Chris and Kristen outdid themselves this time. As
was
my pattern throughout the trip, I ate way too much. Part of the digestion time
I watched some old men play boules. Later that evening, Clare, Bev, Chris, 
Kristen and I played our own game of boules. Bev amazed the rest of us 
boules fools 
with her skill. Fortunately I was on her team! 

 Picnic prepared by Kristen and Chris in "sunny Bonneaux". 

 Howard may be excited about his dinner, but look at my dessert crepe! 

 Napoleon stopped by Sisteron for lunch one day. For that he gets his
own plaque in town.
Big deal, I was here too! After lunch I had plenty of plaque as well. 
Bet he didn't have that distinctive middle-age money belt
bulge... 

The next day we drove to Sisteron . The town is next to a river, with
incredible cliffs on the far side. 
Near by was a huge castle, restored after the war. Then it was on to 
Annecy for three nights. One day we drove up to Chamonix . I took the
lift to Auguille du Midi and waited for over an hour for the weather to clear.
At last, I had a 15 second window and snapped a picture of Mont Blanc. 

 Annecy medieval jail at night 

 Mont Blanc from Auguille du Midi. 

 Franois and your scribe, two boneheads, fight over Beaune
bread. 

 Chris and Kristen provide support on a bad-hair day.
I was antsy about seeking amnesty from Annecy shopping at 
the marbleous 1922 St Francis de Sales church above town. 

We drove through Beaune and enjoyed the fascinating old Hotel Dieu, 
then to Savigny-les-Beaune for a wine tour, then to Semur . I listened
to the organist practicing a long list of Baroque Chorale Preludes. He was very 
good. We also took several hours to visit Abbye de Fontenay , the
ultra-simple monastery. There I heard a choir do an impromptu piece, then saw
them get kicked out. Ah! Such rebellious choirs these days! Dinner was in 
 Flavigny , where Chocolat was filmed -- another superb
dinner, but
much different from all the others. This time it was home cooking by local women.
On my walk about town after, I heard the seminarians chanting. So in just
two days I was treated to lots of great music! 

We also stopped in Vezelay to see the Romanesque Basilica -- a fantastic
creation, huge, plain decor, airy, and bright. Then it was off to Paris 
and the end of the tour. We were treated to one last fabulous dinner, a toast
of champagne, and a one-hour boat ride on the Seine. A superb ending to a superb
trip. 

Ah... but there were 10 days before my plane departed for the homeland. 
So I hopped on a train to Reims . The cathedral interior
soars to the heavens; its exterior is a cacophony of flamboyance. 

I went to Bruges and listened to the passionate Rik exalt the Belgian
cuisine. 
His dog was definitely in charge of the place, keeping all intruders
at bay.
Rik made a delicious Belgian waffle. Wow!

Then on to Normandy and the D-day beaches. These were very moving, especially
the best museum I've ever seen -- Le Memorial in Caen . I spent a two days
cycling. The empty one-lane roads are ideal for a bike. The Bayeaux tapestry
is also amazing. I spent an afternoon and evening at Mont St Michel . 

My last two days in Paris were a musical extravaganza. I heard the organs at 
St Sulpice ( 
Daniel Roth again!), La Trinite, St Eustache, and Sacre-Coeur. 

Ah, what a trip and what memories... 

The rest of the year was spent wandering the 
Cascade and Olympic mountains . 

 Home page 

Send comments to the author