comp.lang.c Frequently Asked Questions 

 comp.lang.c Frequently Asked Questions 
 This collection of hypertext pages is Copyright 1995 by Steve Summit.
Content from the book ``C Programming FAQs: Frequently Asked Questions''
(Addison-Wesley, 1995, ISBN 0-201-84519-9) is made available here by
permission of the author and the publisher as a service to the community.
It is intended to complement the use of the published text
and is protected by international copyright laws. The content is
made available here and may be accessed freely for personal use
but may not be published or retransmitted without written permission.
 This page is the top of an HTML version of the Usenet
comp.lang.c Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) list.
An FAQ list is a collection of questions commonly asked on Usenet,
together with presumably definitive answers,
provided in an attempt to keep repeated questions
on the newsgroup
down to a low background drone
so that discussion can move on to more interesting matters.
Since they distill knowledge gleaned from many sources
and answer questions which are demonstrably Frequent,
FAQ lists serve as useful references
outside of their originating Usenet newsgroups.
This list is, I dare to claim, no exception,
and the HTML version you're looking at now,
as well as other versions referenced
just below,
are intended to be useful to C programmers everywhere.

Several
 other versions 
of this FAQ list are available,
including a
 book-length version 
published by
 Addison-Wesley .
(The book, though longer,
also has a few more errors;
I've prepared an
 errata list .)
See also question 20.40 .
 Like so many web pages,
this is very much a ``work in progress.''
I would, of course, like it if it were perfect,
but it's been two years or so
since I first started talking about putting this thing on the web,
and if I were to wait until all the glitches were worked out,
you might never see it.
Each page includes a ``mail feedback'' button,
so you can help me debug it.
(At first,
you don't have to worry about reporting minor formatting hiccups;
many of these result from lingering imperfections
in the programs that generate these pages,
or from the fact that I have not exhaustively researched
how various browsers implement the HTML tags I'm using,
or from the fact that I haven't gone the last yard
in trying to rig up HTML that looks good
in spite of the fact that HTML doesn't have
everything you need to make things look good.)
 These pages are synchronized with
the posted Usenet version
and the Addison-Wesley book version.
Since not all questions appear in all versions,
the question numbers are not always contiguous.
 [Note to web authors, catalogers, and bookmarkers:
the URL <http://www.eskimo.com/~scs/C-faq/top.html> is
the right way to link to these pages.
All other URL's implementing this collection
are subject to change.]
 You can browse these pages in at least three ways.
The table of contents below is of the list's major
sections; these links lead to sub-lists of the questions for
those sections.
The ``all questions'' link leads to a list of
all the questions; each question is (obviously) linked to its answer.
Finally,
the ``read sequentially'' link leads to the first
question; you can then follow the ``next'' link at
the bottom of each question's page to read through all of the
questions and answers sequentially.
 Steve Summit 
 scs@eskimo.com 

 1. Declarations and Initializations 
 2. Structures, Unions, and Enumerations 
 3. Expressions 
 4. Pointers 
 5. Null Pointers 
 6. Arrays and Pointers 
 7. Memory Allocation 
 8. Characters and Strings 
 9. Boolean Expressions and Variables 
 10. C Preprocessor 
 11. ANSI/ISO Standard C 
 12. Stdio 
 13. Library Functions 
 14. Floating Point 
 15. Variable-Length Argument Lists 
 16. Strange Problems 
 17. Style 
 18. Tools and Resources 
 19. System Dependencies 
 20. Miscellaneous 
 Bibliography 
 Acknowledgements 

 All Questions 

 Read Sequentially