2002 NCPA College Paintball National Championships 

 2002 NCPA College Paintball National Championships 
 Also Featuring the
 High School Paintball National Championships 
at Challenge Park Xtreme on April 27, 2002 .

2001-2002 NCPA Gold Contributors 

 Support College & High School Paintball - Click Here 

 All information is currently subject to change. 
 FREE ENTRY and $65/case 
 Register Online Here Now! - Regional Events Schedule 
 As always, this is a 5-man centerflag event. Captain's Meeting at 7:30 AM sharp. Paint available at $65 currently includes RPS/PMI Marballizer and Diablo Inferno . We expect to add more paint brands as well. Pricing is subject (and likely) to decrease. (Entry fees have already gone down from $110/team to FREE!)

 The NCPA was formed to provide new players with the experience to become formidable players. Participants in NCPA events range from first-timers to seasoned veterans, so all college and high school teams are encouraged to attend. Your team *DOES NOT* need to be recognized by your college or high school. There will be separate divisions for college and high school teams. Colleges and high schools may enter more than one team and are encouraged to do so.

 We will be having a 10-man exhibition event on Sunday for anyone who is interested, just for fun, so nothing to be won and it'll be self-reffed. Different colleges are welcome to form combined 10-man teams. Players in the tournament also receive free admission on Sunday the 28th at CPX, a $15/player value.

 Practice at CPX prior to the event is $5/person for air and $50/case FPO. Call in advance to let them know you're coming.

 We're looking into either combining the awards ceremony with dinner (for about $5-$10/person) or renting out a beer garden (or both) for socialization on Saturday night for teams staying over. If you want to weigh in on this, hit the NCPA Discussion Forums .

 Challenge Park Xtreme will also be holding a night game on Saturday night for those interested using special mask-lanterns and glow in the dark paint. You can get more information on night paintball at www.nightpaintball.com .

 Eligibility at the college level is limitted to teams of full time students from the same school. Eligibility at the high school level is limitted to teams of students from the same high school. All participants must present photo ID and proof of enrollment to participate. Under limitted circumstances, students from multiple colleges or high schools may form combined teams with the advanced approval of the NCPA President. Your club or team does not need to be recogonized by your college or high school.

 Online Registration must be completed April 20, 2002 - Click Here for Online Registration - Team openings are limitted, so register early to assure a spot.

 Photo ID and proof of current full-time enrollment are REQUIRED for all participants . NO EXCEPTIONS. Transcripts, class schedules and dated student ID's are acceptable as proof of current enrollment. IF IN DOUBT, get it cleared BEFORE you get to the tournament!

 The National Collegiate Paintball Association and its member-clubs and member-players believe in and maintain the highest standards in paintball play. Inappropriate behavior either on or off the field is not, and will not, be tolerated. Players and teams who cannot be respectful to themselves and others will be asked to leave the tournament and may face further action. This tournament is for everyone to have a good time, learn something, and maybe pick up some bragging rights. If this is not why you are attending please stay home.

 Vendor exhibition fees are waived for all NCPA Silver and Gold contributors and are $10 per team in attendence for non-contributors. (It is more economical to be a contributor.)

 Questions should be posted on the NCPA Discussion Forums or directed to NCPA President Chris Raehl (raehl311@yahoo.com) .

 NCPA 2001 National Championships Results 
 NCPA 2000 National Championships Results