National Collegiate Paintball Association 

 Main 
 Register 
 Prizes 
 Rules & Eligibility 
 Hotel & Airfare 
 Waiver 
 Contacts 

 The National Collegiate Paintball Association and its member-clubs and member-players believe in and maintain the highest standards in paintball play. Inappropriate behavior either on or off the field is not, and will not, be tolerated. Players and teams who cannot be respectful to themselves and others will be asked to leave the tournament and may face further action. This tournament is for everyone to have a good time, learn something, and maybe pick up some bragging rights. If this is not why you are attending please stay home.

 Eligibility 
 The NCPA runs tournaments to give high school and college clubs the opportunity to compete against each other and encourage their formation and growth. Eligibility rules are designed to preserve the interscholastic nature of the competition while encouraging the continued growth of paintball amongst students.

 College - All players must be currently enrolled as full-time undergraduate or graduate students. Players on the same team must attend the same college or university. Limitted exceptions for students on an approved leave of absence (internship, co-op, military service, etc.) may compete with advanced approval from the NCPA President. Players from multiple schools may form combined teams with advanced approval from the NCPA President if an undue hardship preventing the formation a complete team from a particular school is demonstrated.
 High School - All players must be currently enrolled as high school or junior high students. Junior high students may compete as a team onto themselves or on a high school team from the same school district. Home-schooled students who would normally attend a particular high school may play on that school's team. Schools may form a combined team with another school with the advanced approval of the NCPA President if a hardship preventing both schools from forming a team (chiefly, small (sub-1000 combined) attendence) can be demonstrated.

 Photo ID and proof of current full-time enrollment are REQUIRED for all participants 16 years of age or older. Transcripts, class schedules, dated student ID's, and signed letters on school letterhead from certain school administrators are acceptable as proof of current enrollment. IF IN DOUBT, get it cleared BEFORE you get to the tournament!

 Any attempt to falsify the eligibility of a player or team will result in a lifetime suspension from NCPA events for all players involved, as well as potential disciplinary action against the offending team. Players may be asked to provide supplemental documentation after the event, and those unable to do so will be deemed ineligible. If you are not sure, please ask in advance.

 All Players under 18 years of age must have a waiver to play. 

 Game Rules 
 College tournaments are the result of years of work by college students to provide college students the opportunity to compete against each other while simultaneously providing a friendly and supportive atmosphere for new players to get into tournament paintball. Game rules are thus very similar to standard 5-man centerflag rules, with the main modifications placing extra emphasis on player safety and conduct.

 NCPA Game Rules 

 Visits: