SeattleOtaku: Review - Nausicaa of the Valley of Wind 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Nausicaa of the Valley of Wind 

 O ne of the first manga (Japanese graphic novels) I
read back in high school, Hayao Miyazaki's Nausicaa of the
Valley of Wind was an ecological wonder. The first version I saw
animated was a now-disowned edit that dropped most of the ecological splendor
of the original in order to make it a simple action/adventure (both the
creator and myself urge you to forget that that particular version even
 exists ; not too difficult anymore as the distribution license for
that version recently expired). 

 The full unedited version is only available as an import at the moment,
but as the US licensor (currently Disney) may release it domestically, I can
only hope that they do it justice and release the unedited one with the proper
title; I hope the bad sales of the bad edit don't scare them away. 

 Story Intro 

 Flying through an apocalyptic forest landscape, a young princess finds an
empty Ohmu shell, the tough discarded skin of a giant insect living in this
area. She breaks off an eye-lid for use as a shield and begins to take it
home to her village, when she hears gunfire nearby and rushes to see a man
and an ostrich-like bird being chased by the Ohmu itself. She helps the man
escape and sends the Ohmu back to its forest home. 

 The forest surrounding her village has grown poisonous to humans with the
various giant insect life and plant spores ever increasing their hold on the
land. A plane flying low through the forest crashes near the village, and
Nausicaa finds only one survivor, near death, warning her to burn the
cargo. A short time later, a larger war plane arrives in search of the
mysterious cargo, an ancient weapon they intend to use to destroy the
encroaching forest. 

 But like any devastating weapon, it has a recoil of its own -- this type
of weapon is what turned the world into an apocalytic nightmare in the first
place. A race has begun to determine who can control destiny, a girl who
loves all life, including that of the forest and its own methods of cleaning
up after our past mistakes, or a military who wants to destroy the percieved
threat at any cost. 

 Other Notes 

 Like another science-fiction ecological wonder, Frank Herbert's
 Dune , I prefer the longer full series of novels to the one-shot
movie. Two hours (and certainly a 90-minute edit) just can't do justice to a
multiple-volume classic. Still, this has a lot of memorable images. 

 Semi-Official news and images can be found in English at the fan site
 Nausicaa.Net . The true home for
all Studio Ghibli work is (in Japanese)
 Studio Ghibli Homepage . 

 Nausicaa of the Valley of Wind 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.