More about Text in HTML 

 Text in HTML... 
 = Index DOT Html by Brian Wilson = 

 ISO 8859 Character Sets |
 To Encode or Not To Encode? 
 Entity Formats - Pros and Cons |
 Unicode | HTML 4.0 Entities 

 Related Sites 

 Main Index |
 Element Tree |
 Element Index |
 HTML Support History 

 ISO 8859 character sets 
 ISO 8859 is a set of 10 different 256-character sets used to
 represent a large set of the alphabetic languages used in the West.
 It does not address Far East languages at all. These sets were
 designed by the standards group ECMA (European Computer Manufacturer's
 Association,) and are included in the Internet charset register
 for use with MIME identification.

 The ISO-8859-1 Character Set Positions 

 000-031 |
 032-064 |
 065-096 |
 097-126 

 127-159 |
 160-191 |
 192-223 |
 224-255 

 Why is ISO 8859 important you might ask? The ISO 8859-1 (also called
 ISO-Latin) character set is the one used for HTTP (the transport
 protocol for web documents) and is also used in the creation of HTML
 documents. This character set contains all characters necessary to
 type all major West European languages and is also the preferred
 encoding on the Internet. The following languages are supported under
 the ISO 8859-1 character set: 
 Afrikaans , Basque ,
 Catalan , Danish ,
 Dutch , English ,
 Faeroese , Finnish ,
 French , Galician ,
 German , Icelandic ,
 Irish , Italian ,
 Norwegian , Portuguese ,
 Spanish , Swedish 

 ISO 8859-1 Characters - To Encode or Not To Encode? 
 It is acceptable to leave all ISO 8859-1 characters as unencoded
 character octets, but there can be no guarantee that all destination
 systems will understand all of the characters. In order to increase
 portability/viewability of the entire character set, the HTML language
 additionally offers alternative versions of all ISO 8859-1
 characters using coded entity representations. A special syntax
 is used to represent these Character Entities 
 using either a number reference or a shorthand mnemonicword.

 These 'safe' entities are created using characters from the US ASCII (ISO 646)
 character set. Interestingly enough, the first half of the ISO 8859-1
 set (character positions 000-127) is identical to those used in the
 US ASCII set. In fact, ASCII is always the 0-127 character
 position subset used in ALL ISO-8859 character sets. If safe
 character entity references are created using a safe portion of the
 ISO 8859-1 set, which characters in the ISO 8859-1 set need to be
 encoded, and which format should be used? 

 Positions 000-031 and 127-159: 
 The characters in the first range are non-printing characters in
 the HTML context and are not of any real interest to the discussion
 of HTML. The second range is earmarked for extended control
 characters, and is not used for encoding characters in HTML. The
 reason for this is to maintain interoperability with 7 bit devices
 or when the 8th bit gets stripped by faulty software. Some operating
 systems or code pages may use this special range for access of text
 characters, but this can not be relied upon. 

 Positions 032-064: 
 Includes common English punctuation and Roman numerical digits.
 This range does not need to be encoded except for the four
 reserved HTML characters (quote,
 ampersand, less than and greater than characters.) 

 Positions 065-126: 
 Includes uppercase and lowercase letters (A-Z
 and a-z) as well as common English punctuation. These characters
 do not need to be encoded. 

 Positions 159-191: 
 These represent special symbols. It is always
 safest to encode this range as character entities (numbered or
 named) to ensure better portability. This range has only recently
 gained Named Entity support for most of the characters so using
 Numbered Entities is recommended. 

 Positions 192-255: 
 These represent special upper and lower case
 accented national characters. It is always safest to encode this
 range as character entities (numbered or named) to ensure better
 portability. The HTML specifications suggest encoding this range
 as named entities. 

 Character Entity Formats - Pros and Cons 
 Included in the Character Entity domain are both numbered
 and named entities: 
 Numbered Entity Syntax: 
 &#charnumber; 
 Where charnumber is a distinct integer from 0-255. 
 Named Entity Syntax: 
 &charname; 
 Where charname is a unique mnemonic shorthand
 of the character to be represented. 
 Why would an author wish to use one method over the other? 

 Using &entityname; 
 Pros: 

 The mnemonic words are much easier to remember than the numbers. 
 Official support has existed for accented Latin
 characters (192-255 character range) since at least HTML 2.0. The
 standards actually recommend using the named entities for this
 range over the numbered entities. 
 Browser support for accented Latin characters is
 also very widespread. 

 Cons: 

 Not all browsers may support the newer entity names (160-191 range.) 

 Using &#number; 
 Pros: 

 Support is excellent in most all browsers. It is
 hard to go wrong using them. 
 The entire printable ISO 8859-1 character set range
 has almost always been addressable using this method. 

 Cons: 

 The numbers are harder to remember 

 Special Character Cases: 
 HTML Reserved characters: 
 (Less than, Greater than, Ampersand and Quotation mark) 

 Use character entity names 
 The quotation mark ('"') character
 entity was retracted from HTML 3.2 (it exists in HTML 2.0, 3.0 and
 4.0 though.) Safest use of this character is its numbered version. 

 Newer commonly used entities: 

 Copyright and Registered Trademark
 (&#169; and &amp#174;): 
 Most browsers now support the named entity versions,
 but it is probably a bit safer to use the numbers instead. 
 Non-breaking space (&#160;): 
 The named version is covered by most browsers now,
 but to be absolutely sure use the number instead. 
 Trademark: 
 In much earlier browser history, support for the trademark
 entity was limited, but this is no longer the case. It is entirely safe
 these days to use &#174;. If you are uncertain whether a browser 
 may or may not be able to support this entity, you could "hack" some 
 moral equivalent to the entity using HTML elements, such as something similar to:
 <sup><small><tt>TM</tt></small></sup> 

 The Unicode Solution 
 There is a shift occurring in computer text representation.
 Traditionally, text is represented by a single character of data
 (1 byte or 8 bits) at its lowest level. This allows for 256
 possible distinct characters. In languages where the entire
 character set exceeds this range (such as in Far East languages)
 two characters are used to represent a single character. Many Far
 East languages use their own standard sets of double byte encodings
 to represent character sets in each language - this compounds the
 problem and makes the transporting of characters and documents
 between language locales yet more difficult. This diversity of
 sets can also lead to significant problems in the
 programmatic handling of character data as well.

 The Unicode standard was developed to greatly reduce all this fracturing
 of languages into conflicting character sets. Like Far East languages,
 Unicode also uses 16 bits of data to represent its characters. If you
 look at the number of characters possible using 16 bits of data
 (twice the normal amount of a single 'byte'), we see that 65536
 (256*256) distinct encodings are possible. All major character sets of
 the world (including Far East languages, symbols and dingbats) can be
 represented using a total of only about 35,000 of these character code
 points in the unicode set. Even though all the possible code points are
 not currently used in Unicode, there are many obscure characters and
 dead language writing systems that are not included in the set. Including
 ALL known languages, variations and symbols would be a never-ending task.
 A mechanism does exist, however, to expand the number of possible code
 points in Unicode into the millions in case of such a need.

 Current software uses 7 or 8 bit encoding of characters. Unicode uses 16
 bits. What would happen if a current system reads Unicode? Could be quite
 nasty, so there is a work-around. Unicode can be translated into sequences
 of 7 bit or 8 bit encodings that allow many current and old systems to
 interchange or transparently pass these documents without loss of content.
 The most popular version of this translation mechanism in use is UTF-8
 (Universal character set Translation Format, 8-bit form.) This format uses
 variable lengths of the current standard single-byte characters to
 represent Unicode character code points.

 The number of operating systems and applications that understand Unicode
 character encoding is growing, and it is the successor to ISO 8859-1
 as the base character set used in HTML (beginning with HTML 4.0.) 

 HTML 4.0 - Unicode instead of ISO 8859-1 
 As mentioned, HTML 4.0 uses Unicode as its base character
 set. With this change a whole new set of officially named and numbered
 character entities are introduced. Occasionally, there may be some overlap
 when a distinct unicode position may represent the same display character
 defined by another unicode position.

 Note: In the following tables, the default font used
 to display content in your browser must support Unicode code points in order
 to display correctly. 

 Unicode Character Entities 
 Arrows 
 Arrow Shapes 
 Greek Capitals 
 Greek capital characters 
 Greek Smalls 
 Greek 'lower case' characters 
 Math Symbols 
 Characters commonly used in mathematics 
 Miscellaneous letters 
 Latin Extended-A and B characters and Letter-like Symbols 
 Miscellaneous shapes 
 Playing card suit symbols and other graphical symbols 
 Miscellaneous technical symbols 
 Characters used in various technical disciplines 
 Bi-directional and spacing characters 
 Characters used to control bi-directional text and text spacing 
 General punctuation set 1 
 Commonly used punctuation characters 
 General punctuation set 2 
 More commonly used punctuation characters 

 Related Sites 
 Official References 
 http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1866.txt 
 RFC 1866: The HTML 2.0 specification (plain text.) Appendix contains Character Entity table. 
 http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/html-spec/html-spec_13.html 
 The web version of the HTML 2.0 (RFC 1866) Character Entity table 
 http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/Wilbur/ 
 The HTML 3.2 (Wilbur) recommendation 
 [This includes all character entities listed in HTML 2.0 plus new named
 entities covering the ISO 8859-1 120-191 range.] 
 http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40/ 
 The HTML 4.0 Recommendation 
 [Includes new Unicode character entities] 
 http://www.w3.org/International/O-HTML.html 
 The W3C HTML Internationalization area 
 http://unicode.org 
 The Unicode Consortium site 

 Other Related Links 
 (These sites provided many of the topics and ideas for this page)
 ftp://ftp.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/pub/8bit/FAQ-ISO-8859-1 
 Michael K. Gschwind's ISO 8859-1 National Character Set FAQ -->

 http://www.ramsch.org/martin/uni/fmi-hp/iso8859-1.html 
 Excellent resource with good pointers on ISO-8859 issues 
 http://ppewww.ph.gla.ac.uk/%7Eflavell/iso8859/iso8859-pointers.html 
 Alan Flavell's excellent document of pointers to information about ISO-8859 
 http://ppewww.ph.gla.ac.uk/%7Eflavell/iso8859/character-faq.txt 
 Alan Flavell's brief FAQ document regarding ISO-8859 issues in HTML 
 http://www.bbsinc.com/iso8859.html 
 Kevin J Brewer's page with MANY links regarding character set issues. 

 Boring Copyright Stuff...