Abandoned Trails - Western Washington Cascades 

 Abandoned Trails 
 Western Washington Cascades 
 Updated Oct 29, 2001 

 Hwy 542 |
 Hwy 20 |
 Suiattle River Road |
 Mt Loop Hwy 
 Hwy 2 |
 Interstate 90 |
 Mt Rainier area 

This website is dedicated to the preservation of abandoned trails.
Regularly maintained trails are well publicized and well travelled. But
these formerly maintained trails are worth keeping for future generations
to enjoy. It would be a shame for them to disappear completely. 
Enjoy the thrill of finding these trails, then solving the puzzle 
to follow them! 

These trails were built by miners, foresters, or forest fighters. They
have been abandoned for many reasons, including the closure of the mines,
Endangered Species Act (due to Grizzly Bears), aerial fire fighting,
budget contraints, logging, lack of interest, or they have
been forgotten. 

Note: There are many other boot-beaten paths that fishers, hunters,
climbers, and hikers use. These have limited historical interest and
are documented in Beckey's "Cascade Alpine Guide" and other publications.
This web site does not focus on such non-built trails. 

One good generic reference is "Lost Trails," appearing in
Signpost, vol. 11, no. 5, May-June (May 6), 1976, pages 12-13. 

Please email me with information on
trails you have discovered. I'll add them to this website. 

Ratings code:
 fair,
 good,
 great,
 outstanding.

 Mt Baker Highway (Hwy 542) trails 

 Per R. Jensen, 2000: 

 Silesia Trail #672. Forest hike that
reached Canada at one time. Most of the trail system has been lost from
lack of maintenace. 

 Cougar Divide. Alternative to crowed Skyline
Divide trail. Not maintained. Not shown on recent FS map. Access road
at risk of being washout. 

 Nooksack Flat #602 9 mi Old trail system in upper S Fork Nooksack
River. Likely little used and very brushy. 

 White Salmon #762 2 mi Listed as existing trail. Doubtful there ever
was a trail here. Climbers approach to Mt Shuskan trail brushfest.

 Wells Creek #682.2 3 mi Historical trail to Heather Meadows and
beyond to Mt Baker. Probably the trail to goes to Mazama Falls. Beyond the
status unknown. 

 Wiseman Lake #697.2 1.5 mi. Access from Elbow Lake trail. Listed as
existing trail. No trail brushwack

 Ridley Creek #696 2.5 mi Nice alternative to crowded Schriebers
Meadow trail. Recently listed to be rebuild but now listed as
unmaintained. 

 North Cascades Highway (Hwy 20) trails 

 Per R. Jensen, 2000: 

 Swift Creek #607. Has not been maintained
for decades. This was the intended route of the Pacific Northwest Trail
(PNT) The PNT group has asked the FS for permission to open the trail
by building new bridge across Rainbow Creek and Swift Creek. FS has
refused permission siting the Swift Creek valley as critical gizzly bear
habitat. This has forced PNT to an expensive reroute and trail
constuction on the west side of Mt Baker. 

 Newhalen Creek. This
excellent route through a lowland forested valley is in the North
Cascades National Park. Provides access to Stout Lake and high county
traverses. Trail is washed at 2 to 3 miles. Trail not in 100 hikes series.
Road to trailhead is not marked. Trail is listed as not maintained by the
PS. 

 South Fork Cascade River #679 Long forest hike accessing South
Cascade Glacier. Trail has been washed out by Cascade River at the 4
mi mark. Trail needs to rerouted or will be lost. Trail beyond the
washout in reasonable shape but will not last long. 

 Kindy Ridge. Now
more of a climbers route than a trail. Once a great trail to views and
lakes. 

 Finney Peak. Great views from the top and one of few trails in
the Finney Block. Only several short segments of this trail are left; a
legacy of logging and failure of the FS to rebuild the trail. Access to trail
at risk due to washout and notice by FS to abandoned the remaining
road. Trail needs to be rebuilt along former route.

 Noisy Creek #610.2 1 mi Access from East Sie Baker Lake Trail. Lower
part of trail has been rebuilt as proposed loop trail. We understand that
proposed trail has been scraped. Creek crossing and beyond probably lost. 

 Gee Point #612 1.2 mi Finney Block. Little used trail in good shape
but at risk from road washout. 

 Jordan Lake #627 3 mi Listed as existing trail with access from FS
Road 16 (Slide Lake access). Probably never more than a boot trail.
Current status unknown. 

 Kindy Creek #766 1.7 mi Old growth forest hike Listed as
unmaintained. Trail at risk.

 Middle Fork Cascade #767 4.5 mi Cascade River trail. Parts of the
last mile are overgrown and at risk of being lost. 

 Thunder Ridge #763 6.4 mi. This and the next trail located east of
Shannon and Baker Lakes. Listed as existing pack trail. Status unknown

 Rocky Ridge 763.1 4 mi List as existing pack trail. Status unknown

 Per Tony Mendoza, 2001: 

 Indian Creek Trail: On both the north and south sides of the creek. 
Thirty years ago on the north side there was a pleasant trail that
continued to the ridge south of Mt. Redoubt. The trail became somewhat
rough after 2 miles. Follow blazes. The south side trail is older and
probably no longer in existence (only blazes).

 Goodell Creek: This was a road, not a trail. It has had 0 maintenance
since World War II, but thirty years ago, it was still passable. Keep to
the Right!! The left hand spurs lead no where. When you reach Terror
Creek, climb the slope to the Southern Pickets. This is a much quicker
and (and at least in the past) easier approach than any others to the
Southern Pickets. 

 Baker River:
The Baker River trail used to lead all the way to Bald Eagle Creek.
However, these days, it is probably easier to walk the gravel bars along the
river during low water. It is possible to climb Pioneer Ridge from here
I've heard, but one extremely talented climber (who doesn't normally
mind free soloing exposed and difficult terrain) said that some belaying
will be required so consider yourself warned!! Water is also a problem
on Pioneer Ridge. 

 Silver Creek:
There used to be a trail here, but I've never walked it. 

 West Fork Thunder Creek: There used to be a trail up this creek. It
starts at Meadow Cabins and then swung around the swamp and back to the
main trail after a couple of miles. Does it still exist? Probably not.

 Per Jerrie Bailey, 2001: 

Swamp Creek off the South Fork Agnes Creek Trail (PCT) is in good shape for
it's first two miles but then is lost amid slide alder as it approaches its
terminus in an open basin around 4000 ft. Unfortunately its junction has
with Agnes Creek Trail (PCT) has also been washed out. The trail can be
found be following the left bank of Swamp Creek for about 100 yards above
the PCT. The trail then climbs through old growth and finally traversing
into the drainage and crosses Swamp Creek at the 1.5 mile mark. A good log
exists for the crossing. It continues through big timber until it nears the
creek again and is lost in high water and slide alder. 

 Per Tony Mendoza, 2001: 

Perry Creek off of Little Beaver Creek is a fantastic abandoned trail. 
This is in the North Section of North Cascades National Park. It was in
very bad condition 20 years ago, so it probably no longer exists, but it
ends in a wild cirque with fantastic cliffs and glaciers all around. You
can find the blazes near the Little Beaver shelter (if it still exists!) 
and just follow them to the cirque below Redoubt. You can exit onto the
Redoubt High Route on a pass to the right. If you want to do the high
route, bring climbing gear and plenty of nerve. 

 Per Grant Myers (from Fred Beavon): 

Point Defiance (Pasayton): we carefully walked the 2/10th mile shown on the 
map from the Tatoosh Peak junction looking for the old 
path. We did find a very faint, unmarked trail in 
about 3/10 mile. The trail had not been maintained in 
many years but old cut logs defined it as well as a 
corridor through the forest. After a flat half mile 
the trail hit the base of Point Defiances north ridge 
where we were delighted to find the trail improved 
remarkably. We felt like we had discovered a lost 
treasure, this excellent trail took us up to the 
alpine and on to the summit where we found the remains 
of an old fire lookout and 360 degree views. 

 Per Kris Maxwell: 

Ruby Mountain: There is a trail to the summit. Reference: 
Fred Darvill's Hiking the North Cascades.

 Suiattle River Road trails 

Suiattle River Road 
 Trail 
 Scenery 
 Historic Interest 
 Trail Condition 

 Huckleberry Mountain 

 Buck Creek (see Greentrails map) 

 (until it disappears) 

 Sulphur Creek (see Greentrails map) 

 (to old bridge crossing) 

 Bachelor Creek 

 Grassy Point 

 (difficult to find start) 

 Gamma Way (see Greentrails map) 

 (numerous blowdowns) S. Fox, 2001 

 Middle Ridge 

 Canyon Lake 
 ? 
 ? 
 see Greentrails/USGS maps, Routes and Rocks (Miners Ridge area). 

 Upper Suiattle River trail system 
 ? 

 Probably . See Greentrails, USGS maps, Routes and Rocks.
Includes Dusty Ridge. 

 More trails 

 Per R. Jensen, 2000: 

There is an old trail towards Downey Mountain off of the Downey Creek
trail. This lost trail leaves the Downey Creek trail going east at about
1mi. There is a description in Beckey guide. Beckey says it is a
possible packers trail. There was a recent report in Pack and Paddle on a
winter or spring trip when they encountered the trail. As I recall they
gave a good description of how the find the beginning of the tread. The
possible location of the trail is shown on several older FS maps I viewed
at the UW last fall. The best map showing the location of the trail is in
the recent book Mountaineers book Geology of the North Cascades by Tabor
and others. 

 Mountain Loop Highway trails 

Mountain Loop Hwy - Verlot 
 Trail 
 Scenery 
 Historic Interest 
 Trail Condition 

 Mt Pilchuck (south side) 

 See 100,000:1 USGS map 

 Marten Creek/Granite Pass 

 cat track to mine. Old trail continued to pass, 
then to Deer Cr Pass. Per Don Mollick and "Monte Cristo Area" 

 Devils Lake 

 Marble Pass 

 some , much , some 

 Helena Mines 

 Manley Mine 

 76 Basin 

 Weden Lake 

 Penn Mining Camp (segment) 

 Circle Peak 
 ? 

 More trails 

Lime Kiln Trail: being rebuilt in 2001. Near Granite Falls 
(the old Monte Cristo railroad grade). 

Tunnel #1: the east end of the "Kissing Tunnel" can be reached
via a short walk across clearcuts up the hill, not far from Masonic
Park. S.Fox, 2000. 

 From Don Mollick: 

 Glacier Ridge: 
Leaves the White Chuck Trail near Glacier Creek,
 passes an old lookout on a promontory, then intersects the PCT.

 Camp Ridge: Leaves from Little Siberia
 and goes down the ridge, eventually intersecting the old Whitechuck trail,
 which went up the west bank on a bench. An old bridge crossed the river
 about 1/2 mi. from the present end of the road. 

 From R. Jensen: 

 Eight Miles Creek
#654B In the 70's this was the best route to Squire Creek Pass. The first
mile is used to approach Darrington rock climbing areas and in good
shape. Trail beyond is nearly lost. 

 Round Mountain #664 1.6. Finney Block. Trail lost to logging in the
70s. Never rebuilt. Yeah! WTA is working to reopen in 2000

 Falls Creek-Pass Lake #645 4mi Section between Rd 2080 and Pass
Lake may be lost. May move to Top Ten.

 Per John Roper: 
Peak 5003 (Sloan Peak USGS quad, lower right): an abandoned 
trail is in surprisingly good shape that continues from the end of 
Forest Service Road #49 in the Darrington Ranger District to the summit.
Probably went to a lookout? 

 Per Dan Jordan: 

Mallardy Ridge/Blackjack Creek: some remnants remain of this old trail.
Someone is cutting the brush (2000).

 Highway 2 trails 

 US 2 
 Trail 
 Scenery 
 Historic Interest 
 Trail Condition 

 Silver Creek 

 Troublesome
Creek 

 Evergreen Mt 

 Kelley Creek/Scorpion Pt 

 North Crest Cutoff Trail 
 ? 

 Surprise Gap/Mt and CCT 

 Napeequa Valley 

 Alpine Baldy 

 ? See "100 Hikes" 

 Francis Lake 
 ? 
 ? 
 from W Fk Miller river. Per Lopper. 

 More trails 

 Per R. Jensen, 2000: 

Lake Isabel #1080 1 mi Access from motorcycle boundary then bushwack
to lake. Boot trail in poor shape. 

 Per Mike Torok : 

Talus Lake: Hike the PCT north from Deception Pass to the
creek draining Talus Lake.
 I found a cut log. This seemed like an old trail that has not been
used in 20+ years. I followed the old trail as best as I could. The path was faint
and old blazes on trees at key places kept me pretty much on the route. The
route comes out about 800' south of the creek at an area of 5-7 cut Alaska
Cedars stumps.

 Interstate 90 area trails 

 Interstate 90 
 Trail 
 Scenery 
 Historic Interest 
 Trail Condition 

 Mount Si (old trail) 

 McClellan Butte 

 Cascade Crest (hiker only) 

 to 

 Cascade Crest (horse route - Source
Lake) 

 Snoqualmie Mountain 

 Mt Rainier area trails 

 Mt Rainier 
 Trail 
 Scenery 
 Historic Interest 
 Trail Condition 

 Chenius Falls 

 old Wonderland route? 
 except for some blowdowns. 
Bridge often out across Carbon River. SFox, 2000 

 NW of Sweet/Florence Peaks 

 Part of "Boundary Trail"? 
 Trail easy to lose in brush. . 
See 1971 Golden Lakes 7.5' USGS map. Stefan Feller, 2000 

 Dixon Mountain 

 ? 

Directions to trailhead: Follow Highway 7, then Highway 706 toward Mt.
Rainier National Park. At 2.8 miles past Ashford store, turn right on
Skate Creek Road #52. After 14.3 miles more, turn left at bridge over
Skate Creek, onto the Johnson Creek Road #5260. There are no roadsigns
here. Follow about 5.6 miles to the ridgetop (Don't miss the turn to the
right like we did). Before the turn, the road was washed out a bit, but my
Accord got over it fine. On the USGS Tatoosh Lakes quad, park where it
says Borrow Pit. Hike back on the road to a road on the right and go just
a short distance (ignore the abandoned road continuing downhill to the
left) and find an obvious trail heading south up the ridge. The tread of
the trail is excellent the entire way (four stars) to the summit of Dixon
Mountain, 5134', and I had no trouble at all following it on 10-3-01.
However, parts of the trail, after passing a pond to the left, has bushes
overgrowing it, so perhaps earlier in the year, with the bushes having
leaves on them, it may not be so obvious to follow (perhaps two stars). At
the base of the mountain the trail goes to the right around the back and
then it double backs and takes you right to the top. There are great
viewpoints from the summit. From Edythe Hulet and Roger Barrett per
Fred Beavon, 2001 

 More trails 

 From Lopper: 
 Castle Mt #1188 

All references to trail 1188 are gone from current USFS maps/reports. 
From the high point of "Rainier View Trail" #1155, the old tread of #1188
dives off to the east and and drops steeply to an obvious valleybottom
meadow. Nearly all of the hiker traffic turns north at this point,
following the main tread along a viewless plod past Hidden Lake and up to
Corral Pass. Trail signs in this area consist mostly of bare tapered
uprights with the signs removed. There is one such post in the middle of
the meadow. 

You won't see the signpost or trail 1188 if you stay on the beaten tread.
You need to step off it and go east across the meadow. The lack of tread
is only about 100-yards wide . The trail then enters the forest and climbs
up around the spur into the next cirque to the south. Again when the
trail emerges from the forest at ridgeside meadow in about 1 mile, the
tread gets very sketchy and is easily lost. The maps show it traversing
over to and along the NE side of the PCT ridge.....then dead-ending. At
some point it needs to cross that ridge to hit the PCT. I think it most
likely that it continues traversing to Martinson Gap. I have verified
what looks like a connecting trail leaving from Martinson Gap, heading to
the NW. We encountered one sawed log there before running out of time. 

 References: USGS 7.5' maps Noble Nob (1989) and Norse Peak (1988).
USGS 100,000:1 map. 

 Send comments to the author . 
 Author's home page .