Interstate 90 -- Abandoned Trails 

 Interstate 90 -- Abandoned Trails 

 Mount Si (old trail ) 

The Mt. Si trail is one of the most popular in the state. This trail was
built to replace the old trail, abandoned due to clearcutting. Now that
the trees have grown, the old trail is in second growth forest and in good
to excellent condition. 

 Getting there : Start on the Little Si trail. Hike up the old gravel
road, turning right on the third trail to the right. This trail has
branches covering the start (to keep folks from missing the route to
Little Si, I presume). The trail is steeper
 and shorter than the newer trail, but has softer tread and less mud. You will pass some interesting rock formations. Note that some sections are quite steep! 

 References : 100 Hikes -- Mt. Si (briefly mentioned). 

 Surveyor: S.Fox, 1999 

 Cascade Crest Trail (Snoqualmie Pass Hiker
Route) There are several sections of the old Cascade Crest trail
that were abandoned when the Pacific Crest Trail (PCT) was moved in the
early to mid 1970's. One section is just north of Snoqualmie Pass. 

 Getting there : Start at the PCT trailhead on the north side of
Snoqualmie Pass. 

 Trail report : Hike up the PCT about 100 yards until you see a
trail/gravel roadbed leading off to the left. This roadbed eventually
changes to a trail. The trail goes through second-growth forest with some
steep and sometimes wet sections. Entering the Basin, you will encounter
glorious old-growth. The first crossing of Commonwealth Creek may get your
feet wet, but is quite shallow. In late summer, the creek can be
crossed on a narrow log. The second crossing is a bit easier. The trail is
obvious, and in good to excellent condition. 

After the nearly level section at the bottom of the basin, the trail
switchbacks up to the Commonwealth Basin trail (quite close to its
intersection with the current PCT). Continue on this maintained trail to
Red Pass, where you will see a "trail abandoned" sign. Shortly after, the
old trail descended down and traversed left. You can see the tread for a
short distance from the pass, but it is obliterated by rock slides. This
section is steep and slippery, and often with hard snow until August. 
Follow the gully down then left towards the base of the cliffs below
Lundin Mt on the left. 

The practiced eye can see a route through the talus slopes. It climbs to a
ridge for a couple switchbacks, where the trail becomes obvious and in
good to excellent condition. Recent
brushing by volunteers of blue huckleberry bushes has opened the trail
until 1500' vertical below the pass. 

Keep an eye out for two rusty PCT trail markers on trees. The trail enters
forest and soon becomes lost. Some ribbons show the route for a while, but
this surveyor lost the trail 2000' vertical below Red Pass. Hopefully some
worthy souls will reopen this route down to Goldmyer Hot Springs , and only the
section just below the pass and the difficult river crossing of Burnt Boot
Creek will cause problems. 

 References : 100 Hikes -- Commonwealth Basin trail (briefly
mentioned), old Forest Service maps, USGS 7.5' map Snoqualmie Pass 1989
(trailhead to Commonwealth Basin only - section north of Red Pass not
shown). 

 Surveyor: S.Fox 1999,2000 

 Cascade Crest Trail (Snoqualmie Pass Horse
Route) The Cascade Crest trail over Red Pass was for hiker use.
The horse folks took a different route from Snoqualmie Pass to Goldmyer
Hot Springs. The trail headed towards Alpental, then up the present Snow
Lake Trail to the Source Lake overlook trail. Above Source Lake, a hiker
with a keen eye can spot the route up through the boulder field. It
switches back up and finally heads towards the right. This passes some
nice campsites. The trail is still used by climbers going up Chair Peak.
Then the trail passes over a pass and heads down towards Snow Lake,
meeting the Snow Lake trail quite a ways above the lake, but not quite at
the high point. You'll pass under the big rock where many hikers gaze over
Snow Lake. Other than the boulder field, this trail is in ex cellent
condition. 

The route then followed the present trail around Snow Lake and down the
Rock Creek trail to the Middle Fork Snoqualmie River. The Rock Creek trail
is little used, but shown on the Greentrails map. An excellent loop trip
could be made over the hiker and ho rse routes. 

 Surveyor: S.Fox, 1999 

 Snoqualmie Mountain 

This trail climbs from the Alpental parking area to the summit of
Snoqualmie Mountain. It is a steep trail much of the way. There is an
official-looking old sign found on Cave Ridge for the junction to Guye
Peak or Snoqualmie Mountain. There is also a lar ge sign partway up
Snoqualmie Mountain referring to danger from avalanches. 

 Getting there : The trail starts 50 feet to the right of the Snow
Lake trail. Look for a pile of dirt that seems to block the trail
entrance. 

 References: USGS Snoqualmie Quadrangle (30' series) 1903, updated
1950 -- shows trail up to Cave Ridge. A Mountaineers map from July 1952
called "Snoqualmie Pass Region" shows this as a route, not a trail. 

 Surveyor: S.Fox & co., 1998 

Back to Washington Abandoned Trails .

 Send comments to the webmeister . 
 Webmeister's home page .