Suiattle River -- Abandoned Trails 

 Suiattle River -- Abandoned Trails 

 Huckleberry Mountain 

The surveyor found this fascinating trail segment just off the Huckleberry
Mountain trail. A strange-looking "path" through some slide alder revealed
a boot-beaten path beyond. Following it quite a distance revealed a
well-built but unused trail. It is covered in a thick carpet of moss. It
loses itself in a creekbed. More info on its location if the surveyor can
figure out how to describe it sufficiently! A return trip is planned. The
trail was probably built as a route from Buck Creek to Hucleberry Mountain
but never finished. 

 References: Correspondence with H. Majors, 1998. 

 Surveyor: S.Fox, 1998 

 Grassy Point 

An old route from Milk Creek to Grassy Point. 

 Getting there: Go to the end of the Suiattle River Road. 

 Trail report: Hike the Suiattle River trail 0.8 miles, then take
the Milk Creek trail about 2 miles. After the trail passes a steep cliffy
area it flattens out. Look on the left for flagging. Drop down through
relatively open forest a few hundred vertical feet below, until you
intersect the trail. It may be hard to notice, but once on it is quite
obvious. 

The actual beginning of the trail is another half mile further up the Milk
Creek trail, but the surveyors have not located it yet. 

The trail switchbacks down to the junction of Milk Creek and the Suiattle
River. Here it fords Milk Creek right at the mouth. Look upstream for a
nice waterfall. Apparently it goes quite a ways up Grass Point ridge, but
is easy to lose. Look for sawed logs as hints of the former trail. Your
surveyor has followed it 400' vertical above Milk Creek's mouth. 

We followed the trail back towards Milk Cr trail, but eventually lost it
just before it reaches the Milk Creek trail. Look for blazes, cut logs,
good tread, an old sign???, and an old bridge, plus lots of blowdown. 
Unmaintained for at least 40 years, and probably a lot longer than that. 
 Trail has been trimmed about 2/3 of the
portion between Milk Cr and the Milk Cr trail. 

 References: Routes and Rocks. 

 Surveyor: S. Fox & co. 2000. 

Back to Washington Abandoned Trails .

 Send comments to the webmeister . 
 Webmeister's home page .