Review of Sorry, Wrong Number 

 Don't Be Sorry, Get This Number 

 When I was a teenager and completing my rite of passage by spending too
much time on the telephone, I'd get crossed lines all the time. Sometimes
my friends and I would overhear other people's conversations. Sometimes we
could all hear and talk to each other. Call it a chat line, version 1.0.
Too bad we never overheard anything really exciting, like phone sex or
phone crime. But what if you overheard a murder being planned? That's the
intriguing premise of Sorry, Wrong Number , a
minor film noir with major suspense that stars Barbara Stanwyck as the
eavesdropper. 

 Stanwyck plays haughty heiress and invalid Leona Stevenson, who's
waiting home alone one night for her husband to come home. When she tries
to call Henry at the office, she gets a crossed line and overhears a
conversation between two men planning to kill a woman. Leona tries to get
the authorities to do something, but the operators can't trace the call
and the police don't have much evidence to go on from the conversation
snippets she overheard. She goes back to trying to locate Henry but finds
that his disappearance is just the tip of a much bigger mystery. 

 The clever plot comes from screenwriter Lucille Fletcher's own radio
play, and the film is still very much a radio play. Fletcher is still
fixed on engaging the ear, not the eye, when it comes to laying a trail of
clues for Leona, and by extension the viewer. That's why certain names and
addresses keep getting repeated to Leona but it's a device that works
better in radio. In film, the effect falls flat. Too bad director Anatole
Litvak can't compensate with arresting noir visuals. 

 But with a killer premise like that, things are never boring as Leona
tries to track down Henry and ends up locating the killer's target.
Barbara Stanwyck pulls out all the stops as she melts down from dominant
alpha wolf to petrified pussycat when Leona learns that she's the target
of the murder she overheard being planned that night. Supporting players
are fine, including Burt Lancaster as Leona's emasculated, poor li'l rich
husband. William Conrad, who menaced Lancaster memorably in Lancaster's
film debut The Killers , does the same
thing again as gangster Morano. Ann Richards is amusing as a housewife who
gamely moves the plot along, no matter how improbable, by playing Nancy
Drew and spying on her own husband. 

 So here's the 411. You won't be sorry if you get this number. 

(December 11, 2001)

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2003)