Complete summary of Sorry, Wrong Number 

 Complete summary of Sorry, Wrong Number 

 Haughty, wealthy invalid Leona Stevenson waits home alone impatiently
for her husband Henry. When she calls his office, the wires get crossed.
She overhears two men planning to murder a woman that night. Since the
operators can't trace the call and the police don't have much to go on
from the conversation she overheard, no one can do anything about it. 

 Leona calls Henry's secretary. In a flashback, Miss Jennings recounts
that Henry left the office earlier that day after having lunch with a
woman named Mrs. Fred Lord. 

 Leona telephones the Lord residence and overhears Henry mentioned in a
conversation between Fred and his colleague Joe. Fred's wife turns out to
be an old friend from college, Sally. 

 In a flashback, Leona recalls how Henry used to be Sally's boyfriend
until Leona came along. Leona's father, drugstore chain owner J.B.
Cotterell, disapproved because Henry was a poor high-school dropout, but
one of Leona's mysterious illness attacks changed his mind. Leona married
Henry and dominated him since. 

 Sally sneaks out of the house to call Leona. Her husband Fred and his
friend Joe are investigating Henry for the district attorney. 

 In a flashback, Sally recounts how she tailed Fred, Joe and another man
named Harpootlian to a run-down house at 20 Dunstan Terrace where they met
another man, Waldo Evans. Sally tried to tell Henry at lunch that he was
being investigated but he was distracted and ditched her after leaving to
take a phone call. 

 Sally tells Leona 20 Dunstan was burnt down, three men were arrested,
Waldo Evans escaped, and both Evans and Henry are being investigated. Very
good, Nancy Drew. Leona gets a telegram from Henry saying he's attending a
business trip he forgot all about and won't be back for a while. She calls
her doctor. Dr. Alexander is surprised she hasn't received the letter he
wrote about her diagnosis. 

 In a flashback, Alexander recounts meeting with Henry about Leona's
illness. In a flashback within a flashback, Henry recounts that Leona had
an attack when they fought over his looking for a new job. Henry avoided
disagreeing with Leona to minimise her attacks. But they worsened anyway
and she became confined to her bed. Returning to the flashback, Alexander
told Henry that Leona's illness was psychosomatic, not physical. 

 Leona doesn't believe Dr. Alexander. Waldo Evans calls her with a
message for Henry. 

 In a flashback, Evans confesses all. He worked as a chemist for the
Cotterell company. Henry approached him with the idea of stealing drugs
from the company and selling them with the help of a gangster named
Morano. Evans stored and sold drugs at 20 Dunstan. Henry and Evans tried
to cut Morano out of the business but Morano found out. Morano extorted
money from Henry, who planned to raise it by killing Leona for her
insurance money. 

 Evans tells Leona he burnt down 20 Dunstan after someone betrayed the
whole operation. Henry won't need to raise the money since Morano has been
arrested by the police. Evans says that he can be reached at a phone
number soon, one that Henry may already be at. Leona finds out the phone
number is for the morgue. 

 Someone breaks into the house and Leona hears him. Henry calls her and
dismisses her fears. Leona relays the message from Evans. Henry confesses
and urges Leona to get out of bed and save herself. Leona insists she's an
invalid. The killer murders her as a train goes by, drowning out her
scream. Henry is arrested by the police. 

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2003)