Easy Songs For Beginners - Horse With No Name 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Easy Songs For Beginners , Horse With No Name 

 Horse With No Name 

 Easy Songs For Beginners # 1 
 Also listed as Guitar 
 Column # 36 
 Published August 22, 2000 
 By David 
 Hodge 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Okay, this week we take a little break from chord theory 
 (kindasorta) and get into some song analysis, cleverly disguised 
 as Songs For Beginners. Well take the easiest song I know 
 and learn to play it. Not only is it a song most of you know 
 its also probably a song most of you would rather forget 
 that you know. But after we learn how to play it, well 
 have some fun really playing it. This week well do the 
 basic song and some strumming variations (including a very 
 basic bass part). Next week, well add some rhythm riffs (fills) 
 and some leads (ranging from easy to intermediate). You didnt 
 think I was going to let you get away and not learn 
 something, did you? It should (hopefully) be harmless 
 How many of you have seen (or heard of) those infomercials 
 where some guy promises to teach you how to play the guitar 
 in what? Twenty, thirty minutes tops? The first time I saw 
 one I had to stop and watch. Wow! I could do that? But then 
 I thought about it. Hell, anyone could do that! 
 Really and truly, you can learn to play a song in less time 
 than it takes to talk about doing it. But the problem comes 
 with trying to figure out what you have actually learned and 
 whether or not you will be able to apply that knowledge down 
 the road. In my mind, simply copying something rarely teaches 
 anyone anything. Oh, there will always be exceptions, the 
 geniuses who will take the time to figure things out for themselves, 
 but most of us tend toward the lazy. Better to start in learning 
 the whys along with the hows than to try to piece it all 
 together later. 
 And, before I forget (again): 
 These files are the author's own work and 
 represents his interpretation of the song. It is intended 
 solely for private study, scholarship or research. 
 THE ABSOLUTE BASIC MODEL 
 Say youve never played the guitar before? Well, step right 
 up here and Ill make you a guitar god for only $49.99 or 
 my name aint 
 Yeah, yeah, yeah. It gets really crazy sometimes, doesnt 
 it? Well, in order to proceed, I am going to (gasp) assume 
 that youve held a guitar before and that you are somewhat 
 familiar with the terminology. I dont want to turn this into 
 a Guitar 
 For Dummies sort of thing. I mean I have a friend (though 
 maybe not after she reads this) that I once wrote recipes 
 for. Knowing her (lack of) cooking skills, I had to keep things 
 really basic, so a typical recipe might start out like 
 this: First, find your kitchen (its the room in your department 
 where the refrigerator is) 
 Anyway, todays song is Horse With No Name, written by 
 Dewey Bunnell of America. 
 The entire song consists of two chords, one of which you 
 know and the other we can argue about almost forever: 

 The E minor chord is one of the simplest to learn, but how 
 on earth did Mr. Bunnell come up with the second chord? Well, 
 I certainly wasnt there when he did it, but I think its 
 a pretty fair guess that it was either the result of a mistake 
 or just exploring the fretboard. Either way, Im sure he looked 
 up and said to himself, Hey, this sounds pretty cool! 
 Both chords are easy enough to do. An Em requires you to 
 use the second fret on both the fourth and fifth (D and A) 
 strings while the F#m13 simply has you move your two fingers 
 to the next outer strings, the third and sixth (or G and low 
 E). Its not a hard change and it requires little thinking. 
 And yes, were going to discuss this F#m13 later. If you 
 cant wait, just skip down to the section entitled, What 
 is that chord really? 
 The rhythm of the song is in 4 / 4 time (four beats per measure) 
 and the chords change each and every measure. For starters, 
 do a simple downstroke, either on all four beats or (if youd 
 like a little variation) on the first, second and fourth beats. 
 Remember that this song is moderately paced its not really 
 fast and not really slow. When youre first learning a song, 
 go as slow as you have to in order to make comfortable chord 
 changes while keeping the overall beat smooth and steady. 
 This is where a metronome can come in very handy. 
 Heres how the first verse and chorus should shape up: 
 Horse With No Name 
 -Bunnell 
 VERSE 1: 
 Em F#m13 
 On the first part of the journey 
 Em F#m13 
 I was looking at all the life 
 Em F#m13 
 There were plants and birds and rocks and things 
 Em F#m13 
 There was sand and hills and rings 
 Em F#m13 
 The first thing I met was a fly with a buzz 
 Em F#m13 
 And the sky with no clouds 
 Em F#m13 
 The heat was hot and the ground was dry 
 Em F#m13 
 But the air was full of sounds 
 CHORUS: 
 Em F#m13 
 Ive been to the desert on a horse with no name 
 Em F#m13 
 It felt good to be out of the rain 
 Em F#m13 
 In the desert you cant remember your name 
 Em F#m13 
 Cause there aint no one for to give you no pain 
 Em F#m13 
 La la la la la la la 
 Em F#m13 
 La la la la la 
 Em F#m13 
 La la la la la la la 
 Em F#m13 
 La la la la la 
 VERSE 2: 
 After two days in the desert sun my skin began to turn red 
 After three days in the desert fun I was looking at a riverbed 
 And the story it told of a river that flowed 
 Made me sad to think it was dead 
 CHORUS 
 VERSE 3: 
 After nine days I let the horse run free cause the desert 
 had turned to sea 
 There were plants and birds and rocks and things there was 
 sand and hills and rings 
 The ocean is a desert with its life underground and the perfect 
 disguise above 
 Under the cities lies a heart made of ground cause the humans 
 will give no love 
 CHORUS 
 (repeat and fade on the la las and finally end with a 
 hold on the Em) 
 Nothing to it, right? Okay, lets move on, then 
 TINKERING 
 Usually the first thing a beginner needs to work on is chord 
 recognition and formation. Then he or she is usually concerned 
 with being able to change from one chord to the next smoothly 
 and cleanly. With this particular song, both of those concerns 
 become almost minimal and, because of that, the fledgling 
 guitarist can work instead on his or her strumming. 
 You might think Im a bit nuts about this, but I really cant 
 stress enough how important it is to work on your rhythm. 
 Not only the fundamental task of keeping a steady beat, but 
 also creating patterns that make the song better, more fun 
 to play and interesting to hear. 
 But hey, its just hitting the strings, so how hard can it 
 be? 
 Well, not hard at all if youre aware of it from the start. 
 This is the suggested rhythm I gave you. 
 An " " 
 symbol indicates an upstroke and a" " 
 denotes a downstroke. 

 BEAT: 

 1 

 2 

 3 

 4 

 or 

 1 

 2 

 3 

 4 

 STROKE: 

 Now this will work but its hardly interesting except as 
 a tool for helping us to keep time. A rhythm that would be 
 closer to the original would involve working on our upstroke 
 (coming up the strings, toward your head). It would also involve 
 working on the beats in between the beats. The length of a 
 note can be divided almost infinitely, but were going to 
 just work with eighth notes for now. So instead of us counting, 
 1, 2, 3, 4, we would want to count, 1 and 2 and 3 and 4 
 and The four beats per measure have not speeded up 
 in the slightest. You will probably think that they have, 
 though, if youre not familiar with this. Dont worry. Its 
 not that hard to catch on. 
 So here is an alternative strumming pattern, complete with 
 the appropriate chords: 

 CHORD: 

 Em 

 F#m 

 BEAT: 

 1 

 + 

 2 

 + 

 3 

 + 

 4 

 + 

 1 

 + 

 2 

 + 

 3 

 + 

 4 

 + 

 STROKE: 

 Again, start out very slowly if this is new to you. As slowly 
 as you need to in order to count out each beat and to get 
 each stroke in its proper place. Youll be surprised how easily 
 it will come to you, even if youve never tried an upstroke 
 before. 
 FILLING IN THE BOTTOM (and sides!) 
 Once youre feeling up to speed we can tinker a bit more 
 and add a bass part. Now, granted, it will not be the most 
 exciting thing in the world, but if youre a beginner, it 
 should impress you with how easy it is to add a lot more texture 
 to your playing with such a simple technique. 
 Heres how well do it. Whenever we hit the first beat of 
 any given measure, we will strike only the sixth string (which 
 will be the lowest tone on either chord). Just that string 
 and nothing more. When you add in the chords (upstrokes and 
 downstrokes), it should be something like this (and for the 
 record, I could only indicate the upstrokes with an &#8593; 
 after the chord everything else should be considered a downstroke): 

 Using this pattern as a starting pont, you can then start 
 to really have fun. One thing I like to do is to play an upstroke 
 on the second beat of the E minor as close to the bridge (as 
 far from the neck as the strings alllow) as possible and let 
 it ring through the end of the measure, like this: 

 Or you can start picking out individual strings. Something 
 as simple as this: 

 Or even a bit more complicated: 

 Once you have a couple of patterns that you like and can 
 do without thinking, youll find yourself playing mix and 
 match, throwing E minor pattern 1 with F#m13 pattern 
 4 and what have you. It can become a lot of fun as well as 
 a challenge to see what you can come up with next. 
 You see, even the simplest of songs can provide you with 
 a lot of interesting opportunities if you are willing to put 
 the time and effort into finding what can be done with it. 
 Or you can simply learn the chords and then move on to your 
 next song. As always, the choice is yours. 
 WHAT IS THAT CHORD REALLY? 
 Okay, lets look at that second chord. If we examine the 
 notes on each string, this is what we would find: 

 STRING: 

 6 th 

 5 th 

 4 th 

 3 rd 

 2 nd 

 1 st 

 NOTE: 

 F# 

 A 

 D 

 A 

 B 

 E 

 Last time out 
 we learned that we could, if we so desired, call this chord 
 by a lot of different names. Who wants to start? Bm7 (add 
 4)? D6 (add 9)? Hey, how about E9 (sus4)? Those are all viable 
 answers, given the notes of the chord. 
 We also touched on the fact that the context of the chord 
 (how it is used in a progression) can be vital in helping 
 to determine which chord name we will give it. An important 
 factor in determining the context is the voicing of the chord, 
 meaning not only which notes of a chord we use but where we 
 play them on the guitar. Lets take another look at both of 
 our chords in this song as well as their notation: 

 Okay, first lets establish the key of the song. Now we could 
 do this the easy way: Gee, David, it starts with an E minor 
 chord and it ends with an E minor chord. Why dont we just 
 say its in E minor? And I could live with this approach. 
 But take a listen to both chords. Another reason for coming 
 up with the same answer is simply by hearing how much more 
 at ease the Em chord makes us feel. In contrast, the F#m13 
 sounds unsettled, like its got to be going somewhere. Play 
 the chords in reverse order and the F#m13 still doesnt sound 
 like a resting point, like home. Its just begging for a 
 resolution. 
 Now, having just played the song to death, one thing that 
 I can tell you is that I like the F# in the bass. It fits 
 well, much better than having a D or E or even an A serving 
 as the root. This, more than anything else, is what makes 
 me decide that F# is going to be the base on which to build 
 my chord. So if I build a stack of thirds on top of my F# 
 and fill in the notes I have from the chord (using a - to 
 indicate a missing note), this is what I get: 

 INTERVAL: 

 1 

 3 

 5 

 7 

 9 

 11 

 13 

 NOTE: 

 F# 

 A 

 - 

 E 

 - 

 B 

 D 

 You can see that the fifth (C#) and the ninth (G#) are not 
 among the six notes in the chord. Instead, we get a second 
 A. If I really wanted to, I could call this an F#dim7 (add6). 
 Or even F#m7 (no 5)(add 4)(add 6). But there is a lot to be 
 said for simplicity when trying to write something out. As 
 I mentioned earlier, people can (and do) argue about this 
 sort of thing for ages. 
 But it does bring up an interesting thought if youve got 
 a chord that has seven notes what do you do? After 
 all, you can only get six notes out of your guitar at a time, 
 which one goes? 
 Traditionally, the fifth or the third would be left out (usually 
 in that order). Believe it or not, there are instances, though, 
 when the root is the "missing" note. Well be examining 
 chords like this later on this fall. But the real determining 
 factor is what notes you are able to finger (or not finger) 
 on your fretboard. For instance, if you strum your guitar 
 (standard tuning) without putting any fingers on the fretboard 
 at all you would have an A11. The notes, from low to high, 
 would be E (fifth), A (root), D (eleventh), G (seventh), B 
 (ninth) and E (fifth again). Here the third (C#) is the missing 
 note. You could always add this by playing it on the 1st (or 
 6th) string but it sounds perfectly fine as it is. Generally 
 a good rule of thumb with 9th, 11th, and 13th chords is to 
 really try to include the seventh along with the root in order 
 to give it some sense of identity. 
 Is any of this really that important? Like any knowledge, 
 it all depends on what you want to do with it, and thats 
 what next weeks topic is all about. Youll see that by giving 
 our second chord an identity of F#m13, we are helping to determine 
 the modal centers of our harmonies. This is ultimately 
 where our fills and leads will come from. And no, its nowhere 
 near as complicated as it sounds! 
 As always, please feel free to write in with any questions, 
 comments, concerns or topics youd like to see covered in 
 future columns. You can either drop off a note at the Guitar 
 Forum page or email me directly at Dhodge8888@cs.com 
 Until next week 
 Peace 
 David Hodge 2000-08-22 
 Back to list 
 of lessons for beginners 
 Next song in this series 
 "Horse Wih No Name" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.