Easy Songs For Beginners - Horse With No Name 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Easy Songs For Beginners , Horse With No Name 

 Hose With No Name 

 Easy Songs For Beginners # 2 
 Also listed as Guitar 
 Column # 37 
 Published August 29, 2000 
 By David 
 Hodge 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 It's fairly safe to say that when many of us took up the 
 guitar, we had an idol, a player to emulate. It could have 
 been (and could still be) someone famous (Page, Vaughn, Atkins) 
 or someone we knew personally (parent, sibling, relative, 
 the "kid down the street who had his/her own band"). 
 And, like as not, we probably geared our early guitar "studies" 
 (such as they might have been) to copying the riffs and tones 
 and even every playing mannerisms of our heroes. Such has 
 been the life of the would-be guitarist throughout the ages. 

 But at some point, the individual personality of the fledgling 
 guitarist starts to emerge. It may be in very minute details, 
 like a favorite picking pattern or a fill that he or she does 
 extremely well and (consequently) throws in wherever the situation 
 allows. Not much, as I said, but this is how it starts. From 
 these basic riffs, fills and rhythm patterns will blossom 
 leads and more complex techniques. We call this growth a musician's 
 style. 
 The really good guitarists, though, actually go further. 
 Their "styles" could be considered "photo albums" 
 of the different techniques and such that they've picked up 
 on their musical travels. 
 So how and when does one start to develop a style? Well, 
 personally (obviously), I think that one's style starts at 
 day one. When you learned your first song, did you copy the 
 strumming pattern right off the recording? Maybe you followed 
 your guitar teacher's suggestions. Maybe you came up with 
 something all your own. And maybe you did all of the above. 

 It's like cooking or telling a joke. You get the basics from 
 somewhere and then you add your own touches (or not) to make 
 it fit your tastes (or to cater to someone else's tastes). 
 Well, that's essentially the same thing that happens with 
 your playing. 
 Last time out , I showed you an 
 incredibly easy to play song, Dewey Bunnell's "Horse 
 With No Name," along with some basic strumming patterns. 
 Today we're going to work on adding a bit of accessories to 
 the basic model. Feel free to use any of the ideas, riffs 
 or leads we develop here. Or you can use some of the things 
 we go over as a base with which to come up with your own stuff. 

 And, of course: 
 These files are the author's own work and 
 represents his interpretation of the song. It is intended 
 solely for private study, scholarship or research. 
 PICKING AND CHOOSING 
 I know that a lot of you think that I probably never play 
 the guitar 'cause I seem to spend so much time thinking about 
 things. The reality is that there are a lot of things 
 to think about before (and while) playing. Most of it takes 
 less time to deal with then you will spend in reading this 
 sentence. Do I know the song? How well do I know this song? 
 How many people are playing the song? What instruments are 
 they going to play? What sort of role should I play? What 
 role do I want to play? Do I intend to sing? What key is the 
 song in? Do I want to play it in that key or use a capo? What 
 chords changes are there going to be? Will those chord changes 
 affect the scales I plan to use? Do I need to rethink my fills 
 or leads? What sort of tone or effects do I think will work? 
 All this (and more) passes through my head when I'm getting 
 ready to strum the first chord or join in with a fill or sing 
 a harmony part or whatever. 
 Let's start with the obvious things first. As we discussed 
 last time , the song is in the 
 key of E minor and consists entirely of two chords: the aforementioned 
 Em and the mysterious F#m13. Each chord lasts for four beats; 
 there is no variations to the pattern. It truly doesn't get 
 much simpler than this. 
 You'll also recall that last time, we came up with this simple 
 strumming pattern: 

 Listening or playing the song again, I realize that virtually 
 all the singing takes place in the Em measures of any given 
 verse. The last two beats of an F#m13 measure, except during 
 the chorus, are usually free of vocal traffic. This makes 
 those spaces particularly attractive spots to throw in a fill. 
 I don't have to worry about stepping on the vocal line (which 
 could be bad) or trying to sing and play something a little 
 complex at the same time (which, in my case, could be really 
 bad!). 
 Now a fill, as we discussed in " Tricks 
 Of The Trade ," need not be some flash of technical 
 wizardry. It can be something as simple as a well placed hammer-on: 

 I could easily use either of these fills while playing the 
 song by myself or while playing with someone else. If I trust 
 my fellow guitarist(s) with the rhythm, and if someone else 
 were singing the lead, I might attempt something slightly 
 more complicated, like any of these: 

 Again, there's nothing phenomenally complicated here. Fill 
 A is an "expanded" version of our first fill. Fill 
 B utilizes a slide from the A note to the B and then some 
 pick-offs to get us back again. More (and simpler) pick-offs 
 are used in Fill C while, a combination of slides, pick-off 
 and hammer-ons is used for Fill D. Fill E is something I might 
 use if there is no bass player and I want to give a bit more 
 interesting bottom to the song. 
 Mood is important, too. If I think its important to have 
 something to steady the beat, then I will not only play something 
 simple, but play the same one over and over again. If Im 
 being a bit playful, then who knows what fill might pop up 
 at its designated place. 
 Let me stress that these are not "be all and end all" 
 transcriptions. Any riff or fill you learn is meant to be 
 played with, to be tinkered with so that you can use it when 
 and where you think it might add a bit of zest to a song. 
 Add an additional note or two here or there. Stretch or shrink 
 the timing to your liking. Think of a fill as silly putty, 
 if you will. But above all, have fun. 
 THE ORIGIN OF THE SPECIES 
 Ah, but I hear someone asking the age-old question, "Where 
 do they come from? If I only have notes, how do I turn them 
 into a fill or a lead?" This answer is going to really 
 disappoint some of you (and really excite others). There is 
 no "formula." You simply arrange the notes into 
 a way that (A) you can play, (B) that sounds good, to you 
 at least, and (hopefully) (C) that fits the song. 
 Points A and B are almost constantly evolving as you learn 
 to play. By starting out with riffs and fills, you subconsciously 
 develop playing patterns, just as you do with strumming patterns. 
 As a consequence, certain things might be easier for you to 
 play than others. Some people learn "the box" and 
 work it to death. I started out doing lead patterns based 
 on chords and branched out from there. Eric Clapton has mentioned 
 in interviews that he tried to learn as many riffs and leads 
 as he could off records and then worked on incorporating them 
 (or altered versions of them) into the music he was playing. 

 Notes (and the patterns in which we play them) are often 
 dictated by scales. The scales are (again, usually) determined 
 by the tonality and the modality of the song itself. This 
 is where things can get a bit confusing. Take "Horse 
 With No Name," for example. The song is in E minor. E 
 minor is the relative minor of G major. So if we were to look 
 at the music for this song, it will undoubtedly be written 
 with one sharp (F#) on the staff. And this is indeed the case. 

 But, as we've read in " Scales 
 Within Scales ," there are many E minor scales and 
 it is conceivable that we don't want to even work with any 
 of them. How do we choose what to use? In most cases, the 
 music will initially do that for us. Since there are only 
 two chords used in the song, let's look at the make up of 
 each: 

 1 

 3 

 5 

 7 

 9 

 11 

 13 

 Em: 

 E 

 G 

 B 

 F#m13: 

 F# 

 A 

 C# 

 E 

 G# 

 B 

 D 

 And, yes, before we get into all those arguments again , 
 technically, we could (should) call it an F#m (b)13, but we're 
 going to go with this notation for the time being. For the 
 record, when I teach this song to my students I don't even 
 dignify it with a name. I call it the "Horse" chord 
 and leave it at that. It really and truly saves a lot of time 
 that be spent enjoying the music itself. 
 Remember, too, that we do not play all the F#m13 notes on 
 the guitar. With the fingering used in the song, the G# and 
 C# are eliminated from the chord. Technically, we can make 
 the case that a G could easily stand in place of the G#, especially 
 if we call it F#m (b)13. This would be much in keeping the 
 center of the song in E minor and that is something that is 
 not open to debate. Everything about the song - the chords, 
 the melody and the harmonies - dictate that the tonality of 
 this song is E minor. The Em chord (with its notes of E, G 
 and B) is its spiritual center. 
 But the "flavor," or modality, is still up for 
 grabs. Looking at all these notes (and eliminating the G# 
 for the reasons we've discussed), I see that there are two 
 sharps (F# and C#) to deal with. Two sharps dictates the key 
 of D major. Again referring to " Scales 
 Within Scales " (or to our soon to be new-and-improved 
 Scales and Modes page ), 
 I know that in this scenario I can use an E Dorian scale in 
 order to get the notes that I want. 
 Another question, though: Why can't I simply use the D major 
 scale? What is the difference between the D major scale and 
 the E Dorian scale? And the answer to this is probably as 
 close to Zen as any answer I've ever given you: There is no 
 difference between the two and there is every difference. 
 Here's why: 

 I 

 II 

 III 

 IV 

 V 

 VI 

 VII 

 VIII 

 D Major Scale: 

 D 

 E 

 F# 

 G 

 A 

 B 

 C# 

 D 

 E Dorian Scale: 

 E 

 F# 

 G 

 A 

 B 

 C# 

 D 

 E 

 Each and every note in the E dorian scale has an exact counterpart 
 in the D major scale. But because you start (and end) one 
 scale on D and the other on E changes the whole color of the 
 scale. If you refuse to believe that, try singing each scale 
 note for note (and use an instrument to accompany you). Sing 
 "do, re, mi..." if you like or simply to phrases. 
 By making E the focal point (the I, "do" (not to 
 be confused with "d'oh") or root) of the scale, 
 by making E the "center" of tonality, you change 
 how each and every note corresponds and interacts. Yes, for 
 all intents and purposes, you are playing the notes 
 of the D major scale but they no longer have anything to do 
 with that particular tonality. This is a difficult concept 
 to grasp and we will be devoting more time to it this winter, 
 but I hope this gets you started to think in the right direction. 
 Anyway, let's look at a simple lead for "Horse With 
 No Name," pretty much created from simply going up and 
 down the E Dorian scale: 

 As you can see (and hear), I simply start at the E note (after 
 a little "lead in") and go up the ladder until I 
 hit the A. Of course, I'm not going straight up the ladder. 
 Before going from E to F#, for instance, I first go down one 
 step (to D) and then up two. I repeat this pattern (starting 
 next with the F# and then again with the G) until I reach 
 the A. Then I come tumbling down with triplets starting with 
 the G, each successive triplet starting with the next descending 
 note in the scale. 
 Where did this come from? Well, I'm not embarrassed to admit 
 it - it came from a book of piano exercises that was lying 
 around my house. Ages ago, shortly after I had taken up the 
 guitar, I was using my old piano books to work on improving 
 my single note playing. I figured an exercise is an exercise, 
 right? Well, not only did this one sound good but it sounded 
 to me (at the time) almost just like the solo on the record. 
 It was also one of the few things that I seemed to be able 
 to play cleanly with a modicum of speed (which is why, to 
 this day, a lot of mine own stuff is filled with descending 
 triplet riffs). 
 If you try to play this, start out slower than you really 
 have to. Get the timing (and the notes) down cleanly first. 
 Yes, it makes the first four measures sound perfectly dreadful, 
 but in the long run it will make your speed much better. As 
 Logan Gabriel 
 and numerous folks on the Forum 
 pages point out, if you can't do it slowly, you'll never 
 do it fast. 
 I should also add that when I started learning more about 
 classical guitar technique, I modified this solo, using the 
 first (high E) string as a "pedal point." 

 This is a perfect example of what I told you at the beginning 
 of this section. Point A, being "what I can play," 
 will (hopefully) always be improving and, because of that, 
 my leads will become more interesting (technically and musically) 
 as I evolve as a guitarist. And as I expand my musical tastes 
 (and abilities), "what sounds good" (Point B) will 
 also change radically. It's up to me to make sure that Point 
 C ("fitting the lead to the song") follows suit. 

 This is how your "style" develops. It is a natural 
 process that will occur as fast or as slow as your musical 
 abilities do. Let it happen. 
 SHARING THE WEALTH 
 And then share it with the world. I can tend to go on and 
 on about things, but this will always bear repeating: music 
 is meant to be shared. It is its nature. The high that you 
 get from playing is amplified enormously when playing for 
 and (more so) with others. 
 And keeping this in mind, I'd like to ask you all for a bit 
 of help. What we want to do is to make a page of " Songs 
 For Beginners ." A place where someone who has just 
 started out can come and get not only some easy songs to play, 
 but also some pointers on how to inject the song with the 
 "little things" that make it more fun. It's been 
 my intention to kick things off with this two-part column 
 on "Horse With No Name." 
 What I'd like to ask you to do is to send me more songs in 
 the same vein - songs that you used to learn how to play the 
 guitar. You don't have to be as long-winded as I've been, 
 but please do more than just throw together words and chords. 
 Anyone can get that off of the Guitar Tab page. Submit your 
 suggestions directly to me at Dhodge8888@cs.com 
 and I will edit them and get them on the page. We'd like to 
 do at least two or three new ones a month. 
 As I've said, music is meant to be shared. I hope you'll 
 find it in yourself to take part in this project. 
 As always, please feel free to write in with any questions, 
 comments, concerns or topics you'd like to see covered in 
 future columns. You can either drop off a note at the Guitar 
 Forum page or email me directly at Dhodge8888@cs.com 

 Until the next update 
 Peace 
 David Hodge 2000-08-29 
 Previous 
 song in this series "Horse With No Name" 
 Next song in this series 
 "For What It's Worth" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.