Easy Songs For Beginners - Love The One You're With 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Easy Songs For Beginners , Love The One You're With 

 Love The One You're With 

 Easy Songs For Beginners # 16 
 Published March 29, 2002 
 By David 
 Hodge 

 Discuss 
 In Forums Print 
 Lesson 

 MP3s for this lesson 

 LOVE1 
 - Verse - Rhythm and 
 Voicing Pattern 

 LOVE2 
 - Fill # 1 and Fill # 2 

 LOVE3 
 - Outro, Verse, 
 Chorus, Outro 

 I am hoping that some of you have read my last column, " Moving 
 On Up ." In today's lesson, yet another (very) old 
 chestnut from the early seventies, we'll be seeing practical 
 applications of the chord shapes learned there. For good measure, 
 we'll toss in a few (very) easy fills and then also look at 
 how we'd play it in Drop D tuning. Sound okay? 
 So without further ado: 

 These files are the author's own work and represents his 
 interpretation of this song. They are intended solely for 
 private study, scholarship or research. 

 Shall we also get the other "usual" stuff out of 
 the way as well? Yes, there are (many) other ways to play 
 this song. Yes, I'm sure that this will cause lots of people 
 to exclaim, "That's not the right way!!" Yes, I 
 still don't care about all that. As I said just a paragraph 
 or so ago, this lesson is meant to show you a way to use moveable 
 chords so that you can go on to use them yourself. 
 This is from one of Stephen Stills' early solo works. Possibly 
 his first but I cannot tell you that for sure. While I have 
 a lot of dates and chords and numbers in my head, I still 
 do not trust my ability to keep them straight. 
 RHYTHM 
 All right, then. We're going to play this song in the key 
 of D major, for reasons which will (hopefully) become apparent 
 as we progress. There are only four chords in the song. In 
 this key, they are D, G, C and A. Technically speaking, there 
 is a Cmaj9 (a C major chord with B and D added) which is used 
 in the OUTRO, but you'll see that it is so easy to play you'll 
 laugh at me for calling it a chord. 
 The major hook of this song is the four measure D - G - D 
 - C - D progression that makes up the introduction and verses. 
 It is a matter of both rhythm and chord voicings. Let's look 
 at the rhythm first. Before delving into the somewhat harder 
 stuff, we should get the main pattern down pat. You will find 
 that most complicated rhythm patterns are minor variations 
 of simple ones, so if you nail down the simple one, you're 
 halfway there! And here's the simple one: 

 Remember that when faced with something that seems difficult, 
 fall back to the easiest ground possible. For me, that is 
 thinking of four downstrokes to make up the four beats of 
 a measure. Then, I add up strokes on the offbeats (the "ands" 
 if you count it "one and two and three and four and...") 
 so that I am playing straight eighth notes. Then I start taking 
 things out. It's almost become second nature for me to kick 
 out the first offbeat. On the second beat I do a downstroke 
 while muting the strings with my strumming hand and then I 
 come back with an upstroke on the second offbeat followed 
 by an immediate downstroke on the third beat. Repeating this 
 process gives me a driving rhythm guitar part, which sounds 
 very strong when you play it quickly. And this is a fast song! 
 But please, please, please, remember to start out as slowly 
 as you have to in order to get things right. The strummed 
 chords (in capitals) will almost seem like a train going down 
 a track when played with the silent or muted strokes (in parentheses) 
 - "ONE (and two) AND THREE (and four) AND ONE (and two) 
 AND THREE (and four) AND..." 
 If you're still not sure that you've got it right, try this: 
 without your guitar, tap out the rhythm on your knees. Use 
 your strumming hand to beat the fully strummed beats and offbeats 
 on one leg and your other hand (on your other leg) to quietly 
 tap out the silent or muted ones. When you have it safely 
 and securely fixed into your head, then try it out with the 
 guitar. First only play it with one chord (D would be a good 
 choice) and really get the feel of it before you try to do 
 it while changing chords. This may seem like a lot of overkill, 
 but when you think about it, anytime you're playing the guitar 
 there is a lot going on. Rather than let yourself feel overwhelmed 
 or get frustrated, break things down into smaller parts that 
 you can deal with before trying to tackle the whole thing 
 at once. 
 Once you are confident with this rhythm, then try this one: 

 Because this rhythm is a little more complicated, I usually 
 hit everything from the third beat onward with upstrokes. 
 For me, I now know to pay more attention to what I'm doing 
 because I've broken out of my normal down/up every eighth 
 note pattern. The first three beats are actually quite easy 
 when I stop to analyze it. A full downstroke on the first 
 beat followed by a palm muted downstroke on the second beat 
 followed by a full upstroke on the third beat. The fourth 
 beat also gets a full upstroke. Then things look a little 
 strange, right? Well, again, remember that everything can 
 be slowed down and taken apart. That is up to you. Just as 
 we've learned to divide our quarter notes into two eight notes, 
 we can then split them into four sixteenth notes: 

 The dot after the eighth note on the fourth beat indicates, 
 as all dots do, that we are to hold it for the length of an 
 eighth and a sixteenth. So the note we finally play, again 
 using a full upstroke, occurs on the last half of the "and" 
 as we are counting it. By the way, sometime early next month 
 I should finally have finished Part II of the " Guide 
 To Reading Music Notation ," which will deal with 
 measures and timing so hopefully this will all begin to make 
 sense to you. 
 Now, when you are ready to do so, it's time to put the two 
 rhythms together, like this: 

 Again, first do this playing one single chord and strumming 
 at a tempo that allows you to do it correctly. I know you 
 probably get tired of me saying this, but I can assure you 
 it will always be to your benefit. When you are confident 
 about your rhythm, then you'll find that dealing with weird 
 chord voicings is not anywhere near as traumatic as you might 
 think. 
 CHORDS AND CHORUS 
 In fact, we're probably going to breeze through this section! 
 As I said earlier, the verses consist of a D - G - D - C - 
 D progression. But this progression will be played with only 
 two chord shapes: 

 Better yet, the way the rhythm of the song is structured, 
 you have built in time to make the moves up and down the neck! 
 You'd think someone planned it that way! 

 You can see how this is going to work. The first beat is 
 on a regular first position D chord. Then you slide the entire 
 chord shape from the second and third frets up to the seventh 
 and eighth frets, where it becomes a G chord with the D in 
 the bass. On the next measure we're back to the D chord again, 
 but this time it is a D chord in the A shape. I finger this 
 with my index finger on the high E (1st) string, ring finger 
 on the B string and middle finger on the G string. 
 Being a D major chord, you can feel free to bang away on 
 the open D and A strings. With these particular chord voicings 
 in the key of D, the open ringing D and A strings serve as 
 a drone and give you all the bass you need. 
 In the third measure, we are still playing our D chord, which 
 is still in the A shape. We then shift the whole shape down 
 two frets where the chord becomes a C/D (C major with D in 
 the bass) and then come right back to original first position 
 D at the start of measure four. This is pretty much the hard 
 part of the song! Nothing to it, right? 
 Like everything we've done, take your time practicing this 
 before working it up to speed. If you are using the upstrokes 
 I showed you in the rhythm for the first and third measures, 
 you should find the chord transitions pretty smooth and also 
 that you have more control over the ringing D and A strings 
 because you're coming from the bottom up. 
 And when you get to the chorus, you'll find it dull in comparison! 
 Mere D, A and G chords in first position? Well, to make it 
 a tad more interesting, I threw in some very easy fills on 
 the second measure of the G: 

 Fill #1 starts with your hand holding the G chord. Strike 
 the G note in the bass (3rd fret on the 6th string) and then 
 remove your index finger so that you can strike the open A 
 string. Now use youe index finger to hammer on the second 
 fret to get the B note. Repeat this process of using the index 
 finger as a hammer on the second fret on the D and then G 
 strings. Finish off the final hammer on the G string with 
 a pick off back to the open G. 
 The second fill is just the opposite. Again, starting with 
 the G chord, use whatever finger you use to fret the G (3rd 
 fret) on the first string and pick off to the open E. Then 
 use that same finger to pick off from the D note (3rd fret 
 on the B string) to the open B. Go back to your trusty index 
 finger for the final two pick offs. 
 Now, you may find these to be pretty simple, too, but there's 
 a method to my madness. You should notice that both of these 
 fills are easy to perform if you keep your hands in the open 
 G shape when you play them. This is an important thing to 
 remember - the less work you have to do, the more you will 
 be able to do. If you get comfortable finding riffs wherever 
 your hands happen to be, you'll find yourself always playing 
 something instead of just sitting on the chord. This makes 
 for interesting moments and is essentially how a lot of people 
 develop their own style. 
 And this is also something we're going to be covering in 
 the next few lessons! 
 THE EXTRAS 
 There is an outro. In the original recording, this is also 
 played immediately after the second chorus and before an instrumental 
 chorus. So structure-wise, Love The One You're With looks 
 like this: 
 INTRO 
 1st VERSE 
 CHORUS 
 2nd VERSE 
 CHORUS 
 OUTRO 
 INSTRUMENTAL CHORUS 
 3rd VERSE 
 CHORUS 
 OUTRO 
 The outro basically consists of a measure and a half (six 
 beats) of C alternating with Cmaj9. Now, before you start 
 thinking you don't want to learn a complex chord like that, 
 take a look: 

 How much easier can it be? Play a C chord and then simply 
 remove your index and middle fingers. Presto! Cmaj9. I told 
 you that you'd laugh. For the final D, I like to use this 
 chord voicing: 

 And here's the finished product: 

 Okay, now if you want to have some more fun with this, try 
 it in Drop D tuning. To get this, you tune the low E (6th) 
 string down one whole step to D. Now play the verses the same 
 way, same chord shapes and all but with one difference - you 
 can play your 6th string at will! Just listen to how much 
 more oomph you get from your guitar when you play these chords! 
 And, man, you should really try this on a twelve string! 
 In Drop D, though, you will run into a little trouble on 
 the chorus. These are two ways to play the G chord: 

 If you use the second form, you should have no trouble with 
 the fills (although the first note of the first fill will 
 now be a D instead of a G). Using the first G chord, you are 
 going to lose a step in the transition and should just start 
 the riff one note later. It's no big deal either way. 
 When I play the A and C chords (and the two C chords in the 
 outro as well) in Drop D tuning, I usually mute the 6th string 
 by grabbing it with the tip of my thumb. Not the most gracious 
 of techniques, but it works! 

 I hope that you enjoy this lesson and that it gives you more 
 of an understanding of the chord shapes we discussed in " Moving 
 On Up ." Next time out we'll not only look at more 
 of these shapes, but we'll also start to examine single note 
 riffs used in songs. It'll be a little different from our 
 past lessons in that we'll look at a number of songs, not 
 just one. 
 And, as always, please feel free to write in with any questions, 
 comments, concerns or songs (and/or riffs and solos) you'd 
 like to see discussed in future pieces. You can either drop 
 off a note at the Guitar 
 Forum page or email me directly at Dhodge8888@cs.com. 

 Until next lesson&#133; 
 Peace 

 David Hodge 2002-03-29 
 Previous 
 song in this series "Happy Christmas" 
 Next song in this series 
 "Hey Hey My My" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.