Easy Songs For Beginners - Tangled Up In Blue 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Easy Songs For Beginners , Tangled Up In Blue 

 Tangled Up In Blue 

 Easy Songs For Beginners # 20 
 Published January 26, 2003 
 By David 
 Hodge 

 Print this 
 page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 MP3s for this lesson 

 TUIB1 
 - Intro at tempo 

 TUIB2 
 - Intro slower 

 TUIB3 
 - First 4 lines of verse 

 TUIB4 
 - Last 3 lines of verse 

 Let's try a lesson in rhythm and see what happens. First 
 things first: 
 These files are the author's own work and represent his interpretation 
 of this song. They are intended solely for private study, 
 scholarship or research. 
 Today's lesson is Tangled Up in Blue , from the great 
 Bob Dylan album, "Blood On The Tracks." And this 
 brings up point number two: When I learned this off my original 
 copy (which was an album), maybe it was my record player or 
 maybe the recording, but I thought the song was in G, only 
 slightly sharper. So I learned it in G. Actually, as you'll 
 see, we'll play it in the key of D. But, playing along with 
 the CD, it's decidedly in A. This is not a big thing, unless 
 you're one of those people concerned about sounding exactly 
 like the original recording. But if you are one of these people, 
 then you're probably not reading any of my lessons anyway, 
 right? 
 I bring up the subject of keys because of what we're going 
 to cover next. If you listen to the original you will hear 
 more than one guitar playing, which is always a problem when 
 you can only play one guitar at once. Coming up with my arrangement, 
 I opted to focus on the higher-toned guitar, which made me 
 decide to use a capo in order to get the voicing of a D shaped-chord 
 as the root chord. 
 What do I mean by that? For simplicity's sake, let's stay 
 in the key of G. Play a standard G chord. As you are (hopefully) 
 aware of, from reading my beginners' theory columns, any major 
 chord is made up of three notes: the root, the third and the 
 fifth. Our standard G chord has the root on the high E (first) 
 string. There are, of course, two other ways to form the G 
 chord. More than two, actually, but let's again stick to the 
 basics. One of these G chords will have the third on the high 
 E string and the other will have the fifth. These are (usually) 
 formed with barre chords: 

 Listening to the recording, I hear the intro as consisting 
 of a G chord alternating with a Gsus4/sus2. To me, the easiest 
 way to highlight the dynamic of this chord change is to use 
 a D shaped chord, which means playing in D with a capo on 
 the fifth fret: 

 Since this works in mimicking the higher-toned guitar (very 
 well, I might add), I decide to play this song with my capo 
 on the fifth fret, where the D chord is now a G. If you want 
 to play along with your CD then you will want to put your 
 capo on the seventh fret. This will put you in the key of 
 A. All the chords I use will work for you. No pun intended, 
 but for the record, all the MP3s of this lesson are in G (capo 
 on the fifth fret). 
 Okay, enough of the nit-picking. Let's play! 
 Here are the chords we're going to use in this arrangement: 

 And here is the chord transcription: 
 Tangled Up in Blue 
 - Dylan 
 Capo on 5th fret (for key of G) or 7th fret (for key of A) 
 INTRO: D | Dsus4 sus2 | D | Dsus4 sus2 
 D C 
 D 
 C 
 Early one morning the sun was shining I was laying in bed 
 D C 
 G 
 Wondering if she'd changed at all if her hair was still red 
 D C 
 D 
 C 

 Her folks they said that our lives together sure was gonna 
 be rough 
 D C 
 G 

 They never did like Mama's homemade dress Papa's bank book 
 wasn't big enough 
 A Bm7 
 D 
 G 

 And I was standing on the side of the road rain falling on 
 my shoes 
 A Bm7 
 D 
 G 
 A 
 Heading out for the West Coast Lord knows I've paid some dues 
 getting through 
 C G 
 D | 
 Dsus4 sus2 | D | Dsus4 sus2 
 Tangled up in blue 

 She was married when we first met soon to be divorced 
 I helped her out of a jam I guess but I used a little too 
 much force 
 We drove that car as far as we could abandoned it out west 
 Split up on a sad dark night both agreeing it was best 
 She turned around to look at me as I was walking away 
 I heard her say over her shoulder we'll meet again some day 
 on the avenue 
 Tangled up in blue 
 I had a job in the great north woods working as a cook for 
 a spell 
 But I never did like it all that much and one day the axe 
 just fell 
 So I drifted down to New Orleans where I was lucky just to 
 be employed 
 Working for a while on a fishing boat outside of Delacroix 
 But all the while I was alone the past was close behind 
 I known a lot of women but she never escaped my mind and I 
 just grew 
 Tangled up in blue 
 She was working in topless place and I stopped in for a beer 
 I just kept looking at the side of her face in the spotlight 
 so clear 
 And later on when the crowd thinned out I was just about to 
 do the same 
 She was standing there in back of my chair saying tell me 
 don't I know your name 
 I muttered something underneath my breath she studied the 
 lines on my face 
 I must admit I felt a little uneasy when she bent down to 
 tie the laces of my shoe 
 Tangled up in blue 
 She lit a burner on the stove and offered me a pipe 
 I thought you'd never say hello she said you look like the 
 silent type 
 Then she opened up a book of poems and handed it to me 
 Written by an Italian poet from the thirteenth century 
 And every one of them words rang true and glowed like burning 
 coal 
 Pouring off of every page like it was written in my soul from 
 me to you 
 Tangled up in blue 
 I lived with them on Montague Street in a basement down the 
 stairs 
 There was music in the cafes at night and revolution in the 
 air 
 Then he started dealing in slaves and something inside of 
 him died 
 She had to sell everything she owned and froze up inside 
 When finally the bottom fell out I became withdrawn 
 The only thing I knew how to do was to keep on keeping on 
 like a bird that flew 
 Tangled up in blue 
 So now I'm going on back again I got to get to her somehow 
 All the people we used to know they're an illusion to me now 
 Some are mathematicians some are carpenters wives 
 Don't know how it all got started I don't know what they do 
 with their lives 
 But me I'm still on the road heading for another joint 
 We always did feel the same we just saw it from a different 
 point of view 
 Tangled up in blue 

 You can see that there's really nothing hard here. So why 
 make it a lesson at all? What I'd like to do with this song 
 is to show you how to come up with a strumming pattern and 
 maybe take some of the mystique out of this eternal question. 

 Let's think about Tangled as a complete picture. The 
 song itself is in 4/4, which means that there are four beats 
 to the measure. In the introduction, as we noted earlier, 
 the chords alternate between D and Dsus4sus2 and each chord 
 lasts two beats. During the first part of the verses, this 
 two-beat pattern continues until the end of the second and 
 fourth lines, where the G chord gets a full four beats. The 
 two-beat pattern then asserts itself for the remainder of 
 the verse until just before the final line (the "tangled 
 up in blue" line), where the A is held for four beats. 

 In the final line of each verse (the "hook" where 
 the song's title is sung), we have a measure of two beats, 
 one of C and one of G, before going back into the same chord 
 progression as the introduction. 
 Listening to the whole song, I get the feeling of it moving 
 steadily along. Until you get to the final line of any verse, 
 things hold very steady. So I want keep things moving. This 
 is the strumming pattern I decided upon. In these MP3 examples, 
 I use the chords of the introduction as a demonstration. First 
 we'll do it at tempo. In the second MP3 sample, we'll try 
 it a little slower. I'll even count it out for you: 

 (Example 4 at temo) 

 (Example 4 slower) 
 This is the strum that I will use pretty much throughout 
 the song. I've written out the strokes (U = up and D = down). 
 Work on this in the slower tempo until you're comfortable 
 with it and then slowly bring it up to speed. You'll find 
 that once the parttern is in your hands and head, you'll be 
 running on automatic pilot. 
 This rhythm is a little tricky in that it involves what we 
 could call a "reverse anticipation." Except for 
 the very first beat of measure one, the chord changes occur 
 a sixteenth note after the third beat and a sixteenth note 
 after the first beat of the subsequent measure. 
 This brings up two things to note in the second bar (since 
 Alan seems to prefer "bar" to "measure"): 
 First, I use a hammer-on to switch from the Dsus4sus2 to the 
 D. This is so simple! You play the Dsus4sus2 and then just 
 hammer-on your fingers to form a regular D chord. This is 
 a great rhythm trick to use. Second, I will occasionally hit 
 the open D string (the note in parenthesis) as an additional 
 downstroke. This happens because my hand is constantly moving 
 up and down and it helps me to keep the beat. 
 Now, when I say that "this is the strum I will use pretty 
 much throughout the song," the key words are "pretty 
 much." As you listen to the other MP3s, you will find 
 slight differences in the pattern. This is, normally, how 
 most people play. It is rare for someone to keep the same 
 pattern going throughout a song, like a sampling machine. 
 Don't fret about it. The main thing is to keep the rhythm 
 steady and the chord changes in their proper place. 

 Let's move on to the first four lines of the verse: 

 You should notice I snuck in another chord on you! I throw 
 a Gsus4 in right before the third beat of G. This is also 
 on the upstroke, by the way. You may wonder why I play the 
 Gsus4 as a partial chord, using only the first four strings 
 instead of all six. Or why I'm throwing this chord in at all, 
 for that matter. Since I'm hitting this on an upstroke, I'm 
 not going to hit all six strings. Your upstrokes, by and large, 
 should not come all the way up. You want to merely punch up 
 the treble part of the guitar while allowing the bass notes 
 to keep ringing from the previous downstroke. And if you are 
 wondering if that explanation, as well as the earlier bit 
 about constant hand motion, is simply a teaser for the long 
 awaited "Absolute Beginners part 2" piece, give 
 yourself a gold star! 
 The reason for throwing in the Gsus4 in the first place is 
 to create the illusion of a chord change. Since the chords 
 in the rest of the verse are two beats long, having a four 
 beat chord can slow things down a bit. So a little slight 
 of hand, in this case a quick flip to the sus4 chord, and 
 presto! Our four beat measure of G sounds more like our measure 
 of D and C in terms of chord changes. 
 We're going to do the same sort of thing with the final measure 
 of A at the tail end of the verse (the sixth line). But since 
 this point of the song also serves as the final pause before 
 the punch line, as it were, I'm going to use a combination 
 of A, Asus4 and Asus2 to draw things out while still moving 
 them along. Here's what the last three lines look like: 

 This sequence of A chords is also easily accomplished. Starting 
 with your regular A, add your pinky to the third fret of the 
 B string. This gives you the Asus4. To play the Asus2, simply 
 remove any finger from the B string, allowing it to be played 
 open. 
 Just for the record, I'd like to explain my use of a Bm7 
 instead of a Bm, which most TABs (or transpositions of TABs) 
 would contain. It's not really all that mysterious. First, 
 it's a lot quicker, for me anyway, to switch from an A to 
 a Bm7. If you are one of those people who practically barre 
 the A chord, then A fully-barred Bm will do just as well. 
 The other thing I like about using this chord is that, opposed 
 to an open position Bm (xx0432 or xx4432), I get the B note 
 in the bass. 
 On the last part of the verse pay particular attention to 
 clipping the C and G chords on the final line before returning 
 to the D / Dsus4sus2 chord progression, which serves as an 
 interlude between the verses. 
 And that, fellow guitarists, pretty much wraps it up. I hope 
 you've had fun playing Tangled Up in Blue and also 
 looking a little into the thoughts behind strumming. When 
 it comes down to it, there is no singular "right" 
 way to play something. If you come up with a pattern that 
 fits what you want to do with a song, go with it. You can 
 have a lot of fun when you get a couple of guitars playing 
 compatible, yet different, strumming patterns for the same 
 song. That's usually what you hear when you're listening to 
 a recording. 
 As always, please feel free to write in with any questions, 
 comments, concerns or songs (and/or riffs and solos) you'd 
 like to see discussed in future pieces. You can either drop 
 off a note at the Guitar 
 Forum page or email me directly at Dhodge8888@cs.com. 
 Until next lesson&#133; 
 Peace 
 David Hodge 2003-01-26 
 Previous 
 song in this series "Fire" 
 Next to a list of lessons 
 for beginners 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.