Guitar Noise - Easy Songs For Beginners 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , 
 Guitar Lessons , Easy Songs for Beginners 

 EASY SONGS FOR BEGINNERS 

 If you already have a grasp of guitar basics (holding your 
 guitar, tuning it) then the next step is to start building 
 a repetoire of songs. This series of lessons will teach you 
 a bit of music theory and technique while you learn to play 
 some pretty easy and well known songs. For best results you 
 really should begin with the first lesson and work your way 
 up. 

 Lesson 
 21: (Sitting on) The Dock of the Bay 
 By David Hodge 
 Let's combine some strumming techniques with our on-going 
 lessons on developing bass lines. There's a lot of fun 
 to be had with this one as we work through straight 
 strumming, a little bass-and-chord work and even toss 
 in some arpeggio playing. 

 Complete Lesson 

 Lesson 1: Horse With No Name (The 
 Simplest Song) 
 By David Hodge 
 This week we take a break from chord theory and get into some 
 song analysis, cleverly disguised as &#147;Songs For Beginners.&#148; 
 We&#146;ll take the easiest song I know and learn to play 
 it. Not only is it a song most of you know &#150; it&#146;s 
 also probably a song most of you would rather forget that 
 you know. 
 Lesson 2: Horse With No Name (Adding 
 Some Personal Touches) 
 By David Hodge 
 Last time out, I showed you an incredibly easy to play song, 
 Dewey Bunnell's Horse With No Name , along with some 
 basic strumming patterns. Today we're going to work on adding 
 a bit of accessories to the basic model. Feel free to use 
 any of the ideas, riffs or leads we develop here. Or you can 
 use some of the things we go over as a base with which to 
 come up with your own stuff. 
 Lesson 3: For What It's Worth 

 By David Hodge 
 This week we learn the old Buffalo Springfield classic. Since 
 it's only two chords, we also get to learn a new strumming 
 technique - how to get that cool acoustic percussive sound 
 into our rhythmic patterns. 
 Lesson 4: Feelin' Alright 

 By David Hodge 
 Who says a two chord song has to be boring? Like anything, 
 it all comes down to what kind of effort you decide to put 
 into it. Creativity is whatever you bring to the table. It 
 is what you do with something and not just something you do. 
 This time out, we've got yet another two chord song to work 
 on. It's called Feelin' Alright and it was written 
 by Dave Mason back when he was with the group Traffic. 
 Lesson 
 5: Three Marlenas 
 By David Hodge 
 Usually the biggest challenge for any beginner is to be able 
 to play "at speed." This does not mean to play something 
 fast; it means to play something in a steady prescribed tempo. 
 Fingering and playing a chord may come quite easily to some, 
 but the chances are that sense of ease disappears pretty quickly 
 when faced with more and more chord changes within a song. 

 Lesson 6: Before You Accuse Me 

 By David Hodge 
 Today we'll be branching out into three chord songs in a big 
 way. We'll do this by learning a standard blues song, Before 
 You Accuse Me , written by E. McDaniel, known to the world 
 as Bo Diddley. But we're also going to be examining the theory 
 behind what is known as "Twelve Bar Blues" so, in 
 essence, you will be able to play almost any blues song (in 
 any key) when we're finished with these next few lessons. 

 Lesson 7: Roll Over Beethoven 
 By David Hodge 
 Today we will look at the 12 bar blues pattern and typical 
 blues shuffle rhythm. When we are done you will be able to 
 play an amazing number of straight ahead rock and roll songs. 
 All sorts, from Chuck Berry to the Rolling Stones to Led Zeppelin 
 to Bruce Springsteen and more performers than I could possibly 
 list in a simple introductory paragraph. 
 Lesson 8: (Going To) Kansas City 
 By David Hodge 
 Let&#146;s wrap up our (all too) brief introduction into the 
 (very basic) blues. Today we&#146;re going to look at three 
 things: the &#147;turn around,&#148; the (again, very basic) 
 blues lead scale and what I call the &#147;grand finale.&#148; 
 I have chosen to use the old blues standard (Going To) 
 Kansas City for this lesson because I want to demonstrate 
 these techniques on a song that you probably have heard but 
 are not overly familiar with. 
 Lesson 9: Margaritaville 
 By David Hodge 
 Today we&#146;re going to learn Margaritaville by Jimmy 
 Buffet. In and of itself, this will not take very long. We 
 will only need three chords (okay, four, but one (A7) is just 
 a simple variation of another). 
 Lesson 10: House Of The Rising 
 Sun 
 By David Hodge 
 In this lesson we&#146;re going to learn two different fingerpicking 
 patterns for House of the Rising Sun , a song performed 
 by the Animals way back in the sixties. The first will be 
 very straightforward, simply arpeggiating the chords in a 
 very easy finger style. Then we will go on and doctor that 
 version up a bit, throwing in slightly more complex picking 
 which will include a bit of a moving bassline as well as using 
 a standard alternating bassline in a few spots. 
 Lesson 11: Bookends 
 By David Hodge 
 Last time out we learned some basic fingerpicking with House 
 of the Rising Sun . Today we&#146;re going to do something 
 that is both a little easier and also a little harder with 
 an old Paul Simon song called Bookends . It&#146;s a 
 very simple song to learn and it will help us to develop some 
 more coordination in our fingerstyle play. Specifically, it 
 will serve to teach us to use two fingers on two different 
 strings at the same time. And just to keep things even more 
 interesting we&#146;ll get to look at time signature changes 
 within songs as well as what I call &#147;planning ahead&#148; 
 in regards to finger placement. 
 Lesson 12: I Shot The Sheriff 
 By David Hodge 
 Today&#146;s song is Bob Marley&#146;s I Shot The Sheriff , 
 which will not only serve as a delightful introduction to 
 reggae rhythms, but I&#146;ve also managed to get very sneaky 
 and throw in some transposing as well. 
 Lesson 13: If Not For You 
 By David Hodge 
 In and of itself, Bob Dylan&#146;s If Not For You is 
 a very easy song. You won&#146;t find any tricky chords and 
 if you already know the song you&#146;ll be able to breeze 
 through this on the first take and then wonder why I&#146;d 
 make a lesson of it at all. 
 Lesson 14: Riders on the Storm 
 By David Hodge 
 Believe it or not, this is a blues song. At least in terms 
 of song structure. It consists of four verses and each one 
 is twelve measures in length. 
 Lesson 15: Happy Christmas 
 By David Hodge 
 In addition to being topical (both in terms of the season 
 as well as in regard to the "topic of the month), John 
 Lennon's Happy Christmas is a good way to follow up 
 on some of the lessons we learned last time out. 
 Lesson 
 16: Love The One You're With 
 By David Hodge 
 In today's lesson, yet another (very) old chestnut from the 
 early seventies, we'll be seeing practical applications of 
 the chord shapes learned there. For good measure, we'll toss 
 in a few (very) easy fills and then also look at how we'd 
 play it in Drop D tuning. 
 Lesson 17: Hey Hey My My 
 By David Hodge 
 You may not know it, but Neil Young is a true hero to the 
 fledgling guitarist. His songs are relatively easy enough 
 to learn quickly and still complicated enough to give you 
 things to work on in order to hone your guitar skills. And, 
 as bonuses, they appeal to both the electric and acoustic 
 guitarist. 
 Lesson 18: Happy 
 By David Hodge 
 We'll look at an arrangement of this classic for the single 
 acoustic guitar, made possible by the use of open G tuning 
 and a cool driving rhythm. After this lesson you'll have no 
 trouble at all playing rhythm like Keith Richards. Of course 
 we've included MIDI files to help you. 
 Lesson 19: Fire 
 By David Hodge 
 Sometimes the simplest of songs present the biggest of challenges 
 - how do we take a basic song of four or five chords and make 
 it memorable? Well, one way is to use all the dynamic power 
 built into your guitar, working in bass lines along with the 
 chords and playing with the dynamics of a song. 
 Lesson 
 20: Tangled Up In Blue 
 By David Hodge 
 Let's take advantage of the MP3 files and do a lesson focusing 
 on strumming. Here's the opening song from Dylan's classic 
 album, Blood on the Tracks. Have fun! 
 After working your way through these lessons you may be ready 
 to graduate to the next level: Songs 
 for Intermediates . 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.