Guitarnoise.com | Easy Songs for Beginners 

 HOME 

 WHAT'S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask the Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Beginner Lessons , Easy Songs For Beginners 

 Easy Songs for Beginners 

 If you have already gone through our getting started lessons 
 on the previous page , the next step 
 is to start building a repetoire of songs. If you follow the 
 lessons on this page you will learn some theory and technique 
 at the same time as some pretty easy and well known songs. 
 But you'll probably be having too much fun to notice. 

 New this week 

 Bookends 
 by David Hodge (20 July 2001) 
 Last time out we learned some basic fingerpicking with 
 House of the Rising Sun . Today we&#146;re going 
 to do something that is both a little easier and also 
 a little harder with an old Paul Simon song called Bookends . 
 It&#146;s a very simple song to learn and it will help 
 us to develop some more coordination in our fingerstyle 
 play. Specifically, it will serve to teach us to use 
 two fingers on two different strings at the same time. 
 And just to keep things even more interesting we&#146;ll 
 get to look at time signature changes within songs as 
 well as what I call &#147;planning ahead&#148; in regards 
 to finger placement. 

 Previous articles 
 Horse With No Name (The Simplest 
 Song) 
 by David Hodge (22 Aug 2000) 
 This week we get into some song analysis, cleverly disguised 
 as Songs For Beginners. Well take the easiest song I know 
 and learn to play it. Not only is it a song most of you know 
 its also probably a song most of you would rather forget 
 that you know. 
 Horse With No Name (Adding Some 
 Personal Touches) 
 by David Hodge (29 Aug 2000) 
 I know that a lot of you think that I probably never play 
 the guitar 'cause I seem to spend so much time thinking about 
 things. The reality is that there are a lot of things 
 to think about before (and while) playing. Most of it takes 
 less time to deal with then you will spend in reading this 
 sentence. 
 For What It's Worth 
 by David Hodge (25 Oct 2000) 
 This week we learn the old Buffalo Springfield classic. Since 
 it's only two chords, we also get to learn a new strumming 
 technique - how to get that cool acoustic percussive sound 
 into our rhythmic patterns. 
 Feelin' Alright 
 by David Hodge (01 Nov 2000) 
 Who says a two chord song has to be boring? Like anything, 
 it all comes down to what kind of effort you decide to put 
 into it. Creativity is whatever you bring to the table. It 
 is what you do with something and not just something you do. 
 This time out, we've got yet another two chord song to work 
 on. It's called "Feelin' Alright" and it was written 
 by Dave Mason back when he was with the group Traffic. 
 Three Marlenas 
 by David Hodge (22 Dec 2000) 
 Usually the biggest challenge for any beginner is to be able 
 to play "at speed." This does not mean to play something 
 fast; it means to play something in a steady prescribed tempo. 
 Fingering and playing a chord may come quite easily to some, 
 but the chances are that sense of ease disappears pretty quickly 
 when faced with more and more chord changes within a song. 

 Before You Accuse Me 
 by David Hodge (19 Jan 2001) 
 Today we'll be branching out into three chord songs in a big 
 way. We'll do this by learning a standard blues song, "Before 
 You Accuse Me," written by E. McDaniel, known to the 
 world as Bo Diddley. But we're also going to be examining 
 the theory behind what is known as "Twelve Bar Blues" 
 so, in essence, you will be able to play almost any blues 
 song (in any key) when we're finished with these next few 
 lessons. 
 Roll Over Beethoven 
 by David Hodge (05 Feb 2001) 
 Today we'll be branching out into three chord songs in a big 
 way. We'll do this by learning a standard blues song, "Before 
 You Accuse Me," written by E. McDaniel, known to the 
 world as Bo Diddley. But we're also going to be examining 
 the theory behind what is known as "Twelve Bar Blues" 
 so, in essence, you will be able to play almost any blues 
 song (in any key) when we're finished with these next few 
 lessons. 
 (Going To) Kansas City 
 by David Hodge (24 Apr 2001) 
 Okay, if you&#146;re still with me, then let&#146;s wrap up 
 our (all too) brief introduction into the (very basic) blues. 
 Today we&#146;re going to look at three things: the &#147;turn 
 around,&#148; the (again, very basic) blues lead scale and 
 what I call the &#147;grand finale.&#148; I have chosen to 
 use the old blues standard &#147;(Going To) Kansas City&#148; 
 for this lesson because I want to demonstrate these techniques 
 on a song that you probably have heard but are not overly 
 familiar with. 
 Margaritaville 
 by David Hodge (08 May 2001) 
 Today we&#146;re going to learn Margaritaville by Jimmy 
 Buffet. In and of itself, this will not take very long. We 
 will only need three chords. Once you&#146;ve gotten the strumming 
 part down and have a fairly good grasp of the various chords, 
 you can start to put together actual arrangements of 
 songs. Even a relative beginner can get into this in a big 
 way and you will be amazed at the simple things you can do 
 to dramatically improve your playing, simply by approaching 
 a song with a little thought and a little theory. 
 House Of The Rising Sun 
 by David Hodge (13 May 2001) 
 In this lesson we&#146;re going to learn two different fingerpicking 
 patterns for House of the Rising Sun , a song performed 
 by the Animals way back in the sixties. The first will be 
 very straightforward, simply arpeggiating the chords in a 
 very easy finger style. Then we will go on and doctor that 
 version up a bit, throwing in slightly more complex picking 
 which will include a bit of a moving bassline as well as using 
 a standard alternating bassline in a few spots. 
 Bookends 
 by David Hodge (20 July 2001) 
 Last time out we learned some basic fingerpicking with House 
 of the Rising Sun . Today we&#146;re going to do something 
 that is both a little easier and also a little harder with 
 an old Paul Simon song called Bookends . It&#146;s a 
 very simple song to learn and it will help us to develop some 
 more coordination in our fingerstyle play. Specifically, it 
 will serve to teach us to use two fingers on two different 
 strings at the same time. And just to keep things even more 
 interesting we&#146;ll get to look at time signature changes 
 within songs as well as what I call &#147;planning ahead&#148; 
 in regards to finger placement. 
 Easy Guitar Riffs 
 by Paul Hackett (18 Jul 2000) 
 My fascination with guitar riffs goes back a long way. I was 
 still only playing the air-guitar and washing dishes in a 
 restaurant when I ordered a tape from TV called Guitar Rock. 
 This lesson contains examples of some of the most popular 
 and easiest rock guitar riffs, including: Smoke on the Water, 
 All Right Now, Layla, Purple Haze and more. 
 Easy 
 Guitar Riffs of the Eighties 
 by Paul Hackett (30 Aug 2000) 
 After my first lesson on Easy Guitar Riffs I felt like I had 
 left something unfinished. It seemed as if I had written something 
 more about music history than playing guitar. References to 
 contemporary music had been neglected. And while there have 
 been a lot of great and memorable rock riffs in the past decade, 
 it only seems right that I should address the question how 
 did we get where we are. So before we explore some contemporary 
 guitar riffs I want to go back to the eighties. 

 Other Resources 

 Beginner Guitar Lessons 

 Websites For Beginners 

 Books For Beginners 

 Beginners Discussion 
 Forum 

 Ask The Expert 

 Newsletter 

 Copyright 2001 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.