James Thiele's Newton TicTacToe 

 James Thiele's Newton TicTacToe 

 A simple Tic-Tac-Toe program. I've
discovered that young kids really like the Newton, but there isn't much for them
to do on it. This app is just for fun, and uses some visual and sound effects to
spice things up.

 The screen layout of this program from top
to bottom and left to right has the following elements: 

 The name of the application.

 Tap in a square to make a move.

 button which when tapped moves
erases the play board with a visual effect determined by: 

 "Smoke" radio button which when on causes the the play board to go "poof". 
 "Trash" radio button which when on causes the play board be thrown in the trash.

 checkbox, which when checked
disables the newton from playing, allowing two people to play.

 checkbox, which when checked moves
causes the game to play even stupider than it already does.

 button which when tapped
shows the date, time, and battery level.

 when tapped will cause some
basic info about "TicTacToe" to be displayed.

 closes "TicTacToe". 

 Caveats: 

 Only tested on Newton MP 100.

 Can't turn off or change sound effects.

 Mostly harmless. 

 Version 0.3

TicTacToe can be accessed in the following compressed formats:

 tictac.zip (10K) for PC and UNIX.
 TicTacToe03.sit (10K) for Mac

 Note: You must possess a utility for decompressing these
files in order to use them.

 Legal stuff This program is Copyright 1994, 1995 by James
Thiele. It may be distributed freely as long as the program is unmodified and is
accompanied by this README file.

 Because there are too many lawyers in the world, I add the following
statement:

 This program is made available without any claim that it is suitable for any
use. The author's liability is limited to what was charged for it which was
nothing. It works OK on my MP 100, but I am not making any other statements of
other systems it could or should run on.

 This page is maintained by
 James Thiele . Contact via
 email 
 Last modified 1 October 2003.
 Previously modified 9 June 2000.
 Created 19 December 1994.