SeattleOtaku: Review - Bubblegum Crisis 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Knight Sabers, 2040 

 Priss, old and new 

 Vision, in concert 

 O ne part Charlie's Angels , one
part Terminator , and one part Blade Runner ,
there have been two incarnations of the lovely-yet-deadly Knight Sabers:
 Bubblegum Crisis , an 8-episode OVA series (30-50
minutes each, and it's sequel set of three OVAs Bubblegum
Crash ) taking place in 2030's Neo-Tokyo, and
 Bubblegum Crisis Tokyo 2040 , a retelling of the story
in a 25-minutes-each TV series format. The original series also developed
a pair of music video collections called "Hurricane Live!". 

 Story Intro 

 The nightly grind for our heroines-in-armour -- Sylia, Priss, Linna,
and Nene -- includes chasing down rogue robots called "boomers" and hiding
their identities from the AD Police (who now have their own anime spinoff
series) and the press. One developing plot point, expecially in the
second series, is the relationship between Sylia, her father (the creator
of boomer technology), and her younger brother, Mackie. Another is the
nature of the suits themselves, quite the "using fire to fight fire"
approach. 

 Sylia leads the Kight Sabers from their base in a back room of her
lingerie shop. Nene leads a multiple life -- AD Police dispatcher by day,
Knight Saber by night, and computer hacker on her own time. Priss has her
own double life of alternately spending her nights singing in a rock group
and disabling rouge Boomers. Linna's the one that switches rolls in the
two series -- in the first, we only saw her as a Knight Saber and training
in the gym at times (or was she a personal trainer?), but in the new series,
we delve into her office and home lives as well. Nigel (possibly a redesign
of the original series' "Doc") and Mackie help repair their bikes and "hard
suits". 

 Other Notes 

 Since the two series span two different decades, the biggest difference
in the two series are the music (80's pop/rock in the original; 90's
techno/rock in the new one) and the character design (Nene, for instance,
changed from a bright-red "Farrah" hair style to a short-cropped
blonde). I'd have to prefer the original, as a big fan of Sonoda Kenichi
(the character designer for the original as well as Gunsmith
Cats , Riding Bean , and work on other ARTMIC shows such
as Gall Force ). 

 This series, in both incarnations, is also an homage to a favorite SF
film, Blade Runner . Check out the huge pyramid shapes of the
Tyrell and Genom headquarters, the special police units dealing with
replicants and boomers, and characters named Priss and Leon (even Priss's
rock group, The Replicants, in the original OVAs). 

 Bubblegum Crisis (8-episode OVA) 
 Hurricane Live! (2-episode music-video OVA) 
 Bubblegum Crash (3-episode OVA) 
 Bubblegum Crisis Tokyo 2040 (26-episode TV) 

 The spin-off series AD Police , focusing on the police
department's own battles against the boomers without appearances by the Knight
Sabers, similarly has both '80s (video) and '90s (television) versions: 

 AD Police (3-episode OVA) 
 AD Police (12-episode TV) 

 I have listings of the Bubblegum Crisis 
 OVA Cast (Seiyuu) and
 TV Cast (Seiyuu) with both images from the programs
and actor information. 

 A nice encyclopedia of information from the OVA series is available at
 http://www.ravensgarage.com/a2z/index.html . 

 Bubblegum Crisis images Copyright (C) 1987-1990 AIC Inc., Toshiba Inc. 
 All rights reserved. Distributed by AnimEigo 

 Bubblegum Crisis Tokyo 2040 images Copyright (C) JVC/AIC 
 All rights reserved. Distributed by A.D. Vision Inc. 

 Permission to use these images on this site provided by: 

 USED WITH PERMISSION: Images of anime programs
on this page are used with permission of the copyright holder or the legal
distributor of the represtented work. Copying from this page for your own
use is prohibited -- please contact the copyright holder or distibutor
cited to gain permission from the proper people. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.