Sound Engineering | Battle of the Bands 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Amps 
 & EFX , Sound Engineering , Battle of the Bands 

 Battle of the Bands 

 Sound Engineering # 8 
 Published November 26, 2001 
 By Dan Lasley 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Have you ever wondered how they run those multi-act "Lallapalooza" 
 type shows? Well, first a large corporate sponsor is found, 
 and they hire a bunch of experienced professionals who plan 
 for a few months and do lots of other things that us average 
 folks can't afford to do. However, I have done this a couple 
 of times, albeit on a much smaller scale - as part of a Talent 
 Show or Showcase, including the Riverside 
 Jam 2000 (David hosted in 2001). So let me give you a 
 couple of ideas, because once you see how easy it can be, 
 you can try it out for yourself. 
 The Decision 
 The first step is to decide that you really want to do this, 
 and that you are going to be the host. It helps to have a 
 really good reason, either as a charity event, or a chance 
 to showcase your own band. This is not an easy decision, because 
 even with the tricks I'm going to show you, it's a lot of 
 work. Although I have done this "for fun", that's 
 not always a good enough reason. You also have to be willing 
 to assume the up-front expenses and the possibility that you 
 could lose money. You need to make this decision at least 
 3 months before the soonest show date. If this is going to 
 be a charity event, then you must take it upon yourself to 
 establish good communications with the charity organization 
 as well. 
 The Place 
 Next, you need to find a time and place to play. Try to find 
 a location that has a reasonably large stage. I've been lucky 
 enough to do it in school auditoriums, which are perfect. 
 Many schools are open and unused on Friday nights, so it's 
 not as crazy as you might think. Most schools will charge 
 a nominal fee, plus the salary of one custodian. But don't 
 use the gym! There isn't a worse place to play on the planet 
 than the average school gymnasium. There are other places 
 you might consider, including some bars on Sunday afternoons 
 (if you're old enough), halls where social groups like the 
 Elks or VFW meet or even your church. Just remember that the 
 bigger the stage the easier things tend to be. 
 The Bands 
 Once you have a time and place, then you will need to find 
 some bands to come and play. Usually, you figure that each 
 band takes about an hour, 45 minutes of playing and 15 minutes 
 of set-up. So if you have 4 hours, then you can invite 4 bands. 
 If you have more time, you can invite more bands. Alternately, 
 if you know lots of bands, then you may have to cut down the 
 playing time. Anything less than 20 minutes is a waste of 
 effort, even for a charity gig. 
 Obviously, asking other bands that you already know is a 
 good idea, but check around a little further too. How much 
 variety do you want? Diversity usually means more people will 
 come, but if it gets too eclectic, then some people will decide 
 that there's less to like. You want to do the recruiting in 
 two steps: first get an acknowledgement that a band is interested, 
 then later, you'll need to explain the "rules" and 
 get a firm commitment. 
 The Gear 
 As with any gig, you're going to need sound equipment. If 
 you're lucky, the place you've selected will have a PA built 
 in. Double check that they have enough channels in the mixer, 
 and enough monitors. You may need to add some more to the 
 house system just for flexibility. Be sure to discuss this 
 with the house engineer. If there is no house PA, then you'll 
 have to get your own. 
 Make a list of all the stuff that is required. But you shouldn't 
 have to supply all of this yourself. You need to ask each 
 band what they might be able to supply. Make a master list 
 of equipment, and note which band is willing to supply which 
 equipment. Usually, your own band will supply the core equipment, 
 unless you know that some item is not "something to be 
 proud of", and then ask. Believe it or not, people who 
 have higher quality gear tend to want to use it, and are often 
 willing to share. 

 PA: Since you are going to have to work with different 
 bands you're going to need to be flexible. So you'll need 
 a good mix board, effects and EQ, amplifiers, microphones, 
 and main and monitor speakers. Plus, try to find a sound 
 guy to work the board, or switch off with musicians who 
 are not on stage. 
 Drums: You'd like to use the best drums you can, but some 
 drummers won't want to share their kit. Each band must agree 
 to replace any drumheads that should happen to be broken 
 by their drummer (as rare as this is, you still have to 
 plan for it!). 
 Bass Amp: It is better to have an amp that is too big 
 than too small. 
 Guitar Amps: You should have at least 3 amps. Mainly for 
 variety, as the guest musicians will want to get their best 
 sound. So try to find different brands and styles. 
 Keyboards: If one or more bands has keyboards, then try 
 to settle on a common set. Usually one piano-type and/or 
 one synth. You'll need an amp for this too. 

 Getting Organized 
 So now you have a list of who is going to play, and what 
 each band is willing to share. Now you write a letter (email 
 is great for this!) to each band explaining what is what: 
 No, you may not bring your own drums (you may bring your own 
 snare and seat). No, you may not bring your own bass or guitar 
 amp, you must use the ones provided and described here (but 
 you can plug in all your EFX). Etc. Be as thorough as you 
 can, as everyone will understand that "everyone else 
 is sharing too", which reduces the whining. Tell everyone 
 to label everything!!! With several bands sharing their gear, 
 anything that is unmarked becomes fair game for misappropriation. 
 Cables and power cords are the most common items to be "misplaced", 
 but even the occasional EFX pedal, can fall victim to this, 
 and petty theft (usually totally unintentional) can ruin this 
 type of event. 
 Have an idea how long each band can play. Something like 
 "Assuming everyone shows up, everyone will get 30 minutes 
 of playing time". If you have an obvious "headliner", 
 or you want to pull rank as the host, plan for extra time 
 at the end. As mentioned earlier, plan on 15 minutes between 
 each act for overruns and swapping bands. Write a chart with 
 each band name, number/type of musicians. 
 Ask each band to agree to all of the above. Don't tell them 
 who's going first or last yet, and don't give them the impression 
 that they can influence the line-up. 
 Logistics 
 Now that you've got most of the important musical aspects 
 figured out, you need to do the logistics. How are you going 
 to handle food and drink? If you're at a bar, then that part's 
 easy. But if you're in a school, then you've got to make arrangements, 
 and remember no smoking or drinking on school property. If 
 you've got a charity organization working with you, then let 
 them do the food, etc. as they will be making the money and 
 providing the volunteers. 
 Again, if you're at a school, then you'll need to handle 
 security, parking, etc. 
 And get a couple of cases of bottled water. If you're at 
 a bar, explain that this is necessary because water is best 
 for everyone, and plastic bottles don't break. Seriously, 
 don't forget this. 
 And believe it or not, think about a logo and T-shirts. You 
 can usually get a silk-screened T-shirt for less than $10 
 if you buy over 20. If you get a light-colored shirt, then 
 people can sign them. This may seem hokey, but it's actually 
 pretty cool. 
 The Middle Period 
 There is a quiet time between the initial contacts and the 
 week before the gig. Usually it's a couple of weeks. Once 
 you get experienced at doing this sort of thing, you can shorten 
 up the time from start to finish by reducing this middle period. 
 Don't forget to rehearse your own stuff. 
 During this time you should consider any advertising you may 
 want, and follow up on some of your logistical issues. This 
 is also a good time to review the sequencing for the bands. 
 Usually, you want to save the best for last, or save it for 
 yourself (even if you're not the best!), but consider that 
 the first band shouldn't really be the worst either. Although 
 you may not have a full crowd at the beginning, having a solid 
 band go first is a good idea, as they give confidence to any 
 of the weaker bands that follow. 
 The Week Before the Gig 
 Contact all the different people to confirm that they are 
 still on target. Re-confirm with all the bands that they are 
 ready to play, tell them what time they'll go on, and how 
 long they get to play. Tell all the people who are contributing 
 equipment when and where you will want it delivered. Put up 
 posters with the band names and approximate times. You will 
 probably find out that someone has not done something they 
 were supposed to do, and so you'll have to scramble a bit 
 to solve that problem, but because you found out before it's 
 too late, you can usually make it work. This is the time that 
 you really need to delegate the specific tasks. Jimmy will 
 get the PA. Jane will get the drums. Try and identify one 
 person to be a "runner", a trouble-shooter with 
 no fixed tasks and a pick-up truck. 
 The Day Before 
 Decide what time you want to set up. Earlier is usually better, 
 so that there is some relax time between setup and playing. 
 But some bars won't let you in early. Confirm (again!) that 
 the various pieces of equipment will get dropped off on time. 
 Draw a sketch of the stage and where you want the drums and 
 amps and keyboards and PA all to go. Try to get some sleep! 
 Turn off the phones after 10pm. If your gig is on a Friday, 
 plan on taking the day off from work, or at least half the 
 day. 
 The Big Day 
 The Setup 
 No matter who else is doing what, YOU need to be at the site 
 on time, and stay there! Tape your sketch on the wall so everyone 
 can see it. Meet and greet everyone as they come in - be the 
 "host". Tell them where to set up, and where to 
 store the extra gear and cases. If you can, set up the drums 
 first, the amps second, and the PA third. If there is a problem, 
 decide how to fix it (including the option to ignore it and 
 carry on!) and assign someone to get it done. Try to do as 
 little as possible yourself. I know this seems odd, but the 
 idea is to keep it organized. 
 Alternately, plan to do most of it yourself. You fetch all 
 the gear and set it up yourself. I find it very difficult 
 to try and coordinate many people and do a lot of the work 
 at the same time. 
 The Break 
 If you're lucky, you've got everything set up at least an 
 hour before the first band goes on. This is a good time to 
 relax, have a seat, chat with people. Absolutely no playing 
 of instruments! If you have time, grab a shower, or at least 
 change your shirt - wear one of the event T-shirts! If there 
 are any money issues, now is the time to resolve them. 
 Show Time 
 One of the biggest problems for the host of these events 
 (or any elaborate party) is the host doesn't get to enjoy 
 it. You should try to stay relaxed and spend as much time 
 meeting and greeting the various musicians and other guests. 
 If you appear relaxed, others will derive confidence from 
 you. Hopefully, the arrangements will be obvious enough that 
 everyone will know where to set their guitars, and where to 
 get a drink. 

 One way to get the show started promptly is to have your 
 own band go first. (Note: if it's a long show, you can go 
 again last!). This way, you get to check out the PA and the 
 rest of the set-up with a band that you know. The problem 
 with this is that you are not around to greet people and trouble 
 shoot any other start-up problems. A lot depends on how well 
 you know the other bands, and how experienced they are. 
 In any case, try to get the first band started on time. And 
 pay attention to the clock. If a band looks like they're going 
 to run over, walk to the edge of the stage and tell them that 
 the next song is the last one, pointing at your watch. If 
 a change-over takes too long, tell the next band that they'll 
 have to cut back a bit, but try to spread it out (if you're 
 20 minutes behind, take 7 minutes from each band). 
 It's good if you can play CDs during the change-overs, but 
 not too loud, as it makes it hard to think on stage. 
 Problems 
 We all know Mr Murphy, and he always gets invited to these 
 parties. The best thing is to stay relaxed and just work to 
 solve the problem as best as you can. Don't panic or become 
 frantic. Just solve the problem as professionally as you can 
 and move on. If you have done a good job preparing for the 
 gig and you've set up a good stage, then you are probably 
 going to be fine, and the biggest problem likely will be related 
 to the food or parking or other minor (!) issue. 
 Tear Down 
 For the most part, tear down should be easy to organize. 
 If everyone takes away whatever they brought, then there will 
 be nothing left. In reality, you will probably have to lug 
 a lot more than you did during set up, but that's OK. You 
 don't have to organize anything anymore. Just make sure that 
 all the money issues are resolved. 
 If you are so inclined, it's a great idea to collect some 
 of your closest buddies and head out for food after it's all 
 done. Go to a local diner (or my favorite - Mexican!) where 
 you can get food and relax. You may not realize it, but you'll 
 be exhausted. So sit, eat, and bask in the knowledge that 
 you succeeded in running your own mini Lallapalooza. 
 See, it's easy! 
 Get out there and Play! 
 Dan Lasley 2001-11-26 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Your First Gig" 

 Next article in 
 this series "Soundcheck: A Necessary Evil" 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.