Sound Engineering - Recording on a Budget Part 2: Recording Concepts 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Amps 
 & EFX , Sound Engineering , Recording on a Budget Part 2: Recording 
 Concepts 

 Recording on a Budget Part 
 2: Recording Concepts 

 Published May 10, 2002 
 By Scott Hysell 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 In Part 1 of this series, we 
 discussed the equipment necessary to create a basic home musical 
 recording setup. We've kept the cost down to a minimum, and 
 we've gathered all the necessary equipment. The big question 
 now is, how the heck are you going to use all this stuff you've 
 gathered together? And don't forget the little questions like, 
 where does this plug in, why do I need that, and what does 
 this thing do? Suddenly, the pile of recording stuff you've 
 collected can start to seem a little intimidating. The simple 
 truth is, recording (even home recording) can get pretty complicated, 
 but don't let that pile of stuff scare you. As with most things 
 complicated, the recording process can be broken down into 
 a series of steps and concepts that are relatively easy to 
 understand. Before we proceed with the actual process, we'll 
 first need to discuss some of the more common concepts involved 
 in home recording. In this installment of "Recording 
 on a Budget," we'll examine some of those concepts. 
 Multi-track Recording 
 The most important device to understand when making a home 
 recording is the multi-track recorder. A multi-track recorder 
 is a recording device that can record individual things concurrently 
 and separately so that they can be played, recorded over, 
 or otherwise manipulated individually without disturbing other 
 parts of the mix. For example, you can record the guitar separately 
 from the other instruments thus enabling you to change the 
 guitar's volume, its effects, or any number of other characteristics 
 without changing anything in the other instruments. In fact, 
 you could even erase the guitar completely and the rest of 
 the recording would remain unchanged. 
 To illustrate this, let's look at how an analog 4-track recorder 
 works. The diagram below is a representation of the surface 
 of the tape used to record your instruments. In most 4-track 
 recorders, it will be nothing more than a standard cassette 
 tape like the ones you use in your home stereo system. 
 Figure 1 

 Each "track" in the illustration is an area that 
 can be recorded onto separately. For instance, the guitar 
 mentioned above could be recorded onto track number 1, the 
 drums could be on track number 2, the bass could be on track 
 number 3, and the vocals could be on track number 4. With 
 such a system of separation, the guitar could be erased from 
 track number 1 without affecting the instruments and vocals 
 recorded on the other three tracks. Also, using this system, 
 the tracks 2, 3, and 4 could be played while track number 
 1 is recording. This makes it possible for the guitar to be 
 recorded while the musician jams along with the other three 
 tracks on the tape. 
 A 4-track recorder has four parallel divisions or sections 
 called tracks where individual and separate sources can be 
 played or recorded. In analog equipment containing more than 
 four tracks, this system is mechanically the same, except 
 the tape is usually larger so that it can physically contain 
 more tracks. On the other hand, digital equipment requires 
 a little imagination to understand. The principle of separation 
 of the concurrent tracks is the same, but the tracks are created 
 digitally inside the machine. You can't (at least I can't) 
 draw them out on paper, but for conceptual purposes, they 
 are the same as those in any analog multi-track recorder. 

 Ping-Pong 
 Once you understand how a multi-track system works, you're 
 ready to tackle the subject of ping-ponging. In the tabletop 
 sport of ping-pong, a little plastic ball is bounced back 
 and forth across a table. In multi-tracking, a recorded piece 
 of audio is bounced (via recording) from one track to another. 
 Consider the illustration below. 
 Figure 2 

 Let's say we wanted to move the guitar recording from its 
 current position in track 1 into a new position on track 4. 
 We would (through some controls on the multi-track machine) 
 record what is on track 1 onto track 4 by playing the tape 
 and using the appropriate knobs and switches to set track 
 4 in "record mode." Once that was done, the tape's 
 tracks would now be configured like this. 
 Figure 3 

 As you can see, the guitar has been recorded onto track 
 4. It didn't, however, erase the guitar that was already on 
 track 1. It simply copied it. On a digital machine, this can 
 be done electronically without having to physically record 
 (and listen through the whole song) like we would using analog 
 equipment. It would be a similar internal process to the one 
 that occurs when you copy and paste text on you computer. 
 Okay, I know what you're thinking. Why would you want to 
 move the guitar to another track in the first place? The truth 
 is you probably wouldn't, but if you wanted to move both the 
 bass and the guitar onto track 4 you would gain a major advantage. 
 In Figure 2, you only had one empty track, but if you moved 
 the guitar and the bass onto track 4, you would leave two 
 tracks available to be recorded over by other instruments. 

 Figure 4 

 As in figure 3, the guitar and bass haven't been erased 
 from their original tracks, they've just been copied as a 
 set onto track 4. The good news is that you have two tracks 
 available to use now instead of only one, but the bad news 
 is that now whatever changes you make to the bass will also 
 affect the guitar. They are now tied together inseparably 
 onto a single track. You have in effect just "ping-ponged" 
 them from their original tracks. The technique of ping-ponging 
 can be used over and over again as a means of turning four 
 tracks into as many tracks as you need. The only drawback 
 is that each time you record and erase a track on an analog 
 tape, it will suffer some wear and tear, and each time you 
 move it from one track to another the quality of sound for 
 that instrument (or voice) will be reduced. This loss of sound 
 quality (called generation loss) is something you should keep 
 an eye (or ear) on. In theory, ping-ponging can be done an 
 unlimited number of times. However, on tape there is a practical 
 limit. On the other hand, if you're recording digitally, there 
 is virtually no generation loss at all, so ping-pong to your 
 heart's content. 
 Punch in/out 
 Sometime during the recording process, someone is bound to 
 make a mistake. A guitar player may hit a sour note, a bad 
 cord might make an electrical hum shoot through a recorded 
 track, or a phone might ring in the background of an otherwise 
 good vocal recording. Any number of things might go wrong. 
 In fact, any number of things will go wrong. Don't let it 
 stress you too much; it's all just part of the recording experience. 
 Besides, thanks to a process of punching in and punching out, 
 those little recording faux pas can usually be reduced to 
 nothing more than easily remedied inconveniences. 
 Basically, punching in and punching out is a process for 
 editing out mistakes on individual tracks. It works something 
 like this: Let's say the guitar is to be recorded onto track 
 two. Your guitar player is on a really good day and gets it 
 perfect on his first attempt except for one wrong chord in 
 the middle of the second verse. Using the technique of punching 
 in and punching out, you won't have to make him do the whole 
 thing over again. He'll only have to play through the part 
 of the song where the mistake took place. All you have to 
 do as the recording guy is rewind the tape to a few seconds 
 ahead of the mistake (far enough ahead for the guitar player 
 to get in the groove), and play it back while he jams along. 
 Once the playback gets near the spot where the mistake was, 
 you start recording his guitar onto the same track (punch 
 in) and when the playback gets past the mistake, you stop 
 recording (punch out). Planning the punches on places in the 
 music where there is a pause in the guitar part will ensure 
 a nearly seamless fix even on inexpensive equipment. 
 In addition to fixing mistakes, the process is very good 
 for doing parts over and over until you get them just the 
 way you want. It's especially good for insertion of backup 
 vocals and special effects. We'll talk more about this in 
 Part 3 when we discuss the step-by-step process of home multi-track 
 recording. 
 Mixdown 
 Once you've recorded everything you want and you've ping-ponged 
 and edited your recording to your satisfaction, you'll be 
 ready to mix it all together, add effects, equalize the complete 
 mix, and record the whole thing onto a single master tape 
 or onto any number of digital media. This is called mixdown. 
 No matter what kind of multi-track recorder you're using, 
 some kind of mixdown is always necessary. 
 If the multi-track unit is analog, the mixdown is done by 
 playing all the tracks back and adjusting them so that they 
 sound good together. Once that is done, the finished mix can 
 be recorded onto a cassette or can be digitized as a finished 
 product. If the multi-track is digital, its final mix can 
 be recorded in the same way, or it can be converted directly 
 to a digital format that can be read by a CD, DVD, or MP3 
 player. The resulting recording from either a digital or an 
 analog 4-track can then be used as a master for making copies. 

 A Word on Detail 
 Detail, or attention to detail, is the most important concept 
 in all recording. Even though you're on a budget and your 
 equipment is a little lacking, if you pay close attention 
 to the details, your finished product can still turn out to 
 be something you can be proud of. Bad recordings aren't usually 
 the result of one giant mistake. Instead, they often result 
 from the cumulative effect of a huge amount of seemingly insignificant 
 oversights. For instance, if you have one bad mic cord that 
 causes a nearly inaudible hum on a single take, it probably 
 won't hurt the overall mix too much, but if you use that same 
 cord every time you record any take on any track, the hum 
 will multiply to where it becomes real problem. It will ultimately 
 ruin your whole recording. Don't let one anything ruin your 
 hard work. Always use the best equipment available to you, 
 never say, "that's good enough," and never be afraid 
 to do a second take. Later in the process, you may not be 
 able to. It's the little things - the details - that make 
 all the difference in the world. 
 In Part 3 of "Recording on a Budget," we'll begin 
 a step-by-step examination of those details as we walk through 
 making a home multi-track recording. 
 Scott Hysell 2002-05-09 

 Scott 
 Hysell runs the website Scott's 
 PA System Tutorial . This site deals with all PA systems including 
 some of the words and phrases you are likely to hear and maybe even use 
 while running sound. 

 Previous 
 article in this series "Recording on a Budget Part 1" 
 Next article in this series 
 "Compression - A Simple Explanation" 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.