Guitar Noise Sound Engineering 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Intermediate Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Amps 
 & EFX , Sound Engineering 

 SOUND ENGINEERING 

 Can You Really Do It All 
 Yourself? 
 By Stephen Sherrard and Music-And-Technology.com 
 Recently, on the message board on this site, someone 
 was thinking about buying a digital recording system 
 and was wondering if he really could get major label 
 quality results from a low budget home studio system. 
 This is my unedited reply to that question. 

 Complete Lesson 

 Soundcheck: A Necessary Evil 
 By Scott Hysell 
 A lot of people don&#146;t realize exactly what it takes to 
 become an accomplished musician. Through perseverance and 
 a certain degree of fearlessness, many of us passed through 
 difficulties and finally made it to the bright lights of the 
 stage. And when we got there, we discovered one thing &#150; 
 one necessary evil &#150; the soundcheck. 
 Recording on a Budget Part 1: 
 The Equipment 
 By Scott Hysell 
 So, you've written and perfected a bunch of original songs 
 and you're ready to lay them down in a permanent form. The 
 problem is, you're probably worried or maybe even a little 
 discouraged by the potential costs involved. It can be incredibly 
 expensive, but have no fear; it doesn't have to be that way. 

 Recording on a Budget Part 2: 
 Recording Concepts 
 By Scott Hysell 
 The simple truth is, recording (even home recording) can 
 get pretty complicated, but don't let that pile of stuff scare 
 you. As with most things complicated, the recording process 
 can be broken down into a series of steps and concepts that 
 are relatively easy to understand. 
 Compression - A Simple Explanation 
 By Stephen Sherrard and Music-And-Technology.com 
 A compressor is basically a variable gain device that 
 is used to either try to smooth out the dynamic range of a 
 signal, or is also sometimes used as an effect. Different 
 compressors have different types of characteristics and sounds 
 that they impart to the source signal as well... the really 
 expensive compressors are often expensive because of the character 
 of their sound that is desirable for a lot of applications. 

 Live 
 Sound Reinforcement 
 By Scott Hunter Stark 
 This book gives an overview of all of the equipment 
 involved in a sound system, everything from a mic cord 
 to a compressor to a cross over. The material is covered 
 in detail and everything is explained with clear language 
 and diagrams that are accessible to non-specialists. 
 It is a very helpful book to have lying around to look 
 back at and jog your memory of what this or that does. 

 Buy 
 Online 

 Sound Engineering Q & A 
 This series of articles is designed to help the beginning 
 sound engineer get the best sound assuming limited stage space 
 and money. Each column focuses on one aspect of sound engineering, 
 but the Q&A format does not suggest a specific sequence. Questions 
 to the author are encouraged. 
 The Soundman 
 By Dan Lasley 
 Why does your band need a soundman and what exactly does a 
 soundman do? This excellent article on sound engineering covers 
 these and many other important questions. 
 The Equipment 
 By Dan Lasley 
 This article is based on emails regarding PA's and speakers. 
 Answered are questions about distinguishing good and bad speakers 
 as well as reducing noise and hum from a PA. 
 The Mix Board 
 By Dan Lasley 
 When you first see a mix board, it can be overwhelming. Most 
 modern boards are designed to be so flexible that it can be 
 confusing to figure out how to do what you need to 
 do. 
 Compressors 
 By Dan Lasley 
 More questions bring more answers! Learn about sound compressors, 
 microphones, intentional feedback as well as speakers designed 
 in the "disco days" of the seventies! 
 Miking the Drums 
 By Dan Lasley 
 I have received a few emails asking about how to mike the 
 drums, and a couple of others about setting up in a church. 
 This article gives advice on those topics. 

 Rehearse and Rehash 
 By Dan Lasley 
 Some recent emails have given me the idea to review 
 the importance of rehearsing as a band, and how 
 to get the most from your practice time. These 
 are some general suggestions for you to adapt 
 to your own band&#146;s abilities and temperament. 
 Your First Gig 
 By Dan Lasley 
 In honor of our Performance month, a frequent 
 visitor to GuitarNoise decided to make that grand 
 leap of faith and get a gig for his band. Of course, 
 as most of us end up doing, this first gig is 
 going to be right in his own backyard. I am going 
 to use this gig as an example, but I'm going to 
 modify the facts a little to fit my column. 
 Battle of the Bands 
 By Dan Lasley 
 Have you ever wondered how they run those multi-act 
 "Lallapalooza" type shows? Well, first 
 a large corporate sponsor is found, and they hire 
 a bunch of experienced professionals. Let me give 
 you a couple of ideas, because once you see how 
 easy it can be, you can try it out for yourself. 

 Five Star Sites 
 Music and 
 Technology 
 Need help with recording? Check out the How To Guides section 
 for a variety of helpful articles, or post your question on 
 the brand new Message Board. Also, check out the Book Store 
 for more great resources. 
 PA 
 System Tutorial 
 PA Systems come in many different shapes and sizes, ranging 
 from the very elaborate systems used in large stadiums all 
 the way down to a simple microphone patched into your home 
 stereo. This site deals with them all including some of the 
 words and phrases you are likely to hear and maybe even use 
 while running sound. 
 ProSoundWeb 

 ProSoundWeb.com is a web community for all aspects of the 
 professional sound industry including live sound, installed 
 sound, recorded sound, lighting, and industry business trends. 

 Back to top 

 Copyright &copy; 2003 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. Privacy Statement. Contact Us.