Crewed yacht charter with SeaScape Sailing in Greece and Turkey. 

 Skippered Charters 

 Fully Crewed Charters 

 Bareboat Charters 

 Whatever your group's dreams and schemes are, just drop us a line giving as many details as possible - being a small, personal outfit, flexibility is one of our biggest advantages! 

 Have your own group of friends or family you'd love to sail with?

 Great&#151;bring 'em all along!! 

 And because&#151;obviously&#151;that means a lot less admin work for us, we'll give you a great group deal! Eg, get a group of 8 people together for Angelina (our 49' yacht), and it'll cost you just $725 per person; all our usual inclusions too! Or if you choose to go for the more luxury option of AnnaMaria , it will still come out to just $862 each. 

 These prices apply if you like our "Adventure Sailing" concept - you're looking for a get-involved sailing experience, an adventure where you get to help sail the boat, decide where you're going - and take a turn in the galley too! This is our most popular option; and no, you don't need previous sailing experience, just a willingness to pitch in! 

 However, you think the last thing you need on your vacation is to wash a single dish, or chop a tomato - or perhaps you'd prefer to have someone else hoist the sails whilst you soak up the sun; - there is also our full crewed option, where we put another SeaScape crewmember on board to take care of these details. 

 Our trips are usually 6 or 13 days, starting on Sunday am and finishing on Saturday am&#151; occasionally, at the beginning or end of season, we can rearrange our schedule to do 10 day trips for full groups. This is not always available, however, so pls check in with us. 

 If you have a smaller group of people, we do also have yachts in the 32'-44' range available, on which we can still give you the "SeaScape concept"&#151;ie, all-included, no-worries-along-the-way package! (And a SeaScape skipper too. . .that's important). Pls contact us for more info.