Jungian Psychotherapists Association: About the JPA 

 About the JPA 

 Background 

 The JPA is an organization started by a professionally diverse group of psychotherapists with a similar commitment to and interest in Analytical Psychology. We wanted to create a more structured forum where professional (i.e., state licensed or certified) psychotherapists with training and experience in Analytical Psychology could, by pooling our resources, obtain professional education and training in a way that is not available through local educational organizations. We recognized that many professionals wanted a way to grow that fell somewhere between the &#147;lay&#148; and &#147;analyst trainee&#148; levels of education. Furthermore, we understood that there will always be a limited number of openings in analyst training programs, and many of us, regardless of our qualifications, may not have the time or resources to pursue that level of training. We also wanted to create a forum where we would feel supported by others with a similar depth of experience and training during our journeys of individuation. 

 Programs 

 We currently have four meetings per year, which may be part JPA business but are primarily educational. Two meetings are workshops led by distinguished analysts. Each workshop will be succeeded by another meeting, moderated by a JPA member, focusing on the previous workshop&#146;s content, with materials provided by that workshop&#146;s speaker. In addition, we have one public event for the professional community per year, and a three-hour presentation on Ethics. Workshops, consultations and public event are provided at a reduced cost to active members. Study groups and social events occur throughout the year at the discretion of interested members. In the past we have had presentations by distinguished analysts such as: Beverly Zabriski, Ph.D., Mario Jacoby, Ph.D., John Beebe, M.D., Thomas Kirsch, M.D., Ladson Hinton, M.D., Michael Conforti, Ph.D., Polly Young-Eisendrath, Ph.D., and Tony Frey, Ph.D. 

 JPA &#183; P.O. Box 31721 &#183; Seattle, WA 98103 
 (206) 784-9977 
 jpa@jungseattle.org