SeaScape Sailing - Greek ferry timetables, airline schedules, other useful local resources 

 FAQs 

 Notes for Newbies 

 Timetables - flights and ferries 
 Turkey 

 Between Greece and Turkey 

 Domestic flights 

 Olympic Airways - the main domestic carrier in Greece, and the only one who flies to "our" islands, in the Dodecanese. Their full schedule and rates. 

 Greek ferries . The ferry lines which offer services to/from Athens and the Dodecanese are: 

 DANE Sealines 

 GA Ferries 

 Blue Star ferries 

 NEL lines - a fast service to Kos and Samos 

 More about ferries to the Dodecanese ...

 In the summer months, there is always either a DANE or a GA ferry to Leros (sometime both) which leave Athens between 2pm-4pm daily; it is approx 10 hours to Patmos, 11 hours to Leros, 12-14 hours to Kos. From Leros to Athens, there is a ferry which leaves around 9-11pm every day in the summer. 

 Blue Star is a large ferry company who have just added the Dodecanese to their other extensive services around the Aegean. Their boats are fast, very comfortable, even have a swimming pool on deck! From Athens to/from Leros is only 8 hours. Unfortunately, they only have 2 boats a week Athens-Leros at the moment. However, their ferry on Sat night Athens-Leros coincides very nicely with our rendezvous time on Sunday am. 

 Useful times: 

 Athens-Leros:dep Pireus Sat 11.30pm, arrive Leros 8.10am Sun. Blue Star ferries

 Leros-Athens:Dep Leros Sun 9.45pm, arrive Pireus 7.10am. Blue Star ferries

 Athens-Samos: Every day from Pireus at 5pm, arrive Samos 11.45pm. NEL ferry lines

 Samos-Athens: Every day from Samos at 7.30am, arrive Athens 2.45pm. NEL ferry lines

 Kos-Athens: There are many ferries between Kos and Athens; check out our timetable links for full details. 

 Online booking is available for Blue Star and NEL ferries; for GA it is coming "real soon now"; DANE ferries can only be booked at local agent/ticket office. If you are going to book online, allow sufficient time for your ticket to be airmailed to you; you cannot pick it up at the port ! 

 Booking a cabin is not expensive, and highly recommended. 

 Ferry Schedules to/from Athens and the islands 

 Greekferries.gr - Blue Star, GA & NEL schedules

 Greek Travel Pages - very complete schedule, be sure to select Pireus (TZE) PORT (Athens) to get all departures!

 Paleologos - a full agency booking service based in Crete; they have a good search engine for ferries all over Greece. Also flights to/from Crete. 

 Local ferries and hydrofoils around the Dodecanese and nearby islands: 

 There is an extensive network of smaller ferries and hydrofoils which connect the Dodecanese island chain. Not all of these are detailed online, but most are shown on the GTP site. 

 Note: Summer schedules 2003 ...

 Summer schedules may not be shown for some services until March/April; but as a general guide, there are regular hydrofoils running between Samos-Patmos-Lipsos-Leros-Kalymnos-Kos-Rhodes every day. There is also a fast catamaran which has a daily service between Rhodes-Kos-Kalymnos-Leros-Lipsos-Patmos every day.