English for Filipinos - Grammar 

 English for Filipinos 
 Grammar 

Grammar has to do with the way words are put together to make sentences and
how some words can change according to the way they are used. There are
differences between the grammar of Filipino languages and the grammar of
English. People that grew up speaking Tagalog, Cebuano, Ilocano, or other
languages of the Philippines, and then learned English later, tend to use
some of their Filipino language grammar with English, so it can sound funny
and be confusing.

I will tell of some of the differences.

 Singular and Plural 
"Singular" has to do with one, and "plural" means more than one. In grammar,
it means the way the word or sentence changes according to whether you are
talking about just one thing or more than one.

For example, in Tagalog, you can say "ang saging" (singular) if talking about one banana
and "mga saging" (plural) if talking about more than one banana. But Tagalog is not
strict about this. You can say "saging" no matter how many bananas. But
in English the rules are much more strict. "The banana" means one banana
and no more. If there are two or more bananas you must say "the bananas".
Filipinos often use the singular word in English even when talking about
more than one of something. But the American will understand that you mean
only one. 

So let's say that a Filipino wants the American to get the bunch of bananas out
of the kitchen, and asks, "Please get the banana from the kitchen". So the
American goes into the kitchen, tears one banana loose from the bunch and
brings it to the Filipino, and the Filipino does not understand why the American
did not bring the other bananas. It is because "banana" means only one
banana, not more than one.

Or let's say that a Filino wants to take all the books down from a shelf, and
she asks her Canadian friend, "Please take the book off of the shelf", and the
Canadian asks, "Which one?" Because "the book" means only one. She should
have asked, "Please take the books off of the shelf".

 So the point is to be careful in English to use the plural forms of words
if you are talking about more than one. Please notice that it is often
necessary to change more than one word to agree with the plural. For example, 
"The man has one Bible, and it is on the shelf". If you change it to two
men and four Bibles, not only do you change "man" to "men" and add the "s" 
to "Bible" to make it plural, but you also have to change other words to make,
"The men have four Bibles, and they are on the shelf".

 Gender 
The English language has gender , which means that different words are
used depending on whether they are referring to a male or female. There is
no gender in Tagalog as far as I know.

In Tagalog, "sila" can refer to a man or a woman, or a boy or a girl. But in
English there are different words to refer to a man or a woman. "He", "him", 
and "his" all refer to a man and the corresponding words for a woman are "she", "her", 
and "hers". In English it is important not to mix them up or you will probably
confuse the person you are talking to. Let's say that Juan gave some money to
Maria, and then Maria lost the money. You say, "Juan gave the money to
Maria, but he lost it". What you are saying is that Juan is the one that lost the money
because you said "he", which means "the male that I mentioned earlier".

 Back to "English for Filipinos" main page 
 Back to Philippine Links page 
 Return to Fleming Family Home Page. 

 &COPY;2000 Robert M. Fleming Jr. 
This page last updated: 31 December 2003