Elara Adventure Travel - Camel Dive Itinerary, Camel Dive, Camel Dive, Dive Red Sea Egypt, Dive Red Sea Egypt,
 Dive Red Sea Egypt 

 Home 
 Contact Us! 
 Trip 
 Finder 
 Sahara Horse Safaris 
 Red Sea Camel Dive 
 Custom
 Nepal Treks 

 Power of the Pyramids 
 Swim with Dolphins Down Under 

 Request Catalog 

 As seen in Men's
 Journal and Outside Magazine! . . . As seen in Men's Journal
 and Outside Magazine! 

 Elara Adventure
 Travel's Camel
 Dive offers you a unique combination of adventure,
 culture and just plain fun! From the cosmopolitan
 city of Cairo to the the top of Mount Sinai, join us
 in seeing, experiencing and discovering the very
 best of 
 what Egypt has to offer. 

 Red Sea Camel Dive 
 | Red Sea Camel Dive 
 FAQ 

 Day One: 
 Depart New York for Cairo. 

 Day Two: 
 After arriving at the Cairo International Airport, youll
 take a scenic, 30-minute drive through the city to your hotel
 in Giza. Hotel check-in is followed by a special welcome party
 at the home of one of our local tour guides in Nazlet El
 Samman, a 7,000-year-old village built at the feet of the
 Sphinx. 

 Day Three: 
 After breakfast, youll take a guided tour of both the Giza
 Pyramids and of the Sphinx temple complex. Lunch is followed
 by an optional excursion or some free time. Dinner on your
 own. Regroup for New Years Eve festivities. Get ready to
 'ring in' the New Year in a most memorable way! 

 Day Four: 
 Early morning departure from Cairo to Sharm el Sheik. Transfer
 to the dive center for a check dive. Lunch is followed by a
 second dive and a tour of the Colored Canyon. Transfer to your
 hotel. Overnight in Sharm el Sheik. 

 Day Five: 
 A good breakfast will prepare you for two excellent dives from
 the famous point of Ras Mohammed in the afternoon. Lunch break
 at leisure. After your second dive, youll transfer to Dahab.
 Hotel check in. Overnight, Dahab. 

 Day Six: 
 Breakfast and a check dive. Depart by camel to Gabr El Bint,
 site of your day's first dive. Lunch is followed by a transfer
 to Nuweiba where you will have the opportunity to snorkel with
 a friendly, wild dolphin. Return to Dahab for dinner and a
 well-deserved rest. 

 Day Seven: 
 Start your day with an early-morning climb up Mount Sinai for
 the sunrise. After, youll enjoy breakfast a guided tour of
 Saint Catherine's Monastery. After a few hours of day rest at
 a hotel, youll depart by camel to Wadi Sagheer for lunch
 and a late afternoon/early evening dive. Overnight, Dahab 

 Day Eight: 
 After breakfast, you'll do a morning dive at Abu Galum then
 trek by camel to Blue Hole where you'll have lunch and take an
 afternoon dive. Overnight, Dahab. 

 Day Nine: 
 Breakfast is followed by a morning dive in The Caves. You'll
 have lunch at Doda Valley and then camel trek to Assala
 Village for an afternoon of exploring. Take a few snake
 charming lessons if you dare! Transfer back to the hotel in
 Dahab for an overnight. 

 Day Ten: 
 Pack and meet for breakfast. Transfer from Sharm el Sheik to
 Cairo where youll take a privately guided tour of the
 Egyptian Museum (highlighted by the magnificent treasures of
 King Tut). Then, its off to the Old City for a walking tour
 that will take you back in time to the days of Moses. Over
 lunch, youll receive a lesson in bargaining before hitting
 the colorful and fast-paced Khan el Khalili Bazaar. Tonight,
 youll be treated to a Nile River dinner cruise before your
 final departure. 

 Please
 note: This is a sample tour itinerary only. The actual order
 of your daily events as described here may vary slightly. 
 Red 
 Sea Camel Dive | Red 
 Sea Camel Dive FAQ