Elara Adventure Travels - Swim with Dolphins Itinerary 

 Home 
 Contact Us! 
 Trip 
 Finder 
 Sahara Horse Safaris 
 Red Sea Camel Dive 
 Custom
 Nepal Treks 

 Power of the Pyramids 
 Swim with Dolphins Down Under 

 Request Catalog 

 Swim with
 Dolphins Itinerary 

 At
 Shell Beach near Monkey Mia in Western
 Australia--countless tiny, white shells, as far as the
 eye can see. 

 Swim 
 with Dolphins 

 Dolphins Down Under 
 11 days/10 nights 
 June 3 - 14, 2000 

 Days One and Two: 
 Depart Los Angeles and arrive Sydney. Connect to Perth, arriving
 mid-afternoon. Shuttle to the Parkroyal Hotel. Check-in is
 followed by a little time for some rest and relaxation. Re-group
 for dinner and overnight. 

 Day Three: 
 Breakfast at the hotel is followed by a guided walking tour of
 Fremantle, the vibrant and cosmopolitan port-town adjoining
 Perth. Lunch on your own in Fremantle is followed by a return to
 Perth for a free afternoon or an optional walking tour that will
 explore the city described by astronauts as the 'City of
 Lights due to its remote location--like a twinkling jewel in
 the vast desert of Western Australia. Together, we'll explore
 Kings Park, the city center and the 'artsy' area of Newtown.
 Re-group for dinner at a local restaurant and an overnight at
 the hotel. 

 Day Four: 
 After breakfast at the hotel, youll depart by train for
 Bunbury. After a scenic two-hour ride, your first stop will be
 the Bunbury Dolphin Beach where youll have plenty of time to
 spend observing and possibly interacting with some of the
 resident pods of dolphins found in the bay, many of whom are
 regular visitors to the beach. Youll learn more about these
 dolphins from those who know them best--staff members of the
 Dolphin Discovery Center. Lunch will be provided in Bunbury.
 Afternoon return to Perth by train. Dinner on your own with a
 wide variety of restaurants to choose from, including delicious
 seafood, Greek and Thai cuisine, all of which have earned Perth
 a reputation for being one of Australias premiere gourmet
 cities. Overnight, Perth. 

 Day Five: 
 Breakfast is followed by a day-long tour of the Margaret River
 region by private coach. See small villages nestled in rolling
 hills, contrasted with the dramatic coastline of the
 Southwestern Australia. After a picnic lunch, youll depart
 for an afternoon of whale watching from Augusta (a favorite spot
 for the Southern Right Whales to migrate each year to mate and
 give birth). Return to Perth. Dinner at a local restaurant. 

 Day Six: 
 Early morning flight to Monkey Mia. Arrive and transfer to
 your cabin just footsteps away from the famous dolphin beach.
 Breakfast at the resort restaurant, with views overlooking the
 beach and the calm waters. Youll spend the remainder of the
 morning and afternoon on and around the beach. Just offshore,
 these Australian waters are home to an abundance of marine life
 that, in addition to the famously friendly Bottlenose Dolphins,
 includes the endearing (and endangered) Dugong. Lunch on your
 own is followed by some free time. You might want to consider
 renting a kayak or doing some snorkeling. Re-group for a sunset
 cruise on the famous Shotover catamaran--a real chance
 to kick back and relax as you cruise these tranquil waters in
 style! Dinner and overnight, the Monkey Mia Resort. 
 Day Seven: 
 Rise and shine and head for the beach to see Monkey Mias
 famous dolphins feeding and in their most interactive state. A
 late morning breakfast is followed by an interesting and
 educational excursion to a nearby pearl farm. Return to the
 hotel for lunch on your own. This afternoon, youll have the
 opportunity to explore your surroundings, which feature some of
 the worlds most intriguing geography including an Aboriginal
 cave dwelling or two! Return to the Monkey Mia Resort for dinner
 and an overnight. 

 Day Eight: 
 Youll start the day with breakfast and, if time allows, a
 little time at the beach. Then, get ready for a day-long
 adventure on dry land that will take you to see some of the
 highlights that make this area an UNESCO World Heritage Site.
 Your tour stops will include Shell Beach, composed entirely of
 white, tiny shells and absolutely no sand! The nearby village of
 Denham, will be our lunch will be our lunch stop--perhaps this
 is your chance to try a typical Aussie dish from the barbie.'
 Next, well visit a local farmstead and enjoy some commanding
 views of the region from Eagle Bluff. Return to the resort for
 dinner and an overnight. 

 Day Nine : 
 Enjoy a relaxing breakfast at the resort and a little free time
 at the beach before your flight back to Perth. Lunch on your
 own. Connect to Sydney, arriving early evening. Dinner
 in-flight. Transfer to the Southern Cross Hotel for an
 overnight. 

 Day Ten: 
 Breakfast at the hotel is followed by a guided walking tour of
 the city. A stunning view of the city from the Sydney Opera
 House will be just one of the many highlights of your tour as
 will a visit to the historic area of the city known as 'The
 Rocks.' Lunch on your own (a visit to Sydneys nearby
 Chinatown is recommended). Free time in the afternoon to explore
 the Botanical Gardens, or perhaps a harbor ferry across to Manly
 Beach; the choice is yours! Re-group for a fun farewell dinner
 and an overnight. 

 Day Eleven: 
 After breakfast at the hotel, youll spend a morning at the
 newly-opened Dolphin Center, located on the northern entrance of
 Sydney Harbour. Lunch on your own is followed by a free
 afternoon in elegant and eclectic Sydney, with a chance to visit
 the Olympic Stadium or the very unique shopping district around
 Kings Cross and Surry Hills. Early dinner on your own. Re-group
 at the hotel in the early evening for a transfer to the Sydney
 airport and final departure on your overnight flight back to the
 U.S. 

 Swim with Dolphins