Elara Adventure Travels - Swim with Dolphins 

 Home 
 Contact Us! 
 Trip 
 Finder 
 Sahara Horse Safaris 
 Red Sea Camel Dive 
 Custom
 Nepal Treks 

 Power of the Pyramids 
 Swim with Dolphins Down Under 

 Request Catalog 

 Swim
 with Dolphins 

 Bright beaches and beautiful blue
 mountains. Wandering and window-shopping. Cruising on a
 catamaran. Eucalyptus and lemon. Seeing eye to eye with
 a Bottlenose Dolphin! 

 Swim 
 with Dolphins Itinerary 

 Y our adventure 'Down Under'
 officially begins at the edge of the vast sands of the Western
 Australia Desert, in the colorful city of Perth. Here, youll
 explore Kings Park (a patch of untamed bush-land), walk along the
 banks of the lovely Swan River and visit a vibrant downtown area
 which has earned the city a reputation for being one of the most
 beautiful in the world. Just outside the city limits, youll be
 amazed by the geographical diversity youll
 encounter--extraordinary rock formations, stunning waterfalls and
 pristine coastlines with vast, empty beaches. 
 T he
 next stop? Bunbury Bay and the award-winning Dolphin Discovery
 Center where a resident pod of Bottlenose Dolphins has been
 interacting with humans for more than ten years. While
 spending time here, youll have the opportunity to meet the
 dolphins of Bunbury Bay. We're looking forward to
 introducing you to 'Cookie,' 'Stumpy' and 'Sharkey' as well as a
 few of our other fine, flippered friends! 
 A fter
 a brief return to Perth, youll fly north to Monkey Mia, the
 'Dolphin Capital' of the world! Since the early 1960's, wild
 Bottlenose Dolphins have been visiting the warm, shallow waters of
 Shark Bay beach--within wading distance from the shore--much to
 the delight of the two-legged visitors in attendance.
 Exceptionally friendly and always playful, the dolphins are know
 to 'play up' to their many admiring audiences. 
 W hile
 in Monkey Mia, youll learn more about the dolphins and their
 somewhat uncanny interest in humans. In addition, youll also
 set sail on the open ocean in search of a few endangered (and
 endearing) Dugong. Its also in the vicinity of Monkey Mia that
 youll explore an ancient, Aboriginal cave dwelling, visit a
 remote farmstead and take a walk on one of the worlds most
 unusual beachesShell Beach, which as its name implies, is
 composed entirely of tiny, white seashells! 

 F inally, no trip to Australia would be complete without the
 opportunity to see the sights of Sydney--the oldest settlement in
 Australia and one of the most spectacular cities in the world.
 From its picturesque harbor to its famous Opera House, Sydney is a
 world-class city characterized by an unusual combination of
 fast-moving urban life and surprising, small town charm. 

 Swim with Dolphins Itinerary