Elara Adventure Travels - Red Sea Camel Dive 

 Home 
 Contact Us! 
 Trip 
 Finder 
 Sahara Horse Safaris 
 Red Sea Camel Dive 
 Custom
 Nepal Treks 

 Power of the Pyramids 
 Swim with Dolphins Down Under 

 Request Catalog 

 Red 
 Sea Camel Dive 

 As featured in Men's Journal and
 Outside Magazine! . . . As featured in Men's Journal and
 Outside Magazine! 

 "If
 you really want to experience Egypt, do some
 incredible diving and have a lot of fun in the
 process, this is definitely the trip 
 to take and the people to take 
 it with!" 
 Carolyn
 Dennsion 

 Camel 
 Dive Itinerary | Camel Dive FAQ 

 E lara Adventure
 Travel's Red Sea Camel Dive is one of the most unique diving packages
 known to woman or man! This 10-day tour combines
 the Sahara Desert, the Sphinx and the Giza Pyramids with
 world-class diving and camel trekking along the breathtaking
 coast of one of the world's most spectacular diving
 destinations! The Red Sea contains over 200 coral types
 and more than a thousand different species of fish. 
 W hen it comes to diving,
 it just doesn't get any better than this! 
 Y our world-class diving itinerary
 will be highlighted by the opportunity to explore the
 underwater seascapes of the world-famous Canyon and Blue Hole. In
 addition, you'll travel to a variety of 'best kept secret'
 sites which are only accessible by camel! To top it
 off, your incredibly fun tour itinerary includes 3
 nights and 2 days in Giza--the gateway to the Sahara Desert
 and the home of both the pyramids and the Sphinx. 
 T hroughout your tour,
 you'll stay in first-class hotel accommodations in both Giza
 and Dahab-- a lively, 'modern' village built on the edge of a
 pre-existing Bedouin community (which, by contrast, consists
 almost entirely of palm trees and grass huts). From
 Dahab, you'll hike up Mount Sinai to watch an unforgettable
 sun rise, see the treasures of Saint Catherine's Monastery,
 tour the Colored Canyon and so much more. 

 Please
 note: Snorkelers and non-divers are welcome and
 'learn-to-dive' packages are available. 

 Camel Dive Itinerary | Camel 
 Dive FAQ