Elara Adventure Travels - Horse Safari Itinerary 

 Home 
 Contact Us! 
 Trip 
 Finder 
 Sahara Horse Safaris 
 Red Sea Camel Dive 
 Custom
 Nepal Treks 

 Power of the Pyramids 
 Swim with Dolphins Down Under 

 Request Catalog 

 Sahara 
 Desert Horse Safari Itinerary 

 Deep inside the Sahara, you'll re-trace 
 the paths of 
 the ancient Egyptians and have the opportunity to meet some 
 of the desert's 'modern-day' residents as well. 

 In addition, you'll explore a 
 variety of unique, geological formations and a number of 
 intriguing, untouched ruins. 

 Sahara Desert Horse Safari | Sahara Desert Horse Safari FAQ 

 Day One: 

 Depart New York for Cairo 
 Day Two: 
 After arriving at the Cairo International Airport, your stay in 
 Egypt will begin with a scenic 30-minute drive through the city 
 to your hotel in Giza where you will stay for two nights. On your 
 first night in Egypt, you will be introduced to the guides and other 
 members of the support team who will be accompanying you on safari. 

 Day Three: 
 After breakfast, you will take a guided tour of the Giza plateau--site 
 of the famous Giza Pyramids and of the Sphinx. You will have the 
 opportunity to choose a horse and take a trial ride this afternoon. After 
 dinner on your own, you're invited to join us on a short excursion 
 or enjoy some free time before going to bed. 
 Day Four: 
 After breakfast, you will check any extra luggage at the hotel before 
 leaving on safari at 8:00am from the Giza Pyramids. You will 
 then travel by horse to Saqqara where you will have lunch en route 
 to Dashur where you will shower, eat and camp for the evening. Total 
 riding distance: 40 Kilometers. 
 Day Five: 

 Your trek will continue with breakfast and a guided tour of both 
 the Bent and recently-opened Red Pyramids in Dashur before leaving 
 for El Lischt, the campsite for the evening. You will stop 
 for lunch en route. After an opportunity to rest, you will 
 have the opportunity to watch a desert sunset from atop a nearby 
 hill. A Bedouin-style feast will be prepared for you in the 
 desert tonight! Total riding distance: 35 Kilometers. 

 Day Six: 
 You will have breakfast and depart for Meidum. This portion 
 of the ride is a favorite among many riders due to the scenic sand 
 dune vistas seen in this section of the Sahara. Lunch en route. Arrive 
 the Meidum Pyramid--an unusual sight with a steeply-inclined tower 
 rising from a low surrounding hill. You will take a private 
 tour of this pyramid after showering and having dinner. Total 
 riding distance: 35 Kilometers. 
 Day Seven: 
 After breakfast, group members will depart Meidum for the Fayyum 
 Oasis. In Fayyum, you will have the opportunity to take a felucca 
 (sail) boat ride on the Lake of Quran before having lunch. 
 After lunch, you will be transported back to your hotel where you 
 can reclaim your luggage and rest or shop during the afternoon. 
 We recommend resting--perhaps by the pool--we have a few surprises 
 planned for you tonight! 
 Day Eight: 
 Your agenda will include a guided tour of the Egyptian Museum and 
 a walking tour of Old Cairo. We will also visit the Khan El 
 Khalili bazaar. Come prepared to bargain! You will also 
 have the opportunity to go on an optional excursion, do some shopping 
 or simply have free-time. On this final night of organized 
 group activity in Cairo, you'll take a relaxing dinner cruise on 
 the Nile River. 
 Day Nine: 
 Time to explore a little bit more! You'll visit Saqqara, the 
 world's first "city of stone" and Zoser's Step Pyramid. Lunch 
 is followed by an excursion to Memphis, site of the world-famous 
 statue of Ramses. An afternoon tour of an Egyptian rug making 
 school (where all work is still done by hand on looms) is followed 
 by free time and dinner on your own. 
 Day Ten: 
 Breakfast is followed by a farewell horseback ride and hotel check 
 out. An optional tour of the Pharonic village or free time will 
 be the highlight of your afternoon. Dinner is followed by tea 
 time at the top of the Cairo Tower. Final departure. 

 Sahara Desert 
 Horse Safari | Sahara 
 Desert Horse Safari FAQ 

 Elara Adventure Travel 

 phone 
 360-652-7182 

 aelindemann@hotmail.com 

 Stanwood, Washington USA