Elara Adventure Travels - Custom Nepal Treks 

 Home 
 Contact Us! 
 Trip 
 Finder 
 Sahara Horse Safaris 
 Red Sea Camel Dive 
 Custom
 Nepal Treks 

 Power of the Pyramids 
 Swim with Dolphins Down Under 

 Request Catalog 

 Custom
 Nepal Treks 

 There was once a monk who lived high in the
 mountains. He was poor and had no possessions. He lived on berries and
 leaves and the sight of the mountains. His being was full of their
 beauty and through them he acquired wisdom. 

 One day, a thief came upon the monk and seeing he was poor, apologized
 for the intrusion and was about to leave when the monk stopped him. 

 "I have these clothes and you cannot go away empty handed,"
 said the monk. 

 And he gave the thief his clothes. 

 Alone, the monk sat sipping water from an earthen cup when suddenly he
 saw the mountains and the sky and the beauty of his surroundings
 reflected in the water he was sipping. 

 "Poor thief," said the monk to himself. "I could not
 give him this." 

 Trekking 
 The greatest single attraction of Nepal is her beautiful mountains, and
 walking among them is a wonderful way to experience their majesty.
 Friends in High Places - An Individualized Outfitter 
 What Individualized Means 
 Friends in High Places designs and operates individualized programs for
 small groups. This means that we talk with you, sometimes extensively,
 and make a proposal to meet your interests. With the exeption of our
 summer programs for Tibet, we do not do "fixed departure"
 trips, as many other trekking outfitters do. Instead we will take your 
 party where ever you want to go, on what ever dates are most
 convenient for you . 

 And all at a price lower than those fixed departure group trips. 

 We are also happy to make hotel reservations, arrange transportation,
 and fit a jungle safari or whitewater rafting expedition into your
 visit. If you would like to combine a stop in India or Tibet with Nepal,
 we can do that too. 

 We enjoy fitting both the trek and the rest of your experience in the
 fabulous Kingdom of Nepal to your interests. Let us know about your
 hobbies and work. We can probably find some interesting tie-ins in
 Kathmandu or on trek. 

 Itineraries are always flexible. After all, it's your trek! With the
 fixed departure groups, you pretty much have to do exactly what's
 planned, at the group pace. With an individualized trek and an
 experienced guide, your itinerary is flexible. You can go faster and see
 more, or stop in a particularly pleasant place for an extra day. 

 Safety always comes first on trek. Although your guide is going to
 interpret and be your window onto this amazing place, his first duty is
 to keep you healthy and safe and on the right trail. Our guides are
 ethnic Sherpas, and their heritage is one of great service. They also
 very friendly people, so you will probably come away with a lifelong
 friend as well.