SeattleOtaku: Anime Intros Rated PG/PG-13 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Anime Intros Rated PG/PG-13 

 A quick word about PG/PG-13 rated anime -- I've
included "official" (package-listing) "PG" and "PG-13" here as well as a close
approximation of the this-age-and-up ratings, using a cutoff of 15 (listing
"16+" as "R" elsewhere). 

 Blue Seed 
 TV (25 eps) 

 Young Momiji was born to save the world from demons, but can only her death by sacrifice stop the demons from ruling the Earth? What really happened to her twin sister?
 Rated 12+ -- contains violence, lingerie humor 

 Boogiepop Phantom 
 TV (12 eps) 

 A series of disappearances and grisly murders took place five years ago, and those acts, and the mysterious sudden halting of them, still affect people in the present. Each episode tells the story from a different character's point of view (much like Rashomon ).
 Rated 15+ -- contains graphic violence 

 Chobits 
 TV 

 Trying to get into college, a young man stumbles upon a computer lying in a trash heap; but this computer is an extremely cute female android, walking around without an operating system. . . or is she?
 Rated 15+ -- contains lingerie, language 

 Crusher Joe 
 OVA/Movie 

 When things go wrong, and you can't call in the Space Force and make your troubles public, it's time to call in the crushers, intergalactic troubleshooters; the best in the business is Joe and his team. Just don't double-cross them, because they'll solve that problem, too. . . .
 Rated 12+ -- contains wartime violence, brief nudity 

 .Hack (Dot-Hack) 
 TV/OVA/Game 

 An online RPG becomes all too real to its participants when players become comatose and a rare few reawaken to attempt to find out what's happening. A TV version is released separately from the PlayStation2 games and OVAs (packaged together).
 ESRB Rated T (13+) -- contains violence 

 Dynasty Warriors 
 Multiple Game(s) 

 A series of PlayStation and PS2 games based on the Three Kingdoms saga of 2nd- and 3rd-century Chinese history (Shu, Wu, and Wei kingdoms), featuring large roaming maps and an open-ended style of recreating the famous battles between the Han and Jin dynasties.
 ESRB Rated T (13+) -- contains violence 

 Full Metal Panic! 
 TV (26 eps) 

 A rogue military group works to defend a young high-school girl from kidnappers; governments are collecting people with special powers, called 'Whispered', but for what purpose?
 Rated 12+ -- contains wartime violence, lingerie 

 Gasaraki 
 TV (26 eps) 

 Two youths, Yushiro and Miharu, find themselves tangled in a web of military experiments and an encroaching horror from their pasts.
 Rated 12+ -- contains wartime violence, language 

 Gunsmith Cats 
 OVA (3 eps) 

 Rally Vincent, a Chicago gunsmith, and her explosives-fanatic partner go up against a Russian hit-woman on the streets of Chicago.
 Rated 15+ -- contains violence, lingerie 

 Ico 
 Game 

 Imprisoned in a castle full of spirits, a young boy tries to escape and rescue a mysterious girl. Gorgeous terrain details and near-perfect controls in this PlayStation2 puzzle-solver.
 ESRB Rated E (6+) -- contains mild violence 

 Iria: Zeiram the Animation 
 OVA (6 eps) 

 A young bounty hunter battles against the perfect violent lifeform to avenge the loss of her brother and stop a conspiracy determined to keep the creature alive.
 Rated 13+ -- contains violence 

 Kacho Ouji (Black Heaven) 
 TV (13) 

 A mid-30s businessman is recruited to help save the galaxy in an interstellar battle; like a satire of Macross using heavy metal music, only his "groove" can power the ultimate weapon and save us all. Fair animation (digital) but better as the story progresses.
 Rated 13+ -- contains wartime violence, brief nudity 

 Love Hina 
 TV/OVA 

 Keitaro made a promise years ago to attend Tokyo U with a young girl shortly before she moved away; now he's failing the entrance exams, his grandmother's hot springs apartment building that he now manages has turned into an all-girl's dorm, and one of the girls made a certain promise to a boy years ago.
 Rated 13+ -- contains violence, bathing humor 

 Magic Knights Rayearth 
 TV/OVA 

 Three girls who promised to never split up approach high school graduation and the ultimate test of that childhood promise, involving nature spirits that fuse with them to become giant robots defending (or against, depending on the version) an alternate universe.
 Rated 12+ -- contains brief nudity, graphic violence 

 Mahoromatic 
 Multiple TV(s) 

 Reaching the final year of her "lifespan", a battle android is given the chance to follow her dream, as retiring from battle would extend her time. What better job after retiring than as a live-in maid for her former commander's teenaged son? But how can she deal with the enemy who isn't aware of her retired status?
 Rated 15+ -- contains wartime violence, brief nudity 

 Master Keaton 
 TV 

 Anime's answer to Indiana Jones; an archeaology professor with a wide-ranging past takes on investigations for Lloyds of London policy holders.
 Rated 12+ -- contains violence 

 Memories 
 Movie 

 Three shorts by Otomo Katsuhiro, with direction by Morimoto Koji, Okamura Tensai, and Otomo himself, offer a brief "Outer Limits" style strangeness; a classic that shows how CG (in "Magnetic Rose") were not as obvious eight years ago as they seem to be today.
 Rated PG-13 -- contains violence 

 Metropolis 
 Movie 

 Loosely based on the silent film of the same name and the classic manga by Tezuka Osamu, a future society where humans and robots live together gets a wake-up call when a group of humans organize a revolt.
 Rated PG-13 -- contains violence 

 Millennium Actress 
 Movie 

 A documentary director interviews a legendary actress, reliving her life through memories of her life and films; the documentary makers even participate in the reenactments of her memories.
 Rated PG -- contains violence, mild language 

 Mononoke Hime (Princess Mononoke) 
 Movie 

 A prince finds himself in a battle between men of industry, the gods of the forest, and a girl fighting against the humans for her own reasons.
 Rated PG-13 -- contains violence 

 Nadia: The Secret of Blue Water 
 TV (39 eps) 

 Based on Jules Verne's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea , a French inventor helps a young circus performer in a quest to find the secrets of her past and her unusual pendant.
 Rated 12+ -- contains violence 

 Otaku no Video 
 OVA (2 eps) 

 Gainax studio's "mockumentary" of itself; Kubo and Takaka set out to "otakunize" the world. How many studio inside-jokes and external anime references can you find?
 Rated 13+ -- contains brief nudity 

 Porco Rosso (Kuronai no Buta) 
 Movie 

 In an age when propeller planes ruled the air in battle, a legendary bounty hunter with the face of a pig befriends a girl mechanic and races against the odds against air pirates.
 Rated PG? -- contains violence 

 Rahxephon 
 TV (26 eps) 

 In a future where Tokyo is the only remaining city after an alien attack, a young boy finds a robot that he can somehow pilot and finds himself outside Tokyo -- in a world that runs under a different timescale and has secured Tokyo as the enemy.
 Rated 12+ -- contains wartime violence 

 Ranma 1/2 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 In the Anything Goes martial arts school, one needs to be ready for literally anything. But when Ranma and his father trek off to China in search of the ultimate training ground, without the benefit of knowing how to read Chinese, they fall into magical springs. Meet Ranma, who turns into a girl when splashed with cold water, and his father, who turns into a giant panda. Hot water reverses the spell, but not for long. . . .
 Rated 13+ -- contains mild violence, nudity 

 Real Bout High School 
 TV (13 eps) 

 In this school, rival clubs and gangs duke it out for funding the old fashioned way; they beat each other up. Enter a young girl obsessed with samurai movies and practicing kendo, a magical pendant that transports the wearer into another dimension, and a monster-of-the-week. Still, it's all in good fun, or is it?
 Rated 13+ -- contains violence, lingerie 

 Revolutionary Girl Utena 
 TV/Movie 

 After meeting a price in her childhood, Utena had vowed to become a prince herself, to save damsels in distress, etc. Now in high school, she's found herself in the midst of a group trying to control a "Rose Bride", her friend.
 Rated 13+ -- contains mild violence 

 Read or Die 
 OVA (3 eps) 

 A team of library agents with super powers take on a group of historical-scientist clones to save the world.
 Rated 13+ -- contains violence 

 Roujin Z 
 Movie 

 When a prototype bed, designed to cater to the needs of its patient, goes too far by accepting every need, including escape, a young nurse may be the only one able to save the patient.
 Rated PG-13 -- contains mild violence 

 Sailor Moon 
 Multiple TV/Movie(s) 

 An oversleeping, overeating, crybaby junior-high student finds herself as a chosen warrior to fight against various monsters-of-the-week with the help of a few other girls (Sailors Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, etc.). One of the notorious "edited" shows for US TV; stick with the original Japanese unedited version.
 Rated 15+ -- contains violence, sexual innuendo (in later series) 

 Soul Edge/Soul Calibur 
 Multiple Game(s) 

 Various characters fight to obtain or destroy a legendary evil sword in this series of 3D-with-swords fighting games. Originally on Playstation (Soul Edge), then Dreamcast (Soul Calibur), it is now on all current platforms (Soul Calibur 2 on Playstation 2, Gamecube, and XBox).
 ESRB Rated T (13+) -- contains violence 

 The Vision of Escaflowne 
 TV/Movie 

 High-school athlete Hitomi is transported to another world where robots and dragons fight against power-mad foes; but how will she get back home, and does she really want to?
 Rated 13+ -- contains violence 

 X 
 TV/Movie 

 Two childhood friends find themselves on opposite sides of fate in an apocalpytic fight for survival; the survival or destruction of themselves, of Tokyo, and perhaps of the Earth itself.
 Rated 15+ -- contains graphic violence 

 Xenogears/Xenosaga 
 Multiple Game(s) 

 Ancient artifacts, alien invaders, giant robots, and religion combine in a grand multi-millennium RPG saga for the PlayStation (Xenogears) and PlayStation2 (Xenosaga, after a split from Squaresoft) game consoles.
 ESRB Rated T (13+) -- contains violence 

 Full Intros by Title 
 Titles A-G 
 Titles H-M 
 Titles N-S 
 Titles T-Z 

 Full Intros by Type 
 TV Series 
 OVA (Videos) 
 Movies 
 Games 

 Full Intros by Rating 
 PG/PG-13 
 R/NC-17 
 Not Rated 
 Unknown/Multiple 
 X-Rated shows do exist but are not listed here. 
 Reasons for Rating Notes 

 Sol Bianca: The Legacy Copyright (C) AIC, Pioneer LDC, PEA 
 All rights reserved. Permission for image use provided by: 

 USED WITH PERMISSION: Images of anime programs
on this page are used with permission of the copyright holder or the legal
distributor of the represtented work. Copying from this page for your own
use is prohibited -- please contact the copyright holder or distibutor
cited to gain permission from the proper people. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.