SeattleOtaku: Anime Intros Rated R/NC-17 

 Anime Intros Rated R/NC-17 

 A quick word about R/NC-17 rated anime -- I've
included "official" (package-listing) "R" and "NC-17" here as well as a close
approximation of the this-age-and-up ratings, using a cutoff of 16 (listing
ages "15" and below as "PG/PG-13" elsewhere). 

 Akira 
 Movie 

 When motorcycle-gang-member Tetsuo gains uncontrollable psychic powers, the gang's leader, Kaneda, struggles to keep his friends alive before a legendary source of similar power, Akira, is awakened.
 Rated R -- contains graphic violence, language, brief nudity 

 Armitage III 
 Multiple OVA/Movie(s) 

 A hotshot police officer and her new partner go up against "Thirds", robots designed to appear human, and a line of assassins; but what is her own relationship to the thirds?
 Rated 16+ -- contains violence, language, brief nudity 

 Fushigi Yuugi (Mysterious Play) 
 Multiple TV/OVA(s) 

 Two friends reading a book find themselves linked to the ancient world described inside, and on opposite sides of a continental battle. Strong Neverending Story motif, without the flying muppets.
 Rated 16+ -- contains violence, brief nudity 

 Hakkenden (Legend of the Dog Warriors) 
 OVA (13 eps) 

 In 15th-century Japan, warring families battle for supremacy and survival; one side uses demons, while the other side has legendary half-human/half-dog warriors with the eight virtues of the samurai.
 Rated 16+ -- contains graphic violence 

 Key the Metal Idol 
 OVA (15 eps) 

 A young robotic girl searches for a method of becoming human when her grandfather/creator is killed; a female Pinnochio with anime standards of super powers, robots, and idol singers.
 Rated 16+ -- contains violence, brief nudity 

 Now and Then, Here and There 
 TV (13 eps) 

 A young teenager finds himself in another world trying to rescue . . . nearly everyone. Easily the darkest of the AIC/Pioneer "high-school teen in an alternate world" series, and offers quite a few twists. Originally on satellite/cable TV rather than broadcast TV.
 Rated 16+ -- contains graphic violence 

 Serial Experiments Lain 
 TV (13 eps) 

 A shy girl gets an email from a deceased friend and finds herself drawn into the "wired" online world in a chase for sanity and reality.
 Rated 16+ -- contains violence, suicides in early episodes 

 3 x 3 Eyes 
 OVA (7 eps) 

 A young man swerves his motorcycle to avoid hitting a magical girl, who makes him immortal; now he needs to make her human to become human again himself!
 Rated 16+ -- contains graphic violence 

 Full Intros by Title 
 Titles A-G 
 Titles H-M 
 Titles N-S 
 Titles T-Z 

 Full Intros by Type 
 TV Series 
 OVA (Videos) 
 Movies 
 Games 

 Full Intros by Rating 
 PG/PG-13 
 R/NC-17 
 Not Rated 
 Unknown/Multiple 
 X-Rated shows do exist but are not listed here. 
 Reasons for Rating Notes 

 Armitage III: Polymatrix Copyright (C) AIC, Pioneer LDC 
 All rights reserved. Permission for image use provided by: 

 USED WITH PERMISSION: Images of anime programs
on this page are used with permission of the copyright holder or the legal
distributor of the represtented work. Copying from this page for your own
use is prohibited -- please contact the copyright holder or distibutor
cited to gain permission from the proper people. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.