SeattleOtaku: Reasons for Ratings 

 Anime Ratings: Reasons for Rating Notes 

 W atch enough Anime in its unedited format on video,
and you'll wind up being able to "see" things in the US television versions
that have been edited out, sometimes cleanly, but often quite drastically. 

 Brief nudity is one example. If on TV someone is bating wearing a spandex
sports-bra, chances are she wasn't wearing it in the original. That's if the
scene made it to TV in the first place; some stations simply skip the entire
episode, leaving the story hanging in the process, rather than using the digital
editing involved to keep the scene "intact". 

 Violence is by far the most-often seen difference. In the original, a
gunshot wound or a sword slash can get pretty bloody, especially if the villain
is able to follow a trail of blood drops later on. On US TV, however, if
someone is coughing after being shot, chances are you won't see any blood from
the original print; it's another example of quick digital editing these
days. 

 The reasons I state in these pages for the listed ratings at times follow
the listed package reasons, but often employ my own personal spin on meanings,
which I lay out below. I hope this can help folks decide which shows are the
ones to watch for in the stores or rental shops. 

 Mild Violence 
 No-one dies; they may get hurt in a fight, but not bloody. 
 Violence 
 Some characters visibly lose blood, and possibly die. 
 Suicide 
 Self-inflicted death. 
 Wartime Violence 
 Death is a given in war; so are explosions, military firepower,
 etc. 
 Graphic Violence 
 Not only do characters die, but it can get gory (more than blood). 

 Language 
 Everything has language, but this has the four-letter
 variety. 
 Graphic Language 
 A lot of the four-letter variety. 

 Lingerie 
 Nothing is uncovered, but you can see lingerie or panties. 
 Nudity 
 Does anyone bathe or change clothes with their clothes
 on ? 
 Sexual Situations 
 Recreational or procreational sex, in shadow or off-screen 
 in these listings. 

 Drug Use 
 Some folks use "illegal chemicals". 

 Full Intros by Title 
 Titles A-G 
 Titles H-M 
 Titles N-S 
 Titles T-Z 

 Full Intros by Type 
 TV Series 
 OVA (Videos) 
 Movies 
 Games 

 Full Intros by Rating 
 PG/PG-13 
 R/NC-17 
 Not Rated 
 Unknown/Multiple 
 X-Rated shows do exist but are not listed here. 
 Reasons for Rating Notes 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.