SeattleOtaku: Anime Titles N-S 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Anime Titles N-S 

 A quick note about titles -- Most of the titles
below are the titles on the US releases of the Japanese shows. In many cases,
I'll prefer the Japanese title, and if a show can be found under both titles
(Japanese subtitled and English re-dubbed versions), I will list it under the 
original title with the English version in parentheses. On occasion, when two 
different distributors own the rights to the Japanese original and the 
US-edited version (such as "Macross" vs. "Robotech"), both versions may not
be released on the same format (two VHS releases or a bi-lingual DVD); I 
recommend the Japanese orignal without exception. 

 Nadia: The Secret of Blue Water 
 TV (39 eps) 

 Based on Jules Verne's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea , a French inventor helps a young circus performer in a quest to find the secrets of her past and her unusual pendant.
 Rated 12+ -- contains violence 

 Nausicaa of the Valley of Wind 
 Movie 

 A young princess must balance her love of life against an encroaching poisonous forest and the humans who want to destroy it. Forget the now-expired and disowned edit of years ago and stick to the unedited version; import-only at the moment.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 Neon Genesis Evangelion 
 Multiple TV/Movie(s) 

 Shinji Ikari is called by his estranged father to pilot a huge robot against invading aliens; but what are his real reasons for piloting it?
 Not Rated -- contains wartime violence, brief nudity 

 Noir 
 TV 

 Two female assassins team up to find the secrets of their pasts; heavy similaries to a mix between Luc Besson's La Femme Nikita and Leon, the Professional .
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 Now and Then, Here and There 
 TV (13 eps) 

 A young teenager finds himself in another world trying to rescue . . . nearly everyone. Easily the darkest of the AIC/Pioneer "high-school teen in an alternate world" series, and offers quite a few twists. Originally on satellite/cable TV rather than broadcast TV.
 Rated 16+ -- contains graphic violence 

 Otaku no Video 
 OVA (2 eps) 

 Gainax studio's "mockumentary" of itself; Kubo and Takaka set out to "otakunize" the world. How many studio inside-jokes and external anime references can you find?
 Rated 13+ -- contains brief nudity 

 Patlabor Mobile Police 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 Noah Izumi and her police cohorts save Tokyo from giant rogue robots with a set of their own giant robots in a realistic cops-and-robots series.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains mild violence 

 Perfect Blue 
 Movie 

 A young pop-music star, quits the stage for the lights and cameras of television and film, much to the chagrin of a fan stalking her.
 Not Rated -- contains graphic violence, language, nudity 

 Porco Rosso (Kuronai no Buta) 
 Movie 

 In an age when propeller planes ruled the air in battle, a legendary bounty hunter with the face of a pig befriends a girl mechanic and races against the odds against air pirates.
 Rated PG? -- contains violence 

 Project A-Ko 
 Multiple OVA/Movie(s) 

 One of the most famous high-school heroines in anime, in an action-packed spoof of nearly all genres. Eiko (A-ko) vs. Biiko (B-ko) for the freindship of Shiiko (C-ko).
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence, brief nudity 

 Rahxephon 
 TV (26 eps) 

 In a future where Tokyo is the only remaining city after an alien attack, a young boy finds a robot that he can somehow pilot and finds himself outside Tokyo -- in a world that runs under a different timescale and has secured Tokyo as the enemy.
 Rated 12+ -- contains wartime violence 

 Ranma 1/2 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 In the Anything Goes martial arts school, one needs to be ready for literally anything. But when Ranma and his father trek off to China in search of the ultimate training ground, without the benefit of knowing how to read Chinese, they fall into magical springs. Meet Ranma, who turns into a girl when splashed with cold water, and his father, who turns into a giant panda. Hot water reverses the spell, but not for long. . . .
 Rated 13+ -- contains mild violence, nudity 

 Real Bout High School 
 TV (13 eps) 

 In this school, rival clubs and gangs duke it out for funding the old fashioned way; they beat each other up. Enter a young girl obsessed with samurai movies and practicing kendo, a magical pendant that transports the wearer into another dimension, and a monster-of-the-week. Still, it's all in good fun, or is it?
 Rated 13+ -- contains violence, lingerie 

 Revolutionary Girl Utena 
 TV/Movie 

 After meeting a price in her childhood, Utena had vowed to become a prince herself, to save damsels in distress, etc. Now in high school, she's found herself in the midst of a group trying to control a "Rose Bride", her friend.
 Rated 13+ -- contains mild violence 

 Read or Die 
 OVA (3 eps) 

 A team of library agents with super powers take on a group of historical-scientist clones to save the world.
 Rated 13+ -- contains violence 

 Roujin Z 
 Movie 

 When a prototype bed, designed to cater to the needs of its patient, goes too far by accepting every need, including escape, a young nurse may be the only one able to save the patient.
 Rated PG-13 -- contains mild violence 

 Rurouni Kenshin (Samurai X) 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 A wandering ex-assassin, Kenshin Himura, vows never to kill again, but others just won't let the past fade so easily. TV is rated 13+; OVAs and Movie earn 17+ ratings by showing the assassin years.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains (TV) violence, (OVA/Movie) graphic violence 

 Sailor Moon 
 Multiple TV/Movie(s) 

 An oversleeping, overeating, crybaby junior-high student finds herself as a chosen warrior to fight against various monsters-of-the-week with the help of a few other girls (Sailors Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, etc.). One of the notorious "edited" shows for US TV; stick with the original Japanese unedited version.
 Rated 15+ -- contains violence, sexual innuendo (in later series) 

 Sakon the Ventriloquist 
 TV (26) 

 A shy man, Sakon, and his ventriloquist's doll, Ukon, work together to solve crimes in this animated thriller. Import-only currently.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 Serial Experiments Lain 
 TV (13 eps) 

 A shy girl gets an email from a deceased friend and finds herself drawn into the "wired" online world in a chase for sanity and reality.
 Rated 16+ -- contains violence, suicides in early episodes 

 Shaman King 
 TV 

 Shamans connect this world to the next; only a few can see the spirit world. Rivals battle it out to become Shaman King.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 Sol Bianca 
 Multiple OVA(s) 

 Female space pirates chase after artifacts from an evacuated Earth in a legendary ship; a classic OVA and a fully-digital retelling (The Legacy) are available.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence, brief nudity in original series 

 Soul Edge/Soul Calibur 
 Multiple Game(s) 

 Various characters fight to obtain or destroy a legendary evil sword in this series of 3D-with-swords fighting games. Originally on Playstation (Soul Edge), then Dreamcast (Soul Calibur), it is now on all current platforms (Soul Calibur 2 on Playstation 2, Gamecube, and XBox).
 ESRB Rated T (13+) -- contains violence 

 Space Battleship Yamato (Star Blazers) 
 Multiple TV/Movie(s) 

 The space-readied body of the famous WWII battleship and her young crew are Earth's last hope for survival; enemies become allies, and vice versa, in adventures across the universe.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains wartime violence 

 Space Pirate Captain Harlock 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 Exuding "style" and "coolness" in a pirate cape, sailing the "Sea of Stars" under his own flag, Harlock and his ship, the Arcadia, fight against oppression of all sorts.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains wartime violence 

 Super Dimension Fortress Macross 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 The people of Earth fight against an invading alien race with the aid of technology from an alien fortress, Macross, that crashed on Earth years ago.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains wartime violence, brief nudity 

 Full Intros by Title 
 Titles A-G 
 Titles H-M 
 Titles N-S 
 Titles T-Z 

 Full Intros by Type 
 TV Series 
 OVA (Videos) 
 Movies 
 Games 

 Full Intros by Rating 
 PG/PG-13 
 R/NC-17 
 Not Rated 
 Unknown/Multiple 
 X-Rated shows do exist but are not listed here. 
 Reasons for Rating Notes 

 Neon Genesis Evangelion Copyright (C) GAINAX, Project Eva., TX, NAS 
 All rights reserved. Permission for image use provided by: 

 Tenchi Muyo! Copyright (C) AIC, Pioneer LDC 
 All rights reserved. Permission for image use provided by: 

 USED WITH PERMISSION: Images of anime programs
on this page are used with permission of the copyright holder or the legal
distributor of the represtented work. Copying from this page for your own
use is prohibited -- please contact the copyright holder or distibutor
cited to gain permission from the proper people. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.