SeattleOtaku: Anime Titles A-G 

 Anime Titles A-G 

 A quick note about titles -- Most of the titles
below are the titles on the US releases of the Japanese shows. In many cases,
I'll prefer the Japanese title, and if a show can be found under both titles
(Japanese subtitled and English re-dubbed versions), I will list it under the
original title with the English version in parentheses. On occasion, when two
different distributors own the rights to the Japanese original and the
US-edited version (such as "Macross" vs. "Robotech"), both versions may not
be released on the same format (two VHS releases or a bi-lingual DVD); I
recommend the Japanese orignal without exception. 

 Aa! Megami-sama (Oh My Goddess!) 
 Multiple OVA/Movie(s) 

 Be careful what you wish for! Keiichi was granted one wish by a Norse goddess, Belldandy, but called her "bluff" by wishing for a girlfriend exactly like her. The wish was granted, of course, but with some humorous and dramatic side effects.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains brief nudity in one episode 

 Akira 
 Movie 

 When motorcycle-gang-member Tetsuo gains uncontrollable psychic powers, the gang's leader, Kaneda, struggles to keep his friends alive before a legendary source of similar power, Akira, is awakened.
 Rated R -- contains graphic violence, language, brief nudity 

 All Cultural Cat Girl Nuku Nuku 
 OVA (6 eps) 

 Take a homeless cat rescued from the streets by a young boy, and a father's military robot prototype; when the cat dies in a car accident, mix well to create a loving-but-naive robot companion with a taste for fish.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 Armitage III 
 Multiple OVA/Movie(s) 

 A hotshot police officer and her new partner go up against "Thirds", robots designed to appear human, and a line of assassins; but what is her own relationship to the thirds?
 Rated 16+ -- contains violence, language, brief nudity 

 Azumanga Daioh 
 TV 

 Girls' school comedy with quite a twist. Runs the gamut from ultra-cute to poignant to freakishly strange, but always hilarious.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains material appropriate for all ages 

 Blood: The Last Vampire 
 Movie 

 Saya, a young sword-wielding vampire slayer, goes undercover in a US military-base high school in Japan; great visuals and action in this all-digital effort, but with a short run-time (48 minutes).
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains graphic violence, language 

 Blue Seed 
 TV (25 eps) 

 Young Momiji was born to save the world from demons, but can only her death by sacrifice stop the demons from ruling the Earth? What really happened to her twin sister?
 Rated 12+ -- contains violence, lingerie humor 

 Blue Submarine No.6 
 OVA (4 eps) 

 Earth is at the mercy of a mad scientist that has sped evolution of the sea's creatures to allow them to attempt to take over the world; a sort of mix of Jules Verne ("20,000 Leagues Under the Sea") with HG Wells ("Island of Dr. Moreau").
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains wartime violence, brief nudity 

 Boogiepop Phantom 
 TV (12 eps) 

 A series of disappearances and grisly murders took place five years ago, and those acts, and the mysterious sudden halting of them, still affect people in the present. Each episode tells the story from a different character's point of view (much like Rashomon ).
 Rated 15+ -- contains graphic violence 

 Bubblegum Crisis 
 Multiple TV/OVA(s) 

 The "Knight Sabers", a group of vigilante women in robotic armour, fight to save Tokyo from a horde of rogue robots in both classic OVA series (and a sequel OVA series, "Bubblegum Crash") and a new TV rendition.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence, language, brief nudity 

 Cowboy Bebop 
 TV/OVA (26 eps) 

 Two bounty hunters, Spike and Jet, travel the planets in search of bounties, rewards, and clues to their own dark pasts. A few episodes went straight to video due to Japanese TV standards disallowing them.
 Not Rated -- contains violence, language, brief nudity, brief drug use 

 Cyber City Oedo 808 
 OVA (3 eps) 

 Three orbital-prison inmates are hired by the police to work off their own sentences by capturing new criminals. A superior video series that just didn't get the budget to go further.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence, language 

 Dirty Pair 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 Kei and Yuri, two scantily-clad secret agents, work on nabbing various criminals; but they usually leave a lot of destruction behind them. The original "babes with big bazookas" (and I do mean bazookas).
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence, brief nudity 

 .Hack (Dot-Hack) 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Game(s) 

 An online RPG becomes all too real to its participants when players become comatose and a rare few reawaken to attempt to find out what's happening. A TV version is released separately from the PlayStation2 games and OVAs (packaged together).
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 Dragon Ball 
 Multiple TV/Movie(s) 

 Counting all incarnations (DB, DBZ, and DBGT), a 400+ episode slugfest of superheroes and supervillains battling it out for galactic supremacy.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 Dynasty Warriors 
 Multiple Game(s) 

 A series of PlayStation and PS2 games based on the Three Kingdoms saga of 2nd- and 3rd-century Chinese history (Shu, Wu, and Wei kingdoms), featuring large roaming maps and an open-ended style of recreating the famous battles between the Han and Jin dynasties.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 eX-Driver 
 OVA (5 eps) 

 In a future where cars are automated, only the best drivers earn the right to drive on their own. These drivers are also hired to track down and stop the occasional runaway AI cars racing the streets; they are known as 'eX-Drivers'. Now, if only they could get along with each other.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains mild violence 

 Final Fantasy 
 Multiple OVA/Movie/Game(s) 

 A long line of fantasy and science-fiction video games, and a recent theatrical movie, make for a continuing favorite. Aerith lives!
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 Fushigi Yuugi (Mysterious Play) 
 Multiple TV/OVA(s) 

 Two friends reading a book find themselves linked to the ancient world described inside, and on opposite sides of a continental battle. Strong Neverending Story motif, without the flying muppets.
 Rated 16+ -- contains violence, brief nudity 

 Galaxy Express 999 
 Multiple TV/Movie(s) 

 Young Tetsuro finds adventure and mystery aboard the intergalactic train 999 with the help of a beatiful companion, Maetel, that looks suspiciously like his mother.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 Gasaraki 
 TV (26 eps) 

 Two youths, Yushiro and Miharu, find themselves tangled in a web of military experiments and an encroaching horror from their pasts.
 Rated 12+ -- contains wartime violence, language 

 Ghost in the Shell 
 Movie 

 Two mechanically-augmented police officers race against a criminal from stealing humanity itself; but with such augmentations, just what is humanity?
 Not Rated -- contains graphic violence, language, nudity 

 Grave of the Fireflies 
 Movie 

 Two youths attempt to survive during the WWII firebombing of Japan, in spite of shrinking rations and supplies. Award-winning animation about kids isn't necessarily for kids.
 Not Rated -- contains wartime violence 

 Gunsmith Cats 
 OVA (3 eps) 

 Rally Vincent, a Chicago gunsmith, and her explosives-fanatic partner go up against a Russian hit-woman on the streets of Chicago.
 Rated 15+ -- contains violence, lingerie 

 Full Intros by Title 
 Titles A-G 
 Titles H-M 
 Titles N-S 
 Titles T-Z 

 Full Intros by Type 
 TV Series 
 OVA (Videos) 
 Movies 
 Games 

 Full Intros by Rating 
 PG/PG-13 
 R/NC-17 
 Not Rated 
 Unknown/Multiple 
 X-Rated shows do exist but are not listed here. 
 Reasons for Rating Notes 

 Armitage III: Polymatrix Copyright (C) AIC, Pioneer LDC 
 All rights reserved. Permission for image use provided by: 

 USED WITH PERMISSION: Images of anime programs
on this page are used with permission of the copyright holder or the legal
distributor of the represtented work. Copying from this page for your own
use is prohibited -- please contact the copyright holder or distibutor
cited to gain permission from the proper people. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.