SeattleOtaku: Anime Titles T-Z 

 Anime Titles T-Z 

 A quick note about titles -- Most of the titles
below are the titles on the US releases of the Japanese shows. In many cases,
I'll prefer the Japanese title, and if a show can be found under both titles
(Japanese subtitled and English re-dubbed versions), I will list it under the 
original title with the English version in parentheses. On occasion, when two 
different distributors own the rights to the Japanese original and the 
US-edited version (such as "Macross" vs. "Robotech"), both versions may not
be released on the same format (two VHS releases or a bi-lingual DVD); I 
recommend the Japanese orignal without exception. 

 Tenchi Muyo! 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 Poor guy, Tenchi has six alien girls move in with him to help save the galaxy--at least when they're not fighting each other over his affection.
 Not Rated -- contains violence, brief nudity 

 3 x 3 Eyes 
 OVA (7 eps) 

 A young man swerves his motorcycle to avoid hitting a magical girl, who makes him immortal; now he needs to make her human to become human again himself!
 Rated 16+ -- contains graphic violence 

 Trigun 
 TV (26 eps) 

 Vash "The Stampede" has been credited with the destruction of many towns, but when a pair of insurance investigators follow him, the various bounty hunters fit his description more than he does.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 Urusei Yatsura (Those Obnoxius Aliens) 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 Classic episodic comedy series about an unlucky womanizing high-schooler, his human girlfriend, his bikini-clad alien fianc, and much jealousy and hijinks.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains mild violence, brief nudity 

 Vampire Hunter D 
 Multiple OVA/Movie(s) 

 In the distant future, bounty hunters track down vampires and demons with a mix of old-school and sci-fi weapons; "D" has ties to both sides. The 2001 "Bloodlust" movie is recommended over the original 1985 OVA that simplified the character designs.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains graphic violence, brief nudity 

 Vampire Princess Miyu 
 Multiple TV/OVA(s) 

 Miyu, a mysterious young vampire, her silent partner, and a human exorcist battle the forces of the demon world.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 The Vision of Escaflowne 
 TV (26 eps) 

 High-school athlete Hitomi is transported to another world where robots and dragons fight against power-mad foes; but how will she get back home, and does she really want to?
 Rated 13+ -- contains violence 

 The Wings of Honneamise 
 Movie 

 A nation's newly-formed space force struggles to reach the stars before an approaching war puts an end to their dreams.
 Not Rated -- contains wartime violence, brief nudity 

 Xenogears/Xenosaga 
 Multiple Game(s) 

 Ancient artifacts, alien invaders, giant robots, and religion combine in a grand multi-millennium RPG saga for the PlayStation (Xenogears) and PlayStation2 (Xenosaga, after a split from Squaresoft) game consoles.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 You're Under Arrest 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 Two young traffic officers deal with lawbreakers and office tension in this action (but nearly non-violent) series of cute girls, bumbling men, and the vehicles they all can't do without.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains mild violence 

 Full Intros by Title 
 Titles A-G 
 Titles H-M 
 Titles N-S 
 Titles T-Z 

 Full Intros by Type 
 TV Series 
 OVA (Videos) 
 Movies 
 Games 

 Full Intros by Rating 
 PG/PG-13 
 R/NC-17 
 Not Rated 
 Unknown/Multiple 
 X-Rated shows do exist but are not listed here. 
 Reasons for Rating Notes 

 Neon Genesis Evangelion Copyright (C) GAINAX, Project Eva., TX, NAS 
 All rights reserved. Permission for image use provided by: 

 Tenchi Muyo! Copyright (C) AIC, Pioneer LDC 
 All rights reserved. Permission for image use provided by: 

 USED WITH PERMISSION: Images of anime programs
on this page are used with permission of the copyright holder or the legal
distributor of the represtented work. Copying from this page for your own
use is prohibited -- please contact the copyright holder or distibutor
cited to gain permission from the proper people. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.