SeattleOtaku: Anime Titles H-M 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Anime Titles H-M 

 A quick note about titles -- Most of the titles
below are the titles on the US releases of the Japanese shows. In many cases,
I'll prefer the Japanese title, and if a show can be found under both titles
(Japanese subtitled and English re-dubbed versions), I will list it under the
original title with the English version in parentheses. On occasion, when two
different distributors own the rights to the Japanese original and the
US-edited version (such as "Macross" vs. "Robotech"), both versions may not
be released on the same format (two VHS releases or a bi-lingual DVD); I
recommend the Japanese orignal without exception. 

 Hades Project: Zeorymer 
 OVA (4 eps) 

 A young man learns he was born to pilot a large robot designed to take over the Earth; but what will he do with it once he's in the pilot's seat?
 Not Rated -- contains violence, brief nudity 

 Hakkenden (Legend of the Dog Warriors) 
 OVA (13 eps) 

 In 15th-century Japan, warring families battle for supremacy and survival; one side uses demons, while the other side has legendary half-human/half-dog warriors with the eight virtues of the samurai.
 Rated 16+ -- contains graphic violence 

 Hellsing 
 TV (13 eps) 

 The Hellsing Organization, a group of vampire hunters, kept secret since the founder's own dealings against the undead, use the help of an original vampire to clear the streets of the night crawlers.
 Rated 16+ -- contains graphic violence 

 Hikaru no Go 
 TV 

 A high-school boy summons an ancient Go master from his grandfather's board and rises in rank and skill in the school club tournaments.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains material appropriate for all ages 

 Ico 
 Game 

 Imprisoned in a castle full of spirits, a young boy tries to escape and rescue a mysterious girl. Gorgeous terrain details and near-perfect controls in this PlayStation2 puzzle-solver.
 ESRB Rated E (6+) -- contains mild violence 

 Iria: Zeiram the Animation 
 OVA (6 eps) 

 A young bounty hunter battles against the perfect violent lifeform to avenge the loss of her brother and stop a conspiracy determined to keep the creature alive.
 Rated 13+ -- contains violence 

 Irresponsible Captain Tylor 
 TV/OVA 

 Most military officers believe skill, military discipline, and strength are needed to win a war; they haven't met Captain Tylor.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains wartime violence 

 Jin-Roh (The Wolf Brigade) 
 Movie 

 An officer in a militaristic-police brigade and a young woman from a resistance movement are hunted down by both sides in this anime "Red Riding Hood" allegory. (In theaters 6/2001)
 Not Rated -- contains graphic violence, language 

 Kacho Ouji (Black Heaven) 
 TV (13) 

 A mid-30s businessman is recruited to help save the galaxy in an interstellar battle; like a satire of Macross using heavy metal music, only his "groove" can power the ultimate weapon and save us all. Fair animation (digital) but better as the story progresses.
 Rated 13+ -- contains wartime violence, brief nudity 

 Kare Kano (His and Her Circumstances) 
 TV 

 Yukino and Arima share something special in high school; neither lives as they've worked so hard to appear: Yukino the perfect student with perfect vision who pulls all-night study sessions with glasses, and Arima the perfect student with a troubled family and past. A romance with that Gainax twist.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains (unknown) 

 Key the Metal Idol 
 OVA (15 eps) 

 A young robotic girl searches for a method of becoming human when her grandfather/creator is killed; a female Pinnochio with anime standards of super powers, robots, and idol singers.
 Rated 16+ -- contains violence, brief nudity 

 Kiki's Delivery Service 
 Movie 

 As a young witch, Kiki must find a town of her own to practice her skill; but she's only learned one -- flying on a broom -- and what can she do if she loses that?
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains material appropriate for all ages 

 Kimagure Orange Road 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 The ultimate romantic love triangle; two beatiful girls in love (one blatanly, one secretly) with one boy who can't decide which girl he loves, even with his latent psychic powers.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains brief nudity 

 Laputa: Castle in the Sky 
 Movie 

 Classic sweeping adventure about a young princess and a mine-working lad searching for a legendary flying castle; of course, they're not the only ones looking for it. Only available as an import currently (no announced domestic release).
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 Love Hina 
 TV/OVA 

 Keitaro made a promise years ago to attend Tokyo U with a young girl shortly before she moved away; now he's failing the entrance exams, his grandmother's hot springs apartment building that he now manages has turned into an all-girl's dorm, and one of the girls made a certain promise to a boy years ago.
 Rated 13+ -- contains violence, bathing humor 

 Lupin the 3rd 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 Lupin III, a master thief (with a James Bond style) spans a long series of videos, movies, and TV appearances (again, just like Bond); based on French novels, trademark problems surrounding the name may make them listed as "Rupin" or simply "The Wolf".
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 Magic Knights Rayearth 
 TV/OVA 

 Three girls who promised to never split up approach high school graduation and the ultimate test of that childhood promise, involving nature spirits that fuse with them to become giant robots defending (or against, depending on the version) an alternate universe.
 Rated 12+ -- contains brief nudity, graphic violence 

 Mahoromatic 
 Multiple TV(s) 

 Reaching the final year of her "lifespan", a battle android is given the chance to follow her dream, as retiring from battle would extend her time. What better job after retiring than as a live-in maid for her former commander's teenaged son? But how can she deal with the enemy who isn't aware of her retired status?
 Rated 15+ -- contains wartime violence, brief nudity 

 Maison Ikkoku 
 TV/Movie 

 Yusaku can't seem to pass those college entrance exams, and is ready to pack it up and leave Tokyo; that is until he meets his new apartment manager and falls in love immediately. Unfortunately for them both, the rest of the apartment tennants love to make their lives hell.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains romantic hijinks 

 Martian Successor Nadesico 
 TV/Movie 

 A sci-fi drama, a romatic comedy, a spoof of anime fandom, and a giant-robot show, all in one.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains wartime violence 

 Master Keaton 
 TV 

 Anime's answer to Indiana Jones; an archeaology professor with a wide-ranging past takes on investigations for Lloyds of London policy holders.
 Rated 12+ -- contains violence 

 Memories 
 Movie 

 Three shorts by Otomo Katsuhiro, with direction by Morimoto Koji, Okamura Tensai, and Otomo himself, offer a brief "Outer Limits" style strangeness; a classic that shows how CG (in "Magnetic Rose") were not as obvious eight years ago as they seem to be today.
 Rated PG-13 -- contains violence 

 Metal Gear 
 Multiple Game(s) 

 Military prototype robots known as vertical tanks or "Gears" are developed, and hijacked, in this PlayStation/PlayStation2 series by Hideo Kojima and Konami. Stealth is emphasized over brawn in many counter-terrorism scenarios.
 ESRB Rated M (17+) -- contains violence 

 Metropolis 
 Movie 

 Loosely based on the silent film of the same name and the classic manga by Tezuka Osamu, a future society where humans and robots live together gets a wake-up call when a group of humans organize a revolt.
 Rated PG-13 -- contains violence 

 Millennium Actress 
 Movie 

 A documentary director interviews a legendary actress, reliving her life through memories of her life and films; the documentary makers even participate in the reenactments of her memories.
 Rated PG -- contains violence, mild language 

 Mimi wo Subaseba (Whisper of the Heart) 
 Movie 

 A school girl finds that every book she's loaned from the library has also been read by the same boy in her school; when she meets him and learns of his dreams for the future, her own are sparked into action as well.
 Rated G? -- contains material suitable for all ages 

 Mobile Suit Gundam 
 Multiple TV/OVA/Movie(s) 

 The giant-robots-in-battle series that never ends; 1979-2003 and counting.
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains wartime violence, brief nudity 

 Mononoke Hime (Princess Mononoke) 
 Movie 

 A prince finds himself in a battle between men of industry, the gods of the forest, and a girl fighting against the humans for her own reasons.
 Rated PG-13 -- contains violence 

 Full Intros by Title 
 Titles A-G 
 Titles H-M 
 Titles N-S 
 Titles T-Z 

 Full Intros by Type 
 TV Series 
 OVA (Videos) 
 Movies 
 Games 

 Full Intros by Rating 
 PG/PG-13 
 R/NC-17 
 Not Rated 
 Unknown/Multiple 
 X-Rated shows do exist but are not listed here. 
 Reasons for Rating Notes 

 Armitage III: Polymatrix Copyright (C) AIC, Pioneer LDC 
 All rights reserved. Permission for image use provided by: 

 USED WITH PERMISSION: Images of anime programs
on this page are used with permission of the copyright holder or the legal
distributor of the represtented work. Copying from this page for your own
use is prohibited -- please contact the copyright holder or distibutor
cited to gain permission from the proper people. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.