SeattleOtaku: Anime-Based Games 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Anime-Based Games 

 .Hack (Dot-Hack) 
 TV/OVA/Game 

 An online RPG becomes all too real to its participants when players become comatose and a rare few reawaken to attempt to find out what's happening. A TV version is released separately from the PlayStation2 games and OVAs (packaged together).
 ESRB Rated T (13+) -- contains violence 

 Dynasty Warriors 
 Multiple Game(s) 

 A series of PlayStation and PS2 games based on the Three Kingdoms saga of 2nd- and 3rd-century Chinese history (Shu, Wu, and Wei kingdoms), featuring large roaming maps and an open-ended style of recreating the famous battles between the Han and Jin dynasties.
 ESRB Rated T (13+) -- contains violence 

 Final Fantasy 
 Multiple OVA/Movie/Game(s) 

 A long line of fantasy and science-fiction video games (ranging from the original Famicom/NES through the PlayStation2), and a recent theatrical movie, make for a continuing favorite. Aerith lives!
 Unknown/multiple rating(s) -- contains violence 

 Ico 
 Game 

 Imprisoned in a castle full of spirits, a young boy tries to escape and rescue a mysterious girl. Gorgeous terrain details and near-perfect controls in this PlayStation2 puzzle-solver.
 ESRB Rated E (6+) -- contains mild violence 

 Metal Gear 
 Multiple Game(s) 

 Military prototype robots known as vertical tanks or "Gears" are developed, and hijacked, in this PlayStation/PlayStation2 series by Hideo Kojima and Konami. Stealth is emphasized over brawn in many counter-terrorism scenarios.
 ESRB Rated M (17+) -- contains violence 

 Soul Edge/Soul Calibur 
 Multiple Game(s) 

 Various characters fight to obtain or destroy a legendary evil sword in this series of 3D-with-swords fighting games. Originally on Playstation (Soul Edge), then Dreamcast (Soul Calibur), it is now on all current platforms (Soul Calibur 2 on Playstation 2, Gamecube, and XBox).
 ESRB Rated T (13+) -- contains violence 

 Xenogears/Xenosaga 
 Multiple Game(s) 

 Ancient artifacts, alien invaders, giant robots, and religion combine in a grand multi-millennium RPG saga for the PlayStation (Xenogears) and PlayStation2 (Xenosaga, after a split from Squaresoft) game consoles.
 ESRB Rated T (13+) -- contains violence 

 Full Intros by Title 
 Titles A-G 
 Titles H-M 
 Titles N-S 
 Titles T-Z 

 Full Intros by Type 
 TV Series 
 OVA (Videos) 
 Movies 
 Games 

 Full Intros by Rating 
 PG/PG-13 
 R/NC-17 
 Not Rated 
 Unknown/Multiple 
 X-Rated shows do exist but are not listed here. 
 Reasons for Rating Notes 

 Armitage III: Polymatrix Copyright (C) AIC, Pioneer LDC 
 All rights reserved. Permission for image use provided by: 

 USED WITH PERMISSION: Images of anime programs
on this page are used with permission of the copyright holder or the legal
distributor of the represtented work. Copying from this page for your own
use is prohibited -- please contact the copyright holder or distibutor
cited to gain permission from the proper people. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.