Mullspace | Kat Litter | August, 2002 

 Portal | Kat Litter | Tales | Lectures | Eye Candy | Accreations | Kat Who? | Poke 

 August, 2002 

 posted: August 2, 2002 

 Drudgery 

 Chores are the bane of a reasonable existence. I can never really get ahead of them, but doing them doesn't either alleviate their lurking, oppressive ways nor make me feel I've really accomplished anything much. All right, so the dishes are washed, but, in a few hours, there will be a new set of dirty dishes awaiting my soapy attentions. So, I've done the laundry and taken out the trash, but, so long as I am wearing clothes and doing anything but sitting still and thinking, these, chores, too, will soon rear their ugly heads again. And a raft of other things, like medicating pets and cooking dinner, will float by on the river of "right now" and beach themselves like flopping whales on the shore of my day. 
 But they have to get done, along with everything which does make my existence seem worthwhile, or at least necessary. At the moment, I have a couple of projects going (don't I always?), though neither seems to be doing that much of interest, yet they still manage to swallow my brain and my time very effectively. They are abetted in their dissolution of my ability to do anything slackerly, productive or demonstrable, by a couple of pending projects I would much rather be dealing with, which pop up and obfuscate my concentration on the ones which are more immediately pressing. And while they do this, I am attempting to re-establish a good habit of going to the gym rather aggressively, change my diet and lifestyle, and still manage to have time to spend with my husband, read a book occasionally, possibly even see other human beings... in person, yet! 
 Some day, I plan on being slim and sexy, again, and able to lift heavy objects without weeping and dropping them on my feet, but the price of that is spending an hour a day in intimate converse with quite annoyingly obtuse objects, like weights and elliptical stride machines and the occasional swimming pool while attempting to drown the boredom of this with excessively loud music and uncomfortable earbuds. (No one has yet invented the Swim-Man CD player for the pool, so I am forced to engage in actual thinking, which inevitably leads to thoughts like "what's that thing on the bottom of the pool?" "hasn't it been 20 minutes yet?" and "this was easier when I was a kid... didn't I used to do this for fun? What sort of idiot am I? Well, at least you can't feel yourself sweat in the pool....") 
 I suspect that the dishes dirty themselves, the clothes hop out of my drawers and into the laundry bag, and that the trash multiplies by parthenogenesis while I am at the gym. I also suspect that my cat is in league with the trash and in opposition to any project which may, potentially, remove me from the boat for an extended period of time. He has even overcome his dislike of the ferrets to form a plot of ill-health to keep me busy medicating on a strict schedule and porting furry creatures to the vet. (Ha-ha! Part of his plan has backfired in that he must now attend upon the indignity of veterinary exams. The ferrets, of course, could care less about this until the time for actual needles approaches, but they soon forget. The cat, however, holds grudges.) 
 And all this without the benefit of chocolate. If I snuck out for an espresso milkshake, would that be a bad thing...? 

 posted: August 9, 2002 

 Whoops.... 

 Boy, do I have a story to tell you guys.... About an apartment and a cat and a candle.... Or possibly about a film crew and their particular brand of insanity. But, unfortunately, principal photograpy starts tomorrow and I'm a leeeetle busy at the moment. 
 So you'll have to wait for Kat Litter until Sunday or Monday, when I will have some time. Till then, have a good weekend. 

 posted: August 13, 2002 

 Papers? 

 In spite of the fact that they are one of the more reasonable agencies in the US Government, the Passport Office seems to be easily confused when faced with my husband (so are several other people, though, so this isn't really surprising). Apparently, if your documents are less than four years old, even though the birth certificate says you're in your 30s, they get a little dizzy and want confirmation that you are, truly, a real person with a real history. Heck, I thought they just wanted to confirm that one was a real US citizen.... So we had to trek to the New Federal Office Building, which is not all that new, except when compared to the Old Federal Office Building across the street (that would be the kind of cool and classy building with the bronze lamps and the friezes, as opposed to the ugly, cement monster surrounded by the re-bricked remains of the gracious building which previously occupied the lot) and visit the folks in the Passport Office, which closes at 3. (You'd think they didn't want to have people come visit them.) 
 I stayed outside (in the heat) with the backpack, since I really hate having to go through metal detectors and explain "that's a mirror... and that's a fountain pen... and that's a ferret leash and, oops, yes, that's a pocket knife" every time (in the current state of paranoia, I'd probably have been arrested for the mirror, much less the pocket knife and let's not even get started on the pen...). Jim tramped up to the second floor, which is downstairs if you come into the building on the Second Avenue side, but upstairs if you enter from First Avenue. (Makes you wonder what they call the basement, eh?) There, he was informed that he doesn't go back far enough for the Passport Office to feel good about giving him a Passport, unless he can prove he really and truly existed before today (myself, I'm pretty sure of this). They gave him a list of stuff to bring to prove it (neither blood nor DNA was required, however, but I suppose that's because those might have been manufactured recently, too--amazing what they're doing with genetic research these days, ain't it?). They were very nice about it, though. 
 Not surprisingly, we have to go back again, tomorrow. 
 Phooey petunia. It's a sad thing when your own government doesn't think you're a real person unless you bring in your baby shoes and High School graduation papers. Darn terrorists. This is all their fault: if people with lousy attitudes would just stop leaving things which go "boom" on the government's doorstep, the Fed would be so much easier to deal with. Oh, wait... that would be their corporate sponsors and their accounting practices. Oh, ho... my bad.... 

 posted: August 23, 2002 

 Not Quite Road Kill 

 It's still there.... 
 For a month or more, I have been walking past the strangest object which is slowly, ever so slowly, disintegrating. Lying on the sidewalk, up against the side of Salmon Bay Sand and Gravel, it is a dark, misshapen mass, gritty with filth, dead leaves. It is curiously lumpy, longer than my closed fist, oddly shaped, but reminiscent of something... unpleasant. It has no discernable odor, though, so it may not be what it appears. 
 One night it moves out into the sidewalk and where the beam of the streetlight falls upon it, it is dark red. Grim and gory and begrimed. Yet, it attracts no insects and its decomposition is curiously slow. Do I touch it? No. 
 I inadvertantly kick it. It wobbles, but remains intact, dark, brooding and repulsive. 
 A few days later, the rain has revealed a streak of the flesh beneath, enabling me to indentify the nature of the corpse. 
 Dark red and gelatinous, it is a giant gummi bear. But it will not die, nor go away. The birds and insects avoid it. Evil (and filth) radiate from its gooey remains. 
 It is the zombie gummi bear. Indestructable in spite of being stepped upon, kicked, abused and left out in the heat and rain, I suspect it has plans for revenge.... 
 Luckily, it moves very slowly. 

 Back to top of this page, please. 
 Back to Index 
 &copy; 2002 M. Kathleen Huffine/Kat Richardson. All rights reserved.