Mullspace | Kat Litter | August, 2001 

 Portal | Kat Litter | Tales | Lectures | Eye Candy | Accreations | Kat Who? | Poke 

 August, 2001 

 posted: August 24, 2001 

 Welcome to my Mess.... 

 (This was the first post on Eskimo after the move from WPX and included the infamous Pink Neon design , which everyone hated or came to hate, including me. What possessed me...?) 
 Ah, here I go, journaling online, again. Well, tough: live with it. 

 Why am I here? Why the move? Well, let me tell you. 

 I didn't quite make one year at Wildpixels . That would have been mid-September. Even had some rather odd events not occurred, I was planning on moving off, anyhow. Originally, I thought I would be there for years, but, as I look at it, now, that was foolish. 

 I enjoyed the place and I loved the fact that I was in the playground of someone I really like and thought was pretty damned cool (with an emphasis on "damned", I'm afraid, though his cool remains intact). Chaos can be fun and it's great for opening up doors you didn't even suspect existed, but it is a little hard on the system and the gods know that that more than describes Ken. 

 The gentleman in question is a sort of avatar of Chaos. I'd swear he warps the fabric of probability wherever he passes. He is also an insistent and stubborn son-of-a-bitch (meaning no disrespect to his mother) and I suspect his sudden decision to go was in the nature of re-creating himself, which takes much balls. Ken's are probably solid brass. (How does he walk with those...?) 

 And at the same time, I, being a total freak and weirdo of the first water, really needed to have more control over what I was doing. Being in someone else's virtual home made me a bit anxious, like visiting a relative I like but amn't too sure likes me. It got quite wearying and upsetting at times. 
 So I decided I needed to get out. Not with rancor, but with a desire to save my sanity. 

 I didn't do that with great speed, even though I started working toward that goal back in January. I have plenty of excuses, though. 
 I had to learn HTML, got sidetracked into CSS, doubled back when I realized that it wasn't fully implemented in all browsers (now there's a rant I'll have to indulge in some day...), then had to teach myself to generate some basic graphics with tools I was totally unfamiliar with and a dearth of skills. 

 I am not an artist. 

 I write and I think I do it reasonably well, but talent in one creative field does not confer deftness in another. 

 I wanted to be an artist when I was a kid, but, frankly, I just can't seem to do it. There's a slippery place on my artistic clutch when it comes to making that shift. Maybe the synchromesh is absent a few teeth on the gear, maybe my splines are out of alignment.... 

 But, I bulled my way through a few tricks and I made all of this you see here, myself. It's not impressive by most standards, and it's certainly not on a par with anything my absent friend could do in half the time, but it's mine and that counts for much with me. 

 So, welcome to the new/old site. Much of the content from Wildpixels is in limbo, at the moment. I have it all in my computer. It's just a matter of getting it all into the templates and doing a little more organizing, here. All the coding was done by hand, no GUI, no point-and-click. If there is an error in it, that is because I made that error. 

 The husband and I are moving the boat into a new slip this weekend and that may take us offline for a few days, though there is the possibility that it will be a seamless transition. (Am I betting on this likelihood? Do trees dance the mambo?) So, if you visit and find nothing, please don't be dismayed and abandon me, calling me a flake. I'm scrambling as hard as the (fake) eggs can stand. 

 And my hands hurt.... 

 Back to top of this page, please. 
 Back to Index 
 &copy; 2001-2002 M. Kathleen Huffine/Kat Richardson. All rights reserved.