Mullspace | Kat Litter | December, 2001 

 Portal | Kat Litter | Tales | Lectures | Eye Candy | Accreations | Kat Who? | Poke 

 December, 2001 

 posted: December 10, 2001 

 Observations on Attractive Men 

 The soapy wand swishes over the glass, swirling gentle suds across the dusted surface. It slides soundlessly between the view and I. The man on the other side does his job with graceful economy. In his hand the squeegee dances smoothly over the soapy glass, leaving swathes and swirls of clean, clear window. He swings and curves his path, making the rubber blade slice the glass clean with beautiful strokes. 
 He's not outrageously handsome, but he is attractive and the assurance with which he does his job gives him something more. His blonde hair and beard remind me of the bass-player from TSO, seen at a concert on Saturday, also blonde and bearded in the current fashion of mouth-framing mustaches, small chin beards and short-clipped hair. 
 They are not the same. The bassist is much younger, his blondness is less ruddy and he makes his living in a venue much different from the window-washer. He is more handsome, though some of that is youth. But he, too had that calm and assurance. He did not strut and posture. At least not much. He stood back, towering a bit, because he is a tall man, and played with simple assurance and a grin that never faltered. He dropped his left hand from the fret board to play his open-string supports, but the dropped hand did nothing to distract and was not done to be noticed. As the window washer strokes the window clean with his long, gorgeous strokes, just doing his job. 
 It is this quality of calm self-assurance and grace which seems to make men particularly attractive to me. I've known some extraordinarily handsome men, I know a few now, but it's the ones who don't care about how impressive they are who really interest me. They are the really attractive ones. 
 Sometimes a camera captures it, but often photographs show only pretty faces. There is something about the way one of my male friends holds a cigarette or the way another cocks his head and smiles which tell more about them than their good looks. They are attractive beyond pretty faces and nice hair. One of my friends laughs so easily and with no self-consciousness over anything which pleases him, another never has a care for what others think of his clothing or his silly Christmas hats. My husband's face becomes a smooth, calm pool when he reads or works. All of these things are more attractive than the shape of a body, or the color of eyes. It's the depth of men which makes me love them, not the surface. 

 posted: December 23, 2001 

 Christmas Comes But Once Each Year 

 Thank the gods. 
 If I had to endure such a combination of saccharine sentiment and performance pressure more than that, I'd be in the bin. I like reindeer. I like lights. I like silly songs and hot apple cider. At the moment, I can't say I like Elves very much, but that's probably because they have been visited upon me recently by a project employer with the same degree of resultant joy as being kept in a dank cave and fed only crackers and stagnant water for a month while enduring endless lectures on statistics and demography. I'd rather have gone to the dentist every day for a week. 
 Work has been a bit hectic, but I don't know anyone who doesn't find themselves under pressure to "do this one more thing before the holidays" so I can hardly complain. Well, I can, but it's not unique, so what's the point? I have been beavering away with the Whisper City project while attempting to go Christmas shopping, and that has been a bit odd. 
 I suppose the clerks in the shops must have found my muttering "werewolves and vampires and org charts, oh my..." under my breath somewhat disconcerting. I knew I was in trouble when I started wondering what to buy the fictional characters for Christmas. Really, what does one get for a despotic vampire, a psycho mercenary and an Elven assassin? Body amour? or chocolates? Do you invite the alpha werewolf to the Christmas party? Send Christmas cards to the drug lords and crime bosses? 
 And then I had to shift gears and buy presents for one-year-old twins and seven nieces and nephews. I hope their parents won't mind the hand grenades.... 

 posted: December 31, 2001 

 The Last Word 

 I just have an urge to say something before the year changes over. I doubt anyone will see this before the moment passes, here in Washington. 
 This has been a strange and often difficult year. Some pretty dreadful things have happened in the past 12 months. Also a few pretty good ones. I'm still very crazy, but not as funny as I once was. The knee I messed up last October still gives me trouble, but nothing like it did. I still haven't found a publisher or agent for the novel or placed the completed short story. My husband is still traveling a lot on business and that won't change this next year. I haven't completed the work on this site and I hate the current graphics. Pink is not my color and I don't know what possessed me to use it in the first place, unless it was some rebellion against the constant assumption that being nicknamed Strangeblue means blue is my favorite color. It's not. Heck, a lot of people assume that I'm called Kat because of an obsession with cats. I like my cat, but if I have to be called after one of my obsessions, you'd have to start calling me "ferret" or... well I'd better not name some of my other obsessions. One can get in trouble for that sort of thing, these days. 
 On the other hand, work has been completed, to a degree at least, on the on-going and always elusive Whisper City site and it's attendant forum. Because of some scheduling problems, I ended up writing all of the text content on the site and we had some last-minute glitches and problems which were solved by a combination of ingenuity, insanity and just plain cussed stubbornness on the collective part of myself, Ken George and Julia Smith. And I got some work for a game publisher called Dark Quest LLC and wrote 20,000 words about Elves . Some of it very cool, even if I do say so myself, and I just saw the cover art for the first time today. I'm thrilled to see something of mine finally in print in something other than a trade publication. I don't know what will happen next, though, since my communications have been lousy online. I should be submitting a bid to edit for Dark Quest, as well as writing, if they are still interested. And, of course, I'm going to be flogging that novel and short story.... Anybody know any agents or publishers in the dark-fantasy/tech noir/thriller field? I've got a hell of a book.... 
 In the meantime, everyone is at least reasonably healthy, the boat is sound and mostly dry, my friend Sharon came back into my life and all of my friends seem to be getting by, at least. 
 Good bye, old year. I hope I never see your like again. 
 Hello, New Year. May you be kinder than your predecessor. 
 Have a Happy New Year, folks, whoever and wherever you are. 

 Back to top of this page, please. 
 Back to Index 
 &copy; 2001-2002 M. Kathleen Huffine/Kat Richardson. All rights reserved.