Mullspace | Kat Litter | February, 2003 

 Portal | Kat Litter | Tales | Lectures | Eye Candy | Accreations | Kat Who? | Poke 

 February, 2003 

 posted: February 12, 2003 

 Signs and Portents 

 There's nothing quite so insidiously depressing as being informed that by some elusive cosmic dice-throw, you're doomed. You were born on the wrong day, wrong year, wrong month, wrong hour. The Universe has already made up its mind and, regardless of how hard you try, you're fucked. Which is why I hate Astrology. 
 Oh, some people get along very well with it. But not me. Not only does it negate the concept of Free Will, but it's sneaky about it. If you beat the odds today and your horoscope proved wrong, it's not because it is wrong, but because some factor you were unaware of intervened. And yet it oozes into your head and gives you the creeps anyhow because, well, even a broken clock is right twice a day. 
 Or maybe it's just that Astrology doesn't like me. At various points in my life, people have demanded that I at least "give it a chance" and the result is pretty much always the same: you're smart, you're creative, you're pretty, but your life is always going to be a bowl of shit; oh, you'll succeed eventually, but you're doomed in the end. Gosh, sorry. 
 Realistically, isn't everyone doomed? I mean, fuck it, we are going to die, aren't we? And if that's not doom, then what is? It has nothing to do with whether your Venus has been trined by Pluto or what-have-you (and what is Pluto doing with his trine up my Venus, anyway?! Get the Hell out of there, y'pervert!) Or if you were born in the year of the Dog, but the hour of the Monkey in the month of the Chicken (which probably makes you a bit of a mental zookeeper if not a perv of a whole different kind.) 
 If there was any validity to Astrology, it wouldn't matter what any of us did, ever. We could all just flop down and have a good wallow, because the people destined to be successful would be and those destined to be unsuccessful would be, too, so why put out an effort? We could all be eating theoretical bon-bons and getting fat or staying thin as was pre-determined and we'd never have to go to the gym. 
 If this is true, then putting out no effort is the same as working your ass off (and don't I wish that that were the case). But what about the people who are determining their own fate? Or seem to be. Those people who work their tails off to rise above their circumstances surely weren't going to just float to the top like cream with no effort at all. Or it is still more of the same cosmic joke? Are the Powers That Be giggling up a storm in some corner lounge about the good one they've put over on Plato, Wollstonecraft, Locke and Mill? Is it all just another form of crap-shoot? A very elaborate deceit? 
 If so, it's a damned clever one. We go about deceiving ourselves that we created our lives by our own choice, that we can go where and how we chose, if only we work hard enough. Well, I can't say that doesn't have an occasional fatalistic appeal of it's own, but it isn't very satisfying. 
 Astrology, be it Western or Eastern or something in-between, is just not satisfyingly mentally-crunchy enough for me, I guess. It is too easy, too pat, too prone to being colored by fast-talking, astrolabe-spinning, spiritual three-card-monte artists (keep your eye on the Lucky Fate! Pick the right card and be a winnah!). Too much like the sort of breakfast cereal which goes mushy in milk. 
 I guess I was born under the sign of the Bad Sport.... 

 posted: February 21, 2003 

 Desperate Measures 

 Being a wordy-girl and English-speaker, there is, to my mind, but one true authority in matters of the language: The Oxford English Dictionary . 
 It is, therefore, annoying to me that the definitive authority is like a closed book to me (haha) in its electronic form. I own a perfectly lovely copy of the two-volume The New Oxford Shorter English Dictionary but, being built of paper and board and cloth, it is deteriorating in the somewhat humid environment of our floating home. I've been looking to replace it with an electronic copy for a while (need... words! Must... munch... morphemes...), but, unfortunately, it's just not on the order of service. Why? Well, let me just show you the letter I sent to the Oxford University Press's Customer Service department.... 

 Dear beleaguered customer service person: 
 I am confused, frustrated and generally chafing about several things related to OED Online, OED on CDROM , and my sadly endangered two-volume edition of The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary . I would love to give the publishers and distributors of the OED my money, but, unfortunately, I can't. Following is the long explanation of why. 
 I am a professional writer. I own a copy of the Shorter . It was a gift and I love it. Unfortunately, I live on a boat, now, and the environmental moisture is slowly attacking the books, which, because of their size, have limited places to sit on board a tiny sailboat. They're getting a little... moist. I have been interested in replacing them with something less vulnerable to the vicissitudes of prevailing conditions on board for a while. I have looked into both the OED Online and the OED on CDROM as alternatives with the plan of replacing my Shorter and passing it on to a family member who has been, frankly, drooling over it for years. (She'd better wipe up after herself, is all I can say.) 
 Unfortunately, I find myself unable to reconcile myself to or use either alternative product. 
 OED Online is simply too expensive for a single user. At $550 US per annum, it is nearly twice the cost of the CDROM version, yet contains exactly the same material and is easier to access, as it does not require that I be online at the time to do so. Why has OED chosen to limit its potential user base so dramatically by pricing annual access at such an exorbitant rate? A mere 2 years of Online access could buy an entire set of the 20-volume edition, plus two of the three additional supplements. True, the Online access is, in many ways, more convenient, but for most people, monetary value is the factor which determines their purchase. It is for me. OED Online is simply not a good value for an individual user. 
 The only reason I can apprehend for this pricing structure is a desire on the part of the OED to retain an aura of exclusivity and authority. But, the OED is already accepted as the authority on the English Language and exclusivity only keeps this excellent reference from penetrating deeper into the market and broadening the application of this wonderful resource. Indeed, while it is a work whose depth is only properly and fully utilized by a few experts and researchers, its reputation, its appeal, its authority, its information, its precision, and its desirability among word-lovers, writers, readers, and editors is vast. The success of the Shorter , the Compact and the long-gone Concise editions surely prove that there is a much larger potential market than is currently being served. In a world of access as wide as the Internet, I believe the OED does itself a disservice in maintaining a fee-structure so outrageously high that it necessarily limits its customers to huge corporations. 
 So, we come down to the CDROM version. It is easier to access than the Online version or the full 20-volume edition, it is much less expensive, at $299 for full access and all current supplements, and it is hardier than either the new Compact or my beloved and now-unavailable Shorter . The price, though it seems a bit of a large bite initially, is really a bargain when compared to the 20-volume (30%), the Online (54% the price of a single year, but this one lasts forever), or the cost of buying several lesser dictionaries in hopes of even coming close to the information contained in the Shorter , much less the OED on CDROM . 
 But it is Windows-only. This is a blow. I, myself, don't use Windows, though many people do. I use Linux. Why has the OED chosen, again, to limit its market? I understand that putting out a separate version for every major operating system and maintaining tech support and customer service for them all can be prohibitive. But why not a more generic version? Text-only? Generic searchable text? Hyperlinked text? XML? Even an embedded searchable text with a specialized front-end would serve a broader market with no additional burden than the Windows-only version currently does. 
 Since the advent of Apple's OSX and Lindows, Unix-based systems have just become the most wide-spread systems in the world. A generic system would run on all of these, plus Windows, opening to OED the largest potential market in the electronic world. 
 But, perhaps, the system already could run in a Unix-based or DOS-only environment? Unfortunately, no one seems to know and the cost of the OED on CDROM is a bit prohibitive for experimentation, not to mention the potential copyright issues. Since no information is given about how the software works or why it is Windows-only or what the Windows environment is utilized for, it's impossible to tell. 
 I would love more than anything to plunk down my hard-earned money for a copy of the OED on CDROM . I want to give you my $299 plus tax and shipping, but it would do me no good, since I would only be buying, in essence, a very expensive set of coasters. I would willingly subscribe to the Online service if it was more affordable, but it is exorbitant. 
 The day OED on CDROM is in a format I can use, or the price of an individual subscription to the Online edition comes down to $60-90 US per annum, I will be standing in line to hand over my money and retire my beloved Shorter into the hands of my land-dwelling relative where it will be safe from storms of salt water and constant 60%+ humidity. I doubt I'm the only person out here who feels the same way. 
 Please be so kind as to forward my comments to the appropriate individual or group (not the trash, I pray) that, if I am very lucky, they might influence the publishers, distributors and marketers of this wonderful resource to make changes which would enable me to give them my money in good faith. 
 Thank you for your time. 
 Kathleen Richardson 
 .... 

 So, I sent them the above because I know they can't read my mind (and they probably wouldn't want to see some of the things which are dancing around in there, anyway) and they won't change their ways if no one speaks up. Truly, if OUP does make the electronic forms accessible either by changing formats or by dropping prices, I will beat a path to their virtual door with money in hand (as soon as I have some) and it's not my intention to annoy, vex, harrass, bullyrag or otherwise irritate them just for the fun of it. I'm dead serious here (or about as dead as I get). I just want my OED (hey, us junkies gotta have our fixes). Is that really so much to ask? 
 'Scuse me, now: gotta go smoke some verbs.... 

 Back to top of this page, please. 
 Back to Index 
 &copy; 2002 M. Kathleen Huffine/Kat Richardson. All rights reserved.