Mullspace | Kat Litter | January, 2004 

 Portal | Kat Litter | Tales | Lectures | Eye Candy | Accreations | Kat Who? | Poke 

 January, 2004 

 posted: January 18, 2004 

 Operatic Confusion 

 I shall, henceforth, curse and damn the members of They Might Be Giants, the cast and writers of Gilligan's Island and everyone who ever worked at Warner Brothers animation division prior to 1955. Let me elaborate. 
 Trippingly, I trot off to see the opera Carmen , dragging my remarkably easy-going husband along. We, of course, are not dressed up, much, but choose to go in Bohemian black, largely because that's what we already own which doesn't look like an ad for Old Navy. But we don't stand out. You can hardly find your seat for the yards of black coats, suits and dresses swathed about and the wonderful thing about black is that it doesn't show a lot of detail. From a distance you just look... dark, which is a kindness to a great many of the audience members. The lobby and auditorium look like the scene of a funeral. Who knew we all shopped the same place? 
 Or maybe it's just that the common age of the patrons causes them to come prepared. Returning from a quick foray to the gentlemen's relief station, my husband contends that the Opera is doomed to financial failure within 10 years if the specimens populating the Men's room are anything to judge by. 
 In spite of the fact that they start 5 minutes late, the audience somehow senses the approach of the conductor, even though he and his musicians are firmly ensconced in a hole in front of the proscenium. (I later discover that a small camera is pointed at a square of white card, taped to the inside of the pit, and the interruption of the maestro's head into the vast white expanse can be seen by everyone on stage and in the first 6 rows with the alarming clarity of a display board in Times Square.) The orchestra makes a few last-minute adjustments and the Overture begins with the strange, disembodied fluttering of the conductor's baton-tip diving and swooping, occasionally, above the pit edge in a massive spotlight, as if the baton, itself, were the star of the show. 
 The music leaps into the familiar, curvetting march-time and I bite my tongue and cast a quick look toward my husband in the dark. A gleam of his eye and a squeeze of the hand inform me that he, too, now has the lyrics to TMBG's Beer Song galloping through his head: "What is the malted liquor, what gets you drunker quicker, what comes in bottles or in cans? Beer!" 
 With that dancing in our heads like visions of leggy Rainier Rain Beer, the opera launches ahead and the curtain rises on a tableau of a Seville street scene in the 1890s. Pretty. Nice set. Nice forced-perspective (an illusion later destroyed by an exiting actor stumbling into a pillar which bends, flutters and proves to be painted muslin, just as in an unrelated song about paper moons...). Everyone is singing a piece too weirdly-tempoed to make fun of in popular music, for which we are grateful. In a while, the cigarette girls show up and everyone awaits the arrival of "the beautiful Carmen." 
 We had been warned by everyone who saw the show before us and a write up in the Times , but we are not truly prepared when, at last, Carmen arrives on stage. A gorgeous voice, pouting, red lips... and the size and beauty of a Mac truck. The beautiful Carmen is at least 5'10" in her bare feet and three times as wide as the unfortunate tenor who shall be paying her court all night. 
 For a moment, I want to howl at the notion that this is the opera femme fatale of all time. Only good manners stop me from hacking. Well, that and the fact that she's got the most amazing voice. If I close my eyes, I can believe that she is, indeed, a ravishing creature, so sensual and enthralling that none can resist her and only those who do stand a chance. 
 But if I close my eyes, I can't read the subtitle prompter above the stage and, regardless of how much my French sucks, even a native Frenchman would have a hard time following the diction around Bizet's wiggly score. The music has more tricky double-speak and odd little scurries than a politician in an election year. 
 Not to mention the fact that when I close my eyes, I suddenly behold in my imagination, not the plus-size diva singing about how love is like a bird which must be free, but the angular, be-wigged figure of Bob Denver as Gilligan portraying Hamlet and singing the unforgettable (and don't I wish I could?) "To Be or Not to Be?" to the same tune. 
 By the time we reach the torero, Escamillo, singing about how wonderful it is to be him, I can barely keep myself from giggling, imagining Bart and Homer Simpson crooning the immortal words "Toreador, oh, don't spit on the floor! Use the cuspidor, that's what it's for!" 
 Just imagine the fits I'll be in next year, when the opera does Wagner and I am beset by visions of Elmer Fudd singing "Kill the Rabbit, kill the Rabbit, kill the Rabbit!" among the Valkyries. And The Barber of Seville is right out--it just wouldn't be the same without the barber-chair race to the sky featuring Elmer and Bugs. 
 Y'see: my youth was not a cultural wasteland. It was just a slightly misplaced one. When the wind is southerly, I know a hawk from a handsaw and a tenor from a tenner. 

 Wow, it certainly took me long enough to get around to this, didn't it? Alas, work comes before the pleasures of writing Kat Litter and I have, unfortunately, to consider the potential impact upon the business of everything I say. I hate that, and I'll probably put my foot in it, at sometime--maybe I already have--but it's a fact, for a while, at least. Pray, bear with me. 

 posted: January 22, 2004 

 Showerhead Revisited 

 I'm beset by bad showers.... No pressure. Sit tight and let me elucidate. Or rant, if you will. 
 I approach the shower with the usual groggy morning anticipation, pleased that I've managed to corral for myself the "good" shower with the funky little high-pressure spigot. Y'know: the kind with a little push-button thingy on the head. I stumble in and put my things in the shower, hang up my towel, strip and turn the water on. 
 But the water comes dribbling out like praise from a parsimonious preacher. Someone has made off with the elegant little Euro-widget and replaced it with a big, round "Rainmaker Low-Flo Showerhead". Even at full flow and with the head adjusted to "maximum pressure," the stream from the appliance is more akin to a moderate drizzle than a shower. I've had more pressure in unexpected Summer downpours at Pike Place Market. At least it's hot, but, still, when you've got a yard of thick, blonde hair, a shower with the power of a grass-blade harmonica is not going to remove the shampoo from your scalp. Well, not mine, at least. Frustrated, I muddle through my shower and leave the room feeling mildly itchy. There's plenty of hot water for the next guy, but too much soap scum for me. 
 The Rainmaker is rated, I note, at 2.5 gallons per minute, maximum flow. Most "normal" shower heads are rated around 5-7, but I can't say I've seen a "normal" shower head in years. No apartment, no home in my native California, no school or gym locker room, has ever offered the experience of anything to me but "low flow". So, what's with this pathetic drooling in the name of saving a few drops? Just what the frick is going on? 
 I realize that the reason for the change is water conservation, but it's a misplaced gesture, in this case--and probably most others, too. If you reduce the flow to the point that people can't get clean in 10 minutes, they'll stay in for 15, until they either get clean or give up. OK, you saved half a gallon of water per minute, but you added 50% more minutes, so... what did you save? You used to use 30 gallons in 10 minutes at 3 gallons per minute, but at 2.5 for 15 minutes, you used 37.5, thus wasting 7.5 gallons and 5 minutes of time. 
 But, here's the real kicker: I looked it up and it turns out that our "low flow" Rainmaker shower heads use a maximum of 2.5 gallons per minute, but our old "Whedon" style shower heads used... wait for it... 2.25 gallons per minute. And their design actually provided better and more variable pressure than the Rainmaker types. So why in the name of soap scum did the management replace the old Whedons? 
 Because the flow rate isn't stamped on the head. 
 For lack of an idiot-notice, the shower was lost and so was a quarter-of-a-gallon of water per minute. Because of a bad design choice, we are all taking longer showers and feeling grumpier about it, thus wasting more water per shower and raising dander in more ways than one. Every 4 minutes, I wasted a gallon just to get annoyed. Where's the payoff in that? (I could get annoyed a lot more efficiently if you sent me to a congressional session.) Most of the comforts and delights of a morning shower have now gone the way of the dodo: into the dumpster of history (or in our case, the dumpster of the marina, where you could probably find a dodo if you looked long enough and didn't mind the smell). I squandered 4.25 gallons of water acquiring a bad mood and now dread taking a shower. ("What dread hands and what dread feet?" too, or they will be if I don't get a decent wash). Do you suppose a "stink in" might be an effective protest? But no. Even I wouldn't sink to that. Actually, I wouldn't consider it for more than 5 minutes, to be honest, and that 5 minutes only because I'm a bit out of sorts (and likely to get out of sortier before this is over.) 
 I want my Whedon back! I want my 2.25-gallons-per-minute of frickin' pressure! Bring Back Whedon! Unleash the Water Pressure! Save Water! (Don't forget "Save the Whales".) And let me get the soap scum out of my hair. Dammit. 
 Not to mention saving 2.5 gallons of water every 10 minutes over the sloppily slobbering sluice that currently reigns its rudimentary rain on the heads of blighted boaters. Pah and Phooey. 
 Whose kack-brained idea was it to make shower heads that dribble as a way of reducing water consumption? Are all the showerhead-designers hemophiliacs who bruise at the touch of a feather? When I was a kid, the first interesting law of physics we figured out was that you could make the water come out harder if you put your thumb over the end of the hose, but you didn't have to turn up the water, to begin with. Flow dynamics. Pipes, current and restriction. Physics. Ohm's Bloody Law of Garden Hoses. Haven't these hydrophobic hysterics noticed this phenomenon, yet? How old are they? Are they related to the Wicked Witch of the West? Who waters their lawn?! 
 Ah, fuck it. Where's the damned hose? It may be cold, but at least it's not a "Rainmaker".... 

 posted: January 30, 2004 

 Tangled up in Tango 

 I like tango music, from La Cumparsita and Jalousie to silly fusions like Shakira's Te Aviso, Te Anuncio and In-Grid's In-Tango . I like Latin music, in general, but there's something particularly compelling about tango. Let's face it, music which can make a massive lunk like Arnold Schwarzenegger seem sexy must be magic (at 6' 2" and built like a tank, he's no Fred Astaire, nor even Cesar Romero, who was at least acutally Latin and a dancer, and certainly no Antonio Banderas-- grrrowwl! ). 
 Of course, it is not just the music. It is the dance. Tango, whether rendered on a traditional, solo bandoneon (a sort of accordion), orchestra, marching band or modern electric guitar is music for dancing. And this is not the "dance of loooove" unless we are being euphemistic. Tango is about confidence and drive, power and sex. Which probably explains its current and re-current popularity. There can be no timidity in Tango. A nervous or unsure dancer cannot execute a convincing tango and anyone who gets nervous about rubbing up against their partner should stick to low-tempo foxtrot. 
 And it's not just a man's dance of domination over women, either--no matter what some people think. The following partner must dance with equal confidence or the dance is dull. Which, I suppose, it part of the reason you see tango featured in films about dangerous or passionate people, even when the film may be relatively lightweight and silly--like True Lies or The Addams Family . 
 On the other hand, there are films like The Last Tango in Paris --which barely has a tango in it, but evokes the idea of them very well--and the recent Assassination Tango where the dance operates as metaphor, plot device and motivation in one go. An impressive trick for a bit of dance-hall tomfoolery. I expect that, someday, a brash and obnoxious young film maker will eliminate the metaphor and cut straight to the action flick--someone already beat him to the porn--which would be an accomplishment requiring as much brass-cajones as dancing the tango, itself. 
 Someone once said that dancing is "the vertical expression of a horizontal urge." Like most catchy slug-lines, though, that's too blatant and over-simplified. Tango, at least, is a pantomime of social intercourse where the timid get left behind or driven into a wall. It is a challenge to live with passion, style and confidence. Other dances are fun, athletic, charming or gracious, but not a challenge to one's mode of living. To tango, you embrace passion and confidence. 
 Would that we could tango in all our endeavors. And maybe I shall tango a book, someday. 

 Back to top of this page, please. 
 Back to Index 
 &copy; 2004 M. Kathleen Huffine/Kat Richardson. All rights reserved.