Mullspace | Kat Litter | January, 2002 

 Portal | Kat Litter | Tales | Lectures | Eye Candy | Accreations | Kat Who? | Poke 

 January, 2002 

 posted: January 11, 2002 

 So Long LBC 

 Poor thing, it's been retired to the storage locker. Alas, I no longer wear my long black coat. Four-and-a-half feet of black oil-skin with sleeves is not as practical a garment on a sailboat as it was when I spent most of my time on busses. The attitude coat has been tucked away in favor of a spiffy, yellow, high-tech foul-weather jacket. It's no where near as imposing, but it's also not as huge. 
 I do look quite "sailorly" in it, according to my neighbors. And it has a hood to keep the rain off my spectacles, which is a great thing. It is easy to see in wretched weather and it keeps the rain out wonderfully. But it has no attitude. It is yellow and practical. 
 There is one bad thing about the foulie, though. It stops at mid-thigh so that my legs get soaked from there down. Soaking wet thighs is not a fun thing (stop that, you filthy-minded critters! You know I don't mean that sort of wetness!) I can't understand why coats stop at such a ridiculous location. If they stopped at the waist you'd just be wet all over, so they come down a little farther to cover your ass, I suppose. But why don't they come all the way to the knee? So that the water could just drop off of the hem missing most of your leg, especially the warm part. Longer and they get in the way of a lot of things. But, there's no advantage I can see in not making the hem come to the knee. 
 But no. Some penny-pinching cret somewhere is no doubt counting every quarter-yard saved by causing us all to have icy thighs. 
 I think we should find the person responsible for this beastly decision and steal all of the outerwear they own, cut it up, and add the bits to everyone else's coat so that we can all have warm thighs. 
 Do you suppose we could have him skinned and made into a coat...? 

 Incidentally, I'm working on new graphics for this site, but work on Whisper City and a few other projects has taken up a great deal of time. When I do finally manage to get the stuff done, I'll also be changing a few things, here, just a touch, so... stay tuned, as they say. 

 Back to top of this page, please. 
 Back to Index 
 &copy; 1999-2002 M. Kathleen Huffine/Kat Richardson. All rights reserved.