Mullspace | Kat Litter | July, 2003 

 Portal | Kat Litter | Tales | Lectures | Eye Candy | Accreations | Kat Who? | Poke 

 July, 2003 

 posted: July 9, 2003 

 Ferret TV 

 Good evening, folks, and welcome to another exciting night of World-Wide Weasel Wrestling! Tonight's feature bout is a grudge-match between two local favorites, Dexter "Dex" Handsome-Lad and "The Tasmanian Devil-boy". Now, don't let the name fool you, folks. Althought Taz is a beefy specimen, he's pure ferret and those rumors that he's actually a miniature wolverine are completely unfounded. 
 Before the bout gets under way, we're going to take a minute to familiarize any newcomers out there with the rules of the sport. Although the principal participants must be ferrets--domestic members of the family mustelidae which includes weasels, minks, otters and wolverines--the wrestlers may tag any bystander of any species and/or inanimate objects, if they wish. Most moves involve the use of the mouth, principally, with the body and paws coming in secondarily. Points are awarded not only for throwing and pinning the opponent, but also for style. Pausing to scratch, eat, drink or use the litter box is an automatic time-out which the opponent must respect or they will be chastened by the referee. In the event of unnecessary roughness, the referee will stop the bout and separate the wrestlers, but the general rule of thumb, no matter how much they squeal is "no blood, no poop, no foul." 
 All right! Now the wrestlers are entering the arena and I must say it's a beautiful night for it, here at the boat. The water's been calm and the floor is recently swept, so they should have good traction. Various objects have been placed in and around the area and I suspect we'll see a lot of dodging and evasion tactics tonight. 
 And here comes Dex! He's slim, he's sleek, he's muscular and, even though he's now four years old, he's still in prime wrestling condition and a home-town favorite. Now he pauses and poses.... Listen to the crowd go wild! He certainly lays the ladies in the aisle, doesn't he? 
 Off to the side you can see the Taz-man doing some warm-ups with his coach. He's got her forefinger in a four-point incisor lock and is doubling up with his front paws. Look at that! She's got him up off the settee by his fangs alone and he's not showing any signs of struggle. It's as easy as snatching chow from the cat for this powerful young ferret and he does it all without ever breaking the skin on her finger! My, oh my. At a mere six and a half months old, he's showing serious promise. The biggest question is can brawn and fluffiness win out over experience and speed? We'll just have to wait and see, folks. 
 Now the wrestlers approach the bunk, which is the starting venue and, with a flip of the coaches' hands, they're in the ring! 
 Oh, but, what's this? They're circling, they're looking around.... Uh-oh: they're acting disinterested. Looks like the ref will have to interfere to get this bout started. She grabs Taz, flips him onto his back near Dexter and tickles his belly! Oh, that's done it! 
 He's riled, he's up and he's bouncing like mad, right onto Dexter! He's got Dex in a full-body hug and is trying to pin him to the blankets, but the favorite isn't falling for that, oh, no! He slips right out of the burly youngster's grip and launches a straight attack for the left ear! 
 Dex has Taz by the ear and he's rolling him over and over. This is amazing, folks. Even though Taz outweighs the feisty favorite by a whopping fifty-percent, Dex is dragging him back and forth as if he were a lightweight chew-toy! What a display of compact power! Taz is grunting, but he's not giving in, yet. He twists, wiggles and... he's up and bouncing! 
 Good heavens! Look at that boy bounce! And... he's off the bunk! He's racing for the main salon with Dexter right on his tail! A quick turn around the table legs and Dexter's on him! 
 Oops, hang on folks. Here's a quick stop for an ear-scratch and a drink of water from Taz as Dexter paces impatiently nearby. Gotta admire the boy's sang froid. 
 OK, the fluffy wonder is ready to go again and Dex is dancing and darting. Here's a quick clash, a roll on the rug.... 
 Whoops, they're breaking off. Taz is making a series of Kiki-bounces--that move, incidentally, is named after the famous Kiki-the-ferret from the comic strip Sluggy Freelance--and Taz is an expert at this complex, twisting-bounce-with-a-tail-flip combination. That'll definitely win him some style points with the judges. Oh, but it's not intimidating his opponent, whose been waving his open mouth at young Taz the whole time. I think the old favorite has had enough and Dex breaks the Tazster's defense with a dive and roll which brings him under the bouncing boy at just the right time! 
 Take-down! Oh! That's gotta hurt. They're rolling, they're struggling. It's a little hard to see what's going on down there, folks.... From up here in the broadcast booth it looks like a roiling coil of furry snakes. Taz slides out of Dexter's attempted fang-lock and runs to tag Kat on the ankle! 
 There's a full, four-footed leap and he's clinging on to her leg! Dexter is right behind and now he's got the other leg! Kat is wriggling and kicking and now she's using her hands to scoop the two ferrets off her calves and.... 
 It's back onto the bunk for the two wrestlers! But, wait! There's something... oh, my goodness: there's a Sock Monkey in the ring! Oh, and the Sock Monkey is attacking Dexter! But Dexter has him by the foot! 
 And Taz is joining in: he's got an arm and the two ferrets are pulling the aggressive Sock Monkey in two directions. This could be a bad one for the Sock Monkey! He's being dragged, now, by Dexter... who's stuffed him in a box and is racing for the pile of lingerie! 
 Taz is after him... there's a flying leap, and he's into the lingerie! But what's that sound? Oh, my, folks: I do believe it's the squeaky bobo-ball. Squeaky Bobo-Ball has been a nemesis to both these mustelids since it first arrived in the boat. With its high-pitched squeak, sounding like an asthmatic baby rat, it drives them both completely wild! 
 They're writhing and twisting, trying to find the squeaky bobo-ball. Oops! Taz has the ball and he's off! Dexter is in hot pursuit as Taz runs with the ball in his teeth, gasping squeaks erupting from the bobo-ball with every bouncing stride. And don't those squeaks and squeals drive them both crazy?! He's trying to stuff it into the Kleenex box, but the box is too full, so he's doubling back, heading back to the bunk. 
 Dex whips around to follow and... 
 Oh, no! He's down! Ass over teakettle over the ruched-up rug, but you can't keep this lad down, he's up again and after the Devil-boy and Squeaky Bobo-Ball. 
 Taz is well ahead. He reaches the bed, dodges around Dex as he pops up from the laundry and makes a quick turn into the cage where he tucks the bobo-ball into the nest-box. 
 It looks like Dexter has gotten confused by the youngster's tactic of taking the ball into the cage and is assuming that Taz is getting into bed. Just look at the disappointment written all over him! Now Dexter is hoisting himself up into the hammock, thinking it's time to go to bed, but it's not over just yet. 
 Oh, boy! What a rhubarb! It seems that Fidget, the Queen of the Foos, was sleeping in the nest box and boy is she steamed at having her nap interrupted! She's chittering at him. He's backing up.... 
 He's hopping into the hammock as this petite, white-furred virago gives him what for. 
 But it's a bad retreat and there's Dexter! He's got the Devil-boy by the scruff, but Taz is desperate: he's rolling around in the hammock, spinning his powerful, furry body around and around trying to dislodge the tenacious Dex. 
 And they've fallen out of the hammock! Right onto Fidgie! What an upset! 
 It's a three-way battle! The whole business is tumbling out of the cage. They're rolling down the ramp, onto the bunk. They're dancing and bouncing and--my, oh, my!--have you ever seen three such mighty sets of ferret fangage at the same time? It's like a display of polished ivory sewing needles waving in the wind! Don't put your fingers in there, folks! 
 Taz is moving to break the stalemate: he's diving for Fidget! She's trying to dodge, but it looks like the speed she had in her youth has abandoned her. Oh, no! He's got her by the ear! She's screaming! She's wriggling! 
 And here's Dexter coming to her rescue! He's on Taz's back like a bronc-rider. He's got the younger ferret by the scruff! Oh, the ferritity! 
 Fidget's out of there! I don't know how she did it, but she's gotten out of the Taz-man's fang-lock and is streaking for the nest box. She's home free! 
 And Dexter gives Taz a last good shake and dashes off to join her: he knows a good thing when he sees one: a warm bed, a squeaky bobo-ball and foo. 
 Taz is all alone on the bunk. It looks like it's all over, folks. Yes, yes, the youngster is admitting defeat as he flops down on his belly and goes flat with a sigh. Aced out of a championship bout by the Queen of the Foos. What a sad day for the Taz-man. 
 But, there's always the Sock Monkey.... 
 Well, I'm afraid that's all for this edition of World-Wide Weasel Wrestling. Be sure to tune in next time... whenever that is. 

 edited and re-posted: July 20, 2003 
originally posted: July 16, 2003 

 My Own Private Ida-Know 

 My husband and I seem to have our own long-running comedy film from which we constantly quote. This confuses our friends no end because, while they are sure that the lines are familiar, they can't place them. 
 It all started when we were dating.... 
 After a long discussion of goofy movies, Monty Python, the Napoleonic Wars, pike squares and general silliness I quite suddenly said (don't ask me why they sounded like British officers, they just did): 
 Major Stodgy: I'm very disappointed in your performance, Lt. Reluctant. Very disappointed, indeed. Emperor's not pleased a'tall. Leftenant, why haven't you taken that pass?! 
 Lt. Reluctant: It's the Swiss, sir. 
 Major Stodgy: The Swiss? What have the Swiss got that we haven't got?! 
 Lt. Reluctant: Long, pointy sticks, sir. 
 At this point, the waitress came by with salads and a dubious look, which made us bust out laughing. Service was a bit weird after that. To this day one of us can always break up the other by saying "It's the Swiss, sir... long, pointy sticks, sir" in a bad English accent (well, bad in my case: Jim does a perfectly fine one, having grown up there.) 
 All of our goofy routines are accompanied by odd voices and strange facial expressions. Small burps come with their own ferret-inspired sub-routine of "Sklerb!" followed by a rapid licking of the lips and the sight of pigeons doing their mating ritual inevitably brings on "Hey, Babeeee.... Hey, Babeeeee...." "Get away from me, creep!" Independent Rear Suspension has supplied us with the revisionist quote "Oh, no! Palace Coup!" and the Pigeon of Death lives on in the continuing adventures of the POD as a disembodied talking head pinned to the jacket of a Seattle Surfer Goth (some day, I really must finish that up and find an artist to illustrate it. Someone volunteered once, but I don't think that's going to go through.) 
 Of course, we are not above plagiarizing from better movies, like Blazing Saddles with its "These are simple farmers, Bart. The salt of the Earth. The common clay of the New West. You know..., morons." A Fish Called Wanda supplied "I've worn dresses with higher IQs!" Finding Nemo has recently been added to the repertory. Cries of "Mount Wannahockaloogie!" cause pandemonium when accompanied by a human face doing its best to imitate a puffer fish at full blow. 
 We wilfully steal from our acquaintances, too. Such as the adventure of the friend of a friend who slunk into a convenience store in Southern California late one night wearing only swim goggles and a very tight Speedo swim brief. With his hair slicked back and his face thrust forward, he approached the counter and, flickering his tongue nervously and looking about, he asked for "Uhh... that copy of Hustler , a Big Gulp Coke, the largest jar of Vaseline you've got... and a fork." Another of our friends supplied "Well she said she was eight!" in complete innocence, but we've since ruined his reputation with it. And the memory of one of our dock neighbors pursuing her squeamish child away from a bloated fish face and calling out from between ridiculously puckered lips "It only wants to kiss you, Ollie!" will forever bring us to tears of laughter. 
 Lately, we have been derailed into a new private epic: "Darth Noodle: Dark Nerd of the Sith". I mean, really; there must be Jedi nerds and what would make more sense but that they would grow up to become bitter, angry Sith lords, wrecking their revenge for years of slights with bared light saber and psychic kung-fu? Imagine, if you will, the pimply-faced young Jedi in black cloak and robes, striding about and asking--with the inevitable lateral lisp stolen from the hapless schmoe, Milton, in Office Space --"My light shabre? Umm...? I believe you have my light shabre? I shushpect that you make fun of me.... You shall rue the day that you mocked Darth Noodle!" 
 "'Darth Noodle '? Isn't that a bit of a goofy name for a Sith lord?" 
 "It hash a proud and honorable hishtory! ...Beshidesh, my first choishe was taken." 
 "Oh? What was that? 
 "Darth Tinky-Winky. I could have gotten it, but I'd have had to fight the other guy and, well, that purple shuit intimidated me. And, he had that thing on hish head...." 
 "I see...." 
 "No, you don't! You only pretend to undershtand me! You're just mocking me like all the resht--!" 
 "If you can't behave, I'll have to ask you to leave. And I'm definately not giving back the flashlight." 
 "Flashlight?! How dare you?! It'sh my lightshabre! The shymbol and emblem of my Shith-nessh! Now you dare to take it from me and drive me from my haven?! You tempt the wrath of Darth Noodle! Oh, how the times have changed! Once you were my mentor, now you are my tor mentor!" 
 "No, Kyle, still just the Librarian...." 

 Back to top of this page, please. 
 Back to Index 
 &copy; 2003 M. Kathleen Huffine/Kat Richardson. All rights reserved.