Mullspace | Kat Litter | March, 2003 

 Portal | Kat Litter | Tales | Lectures | Eye Candy | Accreations | Kat Who? | Poke 

 March, 2003 

 posted: March 4, 2003 

 Ferret Math 

 We've been invaded by a small, stinky, black thing. It seems to have an unending supply of energy, so long as you keep pouring fuel of some kind into it, though that, unfortunately, leads to a form of sticky exhaust which keeps showing up in inopportune places. We should have called it "Motor" I suspect, but, for the time being, we are calling the recent addition to the local business of Mustela furo "Pogo". 
 Pogo goes against a certain set of my instincts, which are to avoid any more work than I have to do and not to perpetuate my slavery to small, furry, cute things I'm destined to outlive. It's bad enough to have your human friends go fucking off at the drop of a hat, never to be seen again, but to engage your affections to a dependent, sweet-faced, furry, heart-stealer you know has a maximum life span only ten-percent of yours takes a certain degree of willful masochism. 
 Oh, but he's just sooo cute! 
 See: 
 And such a little intellectual, too. 
 So, we are now a three-foo household. Pogo, Fidget , and Dexter . 
 Anyone with better suggestions for a name than "Pogo", should please write and tell me so and if the "Poke" link isn't working for you the e-ddress is mull.space@lycos.com. 
 Gotta go play with the foo, now.... 

 The ferret's name was changed to "Taz" a few days later, in reference to the Warner Brothers' cartoon character the Tasmanian Devil, whom he somewhat represents. 

 posted: March 14, 2003 

 Cheesy 

 Cheese: (n) curds of milk, separated from the whey and pressed into a solid mass, eaten as food. 
 Food: (n) substance taken (or intended to be) into the body to maintain life and growth, nourishment. 

 There is a scary product on the shelves of American supermarkets. Some of my friends call this "spray-on cheese". You know the stuff I mean: a vaguely semi-solid, school-bus-orange glop contained in a pressurized can which shoots forth like Silly String when the nozzle is pressed. If you've never seen it, it really does exist in supermarkets all over the United States and probably Canada, as well, alas for them. It's like hairspray with starch. The idea being that you're supposed to take this goo and spray in onto crackers and casseroles and hot dogs and such as an edible decoration or what-have-you. It also comes in jars, but, really, the spray-can of cheesy goo is the classic form. Many a geek and college student has survived and even thrived on this yellow-orange abomination, which makes me wonder about the state of our nation even more than the current shenanigans in New York and Washington D.C.--talk about chemical warfare.... 
 Who thinks up this shit? The idea of this stuff just doesn't seem obvious to me. Can you imagine the guy who invented it, sitting in a meeting somewhere and saying "Hey, I know, let's take some cheese and stick it in a whipped-cream can so you can shoot it out of the top like water out of your nose! Yeah, just like Johnson is doing with his coffee, right now! No, no! I'm serious! Really! We'll make a fortune! We could call it 'areo-cheeze'!" 
 But what's really scary is not that someone came up with the idea of cheese in a spray-can, but that what they put in that can isn't really cheese at all; it's "Processed Cheese Food Product". 
 What the hell is that? I know what cheese is. It's been around forever. And then there is this other stuff.... 
 When I was a kid (hey! it wasn't that long ago! Though, if you wanted color TV you had to break out the crayons...), there was cheese and there was Velveeta&#153. This was not really cheese, as it took pains regulated by law to let us know. Oh, no, not cheese, but "Processed Cheese". So, it was cheese to which something had been...done. Some sort of... processing. Hmm..., yes.... 

 Process: (n) a systematic series of actions or operations directed to some end; (v) to preserve (food) by a process. 

 Why process cheese? Isn't the whole point of cheese to preserve the curd-y goodness of milk? I mean, that's what cheese is: preserved milk. So, Velveeta was preserved, preserved milk. Why? I'm not quite sure, but I know that Velveeta melts easier (the slut) than regular cheese, which seems to have been very desirable in that age of fondue pots through which the very young and impressionable me once wandered in a daze of well-sugared television. 
 But, it did not remain this way (the processed cheese, not the sugared TV--that's still the same). Oh, no. Quite possibly because of its similarity to rubber, Velveeta-abuse led to yet another labelling upgrade. Now it was called "Processed Cheese Food". I suppose this was to remind us that Kraft, the manufacturer (and processor) of Velveeta was making food here, not square, orange super-balls. But, since all cheese is food, the redundancy seems preposterous, but, maybe not.... Maybe it's not meant to read "Cheese: food" but "cheese-food". 
 I know what people-food is and I know what cat-food is, and if these are foods which people and cats, respectively, eat, then, quite obviously, cheese-food is what cheese eats! 
 So, what we have at this point is processed cheese-food, or the result of processing the food which cheese eats. 
 Okaaaay.... 
 But to make matters even more complicated, another word was recently added to the mix: Product. 

 Product: (n) thing produced (brought into existence, made) by an action, operation or natural process. 

 There's a succinct little Anglo-Saxon word for the product of naturally-processing food, be it cheese or cheese-food. It's just four letters long and it starts with S and ends with T and it isn't "spit". 
 Processed Cheese-Food Product.... 
 This is what they put into that spray can and, to add insult to injury, they call it "Cheez Whiz&#153" . 
 Now, where I come from "whiz" has a somewhat... urinary connotation, especially among the male-set who are properly equipped to practice it in a way most females are not. Coupled with the rest of the name, this brings to mind the rather horrific vision of some fellow micturating cheddar. Additionally, this activity is usually done with a sort of backstop, a vertical surface like a wall, or urinal, or at least into frozen precipitation. There's just something wrong about the idea of young men writing their names in the snow with Processed Cheese Food Product. 
 It's just not right, I tell you! There should be no whizzing of cheez, no processing of cheese-food into products of dubious distinction. It's damn-near criminal and certainly disgusting. Away with the processed "product" of cheese-food! Aroint thee, glop! Get thee gone! 
 Or at least arrive in a can, like whipped cream does, with nitrous oxide. If I'm going to submit myself to the indignity of re-processing the Processed Cheese Food Product, I could at least get a laugh out of it.... 

 posted: March 23, 2003 

 The Great Unknown 

 My husband, being the terribly house-conscious fellow he is (hah!), picks up a package of "All-Purpose Mats" in a grocery store (no, I don't know how a mat is supposed to qualify as a grocery, but I know I don't plan on eating any) and waves them at me. 
 "See, this is the sort of thing we need on the boat," he says. "They're much stiffer and sturdier than those rugs we have, now." 
 "Well, that would be because they aren't rugs...." 
 "Of course they aren't rugs, they're... all-purpose mats. And, look, they're made in Canada of... 100&#037 unknown fibers?" 
 Yup, that's what the package says. "Made in Canada of 100&#037 Unknown Fibers." No, really. It's true. 
 I find something disconcerting in that idea. The manufacturer of mats has no idea what they are made out of, but assumes that they are good for all purposes. How can they know that? What if you decide to, say, use them in your car and then discover that, although you don't know what the fiber is, you do know that it disintegrates on contact with gasoline fumes. Whoopsie. Or worse: you put them in the kids' room only to discover that they dissolve into a vile black goo when in the toddler spills apple juice on them which quickly gains sentience and begins eating the neighbors (though, would that be all bad?) They could be made of the sort of thing some of us were toking in College (except for former President Clinton, who never inhaled, be it maryjane or mats--which made me wonder how it was he could talk so much.) 
 Who knows what evil lurks in the heart of the Unknown Fiber? This is Textila Incongnita, here. Fibrus Occultus. It could be anything ! It could be fuzzy cocaine, or shredded cane toad skins or spun baby whale fur (save the unborn baby gay whales for Jesus!) It could be terrorist fibers of pure chemical nastiness just waiting for the moment when they will mix with the right catalyst and bloom forth in choking clouds of vile, green death! 
 Aggghhh! I've stumbled on a terrorist plot! Notify Homeland Security! Situation Puce! It all makes sense! Of course they were "Made in Canada". What a clever ruse: claiming they are the product of our mild-mannered neighbors to the north! We would never guess that the evil fibers arrived disguised as clothing and carpets, made their way into the hands of the conspirators, who quickly transformed them into all-purpose mats, then packaged them for sale in the United States--for who would be suspicious of humble all-purpose mats? No one! No one, I tell you! 
 It's a terrorist plot! Stop the all-purpose mats before they kill us all! Hunt them, find them, irradicate them! Give them no quarter! Take no prisoners! Our purposed-mat way of life is at stake! "All-purpose", my butt! They have but one purpose: Evil ! 
 Destruction to the Evil-purpose Mats! They must be stopped before their unknown fibers do their dirty work, before we are inundated with the unknown, the unfamiliar, the (gasp!) foreign! 
 We must fight them! Fight the Unknown Fiber and the All-Purpose mat wherever they may hide! We must fight them on the beaches! We must fight them in the streets and in our homes! We must--we must.... 
 Wait a minute... Jim says they're two for $12.98. 
 Fuck Homeland Security, I'm buyin' 'em. I mean, really, how often do you get to buy a genuine piece of the Great Unknown for thirteen bucks? 
 Live dangerously: it's the last frontier. (Buy mats!) 

 posted: March 31, 2003 

 Army of Peepness 

 Once again, the time grows nigh when a monstrous regiment shall march down upon us. It has already begun to gather its strength on the highways, in the stores, in the aisles of shops across the US and Canada. It rallies, even as we speak, in streets and alleys of Bethlehem, growing stronger in its numbers and in its resolve against us. It is the army of the Damned. A battalion of vileness, an unclean mass bent on laying waist. 
 Yes, I mean "waist": that thing you have separating your chest from your hips. The Army of Darkness and Decay has a set and steady eye trained upon your waistline, America! And it means to take over by means of collaborators and Quislings in your midst. You will be helpless to resist. Your former allies will turn against you. Indeed, your very own family will join in on the side of the invader with cries of "over the teeth and past the gums; look out, tummy, here it comes!" 
 It is the Army of Peeps&#153; ! And they are on the march from Bethlehem (Pennsylvania, that is) to a store near you! You cannot run! You cannot hide! There are but two choices: Fight or Die(t)! 
 One must resist the creamy blandishments of these invidious marshmallow creeps... err, I mean Peeps, unless one is to lose all self-respect, threaten the health of your teeth and eliminate anything remotely like an indentation below your ribs and above your hips. Join with me in the Peep Resistance! (not to be confused with the pi&#232;ce de r&#233;sistance.) 

 Do not give in, though the Peep promise you a world of sweetness, for it is the snack-food of the Devil! (Or at least I'm pretty sure it was the Devil, though it might have been Elvis....) Do not believe it when you are told that they are but harmless sweets. There is no state in which a Peep is a safe thing to have about the house. Untouched they will eventually mutate into solid, candy-colored cement. If eaten, they squish, then grind between the teeth with the gritty grinding sensation of chewing on foam rubber wrapped in sandpaper, their intention to render you harmless to their later-coming brethren. 
 Long has the Peep laid its plans. Who can doubt that Peeps plan to Rule the World? What else could be the goal of these seemingly innocuous, yet deviously clever munchies? 
 Take, for example, their frightening proliferation. First there was but one type of Peep: the yellow Chick. Soon there were two: yellow Chicks, and pink Bunnies. In little time they began to appear in either color regardless of the form. Soon new colors appeared, such as white, lavender and blue. Then, very recently--a sure sign that their plans near completion--Peeps have been seen in many new forms and not just at Easter-time as once they were constrained, but throughout the year. At Christmas and Halloween and Valentine's Day. Even the heat of summer could not melt their wicked resolve and spangled Peep-stars appeared on Independence Day picnic tables. 
 Intelligence indicates that even more new Peeps have arrived and that a "patriotic" Peep is planned for this year's most American holiday. What evil do they plan to wreak upon us? 
 Strike first, my friends! I urge you to gather the Peep wherever you find it and render it helpless in some fashion. Smash it in a sandwich. Immobilize it in lakes of liquid gelatine. Cut off their heads and use them for cake decorations. Chop them into colorful Peep-bits and use them to build marshmallow mosaics and candy-colored collages. Give them to the children of adults you dislike. Freeze them in liquid Oxygen and smash them with mallets. Set them on fire and listen to their tiny Peep-screams of "I'm melting! I'm melting! You and your crummy Zippo!" (Flaming Peeps make excellent Molotov cocktail substitutes, I hear.) 
 Even the most reasonable and upright people may be blinded by the Peep. My own sister admits to a desire for the wicked, lavender bunnies and others actively seek them out. Once you have given in to the Peep, only the hardiest of souls can tear themselves free of its evil influence. They are everywhere and their goal is World Domination. No less will do, for the Peep is pure marshmallow-y Evil to its very core! Kind of like network TV.... 
 .... 
 But, seriously, the whole Peep thing is kind of strange to me. How many snack-food products--candies specifically--have a fan club? People actually pride themselves on being able to find all of the available types of Peeps in any given season. They look weird, too. The original Peep was a chick which was made by hand-squeezing marshmallow cream through a tube into a sort of squatting S-shape and then drawing out the end into a pointed "beak" to create the general shape of a baby chicken. The rest are all cookie-cuttered out of flat sheets of marshmallow goo into the shape of stars, rabbits, ghosts, cats, pumpkins, bats, eggs, hearts, Christmas trees, snowmen and gingerbread men. Last year, I saw giant Peep bunnies and oversized chicks. I am overwhelmed by the offering of foot-long marshmallow creatures. Thankfully, these nightmare visions have not made a new appearance. 
 The original Peep is fifty-years-old this year and must be pretty hard and stale by now. In honor of this, the manufacturer, Just Born, has introduced the Peeps Fun Bus which is decorated in Peep-licious colors and features a giant Peep-head riding on its fore. Frankly, if I saw such an apparition zooming down my street, I'd be rather concerned that, perhaps, all security measures had, indeed, failed and someone had dumped hallucinogens in the water supply. 
 The Peeps website has a whole subsection of recipes and crafts using Peeps. Now, while I can understand recipes, since every food product, however ridiculous, attempts to justify its existence with them, the idea of Peep-crafts makes me worry. I'd not cavil at, say, a Peep head on a cake or Peeps-in-Jell-O but a Peeps sombrero makes my hair stand on end (which is probably exactly what would happen if I wore one for any length of time). And the Peep Heart keepsake box is right out. I wouldn't know what sort of "keepsake" to keep in it, unless I had an unusual affection for ants. 
 Although, now that I think of it, I've never seen a Peep attacked by anything other than humans and the occasional maddened dog. I suspect they are, like Twinkies, not sufficiently food-like to attract the hungry desires of opportunistic insects and rodents. 
 Ah, but perhaps that's it: the Peep Heart Keepsake Box is meant as a gift for your favorite rat. The end to a perfect evening of trash-can-dining and a movie. I hear Willard has been remade.... 

 Anyone besides me notice I seem to have an obsession with weird food and warlike images, lately? Hmmm.... 

 Back to top of this page, please. 
 Back to Index 
 &copy; 2002 M. Kathleen Huffine/Kat Richardson. All rights reserved.