Guitar Principles | Why Should I Take Guitar Lessons? 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar , 
 Guitar Case , Guitar 
 Principles , Why Should I Take Guitar Lessons? 

 Why Should I Take Guitar 
 Lessons? 

 Guitar Principles Essay # 6 
 Published April 01, 2001 
 By Jamey Andreas 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Having spent my life making a large part of my living giving 
 guitar lessons, you might suspect me of having a biased view 
 of this subject! Let me assure you at the outset that I do 
 not. Even though there may be a small part of me somewhere 
 that does think that everyone should take guitar lessons, 
 (whether they plan to actually play the guitar or not!), just 
 to keep me in business, I always keep that part under control, 
 and never let it sway my judgement! 
 So don't worry, you're in safe hands here. In fact, there 
 have been times in my teaching career that I have actually 
 told a student not to take lessons anymore, or to go to another 
 teacher. So I don't make any blanket statements about taking 
 guitar lessons. The way that lessons, or the process of educating 
 yourself as a musician, fit into your life will be a decision 
 you make based on your unique circumstances, and your unique 
 goals. 
 One general statement I will make is that for beginners, 
 lessons are ALWAYS a good idea. This doesn't mean that you 
 should make no efforts to perhaps teach yourself, using books, 
 videos and the Internet. But along with all of that, especially 
 in the beginning, and especially if you have no previous experience 
 with music, you should seek out a teacher. 
 If you are teaching yourself, and coming along well, then 
 lessons will increase your progress, usually greatly increase 
 your progress. I started by teaching myself for about three 
 months. I was learning and could play lots of songs, and was 
 teaching myself to read notes from a method book. But when 
 I started lessons, I really started to make progress, simply 
 because of the guidance of someone who knew the route to take 
 a lot better then I did. Also, and most importantly, a great 
 number of misunderstandings and wrong steps were corrected 
 by someone who had two things I didn't have: knowledge and 
 experience. 
 Re-Inventing the Wheel 
 Let's get a few things straight right at the beginning. Let's 
 really look at this question "should I take guitar lessons". 
 I have to tell you, whenever I hear a beginning player ask 
 that question it makes me laugh. It's like a five-year-old 
 saying they want to be a doctor or lawyer when they grow up, 
 and asking if it would be a good idea if they went to elementary 
 school! The mere asking of the question shows how much the 
 person asking doesn't have a clue about what they are getting 
 into, and how best to get into it. 
 When I hear this question, I think "why on earth would it 
 ever be a bad idea to learn a very complicated subject from 
 someone who knows a whole lot more that you do, and has years 
 of experience with the subject." Why on earth would it ever 
 be a bad idea, before beginning a journey to an unknown place, 
 to ask for help from a guide, who has traveled the route many 
 times? The very fact that someone is asking the question shows 
 they don't understand how the whole process of the development 
 of talent works. 
 They don't understand, for instance, that playing the guitar 
 is a very sophisticated mental/physical process. Like many 
 activities, such as various sports (tennis, golf, basketball) 
 it has evolved over many years, and continues to evolve, becoming 
 increasingly complex, and new standards of excellence being 
 set all the time. Would anyone seriously ask the question 
 "would it be a good idea for me to go to baseball camp", or 
 would it be a good idea to take tennis lessons with a tennis 
 pro", or "I'd like to improve my golf game, do you think I 
 should take lessons with Tiger Woods". We all know the answer 
 would be "Duh!!?!!" 
 Yet, when it comes to learning the guitar, people somehow 
 think that perhaps it might be a good idea if they shut themselves 
 up in a room and spent their time re-inventing the wheel! 

 Why do so many people adopt this attitude as they begin guitar 
 (and many people do, bear with me if you are not one of them)? 
 Here are the reasons: 
 Ignorance: Plain ignorance about the entire subject of education, 
 that is, of learning anything. They don't understand that 
 ALL resources, such as books, videos, watching players, talking 
 to players, as well as sitting with players who make a regular 
 habit of transferring their knowledge and abilities to others 
 (teachers) should be used if at all possible, ESPECIALLY in 
 the beginning. 
 Intimidation:. They imagine they would be just plain embarrassed 
 fumbling around with something new and looking and feeling 
 like an idiot in front of a stranger. 
 Illusion: they look around and see people who just "pick 
 it up" on their own (or at least say they do!). They don't 
 understand that some people have "natural talent", which is 
 the tendency to do the right thing, but that even those people 
 would go much further with lessons, and may very possibly 
 never get as far as someone with less talent who does take 
 lessons. Sometimes people see other people who just "pick 
 it up" and say "I should be able to do that", and doggedly 
 keep trying to learn on their own, even though nothing is 
 happening, they aren't learning! Just like men who won't stop 
 and ask for directions, it begins to become an ego thing, 
 and leads to the in-ability to recognize that we need help, 
 and to put ourselves in the vulnerable position of asking 
 for it. 
 Ego. They want to feel like they HAVE re-invented the wheel. 
 This one especially gets people who do have talent, and can 
 get relatively far on their own. They really like the idea 
 of being able to brag to people that they are "self-taught". 
 The psychology of this one is very similar to the syndrome 
 I expounded in my essay " Why Should 
 I Learn to Read Music ". 
 Money. Well, we can't argue with this one! Sometimes people 
 just don't have the bucks for lessons. Personally, at one 
 point in my life I worked 20 hours a week in a factory for 
 minimum wage and spent it all on my lesson with a top teacher 
 in New York City. I put off having a car and used to hitchhike 
 to get around so I wouldn't have to support a vehicle. We 
 all decide the price we will pay for what we want. 
 So, if you are one of those people with a bad attitude about 
 taking lessons, decide which of the above reasons applies 
 to you, and whether you want to deal with it or not. 
 You, The Teacher 
 It is very important to realize that even if you are not 
 taking lessons you already have a teacher. YOU! Understand 
 that especially if you are not going to someone else for guidance 
 that leaves YOU in charge of your own growth, and responsible 
 for your progress. It leaves YOU as the ONLY teacher on the 
 scene. And you better make sure this teacher is a good one! 
 You better make sure this teacher is honestly working their 
 best to make sure the student is learning how to play, and 
 play well, and building the foundation for continuous growth. 

 The job of the teacher is two-fold: to present new material 
 to the student and to make sure the student is actually learning 
 it. If you are your own teacher, these jobs fall to you. Just 
 like buying yourself a book to present yourself with new material, 
 buying yourself some lessons is fulfilling the same teaching 
 function. 
 And besides, if you are your own teacher, and doing a good 
 job, sooner or later you will arrive at the conclusion that 
 it would be a good idea to get some assistance from someone 
 who has already given some, or many, years to playing the 
 guitar and being a musician. 
 True, you never know if you are going to find a great, or 
 even good teacher, at least right away. However, a teacher 
 would have to be pretty lousy to not be of SOME benefit, at 
 least for a while. You can always leave and look for another, 
 and knowing WHEN to leave a teacher is an art in itself! 
 No One is Self Taught, Everyone is Self Taught! 
 The fact is, in one sense none of us are "self-taught", and 
 in another sense, we are all "self-taught". 
 None of us are self-taught, really. We are all influenced 
 by what we see and hear around us, whether we are aware of 
 it or not. A baby learns to walk by watching others walk. 
 It doesn't take "walking lessons", but without watching others 
 it would never learn to walk, (or talk, for that matter). 
 So, the baby doesn't take lessons, but would they be justified 
 in going around when they're about 10, bragging to their friends 
 "Yeah, walkin', taught myself!" 
 I don't think so. 
 Segovia went through his very long life telling people he 
 was "self-taught". It was great PR, and the press loves that 
 kind of stuff. He liked to give the impression that he started 
 the classical guitar from scratch. Of course, he did add immeasurably 
 to the domain and reach of the classical guitar, but only 
 by thoroughly learning what came before him. There is a great 
 picture of him sitting at the knee of Miguel Llobet, (the 
 main student of Francisco Tarrega, who was the greatest guitarist 
 of the 19th century, right before Segovia began his career.) 
 Segovia is watching intently as Llobet plays, and you better 
 believe he is absorbing every detail of what and how it is 
 being done. He is "taking a lesson". 
 If you play electric guitar, or folk guitar, or any style 
 for that matter, one of the best things you can do is watch 
 (and listen to, of course) other players. If your inner teacher 
 is functioning, you will pick up something every time. You 
 may not know it, it might just appear, show itself in some 
 way, the next time you play. 
 The great players are doing this all the time. They were 
 doing it when they first picked up a guitar. They MADE everything 
 be their teacher, whatever happened to come their way, other 
 players, recordings, and teachers. This kind of aggressive 
 attitude is essential, and this kind of aggressive attitude 
 would never even ask the question "should I take lessons". 
 It knows the answer would be, "Yes, if you can". 
 The real teacher is the "inner teacher" we all have inside 
 of us. If that teacher is not on the job, no learning gets 
 done, no matter who is standing in front of us playing the 
 role of teacher. That is the sense in which, ultimately, we 
 are all "self-taught". 
 It is this "inner teacher" that recognizes and makes use 
 of all the "outer teachers": people, books, etc.. So, in the 
 sense that we will, and must, be absorbing knowledge and influences 
 from what is around us, none of us is "self-taught". 
 Lessons at different times, and for different styles 
 I have said lessons are always a good idea in the beginning. 
 As you move along, there may be times when it is best to stop 
 lessons, at least for a while. Sometimes, we simply need to 
 be alone with our playing and our development for a while 
 in order to reach new ground, the place that is right for 
 us to grow into. 
 Especially for players of improvised styles, where the activity 
 of playing with others is so essential to the growth process, 
 this can become an important consideration. And often the 
 student doesn't recognize this. There have been many times 
 when I had a student who was happily spending all his time 
 learning scales and doing exercises, but couldn't jam a simple 
 blues solo with another player! If someone like this tells 
 me they have aspirations of being in a band, I will tell them 
 "stop lessons and join a band! It is more important for your 
 development to play with other people with what you already 
 know, than it is to stay in lessons and learn more scales 
 or exercises"! 
 And this leads to the understanding that the need for lessons 
 is not only different at different stages of our growth, but 
 it is also different depending on the style we wish to play. 
 As time goes on, lessons are less important for the blues./rock 
 player. Actual playing experience is more important. The same 
 is true for the folk player. Only when Vertical 
 Growth is desired are lessons necessary. A great blues 
 player becomes great because they are steeped in the language 
 of blues, and speak it all the time as they converse with 
 other players. You cannot become a great blues or rock player 
 by staying in your room or taking lessons for the rest of 
 you life. 
 If you are going to pursue the classical guitar, you'd better 
 get some lessons right away, and work hard to make sure it 
 is with the best teacher possible. Also, you should expect 
 to be in lessons for at least ten years, if not the rest of 
 your life, depending on how professional and developed you 
 desire to be. 
 Summing up, understand that even if you are not taking "formal" 
 lessons, you still have a teacher, and that teacher is you, 
 and you have the same responsibility that your teacher would 
 have if you WERE going to formal lessons: you must make sure 
 the student is learning, and if not, you must do something 
 about it. 
 If you are taking "formal lessons" understand that even though 
 there is someone sitting there who has the title "teacher", 
 YOU are really the teacher, you are really the one who decides 
 whether anything is really going to be learned, and who actually 
 does the learning. You are going to decide how effective the 
 lessons really are by how well you apply yourself. 
 If you are in lessons and not learning, than your "inner 
 teacher" must tell you it is time to leave, and time to begin 
 the active search for another teacher. Many people don't do 
 this, and that is why they can be in lessons for a long time, 
 and not be learning. 
 Teaching and learning are in reality two sides of the same 
 coin. You cannot become a great teacher unless you have already 
 been a great student. Realize that you must play both roles 
 in the process of your own growth as a guitarist. 
 Copyright 2000 by Jamey Andreas 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Why Should I Learn To Read Music" 

 Next article in 
 this series "Changing Chords" 

 Fans 
 of Jamey Andreas, make sure you check out Jamey&#146;s 
 exclusive article, &#147;Left Hand Form & 
 Development For Guitarists,&#148; classic Questions 
 & Answers from the famous "GuitarPrinciples" 
 Newsletter. Jamey answers questions related to 
 left hand form and development which applies to 
 all styles of electric and acoustic guitar. The 
 topics covered include: Thumb Position & Movement, 
 Training of the Little Finger, Difference Between 
 Classical & Electric Position, Making Bar 
 Chords Easy, Developing "Finger Lowness,&#148; 
 and Strengthening Weak Joints. The knowledge and 
 insight contained in this collection is essential 
 for any player, of any level or style, who wants 
 a deep understanding of how to develop a left 
 hand on guitar that functions at full capacity. 
 &#147; Left 
 Hand Form & Development For Guitarists &#148; 
 is available exclusively at TrueFire. 
 Jamey&#146;s exclusive essays and music are available 
 at truefire.com. 
 For more information about Jamey, his teaching, 
 and his music, visit www.guitarprinciples.com . 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.