Guitar Principles | Stage Fright: Part 3 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar , 
 Guitar Case , Guitar 
 Principles , Stage Fright: Part 3 

 Stage Fright: Part 3 

 It's a Concert, Not a Contest 
 Guitar Principles Essay # 10 
 Published September 01, 2001 
 By Jamey Andreas 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 So far we have talked about what Stage Fright is, and what 
 it isn&#146;t. We have looked at how it is done, and why it 
 is done. We have seen that it is not something that happens 
 to you, it is something you actually do. We have seen that 
 it is just another form of People Fright, although a highly 
 potent form. 
 Well, if Stage Fright is something we DO, I think we can 
 all agree we would rather NOT do it. But how do we not do 
 it? The answer may surprise you. 
 There is no way to not do it. Or more correctly, there is 
 no way for "you" to not do it. There is no way for 
 the "you" who does it to not do it. 
 There is, however, a way to go THROUGH it. There is a way 
 to give birth to a new "you" who does something 
 else instead. 
 The answer to our problem is to discover what it is we SHOULD 
 be doing when we play music for other people, and then do 
 THAT. And what we will find when we DO that, is that the Stage 
 Fright thing STOPS. 
 In order to find out what it is we should be doing when we 
 play music for other people, instead of doing Stage Fright, 
 we need to look at a couple of things first. We need to consider 
 a couple of questions. 
 One, what is music? Two, why does anyone want music in their 
 life? Three, what are we really doing (or trying to do) when 
 we listen to music, or play music for ourselves or for other 
 people? 
 What is Music? 
 There are 3 kinds of people. First, the people that have 
 no feeling for music at all, and whose lives would not be 
 affected if there were no such thing as music in the world. 
 I believe these kinds of people are very rare, and that they 
 are similar to the kind of people who don&#146;t like dogs 
 or little children, and the ones I have met always gave me 
 the shivers. Personally, I don&#146;t think I have met many 
 at all, in fact, only one or two, so I have to account for 
 them here. I&#146;m sure there must be more, I have just been 
 lucky so far. Second, there are the people to whom music makes 
 a pleasant background to their daily activities. It&#146;s 
 nice to have around, like a basket of plastic fruit on the 
 kitchen table. I do know a number of people like this, but 
 I try not to spend much time with them. 
 Thirdly, there are the people who recognize what music REALLY 
 is. They recognize that music is the most potent form of MAGIC 
 a human being is capable of making. They recognize that music 
 not only expresses emotion, music is a tangible form OF emotion. 
 Music IS emotion, it IS energy in motion, human energy, human 
 FEELING emotional energy. That is why this third type of person 
 not only likes music, not only loves music, they NEED music. 
 Thankfully, I know lots of these people. You will find this 
 type of person as what we call a professional musician, or 
 as an amateur, it makes no difference. 
 There are many among this third group of people who recognize 
 that music is DIVINE. If you are one of the people who like 
 to use the word GOD to express your feelings about the ULTIMATE 
 REALITY (as I do), then you may think of it, like me, as the 
 voice of God. When I was a teenager, listening one time to 
 Beethoven&#146;s 9th symphony, I was at once converted and 
 baptized. I didn&#146;t need any scriptures to tell me what 
 God was like, whether there was a God, or any of that nonsense. 
 The "Meaningfulness of Existence" had been revealed 
 to me through a higher Revelation, one that doesn&#146;t need 
 human words. It was revealed in a different language, the 
 one we call music, the one that never needs a translator or 
 interpreter, because it speaks "in tongues", directly 
 to every human heart. And it had been spoken by one of Music&#146;s 
 greatest Prophets, Ludwig van Beethoven. 
 There are many musicians throughout history who have recognized 
 the divine nature of music, and because they recognize it, 
 they have the proper reverence for it. Beethoven, of course, 
 felt this way. Antonio Vivaldi, the great Baroque composer 
 of the seventeenth century, was, in addition to being a great 
 musician, also a priest. One time he ran off the altar in 
 the middle of saying Mass, because he had just at that moment 
 received an inspiration for a new piece of music which he 
 had to immediately write down, lest he forget. "I was 
 called by a higher authority", he later explained. 
 In our own time, musicians like Carlos Santana exemplify 
 this highest type of artist. Santana&#146;s relationship to 
 his music has always been intensely spiritual, and you can 
 certainly hear it in the notes! There is an intense quality 
 of ennobled human emotion in his playing, as there is in the 
 music of all such artists. "When I play, it&#146;s no 
 good unless I cry" he has said. 
 I have always noticed that the greatest musicians came to 
 see that what they had dedicated their lives to was of a Divine, 
 or Ultimate origin. In addition to being irresistibly compelled 
 to be music makers and creators, they knew they were answering 
 a supremely high calling. It is not without meaning that Franz 
 Liszt&#146;s students were not called students, but disciples. 
 The same with Francisco Tarraga, (who Segovia called "the 
 patron saint of the classical guitar") 
 Why Do People Want Music? 
 Now, human beings have argued endlessly over their confused 
 ideas of "God", and made hundreds of versions of 
 "God" each in their own image, and each with a different 
 name which they know is the "true" one. But the 
 beautiful thing about the language of music is that there 
 is no confusion. There is no doubt. It is a direct communication 
 of the Divine to the human heart, and it speaks to each heart 
 that recognizes it. And it speaks in the native language of 
 every heart it touches. When we are moved by the music we 
 love, transported and taken to that place which is above this 
 world, we don&#146;t need someone to explain it to us, or 
 tell us whether it&#146;s "true" or not. We know. 

 And if you are a music lover, it doesn&#146;t matter whether 
 you have ever thought about it in this way or not, whether 
 you have ever used the words I am using. The Reality we are 
 talking about is beyond words, by definition! That&#146;s 
 the whole point! That&#146;s why we need music to touch it! 
 Music puts us in touch with our INTUITION, our "inward 
 knowing" of the Spiritual Reality that stands behind 
 this physical one we normally touch. 
 A thirteen year old listening to their favorite rock band 
 or rap artist, the 30 year old listening to their favorite 
 pop artist or folkie type singer/songwriter, the person sitting 
 down to meditate upon the mysteries of a Bach fugue or late 
 Beethoven string quartet, all are feeding upon this most necessary 
 food of the human spirit, and are drawn to it as naturally 
 as a baby to it&#146;s mothers milk. 

 Now, here is the whole point. 
 What I am essentially saying is that music is a basic human 
 need, it is not a luxury. If we do not feed upon this spiritual 
 food, we will pay a price, we will suffer. If you have put 
 yourself in the position of being one who MAKES this magic 
 called music, if you have decided to become one who speaks 
 this potent, universal, wordless language, than you have just 
 joined a special community. 

 What Should We Be Doing When We Play Music? 
 If you have decided to be the provider of this spiritual 
 food for others, then you have taken on a very special job, 
 a very special function. And you must have the proper relationship 
 to it, as those you are providing it for must also. 
 A priest, minister, or rabbi, is also one who serves the 
 function of providing, or leading people to, spiritual food. 
 He or she leads the congregation to commune with a higher, 
 spiritual reality. I assume that such a spiritual figure, 
 when they are conducting services, are wholly focused on what 
 they are doing. I assume they are not up there thinking "gee, 
 how am I doing? Hope the congregation is liking this! Likewise, 
 I assume the congregation is focused on the reason they are 
 there, to participate in a mutual "spiritual" experience, 
 which the leader is providing. I assume they are not sitting 
 there waiting for the guy to trip up a couple of words! I 
 assume that if the leader misses or mumbles a few words here 
 and there it is not going to make the participants lose their 
 entire focus, and miss the spirit of the experience. 
 Many performers create terrible strictures for themselves 
 by being so afraid of missing a few notes here and there. 
 They play as if their primary focus was to not miss a note, 
 instead of playing with feeling and expression. That would 
 be like giving a speech, and focusing more on your articulation 
 than on the meaning of what you had to say. Of course, it 
 is not like the technical aspects are not important, but they 
 are of SECONDARY importance. Music began because something 
 needed to be expressed that couldn&#146;t be expressed in 
 words. Technique is the servant of expression, and should 
 never be the master. Anyway, technical matters will take care 
 of themselves when we know how to practice correctly. 

 Being "In Concert": Your Responsibility 
 The dictionary defines "concert" as "agreement 
 in action, feeling, or purpose". It is a union, a meeting 
 of mind, emotion and spirit. And the meeting takes place in 
 a world of higher vibrations. If I am giving a concert, I 
 am supposed to have MADE that agreement, to meet YOU there, 
 the audience member, in the sound. That is my commitment, 
 and I am supposed to be living up to it, not be thinking about 
 myself, and whether I am looking good or not, and whether 
 you like me or not! It&#146;s a concert, not a contest! 
 And you are supposed to be living up to the agreement also, 
 you are supposed to be "in concert" with me, meeting 
 me in the sound, and not thinking about something else, 
 As I said in the beginning of this three-part essay, when 
 a guitar player plays for another person, they are not only 
 sharing the music, they are sharing their relationship to 
 the guitar as well. If your relationship to the guitar, your 
 relationship to your role as a guitarist and musician, is 
 a mediocre one, a lukewarm one, you will not have much to 
 share. First of all, it is your responsibility to make your 
 relationship to music and the guitar (as your chosen instrument) 
 a passionate one, an emotional one, because that is what we 
 are dealing with here, that is why we bother to be musicians, 
 because it is an inherently EMOTIONAL affair. 

 Don&#146;t Fight Fear, Ignore Fear 
 Many people make a big mistake by trying to "fight" 
 their stage fright, or to trick by performing little mental 
 maneuvers, like imagining the audience naked or in their underwear. 
 Well, I do believe in doing whatever gets you through the 
 night, but don&#146;t confuse it with getting to the heart 
 of the matter. When Fear, when Stage Fright arises, it is 
 because deep inside yourself, you are devoting a large part 
 of your attention on YOURSELF, and not the music. In fact, 
 here is something very interesting to ponder. It can be just 
 as detrimental to your performance to be sitting there performing 
 and be feeling really good about yourself as it is to be feeling 
 bad about yourself. Most of us performers have experienced 
 playing really well, and then sitting there patting ourselves 
 on the back (in our heads), when we should be busy playing. 
 Guess what happens? Bam, there goes that passage! Either it 
 gets messed up, or just suffers from a lack of feeling or 
 involvement, because we were to busy thinking about ourselves, 
 this time in a "positive" sense. 
 There must be no "self" when you play. There must 
 be only the music. 
 When we do make that inner error of putting self before music, 
 whether "positive" or "negative", the 
 thing to do is to become aware of what you are doing. Take 
 hold of your attention, and place it on the music, and feel 
 your passion for it (which is what you are supposed to be 
 doing, it&#146;s what the people came for). 
 Fear (which is the result of your inner error) is like an 
 unwelcome visitor who just popped in to see how miserable 
 they can make your life. He stands there and starts saying 
 nasty things to you to see if he can get your goat. Like any 
 bully, if he sees he starts to get a reaction from you, he 
 gets more power, he gets bolder. Pretty soon, he&#146;ll have 
 you on your knees. However, if he sees you are ignoring him 
 and playing your guitar instead, he gets all deflated. It&#146;s 
 no fun, he hangs around a little bit, gets bored, and leaves. 
 The way THROUGH stage fright is to stay centered in that 
 passion, to be with it, to lose the sense of DOING the music, 
 and stay with the sense of BEING the music. This is the responsibility 
 of the performer, just as it is the responsibility of the 
 audience member. When this is done, there is no stage fright, 
 because there is no one there to be afraid. When Attention 
 is where it should be, on the music, instead of on the self, 
 you cannot be "self-conscious", you can only be 
 "music conscious". Then, the magic can really take 
 place. 
 To Be With, or Not to Be With 
 As in all relationships in life, it comes down to this: to 
 be with, or not to be with. Love, is to be with. Fear, the 
 opposite of Love, is to refuse to be with. When it comes to 
 this matter of playing our instrument for others, Stage Fright 
 is what happens when we refuse to be with. Stage Fright is 
 what happens when we refuse to be with the music, the audience, 
 and ourselves. 

 Stage Fright Part 1: What It Is 
 And What It Isn't 
 Stage Fright Part 2: How It Works, 
 And Why It Works 

 Copyright 2001 by Jamey Andreas. All Rights Reserved. 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Stage Fright Part 2" 

 Next article in 
 this series "Thinking: What a Concept!" 

 Fans 
 of Jamey Andreas, make sure you check out Jamey&#146;s 
 exclusive article, &#147;Left Hand Form & 
 Development For Guitarists,&#148; classic Questions 
 & Answers from the famous "GuitarPrinciples" 
 Newsletter. Jamey answers questions related to 
 left hand form and development which applies to 
 all styles of electric and acoustic guitar. The 
 topics covered include: Thumb Position & Movement, 
 Training of the Little Finger, Difference Between 
 Classical & Electric Position, Making Bar 
 Chords Easy, Developing "Finger Lowness,&#148; 
 and Strengthening Weak Joints. The knowledge and 
 insight contained in this collection is essential 
 for any player, of any level or style, who wants 
 a deep understanding of how to develop a left 
 hand on guitar that functions at full capacity. 
 &#147; Left 
 Hand Form & Development For Guitarists &#148; 
 is available exclusively at TrueFire. 
 Jamey&#146;s exclusive essays and music are available 
 at truefire.com. 
 For more information about Jamey, his teaching, 
 and his music, visit www.guitarprinciples.com . 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.