Guitar Principles | Thinking: What a Concept! 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar , 
 Guitar Case , Guitar 
 Principles , Thinking: What a Concept! 

 THINKING: WHAT A CONCEPT! 

 Guitar Principles Essay # 11 
 Published October 01, 2001 
 By Jamey Andreas 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 I was very fortunate when I was growing up, because my father 
 worked for one of the greatest companies a person could work 
 for, especially at that time (1950's, 60's). He worked for 
 IBM. IBM was founded by a very great and visionary individual 
 named Thomas Watson. Mr. Watson didn't just start a company, 
 he created and controlled an entire culture, an entire philosophy 
 of life, which he carefully taught to all his employees. 
 The cornerstone of his philosophy was embodied in one word. 
 This word was hanging on every wall in the IBM office, and, 
 along with boxes of punchcards, this word was in my house 
 all the time, because it was the title of the official IBM 
 magazine that came to our house. 
 The word is THINK. Thomas Watson realized that "most 
 of the trouble people get into begins with the phrase "I 
 didn't think before I acted". It is a major step forward 
 in our growth when we realize this truth. The next major step 
 is when we become aware of how little thinking we actually 
 do, especially at the times we need it most, which is when 
 we have "problems", a word which Principled Players 
 immediately translate into "challenges". 
 I got a real insight into this one time when I couldn't find 
 my wallet, (an almost daily occurrence, because I'm usually 
 "thinking" about something else!). I caught myself 
 mindlessly roaming around the room, looking in all the same 
 places I had already looked, over and over as if it were going 
 to magically materialize! It gave me the feeling of "doing 
 something", and allowed me to avoid the hard work of 
 sitting down and thinking where I might have left it. But 
 it didn't give me my wallet! In the same way, guitar players 
 will mindlessly repeat the same ineffective actions over and 
 over again, as if the notes are going to somehow magically 
 appear! We will do anything but put that guitar down a second 
 and really think about what we are doing, and why it isn't 
 working, and what we can do about it. 
 I have experienced, literally, struggling with some passage 
 of music for years, and one day solving it because I put the 
 guitar down, started thinking about everything I was doing 
 (fingerings, arm./hand/finger positions, etc), and began to 
 "think of", or "create", new possibilities 
 to experiment with. And because of doing that "thinking 
 process", I would often "solve" those problems 
 on the spot, or get pointed in the right direction. 
 If we are really honest and insightful, we may realize that, 
 in fact, we NEVER think! We just mindlessly adopt the ideas 
 and attitudes of what is around us, and we never actually 
 examine, inspect, juggle, calculate these ideas and attitudes 
 with our minds, or, just as important, "feel" these 
 ideas and attitudes with our emotions (intuition), If we are 
 equally honest, observant and insightful about ourselves as 
 guitar players, we will likewise see that when confronted 
 with problems, with things we are having trouble doing on 
 the guitar, we don't actually THINK. Instead we mindlessly 
 DO what we have already been doing, even though it is producing 
 no result. We keep doing the same fingering or picking, we 
 keep approaching it with the same hand position. We don't 
 stop, re-examine, observe, draw conclusions, plan a new approach, 
 and then observe and draw conclusions again. 
 To be a guitar player who considers continual growth to be 
 the cornerstone of their day to day activities, practicing 
 and playing, is to be a person who is going to be constantly 
 confronted by one thing: PROBLEMS! Practicing is nothing but 
 the confrontation of problems, one after another. If you are 
 one of the gazillions of players who are NOT experiencing 
 improvement in your playing , then please realize that you 
 do not know how to solve problems. Don't be depressed! Be 
 like me. I love finding out what a jerk I am, because then 
 I can start getting better! 
 For more insight into how "thinking" dramatically 
 improves the rate of our growth as guitarists, read these 
 essays: 
 Aggressive 
 Practicing 
 Practice 
 Organization 

 When it comes to my growth as a player, I have always been 
 more interested in how a great player practices, than in how 
 they play. When I watch them play, I am seeing the result 
 of their practice. But I want to know how they GOT that result. 
 So I want to know how they PRACTICE. 
 And when I want to understand how they practice, I look for 
 one thing: how do they THINK about what they are doing? How 
 do they think about this thing called "playing the guitar"? 
 Whenever I discover something about how a great player THINKS, 
 I immediately start experimenting with thinking that way, 
 and understanding where that way of thinking is coming from. 
 I recommend it to all of you. 
 I can remember various times when I would hear or read a 
 comment from a great player, and that comment would give me 
 great insight into how that person THINKS, the ATTITUDES that 
 he or she uses to look at the world through. I would then 
 follow that thought process, I would adopt that "view 
 point", and look at things in the same way. That would 
 lead to new discoveries. I would "see" things they 
 had seen, because I was using the same thought process, looking 
 out from the same "point of view". 
 Some examples: I read of Pepe Romero advising a student who 
 was having trouble with shifts to "focus mentally on 
 the muscles that make the shift". Now, this said worlds 
 about how a great player, known for his great technique, thinks 
 about the technical aspect of playing the guitar. I immediately 
 began to study anatomy, and think along the same lines. The 
 results were incredible. 
 I read of Carlos Santana talking about how when he plays, 
 it's only good if it makes him cry. This said so much about 
 the state of emotional intensity and involvement that a great 
 player experiences internally while playing. It means there 
 is no room for mediocrity in the emotional content of our 
 music, and our relationship. It means that WE must be moved 
 by our own playing, or composing, or no one else will! 
 Julian Bream has talked about getting the correct "flow" 
 and "feeling" into his arpeggios. This told me that 
 this great player works very much from a kinesthetic sense 
 of the connection between how his body feels while playing, 
 and the sound that he hears. It also said that he achieves 
 his musical goal while playing by an intense focus on the 
 desired outcome. 
 So, I recommend to you that you become very interested in 
 how great players THINK (and feel) about what they do. What 
 and how a great player thinks about what they do determines 
 what they do. And what they do, day by day, determines what 
 they become. That is true for all of us. For non-players, 
 simply enjoying a great players playing is enough. But for 
 us players, we need to dig deeper than that. 
 Many, and I may even say most, guitar students do not really, 
 truly, and constantly THINK when they practice. They are more 
 like a fighter in the ring who keeps swinging blindly, with 
 his head down, so he doesn't even see what is going on around 
 him. He's blindly hoping he will be effective and successful, 
 but most of the time, he's in for a bruising! How do we get 
 to be "thinking guitar students"? 
 Thinking is a "turning of the wheels" mentally. 
 However, you must make sure the wheels have some "grist" 
 to churn while they are turning! In other words, a large part 
 of the thinking process is the taking in of new information, 
 so that it can be processed, combined and re-configured with 
 existing knowledge, and thereby lead to new insights and discoveries. 
 There are two ways of taking in new information: the people 
 we meet, and the books we read. Make sure you make full use 
 of these resources as they are available to you. Not all of 
 us get to hang around great players, but all of us have access 
 to books written by and about great musicians, and great people 
 in general. You should ALWAYS be taking in new information, 
 processing it, and using it. Understand that READING and THINKING 
 are intimately connected. The person who wants to grow to 
 their full potential READS, and also makes sure they find 
 and recognize who and what is most worth reading! 
 In my teaching, I have one central overarching goal: teach 
 the student how to teach themselves, and that means teaching 
 them how to think. That is why my book deals with the "Principles" 
 of practice. A "principle" is an "avenue of 
 thought". When we have a problem to solve, we need to 
 look at that problem from the viewpoint of the appropriate 
 Principle, and let our thinking process be guided by that 
 principle, and see where it leads. This is walking down the 
 "avenue of thought". 
 One of the Principles of Practice says "if a mistake 
 is being made in playing, it is always because the finger 
 needed to play the note is not relaxed and ready in the right 
 position BEFORE it is required to move to the note". 
 This is an "avenue of thought" I often walk down 
 when I have a problem. By contemplating this principle, I 
 am led to discover the answer to my problem, or at least a 
 part of the answer. 
 The "answer" to our problem is contained within 
 the problem itself. Thinking is the process by which we truly 
 define, and then penetrate the problem, and bring it into 
 focus, so that the answer, which often appears as a new direction 
 to move in, begins to materialize. The Principles we use to 
 guide our actions will determine where we travel, and how 
 well and how far. 

 Copyright 2001 by Jamey Andreas. All rights reserved. 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Stage Fright Part 3" 

 Next article in 
 this series "The True Teacher" 

 Fans 
 of Jamey Andreas, make sure you check out Jamey&#146;s 
 exclusive article, &#147;Left Hand Form & 
 Development For Guitarists,&#148; classic Questions 
 & Answers from the famous "GuitarPrinciples" 
 Newsletter. Jamey answers questions related to 
 left hand form and development which applies to 
 all styles of electric and acoustic guitar. The 
 topics covered include: Thumb Position & Movement, 
 Training of the Little Finger, Difference Between 
 Classical & Electric Position, Making Bar 
 Chords Easy, Developing "Finger Lowness,&#148; 
 and Strengthening Weak Joints. The knowledge and 
 insight contained in this collection is essential 
 for any player, of any level or style, who wants 
 a deep understanding of how to develop a left 
 hand on guitar that functions at full capacity. 
 &#147; Left 
 Hand Form & Development For Guitarists &#148; 
 is available exclusively at TrueFire. 
 Jamey&#146;s exclusive essays and music are available 
 at truefire.com. 
 For more information about Jamey, his teaching, 
 and his music, visit www.guitarprinciples.com . 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.