Guitar Principles | Stage Fright: Part 2 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar , 
 Guitar Case , Guitar 
 Principles , Stage Fright: Part 2 

 Stage Fright: Part 2 

 How It Works, and Why It Works 
 Guitar Principles Essay # 9 
 Published August 01, 2001 
 By Jamey Andreas 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Okay so now that we have this stage fright thing more properly 
 defined as what it really is, that is, People Fright, we are 
 in a position to get some where with it. But first, a caution. 
 Many (perhaps most) people, including professional performers, 
 never slay this dragon. They may learn to live with being 
 in it&#146;s presence, and learn to perform even though they 
 must do it while their knees are wobbling! But they never 
 actually get to the essence of the matter, so that the dragon 
 is slain, (or perhaps, more accurately, transformed). The 
 reason they don&#146;t do this, is because the matter goes 
 too deep, too deep into the person themselves, and it is deeper 
 than they are willing to go. 
 Andres Segovia, for instance, who is the most famous classical 
 guitarist of the 20th century, and undeniably one of it's 
 greatest musical performers, was, throughout his very long 
 performing career of some 70 years, plagued with incredible 
 stage fright, often shaking visibly before going on stage, 
 and having the beginnings of concerts seriously impaired because 
 of it. He is one example of many world famous performers who 
 NEVER got to the root of it, and never overcame it. 
 Segovia did do something however, which to me is ridiculous 
 and deluding. He did what I call "making a virtue out 
 of a vice", something people commonly do when they don't 
 want to or can't change a weakness. They start to "re-shape" 
 their thinking about it and turn it into something that makes 
 them look good! Segovia told himself (and others) that suffering 
 from stage fright was a sign of talent, and not feeling stage 
 fright was a sign of not having talent! While it may be true 
 that artists tend to be highly sensitive individuals who are 
 more prone to certain "imbalances" in their make-up, 
 it certainly doesn't mean that that same sensitivity/talent 
 MUST lead to the undeniably unpleasant (to say the least) 
 effects of stage fright. 
 Interestingly enough, Segovia would, during the course of 
 the concert, overcome the feelings and start to enjoy playing 
 for the audience, as many players do. He would say, "before 
 a concert, I want to cancel it. After I am done playing, I 
 want to start again". This was certainly a good thing, 
 but why have to repeat the endless cycle of agony each time 
 a concert comes up? 
 I have told you this story about Segovia, because I want 
 you to realize the enormity of this problem of stage fright. 
 I consider coming to understand ourselves in the context of 
 how we feel about walking out on stage, or any kind of playing 
 for other people, to be an ongoing, life long process, that 
 is in many ways as rewarding and interesting as being a musician 
 itself. And also understand that I am not talking about a 
 certain kind of "excitement" we may naturally feel 
 at the prospect and the experience of performing on our instrument 
 for other people. Even by it's very rarity, it carries a certain 
 kind of excitement to it. I am talking about the absolutely 
 debilitating effects, you know, like hearing about how John 
 Lennon would throw up before a concert! I am talking about 
 the "scared to death" kind of feelings. I am talking 
 about things that makes us play worse, not better. 
 Before we talk about "why" we are so afraid of 
 sharing our artistic selves with other people, and why we 
 are so afraid of other people in so many areas of life, let's 
 talk about "how" we are afraid of other people. 
 Let's start real simple, with common experiences everyone 
 has, but I don't think everyone notices, or appreciates what 
 is really going on when they are happening. 
 How Stage Fright 
 Think of it this way. When you are sitting on a public seat 
 somewhere in a public place, maybe a bus, or a park bench, 
 and someone sits next to you, why do you tense different parts 
 of your body as they get closer to you? Why do you make an 
 (ineffective) attempt to "withdraw" from that other 
 person? Everyone does, you know. 
 Imagine you are walking down the street, all by yourself, 
 and you are lost in thought, or the scenery perhaps. Why is 
 it, if someone begins to approach you, walking in the opposite 
 direction, you not only tense different parts of your body 
 as they approach, but you will notice, if you pay attention, 
 that even your awareness of your own self, your own body, 
 changes. You will, for instance, become very aware of your 
 face, as the person approaches. You will also notice it is 
 not a pleasant feeling. Observe yourself in this situation. 
 You will notice yourself doing these things. 
 If you were walking down the street by yourself, and then 
 saw up ahead that you had to walk past a group of strangers, 
 you would really start to react, or rather "contract". 
 You would tense your body, and "harden" your "body 
 armor" for the experience of walking past them. I caught 
 myself doing something very interesting a while ago. I noticed 
 that whenever I walked into a public place, a store for instance, 
 I would (unconsciously) anticipate and prepare for encountering 
 the people there by tensing and or biting on my lower lip, 
 very slightly, but still tensing. I had probably been doing 
 this my whole life and never noticed. I experimented with 
 not doing it (you have the power to experiment once you observe 
 it, not before). I found a very interesting thing. I found 
 that I felt somehow "unprotected" to walk into a 
 group of people without tensing and biting my lower lip! 
 I could only conclude that the reason I was doing this WAS 
 to protect myself. In my case, knowing my own neurosis so 
 well, I believe it comes from a childhood of being told to 
 shut up, and being punished for speaking my mind. So I would 
 do what is meant by the common phrase people use when they 
 want to say something but are afraid to for some reason, I 
 would "bite my lip". Most of us have some similar 
 hidden obstacles. This is an example of what I mean when I 
 say you must go deep to make real headway with this situation. 
 It is through a long process of such experimentation and observation 
 that I began to notice changes in ALL my dealings with people, 
 including the experience of walking out on stage in front 
 of hundreds of them. 
 We have all learned to do these things so completely and 
 automatically that we don't even notice them. In fact, it's 
 like when you are in a room, and there is a background noise 
 going on for a long time, but you didn't notice it until it 
 stopped! Then you are struck by the "quiet:" that 
 replaces it, but before that, you just included the sound 
 in your awareness as a natural part of the "background". 

 That is how these inner reactions we perform in our contact 
 with other people are. They are so natural we don't notice 
 them. But you must realize that becoming aware of yourself 
 in this way IS the beginning of actually being able to change 
 this "stage fright" thing we are talking about, 
 that so many people are never able to change. 
 When you do begin to notice these things, notice how fear 
 of other people operates in your daily life in the simplest 
 affairs (being in the supermarket, waiting on line, etc.) 
 it will be a new sensitivity. It will grow over time. You 
 will realize that the reason you experience fear of people 
 on the stage, is because you have fear of people ALL the time. 

 But exposing such a vulnerable part of yourself as the part 
 that strives for artistic expression, and requires special 
 abilities, special TALENTS (my god, what if I don&#146;t have 
 any!), now that is pushing it. Our fear of other people comes 
 bursting out of our seams by then! 
 In all the above mentioned situations, you will also notice, 
 as your sensitivity increases, that the feelings occurring 
 are not pleasant, not in the body, or the mind, just like 
 stage fright. It is not a pleasant feeling because what you 
 are really doing in all these situations is, in fact, trying 
 to avoid the other person. You are trying to avoid the fact 
 that the other person is there, that they exist. You are doing 
 this by "hardening" yourself, and shutting down 
 your awareness by withdrawing your attention from what is 
 around you, focusing it into your own body, thoughts and feelings. 
 This is what the word "self-conscious" means. You 
 are being conscious only of yourself, not others and your 
 relationship to them. 
 You see, when you step out onto a stage, or even just go 
 to play for some friends, you are simply demonstrating the 
 same fear, except that it is now too big too hide! Normally, 
 we do hide it. It&#146;s easy, since everyone else is hiding 
 their fear in the same ways, and hardening themselves against 
 us. They are just as afraid of us as we are of them, as we 
 go about our day to day routines meeting people in the usual 
 situations, as in the examples above. 
 Why Stage Fright 
 Knowing HOW we do the People Fright thing is actually more 
 important then knowing WHY we do it. You can endlessly contemplate 
 the WHY and still never change it. But by working with the 
 how, you will discover the WHY anyway, and notice it changes 
 by itself, over time. But as far as the reason for all the 
 protecting, all the fear of other people, the root of it is 
 simply the inability, the refusal, to love and accept ourselves 
 as we are, with all our "faults" and imperfections. 
 We do it to ourselves, and then we go around being afraid 
 everyone else is going to do it too. We condemn ourselves 
 for the mistakes we make as players, we compare ourselves 
 to those "great and perfect players who everyone loves 
 and accepts", the ones we want to be like. Then we reject 
 ourselves for NOT being so great and perfect. 
 Also, it can be a vicious cycle, because often guitarists 
 DO have many imperfections in their playing ability, and the 
 guitar is an incredibly difficult instrument by it's nature, 
 anyway. So being a guitarist, especially a soloist, can be 
 risky business. On top of that, the teaching systems that 
 have been developed over the years are always incomplete, 
 and largely ineffective for many students. Don't forget that 
 compared to piano and violin, the guitar is a newcomer. Add 
 to all that the guitar being a solo instrument, and guitarists 
 being a bit "quirky" by nature (my opinion), and 
 you have all the ingredients for a lifetime of mal-adjustment! 
 But it is our duty to always be trying to find the paths 
 of growth, and work to improve ourselves, no matter what stage 
 of development we are at. Without being engaged in that process, 
 and yet still displaying ourselves before other people while 
 being conscious of our stagnant faults, is to invite the paralyzing 
 effects of performance anxiety as a permanent companion on 
 stage. 
 The greatest players are always working on improving themselves. 
 They are always aware of the things that can be improved, 
 new territory that can be explored. But we all must understand 
 that performing is a matter of offering what you have at the 
 moment, to other people. 
 So, on a practical level, one of the most potent ways to 
 begin to loosen the grip of stage fright is to couple an acceptance 
 of ourselves at the moment, with the process of on-going development. 
 These conditions themselves provide a sturdy foundation for 
 the wobbly knees of the anxiety stricken performer. 

 Stage Fright Part 1: What It Is 
 And What It Isn't 
 Stage Fright Part 3: It's a Concert, 
 not a Contest 

 Copyright 2001 by Jamey Andreas. All Rights Reserved. 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Stage Fright Part 1" 

 Next article in 
 this series "Stage Fright Part 3" 

 Fans 
 of Jamey Andreas, make sure you check out Jamey&#146;s 
 exclusive article, &#147;Left Hand Form & 
 Development For Guitarists,&#148; classic Questions 
 & Answers from the famous "GuitarPrinciples" 
 Newsletter. Jamey answers questions related to 
 left hand form and development which applies to 
 all styles of electric and acoustic guitar. The 
 topics covered include: Thumb Position & Movement, 
 Training of the Little Finger, Difference Between 
 Classical & Electric Position, Making Bar 
 Chords Easy, Developing "Finger Lowness,&#148; 
 and Strengthening Weak Joints. The knowledge and 
 insight contained in this collection is essential 
 for any player, of any level or style, who wants 
 a deep understanding of how to develop a left 
 hand on guitar that functions at full capacity. 
 &#147; Left 
 Hand Form & Development For Guitarists &#148; 
 is available exclusively at TrueFire. 
 Jamey&#146;s exclusive essays and music are available 
 at truefire.com. 
 For more information about Jamey, his teaching, 
 and his music, visit www.guitarprinciples.com . 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.