Guitar Principles | Stage Fright: Part 1 

 Buy 
 brand name guitar 
 strings for 60% less 
 Guitar 
 Secrets Revealed 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar , 
 Guitar Case , Guitar 
 Principles , Stage Fright: Part 1 

 Stage Fright: Part 1 

 What It Is and What It Isn't 
 Guitar Principles Essay # 8 
 Published July 01, 2001 
 By Jamey Andreas 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Here is a recent letter: 
 Jamey 
 If I may call you that..how does one overcome StageFright?..I 
 can play very well(I don't mean to brag) and I'm sorry if 
 it sounds like I'm doing it and alone I can come up with some 
 real good licks but in public I freeze..please help me if 
 you can 
 Larry 
 Now that is certainly the million-dollar question! If I could 
 give you the prescription for that one in a few sentences, 
 I think I could sell it for a million dollars! You see Larry, 
 your question is very deep, very fundamental. It strikes at 
 the very core of not only what being a performing musician 
 is about, it also has everything to do with what being a PERSON 
 is all about. 
 Fortunately for you and for anyone else who reads this, and 
 is also suffering from the same thing (which I think includes 
 everybody) I have vast experience with this one. In my many 
 years of performing, I have suffered every degree of what 
 is called "stage fright". I have gone from someone 
 who used to look out on the stage before a concert, and feel 
 like there was a rope hanging out there, waiting for my neck, 
 to someone who could play before an audience feeling as comfortable 
 as if I were in my own living room all by myself. I have also 
 dealt with, experimented with, and thought about this subject 
 from many different angles, and believe I have come to certain 
 truths concerning it. 
 What Stage Fright Isn&#146;t 
 First, let me tell you some thoughts concerning a lot of 
 the ideas that are commonly tossed around when one hears advice 
 on this phenomenon from the many people who comment on it 
 (and I have read many). One of the most prevalent bits of 
 wisdom concerning stage fright is to regard it as some kind 
 of potentially helpful thing. I have heard people say things 
 like "oh, it&#146;s really a good thing. You should connect 
 with that energy and use it in your performance." 
 Well, I always think whoever says that is definitely not 
 feeling the same thing I&#146;m feeling when I feel that FEAR, 
 that "stage fright". Because for me, there is nothing 
 useful, pleasant or fun about it. The first thing I ever noticed 
 about it was that it did nothing but prevent me from playing 
 well, or even having any fun and enjoying myself. The second 
 thing I noticed, was that it robbed these same things from 
 the audience as well, most of whom are there (I assume) to 
 hear what I sound like when I AM having a good time, doing 
 this thing called "playing" music. 
 I once heard a concert performer giving advice to a young 
 player on this subject, and his answer to the students professed 
 problem with stage fright was "that&#146;s because you 
 care", I guess he was implying "don&#146;t worry 
 about it, it is a sign you care about what you are doing." 
 I doubt it helped this guy very much. Probably left him feeling 
 rather perplexed. Now he not only had to feel his stage fright, 
 he had to conclude that it was the inevitable result of caring 
 about what he was doing. I guess the message is "to care 
 hurts". Does that mean if you don&#146;t feel stage fright 
 you don&#146;t care about your performance? To me, that explanation 
 is absurd. True, I agree the "fright" has it&#146;s 
 origin in a certain kind of caring, but what I hope to make 
 clear, is that it is caring about all the WRONG THINGS!. In 
 a nutshell, it is the result of caring about how you, the 
 player are appearing in other&#146;s eyes, (or your own eyes, 
 as we shall see) than you do about the music you are making, 
 or sharing it with anyone else. 
 No, stage fright is not your friend, at least it has never 
 been my friend. We all get to choose our friends, and for 
 me, a friend is someone I can have fun with. This guy&#146;s 
 no fun. 
 What It Does 
 Before delving into the reasons for stage fright, and what 
 to do about it, let&#146;s bring into focus a few of the undeniable 
 effects of it. For the audience, it is nothing but robbing 
 them of their reason for being there. If I go out on stage 
 to share my music with an audience (and I am really sharing 
 not only the music, I am also sharing with them my whole relationship 
 to music and the guitar), the audience is not there to watch 
 me display my fear of them! They did not take a slice of their 
 precious time to come and watch me get caught in the grip 
 of my psychological problem about being up there in front 
 of them, they came to hear music! They came to hear someone 
 play, not freak out! So if nothing else, it is an extreme 
 discourtesy to the audience members, and I believe it is the 
 responsibility of every performer to get his or her head straight 
 on this subject, (or at least try) and make sure they can 
 deliver the product they are supposed to be delivering. 
 For me, the performer, the effects of stage fright are equally 
 devastating. How ridiculous, how cruel, that I have spent 
 perhaps hundreds of hours practicing, studying, working and 
 sweating to learn these pieces and prepare this concert, and 
 I go out on stage and have a severe traumatic experience! 
 If I want to torture myself that badly, there are lots of 
 easier ways to do it that don&#146;t entail wasted practice 
 time. I could race down the highway in the wrong lane at 100 
 miles an hour if I want to scare the be-jesus out of myself 
 the way I have at times in my life by doing the "stage 
 fright" thing. 
 How disheartening to have worked for hours to discover and 
 shape the nuances of a particular passage, and not even be 
 able to get the notes out when it comes time to share with 
 another human being the fruits of my labor. It is truly nothing 
 but it&#146;s own special form of "musical impotence". 
 And it is all a completely self-created and self-imposed experience. 
 It is one of the many ways human beings turn what could be 
 beautiful into something ugly in their lives. 
 It&#146;s not happening to you, you are doing it! 
 Having brought these points into focus, the next thing to 
 realize is this. Stage fright is not something that happens 
 to us, it is something we do. It is not something "coming 
 over us", it is something we are deliberately doing, 
 from the inside, deep within ourselves. We are just not aware 
 that we are doing it, because we never look that deep. So 
 it appears to be out of our control, it appears to be something 
 that is "happening" to us, not something we are 
 doing. 
 I had a dramatic illustration of this truth one time when 
 I was a young player, just beginning to face some of my fears 
 about my own playing. I was just beginning to experiment with 
 recording myself. I was shocked as I turned on the tape recorder 
 and began to feel terribly afraid, and in fact experienced 
 all the same symptoms of stage fright I had before that time 
 had the displeasure of experiencing on an actual stage. There 
 I was, sitting alone in my bedroom, with my heart pounding 
 as I began to play for A TAPE RECORDER! What should we call 
 that "Recorder Fright"? 
 People Fright! 
 This brings us to the crux of the matter. There is no such 
 thing as Stage Fright. People are not afraid of stages. 
 There is only People Fright. People are afraid of people. 

 When I was sitting there, unable to play for my tape recorder, 
 I was experiencing People Fright. The person I was afraid 
 of was me! Or more properly speaking, I was afraid of all 
 the voices in my head that I knew would start yelling at me 
 when I listened back and heard that my playing wasn&#146;t 
 quite what all those voices demanded it be. 
 The reason you, me, and everybody else does this thing called 
 stage fright, is because there is one thing that all people 
 fear the most, more even, then they fear death itself. And 
 that thing is OTHER PEOPLE! 
 I have read of studies where people are asked "what 
 is your greatest fear". Well, the winner is not fear 
 of death, or auto accident. It is fear of public speaking. 
 That says a lot. That is another way of saying "the thing 
 I fear most is other people, especially if they are looking 
 at me, paying attention just to me and what I am doing." 
 Now isn&#146;t that an interesting paradox. Psychiatrist&#146;s 
 offices the world over are full of people talking about how 
 they didn&#146;t get enough love or attention growing up. 
 Nobody was interested in them or what they said, did, or thought. 
 They are full of people willing to pay a high hourly rate 
 just so SOMEONE will listen to them for an hour (make that 
 fifty minutes). 
 And yet, put somebody up on stage, where they can get every 
 iota of everybody&#146;s attention, (no competition like having 
 that pesky brother or sister around) and they fall apart! 
 Isn&#146;t that strange? Life is full of little practical 
 jokes like that. I guess it what they always say about too 
 much of a good thing&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;.. 
 Stage Fright Part 1: How It Works, 
 and Why It Works 
 Stage Fright Part 3: It's a Concert, 
 not a Contest 

 Copyright 2001 by Jamey Andreas. All Rights Reserved. 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Changing Chords" 

 Next article in 
 this series "Stage Fright Part 2" 

 Fans 
 of Jamey Andreas, make sure you check out Jamey&#146;s 
 exclusive article, &#147;It&#146;s a Jungle Out 
 There,&#148; which tells you the real process 
 by which anybody gets good at anything. It is 
 a further examination of the points of view that 
 Jamey put forth in his essay, &#147; Natural 
 Talent ,&#148; available for free at TrueFire. 
 &#147; It&#146;s 
 a Jungle Out There &#148;is available exclusively 
 at TrueFire. 
 Jamey&#146;s exclusive essays and music are available 
 at truefire.com 
 For more information about Jamey, his teaching, 
 and his music, visit www.guitarprinciples.com . 

 Copyright 2001 Guitar Noise. All rights 
 reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.