Guitar Principles | Why Should I Learn To Read Music? 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar , 
 Guitar Case , Guitar 
 Principles , Why Should I Learn To Read Music? 

 Why Should I Learn To Read 
 Music? 

 Guitar Principles Essay # 5 
 Published March 01, 2001 
 By Jamey Andreas 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 There is a lot of confused thinking out there when it comes 
 to the subject of reading music, especially being a guitar 
 player and reading music. 
 I want to examine what some of this confused thinking is, 
 and how people get this confused thinking into their heads, 
 and why it stays there.Why do some people think they shouldn't 
 learn to read music, when they should? Why do some people 
 think they should, when they shouldn't (at least not right 
 away)? 
 Every Strength is a Potential Weakness 
 Some people are very "natural" guitar players, they learn 
 to play by watching and listening to other players. And that 
 is fine, in fact, that is great. The ability to just watch 
 someone do something like play the guitar, and somehow "learn" 
 how to do it yourself, is a great ability. However, every 
 strength can also be a weakness, and that is true here. 
 Often, the person who is able to learn this way starts to 
 get an "attitude" about the more formal aspects of learning 
 music and the guitar, things like taking lessons, or learning 
 to read music. They begin to form certain belief systems about 
 the subject. And these belief systems can be dangerous, because 
 they prevent the person holding them from growing and developing 
 as they otherwise could. 
 Even if you are a "natural" guitar player, there will come 
 the day when you will run up against certain musical concepts 
 which you will be locked out of understanding because you 
 don't know how to read music. Learning how to read music is 
 one way to increase your chances of being the best musician 
 you can be. 
 Let's examine some of the reasons why a person might adopt 
 a belief system that says "it is a bad thing to learn to read 
 music, at least for me". 
 I'm a Genius, and God Whispers Directly in My Ear 
 Unfortunately, most people have an ego, an "idea" or "image" 
 of who they are, and whatever that image is, it carries along 
 with it certain limitations. Whatever our particular image 
 is, it also becomes our act. We have to live up to it. We 
 have to keep a mental list of all the things that support 
 our act, and also a list of the things we have to avoid because 
 they don't fit our act. In some professions, keeping up your 
 image is essential to survival. Politics is one, probably 
 the first "I must, at all costs maintain my image and my act" 
 profession. Being an entertainer/artist is probably second. 

 So, it is very common, especially in the beginning stages 
 of being a musician, to decide to play the "I am a natural 
 genius who just picked up a guitar and played like Jimi Hendrix" 
 routine. The musician playing this role has decided they are 
 the "romantic, inspired artist". This is the image of the 
 artist who gets his inspiration from some divine source. He 
 or she likes to believe (and likes others to believe), that 
 God, or perhaps one of his angels, whispers directly in their 
 ear, and they best not tamper with the process. If they interfere 
 with the process by getting some "education", then, God might 
 get mad, and stop whispering in their ear. God will stop directly 
 inspiring them with all those great musical ideas and they 
 will just be another jerk playing the guitar. 
 Underneath this feeling is the feeling that they are, in 
 fact, just another jerk playing the guitar. That is why this 
 particular routine is common with beginners, because most 
 of us do feel like we are just another jerk playing the guitar 
 when we first begin to play. And we usually have a little 
 outside help in the matter, in the form of parents or "special 
 friends", ready to tell us to get real when we dare disclose 
 our secret dreams of actually being professional guitar players. 

 It is very important to grow past this little game. If you 
 do decide to make this image a part of your professional career 
 (as many artists do) you must at least stop believing your 
 own hype. If you don't, you will not move yourself into contact 
 with the resources and situations that exist to help you grow 
 and develop. Beethoven comes to mind. There was never a musician 
 who was more "divinely inspired" than Beethoven. Music flowed 
 into him and as it came out when he played, people were left 
 sobbing with intense emotion, or moved to feelings of awe. 
 When he was young, he would tell people, "I never listen to 
 other composers music, it would interfere with my originality". 
 He would say that, but he was full of "you know what", and 
 he knew it. He was really busy studying with all the greatest 
 composers and music theory teachers of his day. So he was 
 not only listening to their music, he was studying it note 
 by note. But he was smart. He knew he had a good thing going 
 with all these people worshipping him. He was young, and knew 
 he had to struggle to build a career as an artist, so he would 
 use this image of the "divinely inspired artist" to his advantage, 
 and help foster and maintain it in people's minds. But he 
 wasn't dumb enough to believe it himself, or let it get in 
 the way of the development of his creative powers. 
 Another artist, and a supremely great one, who typified this 
 attitude was Louie Armstrong. When asked if he read music, 
 he said "not enough to hurt my playing". I believe he was 
 being a bit tongue in cheek here, and probably also was promoting 
 the "look, I'm just a genius" image, but there is some truth 
 to what he was trying to get across. 
 He was trying to get across the fact that reading music, 
 like reading words, does not give you talent. Being able to 
 read doesn't mean you will actually have something to say, 
 and when you are a musician, having something to say (in a 
 musical sense) is what it is all about. However, if you have 
 talent, if you have something to say, learning to read music 
 will not make you less of a musician, but more of a musician. 

 Having Talent/Nurturing Talent 
 If you are an artist, if you feel you want to be a guitarist, 
 then, you would really be much better off eliminating the 
 word "talent" from your vocabulary. You should not even be 
 concerned with whether you have any or not. You should only 
 be concerned with how much you love music and the guitar. 
 You should only be concerned with how much you need to do 
 it. Whether you have talent or not is for other people to 
 waste their time wondering about. 
 When you stay focused on your love for what you are doing, 
 the path of your development will become clear to you. If 
 you love blues guitar, if you want to play like Jimi or Stevie 
 Ray, and that is all you want to do, then it will become clear 
 to you over time that learning to read music is not high on 
 the list of priorities. Playing constantly with other people 
 who play that style is high on the list. Learning and copying 
 the solos of a hundred other players is high on the list. 
 Of course, along the way, maybe you WILL feel the desire to 
 learn to read. 
 When I was starting out, my friends would show me blues scales 
 and licks. I wasn't much interested in just learning finger 
 patterns, I wanted to understand in a mental way, what I was 
 doing. I wanted to know the note names and so forth. That 
 was just my personality. I didn't know then that a few years 
 later I would be captivated by the classical guitar, which 
 is a style that absolutely requires note reading and musical 
 understanding in a technical sense, in order to develop. I 
 was just following my nature. So, being in touch with yourself, 
 your true nature and needs for musical statement, is the first 
 thing. But don't interfere with that awareness by clinging 
 to some dumb "self-image" that says you "shouldn't" read music. 

 Should YOU learn to read music? 
 What I say now should be understood and used in the context 
 of what I have already said. There are many players for whom 
 this question never even comes up. They know already, intuitively, 
 the right answer to this question as it applies to them. But 
 many people do have questions about this issue, so I will 
 try to provide the clarity they need. 
 IN GENERAL, everyone can only benefit by learning to read 
 music. Believe me, if you DO have talent, if you have something 
 to say as an artist, you are not going to lose it by developing 
 your mental understanding of the "theoretical" aspect of music. 
 The only people who will lose their artistic ability by education 
 in music are the ones who didn't have any artistic ability 
 to begin with. 
 If you DON'T have much natural ability for music, or much 
 experience in playing music, then learning to read can open 
 up a whole world of understanding for you. It can give you 
 the keys to understand the "mysteries of music". I love to 
 teach students to read, because then I can teach them music 
 theory. In fact, for the guitar student, learning to read 
 is like an insurance policy against future confusion. So many 
 guitar students, as time goes by, start bumping up against 
 concepts that they can't understand, and it is a source of 
 great frustration for them, because understanding these concepts 
 is the doorway to new and more sophisticated playing abilities. 

 I often get questions from students (other peoples students) 
 like "can you explain secondary dominants", or "how do I use 
 a harmonic minor scale in improvising". Unfortunately, I can't 
 answer these people. They don't realize that in order to understand 
 the answer, a knowledge of music theory is required. And in 
 order to learn music theory, you must know how to read music. 
 In other words, I have to use a particular language to answer 
 these questions, and they don't know the language. So we can't 
 communicate. They are stuck with their question. 
 It's like trying to learn grammar without being able to read 
 words. You may be able to get some understanding if you find 
 a creative teacher, but you will never achieve a complete 
 or satisfying understanding of grammar in the way you would 
 if you could read. 
 So, in general, I always recommend learning to read music. 

 Who Should Learn to Read 
 Specifically speaking, the following are the types of people 
 who definitely should learn to read music. 

 Anyone who really wants to. 
 Anyone planning on someday having a complete and sophisticated 
 understanding of music and music theory. 
 Anyone planning on a career in music, unless it will 
 be a career as a rock/blues musician, or folk musician. 
 Even then, of course, it won't hurt, it is just not as necessary. 

 Anyone who wants to play the classical guitar. 

 Who shouldn't Learn to Read Music 

 Anyone who really doesn't want to. 
 Anyone who is planning on being only a blues/rock musician 
 or a folk musician. 
 Most people who are just starting to learn to play the 
 guitar. 

 When to Begin to Read Music 
 There is a common belief that students should learn to read 
 music right from the beginning. I don't think so. I rarely 
 do that with students. Usually, it is just a way of throwing 
 water on a fire that is just beginning to burn. With guitar, 
 it is very easy to teach music in the beginning without learning 
 how to read. By doing so, the student is connected right away 
 to music in an emotional way, and it is the emotional aspect 
 of playing music that made them begin lessons. 
 Learning to read music is a very complex, mental affair, 
 dealing with many abstract concepts. Doing it in the beginning 
 is kind of like reading your girlfriend an essay on the philosophy 
 of love on your first date, instead of just being romantic 
 with a box of candy and flowers. 
 So I believe in fanning that fire first. I find a song they 
 love that has easy chords, I teach them how to practice, and 
 we're off and running. After a few months, I bring the subject 
 of reading music up, and by then there is no problem in doing 
 so. Also, by then they are more able to understand why it 
 is important. 
 Teaching children to learn to read is very tricky, and requires 
 great skill. It is often done badly. Suppose, for instance, 
 that you are trying to teach a third grader to read, and you 
 have to teach the concept of dotted notes. In order to understand 
 dotted notes, you have to understand fractions, you have to 
 understand the concept of "one half of something". They most 
 likely DON'T understand that. So, you have to be a math teacher 
 for a bit. It can take six months to really have a 10-year-old 
 understand this one musical concept. 
 In fact, I believe many adults who have had trouble learning 
 to read music are the victims of bad teaching. There are often 
 a lot of unexplained, and under-explained vital concepts along 
 the way, which are the real culprits, not a lack of ability 
 to "get it". 
 And finally, it should be understood that learning to read 
 music can be a long process, in the same way that learning 
 to read words can be. It takes enough work, over a long enough 
 period of time. You can learn to read enough to go slowly 
 through music, as you can learn to read slowly, or you can 
 become a "speed reader" and read music you haven't' seen and 
 still play it up to performance level. 
 Whether or not to learn to read, and how far to take it is 
 up to you. But it is certainly a subject you should make an 
 informed choice about, based on careful consideration. 
 Copyright 2000 by Jamey Andreas. All Rights Reserved. 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Changing Bad Habits Part 2" 

 Next article in 
 this series "Why Should I Take Guitar Lessons" 

 Fans 
 of Jamey Andreas, make sure you check out Jamey&#146;s 
 exclusive article, &#147;Left Hand Form & 
 Development For Guitarists,&#148; classic Questions 
 & Answers from the famous "GuitarPrinciples" 
 Newsletter. Jamey answers questions related to 
 left hand form and development which applies to 
 all styles of electric and acoustic guitar. The 
 topics covered include: Thumb Position & Movement, 
 Training of the Little Finger, Difference Between 
 Classical & Electric Position, Making Bar 
 Chords Easy, Developing "Finger Lowness,&#148; 
 and Strengthening Weak Joints. The knowledge and 
 insight contained in this collection is essential 
 for any player, of any level or style, who wants 
 a deep understanding of how to develop a left 
 hand on guitar that functions at full capacity. 
 &#147; Left 
 Hand Form & Development For Guitarists &#148; 
 is available exclusively at TrueFire. 
 Jamey&#146;s exclusive essays and music are available 
 at truefire.com. 
 For more information about Jamey, his teaching, 
 and his music, visit www.guitarprinciples.com . 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.