Guitar Principles | Changing Bad Habits 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar , 
 Guitar Case , Guitar 
 Principles , Changing Bad Habits 

 Changing Bad Habits 

 Guitar Principles Essay # 3 
 Published January 01, 2001 
 By Jamey Andreas 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 I want to address an issue that seems to keep coming up for 
 people who are familiar with my work, and beginning to use 
 my methods. People are reading my essays, and it seems a new 
 awareness is beginning to dawn for them, which is good, that's 
 the whole point. But for many people, it is a very disconcerting 
 experience. I have gotten letters from people who have read 
 some things I have written, and become afraid to practice! 
 They are so aware of, and on their guard against, excess muscle 
 tension, and the devastating effects for the developing player, 
 they are afraid to touch a string! 
 They start to feel like that song by Al Yankovich, "Everything 
 You Know Is Wrong". They realize that even though they 
 may have been playing for 25 years, there are certain really 
 fundamental things they have never known, and if they did 
 know them from the beginning, everything would have gone differently 
 for them in their growth as guitarists. 
 Well, that IS the truth. That is the message I am always 
 trying to get across. I am always trying to convey to people 
 that if you have tried to learn the guitar and failed, it 
 is not you, it is the approach to it all that is at fault. 
 If you are stuck at a certain level of development, it is 
 not you, it is your approach that is keeping you there. Change 
 the approach, and you will create different results. I know 
 this is a fact, because I do it every day, for myself, and 
 for others. 
 Knowing the fact that the approach you use to learn the 
 guitar is THE key-determining factor in your success or failure 
 to actually learn, these three conclusions follow: 

 Playing the guitar well is NOT reserved for just some 
 special people. It is available and possible for everyone. 
 You are never too old to learn to play the guitar well. 
 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, you are still young in guitar playing 
 years. In fact, as soon as you touch the guitar in the right 
 spirit, you will begin to become younger. 
 You can undo bad habits you have learned along the way. 
 You can begin the process of undoing bad habits right away, 
 when you begin to acquire the correct understandings, and 
 use the approaches based on them. 

 So, even though it is a shock to find out that you have had 
 a bad or insufficient approach for years, you must get over 
 that shock right away. In fact, get used to it, it's only 
 the beginning! Get used to feeling like an idiot, get used 
 to feeling like a beginner. Staying with that feeling positions 
 you in the best possible way for being able to see what YOUR 
 obstacles to growth really are. As soon as you think you are 
 "complete" in some way as a guitarist, you will 
 be unable to see your own weak spots. 
 Now that we have the proper attitude in focus, let's talk 
 about how to go about "managing" the process of 
 changing bad playing habits. How do we actually conduct ourselves, 
 and our practicing and playing? As I have said, some people 
 become paralyzed, afraid to play, afraid of undoing work done 
 in practice sessions by what they do when they play. And for 
 those who play professionally, it is of course, absolutely 
 necessary that they continue to play, even if they are doing 
 "remedial" work on their technique. 
 People ask, "should I stop playing everything I am 
 used to playing, until I get rid of all my bad habits"? 
 Well, if you have a lot more discipline than I have, go ahead 
 and do that! If you can stand not making music for months, 
 go ahead, but I don't recommend it. 
 An extreme example of this would be to entirely stop playing 
 any of our usual music, where all the bad habits show themselves, 
 and buckle down to things like the Foundation Exercises in 
 my book, or the ones I have written about in my essays. You 
 could work on those for months and months until you felt you 
 had overcome your bad habits, and then go back to playing 
 music. I'd have to love self-punishment a whole lot more than 
 I do (which is not at all!) to take that route. I need fun 
 and enjoyment in my life on a daily basis, so I can't go with 
 that one! 
 Take the Middle Path 
 I prefer to be wise like the Buddha, and take the Middle 
 Path. This is the one I have chosen, and I will describe it 
 for you. 
 First, if you are using my book, begin to do all the Foundation 
 Exercises, because they will start to undo the foundation 
 of ALL your bad habits. Do them every day for perhaps ten 
 minutes. If you are not using my book, get all you can from 
 my essays, and apply those approaches, experiment with them, 
 and elaborate upon them, and adapt them to new situations. 
 Second, after coming to an awareness of the existence of 
 a "bad habit", develop an understanding of HOW it 
 got there. What WEREN'T you doing that allowed that situation 
 to develop. Of course, it always reduces down to something 
 you weren't aware of that you should have been paying attention 
 to, been more INTENSE about during your practice. 
 Third, absolutely spend a good amount of time in practicing 
 REVERSING that habit. Practice in a new way, where you make 
 sure you DO what you weren't doing before. Analyze the essence 
 of that bad habit, extract it from it's musical context, and 
 perhaps make up "auxiliary exercises" based on the 
 essence of it. Use all the practice techniques that I teach 
 to effectively begin this process of reversal. 
 Fourth, make sure the reversal of the habit is actually 
 beginning to take place. This means we make sure that our 
 practice is effective. If it's not, go back to steps One and 
 Two and Three! 
 Fifth, take up one of your usual pieces of music where that 
 habit has been showing itself by producing UNWANTED RESULTS, 
 and we begin to practice IT in the same careful way that you 
 did the exercises you were using to change the essence of 
 the bad habit. 
 As weeks and months go by, your old "bad habit" 
 will begin to weaken, it will change. It will be replaced 
 by the new finger action you are training into the fingers. 
 The important point to realize is that the new habit WILL 
 take over, if you are doing the proper proportion of CORRECT 
 PRACTICE on the bad habit. Merely playing the music where 
 the bad habit displays itself will not disturb the changes 
 you are building into the fingers by your powerful, correct 
 practice. As time goes by, the new habit will begin to show 
 itself IN your playing, and become stronger and stronger. 
 For instance, the process may go like this: 
 I notice I have trouble with a fast scale passage in a piece 
 I am playing. 
 I notice a particular note starts disappearing when I reach 
 a certain speed. The note is being missed. 
 I notice the finger responsible for playing that note is 
 the third finger. It is not getting to the note because it 
 is going up in the air in reaction to the second finger being 
 used right before it in that particular scale passage. In 
 other words, it is tensing in reaction to the movement of 
 it's neighboring finger, and I have not been paying attention 
 to it. I realize this is a bad habit that pervades my playing, 
 a third finger that tenses up in reaction to the use of the 
 second finger. 
 Now I know I have to work on something very fundamental. 
 I have to work on the behavior of my third finger, and change 
 the way it reacts to it's neighbor being used, the second 
 finger. If I can get down to the matter with that degree of 
 specificity, that degree of clarity and focus, I am in a position 
 to cause major Vertical Growth. If I can change the way that 
 finger is behaving in that situation, I will see many playing 
 problems I am having in other pieces of music begin to "melt", 
 and eventually disappear. 
 I must find a way of practicing that movement that DOES 
 NOT ALLOW the bad action to occur. Principled Players know 
 that means using Posing, No Tempo Practice, and the Basic 
 Practice Approach, all done with the proper intense focus. 
 Here is a simpler scenario for beginning players. Perhaps 
 you suffer from the common complaint of not being able to 
 change chords smoothly so you can sing that old favorite of 
 yours without feeling like a new driver learning to drive 
 a stick shift (go, stall, go, stall, etc.) 
 Well, that is very simple. You are simply suffering from 
 shoulder tension while making the moves (also, tension in 
 the muscles of the upper back and chest, they all move the 
 arm). Because of this, you must address the fundamental aspects 
 mentioned before. You cannot control your fingers, or even 
 train them, because control is being choked off higher up, 
 in the larger muscles. 
 Now, the challenge will be to be able to use the practice 
 approaches that CAN actually change something like that. Users 
 of "The Principles" know that this means Posing, and No Tempo 
 practice, and the use of The Basic Practice Approach. Again, 
 unfortunately, too often I meet readers of my book who are 
 NOT really using these practice approaches. They bought the 
 tool, but they don't use it! Those that do, see the results. 

 Copyright 2000 by Jamey Andreas 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Shifting" 

 Next article in 
 this series "Changing bad Habits Part 2" 

 Fans 
 of Jamey Andreas, make sure you check out Jamey&#146;s 
 exclusive article, &#147;Left Hand Form & 
 Development For Guitarists,&#148; classic Questions 
 & Answers from the famous "GuitarPrinciples" 
 Newsletter. Jamey answers questions related to 
 left hand form and development which applies to 
 all styles of electric and acoustic guitar. The 
 topics covered include: Thumb Position & Movement, 
 Training of the Little Finger, Difference Between 
 Classical & Electric Position, Making Bar 
 Chords Easy, Developing "Finger Lowness,&#148; 
 and Strengthening Weak Joints. The knowledge and 
 insight contained in this collection is essential 
 for any player, of any level or style, who wants 
 a deep understanding of how to develop a left 
 hand on guitar that functions at full capacity. 
 &#147; Left 
 Hand Form & Development For Guitarists &#148; 
 is available exclusively at TrueFire. 
 Jamey&#146;s exclusive essays and music are available 
 at truefire.com. 
 For more information about Jamey, his teaching, 
 and his music, visit www.guitarprinciples.com . 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.