Guitar Principles | Changing Bad Habits Part Two 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar , 
 Guitar Case , Guitar 
 Principles , Changing Bad Habits Part Two 

 Changing Bad Habits Part 
 Two 

 Guitar Principles Essay # 4 
 Published February 01, 2001 
 By Jamey Andreas 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Understanding and Allowing the Step by Step Process 
 You must understand that your ability to effectively change 
 bad habits is going to depend completely upon how deeply and 
 truly you understand the fundamental mechanics of the process 
 of playing the guitar, and the process of "practicing" 
 the guitar, meaning the actual process of how we teach the 
 mind and body new things. If you do not have a sufficiently 
 deep 
 understanding of these things, you will not be able to change 
 bad habits. 
 I hope you realize the importance of what I just said! I 
 suggest you read it over a few times, and think about it. 
 I suggest you take some serious time right now, and in the 
 next days and weeks to size yourself up, and answer this question 
 "Do I feel like I have a sufficient understanding of 
 the mechanics of playing the guitar so that I know how to 
 practice in a way that will "change bad habits", 
 which means "solve problems" which really means 
 "fix bad things about my playing". 
 And the reason I am saying this is because so many people 
 write to me and ask me the simple, basic question "how 
 do I change this bad habit of mine"? Or, they may be 
 asking the question in reverse. They may ask a question like 
 "how can I play faster", which is really saying 
 "how can I get rid of the elements of my present playing 
 technique (a bad habit) that are preventing 
 me from playing as fast as other people play", so it 
 is really the same question. 
 So my point is this: if you do not have sufficient understanding 
 of how things work, of what really happens when you sit down 
 to practice, then you will not be able to change bad habits. 
 So if this is the case, there is no answer to such a question. 
 The answer to this question, for a 
 person without the sufficient understanding is "you can't 
 change that bad habit". 
 Then, of course, the real answer, the necessary next step, 
 is to go and GET that understanding, and learn how to do the 
 kind of practice that is based on that understanding. THEN, 
 we can talk. 
 So, the real answer to the question is " the way you 
 get to be able to change bad habits is by understanding how 
 you got them in the first place". If you can understand 
 that Muscle Memory put that bad habit there, while you were 
 busy spending hours practicing with your shoulder tense, or 
 your wrist and hand tensed up, then you will see that Muscle 
 Memory will also change, or rather, allow you to REPLACE the 
 bad habit with a new, and better one. If, that is, you know 
 how to summon the mental focus necessary to make that happen, 
 if you know how to become aware of, and stay aware of, what 
 you were not aware of before. 
 Now understand this. It is often extremely difficult for 
 me to get results from a person sitting in front of me, to 
 get them to REALLY have this mental intensity, pay that much 
 attention, and keep doing that in their daily practice at 
 home. It can be extremely difficult to get someone to REALLY 
 be aware of what they are actually doing when they play, even 
 what they actually sound like! And I have no hope of getting 
 results with someone if I cannot move them to that level of 
 intensity. 
 That is why I am always so happy when someone writes and 
 tells me of progress they are making using my methods. It 
 proves to me that people CAN be moved to that intensity long-distance, 
 as it were. 
 But I am going through all this to really drive a point 
 home to all the people with one of the "how can I change 
 bad habits" type questions. You can't, unless the level 
 of your understanding of all aspects of the process is sufficiently 
 deep! So make sure it is, and continue to deepen it. The way 
 to do that is to educate yourself, by reading my writings, 
 and any other sources you discover that are out there, and 
 also to constantly THINK for yourself, experiment, observe, 
 draw conclusions, and re-experiment in your practice. 
 It just happens ( the devil made me do it) !!! 
 There is a statement that students will often exclaim, and 
 it is a big tip-off that they DO NOT HAVE the sufficiently 
 deep understanding that I am referring to. That statement 
 is, when referring to some bad behavior a finger may be exhibiting, 
 "I can't help it, it just happens by itself". 
 This statement shows that the person is the unfortunate 
 victim of the dynamics of the practice process, such as Muscle 
 Memory, instead of being the master of those dynamics, so 
 that Muscle Memory is put to work for us, instead of against 
 us. The person who has the necessary understanding MAKES the 
 right thing happen because they can do two things: they can 
 summon the strong Intention and Attention (mental focus) necessary 
 to make the correct thing happen, and they can have the stillness 
 of mind and body required to do real No Tempo Practice and 
 Posing, which will erase old muscle memory and replace it 
 with new, improved muscle memory. 
 A strong mental focus, and the stillness of mind and body 
 I am talking about, make your practice sufficiently deep, 
 sufficiently powerful to change bad habits, or in fact, acquire 
 good ones. I call this "the bottom of your practice". 
 If the bottom of your practice is not deep enough, your practice 
 will have no effect. Essentially, most of what I do with students 
 is simply to deepen the bottom of their practice for them, 
 and try to get them to be able to keep it that deep for themselves. 
 So, if you have that "it just happens" feeling, 
 well, now you know what it really means, and what to do about 
 it. 
 Take Things In The Proper Order 
 Once you have begun to get this deep understanding, you 
 will be able to take certain aspects of playing the guitar 
 in their proper order. You are not going to address the issue 
 of how your hands and fingers function until you have addressed 
 the issue of something more fundamental, like how you sit 
 with the instrument, and how aware you are of your body in 
 general while playing. If you don't know that the way you 
 are sitting and positioning your arms is forcing you to tense 
 muscles needed to play, you will always be working with a 
 handicap that limits your progress. Unfortunately, I have 
 found this to be the case MOST of the time with players. 
 The remedy here is to CONSTANTLY EXAMINE the fundamentals 
 of your playing. Your sitting, hand positions, finger action, 
 pick action, etc. Observe, think, analyze, experiment, repeat 
 the process in every practice session. DO NOT TAKE THE FUNDAMENTALS 
 FOR GRANTED. 
 Once your understanding of the mechanics of playing and 
 practicing are sufficiently deep to allow you to see things 
 in the right order of importance, and you have addressed the 
 necessary fundamentals, begin to get specific about the other 
 elements of playing technique. Whatever level of player you 
 are, begin to get a clear focus on your weak areas, and BE 
 SPECIFIC! 
 Always Set The Proper Next Goal 
 Once you are able to get this specific, see into the heart 
 of some flaw in your technique, and are able to approach it 
 in a fundamental and effective manner, it is now just a matter 
 of continuing that process, and setting one goal after another. 
 When you work on a fundamental, such as the one described 
 above, you make it a project that may last anywhere from a 
 month, to several months, or even a year. You hammer at that 
 aspect of your technique relentlessly. You do whatever exercises 
 you know that will help, if 
 properly practiced. You make up exercises that will help, 
 if properly practiced. You use the actual passage that gave 
 rise to the whole "investigation". You take note 
 of and measure your progress and results. 
 Once you see that bad habit begin to weaken, and new habits 
 come through in your playing, you ask yourself, "ok, 
 what is the next worst thing about my playing, what is the 
 next fundamental aspect of playing that is underlying various 
 trouble spots in my repertoire". Find it, and go after 
 it. 
 Get and Keep the Correct Attitude 
 The final point I want to make in considering the subject 
 of changing bad habits, which is another way of saying creating 
 Vertical Growth as players, is the adoption and full acceptance 
 of the CORRECT ATTITUDE of someone desiring to achieve their 
 full potential. And that is the attitude of ABSOLUTE OPENNESS 
 about yourself, about you as a guitar player, and about the 
 endless possibilities of things you have yet to learn. Here 
 are the attributes of someone who has this correct attitude: 
 They don't get upset when they discover some major flaw 
 in their playing, they become curious and interested. 
 They don't feel sorry for themselves when they begin to 
 clearly see the source of some problem in playing, and realize 
 that it could have been avoided if someone pointed it out, 
 or they had noticed it themselves (that tensed up shoulder 
 they have been playing with for years). They are thankful 
 that they finally see it, and resolve to set about integrating 
 the new awareness into all their playing, right away. They 
 are in fact, happy, every time they begin to become aware 
 of how wrong they have been about some aspect of their playing 
 and practicing approach. 
 Whenever I have one of my "wow, what an idiot I've 
 been" moments, I am always very happy. Now I know I am 
 on the verge of becoming an even better player than I am now. 
 How could that upset me. 
 And this is something all of you can say at such times. 
 Make sure you do. Make sure you keep the feeling of excitement 
 and gratitude if you read something, by me or someone else, 
 and it makes you realize that you have been missing something 
 in your understanding and approach to the guitar. Do not get 
 whinny and negative because something has come along to upset 
 the nice opinion you have managed to create and maintain about 
 yourself as a guitarist! 
 And make sure you maintain that attitude of excitement, 
 discovery and gratitude every day on your path of development 
 as a guitarist, musician and artist. It is an endless journey, 
 and those who have gone farthest know that best. 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Changing Bad Habits Part 1" 

 Next article in 
 this series "Why Should I Learn To Read Music" 

 Fans 
 of Jamey Andreas, make sure you check out Jamey&#146;s 
 exclusive article, &#147;Left Hand Form & 
 Development For Guitarists,&#148; classic Questions 
 & Answers from the famous "GuitarPrinciples" 
 Newsletter. Jamey answers questions related to 
 left hand form and development which applies to 
 all styles of electric and acoustic guitar. The 
 topics covered include: Thumb Position & Movement, 
 Training of the Little Finger, Difference Between 
 Classical & Electric Position, Making Bar 
 Chords Easy, Developing "Finger Lowness,&#148; 
 and Strengthening Weak Joints. The knowledge and 
 insight contained in this collection is essential 
 for any player, of any level or style, who wants 
 a deep understanding of how to develop a left 
 hand on guitar that functions at full capacity. 
 &#147; Left 
 Hand Form & Development For Guitarists &#148; 
 is available exclusively at TrueFire. 
 Jamey&#146;s exclusive essays and music are available 
 at truefire.com. 
 For more information about Jamey, his teaching, 
 and his music, visit www.guitarprinciples.com . 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.