Guitar Principles | Changing Chords 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar , 
 Guitar Case , Guitar 
 Principles , Changing Chords 

 Changing Chords 

 Having a little trouble with those "easy" 
 chords? 
 Guitar Principles Essay # 7 
 Published May 01, 2001 
 By Jamey Andreas 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 Many people begin to play the guitar by learning a few chord 
 changes to their favorite song. In fact, I learned this way. 
 There are many things to be aware of while doing this. There 
 are things to know and do that can make it easier, and guarantee 
 you will have success. There are also many things that can 
 go wrong, and guarantee trouble. 
 You should first understand that often the term "simple 
 chords" is very misleading. Most "simple chords" 
 for guitar require quite complex movements of the fingers, 
 in order for them to get into the final "form" of 
 the chord. In the following essay, I am going to analyze one 
 of the most common chord changes, and one of the most misunderstood 
 in terms of it's actual difficulty. I am referring to the 
 chords G and C. 
 Let's look at this chord change from the viewpoint of the 
 ideas outlined in " The Principles of Correct Practice 
 For Guitar". And I am also going to use a real life example 
 of a student of mine named Kathy. You will see many things 
 in her story that will be true for you also, and the principles 
 will apply to all chord changes, not just G and C. 
 Kathy's Situation 
 When Kathy came for lessons with me, she had already been 
 trying to learn the guitar for about 2 years, with a few different 
 teachers, and with no success. She could struggle her way 
 into a few chords, but watching her try to change them fast 
 enough to do a song was an exercise in agony, for me and for 
 her. Her case is a good example of how bad things can get 
 when there is no understanding of the mechanics of playing 
 and practicing, right from the beginning. 
 First of all, I needed to make her aware of how tensed up 
 her left shoulder was as soon as she began to raise her left 
 hand to the neck. This made her whole arm tense, right down 
 to the fingers. As she tried to get in to the first chord, 
 the fingers tensed up even more, and started leaning and pressing 
 against one another, instead of having the proper space between 
 them. 
 This tension of the fingers immediately began to cause a 
 reaction in the rest of the arm, tensing up the large muscles 
 of the arm and shoulder. All of this created a great feeling 
 of discomfort, that Kathy had assumed is "just the way 
 it feels to do a G chord." 
 How To Avoid "Lockup" 
 This is a situation that happens all the time to beginners, 
 and even to advanced players to varying degrees. I call this 
 buildup of tension as the arm is raised and the fingers about 
 to move lockup. That is, the fingers, hand and arm "lockup" 
 with tension, and usually the unfortunate player continues 
 to try to get them in position by working through the tension, 
 trying to make the fingers perform while they are "locked 
 up". 
 The thing to do is stop, go back into the position you were 
 coming from, and begin to move very slowly, examining the 
 fingers closely as soon as they release the first chord, and 
 focus on staying relaxed from the shoulder down to the fingers, 
 and staying that way as the fingers move to their new positions. 
 Now, you have to look at the whole situation the hand is 
 in. For Kathy, her thumb was wrapped around the neck in such 
 a way that there was no space between her hand and the guitar, 
 so her fingers had a difficult time, not being free and relaxed, 
 or having the room to move. By the time she got in to the 
 G chord, she was holding on to it for dear life! Not exactly 
 in a position to easily change to the C chord, which is even 
 harder. 
 Then, as she began to pry her fingers off the G chord and 
 go for the C, she did what many people do, she led with the 
 strong finger, the first finger, that is, and smashed it down 
 on it's note, on the second string, first fret. Now, she was 
 holding on to that for dear life, with the whole arm, from 
 finger tip to shoulder, knotted up with tension. 
 Next came the attempt to get fingers 2 and 3 into position, 
 which was very difficult for her to do, and me to watch, as 
 those poor, stressed out fingers did their best to do her 
 will. By the time she got them in to position, somewhat, they 
 weren't standing straight enough to allow the adjacent strings 
 to ring clearly, one of the difficulties of the C chord. 
 So the net result of all this effort was the inability to 
 change chords smoothly, and the inability to get the notes 
 of the C chord out clearly once she got there. 
 My Solution for Kathy 
 Here are the steps I used to undo the knots of tension that 
 Kathy had unknowingly created and allowed, that were preventing 
 her from performing actions on the guitar which anyone should 
 be able to do, if they approach them properly. 

 I explained the concepts of muscle memory, and how disastrous 
 muscle tension is, and how difficult it can be to become 
 aware of it. 
 I explained the practice tools outlined in my book, Posing, 
 and No Tempo Practice, used for becoming aware of, and eliminating, 
 excessive muscle tension. 
 I explained how to bring the left hand to the neck, with 
 the fingers in a relaxed curl as she approached the strings. 
 I had her begin practice of Left Hand Exercise #1, using 
 Posing, No Tempo Practice, and the Basic Practice Approach. 
 As a few weeks went by, she developed the ability to have 
 relaxed fingers come to the neck and strings, and also to 
 have them stretch out from one another in a relaxed way, 
 while the arm and shoulder stayed relatively relaxed. 
 Then we applied this way of moving to the chord changes, 
 G to C. She learned how to keep everything relaxed, and 
 how to keep a good space between the hand and the guitar 
 as the hand turned, as it must in going from a G to a C. 
 I had her place the 2nd finger down lightly on the 4th 
 string, for the C chord first, not the first finger. As 
 she placed the 3rd finger next, she kept the hand out, and 
 the 1st finger poised over the 2nd string, first fret. 
 Finally, she placed the first finger down, still keeping 
 it curled, and going down on the tip, but with the fingertip 
 leaning slightly toward the headstock, and the hand still 
 out, so that there was enough space between the hand and 
 the guitar at the index finger that you could stick your 
 finger in between the hand and guitar. 
 I had her stop and Pose at random times, when the tension 
 would build, so she could learn to be relaxed in these positions. 
 After repeated No Tempo Practice of this, we began to 
 work up speed using the Basic Practice Approach. And she 
 started to be able to do it faster and faster. Now, I am 
 happy to say, she is playing many songs well, using these 
 and other chords. 

 I really believe that without this approach, she would never 
 have unlocked the tensions that were preventing her from being 
 able to do these chord changes. This approach will work for 
 anybody, and any chords. Try it, with these chords, or any 
 other changes that give you trouble, or that you would like 
 to improve. 
 All of the above can be seen as an illustration of the first 
 two Principles of Correct Practice, stated in my essay, "The 
 Secret of Speed". I will now add the 3rd Principle of 
 Correct Practice: 
 Principle of Correct Practice #3: 
 "The fingers are energized by Attention, and moved by 
 Intention." 
 I will elaborate on this later, but you should read and re-read 
 the previous essays in light of these 3 Principles stated 
 so far, and your understanding of them will jncrease, and 
 so will recognition of their relevance to your own playing 
 situation. And so will their usefulness. That is, by thinking 
 about these things, when you practice, your practice will 
 be more powerful, resulting in faster progress. 

 Copyright 1999 by Jamey Andreas. All Rights Reserved. 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Why Should I Take Guitar Lessons" 

 Next article in 
 this series "Stage Fright Part 1" 

 Fans 
 of Jamey Andreas, make sure you check out Jamey&#146;s 
 exclusive article, &#147;Left Hand Form & 
 Development For Guitarists,&#148; classic Questions 
 & Answers from the famous "GuitarPrinciples" 
 Newsletter. Jamey answers questions related to 
 left hand form and development which applies to 
 all styles of electric and acoustic guitar. The 
 topics covered include: Thumb Position & Movement, 
 Training of the Little Finger, Difference Between 
 Classical & Electric Position, Making Bar 
 Chords Easy, Developing "Finger Lowness,&#148; 
 and Strengthening Weak Joints. The knowledge and 
 insight contained in this collection is essential 
 for any player, of any level or style, who wants 
 a deep understanding of how to develop a left 
 hand on guitar that functions at full capacity. 
 &#147; Left 
 Hand Form & Development For Guitarists &#148; 
 is available exclusively at TrueFire. 
 Jamey&#146;s exclusive essays and music are available 
 at truefire.com. 
 For more information about Jamey, his teaching, 
 and his music, visit www.guitarprinciples.com . 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.