Guitar Principles | The Fundamentals of Fun 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar , 
 Guitar Case , Guitar 
 Principles , The Fundamentals of Fun 

 The Fundamentals of Fun 

 Guitar Principles Essay # 15 
 Published February 01, 2002 
 By Jamey Andreas 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 The subject of Fun is one of the most serious topics we can 
 discuss. One of the greatest achievements of my lifetime has 
 been the maintenance of the capacity for fun from early childhood. 
 Another has been coming to an understanding of what Fun is. 
 And so, Fun is the cornerstone of my life, and the foundation 
 of everything I do. 

 I know that I am sometimes perceived as a serious dude, talking 
 about Principles and other not-so-fun topics, but when you 
 know what Fun is, then you will see why even serious, or thought 
 inducing, weighty matters can be Fun. I want to talk about 
 this subject because it is vital to making progress as a guitarist. 
 In fact, you cannot MAKE any progress as a guitarist, unless 
 you know how to have Fun. We "play" the guitar. 
 You cannot "play" if you don't know how to have 
 fun. It's true that "practice" sometimes seems like 
 "work", but you will see that work is not the opposite 
 of play, or the opposite of fun. Work can, and should, be 
 Fun. 

 Now, Fun is a funny thing. For some people, going out dancing 
 and drinking all night is fun. For others, that would be torture, 
 but sitting quietly and reading a book on philosophy is Fun. 
 For some people, jamming on the electric guitar for hours 
 is fun, for others, sitting with a metronome for an hour of 
 disciplined practice is Fun (and yes, the same person may 
 find each of these things to be Fun at different times). For 
 some people, having to solve difficult problems requiring 
 great thought is Fun, and for another, it is nothing but a 
 headache. So, what is going on here? 

 The fact is that anything can be Fun for some person or the 
 other. However, the particular things that we find to be Fun 
 say everything about who we are as people, and what our level 
 of personal development is. However, there is one common denominator 
 that is always present when a person says "this is fun". 
 That common denominator is "creative enjoyment". 
 Fun is creative enjoyment. Einstein working out the theory 
 of relativity, or Michael Jordan shooting a basket; both are 
 having Fun. Both are "creatively enjoying". As long 
 as this quality is present, ANYTHING can be fun. Without this 
 quality, NOTHING is fun. 

 What is "creative enjoyment"? Well, "creative" 
 is almost self-explanatory. It is basically bringing something 
 new into the world. It could be a dinner, an idea, a blanket, 
 a building, whatever. Whatever is being created, it involves 
 bringing something "out" of yourself, and giving 
 it some kind of form on the outside. 

 The universal human urge to be creative stems from the one 
 characteristic that always accompanies a creative act: a pleasurable 
 energy sensation in the inner being. The person who knows 
 how to have Fun is the person who knows how to be good to 
 themselves, how to give themselves pleasure, how to make themselves 
 happy. 

 Everyone is inherently creative. All children are naturally 
 creative. However, creativity carries with it a certain "natural 
 aggressiveness", and "natural assertiveness. To 
 be creative is to affirm and assert oneself, to use one's 
 power. Many children have this natural assertiveness conditioned 
 out of them as they mature, and so they cannot find their 
 creative powers when they have become adults. They also cannot 
 find their ability to have Fun. In fact, I have met many adults 
 who actually believe that adults are not supposed to have 
 Fun! When I am teaching such a person, I have to try to re-connect 
 them with their lost ability to have Fun. Sometimes I can, 
 and sometimes I can't. Some people will not allow it; giving 
 themselves pleasure, and having Fun, makes them feel guilty. 

 And enjoyment? That is a very interesting word. "En-Joy". 
 According to the dictionary, "en" means "to 
 put into". Now, this is a very key understanding. People 
 usually think that things are enjoyable in and of themselves, 
 as if "joy" positively radiates from various things, 
 and we merely have to bask in the "joy" that shines 
 out of them like sunlight. A new car, a million dollars: wow, 
 what happiness, what joy! And yet, we often read of millionaires 
 with lots of money and fleets of cars, who kill themselves 
 after falling deeply into despair and misery for one reason 
 or another. So, obviously, there is no "joy" emanating 
 out of any of these exalted "things". 

 When we en-joy something, it is because of what we are putting 
 INTO it, not what we are getting OUT of it. "It" 
 has nothing to give us, until we give "it", us! 
 What we put into it is the Joy that is already inside of us! 
 Well, obviously, you must already HAVE this Joy inside of 
 you before you can put it into something. That Joy is the 
 native Joy of simply being alive, simply existing, along with 
 everything else. We would all do well to check up on our personal 
 "Joy Quotient". If it is low, or missing entirely, 
 we should find out where it went. We won't find it gone to 
 anywhere outside of us, only buried, perhaps smothered, deep 
 within. 

 Someone who has nothing they enjoy, simply is empty inside. 
 The reasons why this happens would require other essays, but 
 understand that an artist MUST have an inner fullness that 
 is brought out, and combined with "the world" in 
 a creative way, and VOILA, art appears. Music is written and 
 played and sung, because someone has the capacity for "creative 
 enjoyment", for FUN. 

 As we go from child to adult, the particular things we find 
 to be Fun will change, and be added to. However, the intensity 
 of that Fun, and the ability to have it, should never diminish. 
 Unfortunately, it almost always does. There is no sadder sight 
 to my eyes than the disconsolate child, moping and moaning 
 "I'm bored, there's nothing to do". This poor child 
 is already old, the spark has left, the inner fullness has 
 turned to emptiness, and that emptiness is projected outward, 
 so that the world, full of so much beauty and amazement, looks 
 empty. 

 No, the opposite of Fun is not work, it is boredom, which 
 is "apathy for existence". 

 It can truly be said that the passage from childhood to adulthood, 
 when properly traversed, is characterized by the ability to 
 transform Fun into Work. The only difference between Fun and 
 Work is that Fun is the creative enjoyment of an activity 
 which has no goal other than the activity itself, and Work 
 is activity that has a predetermined goal (Intention). That 
 is why Work can be Fun, because Work is simply Fun with an 
 added dimension. Work, like Fun, can be a form of creative 
 enjoyment; it simply has a goal also. This is the difference 
 between practicing and playing. Practicing is Work (Fun + 
 Intention, or the goal to learn and improve), Playing is just 
 plain Fun (we play because we want to play, it feels good). 
 Fun has no structure imposed upon it from outside, Work has 
 an imposed structure, that is why it is more "adult". 

 The properly developed adult should feel both a need for 
 Fun and a need for Work. For myself, I am switching between 
 the two all the time. Even sitting practicing, I may do some 
 technical exercise for 15 minutes, with intense focus and 
 concentration, and then, I will feel the great urge to just 
 PLAY something and have Fun. Which I do. Sometimes, I just 
 feel the need to play for half an hour. Sometimes, I feel 
 the need to Work for an hour. One feeds into, and leads into, 
 the other. 

 There are two types of students: one needs to learn how 
 to Work, and the other needs to learn how to have Fun. The 
 first is more common. Most people have never learned true 
 Work. Most people's relationship to Work began as that most 
 distasteful intrusion upon our personal time and energy, when, 
 as children we encountered that thing called "homework". 
 Yes, homework, another word for "the demand to focus 
 our inner resources upon something to which we have no connection, 
 and no desire for connection, but we do so under threat of 
 some type of punishment from all the Big People". Wow, 
 what a wonderful way to discover how to "en-joy" 
 life! What a wonderful way to get a good attitude about Work! 

 So, many people I meet need to be trained to put out the 
 level of energy and focus required to learn the guitar as 
 it should be learned. They simply have never encountered something 
 which made this demand on ALL their physical, mental, and 
 emotional resources. You can fake your homework. You can't 
 fake your guitar practice, and you sure can't fake your guitar 
 playing! 

 However, I will occasionally get the type of student who 
 is happy to practice exercises with the metronome all day, 
 focusing on those fingers for hours all day, every day. However, 
 they never pick up the guitar to just play and have Fun! How 
 sad, how tragic! That is not how we get to be guitar players 
 or musicians. Musicians specialize in having Fun. We are Fun 
 Masters. I have to tell these people " I am ordering 
 you, as part of your practice, to just pick up the guitar, 
 play it, and have Fun! Remember, have Fun, that's an order!" 

 Often, beginners on guitar delay having Fun, putting it off 
 until some time in the distant future when they deserve it. 
 This is not good. Fun, and music making should come into the 
 picture as soon as possible. Anyone just learning to play 
 should have two goals in mind: one, making sure the technical 
 foundation being laid is correct, and strong so that continuous 
 growth is possible, and two, making some MUSIC as soon as 
 possible, something, anything that that turns you on, that 
 gets your emotional juices flowing, whether it is Bach or 
 Rock. 

 Yes, anything worth doing should be worth having Fun while 
 doing it. The United States Marines live by a Principle, their 
 motto, "Semper Fi", which means "always faithful". 
 Here at GuitarPrinciples, I have told everyone involved in 
 the day to day workings of things (and "not-workings, 
 such as computers, printers, etc.!) to keep our Motto in mind. 
 It is the Principle we operate on here, our first Principle 
 of Business, Work, and Life: Semper Fun! 

 Copyright 2001 Jamey Andreas. 

 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Relaxation" 

 Next to list of articles 
 in this series 

 Fans 
 of Jamey Andreas, make sure you check out Jamey&#146;s 
 exclusive article, &#147;Left Hand Form & 
 Development For Guitarists,&#148; classic Questions 
 & Answers from the famous "GuitarPrinciples" 
 Newsletter. Jamey answers questions related to 
 left hand form and development which applies to 
 all styles of electric and acoustic guitar. The 
 topics covered include: Thumb Position & Movement, 
 Training of the Little Finger, Difference Between 
 Classical & Electric Position, Making Bar 
 Chords Easy, Developing "Finger Lowness,&#148; 
 and Strengthening Weak Joints. The knowledge and 
 insight contained in this collection is essential 
 for any player, of any level or style, who wants 
 a deep understanding of how to develop a left 
 hand on guitar that functions at full capacity. 
 &#147; Left 
 Hand Form & Development For Guitarists &#148; 
 is available exclusively at TrueFire. 
 Jamey&#146;s exclusive essays and music are available 
 at truefire.com. 
 For more information about Jamey, his teaching, 
 and his music, visit www.guitarprinciples.com . 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.