Guitar Principles | Relaxation 

 Riff-O-Matic 
 Guitar 
 Strings - 60% off 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 
 Acoustic 
 Blues 
 Chords 
 Classical 
 Heavy 
 Metal 
 Jamming 
 Jazz 
 Scales 
 Teaching 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Guitar , 
 Guitar Case , Guitar 
 Principles , Relaxation 

 Relaxation 

 Guitar Principles Essay # 14 
 Published January 01, 2002 
 By Jamey Andreas 

 Print this page 
 Email to a Friend 

 Bookmark 
 this page 

 I think very likely there exists a very common mis-conception 
 about this word that we hear all the time, and one that I 
 use often as well: relaxation. I will make my best attempt 
 to bring your understanding of this subject up to a higher 
 level. 

 No, it is not true that good players experience a "complete 
 relaxation" when they play, at least not in the sense 
 that many people think of when they use the word "relaxation". 
 People tend to think of a very passive state, as we might 
 think of in going to sleep, or being hypnotized. Often, this 
 elusive state of "relaxation" is described as such 
 a thing, which is very misleading to those trying to grasp 
 it. It makes them wary of any sensation of "effort" 
 in their playing, and this wariness makes them reject certain 
 approaches and inner sensations that are quite appropriate, 
 and would, if pursued, lead to further development of ability. 

 First of all, understand this: relaxation is not a state, 
 it is not a condition that you experience. Relaxation is an 
 activity, relaxation is something you do. The failure to perform 
 the action of relaxation does result in a state or condition 
 which we might call "discomfort" or chronic tension. 
 The state that result from performing the action of relaxation 
 may be called "poise" , balance, or "comfort 
 in action". 

 Relaxation is something we are either good at, or not so 
 good at. Relaxation, like so many abilities, such as thinking, 
 is something some people never do, and also, again, like thinking, 
 it is something many people believe they are doing when they 
 are NOT doing it. 

 Look at the word: re-lax. The prefix "re" means 
 to "do again", as in repeat and repetition. What 
 are we supposed to be "doing again"? "Laxing", 
 that's what. Lax means "loose". The word "relax" 
 is pre-supposing we were loose to begin with, and then, we 
 made some kind of effort, which, when it comes to motor activities, 
 means a contraction of muscle tissue, and then we "re-loosed", 
 or relaxed, and returned that muscle to it's original condition 
 of "laxness", or looseness. 

 Well, the fact is, many people are NOT loose to begin with. 
 Many people are chronically tense, playing guitar or not. 
 Many people are chronically tense in all the muscles of the 
 playing mechanism during playing, and for these people, there 
 is no possibility of "re-laxing", since there is 
 no looseness to return to. 

 Now, you ask "how can I develop this ability if it is 
 not covered in your book"? Well, everything about my 
 book is designed to develop this ability. Everything in my 
 book is designed to DEVELOP this state of looseness, and then 
 train you to return to it after making an effort. (And also 
 to train you to make the smallest effort possible!) 

 Look at it this way: a person who is chronically tense is 
 like a person who has no "awareness" of their actual 
 condition. They have no communication with their own body. 
 They have no "wiring" between their mind and their 
 body. That is why so often people think they are relaxed when 
 they are not, they think they are loose when they are not. 
 They don't know what loose is, they have never felt it. Someone 
 with their muscles obviously in knots, perhaps their shoulder 
 up to their earlobe, will happily and sincerely report "Hey, 
 I'm relaxed"! In reality, they are not feeling anything, 
 and they assume this state of numbness is "being relaxed". 
 They might as well be under general anesthesia! 

 The way this wiring is created is through the power of the 
 mind, through attention to the body while practicing. Real 
 attention, not "thinking about" the body, but BEING 
 the body, "thinking AS the body". The second principle 
 of correct practice states "practicing is the infusion 
 of conscious awareness into the body through the mechanism 
 of attention". Everything about my book shows you how 
 to do this, IF you actually DO what I tell you. 

 It is important to understand that this "looseness" 
 of the body, and this awareness of the body is a natural thing; 
 every child has it. However, it can be degraded, and it can 
 be lost. Just as it can be developed through attention to 
 the body, it is lost through in-attention to the body, and 
 this in-attention to the body is what most people learn as 
 children, and begin to practice with great fervor. It happens 
 because attention begins to go elsewhere then to our "beingness" 
 in our bodies. It goes into our "beingness" in our 
 minds. As the years go by, we identify not with our bodies, 
 but with the mental and emotional operations going on between 
 our ears, that we call "ourselves". And a lot of 
 these mental and emotional operations are pretty screwed up! 
 A lot of them are full of tension, negativity and conflict, 
 and the quality of all this energy manifests in the physical 
 body, and that is why there are so many up-tight, constricted 
 people walking around. 

 So, when someone picks up a guitar and asks their body to 
 start learning and doing all these new things, all of this 
 history comes into play. Of course, we are all going to find 
 ourselves somewhere along the spectrum here, and we will each 
 have our own particulars to deal with, but I have laid out 
 in general what we all go through, and what we all must deal 
 with. 

 Copyright 2001 Jamey Andreas. 
 Back to top 

 Previous article 
 in this series "Confront Your Confusion" 

 Next article in 
 this series "The Fundamentals of Fun" 

 Fans 
 of Jamey Andreas, make sure you check out Jamey&#146;s 
 exclusive article, &#147;Left Hand Form & 
 Development For Guitarists,&#148; classic Questions 
 & Answers from the famous "GuitarPrinciples" 
 Newsletter. Jamey answers questions related to 
 left hand form and development which applies to 
 all styles of electric and acoustic guitar. The 
 topics covered include: Thumb Position & Movement, 
 Training of the Little Finger, Difference Between 
 Classical & Electric Position, Making Bar 
 Chords Easy, Developing "Finger Lowness,&#148; 
 and Strengthening Weak Joints. The knowledge and 
 insight contained in this collection is essential 
 for any player, of any level or style, who wants 
 a deep understanding of how to develop a left 
 hand on guitar that functions at full capacity. 
 &#147; Left 
 Hand Form & Development For Guitarists &#148; 
 is available exclusively at TrueFire. 
 Jamey&#146;s exclusive essays and music are available 
 at truefire.com. 
 For more information about Jamey, his teaching, 
 and his music, visit www.guitarprinciples.com . 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.