Q & A with the Director of Moment In Time 

 Interview with the Director of Moment in Time 

 And now for something different! Robert Orlando wrote and directed Moment in Time. Here are excerpts
from our interview. 

 NOIR: What process led you to create the story for Moment in Time? 

 ROBERT ORLANDO: For some time, I had an inner impression of what kind of a story I wanted to tell
and although it was probably not clear at first, I knew what it would look and feel like. I also felt
that the film should generally start as a linear story, that planted seeds of mixed perception, but
later would necessarily graduate into the abstract. 

 NOIR: To me, the inner struggle is Vincent's, and it's quite Oedipal! Where did that come from?

 RO: Less Freud's Oedipal and more Jung's (Aristotle's) Anima. I take Jung more on this with his
observations, much like the yin yang, the feminine masculine principle -- anima and animus. That we
find our other selves because they represent this powerful other part for a "moment" making us
complete--Universal if you will. This can also be a mix that transcends a strict interpretation of
male/female categories, but nevertheless for the most part I believe they exist. 

 I also think the mother-thing is quite powerful in Latin culture. Consider the role that Mary plays
in Catholicism, compared to the Protestant intepretation of her role in the church. Or the
mediterranean religions like Dionysius, Isis, etc, etc. There is a powerful connection between men and
the sensual role of the female. It's not mental or conscious, but almost like a primal connection,
eternal, if I can say. A lot of the mother/son relationship playing into that -- very Italian! 

 NOIR: Parts of Moment in Time are reminiscent of David Lynch and Roman Polanski. Are these
filmmakers who inspire you? If not, who did you have in mind consciously or subsconsciously when you
made Moment in Time? 

 RO: It's interesting how you mention Roman Polanski because although I was always impressed by his
films, I never considered him an influence. There's definitely a dark side to his genius and an angst
that is uncommon, but I think that's it. Lynch was not a strong influence until more recently with Lost
Highway and Mulholland Drive. I've never seen Twin Peaks and could not make it through Wild at Heart,
although I was busy at the time. 

 If I had to try and pick out my influences I would have to say Fellini, and definitely Bergman, not
to mention Orson Welles's less popular films like The Stranger, Lady from Shanghi and of course Touch
of Evil. Not in a literal sense, but in the sense of the subjective direction, people alone in the
universe, a lot of dark spaces. I was also severely limited because of the lack of resources and such
to really flush out my own style. I could only take short puffs of inspiration and not exhale after
deep breaths. There's so much more to come. But certain people have said from this film and several
other scripts that I've completed that this might be my own genre. 

 For what it's worth I would like to state it for the record that I call it the "Memory Genre."
Stories are told in two motions where one moves forward and the second moves back. Characters come to
learn of emotions that emerge from the past and begin to dominate the present, like a Henrik Ibsen
play. 

 Ultimately none of us know what our influences are or whether they come from only film as opposed to
painting, novels or music. Many times I've conceived (with the mind's eye) of my stories in terms of a
fugue rather than a three-act structure, something cyclical rather than linear. In other words it's not
that a character has to do something as much as learn something. Consciousness plays a role, much like
in Eastern thought. This is where I think I connect with Lynch the most. It's based on action, but
transcends action, like a parable. 

 NOIR: Both the writer and the reader are shaman or seer figures in Moment in Time. Why? 

 RO: To me the modern is the last in the lineage of the shaman. The shaman went into the cave to
confront the unknown and return with a story to tell that could become a ritual. They in a way were the
chroniclers of their time. It began with the religious men and women --mystics and then after the
enlightenment artists took on this role. 

 More specifically, I thought using a writer was more familiar to postmodern thought, in that we have
come to understand how subjective we are in the mythologizing of our lives, much like a writer. Today
studies of the psychology of the brain are pointing toward our selective choice of past, present, and
future much like a novelist. We shape meaning from our words (semiotics) and form our perceptions. I
wanted to give this process away in the film and say: "you see that is what we all do." We create
unconsciously what we want to believe considering the potential for pleasure or pain. 

 NOIR: The women in the film really impressed me with their performances. Do you enjoy working
with actresses more? 

 RO: Women are amazing to me because although I would like to think of myself as quite intuitive, my
orientation still differs significantly from a woman's. Where as the male readers had more why and how
questions toward the script, the women formed impressions from moods in the story that were right on
the money, and when these moods were not sufficiently flushed out they knew it and I always agreed.
They understood the experienced conflict not looking for cause and effect relationship between event
and mood, but more situationally: Imagine a person has to live with the question: how can I live having
lost the one I love without explanation. And that's enough. It was enough for me for the most part
because the truth is who cares what some one does to forget as much as what one does to process the
power of these emotions? The very stagnation of action is consisitent with the conflict at hand. 

 I didn't want a soap opera, so I tried to keep the picture moving with imagery reflecting the inner
landscapes also moving. Once again I was also limited in my ability to use locations, lights and
action, so it also had to remain an intimate film , like a quartet, not a full orchestra and the
movement more vertical, rather than horizontal. The two Annika's (and Annica) are special people and so
far have won in the two festivals in which I have entered the film. I take this with great pride as a
kid from Brooklyn and some one struggling to balance the typical male sexual impulses with the
relational bonds. There's something strong that grows from intimacy and needs to filter the pure male
aggression side. My personal challenge was: could I make these women understand not just the
characters, or the conflict, but the emotional material I was managing. Very difficult. I don't think
I was the best communicator in the world, but I think the film accomplished a lot and the women were
very patient. 

 They really are special people. 

 NOIR: What would you like the audience to come away with after watching Moment
in Time? 

 RO: Catharsis. 

 Some one just took me through the same evolution of emotion that I had
experienced once before or right now! 

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2002)