SeattleOtaku: Review - Aa! Megami-sama (Oh My Goddess!) 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Aa! Megami-sama (Oh My Goddess!) 

 F aithfully following the art (if not the
full story) in the original books by Fujishima Kosuke, the short video series
 Aa! Megami-sama (translated as both
 Ah! My Goddess and Oh My Goddess! here in the US),
follows the romance and comedy involved when three goddesses become involved
with an ordinary mortal and a college motor club -- similar to an animated
 Bewitched mixed with a bit of Tenchi Muyo! .
Fujishima also created two other favorites, both involving fast cars and
pretty girls, You're Under Arrest and eX-Driver . 

 Story Intro 

 When dialing for take-out food, Keiichi misdialed and got himself a visit
from a goddess to grant him any one wish he desired. Thinking this was all a
joke put on by his college dorm-mates, he decided to call the goddess's "bluff"
and made his wish -- for a girlfriend exactly like her to stay with him
forever. 

 The good news is that it wasn't a bluff, and his wish is granted;
"Belldandy", one of the three Norse goddeses of fate known as the Norns
("Verthandi" in the Norse original), is now his girlfriend. But there's bad
news, too -- he currently lives in an all-men dorm, and letting a woman in
the building just got him thrown out! Not to mention the interference
caused by a certain pair of other goddesses, Urd and Skuld, who want
their sister to come back to Heaven. . . .

 Other Notes 

 The "Aa!" in the original title can be translated many ways, typically as
either "Ah!" or "Oh!". The original OVA episodes used a title logo that
included an English couterpart, and they used "Ah!". However, the creators
later learned of the obvious play on the English exclamation, "Oh my God!", and
preferred to translate it as "Oh!" in later interviews, etc. The result is
that you can actually find this under both "A" and "O" in the stores that
alphabetize their racks literally. 

 While the full show didn't get picked up for a regular television series (as
Fujishima's You're Under Arrest did), Urd and Skuld, then later
Belldandy as well, appeared in mid-afternoon short pieces as cute tiny-deformed
versions of themselves with a rat sidekick named Gan-chan. A few regulars of
the manga that didn't appear in the OVAs make brief appearandes in these
shorts as well. 

 Distributed by AnimEigo: 

 Aa! Megami-sama (5-episode OVA) as Oh My Goddess! 

 Distributed by Pioneer Entertainment: 

 Aa! Megami-sama (Movie) as Ah! My Goddess: The Movie 
 Adventures of Mini-Goddess (48-episode TV, 8 minutes each) 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.