Review of Mildred Pierce 

 Joan Crawford stars as Mommie Dumbest 

 There can be nothing purer than a mother's love for her child. Right? 
Leave it to noir novelist James M. Cain to turn that inside out and upside
down. Based on Cain's novel, Mildred Pierce is a
twisting, turning, rollercoaster ride of tawdry delight. Michael Curtiz
directs with unerring precision, nailing down the noir style. And as
Mildred, star Joan Crawford serves up a juicy performance in this
psychologically complex tale. She's tough guy and femme fatale all at
once, as a mother who bears a dotty love for her daughter. 

 The story charts Mildred's rise and fall as she achieves the American
dream, then loses it all. Directing from Ranald MacDougall's
tightly-compressed script, Curtiz keeps the pace fast as he intercuts
between two storylines, one a set of flashbacks to the past and the other
consisting of the present. The film opens with a bang as Mildred's second
husband Monte is killed. All the clues point to Mildred. Monte wrecked her
once-thriving restaurant business. Mildred tries to kill herself and
fails. Then she tries to frame her old friend Wally by having the cops
discover him alone with Monte's dead body. Mildred's a femme fatale
alright, but the story's too smart to let the obvious suspect be the only
one. 

 Just like mum, Mildred's daughter Veda is a corrupting influence,
played with sweet-faced menace by Ann Blyth. Veda is a unique femme
fatale, a woman whose bad case of possession envy brings down another
woman--her own mother. When Mildred's first husband Bert tries to
interfere with her ambitious plans for Veda and younger daughter Kay,
Mildred sends him packing to Kay's woe and Veda's nonchalance. At first
Mildred resists Veda's manipulations and refuses to prostitute herself by
marrying wealthy lecher Wally. Instead she works her way up from waitress
to successful restauranteur. But in Cain's and Curtiz's dark vision, the
glittering tale of the American dream achieved becomes a noose around
Mildred's neck. Mildred trades her integrity and a cut of her business to
marry Monte, a wastrel from old and rapidly dwindling money to whom Vida
is irrationally attached. 

 The mystery isn't the whodunit murder, though Curtiz delights in
shuffling around potential suspects onscreen with all the dexterity of a
card shark. It's why Mildred willingly sacrifices everything--men, money
and herself--for her pathologically greedy daughter. It's clear from
Mildred's determination to give her daughters the finer things she never
had that she sees her daughters as extensions of herself. That inability
to separate herself from her daughters is an astute piece of psychology.
But the key to understanding Mildred's selflessness for her selfish
daughter is in the details. It's in Mildred's masculine, money-smart and
mommy-stupid personality, her long-lasting friendship with lesbian Ida
and her ultimate disinterest in men. Those are the things that make Curtiz
turn a portrait of family tragedy into one of family romance. 

(December 4, 2001)

 Dark City home | film
titles | directors 
| book
titles and writers 
| feature | linx 
| web authors 

 (&copy; NOIR, 2008)