From A Lover To A Friend 

 Use Controls to play movie 

 Released:
 October 30, 2001 (withdrawn) Produced by: David Kahne 
 Executive Producer: Paul McCartney Label: Capitol C2 7243 8 77671 2
 6 

 From A Lover To A Friend 
 { McCartney } (3:49) 
 From A Lover To A Friend (David Kahne Remix 1) { McCartney } (3:44) 
 From A Lover To A Friend (David Kahne Remix 2) { McCartney } (5:27) 

 Total playing time 13:02 

 FRONT 
 BACK 

 SPLINE showing Capitol stock number 

 Paul McCartney CD Single released by Capitol Records
 #77671-2 entitled " From A Lover To A
 Friend ". MINT & FACTORY SEALED with it's original sticker. The
 single was scheduled to be released on October 30th, 2001, but at the last
 minute Capitol withdrew the release and replaced it with the "Freedom" single
 which can still be found in some stores today. This single, highly sought by
 collectors, was only in stores a few days before retailers pulled all copies
 from the shelves. According to an article published in the Nov 1st,
 2002 issue of Goldmine Magazine (excerpt below), Capitol estimated only 25,000
 copies were made and only 1/2 were shipped & the rest were eventually
 destroyed!. Most stores returned those 15,000 copies to assure full credit, so
 there are very few of these around. Could be less than 1000 in circulation! The
 CD contains From A Lover To A Friend (album version) plus TWO other remixes.
 One of these remixes was dropped from the new "Freedom" single, making this the
 only place to find the "second remix". 

 On Oct. 20 2001, at the Concert For New York City, McCartney
 played "From A Lover To A Friend" announcing it as "the new single" to benefit
 victims' charities. The song, with its difficult time changes, didn't come off
 quite as well as the new song McCartney introduced that night, "Freedom."
 Sensing that song's instant popularity with the audience, McCartney immediately
 decided not only to add the "Studio Mix" version of "Freedom" to the album, but
 to release it as a single as well. While in Britain it is common to have two
 versions of a McCartney single out, each with different B-sides, such is not
 the case in America. Thus, the U.S. "From A Lover To A Friend" was pulled from
 distribution (actually deleted) the same day it was released), to be replaced
 with a commercial edition of "Freedom," which would come shortly thereafter
 (see below). 
 It is estimated that about 25,000 singles were manufactured,
 with a little over half of those actually having shipped. Capitol issued a
 return order for those that made it out, destroying its own remaining inventory
 as well as those that returned, leaving a small but unknown amount out on the
 market. With memories of the Yesterday&#133; And Today Butcher Cover coming to
 mind, an instant collectible was thus created for the few who were lucky enough
 to find the disc. 
 The single (Capitol C2 7243 8 77671 2 6) contains "From A
 Lover To A Friend" along with two remixes of the song by producer David Kahne,
 "From A Lover To A Friend (David Kahne Remix 1)" and "From A Lover To A Friend
 (David Kahne Remix 2)." At McCartney's suggestion, Kahne had produced the
 remixes in Los Angeles in July. And the two were mastered at Marcussen on Aug.
 3. The cover art features (in case you can't make it out) a photo McCartney
 took through a mist-covered window of a red flower; the back side of the
 booklet has the same shot, with McCartney having drawn a heart with his finger
 on the condensation. The four page inset opens up to reveal a full-color shot
 of the very flowers McCartney was photographing in his garden, along with
 musician credits. The disc label has a bright pink "target" ring; with a clear
 center; with the single's title in familiar McCartney fax printing. A &frac34;
 inch black product sticker is stuck on the shrink-wrap, noting the royalties
 going to New York Sept. 11 charities. 
 Excerpt taken from the November 2002 issue of Goldmine
 Magazine 

 News announcement from Nov. 2,
 2001 shortly after the Sept 11th disaster 

 PAUL McCARTNEY CHARITY SINGLE FOR NEW YORK
 FIREFIGHTERS AND POLICE OFFICERS PAUL McCARTNEY is to
 release a global charity single this month in aid of the New York firefighters
 and police officers - as part of his drive to honour the New York rescue
 workers and aid families of the victims of the September 11th attack. 
 Paul is to donate the proceeds from the sales of a new song, " From A
 Lover To Friend ", to New York's fire and police departments whose
 bravery has won the salute and applause of the world. The single will
 be released worldwide by EMI and Capitol Records on October 29th - nine days
 after Paul fronts an all-star concert at New York's Madison Square Gardens to
 benefit the rescue workers and families of the victims of the September 11th
 attacks. More than 300 firefighters are missing following the collapse
 of the World Trade Center twin towers. Paul McCartney was in New York
 at the time of the attack on the World Trade Center. From an airplane waiting
 to take off at the airport, he watched the tragedy happen. Said Paul:
 "I witnessed the last moments of the World Trade Center twin towers. Out of the
 window of the plane I could see the towers smoking and in flames and, like
 everybody, I could not believe what was happening. As the airport was then
 closed, I stayed in New York for a week after the attack and I was able to also
 witness the tremendous heroism that has come out of the city, including the
 bravery of the firefighters and police officers. "I have great
 admiration for the courage all of those guys showed. I feel a connection with
 the firemen because my father was a volunteer fireman in Liverpool during World
 War Two. We're doing this big concert in New York to stand up for democracy, to
 honour the rescue workers and to benefit the victims of the attacks, and I hope
 that the sales of this new single will help to raise more funds. 
 "America is one of the greatest democracies on Earth, containing people from
 all races and religions and this attack on September 11th was a threat to that
 freedom. This is why we all need to stand up and be counted - that's why I'll
 be standing on stage at Madison Square Gardens with a bunch of mates in a show
 of solidarity". 

 Here's a great link to much
 more information about this piece. 
 Back