SeattleOtaku: Review - Cowboy Bebop 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 A mix between space opera and hard-boiled
detective film noir, Cowboy Bebop is one of the
"show-off" series of recent years, a 26-episode TV and OVA series (not all
episodes were on Japanese TV, such as the first episode, dealing with drug
use). The movie, Cowboy Bebop: Knockin' on Heaven's Door 
(set in the middle of the series) is on my list of must-owns, as well. 

 "I think it's time to blow this scene. 
 Let's get everybody and the stuff together. 
 Okay, 3, 2, 1, let's go!" 
 -- "Tank!" theme song 

 The series follows the bounty hunter Spike, a man with a dark past that
keeps returning to haunt him, and his partner, Jet Black, owner of the
 Bebop , a starship they use to go after various criminals. 
Along the way they meet fellow bounty huntress Faye Valentine and
super-hacker "Ed". Also along for the ride, and a big help on a couple
cases, is the Welsh Corgie "data-dog", Ein. 

 Every space opera needs a villain, and this series has a great one in
Vicious, a member of a crime syndicate from Spike's past. Most episodes
have a different villain each week, however, as Vicious only appears in
five episodes, but they're a powerful set (and my favorite
mini-marathon). 

 You can't have a true hard-boiled detective film noir without a
dangerous woman, and while Faye may fit that bill in most episodes with
some Bogart/Bacall similarities now and then, no-one can come away from
the series without acknowledging the mysterious "Julia", a woman from
Spike's past in the crime syndicate. And for the detective portion, Jet
retired from the police force after losing an arm on a case (and replacing
it with a cybernetic one of course), and has quite a past of his own. 

 "Oops, sirens. You know what that means. 
 Time for me to get eccentric." 
 -- Mr. Martian, Radio Free Mars 

 The animation does merge digital effects at times, but it's not as jarring
as a lot of others. Backgrounds in space, a few planetary landscapes, and the
ever-present space gates are the extent of the digital shots; ships
themselves are still hand-drawn and merge surprisingly well. 

 Music by Kanno Yoko. Need I say more? One of my personal favorites, who
also wrote the music for Macross Plus , The Vision of
Escaflowne , Please Save My Earth , and Earth Girl
Arjuna . A nice fan site for more information about her is
 The Yoko Kanno Project .

 "Bang." 

 Cowboy Bebop 
 Distributed by Bandai Entertainment 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.