Our Kitties 

 Our Kitties! 

 Our cats are a big part of our lives. We've both had a lot 
of pets over the years, though most of Shawna's menagerie have been dogs, birds 
and various small critters. We're both dedicated animal lovers, and may get 
another dog or perhaps a bird or something at some point. For now, though, these 
four are quite the handful. 

 Kitty Bob 
is our Queen. She's 12, and starting to show signs of age, but she's still as 
loving and affectionate as ever, even if she doesn't play as much. She came into Shawna's life about 
10 years ago, when she was a half grown
begging little stray that showed up on the doorstep. Shawna made the mistake of feeding her bacon
bits, and she kept coming around, much to the dismay of Shawna's animal-phobic 
ex. Her name comes from the names that the members of the acappella
group The Bobs give themselves (Richard Bob, Joe Bob,
etc.) 

 Punkinhead (Punky) 
is the next oldest. He's about 8, and unfortunately is the most destructive of the lot.
He's a longhair, so he gets terribly matted fur, and horks up hairballs regularly. Despite
being fixed, he also still marks stuff, so we're constantly breaking out the 
steam cleaner and the gallon jugs of Nature's Miracle (the stuff is great.) He appeared one day on Shawna's doorstep as a little tiny kitten, and Shawna
figured he would make a good companion for Kitty Bob. (Although the words from the ex at
the time were...umm... rather vociferously negative.) 

 Penelope K. Whiffenpoof, G.E.* (Penny) 
is our baby, even though she's no longer the youngest. She's 6 and at the bottom 
of the dominance chain, so she mostly just lays around all day, though she can 
be bothered to stir herself when toys and/or catnip are brought out. We got her at about 7 weeks old, when she was a harmless-looking little fluffball that liked to walk into walls and snored. She was given to us by Shawna's 
boss, who said "take a kitten or lose your job". We took the kitten (though 
Shawna lost her job anyway). Penny still snores, but she's gotten very big now,
and if she wasn't such a wuss, she could probably beat up everyone else in the 
house. In addition to the snoring (probably caused by a nasal problem) she also has an extremely strange meow, which sounds like 
a squeaky cough (it's really quite cute.) Now if we can just get her to stop scratching
things... 

 Familiar (Fammy) , is
our newest baby. She's about 2. We got her from Rafe,
who was having issues with her getting along with his dog, especially as she was 
half-feral. Integrating her into
the household has been...umm...a challenge. Currently, she rules the upstairs, 
while the other three stay downstairs. Goodness only knows what will happen if 
we ever move. Despite the battles, she's been a wonderful addition to our 
family, and has tamed down considerably, and now is quite affectionate with 
humans at least. 

 * The G.E. stands for Gremlin Extraordinaire. If you had seen her as a kitten, you'd
know why..