The New House 

 We moved! Yay! No more renting. No more landlords. No more worrying about
messing the place up! Uh..welll.. 
 As of Feburary, we are now proud homeowners! 
 Welcome to Mill Creek! Well.. Technically it's unincorporated Snohomish
County. And our address says Bothell. But we're a block out of the Mill Creek
City limits. Try not to hit the neighbor's cat. Feel free to park in our
driveway. Here's the grand tour of our faboo new place!(please forgive the
horrid formatting and the lack of larger images for a few of the thumbnails) 
 click here 
for some new pix! (added 12/00) 

The greenbelt across the street 
 A view of the house from said greenbelt 

The back of the house- nothin' but dirt just yet! 
 The Front Porch 

The Entry- w/ Vaulted Ceilings 

 Mike at the top of the stairs. Wave hi Mike! 
 Need a pit stop already? No problem- Here's a
powder room in the entry. Don't forget to wash your hands! 
 But try not to look
at...ACK! 
 ...The truly ugly wallpaper in the powder room. (Has since been made to go
away. Very far away) 
 Ok, next is the living room 
 A closer look at the wonderful bookshelves and the gas fireplace (gee honey,
could you turn off the fire? Gak..) 

 The arched mantle there also has a skylight above it. Nifty, eh? 

 Now from the living room into the dining room- notice the arch motif
continues.. 

A closeup of the wainscoting in the dining room 
 A couple of pics of the kitchen 

Whoops! No fridge yet. We did get a groovy one, though. 
 Here's a neat feature: the desk in the family room 

the rest of the family room 

soon to be filled with laughter, cat hair and commercial jingles coming from the
tv. 
 Ok, next stop, 2nd floor...Up the stairs! 

At the top of the stairs is the Master bedroom 

 and the Master bath 

with a glass-enclosed shower 
 ...and my splendiferous new soaking tub! 

If you'll excuse me, I think I need a bath now! Bye!! 
 Guest room and offices are standard bedrooms- didn't get much pics of those
or the garages. That's your two bit tour- you wanna see more- come visit! 

 Look for post-move-in pics to arrive soon!