US DV Greencard Lottery, do it yourself, don't waste your money! 

US Green Card Lottery, Do it yourself instructions 

It is the sole purpose of this page to convince you that you can submit
an entry to the DV greencard lottery yourself , without paying anyone
but your postal service.

 The mail-in period for the green card lottery (DV 2004) is OVER . 
Instructions for the next lottery (DV2005) will be made available 
at the 
 the state department website ,
probably in August 2003.

 DV FAQs 
If after you have read the 
 instructions 
you still have questions, these might be helpful ( After having read
the instructions!)

 The instructions are unclear, should I ....? 

 Top reasons for disqualification 
 I've won, what now? If you
are in the USA you should read this.
 How can I find out if I won? 
 Should I use a Greencard lottery submission
services? 

 Discussion Board 

 DV Data 

 DV2003 "winner" count by country 
 DV2002 "winner" count by country 
 DV2001 "winner" count by country 
 DV2000 "winner" count by country 
 Cut-Off Numbers since 1995 
 phone numbers and email addresses .

 DV Instructions from previous years 
These are just made available here for historical purposes. 
Don't use to prepare your DV lottery entry! 
Instructions for DV2005 are not out yet.

 Official Instructions for DV 2004 
 Official Instructions for DV 2003 
 Official Instructions for DV 2002 
 Press Release for DV 2002 

 About this site 

 Access statistics 
 Who's behind it? 

Support this site by making book, music, or movie purchases you'd make anyway 
through 
this link to Amazon.com 
Buy books on immigrating to the USA directly through the linked cover images below.

Books on immigrating to the USA

Again, participating in the green card lottery is really easy and simple. 
You don't need to spend any money on books about it, but if you are serious 
about getting a greencard, you might want to explore other ways besides the 
lottery to get one, or to stay in the USA legally. Also, note that most of these
books will probably be available at public libraries throughout the USA, where you 
can check them out for free. Of course most likely your green card case will take 
much longer than the couple of weeks a library will let you check out a book.
Some of them are well worth their price.

 This book contains a lot of detailed information about immigrating to the USA 
and the related laws and procedures. What I like about this one is that, in 
addition to giving in depth information about the law, it also has 
real live advice and hints on what
things look like in practice. Definitely worth the $30.

 The authors, Canter & Siegel, are the ones who sent out 
 the 
infamous green card spam , advertising their lottery submission service 
in 1994, just so you know before you buy. I list it here, because it is a truely 
comprehensive work on immigrating to the USA. I, personally didn't quite like 
the style as much as in "How to get a green card". It's a bit drier, 
not as relaxed. But it has more content (like student visas, and a chapter
on the green card lottery).

 Q&A style book, much like this site. Good read, but as always
with Q&A not every individual case can be covered. The author maintains an 
 update web page which is meant
to be used in conjunction with the book, but it will give you an idea about 
his style.

 Haven't read it but you can read excerpts at the 
 author's website 
If for whatever reason you don't want to order through this link, make sure that 
you get the 2nd edition (from March 1999). You can read reader's oppinions on 
the 1st edition here (don't buy the 1st edition, click on the image on the left for the 2nd edition)

 The layman's guide to Understanding Immigration Law 
 This is a small pocket book, and compared to the previous books its more 
of a reference book, defining the various immigration procedures. The subtitle is
 "Everything you need to know before you call a lawyer" . And
I guess that's pretty accurate. It will help you understand what your lawyer is
talking about, if you have a lawyer, but if you want to do it by yourself I'd 
spend $3 more to get "How to get a greencard". 

 I only looked at the 3rd edition, but I assume this one will be similar.
Subtitled An easy to read guide to the US immigration process it's 
emphasis is on just that, making it a short and easy read. Consequently you get 
the whole story on just over 70 pages (not counting the sample forms etc). 

Common Questions about Greencard Lottery Submission Services
 or 
 Why you don't need to spend $60 for somebody else to put a letter in the 
mailbox for you 

Disclaimer: I have absolutely no expertise in immigration matters, 
but I have successfully participated in DV95, and from that experience I 
do know that nobody needs an immigration lawyer to participate 
in the greencard lottery.

 But the other sites say, that just the slightest error will disqualify
my entry. Wouldn't it be worth it to spend some money for professional
help? 

There are no professional greencard-lottery-entry-form-submitters! These
people are looking for easy money. You just need to write information about
yourself on a piece of paper and mail it to a special address. Follow the
instructions from the state department website. If, for whatever reasons 
(most likely because english is not your native language) you have difficulties 
understanding the requirements, or have doubts about what to do, try to find 
someone to help you. Ask a friend or someone you know. Or use one of the online
help forums. Incidentally, one is right here 

 But they say that last year millions of entries
were rejected, because something was wrong with them! 

That's probably true. Did they also say what was wrong with them? I'd guess
that a big chunk of those millions of entries were rejected because they
did not arrive at the right time. 
 It is true, you have to follow the guidlines closely. But if you are
able to legibly write your name, date and place of birth, and your address,
and then manage to attach a photograph of yourself without using staples,
and then send it by mail so it will arrive in the USA in October,
you can't do any better. And there seem to be plenty of people who insist
on sending in their entry without reading the instructions 
( example ). So read the instructions!
 If you can't write, find somebody to help you, but be aware
that you need the equivalent of a highschool education to qualify for an
immigration visa.

 But doesn't it help to mail the entry from within the USA? 

Mailing it from the USA doesn't improve your odds of being selected at
all. The odds only depend on the region your native country is in. There
might be other reasons for letting somebody else mail the entry for you,
though. For instance you don't trust your national postal service to be
able to deliver a letter to the USA within a month, or, for whatever reason,
you can't or don't want to receive a letter from the US state department
in a year where you live now. If you do end up using one of those services
be sure to ask what they will do, if they find that something is
wrong with the information you submitted. I saw a couple of sites which
claimed that they will asure that only correct entries will be submitted.
They didn't mention what they will do with an entry where they find
something to be wrong, though. I doubt that they will call you overseas
to let you know that there is a problem. 

 So, if all these other sites are just ripping people off, why doesn't
anyone do anything against it? 

These people offer a service, and charge for it. There is nothing wrong
with that. In fact a lot of the "green card" sites are afiliated with immigration
law firms, most of them charge between $30 and $60 to submit your entry.
I think that's a perfectly reasonable amount for an attorney to charge,
for sending a letter for you. The question is, do you need to hire an attorney
to send your mail? 

 Can I ask you a question? 

Sure, the best way to do that is on our DV message board .
I can't promise that I will have an answer, but maybe somebody else will.
And keep in mind that I basically don't have a clue about immigration matters. 
 Note though that there are greencard lottery FAQs out there already,
your question is most likely already answered there. I don't intend to
replicate those here. My favorite one is Siskind's green card lottery FAQ 
 For the more exotic questions I recommend the usenet group misc.immigration.usa 
(If you don't have access to a news server the previous link won't work,
use dejanews 
instead)

 I saw you do webdesign , why is this
page so butt-ugly-plain? 

I figured that a lot of people interested in the green card lottery, do
not have access to the newest, fastest computer hardware. So I made the page 
fully lynx-compatible and graphics independent