Zoso Net's Led Zeppelin Page 

 Zoso's Led Zeppelin Page 

 This page is currently under construction. 

 F. Susan Fast would like to extend a big thank you to all visitors to
www.zoso.net that responded to her survey. Her book is due out sometime in
1999. 

 For Badgeholders
Only -Click here to join the Led Zeppelin internet email list. 

 Zepfest 98 Photo
Collection -Zepfest 98 was held in CLeveland, Ohio on July 2 and
3. Here is an ever growing photo collection of the event. 

 Led
Zeppelin Gallery - Devoted to Led Zeppelin, this page contains a
gallery of some cool, and sometimes rare, memorabelia. Check it out,
contributions are welcome! 

 Buckeye's Led
Zeppelin page is your one-stop site for Zeppelin on the internet.
Any Led Zeppelin page that means anything is on this page, including Led
Zeppelin licence plates, guitar tab, lyrics, etc. One can literally spend
hours on this page that Bruce "the buckeye" Deerhake has put a lot of
effort into. Also be sure to check out Hugh Jones WWW version of his
fanzine Promimity . Proximity
is one of the best Led Zeppelin fanzines floating around in North America.
If the writing isn't enough, the layout is incredibly professional looking
and this quarterly fanzine always is full of interesting reading material.
This page is also maintained by Bruce Deerhake. 

 Merit
Adventures 
is the largest source of Led Zeppelin memorabelia in the world. Owned and
operated by Rick Barrett, you can purchase anything from Gold Records,
T-Shirts, and posters to legit imported CD's, and other hard to find items
related to the world of Led Zeppelin. 

 This is a combination of
"George of the Jungle" and "Whole Lotta Love" that was sent to me
by Duncan Watson, it should only be
listened to by those who have a sense of humor and listen to things such
as Dread Zeppelin. I forget what
the source of this file is, but when I find out I will let you know. :)

 Page/Plant, Madison
Square Garden 7/98 This excellent review from our long time friend
Rainn includes an extensive report of the concert as well as several
beautiful photos. 

Proud member of The
Ring Of Zeppelin .

 Home 
 News 
 Led Zeppelin 
 Info 
 Links 
 Robin Trower