Will Mengarini's home page 

 Will Mengarini's home page 

in association with Amazon.com

I'm a software engineer in Seattle WA USA. 
The focus of my professional interest is quality in software. 
All software on this page is free.

 now.h 
 wm-root.h 
 now.cpp 
This is a self-testing C++ package that implements a more powerful version
of the assert() macro. It was designed for Borland C++ v3.1,
which doesn't have exceptions, so it includes a workaround for
that lack; the workaround could be a nuisance when using more
modern compilers, but this package could be modified for use with them.

 filemenu.el 
An

Emacs package that lets you take a text file containing the names
of other files that you visit frequently and use it as a menu.
File names may contain spaces, may be arranged in multiple columns
on a line, and may have their directories elided.
Richard Stallman has decided to incorporate this package into GNU Emacs.

 vi-dot.el 
This Emacs package defines a command that repeats the preceding command,
whatever that was. The command is called `vi-dot' because the vi editor
does that when "." is pressed in its command mode. This lets you
easily repeat commands that have multi-key bindings, such as
 C-x e for call-last-kbd-macro .
Richard Stallman has decided to incorporate this package into GNU Emacs.

 counter.el 
An Emacs package that inserts series of numbers or other objects into
the buffer. You can insert whole series with a single command, or
one item per command, allowing you to use keyboard macros to control
the formatting and positioning of series elements (as when you're
inserting columns of numbers). There is also a facility to allow you
to renumber a possibly-noncontiguous column, such as occurs with
numbered paragraphs.

 diminish.el 
An Emacs package that diminishes the amount of space taken on
the mode line by the names of minor modes. People do seem to have a
problem with this; some minor mode developers have gone to the trouble
of defining customizable variables for mode line displays. But most
minor modes don't have such customization, and this package makes
mode-specific code in each minor-mode package unnecessary.
Richard Stallman has decided to incorporate this package into GNU Emacs.

 jiggle.el 
An Emacs minor mode that jiggles the cursor in situations where it can be
hard to find. On windowing systems, the Emacs cursor is a steady box
rather than the blinking underscore common on terminal systems; with
small fonts, this can be hard to find when you're switching to a new
buffer. I found I was constantly just flicking the cursor to the
beginning or end of the line just to find it when I switched buffers.
This jiggles it automatically when switching buffers, without moving
point or requiring a command. It also optionally jiggles it during
searches and query-replaces, when manual cursor flicking would
terminate the search or replace. Implementing this required
implementing a buffer-switch-hook; no such hook is built in to GNU
Emacs 19.34, so just having the hook might be a sufficient reason to
load the package, even if you don't need cursor jiggling.
I have been told that this package also works with XEmacs 20.3.

 fuzz.el 
 fastfuzz.el 
Emacs packages containing functions to compensate for floating-point
roundoff problems. For example, fuzzyzerop is a replacement
for zerop that returns t if its argument is nearly
zero, rather than requiring it to be exact. Fastfuzz.el defines
equality without using division, so it's faster, but inaccurate at
extreme magnitudes; it would be useful for something like checking
whether probabilities sum to 1.0.

 orthodox.el 
An Emacs package that preserves the orthodox Emacs keymap,
so that after the user customizes its mappings with functions like
 global-set-key , the orthodox mappings can still be accessed and
executed by prefixing them with M-o 
(aka <Alt-o> ).

 abbrev-sort.el 
An Emacs package that causes abbrevs to be written sorted, for both
 M-x edit-abbrevs and M-x write-abbrev-file .
This makes them easier to find when editing abbrevs (they're sorted on
expansion), and allows meaningful comparison with previous versions
of abbrev files that are under version control.

 typematic.el 
An Emacs package that causes multiple taps on C-u to produce
successive arguments of 1, 2, 3, etc., instead of 4, 16, 64, etc.
(On a modern keyboard with fast typematic, large arguments can
still be easily generated, and this gives them more precision.)
It remains possible to use (interactive "P") 
to distinguish whether arguments were implicitly or explicitly generated.

 orwell.el 
An Emacs package that exchanges the C-h and DEL 
keys (aka <Ctrl-h> and <Backspace> )
without affecting prefix mappings; in other words, C-h 
becomes delete-backward-char and DEL becomes
 help-command , but mappings like C-M-h and
 C-x DEL are unaffected.

 dotemacs.el 
The file I use to initialize my Emacs sessions, loaded from .emacs
under Unix or _emacs under Windows. This file contains more than
3,000 lines of Lisp code, with many utility functions not usually
found in .emacs files. Examples:

a set of 8 iteration macros for counting loops, allowing code like

 (upto i 0 8
 (do-something-with i))

along with aliases intended for use in the eval-expression minibuffer
that allow a minibuffer entry like
 (u i 0 8 (f "&#37;02d" i)) 
to insert 01 to 08 into the text buffer;

a set of mapping macros that have the lambda built in;

an apply* that works like apply but can handle
special forms as well as functions, so something like

 (if (apply* 'and (mapcar 'fboundp list-of-symbols)) ...)

works;

a save-syntax analogous to save-excursion , for
temporarily modifying syntax tables;

Perl's split and join ;

a tabs function that allows (tabs 7 10 12) 
to set tab stops
at 7, 10, 12, 14, 16, etc (i.e. the final interval is repeated);

a function called show that's equivalent to Fortran
 NAMELIST (ah, nostalgia) or PL/I PUT DATA ;

a function for dittoing chars from the preceding line;

a wrapper for fill-paragraph that allows a sequence of
 M-q commands to each refill the paragraph with a temporary
 fill-column one less than that used by the previous command;

a replacement string-rectangle that respects
 overwrite-mode ; an analogous expression-rectangle 
that inserts the value of an expression, instead of a literal string,
along with a default expression history for that command including
expressions that insert columns of contiguous or noncontiguous
numbers, or sum columns;

code to dial the phone number at point
by sending strings to a modem; a hack that lets sort-columns 
work on Windows, where it normally fails because it can't find the
Unix system sort; a hack that causes C-h f (or
 <Backspace><f> if you're using my orwell.el) to
display the function description in a window that's been shrunk as
much as possible; a hack that removes the "~" from the ends
of backup files' names and instead puts them in subdirectories
subordinate to the original files' directories; and quite a bit more.
Remember that this is a dotemacs, not a polished package; it's mostly
the equivalent of beta code, or even alpha. You need to be an Emacs
Lisp hacker to benefit from it.

 selftest.pl 
Most of my code is self-testing; i.e., it has built-in automated
regression testing. I use this package to implement self-testing
code in Perl; it works for Perl 4.036, 5.001, and 5.004.

 ask.pl 
A Perl (version 4 or 5) package for line-oriented user interaction.
For example, to ask a yes/no question or prompt for a number, you could
use the functions defined here.

 ttyForm.pl 
A Perl (version 4 or 5) package implementing filling out a form
consisting entirely of numeric fields on a line-oriented terminal.
Non-numeric answers are used to move around among the fields, giving
the effect of the random access that's available on smarter terminals.
It would be fairly easy to extend the package to accept non-numeric
field entries, using things like control characters for moving around.

 fp.pl 
A Perl (version 5.004) package for computing function points, which are
software metrics intended to give a scalar measure of quantity of
functionality in software. For an introduction to software metrics
including function points, see the book Applied Software
Measurement by Capers Jones.

 URLs 
An

AWK filter
that inputs text containing URLs and outputs an HTML page
that can be used for accessing those URLs. Useful when reading
Usenet under a Unix shell.

 bin 
A ksh script that works around the poor command-line path completion
of pdksh; a command like bin scri* , executed in $HOME ,
could be used to edit bin/scriptWithReallyLongName .

 ng 

A bash or ksh shell function that shows how to cope with a
sometimes-annoying feature of the Unix system sort: when the comparison
function considers two lines to be equal, the order in which it outputs
them is random. This function, ng() , displays newsgroup names
that match a regexp; but it searches two files for them,
 /usr/lib/news/newsgroups , which is sometimes out of date but
contains one-line descriptions, and /usr/lib/news/active , which
is always up to date but contains no descriptions. I wanted to print the
 **/active line only if **/newsgroups had no
corresponding line. I eventually found a painful one-liner that does it.

 fnortpth.icn 
A program in Icon ,
a string-processing derivative of Snobol that is syntactically
completely different but retains the succeed/fail concept of
expression evaluation. This program translates output from some old
file-listing utilities into a different format; the application is not
useful for modern OSs, but the program shows a structured approach to
Icon string scanning.

 dabbrev.m 
A macro for BRIEF 2.10 that simulates the Emacs function
 dabbrev-expand .

 dabbrev-vi.txt 
A macro for classic vi that simulates the Emacs function
 dabbrev-expand .

 attribute 
An

AWK filter
that inputs e-mail (perhaps quoted with
leading > ),
searches for the From: line,
and prepends an attribution like
 On <date> <name> wrote: .
This could be useful to people using the Elm mail user agent.

 Loop control in Perl 
a style issue

 either.cpp 
This is what happens when an

Icon programmer learns C++.
Very sad, really; very sad.
I was younger then. Much younger. Ah, youth.

 Dweeb Loneliness 
Thoughts of a dry brain in a dry season.