Conservation Forestry 

 Conservation
Forestry 

 Conservationforestry.org is a web
site for the private forest owner who wishes to conserve and improve
the conservation values of the land he or she owns. Private
non-industrial forests in the United States are of enormous
ecological and economic importance, but they are threatened by
development and subdivision. Fragmentation of forests reduces their
utility both as ecological habitat and as working economic units.
This web site is a tool kit for the private forest owner who wishes
to maintain and improve the value &endash; economic, aesthetic, and
ecologic &endash; of his or her forest land. 

 This site is designed to provide
information on a spectrum of conservation options, but concentrates
specifically on one specific legal instrument: the conservation
easement. Conservation easements are unique because they allow
enormous flexibility for the landholder, often confer significant
financial benefit, and extend beyond the life of the individual
making the easement. Establishing a conservation easement is
conceptually straightforward, but the various documents that are used
to create the easement can be complex, cumbersome, and expensive.
This web site is designed to provide model examples that can be
modified to suit the needs of any individual forest owner. Perhaps
more importantly, this site is designed to help the private forest
owner choose among the many options for conservation and continued
use of his or her forest land. 

 Although this site will provide a
set of documents that can be used to achieve a specific legal;
purpose, the are not a substitute for sound professional advice. We
recommend that each landowner use the professional services of a real
estate attorney, appraiser, and consulting forester in the process of
establishing a conservation easement. This web site can help
streamline the process, but should not be used as the sole basis of
creating and legally binding document. 

 Why should
 private forest owners care about conservation? 

 How can
 private forest owners conserve their land? 

 Maintaining
 working forests while pursuing conservation 

 Forest
 health and protection issues 

 Conservation
 Easements &endash; the single most powerful legal
 tool 

 Links to
 major Forest Conservation
 Sites 

 Site
 Authors 

 Site
 Objectives 

 How to use
 the Site 

 Contact
 Information