Build this simple FET electrometer 

 Up to Sci. Hobbyist 

 Up to Electrostatics 

 RIDICULOUSLY SENSITIVE CHARGE DETECTOR 
 (C)1987 William J. Beaty 

(The earth-ground is not required.) 
(The 1-Meg resistor is not required.) 

This simple circuit can detect the invisible fields of voltage which
surround all electrified objects. It acts as an electronic
"electroscope." 

Regular foil-leaf electroscopes deal with electrostatic potentials in the
range of many hundreds or thousands of volts. This device can detect one
volt. Its sensitivity is ridiculously high. Since " static electricity " in
our environment is actually a matter of high voltage, this device can
sense those high-voltage objects at a great distance. On a low-humidity
day and with a 1/2 meter antenna wire, its little light will respond
strongly when someone combs their hair at a distance of five meters or
more. If a metal object is lifted up on a non-conductive support and
touched to the sensor wire, the sensor can detect whether that object
supports an electrostatic potential of as little as one volt! 

 Note: I use the term "electrification" rather than "charging", in
order to avoid confusion between charge (the stuff on the negative
electrons and positive protons) and net-charge (the imbalance between
positive and negative particles that appears on everyday objects.) 
Realworld objects become "electrified" when their pre-existing + and -
charges are not equal. 

 PARTS LIST: 

 1 - Standard 9-volt battery
 1 - MPF-102 N-channel Field Effect Transistor (FET) Radio Shack #276-2062
 1 - Red Light Emitting Diode (LED) Radio Shack #276-041 

 MISC:
 Battery connector (#270-325)
 Alligator Clip Leads (#278-1156)
 solder, if desired
 1-meg resistor (optional)
 plastic, fur, foil, comb, tape dispenser, plastic cup

(Tiny version bult atop a 9v battery connector) 

 Shortcuts: 

 1.CONSTRUCTION HINTS 
 2. SENSE E-FIELDS 
 3. SENSE POSITIVE ELECTRIFICATION 
 4. CHARGE IS CONSERVED 
 5. PEELING CAUSES ELECTRIFICATION 
 6. JUMPING ELECTRONS, "VOICE CONTROL" 
 7. VARIABLE GAIN 
 8. FIELD DISTORTIONS 
 9. VANDEGRAAFF SENSING 
 10. HOMEMADE CAPACITORS 
 11. DIPOLE ANTENNA 
 12. THE SKY VOLTAGE 
 13. UNTESTED SUGGESTIONS 
 14. HOW IT WORKS 
 15. FET-PANEL MUSEUM EXHIBIT 
 16. OTHER LINKS 

 CONSTRUCTION HINTS 

 Warning: don't connect the battery until you are SURE you've hooked
everything up exactly right. It's possible to burn out the FET or the LED
if they are connected incorrectly. Don't let the transistor's wires bump
together even briefly, or it will flash the LED and burn it out.

NOTE: Don't ever connect any LED directly to a 9-volt battery, it will
burn out the LED. A bare LED needs a 1000-ohm resistor wired in series to
limit the maximum current from the 9-volt battery. 

Warning: Avoid touching the Gate wire of the FET. Small sparks jumping
from your finger to the Gate wire can damage the transistor internally.

The 1-meg resistor helps protect the FET from being harmed by
accidental sparks to its Gate lead. The circuit will work fine
without this resistor. Just don't intentionally "zap" the Gate
wire. 

To test the circuit, charge up a pen or a comb on your hair, then wave it
close to the little "antenna" wire. The LED should go dark. When you
remove the electrified pen or comb, the LED should light up again.

IF IT DOESN'T WORK, the humidity might be too high. Or, your LED might be
wired backwards, or the transistor is connected wrong, or maybe your
transistor is burned out. Make sure that the transistor is connected
similar to the little drawing above. ALso, if the polarity
of the LED is reversed, the LED will not light up. Try changing the
connections to your LED to reverse their order, then connect the battery
and test the circuit again. If you suspect that humidity is very high,
test this by rubbing a balloon or a plastic object upon your arm. If the
balloon does not attract your arm hairs, humidity is too high. 

 SENSE E-FIELDS 

Connect the circuit to its battery, and the LED will turn on. Comb your
hair, then hold the comb near the Field Effect Transistor (FET) gate wire. 
The LED will go dark. This indicates that the comb has an excess of
negative charge, and the FET responds to the electrostatic field
surrounding the comb. It acts as a switch and turns off. Remove the comb
and the LED brightens again. Wiggle the comb, and find at how great a
distance the circuit still detects it. It's amazing how far an e-field
extends around an electrified object. (But then, e-fields should extend to
infinity, no?) On a very low-humidity winter day the circuit will respond
at a much greater distance. This happens because, when humidity is low,
the combing of your hair then generates a much stronger separation of
charge upon the comb's surface. Note that a metal comb will not work,
since any separated charge immediately weakens by spreading to your hand
and across your whole body. A plastic or hard rubber comb works well
because rubber is an insulator and the imbalanced charge can't leak off
the comb. Try simply TOUCHING a plastic pen briefly to hair. The FET
will detect even this tiny negative net-charge on the pen. The sensor
will usually not indicate the equal positive that appears on your hair,
since hair is made conductive by humidity, and the positive net-charge
leaks to your head. The polarity of the surface charge on the comb or
plastic pen is negative. The rule for this FET is, negative charge turns
the switch (and the LED) off. 

 SENSE POSITIVE ELECTRIFICATION 

This FET sensor is not an ideal educational device because it responds
differently to positive than to negative Potential Difference at it's
"Gate" wire. Create some positive net-charge by affixing a small tuft of
hair or wool to the end of a plastic object (pen or ruler), then rub the
hair upon another plastic object. (If we electrify some hair, we can avoid
leakage losses by not touching it with fingers or other grounded object.) 
Bring the positively-electrified hair near the FET. Note that the LED
becomes brighter, but when the hair is removed, the LED goes dark and
stays that way. Bring the hair close by again, and the LED lights up
again. Rules for this FET: 

 negative objects turn the LED off, it lights again when removed.
 positive objects make the LED bright, then dark when removed.

Turn the LED back on by simultaneously touching fingers to the "Gate" wire
and to some other part of the circuit. Or, touch a plastic pen to some
hair, then wave it near the sensor, and the LED will light up. Remember
this trick when doing other demonstrations. (Note: professional
electrometers do not suffer from this "reset" effect, but professional
electrometers cost several hundred dollars at the very least!) 

 CHARGE IS CONSERVED 

Mount a tuft of hair on a plastic rod, verify that it is completely
discharged and does not affect the FET. Take a second plastic rod (or
plastic pen!) and verify that it is also completely neutral. (Fondle the
whole pen with damp hands if not.) Now hold the plastic handle and touch
the hair to the tip of the pen, separate them, then hold them up to the
sensor one at a time. You'll discover that the end of the plastic rod is
now negative and turns the LED momentarily off. The hair is positive and
turns the LED on, then off. Contact between the hair and the plastic
caused some assymetrical sharing of the equal positive and negative
"electricity" within them. When they separated, some negative charges
stayed with the plastic, leaving it with more negatives than positive (net
negative charge.) At the same time, the hair was left with fewer
negatives than positives, for a net positive charge. Atoms were torn
apart, "ionized", and pairs of electrons and protons were yanked apart and
separated to vast distances. Note: "static electricity" is not caused by
friction, it is caused by contact between dissimilar materials, followed
by separation. We could say that it's caused by "peeling". 

 PEELING CAUSES ELECTRIFICATION 

The "peeling" effect can be demonstrated with a roll of plastic adhesive
tape. Peel a few inches of tape off the roll and hold it near the
circuit. The LED will show that the tape is strongly electrified. Now
use the sensor to test the tape dispenser. You will discover that the
roll of tape has an opposite polarity compared to the strip of tape. This
illustrates that "static" electrification does not require friction, it
only requires intimate large-area contact between dissimilar materials. 
Matter is made of positive and negative charge, and the peeling of tape
can separate the charges that were already there in the matter. Because
the plastic backing of the tape is a different material than the adhesive,
when they touch together there is assymetric bonding and electron-sharing. 
This leads to separation of opposite charge when we peel tape from its
roll. Also, try taking two strips of tape, stick them back to front (fold
little tabs so you can separate them again,) pat them down with moist
hands to discharge them, then peel them apart. Hold each near the sensor. 
One strip indicates strongly positive, the other is equally negative. The
strips will attract each other. Try other demonstrations from Sticky
Electrostatics , using the Charge Detector to show polarity of various
parts of the tape.

 JUMPING ELECTRONS, "VOICE CONTROL" 

If you build a tiny compact version of the FET circuit (solder it to a
torn-open battery connector), you can try the following trick. Hold the
circuit in your hand, make sure the LED is lit, stand on a rug, then jump
up and down. The LED will flash on and off. Walk around, and the same
thing happens. As your shoe soles make contact with the rug and then peel
away from it, your entire body becomes electrified. This makes the sensor
respond. If you place your shoes back onto the electrified footprints,
you cancel out the net charge and the sensor indicates another polarity
change. Scuff your shoes, stomp up and down, jump around, and the sensor
will flash wildly. Demonstrate to onlookers that the sensor does not
respond when you shake it up and down, but it does respond when you jump. 
On a dry day, you can control the sensor with the tiniest motion: scuff
one shoe, then lift the toe to turn the sensor on and off. Say "on",
"off" while moving your toe, and you have a "voice control" magic trick. 
Let some poor fool examine the sensor, yell at it, etc. It will only
respond to your voice! (grin!) 

 VARIABLE GAIN 

Obtain a small capacitor with a value below 100 picofarads. Connect it
between the FET gate lead and one of the other leads. This reduces the
sensitivity of the device. In situations where the sensor is TOO
sensitive, this can make a big difference. Capacitors larger than 100pF
can be used, they REALLY wipe out the sensitivity in inverse proportion
to the capacitance value. 

Obtain a clip-lead, and connect it to the Gate lead of the FET. Let it
hang loose without touching anything. You'll find that this has vastly
increased the sensitivity of your FET circuit. On a dry day it will
respond to hair-combing from 20ft away. If a TV screen is present, the
sensor will act weird (especially when people walk between the screen and
the sensor.) The clip lead acts as an antenna, and the longer it is, the
more sensitive the FET circuit becomes.

 FIELD DISTORTIONS 

Electrify a plastic object, place it on an insulating support, place the
FET sensor near it, then make sure the LED is turned on. If you now
wave your hand near the object or the sensor, the LED will respond. Your
hand causes the e-field around the object to distort and change. Even
though your hand is not electrified, the FET responds. You've created
a sort of "DC Radar" system which sends out a signal and then responds
when nearby objects "reflect" it. Some types of industrial sensors
("proximity" sensors) use this effect. Some burglar alarms do as well.

 VANDEGRAAFF SENSING 

See at what distance your FET electrometer can sense the e-field from 
an operating tabletop VandeGraaff electrostatic generator. Suddenly
discharge the generator by using a grounded sphere electrode, and watch
the distant FET respond. You are actually sending out radio waves with
nearly zero frequency when you do this. The FET does not actually 
respond instantly, there is a speed-of-light delay (about one nanosecond
per foot of distance.) It takes a short while for the wave of vanishing
e-field to reach the sensor. Radio waves are simply propagating changes
in electric fields, so your VDG machine and FET sensor constitute a simple
radio transmitter and receiver.

 HOMEMADE CAPACITORS 

The FET circuit is so sensitive that it will detect the energy stored on a
tiny homemade capacitor. Build a simple capacitor out of aluminum foil,
styrofoam (from a coffee cup), and wires. Store energy in the capacitor
by briefly connecting it to a 9V battery. Now touch one capacitor wire to
the negative battery terminal of the FET circuit, and touch the other
capacitor wire to the Gate terminal (avoid touching the wires with
fingers, this will discharge the capacitor.) The LED will indicate the
stored energy. Use the 9V battery to reverse the polarity of the
capacitor, then test it again with the FET and note that the polarity is
indeed backwards. Note: don't use paper for your capacitor dielectric,
paper becomes slightly conductive when humidity gets high, and your stored
energy will mysteriously vanish because the paper offers a leakage path so
the separated charges can recombine. Another note: this experiment
demonstrates that "static electricity" and battery circuits are the same. 
The FET detects the potential difference created by the 9V battery, just
as it detects the much larger potentials in the space around electrified
objects. It is not too far wrong to say that "static electricity" is
simply "voltage." Everyday circuits are driven by the "static
electricity" produced by their low voltage power supplies. 

 DIPOLE ANTENNA 

After you use this FET device for awhile, you'll get the idea that it has
just a single antenna terminal. However, like all voltmeters, it actually
has two. The rest of the circuit acts as the other terminal. To
demonstrate this, build a miniature version of the detector circuit onto
the top of a 9V battery. If you hold the battery as usual, the Gate does
act as the antenna, and negative objects make the LED go dark. Now
carefully grasp the Gate wire between fingers and lift the whole device
into the air. Avoid touching the battery. If you now hold a negatively
electrified object near the battery, the LED will get brighter instead of
dimmer. Polarity of operation has been reversed. If you lay the whole
unit down upon an insulating surface and approach it with electrified
objects, you'll find that the FET gate wire responds with one polarity,
while the battery and the rest of the circuit responds with the other. Try
connecting the gate wire to earth ground, then suspend the rest of circuit
with an insulating handle. If you hold up objects having various
polarities, you'll find that polarity of operation is opposite that of the
gate wire. 

 'SCUSE ME, WHILE I SENSE THE SKY 
All over the earth, thunderstorms are transporting negative charge
downwards and positive charge upwards. As a result, the earth is
electrified negatively everywhere, while the sky is positive. (Actually,
it's the conductive ionosphere which is positive.) The FET sensor can
detect this. Take it outdoors, away from trees or buildings. Hold it
high in the air, then lower it to the ground while watching the LED. 
(Maybe get a tall adult to do this.) The LED will get darker when the
device is lowered, and get brighter when it is raised up. The earth is
negative! Maybe hang a cliplead antenna on the sensor wire to improve
sensitivity. (This polarity reverses when there is a thunderstorm directly
overhead, but I wouldn't suggest standing out in the open when there is a
chance that lightning may strike!)

 UNTESTED SUGGESTIONS 

Here are a couple of things to try out. I haven't tested them, I don't
know how well they work. You be first!

Electrify a large plastic object while no one sees, then have a group of
people with FET charge detectors try to find which object in the room has 
the imbalanced charge.

Have everyone build FET electrometers. Line them all up in a row,
electrify a plastic object, then sweep the object back and forth. You'll
be able to "see" the electrostatic field that surrounds the object. Hold
your hand near the row of detectors while standing on a rug. Jump up and
down and see what happens.

Use a piece of cloth to create a small electrified spot on a plastic book
cover. Use the FET device to find the spot. Draw an electrified shape
using the cloth as a paintbrush, then see if you can use the sensor to
figure out what the shape is. 

Build many FETs and LEDs in a row on a wooden stick. Connect them all to
one battery. Place a negatively electrified object on a table in a dimly
lit room, then sweep the FET-stick rapidly past the object. Go back and
forth really fast, and you should see a row of red lines caused by the
moving LEDs. In the middle of the red lines will be a black splotch
caused by the electrostatic field surrounding the negative object! Repeat
this test, but this time use a bit of cloth to write the letter "A" on a
plastic book cover in invisible, negative net-charge. Can you see the "A" 
when you sweep the stick back and forth? Mount your row of LEDs on some
sort of motorized propeller, and you'll have an automated "charge detector
disk." 

 HOW IT WORKS 

A complete description of this device requires delving into the physics of
solid state electronics. Instead, here is a quick description based on
the fluid analogy for electric charge. 

Metals act as conductors NOT because charge can pass through them.
Instead, they are conductors because
they contain charge which can move. Think of a metal wire as being like a
hose that's aways full of water. And remember, vacuum is an
insulator, even though it presents no barrier to charges.

The "sea of charge" in a metal is not compressible, and to remove even a
tiny bit of it would take a huge amount of energy. In metals, each atom
contributes one electron to an "electron sea", where the electrons don't
stick to single atoms but instead orbit all throughout the material. If we
could remove all the movable electrons from a metal, that metal would
become an insulator. Unfortunately, removal of electrons from even the
thinnest metal wire requires gazillions of Newtons of electrostatic force,
and develops gazillions of volts of potential difference. ("Gazillions"
means some huge number with way too many zeros!). Metals are conductive,
and we can't easily change that. 

This is where silicon comes in. While a metal's electron-stuff within
acts like a dense fluid, the mobile charges in silicon act like a
compressible gas. In silicon, only very few atoms contribute an electron
to the "sea." In fact, the silicon doesn't really contribute electrons at
all, and ultra-pure silicon is an insulator. Instead, only the impurities
in the silicon contribute movable electrons. If we only put a gazillionth
of a percent of impurities into the silicon mix, then the resulting
material's movable electron-stuff becomes much more compressible than the
"electron sea" within a metal. This reduces the voltage and force (by a
gazillion times!) that is required to convert the material from a
conductor to an insulator. The electron-sea of a metal is not very
compressible. The electron-gas within silicon is very
compressible. 

So what? Well, if we can push the "electron sea" out of a conductor, we
can change it into an insulator. It would be like turning off a switch,
but almost no work is required to do it. Just apply an electrical
"push" in the form of electrostatic repulsion, and large currents
can be switched on and off. 

The Field Effect Transistor is basically a tiny wafer of silicon with its
edges connected to the Source and Drain leads, and the Gate lead connected
to a metal plate layed upon the wafer. When the gate lead is electrified
negative, it repels the electron-gas out of the silicon and converts it
into an insulator. It acts like a switch that is turned off by pure
voltage. If we picture the silicon as being like a rubber hose full of
water, then the gate applies a sideways force which pinches the hose
closed. Placing a negative net charge on the gate wire causes the
"switch" to turn off and the LED to go dark. Merely holding a negatively
electrified object near the Gate lead will apply a force to the electrons
in that little lead wire, which pushes them into the metal plate, which
repels away the electrons in the silicon, which pinches the conductive
path closed. 

Interesting part: it really takes no energy to turn off the FET. It does
take electrostatic force, but force is not energy! And so, even a very
distant object with a feeble net-charge can affect the FET and
control the much larger energy directed to the LED. 

The FET is not really turned off by negative net-charge. That is an
overly simplified description. It is really turned off by a DIFFERENCE in
the net-charge of the silicon and of the metal plate. You can either
electrify the metal plate negatively, or electrify the silicon (and the
battery, LED, and circuit wires) positively. Both will turn the FET off
by pushing (or pulling) the electrons out of the silicon. Think of the
rubber hose again: either you can squeeze it shut with fingers, or you can
lower the pressure of the whole water circuit, and the hose will be
collapsed by "suction" (by air pressure, actually.) 

What are FETs good for? Well, most modern computers are constructed
almost entirely from FETs. The megabytes of memory are formed from little
grids of millions of microscopic FETs, each with a net-charge stored on
its gate lead signifying a zero or a one. The processor chips are built
of logic switches with Gate voltage as their input, and on/off switching
as their output. Other things: super-FETs can be built which actually
contain many thousands of small FETs hooked in parallel. These VFETs or
HEXFETS are often used as the main transistors of large stereo amplifiers. 
A tiny vibrating voltage on their gate lead can route many amperes of
sound-frequency charge flow through the loudspeakers, and a handful of FET
wafers the size of your fingernail control the audio power for a whole
rock concert. 

 OTHER LINKS 

 pos/neg charge detector w/Red & Green LEDs
 Senstive e-field & b-field meter 
 Richard Hull's Op-amp Electrometer , project from the 
 SAS Bulletin 

 Storm voltage sensor measures e-field indirectly
 E-field Disturbance Monitor 
, project from IOL Magazine 
 Electrostatic Gradiometer (from WEIRD SCIENCE section!!!)
 Ion Detector 
 "static electricity" detector 
 BOOKS: static elect. 

LOOKING FOR BOOKS? Try searching
 amazon.com : 

 (try "science fair" too) 

Help Support the Science Club ,
 use the above form to buy your books. 
(We make a few $$ on any books ordered via these links.) 

Created and maintained by Bill Beaty . Mail me at: billb@eskimo.com .

If you are using Lynx, type "c" to email.