Matt Wirkkala of the North Pole, Coming Soon... 

 "Oh, fishy, fishy, fishy fish!" 

 What's new , recently posted: 
 The first of my chess and strategy pages, currently featuring Shahmot! . 

 The first of my Brother Cadfael site 

 The first of my Darklands site 

 Republishing in HTML of "The Historical Dracula" by Ray Porter ; 

 a 13 page document that I once discovered and printed but it's original URL has since disappeared. ... and now, the paper, URL, and author have been relocated!!! :-) 

 Republication, in HTML form, of "A Flyer's Ballad" . 

 I first heard this poem recited on a documentary about air combat, 
 then again later in the movie "Memphis Bell about an aircrew of a B-17 of the same name. 

 "Finished" :-) , but not yet posted: 
 The first of my site featuring "Warlords", by SSG 

 Chess and Strategy Varients page:

 incl. Laser Chess / Advanced Laser Chess / Fields of Domination (by Mike Duppong) 
 and spin-offs, such as LaserChess 98 by Chris Fuchs and Blue Carpet Software.

 The first posting of this web-site's version history 

 Quick list of things to come: 
 A plug for TECH*STAR COMPUTER SERVICE CENTER in Kent, WA 

 A section on our roles and responsibilities as free citizens as it pertains to: 

 The environment 
 Wildlife conservation 
 Hunting and fishing 
 Land use 
 Our rights and freedoms VS. moral duty 
 Gun ownership and related topics for the enthusiast ( incl. a couple of programs for download) 
 Ethics 
 The Pacific Crest Trail 
 Links to related foundations and agencies 
 Population, Economics, Resources, and the next Century 

 A section devoted to programs and games that I don't feel are getting their just recognition or support elsewhere: 

 Laser Chess / Advanced Laser Chess / Fields of Domination (by Mike Duppong) 
 Darklands (and the Darklands FAQ page by Alex von Luenen et.al.) 
 The "Warlords" series by SSG including "Warlords" (original and enhanced versions), "Warlords II" and "Warlords II Scenario Builder", "Warlords II Deluxe", "Warlords III: Reign of Heroes" and the upcoming Warlords III Deluxe and Warlords IV (NOTE: these games have alot of player support on other sites, but I want to have one of my own, as well). 
 Brian Vodniak's titles: "Vikings: Fields of Conquest"/"Kingdoms of England, FOC II"; "Kingdoms of Germany"; (and "Kingdoms of France") 
 Jetfighter series: "Jetfighter: the Adventure", "Jetfighter II: Advanced Tactical Fighter" w/ "Operation Lightning II" (Mission disk 1) from Velocity Development and R.D.Technologies(aka Mission Studios); Jetfighter III, by Mission Studios . 
 Power Monger 
 Chuck Yeager's Advanced Flight Trainer/Simulator I and II (what should be done as a follow-up) 
 The Falcon series: from the Amiga, through Falcon 3.0x and Falcon 4.0 
 FASA based Battletech, Mech Warrior, Mech Warrior 2(et.al.), Mech Warrior 3, and Mech Commander 
 Echelon (would be great candidate for an upgrade to modern platform) 
 Yet more DOOM related stuff (mostly links, reviews, ideas, and opinions) 
 Kingmaker (board and computer versions) 
 Shamot , by Britton Enterprises (and other chess variants) 
 My own programming projects (warts and all) 

 Aviation and Aerospace section 

 Historical topics: 

 Arthurian subjects and resources 
 The Crusades 
 Medival Europe, Middle East, Russia, China, and Japan 
 Favorite figures (incl.): 

 V lad the Impaler ; 
 Ghengis Kahn; 
 Merlin and Arthur; 
 Robin of Lochley; 
 William Marshall; 
 Bertrand duGechlin(sp?); 
 Robert III the Bruce; 
 the Knights Templar (the Poor Fellow Knights for Christ of Jerusalem and the Temple of Solomon); 
 Alexander Nevski; 
 Sir Winston Churchill(modern); 
 Aldo Leapold(modern); 
 and others... 

 Castles of Europe and the Holyland 

 My sword (it's history and construction) 

 Related links 
 SCA 

 Finland 

 Get info on the Seattle FinnFest'99 on the "Virtual Finland" web-site. 
 National History 
 Cultural History 
 The Finnish Language 
 Finland Today 

 Alaska 

 My fishing adventures 
 TENRO (HQ: Vladivostock, Russia) 

 Washington State University 

 "WAZZU"/Pullman/the Cougs: my alma matta .

 Making Beer and Wine 

 How to salvage a wine experiment through distilling 

 Computer Topics, FAQs, and Links: 

 Programming topics 
 My systems, and reviews of equipment and programs I have used. 
 Resources and Links 

 Star Wars / Star Trek / Indiana Jones / Highlander 

 Seattle Seahawks / Supersonics / Mariners 

 Geographic Photo Resources 

 Humor 

 Dilbert 
 Monty Python 
 Pat McManus 
 Red Green 
 Bill Cosby (my favorite albums) 
 Peanuts 
 The Farside 
 Bloom County / Outland 
 Beavis & Butthead 
 Woody Allen 
 End of the Road / Lake Wobegon 
 The Superior Persons Book of Words 

 Miscellanious: 

 Von Glitschka artwork 
 Brother Caedfel novels by Ellis Peters 
 James Burke 
 Favorite PBS / Dicovery / A&E 
 Frank Frezetta artwork 
 my 1970 Dodge Charger RT Special Edition (pictures, history, specs) 

 And finally - all about me (Matthew L. Wirkkala) 

 Brief History 
 Family, and geneology 
 Rants & Raves 
 Sanctum Sancorum 

 Kenny and Chris Chisholm 
 Doug Carey 
 David Conzatti 
 Heidi Langlois 
 Gwyn Glitschka and family 

 My friends web pages 
 My favorite quotes (and signature file) 

 -MLW => The End (for now)! ... 

 ...back to Matt's FastFish homepage... 

 FastFish web-site founded: 19 December, 1996 ... 
 ... Coming Soon! last modified: 30 July, 1998.