Why Technology from Nature 

 IMPLOSION - ON LINE 
 NEWSLETTER 
 APPLIED VORTEX MECHANICS 
 FEBRUARY, 2002 
ISSUE NO. 9 

 WHY TECHNOLOGY FROM NATURE 

 Viktor Schauberger had a saying, "Nature is my
teacher" and with that he dedicated his life to discover the principles
Nature uses in her manifesting processes and how they can be applied in
technology. And yes, indeed he found out about the very and most basic
principles Nature is founded on. Unfortunately, his discoveries did not
go over to well with the scientific community in his time. Contemporaries,
such as Walter Russell, Tesla and other contributors to knowledge in the
field of science and engineering experienced the same kind of resistance
encountered by Schauberger from the scientific community. Viktor Schauberger
used to call those who could not liberate themselves from their orthodox
views concerning the "background mechanics of nature", FIRE TECHNOLOGISTS
and indeed they were and are up to this point in time still not able to
broaden their minds beyond the explosive, expanding and entropic idea of
a universe which, according to them, in a kind of suicidal path is blowing
itself out of existence (the so much cherished heat death). 
 Viktor Schauberger found it totally illogical
to consider only one force in nature with a characteristics as described
above, there must be an opposite to all this, which he called Implosion.
One of his numerous sayings was: IMPLOSION INSTEAD OF EXPLOSION. Needless
to say, this one force of the universe taking on two different characteristics
in the form of an Inward and Outward motion one could easily realize that
there also must be two types of technologies, one which implodes (inward
movement) and the other which explodes as an outward movement, (see picture
1 ), each being based on the PRINCIPLES of NATURE and not based on ideas
and wrongly observed facts in Nature. 
 Viktor Schauberger found a new way of looking
from a different perspective at this visible physical universe and at the
same time recognizing its transparency, its many layered invisible duplications,
which become apparent when examined in the right light. 
 One may not call this a science in the sense commonly
understood by the term because it is not investigated through a rigid set
of rules. Reality can't be approached through an unreality, through a defined
thought process, through a philosophy or through a religion. It can only
be approached through an existing natural process, which can be imitated
by a technology. Viktor Schauberger found this approach. 
 The really good news is that technology derived
from a natural process such as Implosion is in harmony with nature, it
is benign, non destructive, fuel less and it produces many effects yet
unknown to man on this planet. It is also real, as real as its opposite,
which is termed explosion, with its man made technology. 

 The electro-positive force of attraction pulls inwards from within. 
 The electro-negative force of repulison pushes outwards from within. 
 Contraction and expansion from within are two opposing forces, one
battling for the slow rotation of centripetal force and the other for the
fast rotation of the centrifugal force. All masses begin their accumulation
with generative preponderance. It is the attracive, contractive pull from
within a vortex which causes mass to form because of the increasing attracive
pull of charging boides. It is the expanive thrust spirally away from a
vortex which causes mass to decompose because of the increasing repulsion
of discharging bodies. 

 Picture 1 
 Illustraing the opposing forces of gravitaion and radiation conquering
and being conquered by sequentially composing and decomposing mass 

 For most of us the transparent universe doesn't
exist because our senses do not reveal its presents. We must become aware
that there is only a SINGLE FORCE in the background. This single force
divides itself up into two very distinct forces, one which is the inward
movement called Centripetal Motion (implosion) and the opposite one, the
outward movement called Centrifugal Motion (explosion). It is of the utmost
importance that these two motions be defined in their different character
and functions because they ARE the wheelworks of Nature (Tesla) in all
its possible complexities. Both motions are placed 180 degrees in opposition
to each other (see picture 1 ). Every action has
its equal and opposite reaction with a simultaneous recording mechanism
so it can repeat itself. I wish to impress on the reader that the technology
derived from Vortex and flat spiral movement is a technology which has
its components based on the composition of the COSMOS itself. To imitate
nature one must recognize the mechanisms she operates with. Mankind did
not invent vortex movement; mankind applies it in the moment it is discovered
because it is in place already. There is nothing new to be invented in
this whole universe, but there is plenty to be discovered. 
 Schauberger realized and consistently pointed
out that through temperature differences and flow of medium energy expression
can be obtained in large amounts with little effort or input in comparison
to the output. 
 The units used in technology for heat is the calorie.
It takes one kilo Calorie to raise the temperature of a liter of water
from 14.5 to 15.5 degree centigrade. 1 kcal is equivalent to 437 mkg (meter
kilogram). 
 To raise the temperature of 1 cbm of water from
14.5 to 15.5 degrees centigrade a 1000 kcal or 427,000 mkg are necessary.
The same process in reverse - the cooling down of a cubic meter of water
to 0.1 degree centigrade - is equivalent to energy content of 42,700 mkg.
Science explains this away as "latent" energy on account of not having
the technology to extract said energy. Viktor Schauberger did have the
machinery to do just that. 
 Viktor Schauberger together with university professor
Dr. Forschheimer took measurements in undisturbed (by man) running creeks
and river beds to determine temperature differentials within the running
water and they found many variations from 0.1 to 0.4 where water would
flow around a boulder, form a vortex or other situations where temperature
could be measured in the approach of an obstacle and after it had passed
the obstacle showing the tremendous energy content of water while it was
moving in different curvatures and flow patters downwards in its bed. For
an Example, one cubic meter of moving water undergoing a temperature drop
of only 0.1 degree would contain energy in the amount of 42,700 meter kilograms. 
 The above measurements gave Schauberger the conviction
that energy derived from water is not dependent only on the usual idea
of gravitational pull by weight or pressure such as in water turbines,
but that energy is a condition of water depending on temperature and the
curvature of flow, also expressing itself as a tractive - levitating force
which gave him reason to believe that there may even be more aspects to
be discovered yet. He also noticed that the elements involved would be
taken apart and recombined in the process as they undergo stresses and
strains to re-organize their states of motion under the influence of centripetal
and centrifugal force. In this way it is easy, for an example to change
air into water or water back into air. 
 DEFINING CENTRIPETAL AND CENTRIFUGAL FORCE. 
 Picture # 1 (Walter Russell)
demonstrates the principle movement of the two forces and how they interact.
It is an accurate graphic representation on how these two forces exit from
a common center entering into motion by way of opposing each other at 180
degrees. Consider this a supreme principle of nature where the static force
of the space fabric is set into motion, dividing itself up into two forces
with total different characteristics, of one is called the CENTRIPETAL
and the other being called the CENTRIFUGAL force. And lets get this straight
from the beginning: 
 These two forces never leave their invisible (background)
domain, but act through motion only. Example: A flywheel is centrifugally
dissipating its energy back into space by means of MOTION, therefore, force
itself can't be experienced through the senses, and only motion can be
experienced. 
 We will see later on how Viktor Schauberger's
Implosion machinery fits this energy pattern to evoke said forces by guiding
mediums along curvatures resembling egg shaped forms. 
 When at any time, one of the two forces in the
form of motion dominates over the other, energy becomes available. In our
technological devices and systems, centrifugal force is allowed to be in
preponderance. In such systems and machines no gain or OVER UNITY can occur,
because centrifugal force in motion is an expanding, disintegrating and
returning to an equilibrium type of motion. With centrifugal motion one
can only expect a result according to the law of conservation of energy,
which states, that energy cannot be created but only changed from one form
or type into another. 
 CENTRIPETAL MOTION tightens and squeezes atomic
structure. It is a well-known fact that this so called "empty space" within
the atom is very large, and since everything in the atom is only motion
the tightening process of centripetal motion makes kinetic energy available
along the central shaft in a vortex structure. Centripetal force moves
INWARD, to create a condition, which is called condensation. It is to accumulate
the energy in the form of motion into a gradient of increasingly higher
pressure, higher potential and smaller volume. It is also the expositor
of the collective, amalgamating principle in form of in centricity, interaction
of energies of non violent processes, smooth, convergent spiraled spins
of media in open systems, involution, suction, cooling effects, purification
and amplification of energy through inverted levitative influences and
motions and rise in quality of media of natural consequences of upliftment.
A centripetally inward moving medium is qualitatively speaking more compact,
it is coiled and braided closely together even if this condition is only
momentarily, like in the case of a tornado, the expression of centripetal
motion or its opposite centrifugal motion, both have their distinct character
which is impressed upon a specific medium while in motion. Centripetal
motion is a totally non-hydraulic pressure condition it is an INWARD pulling
vacuous synthesizing condition exhibiting energy availability. 
 CENTRIFUGAL MOTION thrusts OUTWARD from within
to create a balancing condition, which is called radiation. The effect
of this force is to attempt to restore the evacuated space to equilibrium
by redistributing the accumulated energy back to where is came from. The
effect of this force is centrifugal action. It exerts pressure towards
the periphery. Nature uses centrifugal force to expand and loosening of
structure in a medium. Its main characteristic being to disintegrate mediums
back into tenuous space. This is the dying process. Centrifugal action
is true essence of entropy. Our present technology is based on centrifugal
motion only. Linear approach and the aggressive forces, on which conventional
technological thinking and theories are based, exist on or cause centrifugal
dispersal, explosion eruption, excessive temperatures, combustion, friction,
loss, pressure, cancerous growth, violence and noise. Not only are these
physical features obvious traits of our technological energy processes,
but they also reflect psychologically the spirit of our era, resounding
on their psychic octave as extroversion, oppression, coercion submission,
mass manipulation, social engineering, revolt and explosion - politically
- economically and ethnically. 
 Picture # 1 also shows
the interaction between the two basic motions, that is, centripetal and
centrifugal, functioning in an absolute freely moving body environment
with no outside force interacting with its structure. All STATES VARIABLES
issue from this natural vortex flow, which is true space geometry. Space
Geometry is Nature's THINKING, acted out in the form of motion in a three
dimensional universe. With the help of this chart ( Picture
# 1 ) we can for the first time, accurately determine and interpret
the laws of motion and correct the existing Newtonian laws of motion at
the same time. 
 The accepted laws of motion like that of Newton's
do not conform to Nature. For an example, Newton's first law says: 
 Every body tends to continue in its state of rest
or uniform motion in a straight line unless it is acted upon by an outside
force. 
 1. First of all, no body or particle is ever found
in a state of rest. 
 2. No body is ever found in a state of uniform
motion in a path that is a direct straight line. All paths of all bodies
or particles in motion are always in rotation (spin) and evolve in an orbital
or elliptical path, or a resultant combination of these two motions, which
can be in the form of a sine wave, like in Vortex Wave Mechanics. 
 3. All particles or bodies are the result of
the exertion of two opposing pressures, as shown on chart 1, which move
away from each other at 180 degrees in opposite radial directions to condition
its attributes and determine its motion. For this first law of motion to
be in accordance with natural phenomena, we may re-write it to express
the following: 
 All motion is curved and all curvature is spiral.
A body is the result of the influence of two opposing pressures, which
move away from each other in opposite radial directions to determine and
characterize their attributes as centripetal and centrifugal motion. 
 Motion is two-way; for the division of equilibrium
causes all motion and it's movement is in two opposite directions to create
the opposing conditions of pressures necessary to make motion imperative. 
 Since we are concerned with the wheelworks of
nature, the writer would like to point out that Schauberger considered
curvature taken from the egg shape to be the key component for any machine
which supposed to set up a balance between the above mentioned forces to
have an Over Unity gain, Levitation and other transmuting phenomena. 
 Let's construct the Schauberger Egg design first,
which will help us to create basic curvatures incorporating at the same
time BOTH motions into the design of machinery. 

 SCHAUBERGER'S YARD STICK, THE EGG FORM, DERIVED FROM
THE PENTAGON. * 

 There is no straight line in the physical universe.
The basic element is CURVATURE. Nature moves in a curved line. It is therefore
necessary to adapt "forms" for the construction of machinery which depend
on movement such as vortices and other wave forms taken directly from nature. 
 The observation, that nature uses basically two
opposite movements gave Viktor Schauberger the idea to make use of the
so far unknown implosion aspect of the centripetal force which makes it
possible to produce all of the natural movements. The egg then, so he recognized,
contains all curves and surfaces, which can be used for machinery which
copy natural movements. But as he examined the egg shape more, he noticed
that there is no standard egg form. The egg shape offers an unlimited variation
of possibilities. 
 If he wanted to construct implosion equipment,
he knew he had to find a standardized version of the egg shape which could
be reproduced at will any time. Should the egg become a measuring device
(ruler), then one must be able to reproduce parts from the egg as a whole.
He created this standard for himself by using the Pentagon within a circle. 
 Here is the construction of the egg - form derived
from the Pentagon. 

 Fig. 1 
 1. We draw a horizontal and a vertical line
in an exact 90-degree relationship to each other with the resulting point
A 
 2. A circle with the radius A -B is drawn around
A 
 3. Construction of the pentagon in the circle.
We establish points B to F 

 Fig. 2 
 4. The distance B - C around point A when placed
on the horizontal line results into points G and H 

 Fig. 3 
 5. The distance B - D around point A results into
points J and I 

 Fig. 4 
 6. The distances I-G and J -H along the horizontal
line is drawn downwards until they meet at point P 
 7. Distance B - C measured from A along the vertical
line results into point L 
 8. The distance A - M around point L (below the
horizontal line) results into the pointed end of the egg 
 9. Point K is the golden cut?? Of the egg 

 The egg-form is exclusively made up of elements
of the pentagon, where all of its parts are always in reference to the
whole. We can therefore assume that the above represents Schauberger's
natural (cosmically correct) egg form. 
 The pentagram with its derived egg form can now
be drawn with it's curved parts in the right ratio 1:1 and be transferred
onto templates or directly onto materials to be used in the construction
of machinery. 
 Ending remarks of Viktor Schauberger : "In this
way all guiding forms which are needed for the construction of the repulsator
are found in the egg-form derived from the pentagon." 
 Now he could move mediums and parts of his machinery
in a way that they would not obstruct the natural energy flow. Motion with
no resistance could now unfold. In a flow system like the repulsator, pressure
is used as a built in brake only in order to prevent the machine to go
to infinity in its rotation. 
 *Taken with permission by Bernd
Rothenberg from Implosion Heft #133.

 &copy; Copyright 2002 W. Baumgartner