Reviews | Michelle Young - Marked For Madness 

 Buy 
 brand name guitar 
 strings for 60% less 
 Guitar 
 Secrets Revealed 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 
 Send 
 Us Your CD 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Reviews , Michelle Young - Marked for Madness 

 CD REVIEW 

 ( buy 
 online ) 

 Read our interview with Michelle 
 Young. 

 Artist: Michelle 
 Young 
 Album: Marked for Madness 
 Label: Naosha Records 
 I was really looking forward to hearing this album after 
 having heard Michelle's fantastic voice on Leonardo . 
 I'm one of those people who tend to read the credits before 
 playing an album. Clive Nolan (Pendragon, Arena and just about 
 the busiest person on the planet!), keyboards and production, 
 Peter Banks (the original guitarist of Yes) on guitars, Doane 
 Perry (Jethro Tull) on drums, Peter 
 Gee (Pendragon) on bass, and the list goes on. 
 With such a list, it places the bar rather high. But I was 
 not disappointed. 
 The interesting thing is that she didn't have to ask any 
 of the musician to play on the album they all volunteered 
 to do so. Considering her voice and talent, I would too if 
 she asked me. And I'd do it for free. 
 The album flows on like a well orchestrated opera. "Spider's 
 Thread" is probably my favourite song on the album. Her 
 voice is so... indescribable. It picks you up and takes you 
 into a private place where she displays her emotions. Very 
 profound. Followed by an instrumental track which keeps the 
 emotional level high. 
 Next, "First Light" literally takes you by surprise. 
 The vocals are male. Great voice, you're just not expecting 
 it. 
 The "Hope" trilogy also brings you into many directions. 
 "Encouragement" in particular feels like a Knight's 
 horseride toward the castle to rescue the beautiful princess. 
 Well, at least that's the imagery that came into my mind (and 
 I've never staked a claim on sanity). 
 "Mystery Man Summoned" reminds one of the glory 
 days of another extraordinary singer: Kate Bush. Like I always 
 say, if you're going to be compared, might as well be compared 
 to the best. Here Michelle does things with her voice which 
 are probably illegal in certain countries... 
 As I said, it reminds one of Kate as far as tone goes and 
 the sort of things she does, yet it's not Kate, it's distinctly 
 Michelle. 
 "Pull the Wool" is another interesting piece. Lots 
 of indistinct whispering, people saying things seemingly unrelated 
 while the music in the background keeps on rising and rising. 
 Until the "real" vocals come in with some finger 
 snapping percussion. 
 "Walk in the Light" brings you back into some semblance 
 of normality. Brilliantly demonstrating the full richness 
 of her beautiful voice, until she comes back into some Kate 
 Bush genre vocals again before coming back to herself. If 
 you need a single song to demonstrate what an awesome voice 
 she has, this is the one. 
 The closing song "Toujours ensemble", has Michelle 
 singing in French. And a fine job of it she does too. A song 
 which shouldn't fit on the album as it's an acoustic piece 
 which, musically, does not resemble the rest of the album. 
 Yet it does fit in quite nicely. After a voyage through her 
 world, it relaxes you and gently brings you back to Earth. 
 An hour long trip through Michelle Young's universe is a 
 voyage you'll want to take again and again. Not just an incredible 
 voice, but also a superb songwriter. On an album which is 
 done superbly. I always said there aren't enough talented 
 women in this business. Let's encourage the ones that are 
 there. Start with Michelle Young. 

 A-J Charron 2001-12-11 

 Back to top 

 Previous review in 
 this series "Gary Talley" 

 Next to a list of 
 reviews in this series 

 Copyright 2001 Guitar Noise. All rights 
 reserved. Site Map. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Feedback. 
 Contact Us.