Reviews | Guitar Pro 3 

 WHAT&#146;S NEW 

 ABOUT US 

 FORUMS 

 GUITAR TAB 

 REVIEWS 

 INTERVIEWS 

 HELP 

 Site Tour 

 Beginners Songs 

 Guitar Columns 

 Guitar Lessons 

 Bass Lessons 

 Songwriting 

 Sound Engineering 

 The Other Side 

 Ask The Expert 

 Interviews 

 Reviews 
 Send 
 Us Your CD 

 Books 

 Links 

 Search 

 Advanced Search 

 You are here: Home , Reviews , Guitar Pro 3 

 SOFTWARE REVIEW 

 ( buy online ) 

 Title: Guitar 
 Pro 3 
 By: Arobas Informatique 
 You downloaded the demo of this software and you think you 
 know it? Although the demo is quite workable, you ain't seen 
 nothing yet. 
 GuitarNoise has had a link to Guitar Pro for a quite a while. 
 Perhaps you've downloaded and have played with it for a while 
 and have wondered if it's worth buying the full version. Believe 
 me, it is. Until you've actually used the full version, you 
 have no idea of the immense power behind this software. 
 Don't be fooled by people who will tell you that it's a Tab 
 editor. It can do much more than that. I installed the copy 
 graciously supplied by Arobas Informatique a few weeks ago 
 and have barely been able to pull myself away from it long 
 enough to write this. It's simply amazing! 
 To learn songs, they have a huge library of tabbed songs. 
 A lot of them have bass, keyboard and drum parts also. Some 
 even have vocal simulation tracks. This way you can really 
 learn a song that you've never heard before. 
 You see, Guitar Pro adds true musical notation attributes 
 to Tabs. All measures have to have the appropriate notes, 
 e.g. if a measure reads 4/4, it must have four times in it, 
 not five, not 3 and a half. For the person like myself who 
 never bothered learning to read music, this is great as it 
 does teach you all the important skills of writing times. 
 Guitar Pro also indicates the length of a note onscreen and 
 in print. 
 It allows you to change time signatures anywhere and as many 
 times as you wish. You can also change the tempo anywhere 
 you want. Although this particular function is a little bit 
 difficult to find, it is there and it does work. 
 It also has all the nuances you expect in a guitar: bending, 
 hammer-on, pull, sliding, vibrato, muting, and so much more. 
 It also has a fantastic chord finder. You can select a chord, 
 and it will give you a diagram of the way it's played, as 
 well as over a dozen alternative ways of playing it! You can 
 also do the reverse, indicate, through the convenient diagram, 
 where you're putting your fingers and which strings are played 
 open and which aren't played and it will tell you the name 
 of the chord and offer a dozen or so alternative ways of playing 
 it. 
 Guitar Pro lets you add silences, insert markers, repetitions 
 and text comments. It also lets you choose which language 
 you want to work in. I had the demo set in English for a while 
 and that worked fine. I have been using this version in French 
 and have not found anything wrong. It also works in German 
 and Spanish with available language modules going from Chinese 
 to Thai! 
 Guitar Pro works using MIDI files. So, of course, you won't 
 be fooled into thinking you're hearing actual guitars, but 
 that's a MIDI thing and it's good enough to learn a song. 
 Or to write one. Because, as a writing tool, Guitar Pro is 
 the best thing to ever hit the market. 
 I've tabbed in ideas and unfinished songs and ended up finishing 
 more songs and using more ideas than I ever have in my life. 
 This mainly thanks to the fact that Guitar Pro lets you write 
 up to 256 tracks. And they don't all have to be guitar tracks. 
 It lets you write bass tracks and Drum tracks in simple ways. 
 I always thought drums had to be invented by some strange 
 race of aliens. With Guitar Pro, I'm writing my own drum tracks! 
 You can also write keyboard tracks using your guitar, apply 
 the appropriate instrument (anything your soundcard can produce), 
 and voil&agrave;! 
 This gives you the opportunity to hear what your song will 
 (approximately as this is MIDI) sound like when other instruments 
 are added to it, which in turn brings many new ideas. 
 Printing is also great. Just click on print and it all comes 
 out the way you see it on screen. You can only print one track 
 at a time, but myself I find this a blessing as you're not 
 printing all the tracks when you want just one, or printing 
 the wrong track. 
 You can't print in standard musical notation (something I 
 was told which will probably be available in the next version), 
 but you can export your tracks (all of them in one simple 
 operation) as MIDI tracks and open them in something like 
 Cakewalk, then print them in standard notation. 
 Great for creating charts of your songs for the rest of your 
 band. 
 Oh, and you can also import standard text tabs you pick up 
 here at GuitarNoise or at other websites. 
 If you're learning the guitar, or playing for fun you should 
 use Guitar Pro to learn other people's songs. If you're a 
 songwriter, you need this; Guitar Pro will fast become your 
 best friend. 
 A-J Charron 2002-01-21 

 Back to top 

 Previous review in 
 this series "Byrd" 

 Next review in 
 this series "Eve to Adam" 

 Copyright &copy; 2002 Guitar Noise. All 
 rights reserved. Site Map. Masterlist. 
 Privacy Statement. 
 Contact Us.