Steel Silhouettes - - About the Company 

 Steel Silhouettes 

 "Cut metal art, crafts, hardware & lighting fixures" 

 (360) 652-4703 
 steelsil@cedarcomm.com 

About Steel Silhouettes

The People of Steel Silhouettes

 Timothy Dunn , President 
 Elias Ross , Web Author, Programmer 

 Tim Dunn -- Autobiography of the Artist 

 As a boy of 12, I had the wonderful experience of taking a three
month tour of Europe with my grandparents. We went to all the major
museums, cathedrals, and architectural monuments. Subsequently, we made
a similar tour of Mexico. These trips were the beginning of my interest
in art and anthropology. 

 My first college major was anthropology, but I changed it to
psychology when I decided I would starve if I didn't do so. Frustrated by
the academic approach to psychology, I dropped out of college. Starting
with the nest egg of a small inheritance, I took up stock trading, and
made money trading on my own account. I invested the proceeds in bonds,
and decided travel. The method I hit upon was to buy a sailboat and
cross the seas in it, even though I was a complete landlubber. 

After sailing to Hawaii and back to Seattle in my first rather
conventional sailboat, a 35 foot sloop, I decided to build my own 34
foot junk-rigged schooner with a pilothouse to get the helmsman out of
the rain. I built this boat, the "Batwing," and spent years cruising
the remote islands sprinkled across the Pacific ocean. 

I developed an interest in yacht design, and took up drawing sailboats'
lines. Soon, I was seduced by the beauty of the curves and shapes for
their own sake, and I began to draw objects of beauty as well as doing
technical drawing of objects of utility. 

I returned from my voyages, and completed bachelor's and master's degrees
in psychology. I married, and my wife and I opened our own own counseling
practice, Green Lake Counseling Center. We also subsequently co-founded
a drug and alcohol agency. For years, my main connection with art was as
a collector. My wife and I would go to the galleries every month,
we would see all the art museum exhibits, and we would focus on museums
and galleries when we traveled. 

My wife, my partner and I sold the drug and alcohol agency, and I
decided to turn my hand to the arts and crafts. I had always had an
interest in art and art history, and my travels broadened the knowledge of
"primitive" art which I had aquired through the study of anthropology and
my chief hobby, art history. Being part Cherokee, I was also interested
in exploring the artistic side of my native american heritage. 

Thus, my interest in art, nature, anthropology, Native American culture,
drawing, and boat building ultimately combined to lead me to found my
own metal art & craft workshop. At our workshop, "Steel Silhouettes",
my assistants and I make metal art and crafts to my designs featuring
Northwest wildlife and our Northwest coast Indian art in a new medium,
steel. 

 Elias Ross -- Story of A Computer Sub-Genius 

At the early age of about eight, I had received my first
computer, a lowly Radio Shack TRS-80. This computer was to be
the start of many more relationships between me and machines.

 Back To Main 

 This Page Was Last Updated August 31, 2001 

 All text, images, and html source of this web page is copyright Tim Dunn and
 may not be used without permission. All rights reserved. 

 Ordering and Contacting Us 

 Page Author: Elias Ross