Steel Silhouettes - - Wholesale Sales 

 Steel Silhouettes 

 "Cut metal art, crafts, hardware & lighting fixures" 

 (360) 652-4703 
 steelsil@cedarcomm.com 

 Wholesale Sales 

Steel Silhouettes sells wholesale to gift stores, catalogs, lighting
showrooms, specialty furniture shops, interior decorators and
designers, and lighting contractors. Our products are used in homes,
vacation homes, restaurants, and resorts.

We frequently work with designers to produce semi-custom or custom
lighting fixtures and decorative accents for resorts and restaurants.
Designers often specify our plaques for incorporation into furnishings
made to their design, such as bedsteads and fireplace screens, when
they are decorating resorts.

For gift shops, lighting fixture showrooms, and specialty furniture
shops, we design regional product lines to appeal to customer
preferences. Customers generally prefer items which remind them of
their area's scenery, culture, and history. To respond to this, we
have produced product lines for the Northwest, the Southwest, the
Rocky Mountain states, the Midewest, the Great Lakes, the South, the
Gulf Coast, the Appalachian Mountains, the Mid-Atlantic states, and
the Northeast.

We also do what is called OEM work, that is to say that we cut figures
for other manufacturers to include in stock products that they offer
to stores for resale.

In some areas, we are represented by gift reps and lighting reps,
working as a part of independent sales organizations. Please inform us
if you are contacting us as a result of their work, so that we can
credit them with the commission they have earned by making us known to
you.

If you wish to purchase from us for resale, please contact us by
phone, fax, E-mail, or by U.S. mail, for information about pricing,
availability, terms, and delivery times.

 Back to Main 

 This Page Was Last Updated August 31, 2001 

 All text, images, and html source of this web page is copyright Tim Dunn and
 may not be used without permission. All rights reserved. 

 Ordering and Contacting Us 

 Page Author: Elias Ross