xmltangle - literate programming with XML

 xmltangle - literate programming with XML 

xmltangle is a program to do a somewhat 
 literate programming style 
using XML DocBook . For those of you 
who don't know, in literate programming, you essentially write an essay about 
your program which also contains your program. This way, you are forced to 
think more clearly about the decisions you make, and how you design your 
program. It makes your programs better structured and better thought out. 
xmltangle does not include all of Knuth's web system, but it is at least a 
good start. The way xmltangle works, is that within a DocBook document, if 
it finds a <programlisting> tag, it copies the code listed 
there into the filename specified by the role attribute. The next 
version of xmltange will probably use XML processing instructions instead of 
specific tags, and support more of the "literate programming" concept.

 NEWS FLASH! 
Rafael Sevilla has built his own version of xmltangle which fixes some
problems in mine. You can get it at his site or I have a local copy . This fixes a CDATA bug in my code, and adds #line directives 
to the generated C code. Great job Rafael! I will probably add his enhancements to my version at some point, but until then, you're probably better off
using his version. Just to note, it uses expat instead of libxml as its parser.

 Documentation 

Comprehensive documentation on the program is available 
 here , or you can view it in 
 postscript or PDF 
format.

 Requirements 

Running the program requires:

 libxml
 glib

Building the program requires:

 a working gnome installation with development libraries (because I'm 
too lazy to figure out autoconf, and gnome-config is real easy to do)
 gcc

Building the documentation requires:

 a full installation (EVERYTHING) of RedHat 6.2. This is the only 
easy way to describe how to get all of the SGML stylesheets to work

 Getting the Program 

 Source 

 Source for version 0.1 

 Binaries 

 xmltangle version 0.1 program 
for i386 glibc linux machines 
 xmltangle version 0.1 program 
for LinuxPPC 2000 machines 

 Questions or Comments 

If you have ANY questions or comments, please email me at 
 johnnyb@wolfram.com . If I do not 
reply, EMAIL ME AGAIN. Most likely, your letter looked like spam so I 
deleted it. So, make the subject line be as far from spam as possible. I 
want your input, so please let me know, even just to say that it works on 
your machine (or doesn't work, for that matter)

Go to my main page