(original author)
 Karl Berry 
 Olaf Bachmann 
 and many others.
Maintained by: Olaf Bachmann 
Send bugs and suggestions to 

-->

 Algae: Standard Functions 

 [ << ] 
 [ >> ] 
 [ Top ] 
 [ Contents ] 
 [ Index ] 
 [ ? ] 

 6. The Standard Functions 

Functions are called by giving their name followed by a parenthesized
list of their arguments. For example, sqrt(a) computes the
square root of its argument `a' . The parentheses are required,
whether they contain any arguments or not. Functions may take more than
one number and kind of argument. 

 6.1 Basic Math abs, sin, sqrt, ... 
 6.2 Arrays fill, sparse, zero, ... 
 6.3 Sets union, intersection, ... 
 6.4 Linear Algebra solve, factor, fft, ... 
 6.5 Numerical Analysis ode, brent, ... 
 6.6 Basic I/O read, printf, ... 
 6.7 Entity I/O get, put, ... 
 6.8 Execution source, system, ... 
 6.9 Special Tools plot, npsol, ... 
 6.10 Miscellaneous who, what, time, ... 

 6.1 Basic Math 

 Function: abs ( x ) 
 The abs function returns the absolute value of its numeric
argument. "Absolute value" is synonymous with "magnitude" for
complex types. If x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by
its absolute value. 

 x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix.

 Function: acos ( x ) 
 The acos function returns the arc cosine of its numeric
argument. If it's argument is complex or has a magnitude greater than
one, then the result is complex. Otherwise, the result is real. If
 x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its arc
cosine. 

The argument x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix. 

 Function: acosh ( x ) 
 The acosh function returns the hyperbolic arc cosine of its
numeric argument. If it's argument is complex or is less than 1.0, then
the result is complex. Otherwise, the result is real. If x is
non-scalar, every element is replaced by its hyperbolic arc cosine. 

The argument x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix. Note
that acosh(0) is not zero, so if acosh is applied to a
sparse vector or matrix, then a dense array is the result. 

 Function: arg ( z ) 
 The arg function returns the argument (phase angle) of its
numeric argument. 

See also abs .

 Function: asin ( x ) 
 The asin function returns the arc sine of its numeric argument.
If it's argument is complex or has a magnitude greater than one, then
the result is complex. Otherwise, the result is real. If x is
non-scalar, every element is replaced by its arc sine. 

The argument x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix. 

 Function: asinh ( x ) 
 The asinh function returns the hyperbolic arc sine of its numeric
argument. If x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its
hyperbolic arc sine. 

The argument x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix. 

 Function: atan ( x ) 
 The atan function returns the arc tangent of its numeric
argument. If it's argument is complex, then the result is complex.
Otherwise, the result is real. If x is non-scalar, every element
is replaced by its arc tangent. 

The argument x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix.

 Function: atanh ( x ) 
 The atanh function returns the hyperbolic arc tangent of its
numeric argument. If it's argument is complex or has magnitude greater
than 1.0, then the result is complex. Otherwise, the result is real.
If x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its hyperbolic
arc tangent. 

The argument x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix.

 Function: atan2 ( y; x ) 
 The atan2 function computes an angle corresponding to y and
 x , the lengths of the opposite and adjacent sides. This is
similar to atan(y/x) , but with these differences: 

The signs of y and x are used to determine the quadrant in
which the angle lies. The angle returned is in the range -pi to
pi. 

The argument x may be zero, as long as y is nonzero. This
is different than atan(y/x) , because it avoids division by
zero. 

The arguments must be numeric scalars, vectors, or matrices. 

 Function: ceil ( x ) 
 The ceil function returns the ceiling of its numeric argument.
The ceiling of x is the smallest integer that is not less than
 x . If x is complex, the ceiling is applied to both real and
imaginary parts. If x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by
its ceiling. The type of x is not changed by ceil . 

 x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix.

 Function: conj ( x ) 
 The conj function returns the complex conjugate of its numeric
argument. If x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its
complex conjugate. 

 x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix.

 Function: cos ( x ) 
 The cos function returns the cosine of its numeric argument. If
 x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its cosine. 

 x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix.

 Function: cosh ( x ) 
 The cosh function returns the hyperbolic cosine of its numeric
argument. If x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its
hyperbolic cosine. 

 x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix.

 Function: exp ( x ) 
 The exp function returns the exponential of its numeric argument.
If x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its
exponential. 

 x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix.

 Function: floor ( x ) 
 The floor function returns the floor of its numeric argument.
The floor of x is the largest integer that is not greater than
 x . If x is complex, the floor is applied to both real and
imaginary parts. If x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by
its floor. The type of x is not changed by floor . 

 x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix.

 Function: imag ( x ) 
 The imag function returns the imaginary part of its numeric
argument. If x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its
imaginary part. The value returned by imag has real type. 

See also real .

 Function: integer ( x ) 
 The integer function converts the real part of its numeric
argument to integer type, rounding it if necessary. 

See also round .

 Function: log ( x ) 
 The log function returns the natural logarithm of its numeric
argument. If x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its
logarithm. 

 x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix.

 Function: log10 ( x ) 
 The log10 function returns the base-10 logarithm of its numeric
argument. If x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its
base-10 logarithm. 

 x must be a numeric scalar, vector, or matrix.

 Function: real ( x ) 
 This function returns the real part of x . The value returned by
 real has real type. 

See also imag .

 Function: round ( x ) 
 The round function rounds its numeric argument to the nearest
whole number. If x is complex, both real and imaginary parts are
rounded. If x is non-scalar, every element is rounded. The type
of x is not changed by round . 

If Algae has been compiled to use the system's rint(3m) function, then
arguments with a fractional part of exactly 1/2 are rounded to the
nearest even whole number. Otherwise, such arguments are rounded
towards +infinity. 

See also integer .

 Function: sin ( x ) 
 The sin function returns the sine of its numeric argument. If
 x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its sine. 

 Function: sinh ( x ) 
 The sinh function returns the hyperbolic sine of its numeric
argument. If x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its
hyperbolic sine. 

 Function: sqrt ( x ) 
 The sqrt function returns the square root of its numeric
argument. If x is complex or negative, then the result is
complex. Otherwise, the result is real. If x is non-scalar,
every element is replaced by its square root. 

 Function: tan ( x ) 
 The tan function returns the tangent of its numeric argument. If
 x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its tangent. 

 Function: tanh ( x ) 
 The tanh function returns the hyperbolic tangent of its numeric
argument. If x is non-scalar, every element is replaced by its
hyperbolic tangent. 

 6.2 Arrays 

 Function: band ( m; flag ) 
 The band function computes the upper and lower bandwidths and
profiles of the square matrix m . The row bandwidth of a
particular row is the number of elements to the left of the diagonal in
that row, but not including any consecutive zero elements at the
beginning of that row. Likewise, the column bandwidth of a particular
column is the number of elements above the diagonal in that column, but
not including any consecutive zero elements at the beginning of that
column. Notice that, for a diagonal matrix, all row and column
bandwidths are zero. The lower bandwidth is the largest of all the row
bandwidths, and the upper bandwidth is the largest of all the column
bandwidths. The lower profile is the sum of all the row bandwidths, and
the upper profile is the sum of all the column bandwidths. 

This function returns an integer vector with four elements. In order,
these elements are as follows: lower bandwidth, lower profile, upper
bandwidth, and upper profile. 

Profile reduction can be very effective in reducing the time and memory
required to factor a matrix. The function gpskca provides one
approach for doing this. 

See also gpskca .

 Function: bdiag ( x; m; n ) 
 The bdiag function mimics the diag function, but in a
"block" sense. The matrix x is taken to be comprised of
 m rows and n columns of blocks that are themselves matrices.
If either m or n is 0, then the matrix returned has the
blocks of x on its diagonal and is elsewhere zero. Otherwise,
the blocks of the diagonal of x are appended together. 

An example of the former case is:

 &#62; M = magic (4)
 [ 9 7 6 12 ]
 [ 4 14 15 1 ]
 [ 16 2 3 13 ]
 [ 5 11 10 8 ]
&#62; bdiag (M; 0; 2)
 [ 9 7 . . ]
 [ 4 14 . . ]
 [ 16 2 . . ]
 [ 5 11 . . ]
 [ . . 6 12 ]
 [ . . 15 1 ]
 [ . . 3 13 ]
 [ . . 10 8 ]

An example of the latter case is:

 &#62; bdiag ( M; 2; 2 )
 [ 9 7 3 13 ]
 [ 4 14 10 8 ]

 x must be scalar, vector, or matrix. After being converted to a
matrix, if necessary, the number of rows of x must be evenly
divisible by m (unless m is 0) and the number of columns of
 x must be evenly divisible by n (unless n is 0). 

See also btrans and diag .

 Function: btrans ( x; m; n ) 
 The btrans function mimics the transpose operator, but in a
"block" sense. The matrix x is taken to be comprised of m 
rows and n columns of blocks that are themselves matrices. The
blocks themselves are not transposed, but are simply moved across the
diagonal. 

For example:

 &#62; M = magic (4)
 [ 9 7 6 12 ]
 [ 4 14 15 1 ]
 [ 16 2 3 13 ]
 [ 5 11 10 8 ]
&#62; btrans (M; 2; 2)
 [ 9 7 16 2 ]
 [ 4 14 5 11 ]
 [ 6 12 3 13 ]
 [ 15 1 10 8 ]

 x must be scalar, vector, or matrix. After being converted to a
matrix, if necessary, the number of rows of x must be evenly
divisible by m and the number of columns of x must be evenly
divisible by n . 

See also bdiag .

 Function: combine ( u; v ) 
 The combine function appends the vectors u and v ,
removing all but the first of any redundant elements. This is exactly
like the union function, except that the result is not sorted. 

 Function: cram ( shape; x ) 
 This function uses the elements of x to make an entity described
by the vector shape . If shape is NULL or has no elements, a
scalar is returned. If shape has one element, then a vector of
length shape[1] is returned. If shape has two elements,
then a matrix with shape[1] rows and shape[2] columns is
returned. 

The elements of x are used, in order, to fill the new entity. For
matrices, this proceeds by rows. If the entity returned has more
elements than x , it is padded with zeros or null strings. For
example, cram( 5; 1,2 ) returns the vector
 (1,2,0,0,0) . 

If the return value is an array, it may be either dense or sparse. The
code will try to make a reasonable choice, but avoids spending much time
in deciding. For example, cram( 1000; 1 ) returns a sparse
vector since it is immediately apparent that most of its elements are
zero. On the other hand, cram( 1000; (1:1000)&#60;2 ) is dense even
though it would be more efficient to store it sparse; since its second
argument is a dense vector, cram would need to check most of its
elements to realize that. 

The form function is identical to this function except that the
arrays it returns are always dense. 

See also fill , form , and zero .

 Function: dense ( x ) 
 The dense function converts its argument array to dense storage.
See also sparse . 

 Function: diag ( x ) 
 The diag function performs two different tasks, depending on the
class of x . If x is a matrix, then its diagonal is returned
as a vector. If x is a vector, then a matrix is returned which
has x as its diagonal and is zero elsewhere. (If x is a
scalar, it is returned intact.) 

See also bdiag .

 Function: dice ( s ) 
 The dice function takes a character scalar s and returns a
character vector, each element of which is a single character from
 s . For example, the expression dice("Go dawgs!") 
yields 

 ( "G", "o", " ", "d", "a", "w", "g", "s", "!" )

See also split .

 Function: diff ( v ) 
 The diff function takes a numeric vector v and returns a
vector of differences between its elements. If v has n 
elements, then the return vector is 

 v[2]-v[1], v[3]-v[2], ..., v[n]-v[n-1]

The return vector has one less element than v . If v has
labels, then the return vector contains all but the last one. 

One simple use for diff is to compute forward-difference
approximations for the slope of a curve. If c is a vector
containing ordinates of the curve in its elements and abscissae in its
labels, then the expression 

 diff (c) / diff (unlabel (c.eid))

returns an approximation to its slope. (The call to unlabel is
probably unnecessary in most cases, but it avoids trouble when the
labels of c themselves have labels.) 

 Function: exsparse ( x ) 
 This function disassembles a matrix, returning it in its "coordinate"
form, suitable for reassembly by the mksparse function. A table
is returned, containing the members shape , rows , cols ,
and values . The argument matrix x must be numeric. Despite
the name of the function, it need not be sparse. 

See also mksparse .

 Function: fill ( shape; x ) 
 This function uses the elements of x to make an entity described
by the vector shape . If shape is NULL or has no elements, a
scalar is returned. If shape has one element, then a vector of
length shape[1] is returned. If shape has two elements,
then a matrix with shape[1] rows and shape[2] columns is
returned. 

The elements of x are used, in order, to fill the new entity. For
matrices, this proceeds by rows. If the entity returned has more
elements than x , then the elements of x are reused. For
example, fill( 5; "a","b" ) returns the vector
 ("a","b","a","b","a") . 

When the return value from fill is a vector or matrix, it will
always be dense. See the cram function for sparse return arrays.

The form function differs from this function only in that it
pads with zeros rather than reusing elements of x . 

See also form , cram , and zero .

 Function: find ( a; b ) 
 The find function locates the elements of b that have the
values given by a and returns a vector containing their element
numbers. For example, find( 2,3; 0,1,2,3,4 ) returns the vector
 (3,4) . One common use is in an expression like
 A[find(77;A.rid);] , which returns the row (or rows) of a 
having the row label 77. 

If a is a scalar, then find(a;b) returns the element
numbers of b , sorted from smallest to largest, for which the
corresponding element of b is equal to a . If a is a
vector, then find(a;b) returns the same as
 find(a[1];b),find(a[2];b),... . 

See also grep and lose .

 Function: first ( v ) 
 The first function returns the index of the first "true"
element in the vector v . If none are found, 0 is returned. 

See also find and last .

 Function: form ( shape; x ) 
 This function uses the elements of x to make an entity described
by the vector shape . If shape is NULL or has no elements, a
scalar is returned. If shape has one element, then a vector of
length shape[1] is returned. If shape has two elements,
then a matrix with shape[1] rows and shape[2] columns is
returned. 

The elements of x are used, in order, to fill the new entity. For
matrices, this proceeds by rows. If the entity returned has more
elements than x , it is padded with zeros or null strings. For
example, form( 5; "a","b" ) returns the vector
 ("a","b","","","") . 

When the return value from form is a vector or matrix, it will
always be dense. See the cram function for sparse return arrays.

The fill function differs from this function only in that it
reuses the elements of x rather than padding with zeros. 

See also fill , cram , and zero .

 Function: full ( x ) 
 The full function converts a matrix stored in "sparse_upper"
form to the "sparse" form. 

 Function: gpskca ( m; flag ) 
 The gpskca function attempts to find a symmetric permutation of
the rows and columns of matrix m to reduce either its bandwidth or
its profile. If the flag argument is "true" (in the sense of
the test function, then the Gibbs-Poole-Stockmeyer algorithm is
used for bandwidth reduction; otherwise, the Gibbs-King algorithm is
used for profile reduction. See the description of the band 
function for a definition of these terms. 

The return value is the permutation, given as an integer vector with
length equal to the order of m . Consider the following example
interaction: 

 &#62; a = symmetric (magic(6) &#62; 25);
&#62; band (a)
 ( 4, 13, 4, 13 )
&#62; v = gpskca (a);
&#62; b = a[v;v];
&#62; band (b)
 ( 2, 9, 2, 9 )

First, the sparse, symmetric matrix a is created. The
 band function shows that it has a bandwidth of 4 and a profile of
13. Next, gpskca provides a permutation to reduce the profile.
The matrix b is set to equal a but with this permutation
applied. Finally, band shows that this permutation reduces both
the bandwidth (to 2) and the profile (to 9).

The matrix m must be either symmetric or hermitian. This function
uses the GPSKCA subroutine written by John Lewis. 

See also band .

 Function: grep ( expr; v ) 
 The grep function finds the elements of the vector v which
match the pattern expr . The pattern is an extended regular
expression which is given to the UNIX function egrep to do the
searching. 

The character strings in v must not contain a newline, or the
results will generally be wrong. 

Here are some examples (user input is preceded by the `&#62;' prompt):

 &#62; grep ("a"; "ab", "ac", "bc")
 ( 1, 2 )

&#62; grep ("9$"; 1:40)
 ( 9, 19, 29, 39 )

&#62; m = magic (3)
 [ 8 1 6 ]
 [ 3 5 7 ]
 [ 4 9 2 ]
&#62; m.rid = "top", "middle", "bottom";
&#62; m[ grep ("top|bottom"; m.rid); ]
 [ 8 1 6 ]
 [ 4 9 2 ]

This is a terribly inefficient implementation (maybe someday Algae will
have builtin regular expressions), but maybe you'll find it useful. 

See also find and lose .

 Function: hermitian ( x ) 
 This function returns the hermitian part of the square, numeric matrix
 x . If x has both row and column labels, they must match. 

See also symmetric . 

 Function: ident ( n ) 
 The ident function returns an identity matrix with n rows
and columns. 

 Function: imax ( v ) 
 This function returns the number of the element in v with the
greatest value. If multiple elements qualify, then the number of the
first one is returned. Complex values are not accepted. Note that
 imax(v) is not necessarily equal to imin(-v) . 

 v must be (or be convertible to) a vector, and must not have
complex type. 

See also imin , max , min , isort , and sort .

 Function: imin ( v ) 
 This function returns the number of the element in v with the
least value. If multiple elements qualify, then the number of the last
one is returned. Complex values are not accepted. Note that
 imin(v) is not necessarily equal to imax(-v) . 

 v must be (or be convertible to) a vector, and must not have
complex type. 

See also imax , max , min , isort , and sort .

 Function: isort ( v ) 
 This function sorts the elements of vector v in increasing order,
and returns a vector containing the corresponding indices. For example,
 sort(20,40,10,30) returns the vector (3,1,4,2) . The
expression v[isort(v)] actually returns the sorted vector
 v , although the builtin function sort does this more
efficiently. Complex numbers are sorted primarily by real value and
secondarily by imaginary value. 

See also sort , max , min , and set .

 Function: label ( x; a; b ) 
 The label function assigns labels to vectors and matrices. If
 x is a vector, a is assigned as its element labels. If
 x is a matrix, a and b are assigned as its row and
column labels, respectively. If x has any other class, an
exception is raised. 

See also unlabel .

 Function: last ( v ) 
 The last function returns the index of the last "true"
element in the vector v . If none are found, 0 is returned. 

See also find and first .

 Function: linspace ( a; b; n ) 
 The linspace function generates a vector of n elements,
spaced uniformly between a and b . All three arguments must
be (or be convertible to) scalars. The argument n must be (or
round to) an integer greater than one. 

The vector generation operator `:' also generates uniformly spaced
vectors. With the operator, the number of elements is determined from
the specified spacing; with the linspace function, the spacing is
determined from the number of elements specified. Also notice that the
last element of the vector returned by linspace is equal to
 b , which is not necessarily the case with the `:' operator. 

See also logspace .

 Function: logspace ( a; b; n ) 
 The logspace function generates a vector of n elements,
spaced logarithmically between a and b . All three arguments must
be (or be convertible to) scalars. Both a and b must be
nonzero, and n must be (or round to) an integer greater than one. 

Logarithmic spacing means that the logarithm of the result vector is a
uniformly spaced vector. This also means that the ratio between any two
adjacent elements is constant. Note that even if both a and
 b are real, the result will be complex if they have opposite
signs, and that a complex result will not necessarily form a straight
line in the complex plane.

See also linspace .

 Function: lose ( a; b ) 
 The lose function locates elements of b that do not have
the values given by a and returns a vector containing their
element numbers. For example, lose( 2,3; 0,1,2,3,4 ) returns the
vector (1,2,5) . One common use is in an expression such as
 A[lose(77;A.rid);] , which returns all of the rows of a that
don't have the row label 77. 

If a is a scalar, then lose(a;b) returns the element
numbers of b , sorted from smallest to largest, for which the
corresponding element of b is not equal to a . If a is
a vector, then lose(a;b) returns the intersection of the results of
 lose(a[1];b) , lose(a[2];b) , etc. 

See also find .

 Function: magic ( n ) 
 The magic function returns a magic square of order n .
(What system would be complete without it?) The elements of a magic
square consist of all the integers 1 through n^2 , arranged so
that the row, column, and the two diagonal sums are equal. 

 n must be greater than 0. No magic square exists for order
2. 

 Function: matrix ( x ) 
 This function converts its argument x to a matrix if possible.
Scalars become one-by-one matrices, vectors become matrices with one
row, and matrices are unchanged. If x is NULL, matrix 
returns a real matrix with zero rows and zero columns. 

See also scalar and vector .

 Function: max ( v ) 
 This function returns a scalar that equals the greatest value of any
element in v . Complex values are not accepted. 

Argument v must be (or be convertible to) a vector, and must not
have complex type. 

See also min , imax , imin , isort , and sort .

 Function: merge ( x; y ) 
 This function merges two entities, x and y , with respect to
their labels. The result has labels that consist of the union of the
labels of x and y . Its elements come from the corresponding
elements in x and y ; they are summed when the same element
occurs in both. 

This is demonstrated by the following interactive session:

 &#62; A = fill (3,3; 1:9)
 [ 1 2 3 ]
 [ 4 5 6 ]
 [ 7 8 9 ]
&#62; A.rid = A.cid = 1:3;
&#62; B = fill (3,3; 10:90:10)
 [ 10 20 30 ]
 [ 40 50 60 ]
 [ 70 80 90 ]
&#62; B.rid = B.cid = 2:4;
&#62; merge (A; B)
 [ 1 2 3 0 ]
 [ 4 15 26 30 ]
 [ 7 48 59 60 ]
 [ 0 70 80 90 ]

If x and y are not vectors or matrices, they are simply
summed. 

 Function: min ( v ) 
 This function returns a scalar that equals the least value of any
element in v . Complex values are not accepted. 

Argument v must be (or be convertible to) a vector, and must not
have complex type. 

See also max , imax , imin , isort , and sort .

 Function: mksparse ( t ) 
 This function returns a sparse matrix with dimensions and elements given
by the members of table t . If the member shape exists, it
should be a vector with two elements specifying the number of rows and
columns of the matrix. If it does not exist, the matrix is sized just
large enough to include all of the given elements. The members
 rows , cols , and values must all exist; these are
vectors, all with the same length, corresponding elements of which
specify respectively the row number, column number, and value of each
specified element of the matrix. If an element is not specified, it is
zero. If an element is given more than once, its value is the sum of
the given values. 

The following interactive session provides an example:

 &#62; mksparse ({shape=3,4; rows=1,2,3; cols=1,3,2; values=10,11,12})
 [ 10 . . . ]
 [ . . 11 . ]
 [ . 12 . . ]

The values vector must have numeric type. If t is NULL, a
real matrix with 0 rows and 0 columns is returned. 

See also sparse and exsparse .

 Function: norm ( x; p ) 
 The norm function computes the p -norm of x , where
 p is 1, 2, "frobenius", or "infinity". (The latter two may be
abbreviated as "frob" and "inf".) If p is not specified, the
2-norm is used. 

For complex x , the 1 and "infinity" norms deal not with the
magnitude of each element, but with the sum of the absolute values of
the real and imaginary parts. 

 Function: pick ( x ) 
 This function returns a vector containing the indices of the non-zero
elements of the numeric input vector x . For example, the
expression 

 V [ pick (V &#60; 0) ]

returns all of the negative elements of V .

See also find .

 Function: product ( x ) 
 The product function computes the product of the elements of an
array. If x is a scalar, it is returned unchanged. If x is
a vector, the product of all of its elements is returned. If x is a
matrix, a vector is returned, each element of which is the product of the
elements in the corresponding columns of x . If x is a
table, the product function is applied to each of its members. 

 Function: rand ( shape ) 
 This function generates pseudo-random numbers with a uniform
distribution in the range from 0 to 1. Called with no arguments, it
returns a scalar. Otherwise, the vector shape specifies a vector
or matrix; see the readnum function for more information. 

The random number generator may be "seeded" with the srand 
function. If you don't call srand , the seed is based on the
system's clock. Note that rand and randn share the same
seed. 

See also randn and srand .

 Function: randn ( shape ) 
 This function generates pseudo-random numbers from a normal distribution
with zero mean and unit variance. Called with no arguments, it returns a
scalar. Otherwise, the vector shape specifies a vector or matrix;
see the readnum function for more information. 

The random number generator may be "seeded" with the srand 
function. If you don't call srand , the seed is based on the
system's clock. Note that rand and randn share the same
seed. 

See also rand and srand .

 Function: reverse ( v ) 
 The reverse function simply reverses the order of the elements in
vector v . For example, reverse(1,2,3) returns the vector
 (3,2,1) . 

 Function: scalar ( x ) 
 This function converts its argument x to a scalar if possible.
See also matrix and vector . 

 Function: select ( x ) 
 The select function selects one element at random from the given
vector. The result is a scalar. The vector x must have at least
one element. 

 Function: seq ( n ) 
 The seq function returns a vector of consecutive integers from 1
to n . The argument n is first rounded to the nearest
integer; if it is less than 1, a zero-length vector is returned. 

 Function: shape ( x ) 
 This function returns the "shape" (that is, the dimensions) of its
argument x . This return value has the same form as is used for
the shape arguments of functions like readnum and rand .
If x is a scalar, NULL is returned. If x is a vector, a
scalar is returned having the length of x as its value. If
 x is a matrix, a vector is returned having the number of rows and
the number of columns as its first and second elements, respectively.
If x has any other class, an exception is raised.

 Function: sign ( v ) 
 The sign function returns an array with the same size as
 v . Each element of the returned array is either -1, 0, or +1,
depending on whether the corresponding element of v is negative,
zero, or positive, respectively. The argument v must be a numeric
scalar or array. 

 Function: sort ( v ) 
 This function sorts the elements of vector v in increasing order.
For example, sort(20,40,10,30) returns the vector
 (10,20,30,40) . Complex numbers are sorted primarily by real
value and secondarily by imaginary value. 

See also isort , max , min , and set .

 Function: sparse ( x ) 
 This function converts its argument x to sparse storage. 

 Function: srand ( s ) 
 The srand function is used to "seed" the random number
generator rand . (OK, they're really pseudo-random numbers.) The
seed s determines the sequence of numbers returned by rand .
If s is NULL (or if srand is never called at all), then the
seed is taken from the system's clock. See also rand . 

 Function: sum ( x ) 
 The sum function sums elements of arrays. If x is a
scalar, it is returned unchanged. If x is a vector, the sum of
all of its elements is returned. If x is a matrix, a vector is
returned, each element of which is the sum of the elements in the
corresponding columns of x . 

 Function: symmetric ( x ) 
 This function returns the symmetric part of the square, numeric matrix
 x . If x has both row and column labels, they must match. 

See also hermitian . 

 Function: tril ( a; k ) 
 The tril function returns the lower "triangular" part of the
matrix a . The return matrix is identical to a except that,
for any i , all elements a[i;i+k+1] , a[i;i+k+2] ,
etc. are zero. If k is NULL, it defaults to zero. Here is an
example: 

 &#62; tril (magic (4); 1)
 [ 9 7 0 0 ]
 [ 4 14 15 0 ]
 [ 16 2 3 13 ]
 [ 5 11 10 8 ]

 Function: triu ( a; k ) 
 The triu function returns the upper "triangular" part of the
matrix a . The return matrix is identical to a except that,
for any i , all elements a[i;i+k-1] , a[i;i+k-2] ,
etc. are zero. If k is NULL, it defaults to zero. Here is an
example: 

 &#62; triu (magic (4); 1)
 [ 0 7 6 12 ]
 [ 0 0 15 1 ]
 [ 0 0 0 13 ]
 [ 0 0 0 0 ]

 Function: unlabel ( x ) 
 The unlabel function removes the labels from its argument. If
 x is a vector or a matrix, it sets the labels to NULL and returns
the result. If x has any other class, it is returned
unchanged. 

 Function: vector ( x ) 
 This function converts its argument x to a vector if possible.
Scalars become one-element vectors. If x is a matrix with either
one row or one column, then it is converted to a vector. 

See also scalar and matrix .

 Function: zero ( shape ) 
 This function generates an integer scalar, vector, or matrix, all the
elements of which are zero. The vector shape specifies the
dimensions of the entity returned; see the readnum function for more
information. 

If a vector or matrix is returned, it is stored in sparse form. This
may or may not be the most efficient storage for your application; use
the dense function to convert it if desired. 

See also dense .

 6.3 Sets 

 Function: complement ( a; b ) 
 The complement function returns the relative complement of
 a in b ; that is, the set of elements of b which are
not in a . The return value is a set, which we define as a sorted,
irredundant vector. "Sorted" means sorted by increasing value;
character strings are sorted by ASCII values and complex numbers
are sorted with the real values as the primary key and the imaginary
values as the secondary key. 

See also intersection , set , and union .

 Function: intersection ( a; b ) 
 The intersection function returns the intersection of set a 
in b ; that is, the set of elements that are in both a and
 b . The return value is a set, which we define as a sorted,
irredundant vector. "Sorted" means sorted by increasing value;
character strings are sorted by ASCII values and complex numbers
are sorted with the real values as the primary key and the imaginary
values as the secondary key. 

See also complement , set , and union .

 Function: set ( x ) 
 This function changes x into a set, if possible. A "set" is
defined as a sorted, irredundant vector. "Sorted" means sorted by
increasing value; character strings are sorted by ASCII values and
complex numbers are sorted with the real values as the primary key and
the imaginary values as the secondary key. "Irredundant" means that
no two elements have the same value. 

If x has labels, then the returned vector also has labels that
correspond to the retained elements. If x has no labels, the
labels of the returned vector give the index of the corresponding
element in x . If x has redundant elements, the element
retained is not necessarily the first. For example,
 set(1,1,1).eid might be 1, 2, or 3. 

See also complement , intersection , and union .

 Function: union ( a; b ) 
 The union function returns the union of sets a and b .
The return value is a set, which we define as a sorted, irredundant
vector. "Sorted" means sorted by increasing value; character strings
are sorted by ASCII values and complex numbers are sorted with the
real values as the primary key and the imaginary values as the secondary
key. 

See also complement , intersection , and set .

 6.4 Linear Algebra 

 Function: backsub ( afac; b ) 
 The backsub function solves the set of linear equations
 A*x=b for x . The argument afac must contain the
factorization of A returned as a table from either of the
functions factor or chol . The argument b provides
the right-hand side. 

If BCSLIB-EXT (a sparse math library produced by Boeing Computer
Services) is available on your system and algae has been compiled
for it, then the backsub function can use it. If afac 
contains factors computed by BCSLIB-EXT routines (in factor 
or chol ), then backsub will call the corresponding
routines to perform the back substitution. 

See also chol , factor , and solve .

 Function: chol ( m ) 
 The chol function computes the Cholesky factorization of the
symmetric, positive definite matrix m . The factors are returned
in a table, which may contain a variety of members depending on the type
and density of m . For example, if m is a real, dense
matrix, then "L" (the output of the LAPACK routine
 DSYTRF routine) and "RCOND" are returned. For now, you'll
have to go digging in the code if you really want to understand the
output. The idea, though, is that functions like backsub can
make sense of them so that you don't have to. 

Although its other members vary, the table returned by chol 
always contains a member named "RCOND" . This non-negative real
scalar is an estimate of the reciprocal of the condition number of
 m . If "RCOND" is very small (that is, the condition number
is very large), then the matrix m is ill-conditioned. A warning
message is produced if "RCOND" is less than 1.0E-8. 

If BCSLIB-EXT (a sparse math library produced by Boeing Computer
Services) is available on your system and algae has been compiled
for it, then chol may use its routines to factor sparse matrices.
In turn, the backsub and solve functions can use these
factors to solve linear equations. It is often useful to compute the
factors of a matrix and then save them (using put ) for later use.
Keep in mind, however, that if these factors were computed with the
BCSLIB-EXT routines, then the algae version with which you
intend to use them must also support BCSLIB-EXT. The table
returned by chol contains the member HOLD iff a
BCSLIB-EXT routine was used to produce it. BCSLIB-EXT is
never used on dense matrices. 

The key difference between the chol and factor functions
is that chol requires that the matrix be symmetric and positive
definite. In that case, no pivoting is required; this generally results
in a significant savings in execution time over the factor 
function. 

See also backsub , factor , and solve .

 Function: eig ( a; b; opts ) 
 The eig function computes eigenvalues and eigenvectors for the
standard and generalized eigenvalue problems A * x = lambda * x
 and
 A * x = lambda * B * x

If a is the only matrix argument, then both lambda and
 x are computed for the standard problem. If a matrix b is
given as the second argument, then the generalized problem is solved. 

A table of options opts may be given as the last argument. If it
contains the member no_right , then the right eigenvectors x 
are not computed. If it contains the member left , then the
corresponding left eigenvectors are computed. 

This function returns a table containing the eigenvalues in a member
called values and, if appropriate, the (right) eigenvectors in a
member called vectors . If the left option was given and
the problem is unsymmetric, then the left eigenvectors are returned in a
member called left_vectors . 

The solution method used depends on the type and symmetry of the
coefficient arrays. Some of these methods entail strict requirements,
such as positive definiteness, on the matrices. Each case is described
below, along with the LAPACK routine called to solve it. See the
 LAPACK Users' Guide for more information. 

For real, symmetric, standard problems, DSYEV is used. The eigenvalues
are real and in ascending order; the eigenvectors are orthonormal. 

For complex, hermitian, standard problems, ZHEEV is used. The
eigenvalues are real and in ascending order; the eigenvectors are
orthonormal. 

For nonsymmetric, standard problems, DGEEV is used for real type and
ZGEEV for complex type. The eigenvalues are complex, and complex
conjugate pairs appear consecutively with the eigenvalue having the
positive imaginary part first. The eigenvectors are normalized to have
Euclidean norm equal to 1 and largest component real. 

For real, symmetric, generalized problems, DSYGV is used. This method
requires that a be symmetric and that b be symmetric and
positive definite. The eigenvalues are real and in ascending order.
The eigenvectors are b -orthonormal. 

For real, nonsymmetric, generalized problems, DGGEV is used. This
method performs full balancing on a and b . The eigenvalues
are complex, and complex conjugate pairs appear consecutively with the
eigenvalue having the positive imaginary part first. Note, however,
that the eigenvalues are returned in a table; the member num 
contains their numerators and member denom contains their
denominators. The quotients may easily overflow or underflow, and the
denominator (and maybe the numerator, too) may be zero. A good
beginning reference is the book Matrix Computations by G. Golub
and C. Van Loan. Each eigenvector is scaled so that the sum of the
absolute values of the real and imaginary parts of the largest component
is 1, except that for eigenvalues with numerator and denominator both
zero, the corresponding eigenvector is zero. 

For complex, hermitian, generalized problems, ZHEGV is used. This method
requires that a be hermitian and that b be hermitian and
positive definite. The eigenvalues are real and in ascending order.
The eigenvectors are b -orthonormal. 

For complex, nonsymmetric, generalized problems, ZGGEV is used. The
eigenvalues and eigenvectors are complex. Note, however, that the
eigenvalues are returned in a table; the member num contains
their numerators and member denom contains their denominators.
The quotients may easily overflow or underflow, and the denominator (and
maybe the numerator, too) may be zero. A good beginning reference is
the book Matrix Computations by G. Golub and C. Van Loan. Each
eigenvector is scaled so that the sum of the absolute values of the real
and imaginary parts of the largest component is 1, except that for
eigenvalues with numerator and denominator both zero, the corresponding
eigenvector is zero. 

 Function: equilibrate ( A ) 
 The equilibrate function computes row and column scalings
intended to equilibrate a matrix and reduce its condition
number. The input matrix A need not be square, but it must be
numeric and both dimensions must be nonzero. If A is hermitian or
real symmetric, it must be positive definite. 

If equilibrate succeeds, it returns a table containing the
following members:

 r 
 A vector containing the row scale factors.

 c 
 A vector containing the column scale factors.

 rowcnd 
 The (scalar) ratio of the smallest to the largest of the row scale
factors.

 colcnd 
 The (scalar) ratio of the smallest to the largest of the column scale
factors.

 amax 
 The (scalar) absolute value of the largest matrix element.

Even if the matrix A is symmetric or hermitian, the row and column
scale factors may or may not be identical. If not, the resulting
equilibrated matrix would no longer be symmetric or hermitian. You will
have to decide whether the improvement in matrix condition is worth the
loss of symmetry. The row and column scale factors will be identical
for dense, real, symmetric matrices and for dense, complex, hermitian
matrices (both of which must also be positive definite); otherwise,
there's no guarantee. 

Oftentimes, going on to apply the equilibration scale factors is not
worth the effort. Roughly speaking, if amax is not close to
overflow or underflow and both rowcnd and colcnd are greater
than 0.1, it probably isn't worth doing. 

If equilibrate is unsuccessful, it returns a scalar integer
instead of a table. If this value is positive, it indicates the row
causing the problem. If it is negative, its absolute value indicates
the column causing the problem. 

To apply the equilibration, the matrix must be pre- and post-multiplied
by the scale factors. If r and c are identical, you'll
probably want to use the transform function to preserve symmetry.
Here is an example usage:

 e = equilibrate (A);
if (equal (e.r; e.c))
{
 Ae = transform (A; diag (e.r));
else
 Ae = diag (e.r) * A * diag (e.c);
}

Notice, though, that this example does not check the result of
 equilibrate to determine if it succeeded, it applies the scale
factors without checking to see if it's worth it, and it assumes that
 A obeys the requirement regarding positive definiteness. 

 Function: factor ( m ) 
 The factor function computes a triangular factorization of the
matrix m . The factors are returned in a table, which may contain
a variety of members depending on the type, density, and definition of
 m . For example, if m is a real, dense, symmetric matrix,
then "LD" and "IPIV" (the output of the LAPACK
routine DSYTRF routine) are returned. For now, you'll have to go
digging in the code if you really want to understand the output. The
idea, though, is that functions like backsub can make sense of them
so that you don't have to. 

Although its other members vary, the table returned by factor 
always contains a member named "RCOND" . This non-negative real
scalar is an estimate of the reciprocal of the condition number of
 m . If "RCOND" is very small (that is, the condition number
is very large), then the matrix m is ill-conditioned. A warning
message is produced if "RCOND" is less than 1.0E-8. 

If BCSLIB-EXT (a sparse math library produced by Boeing Computer
Services) is available on your system and algae has been compiled
for it, then factor may use its routines to factor sparse matrices.
In turn, the backsub and solve functions can use these
factors to solve linear equations. It is often useful to compute the
factors of a matrix and then save them (using put ) for later use.
Keep in mind, however, that if these factors were computed with the
BCSLIB-EXT routines, then the algae version with which you
intend to use them must also support BCSLIB-EXT. The table
returned by factor contains the member HOLD iff a
BCSLIB-EXT routine was used to produce it. BCSLIB-EXT is
never used on dense matrices. 

The key difference between the chol and factor functions
is that chol requires that the matrix be symmetric and positive
definite. In that case, no pivoting is required; this generally results
in a significant savings in execution time over the factor 
function. 

See also backsub , chol , and solve .

 Function: fft ( x ) 
 The fft function computes the complex discrete Fourier transform
of the vector x using the fast Fourier transform method. The
result is ordered such that the corresponding frequencies are
increasing (from negative to positive). Note that this is a different
order than that returned by many FFT routines. 

If x has N elements, the transform is a complex vector with
the same length. If N is even, then element k of the
transform is equal to sum (x @ exp (-2*i*pi*(k-N/2)*((1:N)-1)/N))
 If N is odd, then element k is equal to
 sum (x @ exp (-2*i*pi*(k-(N+1)/2)*((1:N)-1)/N))

The method is most efficient when the number of elements in x is
the product of small primes. For example, a vector with 1021 elements
(a large prime number) takes roughly 100 times longer to transform than
a vector with 1024 elements (a power of 2). On the other hand, 1152
elements (with prime factors of 2 and 3) is almost as fast as
1024. 

If x has integer or real labels, they are taken to be the
corresponding abscissae (i.e., time or distance) and are transformed
accordingly to form labels for the results vector. In that case, the
label values must be evenly spaced. 

See also ifft .

 Function: filter ( b; a; x; z ) 
 The filter function computes a digital filter from the standard
difference equation y[n] = b[1]*x[n] + b[2]*x[n-1] + b[3]*x[n-2] + ...
 - a[2]*y[n-1] - a[3]*y[n-2] - ...

This filter is implemented using the "direct form II transposed"
method. For more information, see Chapter 6 of the book "Discrete-Time
Signal Processing" by Oppenheim and Schafer. 

 Function: ifft ( x ) 
 The ifft function computes the complex inverse discrete Fourier
transform of the vector x using the fast Fourier transform method.
The input is ordered such that the corresponding frequencies are
increasing (from negative to positive). Note that this is a different
order than that required by many inverse FFT routines. 

If x has N elements, the transform is a complex vector with
the same length. If N is even, then element n of the
transform is equal to (1/N) * sum (x @ exp (2*i*pi*((1:N)-N/2)*(n-1)/N))
 If N is odd, then element n is equal to
 (1/N) * sum (x @ exp (2*i*pi*((1:N)-(N+1)/2)*(n-1)/N))

The method is most efficient when the number of elements in x is the
product of small primes. For example, a vector with 1021 elements
(a prime number) takes roughly 100 times longer to transform than a
vector with 1024 elements (a power of 2). On the other hand, 1152
elements (with prime factors of 2 and 3) is almost as fast as
1024. 

If x has integer or real labels, they are taken to be the
corresponding abscissae (i.e., frequencies) and are transformed
accordingly to form labels for the results vector. In that case, the
label values must be evenly spaced. 

See also fft .

 Function: inv ( a; opts ) 
 The inv function computes the inverse of a matrix. This is
sometimes useful, but you should be aware that an alternative approach
using factor (or chol ) and solve is usually more
efficient and accurate. (See below for more details.) 

The inv function is implemented simply by calling the
 solve function with an identity matrix as the second argument.
The argument opts is optional and is passed as the third argument
to solve . For example, 

 inv (A; {pos});

computes the inverse of the positive-definite matrix A . 

The matrix inverse is often used to solve systems of linear equations.
If Ax=b is such a system, where A is a square matrix with
full rank, then its solution may be computed as 

 x = inv (A) * b;

A more efficient and accurate approach, though, is to use the
 solve function as 

 x = solve (A; b);

The use of solve is appropriate even when several right-hand
sides are to be considered separately. For example, the code 

 x = {};
A_inv = inv (A);
for (b in members (blist))
{
 x.(b) = A_inv * blist.(b);
}

would be better written as

 x = {};
A_fac = factor (A);
for (b in members (blist))
{
 x.(b) = solve (A_fac; blist.(b));
}

See also backsub , chol , factor , and solve . 

 Function: leastsq ( A; b ) 
 This function solves full-rank overdetermined and underdetermined linear
systems using a QR or LQ factorization. The inputs are the coefficient
array A and the RHS b . The return value is the solution
array x . 

An underdetermined system is one for which A has fewer rows than
columns. The rank of A must be equal to the number of rows of
 A . The return value is the minimum norm solution. 

An overdetermined system is one for which A has more rows than
columns. This function treats a square A as if it were an
overdetermined system. The rank of A must be equal to the number
of columns of A . The return value is the solution to the least
squares problem 

 minimize || B - A*X ||

See also solve .

 Function: solve ( A; b; opts ) 
 This function solves the linear equations A*x=b for x .
Conceptually it returns inv(A)*b , except that solve is
generally much more efficient and accurate. If A has already been
factored by the factor or chol functions, then its factors
(in the form of a table returned by those functions) may be given in the
place of A . If the optional argument opts contains the
member "pos", then the Cholesky method is used to factor
 A . 

See also backsub , chol , and factor .

 Function: ssi ( A; B; V; eps ) 
 The ssi function uses subspace iteration to compute the first few
eigenvalues and vectors for a real, symmetric, generalized eigenvalue
problem A*v=B*v*w . The terms w and v are the
eigenvalues and eigenvectors, respectively. 

Subspace iteration is an effective approach for large, sparse problems
and for problems for which good estimates of the eigenvectors are
available. Otherwise, it sucks. 

Both A and B must be real, symmetric, non-singular matrices.
The matrix V contains a set of starting vectors, one to a column.
A convergence tolerance may be specified with eps ; 1.0E-6 is used
if eps is NULL. A table is returned, containing the members
"values" and "vectors". 

See also eig .

 Function: svd ( A; opts ) 
 This function computes the singular value decomposition (SVD) of the
matrix A . In the full case, the SVD is written A=U*S*V' ,
where S is a real matrix with the same dimensions as A and
 U and V are the orthogonal (unitary) left and right singular
vectors. The matrix S contains the singular values on its
diagonal and is zero elsewhere. 

When A is not square, one or more rows or columns of S are
known a priori to be zero. By default, svd then returns a
"compact" form of the singular vectors, in which the corresponding
columns of U or V are not included. This behavior may be
modified by using the full option, as described below. 

The argument opts is an options table; it may contain the members
 novectors and full . (The values of these members are
irrelevant; only their existence is signficant.) If opts contains
the member novectors , then only the singular values are computed.
If opts contains only the member full , then the full
singular vectors are computed. 

The results of svd are returned in a table. The member
 sigma contains the vector of singular values, sorted in
decreasing order. Unless the novectors option is specified, the
members U and V contain the corresponding left and right
singular vectors. 

This function calls the LAPACK routines DGESVD and ZGESVD. 

 Function: transform ( A; P ) 
 The transform function performs the linear coordinate
transformation P'*A*P , where A is a square matrix. In
fact, there are only two differences between the operator expression
 P'*A*P and the function expression transform(A;P) : 

The transform function results in the most appropriate symmetry.
For example if A and P are both real, and A is
symmetric, then the result is a symmetric matrix. With the operator
expression this would not be the case; the result would be exactly the
same (neglecting any roundoff errors) except that it would be marked
with general symmetry. 

The transform function is considerably faster than the operator
expression for some matrix combinations. In particular, it may be two
or three times faster when P is dense and A is large,
sparse, and either hermitian or real symmetric. 

 6.5 Numerical Analysis 

 Function: brent ( f; a; b; tol ) 
 This function uses Brent's method to find a single root of the function
 f ; that is, a solution to f(x)=0 . The ordinates A 
and B must bracket a root, meaning that f(A)*f(B) must be
negative. 

 Function: monte ( f; limits; tol ) 
 This function uses the Monte Carlo method to integrate a function. The
function values are obtained by calling the function f with one
vector argument. The matrix limits describes the rectangular
region over which the function is integrated. It has two columns and as
many rows as f has dimensions. Each row specifies the extremes of
the region for the corresponding dimension. The tol argument
specifies an error tolerance. There is no limit to the number of points
chosen; monte continues to pick points until its one standard
deviation error estimate is less than tol . Generally, the
accuracy increases only as the square root of the number of points
evaluated. 

 Function: ode4 ( f; t0; tf; x0; y; tol; h; s ) 
 The ode4 function uses fourth and fifth order Runge-Kutta
formulas to solve an initial value problem involving a system of
ordinary differential equations. The function f , called as
 f( t; x ) , is expected to return the first derivative of the
state vector x with respect to the independent variable t .
The arguments t0 and tf are the initial and final values of
the independent variable, and x0 is the initial state vector. The
argument y may be a function, called as y( t; x ) , that
returns a vector of output values. If y is NULL, the output
vector is the state vector itself. 

The optional argument tol specifies the desired accuracy; we use
0.001 if tol is NULL. An initial stepsize may be suggested with
 h . The s argument may be used to provide better control
over the accuracy--if s is not NULL, then a step is accepted if
the estimated error in each state, divided by the corresponding term of
 s , is not greater than tol . 

The return value is a matrix containing the output history. Each column
contains the output from y for the particular value of the
independent variable given by the column label. 

 Function: roots ( c ) 
 This function computes the roots of the polynomial having the
coefficients given by the vector c . If c has n+1 
elements, the equation solved (for x ) is 

 c[1]*x^n + c[2]*x^(n-1) + ... + c[n]*x + c[n+1] = 0

A vector with zero elements is returned if the equation has no solution
( roots(1) , for example). NULL is returned if it has an infinite
number of solutions ( roots(0) , for example). Otherwise, the
vector returned contains all of the solutions. 

 Function: spline ( a; x ) 
 This function computes or evaluates natural cubic spline interpolations
for given data. If called with one argument, a , a spline for the
points in the vector a is computed. The elements of a give
the ordinates; the labels of a give the abscissae. If a has
no numeric labels, then the natural numbers from one to the length of
 a are assumed. In any case, the vector a is sorted with
respect to its labels; they must be unique. 

If spline is called with two arguments, a and x , then
the spline a (or a spline interpolation of a , if a is
not a spline) is evaluated at the abscissa values given by the vector
 x . 

 6.6 Basic I/O 

 Function: close ( file ) 
 The close function closes the specified file. The file name
 file must be given exactly as it was when the file was opened.
(Whitespace is significant.) Any buffered data is flushed.

 Function: digits ( n ) 
 The digits function may be used to specify the number of digits
that algae uses when printing real and complex numbers. This
applies to the print function and to "printing statements"
(those with question mark or newline terminators). The argument n 
specifies the number of digits. If n is NULL, no action is
taken. 

The function returns the number of digits being used. By default,
 algae uses 4 digits. 

Here's an example interaction, with user input preceded by the "&#62;"
prompt: 

 &#62; digits () # the default
 4
&#62; acos (-1) # pi, to 4 significant digits
 3.142
&#62; digits (20); # set to 20 digits
&#62; acos (-1) # pi, to 20 digits (but only accurate to 17)
 3.1415926535897931000

See also print .

 Function: fread ( file; length; type ) 
 The fread function reads data from a binary file into a numeric
array. This is a low-level routine, and it requires that you know
precisely the format of the data that is being read. To read Algae's own
binary files (those written with put ), see get . 

The file argument (a character scalar) is the file name. As with
any file name, if its first character is an exclamation mark then the
rest of the string is given to the shell as a filter. If file is
NULL, then standard input is read. 

The length argument (an integer scalar) gives the number of items
to read. If it's NULL, the entire file is read. Otherwise, it should
be a non-negative integer. A vector is returned that contains the data
that was read. If fread reaches the end of the file before
having read length elements, then the vector it returns will
contain fewer than length elements. 

The type argument is an optional table; its member's names specify
the type of data to read and, implicitly, the type of the returned
array. (The values of this table's members are inconsequential; only
their names are important.) These names may include any of the C
language types:

 char 
 Each is cast to an Algae integer .
 int 
 Same as an Algae integer .
 float 
 Each is cast to an Algae real .
 double 
 Same as an Algae real .

The C language type qualifiers are also accepted in type :

 long 
 A qualifier for int and double types. Both are cast
to real . short 
 A qualifier for int . Casts to integer .
 signed 
 A qualifier for char and int . Casts to integer .
 unsigned 
 A qualifier for char and int . An unsigned char 
casts to integer , while an unsigned int casts to
 real . 
Combinations that are disallowed in C (such as unsigned double )
are disallowed here, too. If type is NULL or empty, double 
is assumed. 

Besides the C language type qualifiers just described, the following
special qualifiers are also accepted:

 big 
 Specifies the so-called "big endian" byte order.
 little 
 Specifies the so-called "little endian" byte order.
 ieee 
 Specifies the IEEE 754 binary floating point format.

 Function: fprintf ( file; format; ... ) 
 The fprintf function prints formatted output to file . The
 format argument is a character string that contains two types of
objects: characters and conversion specifications. Characters are
printed directly; conversion specifications cause the next argument to
be formatted and printed. 

Conversion specifications are introduced using the percent sign
 `%' . Although extensions are planned, the conversion
specifications are currently identical to those for the "fprintf"
function of the ANSI C language. 

If the first character of file is an exclamation mark, then the
rest of file is given to the shell as a filter to which the
printed output of fprintf is sent. For example, the command
 fprintf("!sort";"a\nc\nb\n");close("!sort"); sends "a", "c",
and "b", each on a separate line, to the system's sort function, which
then presumably sorts and prints it. If file is NULL, stdout is
used. 

See also message , print , printf , sprintf ,
and put . 

 Function: fwrite ( file; v; type ) 
 The fwrite function writes binary data to a file from a numeric
array. This is a low-level routine, and it requires that you specify
precisely the format of the data being written. To write an entity for
use in Algae, you'll probably want to use put instead. 

The file argument (a character scalar) is the file name. As with
any file name, if its first character is an exclamation mark then the
rest of the string is given to the shell as a filter. If file is
NULL, then the data is written to standard output. 

The data to be written is given in the argument v , a numeric
vector. 

The type argument is an optional table; its member's names specify
the type of data to write. (The values of this table's members are
inconsequential; only their names are important.) These names may
include any of the C language types and qualifiers, and a few others.
See fread for details. 

 Function: message ( fmt; ... ) 
 The message function is used to write error messages to stderr.
Its arguments are exactly like printf , except that a maximum of
10 arguments is allowed. The message written includes the program and
file names as well as the line number. 

See also printf .

 Function: print ( x; file ) 
 The print function prints its argument x to a file named by
 file . This output goes through the same formatting that
 algae uses to print entities to the screen. In particular, the
variable $term_width controls the width of this output, and the
 digits function specifies the number of significant digits
printed for real and complex numbers. 

If file is NULL, then the output is written to stdout.

See also digits , fprintf , printf , sprintf ,
and put . 

 Function: printf ( format; ... ) 
 The printf function prints formatted output to stdout. It is
exactly the same as calling fprintf with NULL as the first
argument. 

See also fprintf , message , print , put , and
 sprintf . 

 Function: read ( file ) 
 This function reads a line of text and returns it as a character string.
The argument file may be a file name or a pipe; see fprintf 
for details. If file is NULL, the text is read from standard
input. 

When read reaches the end of file, it returns NULL. 

See also get and readnum . 

 Function: readnum ( shape; file ) 
 This function reads real numbers from a file named file . The vector
 shape specifies the form of the output. If shape is NULL or
has zero length, a scalar is returned. If shape has length one,
then a vector with shape[1] elements is returned. If shape 
has two elements, then a matrix is returned with shape[1] rows and
 shape[2] columns. 

The values are read from file , or from stdin if file is NULL
or not given. The `#' symbol is special--it and all remaining
characters on a line are ignored. If the end of file is reached before
the specified number of values is read, then the result is filled out
with zeros. After a call to readnum , the number of values actually
read is contained in the variable $read . 

For example, let's say you have a file called `jnk' that contains
the following: 

 # this line is ignored - numbers like 1.23 are skipped
the first two numbers are 42 and 99.
3.14 is the next one

In the following interaction we read the numbers from the file into a
matrix: 

 &#62; x = readnum (2,4; "jnk")?
 [ 42.00 99.00 3.140 0.000 ]
 [ 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 ]
&#62; $read?
 3
&#62; readnum (3; "jnk")?
 ( 0.000, 0.000, 0.000 )

As you can see, anything that doesn't look like a number is simply
skipped. The readnum function found three numbers and filled in
the rest of the matrix with zeros. The global variable $read was
set to 3 - the number of values actually read. 

Subsequent calls to readnum with the same file name simply
continue reading from the last position in the file. In the last
statement of the previous example, no more numbers were found so the
vector was filled with zeros. To read again from the start of the file,
you must first close the file with the close function. 

The readnum function recognizes integers and floating point
numbers. A floating point number consists of an optionally signed
integer part, a decimal point, a fraction part, an `e' or `E' ,
and an optionally signed integer exponent. All of the following
examples are recognized as numbers: `1' , `-1.2' , `1e2' ,
 `-1.e2' , `.1e2' , `-1.2e3' , and `1.2e-3' . 

Fortran users take note! A Fortran double precision number such as
 `1.23D4' will not be read by readnum as a single number.
The character `D' is not recognized as part of a floating point
number, so readline will read this as the two numbers `1.23' 
and `4' . 

 Function: sprintf ( format; ... ) 
 The sprintf function writes formatted output to a character
scalar. It works the same as printf , except that the output is
returned instead of printed. For example, x=sprintf("y=%d";1) 
puts the string "y=1" in the scalar x . 

See also fprintf , printf , and put . 

 Function: tmp_file ( ) 
 The tmp_file function creates a temporary file and returns its
name. This file will be deleted automatically when algae 
exits. 

By default, algae writes temporary files in the directory
 `/tmp' . You can override that with an environment variable called
 TMPDIR . For example, if you use the Bourne shell and put the
lines 

 TMPDIR=/usr/tmp
export TMPDIR

in your `~/.profile' file, then algae will put its temporary
files in the `/usr/tmp' directory. 

This function not only creates the file, but opens it for output. If
you want to read from the temporary file, then you should close it
first. (Of course, you'll need to arrange to get something in it,
first.) Notice that temporary files are not deleted when closed, but
only when algae exits. 

 6.7 Entity I/O 

 Function: get ( file ) 
 The get function reads an Algae entity from a binary file named
 file . If no argument is given, standard input is used. Use this
function to read files written with put . The file name can
specify a pipe; see fprintf for more details. 

NULL is returned if an error occurs in reading the file; otherwise
 get returns the entity it read. 

 Function: getdyn ( fname ) 
 This function reads matrices from the DYNASTY file fname .
(DYNASTY is the name of a software package used at Boeing for dynamic
analysis.) A table is returned, containing the matrices as
members. 

The file name can specify a pipe; see fprintf for more
details. 

 Function: getmat ( fname ) 
 The getmat function reads matrices from a MATLAB binary file
named fname . It returns the matrices in a table. 

The file name can specify a pipe; see fprintf for more
details. 

Notice that getmat doesn't assign the matrices to the global
symbol table as MATLAB's "load" function does. To do that, you might
use something like the following: 

 Load = function (fname)
{
 local (t; n);
 t = getmat (fname);
 for (n in members (t))
 {
 $$.(n) = t.(n);
 }
};

The getmat function reads the MATLAB v.4 "Level-1 MAT-file"
format. MATLAB can read and write in this format, but its default for
writing is now Level-2. Using the newer format would require us to link
to their libraries, meaning that you'd need to actually have MATLAB on
that machine. We'll stick with the older format. 

One unfortunate consequence of using the older file format is that
matrices cannot be written in sparse form. To get around this, convert
the matrix to coordinate form (which is dense) within MATLAB and then
change it back to sparse form in algae with the mksparse 
function. 

See also get , put , and putmat . 

 Function: load ( fname ) 
 The load function reads a table from a file named fname and
assigns its members as global variables. This can be used, for example,
to restore an algae session that was saved with the save 
function. 

If an error occurs in reading the file, load returns 0; otherwise
it returns 1. 

See also get , put , and save . 

 Function: put ( x; fname ) 
 The put function writes x to a binary file named
 fname (or standard output if fname is NULL). This binary
file can be read with get . The file name can specify a pipe; see
 fprintf for more details. 

NULL is returned if an error occurs in writing the file; otherwise a 1
is returned. 

 Function: putdyn ( x; fname ) 
 This function writes the members of the table x to a DYNASTY file
named fname . (DYNASTY is the name of a software package used at
Boeing for dynamic analysis.) The file name may specify a pipe; see
 fprintf for more details. 

The file is not closed when putdyn finishes, so subsequent writes
to the same file will append data to the end of it unless you close it
first. On some machines, this could be used to build a complete DYNASTY
file with several different calls to putdyn . The disadvantage,
though, is that the DYNASTY file format doesn't allow this on all
machines. 

 Function: putmat ( t; fname ) 
 The putmat function writes a table of matrices t to a
MATLAB binary file named fname . The file name can specify a pipe;
see fprintf for more details. 

NULL is returned if an error occurs in writing the file; otherwise a 1
is returned. 

NULL members in t are skipped; otherwise each member is converted
to a matrix if necessary and then written to the file. 

The putmat function writes in the MATLAB v.4 "Level-1 MAT-file"
format. MATLAB can read and write in this format, but its default for
writing is now Level-2. Using the newer format would require us to link
to their libraries, meaning that you'd need to actually have MATLAB on
that machine. We'll stick with the older format. 

One unfortunate consequence of using the older file format is that
matrices cannot be written in sparse form. To get around this, use the
 exsparse function to convert the matrix to coordinate form (which
is dense) and then change it back to sparse form within MATLAB. 

See also get , getmat , and put . 

 Function: save ( fname ) 
 The save function writes all non-NULL global variables as a table
to a file named fname . This can be used, for example, to save an
 algae session that you wish to start again later using the
 load function. 

NULL is returned if an error occurs in writing the file; otherwise
 save returns 1. 

See also get , load , and put .

 6.8 Execution 

 Function: autosrc ( name; file ) 
 This function creates an autosrc function named name . When
this new function is later called, it replaces itself with a definition
that it reads by calling the src function with the file name
 file . In this way, you can put off reading a function's
definition until it is actually called. 

If file is NULL , then autosrc uses the value of
 name for the file name. 

For example, consider the following code: 

 autosrc ("yow");
yow ();

The first line defines an autosrc function named yow . When
 yow is called on the second line, it reads the real definition of
 yow by calling src with the file name "yow" . It
then calls its replacement (with the same arguments, of course). 

The current implementation of autosrc restricts the number of
arguments to 10. (It's an ugly restriction, but if you need that many
arguments perhaps you should be using a table, instead.) A zero
returned indicates success. 

 Function: builtin ( file; symbol ) 
 On machines that support dymamic linking, this function creates a new
builtin function by linking to a shared object named by file and
locating the symbol named by symbol . 

Suppose you have some old Fortran code that computes your chances of
being hit by a comet. You can write a C wrapper for it, link them as a
shared object, use builtin to attach it, and, voila!, it's a
builtin function. 

Unlike other functions in Algae that deal with files, builtin does
not accept the special "bang" type file names. (These are file names
that begin with an exclamation point and are given to the shell as a
command.) 

It isn't hard to create shared objects for builtin , but currently
there's no documentation for it. Perhaps you can find some code to
imitate. 

 Function: cd ( path ) 
 The cd function changes the current default directory to that
specified by the character scalar path . If path is NULL,
the directory is changed to that given by the HOME environment
variable. 

An exception is raised if an error occurs; otherwise, cd returns
the integer 1. 

 Function: eval ( s ) 
 The eval function evaluates the string s as an expression
and returns its value. Variable references, if any, have global scope.
For example, consider the following interaction: 

 &#62; x = 0.5;
&#62; str = "sin(x)";
&#62; eval (str)
 0.4794
&#62; x = 1.0;
&#62; eval (str)
 0.8415

Although the value of str remains "sin(x)" , the result of
 eval(str) changes when the value of x changes. 

Unlike its prominent place in some matrix programming languages,
 eval is rarely necessary in Algae. Most examples of its use are
rather contrived. Here's some code which evaluates an expression typed
in by the user: 

 x = eval (read ("!echo -n \"expression? \" 1>&2 ; head -1"))

One use for eval that may not be quite so contrived involves
building a function within a function--something that you can't do
directly in Algae. Here's an example: 

 add_const = function (c)
{
 return eval (sprintf ("function (x) { return x+%g; }"; c));
};

This could then be used as follows: 

 &#62; ten_more = add_const( 10 );
&#62; ten_more(1)?
 11

Probably the most common mistake made with eval is giving it a
statement instead of an expression. If that's really what you want to
do, use the exec function instead. 

Remember, too, that all variable references are at global scope. For
example, the function 

 function( a; b ) { return eval( "a + b" ); }

returns the sum of the global variables a and b ; it
completely ignores the function's arguments, as they are local
variables. 

See also exec .

 Function: exception ( ) 
 This function "raises an exception", meaning that Algae makes an error
return. If execution is interactive, control returns to the user.
Otherwise, Algae exits. 

 Function: exec ( s ) 
 The exec function causes algae to parse and execute the
Algae statements contained in the character string s . Execution
begins at global scope, even if exec is called from a function.
It returns a negative integer if an error occurs, and zero otherwise. 

See also eval and source .

 Function: exit ( status ) 
 This function terminates Algae. The optional argument status 
specifies the exit status that Algae returns. On most computer
platforms, the exit status is expected to be a small, positive integer.
The status argument to exit should be numeric scalar. If
 exit is called with anything else, Algae returns 0 as its exit
status. 

A call to exit is not mandatory in your Algae programs. Algae
terminates when it reaches the end of its input, returning exit status
0. If an error causes Algae to terminate, exit status 1 is returned. 

 Function: file ( ) 
 The file function returns the name of the file from which
statements are currently being executed. 

 Function: get_path ( env; def ) 
 The get_path function returns a path list, for use in file
searching. The argument env , if it isn't NULL, gives the name of
an environment variable containing a colon-separated list of paths. The
 def argument gives a default value, in case env isn't given
or doesn't exist. 

See also search_path and src .

 Function: getenv ( ename ) 
 The getenv function returns a character scalar that contains the
value of the environment variable named by ename . If no such
variable exists, NULL is returned. 

 Function: line ( ) 
 The line function returns the line number from which it is
called. 

 Function: provide ( feature ) 
 A feature is simply a name that stands for a particular collection
of functions or other entities. A program announces that a feature is
present by calling the provide function with feature , the
name of that feature. This means that the facilities associated with
 feature have been made available for other Algae programs. 

Programs that require a particular feature can source the appropriate
file with the require function. 

The argument feature must be a character scalar. It is added to
the global variable $features if it is not already present in
that vector. The provide function returns feature . 

 Function: require ( feature; filename ) 
 A feature is simply a name that stands for a particular collection
of functions or other entities. A program that needs the collection may
ensure that they are defined by calling require with the name of
that feature. The use of named features simplifies the task of
determining whether required assignments have been made. 

The require function checks for the feature named feature 
in the current Algae session; if it isn't present, then require 
reads the source file filename with src . If filename 
is NULL , then the value of feature is used as the file
name. 

Before it finishes, the source file read by require is expected
to call the provide function, indicating that the desired feature
has been provided. An exception is raised if the source file cannot be
read or does not provide the feature named feature . 

 Function: search_path ( fn; suffices; path ) 
 The search_path function searches for a file in the directories
named in path . The file name begins with the string given by
 fn , with one of the suffices given by suffices . 

 Function: source ( fname ) 
 This function causes algae to parse and execute the file named
 fname . Execution begins at global scope, even if source is
called from a function. It returns NULL if it has a problem opening
 fname , a negative integer if a parse or run time error occurs, and
zero otherwise. 

The file is closed after it is read. 

See also exec and sources .

 Function: sources ( fname ) 
 The sources function causes algae to parse and execute
specified files. The character scalar fname is passed through
sh(1) to ls(1), so file name generation is available and multiple names
may be given. For example, 

 sources( "*.A" );

sources all of the files ending with `.A' in your working
directory. Although you could use the source function to do this
as 

 source( "!cat *.A" );

using sources is preferable because it maintains the correct file
and line information for the interpreter. 

The "pipe" capability normally available to Algae I/O functions is not
permitted in sources . Command substitution works, though, as
demonstrated here: 

 sources( "`find $HOME -name '*.A' -print`" );

This example sources every file ending with `.A' found in any
subdirectory under your home directory. 

 Function: src ( filename ) 
 The src function finds and opens a file of Algae code, executes
the statements within it at global scope, and then closes the file.
This function, rather than source or sources , is intended
to be the normal way to source files directly. Other functions that may
be used to source files are require and autosrc . 

To find the file, src looks first for a file named
 ` filename .A' , that is, it appends `.A' to the name given
by the argument filename . If a file with that name exists, it is
sourced; otherwise, src looks for a file named filename 
with nothing appended, and sources it if it exists. 

If filename is a relative file name, such as `foo' or
 `foo/bar.A' , src searches for the file using the variable
 $src_path . It appends filename to each of the directories
listed in the character vector $src_path (both with and without
the `.A' ), and sources the first file it finds whose name matches.
The current default directory is tried only if it is specified in
 $src_path . 

No directory searching is performed if filename is an absolute
file name. File names that begin with `/' , `./' , `../' ,
or `~/' are absolute. If the file name begins with `~/' , the
tilde is replaced with the value of the HOME environment
variable. 

A file name that begins with the `!' character is a pipe; the rest
of the file name is given as a command line to the shell, the standard
output of which is then read by src . For example, 

 src("!m4 foo.A")

runs the file `foo.A' through the m4 macro preprocessor
first before src reads it. 

The $src_path 
vector is initialized from the environment variable
 ALGAE_SRC_PATH , if it exists. It may be modified in either of
the startup files `/usr/local/lib/algae/3.6.2/algae.A' or
 `$HOME/.algae' . (See section 7.1 Startup Files .) 

The syntax of ALGAE_SRC_PATH is the same as that of PATH for
the shell; fields are separated by `:' , and `.' is used for
the current default directory. To set ALGAE_SRC_PATH in the Bourne
shell, type something like the following: 

 export ALGAE_SRC_PATH
ALGAE_SRC_PATH=.:~/algae:/usr/local/lib/algae

Execution of the Algae code in filename begins at global scope.
For example, if the source file contains the single statement
 x=1 , the assignment is made to the global variable x 
regardless of whether src was called from within a function or
not. 

The src function raises an exception if filename cannot be
found. It returns NULL if it cannot be opened, a negative integer
if a parse or run-time error occurs, and 0 otherwise. 

 Function: strip ( f ) 
 The strip function removes all file and line information from the
given function f . The parser ordinarily includes this information
so that, for example, run-time error messages can identify the line on
which they occurred. If an error occurs in a function that has been
stripped, then the error is attributed instead to the calling
expression. 

This function may also be useful in conjunction with profiling. Any
time spent in a call to a stripped function gets charged to the file and
line from which it was called. 

All members of f are left unchanged as members of the return value.

 Function: system ( s ) 
 This function passes the string s to the command processor for
execution. On a UNIX system, for example, the statement
 system("ls") lists the files in the current directory. If the
call succeeds, the exit status is returned; otherwise a -1 is returned. 

 6.9 Special Tools 

 Function: npsol ( objective; start; constraints; options; state ) 
 The npsol function uses a sequential quadratic programming method
to minimize a given objective function subject to given constraints.
The domain of the objective function is called the "design space", and
the coordinates of the design space are called "design
variables". 

This function uses the NPSOL package of Fortran routines developed and
sold by Stanford University. Your version of Algae might not have the
 npsol builtin function; if not, it probably means that you don't
have a license for NPSOL or that there was some problem installing it on
your computer. 

The objective argument may be either a function or a table. If a
function, then it's assumed to take one argument, a vector of design
variables, and return the value of the objective at that point. If
 objective is a table, it may have the following members: 

 objf 
 A function that returns the value of the objective function for the
vector of design variables given as its first argument. If the member
 params exists in objective , then it is passed as a second
argument to objf . 

 objgrd 
 A function that returns the sensitivities of the objective function;
that is, the first derivatives with respect to the design variables.
Its arguments are the same as for objf . 

 params 
 This member, if it exists, is passed as the second argument to
 objf and objgrd , providing a means for passing additional
parameters to those functions. 

Only the objf member is required.

The start argument is a vector that specifies the starting
point. 

The constraints argument is a table that may contain any of all of
the following members: 

 side_constraints 
 A matrix that specifies upper and lower constraints on values of the
design variables. This matrix has two columns, the first column giving
lower bounds and the second column giving upper bounds. If this member
is not given, then a default is provided using 1.0E10 as "infinity".
In that case, you should be aware that NPSOL will take these values
literally if you also use the "infinite_bound" option (in
 options ) with a value greater than 1.0E10. 

 linear_constraints 
 A table that may contain any or all of the following members: 

 coefficients 
 A matrix of the linear constraint coefficients. The i-th row contains
the coefficients for the i-th linear constraint. 

 bounds 
 A matrix, like side_constraints , that gives the upper and lower
bounds for the linear constraints. If not given, defaults are provided
as with side_constraints . 

 nonlinear_constraints 
 A table that may contain any or all of the following members:

 values 
 Either a function that computes the vector of nonlinear constraint
function values at the given point, or a table in which member
 conf is a function returning the values and congrd is a
function returning the gradients. The constraint gradients, if
provided, should be given as a matrix in which the rows correspond to
the constraints and the columns correspond to the design variables. As
in objectives , a member called params may also be
included. 

 bounds 
 A matrix, like side_constraints , that gives the upper and lower
bounds for the nonlinear constraints. If not given, defaults are
provided as with side_constraints . 

The options argument is a table that may contain any of the valid
NPSOL options. For example, { hessian = "yes" } specifies the
corresponding option in NPSOL. Use an underscore instead of blanks
between words, as in { major_print_level = 1 } . The valid
options are: 

 central_difference_interval 
 If the algorithm switches to central differences because the
forward-difference approximation is not sufficiently accurate, this value
is used as the difference interval for every variable. 

 cold_start 
 warm_start 
 These flags control the specification of the initial working set in
both the procedure for finding a feasible point for the linear
constraints and bounds, and in the first QP subproblem thereafter. With
a cold_start , the first working set is chosen by npsol 
based on the values of the variables and constraints at the initial
point. Broadly speaking, the initial working set will include equality
constraints and bounds or inequality constraints that violate or
"nearly" satisfy their bounds within crash_tolerance . With a
 warm_start , the user must provide the state table. A warm
start will be advantageous if a good estimate of the initial working set
is available--for example, when npsol is called repeatedly to
solve related problems. 

 crash_tolerance 
 This value is used in conjunction with the optional parameter
 cold_start , which is the default. When making a cold start, the
QP algorithm in npsol must select an initial working set. The
initial working set will include, if possible, bounds or general
inequality constraints that lie within crash_tolerance of their
bounds. The default value is 0.01. If crash_tolerance is less
than zero or greater than one, the default value is used. 

 derivative_level 
 This value indicates which objective and constraint derivatives are
provided by the user. The choices are as follows:

 0 
 Neither objective nor constraint derivatives are provided. 

 1 
 The objective derivatives are provided by the objgrd function in
argument objective . Constraint derivatives are not
provided. 

 2 
 The nonlinear constraint derivatives are provided by the congrd 
function in argument constraints . Objective derivatives are not
provided. 

 3 
 The objective derivatives are provided by the objgrd function in
argument objective , and the nonlinear constraint derivatives are
provided by the congrd function in argument constraints . 

The value 3 is the default, and should be used whenever possible, since
 npsol is more reliable and will usually be more efficient when
all derivatives are exact. 

If derivative_level is 0 or 2, npsol will estimate the
objective gradients using finite differences. The computation of
finite-difference approximations usually increases the total run time,
since a call to the objective function is required for each constraint.
Furthermore, less accuracy can be attained in the solution. 

If derivative_level is 0 or 1, npsol will approximate the
constraint gradients. One call to the constraint function is required
for each variable. At times, central differences are used rather than
forward differences, in which case twice as many calls to the objective
and constraint functions are needed. The switch to central differences
is not under the user's control. 

 difference_interval 
 This value defines an interval used to estimate gradients by finite
differences in the following circumstances: (1) for verifying the
objective and constraint gradients, and (2) for estimating the objective
or constraint derivatives. If a difference interval is not specified by
the user, a finite difference interval will be computed automatically
for each variable by a procedure that requires up to six calls of the
objective and constraint functions for each component. This option is
recommended if the function is badly scaled or the user wishes to have
 npsol determine constant elements in the objective and constraint
gradients. 

 feasibility_tolerance 
 This value defines the maximum acceptable absolute violations in linear
and nonlinear constraints at a "feasible" point; i.e., a constraint is
considered satisfied if its violation does not exceed this value. The
default value is the square root of machine precision. 

 function_precision 
 This value is intended to be a measure of the accuracy with which the
objective and constraint functions can be computed. It acts as a
relative precision when the magnitude is large, and as an absolute
precision when the magnitude is small. For example, if the objective
function is typically on the order of 1000 and the first 6 digits are
known to be correct, then function_precision should be set to
1.0E-6. In contrast, if the objective function is typically on the
order of 1.0E-4 and the first 6 digits are known to be correct, then
 function_precision should be set to 1.0E-10. The choice of
 function_precision can be quite complicated for badly scaled
problems. The default value is machine precision raised to the 0.9
power; this is appropriate for most simple functions that are computed
with full accuracy. However, when the accuracy of the computed function
values is known to be significantly worse than full precision, then
 function_precision should be large enough that npsol will
not attempt to distinguish between function values that differ by less
than the error inherent in the calculation. 

 hessian 
 This option must be either "yes" or "no" . (The default is
 "no" ). This option controls the contents of the R matrix
in state . The user should set hessian to "yes" if
the state table returned is to be used for a subsequent warm
start. 

 infinite_bound_size 
 If this value is greater than zero, it defines the "infinite" bound
in the definition of the problem constraints. Any upper bound greater
than or equal to this value will be regarded as positive infinity. Any
lower bound less than or equal to the negative of this value will be
regarded as negative infinity. The default value is 1.0E10. 

 infinite_step_size 
 This value specifies the magnitude of the change in variables that is
treated as a step to an unbounded solution. If the change in any
variable during an iteration would exceed the value of
 infinite_step_size , the objective function is considered to be
unbounded below in the feasible region. The default is the greater of
 infinite_bound_size and 1.0E10. 

 iteration_limit 
 This value specifies the maximum number of major iterations allowed
before termination. 

 linear_feasibility_tolerance 
 nonlinear_feasibility_tolerance 
 These values define the maximum acceptable absolute violations in linear
and nonlinear constraints at a "feasible" point. A constraint is
considered satisfied if its violation does not exceed this value. The
default value for both options is the square root of machine
precision. 

On entry to npsol , an iterative procedure is executed in order to
find a point that satisfies the linear constraints and bounds on the
variables to within linear_feasibility_tolerance . All subsequent
iterates will satisfy the linear constraints to within the same
tolerance, unless this value is comparable to the finite difference
interval. 

For nonlinear constraints, nonlinear_feasibility_tolerance 
defines the largest constraint violation that is acceptable at an
optimal point. Since nonlinear constraints are generally not satisfied
until the final iterate, this value acts as a partial termination
criterion for the iterative sequence. 

These tolerances should reflect the precision of the corresponding
constraints. for example, if the variables and the coefficients in the
linear constraints are of order unity, and the latter are correct to
about 6 decimal digits, it would be appropriate to specify
 linear_feasibility_tolerance as 1.0E-6. 

 linesearch_tolerance 
 This value controls the accuracy with which a step taken during each
iteration approximates a minimum of the merit function along the search
direction. The smaller the value, the more accurate the line search.
The default value is 0.9; it requests an inaccurate search that is
appropriate for most problems, particularly those with any nonlinear
constraints. 

If there are non nonlinear constraints, a more accurate search may be
appropriate when it is desirable to reduce the number of major
iterations--for example, if the objective function is cheap to evaluate
or if the gradients are not specified. 

 list 
 If this flag is given, all of the options and their values are
printed. 

 print_level 
 This value controls the amount of printed output produced by the major
iterations of npsol . The levels are as follows: 

 0 
 No output. This is the default.

 1 
 The final solution only.

 5 
 One line of output for each major iteration, but no final
solution. 

 10 
 The final solution and one line of output for each iteration. 

 20 
 At each major iteration, the objective function, the Euclidean norm of
the nonlinear constraint violations, the value of the nonlinear
constraints, the values of the linear constraints, and the current
values of the variables. 

 minor_iteration_limit 
 This value specifies the maximum number of iterations for the optimality
phase of each QP subproblem. 

 minor_print_level 
 This value controls the amount of printout produced by the minor
iterations of npsol . The levels are as follows: 

 0 
 No output. This is the default. 

 1 
 The final QP solution.

 5 
 One line of output for each minor iteration, but no final QP
solution. 

 10 
 The final QP solution and one line of output for each minor iteration.

 20 
 At each minor iteration, the current estimates of the QP multipliers,
the current estimate of the QP search direction, the QP constraint
values, and the status of each QP constraint. 

 optimality_tolerance 
 This value specifies the accuracy to which the user wishes the final
iterate to approximate a solution of the problem. Broadly speaking, it
indicates the number of correct figures desired in the objective
function at the solution. For example, if optimality_tolerance 
is 1.0E-6 and npsol terminates successfully, the final value of
the objective function should have approximately 6 correct figures. The
 npsol function will terminate successfully if the iterative
sequence is judged to have converged and the final point satisfies the
first-order optimality conditions. 

 verify_level 
 This value refers to finite-difference checks on the gradients computed
by the user function objgrd and congrd . It may take on
one of the following values: 

 -1 
 No checks are made.

 0 
 Perform only a very inexpensive check, involving one call to the
objective function and one call to the constraint function. 

 1 
 Perform a reliable but expensive check on the objective
gradients. 

 2 
 Perform a reliable but expensive check on the constraint
gradients. 

 3 
 Perform reliable but expensive checks on both the objective and the
constraint gradients. 

These checks are recommended whenever a new function routine is being
developed. 

The state argument is used only when the NPSOL "warm_start"
option is requested. It may be obtained from the return of a previous
call to npsol . Its members are: 

 ISTATE 
 A vector describing the status of the constraints.

 CLAMDA 
 The Lagrange multiplier estimates for the nonlinear constraints.

 R 
 The factored Hessian of the Lagrangian function.

The npsol function returns a table containing the following
members: 

 objective 
 The value of the objective function at the final iterate.

 solution 
 The solution vector (or final estimate) for the problem.

 inform 
 The INFORM value (success/error indicator) returned by NPSOL. The
possibilities are: 

 0 
 The iterates have converged to a point that satisfies the first-order
optimality conditions to the accuracy requested by the optional
parameter optimality_tolerance , i.e., the projected gradient and
active constraint residuals are negligible. (Success.) 

 1 
 The final iterate satisfies the first-order optimality conditions to the
accuracy requested, but the sequence of iterates has not yet converged.
NPSOL was terminated because no further improvement could be made in the
merit function. (Probable success.) 

 2 
 No feasible point could be found for the linear constraints and bounds.
The problem has no feasible solution. 

 3 
 No feasible point could be found for the nonlinear constraints. The
problem may have no feasible solution. 

 4 
 The limiting number of iterations, determined by the optional parameter
 major_iteration_limit , has been reached. 

 6 
 The current point does not satisfy the first-order optimality
conditions, and no improved point for the merit function could be found
during the final line search. 

 7 
 The user-provided derivatives of the objective function and/or nonlinear
constraints appear to be incorrect. 

 9 
 An input parameter is invalid.

 iter 
 The number of major iterations performed.

 state 
 The state table described above.

 Function: plot ( ... ) 
 The plot , splot , replot , and unplot 
functions provide an interface to the gnuplot program for plotting
data. Use plot for plotting lines in two or three dimensions;
 splot is for plotting surfaces in three dimensions. 

To use these plotting functions effectively, you will probably need some
familiarity with the gnuplot commands. For example, to add a title to an
existing plot, you'd type something like replot("set title 'Good
Stuff'") . Read the gnuplot manual or its on-line help for more
information. 

The plot function accepts as many as three arguments. If either
or both of the first two arguments are (or can be converted to)
character vectors, then their elements are sent, each on a separate
line, to gnuplot as commands. For example, plot("set term X11") 
causes gnuplot to generate X11 output. Even commands that request
information from gnuplot, like plot("show term") are acceptable
(although you might temporarily lose sight of Algae's prompt). Don't use
the "exit" or "quit" commands of gnuplot--they cause gnuplot to
exit without Algae knowing about it. 

If more than one argument is given to plot and the last one is an
integer scalar, then it is taken to be an identifier for the plot
process. This allows you to have more than one plot open at a time. If
no identifier is given, then the active plot is killed and replaced by a
new one with the same identifier. The "active" plot is the one last
referenced, or 1 if there are no plots open. The replot function
may be used to modify an open plot. 

Any other arguments given to plot are taken to be data to be
plotted. Vectors are plotted using their element values as ordinates
and their labels for the abscissae. Matrices with 2 columns are plotted
using the second column for ordinates and the first column for
abscissae. A matrix with 3 columns is plotted as a curve in three
dimensions, with the third column specifying the ordinates. Surface
plots are obtained using the splot function. 

If the data given to plot is a vector, but has no labels, then
the element indices are used instead of the labels. 

Multiple curves may be shown on the same plot, either by giving
 plot two data arguments or (better yet) supplying the data in a
table. When data is given in a table (even if it contains only one
member), the member name is used in the plot legend. Otherwise,
 plot uses the names "y_1" and "y_2". 

If the data is given in a table, any members that are tables themselves
are given to gnuplot in a single data file. This means that the same
line and point type is used. For example, if x and y are
vectors to be plotted, then plot({x;y}) plots the two, each
with a different line and point type and described by name in the
legend. On the other hand, plot({z={x;y}}) plots them with
the same line and point type and names the combination "z" in the
legend. 

If plot is called with no arguments, it returns a vector of the
open plot identifiers. This vector is sorted from most to least
recently referenced, so the "active" plot is first. 

Here's an example that simulates the Van der Pol system and plots the
results: 

 xdot = function( t; x ) {
 return x[1]*(1-x[2]^2)-x[2], x[1];
}
x = ode( xdot; 0; 20; 0,.25 );
plot( "set data style lines"; { x1=x[1;]; x2=x[2;] } );

See also splot , replot , and unplot .

 Function: replot ( ... ) 
 The replot function is used to modify or redisplay plots created
with either the plot or splot functions. It takes at most
2 arguments. If the first argument has character type, it is passed to
gnuplot as commands. 

The last argument is the optional plot identifier. If not given, the
active plot is used by default. 

See also plot , splot , and unplot .

 Function: splot ( ... ) 
 The splot function is used to plot surfaces in three dimensions.
Except for the form of the data, its input is identical to that of the
 plot function. The data is specifed as a matrix of ordinates.
The labels of the matrix, or the corresponding indices if the labels
don't exist, are used for the abscissae. 

See also plot , replot , and unplot .

 Function: umin ( objective; start; options ) 
 The umin function performs unconstrained minimization using the
Nelder-Mead direct search method. It does not have the features or
sophistication of npsol , but it works well for some
cases--particularly when the objective surface is not smooth. 

The objective argument is a function that takes one or two
arguments and returns the value of the objective at that point. The
first argument is a vector of design variables. The second
argument, which is optional, is passed unchanged from the params 
member of the options argument to umin itself. 

The start argument is an integer or real vector that specifies the
starting point. 

The options augument may be either NULL or a table containing
convergence and other specifications. The meaningful options are: 

 bound 
 The minimum value permitted for the objective function. The default is
-1e32. 

 display 
 A function called at each "successful" iteration with the current design
point as its only argument. This may be used, for example, to plot the
design as it changes. 

 evals 
 The maximum number of objective function evaluations permitted. The
default value is 1000. 

 iter 
 The maximum number of iterations permitted. The default value is
100. 

 params 
 The value of this member is passed as the second argument to the
objective function. 

 right 
 If this member exists, then the initial simplex has right angles. By
default, the initial simplex has sides of equal length. 

 size 
 The initial size of the simplex. By default, this is the greater of 1
and the infinity norm of the starting vector. 

 tol 
 The relative size of the simplex, below which the iteration is taken to
have converged. The tolerance is 1e-6 by default. 

 verbose 
 If this member exists, then information is printed at each "successful"
iteration. 

The return value from umin is a table with the following
members: 

 evals 
 The number of objective function evaluations. 

 inform 
 A return code specifying success or failure: 

 0 
 success

 1 
 failure, objective bound reached

 2 
 failure, function evaluation limit exceeded

 3 
 failure, iteration limit exceeded

 iter 
 The number of iterations performed. 

 msg 
 A message corresponding to the inform code. 

 obj 
 The final objective value. 

 sol 
 The final design point. 

This code is based on nmsmax , a MATLAB function by Nick
Higham. 

See also npsol .

 Function: unplot ( id ) 
 The unplot function is used to terminate plots created with the
 plot or splot functions. The integer scalar or vector
argument id specifies the identifiers of the plots to be
terminated. If no id is given, the active plot is terminated.
You can terminate all open plots with unplot(plot()) . 

See also plot , replot , and splot .

 6.10 Miscellaneous 

 Function: all ( x ) 
 The all function evaluates the "truth" of its argument x 
in the same way that the function test does, except that vectors
and matrices are "true" only if all of their elements are "true".
For example, all(1,0) returns 0 while test(1,0) returns
1. If x has no elements, all returns 0. 

See also test and equal .

 Function: atof ( s ) 
 The atof function converts character strings to real numbers.
The argument s may be a scalar, vector, or matrix. The function
reads only up to the first unrecognized character of each string, and
ignores anything that remains. If the first character of a string is
unrecognized, then the value is taken to be zero. 

 Function: char ( v ) 
 The char function converts the vector v into a character
string; each element of v contributes a single character according
to its ASCII value. For example, char(65,66,67) returns the
string "ABC" . 

If an element of v is less than 0 or greater than 255, then it
will "wrap" (modulo 256). Thus char(65) and
 char(65+256) both return the string "A" . 

Algae's character strings are terminated with a NUL (0) character. For
the char function, that means that if an element of v is
zero (or a multiple of 256) then the string is terminated at that
point. For example, char(65,0,66) yields the string
 "A" . 

 Function: class ( x ) 
 The class function returns a character string (such as "scalar"
or "table") that describes the class of x . 

 Function: equal ( a; b ) 
 This function tests a and b for equality. For vectors and
matrices, it returns true (1) only if every pair of corresponding
elements is equal, and false (0) otherwise. For all other classes, this
function returns the same value as the expression a==b 
would. 

See also test .

 Function: members ( e ) 
 This function returns a vector containing the names of the members of
 e . 

 Function: info ( topic ) 
 This function starts up an interactive browser for Algae's
documentation. The optional argument topic (a character scalar)
takes you directly to that topic. For example, info("sort") 
takes you directly to the description of the sort 
function. 

If possible, info uses an X-based html browser (like netscape
or mosaic). Otherwise, a character-based html browser (like lynx)
will be tried. As a final resort, the GNU Info browser is called. 

The names of the available browsers are assigned by the startup code
(see section 7.1 Startup Files ) as members xhtml , html , and
 info of the global table $programs . To prevent
 algae from using a particular browser, simply set the
appropriate member of $programs to a zero-length string. If
you prefer to use Info, for example, you could simply put the
line 

 $programs.xhtml = $programs.html = "";

in your `.algae' file.

 Function: prof ( infile; outfile; threshold ) 
 The prof function reads an `algae.out' file produced by
 algae 's execution profiler (the `-p' option), and summarizes
it by file and by line number. The infile argument specifies the
file name. outfile specifies the output file; if it's NULL,
stdout is used. 

The threshold argument may be used to truncate the summary
listings. The truncation occurs after enough entries have been printed
to account for threshold percent of the total number of hits. If
 threshold is NULL, no truncation is performed. 

Below is an example of prof output, obtained with the command
 prof("algae.out";;50); . 

 Algae execution profile listing.

628 total hits

--- by file ---

 hits % hits cum % file
 201 32.01 32.01 lqrtest.A
 127 20.22 52.23 /usr/local/lib/algae/ode.A

--- by line ---

 hits % hits cum % line file
 130 20.70 20.70 88 lqrtest.A
 42 6.69 27.39 1 /usr/local/lib/algae/plot.A
 40 6.37 33.76 38 lqrtest.A
 21 3.34 37.10 1 /usr/local/lib/algae/ode.A
 17 2.71 39.81 44 /usr/local/lib/algae/ode.A
 15 2.39 42.20 42 /usr/local/lib/algae/ode.A
 15 2.39 44.59 41 /usr/local/lib/algae/ode.A
 14 2.23 46.82 1 /usr/local/lib/algae/ode4.A
 12 1.91 48.73 1 /usr/local/lib/algae/spline.A
 10 1.59 50.32 1 lqrtest.A

First, notice that the number of hits counted in this example was only
628. Four digits of precision in the statistics are clearly unjustifed
with such a small sample. The first column reports the number of
profiler hits counted toward each particular file or line number. The
second column restates that as a percentage of the total number of hits.
The third column gives the cumulative percentage. 

All profiler hits that occur while algae is parsing a file are
counted toward its first line. This is normally insignificant compared
to execution, but it explains why line 1 shows up so often in the "by
line" report in the example above. 

No files are closed in prof . Normally, this means that you must
close them yourself if prof is to be called more than
once. 

 Function: show ( e ) 
 This function prints information about the entity e and its
members. 

 Function: split ( s; w ) 
 The split function takes a character scalar argument s ,
splits it into tokens, and returns the tokens in a character vector.
Each token is delimited by one or more characters from w . For
example, split("/bin:/usr/bin";":") returns the vector 

 ( "/bin" , "/usr/bin" )

If w is NULL, the string " \t\n" is used. Thus
 split("This is a test.") returns the vector 

 ( "This" , "is" , "a" , "test." )

 Function: string ( e ) 
 The string function converts its argument e to character
type. If e is NULL, a zero-length character scalar is returned.
For example, string(1/(1:3)) returns the vector 

 ( "1" , "0.5" , "0.333333" )

Currently, the output format cannot be changed.

 Function: substr ( c; start; length ) 
 The substr function returns the substring of the character string
 c , beginning at index start , with length length . The
integer start must be greater than zero; if it exceeds the length
of c , then a zero-length string is returned. If length is
NULL, then all of the remaining characters of c are returned;
otherwise, length must not be negative. 

See also dice , split , and string . 

 Function: test ( e ) 
 The test function evaluates the "truth" of e in the same
way that Algae's if statement would, returning 1 for true and 0
for false. The following entities are false: 

NULL.

Numeric arrays in which every element is zero.

Character arrays in which every element is "" .

Vectors and matrices with no elements.

Tables with no members.

All others are true. Notice that if e is an array
( scalar , vector , or matrix ), then test 
returns true if any element of e is nonzero (or has nonzero
length, for character type). 

An example of the use of test is Algae's equal function,
which is written as 

 equal = function( a; b ) { return !test( a != b ); }

If a and b are both matrices, then a!=b returns a
matrix that is all zeros only if every element pair is equal. In that
case, test returns 0 and ! changes that to 1. 

See also equal and all .

 Function: time ( ) 
 The time function returns the number of seconds of user time that
the current process has used. On most machines, its precision is not
much more than 1/10 of a second. 

 Function: tolower ( s ) 
 The tolower function converts strings to lower case. Every
letter is converted as appropriate for the current locale. The argument
 S may be a character scalar, vector, or matrix. 

See also toupper .

 Function: toupper ( s ) 
 The toupper function converts strings to upper case. Every
letter is converted as appropriate for the current locale. The argument
 S may be a character scalar, vector, or matrix. 

See also tolower .

 Function: what ( ) 
 The what function returns a table containing all of the global
functions. See also who . 

 Function: who ( opt ) 
 The who function returns a table containing all global variables
that are neither functions nor NULL. Variables with names that begin
with `$' are excluded, unless the optional argument opt 
equals "$" . See also what . 

 [ << ] 
 [ >> ] 
 [ Top ] 
 [ Contents ] 
 [ Index ] 
 [ ? ] 

This document was generated
by K. Scott Hunziker on October, 31 2001 
using texi2html