The Juno-106 FAQ 

 The Juno-106 FAQ 

 Last updated June 28, 1998. 

 This document will attempt to answer frequently asked
questions related to the Juno-106, a synthesizer introduced by
Roland in 1984. Questions, comments, corrections, or ideas for
additions to this FAQ can be mailed to Chad Beeder at syzygy@eskimo.com . 

 Contents: 

 What is the Juno-106? 
 How can I order a manual or replacement
 parts for my Juno? 
 How does the Juno-106 differ from other
 models in the Juno series? 
 What is the going rate for a used Juno-106? 

 What are some common problems that occur
 with the Juno-106? 
 Can the Juno-106 send and receive real-time
 MIDI sysex information? 
 Where can I get information on the
 Juno-106's MIDI implementation? 
 Where can I find patch editing/librarian
 software for the Juno-106? 

 What is the Juno-106? 

 The Juno-106 is a programmable polyphonic analog synthesizer
released by Roland in
1984. It has a 61-key keyboard, 6 voices, and a fairly extensive
MIDI implementation. For more information, check out the Juno-106 Home
Page . 

 How can I order a manual or replacement parts for my Juno? 

 Manuals and replacement parts can be ordered from Roland: 

 Roland Corporation
 7200 Dominion Circle
 Los Angeles, CA 90040
 Phone: (213) 685-5141 Fax: (213) 726-8865

 How does the Juno-106 differ from other models in the Juno
series? 

 A brief history of Junos: 

 The first Juno to be introduced was the Juno-6, which was
released in 1982 and has a very similar architecture to the 106.
Its main limitation is the lack of patch memory, which makes it
impossible to save patches created on it. The Juno-6 had no
external control inputs or outputs except for a VCF control input
for sweeping the filter cutoff. 

 Next came the Juno-60, which added support for storage and
retrieval of up to 56 patches via battery-backed memory. These
stored patches could also be saved to audio tape. The Juno-60 had
the Roland DCB interface, a proprietary interface developed by
Roland before the advent of MIDI. 

 The Juno-106 added a fairly extensive MIDI implementation in
place of the DCB interface, and upgraded the available patch
storage memory to 128 patches. It did, however, lose the
arpeggiator that had been a feature of the 6 and 60. Many people
say that the 106 is "thinner sounding" than the first
two models, although there is no doubt that it is still certainly
capable of generating warm, fat, analog sounds. 

 There is also a Roland synth called the HS-60 that is nearly
identical to the Juno-106 except that it has two built-in 5"
speakers and a 16 watt amplifier. The HS-60 was marketed more
toward the home user, while the Junos were primarily targeted at
the professional market. The HS-60 is also known as the
Juno-106S. 

 Later models were the Alpha Juno 1 and 2, which expanded on
the architecture a bit from the earlier models, and provided a
more extensive MIDI implementation. They also replaced the
convenient rows of sliders with a small alphanumeric display, a
number of buttons, and an "alpha dial." The general
consensus is that the Alpha Junos sound a little more
"digital" and "cold" than the earlier Junos,
although they are a little more modern in design and features.
The Alpha Juno 2 has a larger keyboard than the 1 (61 keys and 49
keys, respectively), and also implements velocity sensitivity and
aftertouch on the keyboard. Both of the Alpha Junos can respond
to velocity via MIDI, however. Velocity sensitivity is not a
feature of any earlier Junos. 

 What is the going rate for a used Juno-106? 

 Junos have had a recent surge in popularity, and prices seem
to have gone up a little, but they still should be available at
reasonable prices. I bought my Juno-106 in late 1994 for $375. A
good source for price information is Neil Bradley's Used Gear Price List ,
which compiles asking prices from recent for-sale postings on
Usenet. 

 What are some common problems that occur with the Juno-106? 

 As analog synths go, the Juno-106 is very reliable, but as
with any machine, problems sometimes do happen. The most common
problem seems to be having one of the six voices go out. This
will be characterized by the Juno skipping every sixth note
played when in the normal polyphonic mode (poly 1). This is most
often caused by one of the custom Roland ICs failing, either one
of the "wave generator" chips or one of the combination
VCF/VCA chips. 

 According to Kevin Lightner of www.synthfool.com , the most
common failure is with the VCF/VCA (80017A) chips. There are six
of these in the Juno, one for each voice. However, the three wave
generator chips (MC5534A) may fail too, and in fact this was my
experience with my Juno. (Each wave generator chip controls two
voices.) 

 Please note that replacing these chips involves a good deal of
patience and considerable skill with a soldering iron. If you
don't feel comfortable poking around a circuit board and
desoldering chips, don't attempt to fix this on your own. 

 You can find out which voice has the problem by putting the
Juno into test mode. Hold down the Key Transpose button while
turning on the power. Then press both the Poly I and Poly II
buttons at the same time. Now hit a key repeatedly. The Juno will
cycle through each voice in sequence, and the left digit on the
display will show which voice is currently sounding. For complete
information on the Juno-106 test mode, refer to the service
manual. There is also some information
on the test mode available on the Music Machines 
web site. 

 There are a few production runs of the 80017A VCF/VCA chip
which are known to be problematic. These can be identified by the
lot number, which is printed on the chip in the lower right
corner. Lots 41C and 42B are known to have problems. Here is a
scan of the original Roland service
bulletin which discusses this problem. 

 The following chart shows which ICs are associated with each
voice. These chips are all located on the module board in the
Juno. 

 Voice 
 Wave Generator Chip 
 (MC5534A) 
 VCF/VCA Chip 
 (80017A) 

 1 
 IC12 
 IC13 

 2 
 IC11 

 3 
 IC8 
 IC9 

 4 
 IC7 

 5 
 IC4 
 IC5 

 6 
 IC3 

 Note that sometimes not all parts of a voice go out. In my
case, it was only the sub-oscillator on voice 4 which stopped
working, while the sawtooth and pulse waves still worked fine.
(This was probably one indicator that it was the wave generator
chip, and not the VCF/VCA chip, which was causing the problem. If
the VCF/VCA chip had gone out, the expected behavior would have
been for the entire voice to be dead, not just one part of it.) 

 Obligatory disclaimer: This information is provided as an aid
for Juno-106 users but is not guaranteed to work for everyone. If
you go poking around your Juno with a soldering iron, you do so
at your own risk. If you don't know what you're doing, you should
probably take your unit to an authorized Roland service center. 

 Can the Juno-106 send and receive real-time MIDI sysex
information? 

 Yes. When the "MIDI function" switch on the unit is
set to mode III, the Juno will send a MIDI system exclusive
message for every movement of the patch control sliders or
buttons. If you have a sequencer capable of recording real-time
sysex (many aren't), this information can be recorded and played
back as part of a sequence. Another possible use for this feature
is linking two Juno-106s together via MIDI; the second unit would
mimic anything done on the first one. Slightly detuning one unit
and mixing the two outputs together could provide whole new
levels of fat bassy sound. 

 Where can I get information on the Juno-106's MIDI
implementation? 

 Complete MIDI implementation is available in the Juno-106
owner's manual; I now have this information 
available here as well. There is also some information 
available on the Music Machines web site. 

 Where can I find patch editing/librarian software for the
Juno-106? 

 There is Juno-106 patch editing/librarian software for many
platforms available on the Internet. Here are links to a few. If
you have any you'd like me to add, mail me with the URL and I'll
check it out. 

 Windows 

 MS-DOS 

 Macintosh 
 Atari 

 That's it for now! If you have any additional questions that I
haven't answered, please let me know and I'll see about adding
them to the FAQ.