The Ouijas Extras 

 RuneQuest Goodies and Extras 

 Here are a few things to add spice to your
existing campaigns. I am always looking for things to add to the
site, send something if you want, if I like it, it'll find it's
way onto here somewhere. 

 Normal offerings here... 

 Adventure
 in the Stinking Forest Campaign . Found in
 Northern Sartar, this region us mysterious and far too close to Dragon
 Pass and the Red Moon Goddess followers. 
 Hand Held Weapons . More
 expansive than before. A complete listing of existing and
 new weapons for RQ including information of Rune Metals. 
 Armor, Helms and Shields . A new
 and large selection of armors, shields, and helms for use
 with RQ including specialized rules for using Rune Metals
 and Beast Skins. 
 Missile Weapons . A new listing
 of Missile Weapons and other thrown stickers for use with
 RQ also including rules for using special Rune Metals in
 their creation. 
 Huge list of Chaos Features .
 An extensive expansion of the existing set of features.
 This is a growing list that will continue to expand from
 users input, check back every now and then for more. 
 New Rules for Spirit Combat .
 Give these rules a peek, Spirit Combat has in the past
 been dull, take a look at this system including a fumble
 chart and critical chart. Not overly complex yet very
 thorough. Also includes a section devoted to the
 creation of Chaos Weapons! 
 Creature Locations for RQ .
 Ever need a quick little picture of a creature with
 locations by numbers already marked out? Here is listing
 of many of the typical creature locations and numbers in
 easy to use black and white GIF format (savable as BMP),
 they even kind of look like the creature they represent.
 Just insert them into your own adventures for ease of use! 
 RuneQuest File Downloads , a collection of
 various documents from this site. 
 Magica, DnD Spell system for RQ , a special
 sorcery system that takes after the same feel of the RQ combat system. 
 An article on the Stormbull Cult
 center, The Block 
 Link
 to an excellent Source of Runic Folklore! Check it out! 
 Other RQ links on the web 
 Some Quick rules that let you blend ADnD and RQ to a hybrid . 
 NPC Corner 
 Adventures and Maps