SeattleOtaku: Review - Gasaraki 

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 T outed as "the thinking fan's giant-robot show" 
( Animerica ), Gasaraki builds up tension
and intrigue slowly, with a slight mix of realism and mysticism as well,
using real news audio from the Gulf War and twisting names and event orders,
yet with a mystery of past lives and an awaiting "terror". 

 The "robots" themselves, designed by the creator of another classic
favorite Armored Trooper Votoms , are one-pilot bipedal tanks.
This is one of the best of the many post- Evangelion giant robot
shows (with arguably a better ending). 

 Story Intro 

 During the first episode, we learn that Yushiro Gowa, member of a
politically powerful family corporation in Japan, is an "invitator" or "kai",
someone with the ability to use a traditional Noh dance to bring into this
world a creature from another dimension, with a bit of scientific help. 
We see a glimpse of the dimensional gate in the first episode before
Yushiro is jarred out of his trance by a vision of a girl begging him to
stop. 

 Between politial and military struggles, Yushiro contiues going into
Noh trances in experiments run by the rest of the Gowa corporation and
family, who are designing and testing military armour suits known as
"fakes". A rival corporation also developing fakes has its own invitator,
Miharu, the girl from Yushiro's vision. Through the series, Yushiro and
Miharu learn that they are linked by more than their battle skills alone
as they become eventual allies on the run from their respective agencies
and try to stop the return of "the terror", Gasaraki. 

 Other Notes 

 This is a pretty slow-moving series at the beginning. The first episode
shows a brief introduction of the "terror" involved with the dimensional
gate, but the plot progresses slowly after that, until well into the second
half of the show. If fast action is the top priority in your viewing habits,
you may want to skip this one; but if, like me, you like an occasional deep
plot and realistic intrigue, give this one a shot. 

 Gasaraki 
 Distributed by A.D. Vision Inc. 

-->

 Home 
 Reviews 
 Seiyuu/Actors 
 Clubs 
 Conventions 
 Shopping 
 LiveJournal 
 About Me 

 Feedback Appreciated .

 Copyright &copy;1994-2003 by Eric T. Jorgensen. 
 All rights reserved. Do not copy/redistribute.