C.M. Connelly: Wishlist! 

 &#160; 

 Blog | 
 Debian | 
 Work | 
 R&eacute;sum&eacute; | 
 About... 

 Wishlist! 

 All that stuff I want, but haven't gotten around to (or can't
afford to) buy myself. 

 Actually, there isn't really all that much here. I guess I'm not
that material these days, but we'll see. I'm also not going to list
computers, or stereo equipment, or any of that sort of thing here&#8212;I'm pretty picky, and most everything I'd want would be too expensive
to ask for from someone else. 

 I've also set up wish lists at Amazon&#8212;although I think Amazon is
kind of evil, after spending almost six months in Southern California,
where bookstores appear to be few and far between, I can't see how it makes
much of a difference whether I support Amazon, which will give me a
discount on books, or the &#8220;local&#8221; Borders, which is a giant, evil
chain store that won't give discounts (unless I buy from their
website, which is run by&#8212;you guessed it!&#8212;Amazon): 

 Amazon.com 
 Amazon.co.uk 

 The Levenger Editor's Desk 

 I
think these desks look pretty useful. Of course I really 
needed one last year, but I hope and expect to continue to work on
written material, and I can see a role for one well into the
future. 

 It looks like they've replaced the large desk with a
 folding
model , which is US$189. (Plus $16 for a writing pad , which seems like a good idea.) 

 Ergo Desk makes a similar,
more adjustable (and more expensive&#8212;US$199, in alderwood), desk . I'm no longer really sure which desk is better&#8212;the adjustibility of the ErgoDesk seems like a nice feature, but I don't think they look quite as nice. I've actually seen them, in a Relax the Back Store in Burnaby.

 Books 

 You almost certainly want to check my Amazon lists for books, but
the following are some highlights. 

 Jess: A Grand Collage, 1951&#8211;1993 

 I've been looking for this book since when I was really poor,
couldn't find it when I had money, nor when I didn't again, and now
I've given in and ordered it from Canada. I saw this exhibit at the
San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, and it was awesome. Jess does
collage&#8212;and not little, dainty collage, but big, robust, complex
collage. I'm talking about human-size Tarot cards made with thousands
of tiny pieces of newpaper and magazine advertisements. Awesome
stuff. 

 Christopher Alexander (et al.) 

 I have long lusted after A Pattern Language:
Towns, Buildings, Construction (Oxford University Press,
1987. ~US$50.00). What can I say&#8212;I love architecture, and I love
thinking about what kinds of buildings I'd design, if anyone let
me. 

 In the end, I bought A Pattern Language for myself.
But Alexander has a new book&#8212; The Nature of Order , a
summary of his life's work in four volumes&#8212;out from Oxford
University Press. 

 Charles Dickens 

 No, really! I hated reading Dickens when I was in school&#8212; Great Expectations , Oliver Twist ,
 The Mystery of Edwin Drood (okay, okay, I
voluntarily read the last one). But I recently read A
Tale of Two Cities , and (aside from some of the
characterizations being a bit annoying) it was good. 

 Anyway, the winner here is undoubtedly the 21-volume Oxford
Illustrated Dickens , hardcover books with the original
illustrations that appeared with the serializations. 

 Apparently my mother and brother have gone in on these, but
they haven't actually arrived yet.... 

 John McPhee 

 I only have six John McPhee books&#8212; Looking for a
Ship and The Deltoid Pumpkin Seed (airships!) in
trade paperback, and Annals of a Former World in
hardcover (which includes Basin and Range , In
Suspect Terrain , Rising from the Plains , and
 Assembling California ). McPhee is amazing&#8212;he can make
pretty much anything interesting (to be fair, he tends to pick quirky
enough topics that they'd be interesting anyway). 

 The books that sound especially interesting to me are 

 The Control of Nature (big engineering
 projects, such as controlling floods on the Mississippi) 
 Encounters with the Archdruid (Charles Park,
 Charles Fraser, Floyd Dominy, and David Brower) 
 Heirs of General Practice (doctors in family
 practice) 
 La Place de la Concorde Suisse (the Swiss
 militia) 

 The Readers probably aren't worthwhile, as they
consist of excerpts from the real books, and I'm perfectly happy
reading the real books. 

 Lea Hernandez 

 Graphic novels that look pretty cool and are also fairly cheap: 

 Cathedral
 Child (US$10.95) 
 Clockwork
 Angels (US$10.95) 

 Both of these can be had for US$22, signed ! 

 I also really like the looks of Rumble Girls: Silky
Warrior Tansie ,
but I think I'm willing to wait 'til there's a graphic novel. Not
that I'd say no if someone bought me all the back issues and got me a
subscription for the rest.... 

 Movies 

 Although I couldn't really believe the hype about DVD when it first
came out, we watched a couple of DVDs using M's new iBook, and I saw
the light. At this point I can't see any point in buying movies on
VHS&#8212;DVD is so clearly better that it's worth waiting for DVD
releases or forgoing them altogether. 

 Until the End of the World on DVD . (See also The
 Strange Case of Until the End of the World .)

 My favorite movie, for lots of reasons. I already have the US
 release on VHS, and a framed poster, too. But Wim Wenders has
 been showing a 5.5 hour director's cut for years, and the DVD,
 which they're supposedly working on, is going to be that cut. The
 tape's only 2.5 hours, so I'm really looking forward to seeing the
 longer version! 

 Kiki's Delivery Service . Amazingly cute Miyazaki
 film, in which a young witch is sent into the world to find her
 way. After some tough times, she discovers that she can deliver
 packages (with the help of her broom!), meets a boy, averts
 disaster, and winds up pretty happy. (There's even a dirigible!)
 [Not available on DVD, as yet.] 

 Wacky Stuff and Other Ideas 

 The Brunton Pocket
Transit . I don't know, I just think these are cool. I don't have
a good reason to have one, and they're wicked expensive (~US$240), but
they're fantastic compasses. Blame John McPhee&#8212;the Brunton Pocket
Transit is the geologist's best friend. 

 I'm also fascinated by the work of Flushing, Queens, New York,
artist Joseph Cornell (maker of Cornell boxes), and have so far failed
to acquire any books about him and his work. 

 A deck of Loteria cards. (Inspired by Earthquake
Weather .) 

 Copyright &copy; 1998&#8211;2002, C.M. Connelly. 

 Last modified at 10:03 AM PST, Wednesday, February 12, 2003; last rendered at 
 10:03 AM PST, Wednesday, February 12, 2003 with Mason 
 and Perl . 

 Please e-mail me about problems with this page . Thanks.